Orodan was the very definition of subterfuge. The embodiment of stealth itself.

Zaessythra sighed, the faithless disbeliever that she was.

“This can’t get any worse at least…”

Elaborate disguise secured; he strode forth. His target? Eversong Plaza, but not directly, not yet.

A true master of clandestine activity needed to case the joint first. And he certainly had, identifying the first target and a weak link. The plaza had a tower a bit further out, somewhat isolated but it had a good view of the tavern and the sentry atop it provided overwatch for the guards of House Argon.

He tip-toed across the ground, his first target isolated in a manner which would make their disposal unseen. At the base of the tower, he acrobatically leapt upwards, gripping parts of the wooden tower which jutted outwards and hauling himself up.

Yes, he could’ve simply teleported or leapt up directly, but doing things the mundane way would lead to gains.

[Parkour 11 → Parkour 12]

Like a nimble cat, he scaled the tower, gripping the final handhold…

…when he both felt and heard a crunch of wood struggling to bear the load.

Orodan forgot sometimes, big as he was, that he weighed half as much as a full-grown bull. Certain small handholds just weren’t meant to hold his large frame.

The wooden beam which jutted out, about to snap off, was quickly dealt with just before it broke.

[Wood Communion 66 → Wood Communion 67]

Wood grain, fused together and strengthened, would no longer give way.

Of course, the near-snapping of wood was more than audible on a quiet night, and the sentry up top walked over to peer down the edge. Armed with a bow, the woman had a frown on her face as she looked down.

[Stealth 9 → Stealth 10]

The sentry looked down the side of the tower… but Orodan’s fingers buried into the wood, squeezing himself against the wall much as he could that he might hide beneath the overhang.

“Hmm? Creaky wood… I suppose. Baron needs to pay for better construction on these third-rate towers, any day now the lousy thing will topple right over…”

The sentry hadn’t noticed him yet! As expected of a true master of stealth.

Of course, the crunching of wood as it gave way under his fingers was yet again quite noisy.

“The hells? Something under there?” the sentry asked as she nocked an arrow and stooped over to get a better look.

Only for Orodan’s hand to come up and envelop her entire face.

“Mmmph!”

[Surprise Attack 46 → Surprise Attack 47]

Before the woman could put up a fight, Orodan’s Celestial skill cleansed her mental representation in her mindscape, sending her to unconsciousness. She’d come to eventually, a day or two later, but for now was in an unawakenable slumber.

He put her down in the corner and surveyed the area.

Eversong Plaza looked the same it always did at this time of night. It wasn’t even five minutes into the loop yet. His early loops of charging into and dying against the forces arrayed here had given him intimate familiarity with their patrol patterns and positions.

The Apprentice-level guards along the perimeter stood in front of all entrances to the plaza; bored but still keeping watch over the roads leading in from nearby neighborhoods. Past them were the Adept-level enforcers of House Argon, surly faced men and women who looked tough and occasionally reminded a regular guard to remain vigilant in their duties.

Vision of Purity told him that the majority of the enforcers were inside the tavern itself. However, three enforcers were outside the tavern at this time. One, a woman wielding dual daggers who Orodan remembered starting his early death loops off by instantly killing. The other two, a great-axe wielding Adept and a spear-wielding Adept.

A decent complement of guards and enforcers; numerous and vigilant. However, neither the Apprentice-level guards nor the Adept enforcers were the issue. The problem, when it came to Orodan’s stealthy endeavors… were the eagle-eyed lookouts standing watch from atop the tavern’s balconies and roof.

And just as he looked at them from atop the tower…

…so too did one archer frown at him. Peak of the Adept-level, this man looked to be the watch commander for House Argon’s soldiers at Eversong Plaza.

The man must’ve known the sentry he’d disabled or simply been familiar with the postings, for his frown quickly turned questioning and he asked something of the other lookout near him.

Stealth was as much a mindset as it was a skill. Orodan, used to barrelling through everything like a bull in a pottery shop, hadn’t even considered that he didn’t need a direct line of sight to use Vision of Purity. Consequently, he had stood tall atop the tower and gazed over the plaza and its guards instead of remaining hidden behind the tower fence and using Vision of Purity’s ability to see through the fence while remaining hidden.

Well, better to learn now than trigger every detection measure when attempting to travel to Lonvoron. Part of the reason for his fixation on stealth this loop was so he could potentially weave it into his infiltration attempts for Lonvoron.

His enhanced hearing picked up their chatter.

“Say… isn’t Rulstida supposed to be on the north tower tonight? Who’s that?”

Thinking on the fly, he swiftly ducked down behind the fence, using the brief moment where the suspicious lookout on the tavern roof turned his head to question the other lookout regarding his concerns.

He swiftly used the cover of the fence and began climbing down the side of the north tower, dragging the unconscious sentry with him, obscured from the sight of the lookouts.

“What’re you talking about? There’s nobody there.”

“What the… they were just… lazy bastard must be taking an unscheduled break.” the lookout questioned and then called down to one of the enforcers on the plaza floor. “Hey! Buximus! I can’t see the north tower guard from here, can you go give them a slap on the head and tell them to do their job?”

“Isn’t Rulstida supposed to be up there? She’s not usually the lazy sort…” the great axe wielding Adept murmured and then looked to two nearby guards. “Right, you two, with me. She’s probably at the foot of the tower taking a piss is all. Can’t exactly aim off the ledge like some.”

Where there was suspicion and the sending of an enforcer… there was also opportunity.

The three Argon soldiers came around the side of the tower blind to the lookout on the tavern roof, all grouped together…

“Oi! Rulstida! You taking a piss? I don’t want to walk in on you, but the watch commander’s being paranoid and ordered me to check- argh!”

…and Orodan gathered all three into a tackle, like a farmer gathering a bundle of hay. And smashed them into the side of the tower, causing it to tremble.

[Stealth 10 → Stealth 11]

[Surprise Attack 47 → Surprise Attack 48]

The average warrior would’ve perhaps tackled one, maybe two. But Orodan could take advantage of being built like a tree and swooped all three with his long and stout arm span.

Of course, tackling them hard enough that the tower shook was something that could be seen, even if he immediately used Domain of Perfect Cleaning to knock them out.

“What the hells… did that tower just shake? I swear I heard something on the wind too. I don’t like this one bit!” the paranoid lookout said and then called down to an enforcer on the ground level. “Varania! You heard that too, right? Communications amulet on, take twenty troops and get me an answer!”

“On it! Troops four, five, seven and eight, with me!”

Excellent. Even more opportunity for stealth!

Orodan tucked the four unconscious bodies away in a nearby storage shed and waited for the approach of the twenty-one targets.

“Tower’s empty! No sign of sir Buximus or the other two who went with him!” a guard cried out.

“Spread out and search the streets damn it! I want answers! Communications amulets on!” the Adept barked and then spoke to her own amulet which was glowing. “Yes sir, no sign of them, we’re splitting off and searching the streets as we speak. We’ll be getting additional reinforcements? Yes sir.”

As the Adept spoke to the watch commander, Orodan could see fifty more soldiers pour out of the tavern, weapons drawn and making for the tower.

Near him though, was the first troop of five Apprentice-level guards that had split off.

Both arms shot out, and he grabbed all five of them in a big bearhug, lifting them into the air and running with them into the storage shed.

He threw them down to the ground like tossing stacks of lumber.

“Guah! Under attack! Und-”

A singular slap went across all of their faces, resounding across each cheek as the palm continued onwards through pure strength to impact the next. All five were disoriented, and a follow-up usage of his Celestial skill put them to sleep.

[Stealth 11 → Stealth 12]

Unfortunately, the call had gone out, and the two nearest troops were now coming his way in a sprint.

Orodan immediately hopped out the open window of the storage shed and began making his getaway. Yes, he could’ve teleported, used chronomancy or simply used overwhelming strength and speed to incapacitate them all…

…but that would’ve defeated the purpose of this training, which was to adopt stealth as a mindset and hopefully gain skill levels.

“I heard a commotion in there! The intruder must be that way!”

He gained distance and ducked into an alleyway, taking two more turns before crouching behind a trash heap.

“Seven hells… we got nine bodies in here! They’re… they’re alive still!”

“Damn it! Where are the pursuit specialists when you need them?” the Adept yelled as she practically barrelled through a thin wall two houses down. “The footprints in the dirt lead this way. Find them! Now!”

Of course, Orodan’s concern wasn’t his pursuers…

…but the stray cat which had been eating a tossed fish from the heap. It now looked at him, utterly frozen as he was crouched behind the heap alongside it.

Orodan stared at the cat.

The cat stared at Orodan.

And the dirty rag covering his head which had eye holes cut out at the back.

What was a disguise?

A disguise, in his view, was something that helped him blend into the scenery. To make his existence unquestionable.

And as Orodan thought this, he too endeavored to be nothing more than a part of the environment.

Like a mountain, he sat there, imposing. His frame large and solid, his bearing ominous. His motion, absolutely and utterly still, like a statue. Did anyone question the existence of the sky? Of the mountains? Of the oceans?

No.

Then so too, would none question Orodan.

The cat sniffed him…

[Disguise 12 → Disguise 15]

[Intimidation 28 → Intimidation 29]

…and it turned back to eating the scraps it was fixated upon prior.

“I can’t decide what I should be more impressed by. That your ridiculous disguise worked, or that you intimidated a cat into pretending you’re not there,” Zaessythra said.

“No sensible being should question the existence of the ground beneath their feet. Accordingly, none shall question me.”

Zaessythra’s mutters about him always finding some way to exceed her notions of stupidity were ignored.

In all seriousness, Orodan felt there was something more to the Disguise and Intimidation skills that he could leverage. He also felt a window to his soul itself open up when utilizing the combination, but nothing had levelled. More training needed to explore the matter further.

Cat successfully tricked; the soldiers of House Argon went in another direction to where he was.

Before leaving, Orodan gave the mangy stray a pat upon the head, causing it to jump in surprise. Proof that his disguise and stealth had in fact worked.

Consequently, he doubled back and decided to swoop down upon the unsuspecting guards and enforcers near the north tower where he began his clandestine operation.

There were at least twenty guards surrounding it, so the immediate area was quite packed. The top of the tower though… remained empty.

Orodan clambered up to a nearby roof…

…and then leapt from there to the tower. Immediately hiding behind the fence at the top the moment he reached.

“Hey! I saw something move! Check out the top of the north tower!” the watch commander archer ordered from atop the tavern roof.

The soldiers did as asked.

The first one up was an enforcer, an Adept-level spearman.

And the moment his head crossed the top of the ladder, Orodan pulled him behind the fence, and a loud thump could be heard.

“Fire! Open fire! Intruder at the top!”

“Sir our troops are still scaling the ladder!”

The following three guards who followed up the ladder were also yanked behind the fence at the top and knocked senseless.

An angry pyromancer exited the tavern, emerging onto the second-floor balcony. Hands glowing with flame.

Elite-level, and someone Orodan frequently dealt with. Aeglos Argon.

“What is this farce? We’re under attack and you act so hesitantly?!” Aeglos Argon roared, striking the watch commander with a burning fist which scalded half the man’s face and flung him off the roof. The man was wounded and in great pain but would live. “Stand back. Anyone near the tower will die.”

Without fail, Orodan always killed this worm. This occurrence of badly wounding his own house’s soldier was just one more reason why the scum’s death was entirely justified.

A mighty fireball shot towards him, and he used the cover of its glowing blaze to quickly leap off the tower and to a nearby roof without detection.

Orodan was mid-sprint as the entire north tower exploded in a shower of flame and wooden splinters. Many of the guards near the tower were injured, but the warning was thankfully enough for them to get outside the fatal radius.

“Master,” Aeglos Argon said, activating the communication amulet around his neck. “I can confirm that we are indeed under attack on the surface. I do not have a gauge on their numbers. Yes Master, I will remain here and guard the tavern entrance. We shall await your arrival.”

Before Aeglos Argon’s necromantic master arrived then, Orodan was determined to end the cruel pyromancer’s life. And most importantly… he wanted to ensure that the wicked scum never saw it coming.

His loud footsteps upon the roof tiles he was running across must’ve been heard, for a group of ten guards led by an enforcer began running after him, causing Orodan to duck into yet another alleyway. They were on the verge of catching up when he saw a nearby well and hopped inside.

It was entirely dry. If he recalled, a replacement well had been built at the town center in front of the mayor’s mansion. This one was now defunct, the underlying aquifer having run dry and never having been suitable in the first place. At the bottom, a few skeletons. A likely spot used by the thugs of House Argon to dump bodies.

Orodan’s fingers dug into the inner stone walls of the well, and he hung on, waiting for more pursuers to arrive.

“Saw one of them come this way! Search the houses! You two, have a look at the well!”

The two guards approached, and Orodan immediately lunged upwards and grasped both their faces, pulling them into the well. It was a brutal and quick motion in which they had no time to even scream as they were smashed against the stone walls and put to sleep.

[Stealth 12 → Stealth 13]

“What the…?! Hey! Over here! I looked away for a moment and those two vanished! All of you gather, we’re checking that well! Ranged weapons at the ready, shields up front!”

Nowhere to flee now… or so it seemed until he saw a small alcove in the well leading into an excessively tiny tunnel.

Orodan simply wasn’t built for fitting into tight spaces, he was far too big. Consequently, he began shoving rock aside as he expanded the tunnel in the process of delving it. In the process of it, it he encountered a species of bats half the size of a human which quickly fled from him.

A minute of burrowing later he arrived in a mucky, brown and filthy pit.

The smell of it confirmed that it was a cesspit. Hmm, perhaps that was why this well was shut down. Poor dumping practices could often lead to the contamination of wells.

In any case, burrowing further out and up wasn’t a problem from there.

Of course, upon emerging and nearing the next group of guards, the stench became a noticeable impediment to stealthy movement.

“Good Gods! What in the seven hells is that stench? Karhagen, did you eat the tavern keep’s special milk and honey pastries again?!”

“Er… no sir, not today.”

“Then what-”

[Stealth 13 → Stealth 14]

[Surprise Attack 48 → Surprise Attack 49]

Orodan’s fist connected with the back of the Adept’s head, causing him to fall to the ground limply, knocked out cold. The other five guards immediately turned to face him.

The farthest left and the farthest right ones were thrown into the wall of a nearby building, while the central one was given a solid headbutt. The remaining two then had their heads smacked together and with them incapacitated the entire troop was down.

The scuffle hadn’t been heard, the other soldiers of House Argon were farther out. Near where Orodan had pulled two guards into the well. His stench might give him away, but that was a good training exercise in his opinion.

“Get moving! They say they’ve found an intruder near the old well! At least ten of our number are down! Stay sharp!”

Orodan allowed this patrol to pass without challenge. He used Vision of Purity and now looked over Eversong Plaza.

The previously heavy presence of guards and enforcers was far thinner now. With most of them having sallied out towards the well.

This left a skeleton crew of watchers, with the presence of Aeglos Argon providing the real force.

A presence which would soon be erased.

The tavern was up against the mountain; sneaking up from behind would’ve involved scaling Mount Castarian from the other side. Doable, but for now Orodan chose the far simpler method…

…of loudly banging upon the nearest empty building while remaining out of sight.

“What’s that?” a guard asked.

Aeglos Argon however, was far more paranoid.

“Step away or die!”

The warning was shouted for the Argon guards, as a large fireball sailed towards the building, practically wiping it from existence.

But that was fine, as Orodan had begun moving the moment the fireball left the pyromancer’s hands. Using the cover of its blazing light which disoriented the guards and blinded everyone else, he dashed and got right up to the nearest two.

[Stealth 14 → Stealth 15]

Two powerful fists clobbered them insensate, and Orodan ran back to the perimeter of buildings on the outside.

“Recall the troops! The intruder is here!” Aeglos Argon barked. “I’m certain I saw something moving!”

Orodan yet again began banging on another empty building from out of sight, and soon as the fireball came, once more he swiftly rushed out, beat two guards down and returned to the perimeter.

The next one would have to be the last. Mainly since he was running out of empty buildings to use as bait, and because Aeglos Argon had begun to catch on.

“Show your face you coward! Cease your craven behavior and face me head-on!”

Orodan thought it ironic that this clearly terrified mage would say so.

Still, the perimeter of guards had thinned out, and Orodan saw a clear opening to reach Aeglos Argon.

One more.

He banged upon an empty building while remaining out of sight one more time. Predictably, Aeglos Argon reacted, hands blazing with fire and his face showing clear signs of fear. Except this time, it wasn’t a fireball which erupted, but a blazing beam of fire.

The same beam which Orodan had died to many times over in his early loops. Smart, far less obstructing of his vision than a giant fireball. Less of a sudden blinding flash of light too.

But that was fine, for Orodan had recently learned to think like a mage.

And as the beam of fire made for the building, he recalled a trick he’d seen his old friend Mahari do once.

He stepped out for a brief moment, forgoing stealth and allowing Aeglos Argon to look at him for the first time. And as their eyes met, Orodan had a predatory smile on his face.

[Waterstream 20 → Waterstream 22]

The beam of fire met an overcharged stream of water…

…and a massive explosion of steam erupted outwards.

The sheer amount of fire and water meeting meant that the entire plaza was now covered in steam, making visibility quite difficult.

“I can’t see a thing! Get out there and sweep the area! Now!” Aeglos ordered. “You and you! Stand guard near me!”

The Elite pyromancer was frantically looking around, trying to get any indication of where Orodan might be. And then, he heard the cries of pain.

Gasps and choked screams began to sound out, as one-by-one Orodan began knocking out the guards who were sent into the steam. He intentionally waited a second after each hit, allowing them to get a shocked grunt or cry of pain out, that Aeglos might try and track their position through sound.

And it worked.

Terror and panic had stricken the pyromancer. He threw out fireball after fireball, the explosions clearing the steam away. Thankfully Orodan had thrown the beaten guards a distance away, the fireballs would have turned them to ash otherwise.

The explosions managed to mostly clear the steam away, but it was too late.

The nose of one of the lookouts scrunched up at the horrible stench Orodan gave off from burrowing into a cesspit.

That man was picked up and bodily hurled like a pebble towards the other remaining lookout, launching them both off the tavern roof. And before the pyromancer could turn around to wonder where that smell came from or who got rid of both his guards…

…Orodan’s hands wrapped around Aeglos Argon’s head from behind.

“Greetings.”

[Stealth 15 → Stealth 17]

[Surprise Attack 49 → Surprise Attack 50]

The mage’s neck snapped as Orodan turned his head a hundred and eighty degrees that he could look at his killer.

This was surprisingly good training all things considered.

And who knew what these previously seldom-trained skills could add up to?

#

“And that’s why… I need to find some way of dealing with bloody light magic.”

[Deception 4 → Deception 5]

Truthfully, he was surprised he’d even gained a level given how utterly bad he was at lying. Least of all through lying to the old man who doubtlessly saw through him like a piece of razor thin paper.

“Hold your horses Orodan. I barely understand half of what you told me, about being enemies with some ‘tentacled’ being from the void who’s disguised as a human who also wants you dead. It’s clear that you’re full of it,” Old Man Hannegan said. “You’ve never been one to lie, so quit horsing around and simply ask me what you want.”

Well, he’d lied by omission, not directly. But… when it came to Orodan, even that was enough to clearly be seen through, especially by the old man.

“Cut me a break old man… am I that easy to read?” Orodan asked.

And here Orodan thought he might try practicing his Deception skill. Perhaps blending it in with Stealth might help, or so he had thought. It was a whimsical idea anyways. Even the singular level gain in Deception felt off, and Orodan knew that he would never truly be in tune with the ability to lie and deceive people. It simply wasn’t in his nature.

“I’ve been dealing with you since you were an irritating delinquent with a penchant for causing trouble on the job site. You couldn’t lie to save your life.”

“Good thing I come back every time I die then…” Orodan off-handedly said.

“What’s that?”

“Nothing. It would only give you a headache, and I’m sure you’ll have enough of those with this warehouse I’ve now built,” Orodan replied.

“Don’t remind me you dumb delinquent! The silly yarns you’ve spun had me forgetting about this thing… how am I even supposed to present it to the client with a straight face?” the old man asked. “And these pipes you’ve put in are entirely worthless. What’s even meant to flow through them?”

“Er… right. I haven’t figured that one out fully as of yet,” Orodan answered. “One day though, steam will flow through those pipes.”

“And when’s that?”

“Today,” Orodan said with a smile.

One loop down the line he’d get the steam pipes right.

“Bah! You’re making no sense at all… it’s like you’ve been possessed by a demon that’s supernaturally talented in all these strange skills the real Orodan knows nothing about,” the old man said.

“What’s stopping you from running to the Cathedral then?”

“Who else would be this bad at lying?” the old man asked. Fair point. He was quite horrible at lying and he doubted even a toddler was as bad at it as he was. “Now if you’re done here… we can talk about that question you had.”

“What question?”

“Your question about countering light magic?” the old man reminded him. “What? You didn’t think I’m capable of reading between the lines? Easy enough when you have the subtlety of a rock.”

Fair enough.

“You know how I might go about countering it then?” Orodan asked. “Where should I look?”

“The Gods,” Old Man Hannegan said, causing Orodan to frown. “Specifically, the Cathedral. Who best to teach you light magic and the methods of countering it than those who use it themselves?”

Learning from the enemy? How foul!

Yet, Old Man Hannegan wasn’t exactly incorrect. If anyone knew light magic and knew it well, it was Ilyatana and her cronies. Bluefire didn’t cover light magic all that well, with most students interested in elemental magic opting for the flashier and more destructive pyromancy. Yes, he had many spells across various schools of elemental magic, but the two elements he hadn’t yet delved into were light and darkness.

To cross an entire tier, to fight an Administrator who was likely at the peak of the Embodiment-level… how else would Orodan do it? It was all well and good that he had somehow gotten to Lonvoron last loop, but even then… he would be floundering about uselessly unless he grew to become capable of standing against the wrath of the Prophet.

And one of the key centrepieces in standing against a foe so ridiculously superior to him, was learning how to resist light magic. His resistance skills were the biggest difference maker in combat. Against enemies who he had advantageous resistance skills against, he’d repeatedly beaten the odds.

In pure melee combat, if he kept working hard, he felt he could perhaps survive against the Prophet soon. Against those beams of light though? No chance. Not unless he learned a new skill.

And it seemed the best way of doing that truly would be the Cathedral.

“Well, I can’t say I’ll spend more than a day with those sycophants…” Orodan muttered. “I have other places to be.”

“You look like you’ve swallowed a sour lemon, Orodan. Did a priest offend you recently?” the old man asked.

He recalled nearly being mind-controlled by Ilyatana during his first meeting with an Avatar. He remembered how she’d participated in possessing him alongside Agathor and Eximus, commandeering him like a dirty meat puppet.

“…something like that,” Orodan replied, choosing not to elaborate.

“Hmm, well I won’t pry if you don’t wish to say. In any case, since that whole mess at Eversong Plaza I’ve heard the Cathedral’s wanting to send some priests and relief efforts this way. Heard whispers that they’re recruiting,” the old man informed. “Might be a good chance for you to get in touch with them? Not sure if they’ll teach you what you’re looking for in a day otherwise.”

“Recruiting?” Orodan asked. “I’m not interested in becoming a diviner.”

“I wouldn’t have mentioned it if they were recruiting only the priestly sort,” Old Man Hannegan said with a chuckle. “A passing priest told me they were looking for soldiers and mercenaries too.”

“They’re recruiting soldiers and mercenaries? That’s new…” Orodan muttered. After all, this was his first time hearing they were doing that. “In any case, I doubt their lot are coming along for the good of the people old man. More likely they’re trying to get their paws on what’s beneath the mountain.”

After all, the Cathedral was doubtlessly interested in the ancient machine Orodan had disabled. And that affair had gone quite poorly, as in, his stealth had much room for improvement. Orodan had forgotten to account for the scrying eye orbs hidden at certain spots in the plaza. Naturally, the Master-level necromancer had been ready for any skulking and evasive maneuvers from him. Necromancers in general, alongside beast tamers and those who commanded golems, were in the unique position where stealth, espionage and assassination were dramatically harder against them.

Orodan had been quickly discovered, and then he’d had to go about regularly battering his way forward from that point on.

Still, it was a problem he intended to tackle across many loops.

“What’s beneath the mountain?” the old man asked.

“Don’t worry about it. The knowledge will only have people coming after you,” Orodan said. “Now then, can’t say I’ll interact with these approaching hounds and cronies of the Gods… but the Cathedral may have a thing or two that’ll help me.”

“Hounds and cronies? Not saying I haven’t had my doubts about the Cathedral as well Orodan… but whoever’s wronged you, I hope you don’t let the hatred fester in your heart for long,” Old Man Hannegan said. “Despite the wrongs of a few, there are still good people who serve the Gods.”

Frankly, he still hated Ilyatana alongside the other two of the tyrannical three, but the old man wasn’t wrong. Orodan had moved past allowing his hatred to control his actions. If he killed Agathor, Eximus or Ilyatana, it would be because their deaths were necessary to prevent more people being harmed.

And he’d seen people such as Uldrine and Myntasa; he wasn’t blind to the fact that innocent folk with good hearts placed their trust and faith in the Gods. Orodan simply disagreed that the vile despots deserved their worship.

“Perhaps you aren’t wrong old man,” Orodan said. “Anyhow, remember to hold onto that ring I gave you. I suppose it’s about time I paid the Cathedral a visit.”

“The Cathedral itself? They’re a bit more stringent in what they teach than wandering priests might be… the lot in Trumbetton have always been a bit prickly in my experience.”

“Aye, the Cathedral itself. I have my ways of learning what I need,” Orodan said. Whether by force or simply ransacking a library, he would acquire what he needed. “And you mistake me; I’m not headed for Trumbetton…”

“…but the Cathedral of the Prime Five in the capital.”

#

Karilsgard was bustling with activity as normal. Perhaps even more so now that the tapestry of fate was in a state of utter pandemonium and the recent events surrounding an ancient machine, Novarrian interference and the betrayal of a noble house of the Republic came to light.

The walls of the city were tall, and lined with even more ranged troops, mages and war machines than usual. The number of foot patrols had increased, the mounted patrols sweeping the roads were frequent and the pair of famed dragon riders doing flyovers were a visible message to the people and any would-be interlopers in this time of uncertainty.

Of course, Orodan had to worry about none of that as he strode down the road towards the city gate. His fate was ‘normal’ enough, as in, it simply couldn’t be closely read just like everyone else. Long as he didn’t make any long-distance travel, gain levels in Domain of Perfect Cleaning or directly fight the System, Orodan’s fate would be the last thing to expose him.

Of course, having a soul and fate open to Observe was a different matter. And he’d not thought to change his Wainwrighting Apprentice title.

“Hold there, militia man. Which county do you hail from?” the capital guardsman, an Elite-level swordsman asked, while gesturing out with a hand for Orodan to stop. “Can’t be Vondarius or Exerston county…”

“He’s from Volarbury county corporal, saw their uniform when they sent us to visit the mayor once,” another guard informed.

“Volarbury county, eh? You being a militia man or visiting the capital isn’t the issue,” the capital guard corporal said. “The reason I stopped you is because your Status is a bit…”

“Suspicious?” Orodan offered.

“You said it, not me. I’m not the sort to relish in stopping people and giving them a rough time… but you’ve got to admit, a man with your bearing and armaments donning a militia uniform can’t just have the title of Weaving Apprentice,” the corporal said with a friendly smile. “Orodan Wainwright, is it? While I can appreciate a good practical joke, I don’t think I’ve ever seen or been taught of the Wainwrighting Apprentice title during my academy days. My gut says you aren’t here to cause trouble, but the circumstances bear questioning is all. If you don’t mind saying, what’s your business in Karilsgard?”

“Just here to visit the Cathedral, corporal,” Orodan answered. “Have some matters to discuss with the priesthood and diviners.”

“The Cathedral you say? They’ve certainly been busy with recent events. Don’t know how easily you’ll obtain an audience with how much they’ve been running around like headless chickens,” the man said. “High Oracle’s locked in her chamber alongside half the high-ranking diviners, and everyone else is scrambling to get answers. The tapestry of fate’s supposedly in an uproar.”

“Hmm, how unfortunate,” Orodan replied.

“Indeed. Anyhow, off you go. Good fortune to you in your business,” the corporal said and waved him off. “And if you ever find yourself looking for a new career, the capital guard’s always looking for more.”

“Can’t say standing guard at a gate interests me, but I appreciate the offer.”

“Didn’t think you’d bite. Was worth a shot though, take care.”

As Orodan walked off he heard the junior guardsman talk.

“You let him off rather easy sir… did your skill get a strong reading?” the younger guard asked. “A job offer too?”

“The skill’s Legendary for a reason lad; it’s never let me down over the years. Didn’t sense he’s a bad sort… got the feeling he’s more than a little hot-headed though…” the corporal murmured. A skill which could get a sense for someone’s character, interesting. “Strong bearing too. Doesn’t carry himself like any rank-and-file militia man that’s for sure.”

Though, despite those words, Orodan sensed a pulse of dirty mana go out from the corporal’s communications amulet to someplace deeper in Karilsgard.

In any case, it wasn’t a concern for him. Orodan continued down the streets of Karilsgard, passing the commercial district before entering the temple district where the Cathedral of the Prime Five lay.

The doors were already open, the giant double doors leading inside to five separate doors, denoting each of the Prime Five. The Cathedral’s operations seemed mostly regular, save the lack of any priests or diviners of Ilyatana in sight. The other four Gods’ chambers of worship were operating normally, though some mean-looking rough soldiers stood guard in front of the chamber leading to the chamber of worship corresponding to the Goddess of Fate.

The common folk denied entry were understandably unhappy. Even a well-dressed and wealthy merchant was among them. To the side, lazily leaning on a pillar, was a surly man with a resigned look on his face and a pointy hat on his head. Master-level, Orodan gauged, and the man was looking rather intently at him, but said nothing for the moment.

“This is outrageous! We’ve come to pray, to offer donations, and the Cathedral would turn us away?!” the wealthy merchant demanded, behind him, an assortment of other traders and businessfolk.

“I assure you, good merchant, your concerns are justified. However, by order of the High Oracle herself these doors are to remain barred,” the young armored faithful of the Cathedral said. “It’s out of my hands. Protesting to me will achieve nothing.

“How could Lady Lakshiya do this?! I have an auspicious trade deal coming up and need to have my fate read! My entire fortune depends on this!” the merchant clamored. “Last thing I need is that damned Esgarius to get one over me again!”

“Esgarius of Trumbetton?” Orodan asked, prompting the merchant to turn around. “Of course he would have an advantage in that regard, he used to be an adventurer himself.”

“Why yes! That clever rascal has all but cornered the market on goods sold by adventurers. I don’t know what swindling or backstabbing he’s engaged in, but I can see him taking over even the markets of Karilsgard soon if we don’t put a stop to him!”

Esgarius was wildly different in some ways from Orodan, but also shockingly similar in others. While Orodan didn’t quite understand the man’s single-minded thirst for gold, so too could it be said that many didn’t understand his own focus on strength. Despite their differences in personality though, Orodan respected Esgarius for having a certain standard of conduct. And the greedy merchant had helped him many a time.

To stand and listen to some irate ponce besmirch his name wouldn’t do.

“Backstabbing? He’s certainly rather greedy and covetous, but the man’s always honored his trade deals down to the copper,” Orodan said. “He pays his employees well and looks after the families of any fallen underlings of his. In that regard, he’s far better than most merchants in this city of snakes.”

“Y-you! A supporter of his, are you? How much did he pay you to say those words?!” the merchant barked. “Some no-good thug you are, speaking on that fraud’s behalf.”

Orodan was on the bottom step of a landing. He decided to rectify this matter and remind the merchant that sometimes speaking too loudly wasn’t a good idea.

He stepped up, looming over the second tallest person in the vicinity by a good head. And the merchant must’ve finally realized how tiny he was, for he shrank backwards.

“The man you speak of is no fraud. Rather, the lot of you before me might qualify for that term. Recant the falsehoods you spout about Esgarius of Trumbetton,” Orodan ordered, glaring at the puny man menacingly. “Or answer to me.”

[Intimidation 29 → Intimidation 30]

Orodan didn’t typically enjoy bullying those weaker than him. And if the criticism was true, he would’ve simply shut his mouth and let them air their fair grievances. In prior loops, many had called the God of Death a coward, and while Orodan defended Malzim’s actions, he never threatened anyone over the truthful criticism.

But to spread falsehoods? He would sort the matter out himself.

“A-ah… er…”

The well-dressed merchant stuttered, fearful.

“Hey… you can’t just go around threatening people, especially not in this sacred place of worship,” the armored faithful guard said, stepping forward with a frown.

“He was uttering lies and I felt compelled to correct them,” Orodan answered.

The guard sized Orodan up and didn’t like what he saw. It was then, that a nearby senior faithful walked up, a frown on her face.

“Hey! What’s all this chatter about?” the senior guard, a burly armored woman with a halberd demanded.

“Ma’am… these merchants are demanding audience and-”

“Enough of that. I’ve told you before that you’re too polite while on guard duty,” the older guard chided the junior and then turned to the leading merchant with an angry frown. “You. What do you want?”

“Noble defender of the faith! This brutish man here-”

“That was a rhetorical question, in case the look on my face wasn’t answer enough, I don’t care. You heard the man already, did you not? The chamber of Ilyatana is closed until further notice. Now get lost,” she brusquely dismissed. “And you, what’re you doing here with that sword and shield? The chamber of Agathor is that way, the war-priests there can help you.”

“I wouldn’t enter that place if my life depended on it. Agathor can offer me nothing that I cannot already do better,” Orodan said. “Matter of fact, can’t say I much want to be here either.”

“What the hells did you just say? Uttering blasphemy right in front of her Lady’s faithful is a poor decision,” the burly woman said, a sneer on her face.

“I thought Karilsgard is under authority of the capital guard. But of course, the Cathedral does love overstepping its bounds… just like the Gods you serve,” Orodan said and then cracked his knuckles. “Accused me of blasphemy, did you? Why don’t you step up and do something about it then.”

If someone wanted to hot-headedly challenge him, Orodan was more than fine with starting a fight here and now.

Fortunately for Ilyatana’s dog, someone quickly interceded before he gave her and half of Karilsgard’s forces a beating in an ever-escalating brawl.

“Sujifaria, that’ll be enough. I shall speak with him,” the curt but calm voice said. It was the man with the pointy hat who’d been leaning against the pillar in a surly manner.

“But… my lord!”

“No buts, leave this one to me. I’ve been expecting him,” the man said. “Orodan Wainwright, the Wainwrighting Apprentice… I suppose that’s what passes for a funny joke nowadays?”

“I did think it would be entertaining,” Orodan admitted.

“Hmm, and is rousing these simpletons to a fight also part of your entertainment?” the man asked.

“No, but fighting them might’ve been.”

“Violent one, aren’t you? Capital guard at the gate tipped me off about your approach. What’s your business with the Cathedral?”

“I’ve come to learn light magic.”

“Why? I have a vague feeling that you have plenty of power within you. What need have you for light magic?” the man asked. “That militia man outfit looks passable enough, but I hope you don’t assume I’m stupid enough to actually believe you’re with any county militia.”

“Is learning for its own sake not an acceptable answer?” Orodan asked.

“Spare me your rhetorical questions. Even now, standing within the seat of the Gods’ power, there’s no fear within you. You look all too happy to pick a fight if you need to,” the surly man said. “I’ll ask again. Why do you want to learn light magic?”

“…an enemy of mine is a light mage of great power. I need to not only learn light magic… but also find some method of resisting or countering it,” Orodan answered.

“An honest answer at last. Just start with what you’re after when dealing with me. I don’t like beating around the bush.”

Orodan liked the sound of that and made note of it for future loops.

“Very well. I’ve come to the Cathedral to learn light magic. Will you teach me?”

“Are you willing to aid the Cathedral?” the man asked.

“I will be no leashed mutt for the Gods,” Orodan immediately laid out.

“What I need you for will have nothing to do with worshiping Gods or following their will.” the man clarified. “People need protection from some terrible things, and we’re horribly low on manpower.”

“If you’re asking me to stand guard, I’m afraid that’s not my way of doing things. I would rather go out and hunt down whatever’s causing problems.”

“Even better… I think you’ll be the right fit for the job.”

“I walk off the street and you’re pressing me into recruitment…?” Orodan asked, surprised and somewhat amused by the man’s no-nonsense attitude. “Does the Cathedral not have its own for this sort of work?”

“It did… until recently. Recent events have caused most of those under me to be re-deployed.”

The man gestured for Orodan to follow him. The guards didn’t look too happy with where Orodan was being led, but they could only glare as the senior member of the Cathedral was the one allowing it. Must’ve been some sort of restricted area.

“Silestor Lumenarin. Head of the Cathedral’s arm of exorcists and hunters.”

Now that was a renowned name. Orodan had heard of the light mage and his reputation as a hunter of vampires, necromancers and cultists.

“I’ve heard the name. You and your lot are the ones responsible for dealing with vampires, demons and cultists across the Republic,” Orodan remarked.

The Cathedral, much as Orodan hated some of the Gods associated with it, was responsible for many good things. Charitable endeavors to aid the poor, relief for villages devastated by banditry, raiding or monsters and most importantly… dealing with dark and supernatural creatures which wanted to prey upon the innocent peoples of Inuan.

Vampires, unsanctioned necromancers, cultists and the incredibly rare case of demon summoning, and even instances of haunting by malevolent spirits. These were all under the purview of this arm of the Cathedral.

“Among other things,” Silestor said, leading Orodan into a library of sorts where numerous acolytes and diviners were studying or meditating. He grabbed a singular tome off a bookshelf and threw it at him. “Here. Read that and consider it an advance payment.”

“An advance payment?” Orodan asked while opening the tome up and closing it after verifying what the content were. The basic Light Beam spell. “I still haven’t agreed to work for the Cathedral.”

“You’ll be working for me. Believe me, I have no interest in the sanctimonious drivel those mindless preachers spout either. I’ll get to the point. I need people who can fight, and I need them fast,” Silestor stated. “Damn fools of the inner sanctum have lost their wits trying to parse that stupid tapestry since it’s gone rear end over head yesterday. Two-thirds of all the diviners in this country are in that sanctum now, with the remaining ones on their way as we speak. By order of the Head Oracle, more than half of my combat capable light mages and diviners are stuck with their heads buried in fate reading orbs. It’s a disaster.”

Orodan said nothing about the fact that he was the cause for said disaster.

“A disaster? Nobles and well-off merchants being unable to read the tapestry is hardly a disaster,” Orodan said. “Can’t you hire mercenaries to fill in the gaps? I don’t exactly see where the disaster is.”

“What do you think I’m talking to you for? Until today, I didn’t see what the issue with the tapestry being unreadable was either. Problem is, the diviners are heavily reliant upon the tapestry to track things, people and events,” Silestor said. “And the Cathedral aren’t the only ones capable of recognizing that the tapestry’s gone awry.”

“In other words, the lack of tapestry is being taken advantage of.”

“Correct. The number of malevolent spirit sightings has remained consistent, those things are too mindless to realize what’s occurred. But the number of vampire attacks and reports of illegal necromancy and cultist activity have almost doubled over the first day,” Silestor informed. “We haven’t dealt with a proper demon summoning in at least a century, but with this catastrophe on our hands we might have devils returning to our world by the end of today.”

Well hells…

…Orodan had caused a real mess.

How was he supposed to know that the Cathedral was so reliant upon the tapestry of fate in order to maintain the security of Inuan? It made sense though.

Monsters weren’t as much of a concern. They typically didn’t prey upon mortals in an organized manner. They remained in the depths or certain wild habitats away from civilization, only choosing to attack opportunistically. The worst that monsters did was assault cities like Anthus, which were built around energy wells. And while Anthus might have a slightly harder time without the tapestry… it was a walled and heavily militarized city which could defend itself.

Sentient and predatory beings such as vampires and demons were a different matter altogether. As were cultists who sought innocents for ritual sacrifice and necromancers who sought corpses for their hordes.

The tapestry of fate could track deaths, powerful beings and those who had fates different from the norm. Orodan himself had been singled out in his early loops when Ilyatana read his fate and discovered it was akin to a coiling ouroboros, the symbol of infinity. Similarly, devils, vampires and other non-human supernatural creatures and monsters could be tracked via the tapestry and hunted down. Necromancers and cultists too had a unique signature upon the tapestry whenever they raised the dead or slaughtered the living for their evil rituals.

Without the tapestry, these fiends would now feel emboldened to commit atrocities without fear of being tracked. Hells, the tapestry even helped hunt down mass murderers and anyone going on a rampage as the sudden severance of threads and the loss of many fates was easily noted. Who knew what sadistic sorts would now have free reign to go about butchering people?

The real problem, however, would be the organized and hungry predators of the night.

Vampires preyed upon mortals. Eldiron being an advanced civilization had mostly eradicated them, but the younger Inuan, with its burgeoning towns and cities was a feast to them.

The cabals of vampires which normally dwelled far from civilization in the deep wilds would doubtlessly take notice of the chaos and gladly start feeding upon people. What deterred them prior to Orodan’s entry into the tapestry was that they could be tracked down, hounded and then slain. Crossing the border didn’t exactly help either as to the south was Novarria and to the east were the Eastern Kingdoms. Both these other nations were under the purview of humanity and the Prime Five, and almost every human on Alastaia hated vampires.

With such a critical tracking tool now rendered inoperable… the consequences were undoubtedly apparent.

“I have to take some measure of responsibility for this,” Orodan said. “I can’t rest until every fiend hunting the innocent is dead.”

“Responsibility? A good attitude to have but there are many monsters upon-”

“I’ll find and end them all. The ones hunting innocents at least,” Orodan declared. “Where’s the nearest one?”

“If we knew, we’d have gone out already. The tapestry is in flux and… that’s a fate-reading orb, why are you picking it up?”

Silestor’s question was answered soon enough as Orodan’s eyes began glowing slightly golden, indicative of someone peering into the tapestry of fate. Truthfully, he didn’t need the orb, but it was easier to show proof of his competence than simply telling the man to trust him.

The tapestry was in utter disarray, a complete mess. The alternate timeline tapestries he’d parsed when gazing into his past didn’t look as though a tidal storm was occurring within them. The tapestry in the real world was a mess though. Reading and making sense of it in this state was incredibly difficult. Myntasa had been capable of it, rare talent that she was. Though most people, even experienced diviners, weren’t.

Orodan however could, and he had some advantages which made it uniquely easier for him.

Being the cause of the tapestry of fate’s current tempestuous state was a decent boon. Given that he was the source of the pandemonium, it allowed him to know when the waves would come and go, reading the threads accordingly. Mainly though, he had the unfair advantage of a mind that was an unfathomable number of times mightier than anyone else’s. It had to be, else the absorption of his own System’s central glyph of knowledge would’ve shattered his mind and unravelled his soul.

[Fate Reading 57 → Fate Reading 58]

Provided they had similar upbringings and grew up in the same place, humans, orcs, dwarves, goblins and elves had fates that were mostly indistinguishable from one another. They were the mortal races, and their souls were the standard, with nothing which stood out.

Vampirism was a curse which affected not just the mind and body, but the soul too. Consequently, their fates in the tapestry had a distinct and bloody feel to them. Particularly those vampires who killed in order to feed.

Eyes glowing a tinge of gold, he focused on the closest one.

“The nearest predator is a vampire in Jerestir,” Orodan declared. “I’ll make way and end it.”

“You… can read the tapestry?” Silestor asked, dumbfounded.

Some nearby acolytes were also shocked. A few murmured that Orodan should perhaps be sent into the inner sanctum, that the High Oracle could make use of his talents.

To that, he said no thanks.

“I’ll pass on helping your mindless fate readers try and make sense of the tapestry. We have actual work to do,” Orodan said.

“I’ll get in some serious trouble for this; the Chosen has a standing order out for anyone who can read the tapestry as it is now…” Silestor muttered, and then the man’s face took on a determined expression. “In for a copper, in for a silver. I’m coming with you.”

“You’re not concerned about being punished?” Orodan asked.

“Sometimes, it’s better to beg for forgiveness than ask permission,” Silestor preached. “They’ll show lenience when we achieve results and get rid of enough of these fiends. Let me gather a few trusted-”

“No need. I’ll be more than enough,” Orodan said, placing a hand upon the man’s shoulder as the dimensional boundary rippled.

Still not as imperceptible as Talricto’s was, but he’d get there one day.

The pores of the dimensional boundary were a tight enough squeeze by himself. They were in a state of constant movement. Adding someone else would have been incredibly dangerous…

…for the regular dimensionalist who didn’t have absurd reaction times as a result of high levels in various physical skills. As it stood, the boundary shifted in slow motion from Orodan’s perspective, even without using any time compression.

He safely ferried Silestor across, and in the blink of an eye the two were standing on a grassy plain, just outside a hunter’s cabin in a clearing.

“What devilry is this?” Silestor asked in surprise. “You’re a spatiomancer as well?”

“Dimensionalism. I can perform spatiomancy too, but traveling through the dimensional boundary’s far trickier to detect and won’t set off anti-spatiomancy wards. Either way it’s good to practice both.”

Silestor gave him a look which lasted for two seconds before getting over it and accepting his skillset.

“A hunter’s dwelling… of course the filthy bloodsucker would target those living farthest from town… even with the tapestry down the vampire won’t risk a fight against Jerestir’s guards,” Silestor said. “Come, let us enter.”

Vision of Purity told him exactly what was inside.

“Vampire inside. The victim is dead,” Orodan stated. “Managed to land an arrow before she fell too.”

“Malzim ferry her soul…” Silestor prayed, and then the man’s face hardened. “Let us purge it!”

A foul, gray-skinned humanoid was grotesquely feeding on the corpse of a hunter when Orodan pushed the door open, sending it flying into the vampire.

Vampires were supernaturally mighty, beyond any equivalent-level martial specialist. Unfortunately for it, that didn’t matter much when a door came sailing at the speed of an artillery shot. The door collided with it, a shriek rang out, and the Adept-level vampire was smashed right through the wall of the hunter’s dwelling and onto the grassy field outside.

It looked to get up, only for a blazing beam of light to instantly turn it to ash. Orodan had fought mages using light magic before, but Silestor seemed well beyond what the regular Master-level light mage should be.

Anyhow, we can continue this later. I have to recite the funerary rites and prepare this brave woman’s body for transport back to Jerestir.”

“No need. Let’s bring her back.”

“I assure you; the funerary rites may seem silly to one who lacks faith in the Gods, but are as much a custom of respect for the dead as they are-”

The death was only two hours ago and the body still warm. The amount of soul energy needed was thus utterly trivial.

A swift cast of Time Reversal, and the blood all over the cabin and some portions from the ash pile outside were pulled right back into the woman’s body. And with a gasp, she awoke, her eyes wide and trembling.

Her first response was to scream in terror, whipping the knife in her hand directly towards Orodan.

He caught it and gently forced her hand back to her own lap.

“At ease warrior, your death was a valorous one, but I will not let it stand today,” Orodan comforted. “You fell fighting a vampire, but you are returned to the living once more.”

The woman frantically looked at her cabin, at Orodan and Silestor, and then out the destroyed wall where a pile of ash lay.

Vampire hunting was quite fun it seemed.

#

[New Skill (Uncommon) → Light Beam 1]

The tiny beam of light shot forth from his finger and scored a black burn mark upon the vampire’s forehead.

It growled, more irritated than hurt.

“Hmm, took you long enough. Though the power could use some work,” Silestor said.

“I kept it weak because that was my first cast. Didn’t want to accidentally overdo it,” Orodan said. “Might want to step back for the next one.”

The light mage heeded his warning and did in fact step back.

[Light Beam 1 → Light Beam 8]

The circumference of the beam covered the entirety of the Elite vampire’s body, reducing it to utter oblivion. It then continued onwards, striking the mountain behind it, clearing a clean hole through it, and creating a decent hole in the cloud layer too.

“By the north…” Silestor muttered. “Such power at so low a skill level?”

“I have an unfair advantage,” Orodan remarked. “I have to say… this feels as though it has similar properties to soul energy.”

“Of course. Light is one of the purest forms of elemental magic. The question of its discovery and initial founding is one lost to time, ever since the Cataclysm which destroyed all civilization upon Inuan,” Silestor explained. “Yet one thing scholars agree upon is that it’s the type of magic closest to the natural light of the soul.”

Orodan had already advanced a step further than light magic in that regard, by learning how to harness the power of his soul directly. But learning a closely related element was by no means a bad thing. Just with that cast, he began to ferment some ideas in his head of how he could make his soul energy flow better.

“I’ll have to keep that in mind,” Orodan said.

He and Silestor had gone around the Republic executing vampires, exorcising malevolent spirits and slaying cultists and necromancer. The overwhelming majority of them had been predatory individuals or at most, groups of less than six.

The hunt was fun. Executing bloodthirsty monsters and cultists keen on human sacrifice was oddly relaxing, even if there was no real fight in it. More importantly, Orodan committed the locations to memory, ensuring that he could be even more efficient about hunting them down on the next loop.

He’d also gotten the chance to slowly learn the singular light magic spell Silestor had given him. It took the better part of the day, but now Orodan knew how to cast a Light Beam. Unlike Flare, which was a projectile, or Candleflame, which remained connected to his body, Light Beam shot out as a straight ray of burning light.

He’d fought light mages before, but it was a field he really hadn’t delved too deeply into. Consequently, he still wasn’t sure what the exact differences between it and fire were when it came to developing a resistance skill.

Another vampire charged forth, Master-level, and this was when Silestor stepped forth.

Orodan could see the man’s soul roiling with power. The sky darkened, looking angry. With a final gesture, the light mage called forth a grand pillar of blazing light from the sky to smite it to nothingness.

A Master-level vampire smote to oblivion in an instant. An epic feat, especially when considering the fact that vampires could fight a tier above and were far stronger than an equivalent-level martial specialist.

Orodan had to re-evaluate Silestor. The man was dramatically more powerful than even the strongest Master-level light mage he’d seen before.

Two vampires, both ranging out to seek prey. Orodan had slain the first, and Silestor had dealt with the second in most extravagant fashion.

“That wasn’t mana fuelling your spell,” Orodan noted. “…a Bloodline?”

“The innate ability to use light, powered directly by the soul,” Silestor said.

In other words, not just Light Magic Mastery which used mana… but Light Mastery, which used the power of the soul to fuel the spell. Much like House Argon had natural pyromancy as a Bloodline, so too did Silestor Lumenarin have a natural affinity for light.

“A powerful natural ability to have,” Orodan remarked.

“And at times a burden. Many a vampire enclave has attempted to have me assassinated for fear of my light,” Silestor said. “House Lumenarin is but minor nobility, but we face far greater dangers than most because of our Bloodline.”

“Your children have inherited it too?” Orodan asked.

“My daughter and grandson both. Though they rightfully choose to take a different path in life than following these Gods and their corrupt oracles and priests,” Silestor spat. “A safer life than hunting wicked undesirables like I do.”

“You’re quite critical of the Cathedral for someone who’s a part of it,” Orodan remarked. “Not fond of the Prime Five? I can relate to that.”

“Hmm, you have some sense then. As for me, I don’t originally hail from Inuan. I was born and raised on Guzuhar, immigrating to these southern shores as a young man,” Silestor said. Now that he thought about it… the man did have an exceptionally pale hue. “I will not say that the north is better, for I would not have come here otherwise… but the involvement of the Gods in our daily lives is far less intrusive. And our Gods up north, while less influential, care for the people more intimately.”

“I’m tempted to agree. I have been to Vorskard, long ago. The hospitality of Clan Iron-Bear was a warm embrace in the chilling cold,” Orodan said with a smile. “Beholding bear and human living in harmony, casually trotting down the town roads was a sight to behold.”

“Oh! You’re of the north too?” Silestor excitedly asked, suddenly becoming lively despite the man’s typical stern demeanor.

“No, I merely visited there a few times. Mainly to see the Valley of Spires,” Orodan answered.

“Ah, I see… not northern, but a frequent visitor then. You might as well call yourself a northerner if you’ve been there so many times,” Silestor said, and Orodan thought that being northern through blood might count. “Of all the places of wonder to see, you chose that dreadful valley? The clans and kingdoms have barred entry there for fear of the horrid darkness which lingers… I’m surprised they allowed you passage.”

“With what’s descending in six months, I don’t think they were keen on turning away any help.”

“You… know of it then?” Silestor asked.

“Aye. I’ll be there to deal with it when the time comes.”

Most would have questioned the absurdity of that statement, but the light wizard simply remained quiet, an inquisitive look upon his face for a long while.

“You plan on aiding the north against that descending calamity? An outrageous thought… how powerful do you think you are? Bah! This discussion can be tabled for later,” Silestor said with a shake of his head, but a suspicious look on his face. “Come, we’ve tarried long enough. What does that skill of yours say we’re up against? I never thought I’d find such a large gathering of fiends in my life… emboldened by the circumstances as they are.”

“There’s a decently sized force in there. Eight vampires, fifty human cultists and a dozen necromancers,” Orodan said, continuing forwards. “Hundreds of corpses too. I have little doubt they’ll be raised the second battle begins. And they have nearly two-hundred captives in a chamber below.”

A small army.

This was the farthest and largest gathering of evildoers they’d encountered thus far. They were in the eastern part of the Republic, near Fort Redvane and Anthus in Vondarius County. A nearby hamlet of two hundred lay entirely empty, the guards killed and the inhabitants kidnapped for nefarious purposes.

Unlike what the myths commonly said, sunlight wasn’t utterly anathema to vampires. For the weaker ones maybe, but the stronger ones could survive under it just fine, though it was uncomfortable. Like an untrained mortal being thrown into a wintry night without clothes versus a trained Adept with various physical skills braving the same.

They also had good senses and made excellent sentries. Orodan and Silestor had taken out two vampires departing to find pry, but that was three miles out from their destination. Now, closer to the cave, they would have to move with caution lest they provoke the entire group.

“That many… we should fall back and call for aid. With your abilities in dimensionalism we can bypass their anti-spatiomancy wards and quickly ferry reinforcements into battle to overwhelm them with concentration of numbers,” Silestor said.

“We really don’t need all that. I can just-”

“Orodan Wainwright. The worst we’ve encountered in the small bands of vampires and cultists we’ve slain are Elites. And just now I had to use a spell capable of slaying a Grandmaster to deal with the Master-level one. You fight well, you’re strong too. But what are you, a Master? A Grandmaster even?” Silestor asked. “Vampires are far stronger and deadlier than equivalent-level martial specialists. Such a large group may very well have a Master or a Grandmaster among them. And with their numbers we’d quickly be killed without managing to get any word out.”

“Feel free to remain outside and call for backup then. I’m going in,” Orodan declared.

“Damn it…! You’re going to get us both killed!” Silestor hissed. “If we’re going to do this, we need to at least act stealthily, with a clear path of retreat should things go awry.”

“That’s fine by me,” Orodan said, drawing a certain important item from his dimensional ring. His fist was clenched in determination. “I, Orodan Wainwright… am the very soul of secrecy!”

“T-this…!”

In response to the item, Silestor could not say anything else at all. So awed was he by the awesome quality of what Orodan had brought out.

“Be at ease, Silestor. This can only be of benefit to us,” Orodan assuaged, donning the item.

“You…! You…” Silestor trailed off, clearly in shock. “You’re wearing a damned rag on your head!”

Zaessythra sighed.

“Now hold on a moment… you’re not giving this a fair chance.”

“A fair chance? You haven’t even donned it correctly! The eye holes are at the back of your head! You’re wearing it the wrong way!” Silestor angrily exclaimed. “What manner of jest is this?”

“The eye holes positioned behind my head are meant to confuse and intimidate any on-lookers,” Orodan declared. “If they see me from behind, it’ll be as though I’m gazing right at them. How can they get the drop on me when I already have the drop on them?”

Orodan tapped his rag-covered forehead, showing off the majesty of his superior thinking.

“Stealth.”

His one-word declaration was all that was needed.

Though, Orodan wasn’t sure why Silestor was turning so red.

“You… you imbecile! How can someone possessed of such might be so horribly dull! If they see you, that defeats the purpose of stealth entirely!” the light mage scolded. “We’re both going to die today…”

Orodan thought Silestor was being dramatic. Yes, by the bounds of common logic, he could see why the vampire hunter might think it utterly hopeless. But Orodan had been working on his grasp of stealth and disguise for a bit now.

Cleaning aside, Orodan felt that he had a real knack for stealth. He’d made some mistakes during his time back on Narictus, but now, back on Alastaia where his roots were, Orodan felt that with this dirty rag on his head, he was undetectable.

Better to prove his proficiency in stealth first that the mage laid off him.

Orodan tip-toed across the dirt.

The large gathering of evil was inside of a rather extensive cave system connected to the depths. The cave entrance in the mountainside leading in however was guarded by vampiric sentries, and two had been taken out already.

He would deal with the rest.

Like a prowling beast, Orodan skulked about, stalking the nearby unaware vampire sentry.

[Stealth 17 → Stealth 18]

About thirty feet away though, its ears suddenly perked up as Orodan’s quiet footsteps became audible. Its nose twitched too, picking up his scent. He’d forgotten to account for the fact that vampires were predators and consequently had the keen senses of such.

It immediately whipped about…

[Stealth 18 → Stealth 19]

…only for Orodan to match its movement and speedily shoot around behind it to its blind spot. The sound in such a fast motion was quite audible however.

Even if the vampire couldn’t see him, it had certainly heard.

“Warmblood!” it hissed, turning around once more to look.

Only for him to hastily match its turning motion and circle behind it again.

Orodan was a master of combat, armed and unarmed. He could predict and read the movements of a foe through the minute twitches, breaths and even the flow of blood in their body. This vampire stood no chance of outplaying him.

“What the…! Show yourself!” it demanded, rapidly turning its head left and right.

Unfortunately for it, Orodan kept up with even these rapid movements, positioning himself that it never managed to see him no matter how furiously it turned. And with each such motion, Orodan got closer and closer.

Until finally, it turned only to see a large hand envelop its face. A quick squeeze pulped the Elite vampire’s skull thenceforth.

The remaining two sentries were spaced farther out. Though Orodan wondered why the vampires with their keen senses hadn’t heard the commotion.

The answer was the angry light mage who walked up behind him, hands glowing with subtle power as a basic wind magic spell was maintained. The sound was isolated thanks to Silestor.

Huh… he hadn’t even thought to try incorporating wind magic into his stealthy ways.

“See? Stealthy.”

“You’re a damned fool, Orodan Wainwright. The other sentries will soon notice that three of their own are nowhere to be seen,” Silestor said, a grim look on his face. “Vampires are capable of maintaining track of one another via smell. We have little time before the scent of this one fades and the other two are alarmed.”

An interesting tidbit of knowledge. Still, for someone who was so vehemently against his stupidity, Silestor was now quite on-board with helping.

Orodan wouldn’t spurn the hand.

He swiftly bounded across the dirt, slowing as he drew nearer to the next. This time, with assistance from Silestor who cast some simple spells to muffle the sound of his steps.

Unlike the previous one, this vampire didn’t hear or smell him coming as his hands separated its head from its shoulders.

The final one though, seemed to notice something was off as he approached. Not via sound or smell… but by the suspicious lack of other sentries in its sights. Occasionally losing sight of a sentry or two was one thing, after all, they might happen to walk behind a rock or a hill.

But to lose sight of all its compatriots for the past minute? It suddenly began looking around and shrieking to try and call the others.

Cries which were blocked by Silestor’s wind magic.

[Stealth 19 → Stealth 20]

A fist through the head finished it off soon after.

“Damn… how strong are you?” Silestor asked. “You practically pulped their skulls with your bare hands. It shouldn’t be possible, not so easily.”

One to one, a vampire was far stronger than a human with equivalent skills. Even a martial Grandmaster wouldn’t have been able to make the kills look as brutal and casual as Orodan had. The light mage was doubtlessly curious, especially since Orodan had allowed him to take much of the lead during the fighting thus far while he focused on learning the Light Beam spell.

The truth though, was that Orodan had simply stuck to the philosophy of building his own body up to being powerful. No Bloodline, no borrowed power and no vampirism needed. Just the sweat and blood of hard work. Long ago, he’d rejected the opportunity to become a half-dragon hybrid, and now he knew that had been the correct choice.

What need did Orodan Wainwright have for such cheap methods of strength when his own body would suffice? His Body Tempering, Physical Fitness and Absolute Body Composition meant that he was far stronger than any vampire of equivalent level. Humans feared vampires for being superior to them, however vampires would be right to fear him for the same reasons.

“Just some honest training,” Orodan answered. “Come. I can sense four more vampires making for the surface. If we’re quick, we can catch them in the narrow tunnel and end them.”

Normally, a mage wanted to be as far away from a vampire as possible. Entering a cramped tunnel with them was akin to a death sentence for a spellcaster who would otherwise be outmatched in terms of combat speed. Silestor went along without hesitation however. Orodan’s display had perhaps convinced the light mage.

They went inside and hid in a crevice within the tunnel.

The first vampire to round the bend looked at him, its eyes narrowing and its teeth bared as it hissed in surprise.

Right… he’d forgotten that they could see in the dark.

But that was fine. After all, he had his fancy disguise on.

The vampire looked at Orodan.

Orodan looked at the vampire.

And he crossed his arms, making the thickness of them apparent. He stood a head taller and was far wider too. But most importantly, he gave the vampire a predatory grin and gazed into its eyes.

It was utterly illogical, with a rag covering his head, his eyes couldn’t even be seen! The grin, invisible to the bloodsucker should have been entirely pointless!

And yet, as Orodan’s rag-covered eyes gazed into the vampire’s own, it was as though he was looking into its soul…

…and at the same time forcing it to see his.

[Disguise 15 → Disguise 18]

[Intimidation 30 → Intimidation 31]

[Incipience of Infinity 127 → Incipience of Infinity 128]

Now that was an unexpected level gain. The result of what he’d felt when bullying the cat in Eversong Plaza and opening a window to his own soul which others could directly see. It was interesting too, as he hadn’t even generated titanic amounts of energy for this gain.

Beholding Orodan in the tapestry of fate was one thing, as was using Observe upon him. But even these methods of looking at his soul were but a surface level glance. To actually stare into the depths of it?

Not something meant for those weak of mind.

The vampire froze in place, stopping mid-hiss. Its bared teeth were covered and its eyes un-narrowed.

Some said that the eyes were a window into the soul. Orodan agreed with this saying.

And what better way to make something accept the fact that you weren’t there than by making it gaze into your soul?

Nobody wanted to stare at the sun. Their eyes would burn. No sane person wanted to dwell on the existence of a black hole about to devour them and their world, it was a sanity-reducing affair.

Yet, beyond all of those things…

…no regular being wanting to retain its sanity would want to gaze into the soul of Orodan Wainwright.

After all, the concept of infinity could be a very maddening thing.

Sometimes, it was better to pretend the unfathomable didn’t exist than try and grasp cosmic concepts the mind wasn’t ready to comprehend. Better to live in ignorance than suffer the breaking of one’s mind.

It trembled for a brief moment, before its facial expression became normal.

“The young one hisses? Have you seen something?” another vampire asked, coming up and rounding the bend as well.

“No, nothing,” the first vampire said, entirely normal as though it had never seen Orodan.

Even though he was standing clearly in plain view.

The second vampire though, did see Orodan. It immediately hissed…

…until he also gazed into its eyes.

[Disguise 18 → Disguise 19]

[Intimidation 31 → Intimidation 32]

The second one too, became suddenly ignorant of him.

Silestor’s jaw hung agape in utter shock at what he was seeing. The light mage wanted to say something, but Orodan’s hand went over his mouth, signalling him to keep it down.

“Such commotion. What is all the hissing about? Disagreeing over the feeding schedule? Worry not… we have plenty of cattle in the pens,” another vampire said coming up. “We shall-”

It saw Orodan and also reacted, only to return to normal as though it had seen nothing right after.

However, the fourth vampire was a different matter. It was a Grandmaster, and when it rounded the bend to spot Orodan, the reaction was a different one.

“What is… what are you?” it fearfully asked, terror in its voice as it began backing away. Its hands began clawing at its own face and eyes, madness seeping into its psyche at what it was seeing. “No, no! Stay away from me! I don’t want to see it!”

Vision of Purity clearly saw the vampire’s psyche beginning to strain and undergo a great deal of pressure. The revelation of a truth it was strong enough to perceive but not resilient enough to accept. Existential dread filled its mind.

Orodan’s sword immediately took its head off, granting it the mercy of death. However as he did, the effect stopping the other three younger vampires broke, and they suddenly saw him very well.

“Human!” one shrieked.

Orodan’s sword executed all three, but the clandestine act was up.

Silestor looked more than a bit wary himself.

“What did you do? I sensed no illusion…” the light mage said.

“There was none.”

“Then…?”

He didn’t understand the first thing about it. But his experience with Incipience of Infinity, what the Custodian and the Prophet said about him, and how that foreign Boundless One had reacted to him all began to add up.

Orodan wasn’t sure what to call himself, but it was apparent that looking too deeply into his soul caused a similar sort of madness that a mortal would be inflicted with by looking at a Boundless One. Particularly if he gazed directly into someone’s soul and also allowed them to view his.

Still, the effect didn’t seem all-powerful; the Grandmaster vampire had partially resisted it. But it was something to hone all the same. A new avenue of training.

“Sometimes, a mind which is too weak to comprehend something will rather pretend it doesn’t exist. An instinctive mechanism,” Orodan said. “Now come, that scuffle was certainly heard, and you didn’t cast a spell to silence the noise either.”

“Can you blame me? You’ve displayed one unnatural ability after another,” Silestor said. Though, the man was all about business as he readied himself for battle.

They descended deeper into the tunnels; however Vision of Purity told him that the remaining four vampires weren’t interested in coming to them anytime soon. Smart; an unknown foe capable of killing four vampires, among them a Grandmaster, was best not rushed towards.

“They’re digging in and preparing for a battle,” Orodan informed. “The necromancers are raising the dead and the cultists are preparing a ritual.”

“Damn it… damn it! Let’s retreat and call for reinforcements!” Silestor suggested.

“I’m not leaving the captives behind,” Orodan declared. “No ritual sacrifices will happen today.”

The light mage shook his head.

“If the ritual was ready, they would’ve sacrificed the captives already. That they haven’t means they still have preparations to do,” Silestor explained. “Human sacrifices to generate energy are the simplest part for a ritual of demonic summoning. Properly preparing it though, is another thing. The materials are expensive, and the time needed to get it right is exceedingly lengthy. On the other hand, if we rush them, they might trigger it early without safeguards. An outcome which would kill them as surely as it would us. We’ll need far more forces here to prevent a devil rampaging throughout the county.”

“Devils are no tougher than any other foe,” Orodan said. “I’m going in. Remain here if you wish, Silestor.”

“Damn it Orodan!”

The man protested but came along all the same.

They rounded a few corners before finally entering a large subterranean chamber. It was here that an army of raised undead, cultists, vampires and necromancers awaited the two of them.

“Dogs of the Cathedral! I see the famed Silestor Lumenarin presents himself before us. Even with the tapestry of fate as it is, you’ve still managed to find us? That is quite… vexing,” a gaunt necromancer spoke, irritation in his voice. He was at the Grandmaster-level, and the horde of raised minions looked to be under his command. He then gestured to a grand ritual array behind him. “We have a ritual of demonic summoning here, ready to call forth not just any demon… but an Arch-Devil!”

“You fiend! To think your pathetic band can control an apex ruler of the hells is pure hubris at best and fatal arrogance at worst!” Silestor yelled. “Not only will you die, but the county will face terrible damage.”

Orodan didn’t necessarily think so. The devils he’d met in the hells weren’t comically evil, and the myths of them rampaging mindlessly upon being summoned were more than a little fabricated and nudged forth by the Conclave’s propaganda.

The likelier outcome was it appearing, slaughtering its summoners and then leaving to return to the hells before it attracted any further trouble. The Alastaian Cathedral’s regular summoning of demons just for the purpose of exterminating them had done wonders in convincing the devils of the hells that the planet simply wasn’t worth it. And the longer it remained upon his world, the greater the odds of an angry Avatar or two descending upon it alongside World Guardians and supporting armies.

“Hah! You act as though we have any concern for the lives of the pitiful farmers and merchants inhabiting these lands,” the necromancer said. “You’ve caught us at an inopportune time; the ritual is incomplete and our ability to control the demon is not yet set. Regretful, but we can always raid the next village. I am all too happy to activate this ritual right now and teleport to safety myself, leaving you with an angry demon and no assistance! Now then… tell me where the rest of your force is. Your power is great, but even the lord of the famed Lumenarin Bloodline could not have slain Ereksigor; he was a Grandmaster vampire. Was it a Chosen? An Avatar?”

“Neither… it was my ally here,” Silestor declared.

The necromancer’s eyes narrowed.

“Who is this rag-covered slave you bring before me? Another corpse to add to my growing army?”

Rag-covered slave?

Orodan glared directly at the necromancer. And as he gazed into his foe’s eyes to look into their soul, so too did they look into his. His target’s mind was weak.

[Disguise 19 → Disguise 20]

[Intimidation 32 → Intimidation 33]

The man froze, and then suddenly… it was as though Orodan was no longer there.

“Come alone have you, Silestor?” the necromancer said. “How can you alone stand against so many?”

The nearby vampires and some of the cultists immediately frowned in suspicion. One of the cultists, a blood mage, immediately cast some sort of detection spell.

“No illusion or mind control…” the blood mage muttered.

The strongest vampire of the bunch seemed enraged. It didn’t look willing to tarry any longer.

“Lord Vajrath is compromised! Attack!”

As it was charging, a wave of light shot out from Silestor, turning half its body to ash and killing two more vampires outright, leaving only one.

The half-destroyed vampire laid on the ground, trembling and in its death throes. The nocturnal predators were feared not just for their strength but also their regenerative abilities. Yet, the reason why the Lumenarin alongside him was so feared and despised by them was for his ability to entirely halt their regeneration with his light. Something the standard light mage wasn’t capable of.

The Grandmaster necromancer who Orodan had affected with his disguise was far too preoccupied with Silestor’s movements. The gaunt foe was in the midst of casting a necrotic spell when his inability to realize Orodan existed was fatally exploited.

[Light Beam 8 → Light Beam 11]

[Surprise Attack 50 → Surprise Attack 51]

The necromancer’s body vanished in a beam of blazing light which carried on, punching through rock and causing the chamber to dangerously tremble. The raised dead immediately suffered a loss of power, the remaining necromancers struggling and having to devote far more mana to keep the horde at optimal strength.

Not normally how Orodan fought, with spellfire and surprise on his side. But it was good training, and necessary to hone his skills. Fighting these foes in melee would have been far too easy and he would’ve learned nothing. Though, it was a good opportunity to test his light magic and spellcasting abilities.

“Damn it all! Activate the ritual! Send in the dead!” the cultist ritual leader roared; her face red with rage.

The horde of shambling corpses advanced, and these looked to be a distraction for the various blood mages in the back who were poised to slaughter the captives.

Unfortunately for them, there would be no ritual sacrifice today.

His right hand glowed with power, the river of time stopping and then beginning to flow backwards.

“What the… where are they going?! What’s happening!?” the ritual leader demanded.

It looked a bit odd, seeing two-hundred captive villagers rapidly blur through the motions, movements and actions they’d gone through in the past day. Yet, like a blurry storm of bodies, the scene began to rewind. Through their binding, their captivity, and all the way to their arrival…

…and past that.

The undead horde were bowled over as Orodan’s power over chronomancy forced these captives through them and out the tunnels where they would be safe and sound in their village. Time Reversal, bringing them back to where they were before they’d even been captured.

“Chronomancer! Target him immediately!”

The blood mages quickly left their failed ritual and began launching spears, orbs and waves of blood at him. These harmlessly spattered off, dealing no damage whatsoever. To his side, Silestor was dealing with defending against numerous necrotic spells being cast at him, and the undead were still advancing about to close distance.

Orodan even felt a powerful mana channel try to connect him and a Grandmaster-level blood mage, the leader of the ritual he’d interrupted. Blood magic at high levels was a rather devastating field of magic.

Of course, against a warrior with a skill that allowed him an endless source of vitality, it was rather futile. Orodan not only had a lot of life force, but also the skill to control it deftly. He had a bloodthirsty grin on his face as he allowed the tether to connect, willingly disallowing the protective effect of Mana Resistance which would have otherwise stopped her then and there. The woman then tried boiling the blood in his body and even ripping it right out of him.

This, Orodan allowed…

…with the added gift of sending a flood of vitality down the tether so large that she would have no hope of containing it.

Using direct blood magic against him was a poor idea.

The woman shrieked and her body began mutating horribly due to all the excess vitality she was flooded by.

[Light Beam 11 → Light Beam 13]

And Orodan cast a continuous beam of light from his finger which eviscerated her and was then dragged across the ranks of enemy mages, slaying over a dozen of them and the final vampire which had been mid-charge and ready to meet him in melee.

This greatly eased the pressure on the light mage fighting alongside him, and Silestor began returning devastating spellfire of his own, scything down more ranks of undead minions and the remaining enemy necromancers and cultists.

Within twenty more seconds, and another level gained in Light Beam, the battle was over and the foes within all lay dead.

Orodan smiled.

“See Silestor?”

“…stealth.”

The light mage looked ready to have a conniption.

#

Needless to say, the corpses of the dead that the necromancers used were returned to life. The people of the village were grateful.

They’d gone around dealing with perhaps three more locations afterwards. Orodan had gotten additional target practice in with Light Beam, netting two more levels, and they now sat within a private office in the basement of Karilsgard’s Cathedral.

All was well.

Besides the clearly furtive Silestor Lumenarin of course. The light mage was pacing back and forth; stuck on deciding whether to glare at Orodan for reading the tome in front of him, or to just come out and say what he wanted to say.

“I suppose I can see what summoning does in theory, but it’s so… inefficient.”

[Fate Disconnect 57 → Fate Disconnect 58]

As Orodan studied, he also practiced strengthening the shield of soul energy around his fate, making the waves in the tapestry just a little less tumultuous.

“Which is a good thing! The less efficient the techniques of these foul cultists, the better,” Silestor barked. “Why are you reading these despicable tomes? Do you know how much blood goes into the writing of these? Much as I detest their zealotry, the Cathedral would rightfully see those texts burned.”

“Then I suppose it’s a good thing you’re shielding me from their corrupt arm, yes?” Orodan asked. Though the truth of it was that Silestor’s presence and Orodan’s fondness for the surly light mage was what kept him from rampaging within the Cathedral. For this loop at least. “Besides, knowledge is knowledge. The individual determines the morality, not the technique.”

“I fail to see how devil summoning is a useful technique for you to study. You’ve displayed half a dozen improbable skills which are far more versatile and awe-inspiring than mere summoning, and yet you fixate on this bloody craft?” Silestor asked.

“You don’t think I actually have any interest in summoning devils, do you? What would I even call them for? A cup of tea and a friendly chat?” Orodan queried. “At my level of strength, devils are akin to any other being I’ve encountered. Nothing particularly special, though some of them are quite proficient in enchanting and the soul arts.”

“Then why?”

“I told you that I seek to learn light magic in order to counter an enemy of mine. There’s more to it than that,” Orodan said. “They’re capable of drawing light from some manner of otherworldly plane or dimension. This devil summoning has some interesting tidbits that might help me understand the matter.”

The Prophet and the Conclave both pulled the light they used from some external plane. Orodan’s reason for studying the bloodstained tomes in front of him was so that he could understand how this occurred. Yes, he had Dimensionalism, but finding where the hells this extradimensional plane of light was would be a difficult task.

To that end, studying devil summoning couldn’t hurt, even if he had no use for it otherwise.

“They’re also capable of Dimensionalism? A deadly foe…” Silestor muttered. “You intend to disrupt the connection between them and this plane they draw power from?”

Orodan planned to do far more than just that.

“Something along those lines,” he replied. “In any case, while I can see how devil summoning works, it’s quite indirect. Having to use copious amounts of mana and vitality just for the purpose of ‘calling’ a devil seems utterly wasteful.”

Alastaian cultists and their technique of devil summoning really was no more than devil calling. Indeed, it wasn’t as though the cultists pulled a demon into the material plane. Rather, they simply expended a great deal of vitality and soul energy in the form of sacrifices, alongside mana, in order to call out to the hells and hope a devil would come answering their call. Even the Cathedral’s own method of demon calling was similar at core, though they had expensive and prepared energy batteries instead of live sacrifices.

It was the magical equivalent of a loud and powerful scream across dimensions. The most technically demanding part of the ritual was making sure that the call went out towards the right dimension. Alastaian dimensional studies weren’t very advanced; consequently the cultists didn’t know exactly where to direct the call. However, over generations of trial, error and fatal mistakes when monsters from the void were summoned and mistaken for demons… they’d come to a vague understanding of where to send the call.

Thenceforth, a demon might or might not answer, depending on how it felt. There was also a binding component to the ritual which sought to control the demon, but Orodan had no interest in that. The entire thing was mostly useless for him, who already knew Dimensionalism.

Frankly, summoning or as it really was, calling, seemed to be a dead end for the moment. At least until he could actually find where the extradimensional plane of light was. Only then could he call down the light from there.

…perhaps someone affiliated with the Conclave could help?

He flipped the bloodstained tome shut and began reading the other one.

“I suppose I can shelve devil calling for now,” Orodan said. “This Pillar of Light spell’s a tricky one.”

It was the spell he’d seen Silestor use earlier in the day, when the man had called a pillar of burning light down from the sky.

“You picked the most difficult recorded spell in the school of light magic. I can count on one hand how many people I know who can successfully cast it. Three of them are dead, lost to history, and the other one learned it after fifteen years of study and is still an Initiate,” Silestor explained. “It requires immersing yourself into a mindset of not just generating light via mana but calling it down from the very heavens.”

Orodan agreed with that advice. It was in fact why he was bothering to learn the spell. The act of ‘calling’ down light, he thought, might give him some tangential insight into calling the light forth from the plane his enemy used.

“I don’t quite understand how I’m supposed to call power forth and not just generate it myself,” Orodan admitted. “My mana comes from my own body. Even pyromancers casting a Firestorm or wind mages casting a Tornado will first form a mana tether above their target area and then the spell will form. This tome says some flowery nonsense which I just don’t understand.”

Even Orodan’s Spatial Fold and Teleportation required him to supply energy to the initial target area, from where it would carry on. But this tome had no mention of doing such a thing.

How was he supposed to just call a pillar of light down from the skies?

The answer… put a sour look upon his face.

“Faith,” Silestor declared. “To call forth the light of the heavens, one must have faith in their own abilities and belief in something grander than themselves.”

“…what?” Orodan asked, finding the idea absurd. “You don’t even have faith in the Gods of Inuan… what nonsensical idea is this?”

“Not faith in the gods, Orodan, but faith in the result. To cast the Pillar of Light, one must weaponize their belief, truly set their mind to calling the light of justice and purity down from above that it might smite evil,” Silestor said. “Tell me, do you not have any skills which do the same?”

“Of course I do,” Orodan said thinking about Reality Alteration or Warrior’s Reciprocity. Even at a lower rarity, Wood Communion also required much in the way of belief, to sculpt wood and guide it into the shape he wanted. “But that would mean…”

“Yes. The spell is of Legendary rarity,” Silestor revealed. “What? Did you think all those people trying to learn it are untalented churls? That only five people in recorded history managed to learn it through luck alone? It’s a Legendary spell for a reason. Took me years to learn it myself.”

Orodan wasn’t delusional. He had the time loops on his side, and he certainly had the mettle and natural work ethic to learn Legendary, Mythical and even two Celestial skills. His humble roots would not allow him to get too big of a head, but it wasn’t inaccurate to say that he was talented.

At certain things.

Light magic wasn’t one of those things. If it took Silestor, who seemed to be a real prodigy of light magic, many years to learn the Pillar of Light, then it would take Orodan a decent while.

Furthermore, Orodan wasn’t sure if he could ever mentally submit himself and adopt the mindset of calling upon power from the heavens. His faith in the Gods had shattered long ago when they’d antagonized him, and the concept of calling upon purifying light was just silly to a man who relied only upon his own strength. If he was to learn this spell, it couldn’t be the regular way; a different mindset would be needed.

Still, learning light magic could only benefit him. And he was dead set on figuring out how to borrow the concept of ‘calling upon’ something.

[Fate Disconnect 58 → Fate Disconnect 59]

Orodan continued practicing that particular skill, even as he spoke. The chaos in the tapestry of fate, while still cataclysmic, had yet again noticeably reduced.

Orodan shook his head.

“Even if it takes me a long time to learn this, I don’t plan on easing up on my efforts anytime soon,” Orodan said. “This skill… the underlying concepts behind it are important for what I’m after. No matter how strong I get, there’s always something to be learned in the strangest of places.”

Who would’ve thought that Orodan would gain such knowledge and insights from the Cathedral of all places? Well, at least Silestor was a rather likeable fellow. Not a stooge of the Gods and only interested in keeping many of the supernatural threats facing the Republic at bay.

“No matter how strong you get, hm?” Silestor queried, his voice oddly subdued. “And just how strong would you say you are, Orodan Wainwright?”

“Not strong enough. Not yet… maybe not ever,” Orodan answered. “There is always something greater lurking beyond the horizon, just out of view. Though I’ll always embrace the responsibility to face it.”

“Responsibility, huh? You said that when we first met…” Silestor muttered. “I think, Orodan Wainwright… that you’ve also taken upon yourself the responsibility to deal with what comes down in six months.”

“What makes you say that?”

The light mage remained silent for a moment before speaking.

“I’m not a fate reader…” Silestor quietly said. “But some of the senior diviners, even if they can’t parse the threads right now, can still verify the existence of them. They told me some interesting news…”

“And what might that be?” Orodan asked.

“The majority of the Alastaian threads of fate, even in the midst of this storm… are no longer dark and corrupt. Tell-tale signs of the imminent Eldritch corruption,” Silestor said. “This event, it occurred around the same time as the tapestry of fate went off. Are you responsible for all this, Orodan Wainwright?”

“I believe you might’ve stumbled onto something, Silestor Lumenarin,” Orodan said with a smile.

“Your arrival in the Cathedral today was no coincidence, was it?” Silestor asked, and Orodan nodded. “The tapestry goes into flux, capital guard tip me off about a dangerous man and you arrive here with no fear of picking a fight, displaying one improbable ability after another. The only Orodan Wainwright my sources tell me of is a county militia man in Ogdenborough… right where some politically volatile events occurred. And you then come bearing the uniform of their militia, with the same name as that man.”

“And yet I haven’t had a pillar of light fall from the sky upon my head,” Orodan remarked. “You’re still trusting of me.”

“No matter what test I ran, what device or divine artifact I used, there’s no indication that you’re under any sort of possession or reincarnation. For all intents and purposes… you are Orodan Wainwright.”

“That is my name,” Orodan replied and then looked the man squarely in the eyes. “You wish for answers?”

“Though I’m in no position to demand them… yes.”

“Then sit down, Silestor… and let me tell you about a hot-headed idiot. A mere Apprentice-level swordsman who died charging a foe many times his superior,” Orodan began. “Let me tell you about how I died on this day and began the time loops.”

“The time loops…?”

And so, they spoke.

Silestor was exceptionally skeptical at first. The man rigorously questioned every detail of Orodan’s story, particularly about his first life. If anything, it was a nice change of pace as the majority of people he revealed the truth to focused more on the later escapades and the bigger events in later loops such as the Eldritch Avatar, the Hegemony and him assuming control over the time loops himself. The light wizard was particularly interested in his early loops, however.

After the first twenty minutes, the man leaned back in his chair.

“Alright… it’s apparent to me, utterly idiotic as you are, that you were chosen for this.”

“Of all the things to conclude, that’s what you took away?” Orodan asked. “People usually come to that realization far later in my narration.”

“You recount experiences that only a poor man raised as an orphan and having made it to the county militia would have. There are no attempts to portray yourself as exceptionally smart, cunning or chosen. You’ve made plenty of mistakes in the early loops, yet despite all that your hard-headed stubbornness has allowed you to succeed where others would have eased up or failed,” Silestor explained. “From what you say, your talent in Cleaning wasn’t even apparent in the early loops. Which can only mean that whoever chose you did so for good reason. You really were just a dumb bumpkin militia man.”

“…thank you? I never denied that aspect of myself…” Orodan muttered.

“Exactly. Now I know you’re no fraud.”

“Well, I suppose that makes sense,” Orodan said. “Moving on, Guzuhar was certainly a new experience. I’d never been to another continent before…”

They continued. And Silestor began to wholeheartedly believe Orodan once he gave intimate details of the north continent. He spoke of Cyvrosdyr and receiving the second Quest which guided much of his journey. Of Spearwater, of Clan Iron-Bear, Ozgaric, and his battles alongside the Iron-Bears against the raiders and their bloody God Agorhiku. And he spoke of his first encounter against the Eldritch Avatar where he gained Eldritch Resistance.

Then, he spoke of his long loop where he’d been betrayed by the tyrant three and continued on from there till the end.

Silestor paid rapt attention the entire time, shaking his head in confirmation whenever Orodan spoke of a betrayal by the Prime Five, or frowning in concern when he informed him about the Eldritch Avatar, Hegemony or the worse foes he faced beyond Alastaia.

Finally, after two hours of talking, back and forth and many questions, throughout which he increased Fate Disconnect two more times, his explanation ended.

“I do not normally feel so… but after hearing your tale and of all the world-ending monstrosities out in the cosmos who could end Alastaia and everything we hold dear on a whim, a deep mental exhaustion has set into my very bones,” Silestor said. “As unbelievable as it is, the notion of a time loop isn’t so shocking in light of all the things I’ve seen you do thus far.”

“You see now why I need to learn light magic? The enemy I face is a foe beyond any this world has seen,” Orodan said. “Even with my best efforts and much more time, I can’t be certain what it will take to survive against it let alone prevail.”

“If anyone’s suited for the task, I believe it will be you, Orodan Wainwright,” Silestor said. “Having heard your entire story, I can see how light magic would be important to you. Next… loop? Is that how you say it? Yes, next loop… come find me for more training. I appreciate honesty, so simply tell me up front what your circumstances are alongside a few relevant demonstrations of your abilities. I’ll believe you rather quickly and we can get to work from that point onwards.”

“I will not forget your aid,” Orodan declared. “We shall see one another again. Though, for now… it seems we have visitors.”

“Visitors? I thought I told them all to leave us be for at least a few hours… especially after all we’ve achieved, they should give us some leeway,” the light mage said.

“Ah, that would be my fault,” Orodan admitted. “I’ve been practicing a particular skill during our time together. One which is making it rather apparent where the disruptions in the tapestry are coming from.”

[Fate Disconnect 61 → Fate Disconnect 62]

The shield of soul energy around his fate grew even stronger, and with it came the accompanying reduction of the mayhem he was naturally causing in the tapestry. And as it did…

…the door swung open, revealing the people Orodan had sensed nearing their location.

A High Oracle with a livid look on her face, and multiple armored faithful of the Cathedral behind her. And at the rear of this group was the Chosen of Ilyatana, Heredin Aeronsul. The man’s eyes were glowing gold.

“I see… the pandemonium in the tapestry originates from here. Who are you, mortal? Come, let me take a look at you…”

“That will not be necessary, tyrant. I have only one thing for you,” Orodan said.

A broom was produced from his dimensional ring.

He would have to apologize to Silestor later for eliminating his employer and purging any Blessings of Ilyatana the man had.

#

“What an absurd notion! …will it work on me?”

“Arrogant and haughty as you are, I would rather not use that ability on any allies of mine.”

[Light Beam 16 → Light Beam 17]

He shot out a casual light beam from his fingers, using the nearby ravenous monsters as target practice. He kept the energy low enough to injure and send them running but not kill. And just when they thought the attack over, he swiftly pulled the dispersed energy of the beam back to himself and shot a new one, gathering the energy of the old into it.

“Bah! I assure you my mind is made of incredibly stern stuff!” Talricto declared. “Why, I’ve traversed the most horrific environments across the cosmos! This one time I…”

He tuned the spider out, choosing to continue his practice.

The spider elicited fondness and irritation in equal measure. But even then, funny as it would’ve been to use his new Disguise-Intimidation combo on the dimensional spider, Orodan thought it exceedingly irresponsible and more than a bit low. He’d seen how the Grandmaster-level vampire cowered in terror as though suddenly privy to a horrible cosmic truth.

Those who could not see past his disguise had it easy, their weak minds unable and unwilling to even acknowledge his existence. It was those who had minds strong enough to see him and resist the effect that had a problem.

Even without coming up with a full skill for it, his new ability was powerful. Orodan had an inkling that he could absorb Disguise and Intimidation into Incipience of Infinity if he kept at it. The problem though, was that the potential consequences of someone resisting it and suffering from madness were horrid.

This meant that until he had a better grasp on the skill combination and managed to successfully fold the two relevant skills into Incipience of Infinity, he couldn’t test it against innocents under any circumstances. Shattering a murderous vampire’s mind before executing it was acceptable. Accidentally driving hapless guards, soldiers or civilians insane was not.

Better to practice it against enemies only for now.

“Anyhow, I’ll see you on Lonvoron, Talricto,” Orodan said. “…assuming I even get there this loop.”

“I see… going to bullishly insist on making your own way there, are you?” the spider asked.

“Quite so. I have a meeting with a certain Embodiment-level archer. And I have no intentions of allowing it to shunt me away this time,” Orodan declared.

Talricto got the hint and took a hike, winking out of existence and presumably off to Lonvoron.

This left just Orodan upon Alastaia’s barren moon. Gray rocks, various creatures hungry for his soul but too scared to approach…

…and a confrontation with a spatial spider waiting to jump upon his Teleportation.

Soul energy flowed through his body. Stronger and just a bit more efficient thanks to the singular level he’d gained in Incipience of Infinity.

[Teleportation 89 → Teleportation 90]

He winked out of space from the moon. And as expected, halfway into his travel, he felt the subtle signs of something changing the destination of his teleport.

His exit destination, the void between galaxies.

“At last, the source of this disorder is reve-.”

As much soul energy as he could muster was thrown into both his hands.

[Light Beam 17 → Light Beam 20]

His body suffered a decent amount of damage from the sheer amount of power he channelled, but the two continent-sized beams of light coming out of his hands collided with the arrow of light sent by the Embodiment-level spatial spider…

…and an explosion occurred as the arrow punched right through Orodan’s spells.

As it reached him, the arrow was now visibly weakened however, and his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance smashed it out of existence.

A feral grin emerged on Orodan’s face. This stupid spider wanted to bully Orodan with ranged attacks, did it? Then it could have the ranged duel it wanted.

“Light magic? Quite some power for so crude a usage of it… you do not carry the bearing of a mage either,” Alagameth spoke calmly. “A paladin? A spell sword? It matters not. Cease your destructive actions upon the tapestry of fate… or receive judgement at my hands till you yield and agree to change your ways.”

“Then by all means, bring all the judgement you have to bear,” Orodan challenged. “A duel of light magic, you against me.”

It was madness, plain and simple. This spatial spider with an oversized bow far bigger than its spindly body should’ve been able to handle, was at the Embodiment-level. Even with his recent training and the singular level gained in Incipience of Infinity, the gap was still too large!

A magical duel would’ve been hopeless!

Which was exactly why Orodan considered it good training.

The spider’s beady eyes held a look of arrogance and the desire to give Orodan a thrashing.

And Orodan’s own eyes held a look of defiance and the desire to give Alagameth a scalding.

[Light Beam 20 → Light Beam 21]

A potent arrow of light met two massive but crude and unskilled beams of light, penetrating right through them.

Only for Orodan to pull the dispersed energy back to his hands via Domain of Perfect Cleaning and fire the beams a second time before the arrow reached.

[Recycling 5 → Recycling 7]

The arrow still punched through. The spider must’ve at least been Transcendent when it came to the usage of light. But that was fine, as yet again Orodan’s Smite of Abrupt Deliverance met it and smashed it aside.

The totality of his soul energy was thrown into a teleport. Now at the Master-level, having attempted to brute force this fight enough times, it genuinely made the spatial spider struggle to re-direct it.

He had gotten the drop on this opponent before, he knew how to do it again if necessary…

…but that would have been weak.

Instead, Orodan remained at range, casting light beam after light beam, flummoxing Alagameth who expected him to press his advantage with raw power.

And throughout the battle, Orodan used feints and clever maneuvers. At first, he thought to move around under the screen and cover of multiple beams of light, yet that proved useless when he realized the spider could see him anyways.

It hadn’t gotten to be as old and powerful as it was without having some ability of seeing through bright flashes of light.

Then, Orodan achieved unexpected success by abusing the fact that he didn’t have to care about running out of power. He cast intentionally bogus Teleports which simply teleported him in the same place or not at all. Taking control of a properly cast Teleport was one thing, but taking over and re-directing an intentionally flawed Teleport whose spell structure was botched was another. He had additional tactics too, such as simply dropping Teleports mid-cast, throwing power into them but abandoning the spell entirely. And at other times he made the hand gesture for a teleport but instead cast a Spatial Fold to move a short distance away.

These tactics severely frustrated and exhausted his opponent. The spatial spider was doubtlessly powerful, it was an Embodiment of Space. An apex existence within System space!

And yet, its energy wasn’t endless like Orodan’s was. Orodan’s raw power with a Teleport was high enough that the spatial spider couldn’t afford to ignore or not bite on a feint. It had lived for an unfathomably long time, far longer than Orodan… but it didn’t have a lifestyle revolving around fighting, and Orodan suspected his own Combat Mastery was higher.

The possibility that these feints could be real forced Alagameth to take every one of them seriously. Intentionally flawed Teleports forced it to expend energy trying to grab them. Teleports abandoned mid-cast did the same. And unlike Teleportation, it simply couldn’t re-direct a Spatial Fold the same way.

“Such an irritating thing…” it muttered. “Your tactics are vexatious but will not avail you against true skill.”

“What true skill?” Orodan asked. “All I see is an Embodier struggling against a mere Transcendent!”

An embarrassing insult! Yet, it hadn’t grown old in a dangerous universe by being hot-headed. It didn’t rise to the bait and instead chose to fight patiently.

Still, as Orodan gained levels in Light Beam, the exhaustion in his opponent was beginning to show.

Orodan’s clever battle tactics allowed him to slowly corner it. Its real weakness was the fact that it was unwilling to kill him. He had little doubt that if it was truly serious, Orodan would have been dead by now. But fighting while restrained by a sense of ethics weakened it.

Its spatiomancy was incredibly potent, but without it and the willingness to kill, it wasn’t too dangerous. And when fighting Orodan, who presented the constant threat of an overpowered Teleport and close combat, it simply couldn’t afford to ignore any feints. Under these circumstances, while Orodan had to launch multiple attacks to block a single one of Alagameth’s… he still slowly began to stalemate it in a purely ranged duel.

At last, the spatial spider looked as though it had enough.

“Cease. No more of this game. We are at an impasse,” Alagameth said, stopping combat for a moment. “You are young but powerful and possessed of incredible potential. Just as I hold back, I sense that you do as well. I am unsurprised that a being capable of causing such calamity to the tapestry of fate is such a powerful foe. But that will be enough. I shall leave now and-”

[Space Mastery 96 → Space Mastery 97]

[Combat Mastery 109 → Combat Mastery 110]

[Recycling 7 → Recycling 8]

Weaving didn’t gain any levels this time. Perhaps he needed to actually hone his understandings of it through the craft itself. Still, it was used all the same to direct a monstrous and overpowered cast of Teleport straight for Alagameth.

And just like last time, when the spatial spider proved that it wasn’t an Embodiment of Space for nothing, Orodan used Recycling to recast another, even more powerful, Teleport, bringing him right up to grabbing distance of it…

…and a swift hand lashed out and tapped Alagameth over the head.

“Got you,” Orodan declared. “That’s my win. Well… long as you’re holding back and trying not to kill me at least.”

“You… did not kill me?”

“Why would I? You’ve taught me a lot. Though I do wish you’d stop holding back.”

“You are a mad man… but not a bad man,” Alagameth calmly said, and Orodan could sense the incredibly subtle gatherings of soul energy within its spindly body.

Not this time.

“I see what you’re about to do. The sentiment is appreciated,” Orodan said, gathering all the soul energy he could. “But unnecessary. I will make my own way to Lonvoron… or die trying.”

He liked Alagameth, he did. But he would not allow anyone or anything to steal the satisfaction of earning something through his own sweat and blood. But how could Orodan prevent a righteous spider trying to save his life from throwing him towards Lonvoron?

After all, it had been holding back throughout the fight but when it got serious last time, it had flung him right towards his destination with no resistance.

The answer was a simple one.

To beat a spatiomancer…

…destroying space itself was always an option.

[Spatial Fold 88 → Spatial Fold 90]

The entire fabric of space around them tore apart as Orodan’s massively overpowered Spatial Fold caused the canvas to tear.

Immediately, predatory things from different sections of the void began to come through the cracks.

“Lunatic!” it hissed, showing emotion for once. “If you wish to die so badly, I shall not rob you of the choice. Fend for yourself if you wish.”

Alagameth swiftly disappeared, skillfully navigating the torn canvas. But it certainly wouldn’t be sending Orodan anywhere else under these circumstances.

Fighting in the void was tricky business. There was no footing, and Orodan often had to rely on spatial or dimensional movement to get anywhere. But he could also propel himself via spellfire if needed, and his kinesthetic sense was good enough that he could spin around a hundred times and be thrown about only to recover and continue fighting from any awkward orientation.

And as the first few predatory beings came through, Orodan used Dimensional Step to bring himself to the nearest one, a thousand-legged centipede with shimmering black scales which seemed to absorb all energy.

He carved it apart, shattering its chitinous shell and causing yellow ichor and lifeblood to spill forth. The following four, Transcendents, also died under a furious and wrathful blitz of melee which caused the remaining ones to quail and realize that he was no prey for the likes of them.

It was then that what he’d truly been waiting for came through.

The torn canvas ripped apart even further as a gigantic Living Crystal the size of a star system entered the fray.

And as a thin crystalline tendril extended towards him, seeking to forcibly assimilate him via mental assault, Orodan knew that this was his chance.

He got close, very close.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 80 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 81]

And as Orodan delivered one of the strongest Smites he’d ever struck…

…he stood atop its face, and gazed deep into its core, where he sensed the window to its soul was.

The Living Crystal, a massive gouge on its surface, stared at Orodan.

Orodan, a feral grin on his face, stared at Ur-Vah’sahn.

He gazed into its soul, but in turn…

…it also gazed into his.

[Skill Absorption - Disguise 20 + Intimidation 33 → Incipience of Infinity 128]

The sheer power roiling through him at the high-level skill absorption caused some decent damage. It wasn’t the old System any longer, but his own. Consequently, any grand combinations or absorptions weren’t facilitated via veins of System energy in the divine dimension… but through his own body.

Still, it worked without a hitch, and most importantly…

…a manic shriek of agony and frenzy echoed out across the void.

The core of raw, unending crystalline power gazed into the depths of a mere man. And when it found no bottom to this insignificant warrior, its mind could not accept the contradiction.

Orodan himself felt under incredible mental pressure. Most of his body began bleeding as the cells began dying.

Unlike the Grandmaster vampire, this was a calamitous being of the Embodiment-level, feared and avoided by other Embodiers like Alagameth too. Not only was allowing it to gaze into the very depths of his soul an assault upon its psyche, but it was also a test for Orodan’s own mental prowess and the depths of his mind and soul.

Fifteen agonizing seconds of mental combat ensued.

It was an existential conflict between Transcendent and Embodier. The outcome should never have been in question.

And yet…

…the Living Crystal’s psyche began to fracture as Ur-Vah’sahn the Harmonious swiftly began to understand what disharmony was. The various voices and minds within it began maddening due to the deep gaze into Orodan’s soul, and great cracks began to appear on its physical body too.

His eyes bled but maintained a steely gaze with its core, and with it, Orodan bestowed unto it the truth. Not the truth of the Eldritch, but a truth of his own.

The terrifying cosmic truth of Orodan Wainwright.

The revelation of true infinity.

[Incipience of Infinity 128 → Incipience of Infinity 130]

The Living Crystal began to crack and grow insane. And in its throes of frenzy and the slow death of disassembly that Orodan had inflicted, it lashed out.

He wasn’t its match in direct combat. Yet he’d done it harm enough.

The darkness of death took him as an attack capable of wiping out star systems was unleashed.

And yet, Orodan had a defiant smile on his face all the way to the end.

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him, and he rose with a satisfied smile on his face.

He now had a skill which would allow him to move about unnoticed. The absorption brought Disguise and Intimidation into his Celestial skill, bringing them up to the Transcendent-level as a part of his skill.

With this, he could act more freely on Lonvoron without raising a ruckus. Although, the matter of getting there under his own power and actually besting his attackers in the void between galaxies still remained.

As many death loops as it took, Orodan Wainwright was determined to see this through.

There were various avenues of training waiting to be explored.
