The noble blinked. “No, it’s okay.” She shifted her weight. “I mean, I probably would’ve freaked out before, but…” Her voice trailed, and she glanced back at Pyre and Callan. She smiled wryly and turned to Llyr again. “I guess I’ve kind of gotten used to it. I mean, you’ve only ever helped us. It’s not like you’re suddenly a different person now.”

“Big improvement over an instant fireball,” Pyre drawled. Daphne huffed.

“Different circumstances,” she defended. Across from her, Llyr nodded slowly.

“I see. Thank you for your trust in me. Not many would’ve reacted the same.” He tilted his head, blue eyes landing on Callan. “Am I correct in inferring that you’re not human, either?” he asked, curious.

The ghost cleared his throat. “Yeah, I—” He paused, then started again. Now that Pyre thought about it, this was probably the first time he was actively choosing to tell someone that he was a ghost, so it made sense that he’d be nervous about it. Callan took a deep breath.

“I’m a ghost,” he explained. “I’ve, uh, been in solid form most of the time, so that’s probably why you didn’t know.” He tossed a not-so-subtle look at Pyre, who raised her hands in mock defeat. In her defense, it was a lot harder for her to pretend to be human than it was for Callan.

“A ghost?” Llyr’s gaze sharpened slightly, and he glanced over at the portals thoughtfully. “Are you suggesting…?”

Callan nodded. “The extra ichor is reactive after it’s been drawn in for magic, which is why it explodes like that when it touches the air for too long. But if I just… drain it right away, then it doesn’t really matter. It’s still ichor. Too much of it won’t hurt me. You could place the second portal beside my core, and there shouldn’t be any issues.”

Not only would it not hurt the ghost, it would actually help him level faster. He’d basically have an immediate source of food every time Daphne casted a spell in addition to all the standard draining he did. It was a legitimately good solution, and Pyre was impressed at how well it fit. Daphne seemed to be thinking the same thing, based on the way the noble’s eyes gleamed.

Llyr nodded. “That does seem like it would work,” he agreed. “I’d want you to test draining the extraneous ichor first, but once we’re certain that it won’t harm you, I can anchor the portals to your respective souls.”

Callan beamed. “Great! Let’s—”

Before he could continue, the clock hanging on the infirmary wall (right above the scorch mark) chimed.

By now, the sun was beginning to set outside, and the warm evening hues filtered through the open window. Llyr peered up at the clock with a frown while the other three sets of eyes in the room all watched him. After the excitement of the successful portal spell, the sound felt like a sudden drop back into reality.

“Your dinner date?” Pyre remarked. The healer hummed.

“It would seem it’s time, yes.”

Daphne scowled, the reminder of Lord Alardice’s letter immediately souring her mood. “You really don’t have to go, you know. You can say you’re sick or something.”

“If I did that, he would likely visit the mansion himself,” the healer said wryly. “I’m not sure that would be better.”

He stepped over to the sigil and placed a hand down on the lines. The glow died down, and the portals dissipated a second later. He straightened and gave the group an apologetic look.

“I’m sorry, we can resume testing once I’ve returned. This shouldn’t take long.”

Neither Daphne nor Callan looked at all happy about this. They exchanged worried looks, probably thinking about how insanely suspicious the noble was.

As the healer turned towards the door, Pyre took a casual step forward. Llyr paused, furrowing his brows at the demon.

“What are you doing?”

“I'm coming with you,” Pyre said bluntly. She raised an eyebrow. “It’ll be fun to see that guy’s house. Hope it’s not as boring as this one.”

Llyr frowned. “I don’t think—”

“Did that letter say you couldn’t bring anyone?” Pyre interrupted. The healer hesitated.

“…Not directly, no.”

“Cool, so we’re good.” The demon glanced back at Callan and Daphne. “You two coming too?”

Daphne immediately sprung to her feet, and the ghost followed as well—albeit more slowly. “Of course!” she said. Her eyes gleamed in the dimming light, and Pyre had a feeling that any conversation that happened between her and Lord Alardice would be hilarious to watch. Aristocratic passive-aggression, it turned out, could be very amusing.

Llyr looked between the three of them, now all standing and waiting by the infirmary door. He seemed to realize that there was no convincing them out of this. He sighed softly, but it was followed by a smile.

“Alright,” he said. “In that case, we should prepare to leave soon.”
