“Yeah, I know.” Denise sighed. “But he's devastated. He even asked me to leave him alone... and he never does that. He always spends time with us.” Denise said. “He's going to jump on the first stable relationship he can get his hands on if you don't stop him... or even give him hope that you might get back together.”

Lucy shook her head, forgetting that Denise still couldn't see her. “It's better if he does find someone else. I can't... I can't even look at him after what I did, let alone think about being his girlfriend again.”

“I'm really sorry you feel that way, Lucy.” Denise sighed again. “I won't bother you about this again.”

“Bye, Denise.”

“Bye, Lucy.”

*

Denise hung up her cell phone and put it away. “Well, you're on your own now, Ren.” She said. “Good luck.”

********

Ren reacted instinctively and hugged her, then her quick kiss turned into a full blown passionate one, and both of their bodies reacted accordingly. Nathalia felt Ren's bulge growing on her lower belly and Ren felt the tips of her breasts poke him in the chest. They stayed like that for a minute or two, making out, until Nathalia let her arms slide away from his neck and down his chest. Ren stopped kissing her and stood up straight.

“I've found a worthy man...” Nathalia said. “...he just doesn't realize it, yet.”

Ren started to speak and she put a finger to his lips.

“I know you don't really want to get married, and I know you're not going to wait a year for me, either.” Nathalia said. “On the other hand, we both know that this could be the best thing that either of us has ever had, marriage or no marriage.” She looked at Ren in the eyes and took her finger away from his mouth. “Tell me that isn't true.”

Ren opened his mouth; but didn't say anything, because she would know it if he lied. He closed his mouth and Nathalia smiled at his reaction.

“Do you remember what I told you before?” She asked. “About you being able to do anything you wanted until the marriage ceremony?”

Ren nodded, not doing it slightly like he was supposed to.

“I didn't just mean with other women, you know.”

Ren looked at her with surprise on his face. “What... what are you saying?”

“I'm going to do something that no dwarf woman has ever done before.” Nathalia said, and took Ren's hand. She knelt on one knee and looked up to Ren's startled face.

“Will you marry me, Ren?”

Several women gasped, one nearly screamed, and then it was quiet again.

“But... but... what about the convent? Your training? Finding other suitors?”

“Who else is going to measure up to you?” Nathalia asked. “Where in the world am I going to find another Ren?”

Ren didn't know how to answer that, and then he got a message notice. He opened it, and read it. It was Lucy's response. As he read it to the end a second time, several tears tried to escape; but Ren shut his eyes and stopped them, then closed the message and looked at Nathalia.

“Yes, Nathalia. I will marry you.”

Notice!

You have willingly entered a binding legal contract of marriage with Nathalia Neram. You have 1 year to provide her with a suitable living space, and all amenities required to fulfill her duties as your wife.

Rewards: Nathalia Neram (Wife)

Nathalia Neram has been granted: Aura (Personal)

Inheritance: House Neram (+Treasures), House Neram Keep

Notice!

Retainer contract with House Neram has been nullified.

Notice!

Your acceptance of Nathalia Neram's proposal has granted her the title: Nathalia, The First. She now has both Command and Camaraderie Auras, similar to yours. While together, your Aura abilities will combine and increase both in distance and in level.

“Oh... wow.” Ren said and helped Nathalia stand. His Aura went out to 30 feet now, and he could almost feel the people in it.

“Ren, what just happened? I've got a title now? Nathalia, The First?”

“You were right.” Ren said. “Your proposal was the first one, ever.”

“I thought... I mean I never heard of another woman proposing; but, I really was the first one ever?” Nathalia asked. “I've also got Aura, Command, and Camaraderie.” She said, surprised. “This is so weird.”

Ren looked at her and smiled. “You said this could be the best thing to happen for the both of us.” Ren pulled her close. “Guess what?”

She looked at him in the eyes and smiled back. “What?”

“It is.” Ren said and kissed her, to the sound of several more gasps.
