Colfa refused to change her hair, even though Ushar assured her it would wash out easily. She did buy more clothing, though, since Lyonette was paying for everything, or rather, the inn’s rather vast budget was.
By the time they were two hours in, a [Pirate Captain], a [Druid], and a disaster of fashion were ready for lunch. Nothing would do but Lyonette take them to a fancy restaurant.
They might not have reservations, and they looked a fright, but Dame Ushar’s armor opened a lot of doors—as did handing gold to the server in charge. They found themselves eating at a restaurant named Palatable Cuisine, which was overly fancy and had that ostentatious fondness for Terandrian foods because that was ‘high-class’.
“I’ll share a bloody steak with you, Colfa, and we’ll have a curlwrap leaf salad…Nanette?”
“I would like more bread with butter!”
Nanette was greedily eating some dark Noelictan Ashwheat bread. She only ate two small loaves of it, and Lyonette and Colfa actually managed half the steak; Dame Ushar was only too happy to take custody of the other half for herself.
“The real reason I wanted to come here was for this. Aha!”
The dessert menu made Nanette sit up. It was miniature jello and sugar creations! You could request anything you wanted, and the chef, a dedicated expert in desserts, would come out and serve it to you. But that wasn’t the amazing thing.
“Slimes! Are you from Onononno, sir?”
Nanette clapped her hands as a tiny slime rolled out, balancing a platter on its body, and she picked up a soldier waving a sword, made of blown sugar like glass. The [Chef] smiled, but wanly.
“That’s correct, Miss. I’m a [Slime Chef de Patisserie].”
“You must be the hit of the city. This is delicious.”
Lyonette complimented him, and the man ducked his head.
“Oh, well, I’m hardly that famous, Miss. And I’m told it does lose its charm in time…”
He glanced back at the kitchens, and she detected his withheld sigh, but she let the matter be—she was with Nanette and Colfa, and after the fun little sweets, they had passed into midday quite splendidly.
 
The adventures of the [Slime Chef] would actually be in Imani’s chapter, which takes place on the same day as this.
—pirateaba
 
——
 
“Well, what shall we do now, Nanette?”
“Hedault! I should bring him a gift.”
“Oh, right.”
Lyonette had to escort Nanette to Hedault, who was indeed pleased to see she’d come precisely on time, and he even accepted a small gift of fruits with a nod. Lyonette waved at a replacement guard who’d come to make sure Nanette was safe: Elia.
That left her and Colfa, but the Vampiress checked the time and sighed.
“I must get back to the farm, Lyonette. Fun as this is, Himilt will do all the chores alone without me. Dinner tonight? I’ll bring Himilt.”
“Please do! I’ll get Calescent to make something appropriate.”
Lyonette smiled, and then she was alone. She stretched and remarked to Ushar as the Thronebearer fell in beside her.
“Vaulont, you can appear if you feel the need. That went well. Mrsha and Nanette loved the surprise breakfast, and I think Nanette enjoyed that, right, Ushar?”
“I think so, Lyonette. And Mrsha is doing well in class, Dalimont reports.”
Lyonette nodded. This day had no problems. None. She had managed to hold down an entire week now with no incidents, no drama, just good and pleasant things, even if slightly superficial.
She strolled along Invrisil’s streets, glancing right and left at her world, her timeline, with two daughters who were alive and an inn mostly intact. Grateful to be alive. Grateful for peace, however temporary. Grateful…
It was Vaulont the Ash who spoke tentatively. He was still a silent figure, but he’d gotten a crash-course in what The Wandering Inn meant, and he hadn’t run, even after Lyonette had given him all the bonuses he deserved. So perhaps he was being sucked into this place that made heroes or statues of people. If so…he didn’t appear afraid. Brave man. Desperate man.
Perhaps, just a lonely man.
“You look like some of my employers before they ordered me to assassinate an entire family, Miss Lyonette.”
She and Ushar swung around, and Vaulont stopped, then clarified the comment.
“Too pleasant. Like you’re holding in an explosion.”
“What sort of monsters—you worked for the Reinharts, didn’t you?”
He nodded.
“Before Magnolia Reinhart took power.”
Lyonette went striding along the streets. A few passersby nodded to her warily.
“[Druid], Miss Knight.”
“Lady Druid.”
“I don’t beat my dogs, I swear! Don’t hit me!”
She ignored that. Lyonette searched her heart for a core of killing rage, and if it was there…she shook her head.
“I’m not bursting with rage, Vaulont. If anything, I think I’m genuinely enjoying this kind of day. But every moment I do…hah. Is this how Mrsha felt? I can’t stand here under the gentle sun and just savor living. Mrsha can, and she must, because I think she’s seen what she can do. But I cannot. Nanette is practicing. But I…am restless.”
He nodded.
“Aside from the sun, I understand. What do you will?”
“I will myself hitting Level 40. That I have not already is likely because I accomplished few great deeds of my own during the Palace of Fates. Or that I reacted instead of made my own plans. It’s time. I will many things, Vaulont. But mostly, I will that these peaceful days continue. For myself and all those who deserve them.”
The Level 39 [Princess] spoke softly. Ushar shivered and rolled her shoulders, and the Vampire waited. Lyonette turned to him.
“The Horns. Erin. Ryoka. Most of them are out of my reach. But there’s someone I almost forgot during the Palace of Fates. My warning has come and gone. Perhaps she never belonged to this inn as strongly, but she also survived several life-or-death moments. We owe her more than idle threats. Tell me, Vaulont. How well do you know Tessa, Shriekblade?”
His brows rose, and he smiled. Somewhere, a listening force made a note in its files and triggered the level-up even before waiting to see what Lyonette’s plan was. Vaulont spoke quietly.
“I know she’s supposed to be as good as an [Assassin] in many ways, madder than a Face. Likely to stab the hand that feeds her. I also know the Healer of Tenbault’s only good for a single spell. She can’t help my people; her spell kills or maims us. So I’d be delighted to do something, but I’d be wary of Shriekblade being wild…and the Healer’s pet dog. He barks loud.”
“Her spell hurts you?”
Lyonette was astonished. Vaulont shrugged.
“Most healing magic does, apparently. We usually don’t need it. If Shriekblade were coming willingly, we could evade Crowdcaller Merdon and his team easily. But if she wanted to, she’d leave the Healer herself. So like as not, you’d have to persuade her or get her by force.”
“And you couldn’t do it yourself?”
“Immobilize her without cutting a limb off? That’s a tall order for a Named-rank. I might be able to do it.”
Lyonette nodded, calm now, and her mind felt, if not free, then happy enough with the burdens it took on.
“Then we shall need a plan. I doubt Tessa has received my missives; she never replied. Or if she’s ignoring me…how fast can you reach Tenbault?”
He offered her a sliver of a smile.
“If I hurry, one night.”
She liked that.
