“Peace. Peace, before you injure yourselves. Show Dame Eclizza round. We shall discuss the matter.”
The Lucifen drew together and vanished through one of their doorways, and Eclizza turned to Uziel questioningly. All he said was:
“The [Innkeeper] and that Goblin friend of hers were captive in Roshal’s cells. Visophecin did the right thing and freed them when she contacted him. He brought them all here afterwards. Now they are in the company of Agelum. We shall consider surrendering them to Roshal after the world splits in twain. Not before.”
That, at least, never changed. Despite herself, Eclizza took off her helmet and smiled. If there were two things that Agelum knew, it was war—and healing. It was a difficult battle, even for them.
 
——
 
The wings of House Shoel’s sprawling mansions had plenty of guest rooms and ones set up for children, whom the Agelum adored, despite not having any themselves.
The door that Uziel knocked on several times led to a spacious playground of bolster pillows and blankets that Dame Eclizza had scarce seen the like of. The largest fort had two stories and stood eleven feet tall, stretching to the top of the room where windows let in sunlight.
“Anqua? Anqua, I’ve brought a guest. Don’t be frightened. Unless you’d like to sleep or rest?”
Uziel called gently, and Eclizza spotted the sole occupant of the rooms instantly, though only a slight duck of the head revealed any movement. Behind a smaller fort of pillows and a ‘roof’ of quilts, a little figure hid.
Eclizza’s advanced aura-abilities revealed the child instantly, of course. A crouching figure, trembling. Uziel seemed to know he had alarmed the guest, despite the gentle knocking, and he took a seat on a pillow, sighing.
“I’m all stiff. Not in pain, though. Eclizza, take off that wretched helmet; you’re scaring her. Anqua, this is Eclizza, a very brave and honorable [Knight] in service to Ailendamus. She’s sworn to protect you and all those like you. Eclizza, Anqua is the youngest of those rescued. A Lizardgirl. She’s very good at building, aren’t you, Anqua? I helped with the big fort.”
“How many pillows did you give her? And how many dolls?”
They were scattered about the great room, like soldiers lining battlements. Each one a different style. Some, Eclizza recognized as being dolls of famous adventurers, but there were new plushies. Including…she stared at one doll.
“Is that the Wind Runner? She looks rather ill-made. Her eyes are…goofy, for lack of a better word. And is that a sock with eyes on it?”
“Rhissy and the Windy Girl are the most famous and well-selling puppets in Ailendamus and every neighboring country.”
Uziel informed Eclizza, which made her confused again. Ailendamus was almost identical to the one she knew—except for these changes which she couldn’t explain. They were very recent and very…
“Why are there green pillows around her?”
“Oh, those are fart clouds. That’s what she expels.”
“—I don’t recall that.”
Admittedly, she’d only captured Ryoka in her memory of this Eclizza’s life, then been killed while in the [Greater Teleport] spell. Damn the Death of Magic; Eclizza hadn’t been able to move, dodge, or block whatever she’d been hit with. What an ignoble way to go…
Perhaps she’d dodged an arrow if that was how the Wind Runner flew. Dead gods. Eclizza had thought it was wind magic. What kind of class…
Uziel was glancing at the little tail which had waved up from the top of the pillow fort. He grinned, his face soft and kind.
“That’s right. It’s her special power on Rhissy and the Windy Girl—the television show Duke Rhisveri puts on. That’s him, the sock puppet.”
“The what.”
Eclizza’s mind had stopped working for a second. But Uziel began clapping his hands.
“It’s even her song—well, one of them! Fart, not Smart! How does it go, Anqua? ‘Farts, farts, lots of farts! Be careful not to shart—’”
There was a sound, muffled, then the giggling got too loud, and the entire fort wobbled. Uziel laughed, then blinked.
“Oh no, watch out—”
The pillow fortress was collapsing. It had all the lethality of a bunch of pillows falling on you, but Eclizza moved instinctively, catching the pillows before they could topple onto—
She locked eyes with a child with huge, wide, slitted yellow pupils blinking up at her. Her face was terribly scarred. As if someone had taken a knife to—
Anqua, the Lizardgirl, leapt away with a cry and scrambled behind another fort. Uziel threw a pillow. It bounced off Eclizza’s back.
“Eclizza only wanted to protect you, Anqua. Don’t be scared. Are you scared? Should we go?”
They found the girl squatting under another fort in a little dome of cloth, hiding her head and crouched in a corner. When she turned, she had something else on her face.
A mask, made of porcelain, that gave her an eerie look but covered all but her eyes. She wore it, still hiding, staring up at Eclizza. This time, the Great Knight hung back while Uziel tried to coax her out.
“You don’t have to come out. Shall I bring you breakfast? Would you like that?”
She didn’t say anything, just stared up at Eclizza like she was a monster. The Great Knight said nothing, but she knelt and saw why the Agelum were so wrathful. They believed in causes, and they were the most moral people she had ever met. By which Eclizza meant that no Agelum she had met could sit by when they heard of an injustice perpetrated.
One of them had once heard of a killer terrorizing one of Ailendamus’ provinces. So, Razia had snuck out of House Shoel and made a near eighty-mile journey and hidden herself for two weeks straight to hunt down the killer before they could take more lives. The Agelum were the sort to go to war for injustice—she had compared them to the King of Destruction more than once.
But the Agelum were better with children. Anqua whispered so quietly that even Eclizza couldn’t hear her, but Uziel just listened.
“She’s not scary or too important for you, Anqua. I taught Dame Eclizza myself. If she or I were too busy to talk to children, we’d be useless! I know—you just think you don’t know her. Where…aha! How could she be scary if you know her so well? Look! Ezzy’s here!”
He had a doll in his hands with a black helmet, a sword and shield in both hands, and—Eclizza twitched—the pale viper twisting over her chest plate. A miniature Dame Eclizza in plushie form.
I forgot Rhisveri made that. Uziel offered it to the Lizardgirl, and she clutched it, then peered at the doll and the genuine article. Once again, the scarred, wide-eyed gaze found Eclizza, and she saw Uziel giving her an encouraging smile.
The [Knight] wavered…then she knelt. Carefully, she bowed, hand splayed over her chest, the other moving out and back, as if she bowed to royalty.
“Lady Anqua. I am Dame Eclizza, the Pale Serpent of Ailendamus. I am indeed at your service. You have my shield. I would be delighted to make your acquaintance, if I may.”
She waited and saw the girl swallow. Then Anqua crawled forwards a bit. Her voice was still shaky when she said—
“Are you going to protect Miss Ulvama? Please?”
Eclizza hesitated, but the girl was clutching the doll tightly, so the Great Knight nodded.
“Is she the person who rescued you?”
“Yes. She was nice to me, but she fell into the sea.”
Uziel patted Anqua’s hand, gently.
“She’s alive, we’re sure of it. Her and Miss Erin.”
“They’ll catch her and put her in the cage again.”
The girl didn’t look at Uziel. Her eyes darted to the door, and she began to tremble terribly. Dame Eclizza murmured.
“If she saved you, Anqua, then I will protect this Ulvama. I swear it on my shield and by the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. Just as I promise no one will hurt you in my company. Will you accompany Lord Uziel to breakfast? He is weak and needs his nourishment.”
Uziel smiled faintly, and the girl peered up, then nodded. So, Uziel held out his hand, and they walked out of her bedroom, where his wheelchair was already waiting. Anqua sat in his lap, and he insisted on wheeling them towards the dining room.
Only during breakfast did the Agelum lean over and whisper to Eclizza that she’d sworn to defend a Hobgoblin.
 
——
 
At least the sight of scrambled eggs leaving Eclizza’s visor at speed had Anqua and the other children laughing so hard the girl nearly fell out of Uziel’s lap. Then the loud sounds scared her, and she almost fled back to her rooms.
“Ah, not yet, Anqua! You haven’t finished eating. You do need to eat. What scared you this time? The loud noises? Bravery, child. Don’t be afraid in our company. Did someone scare you? Ask any of those here and you shall see no one wished to scare you or hurt you.”
One of the other Agelum, Ligandre, bent over to speak to the girl. They all seemed to know her and they did their jobs well, as far as Eclizza could tell.
The dining rooms, like so many walls in the mansion, were colored by childish drawings or paintings they had made. To the dismay of the Lucifen, the Agelum adored the memory of the many children who’d entered their manors to train or learn or just play.
Indeed, while the Lizardgirl was too shy to play with the other noisy children—a mix of half-Elves, Humans, even a pair of Dwarves—she had mustered the courage to eat breakfast with Uziel and Eclizza.
However, it seemed too much for her at this point. Midway through breakfast, she put down her fork and began to fiddle with her claws, twiddling them together anxiously. She didn’t cry—but her aura diffused in a way that made Eclizza think she would have, if she dared.
Uziel was even better at reading auras, and he instantly stopped eating and leaned over.
“Anqua? Do you want something?”
“I want Isoquen.”
She sounded worried, but Uziel instantly turned and asked someone where an ‘Emira Isoquen’ was. The woman, or rather, Stitch-woman, turned out to be on the way already, with a small gathering that made Anqua jump off Uziel’s lap and run to them. She hid behind the Emira’s skirts, following them back to the table.
“Lord Uziel, may I know who our guest is?”
The Emira was intelligent and recognized Eclizza at once as being someone of rank. For her part, Eclizza noted that while Isoquen’s cloth was silk and doubtless resewn and mended, the others had markings on their necks and arms if they weren’t Stitch-folk. Faded they might be, but the scars from manacles were visible.
No slave brand magic. Someone must have removed that.
“I am Dame Eclizza, Emira Isoquen.”
The Stitch-woman bowed deeply.
“I am merely Isoquen now. Whatever titles I had—a former [Slave] has none. We are all indebted to House Shoel and Duke Rhisveri for their generosity.”
Eclizza guessed the Emira didn’t know the true nature of Lucifen and Agelum. She very much doubted Rhisveri would have approved of telling them anything. Anqua whispered in Isoquen’s ears, pointing at Eclizza.
“Anqua greatly admires you, Dame Eclizza. She has a doll of your likeness in her rooms. Donated by the Duke, I think.”
“I am relieved it gives her some comfort, Emira. Tell me…how long have you been in Ailendamus?”
A quick glance between Isoquen and the others. The ones who sat closest were all women, varying in age from Isoquen to teenagers. Anqua was by far the youngest.
“A month? Two, now? I have lost count. No, I am a liar, I have counted each one exactly. I am more a coward than little Anqua. I would have hidden in my rooms, except I was told she was out here.”
Then Eclizza saw the way the Emira was only being served by female servants. She flinched every time any male came by who wasn’t a child. Uziel seemed an exception, along with the other Agelum, but several of them had moved back.
“Emira Isoquen was one who knew Anqua well. She is a leader of her group, of sorts.”
“A leader of little, Lord Uziel. If we are to leave, I will call upon whatever favors I have, but—”
Uziel waved this off, growing visibly upset.
“Who suggested that? Paxere?”
“We hear talk. We know we are a risk—”
“To whom? The Kingdom of Glass and Glory? Let the Slavers come—”
The word ‘slavers’ made many of the people sitting at the table flinch. Anqua ducked down at the table, and Uziel hesitated. But then he finished his sentence.
“Let the Slavers of Roshal come. Or even the Naga. I have hunted serpents before. Some monsters should be killed and displayed so all know they are dead.”
Several Agelum nodded at that, but Anqua just sucked on her thumb-claw. At this point, Eclizza found it hard to continue enjoying breakfast. She made light conversation with Isoquen about her coming back from the dead until she could rise and speak.
 
——
 
“They’re Visophecin’s folly. He could have put them at any other port, but he dumped them here, with us. Now, they’re a liability. I would rather give them gold and send them on their way, but the Agelum have promised violence if we try.”
Paxere was leader of the Lucifen, or at least speaking for them, which told Eclizza how disrupted they were. She was young, and even if her parents had both fallen in battle—
They might be letting her speak and act while the older ones figure out what to do. A figurehead. Either that or she’s grown strong enough to wrest power for herself.
Regardless, Eclizza would have rather spoken with a senior Lucifen, but many had perished and Visophecin was exiled. Paxere’s red-eyed glare took in the former [Slaves] as Eclizza folded her own arms.
“As far as I understand it, this was a pact struck by Visophecin.”
“A foolish one! That little Lizardgirl flinches when one of us so much as breathes.”
“As charming as the Lucifen are, I cannot imagine why.”
“Yes, b—”
Paxere went silent, and her face turned blank. She had forgotten some mortals were willing to talk back to her kind, even if they knew who she was. Eclizza was all but immune to the Lucifen’s disconcerting stares. She’d grown up here, learning from Uziel how to swing a sword.
“Surely the Lucifen have opinions on the [Slaves]. Or did you approve of their treatment and Roshal’s ship?”
This time, the Lucifen colored slightly and snapped back.
“Misery for misery’s sake is pointless! Nor do we hold with Roshal’s methods of rule. The Lucifen have been debating the slave-holding arguments for the last few months, though.”
“Not to take it as a proposal to Rhisveri, I trust.”
Eclizza was alarmed at that, and Paxere waved it off.
“We enjoy talking about everything. The…condition of the freed [Slaves] was instrumental in our debates. If that is how the Naga’s own [Slaves] are treated, it provides a baseline for the institution itself. As well as testimony of how the [Innkeeper] and Hobgoblin were being treated.”
