“And that was it. It’s not like he went to pieces without Saliss, but it ruined his relationship with some of the other Named-ranks at the time, like Mivifa. So he only has the army now, and it’s not enough. Only Lulv or a few others hold the same rank as him, and they’re all commanding officers—he’s not. And I’d expect Lulv and Zeter wouldn’t be nearly as good together.”
The idea of Lulv being a positive influence socially made Luciva almost smile.
“That would be disastrous, Lilliam. I see the problem. We can try to find you more people to talk to in Manus…”
“Pass. I can tell when they’re an agent, and it feels forced whenever we’re put together. I am fine, Dragonspeaker.”
She wasn’t. Luciva knew how to read [Soldiers], and here was one approaching her limits. The Dragonspeaker stared at her claws as she thought.
“What you need, Lilliam, is…a holiday.”
“I’m not working, Dragonspeaker. Technically, every day is—”
“I mean a holiday from Manus. From Zeter. Maybe take your children, but we can arrange…”
Luciva was staring at a war-map on the walls of Izril. She was tilting her head, wondering where you went on holiday.
“I’ve visited all the Walled Cities, Dragonspeaker. Where could I go?”
Because she was without real insight and her thoughts kept popping up there anyways, Luciva said the name that occurred more and more frequently on people’s tongues these days. She gave Lilliam a blank look and said:
“How about Liscor?”
That was how Lilliam blinked, looked at the map, and found herself on holiday from her marriage. Heading to Liscor. A kind act from the City of War, who cared about its soldiers, even her. But she did think even the perceptive Dragonspeaker had made one mistake in her consideration of Lilliam.
Everyone asked, ‘how was Zeter?’, then ‘how was Lilliam?’. No one asked…what Lilliam’s class was.
It wasn’t [Wife]. She wasn’t good enough at that, and it hadn’t ever been her dream.
Lilliam’s class was [Sheath Tender]. A class that could only exist with the Swordsman of Six.
This was her holiday.
 
——
 
 
 
Mini-Chapter #5 — Healing
It was a strange day. The best of days, and the skies were still filled with magical fireworks and light spells. They’d gone from dawn to dusk, and the crown had paid for sweets and baked goods to be given out for free across the entire kingdom. A fortune, but no one had complained, even the most diehard penny-pinchers.
The best of days…and the worst of them for one person, the person it was all about. But no one realized it at first.
Dame Chorisa was drunk. She, Lacres, Indella, and Aine were technically on-duty, and as members of the Thirsting Veil, they should have been professional and sober at all times. Especially since they were guarding a member of the royal family.
However…lately their professionalism had slipped. How could it not when they had learned they were in service to a Wyrm and that the Kingdom of Glass and Glory was ruled by immortal beings as much as—if not more than—their [King]?
The immortal cabal wasn’t actually the part that made them slip up on their duties. You could almost find pride in the fact that Ailendamus was served by ancient beings of myth and legend…so long as they were serving it and not the other way around.
The laxity came from the distinct impression Chorisa had that…she was utterly useless. Since she knew the truth of the realm, she could not be sent on missions or into battle lest she be captured or turn traitor. Thus, she was assigned to guard duty to Rhisveri’s section of the royal palace.
Guard duty—for a Wyrm. Hundreds of feet long, armored in scales that made modern-day artifacts look like rocks compared to a fortress wall, able to spit acidic venom, and cast at least Tier 7 spells. Oh, and he could fly.
She’d been depressed about it for months, even though there were perks to being so highly-placed, like knowing what was going on in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory and training with House Shoel’s Agelum—a mixed blessing, that.
Today, though, Chorisa was over the moon. In fact, she didn’t think she’d met a single sister or, exceptionally rarely, brother of her Order of the Thirsting Veil who wasn’t drunk and delighted. The normally stoic, reserved Knight Order were dancing on tables and even singing.
Because their Great Knight had returned. Because from this damned war that had taken far more than it should—the Great Knight Eclizza, the Pale Serpent, had come back.
How? Why?
Chorisa herself didn’t know; the chaos and then celebrations had left her unable to ask. It had been…possibly forty hours since Eclizza had returned?
Fireworks were still going. The windows were flashing with every color as Chorisa got back to guard duty. She hadn’t slept.
“Attention. You wood maggots. We’re on duty. Act like it!”
Lacres, Indella, and Aine were stumbling into a line next to her at the doors. They were so drunk they had bounced off several pillars on the way here. Chorisa wondered if they could get chairs. It was going to be a long eight hours of duty.
Maybe they’d trade off two-by-two. It wasn’t like Rhisveri used them for anything but glorified [Messengers] or to check on other immortals.
Rhisveri. She hesitated, then cracked the door open. Then she froze. Chorisa stared into his rooms, where the Wyrm himself slept. There she saw him curled up like a giant snake. That wasn’t unusual. She knew better than to enter; he put magic up at all times when he slept, another reason she was useless.
But she had never seen…the helmeted figure was almost invisible, except for the squirming, against the green and white scales. However, there she was.
Wrapped up like a sausage, the Wyrm curled around her much like a child holding a treasured teddy bear, Dame Eclizza was trapped by Rhisveri. Her helmeted head slowly turned as she stopped trying to get an arm free from his scales. Chorisa felt Eclizza’s gaze on her—
Eclizza, who was like a big sister to all of the Thirsting Veil Knights. An inspiration, a hero—someone who had personally taught Chorisa, which was why Chorisa and her fellow [Knights] had been so wroth at Ryoka when they’d thought she had killed Eclizza.
Mightiest warrior of Ailendamus. Powerful aura user, bladeswoman, even capable of limited spellcasting. And—Chorisa felt the alcohol draining out of her blood—
Sort of intense. Eclizza’s aura was like a wave of venom that hit Chorisa and tossed her off her feet. The other three [Knights] followed her, rolling head over heels.
“Drunk on duty?”
Eclizza’s voice didn’t wake the Wyrm. She finally got an arm free, pushed herself up—and Chorisa sat up.
“Dame Eclizza! We were only celebrating—”
The thwack of Eclizza chopping Chorisa’s forehead made Rhisveri stir and frown in his sleep. Chorisa clutched at her dented helmet, enchanted or not, and Eclizza balled a fist.
“You are the same Chorisa I remember. Though the Chorisa I remember never shirked her duty. A great pity so much in Ailendamus has changed. It appears I must rectify issues as the Agelum taught me. By hitting things. Let’s see how well you can defend your target, Dame Chorisa, Dame Knights.”
Chorisa squeaked.
 
——
 
The servants found what they thought were four corpses on the ground outside of Duke Rhisveri’s chambers as the sun rose. They woke the Wyrm with their calls for the guards. He woke, thrashed around, and searched for Dame Eclizza.
She was sitting on a balcony’s ledge, cross-legged, balanced on the railing of his personal chambers. Here, she stared out at sights that no one, not even King Itorin II, was privy to.
Rhisveri had kept gardens. Or rather, Fithea, his adopted mother, had. Practical ones, filled with herbs and rare plants. Even cacti in controlled magical environments; they filled the inner courtyards no one was allowed to enter.
This entire wing was like a museum of his treasures, empty and deserted. She had wandered this place since she was allowed to enter, and today, Eclizza was having a drink.
Sandviper venom. Quite a lot of it, given it could fill the shot glass in her hand. It was colorless, though not odorless; the acrid smell of it was a clear warning, but she just sipped at it, visor raised.
She seldom showed her face. But if you could see her, you’d find her hair bleached almost blonde from the brown it had used to be, skin pale from lack of light. Pale Serpent indeed. Poison had only added to the effect.
“Fireworks. He never celebrated me like this, even when I made Great Knight. But I knew he cared. This much?”
She gazed up as more flew. Yet more—what was this, the third day? The Great Knight saw it in everyone’s eyes, from the King on down. Relief, confusion, awe—she had come back from the dead.
It was a glorious day. For all but her. She could hear Rhisveri laughing in the distance as he realized what she’d done to his guards. Laughing in delight. For to him, one of his beloved champions had returned from the dead after he had lost so many.
“His mother, Fithea. His greatest warrior and general, Dionamella. And me, I suppose. I would think him mad—if I did not understand.”
Another sip of the drink. Venom did not sear the tongue. It just…tingled until things went numb. A bitter, sour taste. Eclizza brought out another bottle and poured herself a refill. She was so immune to poisons of any kind that this was both training and as close to drinking as she could get.
“I have watched him die. And I have lost my world, whatever it was, however real they were. I chose to stay.”
She mourned a Wyrm who had vanished to protect her, and even if his likeness was here, she mourned her world, her companions. Dionamella, gone in two worlds, as with Fithea. She drank to the breaking of that strange palace, to the deaths of many warriors.
Even if she had been granted the memories and beliefs of her other self through the power of the system of levels itself—that just meant twice to mourn. Twice as many regrets.
No—Eclizza filled her cup with Creler’s poison, a rare and dangerous drink even for her, and drank, and that did burn like the fires of Rhir.
No, she did not wish to celebrate today. So, when Rhisveri came to find her, intending to parade her across Ailendamus, she was gone. She, who had used to dance attendance on his mercurial whims to earn his affection and respect.
How things changed. The Pale Serpent roamed out from the palace, in search of something appropriate to take her attention. So she visited the only place she thought of as home, where she had learned to do battle from the greatest warriors living: the Agelum.
That was when she encountered those in need of respite and healing, even more than her beloved Wyrm.
 
——
 
An argument had swept through House Shoel. A true argument, not the spats that occurred between Lucifen. They were the ones most people associated with House Shoel, the grim judges who arbitrated law.
The ‘fair cousins’, the reclusive, sickly Agelum, had far less political power with mortals due to their necessary isolation. But within House Shoel, they were Lucifen and Agelum, and mostly, the Lucifen acceded to the whims of their counterparts and let them amuse themselves with Sariant Lambs, donations, and public works.
Rarely did Lucifen and Agelum fight. Agelum were physically dominating beings, or should have been, a counterpart to the Lucifen, who were also strong, but far more magically gifted. However, the frailty of the Agelum over the millennia meant they could hurt themselves even standing up, let alone swinging a sword. More than one had left themselves bedridden by overexerting themselves playing with children; the staff had strict orders to not let them overdo anything.
So that was why nearly two dozen Agelum on their feet, arguing with the Lucifen, had Eclizza’s hand on her sword. She recognized Uziel, of course; the head of the Agelum was one of the oldest and strongest amongst them.
He was pointing a finger, his normally-kind eyes glaring wide, the multi-pupiled gaze fixed on a very nervous young Lucifen—Paxere. She was speaking quickly.
“Uziel, sit down! You are going to hurt yourself—”
“I will not sit until you agree! It is a matter of principle! Azemith and Igolze did not fight and perish to hand any of the captives, any of them, back to Roshal or risk their deaths in Rhir! Nor will we just send them off to be preyed on again!”
She flinched at that, and Eclizza halted, gathering information.
Azemith and Igolze were dead? Yes, Rhisveri had told her—no wonder the Lucifen looked equal in number to the Agelum. They had done far better than the Agelum at surviving and reproducing over the years, but twenty-four of them dead was disastrous.
“Uziel, please sit before you hurt yourself. I am willing to move on all but the Djinni. They’re…Djinni. If any other nation were to hear of—”
“Speak to them, Paxere. No, I don’t want my chair! Who—Eclizza!”
Uziel turned as he noticed her, and he bounded over so fast that the gale of air following him nearly knocked one of the servants off her feet. Eclizza felt him grasp her forearm even through her armor.
“Lord Uziel, you should not be up.”
“Bah. I feel stronger than ever. Maybe it’s my dander over the freed [Slaves]. Did you hear what Paxere and the Lucifen want to do? Send them back?”
“The…freed [Slaves], Lord Uziel? Ailendamus does not allow [Slaves], except those that pass through our borders. Have you freed some?”
That would cause trouble if the Agelum had been moved to it. However, Uziel just gave her a strange look before snapping his fingers gently.
“Ah. You must not have been caught up by Rhisveri about all events. I have so many questions myself; hark, all! Eclizza has returned!”
All the Lucifen and Agelum stopped bickering. They turned, and all of them smiled. The dark and sinister smirks of the Lucifen contrasted with the beaming joy of Agelum, even tears. All Eclizza could do was bow. Uziel took her arm.
“Refreshments! And don’t slink away, Paxere, we are not done. Ah—Eclizza has not been told of the battle at sea.”
“That battle I know of. A terrible tragedy which I wish to ask Visophecin about—though I am told he is gone. But what is this about the [Slaves]?”
In all the many events she had to catch up on, Eclizza had already memorized every detail of note…but she had forgotten they were only the details Rhisveri saw fit to furnish her with. Uziel’s eyes softened, and he took her by one arm.
“Why, the freed [Slaves] from Roshal’s damned ship, of course. Some of the Lucifen would have us throw them to the wolves.”
“They know we rescued them, Uziel. We do not need more danger—”
The Agelum bristled, and Paxere raised her hands.
