Then Relc had called him a ‘lying bug’, and Klbkch hadn’t ever explained how you actually did it. If you were light enough, fast enough, strong enough—it was so easy.
You just ran at the wall, found the tiny purchase where you put your foot against it as you were in motion—and for that small fraction of time, you had a foot hold. Then you just pushed yourself up while you had momentum, doing it again and again.
All it took was practice, angling yourself so you were moving towards the wall, not away. Then you could race up a mountain—or in this case, a shop’s three stories and kick off a wall and then the roof’s ledge. He broke a few of the pottery shingles with the force of his kick, which he felt bad about.
More money he’d have to tell the Free Queen to send to—what city was this again? Chomris? Had they been pursuing him and Miss Loisha all this way?
Klbkch arched his back as he flew, slowly rotating until his feet were under him. Then he landed on the roof across the street and drew his blades. Even this felt so much better. So much closer to how it had once been.
Yes, you swung them like this. A bit faster and it’d be [Silverflash Whirlwind]. Oh well, it still blocked the arrows coming at him. He sliced a thrown net in half. A targeting Skill. But unenchanted nets.
Blue bricks, horseback riders, and a penchant for nets. Such an odd city, this Chomris. He supposed the blue clay deposits explained the street, but why nets for their Watch?
Also—did no one listen in the last three cities he’d been to? He shouted, keeping his voice loud and controlled.
“I am Senior Guardsman Klbkch of Liscor! I have kept Miss Loisha under protective custody due to abusive practices in her place of work! You are interfering with an off-duty [Guardsman] enforcing the law!”
He didn’t quite say ‘off-duty’ at the same volume. He felt like it would ruin his case, and the Drakes were not listening anyways.
“Get the Antinium! Don’t let him get away!”
Klbkch scanned the ground. There was Loisha. The Gnoll [Prostitute] was hiding in the crowd as they’d agreed to do if he failed to smuggle her into the city. All she wanted was to find a safe place to work without being chased by the Watch of two cities and her former employer, a Drake who did not treat the workers at his brothel in accordance with Klbkch’s understanding of the law.
It was a very amusing story in fact, how Klbkch had even ended up in this situation. He couldn’t wait to tell Relc or Erin about it.
A slow-moving arrow—Klbkch leaned around it and clacked his mandibles together. At least dodging arrows was in his purview again. Gone were the days he died to a few dozen Goblins. His new body was getting a workout before he even got to the New Lands.
“I almost got her into the city with a passport. Who knew even underworld criminals balked at Antinium?”
Or that Gnollish [Prostitutes] got so little respect? It was almost like they were as reviled as Antinium. Klbkch held his position on the rooftops, planning his next course of action.
“The north gate!”
He shouted, and as everyone turned, he bounded in the opposite direction. Pretending he was heading further into the city. He trusted Miss Loisha would get the message and run that way. Or perhaps she’d give up on him and flee—but he rather felt like he was her best option as opposed to being a Gnoll with a Grade 1 Temporary Passport in an unfamiliar city.
Which was also a commentary on how these cities treated people. He resolved to have strong words with the local Watch Captain.
If they’d stop shooting at him.
The Antinium was hopping from rooftop to rooftop, causing a lot more damage than he would have in Liscor. Here, the clay tiles scattered and broke underfoot; they weren’t even nailed down! They were just held down by the weight of the ones on top—you could lift up an entire section of tiles, which he supposed was good for modular replacement, but would have been annihilated in Liscor’s rains.
Right now, the arrows and the force of his leaps were destroying a lot of roofs. Which he regretted. He also shouted down at the screaming Drakes and few Gnolls.
“Civilians, take cover! Beware of stray arrows! The Watch is in pursuit…the Watch is performing evasive maneuvers!”
The funny thing was that his voice was normal enough that the civilians took cover, then spotted him and heard the word ‘Antinium’ or his nickname being shouted—and then they screamed and fled him.
“I forgot how much they feared us outside of Liscor.”
Klbkch had reached the end of his line of rooftops and had arrived at a four-sided intersection. Too far to jump the other side of the street, but so what? He leapt down, raced to another wall, and was bounding up it in a second.
This was what he’d missed. Twenty years of living in that shell of a Worker’s body. Twenty years of losing his levels, of being so weak.
Just for fun, Klbkch did a flying jump from the top of the next roof, as high as he could. When they stared up at him, his pursuers, the people of this city, Loisha, and a random Human, they didn’t see any Antinium they would have been used to.
His chitin was a shadowy grey these days, not the plain brown-black. His body was leaner than the round shelled Workers or the bulky Soldiers made in Galuc’s image. He had thin, articulated legs, arms, and a compact torso. However, beetle-like ridging on his arms and legs formed the appearance of naturalistic armor—which was accurate, because he had been given chitin with around 164% more durability than the average Soldier’s shell.
Obviously, he was still quite fragile, but the Silent Queen had prioritized giving him as much mobility and strength as she could in this new body, and for that, he had commended her. Klbkch’s mandibles had a purplish tinge to the edges and were venomous—his eyes were no longer quite black and instead had more of that prismatic hue visible on most insect’s eyes and were, likewise, upgraded.
Most of him was. He was packed with so many rediscovered improvements and attempts at recreating old Antinium abilities that Klbkch had been very relieved his body hadn’t developed any significant defects. The Silent Queen had been forced to reprocess over sixty attempts at his current shell, and she had put the cost of his creation at around eight months of her Hive’s sole output.
It was worth it. He would have to repay her somehow. Klbkch hadn’t even activated a quarter of his body’s new abilities. Different kinds of sight, various excretions, hidden organs—nothing as extensive as Wrymvr, not by far. But enough.
He must have jumped twenty some feet up. Klbkch saw the city stretching down around him, a wide, sprawling place with simple, dirt walls and a moat that protected it—the moat was filled by the river and thirty feet wide to make up for the walls, which didn’t even have ramparts.
Such a strange city.
Klbkch landed on his feet and sheathed his swords. He stared down at the group of Drakes staring up at him. They seemed rather stunned by his acrobatic display. He supposed even a Gold-ranker would have trouble doing that without dedicated Skills.
I used to be even better. You have no idea. The Slayer was calm. No, he was Klbkch the Senior Guard. Diplomacy. The time of the Slayer was long ago—that was just a nickname that the Drakes had picked up from the Antinium.
Once, he had been Klbkch the Slayer, Centenium, the eighth Centenium ever made by the First Queen. The explorer, the one who roamed alone, killed foes, and found new places for the Antinium to grow and expand.
Then he had been Klbkch the Prognugator of the Hives, his body lost, a desperate survivor trying to take Izril, a war-leader fighting with scraps and children.
Lastly, he had been Senior Guardsman Klbkch, quietly unhappy, laboring in the city he had grown to love on a task he had personally despaired of until it had miraculously born fruit. Then…realized he didn’t fit the Antinium he had helped make. That he had become the problem.
Now, he was just Klbkch, an explorer with a mission to investigate the New Lands. An Antinium on an adventure.
…And rather sick of being shot at.
“Watch Captain of Chomris!”
The lead rider flinched as Klbkch shouted down at him. The Antinium pointed a finger.
“I am a Senior Guardsman of Liscor! If you do not respect my authority, then know me as Klbkch, Revalantor of the Free Antinium! This pursuit is pointless! I have killed no one, harmed no one—I seek safe passage for myself and my comrade! I do not wish to harm you or your Watch!”
Zevara would have called off the fighting when she saw he wasn’t attacking anyone. The Watch Captain just shouted back, voice quavering.
“Antinium! You have disrupted the peace of two other cities! You are under arrest! Come quietly or we will be forced to use force!”
Be forced to use force. Ancestors. Klbkch sighed and raised his hands.
“If that is what it requires, I surrender.”
He hopped down from the roof to the great surprise of the Drake on horseback. He was a thin, rakish Drake who had a bunch of throwing nets at his side. They seemed to expand when thrown and he must have been the one tossing them; the other Drakes had a mix of spears and bows.
“You…surrender?”
“If this will end this pointless chase, I do, Watch Captain. Your name, please?”
Klbkch thought about threatening to complain, but he had caused something of a problem, and Zevara had arrested Erin Solstice for similar acts. The Watch Captain glanced at him as a Drake, eyes bulging, mouthed at him.
“Captain, it’s him. The Slayer—”
“I’m not blind. I’m Watch Captain Romass of Chomris. Someone get me some enchanted cuffs.”
Klbkch lifted a finger, and all the Drakes tensed.
“Watch Captain, I would prefer not to be cuffed. I will go with you peacefully, but I do not quite trust that I will be safe in your custody. I give you my word I will not offer violence if it is not offered to me. I am an off-duty Senior Guardsman of Liscor.”
Romass eyed Klbkch, and his knuckles were white on his throwing net. But he was nodding, and Klbkch felt hopeful he could explain this entire affair when a second group of Drakes raced into the intersection and shouted.
“There it is! Kill it!”
They had a mix of wands and crossbows and fired the moment they saw him. One of the crossbows actually shot one of Romass’ Drakes in the butt; the [Guard] screamed, and the rest of them, panicked, drew and shot at Klbkch.
“Hold fire! Hold, you idiots—”
Romass shouted, and Klbkch just sighed. So much for that. He hoped Romass figured out he wasn’t a threat; the two groups of pursuers from the other cities were remarkably stupid. For one thing—the hail of arrows and spells coming his way? They had to see this wasn’t working.
“[Evasive Leap].”
Klbkch somersaulted over the heads of both groups of Drakes, kicked the Drake who’d shouted out of the saddle, and leapt off the horse’s back onto the roofs again. They really didn’t have a counter to that aside from climbing up the roofs thems—
“Slayer!”
A Drake with a sword lunged at Klbkch as he landed, and the Antinium jerked in surprise. He hadn’t expected that! He side-stepped the Drake, and the howl turned into a scream as the Drake went over the three-story drop.
Sighing, Klbkch caught them by the tail. That had to hurt—but the Drake’s momentum was slowed sufficiently so that Klbkch could drop them without them breaking more than perhaps an arm instead of splatting. He turned, and another group of Drakes came at him, sliding over the clay tiles.
“Get—”
Klbkch hopped from that side of the street to the other, landing lightly on the opposite roofs. He turned, spread his arms at the band of Drakes as if to say, ‘what were you thinking?’, and jogged off.
 
——
 
At this point, the Council of Chomris sat back and argued.
“Right, so we have an Antinium in our city, causing havoc, and the Watch can’t stop him. Let’s call Zeres and have them send the Sharkcaptain or an Admiral and the army. No more fighting.”
Zeres was the closest Walled City to them. Another Councilwoman was chewing on her nails.
“The Slayer. Here. Watch Captain Romass can’t stop him. We have to get rid of him.”
“Two other cities have tried. Didn’t you hear him say he wasn’t after a fight?”
“An Antinium! In our city? Do you think we should just stand for it?”
One of the Drakes cast around as if he felt like everyone was mad.
“Stand for…he’s humiliating our Watch.”
“Exactly! We have to deal with him!”
“So you want to die when the Antinium declare the Third Antinium War?”
“Wh—no! Don’t they regenerate when they die? But we can’t let him run amok!”
“Yes, exactly! Let’s send in Leysheif and be done with it! He’s the only one who can deal with this thing!”
“Or we don’t do that—look, what does Zeres say?”
One of the Council checked the urgent missives sent from the City of Waves—and one from the City of War.
“Zeres says—send in Leysheif. Manus says—Manus wants two Named-ranks but it approves as well.”
“See!”
“No, no, bad idea.”
“Oh come on, bad idea? Do you have anything better than a Named-rank adventurer?”
The dissenting Drake was stabbing the table urgently. There were four Drakes in Chomris’ council, and he only had a quarter vote, but he was trying to get a word in edgewise here.
“No, but think about it. Zeres and Manus want Leysheif to fight this Slayer. Our Named-rank.”
“Yes, exactly! He’ll stop him!”
“Or lose. Either way, the Walled Cities get what they want. What do we get if Leysheif gets hurt? Or the Slayer’s hurt or killed?”
Silence. Beating hearts. After a moment, someone grabbed the speaking stone.
“Adventurer’s Guild? This is the Council. The quest is authorized. Get the Slayer out of—”
There was a crash as another Drake dove for the speaking stone and the sounds of fighting. But when the [Receptionist] tried to get clarity on whether that meant—the Named-rank was already leaping up towards the rooftops in the direction of the fighting. Manus and Zeres were already watching.
It wouldn’t have made Chomris’ Council any happier to know that the Serpentine Matriarch was watching with a wine cup and popcorn.
 
——
 
Post-Chapter Notes:
I may figure out the classes and give more nuance to it later. The Grand Design is making moves. Things are in flux and could change. This is the stuff I change before a chapter comes out.
 
NOW I AM TIRED
AND I SHAL LSTOP
ONE MORE MINI CHAPTER
I CAN’T STOP WRITING UNRESOLVED MINI CHAPTERS
SICKNESS
DEATH
I REST
THANKS FOR READING
 
 
 
 
It’s me
It’s late in the morning and I can’t sleep yet.
I’ll be posting these mini-chapters later today…when I wake
