They said that if you tested Noelictus, marched an army across its borders, the very dead would rise to protect their homes. An old legend, like how Erribathe was said to be the origin of half-Elves and myths and how Calanfer’s famous Queen Marquin and their warrior prowess…really were exaggerations of the truth at best.
—However, even the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, Ailendamus, had fought the Dawn Concordat rather than siege Noelictus. It had nearly come to that last year, before the huge and televised Dawn Concordat war. Because television hadn’t been invented yet, it was far less fresh in commonfolk’s memories, but ask any [Strategist] at the time and they would tell you about the events around Ovela, a [Baron] Digneral of Ailendamus, war, and mysterious occurrences. [Hunters], a failed coup, ghosts…all rumors since few people knew the truth.
Why, some said even the Singer of Terandria had been involved, but that was hard to give credence to. If there was any truth to bear out of those events, it was this:
Ailendamus had made war with Noelictus, not officially or fully, but their clash had resulted in the powerful Kingdom of Glass and Glory electing to choose the Dawn Concordat as a better foe. Noelictus had been in turmoil the last two years, dealing with some issue brought to light, but the gloomy kingdom endured. The [Hunters] hunted. People had died, such as Baron Digneral, one of Ailendamus’ foremost [Lords] of war—but so had Noelictan heroes. Both kingdoms were wary of each other; [Hunters] had opportunistically attacked Ailendamus near the end of the Dawn Concordat war, but skirmishes were all that resulted.
Noelictus was far more peaceful than when the Singer of Terandria had gotten her start there in the capital city of Menorome, that glowing city of candles, entertainment, and night-life eternal. In fact, it was so peaceful, Veteran Hunters from the capital’s Hunter’s Guild were being sent to other regions to help slay undead, an unprecedented turn of events.
Which provoked the question for the Guildmaster of the Hunter’s Guild of Havens, Guildmistress Goshawe.
Who…was Hunter Haeight?
 
——
 
The region of Havens in Noelictus was one of the wealthiest in the kingdom, next to Fiskren or, more recently, Ovela, for prominence. Part of this was due to it having three of the major rivers that let trade flourish running through its borders.
It was not a good place to live right now, though. Recent events—relatively recent, nearly two years ago, mind you—had led to the, uh, deposition of Earl Seelthru for treason against the crown. A tragic, terrible event that had thrown the region of Havens into chaos.
He had not been overly mourned. However, his absence had deprived the land of his levels and management, and moreover, it had been discovered his corruption had left many areas untended-to. Undead emerging from crypts or places that should have been managed added to the crisis that had led undead to emerging across Noelictus—
Well, the Guild of Havens had always been weaker than Fiskren’s, let alone the capital’s. [Hunters] did good work, but they were around Level 15 on average, not nearly up to Menorome’s level.
Menorome had Regular Hunters who were Level 22 on average. They also trained Veteran Hunters, who might have a reputation for laziness, and their indulgences and Hunter’s Cards that meant they had huge allocations of gold and too much largesse from the Crown—but they were all Level 30+.
Goshawe had trained in Menorome to become Guildmaster, and while it had convinced her the Hunter’s Guild was corrupt, especially the upper ranks, she could not deny her [Hunters] were below even Regular Hunter standards there. So…it was a bittersweet thing to get reinforcements from Menorome.
Good, because it meant Veteran Hunters were actually pulling their weight. Embarrassing, because they needed it. Then insulting, because after the Guild of Havens called for aid dealing with a horde of Swamplurk Ghouls hiding along the rivers, how many Veteran Hunters did Menorome send?
Three.
Three for a storm of Ghouls. Water-elemental Ghouls no less. They didn’t leap at travellers or run as fast as horses—already horrible to deal with for civilians or even low-level [Hunters]. These ones hid in the water, waiting for you to come by, then jumped out, dragged you in, and began clawing you to death while you couldn’t breathe or move in the muddy water.
Also, they fouled any drinking water, would climb into unsecured wells, and spat water. The spitting water wasn’t even that big a threat; it was just disconcerting.
Guildmistress Goshawe was Level 31, a very respectable level for a [Guildmistress of Hunters], even if her class was bog-standard, and despite that, she had nearly lost some Hunters in a thirty-hunter expedition to the rivers. She’d personally had to dive into the water to rescue two Novice Hunters who’d been pulled under; only her enchanted armor and her two enchanted knives had prevented fatalities.
“Damn Ghouls! As if it’s not bad enough we have to face those oversized Tomb Packs! There’s nearly a hundred and fifty zombies on the road; I need eight squads to contain them!”
Eight squads of six [Hunters]. So forty-eight [Hunters] to take on three times that number of zombies. They might not move the fastest, but if they encircled you—and some could move at a lumbering jog—you were dead.
Tomb Packs were a nickname for the undead that came out of the tombs of Noelictus. It was…well, you didn’t talk about it with foreigners, and the Crown had allocated resources into putting them down, but what a tragedy. What a disaster everyone was cleaning up, and even local citizens had contributed to the effort.
The Guild of Havens couldn’t juggle them, regular undead, and the Waterlurk Ghouls, so the Guildmistress had put out a call for help from Menorome. She didn’t expect much; they usually sent one or two Dedicated Hunters or a squad at best. So when they said they were sending Veteran Hunters, her heart had leapt! Truly, the age of corruption and sloth was at an en—
“Three?”
Three. That was what her report said, and several of the ‘veteran hunters’ of the Guild of Havens were scandalized.
“I thought Menorome’s Guild was purging its corruption, Guildmistress! You did say we had up to a hundred Waterlurk Ghouls, didn’t you?”
“I’m sure I did.”
“If it’s the Deathhunt—the Royal Deathhunt, then three would be more than enough.”
“It’s not. Two are newly-minted Veteran Hunters, and one is a Veteran Hunter who’s only been one for a year! Hunter Haeight is leading this group, and she’s twenty-one years old!”
Every veteran in the Guild of Havens had a decade on her at least. They bristled at this, and the Guildmistress realized she might be poisoning opinions against these three. She tried to control her own ire.
“We—will greet any support with open arms, of course. The Veteran Hunters are well-armed. Doubtless, they’ll share their equipment with us.”
“If we had more funds, we could arm ourselves better. Let’s just hope they can pull their weight.”
The others grumbled, and Goshawe reminded them to be on their best behavior, but the mood and rumors leaked to the lower-level Hunters, so by the time Veteran Hunter Haeight arrived, the Guild of Havens was regarding their visitors like worthless layabouts from the capital, just like all the rumors.
The truth…also hurt in ways Goshawe didn’t expect.
 
——
 
Hunter Haeight was a tall woman with white hair pulled back in a ponytail. She was very well-muscled and had visible scars on her exposed skin. Her skin was pale like most Noelictans, and she had intense, piercing eyes. She spoke in a low voice, and she seemed a third again as old as Goshawe expected.
“Hunter Haeight, Guildmistress Goshawe. Er, Veteran Hunter Haeight. With me are two new Veteran Hunters, Filtresk and Ceinra. Where do you need us most? Filtresk and I are close-quarter Hunters, and Ceinra is a traps-specialist.”
Well, at least they’d sent the worst group possible to hunt Waterlurk Ghouls. Goshawe was appalled, privately. A traps-specialist against Ghouls who hated going out of the water and two [Hunters] who had to get close to kill ambushing monsters? She did her best.
“We, ah, have a number of Ghoul nests marked along the river, Hunter Haeight. I can provide several squads of support after we deal with a Tomb Pack.”
That made the three Veteran Hunters stir.
“How large?”
“A hundred and fifty zombies. It’s well in hand. I’m mustering eight squads to take them down.”
“A hundred and fifty?”
Ceinra muttered. She was missing a finger on one gloved hand, but was spooling and unspooling glittering wire. Some of the other Havens veterans were eying it. Was that mithril wire? Haeight had mithril axes, and Filtresk’s sword was also enchanted. All of them were geared far above anyone but Goshawe’s equipment, and they were so young.
Early twenties. Filtresk might have been twenty-five, that was all. Goshawe was trying not to be offended—and failing—but Haeight surprised her. She glanced at Ceinra and Filtresk.
“A Tomb Pack might have nastier undead. Like a Lurker Gaunt zombie mixed in. One of us should take on the Tomb Pack; the other two start work on the Ghoul packs. With your permission, Guildmistress?”
She gave orders with clear practice before turning to Goshawe guiltily. The Guildmistress offered a strained smile.
“Of course. I am sure the Hunters of Havens will appreciate your supervision, Hunter Haeight.”
And if you prove you’re not all hot air, we might like you. Hunter Haeight gave Goshawe a blank look, then blinked.
“Oh—I meant to take on the Tomb Pack, Guildmistress. One of us will do; that will allow your squads to take on the other threats, correct?”
“What? You three intend to take on a hundred and fifty zombies alone? There could be Ghouls or worse!”
Haeight tilted her head. She was, again, confused.
“No, Guildmistress? Only one of us. I’ll do it.”
“Haeight, you’re confusing the Guild of Havens. Some of us remember what being a Regular Hunter is like.”
Ceinra sounded darkly amused, and Haeight blinked, then flushed again. Goshawe was at a loss for words.
Either she’s mad, talking herself up, or she has enough enchanted quarrels to take out the horde without danger, and I can’t tell which would make me more furious. But then Ceinra murmured.
“Why not take a few squads with you, Haeight? To observe. I’ll start on the river with Filtresk.”
Haeight hesitated, but then touched her hat as Hunters across Noelictus did. Embarrassed, hesitant, she nodded to Guildmistress Goshawe.
“If that would expedite things. Anyone you choose to observe and back me up, Guildmistress…”
This was so unusual that when Goshawe searched around, she picked three squads and added herself to the roster. She knew Veteran Hunters were high-level, but she’d only been to Menorome last year to be certified for Guildmistress; the last one had stepped down after Marquis Seelthru’s corruption had been unveiled. She knew to give them priority and to report any high-level undead only to them, but she had to see this.
 
——
 
Hunter Haeight walked towards a horde of a hundred and fifty zombies shambling down the dirt roads of Havens. No one was in sight; anyone who saw them would flee for the hills, and the sheer number of zombies made Goshawe sweat. She wanted to provide covering fire and set up traps—she’d been trained as a good [Hunter], no matter what people said about the Guild of Havens because of Seelthru.
However, Haeight had refused to build a fortification or put down bear traps or wires or even find a choke-point. She walked forwards, drawing her axes, and it only occurred to the Havens hunters that her plan was to walk into the horde when she was a hundred paces away.
“She’s mad! We have to get ready to cover—”
Whatever fears they had that a Veteran Hunter would get herself killed on their watch, the Havens’ Guild lost them as Haeight met the zombies. She raised her axe as the first one came forwards, arms raised, staggering at her, mouth open, and brought it down.
Her axe went through the skull, into the neck, and it died. Haeight wrenched the axe free and brought it down on another zombie. Chop, chop—they fell down, dead from the neat blows into their brains, and Goshawe had to admit, Haeight was good.
But there were so many—they swarmed her, proving why no [Hunter] should do what Haeight was doing. They were around her, and they’d drag down anyone and bury them under their weight, ripping, biting—
“Crossbows! Wait, w—”
Haeight’s axes began to move faster. She swung them down as the first wing of zombies moved around her, like a closing fist of dead flesh, and Goshawe blinked.
A Skill?
Chop-chop-chop-chop-chop—her mithril axes went up and came down, cleaving through brains like a [Butcher] going through meat. So fast they were collapsing before they could even get close. She backpedaled, walking backwards as they tried to close.
“Dead gods, that is a good Skill! But once it wears out, she’ll have to back off!”
A veteran of Havens observed jealously. They all waited for Haeight’s Skill to wear off, but the rhythmic chopping of the axes didn’t slow. First thirty seconds, then a minute…
“Wait a second. Is that not a Skill?”
She just…kept going. Arms swinging like a Golem’s, killing zombies more efficiently than Goshawe had ever dreamed. The white-haired woman pivoted as the zombies finally closed around her almost all the way, then began swinging horizontally.
Neck-cuts. She lopped zombie heads off or hacked into their chests and swung them into each other with sheer, brute strength. Like that, she knocked them down, kept them crawling up over each other, stumbling—and Goshawe was revisiting her estimation of Haeight’s level.
“That’s no Level 30 [Hunter]. Dead gods—but she’s not going to keep them off her forever.”
It was impossible. A hundred and fifty zombies didn’t go down like that. Haeight had killed maybe thirty, but it was almost like the Guild of Havens was rooting for the zombies, now. As if they were cheering the undead on to prove this Veteran Hunter wasn’t capable of doing eight squads’ worth of work. Normalcy…because if she was a Veteran Hunter, what were they?
Goshawe had heard rumors the Guildmistress of Menorome was a monster of combat and that some [Hunters] currently serving were capable of incredible feats, but even so, they weren’t Named-ranks. Even if some were probably Level 40…Goshawe realized she’d never really been among the Veteran Hunters in Menorome. They’d treated her well, trained her into her role, but there had always been this air of—relief.
