Drowned Folk believed in work. Everyone pitched in on a ship or in the city, even guests like the Earthers. A Drake city or Wistram might let their guests laze about and do whatever they wanted, but the Drowned Folk had a fairly intense attitude towards work. Everyone had to have a job. Too many vagrants or layabouts and their careful underwater societies would fall apart fast.
It came of not having much space and navigating the vast underworld of the sea. Stuff like how quiet Nombernaught was after curfew were a product of culture; you couldn’t attract too much attention from nasty monsters in the waters.
“Where’s Sang-min?”
Lamont asked as Sidney came back to sit and wait for Malia so they could do the washing. The girl replied softly.
“Scouting.”
“Damn, he beat me to it. Stupid [Mercenary] class. They respect him because he was fighting in Terandria. Me, they think I’m like a junior [Sailor].”
“You are a [Squire], Haley.”
“I know how to use a sword! They were training me to fight, and I had to run around with weighted vests day in, day out! Come on, let’s have a practice battle. I’ll beat you one-handed.”
She glowered at him, and Lamont raised his hands.
“Pass.”
“How about you, Sidney? Want more sword lessons?”
Sidney shook her head as Haley tried to cajole the younger girl into doing something. She stared wide-eyed at another quill as Lamont yanked it out. He grinned at her as he offered it to her, blunt end first.
“Do you want to learn to repair gear, Sidney? Or maybe practice magic? Malia’s taking lessons from one of Doroumata’s daughters. So am I.”
“I don’t know. Maybe.”
Haley and Lamont exchanged glances. Trying to cheer up the depressed and nervous Sidney was a hard task. Only Malia could do it well. They went back to work in the living room as Sidney sat on the worn but comfy couch. Everything in their house had a slightly patchwork look, from the walls to even the chairs; wood was expensive, and Drowned Folk had built Nombernaught out of scraps as much as good wood. Ships at the end of their life had become foundations for new buildings.
Even the couch was a product of that design; it was very springy due to some kind of seaweed or kelp they filled it with, and the fabric was a wet cloth that felt almost slick upon the skin, but was quite soft. You had to get used to it, but the entire frame was half of a regular couch’s weight and mostly hollow, molded into shape around the sturdy lengths of wood. You could pick it up easily, and it was hollow inside.
Also, dusty.
Haley went on, grousing.
“What I really want is for Lord Lanight to let me work for him. Poor guy.”
“The Lord? Oh, you mean…”
Lamont snapped his fingers a few times, and Haley filled in the gap too quickly. Was that a hint of a blush on her cheeks?
“Olvos. He’s from House Lanight in the Lantocracy of Bitorm. He’s waiting on a second expedition for his people. I saw him riding out with his granddaughter the other day, exploring. I tried to get him to take me along, but I think he’d rather fight more Sword Crabs than put someone else in danger.”
“Ah, right. Didn’t those weird Drakes on Wyverns help him out?”
“Mhm. Have you seen them recently?”
“Nope. I remember City Captain Horvin complaining about it. They brought news and goods. So…you want to join him?”
Haley hesitated and brushed at her hair. Haley. Now that you looked at her, aside from her priggish, prudish ways when it came to the fine art of literature, she was annoyingly striking. Equestrian club champion, one of those rich girls from the countryside…she’d even gone to a boarding school for god’s sake!
She sounded like someone who should have folded under pressure the moment she came to this world, but instead, she’d grabbed a sword, fought off some muggers, and impressed a passing [Knight] so much she’d gotten a [Squire]’s class and training. She was apparently talented enough to impress the Wistram [Mages], but she wasn’t…well, a Gold-rank adventurer.
Untried, untested, and perhaps, overeager. Yes…if she went into the New Lands alone, she might get herself killed, unlike Sang-min, who was competent, even scarily serious about anything that might result in people getting killed.
Haley might well ride out and get accosted by a Sword Crab. She’d fight hard, but then she’d need rescue, and wouldn’t it be something if that grave, heart-wounded Lord Lanight came to her rescue? He was a real silver fox in the flesh. Fit, armored in Mithril, terribly bereaved from losing his wife and people in the Sword Crab ambush—and Haley was a third his age, after all.
But in the heat of battle, saving someone’s life? There could be a connection. Of course, it might not come to anything at first, but if circumstances threw them together again—a [Squire] and a [Lord]/[Knight]. How scandalous!
Certainly, you could perhaps see a bit of longing on Haley’s face. No, perhaps just pure admiration.
“He’s good with a lance and a sword. I think he’s got [Knight] training—and he wears Mithril armor. He’s like a character out of a fantasy book, you know? That’s when I feel like this world’s still a story.”
Lamont nodded while Sidney just sat there, face doubtful. The girl had seen too much to still have any idealism left—but Lamont smiled.
“Sort of like Aragorn? If you could just be any character from Lord of the Rings or have their powers, I’d go out fighting. But I’m not for it. I’d be Aragorn if I could, though.”
He seemed wistful, and Haley nodded, eyes bright. Of course! She had always, probably, longed to be the Arwen to that Aragorn, the brave Elven princess (and one of two female characters in the entire book)—
“I always wanted to be Legolas.”
Oh.
Huh. Well, that was sort of unexpected. But perhaps fitting! Legolas and Aragorn, name a better duo. Legolas and Gimli worked too, but it was so boring…
Haley was about to talk more about her clear, budding infatuation with Lord Olvos when she glanced at the door.
“Seriously, is Caroline still bothering the Shadeward about having her sail us to other cities? It’s not because she wants to settle down somewhere else. She just wants ‘reference materials’ for her writing.”
“Right. So she knows how to write things.”
“Not just that, Lamont. She wants to meet people to write about. She’s still bitching about not meeting the Horns of Hammerad.”
“Hey, I wanted to meet them too.”
Even Sidney nodded at that, but Haley tossed the sharpened sword down and reached for a dagger.
“Right, but she wanted to write that necromancer dude into another novel where he jumps the silver-armed woman. What’s her name? The awesome one.”
“Yvlon the Silver-Killer?”
That came from Sidney, who loved watching television. Haley pointed at her, nodding. Lamont scratched his head.
“Wait, isn’t she writing romance with Yvlon and the ant-dude now?”
The [Squire] glared.
“She says she switched ‘ships’ because everyone likes that one more. I think it’s just disrespectful. Can you imagine her going to Nerrhavia’s Fallen and bothering everyone there with her nonsense? I wouldn’t mind if they weren’t real people, but I’ve watched Ksmvr of Chandrar’s documentary with that Rémi Canada guy, and he’s nothing like how she writes him. He’s like this cute kid. It’s more like they’re brother and sister. She’s delusional. I hope Doroumata tells her no and she drops it. If I have to hear her talk one more time about pairings—”
Lamont was half-nodding along and Sidney was poking two of the sharp quills together as Haley’s unwarranted, unfounded, and certainly unfair diatribe continued. At this point, Caroline couldn’t take it any longer, so she shouted as she pushed up from under the couch.
“Haley, you bitch! Is this what you say behind my back all the time?”
Sidney leapt off the couch and was around the corner with a scream so fast no one saw her. Lamont shouted and leapt sideways; Haley had the sword raised and pointing at Caroline before she caught herself.
“Caroline! What th—what are you doing in the couch?”
Caroline was red-faced and furious. She extricated herself from the hollow spot she’d found under the couch thanks to its unique design and shook a finger at Haley.
“I knew you didn’t like me, but badmouthing me behind my back is low. Low. I’ve been trying to be a nice friend to you and everyone else, and this is how you treat me? I’m writing what I can to make money, and you—someone from Earth, one of the few people on my side—just wait until my back is turned to stab me!”
Haley had turned red and was spluttering an apology until Lamont narrowed his eyes.
“Caroline, why were you hiding in the couch? Were you spying on us?”
Sidney and Haley peered at Caroline, who hesitated.
“Only for inspiration.”
“For what?”
“Well—Lamont won’t talk about his girlfriend, and I knew there was something up with you and Lord Olvos! I’ve got a perfect new story to write.”
Caroline smiled. Haley gave her a gaze of utter incomprehension—then one of genuine disgust.
“W—me and Lord Olvos? He just lost his wife. Are you insane? Don’t you dare write me into your smutty fanfics, Caroline. I mean it. If you write about him, we’re going to have it out now.”
She made a fist, and Caroline backed away from her.
“You wouldn’t dare. I won’t use his name, and I’ll make up—Lamont, help me!”
“That is messed up, Caroline. His wife was just killed by Sword Crabs.”
Caroline wavered. She wasn’t going to write anything that would involve his name! Just—she needed ideas! She turned to Sidney for support, but the girl just peeked at Caroline as she circled a table, avoiding Haley.
“I’m serious, Caroline. Put me or Olvos in a story and I will lay you out and then drown you in the surf, I swear by Christ.”
“Hey, no using the g-stuff! Erin said—”
“Erin Solstice would probably stab you too. Is that book you published about her out yet?”
“Novella, and yes, it’s in stores now. It’s technically—it could be any [Innkeeper]!”
“One who falls into the sea after stabbing a [Prince] and ends up on a deserted island with him and has babies? That’s why I’m pissed, Caroline. These are real people, not fanfiction.”
“That’s not fair.”
Caroline halted and confronted Haley, and the [Squire] folded her arms.
“Isn’t it? People get their feelings hurt, Caroline. Fanfiction or romance novels about fictional characters…that’s fine, I guess. I don’t care. But why real people?”
“Well—I—it’s just easier that way, alright?”
Now the [Romance Writer] was really regretting both her spying attempt—which did seem bad in hindsight—and her revealing herself. She tried to explain as Lamont put the gear away. He passed by the windows, which were closed because the sea breeze got salt everywhere otherwise.
“Easy? So what? You’re a [Writer]. Make stuff up.”
“It’s hard to make new characters, Haley. If you ever tried writing, you’d know that! This isn’t harmful. It’s like—tabloids making stuff up about celebrities, you know?”
“Yeah, that’s never hurt their mental health ever.”
“I’m allowed to write fanfiction, Haley! Legally back home, I had every right to write about people—so long as I don’t use their actual names and I just change things up like this, it’s fine.”
“I don’t care about legally, Caroline. This is stupid. Let me ask you something—has anyone from The Wandering Inn heard about your Erin book? Maybe I should send them a copy and ask what they think.”
The Wandering Inn. It was something of a legend amongst the Earthers, not just in Nombernaught. Leon had told stories of the place—and later, they’d all fact-checked them because they’d heard a lot about Leon doing heroic things, and found out that there were stories and scrying recordings of the inn and who might have been the first Earther in the world: Erin Solstice.
Certainly, the first one to get on the news. Between that and Erin’s warning about the god stuff, her fighting through the Bloodtear Pirates to murder a [Prince], and all the other things about her, everyone wanted to meet her.
Caroline herself was certain that the inn was a goldmine of stories; a lot of her tales revolved around the Horns of Hammerad, who’d gotten their very start there! She wanted to visit, but Haley’s threat made her stomach lurch.
“There’s no need for that.”
“Oh, really? If it’s fine and it wouldn’t piss them off, why not?”
Haley’s judgemental smirk made Caroline snap. It was one thing to have someone like Geneva, Ken, or Luan lecture her, but this?
“Listen, it’s because of the gold I’m making that you can afford armor, and we’re paying for Sidney’s extra potions to make her feel better, and everyone else has stuff to spend! Without me, who’d be pulling all the weight? Sang-min?”
She poked back at Haley, and the [Squire] bit her lip. Then her voice went low, rather than defensive like Caroline was expecting.
“Don’t bring Sidney into this, Caroline. That’s low.”
The [Romance Writer] hesitated. She cast a glance at Sidney, whose face was suddenly awash with guilt over the Calming Tonics she needed to deal with her nightmares.
“I only meant—Sidney, it’s not a problem! I just—”
Then she grew tongue-tied and embarrassed and flustered. The words never came as elegantly or as easily as they did in her head. She just wanted to prove to everyone her writing had merit!
It wasn’t fair! Now Caroline was tearing up, and Haley was hesitating.
“Alright, stop crying, Caroline. Just don’t write about me and Lord Olvos, okay? We all respect your writing. Also, don’t spy on us.”
“Yep. Let’s get some tea and calm down.”
Lamont was in the kitchen, and Sidney was peeking at them but edging out from behind her corner. Caroline sniffed.
“You don’t get it! It’s not fair! Romance writing is hard!”
“Yeah, yeah. As hard as fighting as a [Knight], I bet.”
Now, Haley was being mean-nice, which Caroline would have respected if it wasn’t directed at her. Caroline glowered through her tears and scooped up a piece of armor. She wasn’t sure what piece; armor had too many stupid names. A pauldron?
She hurled it, and Haley dodged it easily; it hit the wall next to one of the open windows.
“It is! D’you know how hard it is to write online? I had fans on Earth and here—and lots of haters and trolls! Plus, other romance writers suck. There’s one that’s been badmouthing me all over the world! In magazines, to book publishers—it’s as bad as home!”
