The Swamplurk Ghoul waited for prey. In this bog, the traveller or locals passing through had limited visibility. Mists often rose from the desperate river fleeing this spot, trying to reach the sea, and even with a powerful lantern, one would not see more than a dozen paces ahead of them. In the waters, a Swamplurk Ghoul could rise, silent as a falling droplet of water, and drag their prey into the water to drown. If a caravan were to pass through or get mired nearby, all the undead would rise and drag the living into the water.
This was an infestation. One of the many types of undead that haunted Noelictus, the Kingdom of Shade. In time, the Swamplurk Ghouls would amass a horde and collect enough death magic to refine into something even worse.
A Marsh Horror perhaps, large as two Draugr combined, covered in foul detritus and hump-backed, a single gnashing mouth ready to grind whatever it pulled towards it into dust. Then they would swim up the rivers and kill everything they found until they reached the Kingdom of Keys, then the mountain, then spread over land, into the ocean until the world—the very world—died.
All it took was time. And the corpse had been lying here for over four thousand years—reanimated in the last eighty, and escaped its prison four months ago.
It could wait. Indeed, its patience was rewarded, for it heard and sensed the splashing in the distance. Saw the life magic in a being moving slowly across the bog’s exterior.
A Human.
Slowly, they came, wading through the muck along the safer islands of the bog. The water, begging for release, splashed around their boots, and the thick coat of scarred and worn leather swished through the water with every step.
Insects buzzed around the figure’s face but found no traction save for the few spots where skin was showing; a mask covered the lower half of their face, and they wore a pointed hat that was pulled down low, only allowing two grey eyes to survey the murk.
The Swamplurk Ghoul did not move its body. But it slowly drifted as the unwilling water developed an unnatural current, propelling it closer. It seemed to be a mere stone in the water. But it, and other Swamplurk Ghouls, were drifting closer, placing themselves in the way of this traveller.
Beneath them, the zombie and ghouls and other undead moved underwater, closing the trap. The traveller didn’t notice the danger. They had a single torch, a sputtering flame fighting the mists as they cast around. Right, left, stepping forwards and back, uncertainly trying to find their way through the bog.
They were near a deep patch of water. A few more steps and they’d go straight down to a twenty-foot pit where a dozen zombies stared sightlessly up through the murky water. The Swamplurk Ghoul was only a dozen feet away now. It waited for the traveller to do the job for it, but the Human—a woman wearing the dark armor—was having trouble with their torch.
A muffled curse; she tossed the torch down, and the flame was almost out. Then she was in the darkness, and the Swamplurk Ghoul saw her fumbling at her side.
It rose out of the water, silently shedding droplets, and crossed the shallower ground behind her as two more Swamplurks rose. They advanced, timing their attack as the figure waited.
The Swamplurk Ghoul had limited intelligence, enough to wait, plan an attack, and calculate threats. It reached out, almost lovingly, to grab the shoulders of the Human. It wouldn’t even bother to rip at her—her entire body was more useful. Drowning was so much easier.
If it did have emotions, the undead was, perhaps, disappointed. The Human wasn’t as big as she had seemed; she stood fairly tall, at five feet and ten inches, but the armor added to her mass. The bigger the Human was, the more powerful the undead as a rule of thumb. The Ghoul couldn’t tell how much power was in her either. High-level beings became greater undead far, far faster.
The woman rose from where she’d been kneeling in the muck, and the Ghoul froze, knowing it was invisible in the darkness. It thought it heard a chuckle. Then there was light.
A bullseye lantern, far brighter than the meager torch, projected a narrow cone of light around. Blue light, which made the waters shimmer and illuminated the shapes of the zombies below. The woman spun—and her grey eyes were on the Swamplurk Ghoul.
She’d known it was there! It lunged instantly, throwing itself at her. She dodged, and a hand thrust the ghoul into the waters. It thrashed, then spun around as the undead began to rise. Attack! Att—
Two of the Swamplurk Ghouls died before the first one could breach the surface of the water again. Their death essence fled them; the Swamplurk Ghoul hesitated as it rose.
So fast. How? When it could see, it saw the woman was standing over the corpses. She had weapons in hand. Not that the Ghoul was clever enough to recognize the magical sheen of Mithril or the two hand-axes. It simply threw itself out of the waters with six more Swamplurk Ghouls as lesser undead clawed up. The miniature horde was all converging on the woman—no—the Hunter of Noelictus. But an odd, unsettling sound filled the air above the groaning and squelching of mud, the groans of gasses leaving putrid bodies.
The Hunter.
She was laughing. Giggling. Her axe rose, and she threw it through one of the bounding Swamplurk Ghouls, then dragged her hand back through the air. The Ghoul, struck through the chest, came flying towards her as the axe returned—and her second blow hacked through its skull. Then she ripped her blades free and drove them both through another Ghoul—a zombie coming up—
Fast. Faster than they were. A Swamplurk Ghoul couldn’t feel fear, but it realized it was outmatched and tried to sync up its attack with the rest of the horde. Something was wrong, though. It felt sluggish, uncoordinated, and those axes—they bit through the undead the Hunter was swinging at like the bones and flesh barely mattered.
She was a frenzy of blows. The undead kept coming, and they’d surround her soon, but her eyes found the first Swamplurk Ghoul as it treaded water in the deep pit of the swamp. And then it felt that ominous feeling upon it intensify.
A Skill.
[Nemesis: Undead]. For the first time, the Swamplurk Ghoul felt a kind of apprehension stealing through it. It had been raised to slaughter the living. But the living had sent something after it, designed to hunt them.
Hunter of Noelictus. And she was—mad. The axes rose, and the Hunter’s eyes locked on the Swamplurk Ghoul, who moved back into the waters. She took one step backwards—then she was running forwards. She threw herself into the waters, still giggling.
Into their domain. Her first axe buried itself in the Swamplurk Ghoul’s shoulder, but it was trying to grab her, drag her down into the dark. She couldn’t breathe. They’d won. They’d—
Her eyes. As the waters rushed around them both, the Hunter kept swinging her axes. Then the Swamplurk Ghoul saw her eyes glowing.
[Frenzy: An Agonizing Revelation].
She sank into the deep, dragged down by the hands of zombies, blades swishing through the trapped waters. Then—for the first time in centuries—the imprisoned waters remembered light. An arm floated up from the water as the rest of the undead poured into the depths. Then reversed course. A group of zombies began to retreat. Trailing a bounding Swamplurk Ghoul away as something rose from the waters. Spitting out water, two muck-covered axes in hand.
The Hunter followed. Behind her, in the pit, there was nothing.
Not even the undead.
 
 
Someone commented this feels like the beginning of book 4
Could be, could be
Or could be haeight’s chapter in TWI. Since the characters of the series do need to be mobile and doing stuff
 
Post-Chapter Note: You may see some more of my ramblings while streaming. I wasn’t doing well but I think I had some coffee. This is more of the Haeight chapter I think I should write. Action. We don’t need to know her backstory, just what she’s doing now.
Killing them undead. Mind you, like I wrote, this could just be the opening of Book 4 of the Singer series. Maybe I should put that on the poll.
Maybe someone should invent cold medicine that gets rid of the cold.
 
 
 
Wowk, only 2k
I’m improving in my sickness
How’s that opening?
 
 
What next…?
Anyone got suggestions?
Brain still no good
Someone suggested maids and heartlsayi last time
We can’t go worse from there surely
I was actually thinking calidus
But I dunno if I have brainspace for him
Zevara – already did her but it was actually mini
Kevin – bigger chapter dun wanna
Moore – bigger chapter dun wanna
Rose — sounds hard
 
If we’re doing redemptions, captain z might need one for the poll. Let’s try anodther 2-3k
I had notes but I’m sick
Putting on some noir music
 
Mini-Chapter #10 — Zevara (Rewrite)
The city was filthy, even in the rain. All the water that constantly rushed down couldn’t clean the streets. The downpour pattered off old slate roofs, held together by Shield Spider chitin glue or, if you were unlucky, mere masonry that dripped and let rivulets of water form spiderwebs as they trickled down towards the ground. Cracks, accumulating over the years.
In the bad parts of the city, her city, you’d have pots and pans out to collect the water dripping down. Each time another leak appeared, you prayed the rainy season would end sooner—because there was no patching that kind of leak; it wouldn’t dry in this damn city until the spring rains ended. Too many and you’d have to clamber out onto a roof, yanking out tiles and slapping down mud and mortar, swearing and hoping the rain didn’t wash away the patch for a few days.
The glue. It was the damn Shield Spider glue. Back in the day, they’d had it, and it was waterproof, dried even when wet—expanded a bit with water until it was hard as stone. The glue was something they’d lost during the 2nd Antinium War.
Crafter’s District, overrun by undead when one of the Zombie Giants had smashed through the walls. You remembered the screaming, even back then, if you’d survived it. The Necromancer’s forces being pushed out, then artillery spells pounding the city blocks over and over to erase the taint.
That’s how bad it had been. Every second, all the kids had thought they’d be dead, hiding in the safehouses and cellars, listening to the army fight. The first army, that was, the mercenaries. Bastards and brawlers who caused trouble—but who’d come back to lay down their lives for home.
Zel Shivertail, holding down the Necromancer himself. Fighting, they said, for hours on end while dodging spells, surrounded by undead, refusing to die. Those weren’t even Liscor’s greatest hours.
They’d survived the Antinium, seen the North come riding down in a charge to reverse the 1st Antinium War. Their city was the one that had produced General Sserys, the Drake who’d fought the Hives back. Their city…this backwater, this little city she called home.
Not many people remembered it, even though the 2nd Antinium War had been merely ten years ago. That was the dirty secret. Liscor had only had around a hundred thousand souls in it—‘big’ for some Drake cities, but a fraction of the size of a Walled City. A single floor of Pallass contained more people than Liscor by far.
Think on it.
How many do you think died to the plague the Necromancer had spread before his attack? During the siege itself, when anyone of fighting age had been drafted? Or before that? To the Antinium sieging the city?
Liscor’s army had been chewed up, reduced from their glory days under General Sserys. The population—likewise. Take Selys Shivertail, for instance. Both her parents, adventurers, had perished in the fighting. Her grandmother was the only Shivertail in the city who’d survived outside of Zel himself. Yet by the time that Human, Erin Solstice, had appeared, the city was more or less the same size it had been.
How? Lots of babies? Don’t be stupid. It was how Liscor always had been—that’s what idiots forgot. It was the new faces coming in. The Silverfang Gnolls had shown up after the siege, and the Antinium had made their Hive ten years ago. With them, by the hundreds or dozens, had come Drakes.
Reinforcements. Though the Walled Cities never said it like that. Rather, they just encouraged surplus Drakes to move to Liscor. Gave them some gold or rounded up those without homes or deep roots and sent them off. To fill their border-city that no one really liked or visited to make sure there was that bulwark against the Humans of the north.
Liscor, which existed to be a deterrent, because the south needed it there. Not because it was all that fun to live in, isolated from the south by the Blood Fields, plagued by the rains in the springs, Rock Crabs, Shield Spiders…and then the Antinium. Liscor had always been new Drakes and survivors. The only thing that changed were the faces.
The muck remained.
 
——
 
In her office, the Drake blew smoke out of her mouth. She had no pipe or cigar; she didn’t need one. On days like this, when she didn’t have enough fresh air, it built up in her lungs. Imperfect blood is what her instructors had called it, as if it were her fault that she breathed more smoke than fire.
She hadn’t asked for this. The woman coughed, then concentrated and created another stream of grey smoke, expunging it from her lungs before it could reduce her into a mess of wheezing exhalations.
She gazed out across the dark, rainy streets that she knew better than the daylit ones. Her city. Yes…hers. More than the Antinium, more than the Humans or new visitors. She didn’t bear them ill will, but they didn’t know Liscor. They hadn’t grown up here seeing new faces come and go, surviving two Antinium Wars—even if she’d been truly a girl during the first one.
Watch Captain Zevara, though, was a Liscorian, born and raised here. Two wars, well, three if you counted Tyrion Veltras’ siege. Four, perhaps, with the Winter Solstice…Ancestors.
How many ‘originals’ were there? Selys? Selys had left, so that was one less kid from the old days. Drassi—no, she’d come at six or something after the 1st Antinium War. So she was close, but few Gnolls had been here before the 2nd Antinium War.
“Mister Soot. Right. He was one of the originals.”
The old [Mastermind] who’d used to run Liscor’s underworld, the bastard who had some of the Watch taking his gold, who armed the criminals and ran the southwest district, the poorest part of the city. It had all been in his claws—again, in the old days.
After the 1st Antinium War, she’d grown up with him being the Drake everyone knew not to cross, whose people would take anything you stole without question and give you a pittance for it.
