He smiled at her, anticipating those future encounters with a slight wince. Zevara just sat there, trying to imagine herself doing that.
“What about The Wandering Inn?”
That made Venim’s smile slip slightly, which she wished didn’t give her so much pleasure. He fussed with his papers.
“It seems relatively…stable at the moment. Distance has indeed kept it from affecting Liscor—the last event excluded, but no one was hurt or killed, and I suppose that’s what we can hope for. The Council has focused on it, and I’m in contact with the Walled Cities about the matter. But we’re letting it stay as its own problem unless it affects us, Watch Captain. The most I heard we were going to do with it was tax it. Isn’t that what you recommended?”
Oh, that sounded like a fun event for whatever [Tax Collector] was on the job. Zevara hesitated. She had told Venim that the inn was hard to control and often bit you if you poked it, but…there was a difference between leaving it alone and staying in touch with it.
He was the Watch Commander, though. And she realized that was it. He was the Watch Commander. She was Watch Captain Zevara, and if she wanted to call the shots, she really should have taken his job.
“Watch Commander, you have a meeting with the Council in fifteen. Should I signal you’ll be delayed?”
The door opened, and a receptionist, a young Gnoll, asked. Venim shook his head and glanced at Zevara.
“I should be right on time unless there was anything else, Watch Captain…?”
“No, Commander. Thank you for your time. I’ll try to relax, then.”
She stood and threw a salute, which he returned. No, Zevara didn’t want to be him; she’d seen a list of his meetings for the day, and he was more meeting than desk-Drake. But he did call the shots. She didn’t want all of Liscor to be her problem, though. She wanted to be the Watch Captain doing things. But now she was one of three, possibly seven.
She…Zevara walked out of Venim’s office as he advised her to get some rest and of course contact him with any issues. He was doing a good job, she thought. Not the job she would have done, but good.
And she…
She trailed out of the new Watch Headquarters, recently built by Antinium out of stone, not old wood polished with age, fortified like a keep, filled with as many administrative people as [Guards]. She stared at the building and then around at the city which, in the faint light of the rains, still bustled with sound and opportunity.
Her city.
Not her city. She felt old in it, out of place. Had Tekshia ever felt the same? Surely. Surely…but Zevara could adjust. She was young and still hip with the things. Is that what the children said? She swore she’d heard Erin saying that once.
What worried her was that perhaps she was delusional. Because despite the cleansing rain, the magical portal station being built in the plaza, the new faces—
It still felt dirty to her, down under it all.
Dirty. She ran her claws along the wall of the Watch Headquarters. Trying to pick some up on her nails. But all she got was clean water.
 
 
How we doing so far
11k fuck
That’s a big arc
Which captain z’s might be 2-3 chapter
It’s a lot of setup. The opposite of all gas no breaks
 
I’m gonna get an iced cream and think on how much more I want to do. This is probably enough for the min chapter
 
 
 
 
 
Cast:
Jerci
Nens, Eissa, Trolle
Bootstrap
Thorton
 
Post-Chapter Notes: 
The first mini-chapter wasn’t good. This is the real Zevara noir chapter that’s lost so many polls, the one I want to do, the one that’s…more slice of life and optimistic. It is probably a lot too much of exposition. My condition was getting worse. I might be feeling better than I was initially with the cold but it’s drained my willpower and resources, if that makes sense. Cold receding, but so is my health.
The last mini-chapter’s the weirdest. No, I didn’t plan that character. The rest of it, yes.
 
 
Mini-Chapter #11 — Klbkch
Now it is quiet
I am tired and sick
But it was a coffee day
You are lucky there’s no new Everdark Sovereign for me to beat in Nightreign
That I don’t have any new game I’m super passionate about
That Warhammer 3 has no new DLC, and Grounded 2 isn’t out
For I am bored
And sick
And coughy. For the last little bit, what should I write? So many mini-chapters. What should I write? A real chapter’s prep? Something fun? Something insane?
 
Tiny bit of work or lots of it?
Thinking
 
It was a refrain from the moment her feet touched the ground, and it was all wrong. That non-stop chorus of voices from the best part of the Triple Platinum song of the year. The haunting litany of male and female voices that was such an earworm it didn’t leave your head.
Toxic antifreeze for the mind that drew everyone back to it. Like someone touching a hot burner on the stove again and again because they forgot how much it hurt. Drawn back like moths to the flame because no one could let it go.
Of course—she’d thought it wouldn’t be her. It didn’t happen to famous people. Or even semi-famous, or so everyone sort of thought. A politician’s daughter or an athlete from South Africa.
Not someone who spent almost all their time on camera. Not online royalty, a streamer who’d broken into formal acting work. No one like that got…spirited away.
She was the right age, though. Twenty-five was in the range—everyone thought the mid-thirties was the latest it could be, and you weren’t safe as young as thirteen. She’d told jokes about it with her friends, and of course…of course each time it happened, she would cover it on-stream, reacting to videos of an entire airport vanishing. Or once, dozens of people in a concert.
Big gatherings like that—less common. Still happened, but there were curfews these days in some states, and martial law in others. Martial law for years. Probably an excuse for the government to lock people down, but what did she know? She didn’t do politics or the news—just the stuff everyone knew.
Of course, she had an app on her phone that was supposed to warn you if you lost connection to wireless and roaming data. It was supposed to be a warning about being spirited away—and a way for you to be tracked if you vanished.
It only started buzzing six minutes after her feet landed on the ground and she stumbled. Six minutes—all the time in the world to realize that she should have kept a ‘vanishing bag’ on her at all times. Should have moved back home with her parents, even though she’d thought they were freaking out about nothing.
Should have never done a hop on stream in front of 400,000+ viewers to prove she could touch the net of a basketball hoop. Then, perhaps—
She wouldn’t have landed on a bunch of blue bricks in a city where everyone around her looked like a walking lizard-person, spines and all, and they turned to stare at her in a mini-shorts and a flashy branded clothing for her stream from her sponsor, at the mic pack she tore off of her, and her phone, which she desperately tried to call someone, anyone with.
Then the song was playing in her head.
 
Spirited gen, spirited away. Emily Franson, Erin Solstice, Luan Khumalo, damn, they got Antal Fekete too. Meeting Elvis or aliens or the Wizard of Oz—god, take me if it’s good. 
God damn it, why couldn’t they take some old bastard instead of the kids? Spirited away, spirited away, add you to the list when you’re spirited away~
 
It was such a banger song too. It really fit the feeling the world was burning down at times, and no one was doing anything other than pouring gasoline on the fire. But now it was playing, and she was right here.
Remira, her stream name was Remira, stood in the Drake city, head swiveling, trying not to scream into the phone that wouldn’t let her call her agent or manager or camera team—who’d been right in front of her—she flinched away from passing Drakes and a tall, furry woman who was panting and clutching at her side. They stared at her as well.
Oh, god, this is it. I’m going to die, and I didn’t even buy a gun. All she had was a stun-gun and pepper spray—in her backpack, which she wasn’t wearing. No money, not while she was mobile; her team had everything she needed.
“Uh, excuse me, Miss. One side, please.”
Remira screamed. The lizard-man carrying two huge bags on each shoulder almost dropped them as he lurched back—and an entire line of tired, sweaty lizard-people caught him.
“Hey!”
“Ancestors, watch it!”
“Move aside, Human! We’re on the job!”
They muscled past her, and she cringed aside, staring at the group carrying an incredible amount of weight on them. A few spat, and one gave her a disgusted glance.
“More damn Humans going to the New Lands.”
“Isn’t that outfit cold?”
Her belly-button was showing. She covered it with her arms, now feeling exposed and in danger. The panting furry woman was casting around.
“Where is he? Where…this is crazy. This is all crazy.”
She was muttering to herself—in English! They spoke English here? Remira turned to the woman.
“Am I dreaming?”
The furry woman had on clothing that seemed more provocative than Remira’s and had more fur showing—she gave Remira a confused eye and didn’t respond, just kept scanning the crowds. There were so many people.
She’d been in New York, but this—this wasn’t as dense, but they were almost all scale people! There were a few other fur-people, but—Remira backed against a wall. She had to do something. What? Then she flinched.
“Who’s there? W—what’s going on?”
Everyone turned to gaze at her, including the panting Gnoll [Prostitute]. No one was speaking to Remira, but she clutched at her dyed hair—which didn’t make her that unusual in this world.
Speaking to the air and screaming did. Everyone edged back. But Remira kept gasping wildly. There was something whispering to her. A voice.
It said:
 
<Calculating classes and assigning experience…>
 
It was an emotionless voice that she couldn’t describe. God? She closed her eyes as it spoke.
 
<Experience calculated. Assigning classes.>
 
[Famed Performer Level 18!]
[Gamer Class Created!]
[Gamer Level 7!]
 
<Assigning Skills…>
 
She began screaming, then, until someone shouted.
“Hey, there’s a crazy Human over here! I think she’s insane or something—Watch! Watch!”
One of the scaly folk was shouting and pointing at her. Then Remira was backing away.
“No, no, don’t—”
She had to run! Escape! She turned, searching for somewhere to hide, but this was a city of…what? The furry woman seized her arm, and Remira almost hit her.
“You don’t want to be arrested by the Watch in this city, Miss. They’ll throw you in prison without even asking questions if you’re not a Drake and you don’t have at least a Grade 2 Passport.”
“A what? Let go—let go of me!”
Remira flailed at the woman, who wasn’t a Drake…what was she? The Gnoll growled.
“I’m just warning you to—”
“Aaaaah! [Pepper Spray]!”
Remira shouted the first thing that came into her head. A familiar little bottle appeared in her hand, and she sprayed it at the Gnoll woman, whose reaction was instantaneous. She dodged the spray, then covered her nose and doubled over.
“Argh! What did you do?”
The entire street felt the stinging spray in the air instantly too—their eyes watered, and Remira coughed. They turned to her, and the shouting grew louder.
“Skill! She’s using a Skill—”
“Watch! Someone get the Watch!”
Now she was in for it. The Gnoll woman backed away, covering her nose, and the bottle that had appeared in Remira’s hand had vanished. Was that the Skill—?
Panicking, terrified, in a fantasy world. Just like the meme where you chose where you’d end up if you were spirited away like all the others. Actually, she’d landed on ‘sucked into Cthulhu’s mouth’.
Remira was in flight mode. She was stumbling away, heart pounding, and that song was in her mind. Then she did hear shouting. A clamor of voices—and a whistle blowing again and again. Dozens of them, growing louder.
It seemed like an army was coming her way, including more Drakes on horseback. Remira half-turned her head, hoping to see that familiar camera pointing at her with the ring light.
“Chat…are you seeing this?”
She smiled at the Gnoll woman, who gave her a look as if she was crazy. Remira was about to cry. Then—she heard screams and shouts. The flow of people heading down the street halted, and someone screamed.
“Help! Help! It’s a monster! It’s—”
“Antinium! Antinium!”
It was like a magic spell. Everyone forgot her and froze up. Then began moving back—and then there was a figure bounding over the heads of the lizard-people and furry folk, who began running, screaming. More whistles, riders after him—Remira stopped crying. Her mouth opened, and she stared up.
For all her terror, for all she’d appeared in another world with nothing to her name—and despite how terrifying the black, armored figure appeared, there was something graceful about the way the figure bounded over the heads of a dozen of the Drake [Laborers] and leapt up the wall of one of the buildings.
It took him three steps—and then he was jumping, back arching like a professional pole-vaulter, an insect shaped like a man. He soared over her head like a superhero, evading several arrows and a net that flashed under his legs. Someone breathed a single word.
“Antinium. No—the Slayer.”
“Klbkch.”
The Gnoll woman said. Remira stared up as the insect-man leapt higher and drew a pair of beautiful swords. He swung them in arcs around his body, and broken arrows clattered down around him. Then he flicked the sword in his right hand to the left, and a net fell as well, weights rolling into a gutter.
Then—well, everyone forgot about Remira. Because in this moment, she wasn’t the most famous, important person in the story.
It was him.
The Slayer of the Antinium.
Klbkchhezeim.
 
Earthers
Its’ a crazy opening I’m not sure of
But I did it
Still sick
Let me know how it is
Tiny bit more work until I gas out. Not long now
 
——
 
He had missed this.
Jumping. Relc had always laughed at him when Klbkch complained about his body, once they’d gotten to know each other and he’d admitted his weaknesses. The Gecko of Liscor, for all his abilities, hadn’t gotten it.
Relc could vault on his spear and get onto a rooftop about half the time—the other half, he hit the edge and fell on his back, which was highly amusing. But that was the act of a [Spearmaster] and Relc’s own personal and incredible strength.
It wasn’t the same as being able to run up to a vertical wall and just…go up it.
Any wall in the world, Relc. A hundred feet tall. Pallass’ walls. I could jump up it in my old body.
