He could move at a blur, despite that not being his domain, and his swords would float after him. If a floating sword hit you at the speed of someone practically running—what do you think happened? Zeter’s swords didn’t budge; they were meant to skewer Wyverns in combat. She’d seen him take chunks out of the wall by accident multiple times. Lilliam explained this as she pointed at her eye, and Wiltris began to understand.
“See this ring? This is a Ring of Barkskin, and that’s the only reason I don’t have a fractured skull. What would have happened if he’d hit one of the children?”
“You have artifact support for them, though—”
“Of course I do! But normally—he watches what he hits with his swords or turns them off! He’s not being cautious!”
“But he didn’t hit you, he just stormed out after your argument.”
Lilliam was breathing hard, trying to get Wiltris to understand. No…he probably did, but she was trying to get him to take this as seriously.
“He didn’t notice I was on the ground. And if he hit me, I wouldn’t be here. I’m starting to worry that might happen. He’s punched a fist through a wall twice this month. So unless you give me support, right now, I’m done.”
That was how it worked, right? She gave Wiltris a bleak look as he scrambled to take notes, underlining everything, and wished all this concern he was instantly projecting was for her.
But it wasn’t. Not really.
It was because Zeter was their weapon of war, and Manus didn’t want him to lose an edge. So…they were going to help her and do everything in their power to keep her from divorcing him or walking out. But she was on the edge this time.
It hadn’t always been like this. She hadn’t known, when he was a promising Gold-ranker, what the downsides would be. Lilliam’s father, a former Gold-ranker himself, had seen the possible dangers and tried to warn her off, Ancestors bless him. She and her mother had thought he’d been just against Zeter out of jealousy or prejudice or something. Hah!
Lilliam was just one of those casualties without blood Manus produced sometimes.
The City of War needed excellent soldiers. Zeter, at age 27, had been a Gold-rank adventurer backed by the City of War, known as ‘Threeblades Zeter’. She’d lived in one of Manus’ allied cities and had been 24.
Imagine a talented Drake who was not only capable of using magical weapons to their fullest extent, but was loyal, patriotic, and could follow orders. Zeter was perfect! He had only one problem: he was such an obsessive warrior-adventurer, he was terrible with, well, dating, and he wanted to find someone.
Cue Manus setting him up with every eligible Drake, Gnoll, and Human they could find. They’d made life so much fun that Lilliam had fallen head over heels for him twenty-two years ago, moved to Manus with everyone’s blessing but one—settled down, and had two children within seven years.
A perfect story. It had lasted for about nine years until the cracks began getting too large to ignore.
Now? It was today. Lilliam sat there as Wiltris got up, assuring her he was on the case, he just needed to make some urgent calls. She smiled bleakly. She hoped he could help. After all, this was Zeter’s city, his story, his call to arms in this new era. She was just his wife.
 
——
 
“We can’t…give you higher grade calming tonics, Lilliam.”
“Okay, then I’m gone.”
She made to get up, and Wiltris nearly leapt up as several observers in the more private room watched. This conversation was being recorded and forwarded to members of High Command. Not the highest-priority, but it was their Named-rank adventurer. It matched other reports they’d been getting, so they’d see it.
Both Lilliam and Wiltris knew this was being observed and recorded, of course. She was dabbing some healing potion on her eye—a huge expense given the deficit—and glancing at the one-way illusory wall every now and then.
She was part of the Manus war-machine. She wrote reports weekly about Zeter’s condition. He didn’t know about them. Her voice was cool and dangerous as she spoke—someone made a note in a file. Lilliam was on the edge as Wiltris tried to explain the issue to her.
“Let me explain, Lilliam. We can’t give him tonics. It will dull his edge in training and on-duty. So if we can rectify this…how about sleeping medication?”
Her face screwed up.
“What, am I supposed to just put him to sleep the moment he gets back from duty? He’s not an idiot, he’ll catch on.”
“I’ll give you a few that will put even a Named-rank out for emergency use. We’ll have someone talk to him—”
“Not [Counsellors] or [Thought Healers]. They don’t work. It just makes him angrier. You know that mental-resistance Skill he got when he hit Level 45? That’s why no one can calm him down. He also needs to stop taking our kids out of school. They’re becoming outcasts, and he doesn’t get why.”
“Is it…because he’s giving them too many favors?”
She shrugged, pulling out a puffer stick and smoking. Wiltris opened his mouth—those were illegal, especially if they were Dreamleaf like the scent suggested. He closed his mouth after a moment, and she spoke.
“Partly. But partly, it’s how he’s training our son, Zillis. He’s trying to make him into an adventurer. With magical swords. Every one of his peers thinks Zillis is going to be a hero and either cozying up to him or envious. He’s not a [Warrior]. But Zeter sees that in him. Not our daughter.”
“He’s…nine years old?”
“Yes.”
A Named-ranker giving his son an enchanted sword and finding a low-level monster to slay. Lilliam went on.
“Our daughter, Hethka—H-e-t-h-k-a, for all of you listening, not with a ‘c’—is fifteen. She’s trying to impress him in boot camp training, and he buys her gifts.”
“Ah. Not soldiering gifts…?”
“No. Imagine how her fellow trainees feel.”
“And you, Lilliam? How’s he treating you?”
She gave Wiltris a long stare.
“Well, he comes back after hunting monsters or going to fight with the army filthy, hurt, and I patch him up, worry about his insane stories about raiding Antinium across the border—”
“Lilliam, please! Those are state secrets—”
Wiltris was nervous, glancing at the one-way illusion, and Lilliam’s voice rose.
“I know Manus’ secrets. I’m the one who finds a mandible buried in his back afterwards! I care for him, I do. He’s all laughter, delight, presents for the children, we go out on the city, and it’s grand—for a day, two days.”
She sat back as her face grew pained, and Wiltris prompted her as several observers glanced at each other.
“…And then?”
“Then I wake up in the middle of the night and he’s staring at the ceiling. Or thrashing in his sleep, fighting something. Or I find him walking around the mansion, sword in hand, because he heard an owl. It’s getting worse. The Trial of Blades—he’s been tearing up everything, cursing that [Blademistress], Zeladona.”
“He wants a rematch?”
“No. I think she scared him to death. Her, the Slayer, and the Named-ranks he sliced up. He keeps talking about how adventurers never forget or forgive. He thinks they’re coming after him for helping wound them. Especially the woman whose arm he cut off.”
Named-rank adventurers were powerful, but if they feared anything—it’d be another Named-rank. Especially someone whose arm you’d sliced off. The Champions of the Coast hadn’t come to Manus seeking a grudge match, but it clearly weighed on Zeter.
“Maybe a [Thought Healer]. He can at least talk it out, Lilliam!”
“If you think it works, go ahead. He’s seen one off-and-on ever since we were thirty, and he’ll just get mad and give up on going after a few sessions. But I want something to keep him calm.”
“You’ve got an emergency Scroll of [Teleport], Lilliam. I truly understand your fears given your incident today, but you’re warded, and if there was any trouble domestically, the Watch would be—”
She slapped the desk and shouted.
“If he ever tried to kill us, we’d be dead before I could even activate the scroll if I was holding it in my hands! Give me a tonic! I don’t care if it makes him stupid as a pillbug the next day!”
At this point, the Drake glanced at the illusory wall, and a voice filled the room, making both Drakes inside jump.
“Issue her two tonics, Manager Wiltris. Miss Lilliam, please proceed with any other concerns.”
She visibly calmed as someone spoke and nodded. Her tail uncurled slightly, and she replied.
“I…he wants to change our name again. That’s normal, but he’s pushy about it. I don’t care about that, but he’s started talking about having more children. No.”
“Maybe some de-arousal pills…?”
“That’s not the problem. He wants more children. I don’t, and I’ve explained to him all the good reasons, except the ones where I don’t want more children with him. So…do something about it.”
She shrugged at the wall, and the voice came again.
“An officer will have a word with him, Miss Lilliam. Anything else?”
She sat there, tired. Sagging in the air with invisible strings holding her up.
“I don’t know. Get me something that brightens my day without turning me into a smiling loon, please? He’s off his vacation next week; I’ll live.”
It sounded so reasonable that the people watching upgraded the severity of her case. Because things weren’t well. Lilliam had stormed into the center in a panic, but she had that expression that was like the eye of a storm. More of this and she’d snap, and there were so many forms the snap could take. All of them bad for Zeter’s continuing stability.
They passed the report onto High Command as Wiltris arranged a visit to a [Counsellor] for Lilliam and began writing notes for her children’s teachers. Within the hour, an order came down from High Command and a plan was executed.
The gears of the City of War moved—around Zeter. Lilliam was to be monitored, but almost forgotten in the execution of said plans by all but one member of High Command who paid attention to her file. They reviewed Zeter’s case notes the next day as well to see what was done with him.
 
——
 
Zeter was practicing with one of Manus’ elite divisions, doing a workout devised by Grimalkin to keep even Level 30+ warriors in tip-top shape. Running, stretching, swordplay under weapon experts to refine their already impressive Skills—he was the best, of course, but even Zeter was sweating profusely and swearing under his breath halfway through the day.
It was grueling, but he was a [Soldier] and Adventurer both. However, someone stopped him midway through the day.
“Zeter! Command wants a word!”
He snapped to his feet from doing pushups, saluted reflexively, then strode over. When he saw who was waiting for him, he blinked.
“General Beirhall? Sir!”
An expression of delight spread across his face as the [General] nodded to him. The [General] was the first commander that Zeter had served under when he was rising up the ranks that recommended him to their special adventuring program.
“Zeter, I’m taking you out of training for a walk. Humor me.”
Zeter peered at his trainer, who gave him a nod, and fell in as the Drake [General] walked around the walls of Manus. They could gaze up at the star-shaped walls looming over them as Zeter spoke.
“Congratulations on making High Command, sir. We were all toasting you when we heard.”
“I got the letter you sent me. Thank you, Zeter. Though I wish it wasn’t on the heels of General Milka dying. Then Aldonss…we’ve lost too many good leaders lately.”
“Yes.”
Zeter’s spines rose, and he clenched his fists as he walked. Two of High Command dead within a year. His swords floated behind him as they strode along, and General Beirhall glanced at Zeter, then cleared his throat.
“I hear you’ve been brawling with some of the other [Soldiers]. Disorderly conduct—adventurer stuff, I said, but I came out to have a word. Everything alright?”
Zeter flushed.
“I, uh—they’re just scraps, sir. No one got hurt—aside from the broken bone, and that was an accident.”
“Mm. You’re a [Soldier] of Manus and a Named-rank, Zeter. I’d slap you across the neck-spines and dress you down if you were still a [Captain] in my army.”
Zeter’s head drooped, but Beirhall spoke with a kindly half-smile.
“—Since you’re not, and you’re a Named-rank, tone it down, eh? Those poor idiots think they can punch out a Named-rank, and they don’t know you.”
That reassured the Swordsman of Six, and he grimaced.
“I was never cut out to be a [Captain]. Fighting’s easier. What’s it, uh, like in High Command? Is Luciva as intense as they say? Lulv?”
“Lulv is, but the Dragonspeaker’s just sharp. They all are, Zeter. I walked in, and I felt like I was a junior [Tactician] in the academy again; everyone had read their reports and had fifteen notes apiece.”
Beirhall entertained Zeter with some anecdotes from High Command as the adventurer grinned and nodded before pausing again.
“And how’s Lilliam? The kids?”
“Oh, she’s fine. Worrying about both of them, but Zillis is a weed, and Hethka’s in basic training. She wants to be a [Soldier]. I can’t see it, not for her. I’ve been trying to get Zillis his [Warrior] class.”
“Hm. How old is he?”
“Nine.”
Beirhall frowned, and Zeter hurried on.
“He can do it! He’s got good instincts, and he’s sharp. Both of them are. I can toss them almost anything, and they’ll field it. Fast hands, good eyes—”
“I can see Lilliam’s worry, though.”
“Mothers worry. Mine still worries about me.”
Zeter flashed a grin, then glanced around and bit his tongue.
“I’ve been thinking about another kid. Maybe two. We’re not getting any younger, and even with potions, Lilliam wouldn’t have time to—you know?”
“It’s a bit of an imposition, raising a new child when you have one that’s nine and the other’s fifteen.”
“True…but they’re like—a legacy. A—I mean, I want to have people who can carry the swords if I ever go down in combat. You know, [General]?”
Beirhall was nodding along, but slowly. He glanced at Zeter.
“That’s the kind of talk I hear from [Soldiers] who think they’re not going to last the campaign. Be straight with me, [Soldier]. What’s on your mind?”
“Nothing…”
The look the [General] gave Zeter dragged the confession out of the Named-rank slowly. They had to circuit the walls four times as he began, halted, and then spoke like someone drawing a sword out of a wound.
“I—I’ve been trying to match that [Blademistress], Zeladona. I can’t, [General].”
“No one in Izril could, Zeter.”
