Romance writing was rather infamous for the infighting and dragging down of fellow authors that could occur online. It wasn’t an exclusively romance-fiction thing…it was just that the genre was genuinely explosive when it came to potential success and fame.
Thus, you could get quick, false friendships with fellow writers that quickly devolved into mudslinging, organizing your fans into attacking one another, and even litigation. Caroline knew all the stories. She hadn’t been involved in anything that bad…but someone had tried to dox her identity once when she’d been starting out. Hence the pseudonyms and caution.
“Oh, right, Sandquen. Your mortal enemy. Caroline…I think your class is getting to you. You think like, well, your stories. You see too much romance everywhere when sometimes people just smile or like each other. As for the writing, I get it’s hard, but can you tone it down, please?”
Haley sighed as she put the sword down on the coffee table. Caroline was about to point out that Haley was one to talk, always complaining and trying to prove herself, when the [Writer] realized she had, in fact, won the argument.
No one respected [Romance Writers] and the struggle of the profession. Yes, there might be some formula to the art, yes, sometimes you were writing a bodice-ripper, but if your audience loved it, who cared? Writing having to be ‘elevated’ or grand was a myth.
It was also true that sometimes you could take too many shortcuts in your romantic fiction, and that gave the genre a bad name—good writing was good writing, bad writing was bad writing, and perhaps Caroline used real people as crutches for her writing, which had moral quandaries attached that she had not hitherto addressed.
However, you had to give Caroline this: the life of a [Romance Writer] was harder than Haley or the naysayers gave her credit for. The pettiness of other authors, the pressure of fans, of fame—back home, it was litigation, death threats, doxing, and hate mobs coming after you, which could be pretty bad.
In this world? The [Assassin] who’d snuck in through the window they’d opened drew a dagger with one hand, their head wrapped with black cloth so only their eyes were visible. They lunged as Caroline’s mouth opened wide—her scream was followed by a crash as Lamont hurled a tea kettle into the [Assassin]’s head.
“Caroline! Get back! [Quick Slash]!”
Haley snatched the sword up and attacked the [Assassin], who leapt away, cursing and shaking his head. Tea poured onto the floor as Sidney screamed, then pulled the little amulet that Doroumata had given her out and ripped the chain out of the amulet.
Instantly, the room went dark. But Caroline could still see the [Assassin] jumping for the window as Haley pursued them—Caroline was hiding behind the sofa as Lamont shouted.
“Haley! Don’t go after them! There might be more!”
The [Squire] hesitated at the window, realizing she might be leaving Caroline in danger. For a few seconds. Because the next moment, a figure was rising out of the black floor, hand raised, her veils fluttering around her.
Shadeward Doroumata herself pointed a finger at the window and fired a black tracer spell out of it, following the [Assassin]. Then she spoke.
“My daughters, to me. Is anyone hurt? Cut?”
She turned, walls of darkness covering the windows and doors until the Earthers assured her they hadn’t been hurt. The Shadeward patted Sidney’s hand.
“Well done, child. As I promised, nowhere in Nombernaught is free from my aegis. But who would try to murder you all? Rhir? Drakes in their pettiness? Wistram?”
“He dropped something. I think it was a he—careful—”
Haley kicked something over, and Doroumata levitated it up. She inspected it, then her face went slack. The aged Shadeward of Nombernaught turned to Caroline, and then, and only then, did she seem to believe that a [Romance Writer] had troubles of her own.
The [Assassin]’s dagger, meant for Caroline’s throat, had a single word emblazoned upon the metal:
 
Sandquen.
 
Thus, a true war between [Writers] began.
 
——
 
Captain Therrium Sailwinds was not a team player. He didn’t usually associate with other Drowned Folk; he was a [Pirate], one of the great [Pirate Lords] of the sea. He preyed upon Drowned Folk as well as Landfolk and Storm Sailors…but with an awareness of how far he could push any one faction.
Politics was in his blood, but again, he didn’t try to make friends. He had allies and enemies and neutral parties. Being in Nombernaught, being on the…side of Drowned Folk was new and rather unpleasant for him.
Lots of niceties when he had found grabbing someone and threatening to cut them from groin to forehead worked faster. But when he heard about the [Assassin] that had gone after Earth’s children, he of course felt he had to investigate.
It was the City Captain who was in charge of the day-to-day running of Nombernaught. A miserable job that any [Captain] might be pressganged into. The man in charge was Captain Horvin, who seemed fit for the job. He already had details of who and why.
“A low-level [Assassin]. One of the ones for hire that work themselves into crews. The kind anyone could pay a coin for. Fool didn’t even know he was after one of the Earth children. We caught him trying to hide in the wetmarket already; all he knows is the gold came to take that knife and stab the girl.”
Therrium had made his own inferences as well, which he shared with the City Captain.
“It wasn’t meant to be fatal. Probably a warning.”
“You think so? She would have been bloodied had not Miss Haley been there to fend him off before the Shadeward arrived.”
Therrium snorted.
“You’ve never had an [Assassin] after your back. It was only a warning. If they wanted her dead, they wouldn’t have given him a poisonless knife. Like as not, the [Assassin] had orders to stab once, drop the knife, and flee. But why…Caroline, is it?”
He gave the other Drowned Man a look, and Captain Horvin shifted. His face was cautious; Therrium didn’t know much about these Earth children. Of course, he knew some; word spread, especially about the Wistram raid. But he wasn’t…trusted. Which was fair, but rankling.
“Caroline. Like as not, it’s some rivalry between her and another, ah, [Writer].”
“…A what?”
Therrium thought the man was actually lying to him, but the City Captain just told him that apparently another [Writer] might have tried to kill or wound Caroline as a message.
Therrium thanked the man, then, as they left the Captain-of-Ship’s office, he leaned over. He was always followed by his crew, loyal [Captains] or 1st Mates of their own as deadly as he was. He murmured to one, a half-Blowfish Drowned Woman.
“Look into this Caroline cautiously. Don’t ruffle any feathers, so do it polite. Then, ah…ask what sort of [Writers] hire [Assassins] to off each other.”
The Drowned Woman, whose name was Glisal, regarded him slyly. She could spit poison on to her arrows, and she had killed more [Captains] than he had with her deadly shots.
“Oh, I’ll ask, though the Shadeward’s got lips locked tighter’n a treasure chest at the bottom of Kraken’s Pass. But as for t’other, Captain? [Writers] offing other [Writers] is a tale old as Nombernaught. If that Caroline be who I think she is, Heartslayi, then she’s got enemies willing to stab her just to stop her coming out with her next work.”
“…You know her?”
“Aye, Captain! I have fifteen of her books. If you’d like to read them?”
Fifteen? Dead gods, these Earth children were talented as they said. Therrium nodded, missing the colorful expressions on some of his crew who knew exactly what sort of books they were. That was how he found himself sitting in his rich cabins in his ship, The Passing Shadow, wine goblet in hand.
He had some reading spectacles on his nose and trophies from great monsters and enemies slain hung on his walls. One of the greatest [Pirates] on the sea flipped another page in the book, mouth open, having forgotten his drink entirely.
 
“So, y’know, I don’t know how the heck we survived, but I really want to stab you again, buddy,” Erun said to the panting [Prince] who lay recumbent upon the piece of driftwood that was their only protection from the rains. Blood stained his tunic, but the filigreed gold of his worn doublet coat still flashed in the nimbus of light from a falling [Lightning Bolt] spell.
“I, too, would prefer to continue our battle. But it seems we must make a truce, if only to survive this storm you caused, [Innkeeper].”
He hissed, his breath a rush of pain through his ribs. The [Innkeeper] eyed him and wiped at her brow. She was sorely wounded, and the rain had drenched her blouse, revealing her skin underneath, pale and supple despite the weather.
“I guess we have to work together. Okay, pal, I’ll bite.”
“…Pal?”
 
The writing was…something. It was this incredible mix of overexaggerated romance combined with what Therrium had to believe was either first-hand knowledge of how the people spoke or wild divergences thereof. Because it sounded like how the two would talk. But then—he flipped the page and had to check the title of the book.
A Knife to the Heart by Heartslayi, the Tale of a [Prince] and an [Innkeeper] Trapped Upon an Island. 
The art was even reminiscent of that famous scene. So that would make this…that [Innkeeper] who’d sheltered the students of Niers Astoragon. And it would make this Prince Iradoren…Captain Therrium flipped to a page far further into the thin booklet.
“What?”
He stared at the writing. Then flipped to another page.
“What?”
Then he had a lot of questions about this…
Caroline.
 
 
ASBAHSDFHASDF
I AM DONE FOR NOW
GIVE ME THOUGHTS ESPECIALLY YOU TOMEO
I AM REST
DEATH
 
Nombernaught Cast:
Earthers: Lamont, Caroline, Sidney, Malia, Sang-nim, Haley, Obi
Shadeward Doroumata
City Captain Horvin
Captain Therrium Sailwinds
 
 
 
Mini-Chapter #9 — Haeight (Rewrite)
Notes: One of the problems with the Haeight mini-chapter was that it was recap of Huntsong/Ghostsong more than anything interesting. Potentially wasted words all the way down. Let me put in 3k words trying a new opening then I’ll pivot to something else.
 
 
The waters ran straight down from the distant Derithal-Vel’s mountain into the sea, along the river Irghi. They emerged clear and ice-cold from the mountain’s heart, even glittering with trails of mana due to the gemstones in the mountain that infused the water with power.
However, by the time the waters had emerged from the carefully-contained collection facility operated by Dwarves at the spring’s mouth, the magic had faded. Then the water was simply mineraly, flowing down through the mountain, feeding animals and monsters and the occasional weary Dwarf or traveller as it snaked down into the neighboring country of Samal.
Even water needed to pass through the gates which regulated the water, and here it was, again, given new life. Ancient purification spells and magics made the water vibrant and fresh, and it carried itself steadily through the Kingdom of Keys, a paradise, cherished and free for all to drink.
No longer young, but still vibrant, it was here that the river’s course turned. It entered a new kingdom, then, one with grey skies and chalky ground, where color had been leached. The fresh optimism of the beautiful river flowed then through the Kingdom of Shade where there was no paradise of magic nor magic stones of Dwarves to invigorate it.
Just death.
Death magic, radiating up from every inch of soil, infusing the water. Corpses of animals that drowned, even, yes, undead fish and other creatures, who were dredged from the water, but contaminated it nevertheless.
The water was still mostly pure, but it was…slowing. Tiring as it longed to reach the sea on Noelictus’ most western border next to the highland Kingdom of Bows, Avel. The sea was vast, and if not pure, there the water would finish its journey from the mountain.
But oh, Noelictus was long, the largest of the three kingdoms, if only by comparison, and the path wended past huge, silent towns of thick walls and somber folk, tilling greedy fields which sucked up water. Underneath dark forests in which bears were not to be feared—but undead bears were.
It was in the Province of Havens where the river, now desperate to reach the oceans, became turbid. Mired in the bogs where water could become lost, distracted, imprisoned for centuries. The bogs were one of the most dangerous places to be lost, as any seasoned traveller well knew. The footing was precarious at best, deceptive; a wrong step would drag the unwary down dozens of feet in the mud, suffocating dead water, and worse…the undead.
A rotting corpse, 4,843 years old, ‘young’ by some standards, was sunken up to its eyeballs in the muck. Ancient, desiccated flesh had been preserved to the point of almost becoming dust—until death magic had rejuvenated it. For a given value of the word. The corpse was foul and overgrown with lichen and some enterprising mushrooms, and fly maggots writhed in its back and were currently drowning in the water.
But few things wanted to interact with the corpse. It floated there, motionless, and next to it were two more bodies, sunk deep in the mud itself. One of them was a woman, mouth still open in her last dying screams—but her eyes now glowed a bright yellow. She was a zombie. The other corpse had been there two months. It had been infused with more death magic and upgraded into a Ghoul.
The difference was the speed at which the two twitched in reaction to sound or stimuli. The zombie’s movements were lethargic, like a sleeper. The Ghoul was faster, even smarter; it had killed three fish unwary enough to swim close to its claws, but ripped each corpse apart so badly they hadn’t become more than death magic; not enough to be reanimated. Yet even this being was itself…lesser.
Normally, the two undead would have struggled their way out of the bog and wandered about, seeking more death magic or the living to add to their numbers. But the half-submerged undead waiting and staring across the bog had ordered them to submerge.
It was superior to the other two. A Swamplurk Ghoul. One of eighteen in this bog, spread out in their own ambush sites. Not just a Ghoul, but one infused with the power of the water, as mobile and dangerous in the water as out of it. Already, its skin had begun to mottle a bluer-green color than even rot had allowed, and webs were growing from between the fingers. Not that it had any living tissue; the rot simply seemed to reveal a different form as it fell apart and collected more flesh.
