Something classy, something that no one could put together with an hour of thought. That was the problem with Liscor’s chefs. They were getting good.
Just the other day, Imani had put together some okonomiyaki, a Japanese dish that was like a savory pancake with lots of ingredients you fried on a griddle. Within the day, half the street vendors had a variant that tasted good enough, and even with profits on the recipe…
Something fancy, and yes, perhaps a bit expensive. Galina’s money was all very good, but it sparked some rivalry in Imani. She could make money too, and if they were hiring another chef or helpers…
Okay, where did fancy take you? Logic said Michelin star restaurants. That was where Imani had to go off pop culture and shows more than first-hand experience. She’d never been to one, and Nigeria, in fact, had a total of zero Michelin star restaurants. Probably because no one in her entire country had that level of talent…definitely the reason and not that the reviewers had decided to choose other countries to review.
Like America or big cities in Europe. Still, she’d watched enough cooking shows to have an idea of what they served.
Some of it she discarded right off, like veal, which was fancy in this world as well. There were all kinds of complicated foam reductions she could have tried, but Imani remembered she’d once looked up what they’d actually serve at such restaurants, and aside from being very small portions—she’d seen pork rind fries sold at one!
Pork rinds on curly fries, until it was practically transparent, served in a tin can. Street food mixed with expensive cooking. Imani had been experimenting with the concept until she’d run out of pork rind…and realized that this fancy dish didn’t really make her that happy.
“It’s just another variant of fries. More Earth food. I’m sort of sick of triumphing on Earth food. I need to make something…unique to this world. To Liscor! What does Liscor have that other places don’t? Rock Crab? Fish, right now…uh…”
And then she’d had a thought. What about…Shield Spiders?
They were big. Normally, people didn’t eat spiders because of the ick factor, but mostly the size. Bugs just weren’t much of a meal, but a big Shield Spider? The legs on one of them had to be like…crab?
They were making glue out of Shield Spider chitin. Why not something with their meat? Imani had hesitated there for a long, long time. But in the end, she’d gone down to the Adventurer’s Guild, and the receptionist, after several worried questions, had pointed her to a shop that sold monster parts, and the [Shop Owner] had directed her to a specialized [Butcher], who had sold her some spider legs, raw and de-chitined.
 
——
 
…It tasted…
The texture was…Imani had cooked it up with a heating rune to a safe temperature to get the real, unvarnished flavor.
It sort of—prickled in the mouth. A crunch, and then it was almost like little hairs of the spider’s leg had stayed on the meat. She wondered if some had as she chewed.
As for the taste, it was slightly nutty, which was off-putting, but also, and she couldn’t deny this—! Slightly insect-y. It was hard to stomach. In fact, Imani tried hard, but she could not, in fact, stomach it.
“…There has to be a way to cook this.”
Imani rolled up her sleeves and got to work. And she found there was a way to cook Shield Spider meat!
You could deep fry it, batter it in bread, even pan-fry it up—boiling rendered it into more of a paste, which was not appealing—and it tasted great so long as you hid the actual flavor.
But the prickling texture remained, even if you got rid of the insect taste. That was because—and Imani hadn’t really thought of this—the Shield Spider meat was slightly toxic.
 
——
 
Garry informed Imani of this when she met him at his new public bakery, clutching at her stomach. Her gut was not doing well, and the [Baker] stopped making his loaves of bread which Liscor gave out and gave her an alarmed look.
“Miss Imani, Shield Spider meat is slightly poisonous.”
“What? They don’t have venom! No one’s ever talked about Shield Spider venom before!”
They were just tough, weren’t they? Garry clacked his mandibles.
“They are, ah, slightly venomous. Enough to stop a healing potion, but their bodies are far less toxic than their venom sacs. I imagine you will have bad poos tonight. To combat Shield Spider meat, it is recommended by Antinium to mash them up in at least a 1:3 ratio with other foodstuffs, or to have a detoxin Skill, which I possess.”
Imani put her head down on the counter.
“This is a disaster, Garry. I was trying to come up with a unique food for Liscor!”
“Ah. I would advise to not make it Shield Spiders. They do not have a lot of utility in soup…the meat dissolves. And removing their chitin is very annoying. Would you like a piece of Scaethen Bread? I have just made some.”
Her head rose as he offered her a piece of the glowing, red bread that his two Flying Antinium were visibly salivating over. Garry was an inspiration in a sense; he was another [Chef] to come from Erin’s inn, but he was operating a food bank for all of Liscor—and he had his own signature dish.
Scaethen Bread. It tasted like pure energy, and Imani’s stomach actually stopped hurting a few seconds after swallowing her first bite. She blinked.
“Garry, this is incredible! Do you sell it?”
“Oh, no. Not this bread. It is only for my favorite customers and Antinium.”
Garry went back to baking before leaning over.
“Please do not tell anyone I have favorite customers. I am supposed to give this bread out fairly to all, but I have those I like more than others. I am a very biased [Baker] and unworthy of any compliments of charitability because of this.”
Imani happened to know that Garry’s ‘favorite customers’ were his old ones from when he operated his single baking stand, and she smiled at him.
“You are a saint, Garry.”
“No, no. That is Pawn. Or he might one day be. I am merely a [Baker]. I would also love to work at your restaurant, but I have a more important job.”
“You…wouldn’t happen to have any gifted [Chefs] you know of that I could hire? I’d take Antinium workers!”
There was an idea, actually. Unfortunately, Garry just scratched his chin and shrugged.
“Sadly, few Antinium have an opportunity to cook. Those who work aboveground have gained some of the classes, but no one is above Level 15 aside from my helpers. There are a few beginning to take the trade on in Antinium-run establishments, but Runel and Pisca are still well above them.”
He nodded to Runel and Pisca, who fanned their wings at Imani. A pair of young Gnolls edged around them with more loaves of dough.
“I can see you’re also expanding, Garry.”
Imani sighed, and Garry smiled at her.
“Oh, yes. I have levelled twice now, because, I think, I am giving so many people who need food food. I have plans to do far more than this…once the farms are big enough.”
Now there was a [Chef] with dreams for the future, bigger than even Calescent’s and Imani’s put together. Imani murmured.
“You wouldn’t happen to know where I could find talented help, do you? I know some good [Chefs] in Liscor, but all the high-level ones are already in their own kitchens. I need someone talented or promising or high-level—but who’s willing to work for me and with me. If not an Antinium or a Goblin, then who?”
“Whom. I believe, Miss Imani, that you are looking in the wrong city. Liscor has too many jobs, too much progress. You are searching for a richer city with underappreciated people. Pallass or Invrisil would be where I would start. If you go to fancy restaurants, I imagine you will find at least one [Chef] who wants to quit.”
It was such a reasonable thing to say that Imani was shocked. But then, Garry had always been one of the most grounded people she’d ever met, especially for one of Erin’s original Antinium.
“Good point, Garry! But I’ll need to spend a lot to go dining there…and you normally need to be famous to skip their waiting lists!”
She groaned until she remembered Galina’s money. That would do nicely. Garry scratched under his baker’s hat.
“The gold part I cannot help you with. However, I do not see the problem with the famous part.”
“Um, why, Garry? It’s not like Barehoof Kitchens is that big.”
He pointed a hand at her as he kept kneading dough, mandibles spreading in an amused smile.
“This is true. But you are also Imani, who is best friends with Joseph the Football Coach, who beat Invrisil’s football team and probably is welcome in any restaurant he wishes to go to. And if that does not work, then you are surely Imani, who had the hit baking television appearance where she made delicious sundaes for everyone.”
“My hit what? Garry, I never appeared on telev—”
The [Baker] gave her an innocent gaze.
“I could have sworn it was on Channel 2 news. But then, perhaps I was wrong. It is not like Erin used to say that baking segments were very popular on television. Or that celebrity chefs are very famous. So long as they do not use the N-word. Which word this is, I do not know, but I would advise you not to say it.”
A slow smile spread over Imani’s face. Television? Well…
Why not? It only took a quick trip to The Wandering Inn and then to Pallass to ask if Drassi had a moment for a favor. Imani only got up to the studio, but when Drassi heard about the request, she came out of the dressing room herself to set it up.
Imani missed the opportunity to visit The Wandering Inn that evening—because she was doing a segment on Wistram News Network showing everyone how to make ice cream with Palt as she discussed living in Liscor with Drassi.
Talk about fast! It was nerve-wracking, but Palt had cigars for that, and he was very photogenic and delighted to be on television. Plus, once she got into making the most ridiculous sundaes she could, it was amazingly fun to serve it to her ‘judges’, which were Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva, who nearly went insane.
Imani won the segment, then did a Q&A where she explained how ice cream was made and answered questions. The only weird part was all the Balerosian viewers calling in to ask why she wasn’t crediting some ‘King Loran’ for making it—Imani could only tell them she’d learned it in Liscor, a white lie.
And that was that. Joseph was only too happy to join Imani for eating out in Invrisil—if they could bring Rose and, potentially, someone else. Imani wasn’t happy to have to eat out with what she assumed would be Troy, but she had already gotten reservations at several restaurants.
It didn’t occur to her that there would be other consequences for her television broadcast. Namely—that someone or a lot of people might see her on air.
Like, say, other Earthers. It should have also occurred to her to be worried about Roshal noticing she was alive, but that evening, someone knocked on the door to her home, and she stopped having a celebratory drink with Palt to answer.
The person on her doorstep was Kevin.
 
 
 
THE MINI CHAPTER IS DONE
A NEW EARTHER MAY APPEAR
I AM DONE DEATH
SICKNESS
LET ME KNOW IF THAT WAS INTERSTING
I LEAVE NOW
I HATE COLDS
 
Pre-Chapter Note:
For context I was very sick this day. Probably the worst I was—I asked for ideas since I was so blasted and someone in the Discord who loves maids, Sado, asked for maids. Someone else, Tomeo, asked for Heartslayi.
In my sickness I thought Caroline was still at Wistram and began writing a chapter synthesizing the two. Then someone told me Caroline was in Nombernaught. So this is a chapter I thought out that involves [Maids] and because Caroline’s not there…it’s a Leon chapter. With skiing.
 
Mini-Chapter #7 — LeonOBSERVE TOMEO + SADO’s REQUESTS SYNTHESIZED THROGUH A SICK MIND
 
You had to give this to the man: Archmage Eldavin kept his promises. What he did with Wistram wasn’t really, uh, something Leon wanted to worry about. But when he said that things would change, that Earthers would benefit from the Academy of Mages’ resources, he meant it.
Probably only Wistram Academy or a truly powerful nation—like Top 20—could arrange for Leon to fly over the snow-covered plains of Cenidau’s Loarfress region, staring down at pale blue flowers blooming in the sub-zero temperatures.
“This is amazing! I’m flying! I’m fl—whoa!”
A gust of incredibly cold wind blew suddenly and nearly sent him into a nosedive. Leon screamed, but before he could go plunging downwards, the [Levitation] spell steadied him. And someone else went diving after him.
An armored figure in bright blue armor, splashed with seven-pointed stars and what Leon had thought was the confederate flag, dove after him. Flynn, wearing the super-armor decorated with Australia’s flag—which had the Union Jack on it—dove down and steadied him in the air.
“Careful, dude. You can crash hard even with the [Safe Levitation] spell on. You good? Not feeling sick?”
“I’m fine, man.”
Leon scowled slightly, embarrassed by his scream. Flynn hovered in the air like it was only natural. He had practice—and he was wearing the full set of the magical battle-armor that Archmage Eldavin had created.
Real Iron Man shit. Leon had hinted that he wouldn’t mind taking the armor for a spin, but Eldavin wasn’t making more of the armor himself, and each set was ‘attuned’ to a user. Until they died, no one could mug them and take the armor.
Flynn was the lucky bastard that had gotten a set. Of course, Leon could have volunteered, but he hadn’t been close to the Terras faction, and there had been that war with Ailendamus going on. Some of the volunteers had died, armor or not. Even so, Flynn got the armor, and Leon only got flying boots and an Amulet of Cold Resistance, which made it so the horrific chill of Cenidau was merely cold on his skin.
“Let’s dive down a bit. We don’t want to get caught in a blizzard. ‘Sides, I think they’re welcoming us down below.”
Because Flynn was Leon’s bodyguard and the guy in charge, Leon had to descend and follow the young Australian man towards the only lights in this frozen region. Cenidau, the Kingdom of Tundras, was so damn cold that even magic got cold. Heating spells failed if you just left them in the open; because of this, Cenidau had adopted a very different style of building to the other Terandrian kingdoms that Leon had been visiting on his vacation from Wistram.
