As if she’d missed something important. Now, her eyes fixed on Haeight as the undead circle narrowed, such that the Veteran Hunter was unable to swing her axes fully.
“Ready—aim—don’t hit her—”
She saw Haeight surrounded, and then, the Veteran Hunter’s axes lowered. She stopped a second, sweat rolling down her forehead, and Goshawe swore—her eyes began to glow. The pale irises shone, and Goshawe saw Haeight twitch. The zombies faltered, and when she lifted her head, Guildmistress Goshawe got goosebumps.
A madwoman raised her axes. Truly mad. Her mouth was covered by a mask, but the eyes that the Hunters of Havens could see had suddenly gone wild. Glowing with a wild light. Secrets and truths, flickering as her axes rose—and then she leapt into the zombies, screaming.
Into them, swinging so hard she began cleaving limbs off like some adventurer out of stories. Clearing bodies around her with each swing. The scream was ragged, and the Hunters of Havens almost aimed at her.
“Dead gods—”
She swept through the bunched-up zombies, and her axes were…glowing. They left a trail in the air, like wisps of mist. They cut even more sharply, and the Veteran Hunter stalked the zombies now as they tried to get at her in a confused mess. She drove her blades into the horde, picking out clusters and hacking through them.
[Frenzy: An Agonizing Revelation].
Guildmistress Goshawe could not know Haeight’s Skill, but she saw it quite clearly, and she thought to herself:
Oh, they’re just as mad as I heard, all of them. Madwomen and men serving the Crown. Dead gods, if they fought Ailendamus, no wonder the Kingdom of Glass and Glory never took our lands.
 
——
 
The frenzy lasted for ten minutes. Ten minutes was long enough for Haeight to take the entire Tomb Pack apart, and she was still hacking at crawling corpses when it finished and she stumbled.
Then she passed a hand over her face, gore-smeared, and cast around with a sigh. Then, and only then, did she seem like a normal woman again, clearly wondering how she was going to hack up all these bodies and burn them before nightfall.
Well, that was when the Guild of Havens approached, very respectfully, to offer Haeight help. They hacked up the zombies, putting down a few still twitching, as Goshawe spoke.
“Ah, Hunter Haeight. You have a way with blades I’ve scarcely seen. Are—are your companions as good as you?”
Haeight gave her a blank look, as if thinking this was flattery, before touching her hat.
“Ceinra and Filtresk? They’re not as high-level as I am, but they can do the job. No Swamplurkers will ambush them, and they’ll call in backup if they run into something worse.”
“I see, I see. Are you—a senior Veteran Hunter?”
“Me? No, I only became one last year. All my seniors are better than me.”
Haeight offered Goshawe a ghost of a smile, and Goshawe licked her lips.
“I was in Menorome when I reached Guildmistress last year. I think I remember you—“
That was a lie, she hadn’t associated with the Veteran Hunters, but they hung around the 2nd Floor at least.
“—Would I know your seniors?”
“Ah, Loshern, Pictirm, Visc were the three who I remember strongest when I was younger.”
Loshern? Wasn’t he the heaviest [Hunter] in the Guild? Was he better than Haeight? Goshawe began complimenting her axe work outright, but to her dismay, Haeight flushed.
“I had to resort to my Skill in the middle of them. Mithril axes—my gear does a lot of work. I’ve seen true mastery of arms, Guildmistress, and I’m far from it. I once saw a blademaster nearly bisect a Mothbear Ghoul in a single blow.”
Goshawe almost laughed at that.
“Cut a Mothbear in twain? From nose to tail? That’s…even a Gold-ranker with an enchanted blade couldn’t do that.”
But then another veteran of Havens blinked.
“I heard that story, but I thought it was a legend. Didn’t Huntsong, that famous group, do that?”
“No, sir. We didn’t. I led that team, and it was a half-Elf at the time—”
“Wait, you lead Huntsong?”
Then Haeight was the most popular and famous [Hunter] of all, and she was so flustered that Guildmistress Goshawe began to believe that the guild of Menorome hadn’t insulted her after all. In fact—by the time they got back from this hunt, Ceinra had reported in she’d crushed two Swamplurker groups, and Filtresk had killed one.
 
——
 
The Veteran Hunters were monsters. Risk-taking monsters who did solo what entire teams would balk at doing unprepared. Then again, seeing Haeight solo that zombie pack, Goshawe understood why they were so confident.
The Swamplurker packs were being erased so fast the Guild of Havens was scrambling to keep up—out of sheer embarrassment, if nothing else! They’d go with the Veteran Hunters to help with disposal of corpses or observe, and they reported Ceinra and Filtresk were less showy than Haeight, but no less efficient.
“Filtresk just blows them out of the water with Lightning Bolts, then he cuts them down on the riverbank. Ceinra? She hooks them on her wires and drags them in, Guildmistress! Huntress Haeight went in the waters twice after them! Even she said that was a bad idea, but she insisted on trying it.”
“Why?”
“To—to practice?”
Insane. But then Guildmistress Goshawe received an odd information request from Menorome. They were in contact all the time with [Message] spells, of course, but this wasn’t from the Guild.
Rather…it was from Ovela, routed through their Guildmaster and backed by the Earl’s seal, ratified by Menorome’s Guild. Goshawe blinked at the odd query. It simply asked whether Hunter Haeight had been using her Skills in pursuit of the undead she was suppressing.
Goshawe wrote back to report, yes, of course she had, detailing the one she’d seen. The response took a while to come back, and it simply read:
 
Inform Hunter Haeight she has a long way to go in order to make good on her promise.
 
When Goshawe showed Haeight the message, the huntress sighed, studied her boots, and appeared crestfallen.
“As I said, the zombie swarm should have been taken out without Skills. But we have limited healing potions due to the Eir Gel shortage, and I hate infected bites.”
She gave Guildmistress Goshawe an embarrassed look, and the Guildmistress just sat there, unable to reply.
 
——
 
The Veteran Hunters killed every single Waterlurk Ghoul marked in the region of Havens in a week. Then they killed every undead pack they could find. Then, they headed into bordering regions and murdered all the undead there that the regular Guilds needed help with.
At this point, Guildmistress Goshawe was in communication with the other Guildmasters, purely out of amazement for the situation. She had the time; the Guild of Havens was doubling up on training out of embarrassment for how they’d performed, and half the younger members had put in an application for Menorome’s Guild.
The other Guildmasters in the local regions knew more about the Veteran Hunters than Goshawe and were highly amused by her amazement, but even they weren’t…Veteran Hunters. They just knew the score about the tombs and had more experience with this kind of thing.
“I used to detest the lot of them, even if I knew their role. These days, they’re becoming the old legends they need to be. I saw one of the Veteran Hunters crushing a massive Tomb Pack. Two Draugr; I was about to evacuate every village in front of them when they came storming in. Blew the entire pack to pieces and then did much the same as Hunter Haeight.”
“Hunter Haeight. There’s a name I’ve heard before.”
Because the Guild of Havens sat smack in the middle of Noelictus, they could have multiple Guildmasters meet up, so three were having a drink in Goshawe’s office. She was pouring around a dark whiskey and glanced up.
“Is something noteworthy about her?”
“More than any Veteran Hunter? Perhaps. I’ve heard she’s a rising star in Menorome. She came from Fiskren, you know. The word is, she was Duchess Greina’s childhood friend.”
“The Duchess? Our Gold-rank adventurer?”
The Guildmaster of Lostrell tapped the side of his nose.
“The very same. She made Dedicated Hunter within two years of enlisting, then Veteran Hunter within a year of joining Menorome’s Guild! You know she formed Huntsong?”
“I know the stories, but they grow with each telling, surely.”
“Mm. Well, I heard that she also knows the Singer of Terandria. The Singer got her start in Menorome, you know. Huntress Haeight knows the Duchess Greina, the Singer—and the royal family herself, if I have my rumors straight. If there were a Hunter to get to know—it’s her.”
There were limits to how much of a wonderchild you could be. Goshawe expressed polite incredulity—then decided to take a quick ride to Hunter Haeight to check in on her work.
 
——
 
“Cara? I, uh—I do know her. Though I don’t have any tickets to her concerts. She tours too often, and I think she’s planning on leaving Terandria.”
Goshawe had an album-crystal of The Singer of Terandria in her office, hand-signed by Cara herself. Haeight grew highly embarrassed when the Hunters heard this and gave Goshawe an agonized look.
“It was over a year ago. She started in the Synphasia—it’s next to the Hunter’s Guild, so I met her. Er—when she was a Conscript Hunter.”
“She was a Conscript Hunter?”
Now, at this point, you’d normally get the entire story out of Haeight, but she had the powers of a madwoman and a deep-sea clam—in that she shut her lips and refused to actually spill the rest of the amazing beans. However, it was proof that the rumors were true.
Goshawe embarrassed herself a bit by asking Haeight for lore on Cara, but Haeight’s stay was coming to an end anyways. In fact, before her two Veteran Hunters were fully done with their culling of undead, Goshawe received orders from Menorome.
 
Hunter Haeight is to report back to the capital at once to attend the crown. 
 
No elaboration, no followup—Haeight grimaced when she got the news. Instead of being delighted, she muttered.
“Kadane. I could finish killing any more undead groups before I go, Guildmistress?”
Goshawe was so astounded she just stared at Haeight before assuring her all was beyond well. So Haeight set out, and Goshawe and the Guild of Havens asked the same question that was going through several groups in Noelictus:
Who was Huntress Haeight? There were higher-level [Hunters], more senior ones, but she seemed touched by the hand of fate in some way. What was her story? Perhaps more crucially, if this was all she’d done thus far—what might she do in the future?
It was a question a lot of people were asking, including Haeight herself. As the Veteran Hunter rode back for more guard duty with Princess Kadane, who wanted her ‘favorite’ [Hunter] to escort her while she was bored and restless, Haeight sat in her saddle and sighed.
She’d been slaying undead for the last two weeks in the region of Havens, and for the first time in her long and short career as a Hunter of Noelictus, she hated to admit it…
…But she was so bored.
 
——
 
 
 
Pre-Chapter Note: I’ve had this one in the back of my head for a while. This is where I started writing intros to bigger chapters I haven’t had time for. Seeing how I like them. Turns out I like all of them. At least, the ones which come out easy. Some I’ve been avoiding. I’ll put them on the poll nayways.
 
Mini-Chapter #4 — Lilliam
Manus, the City of War, had a lot of jobs in it. You could, in fact, argue that of all the Walled Cities, Manus was one of the most economically sound for anyone seeking employment. Not just because you could sign up and be given good training, equipment, and prospects as a [Soldier]. That was certainly true, and Manus’ [Soldiers] were arguably some of the most well-compensated in the world.
…But there were so many jobs related to the act of soldiering that if you wanted work, why, Manus was often the place to go.
Consider the facts. Which city gave you more opportunities for employment?
 
Pallass? You had two more species competing with you in a city that favored engineering and alchemy. It was certainly cosmopolitan, but that meant the influx of people could create a permanent labor force and thus a certain level of unemployment.
Oteslia? Same issue, in a sense. Their gardening focus meant that often, while you could get lots of jobs related to plants or animals, it was space that was at a premium. In fact, Oteslia often gave bonuses to anyone willing to work outside the city grazing animals or tending farms there.
Salazsar? The mines for you. It was just the mines, and even then, each company was rather cutthroat in fighting to pay you less and to increase their margins while acquiring the best talent. Lots of service jobs were available to work for the upper crust, but there were limits to how much even they wanted to mine.
Zeres? All the [Sailors] in the world meant all the nautical jobs in the world, but if you couldn’t tie a line, or the wrong weather was upon the City of Waves, finding work could be like locating a needle in a storm. Plus, again—the more connected a Walled City was, the more people competing for your work.
Fissival? Hah. Hahahaha! Heh…you and your 3rd Grade Passport—if you even had one, you foreigner—could line up and get jobs appropriate for your status. Now, if someone wanted low-skill labor, they’d surely find it, but, heh. No. Shoo. This was why Fissival had daily rations.
 
Now, think of Manus. The City of War bordered the Hivelands. It had the largest standing army; it trained officers in its academies and often sent its soldiers out to other cities. [Soldiers] needed everything. Armor, training, equipment of all sorts, healers, cooks, why, any number of [Teachers] could be found heading to Manus to educate officers in the academy.
Plus, Manus wanted you. They weren’t in a crossroads of trade, so, like Fissival, they were hungrier for workers. There was a saying in Manus: the City of War would take care of you from cradle to grave. And that was sometimes literally true.
Anyone who wanted work and could do an honest job would get training in a profession, whether it be mining or saddling horses in service of Manus. The City of War liked training and organizing everything. But they reserved their special treatment for—who else?—their [Soldiers].
