Her voice reserved more ire for Erin Solstice than the Hobgoblin, Ulvama. Quite odd, given how the Goblin King, Curulac, had decimated both Lucifen and Agelum.
“Is it annoyance, then, that drives the Lucifen to oust the [Slaves]?”
Eclizza wanted to know. Paxere seemed insulted.
“No! We’ve had two centuries to get used to noisome brats in the mansion. We’ve even been researching scale-growth spells for that small one! Our reasoning is sound, Eclizza. The little one weeps for her parents and requests to be sent home. It is her wish; it is the Agelum who refuse to grant it. If these other freed [Slaves] wish the same, who are we to refuse? Liberty of choice must be extended to all those who have not lost the right to it or it is not true freedom.”
That did surprise the [Knight]. Eclizza had thought it was purely annoyance that made the Lucifen change their opinions. She was going to ask more when a Sariant Lamb wearing a little bell dinged its way towards them with a bow on his head, mewling for affection.
When the Lucifen and Great Knight stared at it, the Sariant Lamb rolled over and played dead. The two didn’t fall for the trick and backed away from the lamb to find a place where they couldn’t be eavesdropped on. Though Eclizza did, reluctantly, leave an offering of chopped up bits of steak, gold, and some sweets from the capital at a ‘shrine’ for them, which was just a big feed bowl.
She didn’t like the nosy, inquisitive creatures who were too smart and less cute than they appeared. However—she had a debt to them, or one of them. She even found the statue of her savior, Ser Tubeliges, and put it back on the pedestal.
She hadn’t known how to swim when he’d dived in the pond to save her. No one, not even the Thirsting Veil Knights, knew about that particular incident.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri arrived like a literal thunderclap just past breakfast, scaring Anqua so badly she ran to her rooms and hid in the forts she’d built for herself. Eclizza strode outside and grabbed him by the ear.
“Ow! I was just coming to find—Eclizza! I am your Duke! Let go of—that really hurts—”
He harrumphed when she brought up the girl.
“Bah, she’s got to learn to deal with teleportation sounds someday. Don’t hit me.”
“She’s a freed [Slave] who escaped captivity and worse. Don’t you have any sympathy for—you did remove her class, didn’t you?”
He raised his hands before she could hit him.
“I did! I mean, not me, personally—Itorin did, and it was like stuffing ten cats in a tin can, trying to get him to do it without telling him exactly who they were. I’m doing much for this lot! The most out of anyone!”
The unconvinced look Eclizza gave him made him splutter.
“Who do you think deactivated all their slave brands and the other tracking spells on them! Once that child gets her scales back, she’ll be any other annoying Lizardchild. I would have cast [Restoration], but I’ve been using my mana on other tasks.”
“[Restoration]? You do know that spell.”
“Of course, what do you think, I’m like that idiot in Tenbault? But it’s damn hard reversing someone’s injuries sometimes, and children don’t benefit from high-tier magic—ow, ow, ow, my ear! Wait, it came off!”
 
——
 
They put his ear back on before she dragged him over to Anqua. But the little girl refused treatment, hiding her face and flinching away from his fingers.
“Told you. She refuses to be magicked. Very sensible too. That’s how they got her after her parents…I did offer it. You didn’t let me say that part.”
Rhisveri snarked at Eclizza as they went to talk to Uziel, because now Eclizza was invested in this argument. It transpired that the freed [Slaves] weren’t entirely idle; in Anqua’s case, she was receiving time with [Thought Healers] and lessons when she could manage them, but the older freed [Slaves] needed work.
Emira Isoquen had taken over doing finances and other managerial tasks for House Shoel; several others were training with the Agelum.
It was a familiar sight to Eclizza, but even those who had come to the mansion stopped to stare as what looked like an aged grandmother—very spry and wrinkle-less for her age, but white-haired and thin—dueled three of the freed [Slaves] with a cane as they came at her from all sides.
She balanced her wheelchair in a wheelie, deflecting sword strikes from both sides before knocking the attackers away, then let the wheelchair fall backwards to avoid a slash. She pushed herself off the ground, and the flying wheelchair pinned one of her attackers as she landed on them.
“Don’t overdo it, Manfie!”
Uziel shouted, but the Agelum just called back, not even panting.
“I feel like I did when I was forty, Uziel! I don’t know what it is, but I think I’m ready to take the fight to the Dawn Concordat!”
Rhisveri just rolled his eyes as Uziel grinned at her.
“What’s this about sending the freed [Slaves] off, Uziel?”
“Oh, we’re not doing it.”
The Agelum was adamant, but Rhisveri snapped at him.
“I heard the Lizardgirl wants to see her parents! If we get her back to Baleros, what’s the issue? Wait, you’re worried Roshal will take vengeance…right.”
He pinched the bridge of his nose.
“This is stupid, and I don’t have time for it. Get them to come here. We’ll have our agents find them, bring them over, one big happy Lizardfolk family. Make a fuss about it and promote immigration. That moves our timetables up from getting a coastal kingdom, but it’ll do.”
“No.”
This time, Rhisveri drew up with an actual snarl, but Lord Uziel’s eyes were focused back on the mansion. Eclizza glanced over and saw a shadow duck down; Anqua was watching the play outside.
“Why not?”
“Her parents sold her to Roshal. They do not deserve her. She may have forgiven them, or forgotten that fact, but I refuse. The Lucifen have their arguments—no one is going to be sent out of Ailendamus, Rhisveri. No one.”
The Wyrm turned to Eclizza with that expression of, ‘do you see what I have to deal with?’, which he so often wore. But it seemed simple enough to her.
“Lord Uziel has a point, Rhisveri.”
“The village was impoverished, then Roshal appeared! You’re too black-and-white, Uziel! I can follow the Lucifen’s arguments as well as you—but your lot never cares to. Alright, don’t turn me into a pillar of salt, that’s your problem. But some of them—”
“No.”
“The two—”
“No. Do you want to war with the Agelum, Rhisveri? You battled Lucifen once. Don’t push us.”
Eclizza knew the ominous, ringing tones in Uziel’s voice were a prelude to battle. She interposed herself between the two immortals as Rhisveri bristled; the Wyrm did not back down from a challenge.
“We are around children. Behave yourselves.”
Instantly, the two stopped glaring at each other as harshly, and Eclizza turned to Rhisveri.
“You’d force some of the freed slaves out?”
“He would.”
“That’s not fair, and you know it. I’m being practical. There’s offending Roshal, and this—”
“The Lucifen struck a pact.”
“I’m not saying kill them or dump them away! If we just escort them or gave them a clear shot at—”
“No.”
Dame Eclizza gave Rhisveri a troubled look.
“Rhisveri…”
“They’re Djinni, you feather-brained idiot! Djinni! What in the name of flying cats are we supposed to do with them?”
Rhisveri whisper-screamed at Uziel, and Eclizza stopped. Uziel wore the same, unfazed expression as before.
“Talk to them, Rhisveri Zessoprical. Haven’t you done that?”
 
——
 
One wore the guise of a half-Elf, the other a Dwarf. But neither one fit. Their eyes were too magical. They were too…different.
A black-skinned Dwarf grinned as he sat, whittling a piece of wood with a knife that flicked and danced across his hands so delicately that Eclizza almost believed he was that good—but her eyes showed her his true, magical body shaping the wood.
The half-Elf was a woman braiding and re-braiding a single, filthy knot of rope with little, rounded stones worked into the threads. Like him, she glowed with too much magic, and her true form was more than the half-Elven body.
Djinni were all magic. Their clothes were just pieces of magic shaped to look like fabric. These were the last two Djinni who’d survived the Winter Solstice, taken from Roshal’s ship—both had been given the task of filling The Naga’s Den’s sails and even pushing it and defending it from harm.
It was Rhisveri and the Lucifen’s opinion that they had to go. To the Demons, if nowhere else, where Djinni often fled.
Eclizza did see the point here. Djinni were so magical and so powerful they couldn’t be controlled or have their memories erased. Only the same binding spells that had enslaved them could force them to submit—and these two had lost their masters.
They were rogue Djinni, who could be powerful enough to wipe out entire cities. Hadn’t one of the ones the King of Destruction had freed done just that? Even Rhisveri treated them warily, though Eclizza felt like these weren’t the strongest of their kind.
However, Uziel just greeted them as warmly as Isoquen or Anqua and introduced them to her and Rhisveri.
“This is Isomentodrix, six hundred and some years old. The Dwarf is Hithneir’wevre, who thinks he’s been alive two thousand years. So, older than even we immortals, by and large!”
The Dwarf waved as he carved, and Eclizza grew alarmed. However, Rhisveri just growl-whispered to her.
“We can’t hide who we are from them. The older one remembers Agelum. And two thousand years isn’t that old.”
So said the Great Wyrm, who’d spent a thousand years underground before ever seeing the sun. The younger Djinni grinned as she swung herself up and bowed.
“Dame Knight, yer a sight for sore eyes. I heard tell you were dead, and here half the kingdom’s exploding over your return. I’d ask for an autograph—but I suppose we’d as best pretend we never met, eh?”
She had an accent and moved around in her body as if she were used to it; she was barefoot, and her fake clothing was of a [Sailor]. She even breathed in and out regularly.
The Dwarf did not. His clothing was embroidered with filigree on all the edges and rich, as if he were a nobleman himself or a powerful [Merchant]. He did not rise, but spoke.
“Have you decided what you will do with us, Uziel of Agelum?”
What an interesting pair. Even Eclizza had scarcely conversed with Djinni before, as they were largely confined to Chandrar. Uziel shook his head.
“I hope Duke Rhisveri and Dame Eclizza will hear your stories, if you are willing to tell them, friends.”
Isomentodrix drew in a ready breath, but Hithneir just held up a hand.
“Friends. Odd, to be called that. We are slaves. Freed, and twice as dangerous to your Kingdom of Glass and Glory. Even if I were not blind to that, friends? ‘Twas Agelum who once helped cage the mightiest of us, and Wyrms have ruled Chandrar before.”
His stare held no apology, just a kind of weary readiness. Eclizza saw Uziel’s smile slip, but it was Rhisveri who demonstrated the calm aplomb she knew he could exhibit when he cared to.
“Wyrms of the past are not the same as this Great Wyrm, Djinni Hithneir’wevre. As for Agelum, I have no doubt that some imprisoned Djinni, but I suspect just as many would have freed and fought beside them in the past. Are you trying to insult us?”
His tone was steady, and the Djinni lifted his hand again, palm up, when it had been palm out at first.
“Merely gauging whether we have traded one master for another under the guise of friendship or protection. If you shackle or kill us, do it outright.”
“Or put us in a lamp and give us to the [Innkeeper] and Hobgoblin. I’ll obey the two of them.”
The comment from the half-Elf Djinni drew such an expression of actual sparks from the Dwarf’s eyes that Eclizza almost reached for her sword. Rhisveri glanced at her.
“Interesting. It seems there’s a difference of opinions here. I’ll spare time to speak to you both, since Uziel’s so damn insistent. But first—if you’re two thousand years old, you surely remember something interesting. How do you find Ailendamus? Do you remember the recipe for Scaethen Bread? I swear I’ve heard someone talking about it recently.”
“Someone’s reinvented Scaethen Bread?”
The Dwarf Djinni sat up, and he and Rhisveri began doing what all immortals did—talk about the old days, which were, somehow, always better than now. It was Isomentodrix who beckoned Eclizza aside.
 
——
 
The Great Knight thought she could kill Isomentodrix in a fight. She’d need her armor and blades enchanted by Rhisveri, but she could do it. Nor did she feel bad about her warrior’s assessment—the half-Elf said the same things as she tucked her hands in her pockets, walking around the park that encircled House Shoel’s mansion.
“You can call me Isome. The rest of my name’s too much for all but Djinni to use. This Kingdom of Glass and Glory’s mighty, eh? I’ve met few mortals who could kill me in a fair fight. You look like you’d best me in an unfair one.”
“I’ve trained under Lord Uziel.”
“Oh, that one? Hithneir said his kind are better’n [Blademasters] at fighting. Sight to see, I’ll say. Story for the seas. Look, you needn’t pretend you like me, Dame Knight. The spicy ‘Duke’ who ain’t real doesn’t. He could crush the both of us. Just let him know I meant what I said. Stuff me in a bottle and give me to the [Innkeeper]. She’s alive, or so I’m told. Though the one on the television ain’t her.”
The Djinni’s eyes glittered as she leapt up on a railing and balanced there, effortlessly walking down the narrow ledge. As far as Eclizza could tell, she was actually doing it.
Because she was curious and too well-trained to give away her intentions, Eclizza nodded at her.
“You’re far more mobile than Hithneir is.”
“That’s because I was born to the chains. Hithneir had five decades of freedom before they collared him. Me—I like wearing the look. [Sailor], that’s who I’d have been if I wasn’t chained. Sometimes it even works a time, and they forget and treat me like one of their own. Never long. I like the feel of the deck, the singing of storms, the calm salt wind, and fish fresh-caught. I don’t get his yearning for freedom. ‘S best this way.”
“It seems an incredible thing to say.”
The half-Elf Djinni spun, grinning, and then her eyes were hollow pits, bleak and filled with magic.
“Well, I could be centuries more in chains, millennia if I’m lucky. I’d rather not weep for what I don’t miss, Dame Knight. Say, there aren’t any good stones around here, yay big?”
She still had that odd rope in her hands, and she made a gesture with her fingers a thumb’s length across.
