“But it’s my job. If she comes back, or someone of her caliber does, I’m the Named-rank who goes to fight her. I—it’s not cowardice, it’s me worrying I’m not coming back. The Slayer too. The New Lands? All these wars are heating up, and I just feel like there’s a hand on my shoulder. The reaper of the battlefield. The King of Destruction’s armies and Khelt and Seamwalkers—”
He was embarrassed to admit any of this, but it poured out. Beirhall stroked his chin, then glanced at the empty air. Zeter couldn’t see anything there, so it just looked like Beirhall was thinking, not reading any prompts that might be hovering there so only he could read them with his enchanted spectacles.
“Zeter, no one’s perfect. Named-rank? I knew you as a [Soldier], and you might be bigger and have five more blades, but you’re the same inside. We all get scared, but we do our duty and trust, trust that High Command isn’t going to throw our lives away. What, do you think we’d send you at a monster like Zeladona without backup?”
“No, General, of course—”
Zeter flushed, seeming slightly relieved, and Beirhall tapped his chest.
“I’m in High Command, Zeter. I went to your wedding! I’m not showing up on Lilliam’s doorstep and telling her I got you killed. Trust you’re going with the army on anything dangerous. Remember that. Now, it sounds like that clash with her is bothering you, so I’m giving you an order straight out: I want you to talk to someone about it. A [Thought Healer], your weapon instructors, someone. Got it?”
“Yessir, of course. It’s not a detriment—”
“None of that now. You think I haven’t needed to talk to someone? Lulv? Every [Soldier]’s stared death in the eye, and there’s no shame admitting it.”
Beirhall gave Zeter a firm grasp of the shoulder, looking him in the eye, and the Swordsman of Six again relaxed and seemed relieved. He assured Beirhall he would get some help, and Beirhall suggested they meet up like this regularly.
“As for kids—maybe give Lilliam a break on that one for now. Wait until an anniversary, eh? That’s the time to bring it up.”
He winked, and Zeter recalled Beirhall had grandchildren and gave him a salute.
“Of course, General. Makes sense. I nearly fumbled my first date with her, you know. I had to get all the coaching to even make sure I got the dinner date right.”
“We’re all fumble-footed in romance, Zeter. Not like we can plot a battle the same way as a romantic night out, eh?”
They laughed, and Zeter returned to practice, much-relieved. Beirhall waved him off, then sighed, pulled off his glasses, and spoke.
“Okay. How was that?”
He listened to the speaking stone in his earhole and grimaced.
“—Well, I’d better have more lines. And if you’re doing something about Lilliam, get that poor woman something nice. Zeter’s like a blade himself. Honest, straightforward—and he’ll cleave through your stomach on his way to the target. Ancestors damn it.”
That was his only thought about Lilliam before he shook his head and hurried off for more work. But it more or less seemed like Zeter was handled, with more supervision needed.
Lilliam, though…
 
——
 
Three nights later, Lilliam called the Watch at 2 AM. The report filed later by a [Lieutenant of the Watch] on-scene claimed no violence, only a disturbance of the peace…and property.
Zeter had apparently seen what he claimed might have been an assassin-type Silent Antinium and cleaved a hole through two walls and chased the intruder through the gardens of his mansion. No one had been hurt…but Lilliam insisted the Watch remain until dawn.
The addendum at the bottom also noted that Zeter had been informed Manus’ agents were investigating the claims, but that he had not been told it was likely a housecat that liked to beg for treats in the area.
Zeter was given a lower-level assignment to slay monsters that had been upgraded to a Gold-rank threat which would take him out of the city for a week.
Lilliam received a summons to meet with someone in Manus’ keep. A member of High Command. When she nervously stepped into the meeting room, she froze up, and the person sitting there tried to offer her a friendly smile.
“Dragonspeaker! Th-this is such an honor! Am I in the right room…?”
She half-turned, but Dragonspeaker Luciva, the head of Manus, merely stood and pulled out a chair. It wasn’t a formal interrogation or officer’s meeting; just a pair of more plush chairs. They’d had to drag them up from somewhere else for the occasion.
“Of course. I wanted to speak with you after last night. Would you like refreshments? Don’t stand on formality with me. We have met at any number of functions.”
“Yes, but—this is so unexpected. I, um, I’ll take a tea? Something soothing.”
Lilliam had not slept, clearly, and her eyes were bloodshot. Luciva shifted in her seat as Lilliam took a cup of tea and drank. She paused.
Luciva had no real ability to do smalltalk. After so long of leading Manus, she sort of—forgot it was something people liked to do. That wasted time, and her time was precious, so her attempt at smalltalk was this:
“Zeter’s left the city on one of his missions. What do you do on your time off?”
Lilliam stopped blowing on her tea and blinked.
“Me? Oh—I go on walks, attend circles with some of my friends, book clubs, I keep in shape, go shopping, ah—you know, just try to keep my two children from driving each other up the walls.”
“Ah, I see. Book clubs. We had a program like that in the keep a decade back, but they fell out of fashion.”
Luciva had no insight into anything else, from shopping to socialization outside of work. She paused and decided, evidently, that she had definitely done the preamble. She steepled her claws together and gave the nervous woman a direct gaze.
“I’ve reviewed your files, Lilliam. Be frank with me, please. How are you feeling with Zeter? Don’t think I don’t know what it’s like. I grew up in the same kind of household; my father was a [Brigadier-General]. And I’ve been in Zeter’s shoes, I have no doubt, with my spouse running to the Family Aid center. Well—as long as it lasted.”
She gave Lilliam a considerate smile, and the Drake fidgeted.
“I knew that, I think. It’s…fine, Dragonspeaker? I’d hate to trouble you with this. I know Zeter’s vital, so I’m just—making it work. Really. Last night scared me, but it wasn’t the first wall he’s destroyed, and it won’t be the last. Ancestors, the [Builders] who do the walls were already at the house this morning. I know all of them by name.”
Luciva chewed on some hardtack they served her. Lilliam made the mistake of trying to do the same and blinked—Luciva had a thing for trail rations. The Dragonspeaker murmured.
“That’s not a happy life. You’re sure the—eye incident was accidental? Because if he is violent, tell me, and we will ensure you’re protected and safe. My word on it.”
She put the hardtack down and stared at Lilliam, and the Drake woman hesitated. Luciva was one of the few people in the world who could make a promise to deal with a Named-rank adventurer, but Lilliam shook her head.
“It wasn’t intentional. I think he really didn’t notice. The fact that he didn’t is bad enough—! The worst it’s ever been has been him shaking me and forgetting I’m not him.”
“That’s still beyond the pale. Do you want—”
“Dragonspeaker, please. If you dress him down, he’ll just get upset and make it worse. If he thought you were shouting at him because I said something…”
Lilliam was agitated, and Luciva sat back, voice mild.
“I wouldn’t do that. We can be—adept, Lilliam. General Beirhall’s talking with Zeter.”
“I know. It’s helping a bit. Hopefully, he comes back from his adventures and calms down from the Zeladona thing. I think…whatever happened with the Goblin King triggered it again. He said he sensed Zeladona, but I think he was hallucinating.”
More drumming of claws. Luciva didn’t discount Zeter’s instincts, but she did know he had more troubles than his sterling reputation suggested.
“Do you have anyone to talk to besides the Family Aid center, Lilliam? Friends? Other significant others of adventurers?”
Lilliam shot Luciva a bleak smile.
“There’s only one married Named-rank in the city besides Zeter.”
“Adventurer Heidan and…”
Luciva paused, embarrassed, because she didn’t know, and Lilliam filled in the gap.
“Raana. She’s too young to talk to. She’s half my age and still starry-eyed. Plus, Heidan’s a [Mage]. It’s not the same, Dragonspeaker.”
“I see.”
Heidan the Fireball was a [Mage]. He had a particular spell he liked to use. Luciva tried again.
“Gold-rank adventurers…? What about our married [Generals], like Beirhall?”
“Not many people marry adventurers. And it’s a bit more military with Beirhall’s family? I love Wilna and all her cubs and hatchling grandchildren, but she’s all stiff upper lip, and I think Beirhall’s not—Zeter.”
Right. Luciva was frowning. She felt for Lilliam, she really did. She’d grown up and seen, well, what happened when someone in a relationship had levels that far exceeded that of the other. It could work, but all it took was the higher-level partner using that strength or authority on the other, and…even if Zeter wasn’t doing it intentionally, Lilliam seemed stressed beyond belief.
“Is there anyone—anyone, Lilliam—we can get who can help you with this? You’ve been married sixteen years. Is this relationship—working? Was it working, and if it’s failed, how can we get it back on track?”
The other Drake thought for a long time about this. She put her face in her hands, then glanced up. Her wine-colored scales smoothed as she massaged her cheeks.
“I…I think the magic wore off and duty replaced it close enough, Dragonspeaker. I know why Zeter matters. I know the City of War needs me to do my part. So don’t worry about my investment in this. I think—I want our children to get through school and then I’ll see. Zeter will be in his fifties or sixties then, anyways. Less in his prime, even for a Named-rank.”
She was planning on up to twenty more years? Dedication, but Lilliam wavered even saying that. Her eyes flicked, and she closed them.
“Was it ever better? Yes! When he was lower-level and he wasn’t fighting monsters.”
“His level’s risen according to the threats. We don’t overextend him—”
Lilliam opened her eyes grimly.
“They’re still more terrifying. He has nightmares about Wrymvr the Deathless, the Goblin Lords, and everything else he’s fought. He calls himself ‘a man with a sword fighting real monsters’. Wyverns are easy. He could chop them up all day and night, even a weyr, and not fear them. It’s not whether it was better when he was lower-level. Named-rank changes you. Was it ever better when he was Gold-rank…?”
Again, she thought, and then her head rose.
“…Yes. Yes, I know who made it better for a while. But it’s not going to solve your problems, Dragonspeaker.”
“Tell me. Unless they’re dead, we can get them here.”
Lilliam gave Luciva a faintly amused smile.
“Even you can’t command Saliss of Lights, Dragonspeaker. Do you remember when he had just come back from Chandrar from one of his apprenticeships and was touring the cities? Before the, uh, war incident?”
Luciva’s heart sank. Saliss of Lights had been a rising Gold-rank who every Walled City had regarded as Chaldion’s true heir. He’d been in the City of War quite often, perfecting his explosive craft. Then he’d gone to war against Manus for the first and only time he’d fought against a Walled City and showed them exactly what kind of Named-rank adventurer he was. The nakedness had started…just around that time?
“You socialized with him? He was hard to get ahold of, even when he was here.”
He’d avoided Luciva like the plague when he wasn’t pranking High Command. Lilliam shrugged.
“Saliss? He and Zeter weren’t the best of friends, but they were Named-ranks. They got along like water and oil, or water and that stuff that explodes when Saliss tosses it in. Sometimes, they fought nonstop, but Saliss could talk to Zeter and to me. I’d cook them dinner while Hethka was still running around underfoot, and they’d…talk. Like people, to each other. About things only Named-ranks get.”
“Like…?”
Luciva was fascinated, and Lilliam shot her an interested glance, and suddenly, the conversation reversed on the Dragonspeaker.
“Like what it felt like to be the strongest, most dangerous man in a room. Like being a weapon, Dragonspeaker. Or—or hating orders but following them for the good of the city! Having a commander who didn’t know what you could do or thought you could do more. Like being someone who couldn’t even pick up a flower without crushing it or thinking about how to turn it into an explosion. The same kind of conversations High Command has with each other—or doesn’t.”
That made Luciva uncomfortable. High-level people did have that disconnect, and she hadn’t had those exact conversations with the other members of High Command…but they tended to focus on Rafaema a lot. Rafaema…Luciva wished she had more peers than Cire or that damn Dragon in the north. Damn him. If only—she tried to focus on the conversation.
“So what changed?”
“Saliss left. And I think Zeter offended him—I don’t know. Maybe Saliss found out he was cheating on me—they had a huge fight. Neither one tried to actually kill the other, but it tore up the mansion.”
“They did?”
Luciva didn’t remember this report, then remembered to appear shocked, but Lilliam’s expression was cool.
“I’m sure you’ve read that in the report too.”
“I, ah—the cheating isn’t uncommon on Zeter’s side.”
Luciva really didn’t have much else to say in the Swordman of Six’s defense. Lilliam shrugged.
“Named-rank adventurers all have faults. Zeter’s one gift was always that he never, ever put his claws on me. I’ve heard stories. As for the cheating—I’m doing my part for Manus. I appreciate you remember that, and I get his gold. I don’t know what’s wrong with Saliss. Not exactly—”
Her eyes slid sideways, and Luciva wondered if Lilliam had the same insights Saliss’ reports did that painted a very clear picture. The Dragonspeaker saw the Drake fidget.
“He had a cousin at the time. Some other [Alchemist] who followed him around, Onieva. I think that was it. She and Zeter would hang out together more and more until they had a fight. Or he did something Saliss took him to task for.”
“Ah.”
Luciva’s honed ability to keep her face blank was working overtime. Lilliam nodded.
