Frozen blocks of ice made up absolutely massive structures. The entire city, Tirfriv, was one gigantic fortress. Apparently, everyone made the outer walls out of the ice blocks, and they just kept expanding the fortress when they needed space. Inside was where all the heating magic and warmer stuff was. It looked like some lopsided fortress, almost like someone had taken a regular fort, attached a massive boot-like section, and then a bunch of smaller bubbles of space over the years.
But the entire structure was still snow-covered, and the huge slabs of perma-frozen ice were visible. It seemed like an otherworldly fortress to Leon. He certainly wasn’t regretting asking to visit the coldest, northernmost Terandrian nation. Especially because, as he and Flynn descended, he got an eyeful of Cenidau’s newest feature. Or rather, an old feature turned new. Even if they had a problem with it—
The two Earthers were flying over probably a thousand women, a quarter of whom were wearing maid outfits despite the cold, practicing with weapons in the snow, or arguing. Only Cenidau’s people could wear anything less than full padded clothing in this weather; he heard you got [Lesser Frost Resistance] as practically your first Skill each time.
[Shield Maids]. Formerly, [Shieldmaidens]. A proud warrior class unique to Cenidau’s north—now drastically altered in Skills and capabilities. They were not happy.
“Wow, that’s something, right, Flynn?”
“Uh huh. Try not to stare so much, Leon? They’re watching us.”
Flynn was giving Leon a dubious look, as if he didn’t also have eyes. Leon tried not to openly leer. But it was hard; they had everyone from young women to women well into their sixties practicing in the snow. Flynn rolled his eyes and waved a hand as they flew overhead, and the [Shield Maids] pointed up at them.
Even in Terandria, which had lots of magic and riches, two flying guys wasn’t exactly a normal sight. That was why Leon was absolutely positive that he’d chosen right by abandoning the inn and Liscor and going to Wistram.
Absolutely. Otherwise, he’d have ended up like Kevin.
Dead. Damn. That was…well, damn, you know?
Why Kevin?
 
Notes from me:
This was supposed to be a caroline/cenidau combo chapter with maids but I forgot where Caroline was. Instead it must be leon.
[Skiier] earther.
Forgot the rest. Something something scramble to grab something something princess something
Am sick
 
 
Pre-Chapter Notes: This is the Caroline chapter. I’m coughing so bad right now. I long for death.
 
Mini-Chapter #8 — Heartslayi
No one respected [Romance Writers] in this or any other world. Caroline knew it; she’d dabbled in the field a bit back on Earth, had written her own AO3 fanfiction about certain stories, but she’d never tried to be a full-time writer. She had a sizable collection of unpublished stories, but she hadn’t had the guts to go into the big leagues.
Mind you, she’d had a fanfiction that had gotten over 400,000 views…but that had been under one of her pseudonyms. It wasn’t something Caroline told anyone. The only person in the world who knew was her best friend…and mother, because her mother had found Caroline’s fanfiction open one day and became an unironic fan before figuring out it was Caroline who was the author.
The point was, if Shadeward Doroumata’s theory was correct, every Earther had something notable about them that meant they’d been ‘chosen’ for this world. It wasn’t always huge. For instance, Saif, who’d been the guy with the airsoft gun, had been an airsoft champion in his country. Not exactly what Caroline would call super cool, but it was evidence.
Caroline having a popular fanfiction…might count. Which made you wonder, then, what the other Earthers had done that made them special. Doroumata had asked questions—Drowned Folk were big on questions and learning about you if you were part of ‘the crew’. So far, the evidence…sort of held?
Lamont was a legitimate deckhand. Someone who actually sailed on ships in this day and age. Drowned Folk hadn’t gotten how weird that was until Caroline explained it to them. Malia was majoring in child psychology in college, which didn’t sound that unusual, but she’d once had to deliver a baby when she was only thirteen for her aunt when they were stuck on a ferris wheel.
That was sort of important, right? Haley had won an equestrian competition. During his mandatory years of service in the South Korean military, Sang-min had made squad leader and earned a commendation from his commander for outstanding performance of some kind.
It just didn’t feel like anyone was amazing—except for probably Luan, who was an Olympian hopeful. But Caroline supposed there were plenty of Earthers who might have cooler backgrounds than the ones she’d met.
Well, the theory didn’t include Sidney yet, the traumatized 14-year old kid whose family had been eaten by horror-rats. But she was also too scared of most people to talk.
Ultimately, the point was that Caroline had gotten the class that she was good at: writing romance. She was meek, mild-mannered Caroline in person, wandering around the Drowned City of Nombernaught, but on the page, she was Heartslayi, published, best-selling author with books sold on every continent! She’d even gotten her stories into Tales of Adventure and Woe, the longest-running series in the world!
In a sense, you could say Caroline was the most important Earther rescued from Wistram. Not that she was going to say it. Just think it. Loudly.
Unfortunately, Shadeward Doroumata seemed to wish she’d gotten Elena, Trey, or another Earther, like Saif. Which was hurtful, because what were they, chopped liver? Sure, maybe Trey was actually some genius [Mastermind] who’d tricked even the Archmages of Wistram and was probably-definitely in a relationship with Gazi and that warrior-guy, Calac, but Caroline was famous!
She was Level 24 already, and she’d only begun publishing her works when she got to Wistram! Unfortunately, when the Shadeward had pressed her, Caroline had had to admit her Skills didn’t really involve ‘surviving in the New Lands of Izril’.
“I could write a great story about the adventures your people get up to. I have, uh, [Accurate Dialogue] and [Immersive Descriptions]! Oh, oh, and [Enthralling Sentence].”
Those were some of her best Skills. Half of Caroline’s Skills related to her writing ability. The other half were, sadly, all practical.
Writing in this world meant you were either using a laptop or doing it by hand, and Caroline hadn’t come to this world with a laptop. She’d been reluctant to use her smartphone, so quill and ink it was. Such a pain—but the Skills had really supported her.
“[Tireless Hand: Writing], [Relaxed Muscles], [Stainless Skin], [Autocorrect Grammar], [Subjective Spellcheck], and, uh, [Speed Scribing].”
Honestly, if she could get a laptop and printer or have someone invent a typewriter for her, Caroline wouldn’t have needed so many utility Skills. She wanted narrative-Skills. Some of them elevated her writing.
 
The umbral depths of the Antinium’s Hive echoed with the thrumming of a thousand feet, all beating in unison to the Antinium Queen’s will. The torch the silver warrioress carried shivered in the dead air, but she steeled herself, her spine fusing like a bar of mithril in response to her Adamantine will. Her beloved friend and teammate was down there, so Yvlon Byres set foot in the Grand Hive of the Antinium…
 
Just a sample of her new writing chops. It would have taken Caroline half an hour to do that on Earth—looking up umbral as a synonym for dark and brown for instance would have necessitated some googling, and she had no idea what an Antinium Hive actually looked like. But with her Skills? Voila! She’d put that out in five minutes.
Again, Shadeward Doroumata didn’t seem hugely impressed. But she was also a very, very old woman, and, uh, it might be she’d forgotten the point of romance novels these days.
“You enjoy writing these—passionate tales.”
The Shadeward remarked softly, enshrouded in her black veils, as her identical daughters stood around her, each one wielding the magic of the deeps and the light to pierce even the ocean’s abyss. Caroline hesitated and took back the writing sample.
“Um, well, yes. Shouldn’t I?”
“Much of your tales seem to have artistic license regarding the characters involved.”
“Well, yeah, it’s fanfiction. Or just fiction, I guess. I have a few, um, Skills there too.”
“Such as?”
Caroline went red.
“W-well, [Passionate Vision] and, uh, [Enthralling Imagination]—”
The Shadeward inclined her head slowly and lifted two aged fingers and beckoned; a cup of tea was held out, and she sipped from it before continuing.
“I see. Perhaps I seem unimpressed. I do recognize the value of your tales, Caroline Levine. Nombernaught hungers for stories, and if they amuse a ship’s crew or make gold, it is a valuable trade. It is simply that I am Shadeward, and your class and Skills do not help me safeguard Nombernaught, locate more Earthers, or bring your world’s wonders to mine.”
“Right, well—sorry I’m not Aaron. But I do appreciate you getting us out of Wistram! Once the seas settle down, do you think I could get a ride to Baleros? To my people there or maybe…maybe not Baleros. Maybe somewhere else?”
Once again, Shadeward Doroumata nodded.
“Once the seas calm and we have received fitting recompense for the blood spilled and effort spent to free your kin, we shall sail you wherever the waters reach. It is a bargain struck in salt and writ upon the hull, girl.”
Fair payment for fair treatment. Caroline supposed it was fair, given that the Drowned Folk had pissed Wistram off royally to rescue them. But what was fitting recompense? Some of the Earthers like Obi were sharing what they knew of Earth’s tech, but no one was an Aaron; it was Lamont who could talk to the Drowned Folk a lot about nautical improvements, but most of that apparently had to do with engines, which he didn’t know how to make.
Once again, it had to be Caroline who’d save the day. Because, obviously, she’d just have to make a lot of gold and that’d satisfy the Drowned Folk, right?
 
——
 
“I swear I’m going to toss her off the city’s railings if she doesn’t shut up about how important she is, Lamont.”
Haley muttered as she polished some armor with a cloth, oil, and metal wire, removing rust and buffing the piece to a fine sheen. The [Squire] was using a Skill—[Buff Armor]—to improve the gear temporarily.
It wasn’t much and wore off after a few days, but it made the armor fit better and take a few more blows, so she was helping do it for all the Drowned Folk scouting the New Lands. Lamont, who was pulling nasty spines out of some leather armor, shrugged.
“You’ve gotta admit, she’s the highest-level among us.”
“Barely.”
“She’s also rich.”
“Yeah, and she flaunts it! I know she’s being nice when she buys everyone snacks or gives us money to spend, but it’s like having an obnoxious rich aunt. Who writes porn-y fanfiction.”
“Hey, it’s not that bad.”
“It’s romance literature. It’s like having a ‘wine mom’ aunt who’s younger than I am.”
Haley grumped as she worked. Lamont said nothing as he pulled another spine out, nearly jabbing himself with it.
“Yeow. What hit the scouting group this time?”
“They said it was like a cactus but it shoots spines.”
“Lovely. Are you sure you want to go scouting?”
“Well, I’m not doing much good just polishing armor, am I? I’m a [Squire]. If I want to be a [Knight], I’ve got to do something actually important. I wish I’d never left Kaaz.”
Haley turned morose as she put the piece of polished armor aside. Lamont patted her on the shoulder.
“You were going to be one of the Thousand Lances, right?”
“Hah, don’t be stupid. They’re way too important for that. I was just going to be a [Squire] for a year or less if I was good—then they’d send me to a lesser [Knight] Order. Kaaz sort of trains [Squires] and [Pages] to be ready to be [Knights], but no one gets to be one of the Thousand Lances from that. If you were super lucky, one of them would mentor you, but you have to work up as an independent [Knight] or join another Order—then they recruit you once you’re Level 40. At least!”
“Whoa. That’s crazy. All of them are over Level 40?”
Lamont didn’t know much about Terandria, having spent his time at sea in this world. Haley frowned as she picked up another piece of gear.
“Maybe some are high Level 30. They have rankings. The top 100 definitely are all over Level 40. There’s a reason Kaaz is one of the Restful Three.”
“Right.”
Lamont pulled another needle out, and Haley shot him a sardonic expression.
“You have no idea who the Restful Three are.”
“C’mon, I know almost every port in the world. Dorace is teaching me what she thinks is important, though.”
Haley just shook her head, her blonde hair whirling in her ponytail.
“I can’t believe you and one of Doroumata’s daughters are seeing each other.”
“Why? She’s funny.”
He grew defensive, and Haley held up her hands.
“Nothing! I’m not like Caroline, and I don’t want to know details. It’s just—isn’t she a clone?”
“Her mom’s half-Starfish. She’s not exactly the same. Just…really close. Look, they’re all actually pretty different. They just act the same. Imagine if you had been raised differently. You’d be a different Haley. It’s like that.”
The [Squire] shook her head again. She hefted a sword next and balanced it on one finger by the hilt. Lamont eyed the trick, and Haley spun the sword around in her hand in an impressive movement. Someone squeaked, and she caught the sword.
“Sorry, Sidney! Did I scare you?”
They were in the Earthers’ personal quarters, a single home meant for a family, and Sidney hid behind the doorframe until Haley put the sword down. She came over shyly, and Haley smiled at her.
“What’ve you got there?”
“Washing. Me and Malia are doing it.”
Haley nodded.
“We’re just cleaning more gear. We can help out afterwards or go explore the city. Has, uh, Caroline come back from badgering Doroumata yet?”
Sidney shook her head. She hauled the clothing over to another room where Malia would have to scrub it with soap and water. A [Launderer] could do the task, but it was work, and since Sidney was young and largely unskilled, Doroumata had found work for her that she could handle while teaching her more light magic, which the child had an aptitude for.
