“Don’t call me that again, please, Palt. The problem is that we’re working full-time to do our lessons, the cooking, and cleaning and buying ingredients—you need more time to study, and I’d like help. Besides, I can’t keep coming up with Earth-style menu items forever, even with my Skills. We need more hands in Barehoof Kitchens, preferably high-level ones.”
It was the logical next step for a business. If she had more time, Imani was sure she’d come up with something actually unique and interesting. There were so many things magic could do.
For instance, there was a box Palt had whipped up for her whose entire purpose was to cast a mild desiccation spell on anything inside. It dehydrated bread into bread crumbs in minutes, and she wondered if she could do something interesting with vegetables—dry them up, grind them into a basis for vegetable-flavored noodles? That might help picky eaters. Or she could study how Rufelt did his magical drinks, which were very fun.
Palt chewed the idea over, muttering to himself.
“Hiring the wrong person can lead to all kinds of strife. Half the [Cooks] in this city would only stick around long enough to copy all our recipes before leaving.”
“Well then, we’re picky. But unless you can cast [Arcane Familiar] yet, I need some help, and you are still a [Mage], Palt. Unless you’ve given up to become a [Chef]?”
She knew he wasn’t levelling as fast as Montressa or Bezale, even with the new magic, because he was devoting so much time to help her. Palt pawed at the ground.
“I just don’t want to devote less time to cooking together—what if some handsome [Chef] comes along and you leave me?”
“Palt…”
She abandoned one of the bread bowls and came over. He hugged her, smoking on a cigar that spooled the smoke into a magical bag over his head rather than filling the kitchens. She patted his horse’s back.
“Palt, I’d never leave you for some random [Chef]. I will leave you if you keep insulting the inn and treating me like I’m glass. We can’t keep ignoring it, and Erin’s still my friend along with everyone in it. I’m visiting the inn today, and if you’d like to forbid me to go again—let’s have the discussion.”
She gave him a sweet smile as he hesitated. He’d been adamant all week that she avoid the inn after the destruction of the Goblin King and the latest round of disasters, whatever they’d been. But the inn was where they’d met, and if he’d forgotten that…
The Centaur hesitated, then hugged her tightly.
“I would never dream of telling my free-spirited love what to do! I’ll walk you there myself.”
“You’re a smart ass.”
She murmured, and he seemed offended.
“Hey!”
“What, you can call me a monkey-mare and I can’t call you an ass?”
“I thought you liked that one. You didn’t say—”
“Palt, you need to stick to one nickname and keep to it. Or I’ll start referring to you as my ‘magical mule’.”
 
——
 
Things were fine between Palt and Imani, it was just that she’d stopped being as clingy with him, and she thought his enamourment with Erin had left him. What was true was this: they were no longer part of The Wandering Inn.
Friends? In Imani’s case, certainly. They visited, but she just wasn’t one of the in-group, the people dodging Goblin Lords and able to tell you exactly why the High Passes had been shaking. It was safer this way, but sometimes…she missed the feeling of being somewhere important.
Then again, when she saw the broken front of the inn being patched up in the rain and how people were cleaning up with that shell-shocked air of those who were surprised they were still alive—Imani remembered why she’d left.
She wondered who’d died. A terrible, horrifying thing to think—but appropriate to this inn. To this world.
At first, it was hard to get anyone’s attention. There were a lot of new Humans in the inn, none of whom recognized her. One agreed to let Lyonette know Imani was here, but it took the [Chef] poking her head into the kitchen for Calescent to come out.
“Imani! You is a sight for sore eyes. Sit, sit. You want food? You have new recipes? No one hurt in Liscor, are they? How horseboy?”
She laughed.
“Calescent, I’m fine. I had breakfast—I was coming to ask how things were…here?”
She scrutinized his face, and it went blank a second, then he offered her a rueful smile.
“More holes in the inn. But no one…died. Actually—”
He hesitated, then glanced over his shoulder.
“—Oh. Miss Lyonette will want to talk to you. Not my secret, but is…good?”
He made that word as tentative as a feather’s footsteps. Imani frowned.
“Good? After the Goblin King went through? No one died? Not a one?”
“No…”
He sounded the word out carefully. Then he sighed.
“No one…anyone will miss. Is the happiest heart-death-tragedy in the inn ever.”
Well, that was utterly mysterious. The expression on his face told Imani she had definitely missed something important though, but Calescent’s meaningful glance around the common room said he couldn’t tell her more. He had to get back to cooking, so Imani rose.
“I’ll help you cook. We just served some pottage in Barehoof Kitchens.”
“Oh. I’m making ‘Glad We’re Alive Chili’. How your kitchen going?”
“Pretty good. We’re making enough money that I want more help in the kitchens. I’d steal you…but Lyonette would kill me.”
“Plus, I’m needed here.”
He grinned. Imani got to work, seeing him chopping up ingredients for his chili, which was actually loaded with lots of seafood. Scallops, some Rock Crab, and a whitefish—plus his patented spices. It tasted quite good, and Imani wished she could have a Calescent on her team.
“I’m thinking if we get help, we could keep the kitchens open all the time. Teach lessons and be a full-time restaurant. That kind of money…we could hire a full staff.”
“Hmm. Then what?”
Imani paused as she organized pieces of flatbread into a basket and Calescent put together a bowl and bread and slapped a little bell; a Human man came to the counter and took the plate, only looking slightly nervous as Calescent told him this one was fairly spicy. Imani checked the bubbling chili.
“Then…I suppose I’d have time to really figure out recipes on my own. And Palt’s learning magic.”
“Mm. Magic good. Then what? You have baby? Or you do more cooking?”
Goblins were very good at cutting to the root of problems. Imani stood there, staring into the stew.
“No babies. Not for…until I know if there’s a way back home. I hope Palt’s not thinking of that, Calescent. More cooking? I suppose we could open a second location. Let’s see. If I hit Level 40—that would be amazing.”
“You one of the best cooks in the region then. Then what?”
She stared at her hands.
“I don’t know. Making more money or opening more Barehoof Kitchens doesn’t sound appealing. What would you do if you were Level 40, Calescent? Or Level 50?”
He stirred some more spices into a pot, tasted it, then grimaced.
“Too hot. [Remove Spicing]. Me? Level 40 okay for this inn. Barely. Need to hit it soon. If I get to Level 50…”
He talked so casually about becoming one of the highest-level people on the continent. Calescent re-added the spices that had appeared in his claw to the pot, but more sparingly.
“Level 50, maybe I go back to Chieftain Rags’ tribe. After training replacement. Level 50…Level 50, I do something to feed poor Goblins going hungry. More Goblins who live is good. Whether I cook here or somewhere…”
He waved an airy hand.
“That good.”
There was something inspiring about Calescent’s calm confidence. Imani took a breath and felt instantly better.
“That’s right, Calescent. That’s—I’d like something like that. Something meaningful. For now, I want Barehoof Kitchens to run without me and Palt needing to do everything. To be a thing in Liscor.”
“It nice thing already. People talk about getting reservations all the time. Lyonette always say, ‘Calescent, why we not copy them more?’ And I say, ‘too many people for fancy stuff, also she have too many special recipes’.”
Imani ducked her head, smiling.
“We’re getting there. But I think we can do better. Thank you, Calescent.”
She hugged him as he grinned; Lyonette had appeared, and Imani went to talk to the [Princess].
 
——
 
The conversation with Lyonette was very civil and friendly, even. The [Princess] smiled when she saw Imani, but when the [Chef] asked about casualties…the smile vanished.
“No one’s dead.”
“No one? Not one person from the Goblin King?”
“Not in the inn, no.”
Lyonette’s blue eyes were level and distant, like someone who’d survived a Creler attack. Magnolia had introduced Imani to other survivors—the [Princess] was trapped somewhere else entirely.
The pleasant smile on Lyonette’s face never shifted. Imani nodded slowly.
“I’m glad, then.”
The [Princess] roused herself, then focused on Imani, and her eyes widened slightly.
“Yes…and there’s, ah, a few changes as well. There’s someone I’d like to introduce you to, Imani. But not now. It—might be difficult.”
“Tearful difficult, painful difficult, or agonizingly difficult?”
“Yes. Are you free this evening?”
Imani bit her lip.
“Possibly. I could bring Palt if it’s important. How urgent is it? I was planning on going to various kitchens in Liscor, Invrisil, and so on.”
“Oh, not very. And no need to bring Palt. I know he objects to the inn.”
Well, that was cryptic, and Imani didn’t necessarily know if she wanted to face heartbreaking tears today, so she left it at that. Mrsha poked her head out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] and ran over to say hello.
“Mrsha! Is Lyonette feeding you enough?”
The first thing Imani noticed was that the girl had lost a lot of weight. But one warning glance from Mrsha and Imani just brought something out of her bag of holding.
“I don’t have enough to share, so if you eat this, it’s all gone. Palt took the rest for his faction. We just transported a bunch of ingredients over—”
“Oh! What country this time?”
Lyonette was fascinated as Mrsha sniffed at the object Imani held. The [Chef] winked.
“Japan again. I’ve been trying to copy steamed buns and mochi products, and getting the consistency right is tough. I was thinking that baked goods like that would sell very well—again, if I can get some help making it! Here.”
Mrsha had already ripped the shiny box open, and she pulled out a long stick coated with…pink? She sniffed it, and Lyonette inspected the box.
“Pocky. What an odd treat. Strawberry chocolate? Eugh, that sounds rather—well, if you like it, go ahead, Mrsha.”
She nibbled one, and Imani was explaining to Lyonette about it when there was a shout.
“Fucking Pocky?”
Joseph leapt a table and slid over the floor; Mrsha hid her treats and only gave him one when he put his hands out. Imani laughed.
“Joseph! How have you been?”
“Alive, thanks. Mrsha, give me two—no, four of them. Two for me and two for…you’ve gotta, come on! How many boxes do you have, Imani? I’ll pay you their weight in gold, literally!”
He would have too, but Imani held up her hands.
“Sadly, Palt has the rest. I’m sorry, I’ll get some more next week! How are you and—Rose! There you are!”
She had come running too, and Imani was delighted to see Rose. She was far more rugged after her time with the Gnolls and had put on muscle, but there was something else odd about her—she seemed to have makeup on or something, because she looked well put-together today. However, she just fought over the Pocky sticks as Mrsha tried to fend off Nanette, Asgra, and everyone else who wanted one.
“We were just talking about you, Imani. Hey, Lyonette, has she met—”
“No, she hasn’t. Later, Joseph.”
He quieted down and gave Imani a significant look, but Rose burst out.
“This is so fucking good. Imani, you have the best Skills ever. We just heard from the last member of the team! You know?”
“…Leon?”
“Okay, the last member of the team we like. Galina! She wrote us from—get this—Pheislant! The Players of Celum just hit Terandria, and they’ve been so famous they were months in First Landing. In fact—where’s the recording?”
Joseph jogged to his rooms and came back with a scrying orb, or so Imani thought. But when he touched something on the base, it lit up and showed a familiar Drake speaking from a very realistic tower down to a kneeling man.
Jasi and Wesle! The scrying orb was a recording of Juliet and Romeo, and Imani blinked.
“That’s expensive magic. Palt says he can do it now with the Terras faction’s teachings, but you can’t just buy that anywhere!”
“I know, right? But Galina paid for it and a Courier to send the [Message]. Actually, she sent a lot of gold back. Two hundred gold coins for each of us.”
“Uh. What?”
Imani had to have heard that wrong. Joseph just flashed her a Merchant’s Guild scroll.
“She opened up an account at the Merchant’s Guild for all of us. You can draw from it there. She says the Players made so much money that all the main cast is richer than Gold-ranks. And she’s one of them, because, y’know, Earther. They took First Landing by storm, and the only reason they moved on was because they left a bunch of their lower-level [Actors] to establish a theatre there; now they’re performing for the King of Pheislant!”
“Amazing.”
Imani murmured, imagining how many days of work she’d have to put in to get two hundred gold pieces. Still, that was show business in any world. Joseph cleared his throat.
“If you have a moment, we’d like to show you something, Imani…”
“He’s in Esthelm.”
“Right. Fuck. Later, Imani?”
He? Imani frowned and wondered if they were talking about…Rhaldon? Again, the isolation from the inn bothered her, but everyone wore that strained smile as Mrsha tilted the crumbs of the Pocky box into her mouth. Lyonette didn’t even scold the Gnoll, and Imani promised she’d visit when she could.
She left—two hundred gold pieces richer—with a promise to come back and watch the Players’ recordings and to meet with someone that night if possible. Still, Imani had a sense of relief.
Of missing something that weighed on them all. She preferred her quieter life in Liscor to that. It was just—
A sense of rivalry, perhaps. She was happy in her life with less drama and more baking of bread, but Imani thought to herself—if Erin could make wondrous food, surely she could do something of her own now that things were so good.
Hence, the spider’s leg.
 
——
 
Okay, so here was the train of thought that led Imani to spider legs. She was thinking that one of the things she should do was invent or reinvent something fancy.
