“I keep—coughing!”
Her lungs were getting irritated from all the heavy breathing as they sat outside the inn under a magical shield. Teriarch clicked his tongue.
“And that’s why you probably avoid strenuous breathing. In and out, young lady. Like so.”
His breath actually made the rain move, and Alber’s own intake of breath was huge. They let it out in a controlled motion, and Zevara tried.
“—And this is going to help?”
“My dear, this is not just simply ‘help’, it is control. You activated your hereditary gift like one simply…waves a wand. Mastery is far, far deeper. The only Drake I’ve met recently with even a passing mastery was that Silver-rank fellow, Captain Keldrass, and he had only mastered, well, proper exhalation. Did no one ever teach you how to use your Dragonbreath?”
“I had two months of training as a girl!”
Zevara was indignant, and Teriarch blinked at her.
“No dedicated classes? No years of…you know what? I’m being charitable after this entire palace affair. Charitable. Are they that lax in Pallass? Sit up. We do this every evening, you know.”
“Really? I, uh—I’ve got more free time. You are a Dragon, aren’t you?”
Teriarch’s head snapped around.
“Who told you that? I deny it! Has someone been spreading rumors about me? Possibly! And you are?”
She introduced herself. Then they turned to Alber. He raised a hand.
“I punch people for a living. [Fistfighter]. I can fit eight hard-boiled eggs into my mouth at once.”
They sat there, and Zevara took in a deep breath, then another. She wondered if this was life. Sitting, breathing…it was better than nothing, which is what she had had, which made her feel rather embarrassed. Then Teriarch cast a spell as he took a huge breath, and a second ‘mouth’ appeared next to his face and spoke.
“So, where was I…? Ah, yes. I was speaking with the King of Pheislant yesterday, Alber, Zevara. Quite a decent chap. Very accommodating.”
Zevara almost exhaled flames, but she saw Alber nodding along, and she held her breath. Teriarch spoke breezily.
“Aha, I see that look. Decent. Decent, in a [King]? That’s an indictment, in fact. He was far too…indecisive. Timid would be too egregious, but I knew the old Kings of Pheislant, and some of them had stares that could light up a room. Literally! They had a bit of crossbreeding with the Drowned Folk and their Luminaries, though don’t tell anyone else that. Everyone likes to say they’re from the Hundred Heroes, but—heh—the Hundred Heroes got around. Direct bloodlines? Phshaw. Now, the last time I was in Pheislant, they had more of their lighthouses, but I suppose they lost them. The one I remember had a [Landbridge] spell wherever the light shone. So one moment you’re sailing in, armed to the teeth with your [Pirate] friends, the next you see a bunch of [Knights] riding at you over the waves and you’re turning, but your rudder’s embedded in soil—”
His words spilled over her like a flood, and Zevara caught Alber’s eye as she slowly turned blue and wondered how long she was supposed to hold her breath.
She supposed…
You had to start with a hobby somewhere. Though she definitely needed more hobbies than just this. She’d work on it.
 
 
Mini-Chapter #2 — Keeping Up Appearances With Seraphel
Baleros was hot. The jungle was buzzing. They had a mosquito problem, as in—the insects bit everyone. Only Seraphel’s magical circlet kept her safe, and she had a problem.
The heat. The humidity. The marching—she kept protesting she wanted to share the burden by marching with a pack, but no one would hear of it.
“Milady, you are a Princess of Calanfer! You do not walk. If you walked, the soldiers would lose heart!”
“I rather think they’d understand, Ser Thilowen. Wouldn’t it be a show of solidarity?”
The principal Thronebearer was somehow fastidious and kept his armor polished even in this mud and bug-infested hell they were marching through.
“Your mother would object, Your Highness. A [Princess] does not lower herself in any situation. She is the inspiration from which her subjects draw heart.”
So she rode until the third time a branch at head height slapped her in the face so hard her surprised scream made the entire convoy halt. It wasn’t the branch, by the way, that did it. Her tiara blocked that. It was being hit by a spider as large as her face which promptly began crawling all over her. Since it wasn’t a projectile, it just crawled with all its little babies until Rabbiteater slapped it.
—Onto her cheek. The dripping spider guts oozed down her face as Hundredlord Cortese fumbled for a handkerchief. Menrise fell off her own horse laughing.
That was when Seraphel screamed like a woman being stabbed, and her two undead bodyguards rushed forwards to try to pick the spiders off her with Beacle and Mariel, her [Handmaidens].
 
——
 
Thereafter, she walked. But Seraphel managed only a few miles before her feet cramped up, then she nearly overheated, and then she tripped and banged up her big toe on her right foot so much—
“You suck at living.”
Rabbiteater informed Seraphel as she sat in a wagon. Cortese slapped his shoulder. Badarrow punched his side. Ksmvr drank some water because he really didn’t care about this particular argument.
“Ser Solstice, I would appreciate some support!”
Seraphel tried not to sound plaintive, but Rabbiteater just rubbed at his helmet.
“I am trying. I like you. You’re brave, if stupid, and we’re all surviving here. But—how—you’re so bad at living. I want to say ‘surviving’, but walking is just living. How?”
Seraphel spluttered as Cortese and Menrise tried to explain that a [Princess] was not used to walking on rough terrain. Or walking far at all. Or being without refreshments and a silk bed for any length of time. Which just made her sound more spoiled as the two Goblins stared at her.
Badarrow and Rabbiteater exchanged a look, and Vofea, the Satyr woman, came to Seraphel’s defense.
“Ach, ye can’t blame her for having flaws, Rabbiteater! Everyone’s got weaknesses. You couldn’t survive five seconds in a royal court.”
“Could too if I stabbed everyone.”
Vofea wagged a finger at him.
“Everyone has blindspots. Like me! I forget to breathe sometimes. I get it.”
She threw an arm around Seraphel, and the [Princess] closed her eyes. Ksmvr opened his mandibles.
“We shall begin breathing lessons forthwith, Rookie Vofea.”
“Aw.”
 
——
 
“Can’t walk, can’t ride well, can’t fight…she doesn’t even eat good, Badarrow.”
Rabbiteater was complaining about Seraphel to his brother as the two Goblins walked ahead of the others. They were ostensibly Goblin Slayer and random Hobgoblin, but they made up for this incongruity in their relationship by punching each other every now and then. It sort of worked. Badarrow scratched at a bug bite.
“How can someone not eat good?”
“That’s what I said. She doesn’t eat enough food. She says she’s ‘not hungry’ after she eats tiny amounts, then she’s hungry. Weak.”
“Oh, like Snapjaw.”
“Uh. No. Exactly not like Snapjaw.”
“She very cute when she munching. I miss her.”
“Yeah, well—I wish she were here too. Only Cortese is good at fighting up close. At least Menrise is magic.”
They turned to Lady Menrise, who might be as bad at walking, eating, and everything else as Seraphel, but she was a lot more strident. She took risks. She was crazy—and she had just conjured a bubble spell that was shielding everyone for fifty paces from insects.
“Spellcaster. So nice.”
They slowed to join the group, and Rabbiteater stared at Seraphel. She was walking again, and she looked—unsteady.
“Your Highness, perhaps another turn on the wagon?”
“No, Beacle, I’m fine—I must keep up, apparently, to Ser Solstice’s standards. I have survived a siege, you know!”
“Yeah, yeah, in Noelictus. You always say that. Good job. She survived one siege.”
Badarrow nudged Rabbiteater, and Seraphel flushed. Someone interjected, fiercely.
“Three! Her Highness survived three, you big—oaf! Far worse than you can imagine, with undead and horrible soldiers of Ailendamus!”
That came from Mariel, who was distinctly braver than Beacle and more willing to shout at Ser Solstice. Cortese glowered.
“Solstice, you treat everyone by your standards, and if you weren’t so damn vital, you’d be flogged for speaking to Seraphel so! She’s a [Princess]! Does that mean nothing to your G—Izrilian mind?”
Rabbiteater gave Cortese a pointed look.
“I’m trying to get her to toughen up. How many sieges have you survived?”
“Sieges? Well—Kaaz hasn’t been to war. Battles, now, or monster fights—”
Badarrow nudged Rabbiteater and grinned.
“Weak. Never survived a single siege? That’s why he on her side.”
“Yep.”
“Solstice, I will duel you—”
Seraphel’s gasping grew louder at that moment, and she was so red-faced everyone turned. She tottered forwards, felt like she was going to faint, and pressed a hand to her midriff.
“Uh oh, she’s gonna vomit!”
Rabbiteater stepped behind Cortese, and nearly everyone stepped back as Beacle rushed forwards. But Vofea, blessed with her keen eyes of the fey, merely looped around back.
“Your Highness! Please lie down and I’ll—”
Vofea pulled something on Seraphel’s back before anyone could stop her, and Seraphel’s chest exploded at Rabbiteater.
He had never seen a body do that, and he screamed and attacked what he thought was her breasts expanding and then flying at him like a bat. He punched and then kicked at a brown, leathery…
“Corset?”
Menrise saw Beacle, Mariel, Dame Neranthei—and Strategist Veine—shielding Seraphel as Rabbiteater stopped stamping on the piece of undergarment meant to preserve a lady’s figure. The Goblin gave Seraphel a look of such bewildered astonishment even with his helmet on she had to laugh at him.
“What—what—what?”
 
——
 
Corsets. Makeup. Corrective metal in your mouth for your teeth—even an entire wooden ‘cage’ that was meant to support those really egregious ballroom dresses to maintain that round look. The world of a [Princess]’ mandatory duties in upkeeping their appearance was at war with, well, trekking in Baleros.
And it swung Rabbiteater back onto Seraphel’s side, mostly out of horror.
“Metal in your teeth?”
“Yes, it’s, ah, usually a secret. But it moves the teeth around—Calanfer’s royalty have all had it done.”
“Dead gods, I thought you all just had a Skill or excellent bloodlines. Your smile is perfect.”
Cortese himself was rather shaken by how far the royal family would go to appear picture-perfect. Indeed, Seraphel had to admit she’d erred in this morning’s clothing routine. Beacle had been so fussed—and they’d already had to leave some of her possessions behind—that she’d picked out a magical corset.
“It tightens down so much you can actually achieve an hourglass waist. It just makes breathing hard. I actually didn’t notice at first.”
Not with all the other problems like those roaches skittering over our feet at breakfast. There had been a nest. But it was a good lie, and Rabbiteater’s note of horror made Seraphel play into the idea a bit.
“You have to wear that all the time?”
“Not all the time, Ser Solstice, but surely you must admit, Seraphel takes more time with her appearance than you. Isn’t it true of women where you live?”
Menrise challenged him, and Rabbiteater reflexively shook his head.
“Nope. They don’t do that.”
The flat gaze that Seraphel, Menrise, and even Badarrow gave him made the Goblin hesitate and fall unusually silent. However, it was Revi, the Stitch-woman who came to his aid.
“Humans. Having to shape your teeth and waists like that sounds dreadful. Stitch-folk change our bodies all the time and you don’t see us focusing on beauty as much as you lot. Don’t go assuming every species does the same.”
The [Summoner] had been unusually quiet of late, visibly depressed, but she rallied enough for a snide remark. Before Menrise could engage with her, Rabbiteater slapped his knees hurriedly and changed the subject
“So your clothing sucks. No more corsets or you’ll pass out and die. You got pants?”
Thus far, Seraphel had been re-using her travel gear, which were riding dresses and, well…that was it. Seraphel hesitated.
“P-pants? I could never!”
She glanced towards Ser Thilowen, and Rabbiteater began poking at her riding dress.
“Looks real uncomfortable. Real uncomfortable. I bet it gets tangled up in the muck and stuff. Menrise is wearing pants.”
Seraphel glanced at the pants-traitor, and Menrise raised a hand.
“A leech crawled up my leg. Sorry, but I got some right after that.”
“I—I have my circlet. It’s not something a [Princess] should wear, Rabbiteater. I appreciate the concern, but I wouldn’t even know where to begin. I’ve never worn trousers. I don’t think I’ve even touched them in my entire life! Which isn’t odd. Surely?”
That was the wrong thing to say. Seraphel saw even Cortese and Menrise giving her somewhat pitying looks. Vofea leaned over to Ksmvr.
“I wore pants for the first time in thousands of years when I joined up with you, Ksmvr. Should I also be ashamed?”
“No, Rookie Vofea. We are adventurers and do not subscribe to regular dress codes. For instance, Captain Ceria has a bunch of magical dresses which may be impractical, but I would still vouchsafe she wear one as the effects are worth the inconvenience.”
“True.”
“Also, I am almost always mostly naked.”
Everyone turned to Ksmvr and remembered he was only wearing a loincloth, belt, and his magical cloak. The Antinium gave Rabbiteater a challenging look.
“Pants are stupid.”
“Says someone with an armored butt that bugs can’t bite.”
“Yes.”
 
——
 
When Seraphel du Marquin, 4th Princess of Calanfer, hesitantly walked across the ground in pants and some hiking shoes, every Calanferian stared at the odd sight. The Thronebearers were hard at work having conversations about how fine this was and how the [Princess] in such clothing was out of the ordinary, but necessary.
Honestly, Seraphel thought they were overdoing it. But she did strut along, marveling at how—well—
How damn awkward the pants were and how much they chafed against her legs! It felt far too constrictive, and she wondered why anyone liked it. But she wore such a delighted beaming smile that not even Ser Thilowen had the heart to object.
“She’s so depressing, sometimes. I never thought wearing pants could make me smile. Remember Princess Aielef and learning to use a sword?”
Menrise muttered to Cortese and Rabbiteater, and they nodded and then put smiles on their faces as Seraphel hurried over.
“Good job, Pants Princess.”
