Rabbiteater patted her on the shoulder, and she poked him through his armor, making him jump.
“Don’t call me that. I’m just—taking necessary steps to avoid slowing the party down.”
But she was so happy about this transgressive act. Until she had a thought.
“Does—um, Ser Rabbiteater, ah, um, Mister—Badarrow—does my younger sister wear pants?”
Despite everything, she half-expected the answer to be no. Rabbiteater and Badarrow regarded each other.
“I don’t think I’ve ever seen her wear a dress.”
Neither one was really prepared for how upset that made Seraphel. But then Rabbiteater, about to mock her, saw how her face fell. So…he stopped his snide comment and tried to listen. She was sort of like a Carn Wolf puppy, he’d decided. A Carn Wolf puppy someone had beaten with sticks half its life and hadn’t ever eaten meat.
It was really hard to actually be mean to her.
 
——
 
“So she walks around in a [Barmaid]’s outfit all the time? No Thronebearers, no…escort? How does she do her hair? Is it always like I saw, so simple? No styling whatsoever?”
“Um. She washes it. And she doesn’t wear a [Barmaid]’s outfit. More like an [Innkeeper]’s. Sometimes a skirt, but not a dress. Pants too, now and then.”
Seraphel tried to imagine some swarthy [Innkeeper]’s outfit on Lyonette, and her mind blanked.
“How’s her hair?”
“On her head. She dyed it brown for a bit.”
“No, what style?”
“…Long? Ah, but then she cut it here.”
He was the wrong person to ask about anything fashion-related, and Seraphel sagged. Rabbiteater hesitated and didn’t instantly needle her with a remark.
“Why do you care so much?”
It wasn’t the first time she’d asked him about her younger sister, and she’d had Dalimont’s reports, but Seraphel just shook her head.
“I told you what she was like in Calanfer. She’s so different. I wish I’d known this Lyonette. I wish I’d…gone with her. But I couldn’t, and it was—fine. For the best. I went to Noelictus and did a lot of changing there myself.”
He nodded.
“You miss her. I miss my brothers.”
“So you do understand. Though I don’t miss my brothers.”
The Hobgoblin tilted his head, as if this was so incomprehensible, to hate someone you called ‘brother’. But he was getting it. He had met her family, after all.
“Tell me about Noelictus, then. Are they fashionable?”
“Oh, yes, but not like this.”
She waved a hand at the verdant jungles overflowing with color. Seraphel closed her eyes, and she could still remember the grey skies, the monochrome landscape.
“Imagine…everything was drained of color. Black and white. Even the ground is like chalk; the bread is black, and everyone dresses so austerely, without a hint of other colors. Black and white, rather like [Butlers] and [Maids], you know? Not the dress, but the colors—”
“Sounds awful.”
“It is! Or so you think—the skies are always grey, and there’s so little sunlight. But after a while…even the smallest speck of color seems to fill everything up. And their capital city of Menorome glows like, like…”
Seraphel searched for words.
“…Like your [Innkeeper]’s flames. Just like that, Rabbiteater. A thousand glowing fires so that night feels like day. They embrace the darkness and dress sometimes fearsomely, like they are creatures of the night. They have this—what’s the word?—gothic style about them, from the [Hunters] to the common folk. It is beautiful, if completely at odds with Calanfer.”
“That sounds nice. I wish I’d visited.”
“—And you, Ser Solstice? What do your people dress like?”
He hesitated, and she knew he was trying to come up with a lie.
“Nothing fancy.”
“No, please tell me.”
She was walking with her only loyal Thronebearer present, Dame Neranthei, and Mariel and Beacle. No one who would betray him, of course. But Rabbiteater still didn’t know she knew his true nature. He hesitated, then shook his head roughly.
“We’re not as—pretty as your people. You’re better at dressing, like Menrise said. That’s all.”
She saw him hunch his shoulders, but refused to let it go.
“I don’t believe that. It might be unconventional to our tastes, but please tell me. Who’s to say who judges style?”
“We don’t have style. We’re too poor to have it.”
He snapped at her, and she fell silent and ducked her head. After a moment, Rabbiteater rolled his shoulders.
“…It’s not the clothing. It’s—paint.”
“Paint?”
Her head rose, and he murmured.
“That’s all we had. You mark yourself with paint when someone dies. When you kill someone in battle. When you take a wound. A mark for everything. Not all the same. Everyone wears it differently. Sometimes, it’s just there, but other times, it makes them look different. Redscar—a leader—he wore his beautifully.”
Beautifully. Seraphel had seldom heard any man, save for perhaps Lord Belchaus, described thusly. But Rabbiteater said it so naturally, and he tried to describe it, tracing markings over his arm.
“It sounds…fascinating.”
Many would have called it barbarous, but he described it like she had learned flower languages at court, a world of meanings distilled into simple shapes. The two were so engrossed in talking that they almost ran over a lone figure usually excluded from the rest of the group.
Admiral Dakelos, the hated Ailendamus [Admiral], was stumping along by himself, almost as miserable as Seraphel in his stained and muddy sea outfit. He seemed tired and unwell on the land; bug bites were all over his face and arms. Neither Goblin nor [Princess] had quite the heart to just walk away from him, so Seraphel called out.
“Admiral, what fashion does Ailendamus practice?”
He gave them a blank look.
“I have no idea, Your Highness. I don’t attend the royal court often enough, nor am I caught up with the culture on land. I’m often at sea.”
“Ah. Oh.”
—Like that, Admiral Dakelos sunk the conversation as effectively as every ship he captained. Seraphel searched for anything to say and realized she had connected with a Goblin on style. He seemed just as surprised to find a [Princess] understood Redfang markings.
After a moment, Rabbiteater ducked his head at Seraphel.
“…Sorry for making fun of you. If you’ve never even worn pants, I guess it really is hard to do the things I think are easy.”
The apology stung, but he meant it, so she inclined her head as Dakelos gave her a strange look; he hadn’t noticed the pants until now.
“Thank you, Rabbiteater. I wish I were as tough as…well, any of the other women I’ve known. Who all wore pants, come to that. Here I am, a weight on all of you. My younger sister would do better! Or Vernoue, even…”
Seraphel sagged as she felt useless once more, and Rabbiteater floundered.
“You’re tough. You survived a battle at sea.”
Dakelos nodded encouragement as Rabbiteater jabbed him with an elbow.
“No, no. They’d have been so much better.”
“Who are you talking about? Which women do you know who could survive all this? I didn’t think you had frien—”
This time, Dakelos elbowed Rabbiteater so hard his elbow crunched on the armor, and he winced. Seraphel missed that comment and spoke sadly.
“Events tore us apart. And some—well, if we’re talking about women, there was Elena, who was my helper before Beacle. And I had another [Handmaiden], not just Mariel—Thistle. You never met her. Oh—but if we mean friends, it was Cara, the Singer of Terandria. She could adapt to anything, I swear! Though she’d be as foul-mouthed as you, Ser Solstice.”
“Sounds like she’s fun.”
“She was! She’d have us marching double-time with a song and liven up everyone. Here’s me…what do I bring?”
“Two dead people?”
Rabbiteater glanced at the Skeletal Champion and Strategist Veine, who both glared at him. Seraphel sighed.
“That’s hardly…the other one was Huntress Haeight. She would have been even more well-suited to all this. She was a Hunter of Noelictus, you know.”
“I’ve seen a few of them. Very dour. They wear that dark leather armor and those odd hats, correct, Your Highness? And use crossbows?”
Dakelos grew interested in the conversation. Rabbiteater tried to remember if he’d seen them, and Seraphel nodded.
“All of them. They’re very efficient, very brave, and practical. They have no formal code of honor, and they, um, slay monsters and people very efficiently. Haeight was always talking about tripwires and bear traps and whatnot. I daresay the Thronebearers would have a conniption fighting with them.”
“That sounds great. Why didn’t you take her with us? We could get rid of Cortese for her.”
Seraphel covered her mouth and glanced over her shoulder, scandalized. Cortese was indeed not faring well in the jungle, for all his martial expertise.
“She might have done better. She’d show up covered in mud and guts and never breathe a word about it. I can just imagine her swaggering around with the two axes she wore. Like…”
Seraphel tried to imitate the cool and deadly way she imagined Haeight or another [Hunter] would walk. It was so funny that Rabbiteater had to bite his tongue to avoid laughing at her, and Dakelos inhaled his lips.
Then Seraphel sighed.
“—But I’m not one such. You saw how I couldn’t learn the sword, like Aielef. I can barely walk.”
She kicked at a stone in frustration and nearly fell over. Rabbiteater glanced at Seraphel, then sighed.
“Okay. You’ve got pants on, so that’s one step. Tighten your belt.”
“Excuse me?”
He pointed, and she uncertainly moved the belt buckle. Then Rabbiteater sighed again.
“Let’s jog.”
“What? Jog? Whatever for—”
“You keep complaining you can’t do this, can’t do that. You want to get in shape? We jog.”
“But it’s humid and buggy, and we’re exhausted from this march!”
“Yep. It’ll suck the first week, the first two weeks. Then you’ll get tougher. Like Haeight. Come on.”
So saying, he booted her in the behind, earning a shout of outrage from Mariel, and Seraphel squawked.
“Rabbiteater—!”
“If you don’t want to do it, stop complaining! Do you want to be fitter or just be weak?”
She—she didn’t know. Running in this heat when she was already unpleasantly grimy and hot? She hesitated and bit her lip. What would Ser Thilowen say? Or her mother?
Or—
“How in-shape is Lyonette?”
Rabbiteater paused, and then for the first time, he lied to Seraphel’s face.
“She’s in great shape. She can run a mile—two miles in six minutes. And she can lift a Gnoll over her head. She does it every day.”
“Dead gods. Truly?”
“Absolutely. Come on.”
He began jogging, and she stumbled after him; he realized she didn’t even know how to run. Exasperated, he slowed, but then he got her jogging—she was huffing and puffing within seconds, and he feared this would be a terrible task. But to his surprise, Dakelos joined them as well, running almost as badly as Seraphel.
“I have no landfeet—would you mind if I joined you? It’d keep me from running into the regular [Soldiers] who don’t care for me.”
That was how the trio of them began jogging at the fore of the group as [Soldiers] and citizens of Calanfer stared at the [Princess] huffing and gasping, Ser Solstice jogging next to her, exhorting her to keep going.
Red-faced, sweaty, dirty, and bug-bitten because she couldn’t keep the tiara from bouncing off her head and had to take it off—Seraphel du Marquin had never been more miserable and complained nonstop to Beacle when they could finally rest.
But when the [Handmaiden] announced she’d tell Ser Solstice off from doing this mad fool’s errand again, Seraphel objected.
“I can’t do that, Beacle! Imagine how it would make me look! Besides—it’s not worse than having to sit through an entire 4-hour long speech in public.”
It hurt, and it was unpleasant and unfun, but so long as she had Ser Solstice and Dakelos—or Menrise, running like a fish out of water with her—Seraphel enjoyed it. All of it, in this perverse and twisted way that made Beacle exchange a look with the ghostly Strategist Veine.
Only Seraphel’s personal servants had realized the truth of this mad, cracked-in-the-head [Princess]. Even Seraphel was in denial, but the truth was—if there was any person who enjoyed all Baleros was throwing at them, even the bugs and spiders to the face, it was Seraphel.
She was so insane, in fact, that Rabbiteater hadn’t realized that slight smile when she was gasping for air was genuine. When he did realize it was genuine, it weirded him out so much he lay in his bedroll all night long thinking about it.
 
 
 
 
Pre-Chapter Note: Even if you don’t follow the Singer of Terandria book series, the characters are still in the world. This failed chapter was an attempt to bring Haeight into the main story. I say ‘failed’ because I think it’s too exposition-y. It recaps a lot of what the Singer series without egregious spoilers for readers, but I don’t like it. Skip if you don’t want even hints of spoilers for the series…there’s a better one below. If it wasn’t clear, I wrote a bunch of these, especially when sick.
 
Mini-Chapter #3 — Haeight
A question arose in the gloomy Kingdom of Shade, Noelictus. If you had never been there, the chalk-white trees and the dark loam of the soil, the three hours of daylight sometimes, and the ever-rising undead made the kingdom…eerie to anyone who visited.
It was said to be one of the iconic Terandrian kingdoms, like Erribathe or the Eternal Throne of Calanfer; somewhere that touched the imagination and left visitors amazed. Or unsettled, if they ran into a zombie mouse gnawing on a toe in their sleep.
Thick walls, silent, even gloomy folk. Noelictan people were quiet and used to putting down the undead, who could rise within minutes of a corpse falling to the earth. Even children had the ability to kill minor undead birds or other animals; they’d stop working in the fields with people harvesting, planting food, and playing music, and a child would put a foot on an undead chicken’s neck and bash in the zombie’s brains until it was dead.
Horrific. No way to live, some said. Why, Noelictus didn’t even have [Knights]! It had [Hunters], who wore dark armor and used crossbows and traps, not the glorious men and women in metal.
[Hunters] put down the dead, monsters, and were famous abroad. Noelictus, because of all the death magic, provided massive amounts of food across Terandria; their black Ashwheat bread was a common sight in many markets. If Noelictus was allowed to exist, it was because it was a valuable resource of food and [Hunters]—and because no Terandrian kingdom who lived that long was helpless.
