Now, as any [Veteran] could tell you, reaching retirement was no sure thing. In Liscor, you generally didn’t quit their army unless you wanted to. There were discharges for wounds like losing your tail, but even if they let you quit, Relc and Menolit were considered aberrations. In the past, they’d offered veterans a way to retire by joining the Watch or other civilian jobs, but after the Antinium Hive? It was soldier for life. If you wanted to stay, they’d keep you around as long as you could walk and talk; in a [Strategist] or [Advisor] role if nothing else.
After forty years of service, Liscor would pay you a full pension for the rest of your life, but getting that pension…well, there were less than twenty pensioners in all of Liscor as of 24 A.F. Others got some money, but hardly enough to justify the time they’d spent if they quit early. Most Drake cities were like that.
Manus practiced much the same system, but theirs was far more advanced than ‘get to forty years’. Instead, they had a points system that measured both time and how ‘hot’ each engagement a [Soldier] was involved in was.
For instance, were you a [Vanguard] who was fighting front-rank up against other Walled Cities? You earned points a lot faster than, say, a [Backline Archer], who’d get to run off the moment a battle turned south, or someone who always did garrison duty.
If you were brave, loyal, and of course levelled, you’d reach pensioner status faster. Some could even hit it within a decade, though that meant you’d literally fought the King of Destruction or been going from punching Antinium in the mandibles to taking on the Goblin King’s armies.
Regardless, once the pension kicked in, it was there as long as you lived in a Manus-affiliated city. You could retire then, but it kept increasing with each ‘rank’. And the benefits?
No veteran in Manus had to worry about their family if they perished. Their children would enter school, which wasn’t as expansive as Oteslia’s, but helped prep them until they were ten, and any [Soldier] who fell in battle would know their family would be provided for. It was, of course, a self-serving system that Manus had created.
Treat the [Soldiers] like family and they’ll fight for us like family. They spent a huge amount of their income on these programs, incentivizing talent to come and stay.
In fact, if you were a Marked Commission (it was on your papers), you got all kinds of perks. Manus wanted you to be fighting for them if you were above Level 30, had a useful class, or were just considered a net asset. High Command would issue you luxuries, perks, and training in hopes you levelled up and became an asset on par with a Named-rank. Not just training, more vacations, or whatever you were imagining…
When they said the City of War took care of you—not many people knew exactly how deep that saying went.
 
——
 
There were six Family Aid centers in Manus spread out across the star-shaped city. One on each point of the star, and a final one in the center. Another thing no other Walled City had; this was a place where you could walk in and, well, get help.
It wasn’t an easy job, and even a new hire got more training than most of Manus’ jobs. The Drake working at the desk had a name-badge that said ‘Millton’. He was a [Bard].
Millton had ambitions to take his performances on the road, once he learned enough songs; he played in a tavern at night, and he wasn’t, uh—uh—popular. But if he learned enough, he’d get his feet under him. Maybe even make it to the Players of Celum or the Singer of Terandria and become a worldwide phenomenon.
…He needed money since being a Level 9 [Bard] wasn’t cutting it, and to his surprise, the jobs office had assigned him here. He’d thought it would be a terrible job that only a [Carer] or some stupid class would want, but to his surprise, the head [Manager]—this Drake called Wiltris—had explained that a Family Aid center did more than just taking care of kids.
Anyone who had a spouse in the army could walk in and get help—within various levels of reason. Did they have a busted pipe in their home? Family Aid would jump on that. Rat infestation? They’d take care of it. But even more than that—was their kid throwing fits? Getting bullied? They had [Healers] or people to talk to.
Even, Millton had realized, lessons for bored wives or husbands. He’d spent his first two weeks on the job giving music lessons and realized that a lot of people came in and used these Family Aid centers for, well, everything. It meant he’d stuck around for his third week on the job, and he was still a rookie, but if he only got those kinds of requests, he’d enjoy it.
…He hated when they came to him with the complex stuff, though. Millton had to sometimes adjudicate when a couple was fighting, or at least hear someone vent, and he didn’t want to do that. Of course, he referred them off to someone else as fast as he could, but the Drake wasn’t that good at his job, hence Wiltris hovering around his desk a lot.
Today, though, it was busy. Weekend—lots of families who needed help. Wiltris had taken a booth of his own, and Millton was bored.
“We don’t have any Song Crystals we can sell you, sir. I’m sorry.”
“Even for an anniversary gift? My girlfriend’s celebrating five years in the [Outriders]. C’mon, I thought you were supposed to help!”
The annoyed Drake was giving Millton a hard time. He had a card proving his girlfriend was in the army, but they weren’t a married couple, and Millton had a chart that quite clearly told him that buying a Song Crystal on discount was not what this guy was going to get.
“Sorry, sir. We have a list of things you could get her?”
He had a pamphlet, but the Drake scowled.
“Pass. Thanks for nothing.”
Millton smiled until the Drake huffed out of the center, and then he muttered.
“Ass.”
“Millton! You’re here to help, not make their days worse!”
Wiltris called from his booth as both finished their current people in line, and Millton groaned. He tried to put a smile on his face as he thought of tonight’s performance. He was going to do a riff on one of the Singer’s songs; he’d been practicing all week and put in a lot of Drake lyrics that made sense.
It was this song dedicated to the King of Avel, ‘The World’s Smallest Violin’, which was really fun, but Millton had rechristened it to ‘The Continent’s Tiniest Lute’ because he used a lute, and he had put in more topical references like the Antinium and whatnot.
He was so distracted he didn’t notice the next person walk in, a hood over her head, then stride up past everyone in line. She glanced around, but Wiltris was busy, so she slid into the booth.
“Hey, miss! There’s a line—”
When the Drake woman slid a laminated card over the table, Millton hesitated. She spoke, clearly agitated, as she tried to tug the hood off her neck-spines.
“I’m married to a Marked Commission. I’m pulling rank. I need some help. He—I don’t know you. Is Shaunii here?”
He tried to remember who that was, and Millton smiled fakely.
“Uh…oh, Shaunii! She’s out sick. She caught something bad when she was up north, visiting a cousin.”
“Damn. Well—you can help? You have to help.”
“Absolutely, Miss…”
Millton checked the card, and his eyebrows rose. He stole a glance at his cheat-sheet, which was on a placard facing him, and blinked.
Adamantium-grade? The five little stars, each one bright and shiny purple, told him that if there was a way to oblige this woman, he was supposed to do it. He checked her name against a list he had and saw she was on it.
“Lilliam. My husband’s been in a—in one of his moods all month. No, ever since the Trial of Blades! It’s gotten worse, and the [Counsellors] aren’t working, and I need help.”
Who…? Millton was scrambling for his notes on marital relations, groaning as he held it up under the table. He was trying to smile at her, remember his training, and figure out who she meant all at the same time.
“I’m sure any problems can be talked out, Miss Lilliam. If our [Counsellors] didn’t work, well, sometimes it’s like dating. Er—I know you’re married, but we can book you with another! How about later this week? And I could offer you a complimentary pass to any inn or tavern of your choice! In fact, I do a performance myself, and this would get you 90% off any—”
He was sensing an opportunity here to both shill his performance and resolve this—and Lilliam’s eyes flashed.
“What? I don’t need another counsellor! I told Shaunii, they’re not working. Complementary pass? You can shove it up your tail! I need help!”
“Please, miss, lower your voice.”
The booths had a minor silencing spell on them, but Millton was getting huffy. He glowered as he fiddled with his notes, dropped one, and Lilliam spoke.
“I need a calming tonic or—or—”
“Why don’t you sit down and talk out the matter with your partner, insert name h—Miss Lilliam? Have you discussed the issue with th—”
“I need help!”
She struck the little glass window between them so hard Millton dropped his papers. He fumbled them and was about to snap back when he realized he’d missed Rule #1 of his job training.
Which was: meet the client’s eyes and check their mental state. Which he’d taken as ‘smile at them’, and it proved why Millton really wasn’t the right Drake for this job. Especially not this job, because he hadn’t realized that under the hood Lilliam was wearing…
Millton’s eyes bugged out. He was a Drake with standard yellow scales, a bit spotty, but she had wine-red scales and was stunning. She was forty-some years old, but her clothing was a fashionable pink-silk dress of some kind, adorned with flowers. Imported from Drath via Zeres? She had a simple yellow shawl over her head, which didn’t work with the dress, but that was because she was trying to hide the black eye on her face.
“I, uh—I—”
He was scrambling for his papers and, by chance, picked up that list with her name on it again. Then Millton finally saw the name attached to hers and connected the dots.
 
Lilliam Flexspine — Zeter Flexspine, Named-rank Adventurer. ‘The Swordsman of Six’.
 
His jaw dropped as he realized she was married to one of Manus’ Named-rank adventurers. Millton’s expression went agog with fascination, interest—and at this moment, Wiltris almost threw him out of his chair.
“Millton! Take over my booth! You idiot—Miss Lilliam, I am entirely sorry.”
“But I—”
The [Bard] protested, then backed up at the glare he got from Wiltris and the senior members of the center, who had noticed Lilliam—and the black eye—about as fast as he had, despite him being the Drake in the booth. He was practically kicked off to manage Wiltris’ booth and sulked the rest of the day, especially because he was upbraided four times by different personnel for failing to do…everything in this case.
Also, everyone thought his copy of Cara’s song was hackneyed and trying too hard. Plus, it just didn’t work on a lute.
 
——
 
Lilliam Flexspine was not happy, especially because the first Drake who’d been here was an idiot. But the second one, Wiltris, seemed to at least ‘get’ the issue.
“I’m so sorry about that, Miss Lilliam—”
“Forget it. My husband—I need help with him. You do know who he is, don’t you?”
“Zeter Sixswords? We have your record right here, miss.”
Wiltris had a rather full file he was paging through, and Lilliam hoped he got it. His careful expression said he did.
“It’s Flexspine. That’s my mother’s name. He wants to change it—again. He only gets like—I’m sorry. Shaunii usually takes my case, but I was told she’s sick?”
At least Millton or whomever that was hadn’t lied. Wiltris nodded, wincing.
“Something nasty from a remote village. But this might be a good moment for me to jump in. I’m the [Manager] of District 6.”
“Oh. Oh! Pardon me, I thought I recognized…”
District 6 was the center of Manus, and as such, it had some of the most important clients. But Wiltris was usually managing behind the scenes. Lilliam knew a lot of the older staff. The Drake gave her an encouraging look.
“[Take a Relaxed Breath], Lilliam. Tell me what the issue is, please.”
She took a breath, and some of the tension drained out of her. Some—but not all. She felt like a fish in a pot that had been boiling a long time.
“—The same thing I’ve been writing in my reports for the last six, no, seven years? He’s not happy. I can’t solve it, and I don’t need more coupons or more—more—distractions. The Trial of Blades made it so much worse. He’s been out drinking every night he’s not on duty, or chopping up every training dummy we have. This is when he wanted to take our son out of school to give him more sword-training, and I said he needed to stay in class. I need a tonic that I can give him that will either knock him out or make him stop this, and if you give me more lower-tier tonics, I’m done. I’ve told Shaunii this, and you’re not listening.”
Her diatribe came out in a rush as always, but she meant it this time. Wiltris was taking notes as fast as his quill could move, and he was concerned.
Of course he was. She was the wife of a Named-rank adventurer, one of Manus’ greatest war-assets. Normally, when things were good, it meant all the perks you wanted. Any restaurant let you in at the door, no reservations, you were the cream of Manus’ society, you could get those stupid vouchers for entertainment—
—But what happened when the Named-rank adventurer got mad? It was a question people seldom thought to ask when they admired famous Named-rankers like Lehra Ruinstrider or Deniusth the Violinist. Lilliam knew more about adventuring than most Gold-ranks because she’d been married for over sixteen years to Zeter. They had two children, one boy and one girl, and she didn’t ever wonder why so few Named-Ranks had long-term relationships. Their personality defects aside—and they were all mad—it wasn’t safe.
“He…struck you?”
Wiltris was trying to get the facts, and Lilliam took a breath.
“No—or I’d have called the Watch.”
“Oh, so he didn’t?”
“He charged past me, and one of his swords hit me so hard I woke up on the ground! The stupid floating—”
Even the [Manager] blinked at her, and Lilliam almost punched the glass again. It sounded stupid. It sounded like a joke, but it wasn’t.
The Swordsman of Six had six enchanted blades that hovered behind him at all times. He could pick one up and use it while the other five attacked for him. It made him a terror on the battlefield, and each blade was, well, a magic blade. Zeter was huge, having trained his muscles with an already formidable physique.
