“There’s a pond where I nearly drowned once. It has skipping stones there. The Agelum love to find the best ones. This way.”
“You nearly drowned?”
“I think I was pushed. But I was saved either way. By a Sariant Lamb.”
Isome got the story out of Eclizza as they walked, and her laughter sounded real and carefree. But all too soon she was haggling. Haggling, Eclizza realized, for the terms of her captivity.
“There’s no chance you let us free. But if you put Hithneir in a vault, I think he’ll take to being a war asset better’n serving. Given the chance, he’d go with me.”
“Why do you want to serve the [Innkeeper]?”
The Djinni gave Eclizza a blank look as she hunted around in the muck for stones, picking and choosing them and skipping the ones she didn’t care for. She wanted the best one, it seemed, but Eclizza couldn’t tell what her criteria was.
“She slew my masters, of course, and tweaked the noses of Roshal’s [Slavers]. For that, I’ll always love her, burning her chains off herself. For the delight of someone who’d fight and die for a Goblin? That’s interesting. She might use me better than most, and maybe…”
Maybe she’ll let you go when she dies? Or before that? Isome gave Eclizza a weak smile.
“Can’t hurt if I dream, eh? ‘Sides, after they treated her so, I doubt she’ll make me entertain the ship’s crew.”
Ah, there it was. Eclizza had felt too peaceful in House Shoel, with the gentleness of the Agelum here. She felt the black feeling in her chest, and it leaked from her teeth. Venom…she didn’t spit, but swallowed and spoke.
“You don’t have any rage towards your captors?”
This time, the Djinni avoided her gaze and skipped another stone over the water.
“Rage? Too much fear. Hithneir might join those Demons, but I’d hide. I’ll run. I only fear what’ll happen if they catch me again. They make examples of Djinni who escape. Say, do you want to see my possession?”
Another odd statement. Eclizza thought that Isome meant she’d possess something until she realized the improper-sounding grammar was accurate.
Isome showed her the only possession she owned in all the world. A piece of rope with stones tied carefully into each link.
 
AND NOW I AM DONE
It’s 6k+. I think I’ll make this either a half-chapter or one that’s fuller but I’ll have to ask people to vote for it.
Let me know how that went but I need to eat food and rest!
 
 
 
Dame Chorisa, Lacres, Indella, and Aine
Uziel
Lizardgirl ??? — Scarred badly across face.
Emira Isoquen
Marika — [Shepherd], Deceased
Djinni X2
The cord of rocks—a djinni’s possession. The list.
 
 
Post-Chapter Notes:
See all that nonsense above? That’s what I wrote on stream. The stuff below is also notes for characters in the story. I have more but I’m leaving it in because this is raw, unfiltered. Like poop stains on the play in Shakespeare’s time. I dunno.
 
Bear in mind, this is meant to be an uplifting chapter. As uplifting as chapters about this material get? I might be bad at happy stories.
 
 
 
 
Pre-Chapter Note:
This is when I started getting sick. Not sure if you can tell.
 
 
Mini-Chapter #6 — Imani
There was a reason why she was sitting in a kitchen, eating spider legs. Only, when Imani thought about the situation like that, her reasons still seemed to, uh, suck.
Imani Okpara, age 20, birthday February 22nd, from Nigeria, Kano, transported to this world in 2017 with sixteen others. Lone survivor. Now, [Otherworld Chef], Level 36.
She wasn’t quite sure she was twenty years old, actually. She might be closer to twenty-one years, given how much longer the years were and how time seemed to be…wrong. It was 2025 on Earth, and she was gravely concerned that either she was aging slower or perhaps this world was passing slower in time compared to her world.
A terrifying thought. Imani wasn’t a mathematician or someone who could speculate as to what was happening, but she knew that other Earthers like Rhaldon claimed to be from later years, and she had other pieces of evidence to support a theory that Earth was experiencing a…faster time-flow than this world.
Palt had asked his Ullsinoi faction, the intelligent [Illusionists], about it, and they had described a theory that made sense to Imani: imagine there were two rivers and both flowed at different speeds. Each world was a leaf sailboat floating down the streams; the rivers flowed at their own speeds, but something, a gate or spell, had linked the two. So now they flowed in parallel, but still at their own speeds.
Hither to this moment, thousands of years might have passed in each world in the blink of an eye. However, now they would be linked forevermore—but one did not change the flow of time itself. Unless, of course…the bridge were to become more cohesive. Stronger. Then, perhaps, the illusionists had speculated, time would become a 1:1 as the two realities became a whole, like two dyes of red and blue became purple. The only question was what that would mean.
Would magic flow to Earth’s world and create a second world of magic, divide itself between the two, or be only feasible in one world? The implications of each scenario were important to consider…because the Ullsinoi wanted to know what would happen if they managed to open the gate or portal or reverse-engineer how the Earthers were getting here.
“Obviously, we’re not planning or hoping for a war, my hoofless filly. It’s more preventative. You have your world wars, we have ours—if people were talking or knew what levers to pull to avoid that when we made first contact—or second contact, I guess, since you’re already first—that would be good.”
“Oh, mind-control spells on heads of state?”
Imani had teased Palt, and the Centaur, her boyfriend and co-owner of Barehoof Kitchens, the restaurant/kitchen they operated, had hesitated for a long moment.
“That’s not the first option that Galei was talking about. But, uh, if the opposition doesn’t have good magical protections and they’re going to hit us with one of those Tier 9 nukes…they’re not even sure what happens if a ‘door’ opens, so don’t worry about it.”
He’d given her a smile, and she’d tried to reply with sincere trust, but she didn’t know his faction. Imani rather suspected the Ullsinoi were a bit like clever rats. Helpful, highly intelligent, practical—but also rats. Her only consolation was that Palt was one of them, and as he was rising in their weird hierarchy, she had some input into how things were going.
 
——
 
“Why are you rising in the Ullsinoi faction, Palt? It’s not like I see you casting better magic. And you haven’t been doing more than running Barehoof Kitchens with me.”
Imani asked about it as they made bread in the morning. They had a routine. They had a life in Liscor.
Each morning, she’d roll out of the low, practically floor-level bed—which was the size of two king-sized mattresses on the 2nd floor of their modest house—and walk down the long, long ramp that connected the 2nd floor to the first. Normally, a set of stairs would suffice, but Palt had contracted Antinium to build the huge and wide ramp so he could access the 2nd floor; he’d risk tripping and breaking a leg without one.
Normally, Centaurs loved ranch-style homes with one floor for that reason, but in Liscor, that kind of space was beyond any reasonable budget. And they’d already paid a pretty penny for this home. The interior was wood, another huge luxury; Imani hadn’t known how wealthy Palt was until he’d sprung for it. The outside was a cobblestone facade that only became wood on the last third. From the outside, you could be forgiven for thinking this was a warehouse, because it had been until they’d bought it.
Even so, the ‘house’ section was small, and Imani would make tea for herself and Palt until she heard him clomping about upstairs. Then they’d have tea and make bread—and breakfast—in the gigantic kitchens while they discussed business for the day.
The kitchens were as close to modern as Imani could imagine—better in some ways. There were a few counters of stainless steel, but because it was so expensive, they had lacquered marble or hardwood instead, even a counter with special inlaid jade and other minerals.
Ordinarily, given the rough treatment of any surface, you’d want steel. On Earth that made sense, but Palt had personally enchanted everything to be tough as steel and with all kinds of features. So instead of traditional stoves or ovens, Imani just used magic.
There were wood-fed stoves, but she seldom bothered with that when she could use a heating rune or a magical stove instead. Similarly, a lot of tools she had were magic.
Goodbye electric beater, hello Stirring Spoon—which would do a rotation in a bowl until you wanted it to stop. A bit slower, but you didn’t have to hold it in place! No more refrigerators, welcome Runes of Preservation!
The kitchens had several sets of doors that led to the dining area of Barehoof Kitchens, and thus the entire building was both home and workplace.
Palt had rougher mornings, so he was drinking tea and staring out a window. He squinted as he replied to Imani’s question.
“Wurgb?”
“I said, why are you rising in Ullsinoi’s ranks when your magic isn’t improving, Palt?”
She nudged him fairly hard with an elbow. Centaurs were big and pretty tough; she didn’t even come up to his shoulder, and he outweighed her by hundreds of pounds. Even so, they could injure themselves as easily as horses. They were like highly-tuned cars, to use another Earth analogy. One broken leg and that was it.
“That’s hurtful, dearhoof. I study the latest spells from Archmage Eldavin all the time!”
She rolled her eye.
“Answer the question.”
Palt shifted his hooves evasively, but she’d known him long enough to pin him down for an answer if she wanted one. He muttered.
“Well, partly it’s because we are sending recipes to Ullsinoi. And your Earth-insights. Nothing like a willing source of information since most of them escaped. Plus, I’m highly placed! With the…inn…and Valeterisa.”
“So you’re being promoted because you’re sleeping with an Earther and because you’re in the right place?”
“My sweet monkey-mare, that makes it sound like I just got lucky!”
Imani folded her arms. She gave him a direct look with her one eye. Her other was covered by a white eyepatch with floral designs on it. It had been shot out by one of Roshal’s [Assassins] last winter. She still got surprised when she saw herself in the mirror, sometimes, but she was growing used to it.
“You did.”
“I, er, of course I did! Meeting such a lovely blossom as you. I just mean—what about my contributions? Let’s count them off.”
“Okay, you came here to kidnap Pisces—”
“Which I realized I was very wrong about! Then I fought at the Bloodfields and lost Isceil…and then, uh…”
He faltered, and Imani gestured at herself.
“You got into a relationship with me. It’s my Skills, isn’t it? You’ve been teleporting some of the Earth-goods we get to Wistram or another Mage’s Guild.”
“No…what about my sterling work representing the Ullsinoi faction with that [Innkeeper]?”
“Erin. That was her being amazing and you putting Ullsinoi’s name on it, Palt. Are you…bribing your master with our candy? Is your promotion due to—Tim Tams?”
He hesitated, pawing the ground in a way that signalled to her he was upset. He didn’t like talking about Erin these days, or The Wandering Inn. He blamed them for her missing eye, which might be fair. It probably was fair on some levels, even if Roshal had fired the shot, but Imani felt, as the one-eyed [Chef], she was allowed to blame whomever she wanted.
And she blamed only the gun and Roshal, not Erin. It was one of the things they had been divided on, and Palt avoided bringing it up.
“I won’t deny some of your world’s goods play well with my faction. They’re good as treats for other [Mages] or for just the information labels. Very useful information, that. We, ah, we wouldn’t happen to have more of the candy, would we?”
“Most of what I ask for isn’t candy, Palt. It’s a waste of my Skill.”
Which she could only use once a week. Palt trotted after her, clasping his hands together.
“Of course, of course! But if we could consider a few—”
So there it was. Her magical boyfriend was being promoted because of candy. Imani rolled her eye as she checked on some bread rising in a magical oven.
 
——
 
Barehoof Kitchens wasn’t a full-time restaurant; they had specific meals at specific dates in the week and rotated as they pleased; they had a schedule, and you had to have reservations to get in. They were exclusive, which meant expensive, and their income came half from their actual guests and half from the lessons Imani and Palt would give—to other [Chefs].
It was something that Imani had observed when she’d come to Erin’s inn and heard tales of how Erin had spread burgers around or her woes with ice cream. Yes, if you were an Earther, you could come out with a lot of recipes or ideas that were new and exciting, but everyone copied you instantly. It was better to teach people how to do things and earn your money that way.
The trouble with that, of course, was that you had to know enough to teach it, and Imani rather suspected Erin, and by extension, most Earthers, weren’t that good at cooking. Imani was. She’d fed herself and her roommates as well as her family growing up, and while she’d actually been majoring in administration before she’d been abducted—teaching a bunch of [Cooks] new techniques and running Barehoof Kitchens was right in that skillset. Their co-owned business was doing quite well, actually. It was making a lot of money, so that day, Imani brought something up with Palt that had been on her mind.
“We need to hire apprentices. Or other workers.”
She was pulling out loaves of bread and ruthlessly hollowing them out; the bread crumbs went in a separate bowl, and she was preparing a pottage to fill the bread bowls with. Nothing Earth-unique; just good, solid cooking with more hints of her homeland’s cuisine.
Izril had always struck her as more European, so Imani producing fufu or knowing how to work cassava and maize into her dishes made her cooking more interesting. Plus, she was high-level. Palt frowned at her as he tasted the pottage.
“What’s wrong with the two of us working together, my…prancing pony?”
