Stopping short of the front lines, Sarnai raised her spear high and sent it soaring off into the heavens. Despite disappearing from sight in an instant, she knew exactly how far away the spear was at any given moment, and how long it would take to return, but she couldn’t just stand around twiddling her thumbs with nothing to do. Under no delusions as to her personal strength, she ranked herself well under the stand out talents like her husband or Ghurda, and even Binesi and Shi Yukun were beyond her, so if two of the famed fifty couldn’t defeat the Bear Demon, then her presence would only get in the way of their practised coordination. Instead, she joined hands with her old friends, Yaruq and Naaran. Leaping into battle with Deadly Thorns upon her fingertips, she delivered a spray of Honed Chi shards into the closest group of Defiled, each perfectly aimed to kill a single target. There was no room for waste or needless action, for one single misstep could spell death to them all, so she supported Yaruq in clearing the field of useless chaff so the Peak Experts had more room to maneuvers.

Her nine-section staff warbling as it whirled about in a deadly ring of death, the half-gazelle was a formidable Warrior still in the prime of her life despite being older than Sarnai by an entire decade. Cutting a heroic figure amidst the sprays of blood, Yaruq whipped her weapon about in hypnotic, dizzying patterns faster than the eye could follow, with Demons and Peak Experts alike blown aside whenever she passed nearby. Running interference for them both, Naaran’s features took on a macabre cast as he leapt off Kharuul’s back and plunged his spear straight through a massive Demon, his amber eyes lit up with glee as a grim smile made its way across his face. Instead of stopping on impact, he flipped himself over his target as if pole-vaulting over a tree, his spear cleaving the Demon in twain and driving the creature’s shattered innards through use of Deflection and Reverberation. Though Naaran was careful not to negatively impact his allies, Kharuul was not so considerate, crashing into the thick of things with an eerily similar expression of glee. Locking his gargantuan jaws around a feline Demon, the oversized quin crunched down and tore its head clean off in a spray of yellow-green goop, the Ichor forced out of his mouth without ever touching the skin through instinctive use of Deflection. Not yet done, Kharuul turned about and flicked the carcass with his tail, sending it flying into a crowd of Defiled, including one Wraith who thought to creep up behind Naaran. Huffing with indignation, Kharuul wasted no time dispatching his fallen foes before scurrying back to Naaran’s side, man and beast moving in near flawless coordination to keep the Enemy at bay.

Then Du Min Gyu made his presence known, in the most eye-catching manner possible, his invisible blades of rotating wind dyed in red as they scythed through the Enemy ranks, killing more in a single move than Sarnai had killed all battle.

The Mother loved all her Children, but some more than others.

Glancing around with a rueful grimace, Sarnai noted there were no more easy targets at hand, with every combatant within a hundred meters in possession of a Domain. Lacking Du Min Gyu’s Talent of piercing Chi, Sarnai’s Deadly Thorns would be limited use, but she did not fret, for she had allies to support her until her weapon returned to hand, which should be right... about...

Now.

The Piercing Star arrived in a flash of light, and despite its nigh immeasurable speed, Gongsun Qi lived up to his reputation and swung his Green Dragon Crescent Halberd to block it. A deafening clap of steel echoed across the battlefield, followed by the crash of thunder which always accompanied such speeds, and Gongsun Qi staggered back seven full steps. Though it might not seem like much, he was also the first Warrior Sarnai had ever met that could send Akanai flying in a direct clash of strength, which made it a formidable accomplishment indeed. Bleeding from the shoulder where the Piercing Star had destroyed his Runic pauldon with a grazing hit, the Living Legend’s furious gaze turned towards her for a moment, promising all manner of death and despair, but he would have been better served watching his foe.

For Akanai had served as Sarnai’s sparring partner for many decades, and knew all her best tricks.

Balance on Windy Leaf, Stalking the Dragon, Darting Fang, and Pierce the Horizon. Those were the four Movements of the Forms Sarnai could make out from Akanai’s actions, information gleaned from a veritable lifetime of study. There was still more to the attack, this much Sarnai knew, and she also knew her sweet son had touched upon those secrets, even if he himself didn’t wholly understand them. Apart, those four or more Movements were of no significance, or at least not any more significant than the other Movements of the Forms, but together, they formed the basis of Akanai’s Ground-Shrinking Strike. For a brief, infinitesimal moment, the Chief Provost of the Sentinels stood in two places at once, both forty or so metres from Gongsun Qi, and directly in front of him. Then reality reasserted its will and Gongsun Qi was thrown violently away, his armour shattered and body limp as he sailed back into the Defiled ranks. The ground where Akanai once stood exploded in a cloud of dirt, and the foremost Warrior of the People, the woman and Demi-Human who stood closest to Divinity, threw her head back with pride and let loose a roar of victory.

Only for it to be cut short as she violently doubled over in pain to stare wide-eyed at the dark blade protruding from her belly, one which rapidly melted away in a crimson spray of blood.

Screaming in abject denial, Sarnai launched herself at the Dark Child, as if killing it could help Akanai after this blow was dealt, but the bear-Demon danced away and brought them both to safety. All the while, the Dark Child worked its hands with such speed they blurred and almost disappeared, each wave accompanied by the same deadly, black blade which felled Akanai. Screams rang out as Peak Experts of the Empire fell in droves to this massed attack. Sarnai’s Domain just barely Deflected one strike which sent her spiralling through the air, half of her own accord to lessen the impact and half because she had no other option. A good thing she did too, as a second blade raked her across the gut whilst still in mid-air, and Sarnai smiled in spite of the pain, for it showed that the Enemy had marked her as too dangerous to live.

No matter though. So long as she had time and Chi to spare, she would soon return to the battlefield in full health, thanks to the miracle of Panacea. Unfortunately, by the time her feet touched the ground again, the Dark Child was surrounded too many Demons and Defiled Chieftains, including a bloodied, battered, but breathing Gongsun Qi, as well as four, fearsome, armoured Demons whose hostile glares gave Sarnai pause. Those were not the eyes of soulless Demons she gazed upon, but unmistakably human ones, filled with rage, hatred, and violence, yet even this was not enough to shake her, were it not for the foremost Demon’s eyes shining in an all-too-familiar shade of amber.

It could be mere coincidence, or it could be the Enemy coloured the Demon’s eyes this shade on purpose, but if not, that meant that this particular Demon had once been one of the People, and there was a good chance Sarnai had known him in life.

“Mother in Heaven,” Sarnai quietly prayed, desperately mending her wounds with all possible haste, “You ask too much of your children.”

But as usual, there was no reply.

Chapter Meme
