Unlike her husband and daughter, Sarnai was not one to romanticize warfare.

Not to say she abhorred it either, but if the decision were up to her, she would have stayed in her quiet mountain home and let the Empire deal with its own woes. Were the situation reversed, she knew full well that the Empire would happily leave the People to die, so why should the People feel obliged to die in service of the Empire? Short-sighted, some would say, but Sarnai cared only about her People, and their staunch allies within the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, for she’d seen firsthand how the Empire treated their own, and it left her with little desire to count herself among them.

It happened more than fifty years ago, during her first real battle against the Enemy. Back then, she was younger than Alsantset was now, a woman who’d been married to her beloved fool of a husband for almost a full decade. One day, which began like any other, the routine humdrum of the village was interrupted when Akanai beat the drums and gathered the spears to ride out and defend an Imperial border fortress besieged by fifty-thousand Defiled. The call for help hadn’t come through official channels, but from a tired, wounded scout Baatar came across during one of his long ranging patrols. The soldier told a tale of a daring defence thrown together by a lowly lieutenant, the best Officer the survivors had to rely on. Being young and stupid, Sarnai believed that the Imperial Army was sure to rush to the aid of the beleaguered defenders, and that if there was any glory to be won, the Sentinels would arrive far too late to earn it. Still, she went along with her husband to keep him company since she had nothing better to do, as it would still be another twenty or so years before she had a daughter to love and cherish, and longer still before she had a son and twin grandchildren.

Pressed for time, Akanai set out with a token force of Sentinels only three-thousand strong, comprised mostly of Warriors of the People. Despite riding day and night with minimal rest, they arrived ten days after the siege had started, so imagine Sarnai’s surprise when she learned that not only were the Sentinels the first reinforcements to arrive, but there were no other friendly forces to be found within two day’s march. Ever the foolish blockhead, her husband had rejoiced at the news, for he believed this was his Heaven-Sent prospect for honour and glory, but Sarnai knew the ways of people and politics, and already knew the truth of the matter. No reinforcements had come because the closest commanders expected the fortress to fall. This meant that once the Sentinels turned the tides of battle and threw back the Defiled horde, they would not be rewarded for their heroics, but quietly vilified instead. Their bravery, sacrifice, and heroism on the battlefield would cast an ugly light on the cowardice of the Imperial Army Officers serving nearby, thereby upsetting a great deal of powerful factions.

Sarnai explained all this to Akanai after the gruelling battle was won, and even warned her against going to Central when the summons arrived, but being the soft-hearted, hard-headed, optimistic fool that she was, Akanai refused to listen to reason. Surely, things were different now that the Emperor Himself had personally issued a summons. Surely, He meant to honour the Sentinels for their valiant efforts and grave sacrifices, and in doing so, validate her centuries spent organizing and training this coalition of Warriors and guardians. Surely this would be the first step towards bringing the People’s cultural values and the Sentinel’s reputation out into the Empire at large, building bridges with the outside world and removing the stigma city dwellers had for outsiders.

At least Akanai was clever enough to half-listen to reason and only brought a small cadre of Elites along with her, instead of every surviving Sentinel who took part in the battle. Sarnai’s husband had pouted for days after, upset because he’d been denied the opportunity to see the wonders of Central when Naaran was given permission to join the expedition. Oh how he glowered over cups of tea with his similarly disheartened cronies, a bunch of sour faced youths with nothing better to do than ride around all spring and summer like thugs looking for a fight. Khatagi went out on a hunt which lasted an entire week, though they later learned he’d tried following Akanai’s party in secret and received a drubbing for his audacity from the Chief Provost herself. Yaruq was also insufferable, complaining about how she’d lost her chance to find a rich, Central husband to spoil and pamper her, when in reality, the nobles of the Empire were more likely to clamp her in chains and enslave her. Fools, one and all, for they should’ve counted themselves lucky to still be alive, especially with so many parents mourning the deaths of their children, and children wailing for their parents in the village orphanages. Even stoic, dependable Ghurda was beside herself with grief, having lost her second husband in the fighting, and Sarnai went over every day to help Elia care for her bereaved friend, only to come home to a mopey husband who was upset because he couldn’t brag about his accomplishments to strangers in a far off land.

There was glory to be found in battle, yes, but the costs far outweighed the benefits, and the costs of today’s battle horrified Sarnai to the extreme.

A battle which could not be avoided, unfortunately, and one which must be won at all costs, so Sarnai cursed the Heavens for placing this tribulation before her while doing everything she could to keep the butcher’s bill manageable. As a Peak Expert, this traditionally meant standing by and conserving her strength while lesser Warriors did battle with lesser Defiled, but Sarnai always thought of this as a self-serving style of combat. Yes, a Demon could do untold amounts of damage to Imperial soldiers if left unchecked, but Sarnai could do the same to the Defiled and save Mother knows how many lives in the process. It was a matter of numbers plain and simple, and while standard Imperial doctrine was to let interest accrue while keeping an emergency reserve in case of a large, unexpected expenditure, Sarnai preferred to pay more now in order to maximize savings later.

And so she rode roughshod through the ranks of Defiled Chosen, flicking her fingers to deliver Honed shards of Chi to slaughter the heavily armoured traitors wholesale. The Deadly Thorns of the Mountain Rose, little BoShui called them, a name which spread like wildfire once he included it in his little book about Rain. Though Sarnai openly scoffed whenever anyone mentioned it, she secretly loved her new title and how the bearish boy described her as ‘the Mountain Rose of the People who wielded a Piercing Star from the Heavens and brought death to her targets from a thousand paces’. A shame BoShui wasn’t here to see this battle today, riding with his uncle and her husband to do battle with the bandit Huanhuzi, but no matter. She was not here fighting for fame, glory, or honour, but to keep her son and daughter safe.

Sparing a moment to glance at the latter, Sarnai smiled at the sight of Alsantset’s petulant glower, unhappy to be riding behind her mother who left no Defiled for her to kill. There was so much of her father in her, a hot-blooded fool who yearned for glory above all else, but at least she had the good sense to start a family early, instead of leaving her beloved to languish at home all by his lonesome. Not that he would have, of course. Much like Sarnai had, Charok would’ve followed Alsantset to the ends of the earth if not for their darling twin children, which was one reason why Sarnai had wholeheartedly supported their betrothal when her dog-brained husband thought Charok wasn’t good enough for their little girl. Pei. Good enough. As if swinging a sword well made one good enough to marry, though she had to admit, Gerel took better to married life than she’d have expected. No matter, Charok was the man Alsantset chose, one who was slowly but surely coming into his own as a Warrior, still capable enough to be considered a talent himself despite spending so much time caring for his children, a pursuit in which Sarnai believed he was second-to-none.

Family above all else. That was how Sarnai saw it, but her beloved fool of a husband thought otherwise, and her compassionate son was the same, and so here she was, fighting in a desperate battle when she would much rather be at home spoiling her grandchildren and nagging her in-laws as a grandmother and mother-in-law should do.

Riding at the head of their contingent, Naaran and Kharuul led the Sentinel forces back out of the Defiled ranks, having carved out a sizable portion of Chosen for the Imperial infantry to collapse around. The fighting would go on for some time yet, as Defiled rarely broke ranks to flee, but their fates were all but sealed now that they were outnumbered and surrounded on all sides. There were still so many Defiled left to kill, Sarnai equated their efforts to a single wolf trying to eat an elephant whole, but with time, effort, and plenty of luck, there was a chance they could kill this elephant yet. Following Kharuul’s unspoken instructions, the five-thousand strong Sentinel force split into three groups, with the Spiritual Roosequin barrelling straight into the heavy gajashia cavalry who arrived to cut them off while the remaining groups circled around to nip and tear at their flank. Sarnai herself led the flanking force, and on her orders, Alsantset grudgingly fell back to join the ranged contingent, but not without four of Baatar’s cronies to guard her in secret.

Timid and fearful were not words Sarnai would use to describe herself, but when it came to the safety of her children, there were no measures she would consider too much. “The girl will never grow without experiencing the trials and tribulations of the world,” her simpleton husband would say, but he was the sort of fool who threw the then-two-year-old Alsantset almost ten meters into the air and almost broke her ribs catching her, so what did he know? What’s more was Sarnai had seen enough parents mourn their children to know this was a tribulation she never wanted to experience for herself. In fact, she would count herself blessed if she went into the arms of the Mother ahead of her beloved family, though she did worry about what would happen to her husband after she was gone. Perhaps Yaruq could be convinced to check in on him, though it was probably too soon to bring this up with Khagati only a few months dead. No matter, Baatar would have their children to look after him, and a mother and father in Akanai and Husolt now too, though their new family chart was rather confusing to navigate, mostly due to little Rain’s lascivious appetite.

That was all Fung’s fault. What sort of booze-addled silkpants would invite a fifteen year old boy to go drinking in a brothel? Akanai wasn’t without fault either, letting Rain slip away without anyone to watch him, but to be fair, the boy was an independent sort who always did as he pleased. Sarnai still remembered following him out into the forests on his oft-requested solitary ‘hunting’ trips, wholly expecting to find him mutilating animals or engaging in some other unholy act of Defilement, but every time, he just wandered around the brush with the grace of an ox while all manner of wildlife slipped past him. The boy was a terrible hunter, and considering how much he loved animals, was likely so by choice, and these trips were just an excuse to spend the day alone. Though Sarnai didn’t understand why he would want this, she accepted it as part of who he was, even if solitude was one luxury he could no longer afford.

Having grown maudlin over the thoughts of her family, Sarnai refocused on the battle now that she’d caught her breath. Mounted combat was an entirely different experience from fighting on her own two feet, and Sarnai much preferred the latter, but there was no helping it. Even a Peak Expert on foot could fall victim to the power of a gajashia charge, the muscular beasts outstripping even the strongest of warhorses when it came to pure brawn, and Sarnai was fighting for her life despite avoiding the brunt of the charge. Snapping fangs and thrusting spears came at her from every angle, and her defensive style served her well, blocking blades and cracking heads as she twirled her spear like a staff. ‘Rend flesh and break bones, take no half measures’ was her husband’s mantra, while little Rain had the wildly misguided ‘give flesh and break bones’, but Sarnai much preferred ‘Kill without being killed”. Somewhat obvious yes, but Heavens knew there were many Warriors out there who often forgot this simple rule, though they rarely lasted long.

