It was for this reason why she favoured defence over offence, a style she perfected fighting alongside her husband to help keep him alive, but it fell flat if he wasn’t around to do the lion’s share of the killing. No matter, this simply meant she had to work a little harder to pull her weight in today’s battle. The spear served as her shield and her Deadly Thorns her true weapon, invisible, hidden shards of Chi delivered with a simple flick of her fingers. Deploying a Thorn required less Chi than Honing and Amplifying a thrust of her spear, so it became her weapon of choice, especially since her Deadly Thorns travelled faster than any thrust and were nigh unblockable by anyone lacking a Domain. Since that included approximately ninety-nine percent of all participants on the battlefield, this made for a target rich environment, especially since she could fire more than one Thorn at a time and Guide them at different targets. This of course required more Chi and focus, so she used it sparingly and stuck to slaughtering her mounted foes one at a time with ruthless efficiency.

And when a Defiled Chieftain finally charged over to contest her, Sarnai grinned as she delivered a single Thorn through his mount’s forehead and sent him crashing to the ground atop his dead gajashia, where he was promptly crushed to a pulp beneath the hooves of the rider behind him.

This was almost too easy, and though some were calling it a Talent, Sarnai wholeheartedly believed it was simply a skill which could be shared and taught. Mentor picked up the skill almost effortlessly as she was wont to do, and Charok and Gerel were making minor progress, though neither one had yet to succeed outside their Natal Palace. As for Alsantset, she’d grown stubborn with desire to catch up to her husband and rival, but Sarnai’s fierce, competitive, tigress of a daughter would do her proud, whether the girl mastered the skill or not.

Some Paths were simply not meant to be tread by every Martial Warrior, but whenever the Heavens closed one fork, they opened up another path further along the way.

Despite her hefty personal contributions to the battle, Sarnai acknowledged that they were merely a drop in the bucket compared to Kharuul’s commanding presence. Almost as large as a warhorse, the hulking quin Patriarch towered over his pack while crashing into his targets without fear or hesitation, his Deflection so powerful and well-timed the Enemy never laid hide nor hair upon his radiant armoured barding, much less the superfluous rider upon his back. Rough, gravelly shrieks emitted from his blood-soaked jaws even as he fought, signalling for his pack to advance or fall back accordingly, his instincts for battle honed in countless battles waged over the course of a millennia. The ground trembled as he pounced from one foe to the next, delivering killing blows to both mount and rider with laughable ease, an apex predator and force of nature furious at this encroachment upon his territory. When fang and talon failed to pierce through his target’s Runic armour, the clever quin resorted to other means to kill his prey, namely picking them up in his cavernous jaws and shaking until their necks and spines snapped.

Were it not for the gravity of the situation, Kharuul would’ve never been revealed to the Empire at large, but Naaran made the choice to do so during the withdrawal from Sinuji. A decision Sarnai wasn’t wholly convinced had been necessary, but here and now, they could no longer afford to hold back. Across the battlefield, there were no less than nine Spiritual quins running amok about the battlefield, including Sarnai’s mount whom she borrowed from her husband, the ornery Balor who missed his rider so. It took an effort of will to keep the headstrong quin from barrelling into the fray like Kharuul, but unlike his ancient pack leader who was strong enough to match Peak Experts, Balor was the youngest Spiritual quin in all the Saint’s Tribulations mountains, having formed his Spiritual Heart during that ill-fated rescue some fifty years back.

Sarnai remembered that day clearly, the memory burned into her mind. The Demon appeared out of nowhere, a slavering, fanged beast with a single, central horn. Emerging before them like a creature of nightmare, it was already mid-pounce when it revealed itself, but Baatar pushed Sarnai out of its path, and for his troubles was impaled clean through the belly by the Demon’s spear-like horn. The impact drove him off of Balor’s back as the leaping Demon’s momentum carried him over, but the dark-furred quin somehow affixed himself to the assailant’s neck as it was passing by, his fangs clinging gamely as his claws and talons raked away at the foul fiend’s underside. The Demon was dead before it hit the ground, its torso shredded and head wrenched clean off, and though Baatar and Balor were covered in caustic Ichor, they both survived to fight another day.

It was while he was being treated that the Healers noticed the Ichor had done minimal damage to Balor on account of his thick, luxuriant fur, and further testing revealed the quin had ascended into a Spiritual Beast by forming his coat into a Spiritual Heart. Baatar loved to jokingly claim that the quin had stolen his glory, despite the fact that he himself had been covered in Ichor and lying in a pool of his own blood when it happened. That terrifying scene featured prominently in her nightmares for decades to come, as did the image of his horrific injuries, though the nightmares diminished in frequency once she convinced him to finally settle down and start a family.

Then again, convince might be the wrong word. In the end, she simply made the arrangements and told him in no uncertain terms that she was adopting little Alsantset from the orphanage, to whom he could either be a father, or a stranger. Baatar chose to be her father of course, and he did a splendid job of it, but Sarnai couldn’t help but suspect he brought Rain home just to get even. A good thing he did though, because little Rain was every bit the blessing Alsantset had been, and Sarnai loved both her children equally.

As for Balor however, the stupid, stinky, irritable quin was her husband’s mount, one she would see stuffed and turned into a proper Spiritual Weapon if he didn’t learn to obey. Balor didn’t much like her style of fighting, killing all his prey before they were within reach, and his frustration mounted as the battle wore on. Puffing his chest like a peacock on display, the surly quin made his displeasure known by jostling her upon his back while emitting a long and plaintive trill, one which raised the hackles of every quin within earshot and had Enemy gajashia’s skidding to avoid him. Cheeks flushing at the imagined looks, Sarnai pursed her lips and cursed her husband for a fool, trading his Spiritual quin in for a skittish warhorse who shied away every time he drew close. It was meant to endear him to his subordinates and make him out to be an Imperial Hero rather than a ‘foreign’ savage. Why her dog-brained husband cared, Sarnai would never know, for if the Empire could not accept the People as they were, then why were so many Sentinels dying for them on the battlefield?

Against her better judgment, Sarnai signalled for Balor to charge in, and the dark quin almost threw her off in his haste to engage. Where Kharuul dominated his foes through pure strength and mastery of Chi, Balor was wholly reliant on his Spiritual Fur to keep him safe. Ignoring the threat his foes presented, he charged headlong into the fray, blocking a thrust spear with his thick skull and leaving Sarnai to defend herself from the ricochet as he tore the gajashia’s leg clean off in a single pass. Leaving his prey for his pack to finish off, Balor pounced forward just in time to make Sarnai’s attack miss, dragging a second gajashia with its jaws fixed to his shoulder and crashing into a third. Desperately fighting to hold onto both spear and seat, her spine wrenched about and threatened to snap as Balor wrestled with his foes, wholly unconcerned with his safety or the safety of his rider. Barely able to cling on, Sarnai found herself locked in a contest of strength with a Defiled rider who’d been thrown from his seat onto Balor’s back, which was exactly the opposite of what she excelled in. Raw strength had been Baatar’s concern, while Sarnai favoured control and foresight, but there was no control where Balor was involved.

And the worst part was, the stupid quin dispatched both his foes while Sarnai was still struggling with hers. Ripping the Defiled off his back and snapping the bastard’s neck with a shake, Balor huffed and peered at her askew as if annoyed by his ‘useless’ rider.

Only now did Sarnai understand why her husband kept the Bloody Fang on hand, not because he needed a short sword to throw around, but because Balor kept bringing them both into extreme close combat. Giving up on using her spear as the idiot quin pounced on his next foe, Sarnai Honed her Deadly Thorns and kept them fixed to the tips of her fingers like deadly talons, albeit ones she had to ‘regrow’ every time they were used. In the interest of efficiency, she resorted to only keeping two on each hand at time, situated on her second and middle fingers which she repeatedly drove into gajashia eyes and Defiled throats. Inwardly grumbling at the indignity of it all, she reckoned she cut an unsightly figure, bucking and swaying atop her unruly quin and covered from head to toe in the blood of her enemies. There was no grace or dignity in the way Balor or Baatar fought, so Sarnai supposed she understood why Baatar had to switch over to a horse instead, but why couldn’t Balor pick someone else as his rider? Sarnai would much rather sit pretty atop sweet Pafu, a brave and obedient quin who didn’t jolt her about like a carton of turnips atop a wagon.

Balor tore and rent his way through the Defiled cavalry with undisguised glee, chittering all the while as she fought for dear life, unused to this chaotic, high-paced style of close-quarters combat. There was no time to do anything besides focus on the Enemy in front of her, and the next few minutes passed in a blur of frantic entropy. When she finally emerged from the fray, she couldn’t feel the wind in her hair through all the layers of blood soaking into it, and she vowed never to ride this damned quin into battle ever again. “He will protect you,” her dog-brained husband had said, fondly stroking the hare-brained quin’s neck, “As he has protected me all these years.” An idiot quin for Sarnai’s idiot husband, the two were a pair matched in Heaven.

Still, despite the many near-death experiences, she noted this tactic was highly effective, since the Enemy could hardly know what Sarnai would do if she didn’t know either.

So disoriented by the turbulent brawl, Sarnai almost let Balor lead them into the caltrop field, the stupid beast too dense to understand the danger those four-pronged spikes represented. Correcting his course to angle around the trapped field, she led the Defiled about on a merry chase and right into the lances of Chu XinYue’s waiting cavalry. On the other side of the melee, Naaran had done something similar, except instead of a decisive cavalry charge, the gajashia riders were brought low by the concentrated efforts of the Ishin boy’s retinue. Even on the battlefield, Ken-Shibu’s face was caked in unnaturally white powder, but it was difficult to fault his performance as he led his retinue to slaughter the hampered Defiled cavalry. Packed Death Corps ringed the gajashia’s in while Expert Imperial swordsmen weaved their way in and out of their ranks, killing beast and rider alike with ruthless efficiency, but the watchful Enemy commander directed his cavalry towards an opening and salvaged what he could, with less than half of the gajashias escaping with their lives.

Battlefield command was not a subject which Sarnai excelled in, but even she could see how much influence Gongsun Qi exerted through instruction alone. The caltrops had yet to achieve anything besides area denial, but the Western Colonel General was even using this to his advantage, forcing the Imperial cavalry to engage his own and denying them free rein against the infantry. While the cavalry battle was going well for the Imperials, the Enemy didn’t need their cavalry to win the overall conflict, whereas the Imperials would be hard pressed to do without it. Instead of plucking away at their bows and delivering nigh on fifteen-thousand arrows every six seconds, the Sentinels were stuck in and fighting blade to blade with their heavily armoured foes, a task they were most certainly able to accomplish, yet far from their most effective use.

At least Rain’s Irregulars were proving more useful than expected, though only because few had any expectations at all. As far as she could tell, they had yet to kill any Imperials with their crossbows or catapults, though they’d come close more than once. Keeping them safe in the centre of the formation meant reinforcements had to move around them to assist the Death Corps, but Hongji had the foresight to leave enough room for a small unit of Martial Warriors to move through the Irregular ranks, or at the very least, Rain’s carriage. A clever man, this Hongji, and polite too, with only a few of the grand airs she’d come to expect from the people of Central.

“Little Rose,” Mentor Sent, her hesitant tone filling Sarnai with dread, “Leave your unit and come to the rear of the formation. I will guide you to our location.”

Giving control over to Naaran, Sarnai called Alsantset to follow her and Sent, “What happened Mentor?”

“...It is difficult to explain. Best you see for yourself.”

