A small comfort then, for if Rain was dead or dying, Mentor would have said as much. Trepidation gnawing at her belly, she heeled Balor and ran him at full speed while following Mentor’s directions, though the block-headed fool made a mess of things when she tried to have Sarnai run straight through a unit of Irregulars, expecting the ‘soldiers’ to scatter and make way for the giant, sprinting predator. Ignoring the appalled glances of frightened commoners and the deafening racket Akanai was making in her battle against Gongsun Qi, Sarnai rode around the immobile crossbowmen with Alsantset until Mentor popped into view. Alongside her was Rain’s wagon of pets and a wary Ping Ping standing guard, her beak opened and pointed at Sarnai as she approached. Twenty Death Corps guards also stood vigilant around her son, their eyes scanning in every direction and weapons at the ready while Li-Li and Lin-Lin stood in the centre, the latter shouldering her bow with a triumphant smile. Hopping off Balor and signalling for him to wait, it belatedly occurred to her that the quin might not be so obedient, but she couldn’t spare another thought for him as she spotted her son laying limp in Song’s arms. Choking back her fear and rage, she pushed past the guards to check on her son, but Alsantset beat her to it by riding Suret right past the guards.

Unwilling to shoulder her own daughter aside, Sarnai wrung her hands and snarled, “Why is no one treating him? Where are the damned Healers?”

“He was not injured in the attack,” Li-Li reported, her cat ears flicking in quiet concern, while Ping Ping finally closed her beak and hesitantly ambled over to greet Sarnai. “He was already comatose before it began. Tokta checked on him earlier and confirmed nothing is wrong, but has since left to tend to others.”

“Explain. What happened? What did Tokta say?”

The demand came out sharper than Sarnai intended, and Alsantset put a reassuring arm around the sweet girl as Li-Li described the day’s events, even Lin-Lin’s parts while the half-hare rested her chin on Rain’s chest, her shoulders shaking in apparent tears. Apparently, the boy had learned to Scry despite his lack of working Core, and over-exerted himself in the process, but that made little to no sense, and Sarnai was not shy about saying so. “How can this be? Scrying is not a Chi intensive process. The greatest expenditure occurs upfront, while maintaining the connection is nearly effortless. If Rain passed out from over-exertion, then he did more than just Scry.”

“That is the part which I find difficult to explain.” Whipping her head around to face Mentor, Sarnai’s heart skipped a beat when faced with the cold, but caring woman’s caution, unwilling to even speak her thoughts out loud. “I sensed something from the boy, while he was Scrying to the north. A massive surge of Heavenly Energy emanating from him, then a second, similar surge to the North, where my little moustached grand-Disciple was fighting. What was his name again?”

“Rustram,” Sarnai absently supplied, turning her gaze towards where her dutiful Disciple was stationed.

“Rustram.” Repeating the name as if to remind herself to remember it, Mentor nodded and Sent, “I am certain the boy did something, because after the surge of Heavenly Energy, grand-Disciple Rustram Developed his Domain, slew a Demon, and Healed the little lady he brought with him to dinner, the one I said showed promise and you told me had already been claimed.”

“Sai Chou?” Now Sarnai was even more confused, and everyone could see it, with the Death Corps and Li-Li were giving her curious looks. “Well, it matters not what happened, so long as he is alright.” The boy’s Martial Path was an indecipherable mess to everyone who wasn’t him, so there was no telling what’d happened.

“Mhm...” Again, Sarnai’s heart skipped a beat, for Mentor’s tone was laced with implication. “I am uncertain if this is true.” Furrowing her brow, Mentor grabbed Rain’s limp arm, raised it high, and dropped it so he smacked himself in the face. Ignoring the glares directed towards her by the gathered Death Corps, Mentor tilted her head in thought. “He was not sleeping so deeply before, muttering senseless phrases while hugging the turtle, but now, he sleeps the sleep of the dead.”

Now that Mentor mentioned it, it did seem strange for Rain to be so out of it. Even during his two-week long coma after Ping Ping’s ascension, he was slightly responsive to outside stimuli. If his pets crawled atop him or his wives curled up beside him, he would snuggle in and hug them tight, and he smiled whenever Sarnai stroked his hair or washed his face with a wet cloth. In fact, she would dare say she’d never seen Rain this... not relaxed, but helpless, without a single defence in place to keep himself safe. There was a time when Sarnai would’ve given anything to help him be rid of his anxiety, but not like this. Though she had no way to prove it, something was wrong here, something terribly, terribly wrong.

“Something’s wrong,” Lin-Lin declared, bolting upright from her place atop his chest. “Rainy’s heartbeat is slowing!”

Moving over to check him herself, Sarnai was once again pushed aside by Alsantset, who was already there. “She is right. His pulse has slowed considerably. I can barely even feel it.”

To make matters worse, Ping Ping also noticed something wrong and was trying to make her way over, clambering up on her hind legs to inspect Rain. Her plaintive squeaks were heart-rending to behold, and her mournful gaze doubly so, but Sarnai knew not what she could do to help. One of the Death Corps fell back from his vigil and took Rain from Song, and Sarnai could tell from the current of flowing Chi that the guard was attempting to Heal him. After long, quiet seconds, the guard grimaced and said, “Forgiveness Great Ones, but this slave senses nothing amiss with the Legate’s health, but he is dying nonetheless. This slave can keep him alive, but without fixing the root cause, then it will only be a matter of time.”

“What’s wrong with Rainy?” Balling her hands into tiny little fists, Lin-Lin added, “Be specific, and explain what you’re doing.”

“The Legate’s organs are slowly ceasing their efforts to keep him alive.” Brow drawn in confusion, the guard continued his efforts and explained, “This slave has seen this before in the elderly, where their bodies simply give out without discernible cause, but this slave was taught that this was a sign the patient’s soul had already gone into the arms of the Mother, with only an empty shell left behind.”

“How long can you keep him alive?”

Sweating with focus and effort, the guard answered, “This slave does not know. Minutes at the very least, hours at most.”

Taking his struggles with speech as a sign to keep her mouth shut, Sarnai clenched her weapon tight and watched the guard work. Oh if only she had thought to call Tokta over immediately, but now it was useless. The guard had already begun Healing Rain, so another Healer would have to wait until his Chi completely dissipated from Rain’s body before even attempting to Heal him, lest their Chi interfere with one another and render their efforts useless. There was nothing to be done but stand and wait, so Sarnai sidled closer to Alsantset’s side and took her hand in her own. Only then did she realize why everyone had been giving her strange looks, why sweet Ping Ping almost attacked her, and why Lin-Lin, up until now, had been hiding her expression while laughing into Rain’s chest.

Because Sarnai was still covered from head to toe in the blood of her foes, and made for a most fearful, horrid sight. Damn Balor, and damn Baatar for foisting him off on her...

Taking a deep breath to calm her nerves, Sarnai moved back and emptied her waterskin over her head. The lukewarm water helped clear her mind, and one of the Death Corps guards handed her a clean towel which they’d kept secreted Mother knows where, but she was grateful for it nonetheless. The cloth came away dark with blood as she wiped her face and hair, unable to even spare the effort to curse Balor or her idiot husband for fear of losing Rain. Keeping the towel to cover up the worst of the dried gore, Sarnai reached over and drew Lin-Lin close, while Alsantset did the same with Li-Li. There was nothing any of them could do to keep Rain alive, but she suspected there was nothing they would not dare try. Alas, the Heavens were fickle and her son’s path steep, his trials and tribulations more than any one man should bear. There was a part of her which wondered if he would be happier this way, freed from the constraints of his mortal burdens. Eight years had passed and much had changed since Baatar brought him back from the mines, but Rain’s scars ran deep and he had yet to wholly recover in so many ways. He kept all his pain hidden, even from his wives and family, and she only caught glimpses of it in his darkest moments, but she knew his troubles were with him at every moment of every day. Now, his pain could bother him no more, his fears a thing of the past, so perhaps she should tell the Death Corps guard to leave off his efforts and let her son move on in peace...

No. Somehow, despite all his pain, fear, and burdens, he still found the strength to smile and fight for a better future for all. Her son would not be better off dead, because Falling Rain was a Warrior and a survivor, a stubborn ass of a man who didn’t know the meaning of surrender. Though they had little to do with his upbringing, he was still the son of Baatar and Sarnai, and they could not be any prouder, but Rain’s tale was not yet done, his purpose not yet fulfilled, for he was a man destined for greatness.

“He will wake,” Sarnai declared, more for her own sake than anyone else, but her daughter appreciated the support and squeezed Sarnai’s hand in return. “This is but another trial and tribulation laid out before him, one he will conquer like the rest.”

And then, as if the Heavens meant to prove her wrong, a cry rang out from the front lines as a dark cloud passed overhead. Turning towards the commotion, she spotted Akanai still locked in combat with Gongsun Qi, but they no longer fought alone. Countless Demons had emerged from Concealment and were running roughshod through the Imperial lines, with Demon Slayers and Peak Experts scrambling to keep them under control. Binesi and the Singing Spear were there, battling it out with the Dark Child and its Demonic ursine mount, which rampaged through the Imperial lines despite the two spearmen’s best efforts to stop it. Treating its current opponents with utter contempt, the diminutive, black Demon ignored Binesi and Yukun to attack other, distracted targets instead, shooting crescent blades of darkness out into the crowd of Martial Warriors with startling effectiveness. Most of its efforts were focused on dealing with Akanai, who finally gained the upper hand in her duel against Gongsun Qi, though likely due to the broken arrow still protruding out of his bicep. Despite her vigilant guard and lightning-fast reflexes, her armour was torn and shredded from multiple close brushes with death, some from the Dark Child but most from the Defiled Commander himself, who did not appear bothered by his injury as he traded blows with Akanai, their every exchange echoing across the battlefield and shocking all who witnessed it.

No, his power had diminished significantly. Silly to not see it at first, because even injured, he stood head and shoulders above Sarnai, but she realized Akanai was no longer being thrown away after every trade, holding her ground against the Prince of Barbarity for the first time since the battle began. Still, despite her best efforts, Akanai was unable to kill Gongsun Qi with the Dark Child focusing the lion’s share of its attention upon her, while Binesi, and Shi Yukun both were unable to bring the bear-Demon under control, much less kill it and help Akanai. All around the battlefield, similar scenes of chaos broke out as the Demons and Defiled Chieftains worked together to overwhelm Imperial Peak Experts, so Sarnai gripped her spear tight, gave her daughter and son one last look, and rushed over to lend aid, praying she would see them both again.

In this life, or the next.

The Enemy meant to crush them here, once and for all, which meant there was no more time to delay. There was an upside to all this, Sarnai supposed, running along the arranged avenues in between the Irregulars to avoid taking a bolt in the back. At least now, with the Demons having revealed themselves, she could kill one and bring its corpse back to her son. If his plight was caused by a lack of Heavenly Energy, then perhaps Demon Ichor would rouse him, and if one wasn’t enough, then Sarnai would keep slaying and delivering them until Rain opened his eyes once more.

Because if he didn’t, then she wasn’t sure what she would do, for she was not strong enough to bear his loss.

