I began investigating the ticking sound while Jamie healed Liz and Ash, who were also suffering from hearing loss. He was very apologetic.

This was by far the biggest hit he'd ever blocked with that ability, and we only now learned that the sound very much did not affect him the way it affected everyone else. Somewhere in there had to be a statement about the true nature of paladins.

With considerable effort, I ripped the breastplate off one of the ticking automatons.

What I found was not a bomb—but a very interesting question.

I ripped the ticking clockwork heart from its body, severing several tubes and spilling oil across the defeated automaton. It kept on ticking.

["Hey, Gabriel,"] I wrote in Guide chat.

"The answer to your question is probably yes. If you can actually do it without lacerating your insides," Gabriel replied.

Yes, that would indeed be a problem. It was roughly mango-sized. Not many shapes could even attempt to devour this. The dire hyena probably could chew it up, but I'd literally be trying to swallow jagged pieces of metal.

"Hey, Ash," I called out through Queen's voice. His ears had just been healed. "Are emus or cassowaries the ones that eat stones?"

Ash walked up to me and looked at the automaton heart in my hands.

"Emus are, but no way they'd get something down that's this large."

"But I'm talking about an emu-leopard chimera. Large enough to carry a human."

Ash looked at the heart and then at the surrounding remains of the automatons. "It could work, but you are firmly out of my expertise there. Are there more of those? I'd like to have one, too."

"Yeah, two more." I pointed out those that still had ticking hearts inside.

["I want one, too,"] Claire wrote in chat.

"As long as I get one to eat, you two can nerd out over the remaining potentially perpetual-motion devices. I am already certified at breaking Newton's laws. Suit yourselves."

["Can you help me extract one?"] Claire asked.

While the gorilla really didn't come with much desire for violence, I had to restrain myself from jumping right in her face and screaming at her.

To my credit, I succeeded. I proceeded to extract the other two hearts and handed one each to Ash and Claire. If they kept on ticking like that, powered by whatever insane magic of the Blessing, they definitely made for very interesting objects. I had no doubt either of them would find exciting use cases.

I really only wondered if I could become one of those myself. One-up Claire and leave behind the weakness of my flesh, without screwing myself over in the process.

Stephen also proceeded to loot the bodies with our Blessing-granted ability. I'd only ever gotten some potions and rations from that, but Stephen's weapons gave him the ability to extract more from corpses.

"Anything good?" I asked.

"A bunch of chemicals. I'm a bit worried about even pulling those out to see how they are stored. I'll wait until Helene is around to do so."

"Good call. Did your care package happen to have anything that'd help fighting undead foes?"

That got everyone's attention.

"It's faint, but the air reeks of death and decay. A room full of ordinary corpses would reek more, so I assume they're somehow preserved. So maybe undead. The stench comes from deeper inside."

"Can you still use that ability you used against the vampires today?" Liz asked.

"Yeah. Though vampires would feel pretty misplaced here. But I also have no idea what other undead would fit. Anyone know of any undead associated with music?"

Ash started counting on his fingers before he shook his head. "Actually too many to meaningfully rule out anything. From Death himself to banshees to a whole host of ghostly musicians."

"Any of them fly?"

He shook his head. "Don't think so."

My spell was still pulling me deeper inside. Inside the arena were corpses, a lot of them, and a flying mythborn creature.

"Well, then. Let's keep going."

Jamie stepped up next to me as we proceeded toward the arena.

"Sorry for the noise," he said.

"Sorry for the sudden spider rushing towards you from behind," I said.

Jamie grinned. "Your current self makes up for it. But the voice is really weird on it."

I wordlessly knuckled on. There were no more automatons waiting for us, though the path leading to the arena felt artificially long. I would have expected a shorter pathway from the entrance to the main area, but the only available path first sent us up several flights of stairs.

It felt like the Blessing was steadily increasing the complexity of its dungeons and the alterations it did to real-world places. I doubted Madison Square Garden looked anything like this immediately after the Seal fell.

We ended up in front of another shimmering entrance, leading into the arena through opened double doors.

"A double-layered dungeon. Great."

"I bet that once you enter, you can't leave, or it'll ruin the Task—again," Ash said.

I nodded. "So we all rush in?"

["I can go first. If it seems like a death trap, I'll toss the heart out and let this body perish,"] Claire wrote.

That… was surprisingly considerate. If any of us should be the canary in the coal mine, it should be the one who had many other bodies out there.

The others seemed to share my surprise.

"Thank you, Claire," Jamie said.

The mannequin kept her head pointedly in my direction as she replied.

["Any advantage. I will not give up on this if it is merely risky. I have seen you solve fights before. Only in very dire circumstances will I toss this back out at you."]

I looked around at the others before I turned back to Claire and nodded.

["Follow me in 10 seconds."]

Claire vanished into the shimmer. I could still very faintly hear her steps, though they were muffled as if farther away.

I counted down from ten. No automaton heart was tossed back at us. Side by side with Jamie, I followed Claire.

The sight that awaited us was one to behold. Though it paled against the stench. And then there was also the song.

We had entered somewhere in the upper half of the arena. I had no idea what event had been going on here the night the world ended. But now I was certain that there had been one. Nearly all the seats were occupied by zombies.

Except they weren't sitting anymore. The issue with the plan to send in Claire first was the fact that our enemies had ten more seconds to prepare their attack.

Their movements seemed to coincide with the rapid rhythm of the music that came from the central performance. The massive screens hanging from the ceiling gave us a helpful close-up of the bizarre scene on stage.

The guitar that had been featured on the flyers outside lay on a stone slab, ghostly chains wound around it, and it contributed a dissonant tune to the music as it writhed against the chains, as if alive.

Behind it stood the members of a ghostly band—their outfit combined with their unalive existence gave death metal a very fresh meaning. Which might be the 'theme' the Blessing was going for.

And then there was who had to be the performer. A bird-woman, whose unearthly song blended, weirdly beautifully, with the music the band and guitar provided. But everything moved to her rhythm, and once I looked at the stage itself instead of the screen, I saw the faint outlines of chains extending from her across the entire arena.

A siren. I groaned. Very much a mythborn flying creature. Not at all what I had been looking for.

Then I realized that my spell's tug was still leading up, above the stage, somewhere between the screens. As I lifted my eyes, a roar answered me. From the metal scaffolding, a creature emerged. Its plumage was mostly white, decorated with stark black patterns, primarily across its head. Half bird, half lion, entirely metalhead.

The gryphon spread its wings, and we were seconds away from getting overrun by a horde of zombies.

"Liz, Ash, you run interference on the gryphon. Jamie, you cover their asses. Stephen, jump on—I'll get you to that guitar!"

"... jump?" Stephen asked, just as I swapped into the boar shape.

[Fenrir-touched

100% increased Size

50% increased Strength

50% increased Endurance

Chainbreaker

Chained Wrath]

I had worried the shape might be too small to carry Stephen on my back. That had been a bit of a silly worry. My head was nearly eye level with Stephen.

I activated Spectral Tackle.

"Jump," I said.

While the other three fell into formation, Stephen hesitated. I growled at him. He took a step back. I took a step forward.

Damn, I had not been wrong to fear this shape. It didn't take much to piss me off in this.

"Stephen. It's still me." I tried to make my psychic voice sound as honeyed as possible.

Behind me the first zombies were climbing over the railing. I turned to headbutt one down into the crowd and cut another nearly in half with a tusk.

Stephen finally shook off his stupor and swiftly climbed on my back.

"If you are still missing kill Tasks, now is the time," I said, before I crashed through the metal railing to drop eight feet onto the seats and zombies below. Plastic, metal, concrete, and bones shattered.

Immediately hundreds of them turned to face us. But it didn't matter—I resumed my charge for the stage. Some tried to cling onto me, but Stephen, for once, proved he had survival instincts and cut them off.

I deactivated Exemplar Leader and activated Embodiment instead. This carnage was glorious, and I would not want to miss the chance to repeat it. Zombies fell by the dozens to my tusks and hooves.

All the while, part of me tracked the gryphon overhead. But even the powerful beast knew better than to assault me. It merely carried the power of myth, while I carried the ember of Ragnarok in me.

The stage got ever closer. Soon I'd devour that siren, then that glorified chicken, then the entire accursed city.

Jamie's voice cut through the mayhem. "Eve! Debuff! Knock it off!"

Debuff?

I regained enough sense of myself to check my debuffs.

[Unleashed Worldender 83% (Debuff)

Fenrir's true power awakens.

At 100% he is unleashed.

Progressed by active combat and defeated foes.]

Fuck. I really should have taken that second to read the fine print on this one. I still had 24 seconds left on my shifting cooldown, and we were still far too far from the stage. Fuckety fuck.

Before I could halt my momentum, more zombies had already died to my charge. 86%. The siren took flight over the stage, continuing her performance out of reach of my tusks. She thought.

"Eve. Why are we stopping?" Stephen asked.

I growled in response while I checked my abilities. Power Through had gone up to ten seconds. It'd have to do.

"You'll have to jump off on stage. I'll rejoin you in a bit. Sorry if I try to kill you—I won't mean it."

"Wha—"

I resumed my charge, ignoring the debuff.

98%

My hooves hit the stage. I didn't slow down. Stephen jumped off my back and landed somewhere right across from the ghostly band, close to the guitar.

Behind the stage, I tore through a dense group of zombies that had descended from the far side of the arena and were now trying to reach my friends.

100%