At least I leveled up today, she thought, firmly taking control of her errant thoughts. At level two, her Silent Assassin should be more than a match for her unclassed former companions. Which was why she was up here freezing her ass off while watching the sewer entrance all night. If they had survived, they would return to choose their classes, and then she would ambush them, and her secret would be safe.

Clink.

Her head snapped to the side at the clear ring of metal against stone, taking in the sight of the sewer grate shifting and moving as it suddenly lifted. Two forms emerged from below – two forms that she recognized instantly.

The Beastkin and the Half-elf. She waited in silence for Malika, but nobody else emerged. The Beastkin carefully lowered the grate back into place, with much more care and silence than she would have expected. Huh. Guess she’s feeding the mushrooms down there.

It was when the two of them started talking and Calen turned that she suddenly saw it.

Tucked into the Half-elf’s belt were the shards of Donavan’s expensive sword. She felt the icy chill of fear as her worst nightmare began unfolding in front of her. They know. It was the only possible reason they had his sword. They would return it to the Town Hall as evidence and then the mayor would ask questions.

Questions she couldn’t afford to have answered.

It was all she needed. She rose from her hiding position and crept forward. I have to kill them and bury that sword. She carefully slipped two daggers from their sheaths on her belt. If she used her twin-dagger Mutilate from stealth and triggered Ambush she should be able to instantly kill the Beastkin, and then the Half-elf would be easy to overcome one-on-one – his skills were all in archery, and archers were vulnerable to melee classes like hers.

As she was about to leap down, a snippet of their conversation reached her ears, causing her to freeze instantly.

“Remember, now that Malika has a heal, potions aren’t as critical anymore.”

What? Malika is still alive? How the fuck does she have a heal?

With mounting dread rising within her, she identified the two boys in the alleyway below – something she should have done right at the start.

Druid – Beastkin – level 1Archer – Half-Elf – level 1

Shit! How do they have classes already? With classes came defensive skills, and while she was still a higher level than either of them, there was no way she could be certain of killing them both.

And Malika is still out there somewhere.

She crouched on the rooftop, racked with indecision, until eventually the two of them left, quickly heading toward the main road.

Fuck.

The only thing she had was the knowledge that they would be meeting here tomorrow and heading back down.

I must find Malika and silence them all. I need a plan. Fast.

Aliandra

Ali woke to the sounds of a strange, dull thumping in the background. She sat up with a start looking around at the unfamiliar environment for a few moments before she realized she had been moved back to the cave where they had fought the wolves. The corpses were gone, leaving only bloodstains and drag marks to tell the gruesome story of the battle.

Her eyes scanned the dimly lit cave, searching for whatever was making the noises, but she didn’t have to look far to find Malika practicing her kicks against one of the walls of the cave.

Surprisingly, the rock and hard-packed dirt seemed to be worse off. Her eyebrows furrowed briefly as she considered the scene before Ali settled down, reassured that she was not in any immediate danger.

I fell asleep halfway through reading my class skills.

While she sat there, she pulled up the skill descriptions again and scanned through the first three quickly. Her fourth skill, Deconstruction, seemed rather unusual. Ali couldn’t figure out what it was really useful for. If it was a combat skill, it looked like a poor one.

Deconstruction – level 1Mana: Release the mana from an unresisting or inanimate target, learning about its structure, and retaining some in your own mana pool. Requires continuous uninterrupted focus and the target is destroyed. Range: Touch.Arcane, Knowledge, Intelligence

I cannot be interrupted. I can only use it on an unresisting target. What monster is going to stand there while I use my magic to turn it to dust? The skill seemed strangely restrictive. Perhaps it’s just a way to restore mana? Ali was particularly curious about the phrase about gaining knowledge about magical structure – the skill was even tagged with the Knowledge trait. Maybe it’s a non-combat skill? Her class was an anomalous ‘hybrid’ class – a unique-ranked class like her mother’s – with one of its main traits listed as Knowledge. That had been one of the most important factors that had drawn her to the class in the first place – a combat class that didn’t require her to entirely give up on magical knowledge and study.

A problem for later. She moved on to her next skill.

Runic Script – level 1You are proficient with runic magic.Languages: Ancient Dal’mohran, Elvish, Dwarven.Mana: Inscribe a runic circle with your mana. Reserve: by level.Arcane, Knowledge, Intelligence

It made her immensely happy to see the Runic Script skill as one of her class skills. Ali had always been fascinated by the language and script of written magic. It was so versatile and beautiful. A well-documented, but rare skill typically used only by archmages and scholars, it was clearly not a combat spell. Finding this skill as part of her initial set took much of the sting out of her decision to pass on the Runic Sage class. Runic Script provided an avenue to pursue her passion, provided of course she could find a library and some magical books to study.

I hope they still have good libraries.

Her final skill, Sage of Learning, appeared also to arise from her years of study and her passion for research. It seemed exceptionally timely that she would learn a skill that might even help with her language issues. Sage of Learning was essentially a combination of her Scholar and Linguist skills, evolved and fueled by both her class and magical aptitudes. She couldn’t wait to see how it worked.

Sage of Learning – level 1Your ability to learn languages, history, and similar academic knowledge is significantly enhanced. You have enhanced memory for the content you have studied.Arcane, Knowledge, Perception, Intelligence

Given the profound frustration of being unable to understand her rescuers, she decided to try the skill immediately. Her first problem though, was that the skill lacked an activation cost. Is it a passive skill? The Scholar and Linguist skills that had been absorbed to make this one had similarly lacked activation and were simply always on – but that didn’t help her figure out how to use it.

For a few minutes, she tried mentally shoving yesterday’s memorized conversations at the skill. It felt like bumbling around in the dark, but something shifted within her memories. Or am I just imagining that because I want something to happen? She tried several other ideas, but nothing she could think of had any obvious effect.

Shaking her head and frowning, she finally gave up, getting up and walking over to where Malika was still kicking the wall. Ali admired her remarkable persistence and patience, and the grace of her movement, watching in silence, not wanting to interrupt her intense focus. After a few minutes, Malika noticed her watching and turned to say something in a relaxed voice.

This time, the twist in her mind was real. Something connected the sounds of Malika’s voice to the memorized conversations and the previously frustratingly familiar syllables actually conveyed some vague meaning.

That was a greeting!

Sage of Learning has reached level 2.

Mana drained from her mana pool in a rush, and her mind was filled with a brief disorienting feeling as if several important things had simply been rearranged in an instant. Her supposedly passive skill was consuming a disturbingly large amount of mana without her control.

Will I be able to stop it?

The sense of meaning had to be from the Knowledge trait of the skill, and it seemed to be attaching the meaning to the memorized conversations as she heard Malika speak. It was a thoroughly disconcerting sensation, a little like the skill was rifling through her memories and rearranging the library card catalog of her mind on her behalf.

Malika looked at her curiously and said some more words. Ali’s mana drained again, and a fresh sensation of meaning emerged, connected to what she heard.

Food? That sounded like a question. Guessing that perhaps she was being asked if she was hungry, Ali cautiously nodded.

Malika walked over to a pack one of the boys had left behind and produced an apple.

Ali happily accepted a few slices from her and sat down. Not only was she excited that she had guessed correctly, but she found she was also ravenous after all the strenuous activity from the day before. Her stomach produced a ferocious growl that made the dark-haired woman beside her chuckle. Ali met her sparkling blue eyes and then burst out laughing too. She’s not quite so scary when she’s not crushing walls. Then, Malika began talking to her. Ali wasn’t sure why she was talking, knowing Ali couldn’t understand, but perhaps she just wanted some company. At once, the magic kicked into action, providing a difficult-to-follow flurry of meaning, all the while her mana drained into the voracious skill.

Sage of Learning has reached level 3.

After about twenty minutes and about a hundred mana consumed, she noticed she was even burning a few stamina points. Ali wondered curiously if perhaps there was something to the idea that mental activity made a person physically tired. Her skill reaching level three seemed to create a sharper sense of clarity in her mind, and the flow of meaning became immediately fuller, somehow richer. Malika seemed to be talking about something to do with skills and classes, but the abstract meaning derived from the Knowledge-based skill was still exceptionally difficult to understand, certainly at the speed of normal conversation.

Malika said something else, and the disconcerting magic connected it with a memory of Mato shouting something during the wolf fight. As if a key piece of the puzzle had been unlocked, the connection set off a cascade of memorized snippets of conversation shuffling and interconnecting within her mind as all the memorized conversations, and Malika’s one-sided monologue, condensed into some vague semblance of order. A clear soft tone sounded within her mind as two new notifications appeared.

Sage of Learning has reached level 4.You have learned the Common Language.

The greedy Sage of Learning skill eased up, slowing the magical restructuring to a much more comfortable level. The torrent of mana consumption died down to a small trickle as she suddenly heard Malika’s previously unintelligible words snap into clarity as her new language Aptitude activated.

“... all these skills. So, what do you think?” Malika said. Then she sighed, “I wish you could understand me.”

Ali’s rudimentary command of the common language wasn’t quite good enough yet to pick up the words as clearly as she seemed able to, however, her Sage of Knowledge was still burning some of her mana, so it was presumably still filling in the many gaps in understanding.

Ali tried.

Holding up the slice of apple, she spoke carefully, “Thank. You.”

Malika whipped her head around and she fixed her with a look of incredulity. “You can talk?”

Ali answered, “I learn.” Her Sage of Learning skill bent her memories again. This was the only description of the feeling that made any sense. She tried again, “I learn common language.”

“Wow, that’s incredible!”

Your proficiency with the Common language has improved.

Her command of the new language was atrocious, but she had to marvel at the power of her new skill. Sage of Learning had, for the mere cost of almost her entire mana pool and a handful of points of stamina, done what would previously have taken her about a month of studying to achieve. Basic – very basic – proficiency in a new language! While she couldn’t see any combat use for Sage of Learning, Ali was nevertheless enormously pleased with her powerful new skill.

Excited to have overcome the frustration of not being able to communicate, she looked at Malika’s surprised face. “Thank you … save … me.” Her speech was still broken, but she was nonetheless convinced she was being understood.

The other girl smiled at her, “You’re welcome. Thank you for sharing your shrine.”

Ali smiled back at her, a soft warmth filling her heart at her first real conversation since waking up.
