“Well, since this has happened countless times before, even with the chosen with the polymorph ability, I was wondering how they handled it.”

In mere moments, Xuunah learned of hundreds of Light beings having children with Light beings that could polymorph, and she shared the most relevant ones with Ren.

“Oh, what a relief.” Ren said. “Polymorphing doesn't affect the child in the least, even if you don't revert back to a Light being for the emergence.” He said. “I was worried that changing back and forth might cause some kind of damage.”

“No, Light beings are too resilient for a little thing like flesh to interfere with their creation.”

“That's good to know, Zagatro. Thank you.”

“If that's all, I need to...”

“Actually, I need you to petition the Collective for a special exception for Xuunah.” Ren said.

“Excuse me?” Both Xuunah and Zagatro said at the same time.

“I've had experience with Nathalia when she gets in a certain mood, and nothing is going to relieve her stress, except doing something that I can't really talk about.”

“What kind of experience?” Xuunah asked.

“I came back early so I could talk to you about it.” Ren said and smiled. “Nathalia's pregnant.”

Xuunah gasped and let one of Ren's hands go to put it over her heart. “That's what that was!”

Ren nodded. “It happened pretty quickly, and I sent her back to the dwarf lands and into the care of a couple of great healers.”

“My... my...” Xuunah stopped talking and looked at Ren with wide eyes. “You're the father!”

“I am.” Ren said. “I couldn't let everyone else have their heart's desire and not give her one of her own.”

“But... but... we... she's...”

“Nathalia is having a child of my body and you are having a child of my mind.” Ren said. “I know that's an odd distinction; but it's there, nonetheless.”

“They... they won't be blood related and still be related at the same time.” Xuunah said. “Ren, that...” She smiled. “It's too bad we can't have them at the same time so that they can grow up together.”

“Well, considering Nathalia's just about ready to burst and you've got another 10 years to go...” Ren started to say, and Xuunah gripped his hand hard.

“What did you say?”

“I spent a year with Nathalia in my Sanctuary and got her pregnant as a dwarf, then stayed with her there until she came to term.”

“We need to go to her right now!” Xuunah exclaimed and reached for the door with her free hand.

“Wait!” Ren grabbed her other hand. “I'm trying to explain why you need an exception.”

“I don't care about that!”

“You will.” Ren said. “Zagatro, can you handle feeling mortal emotions if I send them to you through Xuunah?”

“I can, but I don't like it.” Zagatro said.

“Xuunah's not going to like it much, either... at least, not intellectually.” Ren said, then let Xuunah's hands go to cup the sides of her face. “This is what Nathalia felt like after getting pregnant.” He said and kissed her. Xuunah couldn't resist the feel of his lips and dropped the protections she had in place, and Ren gave her everything that Nathalia had felt during the year they were together. It took almost 10 minutes for him to relay it all, and when he was done, Xuunah's eyes were nearly bulged out of her head in surprise.

“N-no, I... I can't...” Xuunah shook her head. “Wh-why?”

“If I had to guess, it's a survival mechanism.” Ren said. “The child inside needed Nathalia to feel good all of the time, so that's what I did.”

“F-for... for a y-year.” Zagatro's voice wavered.

“Yeah, and since Xuunah's pregnancy is going to be for 10 years...”

“Great Vasalor.” Xuunah and Zagatro said together, then fell silent for several minutes.

“Wh-what is the... exception... you propose?” Zagatro managed to say.

“It's simple really.” Ren said. “Your mandate is to stop Light beings from mating with mortals and creating children.” He said and smiled. “Xuunah's already pregnant as a Light being, so her physical body can't get pregnant again.”

Xuunah gasped. “R-Ren! That... that means...”

“We won't be breaking the mandate, as long as we get that distinction set up as part of the Collective.”

“That is a very fine distinction.” Zagatro said.

“Well, I am the father of her child, so I will do everything I can to help Xuunah have the best child that she can, both physically and emotionally.” Ren said. “Just like I did for Nathalia.”

“I... I will need to... confer...” Zagatro stammered as he thought about who he could confer with to get this kind of subject brought up in the Collective.

“Take all the time that you need, as long as it's within the next two weeks.” Ren said. “I have an appointment with the Sage of Ages that I need to get to.”

“Yes, yes. Time is of the essence. I know.” Zagatro said. “Until then, do not do anything to her.”

“I promise not to grope or paw at her; but, we are in a tiny closet and I'm going to kiss her and her belly a lot over the next two weeks.” Ren said, and Xuunah held in her laugh.

Zagatro sighed as he felt her amusement. “I'll hurry back.”

“We'll be here.” Ren smiled and then kissed a very happy Xuunah. Without being asked, she equipped the special shirt with the hole cut out, and Ren knelt to kiss her belly all over and she laughed.
