Without even a moment for a breather, Ali suddenly found herself engaged with yet another Goblin Warband. She followed her usual approach, deconstructing every nearby corpse to fuel her constant mana consumption for her arcane magic. Any time she ran low, she deconstructed an armor piece or a Goblin to keep going, but she was beginning to get a headache from the continuous mana use and the concentration required to manage multiple barriers and targets simultaneously.

Beside her, Calen had to take frequent breaks, tossing down blue mana potions like candy. The other group of adventurers had withdrawn a while ago, tapped out. At some point, she was dimly aware of the whistling waterspout collapsing in the background, and Calen telling Seri to retreat to recover her mana.

I guess regeneration skills are super important for long fights, Ali realized, resolving to practice Malika’s meditation exercises more diligently. Hers was inconvenient, requiring a steady supply of corpses or items to deconstruct. But while the supply lasted, she wouldn’t need to stop at all. Malika and her melee Kobolds seemed to be thriving off Mato’s regeneration aura, none of them had yet exhausted their mana or stamina.

At least she didn’t have to direct her Kobolds too closely. Mostly, their own battle cunning and instincts had them making good choices. Except for him, she thought, eyeing her Fire Mage. He’s a little trigger-happy. She had had to stop him from fireballing Bugbears and Timber Wolves a few times, reminding him to use his precision Firebolt instead of the area damage spell, lest he hit all their allies.

The next Warband included a few Bugbears, and Mato immediately engaged with a roar. Ali was beginning to get used to the chaos of the battle, feeling something of a rhythm to the whole thing. She would deconstruct for mana, and then focus on the most dangerous enemies, before mopping up the rest. Two things stood out clearly to her. Discounting the random stones, she never had to defend herself against attacks from anything other than archers or mages, and her barrier was remarkably good at that. Mato is great at holding the Bugbears in place. The second thing was that her Fire Mage was brutally efficient at clearing out the groups of stone-throwing Scavengers. When she attacked them with her bolts, they went down quickly enough, but she had to focus on them one at a time, whereas her mage took out entire groups with a single Fireball. It was so effective, in fact, that she soon had him waiting around between Fireballs to regenerate his mana rather than waste it on Firebolts.

It’s really an incredible spell. For the longest time she had been terrified of it, but now that she could wield it on the battlefield, she was beginning to appreciate some of the strategy of area damage magic.

As the minutes dragged out into hours, it became clear how the diverse nature of their group worked to their advantage. Much as he might dislike the idea, Mato was a phenomenal tank. Malika darted in and out everywhere, catching anything that got away from him. Calen called every incoming group, easily picking out the most dangerous enemies from afar before they were even in range of Ali’s Identify. I’m sure he has a longer range. His light magic, turning every single arrow into an obvious streak of light, made coordinating their targets trivial.

By now, the parallels with how the Goblins were fighting were becoming obvious even to her inexperienced eye. The Goblins sent in the Bugbears as shock troops and tanks, protecting the elite mages, shamans, and archers who attacked from range, all of them supported by the lower-level Scavengers.

Ali deconstructed another Bugbear. As it dispersed into mana, her Grimoire appeared to the sound of an accompanying chime. Ali instantly dismissed it. Not right now!

“Incoming! Three Bugbears and two Fire Mages,” Calen’s voice called out the numbers as another group charged toward them, once again before they were fully finished with their current foes.

Two mages! This is going to be hard.

Ali left her warriors to help finish off the remaining Bugbear with Malika and Mato, directing all her rogues to attack the same Fire Mage. Both Goblin Fire Mages stopped at a distance and began casting Fireballs. Ali cast her barrier and hunkered down, keeping her second one ready while she shot off some Arcane Bolts, arcing them high overhead to hit the lead mage – a wrinkled female Goblin with long scraggly gray hairs sticking up from her scalp. Her rogues appeared from the aether stabbing in concert, but they were a fraction of a second too late, and both mages’ Fireballs shot off heading directly toward her. Immediately, she cast her second barrier in the path of one of the Fireballs and huddled down, trying to shrink herself behind her barrier. Using two barriers was all good and well, but they were individually smaller. An enormous explosion engulfed her further barrier followed by the second Fireball hitting the barrier right in front of her and rocking her with its powerful detonation. The shockwave tore past its edges, scorching her skin with the intensity of the heat, but her barrier held firm against the onslaught of fire magic, and the incredible resistance from Lydia’s tailoring protected her from further damage. Through the cracked barrier, she saw her rogues and Calen’s arrows taking down the first mage.

The second mage swirled his singed crimson robes and summoned fire again, but this time, he was clearly aiming at Mato and Malika – wholly disregarding the thick press of Goblin bodies her friends were practically swimming through. Ali threw up a barrier at her maximum range in an attempt to block the powerful spell. The screaming Fireball clipped the edge of her barrier and careened off to the left, exploding on the ground near the melee. Within the chaotic detonation of red flame, Ali saw Malika’s clean blue-white magic flash several times as she healed herself and Mato, and Ali’s Kobolds, all in the space of a couple of seconds.

“Hobgoblin!” Calen’s urgent shout cut through her thoughts.

Oh shit!
