It was a decent selection. Delta guessed she hadn’t really done too much with the room for it to be offering many options but Delta visibly winced at the mana vent purchase.That was... more DP than she was willing to pay right now. If it gave her just measly 1 mana for the upgrade... Delta shivered and pushed that thought away. No gambling on upgrades for the unseen future...Delta tried to stay firm on that decision.She picked the wall upgrade for now as it would work better with Nu’s plan.All around, the loosely packed dirt and loose boards shimmers and grew. Solid wood panels and proper wooden planks now formed the wall and floor. It looked really nice and Delta beamed.She made a corridor that bent into an L-shape and connected the goblin room and the Storeroom. The openly exposed dirt tunnel made the storeroom look odd so she opened the menu again.“Secret... disguised...hidden...uh... false wall... don’t-let-anyone-see-this!” Delta chanted and the menu appeared.

Delta jumped, cheering at her apparent mastery of the system.She purchased it and a wall, a perfect replicate of the rest, appeared. Delta saw a new screen appear.

Delta thought about it and then summoned Nu.“It’s all your idea, so you should get to choose!” Delta grinned. Nu was quiet for a moment.

Delta blinked at the request and the screen flashed as it accepted the trigger.She moved through it and saw a similar door on the other side. This one was disguised as the rough stone wall of the goblin hut.“Must be the same opening trigger,” she mused and she invited Billy over.Given him clear instructions, Billy knocked and spoke the password.The fake wall swung open silently. There was a pause and Cois whooped with excitement as he no longer had to worry about the mudroom.The tunnel was smooth but Delta noticed there was a little nub that formed near the middle, an almost turn off. Delta guessed she hadn’t focused enough when forming the tunnel. She eyed the space and wondered what to do with it.“Kinda lonely in here, I doubt anyone would want to be in here...” Delta mused and then came tug. She turned and followed it to see the Greater Mushy coiled up and waiting. It looked like it had packed its life together and was waiting for some cab to take it to the airport.It tugged again and Delta eyed it.“You want to go... into the tunnel?” she tried and the Mushy’s eyes glowed red. It seemed to relish the idea of the isolation, or possibly just the peace and quiet.“What would you do in there?” she wondered. Greater Mushy put a few stones down and tapped them, making quiet thudding noises.It would entertain itself. It would tap rocks or make music.Delta guessed that was all the reason it needed. She spent some mana to lift the monster and send it into the passage.It fit snugly into the little nub.Delta was glad to see it stretch out and explore its new surroundings.She eyed the tiny rocks and objects it used to make music. Feeling like she was a bad caretaker. She focused and a set of drums, a small copper harp with thin wire. It wasn’t tuned and it sounded a little rough but Delta wondered if she could... ask Ruli to get her a piano.The plant took some tentative smacks on the drum and froze at the clear banging noise. It hit again and one vine played across the harps.It was definitely rough but the Mushy seemed to shiver.Delta smiled and walked away. The secret passage closed and once it did. The sounds of drums echoed throughout the storeroom and goblin camp. The sound travelled and meeting in the pond room.It sounded like a war drum and the spiders all raised two legs and did their ceremonial war dance and the goblins looked relaxed.Fran roared and yelled for more as he practised his lance jabs.Delta could only smile sheepishly at Nu’s disapproving box.“It’s just a drum, it won’t be too bad,” she promised and Nu only moved closer to her face.

Delta made a face and stubbornly enjoyed the drumming.She was sure, absolutely sure that the drumming and music was just harmless fun.All around the dungeon, the mushrooms perked up as if called.The Lumen mushrooms glowed slightly brighter. The edible mushrooms looked fresher. The gutrot curled and looked nasty.Deep down, on the second floor.The Black Bloodcurdling Mushrooms seemed to dance.
