One of those utilities was easing the bottlenecks of golem construction. In this case, building the golem's body took about three seconds or so after designing it. I'd mold myself into the necessary shape before leaving the body. Boom, done and done. Having spent my time wisely, I arrived in a good mood as the survivor's camp came into view. Seeing the ruler's state changed that attitude to one of confusion.

The survivors camped in the same area I spawned in. On this shadier side of the world, Leviathan-7 resembled an actual planet with creatures and a sensible ecosystem, though problems still lingered. The air compressed, gravity crushed, and eldritch fought. One aspect that most life shared here was the encapsulated gas bubbles.

The thin air in the sacks pulled them up, using the dense atmosphere to their advantage, and the rulers did the same. They holed up in an advanced, gray fortress, a pyramid with many chains pulling up on it. Those cables connected to harvested air sacks from nearby wildlife, which helped keep the fort afloat.

Where it could be seen, the dull, gray surface sheened despite its rough texture, reminding me of Schema's ships during his battle with Elysium. That gray substance composed the pyramid's walls, peak, and the writhing, interlocking tendrils moving on it. Marring the edifice, blood, gore, and guts cooked on the building's surface, drawing in Behemoths that attacked the immobile building.

Fighting back, the building's mobile spines snapped at each incoming behemoth. From within, a colorful cocktail of magic exploded the behemoths. All elements erupted outward, and a colorful cacophony of sounds muted under my time magic and the behemoth's insulating corpses. I blinked, the brutal display ending with intestines, organs, and roasted flesh falling off the graphene tendril.

The cooked corpse fell onto the pyramid's wall, the slick blood congealing in seconds. Stuck on there, the unblinking eyes of the behemoth sunk into its skull while it emaciated out from every wound. The heat of Leviathan-7 sapped the water from the beast, and those desiccated bodies covered most of the gray substance composing the pyramid.

After peering close, it was probably graphene, something Schema used for his ships, Overseers, and even the Sentinels. These rulers wielded that same technology, and they composed their bastion with the carbon supermaterial. It was a good choice; traditional materials crumbled under the augmented weight on Leviathan-7.

Understanding the engineering constraints of that gravity, the developers of this dystopian structure sided against any windows. Considering the insane radiation levels here, any kind of covering was essential. To my knowledge, graphene wouldn't deflect the intense radiation from Leviathan-7.

They needed something like lead to block it, and it would be so heavy that even graphene composites would struggle to hold up the weight. Peering at the chained air sacks, that might be why they used those as counterweights. Either way, answers waited for us inside.

Shalahora and I got near the structure, a bit outside the writhing tendril's range. Once there, Shalahora connected to the others telepathically. The writhing shadow stated, "I am here, and we've come to discuss with the rulers present."

My eyes narrowed when Iona Joan answered, the bubbly administrator somehow surviving, "It's good to see you, Shalahora. We're glad to have you back. If you wouldn't mind answering, who is that beside you?"

Shalahora condensed an arm and gestured it to me, "This is Daniel, the youngest ruler here and a fellow Sovereign."

The cheerful voice replied, "Ah, it's so good to see that he's fine. I knew he was tough, but wow, he's even tougher than I imagined. You know what? That's fantastic. Just great, really."

At this point, it sounded like she was convincing herself. I joined the conversation, "Hey, it's good to see everyone in one piece. Do you mind letting us in?"

Her voice answered, and from her tone, I got the image of a receptionist locked into a permanent grin, "We would love to have you here, but before we offer protection, there's a series of contracts I'll need you to sign. We can't just offer this place to anyone because of the costs of maintaining it."

I scoffed, "I'm not here for safety. I'm here to offer it."

Iona flatlined, "If you intend to try and take advantage of our situation, I'd recommend you go elsewhere. We're doing just fine here, thank you very much."

I raised a brow while crossing my arms, "Do you speak for everyone? And you're certain everything's perfect inside?"

In the distance, a behemoth bit into one of the air sacks above the pyramid, bursting the gas bubble. Gray tendrils pierced it from multiple angles before destroying the eldritch, but the chain fell down, rattling on the pyramid's surface. I pointed at it,

"How many more of those mishaps can you guy's handle before your building topple? I have a few solutions I'm trying to offer here, but you're not exactly making this easy."

Iona Joan simmered, "We're fine, so you can leave."

Tilting my head at Shalahora, I mused, "Huh...Were they this combative before?"

The shadowy figure ruminated back, "No. They've grown far more defensive with time. I expected some of this, but not to this extent."

I sighed, "Well...It seems like they're not willing to-"

A different voice weighed in on our telepathic conversation, this one far gruffer. However, it still sounded like a woman's voice, "We're more than willing to discuss terms and deals for different offers. Please, come inside, and the entrance is below the surface. You can show him, Shalahora."

Shalahora dove downwards, and I followed. We dove under the dirt and phased through it while I burrowed. After getting underneath the building, I got a better understanding of its full bearing. The structure wasn't a pyramid; it was two of them stacked on top of each other. The resulting diamond prevented the surrounding dirt and rock from crushing the subterranean lair.

We reached the bottom of this fortress, heading towards an entrance of sorts. A graphene cage held the rock from collapsing inward, and it opened at the bottom. We burrowed into it and stayed there until a tunnel of pure energy pierced into the dirt below. Primordial mana composed the magic, the tube terraforming the air, the pressure, and the gravitation.

I followed Shalahora, who floated into the tunnel. Like a net, it wrapped around us before pulling Shalahora and me into the lowest section of the building. There, a flat panel locked behind us, sealing us in. I peered around at the futuristic room with long plasma lights. They hummed, the constant white noise masking all other sounds.

Feeling like a caught fish, I pushed against the primordial web. It restrained my push before the energy strands changed into quintessent chains. Strengthening many times over, the net tightened over Shalahora and me. The shadowy Sovereign wisped out of the restraints before the energy held me in place. Burning my skin, the power hissed out with the smell of burning sparklers in the air.

Interrupting my thoughts, Shalahora simmered, "What is this? You intend to fight us?"

Iona Joan walked out, her angel wings interlocked behind her. Several other rulers paced behind her, each looking like members of a council or guards. The bubbly ruler walked up and gazed at me, a smile on her lips and a twinkle in her eye,

"Calm down, Shalahora. We're just making sure he's trustworthy." Her eyes narrowed,

"Well then...Tell us everything we want to know...Mmkay?"
