The journey was surprisingly easy. Angus had expected great difficulty, but the sand parted before him without effort, assisted by his odd collection of spells that allowed him to freeze it in place and construct a somewhat-stable tunnel. As he moved, the Gift provided him with better spells to dig his way into the sand, and what should have been at least a day's work turned instead into an hour.

Just like that, he stood before the entrance to the temple, the sand around it cleared. The sight of it alone took his breath away, which was saying something, considering he was a breath mage. The door alone stood taller than ten of their tallest warriors, and this was just the tip. The very peak of an enormous, pyramid-shaped building.

Angus reached out, brushing his claws reverently across the door, then yelped when bright green mana flashed through the stone and caused it to rumble open. It kicked up a cloud of dust in the process.

When the dust cleared, he took a deep breath and stepped in, and it was everything he imagined yet nothing like it.

The temple was stone inside, too, first of all, not some long dead god-flesh. But it did seem to breathe, and there were veins of emerald running through it, pulsing occasionally with light. The air within was rife with mana he didn't recognize, but for every moment Angus spent here, he felt almost like he was getting younger, healthier. Obviously that couldn't be true—that sort of magic didn't exist—but that was what it felt like. It was such a relief that he could have stood there taking it in for an entire day, if he'd wanted to.

He didn't. His time was limited.

There were alcoves all throughout the temple, packed with scrolls and books. For a moment, Angus wanted nothing more than to curl up and read and understand the legend he had been chasing all his life. How many answers were there in those scroll? They would be answers he had been dreaming of all this time, answers to questions he hadn't quite dared hope would be answered.

Still, he didn't. There would be time for this afterward, when he brought the answers to the sandfish and the dangers of the Golden Sands back to his clan and he knew they would be safe. Then he would come back here and curl up among the scrolls, and he thought he would be quite happy to die there, nesting within a dream.

Reluctantly, Angus made himself head for the center of the temple, down an endless spiral of staircases that undoubtedly led all the way down to the base of the structure. Right at the bottom, surrounded by gold filigree and emerald veins, there was what seemed to be an endless pit; everything around it was brightly lit, but the hole there just extended down into pitch-black darkness.

Angus might have been afraid if not for the sense of life and healing that practically radiated from it. There was a gentle joy there, too, its intent woven in amid the mana, and tiny but concentrated wisps of breath magic.

"You must be the reason we're all attuned to breath magic," Angus said, a touch of wonder in his voice. He didn't know what this was, but he did know it was benevolent and that it wanted to help. He bounced on his feet a moment—goodness, he really did feel better in here, it was almost like his joints had stopped aching altogether—and approached until he stood right at the edge, where a thin barrier prevented him from falling in.

Angus couldn't help but laugh. "Worried about me?" he teased. "I have been searching for you all my life, my friend. I'm hardly going to just fall into you now."

The pit said nothing, of course, but Angus felt a faint whiff of concern within the mana wafting out of it. The barrier pulsed brighter, as if in protest. Angus clicked his tongue.

"Young ones," he said. "You always think your elders are so fragile."

The mana took on a distinct feeling of indignation. Angus could imagine what it was saying—Excuse you? I am ancient, and you are a mere mortal of a hundred and fifty—and laughed again, bright and happy.

"I know," he said. "Forgive me. I have spent all my life searching for you. One would think that my first act would be to kneel in supplication—" To his amusement, the mana appeared dismayed by the thought, if not outright disgusted. "—but it appears my years spent searching have made me unpredictable."

He paused, then knelt anyway, and felt the mana ripple in protest for a moment before it realized he wasn't submitting himself in worship but simply making a request in the form of a prayer. The stone softened beneath his knees as though to make this more comfortable for him, and Angus smiled again, because never in his life would he have imagined the fabled temple attempting to make him more comfortable.

"I seek understanding," he said. "The desert grows more dangerous by the year, and I fear my clan will not survive in it for much longer. The next generation might, and the generation after that, but the creatures are learning to resist our magics. Once a decade, we find a new monster capable of killing our best hunters, and it takes out too many of us before we find their weakness."

Angus bowed his head. "If you can bestow your wisdom and power, then I ask it of you, not for myself, but for my clan. Why does the danger continue to grow? How may we fight it?"

The temple shuddered. Angus felt a brief flash of something, tangled up within the mana—something like regret and guilt, along with gentle reassurance—and then it reached into his mind and mana both, bestowing on him a complicated sort of understanding.

Adaptation. The sandfish were growing resistant because they killed all the ones who could not resist, and the ones that remained were the ones that had the means to survive even the strongest expression of breath magic. This was true of all creatures, on a long enough timescale, but it was especially true for the creatures of Illwyld and of the Golden Sands, where the temple's power was strongest.

The lizardfolk couldn't keep up because the temple's power avoided them. Not because it couldn't give them its blessing, but because it was cruel to force it on them. Because it would mean they had to change rapidly, with no understanding of why or how, all to become better weapons against the sands. It would not do this to them, and yet it could not help but use its power somewhere, because it was leaking out regardless.

It had an answer for him, though. It could change his mana and mana core—just his own, no one else's. It could grant him the power to attune mana into different aspects even when it was under the command of a different mage, which would give their clan options, the ability to use something other than breath magic to harvest the sandfish. The sandfish would adapt to that too, but that adaptation would leave them vulnerable to something else, and eventually they would once more be vulnerable to breath magic.

That way, their clan would be able to retain the core of their magic and its influence on their culture without being forced to change entirely. Their growth in power wouldn't be so great that they eliminated the sandfish entirely, either; this would be only enough to restore them to what they had before the sandfish had started adapting. It was the best solution the temple could think of.

Angus was briefly distracted by the idea that the temple was not, in fact, all-knowing and powerful. And also by the idea that it could think.

Then he pointed out that he was only one mage, and he didn't have that much time remaining. Besides, wasn't this all something his clan could accomplish already, simply by learning spells of different aspects? Breath mana could be attuned to other aspects easily, after all.

He knew as soon as he had the thought that it wasn't so simple. The warrior-mages in their clan were resistant to letting go of their arts at the best of times, and the Gift was known to shift its offerings to accommodate how the mages it gave its spells acted. If they started using other magics to deal with the sandfish, the next generation of mages would likely be unable to learn a good portion of the spells they used for everyday life, and in the worst case, they wouldn't be able to cast even the [Gilded Hurricane].

The temple knew this, too. It countered that he did have plenty of time remaining, that even the short period he'd spent within it had extended his lifespan by months already—a thought that floored him—and by pointing out that he could simply imbue their weapons with his magic, giving each individual the ability to attune their breath arts into something else. As far as the Gift was concerned, it was still breath magic they were casting, only converted into a different aspect by an external tool.

And even when he did eventually pass on, as the temple assured him he would, his new core would simply pass on to someone he deemed worthy. If there was no one, then they could return the temple, or craft his bones into tokens that would do the same thing.

In a strange, morbid way, Angus found he didn't hate the thought of staying with his clan like that. Of helping them, even after his death.

It was a solution. More than that, it was a good solution, or at least good enough for Angus. He would be able to gift his clan a way to live on in the Golden Sands for as long as they wanted, pay them back for their support and their stories, and he would have a legacy that endured with the clan even without ever finding a partner and having children of his own.

This felt like the sort of solution the Wanderer would have found, in all those legends he'd loved. Angus accepted it gladly, feeling the temple's power sink into his skin, through his flesh, and settle around his mana core; he felt a moment of dizziness as there was an abrupt change, shifting his natural affinity.

He thought for a moment that he would feel a sense of loss, but there was none. Just a quiet joy in finally completing his life's work and being able to walk away with a new task, a new hope, and—this was admittedly an absurd thought, but he indulged it anyway—if this was going to make him live longer, then maybe he would live long enough to meet the Wanderer.

"Thank you," he told the temple. The mana around him warmed, almost like it was smiling at him.

Only for Angus to stagger as he felt it shift into alarm and horror. The intent around him snapped into a scream of warning, violently surging into a barrier in a desperate attempt to protect him. It was the strongest thing he had ever seen, a solid mass of will and protection, so thick it seemed to bend space itself around it.

Then he heard a long sigh. The sound sent a chill through him, because the mana around him was so thick he couldn't hear his own breathing, let alone turn to see who was sighing or how they'd frightened the temple so thoroughly.

"Really, now," a voice said. There was something cold and wrong about it, and suddenly Angus found that he didn't want to turn around at all. In fact, he wanted nothing more than to desperately get away from whoever was speaking, and from what he could tell the temple wanted that too. It was trying to yank him away, only something that wasn't the barrier kept him in place, frozen.

"Did you think I wouldn't notice you creating something this interesting?" it continued, its tone casual. Angus felt something dark and cold settling on his shoulder, something his mind absolutely refused to believe was a hand. "I would say you should know better, but this is just part of who you are, isn't it? You poor, dead thing. Even death can't teach you your lessons."

The temple roared in protest. Angus could barely hear anything over the dizzying force of the two powers fighting over him. It was a miracle he was still in one piece at all.

"Oh, yes, I followed you." There was the distinct impression of a nasty smile. "You made it difficult, certainly, but it was only a matter of time. And now you've given me yet another tool I can use. Thank you very much, by the way."

Angus threw the full weight of his mana into escape. He might as well have done nothing at all, for all the effect he had. The temple was the only thing protecting him, and it was losing.

The hand on his shoulder wrenched.

And then Angus of the Golden Sands knew nothing at all.
