Damn it. It’s not clear like it is with Dozer. Well, clearISH like it is with Dozer. You’d think being the same species would make up for the lack of a proper link, but I guess not. Doesn’t really matter, though. I don’t need to feel it to know what she’s thinking. How long has it been since she’s had a place to call home? Has she ever, really?

Shaking herself, Ameliah reached out and ran her hands over the trunk before undoing the catch and throwing back the lid. “Thank you. This is really nice.” She tilted her head, then reached in and pulled out a paper-wrapped package from atop her neatly folded cloak. “What’s this?” She lifted the package to her nose and took a quick sniff.

Rain grinned. “You remember those cocoa beans we found in the jungle?”

Ameliah lifted the package again and took another whiff, breathing deeply this time. “Gods, you made chocolate?”

Rain laughed. “I did. Go on. Have a piece.”

Ameliah sighed, setting the package back down in the box and pulling out a pile of clothes instead. She tossed them haphazardly on the bed beside the trunk on top of his armor, then began getting dressed. “We don’t have time for that kind of thing right now. I want to enjoy it properly. You still owe me that day out, remember?” She paused, glancing back at the chocolate, then at him over her shoulder. “Actually, hang on, Captain Busy Busy. When did you have time? Didn’t you have more important things to be doing than trying to figure out the recipe?”

“I made time,” Rain replied easily, tugging on a large pair of gloves over his rings to hide them and to encourage them to stay on his fingers. “You’re important too.”

Ameliah chuckled and turned back around to resume dressing. “Cheesy.”

Rain grinned at her back. “I try.”

Ameliah exhaled deeply, poking her head through the collar of her white linen shirt. “Depths, the chocolate made everything in there smell amazing.” She turned to face him, brushing her hair out of her face with one hand. “How do I look?”

“As delicious as you smell,” Rain replied, receiving a punch to the upper arm for his trouble. “Hey!”

Ameliah laughed, then stepped forward and hugged him, resting her head on his shoulder. “Thank you.”

“You’re welcome,” Rain said, squeezing tightly. They lingered there for a moment before they broke apart in mutual acknowledgment of the time. They really were running late.

They finished dressing in a rush, adding boots, Ascension cloaks, and in Ameliah’s case, her bow and quivers. Both of them tucked their amulets beneath their clothing, safely out of sight. Though he hated to do it, Rain released a quick pulse of Purify to banish the delicious odor from the room.

“Right,” Ameliah said, closing her trunk with a solid thunk. “Let’s go get her.”

Halgrave sat crosslegged at the bow of the metal ship, hunched in his armor beneath a borrowed cloak against the steady rain. The unenchanted fabric had long since soaked through, but it scarcely mattered. He’d slept through worse. If he’d wanted to be dry, he could have sought accommodation in the city like Glavin, or at least moved under the wooden platform at the ship’s stern. In truth, sleep was far from his thoughts this night. What he felt was a vague anxiety. He was running out of time to convince his daughter to leave.

These people...

‘Bizarre’ was an insufficient word to describe some of the things he had seen, just as ‘damp’ was inadequate to describe his current state.

On the surface, Ascension was just an overgrown Adventuring team, held together by common interest. He had seen its like before. Eight was usually as large as a group got, given the system limit on party size, but there was nothing in the Guild rules that prevented larger teams from being registered. Neither was there a rule prohibiting dull followers. Teams often hired such to carry the bags and tend to the horses. What they didn’t do was assign them positions of leadership, as Ascension had done with the Vanna woman, someone who’d previously made a living scraping muck out of sewer tunnels. They didn’t awaken them, squandering the chance for a powerful accolade in exchange for a fresh crop of weakling bronzes. It was insanity.

To him, to anyone that mattered, the difference between unawakened and bronze was immaterial. A few extra bronzes would not save Ascension when someone came to take what they had earned, not unless they somehow reached the scale of the Adamant Empire itself. Then, it could work, as the ship he sat upon was proof. That wasn’t going to happen, though. They might as well aim to build a fortress on the moon. They would never get there.

What is their endgame?

Halgrave frowned, considering again what would happen when the fools sailed this ship into the Barstone harbor. It would be taken from them. The talk was that Rain intended to rely on his status as Custodian to keep the DKE at bay, but that only meant the Watch would be the ones to end up in possession of the ship. There was no scenario in which Ascension got to keep it—or, for that matter, any of their other secrets.

Light without Light Crysts? A mechanical journey core large enough to move this vessel? A long-distance communication device that takes the place of a Mentalist? And all of it powered by artificial lightning?

Halgrave grunted.

He had demanded no answers thus far, not judging it to be worth the annoyance of getting them, but even his interest was beginning to move beyond idle curiosity. He’d been barred—politely—from going below deck, and Mahria had told him next to nothing, showing more loyalty to her new friends than to her own father. He could understand her devotion, given that they’d helped her to unlock her class, but such devotion was misplaced. Ascension had made her promises that it could not keep, and she, young and foolish, believed them.

She would learn.

This world was brutal. You could keep only what you could hold with your own two hands.

A flicker of movement caught Halgrave’s eye, and he tensed, reaching for the hammer that rested across his knees as a pair of white-cloaked and hooded figures emerged onto the deck. The hatch they’d exited was dimly lit from within by one of the Crystless lights, tinted red for some reason and not bright enough to make out details through the rain. Both were too tall to be his daughter, and the taller of them was significantly too broad as well.

With a sigh, Halgrave released his weapon. The pair passed into darkness, moving toward the starboard railing.

It was just a shift change, and not the first of the night. Ascension might not have the power to protect what they had taken, but they were not slouching about going through the motions. He could respect that. Here, it would even work for them. Not so in Barstone. They were not strong enough. Perhaps once he pulled his daughter out of the wreckage of this company of hers, then she would see.

Halgrave snorted.

Or perhaps not. She is stubborn. Like me.

“Whew,” Rain sighed in relief as his boots struck the wooden plank of the rowboat’s seat. His relief was not at being down from the mooring rope, which he’d descended with ease that his past gym-class self would have never believed. Instead, it was simply at being out of Halgrave’s line of sight. “Does that man never sleep?”

“You’re one to talk,” Ameliah whispered from above him, little more than a shadowy form in the darkness.

Rain smiled, the small boat rocking alarmingly as he negotiated his way into it. Vanna, sitting on the central bench and holding the oars, didn’t react to his arrival other than by leaning to compensate. She was humming to herself softly, seemingly completely unaware that she was no longer alone.

This spell is insane.

“Move so I can get in,” Ameliah whispered. Before Rain could figure out a way to comply, she spoke again. “Forget it.” Letting go of the rope, she took two easy steps through the air. The boat rocked again, the ocean lapping against its sides as she found purchase near the bow.

That works. Sitting to steady himself, Rain reached forward and placed a hand on Vanna’s shoulder, shaking her gently. “Vanna. Psst. It’s us.”

Vanna jerked back sharply in alarm, opening her mouth, but before she cried out, she blinked and stopped herself. “Rain? Gods, that spell is insane.”

Rain smiled. “Right? I was just thinking that.”

Vanna shook her head, shivering in a way that had nothing to do with the water soaking her cloak. “I remember you climbing down right in front of me. Hells, I watched you. You even almost flipped the boat over. It just didn’t seem...important. Gods, that’s disturbing.”

“Sorry,” Rain said. “There’s no way to exclude someone from the inverted effect other than by limiting the range. IFF controls who or what is being veiled, not whose mind’s getting played with.”

Vanna shuddered again. “Don’t like it.”

Rain grimaced in sympathy. “Yeah. Just remember to keep thinking about us. Otherwise, you’ll forget we’re here.”

“We?” Vanna blinked, still looking shaken. “Oh, yeah. Ameliah. Where’s...” She turned sharply, placing a hand over her heart.

Ameliah smiled and gave her a little wave. “Hi.”

Vanna sighed, lowering her hand. “Gods.”

“You did keep Halgrave out of it, right?” Ameliah asked Rain over Vanna’s shoulder.

“Yeah,” Rain replied, checking the goldplate’s position with the non-inverted effect of the spell as he untied the rowboat. Regular Detection was basically undetectable as far as he knew, but not so the inverted version. Halgrave would have noticed the influence on his mind, no question about it. At gold, he had both the resistances and the experience. Their disguises would have to be enough. Fortunately, it looked like they had been.

“Here we go,” Vanna whispered, seeming to have recovered. She began hauling at the oars, pointing the bow toward the shore. “The cloaks are under your benches.”

Rain nodded, retrieving a tightly-wrapped bundle from beneath his bench. He and Ameliah had debated making the crossing with Airwalk or by swimming but had decided that the boat was the best option. It was the least remarkable. Inverted Detection worked best when what was being hidden was something commonplace. People would be more inclined to pay attention if they spotted someone like Ameliah walking through the sky or two mysterious figures hauling themselves dripping from the sea.

As Vanna rowed, Rain occupied himself by looking inward, using Mana Manipulation to trace the pathways within himself as he kept the spell active. As usual, it was an incomprehensible mess, as it was whenever he was using metamagic. Needless to say, he made no progress toward untangling it by the time they reached shore.

After they tied up at the dock, all three got out to make their way up to the clinic. Just before they got there, though, Rain and Ameliah ducked aside into an alley, leaving Vanna to carry on alone. Safely out of sight, they changed their white Ascension cloaks for brown ones, shoving the white ones into a barrel that was waiting there for exactly that purpose. The bundles Vanna had prepared had contained a spare Ascension cloak as well, and it joined the others. That would be for Velika on the way back. From a distance, three people would have been seen rowing to shore, and three people would be seen rowing back.

Only once the barrel was closed did Rain release Detection, wanting to take the chance to refresh his mana. When he activated Winter, he almost gave himself away by yelping in surprise, but he managed to strangle the cry in his throat.

Holy—

Through his endless hours of practice, Rain had grown quite adept at determining a good cast from a bad one. Checking had become almost automatic. This cast wasn’t just his best one ever; it was near flawless. At least, it was as far as he could tell with the limits of Mana Manipulation. His view was just as fuzzy as ever, but with this much metamagic active, the mess should have been way more...messy.

“What is it?” Ameliah whispered.

Rain looked up at her, then blinked and closed his jaw. “Use Mana Sight on me,” he managed.

Ameliah arched an eyebrow, then it was her turn to look shocked. “Oh.”

Rain nodded numbly. “Uh-huh.” He let Winter fade, then cast it again. It wasn’t quite so perfect this time, but it was close. He looked down at his chest, at the damp shirt stretched tightly across it. The thin fabric offered no protection, but...

It wasn’t metal.

The amulet beneath it was, and so were the rings on his fingers. Those were the places the spell looked the worst. He carefully pressed with Mana Manipulation, finding that his dexterity with the spell, for lack of a better word, had likewise been improved.

He looked up at Ameliah, barely trusting himself to speak. “You know that feeling you get when you realize you’re an idiot?”

“But you tried using Prismatic Intent without your armor already,” Ameliah countered, sounding just as shocked as he felt.

Rain shook his head. “Yeah, but I was...”

“...in the ship,” Ameliah finished for him. “In the metal ship in our metal room, surrounded by metal. The only place you felt safe enough to take off your turtle shell.”

“Yeah,” Rain said, licking his lips. “I got as far away from the walls as I could, but...” He trailed off. Looking around, he decided it was worth the risk, then activated Force Ward, ready to drop it the moment he felt he was in danger of passing out.

“Careful,” Ameliah said, watching him closely. “Actually...huh. The soot’s not too bad, even with all that metamagic. Don’t push it, though. It’s starting to build up.”

“Right,” Rain said, dropping the second spell to focus on Winter. He’d already begun to feel it, the foggy weakness that would end with him staring up at the sky, imitating a birdbath. The onset had been slow, though, even compared to what would have happened if he’d been using both spells unmodified. “Depths.”

“Yeah,” Ameliah said, stepping forward. “This changes things.”

Rain nodded again, triggering an essence exchange and checking for any experience gained.

Progress Report

marker_1: enduro4 [3061 Seedlings 28 23:15]

marker_2: WHAT?! [3061 Seedlings 28 23:56]

Span: 41 minutes

He muttered a curse under his breath.

“What?” Ameliah asked.

“No experience,” Rain said, waving the panel away. “And no time to think about why. We need to hurry.”

“Right,” Ameliah said. “No distractions. Fill yourself back up, then let’s go.”

