I awoke earlier than my roommates, though not by much. Morning was a bit frantic around here. We rose early to draw water and empty chamber pots, and do a bit of basic self and room cleaning. Breakfast came next, it was similar to dinner the night before, but lighter, barely a snack. Then came lessons.The lessons we were given were practical in nature. First came basic math and reading, this was all so simple I'd mastered it quite awhile ago. There was nothing more complicated than multiplication in this section, but it was made well sure that everyone could do it without effort. Then the girls and boys were divided into groups and taught the basic skills that they would need for day to day life. For us this covered fiber based arts (sewing, weaving, etc.) followed by basic household budgeting and management. This was actually a very interesting subject to me. The girls here were given the responsibility of coming up with how much of any given good the temple would need for the winter for our care. Then prices for goods were provided and we had to come up with a budget. This was done by individual, dorm, and finally orphanage quantity. The teachers would look over our work and correct any mistakes they found before sending a few of the older girls out to negotiate with merchants for the goods.It was strange to think that we were the ones in charge of the day to day operations. Of course the staff was keeping an eye on our work, and would step in if anything got out of hand. Still though, this was a strangely practical education.The boys were being taught quite different things. Since there was no money to pay for apprenticeships they were instead being taught mostly the craft of being city guards. The priests liked the idea of the children they raised going on to protect others. Everyone else liked the idea that these youths would be raised to serve the public; it was a win-win.The boys over ten were also given combat instruction. It was deemed useful since they would be entering either the army or guard. A retired soldier had been hired to this effort, and he drilled them in the common formations and methods of fighting. It seemed common practice to begin teaching these things no earlier than ten, though this was just social convention.I was informed that when it wasn't after harvest or winter the orphanage had a few fields that we would work. To teach us the basics of farming as well. I was very glad I seemed to have missed that, harvest was a ton of work.Most of our teachers were not priests, but rather temple staff like Gabbi. There were a handful of these members of staff, all quite devoted to the precepts of the order. Questioning taught me that such people were viewed well since their efforts allowed the priests to focus on the magic that helped society function. They were called acolytes, and while it was rare, some would manifest priestly magic due to the strength of their belief. That was a rarity though, most priests developed their powers while small children.Before lunch was served a list was run down. One girl had skipped out on her chores the previous day and was taken to the front where she was given ten strikes with a cane. Her previous day's task was then added to what she'd be given today, and she was forbidden from leaving the temple until tomorrow. This was quite rare I was told, since they were easy enough to do and everyone knew the punishment.Lunch was similar in nature to the other meals. It was a slightly thicker vegetable stew, yummy, but not enough. At lunch chores were distributed based on age on some form of a rotation. We were allowed to trade if we wanted. To do so all parties involved simply had to tell a member of the staff after lunch. Turning them in was the same, just have a staff member check.I took the time after lunch to do and turn in my chore. Those on cleaning duty were a bit grumpy when I asked them to sing with me, but they obliged. It was only a few moments before I'd filled up the two large baskets that were my mandated amount. It took most of my mana to do so, but other than that it wasn't too bad. Jaws dropped as I turned to Gabbi, who'd stayed behind to supervise."So, if I wanted to work at a tavern where would you recommend?" I asked."Was it seriously that easy for you?" She was still not quite believing what I'd done. The kids assigned to cleaning looked as if they were having a similar reaction."It took the majority of my mana to do that Gabbi. It was close to the max I'll be able to do for the next hour or so, I do not consider it 'easy' at all." I glared at her. I didn't want her to increase my workload as I'd had quite enough of my nose being pushed to the grindstone, thank you."Right, right, The Silver Fish is just across the street. If you went down the road a little you'd come to Haven's House, they're both pretty good." She had recovered nicely. "When you go to speak to someone please take myself or one of the others with you. It would be bad if you were taken advantage of.""Okay, I'm going to go do that in a couple hours. Would you care to join me then?" I intended to check and see some things in the market first."Certainly, I'll be in the girls' workroom around that time." The room she indicated was one where a few optional after lunch lessons were held. It was also where we could go to practice things like weaving, as it had some looms."See you!" I waved to her as I left; hoping to escape before I was given another task.

First I went to near the gate to find a message service. It was fairly easy to locate the biggest one. They were happy to relay my letter to my family, telling them I'd been kidnapped and where I was. Unfortunately the clerk told me there was a fair chance that it wouldn't get there in time for a response to reach me before spring. Only high priority and very expensive letters were delivered during the winter. The roads were just too cold and covered in snow. Since that service would put me straight to broke I decided to just use the regular rate.In the market I used a small amount of my hidden funds to check the prices of bread and replace my belt knife. A frankly pathetic looking loaf was currently running around six copper. I did take the time to inquire from the merchants about the good taverns in town. Two names came up most often, Haven's House and The Tipped Bottle. The Bottle was out, as it seemed to be right up to where the nobles lived, too far for the priests to let me go there."Someone told me about a place called The Silver Fish, what are they like?" I asked the smith who'd sold me my new knife.This novel is published on a different platform. Support the original author by finding the official source."The food is fine, but the ale is watered a bit. The decor is also just a bit cheap. I'd go there for a meal if I wanted something quick, but I wouldn't stay there." That was a harsh review, but it told me quite a lot about the place."Thanks, have a nice day!" I gave the burly man a big smile as I turned to return to the temple.Finding Gabbi was easy. She was doing some repairs on a few garments for the smaller kids when I came in."I've decided to give getting a place at Haven's House a go.""The Silver Fish is closer." She obviously disagreed with my choice."So it is, but the owner has a reputation for being cheap. It will be better to go somewhere where the owner isn't." I honestly didn't feel like dealing with someone who didn't want to pay the proper price for things."Hmm, if that is your choice. Let me finish up this shirt and we'll go." It didn't take her long to fix the small rip in it. I had to stop for a moment and admire her perfect tiny stitches.

The building we approached was three stories high. Its edifice was calming, all gray stone with a small garden out front gave a good feeling of homeyness. At the same time the high level of maintenance spoke that it was a nicer establishment, whoever ran this place had a good eye.Once we got inside we were greeted by an expansive dining room, it reached up so that you could see some of the second story. A roaring fireplace was in one corner and it, along with a few hanging lamps provided a warm, moderate level of lighting.One of the waitresses came up to see us. She was in a high cut dress whose colors were velvet brown and deep blue. It wasn't sexy like the Harlot's staff had been, but rather looked a bit girl next doorish."Welcome to Haven's House, how can I help you today?" There was a board with a menu, it read about like I was expecting."I'm a bard, and I'm hoping to find a job for the afternoons, could we speak to the owner?" I would handle the negotiations, regardless of what Gabbi or anyone else thought about that.It took a few moments before the waitress returned and led us off to a back room. There we found an older man sitting behind a large, polished desk. A few reports were scattered here and there, and ledgers sat upon the shelves behind him in neat rows."Welcome, I hear you're looking for a job?" The man waved us in with a smile. He had no aura that I could sense."Yes, I'm hoping to find a bit of work.""I've been told you're a bard, what all can you do exactly? I don't really need a healer, and as for charging magical items. That's not one we do much around here." He was at least willing to hear me out. Though from the sound of it he didn't think he'd need me."I can do a few different things. For now the most important is that I can summon bread, with the food shortages surely there's some need for that?""Perhaps, show me." He was clearly interested.I conjured up a loaf about the same size as that I'd seen in the market. I will say my work was generally of a much better quality.The owner picked it up and examined it with a keen eye. Eventually he broke off a small piece and ate it."Okay, I'm interested. How much to bring you onto my staff?""Ten copper a day, another six per loaf of that size you want me to make for you." The daily rate was something near what a high cost worker would make."Four per loaf, I can get basic bread other ways." His counteroffer was not too bad, but it was too low."Six. Six is how much a poor quality loaf is currently costing in the market. Mine is not only better, but as winter creeps in the cost of buying ingredients or finished products is going to increase. Add to that that this is a restaurant and you'll sell it for ten easily and the price it should be is six. You'll make four copper profit for negligible effort on each one."He looked taken aback for a few moments, then began to laugh. "You drive a hard bargain girl. How about five?""Shall I go to one of your competitors instead?" I asked as sweetly as I could."Fine, fine, six, anything else?"Gabbi looked as if she was going to say something, but I got on that first."I can only work from just after lunch until dinner. Also I'd like three days a week off."He asked for clarification and I gave him more exact times, one that would bring me back home well before my appointed curfew. I could even squeeze into getting dinner at the orphanage if I kept to that one. The second part was slightly less than what a normal worker would do. I was a child though, so that was probably fine.He agreed, but told me I'd have to stay in the back until I got a proper outfit. My current dress was worn and getting a bit small on me. He also wanted me to work the days he had the heaviest traffic. Both of these worked fine for me.I was set to start the next day. When I left I had a big smile on my face and was almost skipping down the road.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Dinner that night had an extra bit added to it, something which made everyone happy. It seemed my chore would be enough to at least help out around here, and that made me feel as if I was earning my keep.Once I got to the after dinner meeting though the grilling began."So... rumor has it that you can make bread with your magic?" One of the slightly older girls, a teen named Kalie came over and asked. She got a bit closer than I would have liked.

"Um... yeah." There was no real point in trying to hide the truth."You will make a bit for us after dinner right? Since we're all here working together?" She eagerly pulled me against her. "I mean, we're practically family, aren't we?""Actually I was going to work on something else." This did not get a positive response from Kalie."What could possibly be important enough to work on otherwise?" she asked as she began to squeeze my shoulders, her voice lowering dangerously."I wanted to learn to make cheese. Don't worry, I'll share with everyone. Once it starts to get cold I also want to keep the room warm, that'll take a bit of my mana too."She brightened right up. "I knew you were going to be nice to us. We'll be like sisters!"That wasn't going to happen."Hey, she's our roommate! You can't go grabbing her away!" Gigi and Susie both got hold of me, seemingly determined that I should help them the most as they tried to pull me away, resulting in a tugging contest.This winter was going to be exhausting.
