Slowly, his head withdrew as he seemed to realize he was terrifying her, but the intensity of the light in his eyes did not abate. “What can you make that is draconic and holy or void affinity?”

“I don’t know?” she answered, feeling her heartbeat slowly returning to normal. “It’s fairly difficult, but I can try some things?” Her voice rose at the end, turning the statement into something that sounded embarrassingly like a question.

[Zone] Devouring Consumption has advanced to the second tier.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Ali automatically selected a free chapter for her new evolved Ooze variant, resulting in an explosion of runic magic funneling rapidly into the pages of her Grimoire.

“We have some time,” Azryet said. “And I am very interested in watching.”

Her mind whirling, she reached for her Grimoire. Calm down, Ali, he’s not going to eat you. Certainly, if she were to be dinner, he would have eaten her a long time ago. She glanced over to see Tiraza looking on curiously, waiting for them to be done, with her beautiful aura of holy magic emanating from her like ghostly flames. And suddenly she had an idea.

“Clarence, I need you,” she said, and her mother’s book flew over and settled into her lap, opening to the chapter on affinity transcription, as if it had read her mind. Then she turned to the kobold imprint and began trying to blend her Acolyte of Azryet with her Fire Mage.

[Zone] Bone Champion has advanced to the second tier.

The gong sounded, announcing Kir’mogan’s ascension to the second tier.

It took every ounce of skill Ali had, and many consultations with Clarence. She messed up countless skill transcriptions, having to wipe them out and do them over, and, in the end, she hadn’t even been able to make an exact transcription due to the fundamental inherent incompatibilities between holy and fire. But at last, her Grimoire finally acknowledged her work.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 53.Sage of Learning has reached level 65.Variant: Holy Fire Mage added to Imprint: Kobold.

Carefully, she summoned one, exquisitely aware that Azryet had been scrutinizing her work the entire time.

Holy Fire Mage – Kobold – level 67 (Holy).

Ali glanced over the skill list carefully, but even under close examination, everything seemed fine. It had a Fireball skill that used holy flame instead of fire. It had a holy bolt. She hadn’t been able to give it Flame Shield, so instead she gave it an actual Holy Shield, just like Havok. It had two important skills that would set it apart in combat. The first mastery allowed all its holy offensive skills to heal any allies it hit instead of doing damage – a skill that made its area damage fireball vastly more versatile. The second was an ability that dropped consecrated holy fire on the ground wherever it did damage, a lingering area of damage and healing for foes and allies respectively – an exact copy of Havok’s skill. The rest of its skills she had left mostly intact, basic mage support skills boosting intelligence and such. Its Flame Dash movement skill was almost unchanged, just leaving consecrated fire instead of regular fire.

“Um, I think it’s done,” she said, pushing the little Kobold forward for Azryet to see. She also shared the skill list and aptitudes. Holy damage would be useful for Azryet – it did extra damage to demons and undead, although she was certain a level sixty-seven kobold was not exactly a powerful monster.

Azryet stared at it for a very long time.

[Zone] Spirit Walker has advanced to the second tier.

Not even the loud gong when Kir’vella advanced was enough to shake his focus.

“Shoot,” Azryet commanded, finally breaking his silence and indicating the far wall with a great talon.

“At once,” the quivering kobold said, staring wide-eyed up at the apotheosis of dragon-kind. A brilliant white and yellow ball of mana appeared hovering over his talons – an image that had been burned into Ali’s mind from many terrifying encounters. A fireball. Only this time, it came in holy flavor. It shot across the room, impacting the wall with a thump, and detonated in a rather impressive explosion of flickering ghostly white and yellow flames. And in its wake, it left lingering flames flickering on the floor and the wall. Her little kobold was not done yet, following up with eager demonstrations of his shield and holy bolts.

“May I have this one?” Azryet asked, his whirling eyes sparkling with flecks of pitch black and glowing holy flames.

He asked. It was a surprising thing; with all his intensity, she had expected him to demand it. To try and command her, and yet his voice had sounded polite and respectful, even when it was very obviously something he desperately wanted. She didn’t even respond; she simply summoned two more kobolds and offered them to him.

He waved his claws through the three waiting Kobold mages, and they vanished in a puff of holy mana. Then his mana flickered, and the three kobolds stood before him once again, glancing about nervously, the near instant summoning serving as a casual reminder of just how far above her in power he really was.

Mage – Kobold – level 63 (Holy) x3.

“Thank you, Aliandra,” he said, looking up from his newest minions to meet her gaze. “I haven’t learned a new minion skill in far too long.”

“You’re welcome,” Ali said, bowing her head to the dragon god just a little. “I can continue to look for interesting holy or void skills then and send them your way.”

“That would be most appreciated,” Azryet said, still focused on the tiny kobold mages he had created. His glances between the kobold and the shrine seemed to indicate he was weighing something difficult. Then, with a rumbling sound like a huge sigh, he finally came to a decision.

[Zone] Wielder of the Sacred Flame has advanced to the second tier.

Mage – Kobold – level 100 (Holy).

He boosted it? Ali had known the kobold was somehow important to him, simply by the intensity he had shown, but she hadn’t realized it was quite that important. In an instant, he had pushed the little kobold past its first evolution, clearly by using the shrine’s ‘force evolution’ ability, spending his precious Authority to accelerate the development of whichever new skill he valued in the kobold she had just transcribed. “It was worth the Authority?”

“I may come to regret that decision,” Azryet said, “but your gift has two skills I do not have. Accelerating the process at this low level is barely affordable, but I am now critically low once more. Tell me, Aliandra, what do you want in exchange for this extraordinary gift?”

“I’m glad I could help,” Ali answered. “Consider it a thank-you gift for your hospitality.” Azryet seemed to put great stock into keeping his word and upholding his deals, and having him be favorably disposed toward her in the future seemed like a good investment. But more pressingly, if she couldn’t recover her corrupted ice mage, and his fears materialized in the form of a new devastating development from Destraggoth, she didn’t want him blaming her as much; certainly, she felt a little guilty about dumping problems on him.

“I may not be able to help you against Maalgaroth directly,” he rumbled, creating several of the newly evolved kobold mages. “But there is one way I can help, and it was what ultimately tipped me in favor of spending Authority – take these Wielders of the Sacred Flame with you. You have my gratitude for your generosity. Now, we should begin immediately, there is no way Destraggoth will be oblivious to all these zone messages.”

“Thank you,” Ali said, immediately deconstructing the offered minions and adding them to her kobold imprint. “I will use it well.”

Variant: Wielder of the Sacred Flame added to Imprint: Kobold.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
