“Why do you treat me as if I can’t understand the most ordinary of troubles, Noh? You never did that before I made a choice you didn’t agree with.”

They were both nearly whispering, but the lack of volume didn’t rob the words of their frustration.

Noh-en bit her lower lip and blinked at him. “I didn’t intend to.”

“I know Gilor-helk doesn’t truly want to be a knight. I know some people become regretful as the opportunity fades. I heard that his cousin lost her <<hoped-for one>>, and he probably thinks she would be comforted if he could be more to her than a votary. I understand the same things the rest of you understand about choosing, and I have contemplated them for years.”

“Stu, I didn’t—”

“I’ll greet him and Quinyeth, since they’re already waving toward us as they come. Then Alden and I will leave. Because…I also know I don’t pretend with perfection. And I don’t want to upset anyone here. You may say whatever you think is best about why I came early and left quickly.”

He said the last part so decisively that Noh-en only nodded. Neither of them said another word until the two figures Alden had seen slowly making their way here finally reached them.

They were both wearing the exact same outfit as Noh-en. One of them was only two or three inches shorter than Alden, with dark skin and hair that was gathered at the nape of their neck in a ponytail. The other was a smidge shorter than Stuart, with a medium skin tone and white hair that sprouted from the top of the clip that held it at the back. The hair sprout bounced around even more than the owner did as they directed a woven basket with a short pinkish wand. The overloaded basket was skimming a foot or so above the ground, occasionally spilling something that looked like trail mix with a bunch of pale yellow slugs added to it.

And they probably were alien slugs, now that Alden saw the ones the taller Artonan was tossing toward the ground in front of the bokabv. They crawled around slowly.

Which one is Quinyeth, and which is Gilor-helk?

The taller one looked a little older in subtle ways. The shorter one had most of the food, and Alden thought they were female. But ever since the fiasco that was his assumption that Zeridee-und’h was a fussy old male butler, he’d been less confident when it came to the more difficult guesses.

“Hello! Hello, Stu!” said the basket director as the wand in their hand drew an arc and line in the air. The basket flipped over and began to spread the slug mix in front of a very intrigued-looking bokabv.  “Is that…? He is! He is a human! I said it could be so, didn’t I, Gilor? When we spotted them from the stairs!”

Quinyeth confirmed. Alden gave her a small wave, and she gave him a huge one with the hand that held the wand. The empty basket shot twenty yards to her right.

“You did,” said Gilor-helk, both eyes on Alden, “but there was no reason for you to think it was so from that distance. I’ve never even seen a human in the Rapport.”

Quinyeth hurried over to Alden and looked up into his eyes eagerly. “Green!” she said, her smile delighted.

Stuart made a quick and quiet staccato sound that was basically an advanced version of uh-uh, and the girl glanced at him.

“This is Alden,” said Stuart. “He is an Avowed sworn to his planet’s Contract, and…”

He got through Alden’s introduction and introduced Gilor-helk as a votary much less painfully than it had gone with Noh-en earlier. But the second Stuart’s attention turned to Quinyeth, she decided to jump in and introduce herself.

“Hi, Alden! I’m Quinyeth-wit. You may call me whatever is easy for your tongue. Welcome to our school. I’ll be happy to show you around campus. What is your language? I know a few words in many Earth languages.”

“You do?” all three of the others asked.

“English,” said Alden, surprised himself.

She clapped her hands together once, then held them clasped in front of her. “I have a candle made from the wax of a bee, with a wick of cotton, and its fragrance is that of vanilla.”

“That was five words of perfect English,” Alden said. “You said them very well.”

“Thank you! The candle is in my room up the hill. Do you want to come see it?”

“A candle?”

“You may smell it as well.”

“I…” It occurred to him that she might think a vanilla candle made of beeswax was special. He was trying to figure out how to refuse without implying that they weren’t, when Stuart stepped in.

“You have chores, Quinyeth,” he said.

“I did the main one.” She pointed one eye at the basket she’d just hurled aside and another at the bokabv. “You have chores, too, Stu. You were on the list! This looks like a lot of work.”

She bent over and stuck a finger in the soil.

Gilor-helk was crouching down to do the same. “Ah, Stu! You’ve already done it all, haven’t you? I was excited to help you with it…” He shook his head and stood again. “I did bring these for you.”

Alden watched him pass Stuart a satchel. When Stuart opened it, a very recognizable wooly cape was visible on top.

Alden tensed, but Stuart said nothing. One of his hands moved slowly to brush the cape.

“Even if you’re only going to be with us for a small number of mornings, you deserve the clothing of your role,” Gilor-helk explained. He had a warm, buttery voice. Though there might have been a touch of uncertainty in it, it wasn’t strong enough for Alden to be sure he really heard it. “If you tell me when you’re coming, I’ll be here to walk down the stairs with you. Or back up them today, if you’re staying until the sun touches the daystart stone. I remember how you used to arrive early sometimes just to watch the <<procession>>, and you’ve never had the chance to join it yourself.”

That’s because he chose something else, thought Alden.

He wondered what Rel-art’h had be thinking, signing his brother up for this. Was it more about being practical and making sure the bokabv didn’t burden the school with its presence? Or was the whole point of it to make sure that Stuart was forced to deal with these people he’d once spent his days with?

Hey, maybe it’s not about the votary thing at all. Maybe he’s trying to get Stuart to compare and contrast good Artonans his age with his inconvenient new friend.

He hoped that wasn’t the main reason, but it could have been a part of it.

“Gilor,” said Noh-en, “I think Stu and Alden have plans for today.”

“We do,” said Stuart, closing the bag.

The older Artonan’s smile stayed the same, but he slumped just a little. “I understand.”

“But I haven’t finished the grass perfectly, yet,” Stuart said. “Another spell or two with your help might improve its growth.”

He looked at Alden like he was trying to apologize with his eyes.

[This is good if it’s what you think you should do,] Alden texted him. [I can wait. You already showed me a bokabv this morning.]

Stuart nodded.

Gilor-helk was already talking about some spell he’d learned at his university. Noh-en was getting in on the discussion. Quinyeth-wit was getting closer and closer to Alden like she planned to pick him up and carry him off.

“Do you want me to go see your candle now?” he asked.

Maybe Stuart could sort some things out if there wasn’t an alien weighing his conversation down.

His own affixation would be easier if he had a few people who were on his side, Alden thought as he followed Quinyeth-wit toward the stairs. Maybe that was in the back of Rel-art’h’s mind, too.

Alone…alone was hard.

******

******

After a tour of her room, an introduction to her candle, and a discussion about vanilla, Quinyeth—who’d hinted that she wanted to have her surname dropped hard enough that Alden had finally realized it—took him upstairs to the tower that held the school library. Along the way, she told him everyone else’s business.

She dealt not in terrible secrets of universal consequence, like Kibby and Stuart sometimes did, but in the everyday drama of Rapport I.

On the one hand, Alden didn’t feel like he’d be arrested for knowing most of it, but on the other, if he ever met some of the people she mentioned, he’d be unable to look them in the face.

“Should you be telling me these things?” he asked as they climbed what felt like the fifteenth staircase. This one was a winding, glass-walled one that curved around the outside of the library tower

“Don’t you want to hear them?”

That was not a yes. He was about to tell her he would prefer explanations of what every single enchanted item they passed was, when she said, “I wonder if it’s all right to take you up to the top library? You’re a little young, aren’t you?”

“I’m sure I’m old enough for the top library,” he replied immediately.

She was planning to leave him alone there, so that she could run back to the summonarium and greet the person who she wanted to be a personal votary for. Alden was hoping they were talking about a room full of books on magic that he could just browse for a few minutes. Because innocent curiosity was not a crime.

“Humans age fast. And someone recently called me mature.”

She leaped up two steps at once, her white hair sprout bouncing. “The top library is my favorite. Someone will already have put first meal out for anyone studying there. Have you eaten?”

Other people will be there? His disappointment was immense. Can I change my library choice now?

The door at the top of the staircase was already drawing aside for them. It led into a small room with dark wood floors. Its function was immediately clear. Lines of tablets on shelves, wands in cubbies, a few drawers labeled “rings”, paper, ink brushes—this was where you picked up your study and practice supplies. And food was indeed spread out on a sideboard, along with pots of wevvi and other drinks. It was simple. Just cups filled with something that strongly resembled the trail mix the bokabv had gotten for her meal, minus the slugs, and a fresh fruit selection.

Quinyeth told him the trail mix could be eaten dry, or hot water could be added.

Makes it more like cereal I guess.

Alden took a cup because he hadn’t had anything but grain tea this morning. He shook some into his mouth while Quinyeth gave him a scattershot explanation of library rules.

Oh, it’s salty.

Salty, umami, and just a little sweet. Very crunchy. Not bad at all, though he could have done without the metallic aftertaste.

Quinyeth left for the summonarium, and Alden took a minute to stare at the wands and open the drawers that held the rings. He wasn’t about to take anything and try it out, but he didn’t mind fantasizing that he could have found out what using a wand felt like if he’d had a guarantee that he was the only person in the library this morning.

He ate another mouthful of the trail mix. A bite of something like bacon, but sour, took him by surprise. He examined the contents of the cup more carefully, trying to identify what that bite had been. And that was when he realized the trail mix was full of something that didn’t look right.

He poured some of it out onto his palm and held it directly under a sconce light on the wall, squinting at it. The mix was full of inch-long crunchy brown things that he’d thought were crackers. They looked a lot like tiny dehydrated fish, though.

Crackers shaped like fish? Because it’s cute or something?

They even had a spot where an eyeball would have been. That wasn’t very cute, but Artonans could be weird.

Alden ate one. It didn’t have the sour bacon taste. The fish cracker was more like the base of the trail mix—salty, umami, and a bad metal flavor that prevented it from being something he’d choose for himself on Earth.

Umami’s a meaty flavor.

He ate another.

This tastes awfully meat-like.

He held his hand up to the light again. He pinched one of the crackers in half.

This thing has bone-looking stuff inside it. Nobody would make a cracker with a tiny skeleton hidden in it.

Hey, gremlin. Wake up! Are you alive? Did you die?

It gave him its attention.

Can I eat this? Alden asked.

Yes.

Are you sure?

Yes.

He ate the one he’d just broken in half. Still sure?

It was totally uninterested.

He pictured himself drinking hot cocoa made with sinful cow milk. And he knew he couldn’t do it.

What’s going on?

Minutes and about two dozen taste tests later, another Artonan came up the staircase. It was a boy around Alden’s age who almost face-planted at the sight of a human in his library supply room.

“Is this an aquatic animal?” Alden demanded, holding a fish cracker in front of the boy’s nose. “Or does it just look like one?”

“How are you here?” the boy asked, both hands wrapped around his own long brown braid. “Who are you?”

“Is this an animal?”

“It’s yovkew. A swimmer.”

<<A fish-like animal,>> the translation said. <<A food native to Artona I.>>

******
