Even Antinium had failed to synthesize working versions of the armor. But the Twisted Queen had tried. She had created Antinium with even tougher armor—but hidden toxins and acids and parts of the armor had consumed her Soldiers. And Creler eggs in her material had caused an outbreak.
Xrn had condemned the suffering. But despite it being a failure, the Twisted Queen had tried countless times. Xrn and Wrymvr had disagreed—the Centenium transmitted a flash of pain. Xrn’s disagreement had come with magic.
(Xrn was made to love and grieve. We were not.)
(True enough.)
The two Antinium sat there. There was so much to say. If Xrn had seen them she probably would have bopped heads, and given Wrymvr’s form, that would have taken a while. But she had made one error. And that was that the two Antinium, the two Centenium, were more alike than she was to Klbkch.
She had been made to lead. They had been created to kill. Wrymvr understood Klbkch’s frustrations. Of course, the Twisted Queen was listening to them as well. But she said only one thing. Her mental tone was pure and unbroken, showing Klbkch that her mind had not decayed.
(Klbkchhezeim. I apologize for tricking you. But Xrn is subservient. She acts as the Queens do, not ordering the Grand Queen directly. Wrymvr dissents. I dissent. We are of one mind. You have seen each Queen’s project.)
Information flickered through their link. Klbkch guarded the projects, refusing to share, but to his surprise, the Twisted Queen knew of all of them. Another flash of humor through their link.
(Secrets are not Antinium. But I disagree. As you do. This is not enough.)
She gave voice to the feeling in Klbkch. Each Queen had made great preparations for war. But none of it guaranteed victory. Not the new Antinium, or the stockpiles…
“What have you done, Twisted Queen?”
She raised her good mandible.
(A different perspective. Wrymvr knows all. You have time and he will tell you many plans. Many futures. But know this: I think salvation for the Antinium lies not in new weapons or numbers. I think we are trapped here. Wrymvr concurs. So my project is complete.)
“And what is that?”
The Twisted Queen delivered her conclusion elegantly. With speech and mind.
“The answer. To the flaw. Of our Hives. Is Queens. Remove. The. Queens. Look.”
She lifted the empty vessel she had nearly dropped Anand into. The Birther sac came up gently. It had no real consciousness. It was just designed to create and create and…Klbkch stirred.
“You are going to disrupt the chemical balance.”
The Birthers were incredibly fragile. Each one needed constant monitoring by the Queens. Lifting one would destroy new Antinium being gestated. But The Twisted Queen was less than careful. And Wrymvr looked at Klbkch.
(No, she will not. Understand?)
The Slayer sat there. The Twisted Queen gently placed the sac back.
(Klbkchhezeim. I know Xrn’s plans. I know the Grand Queen’s plans. I know plans. And I say this: we Queens are too large to move. Too dangerous. But to live…the Antinium must expand. My achievement is this—you do not need me anymore.)
She smiled. And Klbkch sat there. He looked at the brilliance of the last Queen of the Antinium.
They could have said so much more, then. And they did. In time. But Klbkch rummaged in his bag of holding then. And he interrupted this conversation about the future with a little object.
“Here. Wrymvr. You do not deserve it, but it is a gift.”
What was it? The Centenium peered at the jug. It was triple-reinforced, but the ceramic was already a bit stained. Klbkch pulled out something else. It was…a pizza.
“Food?”
The Twisted Queen investigated the pepperoni pizza, courtesy of Erin’s inn. And with it—a black liquid. Klbkch poured it into a cup. And then, since Wrymvr had trouble with cups, into a maw.
“Rxlvn. I would have brought the Minotaur’s Punch drink, but it can’t be stored. Twisted Queen—a drink?”
She took the entire jug and tasted it. The Antinium’s alcohol was strong enough to make even Wrymvr’s toxin-immune system hesitate for a second. Good enough. Klbkch didn’t waste more on him. He just took a shot and felt the room spin.
After all—what one Antinium enjoyed, they all enjoyed. The Twisted Queen tried her first pizza—literally the entire thing in one bite—and Wrymvr and Klbkch experienced her eating the food for the first time. They smiled and Klbkch transmitted the feeling of being gently sloshed.
In the end—between the plans for the Antinium, Klbkch found something he needed. It was lying on Wrymvr’s back, just…talking to his old friend while being intoxicated. Anand looked up to him. The Queens depended on him.
But here was a companion of old. Wrymvr and Klbkch lay there in the Hive, thinking alike. And that…was what Klbkch had wanted. He had learned this moment from Relc. Funny. Not funny, rather.
He…missed his friend.
 
—-
 
Anand left the Twisted Hive fast. But when he was gone, and had healed the slight burn on his foot—he found himself at a loss.
The other Hives wanted him. They had seen the Free Antinium’s worth. There were books to read, Garry’s methods to impart. Change to bring to the Hivelands.
But first…Anand wanted something. The [Strike Strategist] knew few things in this world. But he knew this.
Today he was going to level up. Perhaps, like, eight levels. It was a certainty. He had made a plan on his own and told no one. It was just something he wanted to do.
“Excuse me, my Queen. I am looking for something. I believe it is near the Grand Hive. But I am uncertain as to the location. Can you help me?”
The Armored Queen bent low and listened. She knew, of course, what and where it was. But she was mystified.
“Why do you wish to go there?”
“I just do. It is for my class. Will you let me go? I wish to build something there. Then—I wish to show Belgrade. And…Olesm. I will need wood, if you allow it. Or stones or…I will make do.”
“All these things you shall have, Strategist Anand. But why?”
He took his time in replying.
“Because it is something I wish to do. Because it will make the world a better place and it is not hard. Because I believe it is something Erin would do, if she knew to think it. And because I respected him.”
“Who is…‘Erin’?”
 
—-
 
A little later, there he stood. The place still showed scars of the battle. He found a bit of metal in the dirt. And the Antinium knew this place.
It was Ulssb and two of the Sword Prognugators who had brought him here. Now, they watched as the Painted Antinium helped Anand build something. They had wood, nails, stones…in the end, Anand opted for stone.
“But why? He was our enemy. Our great enemy.”
The Grand Queen spoke through her Prognugators. Anand shook his head. There was nothing left but the scrap of metal. So he put that there.
No sword. No armor. The Drakes had borne his body away long ago. But this was the place the greatest [General] that Izril had ever known had died. Besides Zel Shivertail, at any rate.
General Sserys of Liscor. Anand placed the bit of metal at the cairn made of colorful stones. It was large enough. The hard part had been the plaque. He answered the Grand Queen as he helped write it with a brush on the large piece of smoothed stone.
“He was your enemy, my Queen. But not mine. And he was a [General], a hero of my home.”
“The Free Antinium?”
“No. Liscor. I wished to pay my respects to a truly great [General], that is all. And this is the right thing to do.”
When he was done, Anand put the plaque at the base of the cairn. Maybe he should ask the Armored Queen for a statue. But this was good enough for now.
“Excuse me, Grand Queen. I need to use your mirror.”
Anand turned. And the mirror flickered. It revealed another room.
The Free Queen peered at Anand for a moment, and then withdrew her head. Anand waved at someone.
“Hello, Belgrade.”
“Hello, Anand. Have you had a good trip?”
“Yes, except for the times it was not. Will you show this to Olesm?”
“Yes. One moment. Did you get to meet the Armored Queen? Tersk has been telling me about her.”
“Yes. She is a very gifted sculptor.”
The two Workers chattered as Belgrade had a few Workers carry the mirror up, out of the Hive. Anand waited, seeing Liscor reflected at an angle.
This is what he had built. It was a small thing. But Wistram’s Archmages were seriously considering sabotaging the connection because of what it meant. Did that damned Worker know?
Of course he did. And the [Strategist] waited in front of the mirror. It reached The Wandering Inn and Erin Solstice ran up to the mirror.
“Wait, Klbkch took Anand with him? So that’s why I haven’t seen him! Anand! You never said goodbye! Who else is missing? Where’s Elirr? Where’s Fals? Has Garia gone to Chandrar or something? Argh!”
She threw up her hands, then demanded to know if Anand was well, if he was eating, and where he was. Anand spoke into the chaos, seeing a blue-scaled Drake in the background, eating with a fiery-haired [Lady]. It was the day after Mrsha’s learning to write, and she held up a sign that said ‘Hello, Anand, good to see you!’
“Hello, Erin. Hello, Mrsha. I am in the Hivelands, outside the Grand Hive of the Antinium.”
His words brought silence to the inn. Anand saw Olesm’s head snap around so fast something went crick. But Anand’s next words brought the world into life once more.
Drakes went running into Liscor, shouting. Watch Captain Zevara fell out of her chair and went running, not even bothering to inform the Council. Drakes flooded out of the city, towards the inn, demanding to see.
They were not alone. Grand Strategist Chaldion had Grimalkin and officers of Pallass shove their way through the crowds. He found Olesm there, standing with Selys—with a crowd, looking at the waving Antinium.
The enemy. But Anand had called them with what he had done. Did he know what he had accomplished? Or what his casual explanations did?
Of course. He had learned how to change the world with chaos from Erin Solstice herself. Now—the Drakes looked at the little sign. A marker, for a tomb, which mattered more than the symbolic places in other cities.
It read thusly:
 
Here fell [General] Sserys of Liscor, who perished in the First Antinium War. 
The greatest son of Liscor stopped the Black Tide.
Drakes do not run.
 
Anand waited for the voices to stop. He answered questions, decided a statue should be put here, and answered the Queen’s bewildered questions. He hadn’t done much since coming to the Hivelands. But he felt proud of himself for this little thing he had made.
He dusted his hands and walked off. He did level that night. But not eight times.
That was alright.
