And he had no mercy. Not to other Antinium. His role had been to accompany War Queens into battle and protect them. He opened one huge maw, exposing teeth as Anand backed up.
“Wrymvr—”
The Centenium screamed. It was a shriek from multiple mouths, unlike any sound other Antinium could make. The Free Antinium cowered as venomous toxins flew. The Centenium stopped screaming. And Klbkch heard a voice.
Klbkchhezeim.
It was Wrymvr. The Slayer looked at the Centenium and saw a single eye staring back, glowing. And Klbkch relaxed.
“Wrymvr. It has been long. The Twisted Antinium have changed.”
So have you.
The Centenium looked at Klbkch and grinned. Or parts of his mouths opened in something like that. Klbkch nodded.
“Why did the Twisted Antinium attack us?”
Not attack. The spire of minds attacks all. These are broken Antinium. Guards. They obey nothing. Fear only I.
Anand looked back and forth between Klbkch and the huge Centenium. He heard only Klbkch’s voice as the Antinium replied.
“I see. I disapprove of that. But none of my Antinium were wounded. Wrymvr—does the Twisted Queen wait on us?”
Silence. Anand felt at his antennae. He still heard the spire of living Antinium screaming silently, but he swore he could have heard…Klbkch turned towards the Free Antinium.
“With me. We go to the Twisted Queen.”
Wrymvr could not speak. His mouths had not been designed for that. Speech was a waste of a body part that could be configured to attack better. He communicated only via the link all Antinium shared.
It had not mattered in Rhir. But here—there was only Xrn, Klbkch, and the other Queens that Wrymvr could talk to. Now, Klbkch strode ahead, with Wrymvr moving down the large tunnel that led into the Twisted Antinium’s Hive.
He knew Anand wanted to ask him questions. But Wrymvr was speaking. The [Strategist] heard Klbkch’s responses.
“Yes. [Recaptured Sublimity]. Xrn did not tell you? Hm. She warned me about you.”
Silence. Then—
“She called you insane. Yes. I wondered why.”
Both laughed at that. In Klbkch, it was an unnatural, fluttering laugh. Not the fake laughter he employed around Relc. Wrymvr’s laughter was different. It sounded like hissing and clicking and muted shrieks.
Anand wanted to say something, introduce himself, at the very least. But he was too afraid to raise his voice. The two lapsed into silence and Anand heard it again.
That buzzing. Was something wrong with his antennae? Or—were they communicating without words?
Wrymvr ignored Anand as thoroughly as a Queen. Although…maybe that was just his body. He had eyes. Anand…assumed they were eyes. Something, in the little ventral holes on his body that could have been ducts for oxygen to enter and leave—or eyes.
He felt like something in one of those tiny holes was staring at him. Wrymvr was a weapon. More than Klbkch. More than Xrn. He could attack from any direction. And fly. He was what the Antinium were, in a sense.
Weapons of war. And the Twisted Hive reflected that value. Anand walked into the Twisted Hive and saw stone, carven, tinged with green. The moss the Antinium cultivated, growing everywhere. And…something crunched underfoot.
Chitin. It was a mess! The Twisted Hive wasn’t being up kept. There was broken shell, places where fluids had congealed to give life to bacteria, and—
Shapes. They moved around the Hive, fleeing Wrymvr. Those little not-Antinium things that had attacked them. Larger, hulking shapes. To his relief, Anand saw actual Workers. But few of them. And some looked—wrong. Their heads were missing pieces. Or…or…
“Revalantor Klbkch…”
The terror got to the [Strategist] and he had to say something. Klbkch turned his head. Wrymvr did not, but he stopped and Anand saw something flicker underneath the first layer of shell.
“What is it, Anand?”
“This Hive is…what is this Hive?”
Anand heard more voices in his head. The other Painted Soldiers were holding onto their antennae, muffling the sounds. None of the voices sounded…happy. Could—how were the Antinium doing that?
Maybe…Anand’s brain suggested, maybe if you were in so much pain you could scream so loud other people could hear you. He didn’t know what could drive you to that. But he felt that the answer lay in these dark tunnels.
Klbkch looked at Anand and nodded slowly. He glanced at Wrymvr.
“Valuable. Yes. Not just suicidal, Wrymvr. This is Anand. A [Strategist]. You will appreciate his Skills. Anand, endure it. We will visit the Twisted Queen and then you will leave.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
The [Strategist] would have followed Klbkch into hell. Here…he hesitated for a while, but what else could he do?
 
—-
 
The Twisted Queen sat in her laboratory. A vast chamber. She was not as large as Anand had assumed. She had volunteered for the experiments that had damaged the Armored Queen so. But they had taken such a toll that she hadn’t been able to birth more Antinium, so her size had remained smaller than the Flying Queen, Grand Queen, and Armored Queen.
Thusly, the chamber was large enough for her to move about. Vast—and the Birther pods sat around her. Incubating things that moved in the liquid. The living products sat there. Watching them.
“Twisted Queen. Your greeting was unwelcome.”
Klbkch was fearless. The Slayer walked up to the broken Queen. Anand and the Free Antinium just held each other in horror.
They had beheld their Free Queen, who was still their Queen, and the other Queens before. But this Queen—was broken. If the Armored Queen was broken in spirit, the Twisted Queen had endured the privations of the body.
One of her large mandibles was missing. Torn off. Parts of her body were…gone. As if something had eaten away at her. She had only one eye. She moved, spoke, jerkily.
“Klbkch. Hezeim. Apologies. Did not know you. Were coming. Wrymvr greeted. You. Our welcomes.”
The Centenium nodded slowly as Wrymvr waited in a corner of the room.
“I have visited every other Hive, my Queen. And found much to appreciate and much to improve.”
“Yes. You would. Other Queens. Projects. I. I. Wrymvr. Different. Plans, what are these? Your Individuals?”
“Yes. Anand, step forwards. This is Anand, my [Strategist]. The highest-leveled Antinium suitable to the Antinium’s ends. He is the achievement of the Free Antinium—”
Klbkch got no further. The Twisted Queen was missing limbs. But she still had her long feelers. She reached down and picked Anand up.
“Revalantor!”
The Queen lifted Anand into the air, holding him in front of her. She regarded him.
“Ah. Then. Let me see what. Makes him different.”
Her grip tightened. She lowered Anand towards one of the empty sacs. A creation pod. A Birther.
“Twisted Queen. What are you doing?”
Klbkch had reacted to the sudden motion by striding forwards. Now, the Twisted Queen replied.
“To see is. To unmake. I will see what changes. His mind. Has made.”
Anand stared at her. Then he began to wriggle, heedless of the fall.
“No, no—I do not want to—”
He looked down. Klbkch hadn’t moved. The Centenium spoke loudly.
“Twisted Queen. Anand is the highest-leveled Individual I have brought. His death is unacceptable.”
“Very. Well. Then another.”
The Twisted Queen lowered Anand slightly, sounding annoyed. She reached down and the Soldiers fled.
It wasn’t an order from anyone. The Painted Antinium just ran the way they had come. They believed in Heaven. But if there was any place it wasn’t to be found…
Klbkch was as surprised as the Twisted Queen. She peered at the tunnel, then Anand.
“Interesting. Aberration. Or will. Then—”
She lifted the [Strategist] again.
“My Queen. Stop.”
The Twisted Queen ignored Klbkch. She was manipulating the pod, which was another living Antinium—in a sense. It was just designed to create, incubate life. Or—take it apart? Anand hadn’t known—he was struggling.
“No, no, no—Revalantor Klbkch! Revalantor—”
“Twisted Queen. Enough.”
Wrymvr was watching. The Twisted Queen ignored Klbkch, and he was far too small to even reach Anand. She lowered the [Strategist] and Anand screamed.
“Klbkch! Father!”
The word slipped out. A question Anand had asked Klbkch once. He heard nothing. His foot touched something that burned him—
Klbkch drew his swords. The sound they made in that quiet place of silent screams—it was like a song made of silver. The noise stopped. The Twisted Queen halted.
Anand looked past the huge, ruined face. He saw Klbkch, standing next to the Twisted Queen. He had inserted the tip of his sword in the Twisted Queen’s side.
“Klbkch. What. Are you doing?”
Wrymvr made a sound. The Centenium moved. In one motion, he was next to Klbkch. The Slayer ignored the huge Antinium. He spoke up, towards the Twisted Queen.
“Let Anand go. He is an asset more valuable to the Antinium than you comprehend, my Queen. You will not use him for your experiments…or any of the Painted Antinium.”
The vast Queen looked down at Klbkch. Wrymvr was waiting there. And Anand feared…the Twisted Queen’s voice was very soft as she dangled Anand over the open vat.
“And if. I. Disagree? I. Am a Queen.”
Klbkchhezeim the Slayer looked up at her. At Anand. He nodded once.
“This is true, Twisted Queen. And I am Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium. You will put Anand down. Safely. That is an order.”
The two locked gazes for a moment. The Twisted Queen’s one good eye shifted. Her body moved. Slowly, she sat back and put Anand down. The [Strategist] immediately ran behind Klbkch. The Slayer removed his sword. It hadn’t even drawn blood, just gone into the outer layer of the Twisted Queen’s shell.
Anything could have happened then. Klbkch was prepared to offer the Twisted Queen corpses of Painted Antinium, or deal with Wrymvr. He didn’t know if the Centenium really was insane. Anand sensed the Painted Soldiers, watching, ready to charge out and fight.
But—the Twisted Queen sat back. And though one of her mandibles was broken, the remaining bit still rose with the unbroken other side and opened.
A smile. It caught the Free Antinium off-guard. The Twisted Queen spoke.
“Very good. Klbkchhezeim. This Queen obeys.”
The Slayer hesitated. He looked at the Twisted Queen and finally caught a fragment of her mind as it stopped guarding itself. Her mental mind was undamaged. And Wrymvr did the same. Klbkch sensed humor, laughter—a meeting of minds.
Anand was oblivious to it all. He just saw Klbkch turn and smack Wrymvr on the head with the flat of his sword. The [Strategist] stared as he heard them laughing. He tugged on Klbkch’s arms as the furious Slayer tried to make a sound.
“Klbkch. Revalantor Klbkch. May we leave?”
Klbkch looked at him. And then at the Twisted Queen and Wrymvr, in their silent hilarity. He clacked his mandibles.
“I think that would be for the best. I will speak to the Twisted Queen and Wrymvr alone.”
He turned to them. And sensed it. A Unitasis Network—only, made of two minds. They were in harmony. Perfect harmony. Klbkch envied them, even as he looked around the broken—twisted Hive.
The Centenium felt another tug at his arm. He turned to see Anand and the other Painted Soldiers. They were staring around. Anand meekly looked at Klbkch.
“…Can you come with us?”
 
—-
 
After Klbkch had escorted the Free Antinium away from the Twisted Hive, he came back to find Wrymvr waiting for him.
Laughter.
That was all the Centenium transmitted. Klbkch punched him in the first maw he could reach. It wasn’t as satisfying as hitting Relc.
“I did not find that humorous, Wrymvr.”
As a reply, the Centenium struck out with an appendage. Klbkch was too slow to dodge in his body without [Recaptured Sublimity]. He stumbled backwards.
Speak with the mind. Why words?
Klbkch paused. Then he smoothly spoke in his head. Their thoughts flickered back and forth, infinitesimally faster than speech and carrying far more nuance, emotion, information.
(The other Queens were not adept at mental signals.)
(That is them. The Twisted Queen and this one are in synchronization. What one knows, the other too. It is more efficient.)
Klbkch sensed the Twisted Queen working, checking on her experiments. And she was behaving like a Queen. For all her Hive seemed in disrepair, there was food, supplies, organization—it was just that she had created so many flawed creations that wandered the corridors.
(But difficult. Wrymvr, I will be straightforward.)
(There is no other way to be.)
A buffet, mental and physical. The Centenium rebuffed Klbkch. Why be anything less than straightforward? They were Antinium.
Unlike Xrn, completely. She had adopted the other species’ modes of communication. But Wrymvr hadn’t changed, for all his body had. Klbkch staggered. Kicked at Wrymvr.
“Stop that.”
(You have changed.)
(I have not.)
Klbkch felt another sending. Wrymvr disagreed. And he had memories to prove it. He sent-showed Klbkch an Antinium arguing with the other Queens, refusing to bend. That Klbkch was…stiff. Unbending. He would have never kicked Wrymvr.
It was hard to argue with someone mentally. Which was why it didn’t happen. One side could prove it was right empirically. Klbkch had forgotten how he’d missed this. He opened up. And the thoughts flowed faster.
(Wrymvr, I acknowledge the Twisted Queen’s ruse. Because Centenium command Queens.)
That had been the point. Wrymvr acknowledged Klbkch’s hypothesis and it cleared that up. Klbkch went on.
(These experiments…)
(Innovations. The Twisted Queen seeks most combative-efficient-new forms. The other Queens disapprove because some are aberration-disturbing. Is it incorrect?)
Along with the thoughts, he sent more images and Klbkch understood. The spire of minds outside was a formidable attack weapon. Not only could it sense anything with a mind, including invisible foes, it was a proto-Prognugator that could order nearby Antinium to attack. Exploding Workers, those attack-bugs…they were all weapons.
What was wrong with that? The Twisted Queen was doing what all queens did. Creating weapons to assail the enemy.
But they screamed. Wrymvr reacted to Klbkch’s emotion.
(Anand? Curious. Emotion. You did not care.)
(Not until recently. But the Painted Antinium are based on their feelings. I met a Human.)
(Strange Human. Reminds this one much of Galuc, of Mirrex. And Xrn.)
Wrymvr downloaded a wealth of experiences, but that was his only comment. Klbkch nodded.
(She is special. Wrymvr. Why did Xrn call you insane?)
Humor. The Centenium fluttered his wings and sent another image.
Broken Soldiers, parts of their bodies showing the same holes as the Twisted Queen’s forms. Fighting—dying—but their bodies weren’t regular chitin. They were…
“Creler armor?”
