“The Antinium did not welcome our own. Nor had we any need of processions or displays, my Queen. You have my thanks for the welcome, on behalf of the Free Antinium. However, it is on my Hive’s behalf that I must act. I respectfully decline your invitation; I will tour every Hive that is willing to host me.”
The Grand Queen had forgotten how much Klbkchhezeim could spoil her mood. In fairness, Xrn could be just as obstinate and Wrymvr had been…
But Klbkchhezeim had always been direct. Even before Izril, in fairness. The Grand Queen halted, feeling out of sorts.
“We had assumed you would take Xrn’s mantle, Klbkchhezeim. Xrniavxxel had indicated as much when she requested her absence.”
Klbkch paused, but only for a moment.
“It appears her statement was incorrect, Grand Queen.”
 
—-
 
Anand nervously chewed on part of the cheese wheel as he watched Klbkch standing in front of the Grand Queen. She had dismissed Anand and the other Free Antinium in a moment. Now, the Grand Queen’s antennae moved. She sounded displeased. But after a moment, she glanced at the silent Prognugators, nearly three dozen of them, and brightened. A note of cheerful malice crept into her voice.
“Your dispensation is unwelcome, Klbkchhezeim. However. We are able to manage the Grand Hive and other Hives in your absence. Have you noticed the Prognugators of the Grand Hive?”
She indicated the line of Antinium. Anand looked with Klbkch and saw them again.
Copies of Klbkch. They made his heart flutter, because there was Klbkch. Not just the Revalantor as he was now, but as he had been.
Some were Worker-type Prognugators, mimicking the body Klbkch had worn for so long. They were armed with steel swords and two daggers, an exact copy of the fighting style he had adopted. Others were clearly based around Klbkch as he was now, or perhaps, had been. They were actually taller than the Klbkch of present, long-armed, carrying the two long blades.
They looked…uncanny, standing together. So many copies of Klbkch. And when their Queen looked at them, they stood and saluted her.
If Klbkch minded the obvious similarities, he did not show it. He calmly nodded to the Grand Queen.
“I see them. As I commented the last time I left, a dozen Prognugators is excessive. This many are unneeded.”
The Grand Queen’s mandibles clicked.
“They are quite capable of replacing you in both leadership and combat roles, Klbkchhezeim.”
“That is unlikely, Grand Queen.”
The Centenium had to be aware of how peeved his replies were making the Grand Queen. Actually, that was certain.
 
—-
 
Another change was in how Klbkch had to speak his replies to the Grand Queen. Both were Antinium of Rhir, True Antinium and could share a mental link. They could even connect to the other Queens to create a Unitasis Network, however weak.
Klbkch could sense the Grand Queen’s emotions. But—she was out of touch, her mental connection weaker than his link to the Free Queen. Out of practice with sharing her mind with Xrn?
They spoke aloud for the benefit of the Queens watching through the magical mirrors. Even so—Klbkch picked up on the Grand Queen’s ire.
And he was also aware she had something planned. The Grand Queen did not rise to his bait a second time. Instead—her mandibles raised and opened in a smile.
“Perhaps you would care to demonstrate that claim, Klbkchhezeim? Your combat prowess is an example to all the Hives, as are both Xrn and Wrymvr’s. However—the Grand Hive has had a decade to improve. My Prognugators are a match for you in ability.”
She pointed.
“We have instituted a…trial to evaluate new innovations within each Hive’s Soldiers. Here.”
It was still in her chambers since the Grand Queen did not wish to move far. Klbkch saw…something else new. Strange. He hesitated.
“Is that—”
 
—-
 
An arena? Anand stared at the coliseum in miniature. It had nothing like seats or any concessions to the audience; the one watcher was content to sit on her hill and observe. But all the hallmarks were there.
From ancient times, across every species, they had had this type of contest. Two champions, or many, fighting in everything from a ring, a cage, a giant coliseum with the ability to flood itself for mock ship battles—to a circle in the dirt.
The Grand Queen’s exhibition arena was more like that last bit. But the fact that it existed was curious to Anand. And Klbkch.
“Each Hive has attempted to improve in its own designs. The Grand Queen instituted this practice to see the efficacy of each Soldier in practical terms. Thus far, the Grand Hive has been the most statistically viable.”
The Silent Queen explained. Klbkch just stared at the Antinium Prognugator—a Worker-type, bearing a copy of the weapons he carried, waiting for him.
“This is ridiculous. Antinium fighting Antinium presents only one kind of data. The Grand Hive also receives all the material and innovations of each Hive; the Hives share advances.”
“…Yes. Of course, Klbkchhezeim. But each Hive’s—focus—still yields different competencies.”
The Silent Queen’s reply said everything to Klbkch. But he had known that. It illuminated a lot of troubling things for Anand.
And of course, the Wistram [Mages] frantically recording everything they could see through the active mirrors. But no one knew about that so it wasn’t the point.
“Each Hive competes, Klbkchhezeim. We have found a distribution of resources based on competency a most efficient process. If you would care to demonstrate the difference between yourself and my Prognugators, we would all benefit from the observation.”
The Grand Queen sat on her throne. And everyone leaned forwards. You couldn’t have torn Feor off the scrying orb with a spell. Again, not the point.
“Revalantor Klbkch—this proceeding is unknown to me. Will the Painted Antinium be expected to partake?”
Klbkch looked at the Grand Queen. Then at Anand. He felt something in his chest. It was akin to the feeling he got after being on-duty with Relc all day and listening to the Drake complain about something. Or after talking with Pawn for five minutes. Or—as he recalled—the Grand Queen.
“I am sure that the Grand Queen would wish that, Anand. It will not occur. The Grand Queen has made an assumption. However. She is not aware of the changes within the Free Antinium.”
Anand opened and closed his mandibles. And then he looked at Klbkch, the Grand Queen, and the way the Free Queen’s antennae were waving frantically even as she herself said nothing.
They didn’t know. He had assumed Xrn would have informed the Grand Queen about…
“By your will, Grand Queen. I am Klbkch of the Free Antinium. May I assume it is acceptable to wound my opponent?”
“Refrain from killing. Prognugators are not to be wasted. My warrior will of course, refrain from a mortal wound as well.”
The Grand Queen was palpably excited. She watched as Klbkch walked into the arena of packed dirt and drew his swords.
“This is very reminiscent of gladiatorial combat I have read about in Chandrar. Do any of the participating Antinium have the [Gladiator] class, by any chance?”
“Yes. How did you know?”
The Flying Queen was surprised. She peered into the mirror, but instead of Klbkch—it was a strange Worker who was looking at her. She recoiled in shock and the other Queens stared at Anand. The [Strategist] nodded to himself.
“Fascinating. May I know their levels?”
The Flying Queen hesitated.
“No. What are you? A Prognugator?”
Anand hesitated.
“…No. I am Anand, a [Strategist] of the Free Antinium. One of the Antinium sent with Revalantor Klbkch.”
“A…Worker? One is speaking to me?”
The stunned comment was left behind as, behind them, the Worker-Prognugator charged Klbkch. He lashed out with the swords, daggers ready to parry or strike. Klbkch’s sword flashed. He deflected the shortswords, stepped left—
And the Grand Hive’s Prognugator cut him.
Anand saw the dagger flicker in the lower-left hand. He saw Klbkch move back too slowly; a green cut opened up in his carapace.
There was a susurration from all watching. Klbkch stabbed back, calmly knocking down the blades.
[Extended Blade]. Anand had read a book that catalogued basic [Warrior] Skills, written by a former Named Adventurer. It was a basic Skill, but one any good fighter could put to use.
But he had cut Klbkch. And—as the fight progressed, Anand realized something.
Klbkch was faster. Stronger, thanks to the new body the Free Queen had given him. The Worker-Prognugator was also stronger and faster than any Worker that Anand had ever met—proof that the Grand Queen had upgraded him as well.
But Klbkch should have taken your average [Bladesman] to pieces. Even before his rebirth, he had been the 4th best [Guard] in the Watch despite his Worker’s body simply by virtue of his talent, regardless of Skills. Experience made him the deadly warrior he was.
However. Klbkch’s graceful sword arcs, the instinctual parrying, ability to use two swords at once without looking like an idiot—the other Prognugator had all of it. In fact—he fought exactly like Klbkch.
“It is a copy.”
Anand stared at the Grand Hive’s Prognugator. And he realized the Grand Queen hadn’t been hyperbolic. When she said her Prognugators were as good as Klbkch—she meant they literally were. She had copied more than just his look.
“How is that possible?”
The sentiment seemed to be echoed among the Queens as well. It was the Silent Queen who replied.
“When Klbkch died, we performed the rite of Anastases. His deaths during the first war resulted in our capture of his information. The Grand Queen’s distillation of his fighting abilities is…adept. Of course. We observed the competence of her Prognugators. I did not realize it was so—complete.”
The disturbed tone in her voice was audible even to Anand. The [Strategist] watched, practically vibrating.
“Inconceivable. If the Centenium were so easy to copy, we would have done so. There has to be more to Klbkch. Has he died again?”
The Flying Queen shifted nervously. But—their chatter was background.
Klbkch stepped around the other Prognugator in a slow dance of blades. Aside from his first cut, he didn’t take another. The shorter Antinium tried twice, using the [Extend Blade] Skill. But both times Klbkch saw one of the four blades coming at him and knocked it away or just dodged.
He only had one Skill, Anand realized. One active Skill, at any rate. Meanwhile, Klbkch had several. And…
Klbkch tossed one of his swords at the other Prognugator. The Antinium knocked it down with one dagger, but the motion caught it off-guard. Klbkch brought his second blade down in a two-handed arc.
The Worker-Prognugator blocked with two swords. With the other, it stabbed at Klbkch’s stomach. But the dagger was out of reach. And Klbkch lifted the sword up and brought it down.
A clash of blades. The Grand Hive’s Prognugator stumbled as its own twin swords glanced off its chitin. Klbkch slid left—caught a dagger with his free hand and swept a leg.
Down the Prognugator went, onto the Worker’s rounded shell of the back. Instantly, the Antinium tried to roll back upwards. Klbkch calmly planted his sword’s tip into the Sword Prognugator’s chest, as Anand was now classifying them.
The Sword Prognugator froze. The Queens murmured.
“We see your abilities have not declined in your absence, Klbkchhezeim.”
The Grand Queen was clearly displeased. And doubly so because it was evident that Klbkch hadn’t used one of his Skills. Still—it had been uncomfortably even compared to what Anand had expected.
To the other Queens as well. They regarded the thirty-plus Sword Prognugators with new respect. Copies of Klbkch. And he had fought the Worker-variant.
“One good [Flame Pillar] spell would eliminate the lot.”
“But with artifacts…”
“Be silent, you two.”
Feor ordered Viltach and Nailihuaile as they analyzed the combat abilities on display with an expert [Spellsword]. They were ranking the combat prowess of the Sword Prognugators as high-silver on sheer talent; Gold with artifacts. Not a pleasant thought.
But more was yet to come. Klbkch looked at the Grand Queen.
“Your Prognugators have a portion of my ability with swords, Grand Queen. However. I maintain that they are not my equal in leadership or combat. If you would allow me to challenge them—and allow me to injure them—I will demonstrate the difference between us.”
The Grand Queen’s voice was frosty.
“Name your opponent, Klbkchhezeim. But I maintain—any two of my Prognugators would be your match.”
“Indeed? Then I challenge all of them.”
The Grand Queen’s moving feelers stopped in midair. The other Queens looked up. Including the Twisted Queen, who had been distracted up until now.
The Archmages looked at each other. They saw Klbkch smile.
“Do not make foolish statements, Klbkchhezeim.”
Anand felt the air stirring. Or perhaps that was the sensation that ran across his entire body. Like electricity. The Grand Queen waited only a moment. Then she silently raised a feeler as large as Anand and pointed.
“My Prognugators. Do not kill Klbkchhezeim. The Silent Queen will oversee his repairs.”
The Sword Prognugators stirred. They did not ask questions. They simply drew their blades and spread out.
 
—-
 
Thirty plus copies of Klbkch advanced on his position. He let the Worker-type roll upwards, retrieving its blades and backing away from him. Klbkch shook his head. What was this? Honor among Antinium? He would have expected that Prognugator to stab him in the foot.
He waited. Klbkch looked around the great chamber, the Grand Queen, the watching Queens in the mirrors. And he felt quite, quite…tired. The Antinium had changed. They always changed. And not for the better.
It annoyed him. But at least he had something of old. Klbkch the Slayer retrieved his second sword. He stood there, as the other Sword Prognugators spread out around him. He looked up, towards the ceiling of soil and rock. He had fought underground almost his entire life. Fighting under the sky had been the strange part.
No one had any idea how frustrating it was to move like he did. To remember how to fight, and to be swimming in water, in sand, weighed down every second of every action. To even think slower.
“Ah, my Queen. Watch me. [Recaptured Sublimity].”
Klbkch leapt up, light as a feather. Just a hop upwards, six feet or so, as high as his ring allowed him. The Sword Prognugators, seeing the incredibly stupid move since you couldn’t dodge in midair—charged.
“What did he s—”
 
—-
 
The Slayer landed and vanished. Anand saw the first arm go flying. His head spun—faster than the confused Queens. Even so, he could barely track the blur moving across the other Prognugators.
They reacted fast, dodging the blur. But it did no good.
