The Armored Antinium’s Hive was the most original of the three Hives Anand had visited. The [Strategist] knew this because he was fairly certain the other Hives didn’t have a fortress built into the tunnels. If they had—he hadn’t noticed.
The Armored Queen had taken more than the idea of arming her Antinium with armor. She had, in fact, built her Hive out of stone and metal, much like an underground castle. And the Armored Queen herself had time to see Anand.
For a few minutes.
“If the ore has run out, have Sehr investigate another tunnel. I will assist momentarily. Redistribute eight units of food to the barracks for the Free Antinium. If the Silent Queen has Klbkchhezeim, have the Steelclad unit disarmed and wait.”
The Armored Queen sat on no throne. Nor was she able to move. She had built the fortress around her. And she never left this chamber.
No wonder. She was huge. The biggest of the Queens, by far. And this was not…a good thing.
The Armored Queen had birthed more Antinium to create the first Hives than any other living Queen. Anand understood that some had died from the strains and experiments.
Now, of course, there were Birthers, the pods of creation that took the place of the Queens. But the Armored Queen was huge, swollen.
And in pain. Her body couldn’t sustain her weight. Anand saw her painfully moving around, barely able to drag herself a tiny bit. She had Workers who needed to guide her movements. And there was no going back; insects didn’t just ‘lose weight’ like fleshy mammals.
For all that, the Armored Queen was the most pleasant Queen in that she was willing to speak with Anand. And she herself was very interested in him.
“And your level?”
As the Armored Queen ordered her busy Prognugators to help her manage her busy Hive, Anand explained his [Strategist] class. And level.
“I am a Level 27 [Strike Strategist], Armored Queen.”
“Level 27?”
The Armored Queen recoiled. She turned her head.
“Wrong ore type. Keep searching, Sehr. How is this possible, Anand the [Strategist]?”
Anand was very pleased by the attention.
“I have commanded the Hive’s battles with the dungeon along with my companion, Belgrade, Armored Queen. My advancement into [Strategist] is most likely because I took over the Hive’s functioning as a whole at times.”
He had actually reached the class before Olesm had, in terms of levels. The Armored Queen was equally impressed.
“The Painted Antinium’s capacity to level is impressive. Sehr is Level 12 in the [Armored Leader] class. Tersk, my foremost Prognugator—of those that are currently alive—is Level 16.”
“Really?”
Anand was astonished. That was low-level! The Armored Queen shifted.
“Prognugators are too valuable to waste. I do not have thousands of lives to spend as the Grand Queen does to create Prognugators.”
“Create…?”
The Armored Queen looked down at Anand.
“Prognugators are made by combining the minds of thousands of Antinium. They are created by the sacrifice of personality, intelligence, and will.”
The [Strategist] stood there, poleaxed. The Armored queen turned her head, her massive antennae waving.
“Yes. Begin excavation. Move supplies from tunnels…”
She was so busy. More than the other Queens, or at least, that Anand had seen. The problem was twofold, actually. The Armored Queen explained—she was very accommodating.
“Armor blocks the signals from the Hive. Also, my Armored Hive works with metal, a task that requires Workers to be supervised intensively.”
“A-about the Prognugators…may I ask how they are made, Armored Queen?”
Anand was afraid. Klbkch wouldn’t…but the Armored Queen waved a palp.
“The Antinium are linked in creation. It is a laborious process used to create Prognugators. Ours are…flawed. Not as complete as those True Antinium. Even so, the process uses up many resources and time. I could use more Prognugators. But it is not necessary compared to the Grand Queen’s…numbers.”
The [Strategist] relaxed a bit, but he was still troubled.
“Yes, my Queen.”
“Good. Now, inform me of your Skills.”
Anand recited a list of his Skills. The Armored Queen was very interested about his tactics and demanded he tell her about fighting Crypt Worms and so on. And Anand enjoyed it! The Armored Queen was nodding when she stiffened.
“Forge break. I must attend. Stand there.”
She turned and began ordering Antinium elsewhere in her Hive rapidly. Anand heard only snippets from her mandibles.
“—move Workers back—contain f—redistribute—”
He stood there, obedient, waiting for her to finish. But the Armored Queen moved onto dealing with injuries, opening that iron vein they’d found, overseeing a change in the way they were making the armor that could be fitted onto any Worker and Soldier; hers were virtually identical to the Free Antinium’s, just a bit bigger and stronger.
The Armored Queen was so preoccupied with her work that she forgot Anand was there. As always, she devoted her all to managing her Hive such that when she slept it would keep going until she woke. It was hard work, but she had done it unceasingly. She was dedicated, loyal. She ignored the pain in her body until she needed a healing potion to restore the damage her sheer weight was causing her.
So, three hours later, as she stopped to ingest a healing potion, the Armored Queen looked around.
“Strategist Anand, continue telling me about your battle with enchanted suits of armor. Could they be repurposed to—”
She stopped. The space where the [Strategist] and the Free Antinium had been standing was empty. The Armored Queen looked around. But she had told them to stand right there.
“…Where did they go?”
 
—-
 
Anand did his best. He really did. He stood there for thirty-seven whole minutes before he started looking about. The Painted Antinium waited behind him, but they were clearly…bored.
“Maybe we should go sit down.”
Anand whispered to them. He motioned and they went to sit over by a wall.
An Armored Prognugator stared at them. Anand waved at the Soldier-Prognugator in armor.
“We are just sitting down. Actually—is there anywhere we could rest? We have not eaten since this morning, as well.”
“The Queen is busy.”
The Prognugator’s reply gave Anand flashbacks to Zai. The [Strategist] opened and closed his mandibles. And then he had an idea. It was not necessarily a good idea. It was more like an…Erin idea. Or a Bird idea.
“Er…yes. The Queen is busy. However, I heard that there was a barracks and food units allocated to us. Revalantor Klbkch would appreciate—he wants us to rest there.”
The Armored Prognugator opened and closed his mandibles. He looked at Anand, but the Antinium did not suspect the [Strategist] of a lie. That was inconceivable.
“I will take you.”
He marched down the hallway. Anand motioned and the Free Antinium followed him. The [Strategist] was caught in a paroxysm of guilt for a few moments. Had he just spoken an untruth? No—no, he had done what Klbkch would have ordered. This was for the best.
“Thank you. This is a nice barracks. And this food is…”
Anand stared at the typical Antinium mush.
“…Acceptable. We will eat.”
He covertly waved at Goat, who had produced his half-eaten cheese. The Armored Prognugator turned to go. Anand called after him.
“What’s your name? And would you like to eat with us?”
The Prognugator turned back.
“I am to wait for the Armored Queen’s instructions.”
“Oh. But could you do that with us? She will want to know where we are, anyways. What is your name?”
“Ulssb. I should return to my Queen—”
Erin was the example to follow here. Anand smiled, put an arm around Ulssb’s shoulder, and steered him to the other Antinium.
“Sit and stay a while! Eat. We have food from the Free Antinium. That is a…order from Klbkch.”
This time Ulssb looked at Anand. He wasn’t an idiot.
“I did not see your Revalantor give you that order.”
“No? Well, he would want us to socialize. Have you had bread before?”
“My system is not adjusted to handle wheat—”
“This is Garry-bread. Eat, eat.”
Soon, the Armored Prognugator was gobbling the stale bread. It was a week old, despite being kept in Anand’s bag of holding, but the Armored Antinium was eating it like it was Pawn’s fabled mana from the heavens.
Anand felt really bad for Ulssb. He was like all the others, despite being a Prognugator. And he realized—the other Free Antinium felt the same way. They were pulling out their toys and showing Ulssb.
“Intriguing. Intriguing. Is this what Tersk referred to?”
The Prognugator stared at Goat’s cat’s cradle game, and a spinning top that one of the Workers had. He was so excited to try it himself that it hurt Anand.
“We have many things to show other Antinium. We did not get a chance in the Silent Hive or the Grand Hive, but perhaps we can here? Klbkch would want that.”
Ulssb looked up and thought about this.
“That would be…acceptable. I will inform my Queen this is an important idea when she is available.”
And there it started. Anand smiled hugely. He looked at the others, and then dug around in his pack.
“Oh. Oh! I have more to show you! We do not have an Erin in our packs to sing and do wonderful things, but we do have a chess and go board. Multiples, in fact! And—show Ulssb the book!”
One of the Workers pulled out his beloved picture book. Ulssb stared at the colorful illustrations. Then he nodded, without showing as much interest as Anand had expected.
“Oh. Those. We read those to understand how metal is formed. These have more pictures. The Armored Queen has many of those.”
“Books? Wait. She has a…library?”
Erin had told Anand about libraries. Glorious places with books up to ceilings. Anand had dreamed of entering one someday. He had bought his own books to read, like the one on [Warrior] Skills, but he needed to know more now.
“It is in the Armored Queen’s rooms. Many books. We read some to her and study them. It is…complex. That is how the Armored Queen learned the secrets of metal. It is next to the room of statues.”
“I must see them. Will you take me, Ulssb?”
The Armored Prognugator hesitated. Anand pleaded with him, cajoling.
“It will not be long! And the Armored Queen may be busy for hours, will she not?”
Ulssb hesitated.
“If your Revalantor would give the order—”
“He would! Absolutely!”
Anand had carried the lying thing, or interpreting orders, a bit too far, and he knew that. But he persuaded Ulssb to lead just him to the library. The Armored Antinium did so, still chewing on the bread. With jam.
The library of the Armored Antinium was not as large as a modern library. Erin Solstice would have expected a normal library, a small public one for instance, to have at least 10,000 books. But that was her world.
The Armored Queen had four hundred and eighty three books. And that was a massive collection. Of course, they weren’t all the same subject; she had simply bought, collected, or taken any book she could find.
So she had everything from derring-do novels of adventurers to children’s books, a rare commodity, to manuals, including the ones about steel. Anand was agog.
“Books! Books! Books!”
He ran in a circle, throwing his arms up as Ulssb stared at him. Anand paused.
“I am showing my delight.”
“Ah. Continue.”
“May I read a few?”
Again, Ulssb hesitated, but this time out of disbelief.
“You wish to read books willingly?”
“Why would you not?”
Anand was astonished. Books were amazing! He would have expected the Prognugators to love the books! Then Ulssb showed him the manual he read all the time.
A Compendium of Smithing Techniques of the Ages, by Celde Brightmetal, Dullahan, [Blacksmith].
It was the most dull and technical manual Anand had ever seen. Brilliantly useful of course, with illustrations and depictions of a lot of smithing techniques the Dullahan had observed. Not the really cool ones, like Naq-Alrama steel; this covered tin, iron, steel, and the basic metals.
But dead gods, was it boring. Anand was interested only for the knowledge it held. He shook his head as Ulssb helpfully pointed out useful bits of information.
“The depictions of metal heat by color are inaccurate for Antinium since we see in a different spectrum than Dullahans. That is important information.”
“Don’t you…read other books?”
“We were never ordered to.”
The Armored Antinium shook his head. Anand’s antennae drooped.
“You have missed so much. There are far more interesting books! See? This is ‘The Hungry Little Wyvern’. I know this book!”
Excitedly, he grabbed it and opened it for Ulssb. The two read it eagerly, staring at the bright illustrations.
“This is a good book!”
Ulssb was blown away. Anand handed it to him.
“You see? You should experiment and read other books. I myself have read over twenty books. That is a lot, by the way. But this library is amazing!”
He spread his arms to take it all in. Then, Anand had another thought.
“You know, I’m even something of a [Writer]. Belgrade, Pawn, Yellow Splatters, and I all collaborated on a book.”
“You wrote a book?”
“I did. It is about mating rituals among different species. It is very informative. I think Goat has the copy. Why don’t you go back? I wish to remain here and see what books there are.”
The other Armored Antinium wavered, but the call of books was too strong. The newly-created bookworm hurried off.
“Books, books, wonderful books…”
And then Anand was alone. Singing, he investigated the shelves, finding interesting titles and checking them out. He wondered if he could borrow a few? Or at least read them and bring them back. He was a [Reader]. Level 4, and had a few nice Skills…
Anand was circulating the vast room—which was so huge so that the Armored Queen could enter it and be read to—when he turned his attention to light coming from the room beyond. This library was the first room in the Armored Queen’s chambers. But there was another.
At first, Anand assumed it was the laboratory that Queens had. But…those were always sealed to prevent contaminants. And the room beyond was more like…a hallway?
What had Ulssb said? The room with statues?
Curiosity got the better of Anand. He put the book he’d been about to open back on the shelf and walked forwards.
He found himself in a long hallway made of stone. A bright sandstone. Yet—the hallway was shadowed.
And in the hallway were—alcoves. Pedestals, built into the wall. And standing on them—Anand saw figures.
He stopped in front of the first pedestal and looked up. Anand peered at the towering figure. He…stumbled. Passed a hand over his eyes.
“What’s…that looks like…”
