However, Erin had reassured Belgrade that he was like her. Belgrade was not a genius. He studied chess obsessively and derived his abilities from practice, memorization—he was perhaps, too reliant on past patterns as Erin said, but he enjoyed stable battlegrounds.
Traps were easy. Traps were predictable. They worked or they didn’t. You could set up a hallway with traps and not have to worry about losing soldiers, just the material cost of replacing things.
Belgrade loved traps. He loved creating mazes the enemy had to struggle down and not lose a single Antinium as they reached death-zones with [Archers] raining down arrows on them from entrenched positions. He was fond of making traps that destroyed each enemy type.
Vast swarms, armored foes, clever Raskghar—the few that he saw anymore—Belgrade was no innovator in terms of formations or unit-tactics, but he had long since adapted acid-arrows into the [Archer]-Worker ammunition piles. For the really dangerous foes. Just a little bit of glass or ceramics containing the acid carefully attached to an arrow. Fire into the face for maximum effect.
But Belgrade’s new project had come about oh, three weeks ago when Gemhammer had stopped in the inn for a drink. He had, while waiting for a chess game with Erin, Olesm, or someone else, overheard them talking about digging up parts of the dungeon to sell. The fact that they took trap blades, enchanted sigils, and so on had fascinated him.
So Belgrade had copied them. He had bought one of Gemhammer’s pickaxes with Xrn’s allowance, and with her help, identified a trap rune in the dungeon that froze whatever walked on it. As an experiment, Belgrade had moved it into a tunnel which the foe came down and watched as it killed dozens before they realized it was there.
“Oho. Oho. I am told ‘oho’ is something you say when you are happy.”
The [Tactician] rubbed all four hands together as he watched a group of Workers, carefully, carefully extract some enchanted spikes out of a pit trap in the ground. It was very difficult; the stone of the dungeon was exceedingly difficult to break, even with an enchanted pickaxe. But the reward?
“We will mount these spikes on the barricades, perhaps. Or another pit trap. Or we could put them on a shield and have a Soldier charge into the enemy.”
Belgrade happily waved a spike at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] looked at the smaller Worker. He replied in a deep, bass voice.
“Perhaps. We have two teams of [Shieldbearer] Antinium. But will these…spikes run out of magic like the traps when they are taken out of the dungeon?”
“I do not believe so. This is just enchanted metal. If they are dependent on mana, they will simply be kept in the dungeon for use.”
Most of the magic traps needed mana to function and thus lost power outside of the dungeon, much to Belgrade’s disappointment. Although he was still trying to convince Lyonette to let him install some of the traps in the hallway. She had objected on the grounds that they might ‘activate and kill all our guests’. Which Belgrade supposed was a counterargument.
By the time Xrn returned, with two wounded Armored Antinium and no casualties, she had killed a fair number of monsters—most fled her approach—and allowed the Antinium with her to fight under her protection. She was also arguing with Pivr.
“—Safe leveling is preferable to endangering the Antinium with the capacity to level, Pivr. Now, you will take your Flying Antinium and participate in activities laid out by Pawn. Socialize. That is an order. Oh. Belgrade. Xeu tells me you have been—busy?”
The Small Queen stared at Belgrade as a pair of Workers tried to mount some of the enchanted pit-spikes into a wooden shield. Belgrade raised one hand.
“Yes, Xrn. I have obtained these spikes, which I am attempting to integrate into our armaments. I have also fortified the areas you have taken. I appreciate Xeu checking on me with regularity, but nothing of note occurred.”
She had, in fact, surprised Belgrade nearly a dozen times in the last two hours. Xrn studied Belgrade, looking somewhat…confused. But then she smiled.
“Well done, Belgrade. Your initiative is pleasing.”
“Thank you, Prognugator Xrn.”
The other Prognugators from the other Hives stared at Belgrade, looking very confused. And Belgrade had it. He looked at the way Xrn shepherded the other Antinium, ordering some to go with Yellow Splatters to eat at The Wandering Inn.
The most…unique Antinium, like the Flying Antinium and Silent Antinium were too different to eat at the inn, so Xrn had them socialize with the Painted Antinium. She even ordered them to do that.
“Read books, or have them read to you if you do not wish to communicate.”
And they obeyed. They did not ask questions. Nor did they disobey. For the next three hours, Xeu rested on her legs next to a group of Antinium listening to Pawn reading a story book to them. Pivr followed Belgrade about, asking questions.
“Why are you doing that?”
“What is the purpose of doing that?”
“That seems very inefficient. In my Hive…”
And his most constant refrain—
“Did Prognugator Xrn give you orders to do that? If not, why are you doing it?”
He was always mystified by Belgrade’s response.
“I was not given orders to do it. I chose to do it because I thought it would be useful.”
This was what Belgrade had observed, that Erin had picked up on after noticing Tersk and Dekass’ unfailing habits. The other Prognugators…did not do anything.
Or rather, they were excellent at following orders. Because they had been ordered and allowed to do it, Tersk and Dekass frequented the inn every day. They tried new foods. In fact, they had even tried combining foods, like ice cream and squash soup, to mixed results. They watched plays, asked questions.
…They never went to other establishments, in Liscor or anywhere. They might not have been allowed in, but they never tried. In the same way, Pivr and Xeu followed Xrn’s orders and explored the Hive, tried to learn. They did not take command except when she ordered it.
In battle, Xeu would lead Painted Antinium, Flying Antinium, Armored Antinium. But she did not ask to command them, only waited to be appointed. She was tactically proficient and could improvise to attack or defend. She did not create new strategies.
“Is that common of Prognugators, Xrn?”
Once Pawn had heard Belgrade’s conclusion, he had immediately gone to Xrn to ask about it. The Small Queen gave him a strange look.
“Of course. At least, among the Prognugators of Izril’s generations. They are not perfect. I understand your Ksmvr was like this, although I have never met him.”
“He was fairly autonomous to me.”
The [Priest] rubbed at his limbs, recalling when they had been severed. Xrn smiled and touched his arm lightly. Pawn felt his chitin tingling; Xrn was magic.
“He attempted to carry out Klbkch’s duties, Pawn. He did not think to do anything Klbkch did not. You are not like he was. You created the Painted Antinium. You have instituted your prayer room in The Wandering Inn. You are not like a Prognugator. You are something more.”
“Yes…but the other Prognugators are very intelligent. They are capable of making their own decisions.”
Xrn opened and closed her mandibles before shaking her head.
“In a way. Give Pivr an order to maintain the Hive and he will. He will do everything in his power to maintain the Hive. But that is all. Prognugators of Izril are excellent…task managers. But the Queens must still lead. That is why they are always so busy. But here, I see Belgrade, you, Yellow Splatters—all the Painted Antinium have what we need. Klbkchhezeim was right. I had forgotten how much I was forced to manage other Antinium—even Prognugators—until I came here.”
She looked thoughtful then. And Pawn wondered if she wasn’t overselling things a bit. Tersk seemed very autonomous to him. But then…perhaps not.
“Xrn, it occurs to me that you may be correct. Have I mentioned that Garry is attempting to open a shop?”
“…What?”
 
—-
 
Garry’s Antinium Edibles was, by all normal business standards, a failure. It had opened up on the street that led to the Hive, already a bad move since most people avoided that place like the plague.
Second, most people didn’t want to eat…‘Antinium Edibles’. However, Garry stocked the shop with pies, experimental breads, desserts—none of which was making him a profit. The shop had been in the red every day since opening four days ago.
On the other hand—he was leveling. The [Chef] was benefiting from his sales. And he was selling everything in his stalls, even if it took a while. The Worker would hand a pie over for three copper coins to some starving Liscorian citizen and they’d find Garry could cook. Even if some of the feedback cards said ‘stop putting centipedes in the damn pies’.
“It is not about income. The Free Queen has given me a large food budget. Therefore, all of my profits are actually profits with no expense.”
Garry justified his prices to Belgrade and Erin when they heard about his stall. Lyonette nearly had a heart attack. Numbtongue bought everything in Garry’s inventory and shoved it all into his bag of holding.
“You see? I have made record-breaking sales each day. I never have anything left in my stock. That is good business.”
Erin expected Lyonette to explode, but the [Princess] actually took Garry’s side after she had a moment to think. She gave Pawn and Erin a rueful smile.
“You have to admit—it’s brilliant. People—especially hungry people—will buy a pie if it’s three copper coins, even if it’s made by Antinium. Especially children!”
“I never have any ice cream when I make it. Would you like to buy a non-insect pie, Miss Erin? They are my best-selling pies.”
The [Innkeeper] stared at a pie much like any prospective buyer did when they saw the section labeled ‘insect-pies’ sitting unhelpfully next to the section labeled ‘no-insect pies’. But Garry was happy and there were Soldiers helpfully standing guard who sort of discouraged any unpleasantness. And he was doing his own thing.
 
—-
 
Someone else who noticed the change in the Hive was the Free Queen. She started as she realized she had spent three whole days in her laboratory, working on her creation projects.
“Oh no.”
The Free Queen was a huge figure, but she practically dragged herself out of the contained laboratory built into her quarters. In a Human mother—it would be the equivalent of running out of the bedroom where she’d been having a lie down, screaming ‘oh god, I haven’t fed the baby in three days and I left the stove on!’
Which it was, to be fair. Even with Klbkch or Xrn, the Hive could not survive without a Queen telling the Antinium to do such basic things as feed themselves. The Queen reached for her dying Hive—
And found nothing out of the ordinary. The Antinium were healthy. Even the creation pods were functioning as normal—the Listeners had been rotated out, all Antinium were fed…
“Did Xrn do all of this?”
The Free Queen was amazed. Even Klbkch would have struggled to maintain the Hive, even without his [Guardsman] job. But then she saw movement.
“Queen. Queen. Food.”
A little shape scurried out of the kitchen. Two shapes, actually. A pair of terrified Flying Antinium brought out loaded trolleys of Queen-sized morsels. The Free Queen stared at them.
Garry’s helpers. What were their names again?
“Pisca and…Runel? Where is Garry?”
“Above, shop.”
“Shop? What shop?”
The Free Queen was confused, but the two helpers didn’t respond; she didn’t think they understood. But they had brought Garry’s food—actually, they had helped with the creation of the dishes.
“My Queen! I am sorry, I was tending to my business!”
Garry rushed into her room at her mental summons. The Free Queen was eating, having not ingested any food in her laboratory for three days; it was a bad idea to contaminate the sterile environment.
“Garry. This is good food. What is this shop? And who has been managing the Hive?”
“Xrn, my Queen. And Yellow Splatters. And Pawn. And Belgrade. And Purple Smiles and…we did not wish to disturb you.”
“You…managed my Hive?”
The Free Queen looked down at Garry in astonishment. He hurried into the kitchen to wheel out a huge fish he’d bought via Pallass—he put his request through Lyonette—and subsequently stuffed with acid-flies. A delicacy.
“Yes, my Queen. Should we not have?”
The Queen hesitated. On one feeler-palp, it was jarring. On the other—this was what she had wanted. This was how the Queens of Rhir had lived. Junior Queens and Prognugators did the work. She hadn’t ever known this since she was small.
“No. Carry on, Garry. This is good. This is…”
The Free Queen sampled Garry’s acid-fly fish and pronounced it amazing, much to the [Chef]’s delight. Somewhat off-balance, the Queen ate her fill. She asked about the update of the Hive and Xrn came to report. Nothing needed to be done; the Free Queen was astonished to see Belgrade’s new spike-shield and congratulated him on it. Then…she had time to work in her laboratory again.
The Free Queen felt like she was being treated like royalty. It was a surreal experience.
 
—-
 
The Antinium of Izril had been the most fast-evolving nation in the world. The most dangerous, rapidly-advancing species to drive terror into the complacent races of Izril.
Two decades ago, that had been the case. But the Second Antinium War had broken out and the Antinium had been held back, despite deploying more of their specialized Antinium to the battlefields.
True, there had been a Goblin King and [Necromancer] mucking about. But it had not been their finest hour.
 
Their finest hour had been long ago, underground, in the heart of Rhir. Their darkest hour, too. 
 
The Antinium of Izril had struck the continent like lightning. But they had maintained the battle lines since then. Something had happened.
The Hives had grown stagnant. They had become complacent. The Queens had turned to infighting. Some had given up on returning to Rhir.
 
They had forgotten how to create Queens. These were the first, the last, the only.
 
But to live, the Antinium had needed to change. That was why he had left, along with the dissenter. They had lived in exile, and he himself had despaired that they could bring about the miracle they so needed.
He had died before that dream had come to fruition. But as luck had it—death to the Antinium was something they had managed to cure under the right circumstances. Not for all. But he had come back and found his dream realized—even if it hadn’t taken the shape he’d imagined. But it was done.
Now, he was going home. And home—he had thought long and hard about the weakness in his people. It was the same as in him.
