The [Mages] and Queens were still staring at the place Klbkch had been when he swept past the Sword Prognugators again. The other Antinium struck with their steel swords. Klbkch sundered one blade and cut another arm off at the elbow. The Prognugator went stumbling away, chest cracked. Anand hadn’t even seen Klbkch strike the chest.
“What’s happening? Is that a Skill?”
The Grand Queen saw the Antinium dashing about, abandoning the neat arena as Klbkch pursued them. Two of her Sword Prognugators lashed out at the blur, using a Skill. Their blades turned into a wall of slashing attacks. Klbkch battered the swords down, breaking the Skill and kicked both off their feet.
It was a slaughter, without deaths. Anand saw one of the Painted Workers put hands over its eyes and peek through the gaps. The other Prognugators were fast, skillful, and deadly. Klbkch outran them. He downed ten, fourteen, sixteen…
One of the Prognugators, the Worker-type which Klbkch had dueled was next. It attacked Klbkch with all four blades, lashing out at him in a furious attack as the Slayer paused to give him a target. Klbkch held his ground, deflecting the blades and knocking the other Prognugator back as it tried to close. Five seconds, nine seconds…
After twenty seconds. The Sword Prognugator stopped. It looked at Klbkch, then stopped moving. Klbkch slowly raised his sword and laid the edge at the Prognugator’s neck.
The Sword Prognugator didn’t move. The Antinium just waited. Anand peeked around. He knew what that meant. The warrior had—in the way of Antinium—concluded that there was absolutely no way it would hurt Klbkch. So it had given up.
Klbkch looked around. The other Prognugators had backed up, waiting for him to come to them. He raised the sword and looked around.
“Grand Queen. I believe that concludes the…exhibition.”
“How—has the Free Queen made so many advances? How? I was not told of this! This—this is unacceptable!”
The Grand Queen’s voice had a shrill note in it. Klbkch regarded her, and then bowed.
“My Queen. The difference in my abilities is not due to the Free Queen’s alterations to my form. I have simply gained a Skill.”
“O-oh.”
Klbkch looked around. The other Queens watched him. Each one now—captivated. Where once they had been simply admiring, or, in the Twisted Queen’s case, clearly disinterested in the proceedings.
But he saw it now. So did Anand. The Silent Queen’s admiration, even adulation. The Armored Queen bowed.
“The Armored Hive would be honored by your presence, Klbkchhezeim.”
“We as well. The Free Hive demonstrates its worth.”
“Klbkchhezeim.”
The Centenium looked at the Twisted Queen. She looked at him, missing one of the mandibles on her face. And…part of her body. She sat in the shadows, twitching. She said only this:
“Wrymvr is. Waiting for you.”
Klbkch thought about that. And then he nodded.
“We shall see, my Queen.”
 
—-
 
A lot could change in a moment. Klbkch understood that more than anyone. And—in the time that passed after his display of his new Skill, the Grand Queen’s demeanor went through a radical shift.
“Klbkchhezeim. Let us speak candidly. In…private. We value your guidance above all.”
The Grand Queen had looked at Anand before ordering all of the Antinium out of her throne chamber.
She was still paranoid. Still—Klbkch had left because he disagreed with her. As had the Free Queen. That memory was faded, though. And while she had not inspired him upon his return, he realized something.
He had inspired her. The Grand Queen looked down at Klbkch and the Centenium saw the same flicker in her posture and mind.
Hope. The last six Queens of Izril were True Antinium as well. Even they needed hope.
“Klbkchhezeim. Words fail to express my feelings. I have heard of…miracles. Only in the spoken language can I articulate what I see. A miracle. How have you recovered your strength?”
In private, the Grand Queen’s manner of speech changed. She bent down, to inspect him more fully. She was a giant, larger than even War Queens. Klbkch looked up at her and recalled the first experiments where the Queens had laid eggs with their bodies—a backwards concept that Antinium had done away with long ago. That was how desperate they had been and the effects were permanent; the Grand Queen moved slowly, her body too large for what it had been made for.
He bowed to her.
“My Queen. My new Skill was anything but a miracle. It was born of desperation. Of…failure. With my Skill, I may battle as I once did, at my greatest. For minutes.”
“I see. But that is—Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium’s power. With it, we have three of the Centenium’s strength once more. Truly. This is glad tidings.”
She sighed then. Klbkch looked up at the Grand Queen.
“You have changed, my Queen.”
“I know. If you would chastise me for my change—blame Drakes. This land has taught me of intrigue. Of failure and yes—politics. But Klbkchhezeim. You may unite us once again.”
He doubted that. Xrn had told him to leave because he could not lead the Painted Antinium. Because he was incapable of tolerating that they were Individual and yet—different still. Klbkch looked up at the Grand Queen.
“I am not Xrn. My nature is closer to Wrymvr’s, as you well know, Grand Queen.”
She nodded.
“This too, I know. But listen to me and understand, Klbkch.”
Now—in privacy, with the mirrors of the other Queens removed, the Grand Queen spoke.
“I am Grand Queen of the Antinium of Izril. But my role has been unlike any other Grand Queen before me. The other Hives are fractured. The Queens…do not obey.”
Klbkch glanced towards where the mirrors had hung. He clacked his mandibles open and closed a few times, so surprised was he.
“…That does not make sense. You are the Grand Queen. They obey. Did I not see the supplies and Antinium sent to the Grand Hive?”
The Grand Queen made a dismissive gesture. And her mind, now open to Klbkch, showed him a flash of insight. Emotion. Frustration-exhaustion-regrets.
She was telling the truth. Or the truth as she knew it.
“You see it. But each Queen pursues their own goals. Some are more loyal than others. I am aware of the Armored Queen’s works, and sanction them. But the other Queens reserve their own council. Klbkchhezeim. I fear we are splintering. Like the primordial Antinium of old.”
Before the First Queen, before even him—there had been Antinium. Each to their Hives, each obeying only one Queen. They had fought between themselves, like Drakes did, before the First Queen had unified them.
The thought that they had regressed so far was unnerving to Klbkch’s sensibilities. He looked at the Grand Queen.
“It has not gone so far.”
She clicked her mandibles and made a fluttering, laughing sound. Like insects chirping. Klbkch had forgotten that sound, until Xrn had come.
“You say so? The other Queens obey—for now. Even the Free Queen has sent you, Klbkchhezeim. Despite her long absence. But the Twisted Queen sends no envoys. She keeps her own council. And she wages war against the Walled Cities against my will.”
“No.”
She waved an impatient palp even as her mind projected the undeniable truth into Klbkch’s mind. He had forgotten that as well; the True Antinium could not, did not lie to each other.
“Did you not see the adventurer team, Klbkchhezeim? The Walled Cities counter-raid our lands. Their [Mages] cast spells to shake the land, cave in tunnels, call floods—they have always done this, but it has increased since the Pallass incident. And they have been moved to it because of the Twisted Queen’s raids.”
“Explain them.”
“I will show you.”
The Grand Queen reached out. Klbkch saw—remembered—
A babble of voices. The Grand Queen’s body. Painful, her voice, irritation, trying to explain to the angry Drakes about villages destroyed. Deny? Yes, deny parasites attacking some cities. The Twisted Queen, silent in her refusal to speak. Frustration, frustration—
Klbkch lifted a hand.
“My Queen. Enough.”
The influx of memories and feeling stopped. The Grand Queen’s antennae stopped waving.
“You see?”
“I do. That is troubling. Disobedience in the Hives cannot be…”
He hesitated. The Free Queen was, even now, experimenting with the possibility of creating new Queens. He had countenanced that. The Grand Queen looked at him. And he realized she was reading him.
“Yes, Klbkchhezeim. I do not lead the Antinium, but keep each Hive from warring with the other. The Twisted Queen is independent; the Flying Queen bickers with the other Queens. We are limited in space. Conflicts…over resources have occurred more than once. I keep the Hives from failing.”
She believed that. Klbkch could only bow his head.
“My Queen. I have come from Liscor with discoveries of my own. The Painted Antinium are a step forwards to our goals. But—I believe they are not enough. We are Antinium, but no more Queens can be made. You have decided attempts should not be made.”
The Grand Queen nodded.
“The Silent Queen’s genius is unmatched among the remaining Queens, Klbkchhezeim. She labored for over a decade with all of us at the beginning to create more Queens. We could not. None of us are Shaper Queens of old. I will not waste resources on that battle.”
“The Antinium will die, then. That is our future. Even with the creation pods to create more Soldier and Workers—we will not continue as a species.”
Klbkch warned her flatly. They needed Queens.
Yet, the giant Queen anticipated Klbkch’s reply. She clicked her mandibles, once.
“This is true, Klbkchhezeim. But I have decided that attempting to create new Queens is a flawed goal. No. Far better to return to Rhir and hope that there are Queens remaining with the knowledge to create more of us.”
Klbkch had been shifting his balance, thinking. Now—he went still.
“Return to Rhir?”
But Xrn had said the Grand Queen wasn’t aware of her plans. Had she lied? The Grand Queen smiled.
“So surprised, Klbkchhezeim? It is the most logically sound choice. Return to Rhir. Have you never considered it?”
“…I came here to implore you to make that decision myself, my Queen.”
The Grand Queen opened her mandibles further.
“Yes. We must. We swore to return, with an army a thousand times larger than what was left. I did not forget. Neither have you. Nor have any of the other Queens. Even the Twisted Queen…”
A flicker of doubt in her mind. Klbkch had to know what had changed the Twisted Queen so much that the Grand Queen had such reservations. He inclined his head, feeling that same tantalizing flicker.
Hope.
“My Queen. If we could return to Rhir and recover the knowledge for just one Queen, let alone bring one back to Izril—”
Everything would change. But the Grand Queen shook her head then, a slow, ponderous motion.
“No. That is where I disagree, Klbkchhezeim. We have no…ships.”
She spat the word. Klbkch felt a tingle running through his system as well. The damned vessels that had ended the Antinium’s hopes.
“Ships can be procured, my Queen.”
“Can they be properly…sailed? We failed once, Klbkchhezeim. But even if we returned to Rhir across all that water, how would we return home? Past the Blighted Kingdom and Demons?”
Klbkch was silent, then. The Grand Queen’s memories pressed on him as much as her words.
“We did not take the 1st Wall of Rhir because it was too dangerous. We overran the Blighted Kingdom because they did not know our strength. The Deathless of the Demons likewise fled our advance because they knew we could be their deaths. But if we return—with an army of these Soldiers? Do you think Rhir will tremble and allow our passage?”
Klbkch did not. And he knew the approximate strength of the Blighted Kingdom and Demons.
“If we reached the Demons, the pact might hold.”
“If, Klbkchhezeim. If we send a ship that can navigate the waters and the armies the world would surely send against us. If we could reach the Demons. If the pact holds, if the Antinium yet fight…too many ifs. I would not risk you. If you died at sea—we would be too far to restore you, even with the Rite of Anastases.”
All true. Klbkch felt a bitter taste enter his being.
“Then what, my Queen? Have you given up?”
She straightened. The huge Queen looked down at Klbkch, severely.
“No. I have weighed the options. I do not say give up, Klbkchhezeim. I say—destroy the Walled Cities. Conquer Izril. When we return—uphold our vow. Send not one boat, but a thousand ships so that one reaches our home. And when it returns—all of Izril will be ready to produce more Queens, true Antinium.”
Bold. Klbkch felt her visions assail him, saw Manus crumbling, Antinium overrunning and colonizing every part of Izril. A bountiful land, with resources to support countless millions of Antinium. His mind struggled against her certainty.
“My Queen! Your vision is—admirable. But how will we win a third war? Twice, the Antinium have fought. And twice we have lost. We have only six Hives, no means of producing more Queens. And our enemies have had a decade to prepare for a third war. They will drown us, destroy us by fire and use every means to defend themselves. What gives you confidence a third war will see our victory?”
He let some of his anger and frustration slip, then. While he and the Free Queen had tried to make leaders, Individuals, what had the other Hives done? He looked at the Grand Queen, letting her bear the brunt of his pent-up emotions. And then—Klbkch saw the Grand Queen smile.
In her mind as well. She bent down.
“Klbkchhezeim. We have not been idle. Have faith, Centenium of old. Have faith, Slayer. Come and see what I have built while you have been gone.”
 
—-
 
Anand found himself alone when the Grand Queen dismissed everyone from her Hive. She even removed the magic mirrors. He peered into one, hoping to ask his Queen what to do, but she was gone.
And Klbkch was busy. So Anand looked around. The Sword Prognugators stood in one of the entryways to the Grand Queen’s chambers, each one perfectly still.
Injuries had been healed. With potions. And—Anand couldn’t help but note that each Sword Prognugator had some of the rare gel applied to their severed limbs, which had been bound to their bodies. With luck, they’d reattach the limbs. Without luck, they’d have to have them regrown, a process of at least a month.
…No one was doing anything. Oh, the other Antinium of the Grand Hive were going about their business, but most of the Sword Prognugators were just standing there. Doing nothing. Anand sensed a few giving orders, managing the Hive in the Grand Queen’s absence. Mainly just sending basic signals.
Go eat food. Fix that wall. Sleep.
Very basic stuff. The Grand Hive bustled. And it was an impressive place.
“Very nice walls.”
