Of the emerging forces in the world, the Unseen Empire was a fast-growing, fast-expanding proto-nation. It wasn’t fully large enough to call itself a civilization, yet. But it had unusual elements which were already testing the fabric of which it had been made.
Goblins, for one. Their separate Goblin-only area, or, as it was coming to be known, ‘the Goblin Lands’, were a sore point among Riverfarm’s people. However—the empire continued to expand because of the power of the [Emperor] as well as…other…considerations.
However, if you benchmarked the growth of the Unseen Empire to the average rate of expansion of other nations or peoples, it would not be the most impressive rise ever seen in this world.
For instance, the King of Destruction might not have qualified in the same way since he was in fact, retaking old lands. But he had amassed far more in terms of landmass, economic value, and both artifacts and allies in less than a year than Laken Godart.
Similarly—the Emperor of Sands, or Empress, as the mood suited them, had grown even faster. It was about perspective. And not to put too fine a point on it, species.
Some were better than others at creating, organizing, working together, or just reproducing. In that sense, the Empire of Sands, the Unseen Empire, and the King of Destruction’s former kingdom all paled in comparison to the fastest-growing, most unique ‘nation’ the world had ever seen.
Antinium. They had swept across Izril over twenty years ago and nearly toppled two species—Gnolls and Drakes. Arguably, they had become a world power in the shortest amount of time. And…lest it not be forgotten, they had left Rhir after overrunning all but one of the walls in an attack that had caught the Blighted Kingdom and the Demons off-guard. What kept some intelligent people awake at night was the question of whether any Antinium had remained in Rhir. And if so…what were they doing?
“Eating?”
Erin peeked out of the kitchen. Kevin was absent, as befit the new icon of Pallass’ youth. Watch Captain Venim and the other Watch Captains were consulting with Zevara as the Assembly of Crafts breathed down their necks.
But it wasn’t about them. Or even the [Innkeeper]. She looked at Imani and Palt, her two resident [Cooks]. Imani was nervous…but not as much as usual. Which was odd, actually. Imani grew terrified of bumps in the night, Gnolls playing pranks, and Apista in general.
Yet the sight of Tersk, Dekass, and Belgrade all noshing at the bar didn’t bother her one bit. Perhaps because Imani had been told that Antinium killed Crelers like nobody’s business.
In fact, once you got to know her, Imani was quite interesting. As Erin peered at the two Prognugators plus Belgrade, Imani left the kitchen holding a plate.
“Excuse me.”
Tersk and Dekass had eaten about eight silver’s worth of snacks, which was a lot. Belgrade was smaller as a Worker than the two Soldier-Prognugators, but he’d packed away a good amount as well. Into his bag of holding too.
“Yes, Miss [Cook]? We have not yet eaten all our appetizers yet. We will summon more.”
Dekass waved a lazy hand. He had gotten very used to the inn and the concept of being waited on. Imani held something out.
“This is a new recipe. Would you please try it?”
The Antinium turned with the speed of cuisine and stared at the object on the plate. Tersk opened and closed his mandibles.
“What is that?”
“A croissant.”
Imani shyly showed them the new foray into food. Erin snapped her fingers.
“How did she make that? I never figured out how! I barely did bagels!”
“It has some powdered sugar too. We worked hard on it.”
Palt looked proud. Imani held out the croissant, but Dekass wasn’t as interested as Tersk and Belgrade.
“Intriguing. If we do not need to pay for it, I will consume some after the fries.”
A fact Erin had observed about Dekass was that the Prognugator liked finishing each plate first. Down to the scraps. Only then would he eat from the second plate. He reached for a fry—and Imani tugged the plate out of the way.
“Try this. Palt and I worked hard on it.”
Dekass stared at Imani. Erin’s jaw dropped.
“I am eating that.”
“Try my new food. It’s a croissant.”
“I do not wish to. Give me my order of food.”
Imani lifted Dekass’ plate out of the way.
“Try my food or you won’t get your fries. And tell me what you think.”
The Antinium looked at each other and Dekass opened and closed his mandibles a few times. Erin felt the need to rub her eyes.
“Is…is that Imani?”
“Mhm. She can be surprisingly stubborn. You wouldn’t know it, but she’s been feeling better of late.”
Palt had some powdered sugar around his mouth. Erin blinked at him.
“Hey. How do you make powdered sugar?”
“You…grind sugar.”
“Oh.”
The Antinium tried the croissant. It went down as well as you could expect—which was very well. They began gobbling it, without fear of gluten. Xrn had given them all her special anti-food poisoning charm on a wooden amulet.
“So? What did you think? Is it too dry for Antinium palates? I noticed you don’t make as much saliva as other species.”
“I would like my fries. And I must now excrete excess nutrition.”
Dekass waved a feeler as the other two lethargic Antinium realized they had to provide feedback to the Imani-survey.
The point, to Erin at least, wasn’t that Imani was actually the kind of person who insisted you fill out the survey with your thoughts. Or that she was actually observant and pushy. Or that you could make powdered sugar out of…sugar.
The point was that Tersk and Dekass had regularly shown up every single day, eating food. Erin peered at Dekass as he waddled out of the inn.
“You know, I thought they’d be different. But they’re just…normal.”
She was aware the two Antinium were different. Not many people were, but Zevara’s fit over the other types of Antinium appearing in her city during the confrontation with Magnolia had been legendary. Ultimately, Erin hadn’t heard much because whatever was happening was going on with the high commands of cities, Liscor’s Council—bigwig stuff as she termed it.
The strange thing to Erin was how the other Prognugators and Antinium that Xrn had brought to Liscor had behaved. It had been weeks now. And Tersk and Dekass showed up like clockwork, ate like machines, and left. But…that was it.
“What do you think they’re doing all day when they’re not eating?”
Erin looked at Palt. The Centaur shrugged as Imani wrote down some notes and came back. Erin stared at Tersk. The Antinium looked content, bloated, and was casually talking with Belgrade. He was, in fact…not doing much of anything. And that was strange.
But only because it had been so long that Erin had forgotten what Antinium had been like.
 
—-
 
The Antinium was standing when Xrn found her. It was difficult, even with her mental connection to pinpoint the Silent Antinium; she had blended so seamlessly with the dark loam of the barracks that she was practically invisible.
“Xeu. I require your presence.”
Only then did the Silent Antinium’s Prognugator move. Xeu, the mantis-like Antinium, did not walk on two legs. She was closer to the sensibilities of an insect than the more humanoid Workers and Soldiers. Only the Silent Queen had the expertise to make her subjects so perfectly hexapodal. Pivr had inefficiencies in his motion, for instance.
He was accompanying Xrn. The Flying Antinium’s Prognugator fluttered his wings in a slight challenge. Xeu ignored him.
“This one obeys, Xrn. What will?”
Her voice was soft, so high-pitched it was hard for any non-Antinium to hear. Another mechanism designed to allow Silent Antinium to communicate without the enemy hearing. Xrn pointed.
“First. We go to the dungeon. Second—socialization. I wish you two to communicate with the Painted Antinium.”
“Must we?”
Pivr’s tone was annoyed. But he meekly lowered his antennae as Xrn looked at him.
Interesting observations of the Antinium of Izril. Well, to Xrn, they had long ceased to be interesting. The first was that the Silent Antinium, like their Queen, were very used to stillness. Pivr, by contrast, had more emotion in him than any other Antinium besides the Individuals—even if it was all reluctance and arrogance like his Queen.
But the two were similar in a strange way. A way Xrn barely thought of anymore. As she led the two Prognugators, she collected Tersk and Dekass, who had eaten their fill at the inn.
“Fall in. We go to battle.”
The Small Queen’s eyes shone like a trapped nebula. She led the Antinium of three Hives into the dungeon, with the Painted Antinium. And everything she met—died.
While adventurers conducted their war, and Liscor continued to expand, the Antinium were also changing. Xrn reached the first layer of fortifications. Belgrade was already there, relieving Purple Smiles.
“What change?”
“Not much, Prognugator Xrn. We have held this area well. I regret to say…eighteen of your thirty six bound spells have been activated. Purple Smiles deemed each use acceptable—”
Xrn regarded the scorched stones and hallways of the dungeon. A broken suit of armor lay with a huge, gaping vent in its armor. The azure Antinium shook her head.
“How many casualties?”
“Fifty six. However—”
Belgrade stopped as Xrn looked at him.
“Use all of my spells, Belgrade. I am capable of replenishing them at will. Magic regenerates. Workers and Soldiers—especially Painted Antinium—do not.”
The [Tactician] looked into the stern, green-blue eyes, mixing admonition with sorrow. He bowed his head.
“I am sorry for my failure.”
A gentle hand touched his arm. The [Tactician] started. Xrn had only two arms. She smiled.
“Learn. And protect your Hive, Belgrade. Hold this ground. We will advance. Pivr, Tersk, Dekass, Xeu. To me.”
Belgrade watched as Xrn marched down the hallway. The [Trapsetter Tactician] turned to a Painted Soldier.
“Two Thousand Five Hundred and Two Stars, prepare to move the fortifications forwards. Archer Squad E—prepare for counterattacks on the other corridors.”
The Antinium moved around him. Belgrade examined the fortifications. They were actually copies of the adventurer-tactics. Tall, metal-coated barricades, which allowed Antinium to funnel their foes and assail them from a height-advantage. Belgrade had happily stolen the idea. Anything that was useful, he stole.
And innovated upon. Xrn had enchanted these barricades. She was no master-enchanter; Belgrade didn’t understand the nuances of her class, but a [Thaumaturge] had interesting abilities. She had magic for every situation, but she was a poor specialist. Even so. Enchanted barriers meant that the Antinium had taken and held over forty tunnels within the dungeon, despite monster attacks and the dungeon attempting to retake the areas adventurers and Antinium held.
But the dungeon, which Belgrade regarded as a faceless, numberless foe, had failed. Due to the Antinium’s strategic fortifications as well as—
Xrn. A flash of light lit up the tunnel she’d gone down. Belgrade didn’t need to watch her. He’d seen her destroying entire hallways with her magic before. Unlike Klbkch, she was and had remained at the height of her strength.
Useful. More useful than Klbkch, especially in personality.
Belgrade did not say that part aloud. But his opinion of his former boss had changed as well. Belgrade liked Xrn.
Pawn liked Xrn.
Yellow Splatters liked Xrn. Purple Smiles loved Xrn. Xrn loved Chesacre and Thaina, whom she often employed as bodyguards on her dungeon battles. The feeling was mutual, as Belgrade understood it.
The Small Queen had brought many changes to the Free Antinium. She was conducting an aggressive expansion into the dungeon, forcing the other Antinium to adapt and mix tactics. Also: trying to safely level all of the Painted Antinium and create more.
She was the one behind the increased budgets for Pawn’s barracks. Enchanting Belgrade’s fortifications—even authorizing personal artifacts from the Antinium treasuries for Belgrade, like his bag of holding, for instance. Xrn was munificent, kind…
But there was one odd thing about her.
“Tactician Belgrade. Xrn is requesting an update. Your status?”
Belgrade got the request from a Silent Antinium, Xeu herself, after fifteen minutes. He nearly fell off the 3rd barricade in the tunnel he was commanding from.
The Silent Antinium’s Prognugator was the only one of them that talked. Same with Pivr; the other Antinium were in theory, capable of speech, but Belgrade had never heard them saying one word. They, like Workers and Soldiers, simply obeyed.
Xeu was also quiet. She waited, half invisible in the gloom; she had only appeared to speak to him. Belgrade caught himself before he could fall and replied.
“I—I am well, Xeu.”
The Silent Antinium had two scythe-arms rather than manipulable arms. She was meant for only one purpose; regular Workers had to even help her eat. But the blades were sharper than regular steel. She rubbed them together now, making a silky sound. She seemed…puzzled.
“Well? Clarify.”
The [Tactician] looked around and scratched at his head, copying an Erin-gesture.
“We have…engaged on fifteen fronts since Xrn’s advance.”
“I will tell Xrn at once.”
Xeu tensed and prepared for her lightning-fast scuttles the way she’d come. Belgrade held up three of his four hands.
“No! They were minor battles. I took care of them. Two casualties. Unavoidable, regrettably. I am just overseeing the movement of barricades to cover Xrn’s advance. And collecting more traps. Oh—and I requested reinforcements. Another archer-squad is en route to supplement our forces along Hallway E11.”
The Silent Antinium regarded Belgrade without apparent emotion aside from her rubbing scythe-arms.
“What order was given?”
“Excuse me? None. I have done this on my own authority.”
The [Tactician] looked blankly at Xeu. The Prognugator opened and closed her mandibles a few times.
“I will inform Xrn.”
She left without another word. Belgrade scratched at his head. Then he went back to his project.
Of the original chess club, Belgrade considered himself the true acolyte of Erin Solstice in the sense that he had memorized more of her chess strategies than any other Antinium and not distinguished himself in any other unique way since.
For instance, Pawn was now a [Priest] and leader of the Painted Antinium along with Yellow Splatters. Garry was a [Cook] who brought wonderful delicacies to life. Bird was Bird.
And Anand had gone with Klbkch. Belgrade thought that Anand had a better claim to brilliance than Belgrade. He was a [Strategist] compared to Belgrade’s [Tactician]. He was able to adapt and overcome Belgrade 68.31% of the time, and that was only recent simulations.
