“In that case—well done, Anand. Twice. You have done excellent work and I have not appreciated that until now. I will attempt to do so…”
He saw Anand quivering. Klbkch had no idea those words mattered so much to the [Strategist]. And—as important as Erin? That felt…good.
Very good. So Klbkch sat there. And after a while, he looked up and said one word.
“Galuc.”
The other Antinium looked at him, even the over-the-moon Anand. Klbkch looked past them. Then he stood up. After today—he had to say it. After seeing what the Armored Queen had wrought.
They were all going to die. But they should know, even if it was pointless, who he had been. If Klbkch died—they should remember. He had to jump to slash the wall with his sword. The other Antinium craned out of their cubbies to see the mark.
“He stood this tall. This wide. You are made in his image. But you do not know him. What you must know first is that Galuc laughed. Of all the Centenium, he possessed the quality of humor. Of…he was like Erin Solstice’s best qualities. But better. Less random. He was…”
 
—-
 
They asked him questions that night. Klbkch answered them for a long time. Galuc had been one of many, and there were legends untold about him. Like the time he had tunneled into a nest of Crelers and torn them to pieces before help could arrive. Klbkch had forgotten so much—until he told the stories.
The next day, they breakfasted on proper food. The Free Antinium were running low on their supplies. So Anand persuaded Ulssb to let them at the raw materials before it was pounded into the nutritious paste. He obtained some slightly rotten goat—much to Goat’s horror—and fried it over a fire with the last of the cheese.
“You can cook?”
Klbkch stared at the toasted cheese-on-meat that Anand offered him. The [Strategist] shrugged.
“Garry taught me how to not burn meat when I do not want to. It is not cooking.”
But it was a substantial improvement over the regular fare. Indeed, the Armored Queen had been so taken with the gifts the Free Antinium had brought—which they had not been able to offer the Silent Queen or Grand Queen—she immediately demanded more.
In turn, that started a miniature war over Anand as the Silent and Grand Queen realized that among the things they had neglected to get from him, samples of Garry’s cooking were included. Anand spent the day running about showing the Prognugators and Workers how to grill meat.
But that wasn’t important. That was just food. So while Klbkch let Anand deal with that, he went to visit the Flying Queen.
It was something of an underwhelming experience compared to the Silent Queen and Grand Queen’s Hives. Oh, the Flying Queen was unlike the other two. Her Hive was made erratically, improvised, not as carefully laid out, but her drones were much faster. Their thrumming wings made the Hive constantly noisy as they moved at top speed then had to rest.
Indeed, the Flying Queen’s creations also spoke of her originality, but lack of focus. She had yet to get any of her Antinium to fly, but she assured Klbkch she would. Soon.
“Of course I have plans, Klbkchhezeim. I have many plans; my latest is to create a flying projectile in my Soldiers. They currently generate acidic bile; they will have the ability to shoot thorn-projectiles.”
That was her grand project. Or rather, flight was. According to the Flying Queen, it solved…everything.
“The Walled Cities will fall if we can bypass their walls. My Hive will be the one to do it. Also—flight will allow us to return to Rhir, a priority, I agree.”
“How?”
Klbkch saw the Flying Queen stop fiddling with one of her experiments in the Birthers—the sacs growing new experimental Antinium, most of whom didn’t live long.
“Obviously, they will fly across the sea.”
“All the way across the sea. I see.”
The Flying Queen gave Klbkch a puzzled look.
“Of course. With wings, they will. It just takes one breakthrough and I am close, so close…”
Some Queens were idiots. Klbkch recalled why he had trouble with the Flying Queen. Well—she was certainly innovative. But he was disinclined to do more than encourage her to work with the Free Queen.
Especially because she wasn’t interested in Anand either. She didn’t see his worth. When Klbkch mentioned Anand, the Flying Queen brought over a Worker.
“Ah, yes. I have made my own experiments when I heard about the success of these Individuals. See? Look at this Worker.”
“T-this—this—this—I—I—I am a Worker, Revalantor.”
The Antinium stuttered as it presented itself to the Revalantor. It wasn’t an aberration—rather, the Worker managed to say ‘I’ after several attempts.
“Does this Worker…have a name?”
Klbkch examined the trembling Worker. The Flying Queen waved a palp.
“Not yet. But I believe I will create Individuals in time.”
Her antennae waggled as she looked at Klbkch. As if to say ‘huh, huh? Look at that shit. I can do it too!’ Klbkch stared at the Worker.
“I—I am a Worker, Revalantor.”
The Worker managed after another try. Klbkch studied it and the Flying Queen.
“…Good for you. Carry on.”
That was the Flying Queen for you. Klbkch spent as much time as he needed to humoring her, smacking a few of her ‘elite warriors’ around, and finding out that she too had been raiding Drakes for her needs, usually artifacts that enabled flight so she could experiment.
And that left only one Queen. One Hive. Klbkch had reservations about visiting her, though. All the Queens had warned him about her.
“She has gone rogue. She communicates seldom. I believe her sacrifices, brave though they were, have damaged her cognition.”
“Her advances are…disturbing.”
“She may not despair, but her creations are such that even I could not bring myself to emulate her. Efficient and terrible.”
“She—she—has Wrymvr. You should visit her, but my Antinium have clashed with her. It was not my Hive’s fault! Mostly. Her Antinium are…different.”
And Xrn had told Klbkch that she thought Wrymvr had gone insane. What did that mean? Klbkch didn’t know. And he was not apprehensive to visit one of the fellow Hives. It was just that he was…wary.
He brought Anand and a smaller group of Painted Soldiers with him at the end of the day. Anand was covered in flour, and he smelled of meat oils. He looked at Klbkch as they walked overland to the Twisted Hive.
There were no tunnels connecting the Twisted Queen’s domain to the other Hives. Apparently, there had been accidents. Accidents so bad that she had been blocked from the other Hives. Even her name spoke to the change.
Twisted Antinium. Who would call themselves that?
“Klbkch? What is…the Twisted Queen’s motif?”
“The last I recalled, she had made advances into changing her Soldiers into more destructive forms. Usually at the costs of their lifespans. I understand…her Antinium are now even further changed. There may be danger.”
“To us? But we are Antinium.”
The Centenium looked at Anand.
“Do not wander. Keep together and do not provoke anything. That is an order.”
The Twisted Queen’s Hive sat closest to the High Passes, highest in the Hivelands. Most remote. Anand felt a tingling as he approached. Something…in the air?
No. In his mind.
“Revalantor…”
“I feel it too. Keep walking.”
Klbkch saw that the Twisted Hive was built into the rock. It had an entrance actually visible from a distance. A large opening; the Twisted Hive had been built into an existing cave structure and the opening had been widened.
To get there, they would have to descend through a rocky valley and pass through a basin with a large spire of rock. The area made Klbkch…antsy.
Something was off. He heard something in the air. Almost like another Antinium. But magnified—many voices.
Had she created True Antinium? But nothing was coherent.
“Follow me. Single-file.”
The Centenium led the way down the incline. He didn’t see signs of other Antinium, even ones scavenging for food. The sixteen Painted Soldiers and Anand followed.
The—buzzing—grew louder. Klbkch kept turning his head, trying to locate it.
“Strange. Does the Hive have no sentries? Surely we should have been challenged or sighted…”
“Perhaps we have.”
Klbkch had just reached the ground and realized there was sand amid the stone. He paused, staring down at it. Then he heard the buzzing in his head turn to screams.
Something was screaming. Screaming, without words. No—not one thing. Hundreds of voices. Klbkch grabbed at his antennae, muting the noise. A mental cry? Was something under attack?
“Klbkch! What is happening?”
Anand screamed. The other Painted Antinium grabbed at their heads, experiencing the howl but unaware of what it was. Klbkch snapped at them.
“Mental attack! Touch your antennae together or cover them! Assume something is using telepathy!”
The Antinium grabbed at their antennae. Klbkch drew his swords. Mental attacks were rare. Even Crelers were only capable of that as Adults—and weakly. This reminded him of Rhir.
Something was coming. Klbkch sensed the rage in the scream as he muted the sound in his head by sheer force of will.
“I am Klbkchhezeim the Slayer. Twisted Queen, I have come to visit you.”
The Antinium bellowed. But the scream didn’t stop. It was growing louder. Summoning something. Even a non-Antinium would have felt it now. Klbkch looked around. It was coming from near them. Where—
Then he stopped. The Antinium slowly looked up at the one thing that stood out in the basin and opening next to the Twisted Antinium’s Hive.
The spire of stone. It rose from the ground, a relative straight structure with crags of stone on it. Sand and grit. Slowly, Klbkch stepped closer.
“No.”
He hesitated. Then struck at an outcropping of sand and rock. The screaming changed. Klbkch tore at the debris. And he uncovered something dark beneath.
Chitin. Shell. Like that of the Antinium. Anand stared at it, uncomprehending.
“Revalantor. What is…”
“It’s…a spire. It’s alive.”
Klbkch stared at the smooth surface. He looked up at it. It was one thing, just disguised. But it had no limbs. No other body parts. It was…he put his hand on the surface and jerked it away.
“Minds. Hundreds of brains.”
The Painted Soldiers backed away slowly. Anand stared at the spire.
“It’s—”
“It’s just brains. Antinium minds. Why would—”
The ground exploded. The sand patches unearthed huge shapes, screaming figures. They screamed like Antinium and leapt at the Free Antinium.
“Desist! I am Klbkch the S—”
The first figure leapt at Klbkch and he cut it in half. It wasn’t Antinium! It was some—it landed and Klbkch spun. It looked like a cross between a spider and…
“Revalantor!”
He turned again. A huge, bloated Worker was charging at him. It was screaming, and Klbkch felt the rage, pain, coming from it.
Aberration.
Klbkch raised his sword.
“I said, stop.”
It didn’t. Klbkch moved forward smoothly. He didn’t need his [Recaptured Sublimity] Skill to deal with a single Worker. Its belly and midsection was swollen, though. Was it infected with s—
Klbkch didn’t have [Dangersense], but his instincts warned him as his mind made the connection. The Slayer slashed and leapt backwards.
[Evasive Leap]—
The bloated Worker detonated as he cut it. Something in it—some reaction exploded and the blast of air and gore made Klbkch stumbled. He turned.
“They detonate! Keep your distance!”
The Painted Antinium and Anand were backed against the rock. They were knocking other Antinium back, including the scuttling things. But the Free Antinium were terrified. They didn’t fight other Antinium! Klbkch looked around.
“Enough of this! [Recaptured Sub—”
He was about to destroy all the Antinium coming out of the ambush tunnels when something screamed. In his mind and in the air. The sound tore the air and made Anand look up. He saw Klbkch whirl. The Centenium lowered his blades and whispered a word.
“Wrymvr?”
He looked up—and the Centenium fell to earth from where he had been watching them. He landed and the Free Antinium stumbled as the earth shook with his impact. Klbkch looked up at the gaping maws. Dripping with black liquid that corroded the ground. The Twisted Antinium fled the Centenium’s presence. And there he was, unexpectedly.
Wrymvr the Deathless.
Anand froze when he saw the Centenium. Of course he did. Klbkch, used to the Antinium of Liscor as he was—had forgotten Wrymvr’s nature.
He had changed. The Centenium’s body had altered markedly since they had parted. But of course—that was his power.
Wrymvr was one of the oldest of the Centenium. They had not all been made at once, by the First Queen. Xrn had been one of the last. Klbkch one of the very first, hence his…simpler, most efficient of designs. Each to their purpose.
But what froze Anand was Wrymvr’s appearance, even altered. His base form. Each Antinium was different. And Wrymvr had been a masterpiece even among them. He had been based on one of their greatest of foes, the ones the Antinium had met in that dark place.
Anand looked up and screamed a word.
“Creler! Ad—no. Elder Creler! Attack! Attack!”
The Painted Soldier saw the vast form. The unmistakable cutting limbs, the open maws. Only one creature in this world had such a combative appearance. But this one was far, far larger than the Adult Creler that Anand had once seen. More deadly in shape.
The Painted Soldiers charged. It was that or die. They would die, even with levels. Against an Adult Creler?
“Hold! Antinium, hold your ground!”
Klbkch ordered them back. The Painted Soldiers halted with the force of his command. But Anand did not. They had to attack, so Klbkch would escape! The Hives had to bring down this monstrosity! He drew the shortsword he had been given from the armories and slashed at the giant Elder Creler’s armor.
His sword bounced off. Anand flailed at the Centenium as Wrymvr‘s eyes—some of them—turned to regard Anand. Klbkch cursed. Xrn had called him unstable and unchanging and rude and violent. And that was hyperbole because Wrymvr was all of those traits magnified.
“Anand, stop. That is Wrymvr of the Centenium! Wrymvr—”
Anand stopped flailing and attacking. He backed up. The giant Antinium looked at him.
Of all the Centenium—no, many would have fit the Twisted Antinium, like Devrkr the Glowing. After all, True Antinium came in all shapes and sizes. But Wrymvr fit this place.
His body reconfigured as he turned. Chitinous armor moving. Blades retracting. He had never died. Not even at the battle where Xrn had lost her life. That had been more chance than anything; even Wrymvr might have died if he had been closer. But it was true; his nature was to endure. He had survived the depths of the sea when no Centenium had.
