They had lost too much. But as Klbkchhezeim finally left the darkness of the tunnel and marched upwards into the light, he felt something else in his soul, the very core of his being.
Hope. He stood in a place he had not walked for over a decade. The lands to the southwest of Liscor, which had once been Drake territory. The high hills and plateaus, forever changed to be dry, arid, after countless weather spells. A dead land at first sight.
The home of the Antinium of Izril. The base of five Antinium Hives. The Revalantor of the Free Antinium, the Centenium, Senior Guardsman Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer, strode onto the dry ground.
“Revalantor Klbkch, Revalantor Klbkch! Please wait for your escort!”
A voice from behind him, anxious. Klbkch turned his head and saw other Antinium. Anand and an escort of Antinium, both Painted Antinium and regular Soldiers and Workers, numbering just two hundred strong. The Revalantor suppressed a flash of annoyance.
“Anand. There is no need for an escort for me.”
“But Revalantor Klbkch—I was given to understand that counterattacks do occur, even in the Hivelands.”
“The what?”
Anand had dirt on his chitin from marching underground through the tunnel to the Hives for so long. And excavating parts of the tunnel that had been collapsed.
The Walled Cities had not been happy to learn about the tunnel. Multiple times, Klbkch had sensed the tremors and ordered the Antinium to band together. Once, they’d even been buried and had to dig their way out.
[Geomancers]. Collapsing the tunnel only for Antinium to dig it open again. That was the kind of stalemate that Klbkch remembered.
Raids now…Klbkch hesitated as Anand explained.
“Pivr told me before we left, Revalantor. The Hivelands is this area, and Drake forces will attack the Hives.”
“They…do?”
They hadn’t used to do that. This area had terrified the Drakes and Gnolls beyond belief. Much had changed.
Klbkch looked around, and then leapt upwards. He landed on a large rocky outcropping as Anand exclaimed.
“Revalantor Klbkch!”
“Be silent, Anand. And use my name only.”
“May I?”
The Centenium didn’t reply. Anand’s presence on this trip had grated on his nerves. Which was an odd thought. Klbkch had chosen Anand because the [Strategist] was the best representative of the Free Antinium he could name.
Well, compared to Belgrade and Yellow Splatters, since Bird, Garry, and especially Pawn disqualified themselves. Purple Smiles was…odd as well.
Even so, Anand’s obsequiousness bothered Klbkch. He’d made an effort because Xrn had threatened to terraform him down a thousand feet through straight bedrock if he upset Anand. But Klbkch had been…testy of late.
Another odd feeling. Was he becoming Relc? Could that happen if you worked with someone that long? Klbkch surveyed the landscape.
“Klbkch…”
“Anand. Take cover.”
The [Strategist] froze as he tried to climb up to where Klbkch was. The Revalantor checked himself.
Ring of Metal. Ring of Hops. Single-use Amulet of Dispel. Both blades—backup daggers enchanted with [Ignition] and [Pain] respectively. Three healing potions, high-grade. Two stamina potions, mid-grade. Tripvine bag, two explosive oil vials, one high-yield, one mid-yield. Potion of Swiftness. Potion of Vanish.
Not the most dangerous of equipment sets. Klbkch had left most of the artifacts behind to stay light and mobile. Also—a powerful artifact made him shine to enemy [Mages] without Xrn to shield him. Moreover, this level of equipment would create a sense of superiority in an enemy who appraised him. Klbkch’s new Skill would equalize any encounter.
[Recaptured Sublimity]. The Antinium didn’t use it now. It had a twelve-hour cooldown and that would kill him if he used it carelessly. Still—he held his ground and pretended to be surveying the landscape.
“Movement. Coordinates are around -43, 231, -6.”
Anand analyzed the numbers and peeked towards the spot Klbkch had seen the movement. The [Strategist] lifted something. An enchanted spyglass.
“…I see a Drake. One, no, two, watching you, Revalantor.”
Klbkch had seen it too. Drakes? Here?
“Evaluate them, Anand.”
“There may be more. But…[Quick Evaluation].”
The [Strategist] used one of his new Skills. He went hmm. It wasn’t the same as an [Appraisal] ability, but close.
“Analysis of their armor and weaponry indicates that this isn’t a unified force. My Skill estimates adventurers. A small team. Judging by the way they are investigating you, Revalantor, they have not seen the rest of us and were caught off-guard by your presence.”
“Adventurers?”
What was happening? Klbkch looked around. He hadn’t notified any of the Hives of his imminent arrival; they didn’t use [Messages], anyways. He was sure they had Listeners and he had been planning on making straight for the Grand Queen’s Hive.
This changed things.
“Your orders, Klbkch? Do we…fight?”
The Antinium waited, and Klbkch hesitated. It was a strange word, coming out of Anand’s mouth.
Fight? That meant killing the adventuring team. Which was a felony under Liscorian law, punishment by death or exile depending on Watch Captain Zevara’s…
Senior Guardsman Klbkch shook his head. What was he thinking? These were Drakes in Antinium land. They died.
…But he hesitated.
“I will ambush them. Anand, send some Workers forwards. Distract them and prepare the Soldiers to fall back into the tunnel and collapse it if I retreat.”
“We could attack—”
“No. Adventurers are far too difficult for regular Antinium. If I must, I will—kill—the group.”
Anand nodded slowly. He investigated the group in his spyglass.
“They are not moving. With permission, Revalantor Klbkch, I will have the Workers pretend to excavate something as the ruse. When you begin combat, I will use my Skills to aid your attack and have the Workers with bows provide covering arrows.”
Klbkch hesitated. That was all…sound.
“Can you reach the adventurers from here?”
“Yes. I can grant [Long Range Shot] to the archers for four minutes.”
“Do it, then, if I engage. Now—”
The Antinium looked around from his perch on the rock. The Drakes ducked back, but he saw the glint of light on scales.
Idiots. They’d dirtied their armor, but kept their scales clean. Klbkch wanted to know what they were doing here. Hopefully, he’d be able to subdue them without killing. A death would cause irreparable tension between—
Klbkch had just picked out a route that gave him cover around some rocks in the dry terrain when he heard a sound. It sounded like distant thunder.
“Hold.”
He held up a hand and turned his head. Thunder? Rainstorms and flash floods happened, if infrequently, in the Hivelands often thanks to the weather spells during the war.
But this was no thunderstorm. Klbkch heard a rhythmic quality to it. It sounded like…
Wing beats. Anand turned his head rapidly.
“What is that? That can’t be—”
In the distance, the Drake adventurers looked up. They pointed at something and screamed.
“Ancestors! Run for it!”
Klbkch’s head swiveled. And he saw them, then, coming over the cliffs. Thousands, tens of thousands of winged forms. They leapt over the cliff, gliding, green membrane wings allowing them to dive towards the adventurers.
Flying Antinium. A countless horde of them. Klbkch, Anand, and the Free Antinium stared as the enraged Soldier-type Antinium descended on the adventurers.
They were panicking. One of them shouted, and Klbkch was able to filter the voice out despite the drumming wings.
“—we’re made! We’re dead! Use the scroll! Use the—”
They blinked out of existence, all six of them, before the winged Antinium reached them. Klbkch heard a shriek of fury run through the swarm.
But they kept going. The Flying Antinium couldn’t really fly. But they landed, and powerful hindquarters carried them into the air. They leapt across the landscape, turning, gliding. Towards the Free Antinium’s party.
“Brace. Form a defensive wall there—”
Anand’s urgent voice made Klbkch tear his attention away from the hypnotizing sight. The Centenium looked at Anand. The [Strategist] was panicking in the face of the army.
“Anand. What are you doing?”
“We may be under attack, Revalantor Klbkch! Why would an army be in the open?”
Anand pointed at the Flying Antinium. The Centenium looked at Anand’s worried, waving antennae and at the swarm of Flying Antinium. And then he understood.
Klbkchhezeim smiled. He opened his mandibles and raised them.
“Anand. Desist. You are misinformed. This group is not here to attack us. Or to merely chase off the adventurers. They are here to welcome us.”
“But—”
The [Strategist] faltered. And Anand realized the fallacy in what he’d been about to say. The same thing Klbkch had realized after a moment.
Out in the open? Wouldn’t that make the other species nervous?
And it would have, in Liscor. Even three hundred Soldiers was the most the Free Hive was supposed to have. But here—
The first Flying Antinium landed on the ground and rocks around the Free Antinium. The land bound Antinium stared at their strange cousins. The Flying Antinium regarded them, then they leapt. The others, thousands, glided around the small group. They clicked.
It was a sound of greeting. Their wings tore the air, and Anand and Klbkch looked up at the figures flying around them, a swarm of insects, only scaled up in size. Fearless of who might see them.
Because this land was the Antinium’s. And the Flying Hive had come to greet their lost relatives.
They weren’t the only ones. Klbkch stood amid the flying display until he saw a flash of sunlight, flashing on metal. He turned his head and saw a line of metal, marching across the ground.
“Armored Antinium.”
Anand saw thousands of Soldiers, marching in the steel armor. A Prognugator was leading them. Klbkch turned.
“Ah. Silent Antinium as well. The Grand Queen’s forces.”
As the Flying Antinium, tired, landed around them, Anand saw a small group barely a thousand strong appear out of the dry landscape. The Silent Antinium’s elites. And larger than the other Hives—an army of Soldiers and Workers. Antinium of every type. And in front of them—two dozen figures who looked familiar.
Prognugators. They bore copies of Klbkch’s blades and walked like he did. The Antinium marched forwards, a full army nearly a hundred thousand strong. The ranks parted.
“What are they here for?”
“Me.”
Klbkch the Slayer walked forwards. And the Flying Antinium beat their wings. The Silent Antinium raised their scythe-blades. The Armored Antinium saluted, metal clashing on armor as they struck their shoulders with gauntleted fists.
And the Grand Queen’s Antinium knelt. Prognugators, Soldiers, Workers. Anand stared at Klbkch’s back as the Slayer walked forwards. The Centenium looked at four Hives of the Antinium, who had sent their warriors for him.
To honor him.
“How small we’ve become.”
Anand stared at Klbkch. The Revalantor shook his head. He walked on. And remembered—
“Revalantor? Klbkch?”
The [Strategist] hurried after Klbkch. And he saw Klbkch look at him. The Centenium hesitated. Then he motioned to Anand.
“Look, Anand.”
The Worker scuttled forwards, barely believing it. He walked at Klbkch’s side, seeing the eyes of so many powerful Antinium so different from the common Soldier watching him. Klbkch glanced at him.
“Does it impress you, Anand?”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch. I knew there were so many Antinium. But the sight of them all—”
No wonder they were feared. Anand felt stronger just seeing so many of his kind. But Klbkch—just shook his head.
“No. Walk here, Anand. Look at this, the tribute to me. To the Free Queen and the Free Antinium. To…us. And remember that this is all that is left. Remnants of glory. Once—we were far greater. We came in so many forms and our numbers would have blotted out the skies. Look at this. And never let it be enough.”
He stopped, then. And looked Anand in his multi-faceted eyes. The [Strategist] looked at Klbkch, who had been so moody. So angry at Pawn. So…tired and perhaps even broken. He saw Klbkch reach out. And touch Anand on the chest lightly, with two fingers.
“When you walk among the Antinium, remember we were more. Remind them of that.”
Then he turned and walked on, glancing neither to his left or right. The Antinium gazed at him, the third of the Centenium. Smaller than Wrymvr. Less radiant than Xrn. Klbkch looked back and found them wanting.
 
—-
 
The Grand Queen of the Antinium had set out a lavish welcome for the prodigal lost son, Klbkch and his Hive. Not only had she mobilized part of her Hive to give him a procession worthy of Antinium royalty—which did not exist—she had also prepared a feast of foodstuffs.
In this case, captured foods, none of it actually prepared. Nor was there an attempt at tables. The Free Antinium saw the food piled up on a carpet.
A looted carpet, Klbkch had to suppose, since the Antinium were about as good [Weavers] as they were [Cooks]. Actually—that wasn’t fair. They had once had amazing spinners who used web like thread…
And the Grand Queen was certainly effusive in her greetings. The other five Queens of the Antinium, including the Free Queen were visible on the mirrors she had mounted in her grand antechamber.
It was also like a throne, with a high dais or mound in the center of the room upon which she could command, communicate to the other Queens—the mirrors placed below her—and consult with her Prognugators.
Klbkch recalled seeing a version of this chamber before. However, experience in Liscor had given him the royal connotations of the room. Now, he looked up at her as she finished her speech.
“…and all the Hives shall once more benefit from Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium’s wisdom. The delegation of the Free Antinium shall prove its worth to the Hives. Klbkchhezeim, we would be pleased for you to act as Xrn’s replacement.”
The other Queens stirred at this. The Silent Queen especially.
“…Klbkchhezeim’s presence would be most welcome in my Hive. I believe my Silent Antinium are in most need of his guidance.”
“Or that of the Armored Antinium. We petition the Grand Queen for Klbkchhezeim’s guidance.”
“The Flying Antinium also! I have sent Pivr to the Free Antinium, as well as samples!”
It was notable that the Twisted Queen did not speak. For her part, the Free Queen seemed content to accept the Grand Queen’s thanks.
However, the Grand Queen’s good mood at her bickering subordinates and the entire affair ended as soon as Klbkch opened his mandibles.
