But Ali scarcely had a moment to gloat before a ball of roiling necromancy kindled within the depths of his dark shield. Ali reinforced her barrier as the image of her mother facing exactly this attack slammed into her mind like a ten-ton boulder, but she clung to her focus and continued summoning. No matter what the Lich pulled out, she was a dungeon, and she was in the heart of her domain. Her strength was in her minions. The death magic spell shot across the Grove, discharging violent bursts of crackling lightning that hungrily devoured the very light itself.

“Watch out!” Malika screamed, but Ali tuned her out for a moment, drawing her skills and knowledge into a perfect focus. From gossamer threads of arcane mana, she spun the counter-formation perfectly and fired.

The Lich’s spell was well known to her by now, but it hurtled toward her, a ball of magic, saturated with primal energy and power. Power beyond anything Ali had ever seen, with a formation that blazed with that uncanny perfection. The golden darts of her Disruption spell struck it dead on, but, shockingly, everything fizzled into an impotent cascade of golden sparks.

Authority…

Like a heavy cannonball fired through a mirror, the dense wall of glittering, domain-reinforced magic shattered into a deadly blast of spinning shrapnel shards and golden splinters before Ali’s eyes. The tinkling of broken glass accompanied the constellation of a thousand painful cuts, and Ali reached instinctively for her teleport. A momentary flicker of darkness shot out from beneath the Lich’s crimson blindfold, and Ali’s escape spell turned to dust on her fingertips.

Then, his dark, hurtling ball of death ripped clean through Ali’s heart, leaving a dripping, wet hole in her chest. She glanced down at it; her mind and body numb, and saw the shards of her barrier showering onto the ground behind her through the hole in her middle. Amber blood spilled down her body, running down her legs and into her slippers.

“Ali!” But Malika’s scream was so far away.

Her vision darkened as the world tilted drunkenly to the side.

You have died.[Realm] Aliandra Amariel [God Maker] has cast the mythic spell: Cycle of Rebirth.You have gained Reputation.+5 Authority.

Her body steadied somehow, and Ali blinked. She stared uncomprehending at the rapidly spreading growth of vibrant green that cradled her entire body, and the gaping hole in her chest that was shrinking before her disbelieving eyes. She coughed.

Something grabbed her then, and the world lurched into a confusing rush of movement. There was a flash of blinding light and a distant, howling roar.

Yet her mind refused to work. Vaguely, she registered someone, a voice, shouting at her while she was carried off elsewhere. A blurred impression of trees whipping past, and the sensation of wind on her face. But she felt nothing – like something inside had broken, leaving her as helpless as a disconnected marionette with her strings severed.

I… died?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
