When the Marilith demon stopped reacting to Ren's touch and he could feel that she was floating on how much pleasure she had received, he stopped trying to please her and licked her clean. He put the piece of cloth over her private area when he was done and stood up to look at her face.

She looks and feels peaceful. Ren thought.

Notice!

You have been corrupted! You have absorbed Marilith fluid directly from the source through your mouth. It's effects vary by those infected, and by the amount of fluid absorbed.

Current Corruption Level: 65%

Warning: When Corruption reaches 100%, you will become deathly ill and die.

Please note: Corruption resets upon death.

Wow. Ren thought. I drank that much and I only gained 22% corruption?

“Well, you only gained 1% from a long kiss with Zunala.” Teepo said.

So, that means it's not just the amount, but the quality of the fluid. Ren thought.

“It could also be because she's powerful.” Teepo said. “You might not have gained as much if she was only a low level like the succubi.”

That's true. Ren thought, then realized he didn't get any other popup for Angered, Enraged, or something else, even with his corruption so high. He hopped down off of the boar demon's back and started to walk away, and the tail of the Marilith demon caught him around the chest.

“W-wait.” She said, and Ren turned to look at her. “Come here.”

Ren walked over to her and she tried to sit up; but, her body was too full of endorphins to move. She sighed and used her tail to urge him closer.

“Kiss me.” She said. “I want to taste myself on your lips.”

Ren leaned over her and tried to kiss her. Since her mouth was almost twice as big as his, it was a little awkward; then she opened her mouth a little and her tongue slithered out. She put a hand behind his head to hold him in place and jammed her tongue into his mouth and down his throat. Ren gagged on it, because it had happened so suddenly and was such an odd thing to feel. It touched something deep inside of him, and then he received a popup.

Notice!

You have permanently gained the Aura: Heat Sense. With it active, you no longer need to concentrate on your Aura to feel others within it, even with your eyes closed.

The Marilith demon let his head go and gently retracted her tongue as she kissed him. Ren broke the kiss and leaned back.

“I'm delicious.” She said demurely as the tip of her tongue licked her lips.

Ren nodded. “Why couldn't you have been as gentle putting it in as you were taking it out?”

“You would have fought it if I had told you what I wanted to do first, and it wouldn't have worked.”

“Um... I guess I should thank you for choking me, then.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“Was it enough to let you keep the Aura?” She asked, and he nodded again. “Good.” She said and sighed contentedly. “You deserved a reward for making me feel like that.”

Ren smiled. “I'd like to say that it was it's own reward; but for some reason, women never believe me when I say it.”

She chuckled. “I should demand that you give up all your other commitments and stay here with me.”

“You know I can't do that.”

“It would only be for a year or ten.” The Marilith demon said, and her womanly laugh filled the cavern.

“I must politely decline.” Ren said and looked up at the cavern ceiling. Teepo? How high is that?

“It's 32 feet.” Teepo said, and Ren smiled as he took out a 2 inch wide cube and placed it on the floor far enough away and activated it.

“What the hell is that?!?” The Marilith demon exclaimed as the Instant Tower appeared in front of her.

“It's my home away from home.” Ren said and went inside. The door shut behind him, and the Marilith demon flopped over onto her front, then slowly slithered off of the boar demon and over to the tower. She was still pretty relaxed after her encounter with Ren, so her movements seemed lazy and sluggish as she slid up the side of it to look into one of the arrow slits; but, she couldn't see anything and kept looking.

Ren made a pattern for what he wanted, and knew he couldn't reforge something so big in a single piece; so, he divided the design into pieces, added sliding parts and hinges and rivets where necessary, then made the various molds on the floor. It took a while to get all the pieces made, since he had never made anything like it before. When he was done and had assembled them together, he thought about what kind of enchantment it could use.

Ren examined the Sunder enchantment that he still had stored in his Retain Essence ability, and got the recipe for it. He enchanted the item with a copy of the enchantment, and stored the new item. Happy with his work, he left the instant tower and didn't see the Marilith demon. That didn't matter, though. He had felt her heat moving all over the Instant Tower while he worked and knew exactly where she was; as well as all the succubi.

Ren stepped over to the side of the tower and looked up, and the Marilith demon was hanging upside down from the tower and was trying to look through one of the arrow slits.

“I'm out here.” Ren said.

“I know that!” She said. “I'm trying to see what's inside!”

Ren chuckled. “Are you really that curious?”

“I've never seen anything like this before!” She said and slithered down to the cavern floor. “What's inside?”

“I actually have 4 shops inside on the ground floor. A blacksmith, tailoring, woodworking, and cooking.” Ren said. “There's just an icebox and a bed upstairs.”

“You are the first Adventurer that I've met to have such odd things.” She said and then smiled. “You are also the first one I've met that didn't scream like a little girl at the sight of me.”

Ren smiled and deactivated the Instant Tower to store it, and looked at her. “Can I ask you a question?”

“Yes.” She said and coiled her body around herself and kind of sat on it.

“Did you kill any knights?”

“That depends.” The Marilith demon smirked. “Are you going to be outraged if I say yes?”

“No.” Ren chuckled. “I was going to ask for their skulls.”

“Oh? What for?”

“It's a side quest for me to complete while I'm here, and I assume that since you are such a fearsome fighter, if anyone was going to stop their progress through here, it would be you.”

“You're such a flatterer.” She said. “I... may have a skull or two.”

“May I have them, please?” Ren asked.

“Well... you did perform valiantly in our fight.”

“We had a fi...” Ren started to ask, then he felt her sated desire. “Oh.” He grinned. “Does that mean I won?”

She chuckled. “I could only declare you the winner if I could return the attack.” She said. “Then I would see how much stimulation you could take.”

“A tie it is.” Ren said, and that made her laugh.

“I'll be right back.” The Marilith demon said and slithered over towards her tunnel, grabbed the well-cooked boar demon on her way by, and dragged it into her lair.
