“Ah! M-My apologies, Master Grick! Please let me s-secure your gold properly.” His shaking hands had a hard time of filtering the gold coins back into the bag but when he succeeded, he set it down with all the other offerings. “There, twenty more gold coins! All together that’s thirty five! More than double the going rate for the crystals you’ve provided!” He then bowed his head to the ground. “Th-That’s all we have readily accessible. I pray it satisfies you, Lord Grick.”

From retarded goblin, to savy customer, to Master, to Lord. Little Grick’s really moving up in the world, huh?

I had to hold myself back from grinning, because doing so might cause me to accidentally puncture this other quivering human’s neck.Grick tilted the mask up enough to get a better look at the offerings. He hmmm’d and huuu’d as he thought it over. Then he snapped the mask back into place and declared. “Not enough!”

Oh, Grick! Now you’re just being evil!

This time I couldn’t help the grin and the human under me let out a cry as my teeth jabbed him. He screamed to his partner, “Just give the damn goblin whatever he wants! For heaven’s sake!”

Mustache flinched so hard his hat nearly slid off his head. “Yes! Yes! Of course! Forgive us, Lord Grick. We simply, ah, misjudged the… negotiations.”

He scrambled back to the cart, yanking open compartment after compartment with none of his earlier flourish. Wood clattered, glass rattled, and he started yanking things out. “W-We are truly out of gold and I deeply apologize for coming so i-ill prepared! But p-perhaps we can find something else here that is to your liking? Oh great and powerful Lord Grick!”

Mustache’s hands moved faster and faster as panic took over. He stopped trying to look dignified entirely, just tossing things down in a growing pile at Grick’s feet.

A sheathed dagger, a stuffed toy, a spool of rope, a bottle of wine, a jewlery box that cracked open upon hitting the ground, revealing an assortment of rings and necklaces, and various other random things. When it seemed he had well and truly run out of anything valuable to add to the pile he prostrated himself before his offerings. “Please, take anything you w-wish! Oh, Lord Grick!”

Grick made a show of it, humming and huffing, poking at items with one finger like a noble inspecting tribute. He held up the rope, letting it dangle, then dropped it. He picked up a jar of something, sniffed it, then tossed it over his shoulder in rejection.

Then he pointed at the wine.

“What is this?”

Mustache blinked. “W-Wine. Cheap. It’s, ah, not very good. B-But i’ll be sure to carry the finest bottles of the eastern kingdom should we t-trade again upon—”

Grick kicked the bottle away with his foot. “Grick no want bad human drink.”

“P-Please, if there is anything else we can do for you! Just say it!”

“Grick needs a bag.”

“A-A bag?”

“Grick accepts stupid human’s trade. Grick needs bag to carry lovelies.”

“Y-Yes! Right away, Lord Grick! I have a fine, fine traveling bag that will do you well for your travels!”

Finally, I let go of the other human who whimpered as he quickly crawled away. I prowled over to stand beside Grick as he watched Mustache fill the bag with all of his offerings.

“It was an a-absolute pleasure doing business with you, L-Lord Grick.” Mustache bowed. His companion finally scrambled back to his feet and hurried over to the horse as well.

Grick seemed quite satisfied as he worked on tying his mask to the outside of the bag. He was humming happily, no longer even sparing the humans an acknowledgement.

Both merchants gave one last bow. “Well then, we will just be on our way!” They squeaked in unison.

I barked at them, freezing them in place once again just before they were going to climb back onto their cart.

“I-Is everything alright, Lord Grick?”

Grick hummed, distractedly saying, “Grick doesn’t know. Ask puppy.”

The merchants mirrored each other as they turned their gazes towards me and gulped in unison. I returned a wolfy smile.

They may have been thieves, bullies, and cheats, but I wasn't sure they quite deserved a death sentence. Maybe I was just in a particularly good mood for some reason.

However, there was the chance of them running back to that walled town and reporting us to some kind of hunting party. I had a feeling it wouldn't be as much trouble for us as the red masks, who were likely still days away from realizing their own hunting party had been eliminated, but still… it might be wise to at least slow them down, and that horse did look tasty.

A couple Crippling Bites would do the trick for slowing these merchants to a crawl, and then me and Lily could enjoy a nice midday snack before hitting the road.\

Read Next Chapter Now!
