She was close enough now that the darkness beneath the cot yawned open before her. It felt cavernous. Flia knew, logically, that it was a small, confined space, but in that moment, it felt nothing like it. Instead the space in front of her twisted until she felt like she was staring at a massive hole that led to an almost pure nothingness, except the notes she wanted were there, faintly visible at the far end of what now seemed like an impossible distance.

Something inside her tried to step back, but she found herself stepping forward instead. Flia cursed—she hated compulsions—and drew her magic to her to try to resist; at the same time, there was a distant shout that she recognized as Damien's voice calling for her through distorted space.

Then the quick slap of footsteps against the ground.

A shadowy hand grabbing her by the wrist, trying to pull her away.

She remembered distantly the last part of what Cale always said, the same part that was screaming at her now: But the rules can change at any time, too. Always be prepared in case the rules change.

She'd missed something and the rules had changed. If she didn't do something now, both her and Damien would be sucked down into this nothingness, so she clamped down instead on her connection with the Abyss, which still felt distorted and wrong—

—and then she blinked, suddenly herself again. Flia shivered involuntarily at the sudden cold that enveloped her and searched automatically for Damien, who was groaning in the...

...in the snow.

They were in a completely different part of the dungeon, surrounded by fog, and standing in a thick blanket of snow.

"Oh," Flia said. "Oh, florg."

Damien let out another pained groan, then lifted his head to look at her. "What the heck is a florg?"

"It's a type of magical frog I catalogued with Professor Tarbloom," Flia said, already automatically cataloguing her surroundings. This was a disaster, but they were still alive, so it couldn't be too bad of a disaster. Was there some way they could find their way back to Cale and the others? She couldn't see anything through the thick fog around her. "Tarbloom doesn't like it when I curse, so I've been saying random critter names instead. They seem to like that."

Damien stared at her. "You have really weird priorities," he told her, pulling himself to his feet and brushing the snow off his cloak. "But I guess this isn't that new for us. Um. Also, where are we?"

"No idea," Flia said. "I can't sense the others anywhere."

"Ah." Damien paused for a moment. "Florg."

"Florg," Flia agreed.
