Outmatched. Outmaneuvered. Part of him wasn’t surprised. What had he expected? Fighting Tulm was like fighting the Professor. Even with his surprise attack. Even with the other students—
This was it. Jekilt, Merrik, even Yerra and Cameral were down. The adventuring teams had retreated, and now the sailors were pulling out. They were tired of being beaten down. Wil glanced up.
“How many [Knights] can do battle still, Sir Kelm?”
The man hesitated.
“Sixty-four. Half unmounted.”
Wil nodded.
“In that case, have them prepare. We have one last assault left. Commander Wylint, I will leave you in charge of the rear. Keep us from being encircled long enough for us to settle things.”
“Lord Kallinad! I can keep going—”
The [Commander] was barely on his feet. Wil shook his head. His stomach was twisting. Was this it? He looked around. The faces around him were grim. As if they were really losing a battle. But they were losing. And it might not be life or death, but it felt like it. Wil closed his eyes.
“One last push. We take the plaza’s south entrance. Form up—”
“Wil!”
He spun. The [Knights] standing around him turned, hands on their wooden swords. But the voice wasn’t another call to arms. It was Talia. His sister walked with a slight limp. On foot; her warhorse had taken a fall and was being healed. And following her—Wil’s eyes widened.
“Marian? Venaz? Where have you two been?”
The two walked forwards, followed by a dark-skinned Human man that Wil had never seen before. Wil stared at Marian and Venaz. He’d wondered if Marian was still around with Umina—he hadn’t seen them captured. But he could scarcely believe Venaz had made it this far without being surrounded. The Minotaur glanced around as the Humans blinked at the two visitors.
“Wil, I met them when we engaged that Dullahan company. We sent them packing, in no small part thanks to these two.”
The Humans brightened at Talia’s news. Wil nodded. A small victory, but every bit helped. He looked at Venaz.
“Are you two trying to reach the plaza?”
“Trying. Is this your gambit to take out the best competitors now, Wil? I warn you; it won’t be easy.”
Venaz flexed an arm and stared around. The Humans stared at him. Wil nearly laughed.
“If I had time to deal with competitors—I wish our entire class was here. Or haven’t you seen the Iron Vanguard forcing us back? They’ve taken out all but a dozen students, and I think the rest are hiding. Where’s Umina, Marian? Did she get captured?”
“No. I think not, at any rate. We got separated recently.”
The Centauress frowned. She looked at Wil’s map. And then at the ongoing tally of numbers on both sides he’d written up in shorthand. She winced.
“This is it, then?”
“One last push. You care to join in?”
“We were thinking of trying our own hand. But if you offer us no choice…”
Venaz eyed the map. He snorted dismissively.
“A simple assault? That’s my inclination too, looking at your numbers. This is the moment. If you allow the Iron Vanguard to regroup, they’ll surround you. You press on, or you allow victory to slip through your fingers.”
The others at the table blinked at Venaz. But Wil nodded.
“He’s right. This is it. We can’t do anything else.”
“But assaulting the plaza directly? We can’t break through their ranks, let alone those Midnight Shields.”
Sir Kelm frowned. Wil nodded heavily. He saw Venaz hesitating. The Human man was elbowing him and whispering to Marian as well.
“What? And who is this?”
Marian chewed her lip, and then nodded. Venaz looked ready to protest; she kicked him with a hoof, and he growled, but let her go on.
“This is Luan. A City Runner. He’s helped us get this far. He had an idea. We were going to try it out before we ran into your soldiers, Wil. How much money do you have on you?”
Wil glanced at his sister. She raised her brows.
“Enough to pay for all of this. Why?”
“Have you thought about bribing the Forgotten Wing’s [Soldiers] to join your side?”
Wil’s eyes widened. He saw the officers around him glance up hopefully. But just as fast as Wil felt the surge of elation, he drooped.
“No. I hadn’t considered it, but it won’t work, Marian.”
“Oh come on. They’re not friends of the Iron Vanguard. And if we paid them, even something like five gold coins per head—”
“Even then. If we try, Tulm will outbid us. That strategy won’t work. Maybe it would if you found a patrol, but the Forgotten Wing and the Iron Vanguard have closed in around the plaza. You’d have to bribe them all together. And how could you even arrange that in the middle of a melee?”
Wil shook his head. Marian stomped a hoof.
“Damn! If only we’d had this idea sooner—”
Venaz pounded a hand on the table.
“Enough. It won’t work. In that case, I’ll lead the assault myself. Marian, you join us. Between us three, we might be able to force through the plaza. We’ll combine our charge Skills. I haven’t used any of mine. I’ll lead the charge on Tulm myself if he comes out. I can take that Dullahan, mithril armor or not. If he sends his Midnight Shields, put your [Knights] against them.”
He pointed at Talia and Sir Kelm. Wil was nodding, even as he weighed the odds of Venaz getting past Xol. But what other choice was there? Marian was shifting uncertainly, but nodding. And then Feshi spoke.
“You forgot to count me, as usual, Venaz.”
The Minotaur blinked. He looked past Wil and saw Feshi standing among the officers. She had been with Wil since the harbor. Now, the Gnoll bared her teeth in an unfriendly smile at Venaz.
“Fine. You’ll be part of our final assault, Feshi. Four of the Professor’s students stand a better chance than three. If you have any Skills—”
“Our assault? I didn’t see you fighting all this time.”
The Gnoll snapped back. Venaz ground his teeth.
“I found my own way here. And I will be the one to end it.”
“How? By beating Tulm with your fists? Not so, I think. But I have an idea. It’s my turn to shine. Wil. Will you lend me your ear?”
Feshi looked at Wil. He glanced at her. He thought Feshi had been sticking with him all this while out of desperation, perhaps hoping to claim victory if he won. Now the Gnoll was grinning.
“Do you have a plan, Feshi? One that can even the odds?”
The Gnoll nodded. She rolled her eyes upwards. Wil glanced up at the windows. Daquin’s citizens were watching, as were a pair of Wistram [Mages]. He wished he could appear confident.
“I can do a bit. I have yet to use my best Skill. But I have had a better idea after hearing Venaz and Marian’s trick, yes? I can even the odds. Even put them in your favor. If my plan works, I will pull away most of the Mithril’s reinforcements. But if I do it, I think I will lose my chance to win.”
“How? I mean—will you do it?”
Wil stared at Feshi. He wanted to believe she was lying, but unlike Venaz, Feshi was never full of hot air. The Gnoll smiled lazily at him.
“I can. If I fail, I fail. But if I succeed? I will hand a chance at victory to you, I think. Even to Venaz and Marian. But I will need to lead. So I ask for a deal, Wil Kallinad.”
Time was running out. Wil knew that. But he was grasping at straws. He met Feshi’s eyes.
“What sort of deal?”
“Hm. I want something to give to my tribe. I had hoped to bring a secret from the Titan of Baleros himself. But anything of worth will do. I require a present to give to the Meeting of Tribes. Can you offer me something like that?”
Wil’s mind spun. A present? Now? He opened his mouth to tell Feshi he hadn’t a clue. Talia leaned over.
“Two trading caravans from the Kallinad harbors straight through the Gnoll Plains over six years. Will that do?”
Feshi and the others glanced at Talia. Wil’s older sister winked at him.
“It’s not a bad deal for us. And it’s worth a good deal to Gnoll tribes. What of it, Miss Feshi?”
The Gnoll hesitated. Her eyes flickered.
“Four trading caravans. Each one led by at least a Level 40 [Merchant].”
“Deal.”
Talia reached out. Feshi gripped her hand tightly. Then she looked around. Sir Kelm, the other Humans, Wil, Venaz, Marian, and the City Runner named Luan all stared at her. The Gnoll smiled. Or was it a smirk?
“So close, yet so far, Venaz. Your idea was good. Excellent, even, yes? But you can take it another step. Using the Mithril’s own troops against him is one idea. But flawed.”
Venaz glared at her.
“It wasn’t actually my idea. But what do you have planned?”
“An army. One without fear. Numberless. To drown the Iron Vanguard and the Forgotten Wing alike. Your idea gave mine wings. So I give you credit. But this? This is my moment.”
The Gnoll’s eyes flashed. She walked past the war table, and she raised her paws. The Wistram [Mages] stirred, tracking Feshi with her eyes. But it was not to them the Gnoll looked at.
It was the people in the windows. The ones on the rooftops. Feshi shouted, her voice a growling roar.
“Citizens of Daquin! This is the final hour, yes? Tulm the Mithril waits! And our army, small as it may be, will challenge him a second time!”
There was a stir. The people watching from above looked down at Feshi. Some called out her name. Others just shouted encouragement. Feshi spoke above it all.
“We will try. But I think that we cannot win. Not against Tulm the Mithril. Not against the Iron Vanguard and the Forgotten Wing company. How could that be a fair battle?”
Silence. It was true. And yet—Feshi’s eyes burned.
“If only we had an army. Reinforcements. Wil Kallinad, he called an army from Terandria itself! If I could, I would call the Gnolls of Izril. But why wait for them when an army just as grand waits here?”
The citizens of Daquin stared down, confused, at Feshi. But some of them caught on. Feshi grinned up. She pointed with one paw.
“This is desperation. This is madness! Still, Tulm the Mithril awaits! The Iron Vanguard challenges the Titan’s students! And we are few. But if I called on you, would you come?”
Us? The shock rippled across the people standing on the roofs. Children, adults, laborers and shopkeepers looked at each other. And then down at Feshi in doubt. She wanted them to fight [Soldiers]? But the Gnoll was continuing.
“No one says that you cannot participate! So, come! We are only students! And you may not be [Soldiers]. But these [Soldiers], they have no swords. They cannot kill. And they are mighty. But with your help, we can win! Will Daquin help defeat the Iron Vanguard? Defeat Tulm the Mithril? You have that chance! Who will join us?”
She spread her arms out, raised them beseechingly. Then she looked up. Pointed. Every head turned towards a [Mage] of Wistram. He froze as every eye fixed on him.
“Will you? Wistram’s [Mages]? Do you have the courage to take up arms? This is a game. But it is your chance. The Professor challenged us to defeat a legend. Will you be part of that legend? Or will you live knowing, always knowing, that you could have made history and you did not?”
They stared down at her. And the Gnoll’s arms rose higher.
“I call upon heroes. I call upon champions! I call upon you, Daquin! What say you? Have you any lions that prowl through Baleros’ jungles? Would you be Nagas? Or would you be Drakes, hiding behind your walls?”
She grinned. And then the silence broke. There was laughter. The Lizardfolk sitting above laughed. Drakes? They laughed, and the first Lizardfolk swung himself down, dropping two stories.
“I’m no Drake!”
A door opened. A serpentine figure slithered down the steps.
“And I am Naga.”
She slithered forwards. And at that, a score of Lizardpeople rushed out the doors. And then Dullahans. They marched out their doors. Dullahans, Centaurs. Humans.
“For history?”
A Dullahan [Baker] adjusted his head on his shoulders and grabbed a rolling pin. He looked around. Feshi grinned.
“For Daquin.”
And they came. In tens. Then hundreds. Then thousands. Children had to be restrained by parents. But the rest came, shouting. Laughing. Cheering the bold Gnoll who dared them. Because they were Lizardfolk, Dullahans, Centaurs, and yes, more species still. Some had cheered for the Iron Vanguard. Others had no strong interest in the students winning. But they were citizens of Daquin first. And she had offered them a chance for history, a chance to be part of history.
It was just a game, after all. Wasn’t it? Wil stared up. The Humans looked around, counting. One street. Then two. Feshi turned back towards him.
“We can hold them for half an hour. The rest is up to you. Be the lance and break them.”
Then she turned and bounded forwards and the city erupted around her. Wil watched her go. Then he turned. Venaz was blinking. Marian shuffled her hooves.
“Wow. I didn’t know Feshi was that good.”
An arm squeezed Wil tight. Talia was flushed with excitement as she pointed to the map.
“This is it, Wil! We can do it! The Iron Vanguard will be stuck in the streets! If they beat down Daquin’s citizens, they’ll be called monsters!”
“Even if they try, there are ten of Daquin’s own for every one of them.”
Sir Kelm observed quietly. He was frowning, eying the soldiers around him. Wil nodded. Then he frowned.
“We have one problem, though.”
Venaz snorted.
“Which is? You’ve just been given an army of tens of thousands! What could be wrong now?”
Wil glanced up at him and shook his head.
“No one can stop Xol. Without lances, the [Knights] have as much chance of slowing him down as—we tried ropes, and he pulled a dozen horses off their hooves. Could Centaurs do better, Marian?”
“Uh—”
Marian paled, which was as much an answer as any. Wil shook his head. He looked at his sister and Sir Kelm. If it came to that—
“Let me try.”
Someone spoke behind Wil. He turned. The City Runner was looking with interest at the map. He glanced up and around. The table stared at him blankly, the Minotaur and Centaur sharply. Luan smiled. His arm flashed gold as he held up a hand.
“I think I have an idea. I can stop Xol for a while. A few minutes, at least. Pay me and I’ll do it.”
Wil blinked at him. Talia sucked in her breath. It was a ludicrous notion. But in this moment, all things seemed possible. And—Wil glanced at Talia. She nodded.
“How much?”
Luan thought for a second.
“Ten gold pieces. And eighty silver pieces to pull it off. I work cheap.”
Wil opened his mouth. Talia grabbed gold from a pouch and tossed it at Luan.
“Done. Are you sure it’ll work?”
“Give me a few minutes. Where is he?”
Wil pointed.
“This street, as far as we can tell.”
Luan nodded. The [Strategist] stared at him, searching.
“Do you have a plan?”
Luan grinned.
