“You lost your money pouch.”
“No. Maybe. Perhaps. It might be down here.”
“Are you really searching—”
“Oh dead gods, Venaz!”
“Shut up, Marian. Move those hooves. I have to find my money pouch. I had a lot of gold in there.”
“It’s not worth looking through—watch those hands!”
“I am going to murder you.”
“Venaz, where were you? We saw you jump into the harbor.”
“Hmf. Hiding in an attic. I could ask you the same question, Umina. That is you, there, isn’t it?”
“Of course. We were in a ship—”
“Don’t tell him that! We’re competitors!”
“Oh? So you want to fight now, is it? I’m willing to settle the score, Marian.”
“Big talk from a Minotaur crouched next to my right hoof. Forget about the money, Venaz. It’s gone. You probably lost it in the harbor.”
“I’m going to kill you, Venaz. Do you hear me?”
“Then I’ll go back and find it there. I have to have my bag of holding.”
“Whoops! Hey! Watch the hands!”
“Sorry. I’m trying to kill the Minotaur.”
“We all want to kill the Minotaur. But—wait. Hold on. You said you’re a Runner? What’s one of your lot doing here?”
“I had a delivery for that Minotaur. Venaz. He dragged me into this. I’m going to kill him. Where is he?”
“Hm. Not here—”
“Hey!”
“Gah!”
“Sorry. Don’t get near me. This is a very small space. And it stinks! My hooves are twitchy.”
“Umina, you can cast magic. Light up this cesspit again.”
“Hold on, Venaz. That patrol was hot on our heels. We have to keep hidden!”
“Gah! Who’s near my tail.”
“Sorry. Where’s Venaz?”
“Over there.”
“No, that’s me.”
“Oh. Sorry, Umina.”
“I’ll have your gold. I swear to you, Luan the Runner. Just give me a second—”
“Alright, everyone shut up!”
“I’m going to—urk.”
“Gah!”
“Don’t kick me, Marian!”
“Okay. Okay. Everyone calm? Or do I need to kick you both again?”
“No.”
“No.”
“Very well. Let’s start from the beginning. Voices quiet. I think they’re searching the apartments.”
“…Quiet.”
“…oh no…”
“…No one here! Damn those students. What do you think—invisibility potion? Or…?”
“…Screamer Dust is off that group. Let’s follow the sounds instead. Besides, did you see that Minotaur? Huge, ugly bastard. Venaz, I think. One of the Titan’s top pet students. Not worth fighting that.”
“Steady, Venaz.”
“Get off me. I’m going up there.”
“Over your dead body!”
“I’ll help with that.”
“Shh!”
“…Nah. Let’s go. Sorry for the bother, Miss. Alright, patrol! Let’s—holy Nagas, what the hell is—run! Get out of—”
“…what luck! Is this a trick or..? …shh…”
“I think they’re gone.”
“No kidding? Wonder what scared them off?”
“Maybe some students? Those clouds that Tulm the Mithril conjured?”
“Could be.”
“Hmf. You should have let me go up there.”
“And blow our cover? This is our hiding spot, Venaz.”
“You’re welcome to it. I just followed you because I had no other choice. I want my bag of holding. I just need that money. Move over. I’m still searching.”
“Aw, Venaz—”
“I promised. I won’t forswear myself. This is—gah. I’ve waded through monster stomachs cleaner than this!”
“Venaz, stop. I’m serious. You’ll catch something, and you’re about to throw up.”
“Shut up—Umina. I promised. I need—”
“Will someone explain what’s happening?”
“Oh! Sorry. I forgot you were here. Your name’s…Luan?”
“Yes. What’s going on? What were those clouds? Why is the harbor filled with warships?”
“The Professor’s playing a game. Haven’t you heard?”
“Professor? What? No. You’re making no sense.”
“Sorry, I meant the Titan of Baleros.”
“What about him?”
“Uh—this could be tricky. Well, let me put it this way. Do you know about the Forgotten Wing company?”
“A little.”
“Raise that hoof, Marian. I feel—no. That’s not gold.”
“Venaz, stop. Look, Mister Human. This is all a game.”
“With magic fog, warships, and people trying to bash my skull in?”
“Yes?”
“Explain. Please.”
“Well, let’s start from the beginning. My name is Umina. I’m a student of Niers Astoragon. The Titan. That’s Marian, the Centauress who kicked you. And Venaz is the one on his hands and hooves.”
“I’ll find that gold. You have my bag of holding?”
“Yes. Okay, now what’s this about a game…?”
“Well—”
 
 ——
 
It was just a game. You could say that. Just a game. Why did it matter when there were people dying across the world? When monsters threatened lives, when war pressed down? There were some who would rail at the injustice. Why did a game matter? Why didn’t the world care about what was truly important, what mattered?
And they were right. And wrong. Because it was a game, yes, one where no one was supposed to die. On the other hand, it was a game set up by the Titan of Baleros. On one side you had Tulm the Mithril, the Iron Vanguard, and against him you had a class of students, all trying to reach their Professor in a plaza. Trying to make it to a small circle ten feet by ten feet across, to win a prize like no other.
The truth. And a gift from the Titan’s treasures. That alone made it a great game, one where the prize meant something. But the rest of it? The reason why the world watched?
Because it was real. It was true. The powers of the world, adults, rulers and leaders and monsters alike, watched children put everything they had on the line for victory. Striving, as hard as they could. And so was it a game or reality? A mix of both, perhaps.
It mattered. It mattered so much the losers wept. It mattered enough for an army to sail from Terandria. Now they clashed on the street, with [Soldiers] from the Forgotten Wing and Iron Vanguard. And those soldiers gritted their teeth and held their ground, fighting with blunted weapons, breaking bones, drawing blood. Because although it was a game, they had pride. They wanted to win.
They all did. You could see it in the students’ eyes, hear it in their voices. The tremble, the longing.
Victory.
And that was why Luan could rationalize it all. He was standing up to his calves in…muck. Excrement. He was, in fact, standing in a septic tank, a collective latrine used by the citizens of Daquin. He had seen the very same thing in Talenqual; the pits were filled, as it were, by a block or a few houses, and periodically emptied by [Nightmen], by [Scourers]—those employed to take the collected matter. It was, after all, valuable in its way. You could use it as fertilizer.
But why anyone would stand here stretched the City Runner’s belief. The South African man might well have believed this was all some prank, or that Venaz, the Minotaur breathing shallowly next to him, was entirely insane. Until he heard the Minotaur’s voice. Until the Centauress, Marian, and the Lizardgirl, Umina, explained. Then he understood.
Not everything. The feud between the Titan and his student, the politics of the Iron Vanguard, the fact that these three [Strategists] were students at some kind of academy, and so on was a lot to digest. But Luan already believed. Part of him already understood the important part. Because of who Luan was.
An athlete. An aspiring champion. Someone who competed in the truest sense of the world. He, Luan, had made his life’s dream about victory. He had a window; his body would grow old, and he would lose his edge all too quickly. He could lose his chance thanks to injury, bad luck, any number of factors. But if he succeeded? If he trained until his sweat was blood? If he had the drive and will and courage?
He could have been the best in the world. Unmatched. Luan would have competed against the world’s finest, in front of millions. And win or lose, he would still have numbered among the greatest in his sport, in what he did.
So yes, Luan understood what drove the students. Better than Ken could have. He listened as they told him why they were here. And he understood.
It still didn’t make standing in sewage any more fun. But it stopped Luan from trying to kill Venaz. The Minotaur was doing the exact opposite of hyperventilating as he tried to search the waste he was standing in. Luan heard swearing, sounds of disgust, gagging—until the [Rower] could bear it no more.
“Enough. Stop looking around. You’re not going to find it.”
“I have to have my bag of holding.”
The Minotaur’s voice was steady as he straightened. He was barely visible with the tiny crack of light that came from the privy above. Luan reached for the Minotaur’s possession, the bag of holding.
“To win, yeah? Take it.”
He offered it. Venaz hesitated.
“But my gold—”
“I’ll track you down after this. And if you don’t pay me, I’ll…”
Luan hesitated. Threatening to break Venaz’s legs or offer the Minotaur any kind of physical harm was ludicrous.
“…I’ll make sure the Runner’s Guild hears all about this. But you want to win.”
“I must.”
“Then—here.”
Luan held the bag of holding out. And the Minotaur hesitated again.
“I should pay you first. This lacks credibility. You were right to demand your payment. It’s dishonorable.”
There was a plaintive note in his voice. Luan hesitated. He wondered what Ken would have said if he were here. If he had told Luan about Minotaurs—but it was the competitor who spoke back to Venaz.
“Do you want to win, or not? I don’t know about your Professor or this grand secret. But do you want victory?”
“Yes.”
“Then take it.”
Luan thrust the bag of holding out. It wasn’t exactly light—it felt like it was ten pounds of weight, despite being very small. It also felt full. But Luan hadn’t undone the drawstring. He waited for a moment. Then there was a splash—he felt a huge presence, and then a hand closed over his wrist. Venaz spoke softly.
“Thank you.”
Luan didn’t know what to say to that. Frankly, he was still angry. His boat was damaged, possibly sunk. He was covered in—and he’d been chased and nearly beaten black and blue by the soldiers on the street. But after his anger had faded and he’d heard what was going on, the students’ situation had impressed itself on him. He looked around.
“So you’re all in the same class? The Titan’s class?”
The three shapes nodded. Luan tried to be suitably impressed. But even though he knew of the Titan of Baleros, he didn’t know the legends well enough to be in awe. And the three had done little to impress him. Now the Centaur shifted her hooves. She—Marian—spoke.
“If you’re worried about Venaz paying you, don’t be. He’d rather drink this entire midden’s contents than renege on his word. He’ll pay you after this is over, Luan, is it?”
“That’s right.”
Venaz made a snorting noise to Luan’s right as he opened the bag of holding.
“You’re exaggerating, Marian. If I had to choose between breaking my word over fifty gold pieces or drinking this filth, I’d rather give up fifty gold. Kraken’s tooth, but this is disgusting! Umina, what possessed you to hide here? I can’t see anything either.”
The Lizardgirl spoke up nervously. She had a higher-pitched voice, and from the way she shifted, was clearly more hesitant than her two companions. She sounded younger, too.
“Well…it’s a perfect hiding spot, isn’t it? Short of magic, no one will even think to look here. Dogs won’t sniff us out—we could hide for a long time here.”
“I’d rather be caught.”
Marian groaned. She sounded faintly sick. Luan was trying not to breathe. The smell did not get better over time. He looked around.
“Well, I did my job. Can I leave now?”
“No.”
All three students said it at once. Luan scowled.
“Why?”
“You’ll give us away. We need to win this thing.”
“You mean, get to the center of the city and reach your Professor? Like a game of capture the flag?”
“Hm? Well, I suppose so. It’s a lot more involved than that. Did you notice the soldiers?”
“I was nearly beaten by the soldiers. What kind of game has people attacking City Runners and civilians?”
Venaz grunted.
“What kind of proper game wouldn’t have that? Damn. I can’t find…Umina, can I get some light?”
“Sure. Just for a second. [Light].”
The Lizardgirl cast a spell. A hovering orb of light illuminated their surroundings. Luan saw moldy, slimy wooden walls, the Lizardgirl, a Centauress standing next to her, Venaz, one filthy hand holding the bag of holding—and then the [Rower] realized that Umina had illuminated what he was standing in.
He wished she hadn’t. Luan looked down and retched. It was semi-liquid, that was true. But there were…crusts. Venaz made the same mistake and uttered an oath. Marian began dry-heaving.
“Sorry!”
The light disappeared, but Luan had enough. He raised a hand, realized what was on it, and let it fall.
“I wish to leave now.”
“You can’t. I’m sorry, but we need a plan. Those mists rolled in moments after the Screamer Dust. Tulm the Mithril must have used one of his Skills, or his [Mages] conjured something incredible!”
“That was a Skill. [Cold Iron Mists] or something like it. A [Mage]-killer technique. Lesser artifacts and spells will fail inside of the fog. And we’ll be weighed down. Not that it matters. I intend to move shortly. What of you two? We are competitors, but given what we’re up against, I wouldn’t mind teaming up.”
Venaz was pulling something out of his bag of holding. Luan heard a clank and then saw the Minotaur shifting. Venaz was lifting something up.
“Watch out or I’ll hit you.”
Luan shifted back a few steps. Marian lifted a foot with a wet, sucking sound.
“Umina, both your ideas are good hiding places. And I think we could hide here for a good time. But we need to win, not just hide. That’s the point of the game. We haven’t figured out how to defeat the Iron Vanguard, but we won’t manage it here. And frankly, if I have to stay here another minute longer than I have to, I will kill you and everyone down here ending with myself.”
She sounded serious. Luan shifted back from her. Umina sighed.
“I suppose you’re right. But we are at such a…I don’t know how to take on those Dullahans. You’d need an army! This isn’t just hide-and-seek. They can seal off the plaza with how many bodies they have. But you’re right. Venaz, a team up? What did you bring in that bag of holding?”
Marian shifted again.
“And why did you have a City Runner deliver it? You could have just…brought one. I did.”
Venaz’s voice was muffled for a second. Luan heard another metallic rasp.
