“Let’s just say that with this armor on and my bag of holding, I won’t be an easy target, even against the Iron Vanguard. They probably have no idea how strong I am. Marian doesn’t.”
He glanced back at the Centauress, who’d bitten her lip. Umina nodded.
“No wonder you keep arguing with the professor over your ‘lead from the front’ philosophy. You can’t fight in training matches.”
“He forbids it. Well, I’m perfectly content to crush my opponents with my mind. I’ll save my talents for actual combat for when I take to the field. And for this game. Now. Enough gossip. Let’s move out. These mists are hard enough to fight in without walking into another ambush.”
The others fell silent. And now they did follow Venaz with a will, because the Minotaur clearly knew what he was doing. He made less sound with his armor on than Umina and Luan did—let alone Marian with her hooves clopping on the street. The Minotaur was listening as he slid down the street—thanks to that, the students heard the second patrol well before they spotted them.
“Damn fog. I’m blind as a Dropbat out here. That Tulm the Mithril must want to win this all on his own because we’re not going to spot a thing until his Skill ends! How long do you think it’ll take?”
A voice floated up the street: a loudly grousing [Soldier]. It was clearly not one of the Iron Vanguard; as a few shadows appeared, the students and Luan crouched by a stairwell. The patrol walked past them, still talking.
“Forgotten Wing soldiers. Our lot. They’re not keeping to noise discipline!”
Umina hissed at the others. Marian made a face as she drew an arrow.
“Should they? This is probably just as bad for them as us! It sounds like they’re not included as being on Tulm’s side! Makes sense; they’re not his people.”
“This is your Professor’s men, yeah?”
Luan looked at the passing shapes as he whispered at Marian and Umina. They nodded. Venaz growled.
“They’re not on our side. But they don’t enjoy working with the Iron Vanguard. We can use that. Follow me. We’ll sneak around.”
He rose to his feet and stealthily moved up. Luan followed him, then Umina. The aggrieved patrol walked onwards, still talking.
“An hour? Yeah. Sounds about right. So that means an hour of walking around in this crap.”
“At least we’re not fighting the Iron Vanguard. I served with Fleethoof. You know. In the battle.”
“No kidding, [Captain]?”
“I don’t want to talk about it. Let’s just say that the sooner this game’s over and I see the back of that damned Dullahan, the better. He can bite my equine ass if he thinks we’ll help him win. With that said, ten gold pieces is still ten gold pieces. And if we do run across a bunch of arrogant little snots thinking they can sneak past us—”
“Oh shit.”
The soldiers turned. Luan whirled around as he heard galloping hooves. Marian, drawing an arrow, yelped as a Centaur [Captain] charged out of the mists and rammed into her. He had a staff in one hand and whirled it. Marian took a hit across the head and torso as the Centaur whirled.
“There’s four! Surround them and—”
He dodged backwards as Venaz lashed out with a kick. The Centaur blocked with his staff; the wood bowed inwards and splintered with the impact, but the staff held. He swore and backed up.
“They’ve got a good fighter! Get over here!”
Running footsteps. Umina reached for her belt as Luan held his club up. Marian scrambled backwards as Venaz advanced with his arms raised, grinning. The Centauress shouted at Luan and Umina.
“I’ll back that idiot up. You two, run. We’re bait—secure our next spot!”
So saying, she charged a [Soldier] coming out of the mist. Luan looked at Umina. She pointed down the street.
“Follow me!”
The patrol raced after them, but Luan and Umina were already moving and the fog obscured vision and the pounding footsteps were hard to place. They settled for Marian and Venaz. The two whirled, keeping the group back. The [Captain] faced off against Venaz. He whirled his staff; the Minotaur grunted as he blocked a strike aimed at his chest and then his chin in quick succession.
“I’ve got him, Captain!”
Someone shouted from behind Venaz. A Lizardman lunged forwards, swinging a cudgel. He connected solidly with Venaz’s back and heard an unpleasant clang.
“Uh—”
A seven-foot-tall Minotaur wearing full plate armor raised his fist as he turned around. The five-foot-six Lizardman [Soldier] looked at his cudgel. He backed up too slowly. The thump of the Lizardman hitting the ground made the other Forgotten Wing soldiers wince. They backed up as the [Captain] came at Venaz again. The Minotaur was laughing and shouting.
 
 ——
 
“Forwards! For glory and the House of Minos!”
The sound came from behind them as Luan and Umina staggered out of a cloud. The Lizardgirl hissed.
“The mist’s lifted here! That means we either went the wrong way—or someone lifted the fog around here!”
Luan looked around wildly.
“Why would they do that? And where do we go?”
“Anywhere. We just need to secure a route away from that patrol. Hurry! Let’s make sure the street is clear. I have some wards—anyways, the only reason someone would do that is if it was someone against the Iron Vanguard. Or if they needed to cast magic—”
She stopped. Both she and Luan looked around. They saw an empty street. Empty windows, too. And in one apartment, dripping water. Almost as if—
A shape floated out over a balcony. Umina flattened herself in a shadow. and Luan crouched at once. A Dullahan with shining crystal built into her armor was floating through the air at street level, her head floating next to her body, swiveling back and forth. The Lizardgirl hissed at Luan.
“Oh hell, [Mage]! She must have heard the fighting. Hold on—distract her!”
“Me? How?”
The Lizardgirl didn’t answer. She was creeping sideways, risking being spotted to get behind the Dullahan. Luan cursed.
“Just a game. Just a game—twenty gold pieces. Hey you! Down here!”
He jumped out and waved his hands. Instantly, the Dullahan looked down. Before Luan could blink, she dropped out of the sky. Her head was on her shoulders in a moment. She pointed a finger at him. Luan swore and raised the club. She was fast!
“[Water W—]”
The Dullahan ducked as the club spun over her head. She pointed at Luan’s chest.
“[Water Wall].”
Water shot upwards from the ground, engulfing Luan in a second. The [Rower] struggled, arms flailing. He didn’t panic; he’d been in situations like this before. He just had to swim free—Luan’s eyes widened as he realized the water was thick. And it was keeping him in the center! Air was only a foot away, but he couldn’t make his body move as he tried to swim towards it. He saw the Dullahan smile slightly. Then her eyes narrowed. She spun as Umina burst out, shouting.
Choking, submerged in water, he saw the Lizardgirl hurl something at the [Mage]’s face. The Dullahan raised a hand, and a shimmering barrier appeared, but it couldn’t block the cloud of dust. The particles swirled around the shield, and the [Mage] doubled over. Luan flailed desperately, saw Umina run forwards as the [Mage] tried to point at her—
The water surrounding Luan collapsed. He hit the ground as it splashed around him, coughing and gasping for air. He crawled up and saw Umina racing towards him.
“Are you hurt? Sorry, I had to get into place!”
“I’m—”
Luan coughed up some water. He felt her slap him on the back and got up.
“I’m fine. What did you do? How’d you get—”
He looked at the Dullahan. Her head had rolled off her shoulders, and she was unconscious. Umina grinned weakly.
“Just some flour and grit. It gets in the lungs and you hack a lot, but that’s all. [Mages] hate stuff like that, though. They can’t concentrate. Good thing her barrier spell was so poor. Low-level [Mages] usually use shield spells, not full-body protection spells. That’s a mistake, especially against clouds and other tricks like that.”
“How’d you get her to stop the spell?”
“I kicked her in the head. That works too.”
“Oh.”
Luan stared at Umina. Somehow he’d expected something more impressive. The Lizardgirl shrugged.
“Anti-mage tactics on a budget. I learned that getting into fights back at home. There’s always someone who’s got a [Sorcerer] spell, and they can scorch your tail right off if you let them. Don’t worry, she’s just unconscious. Now, help me set up!”
So saying, Umina grabbed what looked like strips of paper and handed a stack to Luan. He stared blankly at them.
“What’s this for?”
“They’re ward talismans. They’ll keep anyone from reaching us if we stick them on the alley entrances. Confusion ward, I think. They’re not mine. Venaz gave them to me.”
Umina held up a piece of paper about as wide as Luan’s hand and a bit longer. He blinked, and then grinned in sudden delight as he recognized them.
“Are those talismans? Ofuda?”
They looked exactly like the Japanese warding charms he’d seen from their culture. The symbology didn’t seem exactly like Kanji, but the concept was the same. Umina looked blank.
“What? Maybe. These are pretty strong! They should work on that patrol, and these are…anti-scrying wards! Venaz really did come prepared! These are Drathian—here, put these up on the alleyway. I need to figure out where we are. Excuse me, this map…”
She indicated the ones Luan should put up. Gingerly, almost reverentially, he stuck the warding papers on the alley they’d come through, four of them. Two made him vaguely nauseous as he stared at the glowing ink, and the other two had some kind of closed eye inscribed amid the magical writing. They weren’t sticky, but somehow, when he placed them, they instantly gripped the stone brickwork as if they’d been glued in place.
“So sugoi.”
For a second, Luan let his inner fan of Japanese culture escape. He wished Ken were here to see this! Then he turned to Umina.
“All done. What next?”
“Call them! Venaz! Marian!”
Umina shouted down into the alleyway, into the mists. Luan took a breath as well and bellowed as loudly as he could.
“This way! Street’s clear!”
For a moment, he only heard the distant sound of fighting and shouts. Then pounding footsteps, growing louder rapidly. Luan stood back just in time; Venaz hurtled through the alleyway, half-carrying Marian. She had a black eye and several discolored bruises on her arms already.
“Marian!”
“She just took a few hits. Move aside.”
Venaz grunted and grabbed a potion from his bag of holding. Unceremoniously, he uncorked it and splashed Marian in the face with it. The Centaur gasped and came back to life. She staggered to her hooves, looking around wildly.
“The patrol—”
“We won free. And you used the talismans. Good work.”
Venaz trotted over to the alleyway. He frowned at the four glowing ward papers and then at Umina and Luan.
“You didn’t need to use four. Two is enough. One for the patrol, one to blank scrying.”
Umina looked embarrassed.
“Sorry. I didn’t know how strong they were. Can you remove them?”
“Too late. They’re activated. These are high-quality. Even a Level 40 [Warrior] would get turned around. Unless that [Captain] has a [Scout]’s Skills or an artifact, we’re safe. It doesn’t matter. I have more.”
Venaz flicked his fingers. Absently, he rubbed at one horn and cursed.
“He wasn’t bad. Those [Soldiers] nearly got us. Why is there no mist here? Have we gone the wrong way?”
Umina pointed silently. Venaz noticed the unconscious Dullahan [Mage] at last.
“Ah. Good work, you two. It seems this Skill affects even the Mithril’s own [Mages]. Good to know…where are we?”
Marian sat down for a second to catch her breath. Umina shook her head as she investigated her map.
“We’ve gone down several streets. I don’t know where we are exactly until we get onto a roof.”
“Better not. They’re watching the roofs.”
“Right. Well, I think we’re a lot closer to the plaza now. We’ll know once we run into the fighting.”
Venaz frowned.
“Yes. I’d like to know how far Wil’s forces have pushed in. We’re moving blind. But we are getting closer. I can feel it.”
“Oh, you can feel it? I can feel a knot on the back of my head.”
Marian scowled at Venaz. He ignored her as he glanced up and down the street. He grabbed another bottle from his bag of holding and tossed it at Marian.
“Enough rest. Stamina potion. Drink a mouthful if you’re tired; it's top-tier, so don’t waste it. Let’s keep moving; those charms only ward the alley behind us, not in front.”
He began striding forwards. Marian got to her feet with a grimace. Luan declined the potion, although Umina took a swig.
“Whoa. It even tastes good. Venaz, exactly what else do you have in that bag of holding besides those charms? They’re from the Drath Archipelago, aren’t they?”
“Of course. The House of Minos trades with the Drathians. They have useful tools. And most other species have a lot fewer counters to them. I have a few other…surprises. But nothing I’d care to use just yet. We are still competitors, Umina. Marian.”
The Minotaur shook his head. Luan eyed his back.
“So let me get this straight. One of your classmates brought in an army. And you brought a bag of holding, some artifacts, and some armor, and you two have some potions, alchemist weapons, and flour.”
He looked at Umina. She blushed.
“Well, if it works…”
Luan groaned.
“I chose the wrong team, didn’t I?”
Venaz turned his head to glare at Luan.
“In the first place, if this were a survival game, or one of the Professor’s games where he demanded we hunt down monsters—I brought weaponry.”
“For a game of hide-and-seek in a city, Venaz? Really?”
The Minotaur snorted.
“It’s not always simply hiding or seeking. Sometimes the Professor changes the rules. If he unleashed Wyverns like he did in the last competition—”
Luan stared at Venaz as the [Strategist] broke off and grumbled under his breath. He looked at Umina.
“What kind of person is your teacher?”
The Lizardgirl smiled.
“He’s great.”
It was such a genuine remark Luan had no reply to that. He looked around. Umina cleared her throat.
“Anyways, it’s not as if the Professor’s the one targeting us. He set this up, but Tulm the Mithril’s our opponent. And he—”
“More soldiers!”
Venaz snapped. Luan, Umina, and Marian stopped. They tensed, ready for another skirmish. But this time the fight had come and gone before them.
