“I thought our possessions might be confiscated, or the Professor would have interfered with our equipment somehow. I expected a trick. Just not the Iron Vanguard. Historically, he’s pulled tricks like this before—confiscating all the students’ equipment and clothing and making them hide naked in the jungles. Casting an anti-magic spell that wiped out their equipment. Unleashing [Thieves] on them before the games started—”
“Dead gods. He did all that?”
The Minotaur’s voice was reproving.
“You should have studied. The Professor’s created countless undesirable scenarios. I thought a City Runner would ensure I got my possessions and maintained a huge advantage. Now, I wish I’d hired a mercenary company instead. Still, I feel better prepared now. Ready to leave?”
“Yes.”
The others chorused as one. Umina waded past Luan and shouted up at the door.
“Excuse me! We need out!”
“Already?”
There were hurrying footsteps. A flash of light. Luan looked up at a [Nightwoman], a Lizardwoman whose job it was to wade in what he was standing in every day. He had never had more appreciation for her class than now. Umina looked apologetic.
“Sorry, we can’t handle the smell. Mind if you get us a ladder? Er—stairs, for Marian? I’m really sorry.”
The Lizardwoman smiled.
“Aw, for you, anything. And we can get the Centauress up—we’ve got a platform for emergencies. You wouldn’t believe how many Centaurs fall in the toilet each year!”
“That happens? And thank you!”
The Lizardwoman disappeared. That left Luan and the other students standing in the now-illuminated tank. Luan shifted, saw something float past one foot—he closed his eyes.
The wail of the Screamer Dust had subsided, but he could still hear lots of shouting at a distance. More so than before, in fact. A game that engulfed an entire city? He shook his head. Well, it was the Titan of Baleros…he wanted to dunk himself in the harbor right after this.
“Nearly there! Hold on! It’s a bit heavy, but we’ve got a few hands! Don’t drop it on Umina, you guys! I’m rooting for her! Stand back!”
“We?”
Venaz looked alarmed as everyone moved to the side. Umina waved a claw at him.
“This apartment belongs to, uh, the night soil collectors around here. I think they like to stick together.”
“Or no one else tolerates their company.”
“Venaz! They’re really nice. And that’s true. Okay, let’s get up there, ask what’s happened, and—”
A flash of light. Marian, who had been silent and trying not to throw up, suddenly spoke urgently.
“Umina, we need to leave, now.”
“Why? Wh—”
Umina, Luan, and Venaz saw the hatch opening. Behind them. The stairwell the [Nightpeople] lowered, and the open privy was one spot of light, but on the far side of the wide tank a hatch had opened, to expose light into the darkness. And someone was preparing to—Luan climbed up the steps so fast he nearly knocked over Umina ahead of him. Venaz was right behind Luan, and Marian moaned as she got up the stairs.
“Oh, dead gods, dead gods, dead gods.”
“Sorry about that. Here. Let’s get you some water and, uh, more water.”
The [Nightwoman] looked apologetically at her guests. There was a small crowd of her co-workers around her, mostly Lizardfolk and three Dullahans. They insisted on shaking hands—after a few buckets of water had been splashed on all four. It didn’t get rid of the smell, but it helped. Luan breathed freely as Umina spoke to the [Nightwoman] again.
“We’re really sorry. I could handle it, but my friends…we also have to get moving, I guess. Still, you saved us from that patrol.”
The [Scourers] beamed as one, treating Umina like she was a minor celebrity. Which she…was? Luan eyed Umina as he sluiced himself off with more water. Venaz was demanding soap.
“No problem! Pleasure to be of assistance! This game is so exciting! And we want you to win, of course! When I think that you were using this pit—whenever I clean it, I’ll think of you! And, uh—”
She peered at Luan with a frown.
“Is he a student too? Not one of the Titan’s personal class, is he? I know all the names. Unless he’s a new addition?”
“No, no. I’m a City Runner. And I really should be going—”
Luan raised his hands hurriedly. He looked towards the doors.
“I’ll find you later, Venaz, yeah?”
“Yes. Wait in the city. I’ll be sure to get you your money.”
The Minotaur breathed in and out. Only now did Luan realize something had changed about him.
He was wearing armor. The metal gleamed as water ran down it. Umina turned and stared along with Marian and the other [Nightpeople]. Venaz gritted his teeth.
“What? I told you I came prepared for a fight. This is only part of my gear. I’m not hiding any longer. Ready to go?”
“Nearly. Just one question. You said you were a City Runner, Mister Luan?”
Marian dumped a bucket of water over her tail. Luan nodded.
“I go by water, though. I’m a [Rower].”
The Centauress frowned.
“Odd. How’d you get through the harbor, then? The Iron Vanguard had at least six warships sealing it off.”
Luan smiled faintly.
“Well, they didn’t manage to seal it off fast enough. I slipped through.”
Everyone stared at him. Marian blinked.
“You got past six warships? In…what? A dingy?”
“A scull.”
“A what?”
Venaz snorted, then turned his head and spat back into the privy. The [Nightpeople] looked disapproving at that.
“He’s the fastest City Runner on the water short of a Courier now. Why else do you think I hired him?”
“Huh. Then are you any good in a fight?”
Marian eyed Luan. The City Runner hesitated.
“Not much good. But I served in a suppression company once. Saw some fighting, but I’m mainly good at rowing. Very good, actually. Why?”
Umina was looking at her friend. Marian was thinking hard. At last she came to a decision and reached for a bag at her waist.
“Mind staying with us? I’ll pay you twenty gold coins and Venaz’s fee right now if you help us win this game.”
“Marian!”
Umina exclaimed as Luan’s eyes went wide. Venaz blinked at the gold Marian held out to the City Runner.
“You want to hire my Runner? Why?”
“An edge. Luan’s a City Runner, and he’s free to hire, right? Why can’t we hire help? The other students have done it.”
“Still, twenty gold pieces? Is he worth—”
Luan glared at the Minotaur. He hesitated over the gold coins.
“I’m afraid that arrogant cow’s right, Miss…Marian. I’m not good off the water.”
Venaz choked and turned red. Marian smiled.
“Just for calling Venaz a cow, I’d hire you. You made it this far. One person could make all the difference. What about it? You won’t break more than bones, and if you do, there’s healing potions at the ready. And I want to win. Umina?”
The Lizardgirl started.
“You sure, Marian? The gold—”
“—is mine to use. If we win, it’s worth it. What about it, Luan the City Runner? My [Headhunter] Skill says you’re more valuable than I think.”
The Centauress stared at Luan. He blinked at her. And then he looked at Venaz.
Victory. The man smiled wearily.
“Well, why not? I’m in it this far. I could use some money and a diversion.”
He took the coins from Marian. She offered him the twenty gold pieces; he declined the rest. He’d get it from Venaz. The Minotaur snorted as Luan stepped up behind him. Umina was thanking their hosts.
“If there’s anything we can do—we can’t fight, but we can make sure those Iron Vanguards have clogged privies if they stick around long enough!”
The [Nightwoman] chortled. Umina laughed.
“We’ll let you know. Alright. Ready?”
Venaz nodded. He thrust open the door to the apartment and stepped out, fists clenched. His armor shone as he strode out, ready for war. Marian followed. She’d drawn a bow from her bag of holding. Umina and Luan had only their fists and a few items at their belt, but they followed. Ready for anything. Ready to take on the Iron Vanguard. Ready for—
“Forwards! Take the street!”
A rank of men and women in armor galloped down the street. Venaz lurched backwards, fists raised. But the Humans in armor weren’t aimed at him. They were pursuing a group of Dullahans and Lizardfolk! Banners streamed behind them as they rode forwards in a wedge. Behind them came thunder.
Marching boots. Shouts. Luan saw dozens of Humans racing past him, armed with shields, clubs, some holding bows. Another rider was leading them, bellowing orders.
“[Knights] move up in spear formation! Archers, divide with foot soldiers and take those two rooftops. The rest of you, shield formation and move up—”
He thundered past the group of four. Luan heard the soldiers streaming down the street shouting as well.
“For Kallinad and the Order of Seasons!”
“Push the Iron Vanguard back!”
“Wil Kallinad! Victory for Terandria!”
And then they were gone. The sound of battle broke ahead of them. Venaz stared down the street. He walked out a few paces and stared at the backs of the running Humans. Marian trotted out behind him. Umina and Luan stared after them.
“Did they just say ‘Kallinad’? Was that a mercenary company or something?”
“Uh, maybe? Maybe—”
All four looked back. They flattened themselves back into the apartment as a second wave charged down the street, and then a third. Then they heard the horn blasts. Then, as the four climbed to the rooftop and the rooftop audience pointed them towards the harbor, they saw the four warships at the docks. Luan’s jaw dropped.
Those weren’t there when I left!
Venaz, Marian, and Umina were all staring. The streets were filled with Humans fighting the Iron Vanguard! Pushing them back! Venaz stared at a rank of [Knights] as they harried a group of Dullahans.
“Ah. I…might have underestimated Wil.”
“No kidding? Hey, Venaz? Exactly what did you bring in your bag of holding?”
Marian and Umina turned to the Minotaur. He coughed, and looked into his bag of holding. The Minotaur rummaged around inside, pulled out a mace, a few pieces of paper with glowing lettering, a picture of a colorful dog…he put them back in the bag and looked around.
“Damn. Well, now I feel really foolish.”
 
 ——
 
An army in the streets! Warships in the harbor! Chaos reigned in the plaza where Niers Astoragon stood. Not just among the Iron Vanguard; they were scrambling to react. Somewhere in the streets filled with grey fog, Tulm the Mithril had halted his advance to deal with the unexpected attack. But the arrival of the army Wil Kallinad was leading had thrown everyone into confusion.
The Wistram [Mages] were scrambling to get a new vantage point on the battle. Teura was ordering more [Mages] to watch Wil. And members of Niers’ own company, like Perorn, were visibly ecstatic. The Centauress was practically prancing in place with delight.
“Dignity, Perorn.”
Niers murmured out of the side of his mouth. But he couldn’t hold back his smile either. He watched as Wil sent the soldiers still disembarking from the warships charging up the streets, gaining as much ground as possible before the Iron Vanguard could regain their footing. Niers would have been happy to watch in silence, with only the audio from the scene.
But, sadly, there were always those whose first reaction to an unfolding drama was to give their opinion about it. The sort of people who would be standing in the crowd as someone drowned and offering their commentary on the other people diving in. Those sorts. And unfortunately, there were two who were debating the latest turn of events even as the images of Wil, his sister, and the army she was leading appeared on the scrying orb.
“Four warships filled with [Soldiers] and even a [Knight] order! Unbelievable, and the crews themselves are taking part! Amazing! Incredible! An inspiring turn of events! Sir Relz, can you credit this?”
The two Drakes were leaning over their upholstered arm chairs, staring at their own scrying orb and loudly speaking to their captive audience. The one with the monocle was nodding rapidly, but with a huge frown on his face in contrast to Noass’ look of amazement.
“I can, Noass, I can—I have eyes! But I don’t know that inspiring is the word I would use. Think on it, Noass. Yes, this is a game-changer. But is it fair?”
He gestured to the image in the scrying orb as Noass sat back, confused.
“Anyone with the might of a Terandrian house could have pulled off this tactic. That the other students in the Titan’s classes haven’t isn’t due to a lack of skill. Consider this, Noass. If Wil Kallinad can pull an army out of his pocket, how can anyone else hope to compete?”
Niers saw Noass sit up a bit. He wondered if the Drake’s guild of assassins was still extant. Did they do contracts on public figures? He saw Noass cup his chin in his hand as he pointed at the orb, mildly outraged.
“Hold on, Sir Relz. I have to respectfully disagree with your assessment. Even if you knew Tulm the Mithril were going to appear in this game, Sir Relz, could you convince your family to send over a thousand soldiers to another continent? Let alone call on half a dozen other noble houses?”
He waved a claw at Wil, who had appeared in the scrying orb again in between his comments.
“And let me remind our audience that no one saw these warships coming! Not even the Iron Vanguard, which boasts the most powerful navy of all the Great Companies in Baleros bar none! Sir Relz, how can you dismiss that as simply the product of wealth?”
The other Drake adjusted his monocle haughtily as he frowned at his friend.
“I just have a hard time giving this as much credit as you, Noass. To me, this stinks of an advantage born of station, not achievement. I realize that my own position as a noble contradicts my statements, but I am a son of Pallass, not some arrogant Lord of the Wall, like Salazsar’s jumped up tyrants.”
“Oh, come now, Sir Relz. You can’t make this entirely referential to Drake politics. Even if you’re going to bring in someone like—like Wall Lord Ilvriss as a point of comparison—”
Mercifully, whoever was controlling the broadcast decided the two Drakes were getting off-topic. Their voices cut off, and Niers could focus on Wil. The Titan watched with a [Strategist]’s bird’s eye view as he saw Wil’s forces moving and Tulm’s preparing to intercept. Not bad. Then again, he’d see how well Wil was doing and how shaken Tulm was in a few minutes. He murmured to himself as he reached for his lime juice.
“I saw it coming. But I knew where to look.”
