“I think so. I know a fact about War Walkers. My best friend knows a lot about Dullahans, you see. And I don’t fancy fighting in this final battle. Venaz, Marian, I’m coming back for my fee after this.”
“Stop Xol and I’ll double it.”
The Minotaur folded his arms. Luan shrugged. He jogged off. Wil turned back to the others. It was just a flicker of hope, but it was there. He took a deep breath.
“Here we go. Sir Kelm, ready your men. Commander Wylint?”
“Sir?”
“No rearguard. We trust the streets to Daquin. We’re going in. Form up. Marian, Venaz, and I will all take to the front.”
He looked at the other two. Marian reared, making the Humans step back. Venaz flexed his arms and grinned fiercely.
“To victory. We’ll go in together. Three of the Professor’s finest. You two had better move fast. Or you’ll lose to me. Come! Form the ranks! Prepare the charge!”
He turned, roaring orders as if he were in command. Wil watched him go. Marian rolled her eyes. But there was a spring in her step as she followed him.
Talia turned to Wil. His sister glanced back at Venaz, and then leaned forwards. She indicated Venaz’s back.
“I like him. But he smells terrible.”
Wil laughed. And in the street, Feshi turned. Wil nodded.
“Go for it, Feshi.”
She couldn’t hear him. But she led the street forwards anyways. Wil mounted up. He knew word was spreading like wildfire. From scrying orbs. From word of mouth. And even the Wistram [Mages] were hesitating. You could feel it in the air. Didn’t you want to be part of it?
You could hear it. A roar that filled a city. A burning force as bright as the feeling in Wil’s chest when he’d seen the ships approaching from the harbor. Only now, it burned in everyone. If you had to call it something, you could call it hope, or courage, or just inspiration.
Victory. Something everyone wanted to taste once. It came from a thousand lips, in a thousand voices in a thousand words. But they were all saying the same things. And if you listened above the roar of people filling Daquin’s streets, you could hear the Titan laughing and Tulm the Mithril finally losing his temper.
 
 ——
 
A small thing, in between Wil, Venaz, and Marian leading the Terandrians in a last-ditch charge. In between the Iron Vanguard coming out in force, leaving only their last line of defense around the plaza. Struggling to cross streets filled with Daquin’s citizens, who gave the [Soldiers] the fight of a lifetime. In between that moment, there was just him.
Xol of Ingrilt. He strode forwards. He had heard the call to rally. He knew what was happening. But he was too slow. And there were too many people in the way.
The streets were filled with civilians! Xol cursed as he strode forwards, shouting to clear the way. People ran out of his path, but the War Walker had to be careful. Xol tried to move fast despite the danger to Daquin’s citizens. He was no fool. He knew this was the endgame.
They’d rallied Daquin, somehow. It was a masterful trick. Worthy of the Titan himself. Was this his plan all along? Had Tulm foreseen it? Perhaps. Perhaps not. If the Mithril had one fault, it was that his strategy was pure, like his armor. It could deal with any eventuality. But only if Tulm himself was allowed to be free. When he was unfettered by rules, he would destroy. And it was a terrible thing. But here—
Time was running out. Xol swept aside a group of Centaurs trying to block his path, stepped over a Lizardman kicking at his foot.
He had to hurry. Victory or defeat would be the difference in how long it took the scattered Armor Captains to regroup with the main force, to encircle Wil and the remaining students as they pushed forwards. A minute could be all it took for the students to reach the plaza—or for Tulm to capture enough and cement his victory. Just a few seconds of time—
The War Walker was nearly there. He turned down a side street, saw the trap too late, and halted. He was already caught. He shifted. Just an inch. But any further and he would—Xol slowly raised one wrist. He spoke into the gem embedded into his gauntlet.
“Xol. I request immediate support. I am trapped and unable to move. Request immediate support.”
He heard the distant reply, but it was too late. Xol was caught. And the battle began even as he stood in place. Helpless against the most insidious of traps. What could stop a War Walker, a [Juggernaut]? One of the Iron Vanguard’s strongest?
A little Lizardfolk girl. She was happily standing on one of the War Walker’s feet. And Xol would have shifted, would have lifted her off and placed her to one side with the utmost of care. But for the other children clinging to his leg. The Centaur running around his other foot. The children, Lizardfolk, Dullahan, Centaurs, who ran around him, laughing in delight.
“Move, children. Please. I am needed.”
They shrieked in terror and delight. Xol stared down at them as they refused to go. They were holding something. A glint of silver. Coins.
Slowly, the Dullahan looked up. He cast around for the creator of the trap. And found him. A man, a Human man, stood a few feet ahead of Xol. He met the [Juggernaut]’s eyes and nodded.
“I’m told War Walkers can’t have children, so they prize babies and children above all else. And Dullahans themselves are very careful around the young.”
“Who told you that?”
“A friend. He’s met War Walkers before. And he knows a lot about Dullahans.”
“I see. And you are?”
The man walked forwards. The children waved at him, and he waved back with a slight smile. He offered another coin to more children who ran up. They ran towards Xol excitedly. Free money to get to run around a War Walker? Xol turned his head and saw a few parents looking alternatively terrified and amused. But he wouldn’t move. The Human was right. Xol looked back at him.
“Luan. I’m a City Runner hired to help an annoying Minotaur out.”
“I see. That explains things. A [Strategist] would not have done this. Using children, even to win a game, even if you are assured of their safety, is wrong.”
Xol stared at Luan. The City Runner shrugged a bit.
“Good thing I’m not a [Strategist]. Besides, they seem happy enough.”
He indicated the children happily trying to climb up Xol’s legs. Xol was afraid, more afraid than he had been all day, that one of them would fall off. He held very still and looked at Luan. The Human was smiling a bit. Xol spoke carefully. Levelly.
“Once a patrol reaches me, I will help end this game. I would advise you to be out of my way when that moment comes. I cannot waste any more time, but if you are still here, I will hit you.”
Luan lost his smile. He hesitated, eyed Xol, and then decided it was time to go. Dullahans were already fighting their way through the crowd.
Luan hurried off. Xol watched him go, and then noticed a Lizardboy about to fall off his shoulder. He reached out and caught the child as the Lizardboy fell with a sharp cry. The child laughed with giddy relief as he scrambled up Xol’s arm. The War Walker’s head turned to watch more children swarming up his body. He stared up and saw a Wistram [Mage] watching him with a smile on her face from a rooftop.
Xol sighed.
 
 ——
 
On they came. Tulm the Mithril stood by the entrance to the plaza, his gaze burning like cold embers. Watching. On they came. An army of Humans. [Knights] riding in their armor, like Dullahans. [Soldiers] on foot. [Mages] flying or moving across the rooftops with [Archers].
And citizens. Civilians. They joined the final push, fighting against the Iron Vanguard and the Forgotten Wing companies, secure in the knowledge that this was a game. That they could fight without fear for their lives.
It would be so easy to drop a [Fireball] among them. It would be so easy to cheat. Because this was cheating. Wasn’t it? Daquin was rioting. The civilians were fighting—even in the plaza! The Councilmember had to be carried out on stretchers with bruises. They’d even gone after Wistram’s [Mages], who’d elected to impartiality after all.
“We have immunity! We’re with Wistram!”
A [Mage] shouted as he tried to levitate out of a crowd of citizens all too ready to knock him over the head. But those were just words. And in this moment, words were useless. She had already used them.
The Gnoll, leading the city. Madness. Tulm memorized her face. And then he looked forwards. The Gnoll was too far back. She’d never make it. But here they came.
Three of them. A Minotaur. A Centaur. And a Human. The [Knights] charged into the Iron Vanguard’s formation with a roar that staggered even the Midnight Shields. Which one was using a Skill? One? Two? All three?
It didn’t matter. Tulm signaled. Every soldier not holding the crowd back pressed forwards. Every [Mage] was casting spells, battling the Humans and Daquin’s citizenry, forming walls of earth.
And yet, they came on. Over walls of earth, shattering barriers of magic. Overrunning formations of steel and flesh. It was almost inevitable. As his teacher would say, they had the momentum. And something else.
“Youth.”
Tulm the Mithril sighed. He walked forwards. For the first time, he donned his helmet. His armor shone. And as the sunset marked the end of Daquin’s long day, he strode into battle.
 
 ——
 
The world watched. Marian led her charge, shooting arrows as [Knight]’s spears splintered on wooden shields. She shouted, fighting forwards with Sir Kelm. The Midnight Shields formed a line in the sand. And they held. But with each step, they were forced back.
“Forwards! [Unit: Freedom’s Gallop]! On me!”
Marian turned and wove back through the press of bodies. Somehow, despite the melee, her hooves landed in open space each time. The [Knights] and Sir Kelm followed her, charging out of the crowd and straight back in. The bodies seemed to move magically out of the way.
The second charge hit the Midnight Shields as they fought in the melee—Marian saw one Dullahan in black armor go down to a strike from Sir Kelm’s spear. She kicked at another and saw the Dullahan raise his shield. Marian reeled; she felt like she’d cracked a hoof!
But they were faltering. Just another push! Just another—Marian looked around and saw Wil striking from horseback. His sister was with him, on the ground, dueling an Armor Captain. There were even some students in the press. They were all fighting forwards. Nearly. Nearly—
And then she saw him. He strode forwards, followed by a dozen Knights of the Summer. Venaz. His voice picked up above the rest.
“[Unit: Enhanced Strength]. [Unit: Unstoppable Advance].”
Marian’s blood chilled. Here he came. And Venaz had used both of his Skills. The [Knights] following him swung their weapons, and the Midnight Shields faltered. The armored Humans didn’t break stride as weapons struck their armor. They could not stop. They could not be stopped.
The lines broke around Venaz. He cleared the area around him, punching, knocking Dullahans flying. For one minute, he was unstoppable. After that, it would be over.
But a minute was all he needed. The Minotaur rampaged forwards, bellowing. And he was headed straight for the plaza.
No! Marian fought to get to him, but her Skills were too deadly. And he was the best for this moment. Wil was shouting, and his soldiers were fighting, but Venaz was entering the plaza.
Only one person stood in his way. The Dullahan’s armor shone as the Midnight Shields backed up around him. He waited, his armor glowing with light. Venaz bared his teeth in a savage grin as he came face-to-face with him.
Tulm the Mithril.
The fighting slowed. Both sides, Humans, and Dullahans turned to look. You couldn’t help it. They watched, waiting. Would the Dullahan retreat? Could he stop Venaz? The [Knights] locked blades with the Midnight Shields. Venaz charged. He had thirty seconds. Less. But all he needed was to take out Tulm. If he fell—
The Dullahan stared down at Venaz. He looked past the Minotaur, at the distant shape of Xol charging through the crowds, but too slow. Too far. The Dullahan looked up. Teura hovered overhead. He stared up, and the Titan of Baleros waited. They both smiled. Ruefully. And Tulm spoke.
“[The Twice-Born Warlord].”
Venaz raised a fist. Tulm looked down. He raised a hand. Caught the Minotaur’s fist. And—
Marian glanced up. She ducked. The Minotaur landed behind her with a thump that shook the ground. He blinked down at his torn armor. Then he looked up at Marian.
“I might have underestimated him.”
Marian looked up. Tulm raised a fist. A Knight of the Summer raised his shield and spoke a Skill. The Dullahan hit him. The [Knight] went flying.
“How?”
The Centauress stared. Then she looked back. Xol approached. Calmly, the War Walker bent. He knocked Sir Kelm off his horse. Marian ducked as a finger flicked at her chest. She felt the crushing strength. The casual, incredible—and then she had it. She looked up and saw Tulm turning. He hurled another [Knight] back. And he looked up at Xol and nodded.
One and the same. One as strong as the other. A monster of strategy and one of might made into one body. [The Twice-Born Warlord].
“I can—I can do it. Give me a second.”
Venaz was getting up. He clutched at his chest, spat out some blood. Marian turned. Tulm was striding towards them, ignoring the blows against his mithril armor as if they weren’t there. The Centauress raised her bow.
“Tulm.”
The Dullahan’s head turned. Wil rode towards him. His sister called out, but she was locked in combat. Wil raised his sword in a salute. Tulm nodded.
They walked towards each other. Venaz heaved himself up. He charged Tulm from the left, Wil from the right. And Marian? She leapt.
The Dullahan blocked Venaz. He knocked Wil from his saddle. He looked up and reached—too late. Marian leapt over his head. She collided with a Midnight Shield. Hit the ground. Ran forwards.
“Stop her!”
“Go, Marian!”
Voices behind her. Marian raced across the plaza. An open shot. A last line of Dullahans was between her and the Professor. She could see him, sitting on his platform, grinning. Waiting. The Centauress ran. She fired twice as she ran. Her hands had never moved so fast.
[Hurricane Arrows]. The air blasted around her arrows, twisting. The Dullahans held. They were turning, encircling her. But she could make it. Marian turned, dodged a net. She felt something strike her back left leg.
“No—!”
She went down. A [Mage]’s spell seared across her leg, and Marian screamed in agony. She heard a roar from the crowd. Protest. Tulm’s cold voice.
“Enough. Non-damaging spells.”
“Strategist. I—I have no excuse. But! I sense—”
“Enough. Take her. Xol, the Minotaur.”
“Face me, you—”
