A group of Dullahan [Soldiers], Humans, and even a pair of horses were all lying on the ground, being tended to by a small band of Lizardfolk wearing robes. They looked up as the students halted. Instantly, one of their number strode forwards. It was an old Lizardwoman. She raised her hand as Venaz made a fist and lowered his head to charge.
“[Healers]! Back off, or we’ll have you expelled from the game!”
The students and Luan hesitated. Now they saw the [Healers] were bending over the injured, tending to bleeding wounds with healing potion or poultices. They were even treating internal bleeding and broken bones, setting the wounds before applying healing potion or magical salves. The [Healer] who’d stopped the students raised an eyebrow.
“Oh. You’re the poor fools who still haven’t been caught. Do you have any damage we need to clean up?”
“We ran into two patrols a few streets back.”
Venaz jerked a thumb over his shoulder, still looking wary. The [Healer] sighed exasperatedly.
“How bad? And if you’ve hurt them badly—”
“Just bruises. Maybe a concussion or two. Broken ribs at worst. Don’t worry. I held back.”
The Minotaur smirked. The Lizardwoman gave him a look that removed the smirk. She sighed and gestured.
“Roleis, Armiga, you two see what’s wrong over there.”
Two of the [Healers] got up. Marian opened her mouth, hesitating. The old Lizardwoman noticed and smiled.
“Don’t worry; these [Soldiers] aren’t continuing. Titan’s orders. No one gets hurt. Still, if there aren’t a dozen deaths by the end of the day, I’ll be surprised. Horses, people—accidents happen when you have idiots charging each other with sticks, even if they are padded! Some game.”
She scowled angrily. Venaz looked at his companions.
“Who did the fighting here? Kallinad’s forces? From the docks? It looks like they took this street. Why didn’t they hold it?”
The [Healer] sighed.
“It’s all hit and away. It keeps us running, but those Humans aren’t getting any closer, even with their [Knights]. The Iron Vanguard has stalled them, and both groups are clashing in the streets without getting into a big confrontation. That will change soon; I know your lot. Hotheaded, the lot. But why am I telling you?”
She eyed Venaz severely. The Minotaur ignored her; his eyes were narrowed on the street ahead.
“We can use this. So long as we don’t run into too many patrols, we still have a chance.”
“Fat chance of them going after you. Hey, does anyone have a scrying orb? Maybe they’ll show you bashing heads so we know where to find your victims.”
The Lizardwoman [Healer] glared. Luan looked from her to Marian and Umina, who were arguing over the map and their location.
“So there are two companies fighting? Or is it three? I’m not clear on that.”
The [Healer] raised her brows as she turned to Luan. She seemed to figure out he wasn’t a student at once, because she gave Luan a more measured—and polite—reply.
“There are two companies doing the seeking. The [Soldiers] of the Forgotten Wing company, and the Iron Vanguard. We belong to the Forgotten Wing company, and so do these three nominally, at least.”
She gestured at Marian, Umina, and Venaz.
“It makes sense our soldiers aren’t seeking your friends as hard as the Iron Vanguard; they don’t want to get that badly hurt, no matter the prize. Ten gold isn’t worth fighting him.”
She pointed to Venaz, who was pleased at the compliment. Luan focused on the second part of her statement. He’d heard that before.
“Ten gold pieces per student? That’s what the soldiers get for capturing someone?”
He glanced sideways at Marian. The Centauress looked up and tossed her head.
“Don’t get any funny ideas. You’re being paid more to help us, remember? And this is guaranteed money.”
Umina nodded absently. She sidled up to the old [Healer], who seemed content to talk while her coworkers actually did the healing.
“Excuse me, Miss Healer? Could I ask you to show us where we are?”
“What, and help you cheat?”
The old woman exploded. Umina winced. The Lizardwoman hesitated and eyed Umina.
“Well, it couldn’t hurt. What with those Terandrians bringing an army in. You’re Umina, aren’t you? My granddaughter’s your age. Alright, show me. Yes, yes…you’re right about here. And before you ask, no, I don’t know where the fighting is. But if you listen, they’re probably…”
She bent over the map. Venaz edged over to see with Marian. Luan looked at the injured soldiers. All this fighting. It made more sense now. You had to reward everyone taking part, or give them a chance. He frowned to himself.
“A game. If that’s the case, why not…”
An idea nagged at his head. Then he heard a curse. Venaz was looking up and down the street and Umina was folding her map. Marian galloped down the street and came back instantly.
“You were right! There are at least a hundred coming down the street!”
“[Soldiers]? Which side?”
“Does it matter? We’re going to be pounded flat either way! We have to outrun them!”
“But that’s the way we have to go to the plaza! Maybe we can break through. I have—”
Venaz was rummaging in his bag of holding. The [Healer] snapped at once.
“No more fighting! The wounded need to be cleared out! I forbid you to use an artifact!”
“We need to go forwards. We’re running out of time!”
The Minotaur pointed at the sun, which was nearly on its way to becoming evening. The Lizardwoman drew in a breath, and Luan grabbed her arm gently. He looked up the street where the unmistakable sound of marching boots was coming from.
“Excuse me.”
She yanked her arm free of Luan’s grip and glared at him.
“Threaten me, and the Titan will feed you to the worms, no matter who you are. This isn’t up for debate. That goes for you. Prized students or not—”
She rounded on Venaz. Luan raised his voice urgently.
“No. I was just wondering—you’re prohibited from fighting, but would you be willing to earn some gold?”
The [Healer] paused. And the other [Healers] who’d been tending to their tasks looked up. Marian, Venaz, and Umina looked at Luan sharply. The Lizardwoman glanced over her shoulder and then around, as if looking for watchers. Then she eyed Luan.
“I’m listening.”
 
 ——
 
Half a minute later, a huge patrol of the Iron Vanguard came down the street. They were ready for a fight; [Soldiers] armed with shields and heavy clubs were at the front, with archers and padded arrows and [Mages] following behind. They even had two of the Midnight Shields leading their group. They stopped when they saw the wounded on the street. The Lizardwoman strode up to them at once, scowling.
“We’re [Healers]! This lot just got taken out! Keep clear of the injured or I’ll have your head!”
She pointed. The [Commander] leading the battalion hesitated. He eyed the injured Humans, Dullahans, and others alike. It was impossible to tell who had belonged to which side as the wounded groaned or tried to sit up.
You could guess in broad terms, but there had been some Dullahans even among the [Storm Sailors] and Humans were employed in the Iron Vanguard, however infrequently. He frowned at a Minotaur lying still on the ground in full plate armor. He looked unharmed—until you saw the red blood smeared across his neck. He also stank. A Centaur was lying next to him, nursing both arms in a sling while a Lizardgirl moaned as a healing potion was being poured over her. A dark-skinned man was sitting against a wall as a [Healer] held up some fingers.
“We need to get through.”
“Take a side street, then. We can’t move the injured.”
The [Healer] snapped at the Dullahan. He hesitated, then nodded.
“Acceptable. But let us cast one spell. [Geomancer], forward! Seal the street.”
“Hold on. You can’t—”
The [Healer] jumped as, behind her, a wall of stone rose, neatly blocking off the street behind the wounded. The Dullahan [Commander] winced at the ferocity of the old Liazrdwoman’s glare. He removed his head and bowed it slightly.
“Our apologies for the disturbance, Miss Healer. We have our orders.”
The Lizardwoman folded her arms, unimpressed.
“Get to it, then. And don’t interfere with our jobs any more, or you won’t see us when someone splits your head open.”
The Dullahan [Commander] nodded and after checking his helmet to make sure it was secured tightly, ordered his men down a side street. The [Healer] watched him go, and then waited for a minute. After that, she looked at the Minotaur, Lizardgirl, Centauress, and Human, who were all sitting up.
“Well, well, well. It looks like one of you has a brain after all.”
“More than just a brain. Brilliant idea, Luan. I knew hiring you was worth it.”
Marian got to her hooves, looking delighted. Umina was smiling fit to burst and even Venaz looked pleased. The [Healer] who’d been pretending to tend to her cleared his throat meaningfully.
“Speaking of which…”
“Of course. Here.”
Marian counted out some coins. The gold and silver vanished into the [Healer]’s palms, and the Lizardman gave her a delighted bow.
“Much obliged, Miss [Strategist].”
The others crowded around for their share. One of them, however, looked troubled.
“Is this cheating? Our orders were—”
The Lizardwoman shoved past him, with a claw outstretched.
“I don’t see a problem with it. If the Titan had a problem with us, he would have added it to the rules. Do you see a problem?”
She tossed several gold coins at the other [Healer]. He perked up.
“You know, I’m feeling a lot better about it. Gold is a very therapeutic metal.”
“You said it.”
Marian sighed as she handed out the rest of the money. She scowled into her own bag of holding and glanced up.
“I’m spending a fortune today. Venaz, you’re paying me at least half back.”
“You’ll get it. Stop nagging me. If I had my money pouch…”
Venaz stomped past them. He glanced at the Lizardwoman, and his gaze became calculating.
“How much would it cost to escort us towards the plaza? We’ll triple Marian’s payment.”
The Centauress choked, but Umina nodded.
“Not a bad idea. Let’s get as far as we can with this.”
The [Healer] hesitated, but then she shook her head reluctantly.
“Ah! We can’t leave our area. We do have a job, and lives are on the line. You’re on your own after this. Good luck; hope you win. I’d love to see the Iron Vanguard get their tails tweaked.”
She folded her arms. Venaz sighed and cursed, but he didn’t try to argue. The four set off again. Luan hurried after them, and Umina turned to him. She smiled.
“Really good idea, Luan. I wish I’d thought of it.”
“Worth twenty gold coins?”
“At least!”
Marian nodded.
“I’m glad I hired you. I knew my Skill was steering me the right way. If you have any other ideas, we’d love to hear them.”
The two [Strategists] gave Luan approving looks. Venaz grunted.
“Yes, well, recall that I was the first one to hire him.”
“Yes, yes. Now, let’s keep moving. We’re closing in. There’re only a few dozen streets between us and the plaza at most. We can take a circuitous route here to avoid more patrols until we get to the Iron Vanguard’s really fortified streets—”
“Hey!”
All four ducked. Luan grabbed for the club and realized he’d dropped it while pretending to be wounded. He dodged behind Venaz as he looked around for the sound and then up—
Umina, Marian, Venaz, and Luan stared up at an open window. The apartments were filled with faces. And more people were standing on the rooftops! The cold iron mists had begun to dissipate, and the people of Daquin were watching the students with avid expressions. Someone shouted.
“That’s Venaz! And Umina! And, uh—”
“Miss Marian! Who’s the Human?”
Excited voices called from above. Luan saw a Lizardboy waving excitedly at Venaz. Shouts filled the street at once.
“Good luck!”
“We saw you trash that patrol! Excellent punch!”
“Umina! Umina, will you marry m—”
Bemused, the students waved up at the windows. Venaz snorted, looking pleased and annoyed.
“Idiots. They’ll blow our cover.”
“Too late to change it.”
Marian smiled and waved, causing a male Centaur half her age to swoon. Umina looked up and frowned. Then she raised her arms and waved back.
“Then let’s use this. Hey, yourselves! Anyone have a scrying orb? What’s the situation look like? Is Wil—I mean, are the Humans winning?”
 
 ——
 
Umina, Marian, Venaz, and the unfortunate City Runner they’d hired. To some, their tale was all-encompassing, the most important story unfolding in Daquin. It certainly was to the individuals in question. But the truth was that their struggle was just one of hundreds unfolding in the city.
Students running for their lives. Turning, fighting. Outwitting foes left and right. Triumphing, failing—the image of their battle against the Iron Vanguard was a never-ending shift of perspectives. Not one tale was told, nor even fifty. It was all of the most significant dramas, with commentary, replays, twists and turns—
Some might have called it too many perspectives to keep track of. And it was true that some students were captured without much agonizing on the part of the audience. But others were names.
Wil Kallinad. Merrik, the Dwarf. Peki of Pomle. The [Rogue], Sillk. Jekilt and his band of [Soldiers]. And yes, even Venaz. The Minotaur was certainly popular with his people if no one else. But to the disappointment of many, he had only appeared once in the scrying orb as the main focus in a satisfying, if short dustup. Umina’s defeat of the [Hydromancer] had also been caught, incidentally, as had their trick with the [Healers].
In truth, their perspective was, as of this moment, rather inconsequential compared to the other students who’d been making waves. Niers had watched as, with audible groans, the people in the plaza witnessed Jekilt finally subdued by a vanguard led by Tulm himself. The Mithril cornered the Centaur [Captain] with calm detachments of soldiers, slowly boxing the Centaur in until Jekilt was taken out from afar with a spell. But if Jekilt’s defeat was the talk of the hour, Wil’s dramatic battle with the Iron Vanguard was the hottest thing this century.
And it was only getting hotter. Niers watched as the patrol that had missed Venaz and the others walked straight into an ambush by nearly two hundred [Soldiers]. The Dullahans put their backs up as well as their shields as enchanted arrows rained from the rooftops and [Foot Soldiers] rushed in from all sides. But the ambush was a feint; the Dullahans in fact outnumbered their attackers, and they were meant to be held in place as Wil’s forces tried to seize a choke point five streets over.
