Up, up! The Midnight Shields not tackling Cameral looked up. Several tried to change course, but their heavy armor weighed them down. It was too late. The world watched, open-mouthed, as Cameral’s head fell down to earth, towards Niers, who’d stepped aside to give him room. He was going to make it! He was going to—
Tulm the Mithril leapt forwards. His jump carried him eight feet into the air, impossibly high. His mithril armor shone as his outstretched arm shot for Cameral’s head. Niers, staring upwards, saw the moment unfold.
Tulm, his eyes wide, hand outstretched. Cameral, shouting, his head slowly rotating as it dropped towards Niers. The Midnight Guard, lunging. Tulm’s hand, covered in the bright, magical metal, reaching, grabbing—
He caught Cameral and twisted out of the way, landing with a crash as the Midnight Guard leapt too. The Mithril rolled, grasping Cameral’s head by the hair. The Dullahan student was grimacing as his body lay, pinned by four of the Midnight Guard. Tulm held Cameral’s head upright as he scrambled to his feet. He paused, wavering.
The Midnight Guard froze. The audience in the square froze. And every eye turned towards Niers Astoragon. They all stared, students, teachers, spectators.
Had Cameral done it? Had his head passed into the circle, or had Tulm caught him in time? The world waited. And Niers studied the circle marked by ropes. He checked the air where Cameral’s head had been, glanced at the two Dullahans, Tulm and Cameral’s head.
The Fraerling raised his arms. He waited for one eternal heartbeat, for the effect, for the drama, and then swung them down.
“Out!”
And the audience went wild.
 
 ——
 
Minutes later, a lifetime of excitement later, Yerranola and Cameral were being spoken to by Wistram [Mages] as they sat with the other former contestants. The [Mages] were, of course, lenses for the world to witness all that was unfolding, and they did more than just watch the action in the streets.
They were interviewing the losers for their thoughts, opinions, and, of course, reactions to what was happening. And now the latest two students were the subject of all the attention, despite the battle still raging in the streets.
“Of course it was planned. You think we stuck a bunch of wooden bits in Cameral’s armor and drew some blood to fake his accidents for fun? Come to think of it…”
Yerranola was chatting happily to the [Mage] asking her questions. She looked relaxed, for all her body was in tatters. Cameral was uninjured. His staged injuries had already been healed, for they had been quite real. But he had never been in any danger not planned. He was more subdued, but he did manage a quiet nod and a reply.
“Neither Yerra nor I had made enough preparations for this event. After we saw the Mithril and the Iron Vanguard arriving—we might have continued, but Wil’s strategy showed us just how unlikely we were to succeed. So we teamed up.”
“And this was your plan?”
The scrying orb the [Mage] was holding up switched to Sir Relz. The Drake was leaning forwards, interviewing the two [Strategists]. Yerra nodded casually.
“It was worth a shot. I was the bait, and Cameral was just going to run for it. I know it’s not that impressive, but we decided to be bold since we had no other good hands to play. I hope the Professor won’t scold us for it.”
She glanced at Niers. After a moment, the sighing Fraerling appeared in the orb.
“Boldness is a virtue. I won’t say either Yerranola or Cameral exceeded my expectations, but they certainly came closer than any other student. Yerra was the first to break the plaza’s encirclement, unorthodox and risky though her plan was. How close it was depends. A head isn’t exactly a body; I would have had to think, if Cameral had landed, on whether that counted. But perhaps Tulm has an opinion on how good the gambit was?”
He winked at the audience. The screen switched to Tulm. The Dullahan, who had returned to his war table, glanced up briefly.
“Remove the [Mages]—”
The image went dark for a second. Niers, relaxing in his seat, saw Tulm walk away from the protesting Wistram [Mages]. Niers whistled, and Tulm stopped as he passed by the circle guarded by a double ring of somewhat-abashed Midnight Shields this time. Niers hopped onto another helmet and spoke quietly to Tulm.
“He nearly got you. Cameral. If you’d been a hair slower, he might have won. You didn’t think they’d be this aggressive, did you? You’re still underestimating them.”
He grinned as he perched on a very uncomfortable Dullahan’s head. Tulm glanced at the Midnight Shield, and then up at Niers. He adjusted his head. His voice was as impassive as ever.
“Tell me something. Was that Human boy—Wil Kallinad—really the surprise you mentioned? He will never make it in the plaza. You know he has no chance.”
Niers smiled. The two locked gazes. At last, the Titan shrugged.
“Alone, you’d be right. But teamwork nearly won once already. I wonder what happens if the other students work together?”
He turned back to his pedestal. Tulm stared at Niers’ back as the Titan helped himself to another lime drink and a candied nut. Then he looked around. His soldiers stared back. Slowly, Tulm glanced at his [Mage] responsible for sending [Message] spells.
“Command Xol to advance. Have the first to sixth Armor Captains begin sortieing with their units. It’s time to end this.”
 
 ——
 
“The plaza is in sight! Just six more streets away!”
Merrik roared as his group advanced. The Iron Vanguard was pouring out to meet them. But an equally large force was marching with Merrik and his group.
Wil’s forces were advancing down the street. It had not been an easy battle. The [Knights] were tired. More than a few had been unhorsed. More than a few had been carried off the streets. And yet, still they came.
Humans. Terandria’s champions. And behind them was Wil, still moving forwards, still clashing with Tulm the Mithril himself. It was enough to make Merrik proud of his homeland. Even so, he was going to win this. The Dwarf hefted his greatclub as he walked forwards. Some of his friends walked with him.
Not all.
Kelsa was out. She’d been taken by nets. Romin was limping bad; a bone had been broken. Maybe even shattered. But he was still with them. He could heal later.
Cemiza was out. The Oldblood Drake had been caught by a [Mage]. But her friend, Kaelma, the [Fencer] with the silver bell, was still with them. Unharmed. So was Peki, the Garuda [Martial Artist].
And Merrik too. Oh, he’d taken bad hits, but nothing a healing potion couldn’t sort out. Now the Dwarf raised his club and roared, and the soldiers around him cheered. He was out of Skills. But he was so close!
“Hold on, Professor. We’re nearly there!”
Merrik charged forwards. The Dullahans charged right back. There were a lot of them. But they could take them! They could—the Dwarf knocked three Dullahans down, aiming at their knees, then heard a voice that made his heart sink.
“Second Armor Company! Advance!”
A titanic roar worthy of the Professor himself. But this voice was properly huge, booming. It came from a giant.
“Aw, Dragon’s nuts! Here comes Xol! Peki!”
The Garuda flew up. Xol was impossible to miss. He was leading the Second Armor Company straight into the fray. [Knights] charged at him, using their spears like lances; the War Walker flicked them off their horses. He wasn’t holding a weapon. But he did have a massive tower shield. Peki dove at him.
“Rematch. Flutter kick. Swallow punch. Dodge—”
She flitted through the air, striking. Another Garuda went down, knocked clean out of the skies. Merrik grinned.
“Go Peki!”
Xol had halted as the Garuda advanced on him. He raised his shield as the Garuda spun left, daring him to strike and be countered. Xol’s voice was huge, yet almost conversational.
“You were right. Without my weapons, it is hard to beat one of Pomle’s warriors. I would that we had a chance for a rematch.”
“Punch, punch, kick—”
“[Attraction Shield].”
Merrik felt a tug at his side. He stumbled. Then he saw Peki fall out of the air like a stone. Xol held his massive shield up, and the Garuda slammed into it and stuck there. Pinned. She wriggled, struggling against the shield, but it held her as if the Garuda’s body were suddenly magnetized. Peki looked up as Xol raised his shield.
“This is bad.”
Xol brought the shield down. Merrik charged forwards, but it was much too late. The people below Xol scattered as the shield came down, Peki-first.
Whumph.
When the [Juggernaut] raised his shield, Peki remained, lying on the broken street, her wings spread. Unconscious.
“Peki!”
Her friends raced forwards, outraged. Heedless, they charged at Xol. Romin, Kaelma, Merrik—but a group of Dullahans brought down Romin, trapping him with catchpoles. And someone shot out from the side—Kaelma stumbled backwards, her cheek suddenly bleeding! The Gnoll turned, growling, raising her wooden rapier.
A Dullahan stepped out of the line of soldiers. He was unique, because his armor was made not of metal, or even wood or stone. But of cloth. It looked like padded armor as he gestured to Kaelma. His voice was soft, even amid the fighting.
“Second Armor Captain. Heldam. I challenge you, [Fencer].”
He had a wooden rapier like hers. And on his wrist—a silver bell. Kaelma hesitated. Then the Gnoll slowly walked towards Heldam, as graceful as a cat. He slid forwards to meet her. The silver bells chimed as they advanced.
Merrik looked around. Suddenly, he was alone. And the soldiers with him were struggling, suddenly bereft of leadership. He raised his voice.
“Pull back! Pull—”
A hand grabbed him. Merrik felt himself being raised into the air. He swore and struggled, but Xol’s grip was immense. The [Juggernaut] raised Merrik up and regarded him. Merrik stared at Xol and bared his teeth desperately.
“Ever hear about the Dwarf who felled a Giant?”
He wrenched an arm free. His club was still there. He swung desperately, and his greatclub bounced off Xol’s hand. The [Juggernaut] smiled faintly.
“Yes. I heard he cheated.”
Then he lowered his hand, and Merrik found out what it was like to be Peki.
 
 ——
 
“Ah, no! He got the Dwarf!”
Umina groaned as she stared into the scrying orb. She, Venaz, Marian, and Luan were all hiding. For a second time. The Minotaur’s protective talismans were affixed to every window and door in the apartment they were hiding in. The Lizardfolk couple who’d let them in didn’t mind; they were as excited as could be as they clustered around the scrying orb.
“Dead gods, look! The entire team’s wiped out! Wil’s forces are on the run!”
Dismayed, Marian pointed. Umina saw it was true. The Iron Vanguard had finally come out swinging with all they had. And they’d taken the students and Humans completely off-guard. Umina groaned as Xol casually unhorsed a Knight of the Autumn with a single blow.
“It’s really unfair using that [Juggernaut]! Short of lethal weapons, how are you supposed to take him out?”
“Immobilize him? Magical spells?”
“None of that works with his reinforcements.”
Venaz snorted.
“That’s the point. If he were easy to deal with, he wouldn’t be the Mithril’s best warrior on the field. Even so, look how far Wil’s company has come.”
He pointed to the map he was studying. Umina checked it too. Wil was as many as five streets away from the plaza in certain sections. And Umina’s group? Eight streets. Venaz clenched a fist.
“We have a chance. We just need a way to get past the majority of the Iron Vanguard and the Professor’s soldiers. If we had a clear shot at the Professor, there’s just the Midnight Shields in the way.”
“Elite soldiers. But they can’t do more than break our bones. It’s definitely possible to get into that circle. I have some items.”
Marian checked her bag of holding. Venaz nodded.
“But we have to get through all of the Iron Vanguard’s main army. And Wil hasn’t the strength to push in. Not anymore! He needs help. By my count he’s used up all his Skills. And something must be done about Xol. None of us can take him out.”
“You surprise me, Venaz. I thought you’d be raring to challenge him yourself.”
Venaz shot Marian a slow look.
“I’m not an idiot. Xol of Ingrilt is more than a match for all of us.”
Luan shifted. He’d been quiet since he’d helped them use the [Healers]. Umina thought the City Runner had still been processing the game, having not quite ever gotten the full story. Now he glanced at Xol, who was front and center in the scrying orb as he waded through the Humans.
“Xol, huh? He’s the largest [Juggernaut] I’ve seen so far. Is he special or something?”
The other students glanced at him. Umina raised her brows as her tail swished back and forth. More and more surprises! Marian’s instincts had been spot on. She nodded carefully.
“You’ve seen [Juggernauts] before? Sorry, I mean, War Walkers? They’re really rare.”
“It was the only battle I’ve ever taken part in. I saw them fight. I won’t forget that. This Xol is a gentle soul by comparison. Hey, is this scrying orb’s image something I can watch later? If my company could see this—”
Luan replied absently. He was holding something in one pocket. But he hadn’t taken it out. Marian nodded.
“War Walkers are notoriously good at…killing. They’re big targets too, though. As bad as using Giants in battle. Still, in a situation like this, they shine. And Xol is bigger because he’s one of the oldest and strongest War Walkers alive. He could beat any [Knight] that Wil brought with him. Probably.”
“Without their enchanted weaponry? Definitely. We have to evade him. Strike while he’s distracted. It might be time for a gamble. Force our way in. I can hold off…some of the enemy.”
Venaz checked his talismans again. Umina was still focused on Luan.
“You have a company? That’s unusual for a City Runner.”
Luan glanced up.
“Yeah. I’m part of a company. The United Nations company. We’re based in Talenqual.”
Umina looked excited.
“Talenqual? I’ve been to—”
Venaz snorted as he reached into his bag of holding.
“How many nations are part of your company? Don’t answer; it’s a terrible name for a company. You should change it.”
Luan glared at Venaz.
“Venaz is a terrible name for a Minotaur. You should change it.”
Venaz’s brows snapped together. Marian looked delighted, but then she intervened, for once the peace mediator.
“Argue over names later. It’s time to make a decision. Wil’s forming up. He’s going for the decisive blow as well.”
It was true. Across the city, Wil’s force was drawing in, abandoning their fortified streets. Umina whistled.
“He’s even abandoning his rear. He’s going all in.”
