The Drake [Commentator] duo was half-right this time. It wasn’t just that Wil had the resources to call on; it was that he’d figured out Tulm the Mithril was coming. He had plotted a sea route that took the warships to Daquin’s harbor without alerting a Great Company or the other ships at sea. Yes, they hadn’t been looking, but still. If you understood anything of logistics, of the effort it took to move that many warriors, you would look at Wil and want him to manage your armies.
It was proof of his ability. But there was another reason why countless eyes were glued to the scrying orb, to the drama unfolding in Daquin. It was sheer, simple amazement. Admiration.
The daring. The audacity. Noass was right. If you had the chance, even if you were nearly completely certain, would you risk it? Could you? Niers looked up. Teura was watching him again. He cheerfully smiled at her.
Yes, they were all watching. Everyone from the [Kings] of Terandria to the Wall Lords in Izril. Watching Niers’ student. Evaluating him as a [Strategist], to be hired or fought against.
Wil Kallinad. A name known around the world in a moment. He was challenging Tulm the Mithril to a battle in the streets. Putting himself against the greatest [Strategist] of the Iron Vanguard on purpose. This was his moment. Niers only hoped he made the best of it.
 
 ——
 
He stood in the street, with a map of Daquin unrolled on the back of his sister’s warhorse. His ears were ringing. The ground felt like it was shaking.
Dark clouds rolling down the street. Flashes of armor. Ringing hooves, [Knights] riding past him, armor ablaze with the light of magic.
“Wil! I brought half of the reinforcements you asked straight from our garrisons! The other half came from the families you contacted! We got them on ships, and the [Captains] are letting their sailors take part! They were really impressed with your sea route, and they’d just love a chance to stick it to the Iron Vanguard—”
His hands were sweaty. Shaking. Heart beating out of his chest. [Mages] made the air shake as they held the cold iron fog off. Flashes of magefire from the rooftops. Skirmishes already.
“Lord Kallinad, my name is Sir Kelm. I am a Knight of Autumn and the Order of Season’s representative. I and a hundred and twenty-six of my peers have joined Lady Knight Talia by her request. We understand this is a non-lethal confrontation and have equipped ourselves accordingly—”
Glancing up. Seeing a Drowned Man with a tentacle for an arm, holding a club with his good hand, grinning at him with a face half-fish.
“I didn’t bring any [Strategists], but we’ve got an army here, Wil! And with the crews of the ship—you know, I got three propositions from the sailors on the way here?”
The horse snorting, shaking, restless. Glancing up. Checking the slowly setting sun, seeing Feshi’s wide eyes and shocked expression. A ring of steel. [Knights], [Field Commanders], [Captains], surrounding him. Waiting. Doubtful, impatient, excited.
“Sir Kallinad! I am Lance-Commander Wylint, serving House Teoring and commanding two hundred of my men! We are disembarking and looking for orders—”
Glance up. See Talia’s face. Excitement, passion. Her horse shifting. The creak of metal on metal. Waiting faces.
Fear. Terror. Uncertainty. Elation. A thousand and one emotions and more, running hot in his veins. And just when he thought he’d break under it, a realization. The Professor’s words, beating in his chest.
“You only get one chance, lad.”
“What’s that? Wil?”
Concerned faces. Wil Kallinad glanced up, taking in the ring of Humans around him. One Drowned Man, a [Captain]. And Feshi. The Gnoll stared at Wil. And he breathed in and out slowly.
For a moment, Wil looked around and memorized the moment. And he knew that as long as he lived, he would never forget this day. Never lose this moment. Whether it was in shame or glory. He stood a bit straighter. The fear and panic in his breast didn’t disappear. It never did. But he mastered it.
Thank you, Professor. You gave me a chance.
“Wil? Are you—”
The [Strategist] turned. He cut his sister off. He checked the sun, and began snapping orders.
“Lance-Commander Wylint, you are now acting-[General] on the field. Unload those ships! I want the soldiers moving up the streets as fast as they unload! Don’t worry about formations! We’re taking the first six streets from the harbor and holding there. Keep a [Mage] on standby and I’ll have orders for you in minutes!”
“Sir!”
Will turned and surveyed the people around him. His mind was snapping to ideas and conclusions like lightning, too fast to fully process into words. The [Captain]? No. The [Knight] in brown and red, stained armor. Autumn Knight.
“The Iron Vanguard is using [Message] spells, but they have horns and drums as well. We’ll relay using messengers on horseback, so we’re not relying on either one exclusively in case of interception or faked signals. Sir Kelm, take your men down the main street. Engage the enemy at your discretion, but fall back in the face of superior numbers or if Xol is spotted. I will send you reinforcements as needed; the other [Rider] and [Knight] patrols I will split up across side streets. We will be preparing to flank and ambush the enemy; all mounted forces are to prioritize withdrawing.”
“Hit and run tactics? But we brought—”
His sister was confused. Wil held up a hand, not looking at her as he checked the map.
“The Iron Vanguard has the numbers and superior soldiers. They’ve also fielded Xol, one of their War Walkers. We cannot take him.”
“If we used lances—”
He glanced up. Talia was taking a breath, ready to argue. Sir Kelm was watching, the [Captain] grinning. Wil glanced at the waiting officers. Some were watching him. He nodded shortly.
“If this were a situation where both sides used lethal weapons, I wouldn’t have brought half as many [Knights]. Especially against the Iron Vanguard; they can’t kill our horses or unseat our cavalry as easily. But this is still the Professor’s game. We’re pushing in fast; the goal is still to reach the central plaza. Commander Wylint! These streets I want fortified! Here, here, and here!”
He stabbed chokepoints. It was easy. He’d memorized the map a week ago, and he knew where the Iron Vanguard’s force roughly was. If you calculated how fast a Dullahan could run—they could dig in. After that…Talia was glaring at him.
“Wil! We can win this! I didn’t talk father into coming all this way just to run from a fight. Trust me, we can—”
“Knight Talia, the [Strategist] on the field is speaking.”
“I—”
His sister fell silent. Wil nodded to Sir Kelm. The [Knight] saluted.
“By your order, Sir [Strategist]. What’s the signal for retreat in case of emergency?”
Of course. Wil hesitated.
“Three horn calls, Sir Kelm. My apologies.”
He nodded and Wil remembered. Don’t flush with embarrassment. Don’t panic. He switched to the Drowned Man.
“[Captain].”
“Captain Squallcut, at your service.”
The Drowned Man gave Wil a grin. One of his eyes was part fish, and it winked with a pale, yellow light. The Terandrian officers shuddered. Wil glanced around.
“To your stations! Move those men up with Commander Wylint! Are you waiting for the Iron Vanguard to set a picnic!”
They jumped and ran. Squallcut laughed and gave Wil a bow that looked halfway sincere.
“So you’re not just able to plot a course through the ocean currents, then? A master on the deck.”
Wil felt a grin take over his face, unfamiliar. Wild. His heart was beating. He could feel it, louder than war drums.
“This is my ship, Captain Squallcut. Can I trust your men to take orders, or won’t they obey?”
The Drowned Man was amused. He waved an arm, and two more [Captains] followed him. One was a Gnoll with a peg leg, a bandana tied over her head. The second, a Garuda whose feathers on his legs had turned to scales.
“They came for a fight, not a Terandrian dancing lesson. If the orders are good, we’ll think of obeying.”
Feshi turned and bowed to the Gnoll [Captain]. The Gnoll grinned.
“So this is the Human who sailed us through the Kraken’s Gulch? He barks fire! Little land-cousin, does he have the courage to lead a [Storm Sailor] crew? And take the consequences of failure?”
The Gnoll [Strategist] hesitated. Wil answered for her. He didn’t know Gnolls, but he knew [Pirates].
“What’s your name, [Captain]?”
The Gnoll with the peg leg gave Wil a long look. She wore a cutlass at her side.
“They call me Saltears, boy. On the sea, that is. If you want my real name, ask me when I’m in irons.”
“Then stow your sword, Saltears. No one draws blood.”
“Says who?”
“The Titan himself. And he’ll drown Storm Sailors in the waves if his orders aren’t obeyed.”
The Gnoll paused. She looked at Wil. The young man met her eyes and then the Garuda’s and Squallcut’s. They were watching him closely.
“I don’t need your men, [Captains]. But if you and your ship’s crews will fight, on land or sea, I’ll pad whatever my sister’s paying you myself. The Iron Vanguard will be attacking us from the rear. And we have to sally forth and reach the plaza. But mark me—if your crew won’t take my orders, you can wait on the sides. I mean to dance with Tulm the Mithril himself, and I’ll drag him over the world’s edge if I need to. There’s no room for mutiny in this battle. Understand?”
They waited. And then the same grin spread across three faces. Saltears removed her cutlass and tossed it backwards towards a [Storm Sailor].
“Boy, we’ll hold your harbor against six warships or twenty! The rest of my lads will move with your land slugs. Where do you want me?”
Wil bared his teeth.
“Can you punch through a street full of Dullahans? I want you to bring a message to a bunch of students fighting. There’s several hundred of them—some are officers, others are [Strategists]. Tell them I’m overseeing the command of Kallinad’s army. If they want to fight, they can flank the enemy soldiers. We’re all going towards the same spot. You need to cut through the Iron Vanguard to get there—and those clouds. [Mages] choked in them.”
The [Captains] looked up. Saltears perked up one of her ears.
“Good thing we’re not [Mages]. Say I do that. What then?”
“How’s thirty gold pieces for every officer you knock out sound?”
The Gnoll [Captain] grinned as a reply. Wil straightened. Negotiations were done. The [Captains] strolled past the soldiers forming up. Wil pointed.
“[Mages]! Hold those mists back. Sir Kelm, advance!”
The [Knight] raised a padded spear.
“Knights of the Autumn, with me!”
And they moved. Wil snatched his map and strode back. A group of [Mages] and officers approached him. The first thing he demanded was a table. He heard Talia mounting up behind him.
“Wil? Where do we go?”
Her voice was tentative, but it was a fair question. A group of knights in bright, burnished armor of gold, brass—the colors of summer—were lined up behind her. Wil raised his head.
Fighting. He pointed at the map.
“Move forwards. Gather at the second command spot. [Mages], you have your orders. Horse! Feshi—”
The Gnoll grinned at Wil as he mounted up.
“You planned this. Am I part of the plans?”
“Only if you want to be. Can you ride?”
The Gnoll hesitated. Then she held up a hand. Wil pulled her onto the saddle. He felt her grab him as he turned to his sister.
“Talia! We’re supporting Sir Kelm! Take us down that street!”
His sister whooped as she lowered the visor on her helmet.
“Forward, Knights of Summer! Take the streets!”
She began riding forwards. Wil kicked the horse into motion. He saw Talia’s head twisting towards him, and she raised her visor in alarm.
“Wil! Stay back! You’re trying to win, remember?”
“We need to push in. We’ll reform later. You need me.”
There was no time to argue. The [Knights] rode forwards, a solid body. Wil eyed the numbers. Disperse them later. For now, they were a fist. He intended to gain as much ground as he could.
“Infantry ahead! They’re filling a street!”
A [Scout] raced back. Wil saw Humans already skirmishing with a group of Dullahans who’d blocked off a street exit ahead of him. It hadn’t even been ten minutes! The Iron Vanguard had lightning reflexes. He pointed at the group as the Knights of Summer slowed.
“Pull the soldiers back. We’re breaking through. Advance at a trot!”
Thunder. The Human [Soldiers] fell back. The Dullahans did not follow. They looked up and saw the riders coming at them. To their credit, the line only wavered. Then it formed into a solid formation. Braced. Wil kicked his horse.
“Canter!”
Faster now. He could see the Dullahan [Sergeant] shouting orders as the [Knights] lowered the thin lances as spears. Wil shouted.
“Stow lances! Swords!”
Hesitation. He saw the [Knights] switching weapons. Padded spears might kill at this charge. The Dullahans were also pikeless. But they were still braced. They thought the [Knights] wouldn’t charge for fear of their horses injuring themselves. That was their only mistake.
“Gallop!”
On they came. Feshi was howling something behind Wil. He roared as the first rank of [Knights] closed on the ranks of Dullahans.
“[Ram’s Charge]!”
The Dullahans’ [Sergeant] raised his hand too late, eyes widening.
“[Shieldwall—]”
The impact sent Dullahans flying. Wil saw the formation scatter like pebbles before a wave. He shouted as he saw [Knights] lashing out with swords.
“Ride on! Keep moving! Avoid trampling!”
The Humans caught their horses just in time. The wounded Dullahans pulled back as the Knights of the Summer raced past them. Wil looked around. He bellowed one word.
“[Healers]!”
They were already converging on the fight. Wil pointed, and his [Knights] rode onwards. Faster. He bared his teeth. Take as much ground as he could in the first few minutes. And then push! Push!
He could feel the Iron Vanguard reacting. Moving to slow his army’s advance, hold them back before they could consolidate their position. And soon he’d be sending the full weight of his army against Wil. Tulm the Mithril. Wil pointed ahead.
“Charge!”
The clouds of grey iron waited. His [Knights] cut a path of silver as they rode into darkness. And then there was only thunder. And, waiting in the darkness, that magical shine. That flash of armor.
Mithril.
 
 ——
 
An army of silver raced across the streets below them. Venaz stared. Marian paced back and forth, counting. Umina rubbed at her eyes.
“Whoa. Is that the same Wil we know?”
