They succeeded, but not before Xol had waded into the ambush and taken out two dozen [Soldiers] himself. Both sides drew back as Wil’s Human army advanced and the Iron Vanguard regrouped for another push outwards. Across the city, the students still fighting towards the plaza clashed with the Iron Vanguard and Forgotten Wing [Soldiers]. This was the stalemate that had occupied the city for the last two hours.
Bloody melees, feints, ambushes—the Iron Vanguard were giving ground as the students and the Kallinad forces advanced. But both sides were being ground down, and the numbers lay with Tulm. And the students had yet to penetrate the inner third of the city around the plaza. So were they really winning?
No. They were not. To the excitable Noass and Sir Relz, each gained street was a cause for triumph and damn impartiality. But to Niers, it looked like Tulm had held his ground splendidly against Wil’s advance. He had given ground, yes, but he was whittling down the Humans. And he had the numbers to win a purely defensive battle around the plaza, even fighting from all sides.
“Still. They have a chance. If they manage to link up with Merrik’s group. Or if they can just take out Xol, or Tulm himself—”
Perorn clenched a fist as she watched through the scrying orb. Two seconds later her face appeared in the orb, repeating herself word for word. The Centaur turned and scowled at Teura in real time. She trotted back from the half-Elf [Mage] and towards Niers, who was watching from his pedestal in the center of his circle. He was still surrounded by the Midnight Shields. The Dullahans didn’t budge, even for Perorn.
“Move. Please.”
They stared at the Centaur. Niers sighed.
“Perorn, if you want to discuss with me, I’m afraid I’ll have to come to you. One moment.”
He got up from his pedestal, touched a ring, and leapt twelve feet through the air and onto the head of a Dullahan in black armor. The Dullahan twitched as Niers strode up his helmet to talk down to Perorn.
“Yes?”
“What do you think?”
The [Galewinds Strategist] folded her arms. Niers raised an eyebrow.
“I think you’re biased.”
“Of course I am. Or are you telling me you’d prefer that b—prefer Tulm to win?”
Niers shrugged. He was aware of Teura edging closer for a better view, probably amplifying his words at a distance.
“I’ve merely set the stage. The winner is the most deserving. Of course, I’m watching my students’ contributions. All of them.”
He looked pointedly past Perorn. She turned, and Teura’s head snapped around. There came Tulm. He was escorting Jekilt into the plaza. The defeated Centaur was visibly upset; he still had scorch marks from the flame walls that had boxed him in. Tulm strode over to his war table, ignoring the [Mages] clustered around him asking for a comment. Niers rolled his eyes.
“Look at this. Will we have Wistram’s [Mages] on every battlefield after this, I wonder?”
“Only the important ones. And once we put an arrow or two through them ‘accidentally’, I think they’ll stop hanging around.”
Perorn pawed the ground restlessly. Niers shook his head.
“But they might well be everywhere. If—ah. Hold on.”
He broke off and leapt back to his pedestal. Something was happening. Tulm’s head snapped up as a shout went up.
The streets were mostly clear of individual students at this point. A few groups, like Venaz’s, had managed to get by with few or no helpers like Luan. But by and large, any student who hadn’t had the foresight to team up or hire help was now caught. And the streets were so inundated with soldiers that hiding near the plaza was all but impossible.
Ironically, if you were hiding at a distance, you were probably safe. No one cared about the students who’d decided to wait it out. But around the plaza, the Iron Vanguard was patrolling in so many numbers and in such force that anyone would be caught in moments.
Indeed, a score of students using [Invisibility], illusion, and even [Polymorph] spells and items had been caught by the [Mages] watching for any kinds of magical movement. Over the roofs or on the ground, their nets were stretched so finely that even a Fraerling would probably be caught in seconds if they got too close.
Which was why the group that appeared with a covered wagon down the main street leading straight into the plaza was all the more notable. They rolled the wagon, pulled by four horses, forwards. Lizardfolk with swords ushered the wagon forwards, fending off the Dullahans that poured towards them. The horses raced ahead, urged onwards by the driver at the front. Faster and faster—and then the horses ran to either side, reins cut!
“What?”
An exclamation came from the watchers in the plaza. Niers just adjusted his wooden pedestal until he could see over the heads of the Midnight Shields. He stared down into the scrying orb as Tulm raised his voice.
“Report.”
“Sir, intruders on the eastern main road. All have been apprehended, but the vehicle is still moving. The horses are gone, but it’s been driven. It’s a…wagon?”
It was indeed a wagon. Just a wagon. Hurtling down the slight incline of the eastern road, picking up momentum. A wagon. And clambering up over the driver’s seat, throwing her hood back to expose her face, was Yerranola, the Selphid.
The plaza was guarded, of course. Over a thousand feet away, a rank of Dullahans three rows deep was waiting and braced. Wil’s soldiers hadn’t even gotten near them yet. And if they had, the elites of the Iron Vanguard would stop even their Knights of the Autumn cold. Definitely. What would a wagon do?
Then again…the Dullahans standing in formation stared. It was a wagon. Just a wagon. But it was…
A wagon.
The wagon was loaded to build momentum, and somehow, Yerranola had managed to convince a [Carpenter] to reinforce the front with wood, turning it into a mobile battering ram. Without horses, it was now speeding towards the plaza’s eastern entrance.
“Out of the way if you don’t want to get hurt!”
The Selphid was crouched on top of the wagon, laughing maniacally as it hurtled towards the ranks of Dullahans. A few [Mages] hurled spells at her, but without using a [Fireball] or a wall spell, they couldn’t stop her. And that might well kill the Selphid, dead body or not. Should they use a spell? Could they remove her somehow?
The [Mages] hesitated, and by that point it was too late. The wagon was going faster and faster. How fast was it going now? Forty miles per hour? Fifty? Sixty? And in that moment, all the Dullahans guarding the plaza did a quick mathematical equation. If you understood force is mass multiplied by acceleration…even if you didn’t know the exact math, even if the basic concept was something every sentient being understood…
How much did wagons weigh again?
Over two thousand pounds of wood hurtled across the ground at the Dullahans. They hesitated; they were braced in a shield wall, but they could figure out what would happen if that hit them. The front of the wagon had been shaped into a ram. And painted red. The [Captain] took one look and issued a desperate order.
“Dodge! Everyone out of the way, now!”
The wagon hurtled forwards. The Dullahans were moving, running, diving out of the way. In the plaza, Tulm looked up. He stared at the wagon coming in from his right.
“Oh dear. And just what will Tulm the Mithril do about th—”
Noass’ voice cut off as Tulm straightened. Yerranola screamed a war cry as she aimed straight for the center of the plaza. For Niers.
“Professor!”
Niers smiled and waved. He jumped down from his pedestal as Wistram’s [Mages] crowded around him and the Midnight Shield for a better look, shouting questions. Perorn was nowhere to be seen.
“Lord Astoragon! Are you worried about this?”
Niers was counting. Twenty seconds? Twenty-five? He looked over casually as the wagon grew larger and larger in front of him.
“Me? Why should I be?”
“It’s a wagon, Lord Astoragon. Surely even the Titan—”
The Centaur [Mage] hesitated. Niers was standing on the ground. The Fraerling looked up at the Centaur cheerfully.
“Unless Yerranola has truly atrocious aim, I think I’ll be quite fine, don’t you? The wagon should pass comfortably overhead. Even if I stretch. You all may wish to move.”
The Wistram [Mages] looked up. They stared at the wagon, which was hurtling at them. It would pass far, far above Niers. But they would be paste.
“Barrier spell.”
Teura murmured somewhat urgently. Niers raised a hand.
“No barrier spells! If you interfere, I’ll have all of you tied to rocks and hurled into the harbor!”
He glared at the [Mages]. They hesitated. Then they stared at the Midnight Shields. They hadn’t moved. The group from Wistram looked at Tulm. He was watching the wagon as well. He wouldn’t let it hit them.
They stared at the wagon, which had somehow endeavored to pick up more speed. And at Niers. At Tulm. They were pretty sure. Pretty sure, but then again, he didn’t have anything to lose. The wagon was ten seconds away. The [Mages] ran for it.
“[Lesser Teleport].”
“[Flash Ste—]”
The sight of the robed [Mages] diving for their lives was ironically captured by a watcher from above. And the wagon was still coming on. Niers stood still, staring through a gap in the Dullahans. Yerranola was laughing, pointing at him. He sighed.
“Ah, I think I see. Well—”
There was only one barrier left between the Selphid and her destination: the Midnight Shields. And at last they did move. The black-armored Dullahans marched forwards, forming a line of steel.
“Strategist?”
One of them spoke beneath her black helm. Tulm raised a calm hand.
“I leave it to you.”
“Yes, sir! [Lineholder Formation].”
The Dullahans braced. They didn’t draw their weapons. They didn’t raise their shields. They just stood their ground. And suddenly, they were a wall of black metal. Yerranola’s eyes widened. The Selphid took one look at the stationary Dullahans as her wagon screamed towards them. The circle.
“Uh oh—”
The crash was one of the most epic collisions captured on scrying orb. It was the kind of thing you watched once, twice, and then a third time just to remember. The reinforced wagon splintered. The contents of the wagon, weights, nails, all of it, exploded like, like…like a [Fireball] made of wood against the Dullahans. They were the immovable object, though. And the wagon smashed itself to bits against them.
Naturally, the Selphid went flying. She hit the ground, and three Dullahans were on her in a second. Everyone else in the plaza, [Mages], to captured students, to other Dullahans and teachers alike, ducked as a hail of wood landed around them. Perorn, who’d wisely taken cover, watched as the wood fell down, temporarily a weather phenomenon.
Niers watched as the wooden splinters rained around him, blocks of wood twice as large as he was landing next to the Fraerling. He raised his eyebrows as a dagger of wood spun towards his face. At the last second it bounced off something. The Fraerling glanced down. A ring flashed on his finger. He sighed as he kicked the bit of wood out of the way.
“I’ll grant you it got you into the plaza, but against the Midnight Guard? Not exactly a smart move, Yerranola.”
He looked around for the Selphid. She was squirming as the Dullahans held her. Yerranola’s back was broken, and she was peppered with pieces of wood; one stood out from her chest where it was embedded three inches deep. Still, the Selphid grinned with her classic, irrepressible good nature.
“Whoop! Looks like that failed! See you, Professor! I—oh, hells!”
She gasped as one of the Midnight Shields slammed her onto the ground. The Selphid blinked up at them.
“Ow. I felt that.”
“Student apprehended. Strategist, your orders?”
“With the others.”
Tulm waved a hand. He’d barely glanced up from his map where he was plotting Wil’s forces. Yerranola groaned. Niers sighed. Then everyone turned as one of the spectators, one of Daquin’s Councilmen, raised his voice.
“Reckless! Absolutely—someone get a healing potion! This [Soldier]’s injured badly!”
The Lizardman was pointing and shouting. And little wonder. A Dullahan was lying on the ground. His armor was steel, but that hadn’t saved him; wooden pieces had perforated the metal like it was parchment. And blood was already spreading from his wounds as he tried to pull himself up.
“Healer!”
The cry came from a dozen throats as [Soldiers] from the Iron Vanguard rushed to tend to their fallen comrade. The moment was a tableau, captured once again by Wistram. A healing potion was produced and used at once. The Dullahan got to his feet, cradling his visored helmet as his body was helped upright. For a second, everyone was focused on the injured Dullahan.
“Heal the wounded. Reform the guard on the eastern entrance at once. As for the Selphid—place her with the other students. Now.”
Tulm was glancing towards Yerranola, his expression irritated. He spoke curtly. Yerranola’s face was a mask of horror.
“I’m really sorry, Professor. I didn’t think—is he alright?”
She strained to see as the Midnight Shields led her towards the other captured students. She called out again towards Niers. The Fraerling didn’t answer. He was staring at the scrying orb and the wounded Dullahan as the [Healer] rushed over to him. The [Soldier] was trying to get to his feet.
“I can walk. I can…I’ll go.”
He stumbled forwards, shrugging off help. The other Iron Vanguard Dullahans hovered around him, then composed themselves. True to Dullahans, they let the [Soldier] slowly proceed towards a [Healer] rushing towards him, passing slowly by the center circle.
It was a moment where no one was holding their breath. No one except Niers. And perhaps Tulm sensed it with a Skill. Or maybe it was intuition. But as the [Soldier] stumbled again, the Dullahan [Strategist] glanced up. His expression was absent for a second, puzzled. And then, suddenly, intent. He pointed at the injured Dullahan and shouted in a field roar.
“Hold! That Dullahan’s armor isn’t bearing the Iron Vanguard’s insignia! Soldiers—”
Too late. Cameral began sprinting for Niers’ circle. The Iron Vanguard jerked as one. The Midnight Guard whirled. They charged Cameral. And they were quick! The Dullahan tried to swerve, but he was too slow. He knocked a hand free, charging at the circle with Niers in it. But he’d never make it. So—
He threw his head.
It was an easy toss. A lazy arc, belayed by the suddenness with which his body came to a halt as six Dullahans tackled Cameral at once. But they’d missed the head. And it flew.
