“Smart. It’s the only way he wins. One push takes all. But Xol and Tulm—he won’t make it alone.”
Venaz stared at the image in the scrying orb. Then he looked up.
“I’m going. This is our chance. Umina. Marian. Do you concur?”
The two looked at each other.
“We concur. Let’s do it. I still don’t have a plan, though.”
Luan hesitated. Umina noticed that. She turned to him.
“Do you, Luan?”
“Something like that. You’ve all said this is a game, yeah?”
“Of course. Have you ever seen a battle this bloodless?”
Venaz lifted an eyebrow. Luan ignored him. He glanced down at the map, then at his coin purse.
“Well then. You bought me. And you bought out the [Healers].”
He nodded at Marian. She nodded slowly. Umina felt her brain fizzling. She raced ahead of Luan’s words. He didn’t mean—
“Ten gold’s what’s motivating the soldiers of your company to fight, right? So why not—”
“Why not bribe them to help us!”
Umina sat bolt upright. Luan nodded. Marian started.
“Bribe them? It’d never work. [Soldiers] are loyal, especially to a Great Company. The idea of bribing any of them to follow us—”
“In a battle. Obviously not. That would be suicide for them and us. But this isn’t a battle, is it, Marian?”
Venaz looked up quietly. Marian hesitated. Then she grabbed her coin pouch.
“Luan, can I borrow—one, two, damn, I brought a lot, but—”
“If I had my coin pouch—”
“Shut it, Venaz.”
Umina glanced up as the Minotaur and Centauress began counting and calculating. She met Luan’s eyes. The Human man had a slight smile on his face. A pleased expression. Umina felt a flash of admiration. And then curiosity.
“You have a unique way of thinking. That’s twice now you surprised us.”
“I’m sure you’d have come up with something. You’re all taking this more seriously than I am, besides.”
That was true. Umina was sweating with nerves. She needed to use the toilet before she went. She hopped from one foot to another.
“Still, have you ever been a [Strategist]? Or thought of being one? Do you play chess?”
An odd expression crossed Luan’s face.
“Me? No. Never. But I do know chess. Do you think this will help you win?”
Umina hesitated. She looked at Venaz and Marian, alight with the idea. Then she shook her head.
“…No. Assuming Marian has five hundred gold pieces, which she doesn’t, how many could we hire? Two hundred? One hundred? No. This will help, but it’ll be luck and something else if we beat Tulm. And that’s not how a battle should go. The Professor doesn’t believe in luck.”
Luan nodded. His eyes flicked to Umina.
“In that case, maybe you should change plans.”
“No. I mean, no, your idea’s great. It’s just…there’s something more to it.”
Umina spoke slowly. Luan’s plan was making her own brain buzz. She had a thought, nibbling at the corner of her mind. She pursued it as she thought.
“A truly great plan is something no one expects. Something original. But a great idea is only the first step. A [Strategist] builds on that idea. They take the unexpected and turn it into something no one is prepared for. Like…hold on. I need to go to the bathroom.”
The Lizardgirl hurried out of the room. She couldn’t hold it anymore. And as she was sitting on the toilet, she had it. She raced back into the room. She didn’t even wash her claws.
“Luan. I have an idea. Will you listen?”
She told him the idea, whispering to him in a corner. The City Runner’s face lit up, and he grinned.
“That is smart. But would your Tulm the Mithril expect it?”
“Maybe. Maybe not. But if it works, it’s sure to work. And this might be something even his [Mages] miss. It’s so…basic. And it would be quick. So quick—but—”
Umina hesitated. She looked at Marian. Could she do that to her friend? Tell her to risk it all on this? No. Marian would hate gambling it all on this. But Umina had nothing to lose. She looked at Luan.
“I’m going to try it. Can I…can I ask you to let them know?”
“Of course.”
Luan stared at the Lizardgirl. Umina hesitated.
“Maybe I should tell Marian…”
Her conscience gnawed at her. Gnawed and pricked. If she was wrong—but if she was right—Luan stared at her. Slowly, the [Rower] bent. He spoke quietly.
“Do you want to win?”
Umina paused. She looked up at him.
“Yes.”
With all her heart. The Human studied her eyes. Then he nodded.
“Then win. There’s honor in sports. But this sport is all about cheating. Or so it seems. So win. And have all your regrets afterwards. But win.”
And in his eyes flashed the same thirst for victory that boiled in Umina’s gut. The Lizardgirl took a step back. Then she nodded and fled. Back the way she’d come.
“Umina?”
Marian looked around as she finished counting her coin. The Centauress trotted around the apartment, searching for her friend. She turned to Luan.
“Where did Umina go? Did you see?”
The City Runner nodded.
“She had an idea and went to try it. She’s trying to win. In her way.”
He met Marian’s gaze. The Centauress was hurt. Then angry. She pawed the ground.
“Aren’t we all? Why can’t she—never mind. Come with us.”
She gestured to Venaz. The Minotaur was straightening, checking his armor. He turned.
“Forget Umina. Victory belongs to us. We’re going. And you’re coming with us.”
He nodded at Luan. The Human smiled.
“Of course.”
 
 ——
 
They came out of the apartment. Three of them, and at least two were ready for a fight. Marian’s bow was drawn. Venaz strode forth wearing his armor. Luan had a table leg.
Why was he there? Moral support. To make up for Umina’s absence. A good luck charm.
“An extra body to take a block for my back.”
“You’re all heart.”
“You’re being paid. And soon, so will the other soldiers. Let’s find a patrol.”
“Can’t we just head straight towards the plaza?”
Marian looked at Venaz. The Minotaur shook his head.
“Too many of the Iron Vanguard. And what if we run into a larger group of the Forgotten Wing company?”
“Oh. Right. We can’t bribe them all.”
“Exactly. We should—”
Venaz broke off. He turned his head, held up a hand. Luan and Marian froze. The Minotaur paused.
“There’s a large force coming up the north. Riders.”
“Wil’s group?”
“They might take us out. The other way, then. Towards the plaza—”
The three began hurrying down the street. They hadn’t gone more than twenty paces when Venaz halted again. He hesitated. This time Luan and Marian had heard it too.
“That’s a lot of footsteps.”
“Back to the apartment!”
They raced backwards. Too slow. Too late. The first [Mage] appeared on the rooftops. Five more appeared and began throwing spells down at the trio. The first raised her hands and shouted.
“Wistram, Wistram!”
The other five stopped. On the far end of the street, a group of Dullahans floated over the rooftops. They saw the three Human [Mages] and two half-Elves and began throwing spells at once. The Wistram [Mage] fled, shouting. Venaz groaned.
“They’ve spotted us. The apartment’s no good! Form up!”
He put his back to the wall. Marian did likewise. And there they came.
An entire army of Humans. A regiment and more of Dullahans. And Luan, Marian, and Venaz were caught right between them. Both sides spotted the students and Luan; the Dullahans pointed.
“Take them!”
“Venaz—”
Marian’s head swung left to right. The Minotaur was rummaging in his bag of holding.
“One second. It’s time to pull out my last resort. I can’t use this. No, not this one either. No. No. Damn. Why did I have to have such impeccable selection?”
“Venaz! Hurry up!”
Marian loosed an arrow at the Dullahans. The Humans ignored the students; they were charging the Dullahans. Only a few [Knights] remained, and they were mostly on foot. The Minotaur grabbed something. He straightened, and turned towards the Dullahans. Ignoring the arrows bouncing off his armor and the spell that crackled harmlessly over the metal, the Minotaur raised a fist.
“These are weapons from my homeland. The House of Minos and the Drath Archipelago fight with more than just spells. Behold! Art is a weapon.”
He raised a fluttering piece of paper and cast it into the wind. Pages flew upwards. Luan caught a glimpse of one. A painted dog, drawn in vibrant colors, fluttered through the sky as the Dullahans charged. Then, the dog moved. It stretched, ran, and raced forwards. Off the page. Into reality.
A dog as large as a horse leapt onto the ground. Its fur was brilliant white; it was outlined with black, and it had large, yellow eyes with intelligent pupils. It was a dog. But not a dog. It was…a drawing. A caricature of life.
Yet it moved. It was art, yet it bounded forwards. It was paint, ink, but it bit. The Dullahans shouted as the summoned dog leapt on them. The painting grabbed two Dullahans and worried them, shaking its head left to right.
“Don’t kill them!”
The Minotaur bellowed. The dog paused. The Minotaur pointed.
“Knock them down.”
The dog raced forwards. The Dullahans froze. They struck at the dog, but their clubs were ineffectual against the painted creature. And more of Venaz’s images were coming to life. First another dog, to match the first. Then a galloping horse, a unicorn but with two horns and a flaming mane. A screeching wyvern, claws extended.
“Summoned creatures! Fall back!”
The Dullahans shouted as they began fighting the monsters. The Humans raced forwards, attacking with the summoned creatures behind them. Venaz bellowed instructions at his creatures as he strode forwards. Luan took cover behind Marian, guarding her back as she loosed more and more arrows. The Dullahans were in disarray. Then a giant strode forwards, wearing a huge, horned helmet. The [Captain]’s voice was a bellow.
“Hold, you cowards. Those aren’t summoned beasts! They’re talismans. Painted Beasts. They’re as dangerous as Silver-ranked monsters. Hold your ground. Form a shield wall and fight them off. [Mages]—take the creatures apart. Don’t hold back.”
The [Mages] dueling on the roofs took aim at the summoned creatures below. Venaz growled as fire blasted one dog apart. He glanced up at the [Captain]. The huge figure strode towards him, larger than any Dullahan. Then the [Captain] removed her helmet.
A Minotaur tossed her helm aside. The Dullahans in her company advanced, shouting as they pushed the Humans back. The Minotaur swung a huge staff around, knocking a [Knight] senseless.She advanced, pointing at Venaz, who was shouting at his summoned animals to pull back out of the [Mage]’s range.
“Venaz of Hammerad! Turn and face me, coward!”
The Minotaur [Strategist] whirled. The Dullahan’s [Captain] threw aside her staff. She spread her arms. She was as large as Venaz. No, maybe larger.
“I am Shailt of Tergim. I challenge you to a duel. Fists. Run and forfeit your honor.”
“Never.”
Venaz bared his teeth. The Dullahans and Humans looked up and cleared the way as the two Minotaurs charged. The two roared as they came at each other. And when they met in a clash of steel, Luan could have sworn the earth shook.
Reeling. Regaining their posture. Trading furious blows, punches, kicks. Throwing each other. Locking horns and hands, struggling for a second’s advantage. Luan lost track of Venaz as the two threw each other across the street. He was in the thick of it now. Marian circled as Luan clubbed Dullahans trying to swarm the two. He was so lost in the fighting that, when the first Human appeared, he nearly hit her. The [Knight] jerked back. Then she lanced out.
“One side, [Soldier]!”
Luan saw her shoot past him. The [Knight] swept a Dullahan off his feet with a single slash from the wooden greatsword. Then she barreled into another group. She heaved, and they went flying. She was fast! And the Dullahans went down like pins in front of her.
“[Knight]! Call in the [Mages]!”
“[Sergeant]—”
“He’s down!”
“Sixth Armor Captain! Captain Shailt! We need—”
The Dullahans were in disarray. Caught between Venaz’s perishing summoned creatures and the Humans led by the [Knight], they were losing. The Dullahan [Mages] fled backward as the Humans and half-Elves rained down spells from above. And their [Captain], the Minotaur, collapsed as Venaz landed a punch to her jaw and shattered it.
“Healer!”
Venaz bellowed as he stood over the fallen Minotaur [Captain]. The Dullahans surrounded their leader, but Venaz forced them back. He cleared a path himself, bellowing for a [Healer]. The Minotaur was carried away. The Dullahans, seeing their company leader gone, retreated. The Humans let them go. The [Knight] planted her sword in the ground as Venaz, panting, bleeding from both nostrils, and stumbling, walked back towards Luan and Marian. The Centaur had only a few injuries; Luan was nursing a gash on his arm.
“Potion.”
The Minotaur tossed one at Luan and drank one himself. He stared at the Armor Captain being taken off the field.
“Damn. The jaw bone shattered. I—didn’t mean for that to happen.”
“You took that guy out. That was an Armor Captain. One of the Iron Vanguard’s company leaders!”
Marian stared at Venaz. He hesitated.
“She was strong. But she threw her weapon aside to fight me. It was a favor to me.”
“She?”
The Minotaur didn’t reply. He watched the [Healer] tending to the Minotaur. Then he turned. The potion bottle crunched in his grip, and the [Knight] stopped a few paces away. She planted her sword in the ground.
“You two are students, aren’t you? Venaz and Marian?”
“Who are you?”
The Minotaur clenched a fist. Luan looked around. There were over a hundred Human [Soldiers] around him. He didn’t like the odds. Marian shifted.
“Venaz—”
“Relax. If we wanted to attack you, we would have done so. We’re on the same side. This is the first engagement we’ve won this close to the city’s center. I know the two of you; my brother speaks highly of both of you.”
The [Knight] removed her helmet. Luan saw a shock of sweaty, auburn hair. Pale skin, a battle-maniac’s smile. Venaz snorted.
“Your brother? You wouldn’t be—”
“Talia Kallinad. Come with me. I think Wil will want to see you.”
Venaz hesitated. He glanced at Marian and Luan. Then he nodded.
“Lead the way.”
 
 ——
 
“All four [Captains] have withdrawn. Some of their [Storm Sailors] are fighting on, but the [Captains] are done. They’ve had their fun.”
“Xol took out three of my Autumn Knights. We can’t stop him.”
“Merrik’s down, Wil. Peki, everyone else in his group but Kaelma. And she barely got away. We’ve lost our hammer, no?”
Wil leaned over the war table. He checked the map once and then twice. It added up to the same tally.
