He was racing at the head of a small vanguard of [Knights], some kind of elite Terandrian order. Umina looked at her classmates. They were almost petrified for a moment. Strangely, it was the City Runner they’d just met, Luan, who was calmer. He looked up and met her eyes.
“Some game. Was this part of the plan as well?”
She grinned weakly.
“No.”
“Dead gods. Wil called in his family’s army. If this were any other situation, this would be an act of war.”
Marian spoke slowly. She followed the Humans as hundreds raced down the street. There were [Sailors] mixed in among them; Umina thought she saw a Gnoll with a peg leg. But her mind had to be playing tricks on her. Venaz nodded.
“Incredible.”
Both the Lizardgirl and Centaur looked at Venaz. Coming from him, that word said it all. The Minotaur glanced up. He gestured to the streets below.
“He’s turned this into a proper battle. This isn’t a game of seeking anymore. The Mithril has to engage the Humans, or they’ll punch through and get Wil to the plaza. Look: the Iron Vanguard’s already pulling back.”
He pointed ahead. Only a few of Daquin’s streets were visible from their rooftop ahead of them, but Umina saw Dullahans in full retreat. She nodded slowly, watching the Humans capturing street after street. But what looked like a complete victory was just an illusion. Umina had already done a headcount and come to a few conclusions.
“They’re still outnumbered. The Iron Vanguard plus the Professor’s [Soldiers] still have at least a two-to-one advantage over Wil’s force. Plus, their main punching class is [Knight]. They’ve got horses, but not enough, and they’re up against Dullahans. And the Iron Vanguard at that. Heavy-infantry specialists.”
“Mobility versus armor.”
Marian nodded. She was frowning. The Centauress glanced up at Venaz.
“It’s like the battles we’d play out, Venaz. Only, in these streets, Tulm has it.”
“Only if you discount the other students.”
The Minotaur snorted. He was eying a plume of smoke in the distance, arms folded.
“I see what Wil’s going for. He’s trying to link up with the other students who bought adventurer groups or mercenaries. There are at least a hundred students still in the game. If you put that many up against the Iron Vanguard—no matter how many officers they have, they’ll run out of Skills first. So will Tulm the Mithril. He can only use his active Skills so many times per battle. Like that terrain-changing Skill he used; he won’t be able to use it twice.”
He gestured at the roiling clouds, still engulfing a good portion of the city. They were growing thinner; [Mages] were actively fighting the clouds. But they were slowing the Human’s advance. Marian nodded.
“So Wil’s trying to break the Iron Vanguard’s formation and mount a charge that gets him to the plaza. Failing that, he’ll be trying to out-Skill Tulm with the students. It could work. The issue is whether or not he’s got an answer to all of Tulm’s high-level officers in his party.”
“If he has [Knights], the quality of his [Mages] are presumably—”
Luan glanced from [Strategist] to [Strategist]. Their shock of a minute ago had faded. Now they were casually discussing the unfolding scene as if they were at ease. He raised a hand.
“This is still part of the game?”
All three glanced at him. Umina blushed, and Marian blinked.
“It’s a surprise.”
Luan stared at her. The Centauress didn’t look that surprised. His heart was still racing out of his chest. But they’d already begun talking tactics! Still, his comment reminded them why they were here. Venaz pounded a fist into a palm.
“Damn. I’ve been completely outmatched. Very well. Come on. Let’s go.”
He strode towards the stairs. Marian stared at him.
“What?”
The Minotaur looked up as he checked his armor.
“I’m moving forwards. I came here to participate, not hide! Are you with me or not?”
The Centauress hesitated. She looked at Umina.
“We’re outmatched.”
Umina shot to her feet.
“Yes. But the point isn’t to beat the Iron Vanguard. It’s to get to the plaza. Like it or not, Wil is going to open up a path for everyone if he starts taking ground. Better yet—I think we can use his army to our advantage. Venaz! Head left!”
Venaz was already clattering down the stairs. Luan followed them as he and Marian ran down the wide steps. He still had no idea what was going on, but they did. The Minotaur snorted.
“You want to take us away from the fighting?”
“You want to fight both Humans and Dullahans? Both sides will take us for foes!”
“Hm. Point. Which way, then?”
“Left! We’ll circle around the main advance. We just need to get behind the Iron Vanguard’s lines!”
The Minotaur nodded. He began jogging down the street. Umina waved at Marian. The Centauress held out a hand.
“Need a ride?”
“I’m fine! Let’s go! Follow Venaz! You too, Luan!”
“I have no idea what I’m doing.”
Luan muttered as he ran after the three. A formation of Humans was marching up towards them. Luan heard a shout.
“Uh oh. They’ve spotted us! Go, Venaz!”
“This way.”
The Minotaur turned and pounded down an alleyway; Luan ran after him. Marian galloped past him with ease; Umina panted as she ran just behind Luan. Venaz turned up a street, cursed, and pointed.
“Next alley! There’s fighting all over!”
Luan entered the second street, saw two [Mages] throwing spells at each other, and ran as a splash of some kind of yellow liquid hit the buildings across from him and steamed. He ran down the next alleyway, hearing shouts from behind. And above.
“Look! More students!”
“Which ones are they? Oh! I recognize that Minotaur! And the Lizardgirl! That’s Umina!”
“Hells, they know us. They’re giving us away!”
Marian growled. Venaz reached a second street and pointed up it.
“Not for long. Brace yourself. That fog—”
His voice was muffled. Luan entered the third street, saw the dark grey fog, and hesitated. Umina ran past him.
“Hurry up!”
Cursing, Luan followed her. The street didn’t exactly vanish, but the instant Luan hit the outer edge of the dark, iron-tinted mists, the shouts and sounds around him grew dimmer. The air felt…heavy. His pace slowed. His breathing came a touch heavier.
“Jungle rot. This is a Skill. It’s hard to breathe! Everyone here?”
Marian slowed. Ahead of her, Venaz was looking around slowly. The fog had reduced visibility, sound. Everything was halved for Luan. He could still see the three [Strategists] in front of him, but their voices were quieter. Umina frowned.
“This…is Tulm the Mithril’s terrain Skill. [Battlefield – Cold Iron Mists]. Dead gods. This is the Skill he used when he beat Professor Fleethoof in battle.”
“Selphid’s tits. And he’s using it on us?”
Marian’s face was pale. Venaz shook his head. He took a breath, frowning.
“Damn air. But this works against him as well. Even if his troops are immune to the effects, visibility is still low on both sides. We can sneak through. Come on.”
He led the way down the street at a slower pace. Luan followed, hair standing up on his neck. A Skill had done this? Suddenly his [Lesser Strength] Skill and his other abilities he’d thought were too powerful seemed paltry by comparison. The three [Strategists] moved slowly, heads spinning left and right. Umina breathed in and out, taking huge gulps of air.
“We don’t want to go too far. The Iron Vanguard’s holding the center of the city. We just want to get closer and find another hiding spot. An apartment—”
“Hold up.”
Venaz held up a hand. All four suddenly paused. Venaz frowned. Marian cupped a hand to an ear.
“I thought I heard—”
“Now.”
The shout came from all around them. Suddenly, the mists exploded as a group of Dullahans and three Centaurs raced out of the street. They’d been hugging the walls! Luan spun as nearly twenty rushed the four of them. Marian reared.
“Umina! Get behind me!”
“Oh, Nagas—”
The Lizardgirl grabbed at her belt. Luan hesitated. The [Soldiers] were armed! And he’d forgotten to grab anything like a weapon. But they wouldn’t kill him—
Just break every bone in his body! He dodged back as a Dullahan swung a cudgel at him. Marian grabbed an arrow. It was thick, with a heavy pouch of sand for a tip. She drew and loosed, and the Dullahan charging her cursed as her arrow struck him across the cheek. A heavy blow. But he still came onwards. Marian swung her bow. Luan dodged backwards again, collided with Umina as she ducked a Centaur racing at her. Luan stumbled, and then felt the club strike his arm. He shouted in pain, raised a hand—
Venaz grabbed the Dullahan, tore the club from the armored [Soldier]’s grip, and then hurled the Dullahan through the air, armor and all. The Dullahan crashed into three of his friends, and they all went down. The Minotaur turned, punched the Centaur targeting Umina in the chest, and hit another Dullahan with a thwack that Luan almost felt. The Centaur stumbled and knelt; the Dullahan just fell backwards without a sound.
“You idiots! Grab a weapon and fight!”
Venaz roared at the others. He tossed the club at Luan and whirled. He didn’t bother with a weapon; the Dullahan charging him struck with a wooden sword at Venaz’s stomach. But he hadn’t noticed the Minotaur’s armor. The wooden sword bounced off the metal. The Dullahan swore. Then Venaz grabbed him. The Minotaur head-butted the struggling Dullahan, tossed him to the ground, and kicked.
A female Dullahan with armor flew back six paces, her armor bent around the hoof print in the steel. The Dullahan patrol halted for a second and stared. Eight of the twenty down in seconds! Venaz turned. The Minotaur roared across the street, his voice cutting even through the heavy fog.
“I am Venaz! Foremost student of the Titan himself! Come at me, you pathetic cowards!”
They hesitated. Then they did just that. Luan gripped the club with two hands and swung desperately. He nailed a Dullahan across the shoulder as he appeared out of the mists and tripped up another with a foot. He kicked and swore as the Dullahan stumbled; the Dullahan’s armor was hard! But he knocked the Dullahan down. Before the [Soldier] could get up, Luan hit him across the back of the head. Not as hard as he could have; with his [Lesser Strength] Skill, the Dullahan’s eyes still rolled up, and her head popped out of her armor.
“Umina!”
Marian drew an arrow and loosed it. The blunted, sand-filled pouch struck a Dullahan straight between the eyes. He stumbled and fell forwards. Umina was ducking, dodging as Venaz took on half the patrol by himself. She reached into a pouch and hurled something into the eyes of a Dullahan. He shouted and reached a hand up as he swung blindly. Umina dodged back, and Marian knocked him out with an arrow as well. She whirled—Luan raised his club.
“It’s me!”
“Help Venaz! Go left! I’ll use a Skill! Umina, get behind—”
The two stopped shouting and turned around. They looked around. And then they realized that the fighting had stopped. Venaz straightened as he dropped a pair of [Soldiers] he’d bashed together. The Minotaur grunted, wiped at his armor, and looked around.
“You got yours, then? Good. Grab a weapon if you don’t have one and keep moving! We’re sure to have attracted attention.”
He began trotting down the street. After a second, he noticed he wasn’t being followed and came back with a huge scowl.
“What?”
“You just took out fourteen [Soldiers] by yourself!”
Marian pointed accusingly at Venaz. He looked around, and a mildly smug expression crossed his face.
“Well, they were clearly low-level. I didn’t see the [Sergeant] or [Lieutenant] leading this group. Maybe he was the one I dropped at the start? It would explain why they fell apart so quickly. It just goes to show that you can find trash in any army. Raw recruits; the Mithril should have brought veterans. But he underestimated me.”
He looked around. Marian was still staring. Umina rubbed her head.
“Even so. Are you a [Warrior], Venaz? I’d expect that from Jekilt, but Minotaur or not—!”
She gestured at the bodies. Venaz snorted impatiently.
“Do I look like I wasted levels on a fighting class? No! I have a few levels, but I’m a [Strategist] to the core. Come on. Stop wasting time!”
He set off. Luan staggered after him, and after a beat, the Centaur and Lizardgirl followed. The Minotaur led them through the fogs, grunting and following the buildings on the left side of the street. After a moment, Marian spoke up again.
“Okay, so how did you do that? And don’t tell me it was your armor; you didn’t use a single artifact. Unless you have some kind of potion?”
“What, you mean like a battle pill? Do I look that weak?”
Venaz gave her a scornful glance. Marian opened her mouth, and Umina slid between them.
“Venaz, you know what Marian means. You’re clearly good at fighting. Are all Minotaurs as good as you, or did you learn that somewhere?”
The Minotaur slowed. He looked back with a smile.
“I learned it, of course. And Minotaurs are good. But no one is as good as me. Why do you think I’m here?”
He stomped on. After a second, Marian frowned.
“Here as in Baleros? In the Titan’s class?”
“Obviously. Keep up, Marian. You’re normally quicker than that.”
“You—”
“You’re the best among your kind?”
Venaz turned to look at Luan. The [Rower] was rubbing one arm; he’d used a tiny bit of healing potion, but he wasn’t looking forwards to getting hit again! Still, it beat walking around with a huge bruise for a week.
“That’s right. I won the competition for the honor of learning from the Titan himself. Everyone in the House of Minos under thirty years of age participated. And I was the best, the sharpest, bar none. Or did you think my people would have funded me to learn here if I wasn’t the best at what I did?”
Umina whistled softly.
‘Wow. So you beating those [Soldiers]—”
Venaz waved a gauntleted hand.
“Skill at arms isn’t difficult to come by. Other species mistake Skills and levels for combat prowess. Minotaurs do not. I’ve pitted myself against seasoned warriors many times before. Against a Level 20 foe, I’d have to get serious. Level 30 and it’s difficult, but doable. Even higher-level foes can be taken down in the right circumstances. And to learn from the Professor, I beat a Level 28 [Armored Veteran] in a duel with bared swords. There were hundreds of competitors; everyone wanted to win. I even beat our [Prince] for the honor.”
“Seriously?”
“You have royalty?”
“You still owe me money.”
Everyone paused. Luan shrugged.
“Just adding that. So you’re one of the best, Venaz, friend?”
The Minotaur grinned at the Human man.
