“Shouldn’t we be worried about people discovering the shrine?” Mato asked.

“Hmm, that’s a good point,” Malika said. “Perhaps we shouldn’t risk it. I wouldn’t want Tala or Mori finding out.”

“We haven’t heard from them in a while,” Calen said, “and I think we can trust the Guildmaster.”

“I really want to do something nice for Basil and Ryn,” Ali said. “I’m willing to talk to Vivian Ross about it and see if she thinks it’s safe.”

***

Ali perched on her barrier, returning Vivian Ross’s curious gaze across the dark mahogany wood conference table. The chairs arranged around the table looked comfortable, but Ali ignored them, preferring to use the unique advantages of her barrier magic to elevate herself to the same level as everyone else.

“So, what’s this all about?” Vivian asked. It had taken all of about five minutes to get this meeting. It seemed their thorough work at exterminating the Kobolds and keeping the farmers happy had gained a lot of positive reputation for the guild, and Vivian had most certainly noticed. While Vivian seemed to be in an open and curious mood, Ali still found her to be a little intimidating and welcomed the support of her friends at the table.

“I have a proposal for the upcoming class advancement that would require your support,” Ali began.

Vivian raised her eyebrow but waited for her to continue.

“I have a class shrine,” Ali said. “It’s a bit more advanced than the one the mayor has, and I wanted to offer my services, provided you can help with security.”

“I see,” Vivian said, her eyes narrowing almost imperceptibly, but the rest of her face remained a stony mask as she considered Ali’s revelation. “So that’s how you guys all unlocked your classes without returning to the Town Hall?” she asked after a few moments’ thought, reminding Ali just how sharp the Guildmaster really was.

“Yes,” Ali answered. “The features I have to offer are the ability to draw out potential latent mana affinities, and an alternate class choice search that produces at least six options.”

“Six?” The shock on Vivian’s face was obvious this time, and equally quickly hidden. “That’s a remarkable claim. What do you want in exchange?” Her voice seemed cautious and guarded.

“Nothing,” Ali said. “I just want to set some conditions on the candidate choices. I was planning on offering the service to two friends, and Malika suggested offering it wider. I can take ten more people. My conditions are that they are not charged for use, and there is no restriction on eligibility – poor or wealthy, noble or common, combat or non-combat. I want it to be fair. I’m not sure of the best way to do that safely, though, which is why I’m asking for your help and visible involvement.”

“That’s very generous of you. Any restrictions?”

“The mana attunement is not a guarantee. In practice I’ve seen it succeed about half the time,” Ali said. She had watched it in action under her father’s hand many times. “The class chooser has never offered fewer than six choices as far as I’m aware. I figured having a chance at significantly better classes would align well with your goal for growing the guild and the opportunity to be involved allows you a better chance for recruitment.”

“Very well,” Vivian said thoughtfully. “I’m interested, I will talk to Mayor Turner, and in exchange, I ask only that I see your shrine for myself.”

Alexander sat morosely in the back of the rickety merchant wagon, reflecting on his terrible fortune. His research had taken him all the way out here to the village of Lyton, a nothing village in the middle of nowhere, nestled up against the impenetrable ancient Lirasian forest in the most worthless part of the Kingdom of Toria. And there his leads had simply dried up. So here he was, hitching a ride on a slow, bumpy wagon, not entirely certain what he should do.

The merchant was a taciturn man of few words – for which he was grateful – and he had accepted a small silver piece for a ride. But the wagon was so uncomfortable and slow that Alexander was beginning to consider abandoning his Druidic disguise and having his skeletons carry him instead. The only problem was the moment he took off the amulet, his real class would make him a pariah in every human settlement across the continent, and he couldn’t afford the time and energy to kill everyone who saw him.

He sighed.

He owed the Shadow Council a report at the very least, and he had nothing. The acolytes and underlings of the order, unwilling to even utter the Master’s name for fear of annihilation, would have little patience for his failure. It mattered not that he had been diligent with his studies and had grown fast. The Master himself was impatient.

Nevyn Eld.

He shivered at that memory. Even though he wanted to swear, he dared not. The Master’s appearance at their isolated academy had been a complete shock to everyone. He had simply materialized in the middle of the hall – a being of such power and presence that even Alexander’s class resistance to fear and death magic had crumbled before him. He had been reduced to a curled-up trembling ball on the ground, rooted to the spot in the aura of despair he projected. Alexander had always known he was destined for greater things, but at that moment, he knew he was beholden to the Lich with his scarlet blindfold and monstrous presence – his robes billowing out from the sheer power of the darkness that he emitted. His path to true power would come directly from the Master – and perhaps even one day, he may earn the immortality of the Lich transformation.

His mentors still gave him tasks to carry out – menial jobs that would never get the attention of the Master. But Alexander remembered what the Lich cared about most – the discovery of dungeons. Specifically, new and uncharted ones that could be captured and dominated, then turned to his inscrutable purpose.

He didn’t know what the Lich wanted with these dungeons, but the only time his voice had held any emotion or passion had been when he was talking about acquiring them. Alexander knew then that his path to recognition would be to find one and capture it for him.

Alas, all his research had led him to this dead end. He was beginning to run out of hope.

Absently he brushed the ice crystals from his sleeve before he suddenly stopped and stared.

Ice?

“Whoa,” the merchant said, reining in the cart horse.

Alexander glanced around seeing fresh ice crystals on the grass beside the road, incongruously sparkling in the midday sun. A sudden nervous whinny from the skittish mare alerted him to the danger right before the tendrils of fear clawed their way up through his ribs to encircle his heart.

“Aah…” the merchant’s cry was cut off as the fear got hold of him, and Alexander could see the wide-eyed stare of terror, and smell the sudden stench of loosened bowels.

A tall figure shrouded in a black hooded cloak emerged from the forest, seemingly absorbing all the light around him. The icy chill deepened as the frost spread across the road, reaching the wheels of the now stationary cart and the hooves of the terrified horse. Heavy metal sabatons crunched as the shrouded being stepped out across the ice. With a seemingly casual wave, the dark figure fired two lances of ice, taking the horse through the chest and the merchant through the throat, dropping both in an instant.

Death Knight! Alexander fought against the rising fear as the monster turned glowing blue pinpoints of light under his shadowed hood to fix him with an icy gaze. It was a struggle, but it was nothing compared to him.

“Alexander… Gray…” The voice echoed strangely as if carried to his mind by the aura of fear itself. “Remove your disguise if you wish to live.”

My… disguise? For a moment the Death Knight’s command confused his fear-stricken mind, but as soon as he understood, he scrambled to comply, pulling the amulet from his neck as fast as his shaking hands could manage.

“A… wise choice.” The ice cracked ominously as the Death Knight approached. Alexander was unable to keep from craning his neck as the tall monstrous undead knight drew near, becoming more and more intimidating by proximity, towering above his own normally tall frame.

The Death Knight seemed aware of how greed mingled with fear in his heart, pausing for far too long before it hissed, “The Master has a task for you.” It was not a request. But even so, a thrill of something that was not fear jolted through Alexander’s core.

Nevyn Eld, the Master, knows who I am?

It was simultaneously terrifying and exhilarating.

“Of course, I will do it,” he stammered, not that he had the option of refusing. But he wanted this. This was his chance – whatever it was, he had to execute it successfully.

“The Master has divined the existence of a new dungeon somewhere in this region, and you are the closest. You will find it and capture it for him. Or at the very least, discover its location and lead me to it.”

So, I got lucky. His fortune turned on this accidental proximity to a new dungeon. But how was he to find it?

“Is…” he swallowed uncomfortably, noticing his hands slowly turning blue with cold, “Is there any information that might help locate this dungeon?” he asked and then froze in fear as the Death Knight turned to stare at him with its piercing blue glowing eyes. Those eyes stripped his soul bare, leaving him reeling in the presence of pure, inescapable death.

“It has both nature and arcane mana affinity, and it is less than a few months old,” the Death Knight finally answered. “Fear not, the Master has seen fit to send you some tools.”

The Death Knight waved a gaunt hand and summoned two enormous corpses, dumping them onto the icy road with a substantial thump. Both bodies were enormous humanoid shapes, colored a slate grayish blue, with heavy tusks protruding from their lower jaws, and thick coarse crimson hair. They had both been slain by a lance strike through the center of their chests.

Giant Trolls! Alexander stared covetously at the enormous bodies, which must have weighed well over a thousand pounds each, with arms thicker than his torso. They were an amazing windfall for a necromancer like him, but he failed to see the use of such a gift in tracking down a dungeon.

“The Master also requires you to create a diversion in this region.”

“What kind of diversion?”

“Something that will command all attention for as long as possible. You are a Blight Summoner, are you not?”

“I am,” he answered, quickly grasping what was required of him. He didn’t know why Nevyn Eld required him to make so much of a disturbance, but his class was ideally suited to the task.

“Very well, then get to work.” The Death Knight dismissed him, turning on a heel that ground the ice into slush and disappeared into the forest. As the monstrous undead’s presence vanished, so did the overwhelming fear, until finally, Alexander breathed a sigh of relief.

As the ice began melting under the sun, he considered his task.

Nature… He smiled, feeling his fortunes changing for the better as the beginnings of a fantastic plan began to form in his mind.

First things first.

“Arise,” he commanded, directing his magic towards the generous gift the Lich had seen fit to bestow upon him. The two enormous corpses twitched, and then slowly clambered to their thickly splayed, three-toed feet, groaning mournfully.

Warrior – Zombie, Giant Troll – level 58Warrior – Zombie, Giant Troll – level 53Your reserved mana has increased by +492.

His smile turned into a broad grin. He had never commanded a minion this powerful, and the Master had seen fit to give him two.

He glanced over at the cart and raised the horse as a zombie too. Not one to let a useful resource go to waste, he raised a skeleton from the corpse of the merchant, smiling at the satisfying way the bones tore their way free of the dead flesh. It was only a low-level skeleton, but he could always use the extra pair of hands, and the man had soiled himself. Raising him as a skeleton would leave the stench behind. Obnoxious fool. Now, he could serve a higher purpose.

Hopping up on his new mount, he summoned a Sending scroll from his storage and channeled his mana into it.

Meet me at Lyton. Bring a vial of Dreamcloud extract. Urgent.

The scroll crumbled into dust in his hands, and he brushed the remainder from his cloak. With his message sent, he commanded his horse to retrace the path back to the village of Lyton. He grinned happily at the sound of the heavy thumping footsteps of his new minions following close behind.

Finally, fate is smiling on me…
