Ali stood on the threshold watching dejectedly as Ryn’s bright smile gave way to a concerned frown.

“What’s wrong, Ali?”

It all came out in a rush – yesterday’s story, and her failure in the library. Her friends had all been supportive and concerned when Malika helped her back to the camp, and she had already told her story once to them. But even today, telling it a second time, there were still tears. Tears of frustration mingled with grief for the library, her past, and the shame of having destroyed her books for nothing.

“I destroyed it, Ryn. The Painter’s Remembrance. And for nothing…” Her heart felt like a lead weight had been lashed to it, dragging it down toward her feet, and she reached up to wipe her eyes, stopping in surprise as Ryn handed her a tissue.

“It’s ok, Ali,” she said gently, putting an arm around her shoulders to comfort her. “You had to try it if there was even a small chance to save the whole library. For what it’s worth, I think you were brave.”

“Brave?” Ali’s throat choked on the word. She felt anything but. She had been crying since yesterday, and she couldn’t help but feel she should have known better. But Ryn’s arm and her kind words calmed her down a little and helped her push the tears away. “I loved that story.”

“I know, it was beautiful, wasn’t it?”

Ali nodded, not trusting herself to speak. The other two books hadn’t affected her nearly so deeply, but sacrificing this story had left her raw inside.

“And I don’t think it was for nothing,” Ryn continued.

“What do you mean?”

“Well, you got the imprint.”

“Yes, but it makes gibberish books,” Ali repeated. It was worse than useless – like her skill was taunting her.

“But you’re not done growing your skill yet,” Ryn answered. “If you work at it, I’m sure you can advance your skill into something that will turn out to be amazing. Who knows? Maybe you can still salvage the library?”

Malika had told her much the same thing yesterday after she had found her sobbing in the darkness. But she had been much too distraught to pay any attention. Ryn’s right, she thought, skills grew as their wielder learned and gained experience. With careful cultivation, skills could be intentionally influenced to grow in a specific direction. This was something that had been repeated incessantly in her classes and studies – it took effort, but guiding your skills in productive directions, rather than letting them meander randomly was by far the most potent way of developing your class into something powerful.

“It might be hard,” Ali said.

“I just know you can do it,” Ryn answered with a smile. “Come, I found another story I just know you’re going to love. Let me show you.”

***

Ali sat cross-legged on the moss out in front of her tent. Her visit with Ryn had cheered her up a lot and her kind words had lit something of a fire of new purpose in Ali’s heart. If she could study her way to a better skill, and wrest something useful from her trying experience, she was going to figure out how. She just could not imagine leaving the library in that state, where a stray breath of air could destroy irreplaceable knowledge forever.

Malika was nearby working through a set of kick drills, training herself, but Ali knew she had deliberately chosen to remain nearby to offer support if she needed her. Ali caught her eye and smiled for a moment before returning her attention to her purpose.

She opened her Grimoire, gazing at the frustrating, but beautiful magic floating in the air in front of her. She had tried many times to study and understand the contents inscribed in her imprints, but she had precious little to show for it. However, this time she had a bit of a new plan.

Instead of trying to understand how the magic of the creatures and plants were encoded into runes, she was going to focus precisely on the structure of the Grimoire: specifically, on how it encoded variants. The randomness had been a pain in her side for quite a while now, and she would need a deep understanding of how it worked if she were to ever unravel the mess that was encoded in her book imprint.

With a little trickle of mana, she enabled her Runic Script skill, carefully inscribing a runic circle for Inspiration around herself, feeling the cool trickle of magic caressing her skin as the circle closed. She hadn’t yet figured out how to use her Inspiration skill and her Study Trance simultaneously – both requiring focus – but her runic circle was a perfect compromise. Then, with a substantially larger channeled amount, she activated her Study Trance, giving her mind over to the focused concentration of her Sage of Learning skill. The swish-thump of Malika’s shins striking the tree trunk faded into nothingness along with the entire camp, shrine, tents, and even her minions.

Nothing remained, just her mind, and the glowing Grimoire floating before her. With a powerful determination, she began to read.

Sometime later, Ali’s awareness slowly returned to the camp and its surroundings. Malika was meditating off to the side, and Mato and Calen had both returned: Calen sat by the campfire repairing some arrows chatting amiably with Mato while he stirred a bubbling pot. As usual, the herb-seasoned broth smelled amazing, and her stomach voiced a no-nonsense gurgle.

Not now. I have to get this first.

In the end, the structure of her Grimoire was straightforward. Each chapter had a broad set of inscriptions representing the essence of what the Grimoire category required. It was followed by something that felt a little like an index containing a section of variation, modifications, additions, and deletions that made each variant unique. Simple as it was, it had required unraveling an incredibly complex set of connected arcane runes that created the pages, the imprints, and the book itself as she had to delve deeply into the nature of the skill. She was far, very far, from a full understanding of the mechanisms, but she had at least learned a few things.

With her mind, she grasped the imprint open before her and pushed. Without any resistance whatsoever, the Grimoire pages flickered and shifted, and the imprint switched with the one after it, changing the order of the chapters. It was not a big thing, but it had been a substantial breakthrough in her understanding of how the entire spell worked. Now she could order her imprints in whatever way suited her.

Finally, she brought up her notifications. The echo of her chimes and the shifting in her skill had been what finally prompted her to end her studies and return to the present moment.

Requirements met for skill advancement.

Oh – yes! A full skill advancement was not at all what she had expected, but she’d take it any day. Biting her lip in excitement, she read on.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached at least level 20.Learned 20 imprints.Achieved a rudimentary understanding of the structure of imprint magic.Augmented an imprint with at least 8 major variations.Grimoire of Summoning gains Basic Customization.Grimoire of Summoning – level 20Mana: Release the mana from an unresisting or inanimate target, learning about its structure, and retaining some in your own mana pool. Requires continuous uninterrupted focus and the target is destroyed. Mana: Manifest a Magical Grimoire storing the runic imprint of any object you have fully understood. You may create any object recorded by using the Grimoire as a focus. You may spend extra mana to influence the variation created. Control improves with skill level. [Summons cannot exceed your class level. Reserve cost is reduced by 3% per class level higher than the summon.]Arcane, Nature, Minion, Channeled, Knowledge, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

Ali immediately accepted the advancement. Intuitively, she knew it wouldn’t be the complete solution to her problem with her book imprint – as the requirements stated, her knowledge was still rudimentary at best – but the advance was a step in the right direction.

Ryn was right, she thought. I can do this! If she kept at it, she could guide her skill growth down the path of more and more control, until eventually she would have what she needed.

And for now, she thought, a big smile on her face, this is going to be very useful! Let’s try a few mushrooms first…

She flipped the pages over to her mushroom imprint and channeled her mana. This time, though, she understood precisely where in the inscription to inject it, choosing the Common Glowcap variant. It used a little more mana to control, but her book produced a small mushroom which gave off the telltale golden light and arcane mana. She did it again, and again, creating a pretty fairy ring around where she sat, without once creating an unwanted variant.

Perfect! No more would she spend hours cycling through unwanted variations, unsummoning them just to get what she needed. And even more encouraging – while she could tell she wasn’t quite there yet – she was certain that with a little more growth she would be able to influence other attributes too, like color, size, and even level seemed tantalizingly close to her reach.

Finally, feeling a little better about herself, Ali got up and wandered over to join the others at the campfire.

“Studying is hard work; do you want some beef and vegetable stew?” Mato asked.

Ali nodded enthusiastically and accepted a plate of something hot and delicious, and besides that, she had no idea because she wolfed it down in an instant.

“Hey, you should at least chew once, don’t just inhale it!” Mato exclaimed, but he quickly ladled another helping onto her plate. “Where do you put it all?”

“My brain?” she chuckled.

Tapping his knuckles on his own head, Mato made a hilarious hollow knocking sound. “Yes, the empty space, I understand.”

“Mato, you beast!”

“You doing ok, Ali?” Malika asked, “You were out for about four hours.”

“I feel a lot better now,” Ali admitted. “I studied my Grimoire with my Sage of Learning skill, and I earned an advancement.” She shared it with them, pointing out that the advancement of her skill allowed her to avoid any of the random variations that had so frustrated her before.

“That’s going to save you a lot of time,” Calen approved.

“Hey, I have an idea I want your opinions on,” Ali asked, getting everyone’s attention. It was an idea that had been kicking around in her head for several days now, and after her last visit with Ryn, she was certain she wanted to do something about it.

“Ryn and Basil both said they’re up for unlocking their classes in the next couple of days. I want to do something nice for them. Do you think offering to let them use the shrine is something they would appreciate?” Ali knew the mayor had a shrine, and it was offered to everyone in the town. But Malika had told her that her shrine was better. She just wasn’t quite sure if it was enough to be the kind of gift they might appreciate.

“Oh, heck yes!” Mato’s exclamation was instantaneous.

“Is it really that different? I want to give them something that’s at least meaningful and helps them out.”

“Ali, I don’t think you appreciate how good your shrine really is,” Malika said. “The shrine in Myrin’s Keep is an artificially constructed artifact with a five-thousand mana reserve. It can unlock your class experience and offer one additional class choice. And I had to rob someone to afford the two large silver to pay the fee to use it.”

“Uh…” Ali had no idea where to even start. “You robbed someone? Why are there fees?”

“Yes,” Malika grimaced. “I was a poor street urchin, remember? The people who own shrines charge for access for many reasons. Mostly it’s to keep the good class choices among the nobles and the wealthy and force the poor to live with the natural class choice offered by the system. That’s how you get a lot of laborer, fighter, thief, and farmer classes, and the wealthy can preserve their positions with superior class choices.”

“I’m pretty sure it’s just greed, Malika,” Calen said. “I don’t think it’s a conspiracy to keep the poor people down – they just want to line their own pockets.”

“That’s terrible, it should be free!” Ali had never heard of charging for the shrine and the options it unlocked. In Dal’mohra, her father had taken it as his civic duty to provide the shrine whenever anyone needed it.

“Yeah, well, that’s not how it is. Most places charge a lot more than two large silver. This mayor is being quite generous, taking only enough to cover all those expensive mana potions he needs to recharge the shrine.”

“Oh,” Ali answered. She guessed it made sense, even though the idea bothered her immensely. It was a good thing her domain worked to recharge her shrine; she couldn’t imagine producing one and a quarter million mana to fill its reserve using mana potions.

“Your shrine also allows one to unlock mana affinities, which the town one doesn’t do,” Malika added.

“That’s not a guarantee, though,” Ali pointed out. “It only sometimes finds latent affinities.”

“Still, it’s better than no chance. But the biggest value is the sheer number of class choices it offers. Anyone is bound to do much better if they have six to eight options to choose from, rather than one or two,” Malika said.

“Ok, that sounds like the kind of gift I want to give,” Ali said. If it were just saving a couple of pieces of silver, she would have probably looked for something else. If the town shrine only offered one choice, then Ali was certain she stood a good chance of giving them both a lasting gift that might dramatically improve their quality of life permanently.

“Ali, would you consider offering your shrine to more people?” Malika asked, her voice sounding a little uncertain.

“What do you mean? Which people?”

“I know it’s not my place to suggest what to do with your shrine, but…” Malika said, her eyes glittering intensely, “I’m sure there are many people in Myrin’s Keep just like I was. Held back by the circumstances of their lives, never having the opportunity to grow and step out of the slums like I did. I was fortunate to have met you, and I can’t imagine my life if you hadn’t offered me the opportunity to use your shrine. I’m just wondering if you would be open to sharing that opportunity with strangers to give them a better chance?”

“I guess the shrine has enough to safely do about a dozen people before it runs out of mana,” Ali said, but the more she thought about it, the more the idea began to grow on her. “How would we find people – the, uh… right people?”

“I think the Guildmaster might be very interested in helping us with that,” Calen said, looking up from his twine and arrows.

