"What kind of example?" Krog said.

"Well, I'll need you guys to just show off your powers and armor after the final fight. That's what I'll be offering."

Chrona scratched the side of her head, "Hmm, would that not insult Sheom?"

"Who's Sheom?" I said while crossing my arms.

Krog adjusted his paws under his chin, "Your opponent. She leaps through the magma of the arena as if gliding through the air. She and Chrona almost always end up fighting for the finishing spot of this tournament...I've placed second as well, but I've yet to win it."

Chrona looked at him, "You know her style of battle counters your own. It's difficult to use your illusions against someone who guards their senses with lava on all sides."

Krog shook his head, "She is simply better than I. There is no shame in admitting that."

"I didn't expect you to admit that," I raised an eyebrow, "Is she just too fast or?"

Krog looked up at a passing bird, "She is many things. Sheom was the mentor of Lehesion. She tutored him on many things through life, though she's spoken of how frustrating it was at times. Lehesion's prodigy was only matched by his arrogance."

I pointed towards the arena, "She sounds fierce, but I'm certain I'll beat her. When I do, I'll need you both to hop into the arena to show your armors and enhanced powers. That's all."

Krog covered his face with his wings, "Why does the thought of doing so fill me with shame?"

Chrona murmured, "This is our repayment for his deeds. Though somewhat repugnant, we sully ourselves worse if we spit on his kindness."

Krog stomped a foot, "Then let us be done with this quickly."

I raised a fist, "It won't take long, and I'll set you guys up with a speech. That should take the edge off."

Chrona narrowed her eyes at me, "Why is it that your rapprochement only fills me with yet more dread?"

"Eh, I can give motivational speeches pretty well, and that's about it. You're in luck though because I tend to stick to my strengths," I said with confidence.

"Then let us be off," Krog mumbled.

As we traveled down a different path out of the forest, I calmed my mind and prepared for the battle. As I honed my thoughts, I received a message from Althea.

Althea Tolstoy, the Shapeless Arbiter(lvl 9,416 | Class: Breaker | Giess: 10:24 A.M. 4/6/26) - I've been through several meetings in the revolutionary group, and I learned a few things you need to know. Rivaria is about to be sacked after the award ceremony. I don't know how, but Thisbey's been promising it to his recruits and loyal supporters.

I'll be able to kill him for sure, but you should prepare for the worst if you can. Love you. Bye.

I ground my teeth for a second before turning to Krog and Chrona. Both of them destroyed the underbrush as we walked under the forest's canopy. At least we weren't flying to the arena, but this was dangerous either way. I pushed those thoughts to the back of my mind as I said,

"I just received a message from Althea. The revolutionaries plan to sack Rivaria soon. We need to act before then."

Krog scoffed, "Let them. We will crush them under the wind of our wings."

"No, we will not. Do you not remember seeing the horrors their laboratories have created? If they sent several of those Hybrids to Rivaria, we would all perish."

Krog stopped walking, the reality of the situation crashing down on him, "Wait...That...I never believed..."

I raised a palm to him, "Calm down. We know it's coming so we can counteract the worst of its effects. You're both going to need to really show off to get some more gialgathens in the guild and system. They will act as a vanguard against whatever offensive Thisbey musters."

I pointed at Chrona, "Maybe we could have a rematch for the crowd just as an example?"

Chrona tilted her head, "Would I not still lose?"

"I don't know honestly," I said with a sigh. "You're many, many times tankier then before. Your class gives you several hard to stop bonuses too, and you won't run out of your time dilation field again. You might beat me even if I went all out."

Chrona rolled her eyes, "I've seen the limits of your ability. You cannot die."

I pointed at her, "I'm hard to kill. There's a difference. I mean that. You're both underestimating just how much the system has helped you both. In fact, this shouldn't just be an exhibition for those watching. It will be an exhibition for both of you as well."

Chrona frowned, "What if we rend the armor from your body and expose your identity?"

"It's not that big a deal. I'm no longer an unknown so it will be a minor inconvenience at best. On the other hand, having a city of people die because I wanted to avoid complications would haunt me."

"I'm learning more about what kind of person you are," Krog said with head held high. "You come across as a brutal pragmatist, but you're more sentimental than you lead on."

"I just weigh my odds. That's all."

Chrona nudged me with her tail, "I doubt that."

I rolled my eyes, "Come on, focus guys."

They straightened up as we walked out of the forest. They wore the armor I crafted for them, the dents from the Hybrid fight fixed. We paced up to the packed arena, crossing the rolling hills with a lazy stroll. I let Chrona walk ahead of me and at my center so that I didn't seem like her superior. That would be necessary if I were going to appeal to the Gailgathen's pride.

As we flew up to the edge of the arena, I found a broad-shouldered, caped frame waiting on me. Helios was here to watch the last exhibition match of the tournament. Beside him, a crippled Caprika was still bound to her chair with burns spread across her frame.

Krog landed with a bit of stumble, his new wings still stiff. As I walked up beside the juggernaut, he turned to me with his black mask,

"I see you've gained a few servants. Here I believed the gialgathens were proud. How did you manage that?"

I crossed my arms, staring at dozens of cameramen, "They're not my servants. They're equals."

"They wear armor made of your skin and bear the mark of your guild. Why would you offer so much in return for so little?"

I scoffed, "The same reason I helped Caprika. I expect favors."

Helios turned, glancing at them with a scrutinizing eye, "They are...far fiercer, aren't they?"

I grinned under my mask, "You just wait. I bet Chrona would give you a run for your money in a duel. Krog's not far behind either."

Helios let out a long laugh.

"You expect them to have improved that much in so little time?"

It was my turn to laugh a little.

"Yes. I do."

Helios turned a palm to me, "Then perhaps I will be surprised. Speaking of surprises, I see you've extended the destruction of Giess by yet another thirty days. You haven't been piddling your time away, have you?"

"Yeh, I guess. I exposed a conspiracy ring and project to create hybridized creatures. What have you done over the last few weeks?"

"I pushed back an eldritch invasion and negotiated a treatise between two warring worlds."

I frowned, "Damn. One-upped me there."

"But of course," Helios glanced at his clawed hands, "Any important news on your various quests?"

"Actually, yes. There's going to be an invasion of Rivaria soon. Make sure you and Caprika are nowhere near here then. They'll be throwing something big here."

Helios nodded slowly, peering down at his nails, "Noted." He lowered his hand, "I reccommend you leave no regrets as you leave this place. The first fringe world I cleared, I did so with many tasks left unfinished or unturned. I act with that wisdom in mind."

He turned to Caprika who sat in silence,

"I do have my regrets though."

There was genuine bitterness in his words as he looked at his sister. I didn't know what to say or do, so I stayed silent. Krog didn't.

"Is she crippled?"

Helios turned his head with a slow, menacing motion, "Perhaps physically. She is not crippled mentally, unlike others I could mention."

Krog ignored the thinly veiled insult, pointing his tail at his wings, "I know of a healer that may help her injuries. My wings were eaten by a monster in battle, yet this woman healed them to what you see now." Krog waved his upper limbs,

"They are not perfect, but they are far better than what I had before. Perhaps she may help the bounded one."

Like a drum in my ear, Helios's heart raced in his chest. Helios played it cool, but he thumped his foot with nervous energy,

"Who and where might they be?"

Krog tilted his head to me, "It is his friend, Kessiah Crow. Speak with him of it."

Helios turned to me while tilting his head, "She is a low-level remnant. How does she have such potent healing?"

I shrugged, "Ask her yourself. Maybe the two of you can work out a deal."

Helios raised his head and gave me a slow nod, "A deal? I'm not above freelancer work by any means. I'll consider it."

We stood there for a few seconds before Caprika spoke up, "May I speak with my combatant alone?"

Helios turned to me, "Do you not remember the last time I left you alone on this Schema forsaken planet?"

"Did I lose all of your respect as well as my dignity?"

Helios bit his tongue, the scent of his blood lingering in the air. He took a deep breath, "No. Excuse my intrusion."

He paced off until he was well out of earshot as did Chrona and Krog. Once left alone, I stared off at the volcanic arena with Caprika by my side. From her wheelchair, she took a deep breath,

"Ever since coming to Giess, I've learned something that has become painfully obvious over time: I'm not special as I was raised to believe."

I didn't disagree with her, instead choosing to let her say her piece.

"I couldn't win the tournament here by any means. I failed time and time again, but despite this wealth of shame I've acquired, I'm no fool. I've learned from my mistakes and gained humility."

She leaned against her wheelchair, "You know there exists technology that could fix my legs, don't you?"

I nodded. Of course there was, whether it be prosthetics or cloned limbs in tubes, there had to be something. She was a part of an empire with worlds worth of resources, so this wasn't something she should struggle to fix.

"I chose not to heal them because I wanted to experience this kind of life. I understand that is a privilege unto itself, to have that choice, but I've lived it out for over a month now. I couldn't believe how much my brother was willing to help me. Snide, cunning, and disdainful as he may be, he truly cared for me this entire time."

She swallowed, "It feels wonderful to have someone care so deeply for me and my comfort, even if it is a bit selfish of me to ask it of him."

She waited a moment, collecting herself. She looked up to me, "I met you as well, a random outsider from some backwater world. Your achievements dwarf my own despite your upbringing."

She peered back to the stadium, "Indeed, I may not be special, but I'll do what I can. Even if I must rely on others, I'll accomplish something with this opportunity you've given me. I plan on changing the ranking structures in the city I'll be given."

I raised an eyebrow, "How so?"

"Normally, rising in ranks is arbitrarily difficult for non-albony. I intend to create a more meritocratic environment, so that gems from the rough may rise up the ranks faster. Perhaps I will find another Harbinger who's talent was never given the opportunity to shine...Maybe not."

As she spoke, it left me more than a little startled. I never imagined my impact on her would be so long-lasting. If anything, I expected both of us to use each other then be done with it. Having her change even a little seemed kind of crazy to me, but near-death experiences tend to have that effect on people.

Even if I was surprised, it did fill my chest with a bit of pride too. I stood up straighter,

"Well...thanks. I didn't think I'd made that kind of impact."

Caprika rolled her eyes, "Well that much is evident. You aren't exactly the most tactful socialite."

I took a step back, "What? I have a skill for that and everything."

Under her mask, I could feel the smirk on her lips, "Skills can only get you so far. You must learn to use them. Perhaps our uncle will teach you when you meet him."

I swallowed a not so witty retort before crossing my arms.

"Well, thanks for the backhanded compliments."

With her voice lighter, she scoffed,

"Anytime. Now go and win this tournament. I've no doubt you will."

I gave her a nod, glancing forward. I smacked my fists together before taking a deep breath. Before leaped away, I turned to her,

"Just sayin, but Kessiah could use the practice with her healing."

Caprika tapped on one of her armrests taking a moment to think,

"I'll consider it."

I took a step onto the edge of the colosseum. Above the magma field and steel arena, Kiki Mosk floated on a platform, flamboyant costume and all. With his news reporter voice, he gestured to all present,

"Is anyone else shaking in anticipation?"

Even the noble gialgathens joined the crowded zeppelin in cheering. This was the last chance for a gialgathen to defeat the Gray Giant, so they threw away their disdain for cheering. With the gialgathen growls echoing in the distance, Kiki Mosk put his hands on his hips,

"I see we have some investment from even people that usually yawn. That's fitting considering the circumstances. We have espen versus gialgathen. Lehesion's mentor and benefactor against the mysterious Gray Giant. Both are contenders for the strongest on Giess, but only one can hold that title."

From the magma pit, Sheom splashed out with a vibrant bloom of color. As orange and red fell from her skin, she grinned, showing white teeth. Standing on the magma, she shook herself, the lava falling off her skin. Her appearance only changed by a bit. She looked like living magma.

Sheom owned an orange coat of smooth skin, yellow streaks embroidering her joints. She wore no armor, most metals melting in magma. She wasn't as lean as Chrona either, her limbs more muscled than even Krog. She shifted with a sense of power, something driving her beyond the desire to fight.

She was here to prove a point.

"Here is the returning champion, Sheom Makarath!"

I analyzed her as the gialgathens roared in applause.

Sheom Makarath, the Living Landshark(lvl: 12,419 | Species: Gialgathen) - Sheom has a long and vivid history as an activist. She believed the most of anyone that the espens needed the guidance of gialgathens during their development. She was pivotal in forming policies to share more advanced magics and educational texts with espens before they were fully freed.

Sheom assisted with the war effort as well, showing her skills as a warrior of great renown. Using a flowing, winding style of fighting, she used her own mana reserves to melt stone for magma to flow through. She would dive and dash through the ground, erupting earth magics of all kinds to pepper her opponents.

This was distinct from her impressive offensive prowess. She tutored Krog Borom as well, his flowing style reminiscent of hers.

Be careful of her attacks, and you should be able to defeat her given time.

She stepped over the liquid magma, walking over the liquid with ease Along her back, her horns grew to massive size, mimicing a sharks fins. As she stepped onto the steel, she lifted her head and roared out. A pulse of fervor rippled across the gialgathens, my own adrenaline spiking. There was a bit of magic in her noble voice. I was sure of it.

"Now that's how you make an entrance!" Kiki shouted. "As for her opponent, we have someone who needs no introductions - The Gray Giant."

I jumped forward, stone cracking under my heels. As I shot through the air, the crowd roared in applause. Landing onto the arena with a dull thud, I stood up tall, my arm raised in triumph. I took a deep breath, rolling my shoulders while staring at Sheom. She met my gaze, cold fury in her eyes,

"It's good we meet, murderer."

I grimaced, remembering Delilath. I wasn't going to argue with her before the fight, so I stayed silent. She continued,

"I imagine you believe this battle will be a simple war of attrition as your others were? I fear not. I learned from them. I'm not underestimating you just because you walk on two legs. I will face you with all my might at once, filthy dirtwalker."

I glanced back and forth at the lava, "Don't you swim through dirt?"

She lost all the bite in her voice, my retort quieting her. She glared at me, "You'll pay for that."

I took a deep breath, rolling my fingers in my hands, "I won't. This won't take long."

I meant it too. I took a bit of time to think about a way of shortening the duration of this fight, and I figured it out in spades. Sheom glared at me, unconvinced of my tactics.

"We shall see about that. Gods give me strength to trample this defier."

Kiki rubbed his hands together, a grin on his face from ear to ear. He took a deep breath and announced, "Now this is how battlers should speak with one another before a big fight. There's nothing wrong with a healthy rivalry after all. Now, are both combatants ready to battle?"

I gave him a nod, welling mana into my palms. Sheom did the same, preparing to dive into the magma.

Kiki raised a hand, "Begin!"
