“Jackie would have loved a lot of things,” she suddenly continued. “Being a parent. He cared more about that than I did. Me?" Hawgrave licked her lips and then slumped as if there was a tangible weight pressing upon her shoulders. "You know, after Jackie died… Ah, you know who Jackie is, right? My husband?"

"Yeah. Mad Atlas," Shiv said. He didn't know that much about the man, but Adam had told him a few things.

“Right. Mad Atlas. That's what they called him after… it happened.” Jessica laughed, but this time her voice held no humor. "He would have hated that name. He hated all those stupid titles. He just liked being called Jackie. He didn't even like 'suffering' a Pathbearer honorific."

"Sounds pretty down to earth," Shiv replied.

And this time, Jessica did genuinely laugh. She barked a loud note of joy and nearly jumped off the desk. "Down to earth! Hah… He would have loved that shit, kid. ‘Cause he was a Geomancer and had his Physicality fused with that, and being down to earth gave him strength, you know? Anyway, you'll get it when I give you more context. Jackie, right? Everyone loved Jackie. Jackie would go around the world fixing things. He would go to gates, and then he would worry about the creatures inside. Didn’t like hurting animals. He would talk to people. He would go around camp building up fortifications, fixing people's homes when we stopped in towns. He'd do all this, and he'd still always be wondering how he could make things better, how he could be a better person. I… I think that’s why I fell for him—because in a world of hard, incest-born bastards, here was a guy who's decent. Even with power and renown, he was just decent. Not just to the good little people but to a messed-up street rat like me."

But then the brightness and joy bled out from her eyes like blood from an open wound. "I'm not like that. Never was. Guess I have the ability to be pleasant with people, but honestly, I don't let things go too well. After Jackie died, I went up north for a good eight years. Didn't tell my kids, didn't tell anyone, didn't ask for permission. Just went, and I started killing. Killing, killing, killing. Killing giants, because it was their fault. Couldn't let it go. I killed so many during those years. Didn't stop fighting for months, and they sent more and more people after me. Armies and hunter-killers and rival Heroes and finally Legends. Killed them all. Rusty and I. Only reason I stayed sane was because of Rusty. But the thing with him is that he imprinted on me, so he loved Jackie as much as I did. And so we fought, and we killed, and we butchered. And with our efforts, we took a few percentage points off the frost giant population count."

"That's how you got your name," Shiv said.

"That's a bad story," Jessica replied. "But, well, this couldn't last forever."

"Were you cut down? Did you have to be saved?" Shiv asked, more curious than anything else. This didn't track with what she was telling him.

The Giantsbane shook her head sadly. "Left, cause after eight years of killing, right? Found myself hiding in a cave, preparing for the next massacre. Had gotten my eyes on a whole chain of towns and cities to butcher my way across. Then comes this runt of a girl. Not big for a giant. Still huge, though, much larger than me. But she stomps in my cave, probably ‘cause I hadn't bothered really concealing it, and there is this fire in her eyes. She has this hateful rage seeping off her, and she's pointing her axe at me. And around it there's these walls of blood that circle it like some nasty crimson whirlwind." Shiv still held eye contact with Jessica, but he had the feeling she wasn't truly looking at him, then. "She tells me that I killed her father, her brother, her lover, and that she is here to see things settled. 'Let blood be blood,' she declares."

"Was she also a Legend?" Shiv asked.

Jessica smiled softly. "Please, she wasn't even a Hero. Barely a True Master. After her speech, she raises her axe and the blood whirlwind around it, takes a step toward me—and I cut her down. Not even a fight. Then, as she lies there, split from shoulder to groin, she shivers, she looks up at me, and she spits her hate between mouthfuls of blood. After a few moments, that hate becomes sobbing, and between sobs she cries out for all the ones I'd killed. She cries out for all the things she'll never get to do. She asks the System why something like me would exist, why it would take so much from her."

She shook herself, and it seemed like she only saw Shiv again right then. "After that, the hate inside me froze over. Don't get it wrong. I still hate them. The loathing’s still there. It just doesn't burn that bright anymore. I just paused. I think cutting apart that giant girl made me realize it was all bullshit. I wasn’t unique. My loss is just another story that’s been happening, that keeps happening, that won’t ever end, because of the System. I left the same night. I came home. I did the usual thing: drink and venture around, reconnect with my kids, and all that. But it wasn't the same. And nothing's been the same since."
