The snow had stopped for real by the time Rain finally left the baths. It turned out that collecting over fifty tiny rice-sized shards of crystal from an area the size of two Olympic swimming pools took a while. Detection made finding them straightforward enough, but zigzagging across the ice to pick them up had him wishing for that skill of Ameliah’s, Attract. It was in the Survivalist Utility tree, he’d discovered after reading through all the tier-ones, but even if he’d had a skill point for it, it had three prerequisites. Annoying.

He was now off to the Bank, considerably richer than he’d been a few hours ago. Even better, there was another 30 Tel waiting for him back at the Guild. He was in no rush, though. First, he wanted to get some lunch before finishing his other two quests. He could turn in all three at the end of the day, then see about finding Tallheart some scrap metal. For both lunch and his planned shopping, he would need copper.

He kept his stop at the Bank brief, just converting 20 Tel. After the fee for the exchange, it worked out to 271 copper and 7 bits. There were higher denominations of coins cast from silver, but he decided to stick with copper for now. The point of getting the coins was so that he could buy basic things like food. Adventurer’s gear would most likely be paid for in Tel anyway. He had stopped himself from asking the attendant about opening an account, afraid of it developing into a lengthy argument about the mathematics of compound interest. He’d come back later. For now, his money was better spent than saved.

He stopped for lunch at a tavern, led there by his nose. They were serving some sort of roast meat that he didn’t recognize alongside crusty bread and warm, spiced mead. It was delicious and relatively cheap at only a few coppers a serving. His armor got him quite a reaction when he entered the tavern, but people calmed down once he seated himself at a table. The staff were distressingly subservient around him, as if he were some important noble and they were horribly afraid of arousing his ire. He didn’t like it. It felt wrong. He didn’t consider himself to be anyone important, but the more time he spent in the city outside of the guild, the more he was being forced to consider the fact that he might be wrong.

His mood was pensive as he made his way down into the sewers after lunch. The quest he’d taken had specified that he was to kill 10 slimes. That wouldn’t be much of a challenge. He could find them easily now, and defeating them only required a quick pulse of his aura. The gelatinous blobs posed practically zero threat; thus they were no distraction from his thoughts. He defeated two groups of three, only netting himself two additional Tel. It was trivial, the only annoyance being his aching legs. Even though he’d gotten unlucky with the drops, it was easy money. I’m…kinda strong.

An unexpected result of his latest ping tore him out of his musing. He’d been making his way toward four slimes down a side-passage, periodically checking their position to make sure that they weren’t moving. His latest scan had returned only three signals. Huh…I wonder what—

A sudden shout echoed from down the tunnel, making him jump and activate force ward. It wasn’t a scream of distress or alarm, it was a howl of rage. A human’s voice. Quickly, he sent out another pulse of Detection, searching for people this time. He’d tuned his spell to only register monsters to avoid giving himself a headache from all the signals coming from above. He felt those signals now, as well as one coming from the tunnel directly in front of him, around the corner. The torch he was holding was the only source of light in the tunnel, but it looked like whoever was around the corner had one as well.

“Die you shit bag!” This time, Rain caught the words. He increased his pace, closing in on the signal in his mind. His light revealed quite the scene as he rounded the bend. There were the three slimes he’d felt, as well as a man squared off facing them. The man looked over his shoulder at him. Not a man…a teenager. He’s like sixteen at best.

The teenager was covered from head to toe in filth, making him look like some sort of swamp monster. His skin must be burning under all that. Slimes are acidic, at least, these ones are. That’s got to hurt like hell. Where’s his weapon? What the hell does he think he’s doing?

“What’re ya lookin’ at, asshole?” said the kid. Rain blinked.

Asshole?

“Stay the hells back. These are mine!”

Okay then. I guess he doesn’t want help…

The teenager looked back at the slimes approaching him just in time. The lead slime launched itself into the air, heading straight for his face. He shouted, startled, swinging his left arm in a wild haymaker. His fist punctured the slime’s fragile membrane and sent its insides spilling out in a waterfall of filth. The slime’s health had already been low, and the hit dropped it all the way to zero. Rain could see the health bars of the monsters of course, but the kid didn’t have one, him being human and this not being a lair.

Rain gagged as the smell reached him. He activated Purify, keeping the radius tight. He’d yet to try using Purify on a slime directly. He’d been told to stay out of it and he didn’t want to accidentally kill one of them. The spell description didn’t say anything about it having the ability to do damage, but slimes were particularly unclean. He resolved to test it later. For now, he just watched, ready to intervene if necessary.

What’s he doing down here, and why doesn’t he want help? Maybe he’s training? He’s not after the experience, is he? Or maybe the Tel? I don’t see a Guild plate… He switched to Detection, checking to make sure that there wasn’t a plate hiding under all that ick. There wasn’t. Huh. Is he even awakened?

The kid waited for the next slime to leap, then launched a kick at it in midair. His leg hit the slime with a sound like a sloppy fart, sending it splattering into the wall. The membrane didn’t rupture this time as the slime’s health had been at full. Rain’s concern started to fade as the kid confidently stared down the slimes. That was a horrible noise. He’s way better at this than I was. One of those things almost killed me, and I had a spear. What kind of idiot fights slimes barehanded? Even I know better than that. Still, he’s not doing half bad.

Rain stepped back, retreating to give the kid room. The first slime was stunned, but it looked like the second one was preparing to jump. As predicted, it soon launched itself into the air. Slimes are nothing if not predictable. The teenager repeated his technique, launching the slime into the wall with another sickening splut. He continued in this manner, kicking each slime a few more times before their membranes ruptured, covering him in even more filth and burning acid. It looked like the kid’s poor clothes were done for. He’d be walking out of here naked. If he was even wearing clothes to begin with. I can’t really tell under all that..horribleness. Rain shuddered. I’ve been there.

The boy panted, then fell to his knees, retching. Nothing came up. Probably puked a while ago. Okay, enough of this.

Rain released his hold on Purify, allowing the aura to fill the tunnel. The boy shouted in alarm as the white light washed over him. “What the fuck?!” he shouted, scrambling away from Rain as the aura went to work.

Rain shook his head. “It’s harmless, it just cleans—”

“Fuck! No! Shut it the fuck off!” Rain stopped, but it was too late. He’d been using full power. The kid looked down at himself, sparkling clean as if he’d just hopped out of a bath. “Gods damn it!” he cursed.

Yup, he’s naked. Rain averted his eyes as Purification faded away. The kid scrambled to his feet, assuming a wary posture as he stared at Rain. He made no attempt to cover himself, much to Rain’s embarrassment. Dude. He cleared his throat, addressing the wall. “Are you okay?”

“Who the hells are ye, and why didn’t ye stop when I told ye to?”

“Uh, I did?” Rain said. He had canceled the spell, after all. He had thought that the kid would appreciate being freed from the horrible coating of sludge. Clearly, he’d been wrong. He just didn’t understand how anyone could be mad about NOT being covered in excrement.

“Then how the hells did this happen?” the kid said, gesturing at himself. “Now I’m gonna hafta go back. Good job. Ye just wasted an hour of my time.”

“I don’t understand. I thought you’d be grateful…” Rain said, looking at the kid. He focused on making eye contact. How am I supposed to talk to someone who doesn’t even care that they’re naked?

“Gimme yer cloak,” the kid said, staring at him. Rain jumped. Oh, yeah, that’s a good idea. I should have offered it to him already. He removed his cloak, tossing it to the kid.

The kid caught it and wrapped himself up. He glared at Rain, jabbing at him with a finger. “Ye owe me. I’m keepin’ this.”

Rain blinked. Did I just get robbed by a naked teenager in a sewer?

The kid sighed, looking suddenly tired. He sat down against the wall, rubbing his eyes. “Gods damn it. Fuckin’ adventurers.” He started muttering to himself. Rain detected several obscenities directed his way thanks to his boosted Perception. Humm. His accent is somewhere between Carten’s and Staavo's, though it’s quite a bit thicker.

After a while, Rain decided that enough was enough. He cleared his throat. “Uh, you know I can hear you right?” The kid glared at him, replacing his muttering with a silent stare. He does not look happy. Rain sighed and knelt down to look him in the eye. “My name is Rain. What’s yours?”

“Don’t fuckin’ talk ta me like that. I’m not a fuckin’ lost puppy.”

“I never said you were…” Rain said. I…don’t know how to deal with this... This is not the reaction I was expecting.

The kid snorted. “Just because yer awakened, ye think yer better’n me. Well, yer not. I’m a fighter too, and I can kill monsters as easy as ye can. Just because ye got magic powers, it don’t give ye the right ta come down ‘ere and steal my kills. Go on, take the drops and just…fuck off! I’m done talkin’. Don’t even think about tryin’ ta take yer cloak back.”

Rain stood. So, not awakened then. Okay, time to take control of this situation. Also, there’s no way he’s keeping my damn cloak. He switched to Detection, finding three Tel lying on the ground where the slimes had died. He walked over, picking up the tiny crystals up one by one. The kid stared at him, saying nothing. He was seething with anger judging by the look in his eyes. Rain returned with the Tel, then crouched down and held out his hand, palm upward. He stared into the kid’s eyes from behind his visor. “Take them.”

It was the kid’s turn to look surprised.

Rain reached up, lifting his visor. “I’m not here to steal from you. I heard you fighting and came to help. It doesn’t look like you needed it. Those kills were all yours. I didn’t even get a kill notification.”

The kid stared at him, the angry look in his eyes replaced by one of distrust and calculation. “What’s yer game?”

Rain shook his head. “No game. Go on, take them. They’re yours.”

Hesitantly, the boy reached out and took the Tel from his hand, looking down at them. Rain saw him shivering, so he activated Immolate, warming the air in the tunnel. The kid’s eyes widened, but he didn’t shrink back.

Rain stood again, offering the kid his hand. “Come on. You don’t have any clothes stashed around here, do you? I just got that cloak, and I kinda want it back.”

The anger and distrust returned to the teenager’s eyes. Rain sighed and dropped his hand. At least open hostility is better than all that bowing and scraping I was getting in the tavern. “Look, it’s not my fault you decided to fight slimes with your bare hands. What did you think would happen to your clothes? They use acid, you know? Not the best plan. You should be thankful you aren’t burned from head to toe.”

This was clearly the wrong thing to say. The kid surged to his feet, causing Rain to jump back. The angry teenager pushed a finger at him, holding the cloak shut with his other hand. “Ye don’t know what yer talkin’ about! Where do ye get off, talking ta me like that? I’m no an idiot, and ye can afford another damn cloak.”

Rain winced. I suppose that might have come off a bit patronizing. Damn it, I’m bad at this stuff. He shook his head. “That’s not the point. I like that cloak and there’s a bunch of my stuff in the pockets. Here, how about we make a deal. I still need to hunt some more slimes down here. I’ve got a quest for ten and I’m only at six so far. It’s not like the guild checks, but I’m not about to claim your kills as mine. There’s plenty around and I can lead us to them. You can come with me and have whatever they drop. We’ll go up to the market and get you your own cloak and some new clothes besides. Then you can give me mine back.” He offered his hand to the kid again. “Deal?”

The kid looked at his hand suspiciously. “Why?”

Rain shrugged. “Seems like a nice thing to do.”

“What do ye get out of it?”

Rain grinned, thinking of the perfect response. “A sense of pride and accomplishment.”

The kid snorted skeptically. Clearly, he didn’t get the joke. “What the fuck are ye doin’ down ‘ere anyway? Why is someone wearin’ that,” he gestured at Rain’s armor, “hunting slimes?”

“Sticking to what I know, I guess,” Rain said. “Believe it or not, I used to be weaker than these damn things. You’re already stronger than I was when I killed my first one. Pro tip: don’t use fire. They kinda explode.”

Kettel huffed and looked away. “It don’t matter anyway. Fine, let’s go. Yer fightin’ em, though. Yer fucking spell cleaned off the lard.”

Lard?

Rain’s confusion must have been visible on his face as the kid shook his head and explained. “I told ye, I’m no an idiot. The lard helps with the acid. Fire?” he laughed. “Only a total moron would use fire.”

Rain smiled. “Hey, I resemble that remark.”

The kid didn’t laugh. He still looked unhappy. He punched the wall in frustration. “Damn it.”

“What?” Rain said, concerned that he’d hurt himself.

“No matter how many o the fuckin’ things I kill, I never get anything ta show for it. Ye don’t know what it’s like. I thought if I fought four o them unarmed, then maybe…” He shook his head. “It’s not fucking fair. I’ve worked way harder than you lot, but I’m no stronger than I was when I started this.”

