You lot? I guess he means awakened in general. Rain sighed. “You’re absolutely right. It’s not fair.” He gestured to his armor. “I don’t feel like I earned any of this. Not really. It was too easy. I got lucky, and I don’t really deserve it. I hate that this is the way the world works, but the fact of the matter is that you’re never going to become an awakened by killing slimes. Not unless you find a blue, which isn’t likely down here.”

The kid looked even more unhappy at this. Damn it, I really suck at this stuff. He took a deep breath. “Look, I can’t change how the world works, but that doesn’t mean I can’t help you. The Guild won’t let you join, and you can’t learn magic, but you do have a soul, assuming you believe in that sort of thing. It isn’t awakened, but it’s still there. It still counts. You can still get stronger. You can train. You can fight. Hells, you can already fight. You just need to get yourself some equipment. A sword, some armor, anything. With a few Tel, you can afford it. Enchanted stuff’s not even out of the question. You won’t be able to handle much, but it’s better than nothing. Keep going, and one day, you’ll find a blue. You can hire adventurers to protect you, to take you to places where you might have a better chance. I can help you too.” Rain clenched his fist. “I will help you. I’ll help everyone.”

“Are ye daft? Why would ye do that?” the kid asked, staring at him.

Rain grinned. Oh my god, the speech was already cheesy, but this is going to push it over the top. I can’t resist. He straightened himself up. “Because I’m the hero, kid.”

The kid groaned.

“What, too much?” Rain asked, still grinning.

“You’re worse’n me da. Fine. Let’s go kill some slimes. What did ye say yer name was, hero?”

“Rain. What’s yours?”

“Rain? Weird name.” The kid shook his head. “Mine’s Kettel.”

Rain laughed. “You shouldn’t talk, Kettel. Pot. Kettle. Black.”

Kettel looked confused. “What the hells is tha’ supposed ta mean?”

Rain laughed. The saying didn’t translate, at least without a little explanation. Also, the common word for ‘kettle’ sounded nothing like the word in English. He didn’t care, though. “Don’t worry, you’ll get used to me. I can be a bit odd. I’m not a normal adventurer.”

“I noticed that.”

A few hours later, Kettel was leading Rain through the city. They’d spent quite a while hunting slimes together, stopping only when Rain’s Detection had failed to turn up any more. Kettel had even shown him where the specific kind of moss that his quest specified grew. Now, his legs were aching and his back was sore. The huge burlap bag of moss that he had slung over his back wasn’t helping things. Nevertheless, he felt satisfied. Traipsing all over the sewer had netted them another seventeen Tel, all of it going to Kettel at Rain’s insistence. They had also found a few more of those green crystals, similar to the one that the Mucus King had dropped. Rain now knew from his conversations with Staavo that they were crysts, just as he’d suspected. Chem-Crysts, to be specific.

According to Kettel, they were a common drop from slimes. Rain was apparently extremely unlucky to not have found one before. They didn’t sell for much because of how easy they were to get in Fel Sadanis, only a Tel or two. Kettel had offered them to him and he’d decided to accept. He needed to deliver the moss to some alchemist called Myth. Both alchemists and chemists used Chem-Crysts, so he could probably sell them while he was there. Myth’s shop was on the south side of the city, but he wasn’t that eager to be on his way. Kettel lived nearby and had invited him to dinner. That sounded much better than a long walk at the moment.

Kettel looked nervous as they walked. Rain didn’t blame him. The teenager was carrying a sizable quantity of money, from his perspective. As they’d been exploring the sewers together, Rain had gotten to know him a little better, learning quite a bit about how normal people in the city lived. Kettel was only fifteen, but he worked as a porter, helping to feed his family. His father was also a porter, and a fisherman, and a handyman, and whatever else he could get paid for. His mother was a server at a seedy tavern. They needed every copper they could earn to keep their family fed. Rain was pretty sure that the reason Kettel had invited him to dinner was just to make sure he got home without getting mugged.

The part of the city that Kettel had led him to wasn’t a ghetto or anything, but it was certainly less prosperous than the other neighborhoods he’d seen so far. The houses were small and crudely built, slapped together from rough wood, generally unpainted. Rain again found himself wondering what all the people in the city did for a living. Around here, it was a little more obvious. He saw people coming and going from the river with baskets of laundry, or carrying bundles of furs to be tanned, or straw to be woven. It was crowded, hectic, and above all, ripe. He had to resist using Purify to scour the entire area. People were alarmed enough as it was. His appearance was causing a bit of a disruption to the day-to-day activities of these people. He felt like a shark swimming through a terrified crowd of fish. He’d taken his helmet off completely, hanging it at his waist, but it didn’t seem to help. Adventurers simply didn’t come to this part of town.

“Here’s me,” Kettel said, pointing. Rain looked at him, then the tiny shack he’d indicated. “Me da should be home. Just…wait here.”

Rain nodded. Kettel wasn’t angry with Rain for existing anymore, at least. He’d even returned the cloak without having to be asked when they’d left the sewers. He was wearing a rough-spun outfit of brown linen that he’d stashed in a cubby near one of the stairwells leading back to the surface. He had indeed been hunting the slimes naked, save for the rancid fat that he’d covered himself with to protect his skin. Rain found himself admiring the man’s drive. He was young, sure, but Rain couldn’t really think of him as a kid anymore, despite his age. He hadn’t been expecting him to act like a high-schooler from his world or anything, but talking with the man had hammered it home. The reality was that Kettel had been forced to stop being a kid or to starve. He felt trapped in the city, but he didn’t want to leave and seek his fortune. That would mean abandoning his family.

Rain looked around as he waited for Kettel to return. This whole experience was eye-opening. Lately, he’d been feeling like he was a small fish in a big pond, at the mercy of powerful people like Lavarro, Halgrave, and the Watch sentinel, Lamida. Having that turned so abruptly on its head was…a disconcerting experience. Who am I? He looked down at his armored hands. The metal was pristine, not polished or anything, but compared to the tattered clothing of the people watching him from windows and alleyways, he shone like a king. He felt horribly out of place.

Kettel’s head poked past the heavy curtain blocking the entrance to his home. “Okay, ye can come in. He promised he won’t freak out.”

“Damn it, Kett’l, when ‘ave I ever freaked out?” a rough voice protested. The accent was even thicker than Kettel’s own. “Show ah little respect ta yer elders.”

Rain smiled, following Kettel inside to see a smallish room lit by a blazing fireplace. It was surprisingly clean. Cozy. Though the house was only one room, it had been partitioned off with curtains hung from the ceiling. Kettel’s father was sitting on a wooden chair by the fire, mending a fishing net. He dropped it as Rain came through the door.

“Holy shite!” the man said, staring at Rain. He looked at his son. “Ye say an adventurer, no a bloody noble!” The man had coarse brown hair, just like his son, their wide features marking them as clearly related. Further conversation was interrupted by a sudden voice from a curtained alcove.

“Wow, Manda, look! A noble!”

Rain turned to see a young girl looking at him, perhaps five or six years old. Her sister quickly stepped in front of her protectively, an older girl of maybe ten or twelve. “Shh,” the older girl hissed, watching Rain with fear in her eyes. “Get back, Alla, go an’ hide.” Rain’s heart clenched. What’s been done to these people for them to look at me like that?

He smiled, trying to look as non-threatening as possible. “Hello.”

The little girl tried to push her sister aside, but Manda was having none of it. She stared at him with the same angry eyes that her brother had on their first meeting.

Rain shook his head. “You don’t need to be afraid of me.” He turned to look at Kettel’s father, who had lurched to his feet and was looking worriedly between him and his children. “I’m just here to eat your food.”

Kettel’s father blinked. He looked at his son. “Did’e jus say wha’ I thought I ‘eard em say?”

Kettel laughed. “Da, I told ye not ta freak out. He’s no like other adventurers. He’s no a greedy asshole, for one.” He grinned. “Look.” He tossed a pouch at his father. The man caught it, then pulled the string tying it closed and peered inside. He collapsed back into his chair in shock.

Kettel walked over to his father, placing his hand on his shoulder. “He says it’s all ours. I got three o those myself, but he helped me ta get the rest. He’s…some kinda mage or somethin’, despite the armor. He’s got this aura that…Da, are ye okay?”

Kettel’s father looked like a fish, his mouth opening and closing as he struggled to form words. “Kettel…I…what…how?”

Rain was distracted by the sound of the scuffle that was coming from the curtained alcove. The two sisters were fighting, the younger one trying to escape from the arms of the older one by pulling her hair. He chuckled. Kids. His smile faded as he saw the expression of fear on the older sister’s face as she saw him watching her. This won’t do. This won’t do at all. He looked down at his rich black cloak and slate-gray armor. Maybe Jamus has a point. I could use a little color…

Staavo hobbled through the city, the socket of his wooden foot chafing at his stump. He struggled to keep up with the distinctive mage he was following without giving himself away. If he lost him, then all his hustle would be for nothing. Fortunately, the orange of his quarry’s robe stuck out from the green-and-brown sea that was the peasantry.

When Rain hadn’t shown up at his tower, Staavo had decided to go and find him himself. He’d strapped the contraption he’d built to his back and set off for the Guild. Rain hadn’t been there, but he’d spotted Jamus just as he was leaving. He’d already asked the man to tell Rain to come and find him, but that hadn’t worked. Jamus either hadn’t passed on the message, or that idiot Rain had gotten distracted. Probably trying to find a lost cat or something.

He cursed his missing foot as he walked. His prosthetic was coming loose, but he didn’t have time to stop and secure it more tightly. Damn it, I had to be wearing the thin sock today. It looked like Jamus was heading for the east gate. It would be hard to follow him once he got out of the crowded city streets. Staavo knew he could manage. He was an adventurer. He knew how to not be seen.

He had to dodge suddenly as a cloaked figure dashed out of an alley, almost crashing into him. He staggered, unbalanced by the heavy generator strapped to his back as his wooden foot twisted. He would have fallen had he not been caught by the hem of his tunic. The black man who caught him was wearing a dark jacket and had come out of the same alley. The jacket caught Staavo’s attention. It was an old Osaran dueling jacket, not something you saw every day. The man didn’t even spare him another glance, taking off after the cloaked figure.

Staavo caught the flash of bronze from beneath the man’s long dark ponytail. His guild plate had gotten turned around and was hanging against his back. Staavo swore and kept moving, following after Jamus. He didn’t have time to yell at the pair. Bloody small-town bumpkin adventurers. No consideration for the elderly.

He was relieved as he spotted the tip of Jamus’s orange hat. The mage was trying to sneak past a line of carts that were blocking the gate. Staavo smiled, ducking into an alley to wait. You’re not getting away from me. If you didn’t want to be tracked, you shouldn’t have dressed like a damn pumpkin. At least Rain’s got the right idea there. I’ll find where you’re hiding, lord of dark secrets. I’m going to follow Jamus right to you.
