Matt tried to skip to the actual incident, but Luna made him start from the very beginning. “It was during the skill reveal, and I was talking to Eyria de Solis. She pissed me off, and I had the thought that I helped because I chose to. Not because of the expectations of others. I did so because ‘I am the Master of my own Destiny’. And I felt my Truth sort of form. It’s—”

Luna cut him off with an imperious swish of her tail. “Like a seed. How interesting. It is curious, the means by which my more successful students manage to surprise even me. Well done.”

Matt was just registering the compliment when he was sent flying into the far wall as Luna batted him with a casual paw.

“What was that for?”

Matt wasn’t that hurt and barely registered any pain. All of his broken bones were already healed, but he was surprised.

Luna jumped down onto the ground and sauntered over. “Why didn’t you block that Matthew? Aren't you big and strong enough to do whatever you want? To ignore all good advice that has been told to you before?”

Rolling his eyes, Matt stood up and dusted himself off while fixing the cracks, knowing that Luna had let the wall get damaged to test his manipulation skills.

“I don't think I’m beyond help. I was just halfway across the Empire and didn’t want to bother Allie with something that could have waited. And then the incident with Liz happened, and it kinda got forgotten.”

Matt fibbed about the timeline a bit and hoped Luna wouldn’t call him on it. Thankfully, her attention went to the wall and she hopped onto his shoulder where she dug the tips of her claws into him for balance as she checked his repair job.

“Clear your schedule for the next two months. We will be working on getting your Truth realized enough so you don’t accidentally collapse yourself. After that, we can go from there.”

A part of Matt was tempted to weasel out of that just to be contrary, but his excuse, the society attacking them, didn’t have a target for them yet and so wouldn’t hold up at all. Though they were hopefully close. Their spies had cracked the data storage they had gotten from Raffi and were working to find everyone he had ever had contact with.

The first lead, the woman who had impersonated Liz, was narrowed down to a few people, and Matt really wanted to be there for Liz. Between Aster, Allie, and Susanne, he wasn’t really needed, and the look from both Liz and Aster when he mentioned that was enough to get him to dedicate himself wholly to his Truth.

It was almost kind of nice to return to learning with Luna. She did treat him a bit more as an equal, but she was still an experienced mentor and she was able to guide him through the initial stages of building his Truth.

Most of it was meditation-based, with him carefully embodying his Truth and feeling if he wanted to change his understanding of it, but other parts were careful exercises that pushed his Truth in much smaller, and therefore safer, ways than their impromptu tests.

Not that they were all that safe. Matt’s spirit was far too low of a Tier to handle any sort of failure or accident when it came to something as advanced as an Aspect. That was a power that someone needed to reach Tier 50, not something a Tier 27 who should have only just gotten their Intent should be interacting with.

That, more than anything, limited just how much they could do. Luna’s help did however let him metaphorically plant his seed by reaffirming his Truth.

‘I am the Master of my own Destiny’ was more than a phrase or an image. It was an immutable idea that was like wet clay, still moldable, and Matt’s every action would have an outsized impact on the development of his Truth.

If he didn’t like his nascent Truth, it was at this point he would force himself to change and become different, so that he could better embody a different and eventually more fitting Truth, but Matt was pretty happy with his.

Matt thought it wasn’t that surprising, but Luna grabbed onto it like an actual cat. “What do you trust here, Matthew? Why does the idea of following some orders not have an adverse reaction from your Truth? It's the type that normally refuses to have anyone in command. If we can figure this out, we might be able to make a breakthrough.”

“I don’t know, Luna. Everyone trusts some people.”

Her tail swished in the negative. “No Matthew, people who had their Truths about personal freedoms, especially with anything like your very justifiable fears, don’t usually have exceptions.”

Matt sat there for a long time before slowly speaking his thoughts as they formed. “I don’t mind following orders. Or let me reword that. I didn’t mind following orders in the war and I don’t have an issue with that if it happened again. Does that make sense? It's my choice to follow the orders. Hmm, no, it's not just that. I know I’m not a tactical genius.”

“So, you trust High Command? Their tactical ideas. Does that feel right?”

Matt thought over that. “Yes? In the abstract? I trust they’re doing their best and are probably more skilled at command and seeing the bigger picture? But it’s not just that. I chose to join the Path. I chose to become an Ascender. That also means I chose to accept that I’d be in the army, and that this involves following orders, even if I have more leeway than normal soldiers. But abusing that leeway without good reason just feels… childish. Bsides, it’s not like they are able to force me if I do decide an order is too much.”

Luna stood up and paced around in a circle. “Now there is a good question. What if they gave you an order you disagreed with? On a tactical level.”

Matt hesitated. “What kind of order? And why do I disagree?”

“Does it matter?” Luna seemed surprised and dug deeper. “If yes, then say, killing a mind controlled comrade.”

“Of course it matters. If it’s just a matter of target priority I’d just comply. Like I said, I implicitly accepted following orders when I became an Ascender. But if they wanted me to kill Arthur or Ai'la because they were mind controlled? I’d refuse.”

Luna purred in a way Matt interpreted as a hum of thought. “What if I gave you that second order?”

Matt wanted to reply the same way, but his mind hesitated and his Truth was uncharacteristically quiet.

“I trust you, though. I know you. You wouldn't order that without being very certain it’s the only way.”

That wasn’t really an answer, but Luna just nodded as she continued. “What if I was wrong? In the aftermath, it turned out to be the wrong call.”

Matt once more felt nothing. Not from his Truth at least. “I’d be devastated, but we all make mistakes. Though that's easy to say in a theoretical.”

Luna swished her tail as she pondered the implications of that before she asked. “What if I told you to clean my house?”

“That’d depend entirely on the context. But yes, I guess. But I’d like an explanation. Why does it matter?”

Matt asked the question but then froze as he realized what Luna was getting at.

His Truth, or possibly he himself, had no issues with him choosing to follow the ‘orders’ of people he trusted.

Turning the idea around, if someone he didn’t like tried to order him to clean their house, say a random Tier 40 off the street, he couldn't even finish the idea before his Truth flared its hatred of the idea, like a dog growling at something through a fence it knew was there but couldn’t see.

“Okay, so I won’t be cleaning random houses on a random person’s orders. But if you asked me, no, if you told me to, I'd probably do it. Like, I can’t see why I wouldn’t. I’d trust you have a good reason and I’d be willing to help. But I’d be quite miffed if there wasn’t a good reason, especially as I’d definitely help if you just asked instead.”

“Now why is that? Is it because I trained you? Because you have known me for so long? Or something else? This is good and we need to narrow down on this.”

It took hours for Matt to have an answer but Luna didn’t rush him as his mind raced in circles trying to dig to the heart of the matter. “No, I think it's more than just pure trust, but I can’t quite put it into words as I don’t have a better word at the moment. I trust you, so I’m willing to follow your orders. That trust is because of our connection and shared history, obviously, but the reason I don’t mind the idea of listening to you is because I trust you. And if you were wrong, it doesn't really bother me, so long as it was an honest mistake. We all make mistakes and following someone else's gut turning wrong is still my choice. Now if you betrayed me intentionally, the other stuff wouldn’t matter. You’ve built that trust, earned it. But it’s still my decision. I’m in control. Yeah, I think that might be a better answer. Control of my actions.”

“Interesting, and good. This gives you flexibility to selectively counter your own Truth so long as it's needed. Such a measure is rare, but useful. If Liz or Aster said you needed to break your Domain right now, and you were sure they were themselves and not under outside influences, would you do it?”

Matt’s answer was so easy it was almost scary. “I’d definitely want an explanation but if they insisted I needed to trust them… I’d try to do so in a way that would be most easily repairable, but yes. I’d do it. Even my Truth agrees with that decision, which feels strange. It shouldn't be agreeing with something that would destroy it.”

“Matthew, you are looking at it wrong. As much as it may feel like it, your Truth is not alive. It doesn’t have an opinion beyond what it expresses and it definitely doesn’t have a survival instinct. It isn’t the words ‘I am the Master of my own Destiny’, it's the idea behind them so stop thinking of it so literally. There is no wrong interpretation of that idea, only yours. At this early stage, we can identify the quirks of such a Truth and then either lean into them or try to hammer them out. All things told, this isn’t a bad quirk. When you originally mentioned your Truth, I feared it would be far more limiting. Now let's see how far it goes.”

Matt knew he wasn’t going to like what happened next but agreed.

Luna didn’t hold back. “A world is about to undergo rift breaks, let's say a Tier 5 world. It's full of low-Tier civilians and you are the only person over Tier 5 there, in fact. Someone you trust tells you that you need to let the rifts break and not intervene: what do you do?”

Matt couldn’t help glaring at Luna, who actually reacted by holding up a paw. “It's a distasteful question, Matthew, but a good test.”

It was a good test. Matt couldn't deny that. He also didn’t like what his initial answer was. “I’d ask why, and if there wasn’t a really good fucking reason, I’d never trust the person in question again, and then go try to salvage what I could and beat myself up for not acting immediately. If, let me stress that, if there was a good reason, and I cannot fathom any existing reason that would satisfy me but in the hypothetical that there was, I’d still dislike it but I’d listen.”

Luna reached out and patted his hand, which was weird when she was in her cat form, but Matt did appreciate her and her help. It was actually quite nice and a new side of his usually hard as nails mentor.

“Okay, something else. What if Manny ordered you to give more mana to fund a project you didn’t like? I don’t have an idea, but something like a subsidy for a really evil noble family that treats their people badly and used to let rift breaks happen. He’s insisting that it’s necessary in the grand scheme of things.”

Matt once more had to think about it for a long while. “I’d ask for a reason, but my initial answer is I’d do it. But if the eventual reason wasn’t good enough, I’d start giving where my mana goes far more scrutiny.”

Luna sat for a while before then asking. “Okay, what about someone you trust asking you to do something you don’t want to do, but they don’t have a good reason or you simply know it's wrong. They tell you to kill a child who isn’t in harm's way and won’t become some great evil, or something silly like that. Or if they then moved to do it themselves.”

“I wouldn’t do it. Even my Truth agrees in an easy no and I move to stop them from harming the child as well.” Matt was certain of that.

He was perfectly willing to tell anyone no or outright stop them if he had to, and if he was sure they were wrong.

He wouldn’t just sit by and watch an atrocity happen.

His Truth pulsed and hummed as they were both in agreement.

Luna took several deep breaths, smelling the changes.

“Interesting. Ok what about a friend, but not a close friend. Say one of your Path acquaintances. No, that’s too far removed. Say, one of your nobles, who you have known for a while, and generally think is competent, says you need to do something you are either ambivalent on or don’t have enough information to make your own conclusion on?”

They ran through a few more, and it seemed like, so long as it was someone Matt trusted, truly trusted, his Truth wouldn’t stop him from doing something he personally didn’t want to do. It also seemed to give a lot of leeway if Matt personally put himself in the position where he expected himself to follow orders.

Which Matt did agree was useful, once the heightened emotions from the hard questions wore off.

