He wasn’t sure he liked that he was willing to do things he usually thought were wrong because someone he trusted said so, like in the examples of the rift breaks or an example where Mara or Leon told him he needed to extinguish all life on a planet and there wasn’t time to explain. He found that he was generally willing to do something he considered detestable or downright evil if someone he trusted assured him it was needed so long as the decision to act was truly his.

Luna reassured him that these questions in a calm environment weren’t remotely the same as in the heat of the moment, and he shouldn't be surprised if he reacted differently if they actually happened but it was still a glimpse of himself he wasn’t sure he liked. Not to mention that could go in the other direction too which somehow seemed worse.

They tried to drill down to the why, but the closest they got was that Matt didn’t see himself as infallible, and saw himself responsible for his own actions whether he was making the decisions or listening to someone else. He had been wrong a lot in his life, and while he learned from those mistakes, or almost mistakes in the times where he had changed his mind thanks to someone he trusted giving him other advice, he was very aware that he could be wrong. And it seemed that his Truth also knew it.

The last thing Luna had him do was, carefully, oh so carefully, feel out and see if he had any ideas for the rest of his Aspect’s pieces, but he was still completely clueless. She made him repeat out loud that he wouldn't purposefully try for them until he was at least Tier 35 and in a military installation that had the facilities to actually make attempts survivable.

Logically, he knew she was right, in that Aspects were only truly safe to fail after Tier 40, but with so many of the people he interacted with having Aspects at Tier 35, he felt he should be able to make one far sooner than that. He didn’t think he was the next coming of Duke Waters, but having made his Domain Meld, Matt felt he had it in him to push for it a little early.

Like most things, he wasn’t an expert but he was only half a step removed.

To that end, he actually did something he had intended to do for the last little while, and messaged Max for the more advanced mental defense lessons.

Having run into his Truth, and discovering all the ways it could mess with his mind and decisions, he wanted to have a better control over foreign impulses before his Truth grew even stronger and more influential. He’d been putting it off for a while now, but…

It was time to visit the Corporations.
