Jessica stepped carefully along the rope bridge, the planks shifting beneath her weight as the canyon below disappeared under a sea of clouds. Her aunt walked just ahead of her while Iris padded close to Jessica’s heels.

“So… why am I getting a new mask?” Jessica asked.

“With your role here in the tribe changing, it is only appropriate,” her aunt answered.

“My… role…?” Jessica questioned.

“What you’ve done when you faced the open challenge,” her aunt continued. “You exceeded everyone’s expectations. Even facing it with bravery would have been enough, but you went beyond that. It deserves to be honored. And more than that, this mask will represent something greater than a single victory. It will represent the future of our tribe.” Her aunt looked over her shoulder, the eyes of her goofy, grinning mask looking back at her. “I thought it important you have this new mask on your next hunt.”

Though her mask had a goofy expression, there was something very intimidating about it. Really, all of the masks had an intimidating edge to them, but there was something unsettling about her aunt’s mask if she really looked at it. The carved grin, the rounded cheeks, the almost playful tilt to the eyes.

“I see…” Jessica searched through Elva’s memories.

Most of the tribe changed their masks at least once in their lives. After a great hunt. A victory. Marriage. Something that meant something. From what Jessica could tell, it was unusual to have your mask changed so young. It wasn’t customary to do it simply because of System integration or going on your first hunt, as those were all things that were expected and not unique.

Also, the mask maker would usually have some input on whether it was an appropriate time to take a new mask or not. As she would be the one to carve it.

“Do you really think…” Jessica let out a breath as she let her gaze settle over the side of the bridge. No bottom. No ground. Just open air. Not that long ago, that would’ve been enough to make her knees shake. Now she barely felt it.

“Think what, Elva?”

“I mean… the future of the tribe. I…”

“Perhaps it is your hesitance to take such a role that makes you perfect for it. But you don’t need to think so deeply about such things yet. You are still young. You are still growing. Don’t think of the next ten battles and the next twelve hunts. Think only of the very next, and you will do fine.”

“Wouldn’t you chastise Father for thinking that way?”

“He thinks that way naturally. He has me to do the long-term thinking for him.” She looked over her shoulder once more. “And you have me as well, Elva.”

Jessica nodded but couldn’t help glancing down at Iris. The Hell Hound’s white eyes raised to meet hers. Jessica may not have had any long-term plans, but Iris certainly did.

They reached the end of the bridge and crossed a smaller plateau, which was only used for the five bridges connected to it that went off in different directions to other larger plateaus. Her aunt led her across a bridge that angled downward and to the plateau where the mask maker lived.

It was a structure carved directly into the cliffside, not too unlike the Direwing caves. Outside the door, several unpainted, unfinished blocks of wood with mere eyeholes carved out of them sat in the sun, while bone charms hanging from string rattled in the wind.

Her aunt walked right up to the door but didn’t knock. She simply pushed it open, and Jessica followed her inside.

The wind died at her back as the door swung shut, and with it, the faint clatter of bone charms outside faded into silence. The interior was dim, lit by narrow slits carved into the stone that let in thin shafts of light. Dust drifted lazily through them, catching in the air like slow-falling ash.

Jessica’s eyes adjusted as she took a few cautious steps forward.

Masks.

They were everywhere.

Hanging from the walls. Resting on shelves carved into the stone. Laid out across long wooden tables. Some were crude, little more than shaped blocks with hollowed eyes. Others were intricate—painted, polished, carved with patterns that twisted across their surfaces like living things.

Grinning faces. Snarling ones. Blank, hollow expressions that seemed to follow her as she moved.

Jessica’s gaze lingered on one hanging slightly apart from the others. The wood had split down one side like a lightning bolt, crossing over the eye like a deep scar and distorting the expression.

“Do not stare at that one,” her aunt said.

“Why not?” Jessica asked.

“You know why,” her aunt said, looking back at her, a stern edge coming to her voice.

Jessica looked away as the relevant bit of information from Elva’s memories surfaced. A broken mask is an omen. A sign that the Scaly Bastard had touched it, attempting to sabotage the mask before it could come under the Almighty’s protection. The process of treating the wood that made them strong pieces of armor also protected them from evil.

Or at least, that’s what these people believed. Jessica, of course, was skeptical. But then again, there were all kinds of unbelievable things about this world compared to Earth, so she couldn’t say with confidence that it really was nothing more than tribal superstition.

They continued to pass through, Jessica feeling more unnerved the further in they went, until she heard a scraping sound. It stretched out for a few seconds, then paused, before a slight bang and another extended scrape. Across the next wall, a shadow stretched, distorting with each slow movement.

“I’ve been waiting,” the voice of an old woman called, and the shadow stilled.

Jessica followed her aunt a little further until she saw the mask maker. She was small, back hunched over a worktable as she held a partially carved mask in one hand and a knife in the other. When she turned, her own mask was unlike any other Jessica had seen, but only for its simplicity.

The mask maker’s mask only had eye holes, no mouth or nose or any other discerning features. That was somehow even creepier. It made her skin crawl more than any of the snarling or grinning faces that filled the mask maker’s home.

The old woman straightened slowly, the knife still in her hand as she turned fully toward them. The partially carved mask she’d been working on was set down with a soft tap against the table.

“Come closer,” she said.

Her voice wasn’t loud, but it carried easily in the quiet space.

Jessica hesitated for half a second before stepping forward, her boots echoing softly against the stone. Iris stayed tight at her side, her gaze locked on the mask maker.

The woman tilted her head slightly, those empty eyeholes fixed on Jessica.

“Elva Wyrmscar,” she murmured. “You’ve changed quite a bit since the last time I’ve seen you. And I’ve heard much more.”

The mask maker didn’t move right away. She simply stood there, those empty eyeholes fixed on Jessica as if waiting for something. What she was waiting for, Jessica had no idea, but she resisted the urge to shift her weight. The expressionless mask was certainly so much more unnerving, like being only eyes gave Jessica the sense that it could see what others could not. As if that were the only purpose of this face. To see things.

Even Iris seemed uncomfortable as she asked in Jessica’s mind, “What is this strange creature?” And the Hell Hound let out a very low growl.

“Iris, ssshhh,” Jessica chided her quietly.

The mask maker tilted her head slightly at the sound of Iris’s growl, those empty eyeholes shifting just enough to acknowledge the Hell Hound’s presence.

“Ah,” she murmured. “So that is the source of it.”

Jessica frowned. “Source of what?”

The old woman didn’t answer right away. Instead, she stepped forward, slow and deliberate, her attention now fixed on Iris. The space seemed to tighten with each step she took.

Iris didn’t back down.

Her posture lowered slightly, muscles coiling, her gaze locked onto the woman. The low rumble in her chest deepened.

The mask maker stopped a few paces away. Then, to Jessica’s surprise, she crouched down towards the Hell Hound. To take a closer look at her?

The knife was still gripped inside her bony hand, and for a terrible moment, Jessica had a vision of the faceless woman lunging at Iris, stabbing her mercilessly, and killing her.

“Such a creature,” she said softly. “Filled with so much hatred…”

"Grrrrr..." Iris’s lips curled just slightly as she growled, a hint of fang showing.

Jessica stepped forward half a step without thinking, angling herself between them.

“She’s not a ‘creature,’” Jessica said, her voice firmer than she intended.

The mask maker’s head turned back toward her. There was silence for a moment, and then a faint, almost amused hum escaped.

“No,” the woman said. "She is not just a creature. But the bond between the two of you. It is more unique than any of the Wyrmscar Legacy inheritors and their beasts that I have observed before.”

She straightened again.

“That is why you are here,” she continued. “Not just because of your blood. Not just because of your victories or that you’ve grown in strength. But because there is something different about you. Something has changed, and the face you wear now no longer belongs to you. Does it? It belongs to a different you, one that is no longer here.”

Jessica froze as the old woman spoke those words. She hastily dredged up every memory Elva had about the mask maker as quickly as she could, focusing on them. As far as she could tell, Elva had very limited interactions with her. When young Elva Wyrmscar came here, she was more interested in demanding her mask than paying any true attention to the woman who had carved them.

The old woman lifted a hand—not touching, just hovering in front of Jessica’s face, as if feeling for something unseen.

“I-I don’t…” Jessica muttered.

“Mm.”

The mask maker turned away without another word, moving back toward the worktable. She set the knife down this time, the faint clink of metal against wood sounding far louder than it should have in the silence.

“Take it off,” she said.

Jessica blinked. “What?”

“Your mask,” the woman clarified, not looking back. “You will not choose a new one while looking through the eyes of the old.”

Jessica hesitated.

Does she know what I am? she wondered. Now, Jessica wanted nothing more than to get out of here as soon as possible. She still had no idea what might happen to her if it were ever revealed that she was not truly Elva Wyrmscar. Would her aunt turn on her? Would Valrok demand her blood? Would the tribe see her as an imposter sent from the Scaly Bastard and mount her and Iris’s heads on pikes?

Her fingers lifted slightly toward her face… then stopped.

For a moment, she didn’t move.

It doesn’t matter. It’s not like this mask can hide anything… or at least I don’t think it can. I mean, will she be able to see it in my real face that I’m not Elva?

Still, any reason she could think to not take off the mask she knew would be way more suspicious. So finally she got her fingers on the straps, loosened them, and then pulled it free. The air felt colder against her skin immediately.

The mask maker turned back to face her, those black voids of eyes watching her a moment longer. Finally, she nodded and said, “…Yes. Now I can see it truly.”

Jessica swallowed. “See what?”

“The face,” the woman continued softly, “and the self behind it… they no longer align. You wear the remnants of a girl who is gone. But something else has taken her place.”

Jessica gulped.

Th-That’s metaphorical, right!? She doesn’t mean that literally, right?

The mask maker’s head tilted slightly sideways. “Yet, you are still between two selves. You haven’t embraced it.”

Uh… okay, that’s leaning more towards she doesn’t downright think I’m an imposter… right?

Finally, the old woman turned away. “Come.”

Jessica looked down to Iris and the Hell Hound looked back up to her. “I don’t like this place,” Iris said in her mind. “There is no room to run or fly.”

“Iris, relax,” Jessica said softly, kneeling down to be closer to eye level with her. “We’re not in danger, okay?”

Iris growled. “But if we are attacked—”

“What’s gotten into her?” her aunt asked, finally speaking up.

“Oh, she uh—” Jessica grinned awkwardly. “I think she doesn’t like being indoors. She’s on edge because she feels vulnerable. You know, not enough space to move around.”

“I see. Should we have her wait outside?”

“No. I think it’s okay,” Jessica said. Then she looked down to Iris. “You’ll be okay. Right, girl?”

Iris narrowed her eyes at Jessica but didn’t complain further as she was the first to start moving.

Her aunt muttered. “The way you communicate with her…”

Jessica held herself back from reacting too strongly to that. “Oh! Ah, yes. Our bond became strong out in the forest together. She… she does listen well.”

Her aunt nodded.

It would be hard to hide for long that Iris was far more intelligent than any ordinary monster. But Jessica also believed that by maintaining the perception that she was indeed the one who was in control, Iris would not be in danger.

“Well, let's not keep the mask maker waiting,” her aunt said.

They delved deeper into the stone structure until the old woman came to a stop beside a long table, where she gestured over several masks laid out in a row.

“Come,” she said. “Take a look.”

Jessica stepped up beside the table, her old mask still in her hand. There were four new masks laid before her.

“These are not decorations,” the old woman continued. “They are declarations. To your tribe. To your enemies. To the Almighty Above. And to yourself. Will you wear a face that intimidates the world and brings it to its knees? Or one that mocks those who dare to challenge you? Or will you be like this third mask, that stands firm, unafraid, ready to protect those who stand behind it? Or perhaps you prefer… an honest face?”

She gestured to the fourth mask. The smile wasn’t a smile. Not really. Just a faint pull of the lips to show the teeth. Along its carved gums were pointed fangs—not too unlike a wolf's, and the eyes weren’t angry, or proud, or calm. Just ready.

Jessica could feel the void of the mask maker’s eyes on her, but at that moment, Jessica didn’t really care. She stared at that fourth mask.

“That is the face of a predator,” the mask maker said, taking note of Jessica’s attention to it. “One that does not ask what it should be. It does not question. It does not hesitate. It follows its nature… and in doing so, it becomes exactly what the world expects of it.” Those voids of eyes then tilted downward, towards Iris. “Not unlike a Hell Hound.”

“I’m not… like that,” Jessica muttered.

“No? Then perhaps one of the other masks calls to you?”

Jessica looked along the other three. If she had to choose the kind of person she was going to become… wouldn’t being a protector be better? Saying that definitely sounded better than ‘I want to be a predator,’ at least. She looked at that third mask and began to reach for it, but paused.

The mask was solid. Broad across the brow, the lines carved deep with thick cheekbones, teeth clenched together as if ready to take a hit. Yet, her hand paused.

I’d be such a liar, she thought. I’d never protected anything in my life. I’m not protecting anything now…

Then she tensed her fists and looked away from the table.

Why am I even thinking about it so hard? It’s not like I care about any of this! These stupid masks. I should just grab one and move on. I’m not Elva! I’m not from the Bloody Peaks Tribe. I don’t believe in their religion, and I don’t feel responsible for them! In fact…

She relaxed a little as she glanced down at Iris.

In fact… if I did somehow end up leader of the tribe. I’d just hand that power off to Iris anyway.

The mask maker spoke again, but not to Jessica this time. “Helga. Come, let’s leave her alone to think it over. The child may feel rushed if we are hovering.” The woman let out a low cackling laughter.

Her aunt nodded. “Alright. Take your time, Elva. This very well may be the face you wear for the rest of your life. So think it over with care.” With that, the two women left, leaving Iris and Jessica alone with the four masks.

“S-Sorry I’m taking so long, Iris. I know you want to get out of here,” Jessica whispered once she was sure they were out of earshot.

“This choice is important?” Iris asked.

“Uh… I mean…” Jessica looked over the masks again. “I don’t know. Not really? It’s just a mask, right?”

“Will it help you hunt?”

“Not really. I’m not sure why I’m overthinking it. I don’t really care about any of this.”

Iris then hunkered down so that she could pop back up, and got her front paws on the table. She could barely see over the top, but she looked along the masks, sniffed at them, her nose snorting at one, then the next. She let out a final huff before letting her paws slide off the table once again.

“They… mean things? These masks?”

Jessica nodded. “…I just don’t think any of them really fit me. Protector? Predator? Something in between? I mean… if they’re meant to represent how I see myself… You know, I don’t really want anything in particular. I’ve just been… trying to make sure the two of us survive. That’s it. It’s just been one thing after another. Fight. Adapt. Don’t die. And make sure you’re safe. That’s it, so…” She glanced back at the masks. “Protector? I should take the third mask, right?”

“I do not need protection,” Iris cut in rather coolly.

Jessica blinked. “What?”

Iris’s gaze sharpened. “I am not something you must keep safe. I fight. I kill. I survive.” Her tail flicked behind her. “I am not prey.”

“I— I didn’t mean it like that.”

“Then why speak as if you stand in front of me?” Iris continued, her voice low and steady in Jessica’s mind. “We have fought together. Killed great foes together.” Her white eyes locked onto Jessica’s. “We are pack.”

Those last three words hit Jessica. She felt a warmth in her chest upon hearing them.

“Pack… huh?” She smiled. Hearing that word—not just that it was said, but the way Iris said it. It felt really good.

It was true that, ever since waking up in Elva Wyrmscar’s body, she didn’t really have an answer to what she wanted and what she should be doing here. She was Jessica, but this wasn’t Jessica’s world, it wasn’t Jessica’s life. Though she was here all the same. But with Iris, she had a bond. A reason to exist. If Jessica couldn’t have any dreams or goals of her own, then she could at least support Iris in hers. Not as a protector. But a pack mate. That felt better.

Jessica reached for the fourth mask. She was pack mates with a Hell Hound, and what were Hell Hounds? Really, they were predators. But that didn’t have to be all they were. Iris loved her family, Jessica could hear it in the way she spoke about them. Iris was so set on revenge, but Jessica hoped she could steer her towards that love as well. Because a pack didn’t just kill and survive, they supported each other, take care of each other.

If she were going to have any purpose in this life, that felt like one she could believe in.

She picked up the predator mask and stared at it. The mouth itself was more humanlike but still had wolflike fangs and teeth. She turned it around, brought it up to her face, and put it on.
