“Are you ill?”

“No. I just overworked my soul.”

Lyn sighed. “From anyone else, I would assume that to be a joke.”

“From anyone else, it just might be.”

“What do you need?” Her tone had taken on a maternal cast.

“Apparently, a blanket…”

Lyn snorted, striding into the room and moving the blanket that was bunched up beside Tala to cover her. “There.”

“Thanks…”

“So…” Lyn sat down on the bed beside Tala. “What was the noise?”

“I clapped.”

“You clapped…”

“Yup.”

“Is that a metaphor? Some obscure training technique based on the heroes of yore? Or…?”

“No. I just clapped.”

Lyn looked at the other Mage’s palms, seeing the subtly glowing scripts, just like those that covered the rest of her. “Seems like it was a hard clap.”

“Yeah.”

“Please refrain? It was quite loud, even out in the living room.”

“Will do, boss.”

Lyn shook her head. “Do you need breakfast? The work-yard is expecting you to drop by this morning, and I’ve written down the information for your other appointments. The sheet is ready for you.”

Tala groaned, again, and sat up. Surprisingly, the room remained steady. “I think I’m ready.”

Lyn stood, keeping her back towards Tala. “Well, get dressed first, please?”

It took barely any time for Tala to pull her clothes back on. She decided to go with the immortal elk leathers again, given she was going to the training yard this morning.

Terry appeared on her shoulder as she stepped out of her room. A smile on her face, Tala took a moment to look around herself.

To her right, directly beside her at the end of the hall, was the door to Lyn’s room. Across the way was the door into the bathroom, and beside the bathroom door, closer to the living room, a window let in the beginnings of the first light of day.

The building was a simple construction, with poured stone floors, lightly textured and likely sealed. The walls were painted plaster over stone. Heavily built. The floor was dark, the walls light; it produced a pleasing atmosphere.

Why have I never just stopped to take it in?

She felt herself smile. She didn’t have any deadlines. Nothing was demanding she become ready. Sure, she had tasks that she wished to do, but that wasn’t what she meant. She had no obligations on her overall time, not at the moment.

She moved down the hall, which was wide enough for her and Lyn to pass each other quite easily.

Tala came out into the living room and saw Lyn sitting at the table off to one side, food laid out. “I thought food wasn’t included?”

“Well, I figured two meals wasn’t quite a pattern.” Lyn smiled. “I was informed that you developed a…liking for coffee.”

Tala was quite sure that ‘liking’ hadn’t been the word Lyn was going to say. She was about to comment, but then she saw the coffee in question, in a mug beside the other place at the table. Tala immediately forgave Lyn all implied slights and sat down, taking a deep pull of dark, decadent, deliciousness.

So smooth, so dark, so perfect.

They ate quickly, as both had many things to accomplish that day.

Lyn and Tala left at the same time, saying their goodbyes as they went in different directions: Tala to the work-yard, and Lyn to the Caravan Guild’s main office.

Tala took her time walking through the city, enjoying being back in Bandfast.

It had a different feel to it than Alefast, more relaxed, less…imminent. I suppose that’s what happens when you’re one wall away from the wilds.

There were similar mixes of architecture, and the people didn’t really look different, save Bandfast citizenry seeming a bit more relaxed. Maybe a bit heavier too… It was an interesting notion. Does safety lead to weight gain? That can’t be the only factor, obviously, but it was entertaining to consider.

Many people gave Terry odd looks, but no one seemed particularly alarmed by him. Tala fell back into her habit of reading, sketching, and jotting down her thoughts as she walked, both to keep her mind occupied and to prevent her from sprinting through the city. Mostly, though, she read. I have to get through my anatomy review, after all.

She was still having a bit of an odd time moving, each of her movements more powerful than she was expecting. Interestingly enough, the method of walking, learned at Adam’s suggestion, leant itself marvelously to the task, as she was used to careful, precise movements, and her enhanced nervous system adjusted to the changes in her power quite rapidly.

As Holly had implied, and Tala had discovered the night before, she felt ravenously hungry, and she was sure it was her new inscribings that were causing the hunger, even if not directly. They were working on reshaping her at a fundamental level and that required nutrition.

Towards that end, Tala bought no less than ten pasties of various kinds for the wonderful price of a single silver. As she walked, she occasionally tossed out bits of jerky, noticing the instantaneous, slight shift of Terry’s weight when he moved out and back, always having caught the meat.

She did not share the pasties.

Terry did not hold it against her. Much.

Finally, she reached the work-yard and the waiting cargo-slots.

The first one, to her surprise, charged incredibly slowly, taking a full minute to reach its maximum. She frowned. The mental construct is right… After a long minute of thought, and ten bits of jerky flicked randomly, she had a realization. I’ve just been using my left-over power-flow to charge these up. And my scripts are using most of that, now.

That actually reminded her of her items. She had charged them as part of her training earlier that day, and it had taken longer than usual. She’d just attributed that to the city being utterly devoid of free-floating power. Maybe it was something else? Since she was already thinking of them, she decided to top them off. If I can be hungry, why not them?

That done, she moved to the next cargo-slot and concentrated.

She formed the mental construct, just as before, but now, she reached inside. She saw, as well as felt, almost all of her power pouring from her gate into her spell-forms. She grabbed the entirety of that flow and channeled it down her right arm, through the mental construct, and into the second cargo-slot.

She exhaled.

The indicators flickered to life in rapid succession.

Blinking in surprise, Tala pulled back her hand. Less than two seconds? The cargo-slot in front of her was fully charged and ready to go.

Hesitantly, she moved to the next one and repeated the process.

Done.

She moved down the line, charging the remaining seventeen with little more than the time it took to touch them and take a quick breath.

That was…amazing! She had noticed a slight dip in her internal reserves during each charge, as her active scripts continued to use her power. That store of power had needed to be refilled by her gate, once the inflow was available again, but it was a minimal dip.

She heard the sound of a single person clapping, approaching from behind. “Wonderful! I can see you took my suggestions to heart and have improved remarkably.”

“Master Himmal!” Tala turned around, giving a slight bow. “It’s wonderful to see you again. Thank you, once again, for your advice.”

He smiled, folding his hands before him. “Think nothing of it, Mistress Tala. You have progressed tremendously in just two short weeks.”

She smiled. “Thank you.” As she focused on him, she saw the same oddities to his aura as before, but more clearly this time. The underlying color was suppressed, but obviously red. What she could see of it was fractured, somehow broken, and as she examined it closer, she could see that parts of it were much closer to orange than she first realized. Not uniform? From what little she understood, that seemed…bad. Well, he did say that he’d broken something with his gate. It’s probably related to that.

“Now, I can see that my hopes were not unfounded. We are nearly done with your custom set of cargo-slots, and I am glad that I added the ability for the larger capacities to be enabled. We should be able to get you a set close to four times those measly constructs, with added additional benefits for more fragile and valuable cargo. With those sizes, you’ll be able to have some outfitted as passenger and bunkhouse variants. You’ll be able to have a full caravan in just two or three wagons, depending on the Mage Protectors.” He shook his head. “The cooks will never leave their own wagon behind.” He smiled whimsically, speaking under his breath. “I would so love to examine one of their chuck-wagons one day.”

I knew it! That wagon and what the cooks could do within never made sense. Brand hadn’t just been messing with her after all. She smiled. “You and me both.”
