“We believe the Two Pupil Stone’s mutation has narrowed the scope of its future sight. Only that it is blank, which is confusing. As you saw in your own testing, it can predict the future, but what we noticed was that the test only worked when there was something in the physical space of the eye. When a hand was in the eye, it predicts the future of hands. Or maybe fingers in particular. It being a uniquely modified and Tiered up pseudo rift reward, we are relying on past cases and Talents’ feedback, which leaves some room for ambiguity.”

Allie put her own eye within an inch of the Natural Treasure as if that would let her see its secrets. “So what does that mean?”

Harkirat didn’t seem bothered by Allie and continued, “We are fairly certain, ninety seven percent, that the eye’s future sight was narrowed to what is inside the eye. If you put fire mana into the eye, it will see the future for fire mana. If you put in water mana, the same thing. Given the finger example, we can even confirm more esoteric examples not reliant on mana, but we don’t know where the limits lay. We just aren’t sure that the eye will reset, or if once something is truly merged with the eye, that it will be aspected to that future sight forever. We, however, recommend operating assuming the latter.”

That caused all of them to pause for all of thirty seconds before they started arguing why they were best suited to the eye.

“If I could see teleports, I’d be able to see my own future and then could do cool shit or something with it.”

Liz rolled her eyes. “That's far too specific and would therefore never get used. It should go to me. Everyone has blood, and if I could see the future of blood, I’d be even stronger.”

Zack raised a finger. “That same argument could be applied to spells. If it works with spells, I could avoid hits.”

Allie sniped right back. “Spells which you can already feel. That's not your weakness, so it doesn't make any sense when you basically never get hit by them. It would make more sense, but still no sense at all, if you took it and used it for physical objects. Remember that time someone put a bullet through your head?”

“That was only one time, and I figured o—”

“Yeah, yeah whatever. Space future sight would be the best for the Empire because I’m the best.”

Matt poked the orb, sending in a tiny amount of mana. When the eye showed a projection of the mana’s future inside of it, Matt gestured, not able to resist half heartedly throwing his hat into the ring. “If none of you want it I’ll take it. Everyone uses mana. I—”

Allie cut him off. “Zack already made that argument and you are even less killable than any of us except maybe Liz. Honestly, that should kick both of you guys out of competition.”

She sent a pulse of spatial fluctuations into the eye and cursed when the eye didn’t seem to predict much, quickly saying, “That's just because it's not in my face yet. Once it's there, it will be better I’m sure.”

Liz tried it and found the eye’s reaction somewhere in between Matt and Allie’s showing. Zack then tried just to see that his arcane mana didn’t react well with the eye, as the complicated nature of arcane mana seemed to just get clogged in the eye and took several minutes to clear.

That just left Allie, and it seemed like she was making progress with the argument when Aster silenced them all.

“I think it should go to Susanne.”

Even the woman in question looked confused, but Matt followed the logic and shrugged. “Swords are damn common. Being able to see them would be really useful. Test it.”

Susanne looked like the eye was a bomb and shook her head. “I d—”

Allie teleported an arm behind Susanne and tried to shove her forward.

It didn’t work, but her message was clear enough she didn’t feel the need to speak.

Matt looked to Zack, who quietly said, “I told you.”

Susanne closed her eyes before saying. “I don’t want charity.”

Aster dumped a pile of snow onto the shorter woman. “Oh, fuck off. Don’t give us that self-deprecating crap. This isn’t even charity, you were right there fighting alongside us when we earned this. Try it and see how compatible it is with your sword Domain shit. Then make your argument for why it's so good for you. If you don't, I'm going to argue for myself because this would be cool as fuck.”

Susanne swallowed a few times before lightly touching the eye.

It was nearly as potent as Matt’s neutral mana and slightly more than Liz’s ichor.

Allie cursed when she saw that. “Well fuck, then take it.”

Susanne glanced to Liz with a flat look. When Liz nodded, her gaze turned to Aster, who waved her to the eye.

Matt just nodded when Susannes gaze moved to him.

Finally, hesitantly as if she was worried it would bite her, Susanne picked up the Natural Treasure and cycled essence into it and started the process of absorbing it into herself.

Allie clapped. “Okay, now that we are back, let's push. I say we only take a month to catch up on things then go back to delving. I want to get to Tier 28 sooner than later.”

Matt grinned.

That was a damn good goal.
