It at least changed the tone of their stay on the planet, with several higher Tiers coming up to them and thanking them for trying to help Seasaidh. There was also a noticeable easing of tensions as they delved the nearby rifts.

What was more interesting was when a Tier 46 woman with hair that was so long it nearly brushed the ground came to them, accompanied by Wun.

Matt raised an eyebrow at Wun to see why he was bringing someone to them just after they got out of a rift, but the older Ascender just rolled his eyes and indicated it was all Matt’s fault.

“Good day, Legends. My name is Una MacLeoid, head of clan MacLeoid, and I came today to ask a few questions, if you would be willing to answer.” As if she just realized she hadn’t mentioned what question she meant, Una added, “Questions about the skill creation method Legend Titan released.”

Aster blew him a raspberry as she immediately turned and walked away, leaving them to go to their house, where she could bathe.

As everyone else did the same, Matt decided to be equally false casual. “I’m happy to. As you can see, we just exited a rift and needed a bit of time to shower and relax. Why don’t you come to our house and we can talk there?”

Matt didn’t miss it as Wun winked at him and Matt smiled when they entered the house.

The other four Clan Ascenders were sitting in their living room, munching on snacks in skeleton form, clearly slacking off from their purported super important responsibilities that had pulled them away.

They had done so a few times in the last few years, but with Wun’s wink and him leading Una MacLeoid to them, he had arranged the timing.

And it worked.

Una froze for the briefest of moments upon seeing just who were making a mess, not having stomachs to catch their eaten food.

Knowing he had won the round by unsettling her preconceived expectations, Matt waved to the fridge Wun was already rummaging through. “Feel free to grab anything to snack on. Shouldn't be long, but I need to shower and change.”

Una instead just took a careful seat at their kitchen table and seemed content to wait.

Not so quickly showering, Matt was still back out to the common area in less than fifteen minutes, just as Una was contemplating strangling Wun. An opinion Matt was trying really hard not to consider himself.

Ignoring the disaster brewing in his kitchen, along with Wun trying to make a milkshake in said kitchen, Matt sat down at the table across from the Tier 46.

“Sorry about that delay. What can I do for you?”

Una forced out a smile as she said, “I come on behalf of the Clans government and dwarven kind as a whole. We have been…” after a pause she said, “Enthralled by the new skills. Many of our young have taken to them with great enthusiasm. Specifically [Physical Empowerment] and [Fire Weapon]. The former is the issue though. We have put in a lot of effort trying to get the skill to scale better in the higher Tiers, but we haven’t had much success. We would be willing to handsomely reward any information that might help.”

Matt just blinked at her, waiting for something else and not quite believing that was all she had come for.

When nothing else was said, Matt decided to lay his cards on the table. “I don’t really have any added advice or secrets about the method. When we got and modified the skills, we already did what we could, but our source seemed correct in that just isn’t how the skill worked. So I don’t know anything else. I do have one team who is trying for that exact outcome, but frankly, I don’t have much hope. More likely is that someone else, a random civilian, will have a moment of brilliance and will figure it out. My only hope is that they are then willing to follow the example I set and share it.”

Una seemed surprised that Matt admitted the skill didn’t come from them. “We suspected the source was from… elsewhere. As for that source. Are they available? We would pay quite the consultant fee for their assistance. I truly come here hat in hand, willing to pay any reasonable price for information about the skill.”

Matt shook his head. “They have asked to be left alone and I will respect that.” Seeing her about to speak, Matt continued, “I will, however, let them know of your offer, but I wouldn’t expect much. The person is skilled, but not in the ways of skill modification as we know it.”

Una chewed on that for a minute before leaning forward slightly, “Then let me candidly ask. What do you recommend? Paths of development? Many suspect you have more that you have kept to the Empire and wish to get their hands on it.”

Matt met the Tier 46’s eyes, leaning forward and meeting her unspoken challenge about his and his guild’s honesty and integrity.

Wanting to snip back at her presumption, he flippantly said, “Reform your society. Awaken everyone, let them push and find their own paths forward. Stop hoarding resources. Stop being assholes?” Seeing her flat look, Matt smiled, “Oh did you mean for the skills? Well interestingly enough, my statement stands. I know it's hard for people to believe this, but I really did share everything I had. I’m hoping that people will take what I’ve given them freely and do what people do best: push things, tinker, just fuck around. With enough people all using the skills, I trust that, given enough time and maybe a particular Talent or Domain, someone will figure out the jump for making [Physical Empowerment] scale better. Laws of large numbers and all that. That is why I didn’t put out any information about the more advanced versions of the skills. I don’t want people locked in paradigms. I’d much rather let them figure things out.”

Chuckling, Matt leaned back. “Honestly, I don’t really understand how anyone could think I wasn’t being completely transparent. My documentation is thorough and meticulous. It would be as obvious as a hole in the head if I was self-censoring things.”

Una nodded, but there was something in the gesture Matt didn’t quite follow. A slight movement or timing discrepancy that turned something familiar into something off. His intuition didn’t warn him of anything bad, so he chose to interpret it as a win.

Spreading her hands, Una said, “Then let me put my cards on the table. We have been trying to go for more advanced modifications, hoping to trigger something with an upgrade orb that we can then learn from. Here are our tests and their results.”

Willing to talk shop with someone seemingly truly interested, Matt nodded along as he scanned everything. “Didn’t get anywhere did you? We tried. Just twenty times with Tier 14 orbs, but nothing was successful, even with massive deviations from the baseline or directly copying higher-Tier skill structures and hoping the upgrade orb grabs something. If you want my two mana stones, I personally don’t think the skill will start using essence—”

Seeing Una’s expression, Matt raised a finger before she could interrupt him, “Hear me out. I don’t think the skill will use essence in the same way we are used to. Currently, [Physical Empowerment] buffs the body. It's shoving mana into the flesh and making muscles work harder while giving them a degree of protection from self-harm. Other skills boost our cultivation bases. They make fake essence on the core and amplify what is there, but that's all it's doing. There might be a way to get [Physical Empowerment] to interact with the cultivation core, but personally, I don’t think that's how it's going to happen. I think it's more likely someone will figure out how to fake essence in the muscles instead of mana being used itself. As for if that will be truly effective... I don’t know. We’ll all have to see.”

Seeing Una’s keen interest, Matt chuckled. “As if it was that easy. My teams are the ones who came up with the idea, and honestly, I think they are correct. They are also working on that very idea, and I’ve made sure that the data is set to be spread around in another five hundred years if no one seems to make any progress.”

Una seemed baffled at that comment and blurted out, “Why not keep it to yourself? I am old and have seen a lot of things, but few people in your position are willing to give up any power or advantage? Why then do you do so, Legend Titan? It is why so many believe that you are hiding something. Some even speculated that the skills are a trap or have a self-destruct method built in.”

Matt snorted and he poked the table, letting a little real heat enter his voice. “Winter Hornet asked a similar question. The answer is the same one I’ve been saying since the beginning. I just want to help people get on their feet. Allow them to take that first step. I hope that when someone does figure it out, they will do the right thing and pass it on, but I’m not that worried. No secret method lasts forever. Not even in the Great Powers. Everything has leaked and become negated or commonplace. I see no way anyone will protect this one, but I’m hopeful we won’t have to go through all of that.”

Seeing she still looked conflicted, Matt decided to lay one of his cards on the table. “But honestly, as for why I’m telling you this? I’m hoping that you will drive the method forward with the Clans’ resources, which is just more than I can leverage for my own guild. After it's discovered it's possible, everyone else will be forced to invest or steal the method. Then we are back at step one. So yes, I’m willing to mention it. I’m sure your spies already know this, or will once you put in a request to check what my teams are doing. Even I can’t hide active, long-term projects like this, so let's skip the back-and-forth. I won’t give you any of the files for the same reason I won’t spread the idea to the masses yet. I want to see what you come up with.”

He had a few other reasons as for why he was so freely sharing, but that was the main one, and honestly enough, he doubted Una would dig for the deeper ones.

Instead of immediately replying, Una sat there in silence for a long few minutes before she nodded while standing. “Well, thank you for your time and the information, Legend Titan. It is more than I hoped I could get, even if not what I dreamed about. I will take your words into consideration. I would love to chat more, but my clan is mobilizing and every second is precious.”

Walking to the door, Una stopped before nodding to the other Ascenders who had all entered the living room through their conversation.

Matt didn’t think or expect Wun or On The Last Line to betray their Great Powers when things finally came to a head, but he appreciated they had his back enough to ensure he met with one of their leaders under their auspice.

Knowing they had little time left before they had to leave and the four of them went to war, Matt clapped. “Okay, last time we got together we said we’d watch the third reboot of that series.”

Getting pelted with boos and cheers alike, Matt sent a message to Susanne, who had moved to go into the training room after the rift.

“Watch this one with us?”

She had been pushing herself brutally since they arrived in the Clans’ territory, and Matt suspected he knew why, but he, like everyone else, had been trying to get her to relax a little.

His attempt, however, ended like many of them did, in failure, and she declined. “I need to train more.”

Seeing Zack not attempt to persuade her, Matt mentally threw up his hands.

Despite that, the evening was good fun and Susanne did come back halfway through the movie and watched it with them, which was something.

Sadly, the good times ended and they returned to the Empire, where they underwent a thorough quarantine, which Matt felt like was starting to become routine given how often he underwent the process.

The second they were allowed out, they collectively went to the Palace to find one of the imperial advisors who specialized in item identification.

Matt brought out his neutronium ingot, which the Tier 45 casually looked at, not bothered by the weight at all.

“Is there anyone who could merge this with my sword?”

Harkirat’s eyes flickered a dozen colors before answering, her voice hardly louder than a breathy whisper. “There is nothing wrong or unusual about the ingot, so congratulations Ascenders. This is a rare and valuable find. As for your question, there are two or three who might be able to, but even for you Ascender, it will be difficult. Adding such a material is challenging to say the least, and those who will do so do not act at the behest of the throne, nor are they liable to lower the price due to your title. If anything, it will raise the price. Each has their own specialties and their results will vary accordingly. Here are the names, but be aware that all of them will have demands even His Majesty would find painful to fulfill. If you find they cannot satisfactorily fulfill their requests, please do allow us to buy the ingot. The Emperor has a standing order for such rarities, and the price will not disappoint you, I am sure.”

Matt winced as he took the ingot back, having to work so as to not let the ingot drop through the floor. He didn’t think he could afford that repair job quite yet.

Their second large-ticket item was the Two Pupil Stone, and unlike the ingot, Harkirat inspected it for a long time, using several devices and scanning the item thousands of times, looking at various readings with an odd expression.

Finally, she had to call in two other colleagues who each went through a similar process. It was only when all three of them had come to an agreement that Harkirat turned back to the six of them.

