The [Councilmembers] were stumped. He might be childish, but Belgrade was also positive when he knew things. Lism coughed.
“Perhaps if we were to offer a tax—”
“No.”
“…More permits for working Ant—”
“We will sequester that without a substantive deal. It is not of merit. I am sorry. Your suggestions are lacking compared to the Antinium’s contribution.”
Lism’s teeth audibly ground together. Krshia was half-delighted, but she was on Liscor’s side. So she leaned forwards.
“What would the Antinium like, Belgrade?”
“An expansion to the Hive’s—”
“No.”
The two chorused. Belgrade shrugged.
“Xrn said you would say that. I do not know what else to say.”
Krshia exchanged a look with Lism. He held up a finger. He had one hook. She glared at him. It had better be a good one! She tried one more time with Belgrade before Lism moved in. Even lowering his expectations helped make the last deal stick.
“Besides that, then, Belgrade. What do the Antinium want for a better life? A better Hive? We can attempt to make that happen, yes?”
The [Trapsetter Tactician] stopped eating the slices of meat. He…looked at Krshia, his mandibles open.
“Life can get better than it is now? Is that possible?”
Krshia’s mouth opened and closed. And what was she supposed to do with that?
“Yes?”
“I…more food? More tasty food? More Fortresses of Fluff?”
“Fortresses of…?”
Lism coughed. Krshia sat back as the Drake leaned forwards.
“Interesting you should mention that, Belgrade. Food, you say? I have noticed the Antinium have been buying a good number of supplies.”
“Garry makes food. Food is better than paste.”
The two [Councilmembers] nodded on the basis that this was entirely correct. Lism checked his notes again.
“What would you say if I were to offer the Antinium something for the supply of stone and man—antpower to building more improvements to the city?”
“I would say that you have not so far.”
Lism heard Krshia laughing silently. His eyes narrowed, but he turned it into a winning smile.
“Ahem. Well, now I am. I’m prepared to offer the Antinium…six square miles of space.”
Krshia fell out of her chair. She got up as Belgrade’s mandibles opened.
“We will take that.”
“Lism! You cannot do—”
The Drake held up a claw. He studied Belgrade and went on.
“Aboveground only. An Antinium-district or farmland. You can dig…ten feet below street-level? But no further. And we will check.”
“Aboveground?”
Belgrade spoke as if he hadn’t heard the words before. Lism nodded.
“Antinium could grow their own food. If it’s farmland—we can offer more space on the Floodplains. Think about it. Antinium [Farmers], harvesting the fruits of the land or…whatever you want to grow. Fresh, free produce.”
“Ooh. Oooh.”
The Antinium stared at something only he could see. Krshia looked at Lism, amazed despite herself. So that was his big offer.
Expanding the Hive was not a move Liscor or the Drake cities could ever countenance. But farmland? Antinium buildings? Belgrade only had to think for a minute.
“The Free Queen and Xrn will wish to listen to this. I will relay it to them and return to you later if that is acceptable.”
“Of course. Consider the offer. We can negotiate! Is that clear? It’s negotiable!”
Lism called out after Belgrade’s back. He turned to Krshia.
“I hope it—he—understand there’s room for negotiation. We can do more than six square miles.”
She sat there, looking at him. All of this today. It wasn’t the first time she’d followed Lism rushing about. But this—
“You really want to make the city that much bigger, don’t you, Lism?”
He looked at her as he put his notes away.
“Of course I do. And we should talk about you going to the Meeting of Tribes. Just…I’ll keep Liscor running. Send you [Messages]. Hah! It’ll be a relief to have you gone instead of impeding me!”
Lie. He didn’t even meet her eyes as he said that. Krshia sat there.
What an odd thing. Why him? And why…?
They were two different types of people. She had been a Plains Gnoll all her life. Lism? He’d grown up in Liscor. Lism looked across the Floodplains, visible from the city hall’s second floor over the walls.
“Have you ever seen anything more beautiful, Krshia? Tell me honestly.”
“Yes.”
The word made Lism twist in his chair. Krshia looked at the High Passes far overhead. The Floodplains.
“Better than this? Really?”
She looked at him.
“Of course I have, Lism. I have roamed Izril’s south. I have seen wondrous sights. The Walled Cities, flowing grasslands, ponds and forests. And that is nature. I have seen taller walls, grander cities.”
It was all true. But he looked so—hurt. Lism looked across the city and shook his head.
“I have never seen those things. I’ve seen pictures—even walked in Invrisil and Pallass.”
“And?”
He looked back at her.
“How can it be better than the city I love? How can my home not be the most beautiful place in the world?”
His sentiments mystified Krshia. Some places were terrible. Liscor flooded each year like a clogged tub.
But there he stood. A Drake who had never left the city he’d grown up in. Lism leaned on the windowsill.
“Okay. Maybe there are better cities. But I won’t visit them, Silverfang. Krshia. If someone said I could become a [Senator] in Pallass—or move to Zeres tomorrow and live comfortably there all my life—would you take that?”
“Hrm. I don’t like living in one place forever.”
The [Shopkeeper] stared out across Liscor, and the setting sun playing over the hills and valleys as they rose up towards the High Passes.
“I wouldn’t. Not even if it were the best city in the world. Because that’s here. I intend to live and die here, Krshia. I intend for my nephew to live a grand life here—children or grandchildren if I have any. If it’s broken, if it can be improved, I’d rather do it here than look for it.”
That was a Drake’s sentiment. A City Gnoll’s sentiment. Here I am. Here I stay. When things were unpleasant, a tribe of Gnolls moved. But Lism—Krshia had lived in Liscor for ten years. At first, just for the opportunity.
But ten years was a long time. She went to stand next to Lism. And she looked again.
“Liscor is changing, Lism. There are Humans coming in. Humans, Garuda, Dullahans, Selphids…and the Antinium. You—you’ve complained about outsiders for as long as I’ve known you. First they were Gnolls. Do you love Liscor if it looks like this?”
She pointed down into the construction zone where Humans were going to their new homes. Lism scratched at his chin.
“I hate outsiders.”
Krshia shoved him and he grabbed desperately at the windowsill.
“Ancestors, Krshia!”
“Give me a straight answer.”
“I am! Listen—”
Lism adjusted his clothing, haughtily.
“I…sometimes. Sometimes. I can have the wrong idea. But not about outsiders. Damn them, coming into our city…”
The Gnoll rolled her eyes, exasperated. Lism held up a claw.
“I won’t change my mind about that. If you’re not part of the city, you can’t complain about it! You don’t respect it. But…Erin Solstice.”
She nodded. Krshia saw Lism turn his gaze to the opposite window, where an army had fought and died. Lism leaned back.
“She’s changed Liscor so much. You owe her a debt of gratitude, surely.”
“Maybe.”
Lism grumbled. He looked at Krshia.
“But an outsider’s still a pest. Why do they get to change my city? Why do they get to strut in and mess things up? I won’t change my mind on that.”
“So why…”
He waved at her for silence, nudging her for once. Krshia let Lism go on.
“Maybe. If someone stood outside the city with a flag and stopped a damn army from taking the city—that’s not an outsider. If they’re pesky Gnolls—that’s one thing. If they’re members of Liscor, that’s another. If it’s damn Antinium, they can all drown. But a Liscorian? A Liscorian fights for their home. Makes it better. If I was going to respect…anyone…I’d respect that.”
The Drake looked past Krshia. She stared at him. Had he just said…?
“You’re sentimental. You’re saying—”
He slapped at her paws.
“It’s a good mood. Stop ruining it, Silverfang. It’s just…look at us now.”
The two Councilmembers stared out the window. The sun was setting. Lism murmured, half to himself.
“I could have never imagined I’d be here. Doing this. It all feels new. I feel alive. It feels like—I’m dreaming of a better Liscor. And pulling the pieces out of the sky.”
It was a moment like that when a kiss would be appropriate. And since Lism was busy being distracted, Krshia did it for him.
She still wasn’t sure why. But it was that attraction—part dislike, part an odd infatuation. The two remained there, in the conference room.
In the inn, Elirr and Hexel were sharing a drink in the quiet as the Players of Liscor took the stage. Numbtongue was missing. Grimalkin and Chaldion were gone.
Olesm and Maviola were talking about tactics with Embria and Zevara. Palt, Montressa, and Bezale were in Pallass facilitating some of the business contracts. The Gold-rank teams were attending a fancy party.
The Raskghar were climbing out of the dungeon.
They had ropes. They had been waiting. They had the plan.
Why now? Why not now? Perhaps—because it was darker. The shadows were rising. The [Guard] was rotating on the walls for dinner. Less alert.
Perhaps it was just the moment.
They emerged, sinking into the grass that was high enough to hide them. First, ones and twos. Then dozens. Then…
All of them. Every Raskghar in the dungeon. None remained. None living.
At first, they began to crawl. But it was a long way to Liscor. So—after ten minutes to rest from the climb, to look, gauge—they got up and ran.
The moons. The Raskghar were faster. Smarter. And they ran.
Straight for the city. Liscor. But not all of them moved in the same group.
Most went for the open gates. But a group of—dissidents—split off. They headed for the inn. And their loping run picked up.
Faster and faster.
Someone saw them. How not, with nearly two hundred Raskghar racing across the Floodplains? Thirty were coming at the inn. They saw a shape standing in the unfinished tower. A flicker—
One of the Raskghar dove, but the arrow curved and hit him in the leg. A glancing shot—the second arrow dropped from the tower a moment later. It was followed by a voice.
Bird. Where everyone left, he remained.
“RASKGHAR! ALARM! ALAAAAAAAAAAAARM!”
His voice cut through the pleasant silence. Mrsha, lying on her back, opened her eyes wide. Hexel and Elirr froze.
“Alarm! Sound the alarm!”
The [Guards] on the wall saw the Raskghar coming. Someone began ringing the bell, summoning the Watch Captain, Olesm, and everyone to the walls. The Watch grabbed for their weapons, aiming them downwards.
But the Raskghar charging at the inn didn’t slow. They were so fast. And this group wore armor. Bird loosed another arrow and a Raskghar blocked it. They were too fast.
“[Piercing Shot].”
One fell. Then another. Bird rained arrows down on the Raskghar.
…Three…
But they were coming up the second hill separating them from the inn.
Lyonette ran into Pallass, shouting. Erin saw Ishkr wrestling with the magic door.
“Leave it! Into the Garden! Close the hallway off!”
“Stay behind me.”
Hexel was covering the door with a wand as Erin and Ishkr ran back in. They slammed the door as people screamed. The [Innkeeper] looked around. Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma were staring wide-eyed at her from the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Don’t leave. Close the door if they come through.”
Fortress Beavers were forming a protective wall between the children and the door. Erin turned. She drew the knife at her belt. The magic door…she should have tried to get Pelt. Or…
“Everyone stay calm. Go into the Garden. They can’t get in. Ishkr—”
He handed her a crossbow. The staff were pressed up against the arrow slits in the hallway. But there was no Numbtongue. No Relc. Or Pawn or…
The Raskghar stormed up the hill, howling. The others had their plan. But they wanted only one thing. They were armed with low-grade magical weapons. The last relics the Raskghar possessed. The inn was deserted, doors locked. Windows shuttered.
The band of thirty circled the inn. Some threw javelins up at the Antinium, who’d taken cover. But the rest just wanted inside.
The door was closed. The Raskghar began to pound on it. They were so strong. The reinforced wood began to shudder with the impacts and one began carving into the door’s hinges with a magical sword. The Raskghar braced as they felt the door giving. Horns were blowing from the walls, but too slow for the inn. They moved back to ran in one rush—
And the outhouse door behind them swung open.
The Raskghar whirled. Someone kicked out the roll of toilet paper. It was…a Drake?
He was naked. And another two fellows with hats slowly rose out of the grass. One dusted at his coat. But they held back.
The naked Drake looked at the Raskghar. And there was something—that made them hesitate.
Saliss looked one of the Raskghar up and down. They had to outweigh him many times over. They were taller, bulkier. The [Alchemist] nodded.
“So you’re Raskghar. That adventurer, Jelaqua wears you better.”
Thirty one. Bird had dropped one more. He was peeking over the edge of his tower and the Gentlemen were stepping to the sides. But it was Saliss who stood there.
One of the Raskghar brought up a shield and charged, a spear raised. The Named Alchemist flicked the vial up and exhaled.
He blew a spray of acid across half the Raskghar. The liquid was colorless, exceptionally fine. They began screaming and dropped their weapons, clawing at their faces and their dissolving fur. The others dodged sideways—
And ran into the flasks flying at them.
Wilovan and Ratici shielded their faces. They felt the flash—heard a few screams. When they looked, Saliss was walking around. He tossed the last of the acid in his vial on the Raskghar still alive. He turned and the Gentlemen Callers lowered their weapons.
That was how Erin found Saliss. The Named Adventurer swung the door open to the common room. She stared, armed with a jar of acid herself and a knife.
The Named Adventurer. Saliss of Lights. For a moment, his face was terribly blank. Then he spread his arms.
“Is all this for me?”
Wilovan never took his eyes off the Drake’s smiling face from behind. He put away his club. And looked out across the Floodplains towards Liscor. The rest of the Raskghar—
 
—-
 
Zevara raced for the gates with her sword drawn. Everyone was running the other way, but she shoved past them, cursing, with every [Guard] in the city on her heels. Olesm was running too, with Maviola. Embria had already passed them both.
