They were still dying. Geneva Scala’s optimism was tempered by that, in the back of her head. That—despite the cure arriving, it had to be cultivated. And it had yet to reach many places where Yellow Rivers was eating away at the populations.
As well—the cure was a finite resource. Geneva Scala, had, after some quick agonizing, employed its usage before testing proper dosages and coming up with a standard of application. She knew the other [Healers] had encountered success using it and it was that or let her patients die as the cure was literally in the same building as they were.
Just the most serious cases. It meant, simply, that Seql would live. His vitals were already improving. Geneva had spent a night with the most seriously-ill to stop the progress of the bacteria and allow the Occillium to do its work.
She imagined it was like the advent of blood transfusion, or…well, penicillin itself. Something so close to magic in its effects. And no healing potion could have saved Seve. Perhaps some relic-grade potion, but Octavia’s mold would save countless lives where the most magical artifacts could save only a handful—if you could afford it.
Still. The fight was not over. And Geneva had taken to Talenqual’s streets to tell people to stay indoors and prevent the spread of the disease. They listened to her, the people of Talenqual. She had earned that.
The funny thing was that as the morning dawned, Geneva was not tending to a Yellow Rivers patient. They were actually fairly easy now—the cure had arrived and it was what she had needed.
Rather, she was talking to a [Healer] about another patient. A man on his front who was trying not to whimper despite the topical anesthetic Geneva had applied. It was more what was happening that was terrifying him out of his mind.
And the [Healer]. Geneva had a small audience; one of the Level 30 [Healers] who had come to learn how she was fighting the disease. Other, lower-level [Healers]. Some of the [Nurses]—many of whom were Selphids. And just some onlookers.
Some. They were allowed to watch, but most had left after Geneva had opened the fellow’s…well, Geneva termed it an abscess, a cyst that had been infected and left untreated. It was thirty-days old. But given the healing potions applied—Geneva felt like she was looking at years of deterioration.
It was not the kind of thing that was pleasant. Geneva had seen worse—the [Healers] had too. Most of the others had not.
If you had to explain it—the cyst was like an infected…pimple? That drained pus and kept expanding. But unlike the cause being an ingrown hair, it was more of an open wound that refused to heal.
Yellow Rivers looked worse. But the [Healer] was still patently horrified as Geneva explored the wound.
“What are you doing?”
She had an improvised q-tip, which was a bamboo stick with a cotton swab. Geneva was inserting it into the whimpering man’s back. Deep. She stuck the entire stick in and everyone winced.
“I’m exploring the abscess.”
“You’re making it worse!”
“I have to see how deep it is. Look at this.”
It was a mortified hole in his body. She was poking the soft tool inside and withdrawing it to check the improvised q-tip—it was bloody. Which was a good sign? Geneva sighed and explained patiently.
“I’ve been working with this man for the last week. I kept it packed; it’s still healing, Ceriche, but this is a marked improvement.”
“T-thank you, Doctor.”
The man muttered. He could feel the tool poking around. The [Healer] stared. The wound was deep.
“Now what are you doing?”
Geneva was inserting a thin fabric which actually had been enchanted to soak up liquids into the opening. She was briskly packing it in. The [Healer] was astounded.
“You can’t do that!”
“And what would you do? Sew him up? Healing potions caused this. This will keep the abscess from growing worse. But it needs surgery. The entire area must be excised. And when the operation is performed—it cannot be with healing potions. Do you disagree, Healer Rediur?”
That was Geneva’s diagnosis. The Dullahan [Healer], who was from Seql’s city, shifted uncomfortably.
“All of what you are saying makes sense, Doctor Geneva. But without potions—”
“Potions caused this!”
Geneva snapped back. It was her hugest problem with this world. She looked at her audience.
Exploring a wound, cutting into the body to remove something like this—even ideas like amputation or sewing up a wound were seen as primitive when a potion worked. Some [Healers] had poultices that could fight infection, but they had no notion of medicine. She pointed at the luckless [Guard].
“This abscess should have taken years to get this bad. But the use of potions accelerates all parts of the body. So while a serious cut might heal—it increases the likelihood of small, preventable ailments turning into medical emergencies. Potions. Are. Not. A. Cure-all.”
She began closing her patient up. The others watched as she pointed at the back-injury, which was, again, not going to kill Ceriche. But he’d been troubled by it for a month and if he hadn’t come to her, he’d have dealt with it the rest of his life. As a [Guard]—it might have gotten far worse. She tried to emphasize that.
“This will not kill him immediately. But each time he uses a potion—it grows. For a regular citizen, it might not affect them for a while depending on how much they might need a potion. For a [Guard], or [Soldier]? He might be dead in less than a year if I hadn’t gotten to it.”
The luckless Ceriche groaned and the others muttered. They’d seen that too. Geneva appealed to their common sense.
“This is why we need to check patients regularly, regardless of age. I realize some species value privacy. I’m willing to respect that. But this can be life or death.”
The Dullahan [Healer] looked uncomfortable.
“Privacy among our species, Doctor Geneva—”
“It’s a physical. If I cannot look a patient up and down, let alone test to make sure their body parts are working, how will I know if they’re well?”
“Trust them to come to you?”
Geneva stared at the Lizardman [Healer] who’d raised a hand with such wroth that he lowered it and backed up.
It was an education. Earth’s practices coming into contact with this world’s. Geneva had vast admiration for the capabilities of magical medicine. You could save someone who had not a chance of surviving a 5-minute trip to the emergency room in a moment. Blood loss, massive lacerations—a single potion administered by a child would save their life.
By the same token—this world couldn’t fight disease or infection nearly as well as Earth. And some of the [Healer]’s techniques bordered on malpractice at times, especially the ones who used healing potions without diagnosing the issue!
Geneva was talking more about her treatment with Ceriche. Occillium helped him too; it was indeed a widespread general anti-bacterial mold. Her audience listened. It wasn’t just confidence that gave Geneva the ability to lecture a sixty year-old Dullahan [Healer] over Level 30, it was her knowledge. You couldn’t so easily fake that, even if you were an excellent con-artist.
“She’s not a [Healer].”
Umina muttered to herself as she took notes near the back. She’d nearly thrown up, especially as she saw Geneva poking around in a wound. But she was fascinated at the same time. More and more, she thought the Professor was right. Geneva Scala was extraordinary.
And there was something else…but Umina didn’t have the picture yet. She heard an echo of her statement coming from someone who’d been standing in the doorway.
“We could use her back home. My city would pay ten times her bodyweight for someone of her caliber.”
The Lizardgirl turned—and there was Seve-Alrelious. The Hundredfriends Courier was back on his feet. She gave him an impressed look.
“Courier Seve.”
“Hello. Are you assisting the Last Light?”
He nodded to her, whispering. Umina nodded respectfully.
“I’m—a volunteer. She’s nearly done if you need her…”
The Courier nodded.
“She asked me to stop by. Fascinating.”
Here was one of the world’s best Couriers. Umina had learned from the Titan of Baleros, though, so she wasn’t about to ask for him to shake her hand…but he was properly famous.
“You’re um—from A’ctelios Salash, aren’t you?”
“That’s right.”
The Hundredfriends Courier had shining tattoos all over his body. His skin was weathered by sun and surf—but the lines of magical ink shone.
A monkey waved at Umina. She stared at it. Seve winked at her. She jumped and blushed.
“Tombhome. I’ve heard of it. It’s ah…a Shield Kingdom. And…”
Umina recalled a few more salient facts and hesitated. Seve put his hands on his pockets.
“It’s a good place. Peculiar. Dangerous, like some cities, but I call it home. A’ctelios needs someone like Doctor Geneva.”
“Really? Why?”
The [Doctor] was letting the patient get up. He shook her hand and thanked her as the [Healers] clustered around. Seve eyed the man rubbing at his back and Geneva swatting his hands away.
“Oh. Disease, plague…it runs through the Carven City all the time. Yellow Rivers is bad enough—I’m sure old Baosar’s terrified of it reaching home. I don’t know how much you know of A’ctelios…”
“It’s never been taken by siege.”
It was one of the fascinating cities the Professor sometimes lectured on. He’d described how he’d take the city and made his students run through simulations of attack and defense one time. Umina had the impression it was the most atrociously disgusting city to try to take by conventional warfare.
Seve nodded.
“True. But it’s fallen to disease and plague. We ah, eat lots of raw meat. And nobody’s got any of the—hygienic standards?”
He’d been reading some of the posters with those cute characters that were posted all over the ‘hospital’ telling people about the importance of washing your hands and such. It was so cute that Umina had read them all. One of the other members of the United Nations company apparently drew in the style and it was very fun to see.
“Just um—if I can ask one question, Courier Seve? I know you get it all the time, but—”
He grinned at her and she blushed again.
“It’s about the tattoos?”
She nodded.
“Is it a Skill or magical ink or…? Are they alive?”
The animals were moving across his body. Slowly, but she was sure they had a will of their own. Seve nodded.
“Skill and ink. They’re all living. They just stay with me because feeding so many is hard work. As for the practice—it’s Drathian. They know how to turn pictures into magic.”
“I see. And—okay, so is there a limit? You couldn’t do that with people right? What if—”
Before Umina could ask some of the [Strategist] questions she had of Seve she heard a voice.
“Courier Seve?”
The [Doctor] was ready for him. Seve waved at Umina apologetically.
“I have to sail.”
“Oh—of course. Thank you for…”
Umina watched him meet with Geneva. She sighed. But then she listened to the other [Healers] talking.
“It’s battlefield medicine. I can see it being useful there, with healing potions in short supply, however—”
“—makes sense. I’ve seen those—what did she call them? Abscesses. Horrible. If this works…”
“Who trained her?”
That came from one of the [Healers]. She was just shaking her head as she shuffled her hooves.
“I know [Doctors]. There was—I knew a [Saw Doctor] who treated Centaurs who…with bad infections. She’s nothing like them. Where does she come from, to know all this at her age?”
It was the question worth a million gold pieces. Umina saw Geneva leading Seve to one of the smaller rooms ready for use. She frowned at Geneva’s back.
The observation and drama around the Yellow Rivers was one thing. But Umina needed to learn more before the summer ended and she needed to be back in class. This called for more drastic measures. She slipped away to go find Marian.
 
—-
 
“How do I look, Doctor Geneva?”
Seve-Alrelious was a fascinating case-study of what made this world different to Geneva. A little bit later he was disrobed down to the waist. Which didn’t mean much because the glowing tattoos covered his body.
Geneva poked experimentally at the Orangutan and it waved its arms. It was stylized—like Aiko’s drawings, but clearly represented.
“That’s Erek. I’d let him out, but he’d destroy your…hospital. He’s too intelligent for his own good and too strong as well.”
“He’s an Orangutan, right? Ah—a monkey?”
Seve was impressed. He raised his brows as Geneva checked his sides. She stared at a faint line along his belly. The man was fit, but that didn’t impress Geneva as much as…she double-checked her notes. He should have a massive cut there. She remembered it!
“That’s right. I don’t know about the first name you called him, but he’s one of the curious fellows from the jungles. Apes and such. They’re quite intelligent. I met him on my journeys and he hid on my boat. So that’s how he came along.”
“Really? Is he a magical variant or…?”
She was no [Biologist], which Geneva regretted at times. They would surely have a field day here. The Hundredfriends Courier pondered that.
“I think Erek’s as intelligent as they get. He can’t properly speak, but he can play chess, sail the boat, and even use magical artifacts. Not that it’s wise to hand him a wand. And he’s strong as a Gemlion. Can other Orangutans do that?”
“Close…”
Geneva didn’t actually know, but it sounded like Erek might be a prime example of his species either way. Seve scratched at his head.
“Let’s see…magical abilities…he can jump about eleven feet if he really wants to.”
“That would be magic.”
“Ah. I’ll let him out if you want to meet him. He’s quite gentle. Again—he’ll steal anything he likes. He—”
Boom. Everyone jumped as a bolt of lightning came down. The magical typhoon wasn’t close to Talenqual…at least, the epicenter wasn’t. But it had been raining and raining.
Geneva jumped slightly, and so did Seve, but she saw Erek race up Seve’s arm and hide behind the Nelgaunt and a few other larger animals. She smiled at that.
“Let’s see. I could inspect your friends, but from what it sounds like, they’re not in need of my help. Neither are you, Courier Seve. I thought you would be but…you’re as healthy as can be. Impossibly so.”
She eyed him and the Hundredfriends Courier sat up.
“I told you there was no need to use a potion on me, Doctor.”
He’d come to Talenqual bleeding, exhausted, after days of nonstop travel. He’d been cut badly from his encounters at sea, but, strangely, refused any potions. They didn’t work as well on him due to the magical ink, apparently.
