“Putting aside the Meeting of Tribes, Elirr. How are things going?”
The Gnoll grumbled. He’d known this was coming. Krshia couldn’t lay off.
“Fine. I’m busy, but it’s doing well.”
“Ah. Jekle is learning?”
That was the Frost Wyvern’s name. Elirr nodded.
“Yes, yes. He’s quite a handful. Males often are. Territorial. Thinks he has to pee everywhere. And the cats are no help. They’re too smart, but in that vindictive way. The Wyvern tried to mark his territory yesterday. Poor fellow—the cats urinated on him from above. Bullies, the lot.”
Alamaran and the others meowed proudly. Elirr rolled his eyes. He glared at a cat who flipped up its behind at him. The first thing they learned was how annoying that was, so of course, they did it all the time. Krshia chuckled.
“You can manage your Council duties, your shop, and your personal life all at the same time. Very impressive, yes?”
Elirr waved this off.
“The Council makes me feel young. All these new laws and progress. I don’t mind that. The shop? I’m not doing any other animals besides the ones I have and the Wyvern, so it’s not too hectic.”
Krshia nodded agreeably. Then—she pounced, rather like one of the cats.
“Hrm, hrm. And your liaison duties with Architect Hexel? How is that doing, Elirr?”
He looked at her.
“I gave my report to the Council. Why, is there something you missed?”
The female Gnoll grinned like a cat.
“Nothing. I’m not judging you, Elirr. Not at all—it’s just good you’re not in the tribe. You don’t have a wife to be upset, yes?”
Elirr didn’t dignify that with a response. Female Gnolls. Thought they knew it all. Of course, that just might be Silverfang’s matriarchal tribe leaders, Krshia and her sister. What he did was his damned business. So he pushed back.
“I’m sure it’s harder on you to go to the Meeting of Tribes, Krshia. Speaking of which—we haven’t eaten in your apartment. What about there tomorrow?”
Her smiled vanished. Her ears and tail, always good signs of feeling, twitched.
“Perhaps. It’s quite messy…we could eat elsewhere. With Vrrow. There is much to do, Elirr, for the Meeting of Tribes. Thank you for your input. Packing is nearly done—it’s just security for the book and Mrsha to worry about. I should get to the Council, actually. I wanted to go over some of the new proposals—no need to come yourself.”
She got up and fussed with her meal. Elirr, satisfied, watched her retreat. That’s right. You want to play that game? Krshia bade him farewell and he nodded to her.
Then Elirr went downstairs to the shop he slept above. The cats followed. One burped; Elirr realized they were dragging the mostly-empty glass of lassi down the stairs.
He bent and picked it up, glaring.
“Someday I will eat things that are terribly bad for you. Deathly so.”
They meowed at him. The Gnoll sighed. He was a [Slave] to his pets. But downstairs he went to start his day.
Animals in Elirr’s pet store greeted him. Friendly war dog breeds from as far away as Radivaek in the north, birds in their cages which he sprinkled seed into and which Alamaran knew he wasn’t allowed to eat.
A few irregulars too. Elirr’s odd projects which he was sometimes hired to do, and sometimes did just because of the opportunity or challenge. Like Jekle, who hissed at the cats. At least he didn’t try to breathe frost; he was learning.
“No biting, Jekle.”
Elirr was careful; the Frost Wyvern was highly intelligent—more so than even the cats, or he would be when he was older, and he wasn’t entirely civilized. But he’d learned not to try to bite the old [Beast Trainer] and accepted his meal with good grace.
“We’re going to let you go for another flying and running about later today.”
It was bad to keep the young Frost Wyvern tied up. Elirr was working with a younger [Beast Trainer] in Pallass who exercised Jekle. Otherwise Elirr would be doing it all day—sometimes he devoted most of his day to working with Jekle.
But today was an ‘Elirr-day’, so he let the Frost Wyvern chew on a leg of cow and hiss at the cats who fearlessly tried to scavenge from his meal. They were horrible bullies indeed. The Frost Wyvern could have swallowed them whole, but they’d terrified him so much that he only snapped at them when they stole bits of his meal.
“Stop being cruel to him or I will give you all away. I mean it.”
The Gnoll warned the other cats. They glared, but stopped harassing the young Wyvern.
Elirr Fultpar was good at his job. He really was. Few could tame Wyverns, let alone train them to his quality. He was essentially a version of Tekshia Shivertail—except devoted to animals—in his levels and expertise.
And that was the key. Train. Any fool could tame most animals. You could get a wolf to act as an attack-animal. Ride a Wyvern? Well, a lower-level [Beast Tamer] could manage it.
But training—that was the key Elirr often had to explain. Cats were smart. But Alamaran was a house-cat. Not a magical cat. Yet, with Elirr’s Skills he could open a door’s handle, even convince other cats to form a pyramid to make that happen.
Training made Aldasian Warhounds intelligent and strong enough to take down far larger animals. An Elirr-trained warhound could take down a non-magical bear. Not that he enjoyed training animals for war.
Anyways. Elirr was just feeding the animals and getting Jekle ready. Sure enough—a Garuda fluttered into the shop minutes after Krshia had left.
“Master Elirr! Have you heard about the inn?”
“The Players of Celum? Every Gnoll in Liscor’s told me about it.”
“I got an autograph! I think they’re coming to Pallass! Here—is Jekle ready?”
The younger [Beast Tamer] waved at the Wyvern, who knew it was time for his walk/flying and got excited. Elirr nodded.
“Just remember. Anchor that leash. He’s smart enough to try making a break for it and he outweighs you.”
The Garuda gave him a shamefaced look.
“Yes, Master Elirr.”
Jekle had tried that once already. Elirr saw the two off. And when a Garuda walked a Wyvern—everyone cleared the way for you. He rubbed at his back.
“I shouldn’t have agreed to it. The first Wyvern was bad enough. Gah. The size of the offal. I had to use a shovel and cut it into pieces to even—”
He shuddered. He was lucky he had Jekle young. The Frost Wyvern would learn a lot faster. In two or three years he might be trained enough—and he’d hopefully go to some caring owner.
Fissival had Wyverns. But not Frost Wyverns. Elirr chuckled.
“The only thing worse than a Wyvern is…”
The shop’s door opened. Elirr turned.
“We’re cl—”
He broke off as the person he’d been waiting for came into the shop. Hexel grinned.
“What’s the only thing worse than a Wyvern?”
“Ah, hello there.”
Elirr straightened. He’d combed his hair and had on clothing not covered in cat hair—but he always felt scruffy. Hexel by comparison? Gleaming scales. Not showing an inch of his age. And they were actually around the same age!
But a Lamia would live longer than a Gnoll—possibly twice as long. The two smiled at each other.
“Bears. Bears are troublesome. And you would not believe how smart Sand Octopi are. Worse—they have little suction cups on their tentacles, so they can even open jars and hide in small places. Bats? Wyverns are big, but not the worst. How are you doing today?”
“Quite well. I had a rough wake up and it was a busy inn today—but I feel better now. You’re looking rather dressed-up.”
“You can tell?”
Elirr straightened a bit. Hexel grinned. He slithered over, his lower, serpentine half undulating across the floor. The grey-haired Gnoll smiled. He’d often debated dying his fur, but—distinguished.
“Do you think we have time for some tea? I had a Yoren with Krshia with those mangos, but my cats ate it all.”
“No, really?”
Hexel laughed. Elirr gave him a straight-faced look. That only made the Lamia laugh harder. He leaned against Elirr. Almost instantly, his lower-half coiled around the Gnoll.
Gently. But Hexel was closer to snake than Dragon. His upper half was humanoid, albeit still snake-like. But his lower half? Like the giant snakes of Baleros, strong, sinuous. It was possessive. Elirr looked at Hexel, already smiling.
And then the door chimed softly. The two looked over.
Mrsha froze next to the door as a gang of cats stopped her from leaving. She had snuck in, undetected, and was sneaking out as Alamaran and his posse cornered her. One of them had actually triggered the chime.
“Meow. Got you. Meow.”
The cat grinned at Mrsha. He hadn’t actually spoken, but the self-satisfied look on his face was clearer than even Mrsha’s sign-language. The Gnoll child looked up at Elirr as he and Hexel stared at her. She waved and held out a card. Hexel took it.
Hi.
 
—–
 
Second breakfast was an agreeable notion to Mrsha. The mean cats were not. They’d foiled her daring escape! She’d seen Hexel meet with Elirr and gotten nervous they were going to do disgusting things. But the cats had gotten her caught!
Anyways, she was now having second-breakfast with the two. Elirr was fussing over a tea set and Hexel was staring at her.
“I heard you were a little rapscallion. Didn’t you try to steal my breakfast one time?”
Mrsha waved a paw shyly. Now she was actually talking with Hexel, she was a bit nervous. She liked him, but she didn’t know him.
Elirr on the other hand seemed to know Hexel well. He called over his shoulder.
“Young Gnolls steal food all the time. Mrsha though—she’s quite a pawful. I suppose she must have left the inn without a guardian. We should return her.”
Aw. Mrsha’s face fell. She signed with her paws, and then waved at Elirr for his attention.
“I don’t want to get in trouble.”
Elirr’s mouth moved slowly, sounding out her message. He snorted.
“You should have thought of that beforehand. I won’t throw myself in the face of Miss Lyonette’s wrath for you, Mrsha.”
Hexel looked fascinated as he watched Mrsha sign quickly.
“Is that your own language? It looks nothing like the other adventurer code-signs I’ve seen.”
Mrsha perked her ears up. She nodded rapidly. Then she stared at Hexel. She fumbled in her little bag of holding and held out a few cards.
Hi. How are you?
Hexel read the more static messages and got the meaning.
“Mm. Entertained. I’m not angry at you if that’s what you’re asking. Although…will this be a problem, Elirr?”
He cast a questioning glance at Elirr. The Gnoll came over with a cup of tea for Hexel and Mrsha. The Gnoll sniffed and found it was a berry-tea. Balerosian. She smiled and sipped, then scalded her tongue. The Gnoll spoke as he went back for his cup.
“I don’t think so. If we were both Drakes? Yes. And if Mrsha talks about it? Mm—perhaps. Again, more from City Gnolls and Drakes. But I’m a member of the Silverfang tribe and they—oh, Creler eggs.”
He cursed as he sat down and slopped some tea on his vest. It was red—so the stain was unfortunate. Mrsha saw Hexel reach for his side and produce a wand.
“Not a problem. Don’t move—[Remove Stain]. There.”
He tapped the spot and the stain vanished. Mrsha applauded as Hexel ejected a bit of the tea into an unused saucer. She reached for a cracker and the silkap as Elirr sighed.
“Magic. How useful! I envy your class, Hexel. I would have had to find the stain-removing charm while you and Mrsha can just wave your wand.”
Hexel blinked as Mrsha produced a wand and waved it.
“You cast magic too, little one?”
She nodded proudly. Hexel saw her conjure some grass on the table. One of the cats immediately buried itself in the thick grove.
“She’s quite good for a child her age. Anyways, Elirr. I don’t think you have anything to complain about.”
“What do I get? The ability to raise cats who steal my drinks?”
Elirr was guarding his teacup this time from the cats. Hexel opened his mouth and stared pointedly past Elirr. So did Mrsha.
They both saw one of the Aldasian Warhounds slowly dragging out bowls and a bag of feed. It was customized so the dog could open the bag—it poured itself breakfast and the cats food too. Then it pushed the little food-bag on wheels back into a corner. The dog was burly, so she could wedge the bag in a corner such that the cats couldn’t get at it.
Elirr saw the two stare at him. He shrugged, abashed.
“Ah. I forget, sometimes. So they can feed themselves. I teach them that to save time. It’s not er—that’s not that extraordinary—ahem…”
The Lamia chuckled and Mrsha laughed silently as Elirr scratched at his neck. The Lamia was curled up on himself and Mrsha and Elirr were sitting on cushions. Still—Mrsha couldn’t help but notice the two were sitting next to each other. And that they kept giving each other that look.
New couples in the Stone Spears tribe looked like that. Ryoka and Relc had given each other a variant of that look for half a second. Maviola and Olesm…Mrsha folded her arms. There was no need to even intuit however. This was one of the things she smelled.
“Well? Is it an issue? It wouldn’t be in Baleros.”
Elirr sighed. He looked at Mrsha with a resigned look. She uncrossed her arms a bit. There was something…else…
“Not too much. Gnoll tribes don’t mind couples of the same sex. Isn’t that right, Mrsha?”
She gave him a blank look. That wasn’t what she objected to. She was equally upset by all couples. Elirr nodded.
“Mrsha. It is important you don’t say anything. To Visma and Ekirra, or anyone else, understand? It could mean tr—danger for us. Do I have your word?”
Mrsha scratched at one ear.
“Not even Lyonette and Erin?”
“…Not even them.”
Elirr sighed. Mrsha hesitated.
“Numbtongue?”
“Y—no one, Mrsha. Understand? No, but you wouldn’t…”
The Gnoll looked exasperated. Mrsha signed again.
“Why?”
This time it was Hexel who answered.
“Because some people won’t like it. And I might go, but Elirr has to live here. They can be unkind, little Mrsha. Does that make sense?”
Mrsha and Elirr both stared at Hexel. The Lamia looked at both of them.
“What? I understood that word. It’s a very intuitive made-up language.”
He was a Lamia, after all. Smartest of the Lizardfolk’s evolved forms. Still—she didn’t quite get it.
“Is it because you two—”
Here Mrsha made some rather graphic gestures and Elirr swatted her paws down. She gave him a hurt look as Hexel collapsed against him, laughing until he nearly spilled his drink.
“Yes, Mrsha. Hexel, stop laughing. This is serious.”
The Lamia pulled himself upright. He looked at Elirr, and shook his head.
“Only on Izril. And Terandria, I suppose. I thought Gnoll tribes didn’t care?”
“They don’t care, but oh—there’s a way about it.”
