The two left the Council room. The rest of the council finished their breakfast at a more leisurely pace. Jeiss yawned into his cup; he wasn’t about to race about like Lism. But he and Krshia had the kind of energy that Jeiss admired.
Not like his children’s energy, which was disgusting and boundless, but that dogged go-get-it energy that had led the two [Shopkeepers] to divide Market Street among themselves.
Famous rivals. Now, politicians. Jeiss shook his head. Tismel and Zalaiss didn’t stay to socialize. They skulked off, no doubt to report to the old Council about what they’d learned.
That left the three, Alonna, Jeiss, and Raekea to socialize. Normally with Elirr, but the group was fast becoming friends.
“And how is everyone doing in your household, Jeiss?”
“The kids are driving me insane. Too much energy, you know? And I’m beat from doing two jobs…I really hope we can get Hexel to upgrade the playgrounds soon. Maybe install a spell to suck the energy out of the kids? We could probably power the wall spells with that alone.”
Alonna laughed as she breakfasted. Jeiss leaned back.
“What’s Lism up to this time?”
The [Shopkeeper] was one of the two unofficial leaders in the room. Krshia led the Gnolls, Lism the Drakes. Not that it was a divide these days. The two had teamed up against incompetence and were working together well.
The [Blacksmith], who’d been refilling her plate, came back to the table.
“Hrm. Some new scheme, no doubt. I’m glad Krshia is with him. She’ll keep his ideas from getting tangled.”
“True that. They’re a good team when they’re not shouting at each other.”
It was remarkable, actually. Jeiss yawned. Raekea sniffed and shook her head. Alonna nodded.
“I can’t believe they could work together. I was sure this would be so—contentious. Didn’t you?”
“At the start, yeah. The election—not pretty. But this is great. And I mean, great. Who’d have thought, right?”
“Mhm. Even so, I can see how it happened. It was just so natural…”
Raekea was nodding as she crammed her mouth full of food. She stared at the door and shook her head.
“I just can’t believe those two are together. That’s the only part that boggles my mind, yes?”
The Gnoll swallowed and reached for a cup of tea. Then she saw Jeiss and Alonna staring at her. Raekea hesitated.
“Ah.”
 
—-
 
The reason Krshia Silverfang had let Lism go on about ‘his plan’ for the day without giving one of her snarky remarks was because she already knew what was going on.
“You don’t have to be that rude to Tismel and Zalaiss, you know.”
Lism was counting coins out of the Council’s vault of funds. Krshia heard him muttering…
“Twenty nine…plus…signing out as Lism, the day of…”
She poked him in the side and he jumped.
“What?”
“You don’t have to be rude to Tismel.”
“And why not? He’s an incompetent.”
“But we do not need enemies. At least give him the time of day.”
Lism turned and glared at Krshia. And there they were.
Rival [Shopkeepers]. Enemies in election and from Market Street. It was not an exaggeration to say they properly loathed each other. Or had.
Even now Lism could grate on the nerves. However. How had they come to this? The two stared at each other. Lism scratched at his spines.
“…I’ll think about it. But if Tismel makes one more asinine comment, I will throw a chair at him. Let’s go.”
He led the way down the stairs of the city hall. Krshia followed, reflecting.
Why? Not many people knew, but it was inevitable some would. Elirr knew. Mrsha didn’t, although she clearly knew someone was in Krshia’s life. Little Gnolls and their noses. But Krshia used scent-bombs too. The problem was, it was inevitable Raekea and perhaps the rest of the Council would find out. They met too regularly.
How would she explain it to Erin? Or…anyone else? Krshia watched Lism strut down the stairs. She had once described Lism as ‘a sack of hot air with an ego twice as large attached’, and she didn’t see the need to retract her statement.
However. There were elements of Lism you had to admit he had. Even if they weren’t likable. For instance, Krshia and Lism had always been competing [Shopkeepers] for business in Market Street. Krshia liked to think she’d always been a bit better—until her stall was exploded by Lyonette.
Yet—Lism could not have kept up with her all these years if he was a complete fool. He was certainly foolish. He tended to make far more enemies than Krshia, who was good at making connections. He didn’t have her eye for quality and had lost out on several trades.
But he was also annoyingly good at spotting trends. And stubborn too—he stayed in with a bet or gamble when most people would get cold feet, even if it cost him.
None of that was the endearing factor, incidentally. It was just a fact of Lism. Krshia had—straight up until she was in the same room with him on the Council—disliked him intensely. However, there had been that moment where they’d looked at each other and realized they were on the same side, and against the old Council.
And after that…it had taken a while. A few drinks. A few nights of…but that wasn’t why. If Krshia had to explain it—
 
—-
 
The [Carers] initiative was something Lism had come up with. It was not Erin’s idea. It was not even something Erin had helped start. It was entirely Lism’s initiative and it came from years of him doing this.
Liscor’s City Hall had a number of meeting rooms that were seldom actually put to good use. Krshia had, in the practical way of [Shopkeeper’s], decided it was a waste of space and coin and instantly put them to use. Anyone could rent some of the rooms for a get-together, party, or other event. The Council had a few permanently reserved, but it also justified the expense of the [Cleaners] and so on.
Lism had, in turn, put one of the rooms to use for his plan. There was a huge map of the city on the wall, constantly being updated with new streets. But what mattered were the pins.
“I want someone to check on Mister Eli. I don’t care if he throws things or snaps at you. Just make sure he’s actually eating. Is there anything to report?”
For now, Lism was running the meeting room. He had about forty people whom he was paying today. It was a side-job for most, but they had access to food, potions if need be, and an existing network of people who donated to the [Carers] project.
A few Gnolls and Drakes raised their hands. One reported a Drake woman had broken her leg in a fall. A [Healer] was taking care of her and three neighbors had volunteered to help look after her when she returned home. Even so—Lism tasked a rotation to make sure she was looked after.
It embarrassed Krshia that she hadn’t thought of this herself. But she never would have, honestly. The groups of paid volunteers would go across the city to every person on the list. Person or family, and make sure they were looked after.
The names were either young, or old, or people who could not take care of themselves for one reason or another. Lism had brought a list with him when he’d begun the organization, which was now a city-backed initiative. He’d been doing this for years.
“Just make sure Eli has food and water and looks healthy. Is his apartment a mess? Are there bugs? If we need to, one of the Council will speak to him, or one of the Watch. That’s all you have to do.”
He was speaking to one of the volunteers. Krshia watched, checking off names on the list. That was her addition.
Here was the thing. They really did work together well. Lism had come up with the idea of paying people to do what had been a volunteer service. Using the city’s organization and resources to collect goodwill instruments. Instead of a whole damn pie being given to some poor widow or [Veteran] who might not even like pies—it was divided up and shipped out with other gifts donated here. Got a chair you don’t use? Donate it here and someone would use it.
It was one of those things that made sense. Like Gnoll tribes supporting each other. Again though—Krshia couldn’t take credit for it.
What she could take credit for was making it efficient. Lism had a map, but he didn’t have a roster of volunteers. He didn’t organize his data. Krshia had made that happen. And soon—
“You’ll have to appoint someone to manage this, Lism. It’s working well—too well. Someone needs a full-time position and salary.”
“I can handle it. Don’t you think I can handle multiple things at once, Silverfang?”
The Drake looked annoyed as Krshia spoke with him after the volunteers were on their way, with care packages. Krshia bit back the snappy response. Some things were so ingrained in them—but she tried. She moderated her tone.
“You’re adding work you don’t need. Can you give all of your hours to this project, hmm, Lism? I don’t think you can, no. And the [Carers] deserve all your time, yes?”
Lism hesitated. He swallowed an angry retort and took a breath. Once, twice…then nodded.
“I—fine. You’re right, Krshia. I could appoint a manager. And stay on top of things…”
He had to be part of the projects he was in. Like his shop; Krshia could delegate, but Lism was always checking in. It wasn’t a bad mentality to have, but sometimes he got bogged down with too much.
That was one thing. The two studied the map.
“How many Humans are part of the [Carers] project?”
“Sixteen.”
“So few.”
“Not a lot of people who moved to Liscor were in their late years. Most—children.”
The Gnoll woman waited for the inevitable ‘damn fleshy Humans coming to my city and taking jobs from honest working Drakes’, but it didn’t come. Lism just stared at the map.
“What we need…is a place for the children. Most are on the street.”
“Drakes don’t have that kind of institution?”
“Do Gnolls?”
Krshia shook her head.
“Not in the tribes. But then—no one is left alone in the tribes.”
“Unless they run off or are kicked out. Or they’re Doombringers.”
She glared at him. But he was right. Just—phrasing. Lism saw her look and adjusted his tone.
“I just mean…those kids need a home. Not just food and attention. I know some Human cities have something like that. In Drake cities they’re adopted or become gangs…”
He would know. And if the Drake had one soft spot in his entire body, it was children. After all—he’d raised Olesm and doted on his nephew, even now.
Incidentally, this was still the same Lism who’d tried to con Erin out her money right when she’d first come to Liscor. Krshia still remembered that. But he had changed a bit. Sort of.
 
—-
 
Another thing Lism did? He went to consult with experts a lot. Which was why he and Krshia met with Hedault in the man’s workshop in Invrisil.
Krshia considered it a waste of time and coin—especially because Lism was paying Hedault gold for the consultation meeting. But again, different styles.
Lism had objected nonstop to Krshia insisting on making tips mandatory for all the staff the city employed like [Sweepers], [Clerks], and so on. Which in turn she was trying to legislate into a monthly bonus, as well as ones on holidays and year-end. Something to add to what she knew were extremely low salaries. Lism had objected—until he’d seen how spotless the building started looking.
Anyways, the two were in Hedault’s studio having arrived at the appointed time and not inflicted chaos into the man’s life. He looked actually grateful as they sat and asked him a few questions.
“We’re done with Wistram. But we need to maintain our walls. Can you do it?”
That was how Lism led that Krshia appreciated. No dancing around, no pleasantries. Hedault seemed to like it too.
“Wall enchanting is not my expertise. Fissival maintains countless Drake cities, however.”
“Mm. But could you maintain Liscor’s walls? The reason I’m asking is that our [Architect] says there’s a finite limit on how large Liscor can expand. I’m asking you for a second opinion.”
Lism slid over a plan of the city. So that was what this was about. Krshia remembered Hexel saying that there was a limit a few meetings back.
Hedault regarded the blueprints with interest, but he didn’t need to consult them.
“From an [Enchanter]’s standpoint, Master Hexel is entirely correct, Councilmember Lism. Any city has a limit to the enchanted defenses it can maintain.”
“Why?”
Hedault tapped a finger twice against his wrist.
“Aside from the complexity of maintaining so many spells and the cost of enchanting that much space? The limit is in mana-draw. Are you familiar with the Golem paradox?”
The two shook their heads. Hedault nodded and adjusted his spectacles.
“In brief—a Golem can create itself in theory. One Golem can make another if of sufficient quality. But each Golem requires mana to function. Their Golem Hearts draw from the environment. So there becomes a limit of how many Golems that can be made. However, there are ways for a Golem to generate more mana. But to generate more mana to build more Golems, you need more Golems to generate more mana to build more Golems…it’s a famous paradox which many nations have tried to solve to lesser or greater degrees of success over the years.”
“So you’re saying that Liscor’s running into it? Because we’re getting too large?”
Hedault nodded.
“Wall enchantments require mana to recharge and function. When Liscor grows to a certain size the draw will be greater than ambient mana generation. So the walls will eventually self-destruct. Liscor is not near that size…but the expansions will hit that limit soon, especially with regular enchantments within the city. Invrisil has the same issue; hence the lack of enchanted walls.”
Krshia and Lism exchanged a look.
“How do they solve it?”
“Mm. Well, the lack of walls helps Invrisil, as do the populations of [Mages] which add to the ambient mana gain. Invrisil was also built on a ley line so the issue is not there—yet. But Lady Reinhart has regulated particularly intensive spells, much to the magical community’s appreciation.”
Lism’s face twisted a bit at Magnolia’s name. He glanced around the [Enchanter]’s abode, tail lashing a bit as he thought.
“So you’re saying—any city has limits unless they bypass the limit?”
Hedault raised his brows.
“Yes. Although there are exceptions, many cities with enchanted walls—especially Drake cities—have that limit. The most notable examples of successfully bypassing that limit are of course the Walled Cities. But whatever allowed the builders to create such vastly powerful walls has been lost to time.”
Hm. Krshia was frowning. This was a problem a tribe didn’t have. Walls and mana generation.
Lism was determined to make Hedault earn the consultation fee.
“Can you speculate about methods Liscor could use?”
