Olesm’s jaw dropped. Maviola slashed at Embria and the Wing Commander leapt back, knocking the sword back. She lanced out, keeping her distance as Maviola parried. She was definitely behind Embria in Skill. But as the Wing Commander began to launch a flurry of blows, Maviola sparked.
The flames covering her turned white-hot for a moment. Embria was blinded and Maviola pressed in again. She had a shield in one hand and the Wing Commander was on the defensive.
“Olesm, she’s not going to win, is she? Because 4th Company will riot if she does.”
Zevara edged over to mutter to Olesm. He shook his head, listening to Maviola laugh amid the cheering and cursing.
“I doubt it, Zevara. I’ve sparred with her and she’s worse than I am. Embria just needs to back up.”
Even so, he couldn’t take his eyes off Maviola. She was—different. She had been so of late. Of course, their relationship was definitely changed by the revelation that she was Maviola El, former Matriarch of the House of El, woman who was decidedly many times Olesm’s senior.
It had bothered the Drake greatly. They’d fought about it, actually. Olesm was outraged she hadn’t told him there was an expiry on her life—even more than the fact of her age. Maviola had been on the verge of leaving—at least their relationship, possibly Liscor.
And then—had come the change. Maviola took a spear-thrust to the shoulder.
“Point!”
Vell shouted triumphantly. Embria backed up; her armor and weapon were smoldering. She narrowed her eyes at the [Lady].
“You’d not heal that with my spear.”
“And I’d be wearing armor. Come on, I’m not dead yet even if I am bleeding! If I was fighting seriously, you’d be on fire the instant you came at me!”
Maviola lashed out. The Drake had to back up. Even 4th Company looked rather impressed as Maviola took a second thrust to the chest but kept charging in.
Fearless, fiery—that was Maviola as Olesm knew her. But there was a twist on her personality. Even Zevara, who had not known Maviola, could see it. She kept looking at Olesm.
“What’s happened to her?”
“I…don’t know.”
The Drake stared at Maviola, whom he was decidedly back together with. He felt sore.
His calves were really sore. They’d gone for a hike this morning. A ten mile hike around the Floodplains before lunch. And this was with Maviola, who claimed she’d done enough walking for three lifetimes.
Something was definitely different. And only the Drake, leaning against a wall nude as could be—and [Invisible]—knew what it was.
“One was incomplete. My potion changed only one thing. This—this is truly…”
Saliss had no fear of being seen with the commotion. Only Maviola could have picked him out. The Named Adventurer felt at his neck-spines. He’d thought he’d sensed it right after Maviola had taken the potion, but he’d been distracting everyone and hadn’t gotten a chance to gauge her properly. But it was clear.
This is what had happened. Saliss had made a Potion of Youth.
Another Potion of Youth. And he’d given it to Maviola El.
For free! That was already the kind of event that would have shaken Pallass if it had been known. Certainly—it would have killed his brokers, and the [Auctioneers] who made a small fortune off of each sale. Come to that—Saliss had passed up two fortunes because the cost of this potion had been a fraction of what a Potion of Youth normally cost in ingredients.
Magical, miraculous. Saliss had found something as revolutionary as Sage’s Grass or Eir Gel. He had created a Potion of Youth with Octavia’s help. But—it had been different.
Color was a big hint. But Saliss had felt this potion wasn’t the same as the other Potions of Youth he’d made. So he’d given it to Maviola because she was down to one last potion and because she was willing to try it.
And this was the result. Saliss understood in a single moment, as Maviola and Embria concluded their duel and the two walked over to shake hands. Embria was grudgingly impressed and Maviola actually embraced the Drake.
Youth. Maviola flicked sweat-soaked hair out of her eyes. True youth. She rubbed at her shoulders.
“Anyone else want to try fighting an aura? It’s been a long time since I did this—but I met a [Knight] from Terandria who could do—this.”
She tossed her burnt practice sword away and raised her hand. A flaming sword appeared in her grip and everyone gasped.
That was a powerful aura. Stronger than the older Maviola could generally summon. And that was because this new Maviola burned. Her spirit wasn’t that of a woman ignited in the last hour of her life. This was Maviola El as she would have been in her mid-twenties, just with the memories of the past.
It made her impetuous, reckless, and vivid. It also meant Saliss…had found it.
The only question was how long it lasted. If it was a week—or even close to it—and if the flowers did what Saliss thought and could be applied, like the Potion of Youth’s recipe to the more powerful Reverse Age Potion…
Flowers. They had neatly established their worth as the most important thing Erin Solstice had ever created. Or found. Where in the name of Dragons had she gotten them from?
“Where in Rhir’s hell is Avalon?”
Saliss had seen countless magical ingredients. He’d handled Unicorn testicles, and that was something you had to think twice about! Kraken’s hearts—he’d used powerful ingredients, but the flowers were…out of this world.
Xif and everyone else could never know. The flowers were too powerful. Mind you—Saliss had used nearly a hundred just to make the single potion and countless more in experiments. Erin Solstice was growing more and more, but…
There it was. Maviola El turned, laughing, and dragged Olesm into a tandem duel with Jeiss and Beilmark. She was alive.
How long could Saliss make those potions? And if he could do it for Maviola—the [Alchemist] wondered about Chaldion.
He watched Maviola for a while longer, invisibly. It was too powerful. That was the thing. The only reason Saliss didn’t open up his own farm and hire Oteslia to breed the flowers by the hundreds of thousands? He stared at Maviola, burning, laughing. Saliss knew potions. He knew alchemy and creation and he had his own experience with power.
There had to be side-effects.
 
—-
 
Liscor as it was had been a dreary city plagued by rains. Confounded by Antinium. But a border-city, between north and south. Not as hostile to Gnolls.
That was why she had chosen it. For access—for the potential here. That was Liscor as it had been.
It was hard to remember to Krshia sometimes. When she saw a Human in the streets that wasn’t Erin she stared a bit. But they were already becoming a new normal, like the Painted Antinium.
The new district? It was on everyone’s tongues. You could hear it in the gossip, the streets as Krshia made her way to work—well, one of her two jobs—that morning.
“Did you see the football team this morning? They looked sharp. Think we’ll beat the next team?”
“—walk in the new district. You know, some of those Human shops have some new designs and ideas. The Drunken Gnoll? Fine inn. Very cheap, very affordable. If you’re not going to the Tailless Thief, I can recommend that.”
“Not The Wandering Inn?”
“I mean, for a relaxing time.”
“Ah, right, right. Oh, look! It’s that Soldier. The one with the swirls. See? I told you I knew one…”
The dialogue! It put a smile on Krshia’s face. All of it new. All of it exciting! She passed by a Drake couple exclaiming over a dress.
“I got this from Invrisil! Just—paid to walk through that door, which was hardly anything compared to the dress! There’s so much to do there. You simply must go see, Eshi—”
“But I hear that [Innkeeper] is crazed—”
“Bah, I never had to even see her! Just ask to go through to Invrisil. It was so fast I was in the inn for less than a moment. No Crelers, no Goblins, no blood shooting everywhere—”
Yes, Liscor was changed. Humans on the street—in the Watch, setting up new business. Even competing with Krshia on Market Street. Not that she attended to her stall as much these days. Her [Assistant Saleswoman] was doing a fine job. Very fine; and Krshia just had to manage the inventory with her Skills as a [Royal Shopkeeper].
It was to her second job she was going. [Councilwoman] Krshia Silverfang walked down the street, as people came over to petition her for this or that, or just greeted her.
New Antinium. New Humans. New ways to travel. It was all glorious to Krshia compared to the Liscor-that-was.
Still, someone had to complain. As Krshia entered the City Hall and headed for the meeting room, she heard the familiar voice that usually grated on her ears. Over ten years of hearing him and Lism could still annoy Krshia.
“And why couldn’t Elirr make it? We all agreed to meet every morning. It’s morning, and unless I missed the end of forever, I assume it’s ‘every’.”
“He deserves time off, Lism, you fool, you. Let him escort Hexel around the city. Or is keeping our [Architect] happy not more important than the daily meeting?”
The Drake looked up as Krshia entered the room. So did the rest of the Council.
There they were. Jeiss, sharpening a dagger with a whetstone and yawning over his morning cup. Raekea, smelling of soot from work, Alonna, doodling in the air with a wand as she listened to Lism rant, and the Drake [Shopkeeper] himself.
Krshia’s eternal rival. Even here. He turned and gave her a look.
“Silverfang.”
“Swifttail. I can do it too. Do you ever grow tired of complaining, Lism?”
“Only someone who thinks there’s nothing to improve doesn’t complain, Krshia.”
The Drake gave her a supercilious look. Krshia rolled her eyes, but she sat down across from him. Yes, the entire Council was here except for Elirr, who was busy with Hexel in ways that would make Lism’s tail fall off.
Tismel and Zalaiss were sitting in a corner. Not of the room, but metaphorically. Their usual protests and complaints had been reduced to just sitting there, dreading what was happening next.
Rebellion had taken Liscor. The former Council, who had been made up of the right sorts, with the right backgrounds and perspectives had been replaced by the mob.
[Shopkeepers], [Guard], [Mage], [Blacksmith] and [Beast Trainer] were the Council. Not—the Guildmasters of old, landowners, and so on. Alonna was close—but she was with Lism and Krshia and the rest.
So that was one of the reasons why Krshia sat down and actually nodded to Lism.
“Good morning to you all. I trust you all had a good night, yes?”
“Quite well. Although I was up with that craziness around the Players of Celum.”
Alonna yawned as the others murmured agreement. Lism was muttering.
“I have a lot to get to. Just proposals I need you to sign off on. Oh—good morning.”
“Er—what’s on the roster today, Lism?”
Tismel’s voice quavered as the others helped themselves to food—this time from Raekea. Since Krshia had had breakfast with Elirr, she only took a small bit to be polite. Lism ignored the other Drake.
“Since we don’t have Elirr or Master Hexel, I think we’ll hold off on some of the plans until tomorrow. I’d like to discuss a change to the city’s new plans…”
“Again? Dead gods, how many is that?”
Jeiss raised his brows. Lism shook his head.
“It’s always to Liscor’s benefit. I’ll run it past you all tomorrow. I just need to make sure it’ll work.”
Krshia munched on a scone as she listened. That was Lism. Taking charge and running this like he was the leader. She was almost tempted to interrupt, but—well, she didn’t have anything to lay in front of the Council. They had daily meetings these days, in case something like Erin occurred, but it was sometimes just a twenty-minute meeting to socialize and eat before they went about their day.
But Lism clearly had a plan. He went down the list.
“I’d like you all to authorize me to go to…three meetings on behalf of the city. Make temporary agreements and I’ll run them past you. I’ll also need a two gold and eight silver budget for one of the meetings—and twenty six gold pieces for my [Carer] initiative. Can I get a quick vote on that?”
Instantly, Alonna, Jeiss, and Raekea all raised their hands. It was informal, but Lism was here to request the vote. Without it, he wasn’t allowed to proceed. It was one of those new things the Council had implemented; Lism or Krshia or anyone else could make unofficial promises and reach out to people, but they had to inform their colleagues and official ratification required a vote as well.
Since the Council was eight in total, they required a majority of five. And since Elirr was gone, Lism needed Krshia’s vote. She left him hanging just to make him glare at her.
Predictably, two Drakes did not raise their claws.
“What—er—what are the meetings, Lism? I think we should be informed about them.”
That came from Zalaiss. Lism looked at her.
“Need to know, Zalaiss.”
“But we’re Council members…”
“And I don’t need you to show up with the former Council to try and negotiate on Liscor’s behalf. Shut. Up.”
Lism was about as tactful as a mallet to the head. But since Krshia detested the former Council, who had been petty and complacent, this put a smile on her lips. She raised her paw.
“Majority has it.”
The two Drakes of the old guard sagged. They’d clearly been hoping Krshia’s longstanding and public rivalry with Lism would cause trouble. They’d even tried to exploit it a few times—but Krshia knew the score.
So did Lism, because he was already packing up his notes.
“That’s all from me. Does anyone have anything else to add?”
“Krshia, my wife really wants some ah, tickets to the Players of Celum. I don’t suppose you could…?”
“I’ll look into it, Jeiss.”
The Gnoll nodded and the [Senior Guardsman] gave her a grateful look.
“Thank you. You have no idea how much she’s been pestering me about it. And with Relc gone…”
“Just don’t flaunt it, Jeiss. We’re Councilmembers. We don’t get special privileges. We don’t cut in line—Krshia’s friends with that Human. That’s your ticket, not us.”
“Got it, Lism.”
The Drake rolled his eyes, but he nodded. Lism checked his notes and then—looked at Krshia.
“I need a second on these meetings. And since everyone else has work—Silverfang, do you have a moment?”
“I could c—”
Tismel shut up as Lism raised his clipboard to throw it. Silverfang—er—Krshia, grinned.
“Very well, if you insist, Lism. Where are we going to first?”
“I need the funds. Then—we’ll head to the meeting rooms for the [Carers] initiative. We have to meet with—Hedault—in forty eight minutes. And we’re not going to be late.”
“You’re the one who walks slow. Hrm. Are we paying him?”
