Elirr rubbed at his face. Mrsha scooted closer to the table as a big dog snuffled her and she patted it on the head.
“Krshia was saying this morning—how did she phrase it? ‘If I had a Gnoll wife, she’d be angry with me’. It’s like that, Hexel. Gnoll tribes are mostly more understanding. But you still have to be part of the tribe. Make babies. It’s why I left.”
“Ah, that would bother me almost more than being hunted. You can have it halfway?”
Hexel grew somber. He and Elirr looked at each other. Hexel…with less of that knowing look adults had than Mrsha. They were on the same page.
“I suppose. It seemed better than Drake cities to me, but I didn’t think other species were…is it really not an issue in Baleros? At all?”
Elirr sipped from his teacup. He looked so grave. Mrsha saw Hexel’s tail twining around his foot. The Lamia grew still.
“I didn’t say that. Dullahans hate it. But Lizardfolk? The Nagas aren’t opposed. We’re not exactly easy to separate out, some of us, Elirr. So I suppose we’ve always been like that. Not sure about Gazers—but Centaurs are very bad, sometimes.”
“So not perfect. That’s…almost reassuring.”
Elirr went back to fill the cups. Mrsha looked at them.
“What are you two talking about? Sex?”
The adults stared at her. Then they looked at each other and sighed. Wonderful. And it was their day off, too!
 
—-
 
It was hard—explaining something that everyone knew to Mrsha. Especially from the perspective he didn’t have.
Cruel. Perhaps that was why Elirr didn’t like it. He saw Mrsha staring up at him as he tried to tell her why people might object to him and Hexel doing something as innocuous as twining tails together.
And why it might not be just harsh words.
She understood at last when Elirr told her what Drakes called their people. Turnscales. Mrsha had heard that word in a few of The Wandering Inn’s rare fights not started by Erin. That word got tossed in sometimes and always started a brawl.
“Do you remember how they thought of you, Mrsha? Some—not all, but some might treat us the same.”
The little girl’s face fell. She played with some of the silkap bread and kicked her feet.
“Meow. Purr.”
Alamaran had a knack for moments like this. He, with the grace of all cats, inserted himself into Mrsha’s lap and demanded to be pet. He had done it to Elirr for countless days after escaping the dungeon.
“Do you understand not to tell then, little one?”
Hexel peered at Mrsha. Elirr wasn’t the best with Gnoll cubs, having not had any to raise himself. Animals now…but Hexel was better at making sure Mrsha got the message. She looked up and nodded. She patted Alamaran as Elirr sat back and sighed.
“Well—well.”
That was all he could say. Mrsha signed.
“Can I tell Erin? Erin is good. Nice.”
Elirr had no doubt that was true. But the thought of Erin Solstice keeping a secret was…
Well, not implausible, but he didn’t want drama. And Erin invited it through her door. She’d probably put up a sign—
No Killing Turnscales, Especially Not Elirr and Hexel!
That was unfair. But Elirr had not cultivated his levels of paranoia for nothing. And Liscor was a progressive city compared to some. You heard stories about raids, even in Pallass…
“Not Erin, Mrsha. Just…in case. The fewer people who know, the safer. Will you promise?”
Another nod. Mrsha flinched as a cat dropped on her. But the cats were suddenly demanding affection. Cats—could be wonderful therapist animals.
Then again, so could dogs. They swamped the dispirited child. One of the dogs nearly covered Mrsha and the cats as it leaned on her and they all pushed it off.
That made Elirr smile. He stepped back with Hexel, under the pretext of making another batch of tea.
“Is there something to worry about?”
“No. She is a good child.”
The Lamia nodded. He studied Elirr’s fond expression. The two stood together.
Together, but with some unfamiliarity. That was fine. It was just that they were no longstanding couple of a decade, but new. Rather, it was more like…romance. The kind that Elirr had found in the tribes when he was younger.
It was more covert in Liscor, but it felt fresh. New. The kind of thing that made you chase cats away from your good clothing and comb your hair and endure nosy female Gnolls. Even the cute little ones.
Ekirra—now, Ekirra would never have noticed. He’d wander about, picking his nose and never notice two Gnolls kissing in front of each other if he had a plate of sweet buns. But he was also incapable of keeping secrets.
And Mrsha? A Plains Gnoll as well as…Elirr saw her brightening up. But her face had been too old, too grave when she’d finally realized the danger to Elirr and Hexel. She had seen so much.
“I called her a Doombringer once, you know. A monster. Right to her face.”
Hexel twisted slightly.
“Doom…?”
His voice was a fraction louder than Elirr’s. The two were whispering but Mrsha’s ears pricked up slightly. Hexel waved his wand and a [Silence] spell enveloped them.
“It’s a word for white Gnolls. Legend has it they’re cursed to destroy a tribe. That they appear and bring bad luck, calamity.”
“That sounds like some Lizardfolk tales. And you believe that…?”
Hexel’s voice was carefully skeptical. Elirr blushed under his fur. The Lamia couldn’t see it, but he could sense body heat.
“It was during the dungeon.”
“Oh.”
Silence. Hexel wrapped the tip of his tail around Elirr’s leg. It was a comfort gesture among Lizardfolk.
“We all make mistakes.”
“I shouldn’t have. Not me.”
He’d begun to believe in those cages, with the Raskghar out of nightmares eating them. It still haunted Elirr. Mrsha didn’t seem to bear a grudge, which was even worse.
“No one’s proud of what they do under stress. You’ve seen me at my worst. I couldn’t even look the Drake who served me breakfast in the eye. I—”
Hexel shivered. His tail constricted around Elirr’s leg.
Gently. Hexel was probably stronger than Elirr. Certainly—better at fighting. He’d told Elirr the story of the first attack—where half his assistants had died. He’d fought off the attackers, though. Killing them. The rest of his team had died as he led them to safety until only three remained. Not the guards, not the other helpers—
At least Elirr had some closure. He had seen the Raskghar die. Walked the ruins of their camp after Erin had led a counterattack—just to know he was safe. He was behind Liscor’s walls and no one had seen a Raskghar in over a month. The City Watch was still vigilant.
But Hexel saw the same species that had attacked his party everywhere he looked. And the Drake’s hostility to Lizardfolk didn’t help.
Hexel was staring out the shop. He could, apparently, see body heat like Elirr and Mrsha could smell people and things. He had to be looking at Drakes; he was tensed up.
A gentle hug for the shivering Lamia. Hexel blinked as Elirr began to stroke his shoulder and head. He laughed after a moment as Mrsha sneezed on a cat and it sneezed back in outrage.
“You’re petting me like one of your dogs.”
“Am I?”
Embarrassed, the [Beast Trainer] nearly stopped, then he tickled Hexel’s chin. The Lamia swatted at him, laughing again.
“You can scratch my chin—later.”
The two chuckled over that and Mrsha shot them a disgusted look. Yes, no keeping secrets around Gnoll children as bright as Mrsha. She knew all the secrets. Perhaps Krshia’s too—for all the Gnoll was trying her best.
“I think it’s time to get you back to the inn, before Erin turns over Liscor looking for you.”
Elirr and Hexel nodded at each other and Mrsha wilted. They left the shop, and became, suddenly, actors in their own play. Only, the audience was everyone and the stakes were high.
Mrsha was clearly nervous as Hexel and Elirr left the shop. She kept staring at them as they walked together. But she needn’t have feared. In their own way, Hexel and Elirr were as good at this act as the Players of Celum.
“Architect Hexel! Inspecting the city?”
“That’s right. Councilmember Elirr is giving me a hand. And showing me the sights!”
The Lamia called out to the first Gnoll they met. He walked with Elirr—not arm-in-arm, but close. Friendly—two distinguished VIP’s in the city, just walking along, greeting people.
Elirr did the same as Hexel, smiling, and giving no clues. Not even smell.
Scent potion. Some might know, but Gnolls didn’t care by and large. As for Drakes—well, the two made a good show of it.
Mrsha’s mouth fell open as she saw how the two were so—good at it. Elirr opened a door for Hexel. They had stopped at the Mage’s Guild to collect any letters.
“This way, Architect.”
“Why thank you, Councilmember Elirr.”
The two winked at Mrsha when no one else was looking. She looked delighted. Elirr just hoped she didn’t make too much of a game of it, but he wanted to allay her fears.
“Let’s see…correspondence from Baleros. Mhm…mhm…is that a letter for you, Miss Mrsha?”
Hexel stared down as Mrsha came away with her own letter from the Mage’s Guild desk. Much to Elirr’s surprise. She opened it.
“It’s from…is it Miss Ryoka?”
Mrsha swatted at Elirr as he peered at it. It was her letter, thank-you-very-much! She read and then signed.
“Horns.”
“Oh. The Horns. Well, very good. And I have…nothing. On we go.”
Hexel was the [Architect] of Liscor, and he had done quite a lot already. The new district of Liscor was inhabitable—the wall wasn’t nearly as large as Liscor’s other walls, but it was patrolled hard by [Guards] and still—fifteen feet high and with no gaps. Hexel was overseeing the city’s construction and he was working hard since the Council was coming up with new ideas each week.
But he didn’t have to work every day. So today was an unofficial holiday. After all—Elirr was the liaison from the Council. It worked out very well. They had a few activities in mind—the Mrsha-interruption being the only unexpected event so far, and a minor one at that all things considered.
Well, for Hexel and Elirr. And that was because they knew how to do things. They dropped Mrsha off at The Wandering Inn.
“Mrsha! There you are!”
Erin had a frying pan and Lyonette was out scouting with Numbtongue. The Players were putting on a show for a number of Pallassian dignitaries. Elirr’s ears perked up as he saw them on stage. And there was Grimalkin of Pallass and Chaldion the [Grand Strategist] in the audience!
“You’re in big trouble, Mrsha. Someone find Lyonette! And—thank you so much, Elirr, Hexel!”
The two nodded politely. Erin pointed around.
“Do you want something to drink? Are you staying…?”
“No, we just came to bring Mrsha back. Don’t be too hard on her, please. Little Gnolls always wander off. Their form of rebelling as they get older is to run away. Drakes—smashing things, sometimes, or other outlets. But I used to wander off as a young Gnoll cub all the time.”
“Really?”
Erin stared at Mrsha, who was hiding behind Hexel. The Lamia grinned.
“Lizardfolk rebellions are to form little gangs. Troublemakers, all. Here you go, Mrsha.”
He nudged Mrsha forwards. Erin’s hands were on her hips and she was about to lay into Mrsha when a huge Drake tapped her on the shoulder.
“Miss Solstice. A word about the Players. They’re quite good, but we’d appreciate our own acting troupe. But the Players are resistant to making a Pallassian branch…”
“Because it’s not their branch, but you guys stealing the plays! If you want to let Pallassians join the Players, okay, Grimalkin. But why does it have to be Pallass’ people? Huh? Huh? Huh? Let them perform in Pallass and you can wait for your own group!”
The [Innkeeper] broke off. And that was Hexel and Elirr’s cue to exit, stage left. Because—yes, it was fascinating with the drama around the actors and all of that. But they had things to do. A very sad Mrsha looked up at Erin…then snuck off into the Garden to hide with the Fortress Beavers.
“I’d quite like to see some of the plays. I saw a few, but maybe we could stop back tonight?”
Hexel whispered to Elirr. The Gnoll stroked his chin-hair.
“Your wish may be granted.”
“Oho. Do I have a personal Djinni?”
“Mm. Perhaps. Have you ever met a Djinni?”
The two proceeded out of the inn with dignity and grace as Erin poked Grimalkin in the chest and a team of adventurers entered looking for her. Hexel chuckled.
“I went to Merreid in my youth. The shield Kingdom of Chandrar—one of those cities any [Architect] studies.”
“Really? I wish I had left Izril—did you meet Drevish?”
“Him? Oh, no. It was when the King of Destruction was rampaging around. I was just a young [Builder]—but I saw some of the forts the King’s Architect made in a day. Amazing work. There was this wall he built to block a pass in six hours—he had his own Djinni you see, and there’s no faster or more adaptive worker…”
Stories. The two both came from cultures with strong oral traditions of storytelling. And Elirr and Hexel were still finding out about each other. They left The Wandering Inn behind to return to the date.
Behind them, the adventuring team—actually, two of them—found Erin after Grimalkin stomped off.
“Can we get some of your magic food, Erin? To go?”
She looked around and the [Innkeeper] beamed.
“Earlia! Nailren! You guys going to the dungeon? Be careful!”
The two Silver-rank teams nodded. The leader of Gemhammer propped her warhammer against a table.
“Just your Scale Soup, Erin. Insurance—since we’re the only teams going down at the moment. Don’t worry—we’re sticking within the safe zone. Just prying up trap tiles. The soup can actually really save us from taking a hit. And it’s a lot less expensive than a Barkskin potion each time…”
“Coming up. Hey, Ishkr—”
The people near the stage shhed loudly and Erin lowered her voice guiltily.
“Sorry. So no Bevussa?”
Earlia shook her head.
“Some Pallass event. Bevussa’s team, Keldrass’, most of the Pallassian teams are socializing. Not for us, even if we were invited.”
“Which we weren’t, just to be clear.”
Nailren looked amused. The two Silver-ranks left the inn to descend into the dungeon a little bit after that.
 
—-
 
The first stop with the two was a bit of fun and games. Elirr had heard the Floodplains were much safer after the [Druid], Nathalistirieminous or whatever his name was, wiped them out.
But it wasn’t on his Top 10 list of things to do. He wished he could hike around like younger Gnolls. Even Krshia could probably march for thirty miles. But he was older, plusher…
“Distinguished. Nothing like a silver Gnoll to make you feel quite sophisticated.”
Hexel had phrased it like that. Elirr smiled.
“What’s the original expression?”
