Even so—he’d healed practically overnight. Geneva was positive she could see the scar on his belly fading.
“You have to explain this, Courier Seve. I’ve never seen a regenerative capability like this in any of my patients.”
He scratched at his hair.
“A’ctelios Salash. That’s all I can say. I’m one of the [Fleshchosen], Doctor Scala. I grew up eating Tombhome’s meat. So long as I have some—I’ll heal faster, be stronger, and live longer than most. If it weren’t for the side-effects, I’d tell you to look into it.”
The back of Geneva’s neck prickled as he brought up the Shield Kingdom of Chandrar again. He’d told her once, but it sounded like…
A horror story. Positively Lovecraftian in nature. But here was Seve, who had brought medicine through a storm for his friend, Seql.
“Tell me more about A’ctelios, Courier Seve.”
“It’s not a great place. Even Selphids think it’s creepy.”
Idis whispered in Geneva’s head. She’d been napping as Geneva worked on her patient and gave her lecture. She yawned, a second voice as Seve shrugged.
“What can I say? I’m sure you can hear all the rumors about the Carven City. How those who enter don’t leave. There’s some truth to it. It’s just—I was born there. Sometimes the rumors are true, but every city has light parts and dark parts.”
“And A’ctelios Salash?”
He smiled with genuine nostalgia.
“Tombhome welcomes you, Doctor Geneva. It welcomes anyone who is lost, who is alone, who seeks a place to be. It is a choice. Always a choice. And there is danger. Eat too much or be drawn in…but A’ctelios is a place of great healing. Our [Flesh Shapers] do the same work as you. No one goes hungry, there. That is the home I know. And I keep its blessings with me.”
He gestured at his skin. Geneva nodded. The bias was apparent, but she supposed there might be some truth in Seve’s words. [Flesh Shaper] on the other hand…
“Is there a consequence for going without the…meat from your home, Seve? I’m asking out of curiosity, not as my role as a [Doctor].”
The Courier hesitated. And his ready smile turned a bit melancholic.
“I grow—hungrier—over time, Doctor Scala. That’s all. The food I bring from home never rots. But I do need to return at least once every few years. And yes—someday the Carven City will call me home. I’ll say goodbye to my friends and return. We don’t leave, then.”
More skin-crawling. Idis made it stop. Geneva nodded.
“It seems like a grave choice.”
“I was given a choice. My parents raised me until I was ten, on outsider’s food. Not all do that, but they let me choose. That’s how it should be. I chose to stay. Strength comes from sacrifice and I regret nothing. Isn’t that close to how you live, Doctor Scala?”
She didn’t think it was the same at all. But perhaps that was what Seve saw in her cutting a patient open or sewing them up.
“Perhaps, Seve. Either way, I owe you a great debt. You won’t take any money?”
He shook his head as he put a loose shirt on.
“Seql’s family paid me. The Great Companies paid me for my delivery. More than that—I would have done it for free, Doctor Scala.”
The sentiment made Geneva smile.
“I heard there was a great deal of trouble hiring a Courier, Seve. But you did it for free.”
His eyes were steady as he nodded.
“There are few like me. But I think your beliefs and mine are similar, Geneva. I am the Hundredfriends Courier. I charge no fee when the cause is enough.”
She sat back. Oh yes. She believed in that.
“You saved countless lives, Seve. If I can repay you in any way, I will.”
He rolled his shoulders and some of his animals climbed onto them to take a nap.
“That’s enough. Friendship is worth more than any currency. More than gold. That’s how I live.”
“Friendship alone?”
Another grin.
“If I sail to dozens of ports around the world, Doctor, I won’t be charged to put my boat in harbor. I’ll eat for free and like a [King]. I have far more than a hundred friends. And I’ve learned that’s real value. When I was first starting out, I took a wound at sea. And it festered—the one thing Tombhome won’t save me from if it goes bad.”
He gestured to one arm. Geneva grimaced.
“What happened?”
“A [Merchant] I’d done a delivery for heard of it when I was lying at my deathbed. He paid for me to be treated and spent, dead gods, thousands of gold coins on me. All for free. Because I had saved his home from a termite-breed last month—not even saved his life. That was when I knew how I wanted to do my business.”
The Courier related all that with a faint smile of nostalgia. Geneva laughed. She felt—better. Relieved, of late.
“Thank you for doing it. And to the other Couriers. If you ever need treatment—come here and I’ll do my best. That’s all I can offer.”
Seve nodded, pleased. Then he looked at her, up and down with a long, studying look.
“I rather think some of us are in your debt, Doctor Geneva. The Yellow Rivers would have taken Seql in another few days, wouldn’t it?”
“…Yes. Yes, he wouldn’t have made it past the week. But that was—”
“You. And whomever made the Occillium. I didn’t have time to talk long, but the Moonlight Rider of Izril told me that it was a great effort to get it to the port alone. Some other people did their best, didn’t they?”
Seve looked at Geneva sharply. She nodded slowly.
Joseph.
“They did indeed, Seve. There are good people elsewhere in the world.”
Another nod. Seve looked at her.
“Will you tell me their names? It seems that if I owe my own favor for those who’d save lives, some of it belongs to whomever that was.”
Geneva hesitated. Seve looked at her, calmly.
“It is a secret?”
“—perhaps. It’s…”
Her mouth stopped moving. Idis whispered urgently in her ear.
“Going to have to stop you, Geneva. That’s important information! I have to run it by Calectus, at least!”
Geneva clenched her fists. She couldn’t reply back, but Idis knew what she was doing.
“Geneva—it’s my job—”
Seve waited, his eyes intent on her. Geneva tapped the roof of her mouth furiously with her tongue. Let me talk!
“Geneva—I can’t just—okay, okay, fine! Just one name?”
“Joseph. From Liscor.”
Geneva’s mouth closed. Seve smiled.
“I’ll surely remember it.”
The [Doctor] smiled and nodded. Idis muttered about ‘breaking the rules’ as Geneva and Seve talked. Geneva understood—and didn’t understand her objections. It was one thing for the Selphids to be paranoid. But this?
A great debt indeed. She owed it to Joseph and this Octavia as well. For giving her hope. The Hundredfriends Courier was the kind of person she wished existed more in any world.
He had to go—but he was going to stay a few days. Geneva had her hands full checking on her patients, but she had a new wind at her back. She did ask Seve for a sample of his…food supply. Just a sample. She wondered if it was possible it could do something miraculous.
 
—-
 
Night turned to day. The sun rose again. Over Baleros, still lashed by the typhoon, delaying a certain Fraerling’s plans because of the magical interference.
Over Tombhome as well, who did know there was power to be had in…taking things away. Even if it was not quite as Seve remembered it from his last visit.
Another group was aware that—sacrifice—had its power. The light of two full moons invigorated them as they carefully bypassed the adventurer’s shutters, resealing the exits. Especially against—
Facestealer. And they went about the plan by moonlight. And then daylight.
For the sun rose, but the moons were still in the same positions in the sky, roughly. That was astronomy for you.
The Raskghar gathered. How many? All of them. At least—the ones who’d stayed in the dungeon. A smaller group had split away. Now, the rest waited. Waited for…ropes.
Yet that wasn’t what lingered on the minds of those who rose to greet the day. In The Wandering Inn, for instance, a little Gnoll rolled over, smacked a [Princess] in the face with a paw as she stretched, and then got up to run into the garden for a morning lap around a hill.
A Hobgoblin was already awake, practicing with his sword. He really wanted to do more than the sword exercises. And so did a ghost inside of him. But he’d gotten in trouble for cutting down one of the trees. It hadn’t even been the cocoa one!
An [Innkeeper] snoozed over her magical chessboard—which hadn’t been working properly. It kept moving the pieces back as if something was wrong with the…connection. She and her opponent had been frustrated by it. Erin had subsequently fallen asleep writing out notes on another board game.
Other guests of the inn woke up differently. A Lamia slid out of his bed with a gasp. For a moment, heart-pounding terror made him aim his wand at the ceiling. Then he awoke.
Three Lizardfolk woke up. The Players of Liscor and the Antinium all got up. And when they went downstairs—another ordinarily miraculous day occurred.
“The Players of Liscor!”
Erin woke up to the cheering from below a second time. She slouched downstairs, rubbing at the marks the chess-board had left on her chin and neck.
“’smatterwithallanoisedownhere?”
Ishkr gave Erin a strange look as he tried to process the question. He eventually pointed to Temile, who was beaming and shaking hands and signing autographs with the breakfast-crowd.
“Oh. Temile.”
Erin yawned. Another reason for her late night was because the excitement over the Player’s appearance on television had dragged out for a long time. Even her opponent had asked if she’d seen it.
“Temile, Temile. Are we going to perform in Pallass?”
“Let’s not count our Goldhens before they lay anything, Rekhi. But we’re in talks. Emme and the others should be coming over as soon as they have breakfast—maybe even for breakfast. Has anyone checked the door?”
Temile was beaming at the Gnolls and Drakes around the table. The Players of Liscor were excited. Five of them raced into the hallway.
“Good for them.”
Erin yawned again. A white blur came racing down the steps, followed by Lyonette.
“Mrsha! Put your skirt on! Get back here!”
Numbtongue walked out of the [Garden] smelling a bit sweaty and grassy. Erin waved at him.
“Numbtongue! Wanna have breakfast?”
“Sure.”
As he walked over, Erin saw Ishkr check in the kitchen for a breakfast for them. Imani was hard at work. Mrsha raced over to their table and hid under Numbtongue’s chair.
“Mrsha…”
An ominous voice made Mrsha hide behind Numbtongue’s legs. Meanwhile, Erin sniffed Numbtongue.
“You’re sorta sweaty, pal.”
“Mhm. So?”
He sniffed at himself. It didn’t smell bad to him. Erin sighed.
“We need to get you some deodorant! I think Octavia sells some.”
The [Bard] gave Erin a dismayed look.
“I smell fine.”
“Yeah, you say that, but you’re not the one who has to smell you. Right, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll gave Erin a reproachful look for ratting her out as Lyonette marched over with clothing. At the same time a second cheer made everyone turn.
The Players of Celum were coming through for breakfast! They were like rock stars to Erin. Not as in—they were her rock stars, but that’s how they were treated.
“Miss Jasi, can I get a signature? I am such a fan—”
“Whoa, back up. Back up! The Players are here for breakfast. You can’t just bother them.”
A Drake coming over to Jasi was blocked by Eltistiman and a trio of [Bodyguards]. But Jasi pushed past them.
“Eltistiman! She’s one of us! Of course I’ll sign—but we’re fellow [Actors]!”
“Sorry, Jasi.”
The security around the Players made Erin blink. But here they were. Jasi exclaimed as she saw Erin.
“Erin! Thank you so much for last night! And you too, Numbtongue! I knew The Wandering Inn’s curs—I mean, blessing would do the trick!”
The Hobgoblin waved at Jasi, grinning. He’d watched the recording of himself at least a dozen times and was very self-satisfied. Erin beckoned to the others.
“Wesle, Jasi, you all want to have a group breakfast?”
“I’d be delighted.”
There came Wesle, and a flood of people from Invrisil who wanted to eat breakfast in The Wandering Inn for no reason in particular today. The security earned their money as the Players sat around the table. Mrsha was high-fiving Grev.
Ironically, it was Lyonette and Ishkr who both looked a bit star-struck by the Players. Erin just treated them like normal.
“Breakfast! What do you all want?”
“See, I can respect this. Other inns—we’ve had amazing food, but nothing comes out faster than food here. No wait, no fuss! All fresh as can be!”
Kilkran chortled as Mrsha reached up to yank on his beard. Lyonette rescued the man from his fate as Imani herself came out of the kitchen with something in her hands.
“I uh—it was an amazing performance you all put on last night, Jasi.”
Lyonette shyly remarked to the Drake. Jasi was still beaming.
“Thank you! And the Singer herself actually sent us a [Message]. She says she’s a huge fan and she actually asked for copies of all our plays, if you can believe that! We’re going to [Message] her back—Emme had the Mage’s Guild send the entire play, which cost a bit, but we’re getting a shipment of song-crystals in return. I’ll give you some when it arrives, if you like.”
“Really? I’d like that. And uh—I hesitate to ask, but I’ve been hearing about autographs. And when you were performing, I uh—”
Jasi laughed as Mrsha rolled her eyes. But the Drake instantly produced an autograph card for the blushing Lyonette. One of the special ones.
This was background to Wesle and Numbtongue greeting each other and Wesle noticing Numbtongue’s fine sword. Erin leaned back as the Hobgoblin put it on the table to Kilkran’s amazement.
“Is that Dragonblood crystal? How did you…?”
He was a former [Blacksmith] after all. Numbtongue looked pleased at himself. Meanwhile, Imani pulled at Erin’s sleeve.
“Um, Erin—”
She looked nervous in the crowd, but determined as she held something under an arm. Erin turned to her.
“What, Imani? Do you want an autograph?”
Half the [Actors] turned with a quill in hand. Imani shook her head. She offered Erin what she was holding.
“Erin, am I allowed to use this or what? I tried putting it in a cupboard, but it’s sucking all the light out of the kitchen.”
The Shadow Loaf was in her hands, eating the light. Erin blinked.
“Oh!”
She’d forgotten all about the bread she’d baked. And it was apparently becoming a light distraction? Imani blew out her cheeks.
“I had a bit. And it’s not exactly tasty. But can I do something with it? It doesn’t grow stale.”
“Well, obviously—”
