“Silver Foxkin. The Beastkin of Baleros, you know? Old Fox Beastkin are quite something…”
“Excuse me. I thought you said Gnolls were better.”
“Less fragile.”
And that was certainly the case. Hexel blinked as he saw that Elirr had taken him to one of Liscor’s attractions—especially for Gnolls.
An indoor archery range. It was one of Elirr’s little hobbies—most Gnolls learned how to shoot a bow in the tribes.
“We can pay for a quiver and an hour. I don’t know if you shoot…”
“I’ve been known to do so. This looks like fun!”
The couple set up at their station—the archery range had all kinds of activities for all ranges of skill. Instructors would help you learn a bow and maybe get your [Archer] class—or there were more advanced targets. Even an option for a pottery throw where you shot at moving targets. Liscor had [Hunters] who’d take you on a small walkabout to hunt game…
For today, Elirr just had in mind some archery targets since he didn’t know how good Hexel was with a bow. And for all his griping about his age—Hexel looked suitably impressed as Elirr strung a longbow and sank an arrow into a target.
“What a shot!”
“It’s nothing fancy.”
Elirr had missed the inner painted rings completely, but Hexel looked amazed. He felt at Elirr’s arms suspiciously.
“That takes a lot of upper body strength! I couldn’t use a longbow.”
The [Beast Trainer] grinned and pointed to a far wall.
“There are beginner’s bows as well. Do you have a preference?”
Hexel hesitated.
“Do you have…a half bow?”
“Half-bow?”
Half the Gnolls in earshot turned, looking offended. The Lamia held up his hands.
“A shortbow! Fine, fine…do all Gnolls love bows?”
“It’s a hobby, a work of art, and it can feed you, defend you…do Lizardfolk have a similar weapon?”
“Mm. Slings and tridents? We fish in swamps a lot.”
The two had an enjoyable time aiming at targets. Hexel wasn’t strong, but he was quite sharp. Anything he put his mind to—and it was a very brilliant mind—he picked up. Elirr had already given up playing chess with Hexel. The Lamia could win blindfolded and being tickled.
Neither came close to winning a record—there were actually prizes and you got your name on the wall if you hit the most targets with the most accuracy. One name caught Elirr’s eye.
Bird – 1st Place. Score…
He stared at it. Then laughed and resolved to ask Erin about that story.
 
—-
 
Next on their list of things to do was sample some of the local cuisines. For that, Elirr took them to one of the few farms over a few hills to whet the appetite. They arrived just around lunchtime, and despite Hexel complaining about the grass stains on his lower half, he was quite taken with the cheese-tasting.
It was another thing Elirr knew younger couples did, but hadn’t had the opportunity to do with someone else for a long time. The farm had a number of animals that gave milk, from goats to cows in magical and non-magical varieties.
“This is an Elanda Cheese. Local—fresh. It goes very well melted—you can taste the fruity nature of it.”
The cheese tasting activity for couples or tourist and Councilmember as Elirr and Hexel obviously were, was a fun activity. The Drake [Rancher] offered them any number of cheeses. And wine. The wine made it quite fun.
Hexel enjoyed himself immensely, despite being more carnivorous. He was especially taken by the fondue they finished with.
“Ooh. So you actually melt it all up and dip things into it? We don’t have as many herd animals in the jungles. Centaurs—maybe? And this cheese! It’s so—fragrant! I have to buy some.”
Lizardfolk with their tongues and Gnoll noses made them both good food-tasters. The Elanda cheese was piquant, a word that instantly identified you to other people as having an opinion on food.
Unfortunately, the duo shot themselves in the foot a bit with the fondue and cheese-eating because it slowed both of them down such that neither really wanted to go on that walkabout of Invrisil just at the moment, which was next on their list.
“Why don’t we…sit while we digest?”
Elirr suggested. Hexel agreed, so they headed back to The Wandering Inn, hoping to catch one of the plays.
As it happened, the Players of Celum were still performing to impress Pallass and capitalize on their big success. Invrisil had the 2nd teams, and 3rd teams performing in the Season’s Theatre, but the A-Team, the 1st Team, the originals were performing live.
It was something Elirr and Hexel had to see, but predictably, the inn was packed. Elirr thought he knew packed, but people were crowded up just to stare through the windows. From Invrisil, Pallass, Celum, and Liscor—
“We’ll never get in! We should have stayed!”
The Gnoll groaned in dismay. Hexel was disappointed too—he had never seen the Players of Celum perform. The two looked around, hoping to find a way in.
And as it happened, their ‘way in’ was sitting at the bar, moodily contemplating a life without dessert—again.
“I think you’ve had enough milk, Miss.”
Drassi grinned at Mrsha as the Gnoll child tapped on the counter for a refill. Mrsha sighed. She had been found by Erin and given her punishment—Erin was no fun with hide-and-seek because she could find Mrsha anywhere in her inn. Lyonette had been very mad, too.
Mrsha smelled Hexel and Elirr’s unique scent quite by chance as the door wafted them in. She blinked and looked up and saw them by the crowd at the door, looking dismayed. Mrsha saw them staring at the Players and brightened.
Now here was something Mrsha the Secret Keeper could do! She hopped off the bar after leaving a tip for Drassi. The Drake blinked at the notecard attached to the cup.
You are a nice person. Have a good day.
“Let’s see if we can get a seat tonight.”
Hexel sighed as Elirr gave up searching. The two turned to go—and the white Gnoll pushed through the crowd.
“Mrsha? What is it this time? You had better not be running off…”
The Gnoll rolled her eyes and signed quickly with her paws.
“Come, come!”
The two looked at each other. Mrsha impatiently reached forwards and grabbed their hands. She pulled them through the crowd, ignoring the protests.
Straight up to the stage. Mrsha was her own stage-pass and no one objected when they saw her pulling the two forwards. She even found a table for them. Right near the front. She made the [Actors], the Players of Liscor, double-up at another table to make room.
“Why, thank you, Mrsha.”
Elirr was a bit touched by the Gnoll—even if her idea of ‘helping’ was inconveniencing everyone else. He found himself sitting with Hexel in front-row seats as the Players began to put on Elisial.
“Mrsha! Are you causing trouble for—oh hey! Hexel! Elirr!”
Erin shout-whispered over the hubbub as a squad of servers broke through the press with food and drink. She looked at Hexel and Elirr who waved at her.
“I’m sorry, but Mrsha insisted on giving us front-row seats, Erin…”
“Are you kidding? I’d have let you watch from the Garden—but I’m using that to travel about. Good thing you came! The Players are putting on one last show and I haven’t seen Elisial myself. Can I get you anything to eat or drink?”
Hexel and Elirr looked at each other. They had a bellyful of wine, cheese, and they were pleasantly tired from the archery and walk. Hexel nodded at Erin with a smile.
“We’re perfectly lovely, Miss Solstice.”
The best part of all was that it was entirely true.
 
—-
 
Hexel and Elirr’s date wasn’t something Erin picked up on. If it hadn’t been busy—perhaps? Or most likely, again, not. She could be oblivious when it suited her—or just because she really did miss things.
But the two’s moment was noticeable to someone besides Mrsha.
Hexel and Elirr, sitting at a table. Obvious as can be.
Saliss of Lights looked at them and saw it in a moment. Because…you would. Anyone would.
Perhaps not some. The people who would object probably wouldn’t see it. And that was because they were good at pretending what they didn’t like did not exist. But to Saliss? You might as well have shone a spotlight on them. Mirn would have picked them out with his eyes closed, [Protector] that he was.
The two were flirting. Inconspicuously, but clearly enjoying the moment. Sitting side-by-side as they watched the play.
It hurt Saliss with that spear of envy. The Drake was sitting closer to the bar, in a small bubble of space despite the press. And that was because nudity got you that elbow-room.
The Named Alchemist had another shot of Firebreath Whiskey as he watched the two glumly. Saliss hadn’t even been here for them. His business was—elsewhere.
Good for them. Also—I hate you two. That was how Saliss would have vocalized it. Almost subconsciously, he cast about the room.
If The Wandering Inn was a permanent source of entertainment for Saliss, the [Alchemist] had still earmarked several important elements.
Erin Solstice. Faerie Flowers in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. And there…watching from afar and talking with Kevin…
Rose. Saliss watched her for a minute.
He knew more about Rose, but not enough. But oh, careful. Be so careful. If Elirr and Saliss had known each other, and had a moment to talk, they would have both agreed. But Elirr’s caution was nothing to Saliss—after all, Saliss had grown up in Pallass, not a Gnoll tribe or Liscor.
Saliss was more concerned for Elirr and Hexel. It was so obvious. Again though—he’d kill anyone who ruined this moment for them. But there was only one Saliss. And even that was one too many.
The [Alchemist] shook his head. His last person-of-interest wasn’t here. In Liscor, then. He slid some coins across the bar and turned to go. Hexel and Elirr were their own thing and much luck to them. He was looking for his…experiment. His project.
Maviola El.
 
—-
 
Love was in the air. Also—fire. Olesm watched Maviola glowing.
Her hair looked like it was igniting. Black and orange, shining in the light. And there was actual fire sparking in the air—appearing and vanishing.
That was how hot it was. He was at a safe distance. But the young [Lady] was at the center of the flickering radius of heat.
“[Aura of Flame]. Or close enough for my demonstration. See? Whenever you want, Wing Commander!”
Embria eyed Maviola. Not in a particularly friendly way. 4th Company didn’t like challenges to their combat record. But Maviola El was doing just that.
“Forwards, spears! Captain Vell, Captain Wikir, take the enemy position!”
Two squads of 4th Company advanced on the nervous double-line of [Guards] that Embria had set up. New-recruits and a few regular Guardsmen.
Olesm watched, wincing. The [Soldiers] were not Liscor’s best, but they were still one of the veteran wings of the army. The average level of Liscor’s army was 16. Which meant the [Officers] and higher-ranking members were progressively higher-level still than the rank-and-file which lowered the level.
Wikir, Vell, and Embria could all turn average [Soldiers] into elites with their Skills. Liscor stacked commander-classes. And two squads were cycling down their Skills so that when they hit the ranks of [Guards] who had orders to shield Maviola, they had at least eight Skills buffing them.
Even with practice-weapons, the two squads instantly began drubbing the [Guards]. Zevara was watching and wincing as Vell smacked down a shield with brute strength and ‘beheaded’ one of the soldiers.
It didn’t look good, but again, it wasn’t quite fair. If it were Senior Guards versus 4th Company, they’d have…lost with more grace. Only Jeiss or Relc or Klbkch were at the level of Liscor’s army, anyways. And they were anti-crime and anti-monster fighters anyways, compared to an army’s specialties.
But Maviola had not asked for them. She stood with her arms folded behind the collapsing rank of the Watch as Vell kicked past another [Guard], clearly intent on beating her a few times in the ‘practice’. The Drake [Captain] knocked aside another blade—then she hissed.
“What the—ow! Ow!”
She was holding a practice blade, wooden, but she’d kept her armor on. And Olesm saw—it was glowing. Vell twisted, knocking aside a blade and then shouted again.
She gave a shout of pain. Her armor was beginning to glow! And then—her practice sword burst into flame. She had to drop it or be burned. Wikir gave a howl of pain and the two squads began to back up.
Olesm stared. The [Guards] weren’t suffering from the same effects at all. They began to press 4th Company back.
“Retreat! Get out of range!”
It was an obvious move. But as Vell and Wikir’s squads retreated—Maviola pointed.
“Press the attack and encircle them!”
The Watch advanced. And as Maviola walked with them—the 4th Company had to retreat. But they were suddenly pressed against the wall of onlookers. And Vell—she held onto the flaming sword’s hilt as her armor began to turn a dull red.
They weren’t going to surrender, even though half were fighting with flaming weapons and the armor was clearly beginning to scald their fur or scales. Olesm raised one claw.
“Enough! Halt!”
Embria looked up at him as the fiery aura winked out around Maviola. Panting, the two squads tossed down their weapons and cursed.
Silence for a moment. Then Maviola laughed.
“And that’s how we Humans held the north against the ‘superior Drake armies’. If you want a second demonstration, I can do it again…”
“I don’t think that’s necessary. Wing Commander—thank you for providing your soldiers.”
“Not at all, Watch Captain. It was illuminating.”
Embria glared at Maviola. Vell cursed as she poured water over her burnt hands.
“Auras? We’d just snipe her or charge in…”
“And that’s why we wear artifacts. And I can defend myself. If anyone wants to try me?”
Maviola retorted. She was armed with a practice sword herself. Instantly, half of 4th Company and some of the Watch volunteered to teach her a lesson.
“I’m gifted with a spear. Why not?”
Embria herself gave Maviola a look. Olesm coughed.
“Maviola, this might not be the moment. Why don’t we go over the outcomes with…?”
“I’d be delighted to, Wing Commander. Just so long as you let me use my Skills?”
“Of course.”
The Human [Lady] ignored Olesm. The [Strategist] stared at her. Was she insane? Embria was nearly as good as Relc, even if she didn’t have his Skills. But the [Lady] blew a kiss at him. Then she lifted her sword.
Embria accepted a practice spear and stepped forwards.
“Just say when you’ve had enough, Lady Maviola.”
The Drake lowered herself into a stance. Maviola grinned—
And her body burst into flame. Her practice clothes, her sword, all ignited. Embria recoiled—and her armor began smoking. Maviola lunged forwards with a shout.
