“Of course. The few that come to mind immediately? Precisely—four. I apologize for the lapse in specificity. Firstly: Sage’s Grass. The flaw is it takes a long time to germinate and attracts predators. Secondly? Magicore. In vast quantities, it does generate mana. But it can be depleted and is hard to acquire. Thirdly, magical herds. The issue of feed comes up, and predation and the expiration of such animals…lastly, [Mages]. A large population of mages generates magic of its own.”
Lism and Krshia were making notes. Krshia knew about the magical animals and had some ideas there, but none of that was particularly appealing. Sage’s Grass sounded the most stable…Lism was nodding.
“Fine, fine. That answers my questions on the walls…now, I’d like you to explain which new enchantments we could buy for our walls. And how much will it cost?”
Twenty minutes more and the thirty-minute booking was up. Without a fuss or asking for an extension, Lism and Krshia rose and bade the [Enchanter] farewell.
“I think that’s it. We’ll consult with you if we have more questions.”
Lism wasn’t exactly gracious, but he was certainly polite and hadn’t wasted Hedault’s time. In fact, the [Enchanter] handed two of the gold coins back.
“A discount for efficiency, which I am offering. Thank you for your time.”
 
—-
 
“Sage’s Grass. Sage’s Grass…the damn stuff is expensive. And fragile. Do you know much about it?”
“I know Erin’s friend, Wailant, he sells it.”
“But it dies. It’s hard to keep growing. Inclement weather can wipe it out. You grow that kind of thing in some workshop in pristine conditions. I don’t know if we can rely on that. And we’d need big walls to prevent the monsters who want to eat it! It’s that damned Golem-paradox, but with walls! More walls for more mana!”
“What about unenchanted walls? We could make them larger, and rely on stone and mortar?”
The two looked at each other. Krshia and Lism began laughing, and then after they’d wiped the tears out of their eyes, they went on.
“So…restaurants?”
The two had a quick lunch at an outdoor café that Krshia had been recommended in Invrisil. They were more…relaxed here. Since there odds of someone seeing them here was lower. Krshia hmmed.
“I don’t need to eat out.”
“My place, then?”
“Very well. Lism. Why are you so fixated on the issue of making the city larger? Hexel has assured us that the city will not reach the limit with the expansion.”
Lism lowered the club sandwich he’d been served. He looked at Krshia and then around, as if they were being spied on.
“The…reservations of new land for the new expansion of the city?”
The district that would make Liscor a third again as large? People like Selys could buy property space. It was one of the ways the Council was making money. Krshia nodded.
“What about it?”
“We’re out of salable plots.”
“Oh.”
Krshia didn’t see this as a problem so she went back to her stew and salad. Lism’s tail lashed a bit; it had been curled up around their chairs for politeness’ sake for the other diners moving about.
“But we’re getting more people who want to buy land, Krshia. I’m talking Pallassian [Senators]. Wall Lords and Ladies from Salazsar. There is a lot of money to be made for Liscor!”
The [Shopkeeper] paused with a spoon raised. That…was a lot of money.
“We cannot offer more. Perhaps we can ask if they want to…invest in existing businesses?”
Lism looked around again. He lowered his voice even further.
“Or we can keep offering them space. Mark up the prices say, 23% due to demand? But offer more space.”
“And give them what?”
Krshia felt the hair on her arms raise. Lism wasn’t a scammer. Was he saying lie to these people? The Drake gestured around at Invrisil.
“More space, Krshia! Ancestors, Liscor has the Floodplains—that’s why I was asking! Let’s just—expand the city a second time.”
“Expand the city. Twice.”
She stared at him. Lism steepled his claws.
“Why not? If we get money to do it, these rich people will make property. Do you think they’ll come here? Aside from Wall Lord Ilvriss, none of them have ever set foot in Liscor. What does it matter if they’re funding the first district—or the second one?”
It was audacious. Krshia sat back as she tried to wrap her mind around it. It—she was growing excited—it could work! If they had the space.
If they had the space. Lism’s pressing questions to Hedault made sense all of a sudden.
“The other issue is the numbers to build a second district at the same time as the first. We’re employing every [Builder] and [Craftsperson] in Liscor. Even with the new workers—you’re trying to double our output, Hexel’s workforce, with nothing, Lism. What would you do about that?”
The Drake sat back and dabbed at his mouth with a napkin. He gave Krshia a meaningful look.
“To answer that? We need to go to our second and third meetings. We’ll take care of meeting two along the way.”
“And who are they?”
The Gnoll growled. Lism loved surprises. She wasn’t as fond of them. The Drake smiled archly at her.
“They’re your friends, Silverfang. I thought you’d already have guessed.”
He only used ‘Silverfang’ to annoy her or when they were around others. Krshia blinked at him.
“You don’t mean…?”
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice stared at Lism. He stared at her from across the table. Erin slid the glass of iced water with no lemon across to him.
“Lism.”
“Miss Solstice. Thank you for meeting with the Council.”
Erin’s eyes slid sideways to Krshia, who was giving her a pleading look. She folded her arms.
“I only agreed because it’s for the Council.”
“I only came because it was for the city I love.”
Lism retorted. The niceties out of the way, Krshia cleared her throat.
“Lism has—a proposal for you, Erin. I hope you will listen to it, yes? It’s only a request.”
“Suuuuuure. What is it? Use my door for fewer taxes? Convince the Players to expand to Liscor? Trade more with other cities? Put a moving-fee on my door?”
Erin looked at Lism suspiciously. He shuffled his notes.
“Not at all. A travel-tax makes sense for Pallass and Invrisil perhaps, but it just impedes business between cities. I’m not an idiot, Miss Solstice.”
“Huh. You don’t say?”
The Gnoll sighed as Lism’s right eye twitched. He went on as if Erin had said nothing and as if Mrsha wasn’t silently giggling on the floor behind Erin.
“It’s come to our attention that Liscor has a number of high-level individuals with…useful skillsets, Miss Solstice. The [Aegiscaster], Montressa du Valeross. A talented [Spellscribe]. The Dwarf [Blacksmith], Master Pelt…even if he isn’t working with Liscor directly, his work benefits us all.”
“That’s not my fault. They just came here.”
The [Innkeeper] raised a finger. Lism ignored it.
“A [Blacksmith], talented [Mages], the connections with other cities are very helpful too, Miss Solstice. The…adventurers for the dungeon. The Players, bringing in revenue and fame. Even the [Footballer].”
“He doesn’t have that class yet. And it’s [Soccer Player], I think.”
Joseph twisted in his seat to scowl at Erin. The young woman ignored him. Lism went on, doggedly.
“This is all—helpful. It has benefited Liscor. Including the ah, Antinium situation. What I’m saying is, Miss Solstice, the Council has determined that we could really use some excellent [Teachers]. Educators for the next generation. Also—more income is always nice. Some trade resource.”
The young woman stared at him. So did Krshia. After a second, Erin nodded.
“Okay.”
The Drake [Shopkeeper] checked his notes.
“Perhaps some kind of magical animal? Not Wyverns. Some kind of peaceful herd-animal. We’d also accept technologies…a new industry? The Council is willing to reward substantive contributions to the city.”
“Okay?”
The young woman gave Lism the most blank look Krshia had ever seen. Lism looked at her and then at Krshia. Her mouth was hanging slightly open.
“Just keep it in mind, Miss Solstice. Thank you for your time.”
He rose to go and offered his hand. Erin just stared at him. Lism withdrew it and marched out of the inn. When they were headed back to Liscor, Krshia hissed at him.
“Are you stupid? There is no way she can just pull out a Level 50 [Teacher] out of her pocket!”
Lism looked at Krshia.
“Probably not. But did it cost us anything to ask?”
The Gnoll woman hesitated. Lism nodded.
“That’s what I thought.”
Behind them, the Players of Celum were headed into Invrisil. And they had a special guest, drawn by the power of salt-geese and his new disguise.
The Players of Celum—and Eltistiman and the [Bodyguards]—left with Numbtongue chortling beneath his helmet and full-body armor. Most of the crowds followed them, and the Pallassian contingent including Grimalkin and Chaldion returned to the Walled City. As for the Antinium? Most were out of the inn. And Krshia and Lism went to meet with one more in City Hall.
 
—-
 
The last meeting for the two Councilmembers happened after lunchtime. There was a bit of a delay, because their contact wasn’t ready.
The Antinium Hive was in a tiny bit of a panic. Because Lism had refused point-blank to meet with Xrn. And she was busy anyways.
Fortifying the Hive. The [Thaumaturge] was drawing glyphs on the wall. Casting spells. She spoke to Pawn and Yellow Splatters.
“If they attack the Free Antinium, they will try to cast [Earthquake]. They will fail.”
Her eyes shone with mischief and passion. Green and pink. Pawn and Yellow Splatters looked at each other. The Hives’ tunnels had always risked collapsing in bad quakes. But with Xrn—the Hive would become impregnable.
If the Antinium were going to war. Were they? Well, the negotiator chosen by Xrn to represent the Free Antinium was hurrying to the meeting spot.
And Lism was talking with Krshia.
“What does Liscor have, Krshia? If we assume a city, a nation has to have a specialty, what’s Liscor’s?”
“The army?”
It was what gave Liscor money and what they were famed for. Krshia counted the rest off on her fingers.
“Shield Spiders? Liscor used to manufacture gear out of them. The spring rains…location…the dungeon.”
“Yes, but these things aren’t what I mean, Krshia. We have to have something if we want to compete with Invrisil and Pallass.”
Lism ignored the look Krshia gave him, half-exasperation, half…
Look at him. The ego of a puffball fish. Compete with two of Izril’s largest cities? But Lism was willing to argue with [Senators] from Pallass, demand Liscor be the spot that the first football game took place because it had begun there.
Even so. She dutifully played along.
“What else do we have then, Lism? The inn?”
“No, not that. That’s a person. What do we have as a…resource? Think of our guest.”
Since he said that, Krshia frowned.
“You mean the Antinium?”
Lism nodded.
“They’re the largest building force in the world. A second army, but we can’t use that. If we build a second district at the same time at the first…”
“You want to hire them? Lism, we fought about this during the election and afterwards! For weeks! You campaigned on that!”
“And we’ve hired every Drake and Gnoll in Liscor. So? Circumstances have changed.”
Krshia actually tried to throttle him for a second there. How could he…? But that was Lism. And it begged the question as she sat there, listening to what he was about to negotiate to the Antinium with.
Who actually hated the Antinium more? Lism listened to Olesm. When the [Strategist] said the Antinium were a threat, Lism took it at face-value. But Krshia…
“What are you going to offer them? Expansions to the Hive? The Walled Cities would have us killed. As well as the army.”
Lism glanced at her as he sat at the small desk in the meeting room, breathing in and out.
“I have one or two incentives. But Krshia—Silverfang—listen. We could do a lot with the entire Hive at our disposal for…well, if we can convince them to work without gold. A second district? Forget people buying space. The city can own a lot of that space. Undercut [Landlords].”
“You’re taking a risk that giving the Antinium something won’t backfire.”
Lism’s eyes flickered.
“If the Antinium are going to attack us, there’s no future for Liscor anyways, is there? If I believe that, I don’t think I’d be investing my time here.”
And that was how he got her. Sometimes—once. It was in that moment where the Council was debating Liscor’s future. Or Lism said something and Krshia found herself nodding because she saw what he was seeing where no one else did.
Antinium and Liscor’s future.
The Antinium knocked on the door and politely entered when Lism raised his voice. Krshia had been wondering who it would be—but there was really only one choice as to whom the Free Queen and Xrn would send.
Belgrade sat in the chair opposite them and nervously shook their hands.
“Hello, I am Belgrade, representing the Free Antinium. I think we have met?”
He looked at Lism. The Drake stared at the Worker and slowly nodded.
“Yes. Hello…Belgrade. Thank you for coming here. We’re here to negotiate on behalf of the Council of Liscor with the Free Antinium.”
Belgrade raised two hands on his left side.
“I am authorized by my Queen to negotiate, but I must seek her acceptance on any treaty. My words may be in error, but I will attempt to negotiate in good faith for my Hive.”
“Understood. You can relax, Belgrade. We are all fr—allies here, yes?”
Krshia smiled and Belgrade did relax, a bit. He eyed the plate of…well, you couldn’t serve an Antinium crackers, could you? So Krshia had gotten some meat cuts. He took one and nibbled it as Lism steepled his claws.
“[Tactician] Belgrade. We have a…proposal regarding Liscor’s future. Possibly future expansions.”
Belgrade listened to the idea about adding a second district to Liscor. He raised two hands again.
“The Free Antinium will doubtless be willing to construct the buildings. However, I have been instructed to ‘get something in return of substance or don’t agree’. May you assist me in that endeavor?”
The Gnoll covered her face with her paws. He might be a [Tactician], but it felt like stealing candy from a child. And while Lism might hesitate to do it to an actual child…
His smile was predatory.
“Of course. We’d be quite willing to allow the Antinium more space in the Watch. More patrols—expand the number of allowed Antinium Soldiers above thirty? Even expand the Hive’s allowed numbers to—”
“No, thank you.”
Belgrade happily ate another slice of meat. Lism hesitated.
“No? But you haven’t even heard—”
“That is not of substance which my Hive wants. We do not want it. The answer is no.”
