She found the Raskghar at the gates. Zevara halted as she saw the bodies. And then—the furred forms.
They were kneeling. Arms raised, prostrate on the ground or raised towards the sky. Embria and 4th Company was halted—several Raskghar lay dead, bodies covered with arrows or blown to bits. But the rest—were shouting.
“Surrender! We surrender! Beg mercy! Surrender!”
“What?”
Olesm was panting. Wide-eyed, he looked at Zevara. She counted. Nearly two hundred Raskghar, minus the ones who’d attacked the inn. But the rest—nearly half younger than the adults—were there.
Surrendering?
She heard shouting from above. The wall was in chaos. An arrow struck the ground from above and she heard a shout.
“Hold your fire! That is an order!”
Drakes were struggling with Gnolls who had killed the Raskghar even as they tried to surrender. Zevara saw Jeiss tackle a Gnoll [Archer] who tried to put an arrow through the leading Raskghar’s head.
“Surrender! Mercy!”
The Raskghar were howling. The word seemed foreign on their tongues. Zevara regained a moment of sanity at last.
“Hold your fire! That is an order!”
The shouting died down. Embria didn’t lower her spear. Maviola was staring—it was Olesm who looked across the Raskghar towards the inn.
“The Wandering Inn. Erin, Mrsha—are they…?”
“Someone check. Wing Commander, go!”
“1st and 2nd Squad, on me! The rest of you, hold this line!”
Embria roared. She pelted for the door. Zevara stood there, mind racing. Another bow twanged—she whirled.
A Gnoll was shooting at the Raskghar! It wasn’t a [Guard]—Zevara pointed.
“Drop that weapon!”
“Kill the Raskghar!”
The Gnoll tried to loose another arrow. The whites of his eyes were showing. Zevara pointed.
“Guardsman, take his weapon!”
The squad hesitated, but then a trio of Drakes went for the Gnoll. Olesm heard more snarls.
“Kill them! This is a trick!”
“Hold your ground. That is an order!”
Olesm snapped at the [Guards]. But he was watching the Raskghar too.
Any move—and he’d use his Skill to loose a volley at them. Olesm was convinced this had to be a trick. Two hundred? There had been thousands of Raskghar by Calruz’ count.
But then he looked at them. Looked at them and saw something on each one.
Disease. Open wounds, coughing, a rattling wheeze even as they shouted the words over and over. Festering sores, pus, green, yellow, mixed with red blood.
“Typhenous.”
The Plague Mage had said he’d cast a spell. Olesm had not seen the effects—but now he did. Typhenous had struck the Raskghar months ago. And he’d killed them.
Not a single Raskghar looked spared of whatever Typhenous had used. One of them—Olesm recoiled from a limb so rotted it was gone even if the disease were removed.
“Guards—4th Company, back up! Give the Raskghar space! On the walls—move back!”
“But Strategist—”
“They’re diseased! Magical plague spell! Move back!”
4th Company instantly retreated. Everyone in bow range of the Raskghar covered at their faces, looking pale. Olesm felt sick.
“Get me—get me every [Mage] who can cast [Dispel Magic]! No one go near the Raskghar or the bodies! Stand back, this is an order!”
“Gnolls, stand down! I will have the badge of any Gnoll who attacks the Raskghar!”
Behind him, Zevara was stopping Gnoll civilians and [Guards] alike from attacking. The Raskghar peeked up at the chaos in the city. One of them raised her paws beseechingly towards Olesm. She panted.
“Sick. Dying. We surrender. Good slaves. Mercy.”
He looked at her and saw that gleam of feral intelligence in her eyes. Olesm shuddered because she was crawling towards him.
“Stay where you are! If you move any closer, you will be killed!”
He pointed his sword at her. Maviola was staring at him.
“They’re children, Olesm—”
She pointed at some of the Raskghar. But Olesm was just staring at them. The Raskghar were peeking at him, the Watch. Repeating the words.
Surrender. Mercy. And the blue-scaled Drake thought—
Oh, how clever.
Too clever. Olesm began to believe these were all the Raskghar. And if they were—look at them. They were going to die without help. Healing potions? You could kill them faster than an arrow if you tossed a healing potion on them.
Olesm hesitated. He turned his head and saw Zevara blocking Krshia. The Gnoll [Councilwoman] had come running with her own bow. She was pointing at them and demanding—Zevara kill them. The Watch Captain was busy. The air was tense, even as Embria came back and reported that Saliss had locked down the inn.
But any trigger could set the furious Gnolls off. Drakes too—hundreds of weapons were being trained on the Raskghar. Maviola didn’t understand, but she had not been there. The Antinium were marching out of the Hive.
He could end them right now. Olesm just had to shout ‘attack’ and they’d die. Half of him was telling him to do just that.
End it. You know what could happen. You know how smart they were.
“Mercy, kind Drake.”
The Raskghar sniveled at him. She was clearly afraid. But that too-intelligent gaze was on him. Olesm pointed his sword at her.
“Where is Nokha? Your leader?”
He hadn’t seen her. Was she hiding? The Raskghar’s eyes flickered. She cowered.
“Don’t know. Mercy! Left. Left moons ago. Mercy! Treat wounds? Prisoners. Kind! Didn’t kill adventurers.”
“What?”
Olesm stared. Then he realized—the Raskghar had a bunch of struggling forms lying next to them.
Good thing no one had used an area-spell, because the two Silver-rank teams who’d gone into the dungeon would have been caught up in the blast. They were all battered—but alive. Olesm stared. The Raskghar pointed as someone cried out, seeing the adventurers. It was meant to prove how desperate they were. But Olesm’s scales began to crawl.
They’d planned this. Nokha was missing. He looked around.
Do it. It was cruel. There were children there. But look at them and know what they did. What they want. This was a trap. Olesm saw the female Raskghar staring at him. Then at his eyes. Her smile flickered.
“Open f—”
Zevara grabbed Olesm’s arm a moment before Maviola. The Watch Captain and [Strategist] stared at each other. Zevara was breathing hard.
“Strategist Olesm. Are we monsters or people, Strategist Olesm?”
She looked at the Raskghar. Olesm stared at them too, then at her.
“Are these monsters or people, Watch Captain?”
Her eyes flickered. She had to see it too. Zevara was no fool. Two hundred prisoners? Each one who got stronger as the moon rose? Who lived to eat Gnoll hearts and grow stronger? With Nokha missing?
But she was Watch Captain Zevara. She knocked his arm down and turned.
“Ask a Goblin. Anyone who opens fire without provocation will be imprisoned! Stand down!”
Maviola looked at Olesm. She did not ask ‘what were you going to do?’ Or anything trite like that. She knew. The [Lady Firestarter] stepped over to Olesm.
“Are they like Crelers, then?”
She looked at him, weighing his response, looking at the Raskghar. Are they Crelers, to be exterminated? Olesm shuddered.
“Worse. Crelers don’t choose to be what they are.”
 
—-
 
So that was how Erin Solstice arrived. How the others came flooding into the inn—too late and unneeded, Numbtongue with his shiny sword he’d not even got a chance to swing.
An unexpected victory. Or was it? Lism stood with Krshia as the Raskghar were taken into custody. They were…prisoners.
The Gnolls wanted them dead. Krshia was opening and closing her fists. Already—Zevara had a wall of Drake and Human [Guards] blocking the Raskghar, but Gnolls were grabbing weapons, vowing the Raskghar would be dead. Elirr stared as Hexel protectively stood in front of him.
Raskghar in Liscor. And at this time? Lism looked at them.
“A gift for the Meeting of Tribes?”
Krshia turned slightly to look at him. Her eyes flickered, then she shook her head curtly.
“No. A warning.”
It changed so much. And as the Raskghar were being led towards the jail, and the [Healers] were shouting for everyone to stay back because the magical plague needed dispelling—and Zevara was demanding Occillium for her prisoners while she argued with Olesm—
Someone coughed. Lism and Krshia turned. They saw three dozen Drakes, standing behind them. Packhorses loaded, each one dressed up. The Drakes looked rather offended. And rather different than Liscor’s Drakes.
“Er…hello? Can we help you?”
Lism stared at the Drake. The other Drake, wearing a wide belt of gold and ornamental armor sniffed at him. He looked around the city, at the Raskghar with distaste, and gave Lism a sophisticated salute.
“We are the delegation from Hectval. It seems we have come at an eventful time. However, I trust we are expected?”
Lism and Krshia’s jaws opened slightly. The delegation from Hectval? They’d all completely forgotten. The [Emissary] or—was he a leader of the Drake city?—stared suspiciously at Lism.
“We are expected?”
“Of—of course. Pardon the interruption. Our city was just attacked by…that’s why we’re here. Members of Liscor’s Council. Greetings! Hectval’s emissaries! Welcome to Liscor!”
The Drake looked around. Lism and Krshia exchanged a glance as Zevara’s head turned and Lism desperately looked around, beaming as he shouted.
“The delegation is here just as planned! Just as planned!”
And the ordinary day became one filled with…Raskghar. Delegations. And more. Amid the chaos, which wasn’t Erin’s fault this time, a figure watched in the crowd.
‘Bearclaw’ grinned and then slipped away.
