“No, I mean, I put it outside on the windowsill when I realized it was making everything darker. By accident. But it wasn’t even a bit stale when I pulled it out.”
“Really?”
Erin frowned at her loaf. It wasn’t even the finished product. If you opened a window and put things right on the edge, the [Field of Preservation] didn’t quite work.
“Did anything try to eat it?”
“No. That’s what worries me.”
“Oh. Er…maybe we’ll put it somewhere else. I’ll find a spot for it.”
Erin picked up her loaf. She looked around for somewhere to put it and walked towards a wall. She came out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] a second later and innocently avoided Imani’s stare.
“All done. I’ll find a better home for it later. Maybe like…a dark room? What’s for breakfast, Imani?”
“What do you want?”
The entire table asked for a menu. An exasperated Imani pointed to the one hanging up.
“You don’t read signs, Erin?”
Numbtongue chortled and nudged her. The [Innkeeper] blushed. Before she could retort, the door from Pallass blew open.
“Are they here? Excuse me! We’re from Pallass and we’d love to talk about the acting!”
A flood of people came in from Pallass. And then Liscor. And then Celum. Erin saw Imani take cover in the kitchen. She stood up.
“Uh oh.”
“Sorry, Erin. This is our fault. Hey, you lot!”
Emme stood on her chair. Lyonette rose as well and stopped the flood from reaching the Players. Erin leaned back as someone interposed himself in the way, creating an actual wall. She stared at Eltistiman Verdue.
“Hey…haven’t we met?”
“Miss Solstice?”
He turned, blinking. Erin exclaimed.
“Eltistiman! Yeah, I remember you! Where did you go? You just vanished one time—”
Montressa and Bezale came rushing down the stairs, still sleepy-eyed to capitalize—er—help, with the situation. They were followed by Palt, who nearly tripped down the stairs. He caught himself from smashing into one of the people slowly slithering down.
Amid it all, Hexel Quithail slowly found a table. The Lamia sat down with his three Lizardfolk assistants and watched the chaos.
“Mornings here are almost as chaotic as back home.”
He remarked to the Lizardfolk. They laughed nervously. The people were spreading out across the Grand Theatre, but the Lamia had secured a table closer to the door.
“Excuse me! Sorry, we’re in a bit of a rush. Can I get you—”
A Drake hurried over and all of the Lizardfolk flinched. Hexel only a bit, but the Drake [Server] saw them and stopped.
“I am so sorry, Architect. I didn’t see you there. I’ll just get…”
She looked around for another server. Hexel straightened.
“It’s no issue. Stop cowering, Zekky, Vile.”
Two of the Lizardfolk stopped leaning back. The Drake looked grateful.
“Can I get you anything?”
“Um…the fish?”
One of the Lizardfolk quavered. Hexel nodded.
“Make mine that roasted rat, please. I need to be going in ten minutes, so if you could move it forwards over the…”
He waved at the massive crowd, over a hundred people already. The Drake nodded.
“Absolutely, Architect. I’ll just grab it. And your Sakelet Tea?”
“Yes, please.”
The Drake hurried into the kitchen and came back with the pre-made food, heated up in less than a minute. Hexel sighed and thanked her. Only when she was gone did the three Lizardfolk assistants begin whispering.
“Master Hexel, did you see the play yesterday? It was on the scrying orb?”
“I missed it. And you all didn’t show up to help me fix that building those idiots decided to put up. The scaffolding would have collapsed in a day.”
The Lamia grumbled. The Lizardfolk tried to look innocent. It didn’t fool the Lamia.
He was one of the Naga—a broad term for the higher forms the Lizardpeople of Baleros could become. He was used to herding the easily-distracted, often childish Lizardfolk around. And they were children compared to him. You could have perfectly mature Lizardfolk who were old—but their natures were such that a Naga was always just…wiser, stronger, more intelligent by nature.
Not that his assistants were stupid. They were some of the best [Builders] and [Planners] and so on of Baleros. And his…team…had been eighteen of the finest.
Now, they were three. Hexel still dreamed of it. So did his apprentices.
“Fine. Fine. It’s just doing some alterations. A non-busy day since the workers are laying down the foundations, mainly. Take the day off. But don’t you dare cause trouble!”
The Lamia came to a quick decision after thinking of that. His three Lizardfolk apprentices brightened up.
“Really? No take-backs!”
“Go.”
They ran off to join the hubbub around the Players. Hexel smiled—and then bit into his rat. It was one of the fat ones, not a ‘rat’ rat, but closer to a regular beaver in size. He was glad the new [Cook] was working. She had the guts to prepare one; Erin had just given him a horrified look when he’d asked.
The Lamia ate and drank, observing the chaos around him. It did indeed remind him of home. There was something very Lizardfolkish about Erin. It was a shame—another time his entire team would have been part of this inn’s drama. But they were withdrawn. He’d given them time off because this was a chance for them to be their old selves.
As for Hexel? Part of him that was still the young Lizardboy wanted to stay. But…he put his cup on his plate, uncoiled, and slithered towards the hallways.
“Anyone for Celum? Anyone for Esthelm? Excuse me, no pushing! Wait for people to leave before entering! Thank you!”
One of the staff was shuffling people in and out. Hexel waited. He knew he was getting looks. He was a Lamia alone. But he headed into Liscor, via the magic door and proceeded down the street in the morning light.
More people stared at him there. And he felt distinctly less welcome. Lizard. Among Drakes. He really had thought it was just some joke, or an exaggeration.
More fool, he. Hexel was alone. He felt it in Liscor. And the past—it never left you completely, especially when it was so fresh.
It might have made him want to pack up and leave for Baleros, abandon his contract. Who would have blamed him? But there was always light even amid clouds. Hexel took a deep breath.
He really liked The Wandering Inn. But—he didn’t stay there. Because for all Erin Solstice was entertaining, amusing, and kind—she was that for everyone.
He had his own Erin of a sort.
The Lamia left. He never noticed the white Gnoll slyly leaving the inn and padding after him. Mrsha had always wondered where Hexel went every day. Today, she was going to find out.
Also—she didn’t want to wear a skirt.
 
—-
 
“The Meeting of Tribes will begin soon. Are we cutting it close?”
Elirr yawned over breakfast as Krshia consulted a map on the table in front of them. They were having breakfast in his apartment this morning.
It was a social thing. Gnolls—especially Plains Gnolls—were social creatures. They liked to start the day in company, such that even Gnolls without partners in cities might have a morning breakfast group rather than eat alone.
And they were Plains Gnolls, the both of them. Krshia more than Elirr. If you asked her she’d be adamant. She might have become a City Gnoll in parts—but she was still a member of her tribe.
The Silverfang Tribe. Of which they both belonged to. But Elirr and Krshia—were different Gnolls.
For one thing, he had at least a decade and a half on her. Elirr’s fur was grey while Krshia’s had yet to really go anywhere there. Just patches. Elirr was old. Distinguished, he liked to think of it.
But he had to admit, Krshia was still in a sort of prime. She was long past the years when they were in their twenties or teens, able to run all day and then do something else incredibly taxing and sleep for six hours and do it all again.
But Krshia was experiencing a second…prime as it were. Gnolls tended towards two. The first was when you were young and you were that energetic leader. But the second was when you hit your mid-forties? Fifties? And then you were another sort of pillar in Gnoll tribes, the visionary, the leader with the plan.
That was Krshia Silverfang. She was not the leader of the Silverfang tribe—her sister was, though. And she was the actual leader in Liscor, where a decade of work was about to pay off.
More than even they could have imagined. Krshia saw Elirr reach for breakfast. Rich silkap with fluffy bread made from that Octavia’s baking soda. Krshia had made a loaf or two and it was really quite nice. Elirr had provided some drinks. Krshia sipped from what Erin might call a mango lassi.
“This is nice. Where did you get the recipe?”
It was not traditionally Gnollish—while the silkap was. Elirr shrugged.
“From Hexel. The mangos too.”
“Mhm. I see. Very nice.”
She gave him a look over the rim. Elirr sighed. There it was again. Rather than bring it up, he looked at the map.
“Let’s see. If we use the door from Pallass…hrr…well, we have already saved over a month, weeks of travel depending on how we avoided the Bloodfields.”
Krshia nodded. Four hundred miles in a moment. That was…a lot of space. It was one of the reasons why Krshia could leisurely plan their trip instead of being on the road, swearing at the sky if it rained on her group and making sure they had enough provisions.
After all—they just had to be at the Meeting of Tribes by the summer solstice. Still, it was closing in. The only issue was, well, a few things.
“Mrsha’s going to be trickiest. Come to that—the Woven Bladegrass tribe didn’t do us any favors, no. Did you hear about that?”
Gnolls loved to gossip. Elirr had with his customers a few days ago.
“I heard they sacked a city. For the Meeting of Tribes, yes?”
“Yes. Idiots. I hope we don’t run into angry Drakes on the road. I need to promise to Lyonette and Erin she will be safe.”
“You really think they’ll let her go with us?”
Krshia gnawed on a lip.
“Not for the entire time. She just has to show up at the right moment. They can come up with her, except for the actual meeting. Just a bit—it might be better if she isn’t there the entire time, yes?”
“What does Vrrow have to say about her?”
Elirr took another bite of his breakfast as he watched Krshia. Vrrow was the Silverfang [Longstrider Scout] who’d come to make sure everything was in readiness for the Meeting of Tribes. Krshia grimaced.
“I…haven’t brought it up.”
“Krshia!”
“My sister knows. And that’s all that matters. Mrsha will be safe. Better to have her secret from the other Tribes, yes? We are bringing magic in two forms, after all!”
She folded her arms defensively. Elirr relaxed a bit. He wasn’t even planning to go, honestly. But Mrsha—he was protective of her. She had saved his life and besides. She deserved better.
“If she is safe.”
“I will have the Silverfang’s best guarding her. It will not be an incident, Elirr. I promise.”
“Hrr. Well—the issue of Mrsha might be less than that of…Erin. And Ryoka.”
The other Gnoll’s eyes sharpened.
“Truth, Elirr. It will be a Meeting of Tribes to remember. Our gift, our knowledge—our tribe may be one of Izril’s most powerful after the gathering. One can hope, yes?”
“Mhm.”
Elirr wasn’t as passionate as Krshia. In truth—he wasn’t as much of a Plains Gnoll as she was. The Silverfang Clan had come to Liscor to make their fortune and buy magic ten years ago. But he, Elirr, had already been there. Technically as a ‘scout’, but in truth—he’d been retired. All the Gnolls coming here had made him feel more of a Plains Gnoll.
“Are you sure you won’t come? You would be a distinguished member to speak, both as your level and on the…Raskghar issue.”
Krshia saw the older Gnoll stop eating for a moment. She eyed him carefully. Elirr shook his head—as the bread suddenly reminded him of the foul monster parts the Raskghar had made him eat. The cage, the smell—
“Meow.”
A cat spoke next to his ear. Elirr jumped and the cat dipped its face into his glass of lassi. It licked a few times and leapt away as he swatted at it.
“Alamaran!”
The cat, whom Elirr had never managed to sell, flipped its butt at Elirr as he glared. He was six years old, highly intelligent, and—
“Meow. Meoow. Purr.”
—He always gave the impression he was vocalizing what you thought he should sound like since he didn’t deign to actually speak to you. He was far too intelligent, too.
“Damn pest. I should have sold you for catgut years ago. Stop eating that! It’s not cat-food!”
Elirr realized Alamaran had stolen some of the silkap bread as well. For answer, a dozen other cats meowed at him.
Krshia eyed Elirr’s animals, which the [Beast Trainer] raised and sold. Cats were a big Drake-pet. Gnolls too, but Elirr always had a group of them, and some, like Alamaran, were permanent fixtures.
“Has no one ever asked to buy Alamaran?”
Elirr coughed. The cat smirked at him as it bit into the filched food and licked its whiskers.
“Er—a few times. But I do need a smart cat to teach the other idiots. They grow smarter because of my Skills, but they still need to learn. Besides, Alamaran helps with stray rats, slimes, and other things. I can’t keep the cats in the shop all the time; they always get out. Alamaran keeps most of them from harm.”
“Hmm. Interesting. About the Meeting of Tribes?”
Elirr passed a paw over his face and realized his drink was missing. The cats were working together to drag it up a shelf. He and Krshia stared at them. The [Shopkeeper] slowly covered her glass with her hand.
“No, Krshia. I don’t care to go. Besides, I have enough to occupy me here. The Wyvern…Jekle…and other matters.”
The female Gnoll gave him a knowing look as she sipped at her drink. Elirr groaned. Here it came,
The thing about Gnolls. The thing about Gnolls was…
It was different, being Gnolls in a social relationship than most other species. Especially Gnoll-to-Gnoll relationships. Elirr was sure there was a wonderful breadth of emotional baggage and drama any species was capable of. Maybe Dullahans were a bit more stunted emotionally, but most species were alike in their ability to be petty, kind, caring, loving, and so on.
But Gnolls had an extra element. And that was their hearing and smell. Few species had their senses. Which made it…awkward sometimes.
For instance, Krshia didn’t want Elirr to smell her apartment. He knew what she was trying to hide, but it clearly embarrassed her. So he hadn’t eaten there for a while. Or Mrsha. Lyonette was fine; she’d come over for her regular magical lessons recently. But Elirr?
The second thing about Gnolls was—and this was his personal opinion, not an actual truth—female Gnolls were so inquisitive. They just had to have their noses in everyone’s business.
