Erick continued, “Messalina is famous, but she’s also a hedonist and an ‘evil necromancer’, according to everyone. Sounds like perfect Shade material, to me.” He added, “But if she’s not that kinda person, then I bet she’s trying to find conspirators that will help her search the Forest— And that’s another thing!” Erick said, for the benefit of Rats and Teressa, “I don’t know if I believe it, but the Headmaster said that she probably found her targets already, but she didn’t want to run back to her jungle yet… For some reason.” Erick paused. He said, “He didn’t actually say the reason. He changed the subject.”

“There was nothing left for her in that jungle, was there?” Kiri said, “They’re all dead, and unable to be re-bodied, or whatever the fuck necromancers like her do.”

Erick said, “And yea! There’s that, too! So they died, so what? She’s a necromancer, right? A necromancer that puts people into new bodies.” He looked around, asking, “What’s up with that?”

Teressa said, “I hadn’t really thought of that.”

Poi ate his fish and rice.

Rats said, “It just means the people she’s trying to find are necromancers, too, and they destroyed the souls of everyone there.”

“Oh.” Erick said, “Well. Yeah. I guess it does mean that.”

Kiri spoke up, “How much do you think everyone on our side is lying?”

Erick burst a nervous laugh.

Poi said, “The normal amount.”

“I would hope just the normal amount,” Erick said.

Jane snored in the background.

- - - -

Erick wanted to spend the night in the hospital with Jane, but that would mean everyone else would have to stay there, too, and that wouldn’t be fair to them. So he went home, and slept.

The next morning came soon enough.

After checking up on Jane, and seeing that she was perfectly fine, but still sleeping, it was time to begin to fulfill his end of the bargain he made with the Headmaster. He would need to make this light slime dungeon, and it would need to be ten floors large. Fortunately, when Krigea came to Erick to relay the Headmaster's wishes for this new construction, she came with help.

- - - -

Professor Apell Calloway, the 430-ish year old, normally pale green, human-shaped wrought professor of dungeoneering, stood beside the central pool of Erick’s dungeon, staring out across the bright, white and prismatic underground space. About two dozen light slimes bounced and played in the streaming water in front of Apell, in the kaleidoscopic light, and on the stone floor around her. They were entranced by a new light source that had entered the room; Apell, herself.

Because all wrought fluoresced in the presence of ultraviolet light, apparently.

While Poi stood a few meters away, Erick stood beside Apell, wearing sunglasses to ward off most of the bright, damaging lights of the dungeon. He could barely tell that Apell was fluorescing; she might have been ever so slightly brighter green than normal. But the light slimes all around her could definitely tell.

Erick did not interrupt this moment for her. She was obviously having some sort of emotional reaction similar to Killzone’s, or Anhelia’s, when they first saw one of Erick’s blacklights. Her eyes were wide, and her face was stunned. She had gasped when she first stepped into the tunnels coming down here, but as the two of them descended the stairs, she had gone silent; reverent. And now she stood in the center of the dungeon, surrounded by blacklights, staring at everything.

Erick waited.

Eventually, Apell said, “I can see about a thousand possible improvements. That intake up there is way too small and you have a hundred smaller intakes all over the place. What is up with that?” She pointed up at the nearest spinning kaleidoscopic wardlight, then to the next one, saying, “And those aren’t even spinning at the same rates! This place is too turbulent. I’m surprised anything grew at all!” She leaned down and patted the closest light slime, saying, “I know they’re practically mythical monsters, but surely they can grow in a more orderly environment.”

Erick laughed.

Apell stood up, saying, “What?”

“You’re not going to say anything about the blacklights?” Erick added, “The fluorescing lights.”

Apell looked at him like he was an idiot. She said, “I’m not going to say a lot about a lot. These lights are yours and I will have nothing to do with them. But I will ask you— Why no plant life?” She instantly answered her own question, saying, “Ah. Water slimes. I knew that.”

Erick said, “I was testing a theory that light slimes are photosynthetic.”

Apell scrunched her face. “Like a plant?” Apell looked back to the slimes around her feet, saying, “Maybe.”

Erick said, “It took a week to put the dungeon together, but three weeks for the first slime to appear. That was five days ago, and there were only seven of them. Now there’s two dozen. I think we should leave this area as a spawn zone and make a new dungeon in another location, in case there is something special about this location that won’t happen in a new dungeon.”

“I agree.” Apell said, “I would like to try for a space without all these extra wards. That would allow for people not in on the secret to participate in the dungeon. This new dungeon is going to be big, and that means that secrets are going to be out in the open. The Headmaster has already expressed to me that he wants to bring [Lightwalk] out of the power of the Sovereign Cities.”

“Is that his goal?” Erick asked. “I heard a lot about that place from my daughter. Seems like a place that needs help, not to have their only connection to the outside world taken away.”

“More help than you could possibly know.” Apell said, “Sometimes tough-love is the best.” She smiled. “The Sovereign Cities would agree with that statement if you were talking about screwing over their own people, but not if you were talking about screwing over their conglomeration of cities, as a whole.”

Erick grumbled, “The more I think about it, the more I’m pretty sure they tried to kill Jane and her entire team.”

Apell said, “Not any more than they were trying to kill their own. Don’t take it too personally.” She added, “Or do take it personally, and be happy that this will take away their main way to attract people like your daughter and her team to their yearly unicorn hunt. Or at least the [Lightwalk] aspect of it all. People are still going to want [Aura of Freedom] and the smaller unicorns are going to grow into larger ones to threaten Killtree, like they always do every year.”

Erick frowned at nothing in particular, thinking over Apell’s words.

Apell asked, “Can you show me the plumbing?”

“It’s over near the entrance.” Erick turned and started walking.

Poi silently flanked him from a short distance away.

Several light slimes bumbled around Apell’s feet, following her glow as Apell followed Erick, saying, “I have an old dungeon that’s seven layers deep in the southern mountains. If you’re amenable to this, then I’ll tell one of my graduates and they can go get it started. Open it up, and such.” She passed one of the roughcut diamond statues that poured water into the streams that carved across the dungeon floor, looking at the statue. “And I know it’s just diamond, but its still massively huge. These things would have been priceless just last year. We can’t have them in the new dungeon.”

Erick walked over a short stone bridge, over a stream, saying, “Sure we can. The light slimes need sparkly things to look at. They like them, too.” He exclaimed, “Oh! Maybe we could get a Crystal Agave or ten in the new place, but without the mimics in there, of course.”

“Crystal Slimes?” Apell shook her head, saying, “No. The Headmaster won’t take the chance to allow mimics to spread.”

“We could do this on an island, if you got one.” Erick said, “Might be good in case a radiant ooze spawns, too.”

“… Maybe.” Apell hummed, then said, “Might be a good idea just because we don’t know a whole lot about light slimes...” She spoke with authority, saying, “But we’re not trying for crystal slimes with this dungeon. We’re going for light slimes, and we’re going to do it well. No distractions. At least not right now.”

“Fair enough.” Erick reached the wall that hid the plumbing, near the staircase coming into the dungeon floor, saying, “Here we are. The stronger blacklights are in here, so I keep my stays in here to a minimum. I was using a [Gravity Strainer] to move the water in the beginning, but now I’m using a plain [Gravity Ward]. It lasts a lot longer, and all I’m moving is water.” With a methodical [Stoneshape], he first pushed back the light slimes gathering around Apell, blocking them behind a short wall, then he turned his attention to the wall that hid the pump room. Seams appeared in the wall, as a five foot thick, meter wide section of the dungeon wall began to slide down. Loud, crashing rushes sounded from the breaking wall, as a solid beam of bright light carved out from the interior of the pump room. Erick yelled over the roar of water, “It’s a bit loud.”

Erick revealed a bright white cavern—

Apell shied away from the opening, yelling, “Holy gods that is bright!”

Erick instantly cast a cyan maskinglight into the air, turning off the brightness. He yelled, “Sorry. This should be better.” He added an audio dampening [Ward], too, saying, “That’s better, too.”

Apell touched the cyan space surrounding Erick, that led into the plumbing area. “Okay. That’s… interesting.” She walked into the cyan maskinglight. “Okay. That’s weird. It’s not a normal lightward. I feel… mostly blind.”

Erick smiled. “Of course it’s not a normal lightward.” Erick took off his sunglasses, saying, “It blocks out all light except cyan.”

Apell frowned a little. For a moment, she looked like she wanted to ask questions, but she just turned her attention to the pump room.

The room was split into two layers. The top layer was the olympic-sized pool that supplied water to the whole dungeon floor, while the bottom pool caught that water. The streams and rivers of the main dungeon floor flowed due to natural gravity, emptying water out of the bottom of the larger pool, into dozens of smaller stone pipes that went everywhere.

But the noise, and the functionality of it all, came from a meter-wide tunnel of a white [Gravity Ward] in the lower pool. Hundreds of thousands of gallons of water per hour shot straight up through that [Ward], directly into a tunnel in the ceiling. That tunnel then led to the larger pool, where it dumped all that water back down, in a great waterfall, directly in the center of that larger reservoir.

A small waterfall of overflow water dumped over the side of the upper pool, back into the lower pool. Erick had already worked out the exact waterflow needs of the dungeon floor, but having this overflow allowed him to adjust the space out there, without overly affecting the system. Besides, evaporation was a thing that happened; as long as there was this tiny overflow, he knew that the dungeon was properly filled and operating exactly how it should.

Apell looked over the whole system, but did not venture past the cyan masklight. She did not step into the room itself. She watched the water flow, saying, “That’s a good [Gravity Ward]. Uncontrolled gravity removal is a lot easier than a strainer.”

“I agree.” Erick smiled.

She turned back to the dungeon floor, saying, “Okay. I’ve seen enough. I’m going to do some [Scry] mapping of the system here to try and see what I can improve upon later, but we can start planning the actual dungeon next.” She gestured toward the sunglasses in Erick’s hands, saying, “We’re going to need a lot of those for the grad students I’m going to enlist.”

Erick smiled as he put on his sunglasses, saying, “We’ve got a bright future ahead of us.”

Apell just looked at him. “Sorry?”

“… I guess it didn’t translate well. Maybe I should have said: We’ve got an...” Erick searched for the right word in Ecks. “We’ve got an illuminated future ahead of us.”

“Ah. It was a joke.”

Erick frowned at her.

She shrugged. “Sorry. I don’t like puns.”

Erick sighed as he walked out of the pump room. Apell followed him back onto the main dungeon floor. With a quick [Stoneshape], he closed the wall, then he dismissed the cyan masklight. From there, they walked the dungeon floor, talking of the new construction, and where it might be. Erick wanted an island, but all the islands in a thousand kilometers were already taken by a group or an individual; island property around Oceanside Island was very, very expensive. Normally, this did not matter. They could have theoretically gotten an island further from Oceanside City. But the Headmaster had already given strict instructions. He wanted the new dungeon to be within a single [Teleport].

That left the mountains down south, which was where the starter seven floor dungeon lay, or a new construction, somewhere else.

Erick decided to at least see the seven floor starter dungeon. He could decide later.

- - - -

A small mountain range ran down the center of the southern half of Oceanside Island. On the eastern side of that range, where it was always dry, was where Erick had created his [Battery] and other spells. But on the western side of that small range of peaks, the land was carved into cliffs and plateaus by nature and people, and every vertical surface bore the brunt of the westerly tradewinds, the dense mana stream, and the natural rain. Every horizontal surface was crowded with trees and bushes and ferns and flowers, while streams and waterfalls cascaded down here and there.

