"So with all this revealed and everything settled, I think there are a few things we should discuss. A number of technical details." Udraal twisted his hand, and an Animancy symbol formed between them. He stared at Shiv and Adam at the same time. "There are spells I would like you to learn, spells that will be very essential for reverting the mana core here to an earlier state, to an unstable state. So, are you going to continue resisting me and making a mess of all this, even after I have laid my proverbial cards down on the table? Or are you going to play along?"

Shiv looked at Adam and cast his Psychomancy out into his friend. At the same time, the Gate Lord activated his commander's foresight. Everything came to a halt.

"Holy fuck," Adam said, echoing Shiv.

"Holy fuck is right. What the hells are we going to do about this guy?"

"We're not going along with him blindly," Adam declared. "Absolutely not. He's staying far away from my parents. He's staying far away from everyone we know."

"No shit," Shiv said. "Especially Valor."

"Especially Valor," Adam agreed with even more vehemence. "I mean, gods, Shiv. What the hells did we get dragged into? The Ascendants were bad enough. Now we have to deal with this madness. Multiple worlds. A plot to resurrect the Great One. My sister still being alive inside of you." A sheer bout of stress radiating out of Adam would have given Shiv anxiety most of the time. Unfortunately, Shiv suffered from the same thing right now.

It was all getting too much for the both of them. They needed time away from… all of this chaos.

"Did you mean it earlier?" Adam asked, his voice suddenly softening. "Did you mean what you said about ending yourself?"

"Yeah," Shiv replied immediately. "I'm not going to be a slave, and I'm not going to let him threaten me. It's the only leverage I got. He seems to need me alive, so we can use that against him."

"And you'd do it?"

"Yeah, of course I would do it, Adam."

"You're not afraid?" Adam asked, a hint of apprehension in his voice.

Shiv thought about that for a second. He thought about all the times he actually came close to death, close to that final oblivion. He thought back to the one time he'd crossed it within his Delve, yet not truly. He had been slain over and over again and faced pain most people could never fathom. And none of that bothered him. But death, the potential to never be once more...

Shiv considered it.

And he considered it a pathetic fear. "Yeah," Shiv said, "I would. You don't get to live forever if you're afraid to die. And there's no living if you let someone else choose who you are, what you are. I'm not afraid of what comes after, if there is an after. I've enjoyed the here and now a lot. Good friends. Good fights. Good life. Short, maybe, but it’ll never be enough. Hells, forever might not be enough. But I got to be happy. Truly happy.”

Shiv paused. “That’s more than what most people ever get. But my life’s still not over yet, so…”

"Still not over yet," Adam agreed, though this time it sounded more like a plea than anything else. “Shiv, I—”

"It's alright, Adam," Shiv said. "You're worth my life. You, Uva, Valor, everyone. I would die and stay dead for any of you." An uncomfortable awkwardness filled the Deathless as he admitted that. Vulnerability was a bitter pill. "Yeah, I would. It's just, I don't know, it feels weird to say it."

"I'd die for you too, Shiv," Adam said. “I’m… I just don’t really…”

“I know. You’re not a coward. Never think of yourself that way.”

Adam coughed mentally. “Right. So, instead of us dying, you got any ideas about how we can resolve Udraal? I don't think we can even kill him for good right now, even if we do destroy one of his bodies." Adam’s attention wasn't on Udraal anymore, however, but on his banner. "That thing is constructed of pure Animancy, and more of him seem to spawn out from that. I think that might be the core of his strength. Do you know what it is?"

"Not a damned clue," Shiv said.

“Then we need a closer look. We need more information about him, and we need a means of understanding him without him noticing.”

“So, what does that mean?” Shiv asked.

"That means..." Adam swallowed his discomfort. "I think we play along for now, and we try to figure out who he is. We learn his limitations, we learn his habits, and eventually, we learn how to deal with him. It's like you said, we have some leverage, and we might be able to use him to our advantage as well. Maybe we can finally get a moment of peace after this.”

“Adam.”

“Yeah?”

“I think you’re hoping for too much.”

“Let me dream, Shiv. Let me dream. For now, let’s see what he has to offer. It’s him or the Ascendants. And frankly, fuck the Ascendants.”

“Fuck the Ascendants,” Shiv agreed. “So. We’re going with the devil that made us.”

A cold hate returned to Adam. “For now. For now.”
