“For me, using [Air Body], I am able to spread my senses far outside of my own mortal shell. I am sure that you have noticed the same when you are using your [Lightwalk]. And I am sure you have noticed that you can remain clothed, or have small items on you when you assume your other form. This next part of Spatial Magic involves taking much larger pieces of other objects into your Elemental Body, and doing to them what you did to move yourself through the manasphere.”

Erick flinched in surprise. “It’s that easy?”

Fieldsmith smiled. “No. A failure of this action is [Partial Teleport], but this is one of the most devastating, harmful [Teleport] spells one is capable of creating. A warning, though: If you make [Partial Teleport], the creation of such a magic will soak into all the other Spatial Magic you manage to create...” He paused. He said, “Uh. Usually. Most of us work our Spatial magic through extensive maths, and because of this, when we fail and create a [Partial Teleport], it means we have failed somewhere along the way. A correction of maths and understanding eliminates [Partial Teleport].

“But the creation of the spell itself proves to be a problem. Almost everyone who chooses to keep [Partial Teleport] locks themselves to this path of incomplete understanding. Even if they do manage to fix their maths and create [Teleport Object] down the line, the taint of [Partial Teleport] crops up from time to time. Thus, we always instruct young Wayfarers into petitioning a Registrar to remove any [Partial Teleport] spells they manage to accidentally create.”

While Rexarix and Fork casually nodded, or had nothing to say about Fieldsmith’s words, Erick was confused. Why would you need a Registar to remove a spell created from another spell? Or. Wait. Fieldsmith hadn’t mentioned using [Teleport] to create [Teleport Object], or even the failed version of [Partial Teleport], had he?

In an oddity of the Script that Erick had never looked too deeply into, [Blink] and [Teleport] were both Basic Tier magic. In the recreation of both spells, he recognized that the two spells were vastly different from each other, enough that going from one to the other was, of course, not just an increase in tier. There was a qualitative difference that separated ‘following the mana to another location just over yonder’ from ‘adjusting a decision made earlier in the day’.

In addition to all that, Erick had already suspected, and been told as much by Fork long before today, that [Gate] was also Basic Tier magic.

Erick asked, “Is all Spatial Magic Basic Tier?”

“Yes,” Rexarix said, slightly smiling. “No extra points, though. What you’re famous for is not what Spatial Mages do. We don’t go around creating new basic spells.”

Fork said. “[Teleporting Platform]s and such are offshoots of Basic Tier. But [Blink], [Teleport], the proper [Teleport Object] and not the one after [Teleport], [Teleport Other], and [Gate], are all Basic Spells; each one qualitatively different than the previous.”

“My colleagues are correct.” Fieldsmith said, “Just like how each qualitatively different Force spell is laid out there, available for anyone to purchase, Spatial Magic is locked behind true mastery of the subject.” He shrugged. “That’s our collective theory, anyway.”

Erick asked, “But why is there a [Teleport Object] in the Script, past [Teleport]?”

Rexarix said, “You can get explosions out of [Force Bolt] by Mana Altering for explosions, but it is not the same as [Force Bomb].” He added, “[Force Platform] out of [Force Wall]. [Stoneshape] out of [Telekinesis]. The list goes on.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “Yes. I can see what you’re saying… But it’s still surprising.” He asked, “Is all magic this way? Does all magic come from the application of an Elemental Body?”

Fieldsmith sat back in his chair, contemplating. “I’ve always thought so, though I never managed anything except for a few Spatial Magics.”

Rexarix shook his head. “Highly doubtful.” He looked to Erick. “From my understanding you are able to sing at the sky and create new magic. This very act disproves the Elemental Body as the progenitor of magic theory.” He added, “There’s also Blood Magic, and Soul Magic, as paths to Basic Spell recreation. I’m sure there’s more, but those are not my areas of expertise.”

Fork said, “There is some truth to the Elemental Bodies as the basis for much of magic. After all, almost all Wayfarer Spatial Magic is created through the use of [Air Body], while the Force line of spells can be created through any kind of Elemental Body… Theoretically. I haven’t had much luck with that, myself.”

Fieldsmith said, “Yup.”

Rexarix just nodded.

Fork said, “And while this facet of the Elemental Bodies is crucial to understanding and recreating Spatial Magic, it is not, exactly, why we are here.”

“Quite.” Renarix said, “We can discuss whatever needs to be discussed, take some breaks, and come back later, when we must. We’re all busy people.”

Fieldsmith said, “I’ll agree to that.”

Erick nodded, then asked, “Back to [Teleport Object], then? Or rather, [Teleport Other]?”

Fork and Fieldsmith turned to Rexarix.

Rexarix said, “My colleague Fieldsmith has managed to do a lot with [Teleport Object], taking the spell to great heights, tagging objects with a spell imprint for later retrieval. Hence, why he was charged with care for the book you now possess.” He said, “My own experiences are closer tied to [Teleport Other].” He continued, “To condense dense spell formulae down to a few short words, what you do, is attune your own Elemental Body to another’s natural existence, and then you move them. But there is a catch. [Teleport] is an intrinsically non-harmful spell. If a [Teleport] would harm a caster, it doesn’t work how the caster wants it to work. Keeping this nature throughout the entirety of your endeavors into Spatial Magic is generally the best idea a Spatial Mage can have, for in doing this, you turn your Spatial Magic into something closer to healing magics, that works even on those unable to give their consent.

“And then there’s the process of attuning your magic to the magic of another, or adjusting their magic to your magic. Or meeting in the middle.” He gestured to the book in Erick’s hands. “The three various methods are outlined in there. Each one is difficult to achieve, because in attuning yourself to another being, you are opening yourself for unforeseen dangers of another’s magic working on you.

“The road to creating [Teleport Other] kills just as many as the road to creating [Teleport], itself. Many who pass the first hurdle on the way to [Gate] fail at this hurdle, and end up killing someone. Many drop out because of the guilt.” He added, “We are Wayfarers, after all. Killing someone with a [Teleport] is anathema to our beliefs.”

Erick nodded, listening.

Fieldsmith said, “You also can’t create [Teleport Other] unless you target another sapient person. Animal experimentation does not work. This stops a lot of people from ever trying; me included.”

Rexarix agreed, saying, “Yes. That, too.”

Erick asked, “And now we come to [Gate]?”

Rexarix unhappily said, “You need to create the same space in two different locations. The exact same space.”

The three of them watched as Erick pondered.

Erick frowned. “How is that difficult?”

Like a person knowing the depths of the problem being forced to deal with a lay person, Rexarix calmly asked, “How would you do it?”

Erick threw out an idea. “Vacuum in a space… A pair of doors, [Duplicate]d, or whatever that Registrar spell is. The doubling one. You put a vacuum in a prepared space that is magically the same, and then you fill them with a special [Teleport]-harmony infused [Ward]— Ah. No. You fill them both, at the same time, with your own Elemental Body harmony. And then you step through, creating a [Gate].”

Rexarix said, “That is one of the more popular ideas. Doesn’t work. Near as we’ve been able to tell, [Duplicate] doesn’t create a pure copy of the original.”

“How do you get [Duplicate]?” Erick asked, “I’d like to try that method.”

Fieldsmith said, “We have some contacts in the Bookbinders of the Arcanaeum Consortium who are willing to cast the spell for us, under a contract of secrecy. But getting the spell yourself is beyond the scope of our power. And you shouldn’t need a physical device for [Gate], anyway. Every instance of the spell being used has it standing in open space.”

Fork said, “We will need the physical device later, for enchanting purposes.”

Erick said, “True.” He said, “Then how about a [Ward] that—”

“[Gate] is not a part of [Ward],” Rexarix said, a little tiffed.

Fieldsmith breathed a little deeper than normal, while putting on a strained smile and ignoring Rexarix. Fork side-eyed Renarix.

Erick just smiled, then put his hand on the book. “It appears I have some reading to do, and a Headmaster to contact about a [Duplicate] spell.” He stood up. “Thank you, gentlemen. This was a most enlightening meeting.”

The three others stood up.

Fork said, “Of course, archmage.” He lifted his hand. The [Silence Ward] around the room popped, like a soap bubble. The casual sounds of the stone building returned; footsteps on stone while people talked and heavy shipments moved downstairs. “We can reconvene when you’ve had time to read. When do you think that will be?”

Ophiel twittered happy violin sounds, to hear the world return.

Erick said, “It might be a few days.”

After dispensing pleasantries and ending their meeting, Erick met Kiri and Teressa at the door to the room. A slight bit of inspiration struck, since he had two extra people to blip home, but only two hands. A while ago, Ophiel had managed to blip away, carrying objects with his Handy Aura instead of his actual hands, hadn’t he? Erick tried that, now, first sending a telepathic message so that everyone knew what was happening, then using his Handy Aura to have many more ‘hands’. He touched all four of his other passengers on their shoulders, making sure that Ophiel was counted among his targets, then blipped home.

Erick smiled as he appeared in the foyer of his house, along with Kiri, Teressa, Poi, and Ophiel. His little experiment had worked.

Kiri turned to him, saying, “When you explained it, I didn’t think it was going to work, because usually you have to be a Wayfarer to have that many [Teleport] targets.” She glanced at the book in his hands. “Was it really that easy to learn their tricks?”

Erick smiled. “That wasn’t them at all.” He patted Ophiel on his shoulder. The little guy cooed. Erick said, “That was an experiment with my [Flight of a Thousand Hands]. Maybe it works because it’s already labeled as a ‘hand’ spell?”

“Then…” Kiri asked, “Were you showing off on them?”

Erick paused. “I wasn’t trying to.”

Poi smirked. “And yet you did.”

“Nice.” Teressa laughed as she walked off, saying, “I’ll get dinner started.”

“Thank you, Teressa.” Erick turned away from the others, as he sent to Eduard, of the Mage Trio, ‘Hello? This is Erick. If you have a moment, I’d like to talk.’ He left the line open, while he held the black Wayfarer’s book in his hand, and said to Kiri, “So this is deadly, and apparently not for sharing. All the other books in the library are still fine, though.”

Kiri stood straighter. She said, “Of course.” She added, “I wasn’t going to… Of course not.”

“I wanted you in there too, Kiri, but it wasn’t to be.”

Kiri smiled slightly, then nodded.

- - - -

Erick sat in his library, reading his new book, when a voice came to him.

Eduard sent, ‘Hello, archmage. How can I help you?’

‘I’m about to deliver 18 million mana worth of rads to Candlepoint, but I’d like some opinions, first.’ Erick set the Wayfarer’s book aside, sending, ‘How has the Headmaster done this? How does it look on the ground? Are you the ones that actually give Candlepoint the rads to get the materials you’ve been testing? That sort of thing.’

After a moment, Eduard said, ‘We’re over here in Candlepoint right now. We would like to observe your own interaction and how it plays out for you, and then talk to you about your transaction afterward.’

‘I guess that works. I assume you want to get an untainted reaction from them?’

‘Yes. I’d say more, but... I mean… Yeah. That’s exactly it. Thank you for understanding.’

Erick began summoning Ophiels, as he sent, ‘I’ll be sending the goods over soon. Maybe an hour, at the front gate.’

‘We’ll still be here.’
