Nathan grinned back, feeling entirely unselfconscious about his current state of undress. But his words were reconciliatory. “Let me speak. We can still talk about this and come to an agreement that satisfies everybody.”

Evesor’s expression firmed, and his lips curled in a superior sneer. “No. You are outside the arena. You lost your duel; it is not your turn to speak. This conclave is over.”

Nathan huffed in satisfaction. His biggest priority right now was to be reasonable. He needed to present himself in the best possible light for what was to come. “Davrar doesn’t seem to think so.” He strode right into the crystal barrier, using his aura to dissolve himself a hole in the wall. “Davrar has allowed me back into the arena, and I’m still alive. I think that means the duel is still ongoing.” He raised a fist. “Shall we continue? Or will you agree to talk this out? The Continuance Charter can be salvaged if you're willing to compromise.”

If he agrees, then we do it Sarya's way; if he doesn't, then it's my way.

Evesor gaped at Nathan again, eyes flicking between him and the crystal barrier he'd just walked through. "This changes nothing."

The hole wasn't sealing shut, and Nathan didn’t want to give him time to think about it too hard. Besides, he had his answer. He attacked, lashing out with his aura and moving to close the distance to Evesor.

The Questor retreated, jetting backward with supreme control as his flight spell brought him backward. He spun up a half-dozen attack spells, beams of disintegration, snarling distortions of space, and a spray of razored shards of force lashing out towards Nathan.

They accomplished nothing. Nathan latched onto Evesor with his aura, killing all of the man's active spellwork and moving to catch him as he fell from the air. He grabbed the Questor by the collar of his robes and held him aloft, smiling a victorious smile into Evesor’s distraught face. “A rod of annihilation seems like a cheap trick. But it seems that you didn’t stand a chance without it. Now, let's have a chat."

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 10

Permanent Talent 2: Distributed Immortality 3

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1337

Bottomless Stamina: 120192/134700

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 951

Limitless Focus: 5082/9610

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 7

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 8

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 8

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 2

High-tier Battle Cry 8

Aura Mastery 6
