“I plan on bringing them up here, one by one for you to examine, and then I'm going to lead them all away, for about an hour, towards the giant lands.”

“Why so far?” The healer asked curiously.

“I want them far enough away from the Garrison that it doesn't cause any problems; but not too far that they can't ask for help if they need it.”

“What are you going to do with them then?”

“I don't know.” Ren said. “I have ideas, but it's really up to them what happens next.”

The Warrior was back a few minutes later with a large sack that had the shovels and pickaxes inside.

“Thanks.” Ren said and stored them. “If this works, I'll be back up eventually to tell you to get me those camping supplies.”

The Warrior nodded slightly, and Ren walked over to the pit and the rope.

“Good luck.” The healer said. Ren waved to her, then climbed down the rope to the waiting giants. When he got to the same height he had been at before, he waved to Laurelia.

“Can I get your help again?” Ren asked her, and she nodded as she stepped close. “Thank you.”

He climbed onto her shoulder, and she slowly turned to face the other two giants.

“Sir, if you could hold out your hand?” Ren asked the male giant, and took out the sack of tools. He put a pickaxe in the giant's hand. “I am giving you this pickaxe.” Ren said. “Put it into your inventory, then take it back out.”

The giant did so, then took it back out. It had scaled appropriately, and was now nearly twice as tall as Ren.

“Yes!” Ren said. “I'm giving you this sack, with more tools inside.” This is the real test. He thought. Otherwise I'll have to give each single item to him to resize it.

The giant took the sack carefully, and stored it. He waited for a moment, the took the sack back out, and it scaled up to giant size. The male opened the sack and took out the other pick, and 4 shovels. All of them were giant size.

“What a relief!” Ren said, and the giants looked at him. “If that didn't work, it was going to take a long time to make you enough to eat.”

“What did you say?” Laurelia asked.

“Don't you see?” Ren asked. “Thanks to this gentleman and this woman, I'll be able to scale things up for you and your people.” He smiled. “We won't have to use up a ton of normal food to make enough for a single giant to eat. We only have to give you the ingredients first, and then you can make the food yourselves!”

The giants looked around at each other for a moment, then some of them smiled.

“How did you come up with that idea?” Laurelia asked.

“When I make clothing, the outfits are all one size. When people put them on, they resize to fit.” Ren smiled. “When I made a backpack for Rubella, she equipped it and it resized to fit her. It got me thinking. If I found a giant that had an inventory, then I could give them items that can't be equipped, and they'd resize, too. Hopefully.”

“You're really smart.” The female giant with the inventory said. “I don't think any of us would have thought of that.”

“Normally, I wouldn't either.” Ren said. “But... once I knew giants existed, well...”

“Hold on.” The male giant said. “You didn't know we existed?”

Ren shook his head. “There's not a lot of people around that know about you and your race.” He said. “They will soon, though.”

“What do you mean?” The male giant asked.

“I have a friend that has access to all of the libraries in the world.” Ren said, and grinned as the giants gasped.

“You... you have...”

“I don't usually ask her for much; but I'm sure once I tell her about you, and the things you've gone through... she'll spread the word.”

“You'd do that for us?”

“Sure.” Ren said. “I'm here to help you.”

“I told you!” Laurelia said. Ren pat the top of her head, and she grinned.

“If we could get a few volunteers to help dig with the pickaxes and shovels, we can get you up to the surface and out of the pit.”

One of the other male giants stepped forward and picked up a shovel. “And what's to stop us from running away once we get to the surface?”

“Nothing.” Ren said, and the giants looked at each other with doubt on their faces. “You aren't prisoners. I'm not keeping you here. Once we're out of the pit, you are free to leave and go wherever you want... as long as it's away from the Garrison and the little people's lands.”

“You're not going to try and stop us?” Another male said and took one of the shovels, too.

“Only if you attack the Garrison again.” Ren said. “I'm planning on making a temporary spot for you to live in, about an hour away from here. Tents, bedrolls, the whole thing.”

“Why?”

“You're almost a week's travel away from the edge of the giant lands where you came from.” Ren said. “And if my encounter with the Guardians of the Land is any indication, you'll be attacked as soon as they see you.” He looked at their faces. “There wasn't any mercy in them.”

“We... we're really exiled.” One of the female giants said, and started to cry.

“Only for now.” Ren said.

She looked at him with surprise on her face, and she wiped at her tears.

“I'm going to do my best to change that.” He said.

“You... you are?” She asked with hope in her eyes. “Why?”

“Because it's worth a try.” Ren said, and looked at the volunteers. The 2 pickaxes and 4 shovels had been picked up, and he pointed to a wall directly opposite of the Garrison. “That's the way out.” He said and smiled. “The path is already there. You just have to dig to find it.”

Some of the giants laughed, and the rest made room for the volunteers, Laurelia, and the male and female giant with the inventory, to pass by. Ren sat down on Laurelia's shoulder and hugged her neck with an arm to hold on.

“Let's go.” Ren said, and the group moved over to the wall then started to dig. He directed them in the proper way to do it, and how to angle up to get to the surface. He cautioned them that it was dangerous, and to be careful, then told the other giants in the pit to wait until the tunnel ramp was finished.

“Stay back a little, Laurelia.” Ren said. “I don't want you getting hurt.”

“Thanks, but I'm tougher than you think.”

“I know you are.” Ren said. “You were the only one to wave to me.”

“You're like something right out of my dreams.” Laurelia said. “If you were only 20 feet taller...”

“I'd make a joke about how size doesn't matter, but I'm engaged.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“I think my mother would faint if I came home with you on my shoulder.” Laurelia said. “Then she'd probably die of shock if I said we were together.”

“More than likely.” Ren said. “I'm just too awesome for women to handle sometimes.”

Laurelia's laughter echoed in the growing tunnel.
