After two days of experimentation and study, Elise had found the location of the Skills in the System web, but she wasn’t sure what to do about them. She had missed them in her early inspections of the web, because they were more or less perfectly camouflaged in with the rest. Amidst all the strands of 1s and 0s, there was a section where the web was partially made of ordinary, more rigid soul constructs, and Elise decided that was what the Skills were.

There were two problems, though. First, they were completely connected to the System. She had tried to see if she could pull them away, but they were stuck, and she was scared of trying too hard and breaking something. The second was that they weren’t quite the same as Aya’Rhun’s.

She had taken some time to create the {Magic Missile} spell construct equivalent so that she could compare it to the one the System had, and the System’s one was way more complicated. At its core, it was nearly identical to hers, but there were all sorts of other pieces attached to it, she had no idea what they did. She could watch it in action by casting the spell while watching the construct in her soul, but the way the System seemed to interact with it felt so foreign and strange.

For the time being, she had given up on trying to do anything directly with the System’s spell constructs. She was still using the System as a crutch, and didn’t want to break something and cripple herself while messing with it. Instead, she decided to just study it, locating every Skill and conjuring labels to attach to them.

She had found that while all the Skills were at least partially more complicated than they needed to be, some of them were really complicated. The most complicated by far was {Nature Mana Manipulation}, which was more than twice the size of all the rest of them combined. The next biggest was {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!}, and after that was {Suggest}, and though they weren’t anywhere close to {Nature Mana Manipulation}, both of them seemed impossibly complex, to the point that Elise wondered if she would ever be able to replicate them properly.

Then again, I don’t really need Nature Mana Manipulation now that I can just do it manually…

The most confusing part of it all, though, and the thing that she spent most of her two days worrying about was that some of her Skills simply weren’t there. {Transformation} was missing, as were {Tongues}, {Fey Wings}, {Fairy Dust}, {Fey Bargaining}, {Mana Sense}, {Aether Sense}, {Mana Circulation}, and {Rune of Fate}. Only after trying and failing to locate them no matter how many times she used them did she realize why.

They had never been Skills in the first place. The first five were racial “Skills” she got for being a changeling and a fey, the next three were just her inherent senses and body functions, and the final was something she had had since before the System got a hold of her. She didn’t actually need the System for them.

In retrospect, it made sense. Back when her {Rune of Fate} had first upgraded and she got disconnected from the System, she had still been able to speak and understand Common fluently, even though she was definitely not fluent, and her transformation had not failed, when in retrospect, it probably should have. She could also sense mana and aether just fine, even when the System wasn’t connected.

It made her feel a little dumb, because it was something she should have realized sooner, but that combined with what she had just learned about what the rest of the “Skills” were gave a lot of insight into how the world actually worked, and what the System was. It didn’t grant power. It was a framework that helped enumerate and channel existing power.

On the beginning of the third day, Elise dreamwalked to Charlotte saying she would be over soon, then returned to her soul. She spent an hour or so testing random Skills and watching how the System’s constructs behaved until she felt the familiar warning pulse about the upcoming soul storm. She quickly fortified her defenses, waiting in her room until it passed, then descended and walked out to the stone platform. She was in her human form this time, because while she had managed to delay these past two days, she couldn’t justify keeping Charlotte waiting any longer.

She had a moment of hesitation as she stood there holding the scroll. Charlotte’s soul defenses were absolutely strong enough to handle the soul storms at this point, but if she brought Charlotte down here, they would both be stuck down here for who knew how long. What if Charlotte got hurt? What if she ended up hating it, and was just stuck there until they could find a way out?

She had promised, though, so she ultimately tore the scroll anyway. The moment she appeared in front of Charlotte’s cottage, Elise found herself wrapped up in a bear hug that was slightly less crushing than it would have been a few months ago.

“Charlotte,” Elise wheezed.

“It’s time!” said Charlotte, putting Elise back down. “Let’s go, let’s go, let’s go!”

“Woah, hold on a sec,” said Elise, taking a step back. “Do you have…?”

She trailed off as she saw the enormous, web-wrapped sack on Charlotte’s back. It was bigger than the arachne herself, and seemed to be bulging strangely in a few places. It was also dripping blood from one side.

“Charlotte, how much of that is meat?”

“Most of it!” said Charlotte proudly.

Elise internally debated for a few seconds, then decided that was probably for the best. She had brought some of the Abyssal meat back on her last visit to test and make sure it was edible, and it was, but she still wasn’t a huge fan of the taste, and she didn’t want to find out the hard way that it caused issues when eaten in large quantities.

“Alright,” she finally said. “Do you have everything else?”

“Yes!”

“Are you sure?”

“Yes!”

Elise narrowed her eyes. “How about we double check, just in case. And you should seal up the sack. It’s leaking.”

Charlotte looked back, then gasped and let the sack roll back onto the ground so she could get to work sealing it up. Afterwards, she followed Elise on a house inspection to make sure nothing had been forgotten.

Many things had been forgotten. So many that Elise suspected that Charlotte had not actually gone through her house, and instead only grabbed the things she thought of. She had left most of her dishes and kitchen utensils, nearly all of the spices and herbs, and had not grabbed any furniture. Much of the furniture was too big to travel, but there were some light wooden chairs and a table that Elise had wanted, as well as a few lamps that would be welcome replacements for her low quality light spells.

The only things she seemed to have remembered were her shirts, the meat, and her two favorite carving knives that she used to butcher her meat.

Elise tossed everything Charlotte had forgotten into her spatial bag, along with a few things that she just wanted for herself, like the lamps. They did one more sweep of the house, just to make sure that they had everything, and only then did they return outside. Charlotte did a comical maneuver to get the sack back on her back, leaning forward and handspringing up so that her back was stuck to the sack, making the whole thing roll until she was back on the ground, now with it on her back. Elise had been idly wondering how Charlotte ever got the thing onto her back in the first place, and now that she had seen the answer, she had no clue what to think.

“Ready now?” asked Charlotte.

“Yes…” said Elise. “Grab my arm, and we’ll get going.”

Charlotte reached out and gripped her forearm with an enthusiastic amount of strength that made it difficult for Elise to properly hold the teleportation scroll and tear it. She got it after a second, though, and had a moment of panic as she wondered if there was some kind of weight limit to the scroll. Her worry was unfounded, though, and when they appeared back in the underground chamber, Charlotte’s sack was perfectly intact.

“Woah!” said Charlotte, spinning around in a circle and nearly smacking Elise with the sack. “What’s that?”

Elise could not see what she was pointing at, because the sack was in the way, but it only took a split second for her to realize what it was. In the minutes she had been gone, an Abyssal something or other had spawned, and was now charging at Charlotte.

“Watch–!” Elise started.

She stopped when she sensed the aether signature leap at Charlotte, then suddenly freeze.

Elise ran around the sack, and saw Charlotte holding an Abyssal Rat in her hands as it struggled to get free. She was beaming widely as she looked into its many eyes while its tentacles attacked her face. They did no damage, other than messing up her hair, and she giggled when they got near her neck.

“It tickles,” she said. “Can I eat it? Or is it a pet?”

“It’s not a pet,” said Elise. “But I’m not sure if–”

There was a sizzling sound and the rat’s struggling suddenly stopped as Charlotte moved an acid-coated hand across its neck, neatly beheading it and creating a disgusting scent in the cave. The tentacles stopped reaching for her, falling limply down, but Charlotte just raised the head up so that they were dangling into her mouth, and took a big bite. At the same time, she took the rat’s main body and grabbed it with one of her arachnid forelegs and brought it to her spider maw.

Elise watched in morbid fascination as Charlotte rapidly devoured the entire rat, burping when she finished at the end. Not even its bones were left over, having been crunched up like hard pretzels in Charlotte’s deceptively strong mouth. When she finished, she pulled a web-woven handkerchief out of a pocket on the front of her shirt and daintily wiped her mouth. Elise was glad that Charlotte was fully adopting the lessons about keeping her face clean, but she wished that it wasn’t a lesson she needed to teach.

“Tasty,” said Charlotte.

“…Great,” said Elise. “Well, this is where you’ll be living for the next… For a while. However long it takes for me to figure out why I’m here and how to get out.”

“Roommates!”

“Yes…” said Elise. “Unfortunately, not quite literally. The doors in the house weren’t built for people your size, so we’ll have to make somewhere for you to live in a different part of the cave. But you can pick wherever you want, and I’ll help you build a little house.”

“Can I live up there?”

Charlotte pointed almost straight up, to the far upper corner of the cave.

“Is that where you want to live?”

“Yes! Living higher up is safer! I can make you a room too!”

“Then sure, you can live there. And I would love a room, though I will probably spend most of my time in my house.”

“Okay! I will make a home!”

“Wait!” said Elise, stopping the arachne before she could scurry off. “First, you can set the sac down. You don’t need to carry that up with you yet.”

“Oh yeah,” said Charlotte, leaning back and letting the sack roll off. “Okay! Now–!”

“And are you going to dig a house out up there, or make one out of web?”

“Both!”

“Okay. If you’re going to dig, make sure not to make too much of a mess. Falling rocks are messy and dangerous.”

“I will make a net to catch the rocks!”

“That’s… a very smart idea. Definitely do that.”

“Okay. Can I go make it now?”

“Yes.”

“Yay!”

Elise smiled as Charlotte scuttled off across the cave and started weaving a wide web on the ground where she planned to dig. Whatever Skills she was using to do it were truly impressive. Rather than needing to weave every single strand to make a net fine enough to catch all the falling debris, it just came out pre-woven. Elise didn’t know too much about how it all worked, but she knew that it was mostly only good for simple patterns, which fortunately, this was.

It only took a few minutes for her to make a net covering a fifty foot square area, connected on two sides to the wall, and the other two to the floor. It would filter all the rocks closer to the house, but as long as they were all in one place, and not exploding when they hit the ground, Elise was fine with it.

She watched as Charlotte climbed up the vertical wall, then started gouging chunks out with her bare hands. There was probably some acid involved too, but she was moving so quickly that Elise wasn’t sure if the acid even had time to work, or if she was just doing it with raw, brute strength. Whatever the case, though, as fast as she was moving, it was still going to be a little while before she finished, so Elise turned back to her own house so she could decorate with the furniture she had taken from Charlotte’s house.

It was nice to finally have wooden furniture after nothing but stone, stone, and more stone down in the caves. She could add moss, or certain vines to spruce things up, but there was no way for her to get wood, or for her to make a good table out of it even if she had it. Much of the stone furniture was damaged and crumbling too, so being able to replace it with something else was a blessing.

There were nine lanterns in total, so Elise placed two on each floor of the house, including the basement, and the final one outside right above the front door. She had already been growing vines and moss up the sides of the house already, but the soft glow of the lantern really went a long way toward improving the ambiance. It looked much more tastefully decorated now than the black monolith originally had.

By the time Elise finished, Charlotte was still not done yet. She had carved out a full Charlotte-sized opening, but it was not very deep yet, and Elise could still see her rear-end hanging out. The loose rocks were piling up on the low side of the web, and as Elise walked over to the stone table to watch the progress, she idly wondered if there was anything they could do with the stones. She wanted them cleaned up, of course, but doing that would be tedious no matter what, so maybe it would be better to try and make something with them.

She thought of ideas for perhaps a wall near the entrance, or a second building that could be used as a storage shed or something, but as she thought about adding that on top of all the other things she had to do, it sounded like too much of a pain.

I’ll just use them for magic practice, she thought as she sat down to do exactly that while she waited.

By the time Charlotte finished, Elise had built out two more spell constructs in her soul, as well as conjured a little cubby sorting thing where she could put them all for easy access. Idly, she thought about how this was sort of like what the System was doing. Put them all in the same place that was easy to reach, then activate as needed. But it was also such a basic, common sense thing that she couldn’t imagine the mages of old didn’t do something similar.

In fact, as she thought more about it, she realized that making something similar to the System, but personalized for her, might have been the future of her progression. The spell constructs made spellcasting much faster, but they were still limited in their own way. For example, currently, if she wanted to have different versions of the magic missile spell with different projectile shapes, she would need to make a new construct for each variety. And if she repeated that for every element and every shape, and then again for more complex spells…

Clearly, she was going to need a way to connect existing spell constructs to other spell constructs, and a way to pick and choose which got used and which didn’t… and that was quite similar to the System. She would have been willing to bet a lot of money that the third module of Aya’Rhun’s crystal taught exactly that.

Breaking away from the System, just to build myself another one…

She knew that what she was doing was completely different, but it still felt ironic.

When Charlotte finished, she took a flying leap straight out of her cave, surprising Elise when she landed hard on the stone past the net, then sprinted to the stone table.

“I finished!” she announced.

“Good work!”

“I wanna explore now! Can we go see the rest?”

“Yes,” said Elise. “I actually wanted to go out too!”

“Yay!”

Elise stood up as Charlotte ran ahead, nearly trampling some of the defensive plants on her way to the root barrier. Elise had gotten the plants accustomed to her by getting some of Charlotte’s blood and mixing it with some highly diluted acid and feeding it to the plant. She had almost not diluted the acid enough, though, and when Charlotte passed through, it almost seemed like the plants were cringing away.

Elise arrived soon after, connecting to the System for long enough to part the roots, letting them out and into the cavern proper. The sight of the city was familiar to Elise, but Charlotte stopped in her tracks, eyes sparkling and mouth wide as she took everything in. Elise joined her, looking out, feeling a newfound surge of admiration for whatever people had built such an incredible place. Such an incredible place that wasn’t even the main city, if her theory about the large tunnel was correct.

Her gaze soon settled on the castle in the center, though. She had explored nearly every other place in the cavern at this point, even braving some of the hanging structures where the Abyssal Wyrms lived, but she had not dared enter the castle. She had a hunch that there had to be something important there, though. The scroll had sent her here for a reason. The solitude and isolation helped her practice the contents of Aya’Rhun’s crystal, but there were plenty of places that would have given her that. There had to be something special here that made it better for her specifically, and she suspected that whatever it was, it had to be in the castle, since no other part of the cavern had anything.

And now that she had finally gotten through the basics of Systemless magic, she felt ready to start pushing herself to get stronger again. It might take a little while, but with Charlotte to help, she was certain they’d be able to get to the castle in no time.