As soon as she was presentable, Lin-Lin bolted out of her chair and ran out to greet Rain, who received her with open arms while fully dressed and actually looking somewhat presentable. It was the right move sending Li-Li to wake him, else he might still be in bed while Yan indulged his every whim, perhaps even stealing a moment to cuddle or kiss. There was a time when Sarnai thought the girl had more steel in her, and the same could be said of Mila, but they were both wrapped firmly around Rain’s finger and beholden to his every whim, so madly in love it bordered on insanity. It was comforting to see how deeply their feelings ran, and the same was true in reverse, for it was clear at a glance that Rain loved them with all his heart, for it was present in his eyes and Aura both.

And now he would have a third wife to add to the list, one who would not spoil and pamper him, but would expect to be spoiled and pampered in turn. Not the worst outcome imaginable, but Sarnai hoped he would one day find a good woman strong enough to keep him in line. Song would be the perfect candidate for such a role, but there was no sense rushing the sweet and stoic girl into a relationship she was clearly not ready for. Still, her fate was all but sealed, for regardless of what metric you measured by, Song was Rain’s wife in everything but name and bedroom.

Then again, the same could be said of Luo-Luo, whose affections went completely unanswered, but in light of her son’s voracious appetite, it was only a matter of time before he succumbed to Luo-Luo’s bold advances. That day would not be today however, as he only had eyes for Lin-Lin, though it warmed Sarnai’s heart to see him take time to make sure Mila and Yan were both doing well. It could not be easy watching the man you loved marry another woman, even if you were already his wife, but Sarnai imagined she herself was strong enough to do the same, should the right woman for Baatar come along. Difficult to find someone who fit all the right criteria, as she’d already ruled out all of her friends and acquaintances, but her beloved, dog-brained fool of a husband needed a wife with an iron will to handle him, which narrowed the field down to a select few, all of whom already had husbands of their own.

Perhaps she could convince Baatar to sign on as someone’s second husband. Now there was a possibility to ponder...

After a quick and hearty breakfast buzzing with anticipation, Luo-Luo’s convoy of assistants arrived to help prepare Rain and Lin-Lin for the day, much to their chagrins. Amidst a chorus of groans meant to convey their wordless discontent, Luo-Luo merely smiled and said, “Oh come now you two. Given the importance of today’s events, is it really too much to ask you both to sit still for an hour in order to look presentable for the crowds?”

“Well... no,” Rain admitted, while Lin-Lin pouted in silence, clutching her hubby’s arm and resting against it in a darling display of sleepy dissatisfaction.

“What say you, Mother-in-Law Sarnai?”

Though surprised to be asked, Sarnai nodded at Luo-Luo and scowled at her sheepish son, who still had the nerve to try and wrangle out of this minor inconvenience. “You said it yourself,” she declared, throwing his words back at him. “Today is not just about you and your marriage with Mei Lin, but about lifting the spirits of everyone involved. Do not be so dramatic. It is merely a brush and some powder, hardly the end of the world.”

“And you, Mother-in-Law Akanai?”

Again, the woman was surprised to be included, but she answered in the same vein as Sarnai, as did the others whom Luo-Luo addressed, including Alsantset, Li-Li, and oddly enough, Tate and Tali both. Only after garnering their support did Luo-Luo reveal the devious depths of her machinations, standing tall and proud with a smile wide as the day was long. “It is good that you all feel this way,” she said, gesturing at the horde of helpers standing to one side, “Because these attendants are here to help everyone look their best.”

A move which of course would have been met with widespread resistance had they not all just chided Rain and Lin-Lin about how minor a sacrifice this was. Well played by Luo-Luo, and Sarnai quietly revised her opinion of the seemingly servile young woman and how she would fare as Rain’s proper wife.

Though it made her feel ridiculous, Sarnai allowed the attendants to do her makeup, of which there was surprisingly less than she expected from the same people who helped Central’s elites paint their faces white. When their work was done, Sarnai reluctantly looked in the mirror and found herself gazing into the past, for she’d somehow lost thirty years over the last half hour. Her wrinkles were no longer so evident now that they were hidden beneath a layer of concealer, and the lines drawn along the edges of her eyes made her pupils seem brighter and deeper than before. Her rouged lips were tinted so lightly it could almost be mistaken as a natural shade, and though her hair was still dusted with salt and pepper streaks, it was arranged in a neat and artful coif which covered her ears while simultaneously keeping her bangs out of her eyes. By the Heavens, she almost looked young again, a feat which she would have once believed impossible. Was this how it was for every noblewoman of the Empire? How had these secrets evaded Sarnai’s notice for so long? Lovely as all this was, she feared that her husband would see this and gush about how beautiful she was, which would only make her feel all the more conscious about her natural appearance, but when she finally found the courage to step outside, she was almost brought to tears by the lack of surprise in his expression, wholly unfazed and by her complete transformation and making little to no fuss about it at all.

“Was it as difficult for you as it was for me, my rose?” he asked, wrapping his arm around her waist in search of solace and comfort. “They had all these tweezers and implements to poke and prod at my skin, it is a wonder I’ve no scars to show for it.”

“Oh, it is not so bad.” Tucking a stray strand of hair behind her ear in a girlish fashion, she tried to will him to notice her newfangled appearance, but her efforts were all for naught. “Perhaps I should hire one or two of these helpers and learn how to do all this myself.”

“I do not see why you would need them,” Baatar replied, his brow furrowed in confusion. “You hardly look any different at all.”

Idiot. Calling him dog-brained was an insult to dogs everywhere, and Sarnai swore to find a more appropriate comparison, though she did so love him for being honest.

Once the whole family was properly painted and dressed for the day, Luo-Luo went through a final inspection which saw both Rain and Lin-Lin sent back into their chambers, but only because they were of like mind and made changes to their outfits so that they might be more comfortable. Rain had untucked his shirt beneath his armour because he thought no one would notice, while Lin-Lin pulled out three hair pins and a decorative comb because they made her head too heavy to hold up. The girl’s makeup also needed several minor touch ups, as she’d smeared them while snacking and resting her cheek on Rain’s shoulder, which also had to be wiped and polished again in turn.

After all this fuss, the parade itself was almost a let down. The crowds appeared in full force and their enthusiasm threatened to blockade the streets, but young Rustram had things well in hand and dispersed the huddled masses before too long. Riding at the head of the procession, Taduk made for a curious sight, so handsome and dignified yet so obviously out of his element as he sat poorly atop sweet Mafu’s back. The quin was darling to behold in his collared silk shirt, as were the three pups in his arms who were similarly dressed for the part, while Lin-Lin stood on her palanquin flanked by Yan, Mila, Luo-Luo, and Li-Li, all of whom waved to the crowd, looking beautiful and delighted as she received their praise and accolades with a smile. Things could have gone so much worse, but none of Sarnai’s nightmares proved prophetic as the two-hour long parade concluded without incident, with Lin-Lin’s palanquin setting down in the middle of the wide, concrete bridge that stretched from the north end of the empty basin to the south, with four towering fortresses scattered along the way. It was here in the centre where Rain stood waiting in front of a covered monument, a rectangular object that stood at least five metres high and was hidden under a waterproofed cloth. Oh how he looked so handsome and heroic in his golden armour, with bright eyes and a joyous smile which were dazzling to behold, especially when juxtaposed with the grim, featureless scowls of his Death Corps Guards, who all but melted into the background as the main characters of today’s events took to the stage standing side by side with hands clasped and fingers interlaced.

“Thank you all for coming out to celebrate this joyous event with us,” Rain began, his voice booming over the hubbub of the crowd yet not so loud as to drown everything out. To Sarnai’s surprise, she could feel her son’s genuine bliss and gratitude accompanying his Chi-enhanced voice, and a quick glance at her husband revealed that he felt it too. This was clearly Oration, yet another Chi skill that few knew about much less understood, and Rain was using it without meaning to once again. “However, today is not just to celebrate my union with Mei Lin, a dear friend I have known for as long as I can remember and cannot imagine a life without.” Again, the truth of his statement was evident from the barrage of emotions his words instilled, and Sarnai could see the crowd being won over by his heartfelt admiration. “Today is also a day to celebrate and remember the fallen heroes who made this day possible.”

What followed was a long and emotive speech that recognized the sacrifice of so many good warriors, from the lowly, unnamed soldiers who fought to their last breath, all the way up to the dearly departed Sword King, Ryo Dae Jung, Rain made sure to include them all in his earnest dedication. “These heroes died to see us to victory,” he said, still holding the crowd’s attention despite his long-winded speech, “And their sacrifice will not be forgotten, not so long as this Citadel stands and Warriors patrol its walls.” Working together with Lin-Lin, they unveiled the monument behind them to reveal a towering marble slab, so white and lustrous it all but glowed in the sunlight. Appearing out of Concealment, Monk Happy gave everyone a scare as he approached the plain slab with ladder, hammer, and chisel in hand, but Rain at least had the foresight to warn his immediate guards, if not the ones further out. Cheeks burning as he realized his gaffe, he glanced towards an empty space and gave it an apologetic look, where Sarnai assumed Naaran was standing and fuming in furious silence.

With a few taps of the hammer, Monk Happy carved a single name at the top of the slab, centrally positioned for maximum attention. Only three characters were written there, and Rain read them out loud for all those who could not see or read. “Ryo Dae Jung,” he declared, without adding any title or epithet to follow, but such a simple design fit these circumstances, for there were few who could ever forget this young Legend’s accomplishments.

Having been informed of his task beforehand, Monk Happy set to work carving in the rest of the names, starting with the deceased father and son pair, Ishin Shigen and Ishin Ken-Kichi. Though they were placed below the Sword King and not even in a row all to themselves, one could hardly complain about so high a placement on the monument, especially considering Ken-Kichi was not even a Peak Expert when he died. Rain read those names out loud as well, again without embellishment, which could be seen as an insult by some, but could also be construed as offering them the same respect given to a fallen Colonel General.

As the minutes passed by, Rain read off a litany of names that quickly fell into the realm of obscurity, but not a single soul in the crowd stirred with agitation or impatience. These Warriors died defending the Citadel, so this was the least they could all do to show their respect and gratitude, a sentiment which shone clearly through Rain’s Oration. Even the restless Mei Lin stood utterly still at his side, holding his hand and supporting him through this sombre event, one which lasted for two full hours, and only because Monk Happy was so deft with his tools that even a scribe with a brush could barely match him. When the marble slab was filled to the brim with names of the fallen, Rain lowered his head in a moment of quiet introspection, and it only felt right to join him. So many of Sarnai’s comrades had already given their lives in the war against the Enemy, she wished their names could be included on that monument as well, but she knew her son well enough to know he would not let them be forgotten.

