At least the commoners were kind enough to keep their scandalized gasps to a minimum and Mother-in-Law Akanai had the good graces to pretend not to notice, so Sarnai basked in her husband’s affection for all of a second before reluctantly stepping away. “Good quin,” she said, offering Balor a pat on the nose as he came over to greet her, rumbling in squeaky delight as he took in her scent. Despite having vowed to never ride him into battle again, the quin was quite taken with her, probably because he enjoyed bullying her so. A good thing Balor wasn’t overly affectionate like Mafu, who insisted on receiving belly rubs whenever he so pleased, and was content with the bare minimum of interaction. That being said, Sarnai did love to rub Balor’s belly too, as his soft, velvety fur was unmatched by any beast save perhaps Mama Bun and Rakky.

Heralded by their shrieks of delight, the twins ran headlong into Sarnai’s arms and she spent the next few minutes spoiling them so as the whole family headed back to the manor on foot, a much needed jaunt after five days of travel. Rain’s new wagons were a marvellous creation, boasting a whole host of improvements that made them more comfortable than ever to ride in, but even the Medical Saint had no cure for cabin fever. Though Rain had arrived by ship after sailing for less than a day, Baatar chose to ride with his retinue in order to inspect the Wall’s defences firsthand, meaning the five-day journey took twice as long which was far too many days for the poor twins. Even Alsantset and Charok seemed antsy from their travels and were fraying at the seams, but once Sarnai took the twins off their hands, their mood improved by leaps and bounds as they were free to finally enjoy a moment of peace and quiet.

Children were a wonderful blessing, but Sarnai knew how difficult the little monsters could sometimes be...

“Where’s Rainy granma?” More darling than ever, handsome little Tate tugged at her hand and tried to urge her to walk faster, even though his tiny little legs were already pumping at a furious pace. “He’s at home, yea? How come he didn’t come see us too? Is he in trouble again?”

The sweet child idolized his uncle so, and it warmed Sarnai’s heart to see it. Little Tate would go far with Rain as his goal, because aside from his dour moods and lecherous appetites, the boy was a perfect role model to look up to. “We didn’t expect you for another hour dearie,” she said, lifting her adorable grandson off the ground to hug him tight. “Rain was in the middle of bathing Jimjam so he looks all prim and proper for the wedding, and you know how difficult that silly wildcat can be.”

“Oh. Okay. Poor Jimjam. Poor Rainy...” So relieved that Rain was alright, Tate forgot he was a big boy who didn’t like being carried anymore, which meant Sarnai was able to hold and hug him for the rest of the trip. Precocious Tali was more free-spirited and adventurous as they made their way through the Citadel streets, causing Sarnai no small amount of headaches as she tried to corral the curious girl and keep her in sight, but ultimately, Tali had a good head on her shoulders and knew when to push her boundaries and when to stay in line. She was much like Alsantset in that way, a rational and sensible girl who would go far in life so long as she cared enough to put the effort in, and given her accomplishments with Spiritual Cooking, it was clear she possessed the drive needed to overcome the trials and tribulations ahead.

They heard Rain long before they saw him, laughing up a storm while chastising the tiger. “No Rakky, you already had your bath today. Same with you Ping Ping, so get out of the tub and let Banjo in.”

As she strode through the door, Sarnai was greeted by the sight of the hulking, horse-sized tiger seated in the courtyard, dwarfing the massive, custom order bathtub Rain purchased just to wash his animals in. The alternative was letting the animals bathe in the manor’s bathhouse, which would have been a nightmare to clean with all the fur and debris clogging up the drains. Even though Rain had servants and Death Corps Guards to clean up his messes, he was still conscientious enough not to make more work for them than necessary, and earnest enough to do most of his chores after fobbing off all his official duties onto poor Luo-Luo. The girl in question was sitting off to the side consoling poor Jimjam after his bath, his soggy fur pressed against his surprisingly thin frame and making him look so much more miserable than his gloomy scowl could ever express. A dramatic kitten like always, even though Rain bathed him in warm water and likely spent a good half hour trying to towel the wildcat dry, Jimjam loathed baths with a passion unmatched by any of the other floofs. Even Princess and the rabbits didn’t seem to mind too much anymore, especially once Rain started heating their baths and using his own herbal soaps over the harsh and more commonly found alternatives.

“I see things haven’t changed much in my absence,” Sarnai declared, taking great satisfaction in seeing the boy’s face light up as he realized his family had arrived. Shirtless and drenched from his attempts to pry Rakky out of the bathtub, he ran over with a wide smile and a playful roar to hug Alsantset and Charok, with the former complaining loudly about his damp clothes while the latter clapped him on the back with glee. It was telling how he greeted his sister and brother-in-law first before setting them down to hug the twins and his father next, because the truth of the matter was that Alsantset and Charok had been there for him from the start, right from the first moment the girl laid eyes on a tired, sickly, scrawny slave all those years ago. Sarnai had grown to love the boy dearly, but in those early years, she’d kept her distance for fear of what might come to pass, and being a sensitive and observant soul, her attitude had not escaped Rain’s notice. He held no grudges and even claimed they did the right thing, and though Sarnai agreed with his logic, she couldn’t help but feel guilty for not supporting him when he needed it most.

No matter. There was no cure for regret, but she still had the rest of her life to make things up to him, and so she would spend her years doing exactly that. Not out of guilt or obligation, but because she loved her son dearly and wanted nothing more than for him to be happy.

And happy he was, happier these last few weeks than Sarnai had ever seen him before. Ever since his return from the Brotherhood monastery, Rain seemed like a changed man, a cheerier, more upbeat version of himself that had confidence and optimism in spades. She hardly recognized him when he appeared out of the skies with Taduk and Mentor, wholly recovered from whatever ailed him and kept him from expressing himself in full. With his recovery, his sheepish demeanour had all but disappeared as he ordered every Cloud-Stepping capable Expert ready to set out within half an hour in order to support the Central Citadel. No longer did he offer opinions to his more experienced advisors, for this was a Legate here to take command, and command he did. Even Sarnai’s wooden-headed husband noticed the change, for little Rain had become a leader in truth, no longer simply carrying the mantle of Legate, but wearing it well like a Warrior born.

It wasn’t just his attitude that’d changed either, as evidenced by his lean, yet strapping shirtless frame which poor Luo-Luo had trouble tearing her eyes away from. Years of living with Charok had done little to undo the effects of early malnutrition, and while he’d always been a handsome boy, his gaunt and sometimes skeletal frame always made him look several years younger than he truly was. Now however, he had finally fattened up and looked his age, with firm but supple muscles and an abdomen you could wash laundry on. That was something Yan and Mila had giggled about while whispering in corners that were not as isolated as they believed, so vocal with their appreciation that Sarnai was glad her son had learned to put up Concealment and Sound Barriers before returning to the household, as otherwise it would have made for many awkward mornings after long, sleepless nights spent listening to all of their bedroom antics.

Oh the scandal it would cause if the world knew young Rain bedded both his wives at the same time, not just once, but every night since his return. At least he had the good sense to spend these last few nights alone in order to rest up in anticipation for his wedding night with Lin-Lin, and Sarnai was sure he would need it.

With her husband here to take charge, Sarnai left him to sort out the rest of the details regarding their son’s safety and spent the rest of the day in her family’s company. It was a real delight watching Rain cajole Rakky out of the tub with cheek and belly rubs so he could bathe the bears and bunnies in turn, especially since the big tiger repeatedly insisted on being washed and groomed despite having already bathed several times today. This most murderous of floofs had seemingly been tamed and domesticated by Rain and his persistent efforts, though Sarnai still feared for poor George and his silly little rabbit life.

And just like that, she spent the rest of the day in the quiet company of her loved ones until dinner, after which Rain and Lin-Lin retired to their respective rooms early for a good night’s rest. If left to their own devices, the bride and groom were both liable to sleep through the entire morning’s festivities, so Sarnai made sure to wake early so she could help them both get ready. Upon running into Yan and Li-Li in the hallway, she discovered that they both had the same idea and was gratified for the help, sending Li-Li off to wake Rain while accompanying Yan to tackle the more troublesome of the duo to boot.

“Five more minutes,” sweet Lin-Lin groaned, slipping her head under her pillow and pressing down on both ends, her desperate, last ditch effort to secure more precious seconds of sleep. Even the excitement of her wedding day wasn’t enough to entice her out of bed, for if she were to have her own way about it, she would only show up for the ceremony itself before leaving with her newlywed husband in tow. Not the worst way to go about things, as these Central wedding customs were far too involved and convoluted for Sarnai’s tastes, but as Legate, Rain’s wedding was about more than just him and his bride. This was a day of celebration after many months of doom and gloom hanging overhead, a sombre cloak even the stunning victory over Bai Qi had been unable to wholly dispel.

“Come now, Lin-Lin,” Yan began, while Sarnai inwardly resisted the urge to simply rip away the covers and slap the girl’s bottom until it was red. This was to be Lin-Lin’s most joyous of days after all, so some allowance had to be made, but there was a limit to Sarnai’s patience. “You need to get up and eat breakfast,” Yan continued, her tone taking on a devilish cast, “Else you won’t have strength to last until night. Believe me, you’ll need it.”

Wicked little girl to tease her sister wife so, especially one as innocent as Lin-Lin who didn’t even catch the innuendo. A pitiful groan emerged from under the covers, and after a few seconds of silence, the darling girl threw off her pillow and begrudgingly pushed herself up into a seated position, her head bowed and back slouched in a caricature of pure exhaustion that adorable Blackjack mimicked from his place perched between her ears. “It’s too early,” the girl complained, looking out the window and seeing nothing besides the early morning gloom. “Even the birds aren’t awake yet...”

She wasn’t wrong, but such was the price one paid to marry Legate Falling Rain. Suppressing the urge to grin that came alongside an eruption of pride, Sarnai palmed Lin-Lin’s adorably pliable cheeks and kissed her sweetly on the forehead. “It’s only for today, silly girl, so put away that pitiful expression. In a few hours, you will finally marry your sweetheart and make him your hubby in truth, so a pout is hardly a fitting way to greet the morning, yes?”

Beaming prettily at the reminder, Lin-Lin rubbed the sleep out of her eyes and yawned ever so neatly, her lithe, diminutive figure so dainty and delicate unlike Sarnai’s own. Squeezing her tight with all her might, Lin-Lin hugged Yan in turn before bouncing out of bed with her customary liveliness. “Okay then. Let’s. Go. Get. Marrieedddddd!”

Chuckling at how quickly the girl changed tack, Sarnai snagged Lin-Lin’s collar and gently pulled her back. “You can hardly go out and let your dear hubby see you like this, especially today of all days. Come, let us brush your hair and wash your face at least.” Even having just woken up with her hair all tangled and tousled, Lin-Lin’s wide eyes and rounded cheeks made for a fair and enchanting sight, but that didn’t mean no improvements could be made. With Yan’s help, Sarnai seated Lin-Lin down in front of her make-up desk and set to work, the surface and mirror both sparkling clean from complete and utter lack of use. That would change soon enough, as Luo-Luo had an entire team of stylists and make-up artists coming within the hour to help Lin-Lin prepare for the day, but thus far, they’d managed to keep all of this a secret from the famously impatient girl.

