And she was right, for when Rain raised his head again, his voice burned with steely determination and righteous fury. “These are but a fraction of the good men and women lost to the Enemy since the Western Province fell, and I intend to see every last name inscribed somewhere along the Wall, so that they will not be forgotten until long after I have taken my last breath. That is the least I can do for these heroes of the Empire, for it is only through their efforts that we still stand here today.” Pausing for effect, he then switched tack and said, “However, it would be remiss to not honour the efforts of those who still live, and as such, I ask that you all bear with my long-winded mannerisms for a little while longer.” A chorus of laughs sounded in the wake of his self-deprecating joke, and even Sarnai could not help but smile as Rain called upon the Commander General to receive his accolades.

A good move by the boy, reminding the entire Citadel that even though Shuai Jiao was the older of the two, in the end, he answered to Rain and Rain alone.

There were a fair number of awards to dole out, but Rain progressed through them quickly enough, the most prominent of which was promoting the Sword King’s widow to the rank of Lieutenant General while stating that he had already sent in an appeal to the Emperor requesting He grant her the rank of Colonel General. Again, the ceremony dragged on, and even Sarnai thought he was going overboard with the addition of Dame Cixi and her comrades from the Spring and Autumn Consortium. Calling them up one by one, Rain spoke a few words about their good work in reinforcing and rebuilding the Citadel, and named the four harbour towers in their honour as the four seasons fortifications. A minor reward all things considered, but for some reason, these Central people put great stock in their poetic names and other such malarkey, so they were all suitably impressed.

“Lastly,” Rain concluded, unable to contain the weariness in his tone, yet still brimming with pride and enthusiasm, “I would like to call upon Eccentric Gam to the stage.” Odd to wait so long to call upon the half-fox, especially in light of his pivotal role saving Jeong Hyo-Lynn and Shuai Jiao from the Enemy, but the boy was always one to play by his own rules. Shabbily dressed as if he didn’t expect to be called, the aged Warrior stood awkwardly at attention while Rain went over his accomplishments during the siege while placing emphasis on his lack of military title. “However, brave and heroic as his efforts might be, I have yet to touch upon what I believe is his greatest contribution of all.” Grinning as he ran his gaze across the crowd, Rain looked the Eccentric in the eyes and said, “Difficult to imagine a deed more auspicious than saving our Commander General and the newest Lieutenant General of Central, but I believe it is only right.” Gesturing at the basin around him, Rain continued, “For without this man’s efforts, none of this construction would have been completed in time for this joyous occasion. Not the moat, the bridge, the docks, or the sluice gates, all of these defences are only in place thanks to Eccentric Gam’s efforts and his Blessing of Earth, which he put to good use in helping lay the foundation of this most critical of fortifications. As thanks for all your efforts and achievements, I, Legate Falling Rain do so appoint you as an Exarch of the Empire. Stand proud, Exarch Gam, and be known as ‘Eccentric’ no longer, for a man of your stature deserves far more respect and recognition than that.”

A political move, honouring the aged half-fox above all others and making mention of his laborious efforts. Normally, such mundane efforts would be seen as beneath the dignity of lofty Martial Warriors, and while Gam’s contributions were no real secret, most gave face by ignoring them. However, now Rain was flipping everything on its head once again and claiming that they should honour and respect Gam for his work, a move which would prove unpopular with the noble elite, but had won the approval of the common masses if the thunderous applause was anything to go by. These men and women were the salt of the earth, and they wholeheartedly venerated Gam as one of their own, a Martial Warrior who was not above getting his hands dirty and doing the work which needed to be done. In fact, as Sarnai studied the crowd in detail, she realized it wasn’t just the commoners who cheered for Gam, but many of the younger Martial Warriors as well, including some youths who’d only a few months ago laughed and made jokes at her crippled son’s expense.

From laughing stock to venerated hero, that was how far Rain had risen in their eyes, and they cheered for Gam because Rain believed the man worthy of their admiration. Slowly but surely, Rain was bringing change to the Empire one heart at a time, and Sarnai only wished she would live long enough to see all his efforts bear fruit.

Now was not the time for maudlin thoughts about mortality however, so she swallowed her shame and took her husband’s hand in her own, caring not what others might think. All that mattered was to see his beautiful smile directed her way, and as she stood there and watched their son lead the next generation in the future, Sarnai looked forward to what would come next. For this coming event was a tradition of the People that they’d brought to Central, namely the feats of strength in which Rain would prove himself worthy of Mei Lin’s hand in marriage. During his previous two weddings, Rain had been crippled and unable to showcase the full extent of his capabilities, and while he made the best of his situation, she hoped today would remove any and all doubts as to his Martial strength in a most spectacular fashion.

Ryo Da’in, Ishin Ken Shibu, Lu Jia Zian, and various other young talents of the Empire were no match for Rain anymore, so who would step forward to challenge him? Sarnai was not sure what the boy had arranged, but he’d promised it would be a show to remember, and she intended to hold him to his word.

Even if it meant going out to fight him herself.

Chapter Meme
