Sarnai was running herself ragged preparing for her son’s third wedding, an experience which could only be described as a nightmare.

Though Luo-Luo took on the lion’s share of the work regarding the finer points of the joyous event, Sarnai was left to account for all the important details the silly girl overlooked, namely security and crowd control. Given Rain’s recent accomplishments, his rivals and enemies would be fools to pass up this golden opportunity to take his life, especially considering they’d publicized his schedule for the big day beforehand in order to gather a larger crowd. Missing the forest for the trees is how the boy would describe Luo-Luo’s actions, so focused on using the wedding to raise morale that she overlooked how devastating it would be if the inhabitants of the recently ravaged and rebuilt Central Citadel were to bear witness to the public murder of their hero and saviour, Falling Rain.

Oh how Sarnai loved to hear others praising her son in the streets, which only made it all the more vital to guard him well. Muttering a small prayer asking the Mother above to watch over him in these trying times, Sarnai went back to work ensuring her son’s defenders were well prepared to keep him safe on his wedding day. Her Disciple Rustram was in charge of more earthly affairs, mostly making sure the crowds didn’t get too unruly and injure themselves in the excitement, while Naaran handled matters pertaining to Peak Experts and their ilk with help from Binesi and Major General Inthavong. Those last two were a welcome addition to Rain’s growing collection of loyal military supporters, with die-hard veterans flocking to his banner and truly accepting Sarnai’s son as their superior and commander. Brigadier Hagane might have also joined their ranks, but the Central-born Warrior died holding back the Defiled tide here in this very Citadel, and Rain had yet to find a replacement advisor for his War Council.

No simple feat, as so many Imperial heroes died during Bai Qi’s siege, it was a damned miracle the Citadel was still standing when Rain arrived with reinforcements, and another when he seized victory from the jaws of defeat.

As such, no harm could come to him, and Sarnai worked tirelessly to make it so. Most of her work came from guarding from within, for the servants of the Imperial Clan could not be wholly trusted. Though the Death Corps and Royal Guardians would most certainly act to defend Rain’s life in public, neither group cared enough to coordinate efforts with the People or the Imperial Army. It wasn’t necessarily a nefarious scheme on their part, as it might well simply be a matter of pride, with the Eastern Warriors seeing Rain as an Imperial Scion first before anything else, and as such, believing it fell to them and them alone to protect him from any and all threats. The Death Corps in particular had become much more peculiar about their duties and jealously safeguarded Rain from all others, but the boy hardly even noticed given how little he paid attention to his own safety in recent days.

Such was the price of hubris, though Rain could hardly be blamed for taking pride in his unheard of accomplishments, having progressed from shattered Core to Peak Expert and possibly even half-step Divinity within a matter of months, all at the tender age of twenty-two years young.

Though Luo-Luo considered Rain’s festive welcome to the Citadel as a grand success, Sarnai arrived at a different conclusion upon seeing how excited and hysterical the crowd grew once they laid eyes on their Legate in the flesh. Some shouted, others screamed, while all pushed and jostled to get close enough to touch him. Were it not for the ever vigilant Death Corps Guards brandishing their fearsome polearms and the Royal Guardians mounted atop their fearsome lions, the crowd might well have started fighting in the streets for the dubious honour of kissing Rain’s boots. Worse was how he indulged them and approached the crowd of his own volition, walking right past his guards to shake hands or chat with complete strangers without thinking twice. There was a time when the boy would have exhausted all his efforts scanning the crowd in search of disguised assassins, while worrying if there were Wraiths hiding in the shadows and around every blind corner. Now he’d progressed to the opposite extreme, entirely unconcerned with his own safety and taking risk after risk without thinking. Though she warned him many times to keep his distance during his parade through the streets, the boy assured her that nothing would go wrong, a prediction that ultimately proved correct, to her complete and utter surprise.

Then again, the assassins might well have been holding back and waiting to see if Rain’s foolhardy antics were a well disguised trap, but they might not be so cautious the next time around. Thankfully, in the days after arriving at the Central Citadel, the boy was content to stay home for the most part unless his duties demanded otherwise. This afforded Spymaster MuYang the much needed time to vet the Citadel’s visitors as best he could without having to worry too much about Rain’s safety, given how his manor was the safest area within a hundred kilometres bar none, including the Bulwark itself. Not only were the Death Corps, Royal Guardians, Aspirants, and Sentinels guarding the area in full force, Sarnai’s Mentor Hua Lie was there to keep little Lin-Lin safe, which meant nothing short of an attack from another Divinity could threaten the soon-to-be married couple.

Granted, if such an attack were to happen, then there was nothing even Hua Lie could do to save them, but the Ancestral Rabbit assured Sarnai that their deaths would not go unavenged, a sentiment which was worth less than the silly woman believed. Though the Treaty was mostly a farce, it was still enough to keep those peak existences from destroying civilization as they knew it, which would be humanity’s fate should it ever come to open warfare between Divinities.

With her family’s safety at stake, Sarnai enjoyed precious few minutes of sleep in the days leading up to the wedding, but what irked her the most was how indifferent to matters both Rain and Lin-Lin appeared to be. Neither one cared about the wedding itself, so long as they were wed, and were it up to them, they would have said their vows in front of family and called it a day from there, but Luo-Luo insisted that this public spectacle was sorely needed as it would give the Empire a reason to celebrate and make merry during these woefully uncertain times. The girl wasn’t wrong, but as stated, Sarnai had her reservations regarding the public nature of this joyous event, all of which had been overruled because Rain felt it would be fine. “I cannot live in fear just because the Enemy might make an attempt on my life,” the boy had said, waving away all of Sarnai’s concerns without even thinking it through. “If they come, then so be it, but I’ll not delay the wedding any further.” Flashing the smile which won him the love of so many women, her son added, “I’d rather face a thousand Wraiths than risk Lin-Lin’s wrath.”

A wise sentiment indeed. Though the sweet girl was cheery and delightful by nature, she had a penchant for devilish mischief in her younger days that never quite went away. Before Rain’s arrival in the village, there’d been an outbreak of pranks and tomfoolery within the village that had ostensibly never been solved. Mostly harmless capers like bedding doused in itching powder or clothes going missing while people were bathing and the like, but while the culprit responsible had never been caught and the incidents died out before escalating, Sarnai eventually learned that young Lin-Lin had been behind all the mischief, with help from the overly doting Hua Lie who wanted so desperately to be the young girl’s mother.

The poor, foolish woman. Though Hua Lie cared more for her natural-born children than most Ancestral Beasts, her love and affection for them could only be described as lacking at best. While her children were not killed out of hand and instead raised in happy homes either in the village or out in the world with the fathers, that was about the extent of Hua Lie’s maternal actions. The most promising of those half-rabbits were even taken in as Hua Lie’s Disciples, but Sarnai wondered how her senior sisters must feel seeing their indifferent Mentor and absentee mother dote over a child who wasn’t even hers. Hua Lie’s reasoning for doing so wasn’t even sound, for she’d grown enamoured with Taduk for biological reasons more than anything else, desperately wanting to have a child by him that would not, in her eyes, be born a weakling and failure. Despite seeing so many of her half-rabbit children grow up to become happy and productive members of society, the poor, stupid Ancestral Rabbit was unable to escape her instincts which demanded that she bear strong offspring who could carry on her powerful bloodline. It was an obsession with her, one that struck her harder than most Ancestral Beasts, likely due to her rabbit nature, but this was all based on mere speculation. In all the years Sarnai had known her Mentor, Hua Lie had never once taken a lover, as she was firmly fixated on the Medical Saint and no one else.

Which made it all the more heartbreaking when Taduk disappeared for the better part of a decade before returning with the three-year-old Mei Lin in tow, an adorably darling reminder of the Medical Saint’s lacking affection for poor Hua Lie.

In truth, Sarnai had expected a bloodbath to ensue in the wake of Taduk’s ‘infidelity’, but things were not as they seemed and her Mentor recovered admirably from the shock. Once matters were made clear, Hua Lie’s idiot rabbit logic told her that if she were to become Mei Lin’s mother, then Taduk would have no choice but to take her as his wife, a backwards and incomprehensible rationale if there ever was one, but the sweet girl took to Hua Lie like a duck to water. It wasn’t until Mei Lin was older that she realized her “mother’s” affection was based upon ulterior motives, a realization the idiot Hua Lie had openly admitted once she thought the girl was old enough to understand. Even after spending hundreds, if not thousands of years among humans and the People, Hua Lie still didn’t entirely understand mortals and their ilk, mistakenly believing that a twelve year old girl would understand the complex affairs of adults just because she’d had her first flowering.

Then again, in Sarnai’s Mentor’s defence, that was the way it was with beasts, and most of Hua Lie’s “common sense” was based upon her own personal instincts. Those served her well enough in the countless battles she’d experienced throughout her journey from newly ascended Ancestral Beast to the peak of the Martial Path, but they proved a massive hindrance in matters of love and family. At least sweet Lin-Lin was not so cold as to cut off her self-appointed mother entirely and even personally invited Hua Lie to the ceremony, even if she was against the marriage in the first place. There were many concerns, mostly to do with Rain’s short life span in comparison to Lin-Lin’s, concerns Sarnai also shared, but children rarely ever cared to learn from their parent’s mistakes.

The day before the wedding itself, she took time off from her busy work to welcome her beloved family as they arrived at the Citadel, with Mila, Yan, Li-Li, and Lin-Lin in tow. Studying her daughter-in-laws as they waited, Sarnai wondered how the dilemma appeared from their long-lived perspective, and if they too would regret marrying a human in the centuries to come. Her dog-brained husband insisted she was still as beautiful as the day they married, despite all evidence to the contrary, but even if he meant his words with all his heart, how long could his love sustain him after she was dead and gone?

“What is the matter, my love?” Observant as always, Baatar caught onto her mood as he leapt off his crazed quin Balor and fell into a state of hyper-aggressive vigilance, his martial minded dog-brain expecting her to be under some sort of duress. Thankfully, she expected as much and tugged his sleeve hard enough to stop him in place before he could assault some random bystander who he thought looked suspicious.

“Nothing, you fool,” she Sent, sparing him a little face on account of how handsome and heroic he appeared, a mirror image of the strapping young Warrior she’d married all those years ago. “I missed you is all.”

“And I you, my rose.” Taking after their son’s shameless habits, Sarnai’s husband reached out to stroke her cheek in full view of the crowd around them, one which had gathered to welcome their Legate’s bride and family. Sarnai could almost feel the horrified eyes staring at this mismatched pair, the flirting antics of a handsome hero and aged crone enough to turn anyone’s stomach, but she couldn’t bring herself to slap his hand away. Though she’d been separated from him before, she’d never gotten used to his absence, and after so many decades of marriage, she loved him more now than ever before.

