He had done something similar to this when he had been determined to end the Aspect Cascade. Back then he had poured his mana into a weapon he had designed to destroy the very essence of a soul.

What he wanted to do now would be far more difficult.

Wyldfire burned and accumulated within his fist until it had formed a hilt, and that hilt alone was made of almost as much mana as he had expended creating the truebridge between Utelia and the era of the Bitter Path.

He was sweating now. His barriers and the fact that this was his own mana protected him from the worst of the heat, but though the construct was small, the sheer density of mana he harnessed now bent the rules of magic itself all around it. The shaft for a blade slowly began to form above the hilt, his flames climbing higher and higher along its length.

It wasn't enough. Not yet.

The last time he had performed magic of this caliber, though he didn't really think of it was magic, was when he had taken the name Yggdrasil's End. He had forced out every scrap of mana available to him and poured it into an axe designed to tear down the very foundation of the realms themselves. He remembered the way his core had screamed at him, even as he forced himself to slow down, to minimize the damage he was doing. He remembered the way it felt afterward, empty and achingly dry, like a hole had been torn open within him.

While Cale did not intend to do something as drastic as shattering the Great Realms, he did need magic of a similar tier, for what he wanted to do was almost as difficult.

He wanted to break one of the ironclad rules of the Great Realms, and he wanted to do so without causing undue harm and damage. That required enough mana to permanently warp the way magic functioned within Astiviya's domain. It required a level of precision and concentration he had never employed before.

The Gift flickered in front of him as his sword began to form.

Warning, it said. Mana levels are unsustainable for tethering with the Gift. Continued exposure will temporarily sever your soul from the Gift.

Cale winced. Bad timing for the warning, though he appreciated it. "I thought you made use of any excess mana I produce," he said. "You can't do that here?"

The Gift is currently under heavy load from the excess mana produced by your [Sourcefire] evolution.

That made sense. He sighed, hesitating for just a moment. "Well, I can't exactly stop what I'm doing... how long will this last?"

A new tether will take approximately one week to construct, given the current state of your soul.

Cale relaxed at that. One week wasn't too bad. There were magics that Cale had been looking forward to learning in the next week, but in the grand scheme of things, how much time was that, really?

Warning—

"I know," Cale said. "It's fine. I can survive for a week without spells. I've done it before."

Learned spell constructs have been attached to your soul. You will retain access to them. You will be unable to evolve new spells or access unique insights while the Gift is untethered.

Oh. That was a lot better than he'd been thinking. "I get it," he said. "It's fine. Thank you for all your work, Gift. I look forward to seeing you again."

As do I, Cale Cadwell Cobbs.

Magic continued to gather in his hand. The blade he held now was only half-formed, but it pulsed with immeasurable power; around him, the white, endless void almost seemed to dim in comparison to the blazing nexus of mana he held. Still he added more and more of his magic to the construct, creating a blade that would never see a name from the Gift.

He'd just have to name it himself, then. Perhaps something like... Rulebreaker.

After all, if his power could shake the chains that bound even the gods, then perhaps the right expression of that power—the right symbolic understanding—could break them.

By the time he had finished forming the blade, Astiviya's divine domain seemed almost like it had thinned. Through the void Cale thought he could see a glimmer of the Abyss itself, though it was hard to see past the blazing sword he was holding. His arm ached fiercely, and while his mana channels were not quite empty, he had exhausted himself greatly. He needed to do this quickly, before he collapsed.

Cale turned Rulebreaker over, grasped the hilt with both hands, and thrust it into the ground beneath him.

A single line of wyldfire shot from his blade, across the void, and into the chasm that represented Astiviya. Cale swayed on his feet as the fire went out—he had just enough strength left to yank Rulebreaker free, tug on the tether around his waist, and feel Icon begin to pull him back into Utelia.

Perhaps it was a hallucination, but strangely enough, in the moments before he left, he thought he heard something. That he might have caught a glimpse of something within that chasm. A scream that spoke of anger and frustration, of plans foiled—Cale had heard that particular scream so many times he knew exactly what it sounded like—and a glimpse of something red shooting out of the fissure, trying to escape his wyldfire.

It did not escape his wyldfire.

That was good. Even his hallucinations knew not to provoke his wrath.

By the time Icon pulled him out entirely, he had slipped off into what he would later insist was a nap, and absolutely not unconsciousness.
