I am well aware of how strange it is to take pride in my dog’s antics, but he’s my sweet, furry son. A stupid, lazy, gluttonous son who I’ll have to look after for the entirety of his existence, but that’s part of what makes him so precious. He’s my fur baby, and he will always be my fur baby, one who loves me for no reason other than just because, and the same is true in reverse. Ours is a bond that transcends time and space, a miracle unlike anything else I have ever seen, but even without that, I would love him simply because he’s my dog. While his shenanigans today might’ve given me a big headache, I also find it highly amusing, mostly because of the novelty. It’s not like him to cause so much trouble, since he’d much rather spend his days trotting around at my heels or napping somewhere warm, safe, and full of friends. I get why he stole the Spiritual Berries, but what about the Heart and other Plants? If all he wanted to do was play tug of war, Mila was right there and would’ve gone all out to get her crafting material back. As for digging up Taddy’s garden, Buddy went and stole a bunch of Plants he doesn’t usually eat, like dandelions and spinach. Maybe he picked up the hoarding itch, or maybe he’s bored and looking for attention, or it could also be some other twisted doggy logic driving his actions. Regardless of the reasons, I find it hilarious and endearing, albeit also a little worrying since he’s still hiding from my senses and ignoring all my Sendings. Much as I’d like to be out there looking for him again, I’m pretty sure he’ll come home when he’s hungry, and if there’s one thing I know about Buddy, it’s that he’s always hungry.

Seriously. I’ve seen him eat until he barfed, and then I had to stop him from eating the vomit. Adorable little idiot is what he is, and I love him with all my heart.

It doesn’t take long to go through his antics, as everything I know is second hand. “Sounds like Buddy had a busy day,” Lin-Lin says, holding still as I secure her braided crown in place with a set of jade hairpins. “What about you though? What’d you do in between following Buddy around?”

Because it would hardly take all day to stop off at four places in the village. “Well, uhh, I may have gotten sidetracked a few times by Yan, Mila, and Luo-Luo. I think Li-Li might’ve picked up on that fact and gave me a break, but I still owe her my after-dinner time-slot.”

“Guess Buddy wasn’t the only busy one today.”

My wifey smiles to show she’s only teasing, and I give her a big kiss on the cheek before lifting her up in my arms. “What can I say?” Unable to even pretend to be sorry, I shrug and smile before letting it fade. “It wasn’t all fun and games though. Came face to face with a few prickly issues.”

“Like what?”

Shrugging a second time, I use my Plated Domain to open the door and carry my wifey back to her room. One she never uses to sleep in, but rather as a giant closet for all her clothes, jewelry, shoes, and accessories. While not even the slightest bit materialistic, people keep giving us gifts so every one of us has built up quite the collection of bits and bobs. The inside of her room is kept spotless, with everything in its proper place thanks to Luo-Luo’s Imperial Servants, who keep meticulous records as to who gifted what and when those gifts were last displayed so we can bring them out for big events and show our appreciation. Annoying is what it is, but since today is for friends and family only, Lin-Lin can pick out whatever she wants to wear. While she does that, I narrate my day’s trials and tribulations, starting with little Tate’s ambush in the courtyard.

“Tate’s determined to leave with the next batch of Sentinels.” Ride off to war. A slow and sedate war of raiding Defiled tribesmen and guerrilla insurgents, but a war nonetheless. “Which means Alsantset will leave with him. Seeing how it’s been years since she’s been in a real fight, I couldn’t help giving her a little test to see how far she’d progressed, and… well, it’s not great.” I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t worried, and not just about invaders and rebels. My sister and nephew are prime targets for my enemies, of which there are too many to keep track of. Despite lying low and doing my best to distance myself from politics, being the sole True Human Divinity isn’t all roses and sunshine. Everyone believes might makes right, and since I have the biggest fist, it means people will see me as an obstacle or a leg to cling to. I’ve got politicians claiming to champion issues on my behalf because I made some pithy comment many years ago, while others work against me because they think I’m somehow holding their efforts back.

Worst of all are those who treat my suggestions like commands for fear of inciting my wrath. Not because of the effect it has on them, but because of how it affects me. It’d be so easy to throw my weight around and get people to do things my way. Too easy, in fact, which is why I cannot go down that path. I won’t allow myself to become a tyrant. Might does not make right, and to prove it, I need to do more than talk the talk. I need to walk the walk. That’s why I’ve distanced myself from the Empire in general and hidden myself away in the village, only working through intermediaries and shell companies so no one knows it’s me behind all the little projects I’ve got going on. The big stuff is difficult to hide, like the schools and roads, but I’ve got plenty of fingers in plenty of pies. Playwrights and acting troupes to spread modern concepts like worker’s unions and minimum wages, poets and philosophers preaching about the burdens of honour and obligation as well as the equality of man, scholars collating information on seasonal changes, crop yields, and other various data to help us better understand the world we live in. I have a company of wandering salesmen who hawk household goods to small villages and share news of the world at large, and another that delivers mail for a few coppers so folks can keep in touch, as well as a thousand other ventures varying in scale.

All of which have run into a whole lot of obstacles they could easily clear away by simply dropping my name, save for the fact that almost no one even knows I’m involved. It’s the right way to go about it, even if it is slow going.

And expensive. Not to mention frustrating. Why are people so resistant to change, even when it’ll clearly improve their lives?

Uncharacteristically silent for once, Lin-Lin holds up two dresses and I point at the sleeveless one on the left, mostly because it’s dark blue with white lace and I love how the colours look against her honeyed skin. “I know Mom, Dad, and Akanai will watch over Alsantset and Tate,” I say, making my wifey’s arguments for her as I help her into the dress, which opens up like a robe and is a pain to keep unwrinkled. “And there’ll be plenty of friends and allies to keep them safe in the West, but still. I worry. It’s what I do. I just wish I could be there too.” Holding up my hands to forestall the obvious rebuttal, I concede, “I know, I know. That’d only make it worse, because if I show up, other Divinities will flock over to meet and study me, and we’ll draw Defiled Divinities over like flies to honey. It’s best if I stay here out of sight and out of mind, but it’s frustrating is all.”

It takes some doing to get the dress on right, as you gotta tug and smooth it out in all the right places to make sure there are no wrinkles. While pulling on the hem, I meet Lin-Lin’s eyes and make a face. “Then Alsantset hit me with ‘When are you gonna settle down and have kids?’ hammer again.” My wifey’s expression puckers to match my own, and we share a little laugh. “Yea. Don’t worry. I’m not ready to have kids yet either, but I may have partially blamed you and Luo-Luo, so prepare yourself for that.” That earns me a glower and a pinch, and I recoil in fear and remorse as expected before breaking out into a shared smile. “It’s weird right?” I continue, helping her into a massive embroidered silk sash, one long enough to wrap her from head to toe with room to spare. “I’m in my thirties now, so combined with my past life I probably have like sixty-some-odd years of experience, if not more, and I still don’t feel ready to be a dad. I don’t even feel like an adult. Then there’s all the political aspects to worry about, but I’m more worried about Luo-Luo. I know she wants children, and I don’t want to make the same mistake Dad did, leaving it too late.” To this day, Mom still complains about it, in a good-natured way, but I know she wishes she had kids earlier, if only so she could have more grandkids and even great-grandkids now.

It'll happen soon enough I guess. God, I still can’t wrap my head around sweet, adorable Tali getting ready to be married. Stupid Talbur and his good manners, easy humour, and handsome face. He better treat her right, because if he doesn’t, I’ll go dark side on his ass in a heartbeat.

…Okay, so maybe Lin-Lin’s right to be concerned about my moods.

Stopping my wifey in place, I smooth out the fabric before indicating she can go back to turning in place and winding the giant sash around her waist. It’s silly, but it’s also the easiest way to put it on without three people helping out. “It’s not like I don’t want kids,” I say with a sigh. “You know that, but it’s so complicated. With floofs, you just gotta feed them, love them, and keep them from peeing on the furniture. That’s it. Kids, you gotta teach them so much more than just potty training. And then there’s all the pressure of wanting your children to be successful. You know Zian was considering having his son go to school here? Little An Yang is barely ten, and his parents have their panties in a twist because he doesn’t have a Core yet. I get it. Until he turns twenty-five, his age group is his competition, so Creating a Core earlier means more time to progress in comparison, but he’s ten. The kid should be running around poking bugs and pulling pigtails, not Demonstrating the Forms and pursuing his Path day after day.”

Stifling a sigh, I tell Lin-Lin the rest of my gripes, even the parts I wasn’t going to bring up. Zian didn’t mean anything by it when he accused me of not doing everything I could for An Yang. He just wants what’s best for his son, which in his eyes means becoming a Martial Warrior. The problem is, little An Yang is better off remaining mortal than becoming a bottom of the barrel Martial Warrior, which is what he’d likely become if I helped him demarcate his body, mind, and soul from the Heavens. Sure, he’d be a Martial Warrior, but when it comes time to progress, how is he supposed to reconnect with the Heavens when the barrier between them is foreign and unfamiliar, instead of a divide he himself created with his first step along his Path?

You only need look at Luo-Luo’s lacking progress to understand the downsides of a false Core. Much like the Stormguard were helped through the process by yours truly, she was helped through Core Creation by her father. Unlike the Stormguard however, you cannot deny Luo-Luo’s training or brilliance, and yet in spite of her deep understanding of the Dao of Music, she has no earthly idea how to translate that understanding over to the Dao in its entirety and use it to progress her Path. The reason is simple. Luo-Luo connects to the Heavens through the medium of music because the divide separating her Self and the Heavens is too ineffable for her to understand. It wasn’t something she herself created, so unless she can learn to see the world from her father’s perspective, she must find a different way to progress along her Path. The fact that she was able to succeed speaks volumes to her phenomenal talents, but while she’s made more headway than anyone could ever expect, she is still far behind her peers, much less the top talents of our generation when it comes to utilizing her Path.

Not to be mean or anything, but it took her seven whole years to figure out Cloud-Stepping, while Mama Bun picked up the concept after a few months of lessons. The ‘Cloud’ part at least, which is why she just floats around on the invisible inflatable raft she conjures up with Plated Domain. She still hasn’t gotten the ‘Step’ part down, but she’s a bunny, so you can’t expect too too much.

The worst part is, An Yang is so close to success, but I’m afraid to say anything because I’m worried Zian and Jiang Fei will only push him harder. I felt the flow of Chi moving through little An Yang’s meridians, felt the blockages and redundancies too, so all he’s gotta do is figure out how to hold onto that flow and Create his Core. He doesn’t need more pressure. He’s got plenty of that from his too-talented sister, even without adding in his parents’ high expectations. What he needs is proper motivation and encouragement. There was a time he wanted this success for himself, but now he wants it for all the wrong reasons, and that wrong desire is what holds him back. He’d figure it out soon enough if given time and space to do so, and I tried to explain that with my whole spiel on meditation, but all Zian and Jiang Fei heard was ‘step back’ and they dismissed it out of hand. They’re worried their son isn’t progressing fast enough, so how can they be comfortable letting him take a step back?

