End of the day though, they’re his parents, and even though I think they’re going about it the wrong way, I can’t come out and say that. We all must walk our own Path, and An Yang’s parents are a part of his, so all I can do is try to nudge everyone in the right direction without overstepping my bounds. Then again, I could also be wrong, and the pressure from his parents might well push him to excel. I’ve learned a lot about the Path in the last ten years of study, but I’ve also uncovered more questions than ever before, so I can’t claim to have all the answers, or even enough to say I know more than most. All I can say is that I know how much I don’t know, which is about as definitive a statement as I can make with regards to the Dao.

Besides, I’m not even sure if Core Creation should be the first step anymore, but the alternative is a far more difficult Path, one I would never recommend to any except the most talented and devoted of individuals. To become One with the Heavens right off the bat isn’t something you can train for, and to do so before finding Oneness of Self and the World is difficult beyond comparison, because humans are too complicated for so broad and simplistic a perspective.

That’s neither here nor there though, as I can empathize with Zian’s concerns regarding An Yang’s lacking progress, because I share them. Not for my kids or my floofs, but for my wives and the rest of my family. Yan’s thrown everything she has into the school, not just because she wants to help children, but because she sees it as her way of continuing Grandpa Du’s legacy as a Great Teacher. I love that for her, except it feels like she’s abandoned her personal pursuit of the Dao to focus solely on teaching and nothing else, except there’s no need to abandon one for the other, as they’re one and the same. The Dao of Teaching is still a Dao, and you can learn a lot from it. Then there’s Mila, who’s making leaps and strides in subjects I barely even understand, but I can’t help but think she’s going about her Path the wrong way, or at least skipping over a few crucial steps before veering off in that direction. Her Runic language is incredible, there’s no denying that. It adds a whole new perspective on Chi skills, one that could easily translate into a brand-new school of thought on the Martial Path. Rather than focus on the foundation of how those Runes function however, she’s leaping ahead in an effort to put those Runes together and see what happens. It’s like trying to learn English from a single page of the newspaper. Rather than break it down into letters and syllables, Mila’s cutting out words from different articles and putting them together in hopes of creating new working sentences without understanding what the words themselves mean. It could work, but the chances of that happening aren’t great, and I don’t know how she should go about learning the Runic ‘alphabet’, or grammar or whatnot. I’ve already touched on Luo-Luo’s lacklustre progress, and as for Li-Li, she’s too focused on the ‘Martial’ part, when she should instead be turning her attention to the ‘Path’ and studying the more esoteric aspects of Chi and Domain. Problem is, she sees no value in anything that can’t be used in a fight, which narrows her perspective during a time when she should expand it instead, and no amount of badgering can convince her otherwise.

And that’s what’s got me all grim and gloomy. Today, I got a good look at how everyone is progressing, and I’m worried it won’t be enough to drive them all the way to the Peak and Divinity beyond it.

Which means there will likely come a day when I must bid them farewell.

A thought which terrifies me more than anything in the world. I would rather face a thousand Eternal Emperors at once than go a single day knowing I will never see one of my wives ever again.

To give me time to process all this, Lin-Lin stays silent while we pick out what shoes, jewellery, and accessories to wear, though her white silk scarf is really the only thing that she needs to complete the outfit. Then it’s my turn to get dressed, which is a whole lot easier, since it’s just a shirt, pants, and high-collar jacket. Underwear too, though I would much rather go without, and all properly worn, which makes it so much less comfortable. As she helps me with my jacket buttons, I find myself fixated on her fetching features and how much I’ve grown to love her, and with that comes the irrational wave of fear at the thought of one day losing her.

Because even Divinities can age and die. Just look at Guan Suo. He’s dead and gone, and Guai Guai is neither his reincarnation nor his transfiguration. Guai Guai is just a red panda like any other, one born out of Ping Ping’s love and memories of her oldest and dearest friend using the Heavenly Energy contained within his mortal flesh. Guai Guai is his own creature, a miracle of life, but no more Guan Suo than An Yang is Zian.

“Don’t do that hubby.” Tugging my collar tighter than necessary, Lin-Lin fixes the final button with a heated glower.

“Do what?”

“Look at me like you’ve already lost me.” Grabbing me by the chin, she pulls me down to look her in the eyes. “If you spend all our time together mourning the inevitable loss, what will you do after I’m gone?”

And there it is. Even Lin-Lin, in all her boundless optimism, cannot envision a future in which she ascends to True Divinity alongside me. The best we can hope for is a future in which we grow old together, one where my suspicions are proven wrong and I am not in fact eternal. That I will age and eventually die, whereupon my soul will then enter the cycle of reincarnation to begin anew. “That’s what I’m most worried about,” I confess, leaning in to touch my forehead to hers. “It’s stupid. Everyone has to deal with the inevitability of loss, and most do just fine, but I cannot envision a life without you, or Mila, Yan, Luo-Luo, and Li-Li.” Stopping for a chuckle, I shake my head without pulling away from Lin-Lin’s. “Or anyone for that matter. Just this morning, I told Alsantset ‘Eternity is a long time after all, and I’ll need my big sister to keep me honest.’ Because I do. I need her, and my parents, and so many other people, as I’d be lost without them.”

And then where’d I be? No better off than Ying Zheng.

There was a time when the Eternal Emperor was… not a good man, but a righteous and noble one. Or at least he adhered to noble ideals, like brotherhood, honour, and obligation, ideals he upheld with help from the good friends around him. Say what you will about all the war and bloodshed, but he didn’t start it, and he fought with zeal and determination for a righteous cause he wholeheartedly believed in. By uniting the provinces, he put an end to a tumultuous era and brought order to the Empire as we know it. As the First Emperor of the Azure Sea, he strove to better the lives of his subjects by tasking the families of his five most loyal subjects to enforce laws, oversee commerce, advance agricultural practices, and more. It’s clear he had good intentions, albeit poor execution, and he laid a sturdy foundation upon which a lasting peace could be built, a foundation we still make use of today. That wasn’t by accident, because I’ve seen his memories and traced his steps, so I know there was a time when he wanted nothing more than to do right by his subjects and see to it that none would suffer like he had.

Because when you break it all down, Ying Zheng took up arms for one reason and one reason only; to avenge the death of his mother whom he loved so dear.

And so a single mortal man embarked on a journey of a lifetime, overcoming foes and winning over allies until there was no one left to fight. Or at least, no one worth fighting. Then he put aside his sword and took up his crown with the same zeal and determination. That’s how it started at least, a mere hundred years in a lifetime spanning tens of thousands, so it’s hardly surprising that by the end of it all, he was barely recognizable anymore. I can pinpoint the exact moment in Ying Zheng’s life when it all went wrong though, the singular event which separates the man Ying Zheng was from the Eternal Emperor he became. It’s the moment when he lost his friends, the four brothers who he fought, bled, and celebrated alongside in almost every significant step of his Path thus far. More than his comrades, more than his family, more than his valued advisors, his brothers served as his moral compass and kept Ying Zheng firmly rooted on the righteous Path he set out on all those years ago. Sure, they made mistakes along the way, but you can hardly fault them for not knowing better, especially given their narrow perspectives. They did the best they could with the skills and information they had, and I doubt I could’ve done much better in their place.

Then Ying Zheng killed them all, and only then had he truly lost his way. With no one to talk to or tell him he was wrong, he continued down the wrong Path he’d committed himself to, one born of righteous intent and misguided ideals. Hubris led him to believe he alone had the answers to all of humanity’s woes, and thus the only person qualified to sit upon the throne. To make matters worse, I’m not sure this world would have been better off without him. Yea, he did a lot of fucked up shit over the millennia, but compare that to the bits and pieces of human history I remember from my past life and I’d say it’s pretty much par for the course, if not better. The human race is more than capable of the most horrific acts imaginable without much prompting, so you could even argue that the Eternal Emperor kept us more or less in line. While you could blame him for the lives lost due to an intentional lack of progress on his part, he didn’t keep the Empire stagnant with malice. In his eyes, progress begets change, change begets instability, instability begets chaos, and chaos begets death, so he thought he was doing the world a service.

It's like they say, everyone sees themselves as the hero of their own story, and the road to hell is paved with good intentions.

I’ve gone over all this many times before, and I lay out the broad strokes once again while Lin-Lin puts on her makeup and I round out the finishing touches on my hair. Then, unable to stop myself, I tell her my gravest concern which I’ve never dared give voice even inside my head, the idle thoughts of whispered temptation I try to shut down as soon as they start, yet keep cropping up all the same. “I’ve thought about it, you know? Continuing Ying Zheng’s research on the mind, body, and soul and figuring out how he captured souls.”

There is no look of horror from Lin-Lin, no display of shock, not even so much as a strange glance as she continues applying her makeup, adding a light touch of colour around her oh so lovely eyes. The lack of response emboldens me to push onwards, mostly because I need to get these thoughts off of my chest. “His methods were horrific and conclusions flawed, but the data from his experiments can still be used. In an ethical manner of course, or ethically as possible. Not sure how that works when it comes to capturing souls, and I haven’t given too much thought to it just yet, so I’d mostly be making it up as I go. The end goal would be worth it though. Think about it. He was able to secure a soul in the moment of death before it moved on to the cycle of reincarnation. While he abused that power for his own nefarious purposes, the possibilities are endless. Imagine being able to preserve the best and brightest humanity has to offer, so that they might continue their good work inside my Natal Palace long after their bodies and minds have failed them. It wouldn’t even have to be my Natal Palace necessarily, because you’ve been visiting as a complete soul for years now, so theoretically, all they need to do is love and trust another Divinity. From there, their only requirement is steady transfusions of Life Energy to remain functional, which I admit is tricky. I haven’t figured out if there’s a limit to the amount I can spare, but I haven’t run into one yet, or seen any downsides from doling it out. Even if I can’t keep a soul active for eternity, I could keep countless souls in stasis to preserve them until I figure out a method to resurrect them without resorting to body snatching. Sounds difficult I know, but we have evidence that it’s possible. Ping Ping created Guai Guai after all, and I made Buddy, so as long as we figure out the details and a way to power the whole thing without borrowing power from someone’s Ascension, then we’ll have unlocked the secrets to eternal life.”

