“Stop it.” Laughing as I gather her up in my arms, I hold her close and feel the weight of the world come off my shoulders. “Thank you,” I add, heaving a sigh of relief as I put her back down. “I needed that. A good grounding to keep my head out of…” My ass. “The clouds.” Taking a deep breath, I take her hand in my own and hold it tight. “You’re right. I’ve been sitting on my hands for too long now, just waiting for something to happen, when there’s so much I could do.” Like supporting my wives in their varying pursuits, however I can. I could also offer to look after An Yang for a week or two, see how he likes life here in the village and give him a break from his overbearing parents. Encourage my sister to train by asking for her advice. Help Taddy set up anti-doggy digging measures around his garden. Take notes and pour tea for Grandpa Du, work with Charok to build newer and better houses for the people of the village, help Naaran train the quin pups without ruining them with treats, and maybe even have a civil conversation with Gerel for once, one that doesn’t end in juvenile name-calling and macho posturing.

Aside from that last thing, it all sounds like fun, and there’s plenty more I could do even if I stay within the limits of the village surroundings. I got all the time in the world after all, so I might as well do something productive.

Just as I’m about to suggest we collect the others and head down for dinner, the Energy of the Heavens surges and drains away from the surroundings. Not just my surroundings, but from every direction all at once, a torrential metaphysical turbulence unlike anything I’ve ever felt before, even in Shi Bei with dozens of Divinities fighting on both sides. The hairs on my neck stand up straight as I move to defend us, but my reactions are slowed from years of idle indolence. A full quarter second passes before my Deployed Domain Materializes and stretches out to encompass the village in all its entirety, Stabilizing the laws of the material world and blunting the Destructive forces of any opposing Divinities. Cloud Stepping out the door, I stand in the sky and let my Aura billow out to every living being in range, assuring my allies and challenging my enemies in one fell swoop. Peace, Tranquility, and Unity appear at my sides, drawn through the Void as I make ready to defend my home from this unwarranted attack.

Could it be the former Emperor, Liang Wu Sheng? It’s possible he Ascended to True Divinity and believes himself my match, or perhaps my father-in-law, the former Legate and current Emperor Liang Wu Di is out of patience and believes it’s time to remove me from the board. Could also be some remnant countermeasure from Ying Zheng or Zhen Shi, a concentrated effort from various factions displeased by my existence, or one of a thousand other possibilities, but regardless of what I face here tonight, I will meet my foes head on and remind them of who I am. They will regret coming here to disturb my peace, for they have awoken the dra –

Oh wait. Hang on. False alarm.

The heady rush of adrenaline courses through my veins as I struggle to get my emotions back under control. It’s not rage or bloodlust which troubles me so, but shame and embarrassment, because I realized far too late that we are not, in fact, under attack. There are no enemy Divinities readying world-shattering strikes, no violation of the Treaty underway, not even a threat to be wary of. No, it’s something far more benign and recognizable, though in my defense, it’s been years dealt since I’ve seen this happen first-hand. The Energy of the Heavens are in turmoil because someone seeks to defy them in a much less nefarious manner than I originally suspected, one that is cause for celebration.

Someone is Ascending to Divinity nearby, which means it’s time for a show.

Gathering up my wives as quick as I can, I set off while crafting a Sending to every Peak Expert and Divinity within the village informing them of the news, though I suspect most have figured it out on their own. Several are even ahead of me, rushing over to catch the show in hopes of finding Insight and Inspiration, and I pray Grandpa Du is among those who succeed. I sense his familiar presence amongst the crowd, rushing over to satisfy his curiosity more than anything else, so I drop in to give him, Kyung, and Da’in a helping hand. Alsantset and Charok. Fung and Seoyoon. Zian and Jing Fei. Naaran, Ghurda, Dastan, Huushal, Wu Gam, Ravil, and more, I gather everyone up along the way and send them off while hanging back to pick up the stragglers. Even a single extra second might spell the difference between failure and success, so I take my time and make sure everyone gets there as quickly as they can before joining the audience myself.

The area is a familiar one, on a mountain path leading out of the village alongside an overhang where I’d often stop for one last look at the home I’d come to love so much. Whoever is Ascending is hidden underground, Concealed so well I can’t sense their presence, but the source of the turmoil is unmistakably here. This is where they Shattered the Void, broke the barrier between the physical world and the metaphysical, right here where the Energy of the Heavens surges into the ground. Though we cannot see the Ascender or the physical process of their transformation, the twists and turns of the turbulent currents of Heavenly Energy are more than enough to find Insight with. It’s less about the what and more about the how, though even I cannot claim to understand the workings of Heaven. The flow of Energy swells and spirals into a convolution of tangles and bends, currents which form Metaphysical Runes in accordance to the Ascender’s Will and Dao. A beast no doubt, as I would know if there was a person burrowed under this nearby mountain, but there is still much to be gleaned from the process. More if the Spiritual Beast Ascends to a Divine one instead of an Ancestral Beast, though it’s difficult to tell which way this one is going.

Please be a Divine Beast. A friendly, floofy one big enough to hug and cuddle, because why not?

A second passes, and I allow my mind to wander as I take it all in, focused more on the forest than the trees. See, most people wield the Energy of the Heavens as Chi, which is like going to the ocean and grabbing a bucket of water and bringing it home. As you progress, you build up enough strength to carry a bigger bucket and move water around in a faster and more efficient manner, until you become a Divinity and build a pipeline to tap directly into the source. As for me, I’d say it’s more along the lines of learning how to swim. I’m out there in the deep water at all times, which means it’s always readily available, but I need to be careful not to let the currents pull me under.

That’s a grossly oversimplified way of looking at it of course, but it works in most instances. Here and now, our Divinity-to-be is building their pipeline, and everyone is here to watch the construction process. Doing so will help folks like Grandpa Du and other Peak Experts on the precipice, while those still yet to reach the Peak can benefit from just feeling out the flows, but me? I’m at the big picture stage of my life. I don’t need to know how all the pieces come together to form that pipeline or the physical body. I need to know how those pieces were manufactured in the first place, or more specifically, how the process of Ascension is able to move the metaphysical weight of the Heavens to make all this possible in the first place.

Moving a little Heavenly Energy around is easy. Directing whole currents is another thing altogether, far beyond even me. I can flatten mountains if I put my mind to it, but so could Joe Schmoe if given a pickaxe, shovel, and an eternity. What I can’t do is convert energy into matter, or one element into another, or create a working physical vessel of flesh and blood out of thin air, all of which is taking place even as I speak. The process of Ascension is the engine which makes that possible, drawing so much Heavenly Energy that even a commoner can feel the flows, and it is that engine which I am interested in, one which could very well bring us into a new age of prosperity beyond even what I enjoyed in my past life.

Think about it. Limitless, free energy that you can convert into almost anything you can imagine. It’d be the start of a post-scarcity society, one in which wealth and resources mean nothing. Who cares how much gold you have when anyone can simply conjure up anything and everything they could ever need with merely a turn of the hand?

I hold this goal in mind as I immerse myself in the miracle of life and rebirth. Seconds pass in languid lethargy as I push my mind to its limits and study the intricate secrets of Creation unfolding before me. There’s so much to see, so much to learn from, yet I sense the process has stalled in some sense, having moved through less than one-one-thousandth of the way. The Energy of the Heavens continues converging around us, gathered by the aspiring Ascendant buried underground until the Void itself swells and bulges, threatening to burst at the metaphysical seams and spill out into reality and beyond it. During Ping Ping’s Ascension, I lacked the capability to sense the grand scale of things, and during my own and those Ascensions in Shi Bei, I was too distracted to notice, so it’s difficult to say with certainty if this is any different from before. It feels wrong though, because while some metaphysical stress is to be expected, I think I would’ve noticed if the Void was ready to bleed out into reality back in Shi Bei.

Then again, maybe this is happening because my wish is coming true and I’m about to welcome a new Divine Floof into the family. It’d make sense if they did things big, and I was much further behind when Ping Ping Ascended, so I probably just couldn’t sense it. Whatever. Mysterious Ascender, I only ask that whatever you are, please don’t be hard or scaly. We got two turtles already, and only one dog, so it’s only fair if you’re soft and furry. Hell, I’ll accept a bird even, though I’ve never met a bird that burrows underground.

My wistful musings and studious ruminations are interrupted by a booming, baying bark, and my stomach drops as I recognize the sound. There goes Buddy, the source of today’s woes, circling the eye of the confluence and barking at the crowd with fangs bared and hackles raised. Though cute as a button, he has a hefty pair of lungs on him, and a right proper bark to make up for his complete and utter lack of bite, but he gives it his all as he does his best to drive the onlookers away. “Buddy!” I hiss, feeling the blood drain from my face as I Cloud-Step over to grab my dog before he embarrasses me any further. “Shush. You’re interrupting everyone while they’re trying to find Insight.”

Of course, Buddy not only avoids my grab through some mysterious working of canine sorcery, he also continues to bark at the crowd while running away. Make no mistake, he’s a slippery little furball and cunning too, weaving in and out of the crowd to avoid getting caught while still Concealing his presence to make it even harder to track him as he evades capture. Not only am I being made to look the fool, but I can tell he’s not doing this for fun. I wouldn’t put it past him, as keep away is one of his favourite games, but his tail isn’t wagging and is tucked between his legs, and every time he looks back, I see the fear and concern in his big, brown eyes, so I stop chasing after him to take a deep breath. Then another, because god dammit is this aggravating. “I’m not angry Buddy,” I say, dropping down to one knee and patting the ground in front of me. “Come.”

It’s the tone and emotions more than the words that does the trick, and my heart almost breaks as Buddy pokes his head out from between the Old Wolf’s legs with a hangdog expression. “It’s okay, boy,” I say, putting on a happy face and patting the ground some more. “Come here. Come on. I’m not mad. You’re not in trouble. Be a good boy. Come.”

There’s only a moment of hesitance before Buddy decides it’s okay to trust me, and he comes trotting over with head up, mouth open, and brows furrowed in concern. A sight which puts a real smile on my face, because my goofy, derpy dog might not be handsome, but he sure is cute. “Good boy,” I exclaim, taking his little head gently in both hands and giving him a kiss on the nose, as well as all the scritches he can handle, but still his tail does not wag. “Yea, you’re a good boy.” Then, without warning, I lift him up into my arms and hold him close as he tries to wiggle free. “Easy boy,” I say, encasing him in softened bands of Plated Domain so he can struggle without hurting himself or escaping. “It’s okay.” It takes a few pats and kisses to calm him down, but he eventually settles into my arms with his chin on my shoulder after I turn so he can watch the Ascension. “Good boy,” I say, heaving a soft sigh of relief while massaging his head. “What’s got you all worked up today, huh?”

