Again, there’s no response from Lin-Lin while she applies her lipstick, as if I was just going on about the weather or our floofs, so I keep rambling on. “There’s a lot more I could be doing too. I thought about… well, lemme walk you through it from the start, because the concept is a little out there.” Maybe not crazier than storing souls for eventual rebirth, but still kinda really crazy. “So you know how I can’t easily create Natal Souls anymore, right? We figured it was on account of the whole unified mind-body-soul process I went through in order to Ascend to True Divinity. Much harder to sever off a portion of your soul when it’s part and parcel of the rest of you, and we couldn’t agree on an acceptable workaround.” Because most people balk at eating bits and pieces of my flesh infused with my Will and Soul, even the formerly Defiled members of the Brotherhood. Where’s their scientific curiosity? Sure, it takes a lot more effort to cut me, and a little longer to regenerate, but it’d be worth it for a direct pipeline to the Heavens. “So I’ve been thinking about how I could easily teach other people how to Impart and… it’s tricky.”

For starters, making Natal Souls isn’t easy to begin with, and making Balanced ones even harder. Or at least it is for most normal, well-adjusted people. Turns out, the brain tends to resist self-infliction of mental illnesses, even if said mental illness is mostly beneficial. Then there’s the fact that the person creating the Natal Soul needs to be willing to die in order to help their target connect with the Heavens, because if they’re not willing, then their Natal Soul will feel the same way, and then you’re at risk of making Zhen Shi vs Ying Zheng part two, electric boogaloo. There’s more to it, but long story short, the easiest way around all that is to start what is more or less a cult, one that reveres me and the people around me so the cult members can then sever their Natal Souls, who then willingly sacrifice themselves to help my wives and loved ones ascend to Divinity, True or otherwise. All in all, seems pretty harmless as far as cults go, but I don’t feel comfortable starting a religion based around me for testing purposes. I don’t even like interacting with groupies, so having a band of fanatics taking my word as gospel would be the worst.

And you know what the craziest part of all this is? Those are two of the more achievable ideas I’ve had percolating in the brain box for a while now. Wild right? Everything else I want to do like abolish slavery, establish workers rights, treat all equally under the rule of law, and make schooling mandatory for children all seems so far out of reach, or will come at a cost I’m unwilling to pay. One in blood, suffering, and despair, because the ruling elite of the Empire will never listen unless we speak in the only language they care to listen to. They believe might makes right, after all, so even though I am the man with the biggest fist, my opponents know I’m unwilling to use force, so they treat my words as empty air.

Infuriating is what it is, and it almost makes me want to rethink my position and lay the smackdown on some candy-ass jabronis. Almost.

At least Lin-Lin isn’t running for the hills after hearing my arguments on why I should not only start a cult, but be worshipped by said cult. Smacking her lips in that adorable way all women do to make sure their lipstick is on right, she looks left, then right for one last look at her makeup in the mirror before finally turning to face me. “Anything else?” She asks, her big, brown eyes so full of pure and honest curiosity as she tilts her head and waits patiently for me to continue without even a hint of judgment.

Which is not what I expected. “…Soul snatching and proselytizing isn’t enough?”

“I dunno hubby.” Moving to stand before me, she wraps her arms around my waist and rests her chin on chest, her bright gaze never once wavering as she melts into my embrace. “You tell me. You have any other thoughts weighing you down?”

“Plenty,” I reply with a half-hearted chuckle. “But I don’t think we have enough time before dinner to go through it all.”

“Then we’ll pick this conversation up afterwards,” she says, radiating love and affection without needing to resort to Aura. “Wanna hear my thoughts so far?”

“Yes, please.”

“I think they’re both interesting ideas which you should explore further.” Breaking out in a bright and beautiful grin, she waggles her eyebrows and asks, “Not what you were expecting, was it hubby?” I shake my head. Shaking her head in return, she continues, “You’re so silly sometimes. Why would you think I’d call you a monster just for brooding over an idea? Especially ones as big as rebirth or Impartation. They’re great ideas, though maybe you should reconsider your methods. For rebirth, I think it’s better to focus on figuring out how to harness enough Heavenly Energy and other stuff to create working bodies before you go collecting souls, ya?”

“That… makes perfect sense.” Would probably be the biggest hurdle too. Even as a True Divinity, there are limits to the amount of Heavenly Energy I can harness in one go, a limit that falls woefully short of the vast quantities involved in Ascension. For Buddy and Guai Guai, Ping Ping and I sorta siphoned off what we needed while Ascending to create their bodies, but even that much is several orders of magnitude more than what I can wield these days. Sure, basic Martial Warrior stuff is easy enough to pull off, because that’s just harnessing plain old natural forces. Creating bodies out of thin air is anything but natural, and given how the Heavens resists all things unnatural, it takes some work to get going. Believe you me, the metaphysical weight of the Heavens is not easy to push around, and while there are possible workarounds, Lin-Lin’s right. I should figure out the body part first before I go around collecting all the souls, as otherwise I’d be putting the cart before the horse.

And maybe I should look into how the mind fits into all this, since I’m pretty sure there’s more to it than the physical brain.

“And instead of a cult focused on you,” she continues, speaking over my internal monologue, “How about focusing more on the Dao? As in having people revere the Dao, and seek to spread it to all those who would listen. Like the Brotherhood, but more social. Then you’ll have people who wholeheartedly believe in the Dao who can Impart to anyone, rather than just you and the people you love. Would keep certain people from getting all twisted up about the ‘power-base’ you’re building up here.”

“Yea, that’s just so much better.” Ethically, morally, and just generally all around. Would still run into the same problems later on down the road, wherein a foundation built on Impartation is shakier than one built by someone who knows what they’re doing, but with more Martial Warriors and Divinities, there’ll be more minds to put together to come up with a solution. Quantity has a quality of its own, after all. Giving my sweet wifey a smile, I say, “I always knew you were smart, but when did you get so devious? Look at you, considering the political angles and working out a diplomatic response.”

“Have to.” Shrugging, she leaves the rest unsaid and lays no blame at my feet.

She should, considering it’s my fault. “Sorry wifey.” Touching my nose to hers, I resist the urge to kiss her lest I end up wearing her lipstick to dinner. “It’s only for a little longer. Eventually, they’ll stop looking at our every move through a political lens. They only do it because they think I aspire to become Emperor, or wholeheartedly believe I should, which is ridiculous. If I wanted the throne, I’d have taken it ten years ago, and they wouldn’t have to worry about my ambitions anymore, but they can’t even fathom the concept of someone like me caring nothing for the power they wield.”

“M-hmm.” Rubbing her nose against mine, Lin-Lin pulls back to look me in the eyes with a knowing expression. She knows the real reason why I refused the throne. Not the excuses I’ve thrown out like it’s bothersome or I’m unqualified, but because I’m afraid of becoming a second Eternal Emperor. Power corrupts after all, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. I’m safe though, so long as I wield no power and have my loved ones to keep me level-headed. My darling wifey sees through all that however, and heaves a soft little sigh. She doesn’t agree, thinks I could do more if I were in charge, but if I force my views upon the people of the Empire, then I am no different from the current powers that be. Sure, I’ll have their best interests in mind, but so did Ying Zheng at the start, and we all know how that turned out.

“Moving on.” Reaching up to palm my cheeks in both hands, Lin-Lin asks, “You know why I don’t worry about you going crazy with power hubby?” Pinching my face hard and pulling out, she scrunches her nose in a tiny frown before releasing my cheeks and unleashing her dazzling smile. “Because you’re my Rainy.”

Much as I would love to take heart in her conviction, I shake my head with a smile. “People change, and I’ve got plenty of time to.”

“Maybe.” Grabbing my hands, she moves as if we’re ballroom dancing and gives a little twirl. “But it’s been twenty years since you woke up with memories of your past life, and you’re still laughing at the same captioned pictures to this day. I think you’re safer than most when it comes to change.”

“First off, they’re called memes.” Affecting a false air of discontent, I pull her close and lead her around in a back-and-forth walt, dancing to a tune neither of us can hear, but can feel within our hearts. “And secondly, they’re hilarious once you understand the context of the pictures and how their captions oftentimes subvert expectations. Also, I’m pretty much over memes now. They’re so last year, completely out of fashion.”

“Sure.” It’s clear from her tone that she’s just humouring me, and I admit I might still enjoy the odd meme or two every now and then. “Whatever. Lastly,” Lin-Lin says, standing lightly atop my shoes so I can dance for the both of us, “Your worries are justified, but you never know what the future has in store. Maybe things turn out the way you expect, or maybe everything changes in ways you can’t even imagine. Either way, you can’t let your fear drive you, not again.” Twenty years now, and still I make the same mistakes, but at least this time, my wifey called me out before things got too far. “Just remember,” she says, giving me a smile that is so full of love and support. “Where there’s life…”

“There’s hope.”

We share a smile while I lose myself in her radiant gaze. “That’s right,” Lin-Lin declares, stretching up to give me a peck on the cheek before wiping her lipstick away. “So hold fast to hope.” After a short pause, she adds, “And maybe find a hobby, ya? Something to take your mind off all your worries. Not just about the far future, but the present too. I think part of why you’re so fretful is because all your projects have hit dead ends or are slow to progress and you’re frustrated, so you think about pushing it through and worry about the consequences of abusing your position. Thing is, you’re the one who always says it’ll take decades or centuries for the Empire to catch up to the world of your past life, but you’re also the one who’s most eager to make it happen.”

Well… she’s not wrong. “You’d be eager for technological progress too if you knew what you were missing out on.” Slumping down in mock defeat, I mourn the loss of endless feeds of cute animals and memes, among many other things. “The worst part is, we finally got the toilet working, but I haven’t been able to use it.”

“That’s why I keep telling you to eat more veggies hubby. Stop saving the Spiritual Plants for us.”

“No, I mean like, I’m physically capable of… you know.” In dire need, as a matter of fact, since I’ve been holding it in all day. “But I can’t. Not without Buddy.” Drawing away, Lin-Lin hits me head on with the bombastic side-eye, and I can’t help but laugh. “Hang on, hear me out. It’s not that weird. I sat down on the toilet right, ready to give it a go, but then something felt off and I realized it’s because Buddy wasn’t there. He usually sits in my pants, which is adorable, so I got up to look for him, and well… here we are.”

The side-eye intensifies as Lin-Lin shakes her head. “It’s pretty weird hubby. You can’t poop because you need your doggy to keep you company.”

“Quiet you.”

“Poor Buddy, no wonder he’s wreaking havoc. I’d run away too if you wanted me to sit next to you while you poop.”

