The spirit is willing, and the body is no longer spongey and weak.

It’s always been an uphill battle in my marital bed, or in this case, the main bathroom. A label which fails to encapsulate the grandeur of this oversized, marble hot-tub and surrounding steam room. One I am intimately familiar with in many ways, but today I find myself making a deep and detailed study of the earthenware roof while laid out on the slick, tiled floor. Not because I’m exhausted from the race against time I just narrowly overcame, nor the heat and haze of pressed bodies and amorous attentions which sought to thwart me from the rousing success I worked so hard to attain. No, I am a True Human Divinity, and therefore have ascended beyond such mortal weaknesses, so there’s no way my five lovely wives could ever leave me weak and breathless in less than ninety minutes flat. I’m lying here because I like the view.

That being said, today was a good day. Better than good, though if I’m being honest, I am feeling a little worn out. Have no one to blame but myself though. A simple stroll around the village in search of my dog somehow turned into a full-blown day of debauchery that has left me drained and exhausted. Much as I would like to take credit for the interest heaped upon me, my wives are simply making up for missed opportunities. I spend so little one-on-one time with them these days, it’s not surprising they’d jump me the first chance they get, or enthusiastically respond to Lin-Lin’s invitation for group activities. Not to say I’ve been slacking off on the night front; I give a hundred and ten percent each and every time, but a marriage is about more than sharing a bed. Fun as today was, I can’t always count on sex to make up for my failings, especially since I have no real excuse for spending so little quality time with them. It’s not like I got a lot going on these days, idling my time away hanging out at home and looking after the floofs. Which, to be fair, means I’m busier than most full-time zookeepers making sure all my pets are fed, brushed, loved, and their lives generally enriched. No longer am I a Warrant Officer, Minister, Legate, or even a Savage Divinity, not anymore. I am Falling Rain, pet walker, poop scooper, floof poofer, and snoot booper extraordinaire.

A damn decent gig all things considered, though I do wish there were more of me to go around. Then I could have even more floofs to love and adore. One for each wife would do, though I’d probably get really jealous of the other me’s, and maybe even murderous. No need for a repeat of what happened between Ying Zheng and Zhen Shi, so clones, even ethically sourced ones, are most definitely out of the questions for me. Which means I gotta push my limits and work harder to make up for my failings all by my lonesome. I’ve been slacking off in life and it shows. Lin-Lin took the rabbits, turtles, and laughing birds off my hands for an entire week, but today was the only day I spent time alone with Yan, Mila, Luo-Luo, and Li-Li. I didn’t even plan it; if Buddy wasn’t acting out, I probably would’ve spent the day testing my porcelain throne and troubleshooting whatever problems might’ve come up instead of visiting my wives at work and seeing how they’re doing. There’s no denying it. After ten years of marriage, I’ve grown lazy and complacent. An issue easily fixed, save for the fact that the real problem is that I allowed it to happen in the first place. While merely a minor gaffe on my part, if I’m this lazy ten years in, what will our marriage look like after twenty, thirty, or a hundred years?

Or a thousand years, if my wives are fortunate enough to survive that long.

“So grim and gloomy hubby. Copper for your thoughts?” Nuzzling my chin and punctuating her words with a kiss, Lin-Lin sighs and snuggles in close as we cuddle on the hard, wet bathroom floor. It gets scrubbed and washed after every use, so it’s not as gross as it sounds, but between the ick factor and the dissipating heat, I muster the strength needed to cradle my wifey into my arms and stand back up. Letting out a soft murmur of discontent as I place her upon a chair, she presses right back up against me and puffs up her cheeks, unwilling to end our blissful afterglow so quickly.

“Just feeling like I’ve let all of you down is all,” I reply, planting a light kiss on her forehead. “So many wives, and only one me. You all deserve better.” Grabbing her soft wool robe from the hook, I hold it open for her to slip her arms through and wrap her up nice and warm before grabbing a towel to pat her hair dry. “No time to get into it though, not if we want to be dressed and ready in time for dinner.” Hence why we’re here alone. Luo-Luo was first to go, since she somehow takes the longest to prepare despite having five Imperial Servants to help. Mila and Li-Li were next, the latter a little more reluctant than the former, as well she should be since she was the only one who didn’t pre-game aside from Lin-Lin. It’s okay though, because we made a promise to meet up later tonight, a promise I intend to keep. As for Yan, she left only a few minutes ago, which means there isn’t much time left before dinner, so we gotta really book it if we don’t want to show up late.

And we don’t, because Tali is somehow every bit as domineering as her mother and grandmother while also being sweet and charming at the same time.

“That’s no good, hubby.” Drawing back to peer up, Lin-Lin purses her lips in her oh so fetching pout. “You can’t handwave your moods away anymore. Being all mopey and sad was fine when we were kids, but you’re a Divinity now, so you need to be extra aware of your emotions, ya?” She would know best, considering she is, much like myself, a relatively inexperienced Divinity capable of accidentally unleashing the twin powers of Creation and Destruction in a fit of pique. Extreme pique, or any intense bout of emotion really, and younger people are more likely to hit those highest of highs and lowest of lows. That’s not to say older people never experience those peaks and valleys, but a lifetime of experience provides plenty of ballast to keep them steady, emotionally speaking.

And I, with my two lifetimes of experience, possess exceptional emotional stability. The best emotional stability in fact, as it was a major contributing factor in my ability to become a True Human Divinity in the first place. Never mind all the highs and lows I suffered through. You won’t find anyone more emotionally stable than me.

“I got caught up in my own head is all,” I reply, giving her my best smile followed by a peck on the nose before I go back to towelling her hair. “No big deal.”

“Yes big deal.” Flipping the towel out of her eyes, Lin-Lin turns around and hits me with her best glare, with hands on hips and eyes narrowed. An adorable expression which is not even remotely intimidating, naked or clothed, but I quake in feigned fear while keeping my leering to a minimum for her sake. “It’s not just about feeling sad or happy,” she says, sitting up as straight as she can to meet my gaze, only to deflate and fall into my embrace, wet towel and all. “You also need to understand why you’re feeling the way you’re feeling. If you don’t, then you’ll end up bottling all your emotions again, and who knows what’ll happen the next time it gets too much? You can’t count on a miracle to bring you back from the edge of ruin every time hubby, so we’re going to make some time and talk about it right now.”

Difficult to argue against the facts. “Alright, but I’m blaming you if we show up late.”

“…We can talk while we get ready hubby. You can do two things at once.” Turning back around, she gestures for me to get back to work, as I’m not the only one afraid of Tali. “Now,” she begins, her voice going muffled as I start towelling her hair dry, “Why are you feeling gloomy after all the fun we had? It’s not just guilt over marrying all five of us again, ya? There’s more to it.”

My sweet wifey’s ability to read me like a book will never not come as a surprise. “Yea, you’re right.” Taking a deep breath to gather my thoughts, I piece together my mood as best I can. “I was just thinking about how much I love you all, and how I haven’t been as appreciative as I should be, but what really has me down in the dumps is the possibility that these wonderful, blessed days might one day come to an end.” I’d love to end it here, so I continue my work for a few seconds until I feel compelled to fill the empty silence. “I suppose I’m still wrestling with the whole longevity thing is all. Sorta hit me out of nowhere today. Unless Luo-Luo Ascends to Divinity, she only has another century or so of life in her. Seems like a long time, but not so much in the face of eternity, so the same could be said of Mila, Yan, and Li-Li.”

And that’s best-case scenario, assuming nothing goes wrong in all that time, but what is life if not an endless stream of trials and tribulations?

It sounds so silly to say out loud, so ridiculously extra that I can feel my cheeks heating up, but the dam has broken and I cannot stop now. “I mean, sure, Panacea goes a long way to keeping someone youthful, and Grandpa Du is setting records at a hundred and twenty-nine years old, but the writing’s been on the wall for awhile now. Unless he Ascends to Divinity soon, well…” These days, he spends most of his time in his cushioned armchair and Cloud-Steps whenever he has to walk. It’s a marked decline from the formidable Warrior he was ten years ago, and not even Refining his Physique was able to improve his situation much. Despite everything being in perfect working order, his body is just getting weaker and weaker with each passing day, and there’s nothing Taddy or any Healer can do for him. Grandpa Du’s fingers are so swollen he can’t even write anymore, just narrates notes for Kyung, Yan, or Da’in to take down, all of whom have taken his inevitable passing in stride. They’re working to write a biography of his life so others can understand his perspective and get a better frame of reference when reading through his Insights, all while keeping him company in his twilight years.

Ten years ago on the walls of Shi Bei, Grandpa Du had been but a mere half-step from Ascension. Not to True Divinity, but even false Divinity would have afforded him many more centuries of life, yet he refused to take that half-step. Not out of stubborn pride or any personal failing, but because he thought the cost too high. Soldiers against soldiers, Generals against Generals, and Divinities against Divinities, this was how war was fought, so if Du Min Gyu were to Ascend to Divinity, who would be left to shoulder the Heavens for the Generals and soldiers under him?

So instead of Ascending, Grandpa Du utilized the Energy of the Heavens to carve a swathe through the Defiled forces and proved himself a true hero of the times. It was a noble sacrifice, but I learned long ago that dying is easy. Much as it sucks to leave everything behind, the quiet oblivion of death is a mercy compared to an eternity without my family and loved ones, and I fear Grandpa Du will be the first of many I am fated to lose. It’s an existential crisis I’ve been wrestling with some time now, the first of many to come, and one I fear I am not ready for.

“He could still do it yanno.” Waving me off from towel duty, Lin-Lin runs her fingers through her long, silken locks and pulls the water right out of her hair, leaving it mostly dry and untangled. A feat made possible by her Blessing of Cloud, one she demonstrates effortlessly, while I would really need to focus and pay attention to do the same without damaging her hair or worse. “Ascend on his own,” she continues, utilizing her Chi in a complex manner with only half a mind, the other half wholly focused on me. “You said he was close, so maybe he’ll figure out the rest soon enough.”

“Yea, maybe.” There’s little to no conviction in my tone, because I don’t think he’s even trying anymore. The last time I brought the topic of Ascension up, he treated it more like an academic study than a necessary process to keep him alive. “It’s possible.” What’s left unsaid is my own failure, my inability to Impart Insight upon him or anyone else like I did in Shi Bei, else I’d be able to save him and everyone else I care about as easily as turning my hand. Annoying is what it is, as if the Heavens themselves were working against me, and it frustrates me knowing I once had the solution in my hands. There’s not much else to say, so I set to brushing Lin-Lin’s hair while she sits with dainty feet dangling in the air. Though no words are exchanged, we still communicate with soft touches and loving looks as she conveys her silent concern and I do my best to assure her that I’m alright. It’s just a passing mood is all, a momentary shadow passing over these blessed days of ours, and she has nothing to worry about.

An assurance she doesn’t believe, and she’s right not to. “So now we know what’s bothering you,” she says, breaking the silence as we begin work on her braided crown, a style that is cute and elegant yet also easy to pull off, since we’re short on time. “Let’s figure out why, ya?” Peering at me out of the corner of her eye, she asks, “What’d you do all day?”

“Followed Buddy’s trail of destruction.” Grinning in spite of myself, I shake my head in awe while narrating my sweet doggy’s daring actions. “It started this morning, when Buddy stopped by the kitchen where Tali and Alsantset…”

