A small whine is his only reply as he falls still, or as still as he can. I couldn’t tell before, but he’s trembling from head to toe, his entire body quivering in unmistakable fear. This from a dog who saw my fight with Zhen Shi as little more than a game and had oodles of fun hunting Demons on the sands of Shi Bei. For a brief, horrified moment, I almost think he’s afraid of me, but then he snuggles in closer and my worries are laid to rest. It’s the Ascension that’s got him all shook up, that much soon becomes clear, but try as I might, I cannot understand why. Maybe it’s because he doesn’t understand what’s happening, but that shouldn’t be enough to scare him. He’s a sweetheart, but if a lack of understanding was enough to scare him, he’d be petrified all the time. No, there’s something more going on here, something I’m not seeing, so I extend my senses to try and solve the mystery.

The Energy of the Heavens continues to swell and roil about the Ascender, but that shouldn’t be enough to scare him. It’s a little concerning, seeing how much is gathered here and yet to be used, so much so that the Void is struggling to contain it. It’s difficult to describe, because Heavenly Energy exists in both the physical world and the immaterial one, here and there at the same time without ever committing to both. Now though, I sense it gathering here in reality before committing itself to the Void, where it pools and gathers in an unnatural state. The only analogy I can think of is the creation of a tornado, wherein a pressure imbalance gathers winds from kilometres away to create a dynamic flow that is both natural and abnormal at the same time.

And then the Void Shatters a second time.

Not here, in the space between the physical and the metaphysical world, but out there, between the Void and… the other side. The wrong side, I would say, as I catch a glimpse of what lingers in the dark, unknowable beyond. Only for a moment, one so brief it cannot be measured in any discernable unit of time, yet even then it is enough to give me nightmares for a thousand lifetimes. There is a cold, vast, emptiness out there, one capable of swallowing even the Void itself, a desolate nothingness that defies comprehension in terms of distance or scale. On some level, I’ve always known there had to be more out there, a world beyond this one, else where could my past life’s memories have come from? Now I know.

It comes from out there, outside the physical and metaphysical world, beyond even the Void itself, in another reality. Another universe. Another timeline. Another plane of existence. All of the above perhaps, or none and something else entirely. I don’t know. Regardless of the answer, the world just got a whole lot bigger, far beyond this world, this planet, this solar system or galaxy even, through a medium which transcends time and space.

Which is cool and all, but the panic will have to wait as the energy released by this second Shattering surges out from the Void into reality itself, concentrating around the unknown Ascender. The ground explodes in a surge of stone, soil, and vegetation as Buddy bolts out of my arms, and I keep an eye on him while protecting everyone present from the force of the blast. One which does more than overturn dirt and rocks to leave a crater behind; it also strips away the Concealing Domain masking the inhabitant’s presence, and it is one I recognize well. Even if I didn’t, it’s not hard to guess from the swirling barrier of coursing water protecting the newly Ascended Divinity. A thought strikes me, and overwhelming curiosity drives me to act before I think better of it, parting the aqueous shield and clouds of dust with bated breath to reveal Ping Ping in all her turtle-y glory. With eyes narrowed, legs braced, and mouth open in her iconic siege-mode, she stands at a floating disc of Plated Domain ready to take on all comers, turning this way and that to inspect the crowd until she spots me standing slack jawed and frozen in anticipation. Rather than squeak happily or run over for a pat, she lets out a plaintive cry for help, one twinned with an Aura fear and dread so colossal it threatens to strike me down where I stand, and one made more effective by the turmoil of emotions coursing through me as I lay eyes on the creature Ping Ping is so desperate to protect.

There, in the middle of the newly dug crater sits a small, white-haired toddler. Maybe a year old at most, with a round, chubby-cheeked face, two long, floppy bunny ears, and a pair nubby horns sitting dead centre in the middle of her brow. Suddenly it all makes sense, all of Buddy’s antics as he gathered up everything she’d need to Ascend. The berries, the plants, the Spiritual Heart, all fuel to ensure she would become the Divinity she is, a perfect and beautiful baby girl. Her big, round eyes are so full of burgeoning curiosity and pure, untouched wonder as she looks this way and that, taking in the unfamiliar sights of this new world before her. Interest turns to concern however as she sees the crowd staring back, a transformation which begins with a furrow of the brow, a quiver of the lips, and a big, deep breath to herald the first of many tears to come.

“It’s okay,” I say, using the soft, high-pitched tone I typically reserve for my floofs, and the transformation is startling to behold. All her fear and alarm melts away at the sound of my voice, and her eyes meet mine in a gaze that steals my heart and breath away. Her arms stretch out and reach towards me and in the blink of an eye I’m there, wrapping her in my jacket and lifting her into my arms. She’s smaller than before, so much lighter too, and though she looks nothing like how I last saw her, there is no denying the truth before my eyes. “Hey there Mama Bun,” I croon, and though the name no longer fits, she lays her head in the crook of my arm while still holding my gaze. All I see in her eyes is love and trust as I stroke her cheek with my thumb, and my knees go weak as she wraps her tiny hand around my index finger. “You’ve got nothing to be afraid of,” I say, even though it’s clear she already knows it, so calm and relaxed as I rock her gently in my arms. “I got you. Daddy’s here.”

A statement made without thought, because the decision has already been made. She knew it the moment she laid eyes on me, and I figured it out soon after. This is my daughter, my firstborn, a child not of my blood but mine all the same.

Buddy’s baying howl pierces through the moment, a gut-churning wail full of fear, despair, and desperation. It cuts right to the quick and I act without thinking, bringing my sweet baby girl in close with one hand while raising my sword with the other. The threat becomes clear as soon as I think to look for it, and my eyes are drawn towards the Void, the shattered divide between the metaphysical world and the emptiness beyond. A threat lingers out there, one which I can barely sense, yet is unmistakable all the same, for there beyond the Void exists a foreboding presence, an alien predator which sees this world, this universe, or perhaps even this reality as prey.

It is this threat which has Buddy scared. Not enough to send him running, and a surge of pride courses through me as I see him take a stand, utterly terrified yet unwilling to leave because he has something to protect. Knowing this, how can I not stand beside him? I too have much to protect. Friends, family, wives, floofs, and now my precious daughter who I only just met. For the first time in a decade, I have found reason to act, so I unleash the full extent of my strength. One with the Weapon, One with the Self, One with the World, and One with the Heavens, there is no delineation between them as I wield my power with will and Intent, one borne of my deepest desire to defend and protect all that I hold dear. There is no need for a meme or Dharmic Icon, because I have surpassed the need of such tools, and in this moment, I am become the Icon, a husband and father, son and brother, friend and leader, guardian and protector.

With Peace raised towards the Heavens, Tranquility poised to defend, and Unity circling about in search of a target, I impress my Will upon the Heavens and exert my Authority over it. A thousand swords billow into existence, each one as real and deadly as Peace, Honed to perfection and brimming with Intent. Not the Sword Intent which I wielded in Shi Bei, or I should say not just Sword Intent, but one which has surpassed the limits of a mere weapon. The clue lies within the name itself, ‘intent’, for what is Sword Intent if not the manifestation of the intent with which you wield the sword? There are a myriad of answers, and none more correct than the others, but the right answer in the right moment can magnify your strength a thousand-fold if used correctly. A Warrior fighting to defend their family is stronger than one fighting without purpose, and for the first time in a decade, I have a reason to fight.

“Um hubby?” A dainty little finger pokes me in the cheek and pulls me out of my trance. “I know you’re feeling overwhelmed with emotions and all,” Lin-Lin says, gingerly placing her hand on my wrist to indicate I should lower my sword, “But you’re scaring everyone.”

They don’t sense it, the break within the Void, but even as I open my mouth to explain it, I realize the Heavenly Energy is no longer surging out into the emptiness beyond. The break between reality is gone, no longer there where it was only a moment before, and I cannot for the life of me fathom how it disappeared. To make matters worse, Buddy heaves a little sigh and pads on over with tail a wagging, popping up to stand on his hind legs while resting his front paws on my waist so he can give my daughter a frantic sniffing. Pong Pong appears as well, posted up on top of Buddy’s head and seeming much relieved, albeit exhausted and all but done with the day. Shooting me a look I’ve long since come to recognize as hunger, he lets me know in no uncertain terms that I owe him a whole mountain of shrimp, and I have no earthly idea why.

Or at least, I don’t understand what he did to earn it. He probably deserves it, seeing how he might well have just saved all of reality as we know it from a terror beyond imagination, so I’m more than happy to foot the bill. That said, much as I would love to know what all that was about, and curious as I am to know more about what lies beyond the Void, there are more pressing matters at hand, so I dismiss my manifested swords and put away my Spiritual Weapons before presenting my – no, our daughter to my wives. They all gather round to meet the newest member of our family, and I engrave the moment into memory, every laugh, gesture, and movement. It’s so much to take in, the way our darling daughter opens her eyes wide at the sight of Lin-Lin’s hare ears, and reaches out to touch Mila’s freckles. The angelic curve of her first smile in response to Yan’s coos, the trust in affection she displays despite Li-Li’s calm but nervous approach, and the unblinking wonder in her beautiful eyes as she stares up at Luo-Luo’s perfect hair and dazzling features.

All the while, I cannot bring myself to let go of her, because she has yet to let go of my finger. She’s happy here, nestled in my arms, feels safe and protected within the shelter I provide. The urge to hold and protect her is so strong I almost cannot bring myself to show her to Buddy, who continues to paw at my waist and make pleading whimpers in hopes of seeing the baby, but as much as I love my newborn daughter, my sweet doggo was here first. “Gentle,” I say, putting a bit of steel into the command so he knows I’m serious before I kneel down so he can meet her. “She’s just a baby, so be careful.” And Buddy understands, his tail wagging up a storm of violence as he touches his nose to her cheek ever so softly, taking in her scent before backing away to shake off all his excitement. Just like that, her first laugh springs forth into existence, a sound more beautiful that any other. It continues as Buddy comes back for a second sniff, and she lets go of my finger to take his snout in both hands and look him in the eyes. Right then and there, I know they will be the best of friends, because this baby and this doggy have forged an unbreakable bond.

A bittersweet moment to be sure, because Buddy is no longer my dog, nor am I his person. He’s hers.

Not content with mine alone, My daughter has also stolen my dog’s heart away, and I can’t even be mad about it. Were it anyone else, I would swear vengeance upon my name and never rest until I got my dog back again, but even though I just met this sweet girl, everything I have is hers for the taking. Anything and everything her heart might ever desire is hers. Though not of my blood, she is mine all the same. I will fight for her. I would die for her. And it heartens me to know she’ll have a lifelong companion who will love her with all his heart. It helps keep my crippling fear and anxiety in check, because like I told Alsantset this morning, I’m not ready to be a father. Then again, she was right too, and I’m as ready as I’ll ever be, eager even to do my very best to love and provide for this sweet child of mine.

