“Yeah, but with Tabitha,” Frank points out to me, and I'm forced to acknowledge that was an excellent point.

But why did she have to pick now of all times? I groan while rubbing my head in frustration. “I was hoping to buy more from her." I wanted to kick something in frustration, but other than people, only the smelter was nearby, so I had to contain my frustration.

Frank clicks his teeth, and he gives me a remorseful look even though it wasn't his fault. "I don't know about that. As I said, we’re pretty backed up without Aaliyah around. My buddy Lloyd is in the mines leading his crew to keep up the supply of iron and stone. You would need to talk to Del to find out if we have anything we can spare.”

Just great. Could things get any worse for us? Not only did I get the scare of a lifetime, but there was nothing to buy! I hang my head in disappointment.

"You came here to buy?" I nearly jump out of my skin when I hear Del-Razen's voice behind me. As I turned in place, I saw Reel snickering at me, meaning he was aware that the man was approaching us and didn't say anything. "You're here to buy?" He repeats after I wait to answer him.

Straightening out my clothes, I try to catch my breath and give the man the best merchant smile I can muster, given the situation. "We are indeed," I politely bow. It had been a long time since I tried dealing directly with Del-Razen. In the last few years, everything's gone through Aaliyah, so I forgot how difficult it was to deal with the man in person.

The Stone-Kin isn't impressed with my display and outright ignores my bow. "You said you wanted to purchase something?" He repeats with a cold stare.

“We’ll take anything,” I forgo my usual strategy of back and forth, knowing full well that it would just make the man harder to deal with. “Nails, ingots, well even take the ore as is,” I gesture to the pile of ore next to the smelter.

"Oh?" Del-Razen's eyes narrow menacingly, and I feel a shiver down my spine. "And how badly do you need it?"

Gulping, I search for the right words. “We’ll pay double," I hold up two fingers. We stare at each other until I nervously raise a third finger, “Triple?”

Del-Razen just shakes his head. I’m about to tell him I can’t go any higher than that, despite inflation, but that’s when he says something that leaves me speechless. “That’s not what I’m asking. I’m asking, what will you do for the supplies you need?” There was a sparkle of mischief in his gaze. I wanted to say anything but knew that would be a bad idea.

“Well,” he pushes.

I consider activating all my merchant skills to escape this situation, but that didn’t help me before. I’ve leveled a lot over the years since I last tried them on him, but something told me they wouldn’t have that much effect.

“What are you proposing we do?” I finally give in and wait for the preverbal punch in the stomach. Or, who knows, maybe he'll actually punch me in the stomach.

“The three of you will work for me for a few days," he grins.

“Work for you?” I repeat, not expecting that kind of demand. But wait, "three?" I looked around only to see Reel had mysteriously disappeared.

“If you’re looking for the annoying stealthy one, he vanished a while ago,” Del-Razen tells me.

“Of course he did,” I sigh, resigning myself to my fate. “You really need our help?”

"I don't need anything," Del-Razen shamelessly barks. "But if you want your ingots, you must work for them. So let's see if you can get your merchant hands dirty for a change.”

Aaliyah, you better bring something amazing back from the Endless Forest for me to sell. To Lurte and Ryiba’s dismay, I hold my hand out. “You have yourself a deal.”

I try to ignore the stone-kin’s devilish smile by internally justifying what I'm getting myself into. This scare with Aaliyah was a wake-up call; time was running out. She would be gone soon, and if she weren't around, I’d need to deal with Del from now on. I was aware of his distaste for merchants, so if this gets us talking, I'll prove he can trust me.

Throw whatever you want at me, Del-Razen, Kervin of Silver Herd, will prove to you he's no ordinary merchant.
