148******

“I don’t have time for your personality right now, Elias,” Archibald Carisson’s voice snapped from the watch around the Informant’s wrist. “Your little fiefdom is too close to Sānjiǎo Beach. LEAVE.”

“It’s a neighborhood full of interesting people.” Elias, wearing the same galoshes and accompanied by the same umbrella drone that had guarded him from the rain during his walk earlier that night, was helping an ancient-looking man down the front steps of a townhouse. “Not a fief. And my personality has vastly improved since we first met. Don’t you think you should reevaluate your friends at least every half century?”

He released the man’s arm at the bottom of the stairs, and the fellow shuffled off, following a poodle down the street. Elias watched him go before ambling away from the house toward the grassy central square in front of it.

“SkySea can’t come rescue you if anything goes wrong. Official orders have come in for most of our members. It’s the same for the battle and aid groups. We’re not in charge of responding to this catastrophe. The Artonans have decided it’s their business.”

“You sound so unhappy about that,” Elias said. “Would you actually rather have the children on the current High Council direct us through a magical disaster? Just so that we can all pretend a truly independent Anesidora isn’t still a dream caught between a rock and a hard place? By the way, the rock in this analogy is Earth, and the hard place is—”

“Do you at least have a helicopter?” Archibald ground out.

“I donated a couple to the rescue efforts. Tarek’s flying one. His wife is in her hover suit. We’ll be fine here without them.”

A few other people were emerging from houses. Several of them nodded or waved at Elias, but they all headed in the same direction as the old man. None joined the Informant in the well-lit square. It was only him, standing by a three-meter tall fountain shaped like a pithos, and his wet golden retriever running toward him, tennis ball in its jaws.

“They all have their gear on them, don’t they?” he asked as he accepted the ball. “Nobody left out?”

“All neighborhood residents are on their way to the community center as you instructed, and everyone has at least two connected devices with them.” The voice in his ear was smooth and calm.

“Mood?”

“Calm overall. The parents of the children that were teleported away—”

“Yes. I see. Send a message from me to each of them. The content should be a firm reassurance that their children will be well cared for and that minors being teleported out by the System in this situation is completely expected. Tweak each note to comfort the individual recipient. Without lying of course.”

“Such a personal touch,” Archibald said caustically.

“You’re still there, Archie?” The Informant tossed the ball for his dog again, then shoved his hands into his coat pockets. At his back, water spilled over the rim of the pithos and through a grate that was nearly hidden by the grass. “Don’t you have better things to do than worry over my business? I’d hate to think I’m distracting one of the best Water Shapers on Anesidora from his duties. What quest have you been given, by the way?”

“I haven’t been the best in years. Don’t give me another one of your speeches about the nature of magic. And you know what I’m doing! I’m carrying your bloody spy equipment around with me while I shove water back into the ocean. Every two minutes, here it comes again, trying to crawl toward some random spot like it’s been magnetized. The evacuation is almost done. We’ll be ordered to completely abandon Sānjiǎo soon and you and your people with it.”

“How are you all liking the infogear tonight?”

“How are you going to protect yourself and all the rest of them from giant waves? I don’t doubt you’ve had your Wright fan club—”

“I assume you mean my employees and apprentices.”

“—kit the place out. But unless that thing you’ve built—”

“You always act like it’s something shocking. It’s just a larger version of what I’ve always done, improved over the course of the years by myself and other talented Wrights. With a nice custom personality helping me keep track of it all.”

“—can see the future now, I don’t think you prepared for this!”

“I didn’t. But I didn’t need to,” said Elias. “After all, the Artonans have decided the events of tonight are their business. Good luck with that sailboat, by the way.”

“What sailb—?”

“That one,” said Elias, as Archibald’s half of the conversation devolved into shouted orders and splashing sounds. “See you in the morning.”

He ended the call.

“You know, his granddaughter was grateful for the phones I sent her,” he said to the dog. “She thanked me through the drone. I only took one peek to see how she was using them, and of course she’s being responsible to a fault. She’s already got a hundred other teenagers sorted out and obeying a call schedule.

“Impressive. And a shame. It would be interesting to see how far a Carisson could go with their powers if they were just a little more willing to color outside the lines.”

“The negotiator you’ve been expecting just sent a message ahead,” the voice in his ear said. “It’s Former Ambassador Libv-eth.”

“They’ve pulled her in? It was probably her own idea. I did always like her.”

“She says she must ask if you are finally amenable to selling your personal creation to the Triplanets, given the fact that it will almost certainly be damaged or destroyed by tonight’s events without their intervention.”

Elias reached out toward the fountain, and the smooth curtain of water parted for him automatically. An object was embedded in the stone there—a small black circle, glittering with magic around the edges and so dark at the center that it looked like a hole. He pressed his hand to it.

“Tell her I’m touching the first key of voices I ever made. So much tedious enchanting. Tell her I’m feeling nostalgic, and I couldn’t possibly part with it.” He looked around the empty square. “Or with any of the other keys I’ve created on my own time in the past eight decades.”

A minute later, the voice said, “She understands and looks forward to negotiating with you for the use of your creation and its protection. She is bringing a tattooist with her and hopes you will pardon her presumption.”

“Of course,” said the Informant. Then he sighed. “I suppose we can’t drive a very hard bargain. At some point it becomes too tempting for them to build their own from scratch.”

******

******

Winston Heelfeather wasn’t the kind of man who could stay in the school gym while innocent people were dying.

He’d realized that when he overheard a couple of girls from the Sciences program saying how this was the worst thing that had ever happened to Anesidora. A night that would go down in history. Something everybody in the world would be talking about when the dust settled…or the water drained away.

A time for heroes.

It would just be too lame, when everyone asked him what he’d been doing during the crisis, if he had to say, “Staying in the school gym with my teachers like they told me to.”

That wasn’t the Win-Win way.

I don’t know about Win-Win as a nickname, he thought. What if it’s too catchy, and it gets used more often than Heelfeather?

He was blasting through Boomtown. One of his personal camera drones watched from above, and two were set up to catch shots of him speed climbing the side of a building to break into an apartment and see if a woman he’d met at the bus stop had left the stove on.

Not quite the heroic mission he’d been hoping for, but there just wasn’t a lot of drama in midtown Apex right now. He’d have to build the story into something more. Sometimes being a hero isn’t about doing the glamorous thing; it’s about helping whoever needs you even if the need is small…

That sounded lame. His fans would know it was lame. He really needed to not be lame tonight.

He’d left the mall right after the class dinner to edit the gym footage, and it was just…his parents could never be allowed to see it. The world could never witness it. Winston was going to make Heelfeather a household name.

Even before the sirens had started, Winston had known he wouldn’t be able to sleep. Because what was he going to do if someone let the full footage slip?

It wasn’t just his classmates. The other first years had access.

So many people had seen a Rabbit kill him and then walk off without even looking at him.

“All right,” Alden had said as he stepped around Winston’s gasping face. “So that’s done.”

That’s done.

Like beating a higher ranked Avowed with a piece of string was an errand he’d checked off his list.

I knew it, Winston thought, jumping up and grabbing onto one of the dips in the building’s honeycomb facade. I knew he was doing it all on purpose.

The Rabbit boy was sneaky and a really good actor, so he’d doubted his own suspicions. But now he was sure of one thing—Alden Thorn was only pretending not to care about his own growing popularity.

B’s got zero attention from the people who enjoyed watching the talent development programs. The adults loved the thrill of picking a winning horse before anyone knew about it; the teens loved imagining themselves becoming an Avowed one day, too. Neither group rooted for the underdog.

So of course Alden couldn’t act like he wanted a fanbase. It would be so embarrassing. Like that B-rank chick in one of Winston’s classes who everyone gossiped about because she was open about wanting to rank up.

Instead, the Rabbit orchestrated his image in secret and acted innocent about it. Oh, I accidentally attended a party full of the superrich while dressed like the boy next door, and I unexpectedly encountered a crazy person there, and I just happened to deliver some more dramatic backstory about myself on camera. It was a total coincidence that I was holding a plate of class-themed food! It’s not like I dropped it to call attention to it!

He’d messed up this time, though. There was no way he hadn’t been wildly celebrating his victory over Winston. Walking over a higher ranked competitor like they were invisible was too far. It was something you’d only do if you were desperately trying to look like you didn’t care.

There had been other signs, too. Obviously, Alden’s play was to let rumors about him build and build among other peoples’ fans so that when he finally posted something online like everyone else…it would explode.

It was so smart that Winston was afraid the school might be in on it. They could be setting Alden up as one of the faces of the first year class. There had been rumors for months about a CNH reality show of some kind. What if he’d already been cast?

“Winston! That’s you, isn’t it?”

At the sound of the hated accent, Winston’s musings cut off and he looked down.

That singing Scottish show-off was standing in the alley beside a pile of Wright scrap. Out of breath. Ruining Winston’s footage. Actually, it was already a little ruined. He’d stopped climbing to mull over Alden Thorn’s true nature. He’d need to do this again just to make sure he had it all smooth.

“What are you doing?” Finlay called. “Shouldn’t you be at school?”

“I’m helping people! There’s a stove on in one of these apartments. It could set the whole place on fire.”

He started climbing again.

“But, Winston!” Finlay’s voice was loud. “Couldn’t you just go inside and use the lift?”

******

******

Connie kept waking up from dreams she couldn’t remember, with a bad feeling in her gut that the girls would be gone. It had just happened again, and she lay in bed listening to Brodie’s heavy breathing, trying to convince herself not to go check on his two nieces. They were sleeping over for the first time tonight, giving their parents a weekend off.

It’s dumb. They’re fine. Just go back to sleep.

Instead, she threw off the warm covers and slipped out of the bed, careful not to wake her boyfriend. Fiancé probably. That ring he’d been hiding for at least a couple of weeks was for her probably. She was going to say yes probably.

It all felt a little unstable.

Trying to find some solid ground, after distracting yourself for your whole adulthood with a merry-go-round of a life, was hard.

She’d started looking up people she remembered from back home, and she knew they weren’t all tucked away in great careers, in big white houses chosen for their school districts, in clothes that looked like the clothes their parents had worn. But a lot of them were. A whole lot of them.

They were taking their eight-year-olds to ballgames. They were packing lunchboxes with cheese slices cut into star shapes and giving each other tips about how if you used chocolate chips instead of raisins for your ants on a log, you could get the kids used to eating celery.

The vinyl floor was cold to her bare feet. The old hall carpet had been stained ever since she and Alden moved into this place. It had looked gross even if you vacuumed, which she hardly ever did. A couple of months after he had gone missing, she’d freaked out and ripped it all up.

Brodie had called one of his cousins, and new vinyl had gone down.

She mopped it twice a week. She couldn’t figure out if that was too often or not often enough.

Maybe I stayed on the merry-go-round for so long I’ll always be dizzy.

In the living room, the girls were fine. Of course.

