They were side by side on the air mattress their parents had sent with them. The little one was a drooler. The older one was sleeping with a hand against her cheek. In the light leaking through the window, the manicure Connie had given her was on full display. A different color for every fingernail.

Maybe I should have let them have Alden’s room.

Nobody had asked. She hadn’t offered. But that was the obvious thing, wasn’t it? To give them the second bedroom instead of letting them sleep on the floor.

She couldn’t even figure that much out.

She went to check the fridge to see if they’d eaten any of the pricey lime green goo in the squeeze tubes. The parents who cut cheese into star shapes said neon colored Artonan vegetable pudding was in.

Not yet.

She stared at the groceries for a while. Then the floor. Then the girls.

If I gave them his old room, I don’t think he’d mind.

She wasn’t sure she’d know if he did. He’d never been a kid that would make you feel too bad. He would put up with a whole lot before he even showed he was annoyed.

Which should’ve made me put in more effort. Not less.

The sound of the front door’s deadbolt sliding, as if invisible fingers were unlatching it, caught her attention. She looked over, not quite as alarmed as she would have been if she’d understood what was happening, and saw the knob turning.

What?

Before she could panic, the door was open. A wizard stood there, sliding a ring into the pocket of her pants. She was holding a two liter bottle of cherry cola under one arm, and there was a laundry bag squirming at her feet.

Her facial expression was gloomy.

“Healer Rynez-yt?!” Connie whispered. The head of the Chicago House of Healing was familiar to her from a brief meeting when Alden was younger and, more recently, through occasional local “good news” stories about people she’d saved.

She always looked either grouchy or depressed in those photos and videos, as if she wished the patients had died. According to Alden, his mother had been very fond of the healer and proud to work with her. Connie didn’t get it, but it wasn’t like she’d been around to see it for herself.

“Connie Hatcher,” said Rynez-yt, “for some reason, Leah’s child thinks your life should be prioritized above those of geniuses, Avowed, and other humans who contribute greatly to your species.”

Her eyes slid from Connie’s startled face to the squirming bag at her feet.

“I suppose it is too late to try to guide his decision making now.”

The bag meowed.

******

******

Emilija’s heart drummed, and her hands curled into fists at her side as she stood quietly in a cramped employees-only bathroom with her roommates. They were all so still that the motion sensitive lights had cut off, but they’d been trapped in here for long enough that she could make out shapes by the yellow glow that slipped through the gap at the bottom of the door.

Natalie was standing against the sink, swallowing so frequently that Emilija had learned the sound of it. And Hadiza was beside the toilet brush, her feet covered in multiple layers of the novelty socks they’d found in this little knickknack shop when they first sought shelter here.

It was only supposed to be for a minute. They’d been hurrying away from the Bunker Street situation when some swift and awful shift in the crowd  had turned the angry press toward the shelter into a true riot.

The girls had run down a street, and then they’d all been suddenly blinded by a pink bolt of a spell that had ripped Natalie’s umbrella from her hand. Emilija didn’t know why.

They’d seen a metal grate go flying through the air, into the face of a man on a moped. They’d smelled smoke. They’d heard a woman screaming instructions through a spell tool of some kind, but none of them knew if the instructions were for them. They couldn’t understand the language she spoke.

Most people were angry. A few people were laughing. Everyone shouted. Nobody shouted in Lithuanian.

Emilija understood English words like chaos, red, fuck them, ours without understanding what was causing the battle around her.

Getting off the street, away from the impossible thing that was happening—Avowed fighting Avowed right here in public where other people could be hurt—hadn’t been a decision the girls made together. They had just moved in unison toward the first hiding spot they’d seen. This dark little shop with the door broken in.

Normally, a place with a broken door would be somewhere Emilija avoided. But it had looked like safety tonight. It had been safe at first. So safe that they’d stayed, huddled in the back of the shop, watching the madness on the street through the window like it was a theater screen.

The traffic had rapidly disappeared. Sometimes, a couple of minutes would pass without anyone running by. But the sound of the ongoing riot—still at the bunker entrance, Emilija assumed—didn’t let up. The three of them had started for the exit at one point, only for a traffic light to slam into the pavement right in front of the door, sending fragments flying through that barely missed them.

For a while, it had felt like going outside would be stepping into a war zone.

And now…

The voices of the people who’d entered the shop were muffled through the bathroom walls. It made picking out even the few words Emilija might have known impossible.

But Natalie and Hadiza weren’t moving, so she didn’t move either.

They should be gone by now.

Natalie at least. Her timer had been shorter. Had it changed? Had she rejected her teleport so that she could stay with the two of them?

There was no way to ask.

The System was still telling them to head to the condominium building. Another notice had come through about not interfering with the people wearing the red halos. Emilija would not be getting a teleport timer.

I couldn’t have used it anyway right now. I couldn’t have used it with the girls still here.

They were younger than her. Hadiza could be too mature for her own good, but they both felt like they needed looking after.

What am I going to do if the people out there come in here? What if they want to fight? What if they won’t let us go?

She felt weak.

She knew she was practically the same person she’d always been. Anesidora threw rank and class in your face more than she’d expected. But it didn’t really bother her very often.

Being hung up on getting less magic, when you’d been expecting no magic, was stupid. Six months ago, Emilija was an ordinary girl. She was worrying that her life was going to stall if she didn’t get out of her hometown, but she didn’t want to hurt her mother’s feelings by saying home wasn’t enough. That day the System had spoken to her had felt like an answer.

Anesidora. Avowed. A brand new life in the most exciting place on Earth.

She wanted to love it here. She had loved it here.

But every now and then…

During Diwali, when they’d been trying to watch the fireworks with the crowd at The Span, she’d gotten shoved around too much. And it wasn’t like being jostled in any crowd she’d ever been in. Arms moving so fast that she couldn’t tell if they were going to hit her or not until the owner was already past. Little bumps that almost took her off her feet even though the other person didn’t seem to notice.

Natalie and Hadiza didn’t seem to have the same trouble, but…well…they were both really high on the noticeability scale.

The balcony with the hot tub had taken her mind right off of the discomfort that night. But here it was again.

I am not someone who can fight back against an Avowed.

Not any Avowed.

Maybe another little F-rank Rabbit.

I don’t think the people out there are all F-rank Rabbits. Aren’t they ever going to leave?

It was probably only the dark, the stillness, and the fear. But their incomprehensible conversation had a tone to it that Emilija though was conspiratorial. They sounded like they were planning something. And like, maybe, they were hyping each other up for their plans.

Suddenly, there was a clatter from outside the door that made her flinch and Natalie gasp. The bathroom light clicked on for a second, and they all three froze again, staring at each other.

One of the voices shouted, “Be serious! This is serious business! They’re keeping us away from one of the only chaos-rated shelters. They aren’t allowed to do that. They aren’t allowed to send us to some random tower without a single fucking shield on it. We ran halfway across F to get here. This is our island. We’ve got rights.”

Emilija understood they, serious, chaos, demon, and shelter.

She imagined terrible things.

“I’ve got to take a leak,” another voice said.

Emilija understood none of that. But she understood the sudden change in Hadiza’s expression, the tiny sound Natalie made, the stomp of feet getting louder and louder.

The light went off.

The door swung open, and it blinked back on. A long-haired man who looked just a few years older than her, wearing heavy bracers with stones set in them, stared at the three of them.

“Our bathroom,” said Emilija, her voice coming out hard. Like she actually had some authority over this particular lavatory. “Not for you. Go.”

“We’re just hiding out in here from the danger,” said Natalie. She was talking too fast, but she’d turned on that smile that seemed to make every quirk charming. “It was bad out there. Do you think it’s safe for us to leave yet?”

Emilija couldn’t even decipher the words, but she found herself nodding along in agreement.

Hadiza had paused in the act of reaching for the toilet brush. What she was going to do with that was anyone’s guess.

What kind of a weapon is a toilet brush, anyway?

“We were on our way to Norsehorse Condominium,” said Natalie. “It’s that way, isn’t it?”

She pointed toward a wall.

The man was gaping, mostly at her.

Emilija analyzed his face. This might be all right. That’s a good face.

People gaping at Natalie Choir was business as usual. The high Appeal was startling, but most people liked it. It was, after all, something you were suppose to like.

“Oh, yeah! Yeah!” The man smiled at them. “That’s the way, all right! But it’s pretty rough out there. Don’t you three want to wait here? When we bust into the bunker, everybody on our side can come with us, and you can—”

“You can work for your chance at safety or you can leave.” The tall brunette woman who’d stalked up behind the man to see what was going on had a face like an iceberg. “I didn’t help build that shelter with my own two hands only to be teleported off to a random highrise when the big day finally came. And I didn’t build it so a bunch of pretty faces could waltz in after we’d fought for it.”

She and the man exchanged a few words in another language, and then she stared at Natalie. “That much of a beauty boost and still stuck here? Obviously a Rabbit. What’s a Rabbit going to do when the demons come?”

“Ummm…” said Natalie. “I just want to do what the System says. And chaos exposure is low. I don’t need…a special shelter or anything, ma’am?”

“We are going,” said Hadiza firmly.

Emilija nodded in solidarity. She didn’t get the conversation, but she got that her friends weren’t happy. And the word going.

Yes. Let’s be going. Let’s go. Away from all of this.

She was sure she’d rather deal with whatever the ocean was doing than with these people.

They shuffled out of the bathroom.

Emilija felt odd all of the sudden. Like her body was too light and the world was too slow.

Maybe, she thought, I locked my knees while we were hiding out in there.

When she was little, her teacher had locked her knees for too long during a school program and had fainted.

She walked out behind Natalie and Hadiza, through the little shop. There were only five others in here. It had sounded like a much larger group from the volume of their conversation. One woman had a cut on her forehead. A man, standing on guard by the door, had a wrist cannon.

None of them had the red halos.

“Infogear has cut us off. Should’ve known an old high rank like the Informant was on their side,” a gray-haired man spat. “I voted for the Bunker Street shelter every year for a decade! People said it was a waste of funds to prep for chaos, but now they all want in.”

“We need to find a member of the Sway relay. Talk to the others.”

These are not normal people, thought Emilija. Whatever they’re saying, they’re saying it so angrily.

“Hey.”

Natalie had just made it out the door. Her shoes were crunching on pieces of traffic light. She stopped as the man on guard grabbed her arm. “Hey! We could use this one!”

He looked back at his friends.

“We could use all of them. Bait. Or put them out front when we go in. The red rings are still playing around like they’re scared of their own powers, and if these three are Rabbits they’re not tough at all. They’ll have to think and think again about how to attack us, right?”

An argument started around them. Chinese, English, something else. The gray-haired man had gone to stand on the other side of Natalie. The door was blocked now.

Are they going to keep us here? How long? What if the tsunami happens? What if more spells fly in?

Hadiza’s voice was rising as she rounded on the woman with the iceberg face.

Emilija didn’t know the words.

Natalie was biting her lip and struggling to break away from the grip around her arm. Her golden eyes were watering.

“You’re hurting her,” Emilija said in Lithuanian. “Wrist gun! You’re hurting my friend! Let go!”

Hadiza made for the door, and the woman with the cut tried to grab her. Hadiza ducked. Natalie cried out.

Emilija took a step.

