It was the first step of a running tackle. She was aiming for the arm holding Natalie. She was going to throw her entire bodyweight at the arm, and then maybe it would give, and maybe they could run, and it wasn’t really a plan, it was just what she was doing because suddenly this was all going wrong so fast and their choices were to hope for the best or get away.

And she wanted them to get away.

The first step should have been one of several. Three or four to the door, to the man, to freedom.

Instead, that first step launched her body across the room like she’d been shot from a gun.

She’d been shot from a gun…but everything was just a little slow. She felt so light. She was flying toward that arm, and it was different than she’d thought it would be. She had time to pull her elbows in, to put her fists up in front of her face, to think, What the—?

And then she hit him.

It hurt. Like tackling someone as hard as you could should, she imagined.

But that was the only normal thing about it. There was a crack of sound, and his arm was no longer an obstacle. She tried to slow herself with a second step, but the momentum of her own body was too much. She didn’t quite get a foot underneath her properly before she slammed into obstacle number two—the other man blocking the door. Then he was falling backwards over the remnants of the traffic light, slamming into the pavement, and she was falling on top of him and righting herself almost in the same instant.

Her body had become a baffling machine she was trying to drive, completely unpredictable even as it felt like it should be easier to control.

“Run!” she was screaming as she stood back up.

She knew that word in English. Hadiza was shouting the same thing.

“Let’s run!”

She started to go. But she went way too fast and had to stop herself so that she wasn’t leaving the others behind. She stood in the middle of the battle-scarred street with her chest heaving, her arms out, and her legs splayed like a newborn foal’s. Like she was trying to balance even though her sense of her body being wrong didn’t seem to be improved by the posture at all.

Emilija was very, very confused.

When the other two caught up, Natalie was sobbing. Hadiza grabbed Emilija’s arm and pulled. She shouted “run,” and Emilija ran again.

And it happened again.

She ran too far too fast and stopped. Same useless safety posture as before.

This time, when the other girls reached her, Hadiza shouted a question.

“Natalie good?” Emilija asked. “Not hurt?”

Natalie grabbed her around the neck and hugged her. So that was probably a sign that she wasn’t hurt too badly.

Hadiza shouted a question again, staring at Emilija.

I bet she’s asking me what’s going on.

I would like to know that, too.

******

******

The Span had been emptied of people some time ago. Plopstar had teleported away to another assignment. The abandoned vehicles stood there, being periodically washed—or washed away—by the contaminated sea.

No Avowed had received official orders through the System to guard the bridge, so members of the Apex and F-city police forces who hadn’t been called for duty as red halos had been assigned to stand at either end and prevent crossings.

The job had been rough earlier, particularly on the Apex side, but now that almost everyone had seen what the deadly water could do, either in person or through local news, they weren’t having as much trouble. It had been twenty minutes since someone had made a serious attempt to break through the loose line of high ranks and try their luck on a bridge that was looking more and more impassable with every watery assault. There were sections missing. The wreckage of a sailboat had landed two kilometers from the F side.

Only a few people had broken through after The Span was cleared, and those few…

“It’s like this, son,” an old A-rank Brute said gruffly to the short blond boy who’d approached the barrier that had been set up to save fools from themselves. A series of ten barrel-shaped devices stood in a line, powering a curtain shield. “If you were strong enough to cross the bridge without trouble, you’d be strong enough to get past us without asking. Now, why don’t you head with Samira to a shelter? You don’t mind do you, Samira?”

Before the woman he’d called out to could answer, the boy pursed his lips and then said, “I hate to try this, but would it make a difference if I told you I was a Velra?”

The Brute peered down at him. “Are you attempting to bribe me?”

“I’m not sure. I don’t usually do things like…would bribing you work?”

“You know,” said the officer tiredly, “this isn’t a game. What’s happening out there is serious. People have been hurt. And we don’t have time for kids who—”

“I know it’s not a game,” said the boy. “I’m trying to get to my dad. One of his friends texted to say he was last seen hours ago, drunk and heading to a beach. I’m just going to go have a look around for him.”

“Your father’s probably already somewhere safe!” Samira piped up from her post in front of the curtain. There was a break in the rain at the moment, but her raincoat was still freckled with droplets.  “The Artonans are helping with emergency response and the System has been teleporting everyone who needs it. There’s nothing to worry…”

She trailed off as she saw the look on his face.

“The Interdimensional Warrior’s Contract isn’t giving a free salvation teleport to everyone,” he said flatly. “Not everybody who lives on Anesidora is an Avowed.”

“Well…uh…”

“I’m sorry. It’s not your fault…I’ll go to the shelter on my own. I can get there. I’m an S-rank. Don’t worry about me.”

The boy started to walk away, then he looked back over his shoulder to peer at the curtain. “How high is that? Twenty meters? Fine. Have a good night.”

******

Lute Velra didn’t know what he had expected from that conversation.

Nothing had been the most likely result, and nothing was what he’d gotten. But there were still rules in his head that had to be followed. Listen to police. Obey grown-ups. Keep your head down and live quietly around all the Avowed.

That last one was almost gone. Crumbling. You couldn’t actually be a strong Avowed and not know, on some level, that you were. Lute had so many of the same thoughts and hang-ups he’d always had, but his body was different. Those thoughts came from a mind that worked differently. When Lexi made snide comments, he could turn his ears on if he wanted and notice the exact tones he was using to tell if his roommate was really in a bad mood or if he was just saying ill-tempered things out of habit.

It was habit at least half the time. Lute blamed Konstantin for probably being the kind of brother who required constant nagging.

But Chainer was a class that had kept Lute more separate from other Avowed than others probably would have. He had a part-time job on the Triplanets. He couldn’t join any class-focused clubs or properly talk about his magic with anyone but his own relatives and an overly enthusiastic, intimidatingly zealous Artonan.

So there was still a part of him that despaired when he saw all those high ranks standing in front of the Wrightmade shield, guarding the bridge that separated him from that stupid idiot moron Cyril.

Those were real Avowed. Those were the strong people at the top of the Anesidoran rank pyramid.

Lute was…

Packing a second S skill that’s useless for this. Gifted with some of the best hands a human can wear and a voice that can hit notes nobody should be able to.

Completely incapable of targeting people without the System’s help unless they’re hot or hatable.

Before he’d gotten the text telling him about where his dad had last been seen, he’d been wandering the MPE gym, trying to get his targeting to work. To distract himself from the anxiety of not knowing where either of his parents were and to prove to himself that he was not some terrible System-born lustcreature whose powers were supposed to work that way.

He had managed to gift chains by deliberately obsessing over someone while he cast. He’d been relieved to discover the “hatable” method because at least it was proof there wasn’t only one way to do it.

I just needed to access a certain quality of focus. It was coincidence that I figured that out in such an awkward way.

He’d learn to do it in a less embarrassing manner as soon as possible, take the secret with him when he died, and nobody would ever know.

But for now, he walked away from the police line, focused on a few of Emilija’s wonderful qualities, and wove his hands while he chanted one more Force of the Traveler’s Body for her. He’d already done three of those. And a few other things. Desperately hoping…

She was an F-rank Rabbit. She’d be super low priority for teleport, and who knew what trouble she might run into on a night like this? Lute doubted any of the wordchains were landing on her. He had no clue what his range was; he’d never tested it because it had always been far enough to do his job. But he didn’t believe it was the ten-plus kilometers it would need to be to actually help her.

Maybe, if he was very lucky, just one would make it through.

Now for me.

He had already layered so many that he’d felt like he was trying to operate an alien being by remote control on his run here. Self-mastery was working overtime. He’d given up on controlling some of the things he usually enjoyed micromanaging—his expressions, his tone—so that he could focus on the big things that needed to be operated perfectly to avoid disaster.

Like his arms and legs.

And the negative side effects of that one…Lute didn’t know if it was even possible to become aware of individual cells, but he had reached a point where he was seriously considering that it might be. The human body was a disgusting meat puppet entrapping the soul, and nobody should ever be forced to acknowledge their own guts processing their last meal.

What makes someone a great Chainer?

A question he had never wanted to care about.

The System gave you the hands. The mouth. The ears. The memory.

And it gave you the package of tools for the actual Mass Bestowal part of the job…which Lute couldn’t currently access.

To make you a Chainer, the family or the Palace shoved your nose into a book for decades and forced you to gobble down hundreds of obscure chains that did almost the same things as the hundreds of other obscure chains you’d already learned.

Eternal. Memorization.

Homework forever.

But other than that…what was there?

What was it, anyway, that made a Chainer good?

It’s getting wordchains to land on you or on the people you’re casting them for.

Chains didn’t always answer. Aulia had obnoxious theories about how high ranks were more in tune with the universe. About how that made wordchains like them more or something. Maybe Lute should have stolen a few more lessons from her before he cut her out of his life, so he could understand exactly what she thought.

He did know that most people couldn’t stack more than a dozen casts of a single wordchain on themselves. They were supposed to stop landing for you at some point.

He hadn’t thought he could do it. But he’d just done it. With more than one chain.

Huh.

The thing was, Lute didn’t actually know truly strong wordchains yet. He was still a novice. He had his questionable understanding of Artonan and his beginner chaining books that he’d been memorizing for the past year like a good boy. And Harmony, which he’d asked for specifically.

Plus whatever specialty things Parethat-uur gave him for work or as random surprises.

It was a lot compared to everyone else, but by S-rank Chainer standards he was barely taking his first step.

But to run kilometers across a partially destroyed bridge, to guarantee he could survive in the water if it sank, to make it to F and, hopefully, his father…Lute Velra felt, for the first time in his life, like he needed a lot of magic.

All he had, though, was one skill he could barely use, another he couldn’t use at all in this situation, and his too-small wordchains.

So he kept casting them. And they just kept coming for him.

He decided it wasn’t a time for questions.

But he remembered his grandmother turning blind eyes toward him that night and smiling. He remembered Hazel, losing that cruel little wordchain casting contest to him, even though he didn’t speak Artonan. Even though she was a prodigy.

He cast another Force of the Traveler’s Body on himself.

It gave you “strength for your travels” which was just plain old strength as far as Lute was concerned on a normal day, but he was hoping for more now.

That’s enough. That’s got to be enough. One more, and I’ll explode.

He was stronger, faster, and more durable than he’d ever been before. The vision in his eye was more acute. He could count every strand of hair touching his face. His mental focus was wildly enhanced, though there was so much to focus on that it didn’t feel like it was.

He stopped walking down the abandoned street and turned back to look at the line of guards and the shining barrier. He’d gone far enough that they had to be relaxed by now. He’d gone so far that most of them probably couldn’t even see him anymore.

Dad, you dumbshit. I hate you. I miss you. Please don’t be dead.

He wondered what it was going to feel like to leave the ground. To make the choice.

To finally, once and for all, throw himself into the sky.

Fast enough that the speedster over there can’t catch you, thought Lute. Strong enough that the strong one can’t grab you. Get there before any spell can reach you.

Now.

He launched himself forward. The pavement released a sharp report.

