Cale nodded slowly. "Has the dark lord ever gotten involved with the Fettered Divinity tournament before?"

"I don't... think so," Leo said, his brows furrowing. He rummaged through his notes for a moment, then shook his  head. "No. Is he going to get involved in this one, do you think?"

"It's hard to say, but..." Cale leaned back in his seat, considering. "We know he's been getting more active, right? It's not public information yet, but we've heard about groups of aberrations taking tentative strikes at the different kingdoms, like they're testing the defenses."

"Right," Leo said.

"Which is something a hostile dark lord does," Cale continued. "But it makes it weird that he hasn't attacked before. Dark lords do have to play by certain rules, mind you; it's the whole reason they don't usually attack until the time is right. But the key word in that is usually.

"Those rules have exceptions. One of those exceptions is that if an artifact like the Anchor exists, they have to pursue it. The fact that he hasn't already... I mean, the teleportation failsafe would render it moot, but it's still strange he hasn't tried to work around it. He should have at least made a play for it by now, if only to do some testing."

"Maybe he just doesn't know about it?" Leo suggested. "There's all that memory magic around it."

Flia and Syphus nodded at that, but Cale wasn't all that convinced. "It'd be strange if he didn't," he said. "Again, rules. If anything, I'm worried he knows more about it than we do."

"It could be that he's not evil," Damien offered quietly. "You said not all dark lords are evil, right?"

"Then it'd be strange that he's attacking the kingdoms to begin with," Cale said, then hesitated. "But you're right, they're not. They're a product of the realm, usually. I can't remember the specifics—it's been a long time, and I think I sealed some of my own memories about dark lords away. Not sure why I'd do that, but I'd only do it if it was important. I hate memory manipulation."

"What do you mean, a product of the realm?" Damien asked, confused. "How are dark lords chosen, anyway? You've implied that they're chosen, I think?"

"It's... complicated." Cale sighed. "A dark lord is an ontological role that must be filled by someone; if they don't choose the role on their own, then it might be forced on them. And most of the time, the realm will pick someone already opposed to divinity. Someone trodded on by society, who feels the need to get back at the gods for abandoning them. That kind of thing.

"It's usually not much better if someone chooses the role. Almost invariably, it's someone that wants power, and it's the person that wants the role the most that ends up getting it. Sort of. Again, it's complicated. But the end result is that a lot of dark lords are evil, or end up being evil, one way or another. Sometimes they change their ways, but..."

"It's set up against them," Damien said, his voice soft with sympathy, and Cale nodded.

"They're opposed to the realm," he said. "Their presence alone makes things worse for everyone else. Even if they wanted support, it'd be really hard for them to get it. Everyone else in the realm is going to instinctively want to reject them. They're going to feel like the dark lord's presence is wrong.

"How often do people manage to get over that feeling? When you're uncomfortable with another person, how often do you check if that discomfort is irrational? The instinct, for most people, is to find a rationalization for it. They find some excuse to avoid confronting that instinct and tell themselves they were right all along."

His apprentices all shifted among themselves, looking vaguely disturbed, and Cale gave them a reassuring grin. "I'm not saying you guys do that," he said. "But it's something to be careful of. It's how the Red Hunters were able to sow so much discontent against wild mages, you know? They take that feeling of discomfort, and they find ways to validate it.

"Sometimes, that's all you need, at the end of the day—a reason to avoid having to reconsider. And being the literal dark lord is basically the perfect reason served up on a giant, morally palatable platter."

Flia frowned. "When you put it like that, it sounds like we should beat up whoever set this up in the first place."

Cale chuckled. "If only it were that easy to fight the cosmic forces that make up the multiverse," he said dryly. "And yes, I'm aware of the irony that I, specifically, am saying that. My point stands."

"It also sounds like you don't want to fight this dark lord," Syphus noted.

Cale shrugged. "I don't know anything about him," he said. "If this pattern holds, he'll attack, and we'll have to fight him off. None of this means we shouldn't defend ourselves. But it's worth keeping in mind that it's probably more complicated than we know... and for the record, I never really want to fight."

Syphus gave him a skeptical look. So did the rest of his apprentices, for that matter.

"Have you forgotten that my one true passion is baking magic?" Cale complained. "Speaking of which, Damien, we need to do more of that later. I want to see the progress you've made."

"We're getting off topic," Damien grumbled, although he didn't exactly refuse. Cale grinned. "You were saying it's possible that this one's nice, right? Maybe that's the reason he hasn't attacked the tournaments. And maybe he just attacked the kingdoms for, um, other reasons."

"Now you're looking too hard for reasons to defend him." Cale shook his head, but smiled slightly. "But good. Always test your assumptions when you're a mage. Personally..."

He thought for a moment. "I don't know if that feels right," he said eventually. "When a dark lord works with the realm, it's usually significant. It's very, very rare, but it does happen. They'll establish a kingdom of their own and get trade agreements going. This one hasn't done any of that."

"So maybe the tournament just doesn't have anything he needs, for some reason," Leo suggested. "The dark lord wouldn't benefit from anything related to the divines, right? The Anchor wouldn't help him or his armies, 'cause of the whole canceling out divine magic thing. The most he could do was stop it from benefiting us."

"Which should be more than enough," Cale said, then sighed. "But it might be the best we've got for now. I want you all to keep thinking about it, though, and come to me if you can think of anything plausible. I can't help but feel like we're missing something. And it shouldn't need to be said, but we should still be prepared in case he decides to interfere this time."

"Are we ever not?" Flia joked. "Being prepared is basically the first thing you taught us."

"And you have a long way to go," Cale said, though he couldn't help the small smile that slipped onto his face. They had taken to his lessons remarkably well, now that he thought about it.

Right on cue, Akkau called the questions to a close, interrupting their discussion. Cale and his apprentices straightened and turned toward the old dragon as he spoke, his voice reverberating throughout the hall.

"Any further questions can be handled in my office at the end of the day," Akkau said. "I have a supplementary exercise for you all. You may notice this is a particularly large class, but that not all of your peers have been invited to join. This is because the secondary aspect of Divine Studies is one that cannot be discussed with any mage that is insufficiently prepared.

"Consider this a warning. Do not speak of what you are about to learn to anyone who does not share this class with you unless they are a higher level of mage. I will know if you make the attempt, and you will not succeed. Is that clear?"

Cale raised an eyebrow, even as the students around him all murmured a confused assent. "Ah," he said. "We're doing this now, I see."

"Doing what now?" Leo looked confused.

"This supplementary exercise involves identifying your divine alignment," Akkau continued. "Many of you will not have heard of this before; this is by design, for reasons you will all learn shortly. Much like your mana aspect, knowledge of your alignment is an essential component to developing the true potential of your mana core.

"To that end, I will be distributing a tool—an alignment orb—specifically crafted to identify the alignment of your mana. You will all use these orbs in this class only, and you will return them immediately afterward. Do not worry about your peers learning your secrets. It will not grant them any advantage over you.

"When you receive your orb, inject a small quantity of your mana into the center of it. We will begin the second part of our lecture in full once you know your alignment." Akkau paused, reviewing the class to make sure everyone was paying attention.

Then he snapped his fingers, and suddenly Cale and his apprentices were enveloped in darkness. There was nothing around them aside from a black, empty void, and the sudden appearance of it made Leo jump and squeak.

"Did you just squeak?" Syphus asked, fascinated.

"Absolutely not," Leo denied immediately.

Cale's apprentices were all tense, though two of them didn't say anything. They just looked about warily, spells at the ready. Cale, for his part, stayed relaxed in his seat (but made a quick, pleased note that his apprentices had excellent reaction times.)

"I apologize for the abrupt nature of this," Akkau said, his tone dry and echoing around them. "It occurs to me that it is traditional for the master to tell this to their apprentices personally, and I would not take this away from you. I have isolated you and your apprentices from the rest of the class so you can give them the explanation yourself. I trust you are aware of the details?"

"I've done it all before," Cale acknowledged, waving a hand. "I got this. Thanks. Also, I don't need your orb thing." He indicated the four alignment orbs that were sitting between them.

At this, Akkau smirked. Cale could absolutely tell Akkau was smirking, even though he couldn't see it. "I am afraid I said that you would all use the orbs, my dear apprentice."

"But I don't need it," Cale complained. "I'm already archmage-level. It's not going to show anything."

"It would not in most cases," Akkau said, amused. "And yet you are surprisingly reluctant. What would your apprentices say to see their master avoiding a device he wishes for them to use?"

"Yeah, Cale," Flia said. "What are you avoiding?"

Cale glared. "Not helping," he muttered, then finally relented. "Fine, fine, whatever. Just... keep the privacy screen up. And let me finish explaining what all this is about first."

He took a deep breath, then turned to his apprentices. "Okay," he said. "It's time to talk about how mana cores really work."
