The fire had been going for ninety-four days.

Not this fire, specifically — no single fire persists that long. But there had been a fire here, in this spot, for ninety-four days, and Fennick Rall had sat beside most of them. He knew which mornings someone had failed to tend it and he had watched it die to embers and rebuild from them. He knew which pieces of wood burned clean and which ones spat. He knew the fire the way you know a thing you have had no choice but to pay attention to.

He was sixty-three years old and he had been sitting by this fire for three months and he had not gone in.

He rose before dawn, in the gray hour when the camp was quiet enough to hear the ridge's stone ticking in the cold. He did not wake anyone. He did not say anything to anyone, because there was nothing he could say that he had not already worked through alone by the fire on nights when the camp was asleep and the dungeon's entrance was a dark mouth twenty meters away and he had sat and looked at it and eventually looked away.

He picked up his pack. He walked to the entrance. He went in.

---

Three months earlier:

His son's name was Davin Rall. Twenty-six years old, a carter by trade, a man who could read a road the way some people read faces — intuitively, ahead of his awareness, his hands already adjusting before his mind had named the problem. He had entered the dungeon on the morning of what Fennick later calculated was Death #4, though he had not known to count at the time. He had entered without telling Fennick he was going.

Fennick had received the news fourteen days later from a man who had been at the camp and was returning home. The man had the decency to say it plainly: your son went in on such-and-such morning and has not come out. Fennick had sat with this for two days before he packed a bag and started walking.

He had arrived at the camp on a morning when the entrance count was six deaths. He had sat down by the fire. He had watched Death #7 go in (a woman in military gear he later learned was called Sera Vant) and then Death #8 (a scribe with the same party, who left his journal just inside the entrance in case anyone wanted it) and then Death #9 (a man who stood at the entrance for eleven minutes studying the stonework before he walked in as if beginning a workday) and then Death #10 (a young woman who sat by his fire the evening before she entered, rolling a glass bead between her fingers, watching the flames the way he had been watching them for months).

He had not spoken to any of them. They had not needed him to.

What he had done, over ninety-four days, was watch. He had watched the camp form around the dungeon's existence the way scar tissue forms around a wound: not healing it, not closing it, simply accommodating it into the body's new understanding of itself. He had watched the ledger-keeper arrive with his book and set up his small table and begin the work of recording names no one would ever come to collect. He had watched the merchants arrive with rope and lanterns and overpriced supplies for people who were not coming back. He had watched the blank cloth nailed to the post next to the crude map, the charcoal tied on a string, waiting.

He had watched, four days ago, a young man make it back out of the dungeon — pale, shaking, a cut on his forearm that had closed but not healed — and sit down by the fire and not speak for an hour and then pull out a stick of charcoal and walk to the blank cloth and draw, carefully, a bridge. An arch. Underneath it he had written: *300 meters in. Solid. Built by someone.* Then he had sat back down by the fire and not spoken again.

Fennick had watched him add the first mark to the blank cloth. He had understood that this was something. He was not sure what.

Ninety-four days. He had watched everything.

He had not gone in.

---

The entrance was a compression in the ridge face, the stone on either side scored by pressure rather than tools. Fennick had looked at this entrance for ninety-four days and he had never been closer to it than five meters. He stepped through now and felt the temperature change — not warmer, exactly, but a different kind of warm, directional rather than ambient, a warmth that had a source rather than a cause.

The corridor ahead was ribbed and faintly luminescent. He had heard this described by people who had made it back from Depth 1. He had heard it described wrong in the ways that people describe things they have only experienced once and in a state of high alertness: too dark, too narrow, too cold. It was none of those things. It was a corridor. He had been in worse corridors in his life, in mines and cellars and once in a cave system in the mountains north of where he grew up, where the rock was a particular red-brown that made it look like the interior of something living.

He had a lantern. He had food for three days, which he had packed not because he expected to need it but because he was a man who packed correctly.

He had watched enough people enter to know roughly what to expect in the first hundred meters. He had the partial map from the camp wall in his head — a rough sketch of the Gullet entrance and the arch at three hundred meters. Beyond that: accounts from those who had turned back, fragmentary and inconsistent in the way that firsthand accounts always are.

He walked.

---

The inscriptions.

He had heard about them — the ledger-keeper had mentioned them, and two people who had turned back before the arch had described them. He had not known exactly what to expect. What he found was a register carved in the Maw's own hand, formal and clinical, in a notation style that reminded him of military records: all-caps, each entry a precedence claim rather than a memorial.

He read each one.

*EDRIC VOSS — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO ENTER.*
*MAREN VOSS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO DREAM IN THE DARK.*
*LIRA — DEPTH 1 — FIRST COMPELLED.*
*BREN ALDIC — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO HOLD THE LINE IN THE GULLET.*
*DARA HESS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO NAVIGATE THE WARRENS BLIND.*
*MIRA DOSS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO TEND THE WOUNDED.*

Then a gap. He stood in front of it for a long time.

He had heard about the gap — the ledger-keeper had noted it in his book as an anomaly, *inscription wall has space for one more entry between Mira Doss and the next section.* He had been told the gap was there. Standing in front of it was different. The stone where the next inscription should be was smooth and clean, as if the dungeon had prepared the surface and then decided not to write on it.

He counted. Six inscriptions. One gap. Then below, past the gap — he had to move closer — three more entries, newer, the carving slightly different, the stone around them less settled:

*SERA VANT — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO HOLD THE STILL GARDEN.*
*SYLAS RENN — (on keystone — see arch).*
*ASHA TREVANE — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO ARRIVE.*

He stood at the blank space for a long time. He did not know who was missing. He had thought it might be his son. He understood now that he had no way of knowing. Davin had entered on the morning of what Fennick calculated was Death #4. The military party was Deaths #4-8. If Davin was one of the military party, his inscription was here. If Davin was something else — earlier, later, uncounted — the gap might be his. Or neither.

He put his hand on the blank stone. The dungeon did not respond. He moved on.

---

The glass bead was near the mouth of a side passage: small, amber-gold, with a thread of green in the center. He crouched and picked it up.

Warm. Not the dungeon's warmth — he had catalogued that in his first hundred meters, the directional attentive warmth, and this was different. This was the warmth of something that had been made by hands. He had seen the young woman rolling it between her fingers the evening before she entered. He had watched her set it down on the floor of the dungeon from where he sat by the fire — or he thought he had. He had not been certain at the time what he was seeing.

He held it for a moment. Then he set it back where he had found it.

He understood that she had meant to leave it. He did not know why, and understanding the why was not necessary. She had made something with her hands and left it here and the dungeon had left it alone. That was enough.

He kept walking.

---

The arch was at the three-hundred-meter mark.

He had seen the drawing on the blank cloth — the arch, the bridge, *300 meters in, solid, built by someone.* He had not expected the built-by-someone detail to land this hard. The arch was not large. It was a four-meter span, three voussoir stones, the abutments anchored into the basalt intrusion on either side of the gap. Functional and unadorned. He was not an engineer and he did not have the vocabulary for what he was looking at. He understood, without the vocabulary, that it had taken courage and craft in equal measure.

He looked at the keystone. *SYLAS RENN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO BUILD WHAT REMAINS.*

Below it: *THE ARCH HOLDS.*

A lantern was burning at the near abutment. He checked the oil — still half-full. Someone had been tending it. He crossed the arch and kept walking.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Current Resolve: 30
```

The Asking found him in the first junction of the Warrens, the same compressed pressure behind the eyes that people who had turned back at Depth 1 had described as *a feeling like being recognized.* One man had called it *like someone calling your name in a crowd, and you turn around, and they know who you are, and you don't know them at all.* That was accurate.

The dungeon's question was not a question. It was more like a key fitting a lock — not asking what he wanted so much as finding it already there and simply touching it.

*I want to find my son.*

The Designation settled over him the way a coat settles when someone else puts it on your shoulders — a weight that was also, somehow, a kind of warmth.

```stat-screen
ENTRANT DESIGNATION: THE WITNESS

GIFT: TESTIMONY
You may close your eyes and replay any moment you have observed
since arriving at the dungeon's entrance camp, 94 days ago.
Each replayed moment is experienced with perfect fidelity.
Observations made inside the dungeon are added to this record continuously.

COST: ABSENCE
While in Testimony, you are not present.
You cannot perceive, react to, or interact with the current moment.
The dungeon does not pause for your memory.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 14
Resolve ............... 29
Attunement ............ 11
Fortune ............... 16

Note: Entry type — voluntary, deliberate, non-Compelled.
Time at entrance camp prior to entry: 94 days.
The Maw did not bring him here.
```

He read the screen twice. He had not expected the last line.

*The Maw did not bring him here.*

He stood in the first junction of the Warrens and looked at this for a long time. He had spent ninety-four days trying to understand why his son had gone in, and the answer had always been some version of *because something made him*. The dungeon had reached out. The dungeon had manufactured a want or amplified an existing one and his son had followed it. Davin had not chosen.

He understood now that this was how he had been thinking about it. And he understood, standing in the junction of the Warrens with the Designation settling into his bones, that this belief had been doing specific work for him. If the dungeon had made Davin come here, Davin's death was not Davin's decision. It was a thing that had been done to Davin, not a thing Davin had done.

He had watched ten people enter this dungeon. He had watched one woman turn back on the road. He had been watching for ninety-four days and he had believed, without examining the belief, that all of them had been brought here by something outside themselves.

The screen said: *The Maw did not bring him here.*

He kept walking.

---

The Warrens: a maze that was not quite a maze, because a maze is designed to disorient and the Warrens had not been designed for anything except to exist in the particular way that limestone exists after water has worked on it for a long time. He navigated by the accounts he had memorized at camp, cross-referenced against the partial map, cross-referenced against what he could see and smell and hear. The temperature dropped in the south corridor and rose in the north. He went north.

The journal was propped against the left wall just inside the entrance, exactly where two people who had made it to the Warrens and back had described it. A scribe's hand, careful and increasingly tired as the pages progressed. He took it down. He sat on the floor of the Warrens with his lantern and read it.

Not as a structural document — he did not have the training to interpret the topographical observations or the military code in the final entries. He read it as the record of five people who had come here together and died one by one, and he read it as the record of the man who had watched them go and had written it down because writing it down was the only thing he knew how to do with it.

The last entry: *To whoever reads this.*

He sat with that for a moment. Then he put the journal back exactly where he had found it. He leaned it against the left wall at the same angle. He did not take it. It had been left for whoever came next, and the next person would need it more than he did.

He used the Gift for the first time: he closed his eyes and replayed the conversation at camp where a young woman named Petra — she had only been at the camp for two days before she went in — had described the pattern room. She had made it to a particular junction, gone left instead of right, found a chamber whose walls were covered in a fine script she couldn't read, felt frightened, and come back out. The script had been in a deliberate pattern. She had said: *like someone had been writing the same thing over and over in slightly different ways, trying to get it exactly right.*

He found the pattern room by going left at the junction. The walls were covered in Orvyn's handwriting — cramped military script, the same phrases repeated with variations, the observations sharpened and resharpened. He could not read the individual words from this distance. He did not try to. He understood what he was looking at: a man who had come here with people he was responsible for and had watched them die and had done the only thing he knew how to do with it.

He recognized this. It was not the same as finding comfort in it — recognition is not the same as resolution — but it was something to have a name for the ninety-four days.

He went on.

---

The Still Garden:

He had heard it described four times by people who had reached it and come back — one of them had come back twice, which told him something about the kind of person who goes twice. The accounts agreed on: luminous crystal growths, silence so complete it had a texture, cold, and a creature that waited.

The creature had been described as large and crystal-bodied and very still. One man had described it as *the most patient thing I have ever seen.* He had said this with something like admiration.

Fennick entered the Still Garden and the creature was at the far end of a row of crystal growths, visible immediately. He had expected it to be harder to see. It was not hard to see. It was simply very still.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Current Resolve: 31
```

He stood at the entrance to the Still Garden for a moment, orienting. He noted the weapons near the eastern wall — a sword, a spear. No knife. He noted the crystals, their spacing, the ratio he didn't have the vocabulary to name. He noted the creature at the far end of the row.

He had been watching things for ninety-four days. He had gotten good at watching. He watched the creature and the creature watched him and neither of them moved.

After a while he began to look for Davin.

He used the Gift: he closed his eyes and replayed the morning of Death #4 as he understood it — reconstructed from accounts, not observed directly, so Testimony could not replay it with fidelity; what he got instead was the absence of the memory, the shape of the gap where the direct observation would have been. He had known, at some level, that this was how it would work. You can only replay what you saw.

He had not seen his son enter. He had not been here.

He opened his eyes.

The crystal growths were very beautiful. He had not let himself think that before — he had been oriented, noting weapons and spacing and exits — but he thought it now, standing in the Still Garden with the absence of his son still in his hands. Someone, once, before any of this, had thought it worthwhile to grow something beautiful in the dark.

The creature had moved.

He had twelve meters of crystal garden between himself and the nearest wall, and the creature was no longer at the far end of the row. He registered this in the way that people register information they already knew was coming — not surprise, exactly, but the particular quality of a thing that has been approaching for a long time finally arriving. He had been told. He had been sitting by the fire for ninety-four days, listening to accounts, and someone had specifically said: *it moves when you're not watching it.* He had filed this information. He had not fully understood, until now, what not watching meant.

He had closed his eyes.

He reached for his pack and the creature was simply there, and he was not.

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: FENNICK RALL
DESIGNATION: THE WITNESS
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 14 -> 0
Resolve ............... 29 -> 31 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 11 -> 13 (+2 Testimony activations)
Fortune ............... 16

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 13 (+2 from 2 activations)

CAUSE OF DEATH: Creature. Patient.
Note: Entrant was in Testimony (eyes closed, replaying absent memory) at time of attack.
Cost (Absence) was active. Entrant did not perceive approach.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Bronze.
Quality: patience. The specific quality of waiting for something without knowing if it will come.
Warning: Consumption will produce, temporarily, the sensation of a vigil — long, purposeful, and without resolution. Some who consume this crystal do not find it painful. Some cannot stop.

FLOOR MUTATION: None.
Note: Entrant left no permanent changes to dungeon architecture.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: WITNESS COMPLETE
Time at entrance camp prior to entry: 94 days.
Entry type: voluntary, deliberate, non-Compelled.
Note: First non-Compelled voluntary entrant in the registry.
The Maw did not bring him here.
```

The Ledger recorded the death.

It had not brought Fennick Rall here. This was unusual enough to note. Every entrant before him had arrived via Compulsion — the Maw's reach, extending outward, finding a desire and amplifying or manufacturing it, reeling the line in. Fennick Rall had sat at the camp for ninety-four days and then stood up and walked in under his own power, driven by something the Maw had not installed.

The Ledger classified this as a new category: Voluntary Entrant (Non-Compelled). It noted that Fennick's desire — *to find his son* — had been present and accessible when the Asking arrived, which meant the desire was real. It also noted that the desire was pointed at something the dungeon could not give him: his son was not in the dungeon. His son's body was not in the dungeon. His son had entered on the morning of Death #4 and was now part of the dungeon in the way that all the deaths were part of the dungeon, which was not the same as being findable.

The Maw noted, without assessment, that the Testimony Gift had shown Fennick the absence of his son rather than his son. He had closed his eyes to find Davin and found instead the shape of not having been there. This was, the Ledger recorded, accurate. Fennick Rall had not been present when his son died. The Gift had been truthful.

The Patient settled back into its position among the crystal growths.

Its kill count was now four: Lira, Sera Vant, Sylas Renn, Fennick Rall. The Ledger updated the record. No new name was assigned — the Patient had been named at three kills and the naming threshold was three. It remained The Patient.

At the entrance camp, the fire was still burning. The ledger-keeper opened his book and made a new entry: *Fennick Rall, entered this morning, not returned.* He noted in the margin: *had been at camp for approx. 3 months prior. Knew the entrance better than most.*

The blank cloth for map additions had Fennick's name — Petra had written it there, in small letters, after he had helped her understand the military notation in Orvyn's journal description: *Rall helped me read the pattern. Thanks, F.R.* No one else had added anything.

The death tally turned.

*989 remain.*

---

*FENNICK RALL — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO CHOOSE*
