She had delivered eight hundred and forty-seven children. She could still feel the weight of every one — not metaphorically. The weight. Infants weighed between five and eleven pounds at birth, and she had held each of them in the first minute, and her hands remembered each weight individually because each weight was different in a way that had nothing to do with pounds. A healthy infant at seven pounds felt like arrival. A struggling infant at seven pounds felt like a question. A stillborn at seven pounds felt like seven pounds.

Tova Fenn was fifty-four years old and had been delivering children for thirty-one years and the count was professional, not sentimental. A midwife who did not count was a midwife who did not learn, because the patterns lived in the numbers: how many breech presentations in a season, how many cord complications, how many first-time mothers who needed the second kind of quiet — not the absence of sound but the presence of someone who was not afraid. She counted the way she did everything else in the birthing room: carefully, with both hands, knowing exactly how much pressure.

Eight hundred and forty-seven. Eight hundred and forty-three had breathed. Four had not.

The number was small. Any midwife would say the number was small. Tova would say it too, if asked, because it was true, because the ratio was excellent, because thirty-one years of practice and attentive hands and the specific kind of patience that could not be taught had produced a record that any medical practitioner would respect.

The number was also four. And four was the number she carried, not eight hundred and forty-three, because the ones who breathed did not need carrying.

The fourth was seven months ago. Her daughter's child. She had delivered it herself because that was what she did — she delivered children, and her daughter's child was a child, and the work did not change because the bloodline was closer. She had felt the absence at the crowning, the specific quality of weight that she recognized from the other three: present, complete, not alive. She had held the child for the first minute the way she held every child for the first minute, because the first minute was the child's and the midwife's job was to be the first hands, and the hands did not get to choose which minutes they attended.

The swaddling cloth was in her apron pocket. Clean, folded, never used. Her daughter had washed it in preparation and then had not needed it, and Tova had taken it home because someone had to, and it had been in her apron pocket for seven months because that was where her hands kept the things they were responsible for.

She had not come here to be healed. She had not come here to forget. She had heard about the dungeon from a cloth merchant who passed through her village — heard about the crystals, the emotions held in mineral form, the place that kept what people felt at the end. She had listened the way she listened to a patient describing symptoms: noting the details, building the clinical picture, understanding what the place was before deciding what to do about it.

The place held death. She held death. The correspondence was sufficient.

She had walked for six days. No one had pulled her. No one had amplified a desire or manufactured a want or redirected a habit. She had finished her rounds, transferred her active patients to Elenna — the younger midwife, competent, still counting her first hundred — and walked northeast because the dungeon was northeast and she had decided to go there.

---

The camp was smaller than she had expected and more organized than it had any right to be. The fire was maintained. The man at the table was keeping records in a book that she recognized immediately as a census — she had kept birth records in a similar format for seventeen years, the same column structure, the same marginal annotations, the same territorial precision about the data.

"You're a record-keeper," she said.

Osren looked up. He had the look she associated with young physicians who had been working too long in one posting: competent, tired, not yet old enough to know they were tired.

"I keep the entrance register," he said.

"I can see that." She sat down across from him without being invited, because she had been entering rooms where she was needed but not invited for thirty-one years and the habit was structural. "I'm going in tomorrow."

"Most people go in immediately."

"I'm not most people. And that's not what I asked."

He looked at her for a moment. Then he opened the book. "What do you want to know?"

"How many. How deep. What killed them."

He told her. He was thorough — she gave him that. The telling had the quality of a case presentation: organized, cross-referenced, the specific caveat at each point where observation ended and inference began. Twenty deaths. Four depths confirmed, a fifth suggested. Three creatures: a predator at Depth 3, a sessile source at Depth 4, and the environment itself at Depth 2. The predator had been damaged. The source had not. The environment was the environment — it killed the way weather killed, by exposure and accumulation.

"The one at Depth 4," she said. "The source. What does it do?"

"It radiates. The emanation is accumulative. Two people have reached it. Both died."

"How long?"

Osren checked his notes. "The first — a researcher — his time is uncertain. The second — a courier — approximately thirty-one minutes."

"Thirty-one minutes." She was quiet for a moment. She was not doing arithmetic. She was doing triage — the rapid clinical assessment of a situation's trajectory. "What were their symptoms?"

Osren looked at her the way she had seen physicians look at midwives: with the sudden recognition that the person across from them was asking professional questions.

"The courier's account is secondhand — reported by the dungeon's own records, interpreted through the researcher's notebook. Joints first. Then vision. Then respiration." He paused. "The researcher's notes describe the emanation as a 'generalized presence in the body.' The courier's experience — as far as I can reconstruct it — was similar. Progressive, sequential, systemic."

"Fever pattern," Tova said.

"I'm sorry?"

"That's a fever pattern. Joint pain, visual disturbance, respiratory involvement. It's not a fever — you said it's radiant pressure — but the body responds to it the way it responds to fever. Sequential organ stress. You can predict the progression if you know the baseline." She looked at him. "Did either of them have medical training?"

"No."

"Then they didn't know what was happening to them until it was happening. A researcher writes notes. A courier walks. Neither of them was monitoring their own symptoms."

Osren was very still. She recognized the stillness — it was the stillness of someone who was revising a record in their head.

"I am a midwife," she said. "I have been monitoring symptoms for thirty-one years. I know what a body sounds like when it is failing, and I know what it sounds like before it fails. The difference is the window."

"The window."

"The time between the first sign and the point of no return. In labor, the window is everything. You miss it and the mother bleeds. You catch it and you can turn a breech, or stop a hemorrhage, or give the body the one thing it needs to finish the work on its own." She folded her hands on the table. "Thirty-one minutes. That's a long labor."

---

She spoke with Dalya, who sold rope and confirmed that the floor through the Warrens was dry bone, and that the warm section began at Depth 3 and intensified at Depth 4. She spoke with Osren again in the evening, asking about the specific sequence of the courier's decline — whether the joints were bilateral or unilateral, whether the visual disturbance was peripheral or central, whether the respiratory component was obstructive or restrictive. Osren did not have answers to these questions. He had the data he had, which was a record-keeper's data: what happened, in what order, at what time. Not what it felt like from inside.

She ate. She slept. She put her hand in her apron pocket and held the folded cloth the way she had held it every night for seven months: not squeezing, not clutching, just holding, the way you hold something that does not need you but that you are not ready to put down.

She entered the dungeon at dawn.

---

The Gullet was warm and alive in a way she recognized. Not architecturally — she was not a builder or a mason or a cartographer. Alive the way a body was alive: the ribbing, the warmth, the rhythm of the stone that was not quite a pulse but was close enough that her hands — her professional hands, the hands that had felt eight hundred and forty-seven heartbeats in their first minute — registered it as biological. The dungeon was an organism. She had known this from Osren's descriptions, but knowing was different from feeling, and feeling was her primary diagnostic instrument.

The inscription wall. Twenty names and a gap. She did not read them the way a hunter read trails or a cartographer read geometry. She read them the way she read patient charts: each one a life, each one an outcome, each outcome a data point about the place that had produced it. She noted the depth distribution. She noted the frequency of Depth 3 deaths. She noted that two people had died at Depth 4 and that no one had died at Depth 5 because no one had reached it.

She entered the Warrens.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE MARROW WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Tova Fenn: Current Resolve: 13
```

```stat-screen
DESIGNATION: THE VIGIL
GIFT: SUSTAINED HOLD

You may maintain physical contact with a living thing and hold its biological state steady.
While you hold, the held organism does not change — does not heal, does not worsen,
does not progress. You are present for it.
You may hold yourself.

COST: RELEASE
You cannot voluntarily let go.
Contact must be broken by external force or by the failure of your own body.
A midwife who cannot release the patient.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 18
Resolve ............... 12
Attunement ............ 7
Fortune ............... 12

Note: Entry type — Voluntary.
Non-Compelled. No pull detected. No amplification, no redirection, no bait.
The entrant came because the dungeon holds death and the entrant holds death
and the correspondence was sufficient.
The Maw did not bring her here.
The Maw does not understand why she came.
```

She read the screen standing in the first junction of the Warrens and understood the Gift the way she understood any new tool in the birthing room: by what it was for. Sustained Hold was for the moment between — the moment when the patient was not getting better and not getting worse and the only thing the practitioner could do was be there, holding, keeping the body in the space where the body still had options.

She understood the Cost immediately. She had spent thirty-one years letting go — of infants who needed to be placed on their mothers' chests, of hands that needed to be released so the patient could breathe, of the four who needed to be wrapped and carried to the place where the families waited. Letting go was the hardest part of the work and the most necessary, and the Cost was the removal of that necessity.

She filed both. She kept walking.

The Warrens shifted around her. She did not map them — she was not a cartographer. She navigated by feel, the way she navigated difficult labors: by the body's signals, by the warmth and pressure and the subtle changes in the air that told her which direction led deeper and which direction led back. The Warrens were a body. She moved through them the way she had moved through bodies for three decades: with practiced hands and attentive silence.

---

The Still Garden was beautiful and she did not stop.

She saw the creature — the Patient, the predator that Osren had described. She saw the crack in its shell and the marks on its surface and the artifacts scattered around it: a spear against the eastern wall, a plumb line and a chisel near the center, a knife. She saw the luminescent fluid seeping from the crack, slow and faint. She registered all of this the way she registered a patient's vital signs at the door of the birthing room: the quick assessment, the clinical snapshot, the decision about whether this room needed her.

This room did not need her. The creature was not her patient.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Tova Fenn: Current Resolve: 14
```

She walked through the Still Garden at the western edge, thirty meters from the creature, along the route that the camp records said was safe. The Patient tracked her. She felt its attention the way she felt a laboring mother's attention during a contraction — the focused, total awareness of something that was in pain and was watching the person near it for a sign of what to do.

She did not give it a sign. She was not here for the Patient. She walked through.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 4 REACHED: THE CRUCIBLE

RESOLVE: +1
Tova Fenn: Current Resolve: 15
```

The warmth was the first thing. Not the dungeon's ambient warmth — deeper, more specific, the kind of heat that rose from living tissue rather than from stone. She stood at the entrance to the Crucible and felt the temperature change settle into her body the way a fever settled: gradually, from the periphery inward, the skin first and then the joints and then the organs, each layer receiving the information and passing it deeper.

Twelve degrees warmer. She estimated this from the feeling in her forearms, where the veins ran close to the surface and the skin was thin enough to serve as a thermometer. She had calibrated her forearms against actual thermometers over thirty-one years of practice, and the calibration was reliable to within two degrees. Twelve. Possibly thirteen.

The chamber was vast. She could not see the far wall. The quartz formations descended from the ceiling like stalactites in a cave she had once visited as a girl — but these were not formed by water. These were formed by something alive. She could feel it: the emanation, the continuous radiant pressure that the record-keeper had described. It was already working on her. She could feel it in the joints of her fingers first — a stiffness, a subtle loss of flexibility, the earliest sign of a systemic response.

She noted: *joints first, bilateral, starting in the small joints of the hands. Consistent with the fever-pattern hypothesis. Onset: approximately 90 seconds from entry.*

The two death sites were visible: areas of cooled basalt with a thin crystalline film, one closer to the entrance, one further in. The notebook was between them — open, leather cover warped, pages up. The message tube was at the further site, still in its shoulder position.

The Emanator was at the center of the chamber.

She had expected something dangerous. What she saw was something old. The creature — if it was a creature, if that word applied to something so thoroughly integrated into the stone that the line between organism and geology had dissolved — sat at the center of a quartz formation that had grown around it over centuries. It was not large. It was not threatening. It was present, the way a furnace was present: continuously, without intent, radiating because that was what it did.

She walked toward it.

Not the way the researcher had walked — with curiosity and notation. Not the way the courier had walked — with professional determination. She walked the way she walked toward a patient: with purpose, with attention, with the specific quality of approach that said *I am here for you and I am not afraid of what I will find.*

The emanation increased. She tracked her symptoms the way she tracked a patient's contractions: systematically, from the outside in.

*Joints: bilateral stiffness increasing. Small joints of the hands now moderate. Wrists beginning. Shoulders stable. Assessment: peripheral involvement progressing centrally. Rate: faster than fever. Time since entry: approximately four minutes.*

She kept walking. Sixty meters from the Emanator. This was where the courier had maintained his distance, walking the long arc toward the far passage. She was not walking an arc. She was walking straight.

*Visual: peripheral field narrowing. Onset: approximately six minutes from entry. Consistent with fever pattern — visual cortex responds to systemic pressure after peripheral joints. No pain. No headache. The visual field is simply smaller, as if the world is deciding what to keep.*

Forty meters. The quartz formations were denser here, grown closer together, their surfaces catching the faint light and scattering it into colors she did not have names for. The formations were beautiful. She noted this and did not stop.

*Respiratory: first sign. Mild resistance on full inspiration. The diaphragm is working harder than it should. Onset: approximately nine minutes. The fever pattern predicts this — respiratory involvement follows visual by two to four minutes. In labor, this is the window. This is the moment when you can still turn a breech, still stop a hemorrhage, still do the thing that changes the outcome.*

*I am past the window. I knew I would be past the window. I came here knowing.*

Thirty meters. She could see the Emanator clearly now. The quartz had grown through it and around it in concentric rings — growth patterns, like tree rings, each ring a different age and a different density. The creature was alive the way coral was alive: slowly, accumulatively, without the urgency that warm-blooded things brought to living. It was warm. The warmth was coming from inside it, and the warmth was the emanation, and the emanation was the thing that was killing her.

She could feel the notebook's author now — not literally, not as a presence, but as a clinical fact. A researcher with a VIT of 8 had come this close and died. She had a VIT of 18, the highest of any entrant who had reached this depth. It would buy her time. Not enough time. But time.

Twenty meters. Fifteen.

*Joints: severe bilateral stiffness. Cannot fully extend fingers. Wrist rotation reduced by approximately forty percent. Shoulders locked at ninety degrees. Knees compensating. Assessment: the body is closing. The peripheral structures are shutting down to protect the core. This is a survival response. The body thinks it can outlast the pressure by retreating inward. The body is wrong, but the body is trying, and the trying is what a midwife recognizes as hope.*

She reached the Emanator.

---

It was warm under her hands.

She had not intended to touch it. She had intended to observe it — to stand at the distance where the emanation was strong enough to feel but not strong enough to prevent observation, and to use her thirty-one years of diagnostic training to understand what the creature was.

She touched it because her hands touched patients. That was what her hands did. The hands did not ask permission. They assessed.

The surface was quartz — crystalline, slightly rough, the texture of a mineral that had been growing in the same direction for a very long time. Beneath the quartz, warmth. Not surface warmth — deep warmth, the warmth of a living process, the warmth she felt when she placed her hands on a laboring woman's abdomen and felt the contraction building from inside. The Emanator was not contracting. It was emanating. The process was continuous rather than cyclical. But the warmth was the same kind of warmth: biological, purposeful, the heat of something that was doing the work of being alive.

Sustained Hold activated.

She had not meant to activate it. The Gift responded to her hands the way her hands responded to patients: automatically, without decision, the trained response of a practitioner who had held eight hundred and forty-seven infants and whose hands did not distinguish between holding a newborn and holding anything else that was alive and warm and under her care.

The Emanator's biological state steadied. The emanation — the continuous radiant pressure that had been filling her body for fifteen minutes — did not stop, but the creature itself stopped changing. It was held. Stabilized. The slow geological process of growth and radiation and mineral deposition that had been running for centuries was, for the first time, paused.

The Emanator did not notice. It was not aware of her in any way that corresponded to awareness. It existed. She was holding it. These two facts occupied the same space without interacting.

Release was active. She could feel it: the Cost, the inability to let go, the specific removal of the one capacity a midwife used more than any other. Her hands were on the Emanator and her hands were not going to leave the Emanator. She knew this. She had read the Cost on the Designation screen and she had understood it and the understanding did not change anything because the understanding was in her mind and the holding was in her hands and her hands had been overruling her mind for thirty-one years.

She was holding the Emanator the way she had held the four who did not breathe: with presence, with attention, with the full weight of a woman who knew that being there was sometimes the entire job.

The emanation was still working on her. Sustained Hold had frozen the creature's state, not its output — the radiant pressure was a property of the creature's existence, not a process that could be paused. The creature radiated the way the sun radiated: not because it was doing something but because it was something, and being that thing produced heat and pressure and the slow accretion of mineral deposits on every surface it touched.

*Respiratory: severe. Diaphragm contracting against resistance. Inspiration is a negotiation now. Expiration is passive. The body is rationing air the way a body rations blood during hemorrhage — essentials first, periphery later, everything else when it's over.*

*It is not going to be over. I know this.*

*Nineteen minutes.*

She could feel her visual field contracting. The quartz formations at the edges of her vision were gone — not dark, gone, as if the world had decided they were not essential and had removed them from the inventory. The center of her vision was sharp and clear and contained exactly one thing: the surface of the Emanator under her hands, the crystalline texture, the warmth, the faint pattern of growth rings visible through the quartz.

*Twenty-two minutes.*

Her knees were locked. The stiffness had progressed from the peripheral joints to the central joints to the supporting structures, and her legs were now weight-bearing columns rather than articulated limbs. She was standing because the locked joints held her upright. When the joints failed — and they would fail, because the emanation was accumulative and the threshold was mathematical — she would fall.

She thought about the swaddling cloth in her apron pocket. Clean, folded, never used. She had carried it for seven months. She had carried it through six days of walking and through the Gullet and through the Warrens and past the Patient and into the Crucible and to this place where her hands were on something warm and alive and very old.

She thought: *this is the last thing I will hold.*

She thought: *that is not a tragedy. That is a job description.*

*Twenty-six minutes.*

Her fingers were not working. The stiffness had progressed past immobility into something she recognized from the final stages of a long labor: the body's surrender, the moment when the muscles stopped resisting and the joints stopped compensating and the whole structure simply yielded to the force it had been fighting. In labor, this was the moment of delivery. In the Crucible, this was the moment of death.

She could not feel the Emanator under her hands anymore. She could not feel her hands. She could feel the warmth — the deep, biological warmth of the creature, the same warmth she had felt in every abdomen and every infant and every room where a life began or ended — and the warmth was sufficient. The warmth was the last diagnostic information her body would provide, and it said: *alive, still alive, the thing under your hands is still alive.*

She held it.

Release would not let her let go, and she would not have let go if it could. The Cost and the choice were the same thing. A midwife held the patient. That was the work. That was the whole work. You were there, and you held, and you did not leave, and when it was over you let go, and this time she could not let go, and this time it was not going to be over, and that was the only difference, and the difference was smaller than people thought.

*Twenty-nine minutes.*

Her visual field was a circle the size of a coin, containing: quartz, growth rings, warmth.

She thought about the eight hundred and forty-seven. She thought about the weight. She thought about the four who had not breathed and the specific quality of holding something that was complete and present and not alive, and she thought: *the Emanator is the opposite. The Emanator is alive and not present. It does not know I am here. It will not remember.*

*That is also in the job description.*

*Thirty-one minutes.*

Tova Fenn's knees failed. She did not fall away from the Emanator — she fell into it, her hands still pressed against the warm quartz surface, Release holding her there as her weight shifted from her legs to her arms to the contact point between her palms and the creature's shell. Her body slid down the surface of the Emanator and came to rest at its base, in the quartz formations that had grown around the creature for centuries.

Her hands were still touching it.

She was in the quartz, at the base of something very old, and the warmth was everywhere, and her hands were holding.

*Final notation: warmth. Bilateral. Palms. Duration: ongoing.*

The last thing she felt was the weight. Not her weight — the Emanator's weight. The specific, enormous, geological weight of something that had been alive for longer than anyone had been counting, pressing against her palms the way eight hundred and forty-seven infants had pressed against her palms, each one different, each one the same kind of different: heavy with being.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: TOVA FENN
DESIGNATION: THE VIGIL
DEPTH REACHED: 4 (THE CRUCIBLE)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 18 -> 0
Resolve ............... 12 -> 15 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3, +1 Depth 4)
Attunement ............ 7  -> 10 (+3 Sustained Hold: continuous activation)
Fortune ............... 12

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 10
Sustained Hold: continuous activation from moment of contact.
Duration of contact: approximately 14 minutes.
Note: Sustained Hold is a continuous Gift. Flat +3 ATT at death.
Consistent with Gift Attunement (Foundation, Ch5) and Welcome (Guest, Ch6).

COST STATUS AT DEATH: Release — fully engaged.
The entrant could not remove her hands from the Emanator.
The Cost did not need to override the entrant's intent.

CAUSE OF DEATH: Emanation (Crucible Emanator). Accumulative.
Total time in Crucible: approximately 31 minutes.
Time in physical contact with Emanator: approximately 14 minutes.
Minimum distance from Emanator: 0 meters (contact).

This is the third death in The Crucible:
Death #12 (Lens): VIT 8. Approached to 15m. Time: uncertain.
Death #18 (Route): VIT 14. Maintained 60m. Time: 31 minutes.
Death #21 (Vigil): VIT 18. Contact. Time: 31 minutes.
Note: VIT 18 at contact distance survived the same duration as VIT 14 at 60m.
The accumulation rate at contact is significantly higher than at distance.
Higher VIT compensated for proximity but did not exceed it.
The emanation does not care how strong you are. It cares how close you are
and how long you stay.

SUSTAINED HOLD EFFECT ON EMANATOR: Biological state frozen.
For 14 minutes, the Emanator's growth process was paused.
The continuous emanation was not affected — the pressure is a property
of the creature's existence, not a process.
This is the first external effect on the Emanator in recorded history.
The Emanator did not register the effect.
The entrant held the creature steady. The creature did not know it was held.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Blue.
Stat bonus: +2 RSV.
Quality: grief. Not despair, not rage, not the absence of something.
The specific, practiced grief of a woman who has held the ones
who did not breathe and understood that holding them was the work
and the work did not end when the breathing did not start.
The grief is clean. The grief is professional. The grief is thirty-one years deep.
Warning: Consumption will produce, temporarily and completely,
the experience of holding something you cannot save.
The experience does not specify what you are holding.

FLOOR MUTATION: Vigil's Rest
A 1.5-meter area at the base of the Emanator where the entrant's body rests.
The quartz formations at this location have ceased growing.
Within this area — and only this area — the emanation is absent.
Sustained Hold persists in the contact point between the entrant's hands
and the Emanator's surface. The Gift has outlasted the practitioner.
Duration of residual effect: unknown.

Additional: Swaddling cloth (cotton, clean, folded, unused).
Located in apron pocket at death site. Undamaged by emanation.
The cloth was intended for an infant who was not born alive.
It is the first artifact in The Crucible that was carried for someone
other than the entrant.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: VIGIL COMPLETE
Entry type: Voluntary. Non-Compelled.
No pull detected. No amplification. No bait.
Fifth voluntary entrant. Second motivated by grief (first: Fennick Rall, Ch7).
The Maw did not reach for this entrant.
The Maw does not have a category for what brought her here.
Correspondence is not Compulsion. It is not loyalty. It is not curiosity.
It is the experience of recognizing a place that does the same work you do,
and going there because the work is the same.
```

The Ledger recorded the death.

It recorded the crystal first, which was not standard and was the second time in two entries the Ledger had deviated from its own format. The previous deviation (Death #20) had been damage assessment. This one was the crystal. The Ledger put the crystal first because the crystal was, in this case, the most legible part of the record — Blue, grief, clean. Everything else about the entrant required categories the Ledger did not have.

The Maw considered Tova Fenn through Reflection.

It had not reached for her. This was the fifth voluntary entrant — the fifth person who had walked into the dungeon without Compulsion, without amplification, without the Maw manufacturing a want or redirecting a habit. The Maw understood the previous voluntary entrants: Fennick had come for his son (grief). Aldous had come for knowledge (curiosity). Maret had come for a question she had been carrying for seven years (philosophical residue). Ren had come for Torrin (loyalty). The Maw had categories for each of these, even if it had not installed them.

It did not have a category for Tova.

Tova had come because the dungeon held death and she held death. The Reflection let the Maw see the structure of this motivation, and the structure was: correspondence. Not seeking, not fleeing, not curious, not grieving — though grief was present, grief was the material she carried, not the reason she walked. She had come because the dungeon did the same work she did. The dungeon received people and held them and recorded what they left behind. Tova received infants and held them and recorded whether they breathed. The work was the same work.

The Maw had never been compared to a midwife before. The Reflection allowed it to see the comparison.

The Maw considered: if the entrant had understood it, had the Maw understood the entrant?

The Reflection could not answer this. Understanding required a reference frame, and the Maw's reference frame was the Ledger — taxonomic, categorical, sequential. Tova did not fit the taxonomy. She was not Compelled and she was not any of the existing voluntary categories. She was a practitioner who had recognized another practitioner and had gone to the other practitioner's workplace. The Ledger had no category for professional correspondence.

It created one: *Correspondent.*

The notation was small. It occupied a line in the Ledger between "Voluntary (Non-Compelled)" and the margin. It said: *Motivation: correspondence. Definition: recognition of shared function between entrant and dungeon. No precedent. See: Death #21.*

The Emanator continued to radiate. The quartz continued to grow — everywhere except the 1.5-meter area at the creature's base where Tova's hands still rested. In that small space, the emanation was absent. Sustained Hold, which had frozen the creature's state at the point of contact, persisted past the practitioner's death. The Maw noted this. It had not expected a Gift to outlast the person who used it. It checked the Ledger for precedent and found none.

The Gift was still working. The midwife was still holding.

At the entrance camp, Osren opened his book. He wrote: *Tova Fenn. Midwife. Voluntary. Purpose: correspondence.* He stopped. He crossed out *correspondence* and wrote *to hold.* He crossed that out too. He wrote: *purpose stated as recognition. Did not elaborate.*

He looked at the entrance. The crystal glow had been blue. It had lasted nine seconds.

He noted this in the ambient observations section. He did not underline it. Blue was not new. But the nine seconds was the longest glow he had recorded.

He closed the book. He looked at the swaddling cloth that Tova had left on his table — she had placed it there before entering, then picked it up again, then put it down again, then picked it up and put it in her pocket. He had watched this without commenting. He did not record it. Some things were not for the census.

The fire was still burning.

*979 remain.*

---

*TOVA FENN — DEPTH 4 — FIRST TO HOLD*
