“Insufferable,” she repeated. “No. Any number of overbloated Martial oafs can be made to look like you or larger. And we have more than a few High Heroes that might be able to Delve to match your Physicality outright within the next decade.”

“Decade? We don’t even have ten months before we need to fight the fuckers from another dimension. And think about how powerful I’ll be in a decade.” Shiv grinned. Veronica very much did not. “And what do you have against Montez, anyway? She seems like she makes a lot of sense. A little depressing, but still.”

Veronica's scoff came before her words did. “Because I remember that poor girl. Let me tell you something, Deathless. There are few things more pathetic than using your gifts on yourself. She had the intellect. She could see patterns and numbers no one else could, and she used that to abuse herself until she got herself thrown into an asylum, and then she solved her own equation. At no point did she reach out for true help. At no point did she stand in her own corner. She was her own abuser all the way to the very end, and she deprived the Republic of her services when they could have used more of her, especially a more mature, wiser version of her.”

An explosive guffaw shook the theater, silencing the performance temporarily as heads snapped toward the mezzanine. Shiv struggled to contain his laughter, and Veronica watched him with squinted eyes. She waited for his response, and when he finally mastered himself, he couldn’t stop shaking his head. “Godsdamn, Veronica! A bitch can't even kill herself in peace without you spitting on her grave, huh? And what's this ‘service to the Republic’ stuff? Everyone's just a thing to you, aren't they? Useful, not useful. Asset or problem.” He gestured at the distant stage as the singing began anew. “And I think she has a point here too: This isn't organic culture shaping at all. It's forced and vulgar. Anyone with half a mind can probably stand what we're trying to do here. It's nothing but blatant propaganda.”

“The feeling it offers is more than enough for countless more than you can think. You imagine yourself to be someone who understands people because you've broken a few with your words and your fists. I'm here to tell you that people are disappointments in the best of times. If you feed a wise man or a woman a diet from birth, they will grow accustomed to a plague. They will accept the propaganda because the propaganda is a safety blanket that reassures them, but there's more than one layer of theater going on.”

“Yeah? How’s that?”

“There are the true believers, and then there are the cynics,” Veronica explained, holding up two fingers. “You have to be careful about the cynics. You have to remove them, because they themselves are entropic. That is my greatest problem with Montez. She was ruled by defeat. She was crippled by her fears, by visions of despair and apocalypses to come. She was desperate to perform that perfect dance, convinced that every single failure was a projection of an inevitable end. Not so, in reality. Not nearly. But her suggested measures would have seen the Republic made brittle and strangled. So much control, so much resource allocation, and constant management would cause a cascading series of collapses when even one sector is mismanaged. No, parts of culture are bottom-up instead of top-down. The state itself cannot enforce everything. We can, however, sow certain seeds and wait for people to respond. And we can oppress narratives we dislike with ease.”

Shiv nodded slowly. “Shaping the environment toward a more desired truth, huh?”

“Such is the role of mass media and sophistry. But you asked me earlier, why can I not sell the truth of you? The same reason why I can't sell the truth of myself. The same reason why I can't sell the truth of any cynic. Because too many of us see the foundational nature of things, the unvarnished reality of things. Imagine, if you will, that everything between us is air to the public. Imagine that everyone knows the bargains we've struck, the arrangement we have, the games we play against each other. You, who look at me as a safety umbrella against a man so far beyond anyone on this planet; few can even imagine his power, while also seeking to subvert it from within. And me, using you as an instrument of violence to further my own ends against those who are ostensibly my people—while also pressing down on you enough to keep you suppressed. Imagine if all the world was made up of people like you and I.”

A memory instead of a vision resonated inside of Shiv. He saw the Tutorial. He saw the orcs. They were reality unvarnished. They were the purest expression of the System, and their narratives were violence, psychopathy, subversion, and intellect. No need for propaganda, yet bereft of a true common culture beyond similar urges from their progenitor.

“We'd make pretty good orcs, wouldn't we?” Shiv said, part in insult, part in truth.

It was good enough of a jab that Veronica gave him a nod, acknowledging his strike. “A wretched thought that has occurred to me time and again. Instead of Montez, you should broaden your literature. You should read older works. You should think about how previous empires rose and fell. Statistical ripples alone and deliberate cultural shaping is only a small part of the great tapestry of nation building. But if there was one thing the girl was right about, it is this: people need to believe in something before they can make it real. And before you employ your sarcasm against me, I mean this in specific and figurative contexts.”

“Ruined my fun,” Shiv grunted. “I was gonna complain about how someone doesn’t need to believe I can hurt them for me to do a little body-remodeling.”

“All too predictable,” she replied. “But now you see the need for mythology; I want you to use and apply that to noble houses.”

“Like with Stormhalt?” Shiv asked. “Don't they count as cynics? Usually, the nobles see past the curtain, at least deep enough that they know a part of this is all built on a lie.”

“They are faux cynics. They are bound by another node of mythology, one we have also carefully engineered for them. They are nobility only in the eyes of the Yellowstone Republic. Without us, they are little more than squabbling warlords and, likely within a generation or two, not even that. Butchered down, for as tribe falls against tribe and outsiders devour the scattered city-states standing in our ashes. Now, the nobility are faux cynics because they are hopeful, above the common Pathbearer, in that they see themselves as anointed. They see themselves as honored above the other honored, that they are special because their bloodline or their family, or someone before them, someone in relation to them, has bestowed upon them a grace, a measure of higher power that no one else can possess.”

Shiv considered everything, but there was still something that eluded him. “Why House Stormhalt? Why me? Why non-violence?”

“Because since you already own their patriarch, you might as well take hold of the rest of the household anyway. I know about the Inland Embassy, boy. As for why you, well, it's partially answered already, but also because this will be good practice for you. I want you to be more than a brute, just like you desire to be more than a violent animal. You've grown. You've taken considerable steps to emerge from that quandary, yet you always have a thought in the back of your mind, a refuge you can retreat to. You can choose bloodshed unlike anyone else because you are not punished by bloodshed. You are not punished by death, and so you can make a rational, insane, suicidal choice all at once—and have it be another’s problem.”

“Okay. So if I settle this family feud without getting bloody, what then?”

“Then you take on another role.”

Shiv grimaced. “Yay. What’s my reward for work? More work.”

“Welcome to being an actual statesman, Deathless,” she said dryly. “If you wished to be an idle lout, you should’ve asked to be born as a noble.”

“Like you?”

“Tragically not; you are like me enough that we are here together, aren’t we?”

He had to stop himself from throwing himself over the railing. “That’s the worst thing you’ve ever said to me. And you turned me to dust with one of your letters.”

That reply brought an end to their dialogue, but rather than silence, there was music, and there was baritone. There was the piss-cloaked Deathless proclaiming the glories of Yellowstone and the automaton Tarrasque kneeling in front of him. One redeemed monster saving another, a savior twice over to his own soul and to the beast that was his spiritual kindred. It was all drivel, all madness. No Tarrasque was like that. The truth was stranger and sillier than anyone could imagine, but then Shiv started thinking about the truth. If the true reason behind the Tarrasque's pacification and the North's submission was unveiled, then what damage might that inflict on the Republic?

The Jotun were monsters. They kept more slaves than there was sand at any beach. They made weapons of people and spent them without care, but they were also a vessel of mythology unto themselves. The Republic used them to hone warriors, to enforce shape upon their own civilization, for a reliable enemy was an anvil unlike any other. The gods of blood and sacrifice were almost similar, but they were powerful, and during their times of unity, they were actually a true threat to the Republic. It was a mercy, then, that the southern gods hated one another more than they lusted for expansion—such was the entire reason why Shiv could turn them against each other. The Wolf of No Suns was the most focused of their cohort, ambitious and desperate to reclaim some measure of dignity in the face of his divine father. However, his siblings and rivals didn't share the same desire and more often than not performed raids on their own kin, while homely offering pittances in terms of resources and manpower to this Northern Crusade.

And as the music played on and the audience cheered, the dullards that they were, drunk on the falsehoods of empire, Shiv understood that this was everyone's fate. Everyone created mythology. Everyone lied to themselves. At first, he thought it was degenerate, an act of supreme weakness, but then his Harbinger urged him to think deeper, to settle into that silence and void and find a proper explanation rather than just refuge in judgment. He wanted to feel better than people sometimes. It made it easier to hurt them, and there was a measure of spite that constantly lingered deep inside his breast, a spite left over from his days as a pariah.

Polite society had ostracized him, and there came pain, but also mercy, in that decision. He wasn't so affected by their mythology, but he was affected by mythology nonetheless. He told himself that he was to be his own master, that he was going to decide his own fate, that he was the only strength in this world that mattered, a pillar bearing his own destiny.

But that too had been falsehood. That too had been mythology. He had won, but he'd also bled and lost so many times. Georges. Blackedge. All those who died during his struggles. Adam’s torment at the Challenger’s hand.

Nihilist: Grandma is a piece of shit, but the thing is, just because someone's a piece of shit doesn't mean they can't be right or that you can't learn from them and master what they've mastered.

For once, the Harbinger concurred with the scintillating flame—a skill born in emotional terrorism and Psychology most of all mingling with its kin of Philosophy, Cooking, and Pyromancy. “A performance for a civilization… not so much different than the thoughts we cast upon ourselves. If exposed to the full truth of who we are at times, it would break our legend. It would break us. There is a use for the lie, a medicinal one, rather than a poisonous end, but it depends on the dosage, and it depends on how you address the toxicity inflicted in the aftermath.”

As the performance came to a close, the Tarrasque and Shiv raising their voices in a duet, praising the Ascendancy while the actors portraying all thirteen of the Republic's gods hovered overhead, bestowing their blessings upon the two faithful monsters, turning away from their path of monstrosity toward the end of being faithful toward a better tomorrow for all.

Shiv coughed. “Corny felling shit. Kathereine, you sure you’re fine with that actress playing you?”

“I will relish her death. But before that, I will break her lovers and children and take them for my own.”

“And there we go.” Shiv sniffled. “There’s the lovely lack of consent right there. Classic.”

“No, you will not, Grandmother,” Veronica said. “And you stop agitating her.”

“I have to screw with someone. It’s your fault for never biting down on the bait. Speaking of—what to do when your enemy is nothing but mythology?”

“You speak of the Faceless Queen?” Veronica smirked. “Now that’s the right question. And I think we will uncover this together. Perhaps she is listening now—but knowledge doesn’t prevent certain mistakes. And she has to come forward. She has to engage. That, if nothing else, is a consistent behavior on her end. But practice first—instead of just pressing into injuries and emotionally terrorizing someone with the safety blanket of bloodshed behind you, deal with House Stormhalt. Settle their inheritance dispute. Take hold of them. Make something of them. Help them regain a measure of dignity—as a shadow behind the house.”

“Alright,” Shiv said. “Guess I’ll be clearing that weird errand while I handle your problem in the south and our problems back at—”

