“Who is that?” Ranthia quietly asked her newly distracted audience of one. She’d been in the City of Arts for almost half a year—so an unfamiliar face that was known to the crowd was more than a bit surprising.

“Aegiomus! I’ve mentioned him before, he’s at the top of my to-do list. Come on, you’ll want to see this.” Anthelleon was completely back to her normal self as she grabbed Ranthia’s arm and dragged her along to join the masses trying to filter their way through the Lodge’s tiny exit.

Ranthia just sighed and yielded to her friend’s efforts. Honestly, she spent hours trying to bolster the woman’s mood with only minor success, then all it took was some (allegedly) handsome guy showing up?!

Gathering everyone outside of the Lodge took time, even with Egopus, or whatever his name was, trying to coordinate things. He refused to start or give any hints until every last Hunter was gathered around the Lodge. As a crowd, they wholly blocked the street, even before other stickybeaks bolstered their numbers, but no one seemed to complain.

“Behold, the greatest fruit of my latest hunt!” The man shouted as he waved a hand over a reddish-tinted metal case that was strapped over his chest. The action made enchantments engraved across the little boxy case glow.

A moment later, Ranthia’s view of the surroundings was replaced by what felt like an endless expanse of deadly teeth. She’d never seen anything like the head that appeared—it was on a scale greater than even the gigantosaurus had been, but it was also undeniably aquatic given the fins on its cheeks. Even if it was clearly dead, several elves took a nervous step back from the absurd predator—gods, Ranthia narrowly swallowed the instinctive urge to do the same.

“A greater sea serpent! Level 2,871! And I never got a chance to confirm if it was a caster monster, but damn few of these things aren’t!” The Hunter boasted, holding the head aloft with arms of shimmering energy that were several times the size of his natural limbs.

There was no space for jealousy or bickering, not with an accomplishment like that. The crowd roared with approval, energized by the feat.

“My great uncle has the flesh of this beast and a bounty of oceanic fish to add to the feast that comes! And there’ll be another surprise on the second level of the Heart of Arts and Learning starting tomorrow, so uh, check it out when you get a chance?” The man seemed to be a lot more bashful about selling them on an experience than he was when he was boasting about his own achievement. Anthelleon even let out a girlish squeal over the shy, questioning lilt the man used.

“Forget your uncle and the food, we want to hear how you managed to take this beast down!” One of the other Hunters shouted.

“Ha! Fair enough! So, we were aboard my uncle’s ship, and the day was as fine as any you’ve ever seen. The ocean was as calm as it ever gets, and I was lounging on deck enjoying the sun when all of a sudden, the ocean itself seemed to rise right in front of the ship! I’m mid-cycle on my second class, y’know, which is really less than ideal when I realized what was surfacing. So, there was only one thing to do! I leapt right for the beast!” The man used the gigantic head like an oversized prop as he told his fanciful tale.

Ranthia lost interest as the man claimed to have outwrestled the monster in its own element. The fact that it was dead was undeniable, but the story was brazenly aggrandized. After a bit, Ranthia bade her star-struck friend a farewell—receiving no response whatsoever—and slipped through the crowd until she emerged on the far side.

She had a bunny to retrieve and some decisions to mull over.

“What do you mean you don’t want to go with me today?” Ranthia gawked incredulously at her Bond.

Their room remained serene within whatever soundproofing enchantments worked their miracles, but a glance through any window revealed a city in the grasp of grand revelry. For days the ‘gates’ into the city had been busy as caravans and individuals arrived in droves for the celebration. Elves and more poured into the city to join in on the festivities or to offer goods to the crowds.

Ranthia had expected Clover to be skittish about the crowds, but she still wanted to share the experience with her Bond. Instead, she was (somehow) convinced that the rabbit wanted to join Litil, the animal [Healer]!

“I was looking forward to exploring the celebration with you.” Ranthia tried sweet tenderness.

The bunny thumped her leg ill-temperedly in response.

“It’s a big crowd; you’ll be more comfortable with me.” Ranthia tried logical reasoning.

Thump.

“I know things are usually peaceful here, but an outsider might try and grab you. Tame caster monsters are valuable.” Ranthia tried a dire what-if.

Two thumps and what was undeniably a displeased glare.

“Fine… We can see if we can find her, but if we can’t you’re stuck with me, got it?” Ranthia acquiesced.

She could have sworn the bunny was looking quite smug and pleased with herself as they departed their shared home.

“Oh, hey! Good on you, you convinced her all by yourself, didn’t you?” The [Healer] was surprisingly waiting outside of her shop and knelt down to scritch Clover’s ears.

“You knew?” Ranthia leveled a glare at the woman. No one had said anything when Ranthia retrieved her Bond the night before!

“She is a very clever and very willful lady. You know this as well as I do. Don’t worry, she’ll join you tomorrow, I’m sure. Oh, but before you go, would you be willing to give her a few gems to spend? Currency is more important when we have so many outsiders in town.” Litil’s words were matter of fact, but the smile on her face suggested there was some great secret in play.

It was kind of refreshing to deal with an elf that she could read so easily. Weirdly, knowing that something was afoot made Ranthia feel better about the entire thing.

“Alright. Here’s…” Ranthia paused to fiddle with her beltpouch of gems as she calculated. “Two medium obsidian, eight small arcanite, and a small jadeite. That should be enough, I hope?”

“That works wonderfully, thank you.” Litil accepted the gems.

Clover pawed at the air twice—her way of waving goodbye—before she turned and started to hop away, followed by the [Healer].

“Guess I’m on my own…” Ranthia was possibly sulking just a teensy bit as she watched the duo leave her behind.

“Why so forlorn, my pretty?” Sunny’s face leaned into Ranthia’s field of view.

She was seated on a bench where she had been watching the water elemental—Arq—as she playfully launched water at anyone that passed next to her fountain without greeting her. The moment of outrage on the elves, forcibly restrained with polite civility, was an entertaining distraction.

“I’m not forlorn, I’ve… just been thinking.” Ranthia defended her honor as she scooted to the side to let her friend join her.

“About what? Something twisted and scandalous, I hope?” Sunny chose to remain standing as she smiled sweetly in Ranthia’s general direction.

“You’ve got me. I was considering abducting one of the beautiful women visiting our city and tying her up in my bedroom to keep as a plaything.” Ranthia deadpanned.

“Ah, yes, I can see that. You do seem the sort. Well, if you go through with it, I hope you’ll share the goods, though I’m afraid I’ll have to be shocked and outraged once you get caught.” The dark-clad elf nodded.

“You would.” Ranthia snorted. The joke at least gave her time to find a plausible excuse. “I was just thinking, I’ve got until this festival ends to come up with a Skill to drop, unless I manage to merge one of my current General Skills into something else before then.”

“Not as fun as your first suggestion, but I suppose I can still listen. What are your candidates?” Sunny finally plopped herself down next to Ranthia, leaning against Ranthia’s shoulder.

“I mean, I have a couple of Skills tied to my first class that might fuse together or into a class Skill, but that feels like a long shot. I’m not going to miss out on the festivities to climb a mountain or two and challenge whatever apex predators reign atop them. Really, my candidates for what to drop are [Skilled Fingers] and [Expert Tongue]. I’m just trying to decide which I’ll miss the least. The former gets more day-to-day use, even aside from… you know. But I kinda want to keep the latter too, maybe even more?” Ranthia explained.

“My pretty, you are overthinking this.” Sunny had her face in her hands when Ranthia looked back her way.

“Oh?” For a moment, Ranthia dared to hope that there was some great elven wisdom that would save her from the predicament.

“I know sex Skills when I hear ‘em. And those are always easy to merge. So, let’s get you out there and see if you can pull any interest from some pretty lady or another! Yeah yeah, your woman isn’t here, but it’s a party and you’re not off-limits or anything. Have some fun!” Sunny offered Ranthia a wink as she hopped back to her feet and began to walk away.

“I’m not in the mood!” Ranthia protested as she rose to follow.

“Oh please, you’re so pent up I can smell it on you some mornings. Come along, my pretty. And hey, maybe if you put on an entertaining enough show, I might invite you to share in some of my… proclivities.” Sunny’s voice was consistently sultry, but Ranthia had never known the woman was capable of dipping into a range even more charged than usual.

Fuck.

Ranthia’s experiences with elven styles of flirting was a litany of direct—and often frank—displays or offers. And she’d expected Sunny to needle her into doing the same. She wasn’t entirely sure if she was comfortable with the idea or not, even with the… offer her friend made. But instead, the elf led her across the town to where a crowd was gathered outside of the Green Pavillion. Then, without fanfare or expectation, Sunny shoved Ranthia forward into the Pavillion.

“I, Ranthia, who holds Rank 41 for Dancing hereby challenges the Rank 40 of the same!” Sunny called out in an insufferably exaggerated imitation of Ranthia’s voice.

Why?! Ranthia silently mouthed her demand to her friend, but the elf was just innocently cheering along with the crowds as if she had nothing to do with what was happening. But Ranthia could only glare at the traitor for a moment, because another elf stepped into the Pavillion with a confident smile on her face.

The crowd was allowed to choose the method of the match, which left Ranthia and her opponent dancing together, with the leader of their dance changing with the claps that accompanied certain points in the song. There was no musician to play the music, instead the crowd formed an impromptu chorus to sing the unfamiliar song—which somehow worked far better than it should have. Had a crowd of humans from Remus attempted to harmonize, the result would have been ear-searing chaos. Yet a few dozen random elves managed the feat to a downright impressive extent.

The lithe woman in Ranthia’s arms possessed elven grace and precious little else. Sure, her fundamentals were sound, but she seemed to struggle with improvisation. Every time she led during their dance, Ranthia chafed under the rigid dance she wove. Yet when Ranthia led, she was forced to tone herself down to match her opponent’s prowess. By the time the song ended, they were both in a somewhat prickly mood, but the elf ceded her rank to Ranthia as the crowd expected her to.

In hindsight, Sunny’s plan was somewhat obvious. Once Ranthia accepted her new rank and stepped off the Pavillion’s steps, several men and women swept in to congratulate her and to make carnal offers. It was only a fraction of the crowd—the showing hadn’t been that impressive—but when the cute woman with the pink hair bared her pink-tipped breasts to Ranthia when she made her offer, Ranthia found herself assenting.

The day wasn’t just sex. Ranthia also spent time hanging out with Sunny with clothing firmly in place. After the pink-haired elf, they visited the Heart of Arts and Learning to check out the new display that was on the lips of half the elves in the city. A significant portion of the second floor of the facility had been replaced with vast tanks of perfectly clear crystal, displaying vibrantly colored fish that swam through the pristine seascapes that were impressively replicated within. Ranthia recognized a few of the denizens of the deep from her time in Massilix, but it was a wonder to see them alive and in a recreation of their natural habitat.

Sunny, on the other hand, was far less enamored. After half an hour, the woman made her boredom known.

“Hi, my friend here can’t stop checking you out. Would you like to have sex with her?” Sunny’s voice drew Ranthia out of her reverie.

She could only stare incredulously as her friend propositioned another woman on her behalf!

Ranthia was exhausted by the time she finally left her home again. The day had been taxing enough, but Sunny’s… proclivities had turned out to be something of an acquired taste. She’d never imagined that anyone would consider a sharp knife to be a tool suited to the bedroom, though she’d tried to keep an open mind. She truly had. And she was struggling with emotions that were more than merely mixed as she sought out the [Healer] and her wayward Bond.

At length, she found Litil sitting on a bench with a towering sweet—which made her stomach angrily remind her that she hadn’t eaten anything of substance since breakfast, even with her disdain for sweets. But Ranthia had little room to pay heed to her hunger.

“Good evening!” Litil called out when she noticed Ranthia’s approach.

