Gorgon muttered something under his breath. Then, out loud, he said, “I’m not sure two people can be friends when one of them is incapable of presenting themselves as they truly are and the other is incapable of grasping it.”

Alden raised an eyebrow. “I feel like there was an insult buried in there.”

“Only a factual statement. We are not friends. But I am fond of you and wish you well. If I accept your offering, there will be side effects.”

“Bad ones or good ones?”

Gorgon made a sharp clicking sound in the back of his throat.

Frustration maybe? It seemed like he couldn’t say much else.

Alden thought about it. And what it boiled down to was that he trusted Gorgon. More than ever after…whatever that was.

There had always been a wriggling worm of doubt in Alden’s mind about the alien. He was chained up for what the internet said was attempted murder after all. Even if Alden liked him and enjoyed his company, a tiny piece of his better judgment had advised caution.

That piece was gone. It had been completely obliterated by the experience of meeting Gorgon’s gaze. And though that fact alone should have raised fresh alarm bells, it didn’t.

Whatever Gorgon was, his presence felt fundamentally benevolent. Which was really, really unexpected. Because now that Alden thought about it, he couldn’t recall a single other person he’d ever encountered in his life who’d given off that particular vibe.

“I trust you,” Alden said. “You can have some of my blood. If that’s something you want to do, I mean.”

He flopped his taped-up hand onto the desk.

“No need,” Gorgon said lightly. He gestured toward the jar of salsa. “I put a few drops in here before I wrapped your hand just in case you were quite sure about the offering.”

“You made blood gazpacho,” Alden said. “That’s not at all unsettling. And yeah. I’m sure.”

Gorgon looked up at him, and Alden took an involuntary step back, bracing for impact. But nothing happened this time. He found himself staring at his own reflection in the alien’s liquid black eyes.

“I see. You are sure. How…dear of you.”

Then, without any further explanation, he opened the jar of salsa and took a sip.

Alden held his breath and clenched his fists. He expected angelic choirs or an explosion of light or a full Artonan military bombardment or something.

But nothing happened at all.

“What…?” No point in asking serious questions. He won’t be able to tell you. “What’s it taste like?”

“Like salsa,” said Gorgon. “I didn’t slit your jugular and pour it in. It’s just a couple of drops.”

Alden kept waiting. He wasn’t sure for what. Maybe part of him still expected Gorgon to explain what was going on even though the alien had just said he couldn’t.

Finally, he snapped out of it.

“So, what do we do now?”

“You should go home and sleep for a couple of hours. Then, you should come back for your classes later today.”

“That’s it?”

Gorgon paused. He licked his lips lightly and tipped his head from side to side a few times. “Hmmm..you should come by again this evening. We can talk about your plans.”

“What plans?”

Gorgon looked down into the salsa. “You told me once you had specific dreams for your future in the event that you were chosen by the System. I would like to hear them.”

“Oh. Okay.” Alden scratched the back of his head. “You know, if you enjoyed the slumber party and want to do it again you don’t have to make an excuse.”

“I wish I could roll my eyes as humans do,” said Gorgon. “It’s a beautifully emotive gesture.”

Alden snorted.

Their conversation ended there, and he packed up his things to leave. Getting Victor back into the cat carrier was an aerobic experience for both of them. Alden almost lost a finger.

He tossed the empty tuna can into the garbage and headed for the door. “See you again in a few hours, Gorgon. And I guess we’ll talk tonight?”

“Yes.”

“Cool.”

Alden’s hand was on the door handle when Gorgon suddenly said, “Seventy percent.”

Alden glanced back. “What’s that?”

“I said your chances of being chosen by the System were less than one in a thousand. I have revised my estimate. Your friend was right; there is around a seventy percent chance that you will be selected by the contract.”
