Oh well, it was probably best to seize the initiative anyway.

“I just arrived—on invitation from Avyna of the Silverleaf trading group—and these two saw fit to greet me with naked hostility because I have a Void-aspected [Warrior] class. I abandoned diplomacy about the time that one threatened to kill the rabbit.” Ranthia explained as she rose from her stance, jerking her head toward Clover.

A better woman might have offered to sweep the incident under the proverbial rug. But Ranthia wasn’t feeling so fucking nice.

“And is that a fair summary?” The horrifically scarred woman (seriously, was there no [Healer] in the city or something?!) asked the guards.

The arrogant idiot had wilted once he finally parsed who had stopped him—honestly, it looked like he was just dangling from her gentle hand on his shoulder—so the kneeling guard hesitantly spoke up.

“Yes, Maestro. She triggered the active Void effects ward, so we reacted accordingly. Abelind took offense to her words and chose an… unfortunate degree of escalation.” The blond elf explained, with naked reverence coloring every word he spoke.

“I see… Can you explain why you were actively using a Void Skill?” The woman turned her attention back to Ranthia.

“Vision Skill.” Ranthia explained as she jerked her thumb toward her blindfold. “I rather not get into the details beyond that, if you don’t mind?”

The woman nodded her agreement, her white hair shifting around her single, spiral-shaped horn. And the next thing that Ranthia knew, the elf that the woman had been restraining stumbled.

And right about the time Ranthia consciously processed that, the woman was standing—much closer—to Ranthia, with Clover held in her arms.

It had been many years—many levels—since Ranthia had last encountered someone that could move so much faster than she could even perceive. That simple act hammered home the danger the seemingly benevolent woman posed far more than [Divine Eyes in the Void]’s assessment ever could.

Had the woman not been cradling Ranthia’s Bond in her arms, Ranthia would have probably stepped away from her. Instead, she gritted her teeth through the impulse and stood her ground.

“Do not worry. This little one was attempting to hop away, and given what we have discussed thus far, I presumed that it was important to you. Well, that and the minor fact that it was obviously hurting itself in its effort to flee.” The elf explained, with what should have been a benevolent smile plastered across her face.

The scars added an unfortunate amount of menace to the otherwise sincere expression.

“It hasn’t been half a day yet since she kicked a monster in the face to help me in a fight.” Ranthia had no idea why she felt obligated to defend her Bond’s honor—or why she felt so hurt that Clover had actually tried to run away.

“It can be confusing for them when a companion bond is first formed. They face a disconnect between their instincts and their own will. Do not lose heart, my friend. Now, I have to make certain: you truly have no Void [Mage] class?” The woman’s benevolent tone never changed as she shifted topics, but something felt far heavier about her question than anything else she had said before that point.

And here I thought we were friends. Ranthia narrowly kept the quip off her tongue—the question was, unfortunately, fair.

“Void [Warrior], Mirror [Mage], and Magic Metal [Priestess].” Ranthia answered—she’d already resigned herself to sharing that much, even before she arrived.

The woman nodded and started to say something—only to pause and try to soothe Clover when the shell-shocked bunny finally began to wiggle and whimper. Sparks danced between her fingers and Clover’s fur as she stroked the bunny’s back. But whatever the sparks were for, they obviously weren’t harming her—after a few moments Clover’s whines ceased.

Instead, the turncoat began to emit a sound that reminded Ranthia of a purring cat! The clicks weren’t quite the same as the rumbling sounds cats made, but the cadence was uncannily similar.

“Well, I do regret this unpleasantness, but now that things are resolved, allow me to be the first to welcome you—both of you—to Ar-Suelle!” The mono-horned elf announced with a grandiose flourish as she stepped beside Ranthia and urged her forward.

Only to stop a few paces later—just short of the arch that served as an entrance to the city. Seriously, there weren’t even any gates!

“Oh, one last bit of business first. Do you have any Aura Skills?” The woman’s grey eyes flicked in Ranthia’s direction.

“No.” Ranthia answered automatically. …Only to wince a heartbeat later. “Actually, yes. Sorry, it’s a somewhat new Skill.”

She drew looks from both the woman and the second guard over the correction. And admittedly her explanation wasn’t entirely honest, but [Priestess of Xaoc] still felt new—and wonderfully so—to her. And it wasn’t like the Skill’s final effect had ever been relevant!

“And what are the effects?” There was an unmistakable note of frost in the woman’s words.

“Nothing important, and it isn’t very high level. It’s just a curse-breaking Aura from my [Priestess] class.” Ranthia answered. Honestly, it was the least important aspect to her most precious Skill, but it was still an Aura—the System even described it as one.

The silence that followed Ranthia’s words was unexpectedly deafening. Then, about the time that the two guards—already returned to their original posts—turned their gaze to the woman, she stepped in front of Ranthia.

Until that moment, Ranthia hadn’t appreciated just how tall the white-haired elf was. And sure, she’d met women that were taller than herself, but she’d never been forced to look up to meet another woman’s gaze before. In that moment, she struggled to do so.

It was hard to do anything beneath the intensity—the sheer weight—of the high-level [Mage]’s gaze. The affable, benevolent woman was gone.

And the powerful elf that loomed over her was anything but well-meaning.
