Jamus sighed, snapping his notebook closed. “Staavo,” he said, turning. “What do you want?”

“Stop sighing whenever I talk to you, boy,” Staavo said. “I was right, you were wrong, and I said I was sorry for rubbing your face in it. What else do you want?”

Jamus snorted. “A good night’s sleep, some air that’s not full of smoke, and a warm bowl of soup that doesn’t have any mushrooms in it.”

“Ameliah could help you with the second one,” Staavo said.

“She’s busy,” Jamus said. “And I don’t want to bother her with something trivial like that.”

“Well then, come help me with the damn wire. The bloody deer—erm, cervidian, ran away again.”

Jamus sighed. “And you wonder why.” He rubbed at his eyes. “We’re almost out of cloth, Staavo. Face it, the light bulbs work great, but we’re not going to be able to make a second generator without more resources. One isn’t good enough on its own.”

Staavo spat. “You quitting, boy?”

Jamus shook his head, reopening his notebook and returning to his drawing. “I’m not quitting. I’m just taking a break. Drawing is relaxing.”

“You could try drawing something useful,” Staavo said, watching. “I’ll admit, that’s not bad, but we’ve got problems to solve. How about drawing a better generator, eh?”

Jamus sketched in a few more details, then sighed, turning the page. He’d come back to the drawing of Meloni and Cloud later. He refused to believe that she’d died in the Shift. He just couldn’t. “Fine,” he said, smoothing the blank sheet. He started sketching out the generator’s wooden frame. “Maybe if we start with a different profile, something like this, we could—”

“Nope,” Staavo interrupted. “Won’t work.”

“You didn’t even look at it,” Jamus huffed. He can be such a trial sometimes. “If we just—”

“EVERYONE, GET OVER HERE!” Lavarro bellowed, her voice amplified to a ridiculous level. Jamus was sure that the wind would have blasted his hat off of his head had he been wearing it.

“Depths,” he muttered, his ears ringing in the ensuing silence. He looked over to the source of the shout, seeing the silverplate hovering casually in mid-air, slowly floating back to the ground.

“Damn it,” Staavo grumped, sticking a pinkie finger into his ear and rotating it. “Bloody woman. I’m deaf enough already. Fucking inconsiderate pile of flaming donkey—”

“I can hear you, old man,” Lavarro said icily at a slightly more reasonable volume. A shiver ran down Jamus’s spine as her head pivoted to face them.

“So?” Staavo said. “I meant what I said.”

Jamus edged away from him, making sure to grab his hat before it was flattened as collateral damage. Fortunately, Lavarro only sniffed derisively, raising her voice again.

“I SAID EVERYONE!” she thundered. “THAT MEANS YOU!” She pointed, and Jamus followed her finger to see Tallheart and Ameliah standing atop the fortifications surrounding the Lee.

Ameliah’s lips moved, but it was too far for Jamus to make out her words over the ringing of his ears. Lavarro had no trouble, though.

“I DON’T CARE.”

“Gods damn it,” Staavo said, clutching at his ears.

There was a flash of light as Ameliah launched a barrage of fire spells. She then hopped down from the barricade and started making her way over. Tallheart followed, neither of them looking happy about it.

Jamus got to his feet, slipping his hat onto his head. Whatever Lavarro wanted, there would be no getting away from it. When he’d gone north with her before, he’d learned that she gave few orders, but whenever she did, she expected no discussion.

Well, I did join the Guild because I wanted a more exciting life.

Lavarro cleared her throat as she settled back onto the ground, not waiting for everyone to finish gathering before she spoke. When she did, her voice was mercifully unamplified. “I contacted the Guild earlier. They aren’t coming, and neither is the Watch.”

“What?!” someone shouted. Before the crowd could break into an uproar, Lavarro held up her hand, glaring them into silence.

“Stop whining.” She hesitated, then shook her head slowly, her expression hardening. “Burrik ordered me to get you all out of here. He told me to destroy the mindcaster so the Empire can’t get it if they come back, which I’ve done. As for leaving, though… Fuck Burrik. I’m not abandoning my daughter. You can leave if you want, but I’m not going anywhere until she’s free.”

Depths. Jamus glanced at Ameliah and Tallheart. Would they be able to keep all of us safe if we tried to go?

The crowd obviously shared Jamus’s sentiment. Lavarro plowed on, heedless of the unrest. Her eyes pivoted to Jamus.

Oh, shit.

“I need to know what everyone has heard from their contacts inside the barrier,” she said. “I’m going to figure out how to break it, and you all are going to help me. I already spoke with Officer Turton, so you’re first, Fireblossom. Turton said you talked to the woman with the dog and that ridiculous aura mage.”

Why me? Jamus looked at Tallheart for help, but he just gave a tiny shake of his antlered head.

Lavarro pointed to a spot on the ground next to her. “Anyone who knows anything useful, over here. Everyone else, get lost.”

Alert: Comprehension threshold reached

Hybrid Interface Boot

Please Wait…

Rain stared at the message, blinking. Does that mean what I think it means? It was currently around 9 PM in the real world. Teaching the obelisk to understand him had not been easy. ‘Tedious’ was the word. The artifact had some protocols for the process, but there was a big difference between echoing characters and assigning meaning to them. Now, though, something had changed.

Suddenly, the display updated again.

Hybrid Interface Boot Complete

Hybrid Interface Mode: Terminal [User-Defined]

Debug Monitoring: Enabled

Retrying Direct Link

Link Established [Warning: Protocol]

Scanning…

“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa…”

Now that Rain had gotten used to the airless environment, he’d discovered that he could scream for a really, really long time. His breathing was just a simulation, after all.

Header Scan Complete

New User Detected

User Name: Richmond (Rain) Stroudwater [Error: Format]

Coerced User Name: rain

Creating User Profile

Scanning…

User Primary Language: [Error: Unknown]

User Origin: [Error: Unknown]

User System Compatibility: 64% [Warning: Threshold]

Compatibility below threshold

Attempting conformance…

“...aaaaaAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA...”

Conformance Failed [Error: Unknown]

Attempting System Recovery…

Recovery Failed [Error: Unknown]

Scanning…

Paling Integrity: 74% [Warning: Threshold]

Soul Fragmentation: 99% [Warning: Threshold]

Core Rank: 18 [Error: Threshold]

Core threshold not met

Scanning attributes…

Focus Synchronization: [Error: Callback]

[System Instability Detected]

[Critical Scan Error] Aborting…

Scan Aborted

Contact Administrator [Error: Not Found]

[Error: Unknown] Retry

[Error: Unknown] Retry

[Error: Unknown] Retry

[Error: Unknown] Retry

Retry Failed

Direct Link Failed

Reverting to Fallback

Hybrid Interface Set as Primary

Administrator List [] [Error: Failsafe]

User Privilege Level Elevated

[admin/rain]>

“...AAAAAAAAAAAaaaaaah.” Rain clenched his teeth shut. The last of the pain vanished as if flicked off like a light switch, and he found himself lying curled up into a ball with his hands clutching his head. He shuddered, taking a deep gasping breath.

Gah, I thought we were done with that.

Once he’d walled off the fresh batch of agony, Rain took a second to quickly scroll through the messages he’d received, as he’d been a little too distracted to read them as they came in. When he reached the end, his only reaction was to close his eyes. “Oh thank fuck.”

It had been a long month. He just lay there for a few minutes, taking it all in. Finally, he sat up, then reverently reached out to the keyboard and typed in a command.

[admin/rain]> ls

Error: Command not Recognized

[admin/rain]>

“Damn it, better not be Windows…” he muttered.

[admin/rain]> ls

Error: Command not recognized

[admin/rain]> dir

Error: Command not recognized

[admin/rain]>

The ember of hope that had kindled in his breast flickered, but he shook his head. No. It will work. I just need to figure out the commands.

[admin/rain]> help

Error: Command not recognized

[admin/rain]> hello?

Error: Command not recognized

[admin/rain]> status

Error: Command not recognized

[admin/rain]> display

Error: Argument

[admin/rain]> display status

Defense Field: Active

Integrity: 87%

Ingress Mode: Residents

Egress Mode: Residents

Mana Siphon: Active

[admin/rain]>

“Yeah!” Rain yelled, pumping a fist into the air. He was in business.

Carefully, he probed out the system, trying to see what options were available without changing anything. The lack of a help command was frustrating, but the interface was fairly intuitive. It turned out to be less ‘Unix’ and more ‘Zork.’ Display status of barrier. Display status of siphon. List residents. Open mailbox. Take leaflet from mailbox.

After playing for fifteen minutes or so, Rain felt that he had a pretty good handle on the kinds of things that the artifact would allow him to do. Firstly, it was just a barrier. It came with a mana siphon to power itself, but that was it. There was no climate control or integration with the teleportation platform or anything like that, let alone a sapient intelligence that he could talk to. Not even a helpful paper clip.

It was honestly a bit surprising. The stone had shown great cleverness in negotiating with him to build the hybrid interface, but now that it was done, it was acting like the most rudimentary of computer systems. He was sure that there was more to it, but the interface was limited by design to avoid scrambling his brain. More investigation would be needed. First, though, he had a job to do.

The artifact had two categories of users, namely ‘administrators’ and ‘residents’. Both lists were quite extensive, but Westbridge’s name was the only one that he recognized. Despite the fact that Rain’s name wasn’t on either, the obelisk seemed to be treating him as an admin anyway. Adding himself to the proper list before it changed its mind seemed like a good idea.

[admin/rain]> add me to administrators

Error: User ‘me’ not recognized

[admin/rain]> add rain to administrators

Error: User non-resident

[admin/rain]> add rain to residents

Richmond (Rain) Stroudwater has been added to residents

[admin/rain]> add rain to administrators

Richmond (Rain) Stroudwater has been added to administrators

[admin/rain]> I AM ROOT!

Error: Command not recognized

Next, there was the issue of what to actually modify. Straight-up shutting the whole thing down would be a terrible idea. He didn’t want to kill everyone in the Lee. The massive stone would fall the moment the barrier vanished, crushing them alive.

Editing the list of residents seemed like his best bet. Now that he knew how the barrier worked, he’d realized that that was what Westbridge must have done to defeat Halgrave. Unfortunately, there didn’t seem to be an option to set complicated criteria, such as ‘let entities through, but stop objects’. The only three settings were ‘Residents’, ‘Administrators,’ and ‘Off’.

It would take a while, but Rain resolved to add every single person he knew in the city to the list. He didn’t want to risk leaving without doing at least that much. He was 99.9% sure that he’d be able to get back to this point again, but still. That 0.1% chance bothered him.

He sighed and cracked his knuckles. Better get down to it. Hooray, data entry.

Below the gaudy and now-crumbling structure of the Bank’s Fel Sadanis branch lay the vault. It was a room filled with wealth. Coins, Tel, Crysts, gems, and the scattered possessions of those who had entrusted the Bank with their valuables for safekeeping. The room was evenly lit with steady white light from runes glowing on the walls, keeping anything from spawning within. Powerful wards laced those same walls, shielding the room and protecting the seven people huddled within it.

One of those people didn’t need that protection. He was the protection, or at least, the most critical piece of it.

Enforcer Sannin was sitting cross-legged near an innocuous-looking piece of floor that hid the entrance to the true vault. The gold-rank clerks knew of its existence, but not what was inside. The two remaining unawakened employees didn’t even know that much. This second, secret vault was the real reason that an enforcer was stationed in this branch in the first place.

A sudden shock of static made Sannin glance down at his wrist, his face completely blank. The shock repeated itself after five seconds, then again five seconds later. He surreptitiously reached down to the bracelet that was the source of the shocks and twisted a metal stud.

Tap. Tap tap. Tap tap tap. Tap.

In a set pattern, Sannin tapped his finger against the bracelet’s surface, then he waited. His face twitched as the answering sequence came before he controlled his expression once more. He smoothly got to his feet, and six sets of eyes latched onto him.

He cleared his throat. “A recovery team has made contact. Standby.”

Rain lowered his hands after what felt like hours of racking his brain for people he had forgotten. The artifact seemed to operate on something like Death Note rules. Rain knew a few people with the same name, but adding them was as simple as thinking of the correct face as he typed. He hadn’t been able to add people without both, though.

The signaling between him and the barrier stone was more than just simple characters. It had been at first, but that had changed with the creation of the ‘Hybrid Interface’. He just wished it wasn’t quite so painful to use. It was leagues better than the ‘Direct Link’, but still, each keypress felt like getting stabbed. The faster he typed, the more it hurt, and he’d had a lot of names to get through. Plus, there was emotional pain to deal with. He couldn’t add people who were dead, and many of the names that hadn’t worked likely belonged to ghosts.

Rain hesitated, thinking as he massaged his tired hands. Of the hundreds of names that he’d added, two were notably absent: Lavarro and Velika.

