Velika was…complicated. He’d add her eventually, of course. It wasn’t about leverage or extortion or anything—he wasn’t suicidal—it was simply the fact that granting her access would probably unblock the link between her and the rest of the DKE Citizens. Judging by how Westbridge had stranded her here, that could be problematic. Politics were involved. He’d have to talk to her first.

The reason for excluding Lavarro was simpler. She was a powerful mage, and she and Rain had beef. He wouldn’t put it past her to try accessing the barrier stone and removing him from the list.

Rain’s working theory was that Velika couldn’t access the barrier because she didn’t have the proper stat allocation. This was a place of the mind, meaning Clarity and Focus, two stats that Velika likely didn’t have in abundance. Lavarro, on the other hand, would. Rain had gotten admin privileges somehow, so who was to say that she couldn’t do the same? No, it was better to let her stay in the Lee for the moment, at least until he talked to Velika.

Rain had no illusions about being able to keep control of the barrier long-term. The Watch and the DKE were going to fight over it, he knew, and putting himself between them was the mother of all bad ideas. He’d be squashed like a bug, or at best, trapped inside Fel Sadanis for all eternity while the wolves circled outside. Obviously, he was going to hand over the keys, but not before he milked the barrier stone for all the secrets that it had to offer.

That could wait, though.

His incarceration in soulspace had been beneficial for him in many ways, but he wasn’t even the least bit tempted to stay any longer. He was getting the hell out of here, and he knew just how to do it.

The connection between him and the artifact had been constant since he got here, unfelt at first, but there. It was holding him here. To get home, all he had to do was get it to stop.

[admin/rain]> logout

Rain fell to the ground with a thud. His skull bounced hard off the floor, then his hand hit him in the face as it fell from the obelisk. His shoulder was also screaming at him, but the pain was a joke compared to what he’d experienced in the past month. Still, he was going to make someone pay.

“Depths!” a man cursed.

Rain sat up, seeing a Watch officer he didn’t know seated at a table. He’d been monitoring this officer for a while, ever since Bartum had left. The table bore a candle and a notebook, filled with numbers, clearly the transcribed message that Rain had been sending.

“Are you okay?” the officer asked, lifting the candle.

Rain took a deep breath, marveling at the sensation of air entering his lungs. He let it out slowly and glared at the officer. “Dude. You couldn’t have put a pillow under me or something?”
