"Yes, the strand thing. They're real, and I think they're a spatial web. Someone's casting the magic on a massive scale here."

Althea reached out a hand.

"Am I touching them?"

"Yes."

"Huh. They might be why the team attacked us so quickly."

"I think it's how they found us but not why they showed that kind of murderous hostility. It seemed...Planned. If anything, it was as if they thought something was coming. If you ask me, they're more volatile than they're letting on. Hell, they're crazier than even Schema's statuses are telling us, too."

Althea frowned.

"You don't trust Schema's statuses anymore?"

"It's hard to trust anything these days. Besides, Schema's not exactly reliable right now. Things are looking kind of dicey."

"I guess, but he usually does the best he can...Uh, most of the time."

I sighed.

"You know what? You're right. I'll cut him as much slack as he cuts me."

Althea hopped into the air.

"Pshhh, so plenty?"

She flew off. I flew after her.

"Eh, we'll have to agree to disagree on that."

We flew through clouds and marveled at the skyline. The urbanization of everything intensified, even the periphery of the Big Apple being enormous. After passing a dozen smaller towns and cities, New York City crept into view. It manifested as an enormous wall of dense, spatial fog. The gray cloud spiraled, streaks of lightning bursting on its outskirts, and tornadoes spun out in the distance.

I floated under Althea.

"Suitably apocalyptic, huh?"

She hopped off my chest.

"That's why we called you in, among other reasons. You'll see."

Eldritch hopped out of the Atlantic Ocean, devouring the lightning strikes. The waters plumed upward in large waves, plopping up and down as if some force pulled from above and below. Raiders and scavengers roamed the city tops nearby, hunting for weakened parties to exploit. They fought pieces of Marcella's guild, and with the organization's weaponry, she decimated any resistance rising against her.

Despite these harsh surroundings, a line of people walked in and out of the city's only remaining entrance - the George Washington Bridge. It turned out that it could fit a lot more people if no one drove a lumbering car, and everyone who entered and left passed the gaze of an enormous, mobile statue.

The Seer.

It was composed out of the Statue of Liberty, but it looked nothing like it aside from the color of oxidized copper. It bulked into a behemoth, much stockier and genderless. No dress and mantle covered it, and the plating layered like scales, the shoulder pauldrons jutting out with curved spikes. It peered around with dark slits for eyes, its head reminding me of a medieval knight's visor.

It reminded me of a brutal, armored Sentinel, but far larger and more ominous. Despite the physical heft, the apex feature wasn't physical. Across its entire body, sigils glowed with seafoam-colored mana. Even from more than a mile off, it oozed out enough energy to feel it.

Oddly enough, it wasn't a mana type I'd ever felt or seen.

Althea frowned.

"There it is. The Seer. That's why we sent you, big guy."

I waved my hand through the proliferating miasma.

"It has an enormous amount of mana, huh?"

She nodded, shivering a bit.

"I can feel it. Ugh, I hate it when mana leeches in."

I remembered times when my mana infected her. I scratched the back of my head.

"Yeah. Sorry about the times I let my own mana get out of control."

Her eyes went distant.

"I appreciate the apology, but you don't need to feel guilty. You did your best, and, uh, that's all we can ask for, right?"

She gave me a forced smile, the expression almost authentic but ever so slightly strained. In it held a deep pain. I vowed to never let my mana touch her again. She turned to the statue.

"Anyways, do you think you can take that thing?"

I turned to it.

"No idea. Give me a second."

I inspected it.

The Statue of Liberty - A historical relic of a bygone era, this statue once symbolized freedom and liberty in an old empire known as the United States of America. Initially conceived to fight nations for their oil, this country elected celebrities and enjoyed apple pie and baseball. By the time of this apocalypse, the nation itself had long ago shed the roots of its origin, and it had become an AI state built around McDonald's.

I furrowed my brow.

"It's telling me that thing is still the Statue of Liberty. It's also giving a pretty absurd breakdown of America. I'm not a genius, but this seems a bit...Off?"

She gestured at it.

"Right? My status kept telling me the same thing. You mentioned the ambushers' statuses being fake, but they're at least kind of accurate. This one isn't even close."

She lowered her hand.

"That's another reason we called you in. We didn't want to fight something like that without knowing how dangerous it actually was."

I flew under a cloud.

"Good call. This lets us know that something is messing with Schema's status updates. The same thing happened with that Joey guy and the others."

"You think they're hiding something?"

"Not them, but whatever psionic entities were in their minds. They ran the moment the situation looked dire."

"Oh, so that's why they acted so weird."

Interrupting our talk, someone fired a projectile at us, their group operating a makeshift cannon. I slapped the projectile away, a cloud of dust and fragments erupting from my palm. Althea grew a lance from her arm and slung it through the cannon, and her spear erupted with a miniature grenade of gravitation.

The cannon exploded in every direction, the operators jumping away for safety. Althea rolled her eyes.

"A friendly bunch."

I squished a metal fragment in my hand like putty.

"Tell me about it."

We ignored the other encampments before landing at the beginning of the entrance line of the bridge. As we did, murmurs ran through the crowd like wildfire, everyone whispering.

"The Harbinger."

"He's finally come."

"The monster is going to destroy Marcella's guild. I told you it wouldn't stand for anyone else seizing power. It wants it all."

Practicing our ability to ignore poorly hidden murmuring, we waited in the line like all the others, not wanting to ruffle any more feathers than we were. It looked like it would take hours before we arrived, but the statue inspected everyone at a breakneck speed. People walked by it, and its face remained impassive.

Despite that, its gaze was a palpable thing. As we encroached, the density of its mana strengthened until it tinted the air. The aquamarine mana soaked into my armor, the sensation different and almost alien compared to normal mana types. Once we closed in, the Seer raised its arm.

A spear of its mana expanded over its hand. It hurled the spear at us. No, near us. The spear impaled a group of three people. After striking their chests, a light flashed. Nothing about them changed, and they looked around. A few seconds of eerie silence passed before all the members shrieked. They put their hands over their chests before collapsing.

As if nothing happened, everyone passed by, keeping their distance. We stepped up and found them dead. Althea leaned over, putting a hand over their throats. She tapped their chest and smelled over them. She sighed.

"I can't tell how they died, but they're gone. It's...Eerie."

I peered at the colossal protector, and it gazed back at me. For a moment, its eyes drenched the air near it with mana, and people backed away. After a few seconds, it tilted its head. It pointed at me, so I looked around.

From the bodies, three Hybrids erupted out of the people's chests. As they did, Althea jumped over them while spinning. Thin wires extended off her body, slicing the Hybrids apart. They fell down as piles of chunks, and Althea tossed acid bombs at the corpses. I sealed the holes in the bridge with concrete before a tense quiet crossed over us.

Althea scratched the back of her head.

"How did it know? I couldn't even tell."

I frowned.

"Me neither. It's like it could see right through them."

We walked to the checkpoint, the Seer's stare piercing. As we walked past the behemoth, its body moved. Like a grinding stone, its joints milled against its body. It wasn't metal but a dense rock. It stepped up to me, the body of the beast three times my size. It peered down, and it sounded like an old, ancient mountain finally given a voice.

"The Harbinger. We've waited for you."
