“Can I help you?” Railyse asked, and smiled at the reaction she had received.

“I need to see the Void Bane.” Xuunah said.

“He is about to become very busy.” Railyse said. “You should come back later.”

“Please.” Xuunah said. “It's urgent.”

Railyse tilted her head slightly to the side. “You are a-”

“SHH!” Xuunah reached out and covered Railyse's mouth with her hand, and the two men beside the door grabbed her by the arms. They yelled and let her go, and smoke rose from their hands. Railyse didn't like that a strange woman was touching her without her permission, so she bit the offered hand.

“AGH!” Xuunah yelled and pulled her hand back, and the multiple sets of teeth marks that were there oozed blood.

“Mmm.” Railyse said and licked her lips. “Weak, but tasty.”

“WEAK!?!” Xuunah yelled, and then her Locate Arrow shifted down to point right at the Water Realm being. She watched as a human hand gently moved Railyse aside, and then Xuunah gasped.

“Can I help you?” Ren asked, then got a good look at her face.

“It's you!” Xuunah and Ren said at the same time, and then the disguises on the skeleton knights dissolved.

“Just a second.” Ren said and used the disguise wand on the skeletons to cover them again, and he called over the others. He cast it on them as well, and they went back to their duties of guarding, scouting, and patrolling.

“You have the undead working for you?” Xuunah asked, surprised.

“They were a gift from the Lost Knights.” Ren said, and Xuunah gasped.

“You found them?!?”

Ren smiled. “Well, I found a few of them.” He said. “I recovered most of them from the piles of skulls I got from the Marilith demon.”

Xuunah's mouth dropped open, and he felt her shock.

“I'd like to explain it all, since it's a great story; but, I'm going to be busy for a while.” Ren said. “What is it that you want?”

“Oh, right!” Xuunah said. “You did something to the Void Realm recently.”

“Oh, damn.” Ren said. “I was afraid something like this would happen.” He sighed. “What's going to happen to me?”

“Wh-what?” Xuunah blinked her eyes several times. “What do you mean?”

“You're here to arrest me or something, right?” Ren asked. “I detonated an Anti-void bomb inside the Void Realm.” He said. “I knew there would be consequences.”

“You... did you say an Anti-void b-b-bomb?”

Ren nodded. “I made them an offer to let me pass, and they refused.” He explained. “I didn't want a fight; so, I figured I'd show them that I didn't have to fight them at all.”

“You certainly did that.” Xuunah said. “My realm noticed right away, and then I was sent here to find you.”

“So, what happens now?” Ren asked.

“For now, I... I should... visit my daughter.” Xuunah said, to Ren's surprise. “I will be back to discuss this with you later.”

“Okay.” Ren said with relief. “If you don't have a place to stay, I have a spare room upstairs.”

“Wh-what?”

“You've come a long way, and I'm sure you need a nice bed to sleep in.” Ren said and smiled. “You're welcome to stay here.”

“But...”

“I'm sure Nathalia will be delighted that you'll be so close by.” Ren said. “Her restaurant is over there, around the corner and down the street, right on the end of the Artesian District.” He said. “It should be open for supper soon, and she usually shows up not long after that.”

Xuunah looked at Ren with wide eyes. “You are worried that I've come here to punish you for what you did, and yet you invited me into your home and then told me where my daughter will be.” She shook her head. “Are you crazy?”

Ren chuckled. “I wasn't going to let you just walk around and hope you found her.” He said. “Plus, it wouldn't be polite to not offer you a place to sleep.”

Xuunah opened her mouth to refuse, but she could see the sincerity on his face. “All right. I will be back in a few hours.”

“Here.” Ren said and gave her a coin pouch and a platinum coin. “Buy dinner while you're there.”

“Thank you.” Xuunah said and equipped the coin pouch and put the platinum coin in it. “Goodbye.”

“Goodbye.” Ren said and handed the disguise wand to the skeleton knight. “Keep replacing the spell every hour on yourself and the others when it's up, and let that woman in when she comes back.”

“Yes, sir.” The skeleton knight disguised as a generic male said without opening his mouth, and it stored the wand. Ren stepped back into the house and closed the door.

“You know what she is.” Railyse said.

“I sure do.” Ren said. “I also know not to say it out loud.”

“Is that forbidden?”

“Not really.” Ren smiled. “It's just not a good idea to... attract that kind of attention.”

Railyse smiled back. “At least she's tasty.”

“I've been replaced so easily.” Ren said sadly, and Railyse hugged him.

“Never, (bubble) (gurgle).”

“Fish stick?” Ren asked, and she laughed.

“No.” Railyse said and leaned down to whisper in his ear.

“What... oh.” Ren said as she explained. “I'm definitely going to take that as a compliment.”

“As it was intended.” Railyse kissed his cheek and let him go. “Your maids await you.”

“Right!” Ren said and kissed her cheek back. “Bye!”

Ren ran up the stairs quick as a flash and went into the main bedroom.
