The scout tasked to watch Ren's county, watched in both shock and a bit of horror as someone on a flying black horse landed next to the oddest Ballista he had ever seen. According to the other scouts, there were 7 more, one set every mile down the wall along this side, and they were aimed straight out at his county. The man on the horse talked to the man that stood next to the Ballista for a moment, then took off. He watched as it flew a mile away and came in for a landing.

“Okay, go and let the captain know.” He said to the messenger below him, and gave the details he had seen through his enchanted goggles. The messenger nodded and ran away through the forest. It took 15 minutes to reach the command post, even with the messenger's top running speed, and he delivered the scout's message.

“Goodness gracious.” The captain said. “It seems every day the defenses of the place increase.”

“What are we going to do?” The lieutenant beside him asked. “That's all of the scout reports.”

“Send our own messenger to the capital city to ask the Lord what he wants us to do.” The captain said. “We shouldn't expect a response for a day or so.”

“Why so long?” The lieutenant asked. “It's only a 6 hour round trip with the horses.”

“He has to make an appointment.” The captain said. “He'll be lucky if he gets in today. If he does, the Lord won't respond until tomorrow.”

“That's not very efficient.” The lieutenant said. “It's too bad we don't have these flying horses.”

The captain sighed. “I'm beginning to see why that scout resigned.”

“Sir?”

“Just imagine what is going to happen if we try to assault that wall.” The captain said. “After crossing that deep moat, we have to scale a 44 foot tall iron wall and climb down the other side. If we don't encounter any forces, we then have to cross 25 miles of open countryside to get to this supposed capital city of theirs.” He sighed. “Assuming we can do that, we then have to capture workers to try and discover how they did all of the things they've done, and steal those secrets for ourselves.”

“Sir, that...” The lieutenant sighed as well. “It's a stupid plan.”

The captain chuckled. “Now you're also seeing why I think the scout resigning was a good idea.”

“You aren't going to follow his lead, are you?”

“No, and I'm also not holding his family hostage.” The captain said. “They all packed up and left yesterday.”

“All, sir?”

“His wife, brother-in-law, his two sisters and their husbands, all of their children, and even his grandmother decided to go.” The captain said.

“So many?” The lieutenant asked. “How many skilled workers is that?”

“That's 8, if you count the grandmother.” The captain said. “A messenger brought word from the scout, and they all packed up and left.”

“Lord Grasham can't be happy about that.”

The captain chuckled again. “Are you kidding? He doesn't know.”

“But...”

“He would have ordered me to keep the family members here against their will.” The captain said. “I wasn't going to do that; so, he doesn't know and I didn't have to disobey a direct order.”

“Sir, that's...”

“Out of sight, out of mind, lieutenant.” The captain said. “I expect this...siege...” He sighed. “...to be ordered within two days, and we will have to carry it out.”

“I'm not happy about it, either.” The lieutenant said. “If it comes, I will follow orders as I swore to do.”

“As will I.” The captain said. “Have the men start assembling the siege weapons.”

“Sir.” The lieutenant nodded and started to walk away.

“And ladders.” The captain added. “Lots of 50 foot long ladders.”

“Yes, sir.” The lieutenant said and walked over to the group of squad leaders to give them their orders.

“This is not going to be fun.” The captain said to himself and crossed his arms. “Not at all.”
