It wasn’t a large boom, and only pieces of stone and masonry were sent flying, but the shock and surprise were enough to throw everyone in disarray. Viv shadow gated to Sidjin, who was himself exposed, shielding them both. The shockwave traveled outward and left Viv’s ears ringing. The lighter beastlings were thrown to the ground but the humans suffered as well. Dust saturated the air. Gravel and stones fell, most pinging off of shields. When the air settled, the ziggurat was showing a lot of damage but it was still standing.

Viv waited for an attack that didn’t manifest. It would have been the perfect moment to pull an ace. Nothing? Apparently.

Viv took off to kill more aberrants while the others recovered. Of the Glastian vanguard, there was no trace. Irao was right. This wasn’t a fortress. It was bait. The fisher had just dragged more than they could handle, she judged.

Sidjin flew by. His expression remained carefully neutral.

“Now that Medjin has fallen, Princess Shaya will be in charge. I will tell her to back away. Please assist, if you can.”

“Of course.”

The battle resumed but strangely, whatever hold commanded the beastlings to fight alongside the aberrants had broken. The distant tide of flesh turned on itself, its members eating, fighting, killing each other. The pressure on their positions lessened to such a degree that the remaining Glastians had no trouble pulling back. This left Viv facing a dense network of tunnels under which there were still beastlings and aberrants.

“Right. Lak-Tak, it’s time.”

The enemy had brought First World War fortifications, fair enough, but Viv had brought something better.

She’d brought First World War weapons.

“Gas the fuckers.”

***

Viv entered the Ziggurat, with Sidjin and Sidjin only. The entrance was barred by boulders but it was only a matter of seconds for the Red Mist to clear them. As the stone was reabsorbed, it revealed a gruesome spectacle: the dead bodies of the vanguard.

They looked surprisingly intact at a distance, but Viv knew what explosions could do. They were mush inside. The only survivor happened to be Selyen who was still breathing. A deep groove in front of him showed where the blast had split away from him in both directions. The insane asshole had literally cut through an explosion. That hadn’t stopped the pressure differential though, and his eyes were closed and bleeding. Congealed blood stuck like gunk to his ears. His breath was a hollow rasp.

“I’ll call for help,” Sidjin said.

He was leaning next to a prone form. Viv recognized the elaborate armor at first glance. Sidjin stood above him, his face a neutral mask. It was Medjin’s corpse. The arrogant twat’s face was a mask of surprise, stuck forever in a vulgar sneer. His eyes peered at the ceiling, unseeing.

Sidjin wasn’t moving.

“You should go deeper. Find out if there is anything left to kill.”

He was feeling it, as she was. The divine, yet profane mana. It stuck to her skin like tar.

Viv nodded and left her paramour standing over the corpse of his nemesis. Hell, this time, she didn’t even have to lift a finger for him to die. She coated herself in black until the devouring aura replaced the pervasive power of the aberrant god. Deeper she went, past chthonian columns decorated with grooves like tooth marks. It was dark here. The absence of light was an active avoidance, as if the dim sunlight from the outside wouldn’t want to touch what was down here. It didn’t belong in this world. It never had.

It was very quiet. Viv expected a sonorous breath, or gurgles, anything. Instead, the place was quiet as a tomb. A vague stench of rotting meat lingered like a bad memory, that of the bottom of the wall. Eventually, she heard it. A single, wheezing breath. Something that couldn’t come out of a larger chest than that of a child. She approached.

A wall of flesh appeared in her vision. It was vile, and larger than any aberrant had any right to be. The corrupting mana pressed against hers like a wave but the devouring black tolerated no intrusions. The macabre immobility of the wall of flesh told her the thing was dead, but it didn’t stop the corpse’s deleterious influence. After all, its power came from something that was already dead. She moved on, towards the rattle. She finally found its source.

It was a beastling. The creature was utterly unremarkable in itself. Perhaps a little larger than the baseline, with smarter features and symmetric horns of hard chitin. Four clues hinted at something unusual. First it was fully amputated. Every limb ended in a slowly bleeding stump. The damage was clearly very recent, and it was also killing it, no him. The second surprise came from above, from the wall of defiled flesh. There, melded into the titan, was the rest of him. A hanging, scythe-light extension rested against the titan’s belly like an atrophied limb, blood congealing on the edge. He’d done this to himself.

The third surprise came from the way he remained unaffected by the corrupting mana. Or perhaps he was, but he was resisting through sheer force of will.

The fourth and most significant was that the beastling’s eyes followed her. They glittered with intelligence as Viv came to stand before him, and calm. A calm she didn’t think his species was capable of.

The beastling spoke. It took great care to articulate the words that came out of its mouth. It sounded a bit like Old German to Viv, mixed with ups and downs that clearly meant something. The beastling finished his sentence. When Viv didn’t react. His head came to rest against his naked chest. He breathed deeply, then looked up again.

“Do you… understand me?” he asked in heavily accented northerner.

“I do.”

“You are not…. from my world then. I thought, I thought… perhaps at the end, I had found another.”

Viv blinked, too surprised to continue.

“I can feel it in your soul. You are also… not from here.”

“You are a traveler.”

“One that came… slipped through the cracks. Yes.”

Viv breathed in, a mistake. The stench dispelled the jolt of surprise.

“Fuck. And you… you’re the one who started it all. You are the beastling who killed a great beast. The one who led them south. It was you.”

“Yes. I poisoned our spears. I led raid after raid against the Ancient Sarodon. When it fell, I became so strong, I thought I could do it. I thought I could redeem… us. This species. Not my own, but close enough. I thought we could transcend our nature. I was almost there at the end. Or I thought so, but…”

He looked up to the amalgam of rotting flesh.

“The cost. That strength and malice. They were never our own.”

Viv wasn’t sure what to say. He was a traveler. He was also responsible for the death of tens of thousands of humans and merls both. But he was a beastling. They were killed on sight by all the intelligent species.

She didn’t know what to think about it.

“I would have come out of the pyramid to slay you as you were weak and surprised, but I felt my control slipping. The dead one was taking over. I didn’t want to die as a puppet. I wanted to be free at the end, even if it cost me everything. I tried.”

He shrugged, and winced, the movement disturbingly human.

“Do you think I’m a monster?” the beastling asked after a pause.

Viv thought about it. She thought long and hard but couldn’t find an answer beyond a vague feeling of guilt.

“What’s your name?” she asked.

“What?”

“What was your name, in your other world?”

“Egein Farris Ap Veor.”

“I don’t recognize it as a language from my world at all. Well. You might be a monster to the Glastians, but right now, you’re acting as a person. So I’ll treat you as one. There is no need for me to judge you. We were enemies in a battle to the death. We fought as hard as we could. Now, you are dying. It is finished. I do not hold a grudge against you personally.”

“The wall people…”

“And the merl hate you. I suppose you’ll face judgment at one point or the other. It won’t be from me.”

“I see.”

His breath hastened. It wouldn’t be long now.

“Tell me about your world. Is it there that you learned how to prepare traps and fortifications?”

“Yes. The High Cities war. Armies wielding mighty… pressure weapons, carried on the wings of… there is no word for it in the northern tongue. Balloons of hot air. Very large. The war lasted for so long. I was a lieutenant. I thought I could, I could…”

He died.

Viv waited a moment in this desolate place. She finally stood up and cut off the head of the fallen traveler before moving back to the exit. She only turned when Sidjin was in view.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[Sequence: triple nuée]

[Sequence: triple nuée]

Viv cast, and cast, until the foreign mana was only a whisper of what it was and until her core was so drained that her head started to swim, the magic that sustained her life threatening to fail.

“Viv? Beloved, what’s wrong?”

“Nothing.”

She thought about finding Solfis, then Arthur, then Cernit and Jorn and Benetti. Of making it back to civilization wearing human skin.

“I guess I really was lucky.”
