“Right, we’re going to need more stuff.”

***

Viv descended, setting up a portal in record time. She engraved the runes which would connect it with its twin behind the wall, only for the spell to fail.

It was not the first time this happened.

“What is causing the failure?” Sidjin asked, landing next to her.

“The exit portal is deactivated.”

They looked at each other. The exit portal was in a secluded valley, guarded by Glastian troops. It was there that supplies from Harrak were stored. If it wasn’t responsive, then the circle had been damaged. Somehow.

“Surely, he wouldn’t?” Viv asked.

“He absolutely would.”

Viv fumed. Doing reckless shit with his own troops was one thing, but cutting her supply line? Now Medjin was going too far. If it was him. Honestly, who else would it even be? Her circles only faded after a while or if someone interfered.

“Could still be an accident. Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity.”

“Is this an Earth saying?”

“Yes. Hanlon’s Razor, we call it.”

“I will remember this. As for the portal, what will you do?”

Viv looked around. The fortress and its network was right in front of them. One of them would have to fly more than forty leagues to reach the warehouse where their supplies were stored. It would take an hour, at least. An hour they didn’t have.

“I should have added a safety portal. ARG! I just didn’t expect someone to play games with us like that.”

“Live and learn. I assume we continue our advance?”

“Neither of us can leave the army for that long so yeah. Let’s just go in, and if we absolutely need an exit then you fly back.”

Viv’s instincts told her she was needed here, now. She only hoped they wouldn’t need to evacuate.

“Alright, let’s go.”

***

The blob of troops under Viv’s nominal command kept advancing at a steady pace, soon joined by the Baranese on their right. Viv hoped her left flank would be covered but the Glastians showed no indication they wanted to coordinate, and the other armies remained far off. Meanwhile, the Mountain Lords held on, their red scarves forming a continuous streak of bright color. Attacks were constant but they were also piecemeal, in an effort to make area spells less effective, she assumed. Everyone was holding out for the long game.

By mid afternoon, they’d rejoined with the Glastians. Viv got close enough to Medjin for him to glare furiously at her, decked in armor at the front of the formation. Some of his elites were obviously annoyed, especially because he was constantly screaming, but the men behind looked relieved at having one of their flanks secured. When Viv killed an aberrant that had penetrated their ranks, she thought Medjin might have an apoplexy.

“Noisy fucker.”

The Baranese had finally linked up. Now, the three formations formed a powerful rectangle bordering the fortress. The ziggurat was in sight. It was time for the final push.

Or, was it?

As the Glastians moved on the bunkers, Viv landed near the communing altar, its priest breathing heavily.

“Is Jaratalassi here?”

“His Grace… he is focused on the other flank. They will not be able to join. Had to regroup and make a stand.”

“When he talks to you, tell him we are holding here. Our purpose has been achieved. The beastlings are throwing themselves at us to the last. there is no need for…”

She felt it first. A warning. Danger sense activated for the first time in months.

“Aegis!”

Danger. From the front.

“The shields. Activate the shields. NOW!”

Her orders came too late. A boulder crashed on the heavies, rolling and killing half a dozen people before she could react. She intercepted a second, a third. Lana and Sidjin managed to grab a few but one smashed a supply chariot. Another landed among witchpact, crushing the legs of an entire squad in its mad stumble. At last, the shields were in position but stones kept pelting them from… where was it? There, on the ziggurat. The aberrants.

Viv used a longview spell and finally saw what the squirming mass of aberrants was. The intelligence behind their opposition had gathered all those capable of grabbing something — not a lot, fortunately. Now they grabbed heavy stones from prepared piles, lobbing them at the advancing armies with the strength of siege weapons. They were uncannily precise too. As she watched, stones slammed into horsemen, elite formations, militias, everything. There was no real mind behind the targeting, but there was precision. At the same time, the beastlings whipped themselves into a frenzy. Gone was the time of piecemeal harassment. They were going all in.

“Your Majesty, Jaratalassi says you will not be reinforced. It is all the others can do to hold!”

The Baranese general ordered his cavalry to maneuver in small detachments, making them harder to catch but still strong enough not to get easily bogged down. As for the Glastians, they were still pressing ahead. That is when the second part of the trap sprung.

From below, tunnels opened in the middle of their troops. Soldiers fell to their deaths then aberrants emerged, those chosen for their extraordinary resilience. The first wave of warriors in red had barely bypassed the first trench when more tunnels opened. Those that were caught in single files in the trenches were slaughtered. The mage flight hurrying towards the ziggurat was met by volleys of stone spears thrown by smaller aberrants. Mages fell from the sky, chests punctured by spikes the size of stalagmites.

Viv felt the battle slowly tilt in their disfavor. She felt it in her soul, that moment when soldiers went from fighting for victory to fighting for their lives.

Her elites approached.

Time to get serious.

“Alright. Enough of this. Lak-Tak, I want that ugly pyramid on fire.”

“Liberator range… too short. Can only reach the base.”

“Roast them. Bathe the rest in naphtha. I want it to smolder. Poacher? Fire at will.”

“Finally.”

“Rollo, cover our backs. Lana, can you help our allies with some basic shielding?”

“I can if you space the generators. We only need them at the front.”

“Ok, you do that. As for me, I’m going to clear those aberrants.”

“It might be too dangerous to fly there,” Abenezigel said.

Viv looked towards Sidjin. Fire gouts and grinders popped left and right to stem the tide.

“I’m not flying there. Too distracting. I’ll use the storm spell from here. You guys cover me. This is it. You can go all out.”

As if hearing her, Brick lifted the Harrakan flag. Viv allowed her aura to spill as she called monstrous amounts of black mana to herself. [Aspect of the Paragon] drew the gaze of her people just as she started casting, but then the horns blew and the witchpact roared with pleasure. It was finally their time to shine.

Bolts, spells, javelins, pots of naphtha and hives of fire wasps filled the air, mowing everything around with deadly precision. The assault against them faltered for lack of combatants. Viv had a small opening. She needed to turn this into a breathing space. She rose just high enough to be above her troops but still under the cover of the strongest shield. By her will, the silverite symbols floated into position. That spell was complex. it would require her full focus.

It was nice being able to just do that— casting. None of this general stuff, or the political side of things where ego was causing the death of men and women just a few hundred meters away from here. And if she killed the culprit, his followers would turn on her instead! No, here, there was just her and the familiar pleasure of wielding mana. She was born for this. Concentric circles formed at her will. Around her, the air grew colder and the ubiquitous dust finally seemed to settle down. Despite the heat of summer, the breath of the nearest soldiers coalesced in little puffs. Power gathered. The array fully manifested. Her mind worked through every corner of it, arranging the message so it would be understood. Black wrapped in colorless links. She knew how annihilation worked, and how to give it direction. She just had to arrange it just right, and then, let it all out.

Cries of pain woke her up from her pleasant trance. The spell was almost ready to be launched, but she had one last thing to add.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

Her anchors dug into the fabric of the world. She knew it wanted the aberrants gone as much as she did.

“Storm of Zamhareer.”

A black pillar surged into the sky, absorbing all light and heat in it wake, and from there, black flakes fell like volcanic ash over the battlefield in a deceptively peaceful black snow. The flying human mages immediately retreated. They had good instincts.

Viv felt the pinprick of dozens of inspection skills triggering all at once. Yes, displaying city-ending capabilities by herself might not be the best choice but they were past that.

When the first flakes touched the top of the ziggurat, the aberrants there died without understanding what had happened. It fell lower, lower, first taking a handful, then a dozen of the aberrants with it. The rest fought by throwing rocks and javelins upward but it was like trying to ward off rain by casting pebbles. The rest ran as fast as they could. For many of them, it would not be fast enough. Those which survived would be a problem for future Viv. What mattered now was that the bombardment had stopped.

The human armies breathed a sigh of relief. She realized now that despite the constant cover she had provided, most of her heavies were exhausted. They were not designed for sustained engagements like this.

“Right, we have to end it quickly.”

The artillery issue was solved for now, but that left the network of trenches and, yeah, bunkers. She had to resolve herself to the obvious.

Whoever had designed this had some knowledge of warfare. They’d sent raiding parties to exhaust and test them, then they were counter-attacking while the humans attempted to take on the fortress. They had formed a siege group out of fucking aberrants, stockpiled stones…

What the hell was she even fighting against? Or who?

“Majesty, Jaratalassi is sending a message. He says we must attack now and kill whatever directs those things, or risk being overwhelmed.”

“We’ll do it slowly and methodically,” Viv replied.

She landed next to Lana. Perhaps for the first time since they’d met, the blue mage looked disheveled and tired.

“Jaratalassi will not be pleased.”

“We will go faster by being systematic. Look at them,” she said, pointing at the struggling Glastians.

Their lines kept falling and reforming. The entire center of the formation was occupied by the bodies of the wounded and the dead, yet they showed no signs of slowing. Medjin kept needling them on while Selyen held the front, the man indefatigable. With every passing moment, more blood joined the crimson of their soldier’s cloaks.

“That is a fair point.”

“And besides, can’t you feel it?” Viv asked.

Because she did. Deep under them, a brown construct mixed with… something.

“Feel what?” the blue mage replied with a frown.

Viv remembered she had very few equals for mana mastery. Lana wasn’t one of them.

“Nevermind. Ugh, I can’t believe my infantry training is going to be of use again. Ok, so here is how we’re going to advance.”

***

Viv jogged to the next tunnel just as the Children of the Scale bypassed it. She ignored their exhausted faces to focus on the hole. A squad of the Eyes provided cover, quarrels aimed at the opening. So far, nothing.

“Nuée.”

Devouring black mana dove down with a hiss. After a few seconds, muffled screams emerged from the abyssal fog.

“Alright, your turn.”

A Harrakan brown mage approached. He was quickly tiring. That was fine. Viv only needed to collapse the passages on a direct path. Abe, Sidjin, and Lana all led other teams of elites, sealing entrances as soon as the Harrakan lines went over them. One team to clear, one to cover, one to support. It was Afghanistan all over again. It worked, though. They were making such good progress that the Glastian formation was starting to lag behind. Slowly, the black tide was becoming the tip of the spear, just as Jaratalassi had planned.

“Your Majesty…” Ban junior said.

Viv looked up.

The Glastians were splitting. While the main army formed a circle to stabilize the situation, Medjin had taken a small, elite group led by his pet sword master. He was leaving the rest of his people behind so he could be the first to reach the ziggurat. A few powerful mages cleared his path with strong spells. They must have been holding back until now.

Just as Sidjin had predicted would happen if he felt he might be proven wrong. He valued his pride over the lives of his people. Pathetic.

“Should we follow?”

“No. We will advance until we’re level with the main Glastian group, then hold.”

“Hold?”

“Yes, you heard me.”

Viv busied herself covering the front of the formation, where the aberrants were thickest. The One Hundred were in constant combat and even they were flagging. They’d been fighting nonstop since morning. Even the liberators were out of naphtha and the attacks showed no signs of abating. The beastlings and their larger cousins kept throwing themselves at human lines with manic fury. Only the coordinated efforts of everyone kept the lines mostly intact.

Medjin reached the base of the ziggurat in a tide of blood. As he was about to enter, he cast one last glance at Sidjin, the fallen prince too busy casting to notice. The sneer turned into a rictus of rage.

The prince went in, followed by his vanguard.

The ziggurat exploded.

