I’m too weak. He’s too fast. She had been so certain she was safe with her minions, but he had wiped them out in the blink of an eye. Even flying as fast as she could, and using Minion Teleport whenever she was able, he was always there, stuck to her like glue. Another lance of ice brushed past her ear, zipping off through the trees ahead of her, close enough that she felt the chill across the side of her head. She threw up a barrier and weaved around another tree.

There was an enormous crack as more ice slammed into the trunk of the tree, freezing and shattering it from the force. Ali teleported, barely avoiding the falling oak as she arrived in the open space in sight of the cave that was her dubious glimmer of hope.

There it is!

Suddenly, Roderik appeared several meters ahead of her, teleporting over twice the usual distance, arriving in a powerful nova of ice that flash-froze the entire clearing. Ali tumbled off her barrier, slamming into the icy ground at an awkward angle. Her ankle snapped with the loud crack of bone shattering and her mind blanked at the shock of excruciating pain. She tumbled, head over heels, crashing her shoulder into a block of ice and landing on her back near his feet. The power radiating from his body grew dramatically colder, and ice grew from the ground, encasing her ankles and legs in a thick layer of rime, forcing her to remain kneeling before him as he slowly approached.

“Got you,” he gloated. “Did you think you were going to escape in there?”

I’m going to die. Her body trembled from adrenaline, pain, the freezing cold, and the terrifying dread of the approaching mage.

“You know,” he said, conversationally, rage suddenly gone. “When two mages fight, the one with the better teleport wins. Yours has a ten-second recharge, and you need a monster to switch with. There’s nothing nearby, what are you going to do now that you’re stranded?” His casual attitude was even more terrifying than his earlier rage.

He can kill me whenever he wants. It was only now, after he had demonstrated the full extent of his teleportation skill, that Ali finally understood he had been toying with her the entire chase. She shivered in fear, waiting for him to summon his magic.

Why are you so afraid of him?

The voice echoed in her mind. It was her own voice, but strange and unfamiliar. There was an incongruous certainty and force of will to it that clashed with her trembling heart. But right then, her mind latched onto the image of herself facing the Death Knight, and then the Blind Lich himself. She had faced real fear, why was she terrified of an egotistical man with his ice lances? She remembered facing the Sewer Rat, and, as if a door within her mind was suddenly flung open, letting it out, her mind filled with the same defiant rage, banishing her fear instantly. Perhaps she would die, but she would not go cowering.

She looked up, staring at Roderik, meeting his gaze for the first time.

Instantly, his face twisted into an angry scowl. “You dare bare your fangs at me? Let me teach you your place!” His mana flared, no longer content to take his time taunting her.

Using every sliver of her focus and concentration, she flung open her spell list and chose.

No free skill slots available, choose a skill to replace.

With frantic speed born of desperation, she scrambled through her class skills, picking the only choice she could.

Arcane Bolt will be replaced with Arcane Recall, all skill levels will be lost.

Yes! she screamed at the golden text unfolding on the parchment in her mind. She was painfully aware she was an instant away from death, but she would not go quietly without a fight. Not to a bully like him. She didn’t even know if her crazy idea would work, but it wouldn’t matter if she couldn’t make the switch before he completed his Ice Lance.

You have lost the class skill Arcane Bolt.

Something deep inside her ripped away, leaving a gaping hole where her skill had once been. All the levels earned and advancement torn away to the sound of a chime.

You have gained the class skill Arcane RecallArcane Recall – level 1You are proficient with Arcane magic. You gain +5% [skill x 5] to spell power, spell haste, mana control, and mental reaction speed with Arcane magic.Mana: Ignore the recharge for any Magic skill, spell, or triggered ability. Your magic is cast instantly. Recharge: 24 hours.Arcane, Metamagic, Mastery, Intelligence

Ice Lance hung within Roderik’s frame, a glittering formation of power and elegance. Mana surged toward it as his skill finalized the spell. With frenzied urgency, Ali slammed mana into her new untried, untested skill.

The entire world halted.

Ali blinked – or at least she tried to, finding herself unable to move, or even breathe. Over Roderik’s left shoulder, a nature wisp hung suspended, frozen mid-zig, no longer green but gray. Roderik also seemed frozen, his face a twisted sneer, and his mana halted just shy of filling his formation.

This is… To her intense surprise, she recognized this place. Everything – the trees, the ice, the moss, and the mage in front of her – had frozen in place in a familiar world of gray.

I wish this moment could last forever. Her mother’s last words echoed in her memory.

Mom? The force of raw grief slammed into her anew as her mind was instantly transported back to her mother’s final sacrifice, and the magic she had wielded to save Ali’s life.

A unique magic that Ali had just wielded herself.

The gray surroundings flickered then, and Roderik appeared several meters back, as he had been moments before he had knocked Ali from her barrier. The world flickered back to now, and she could clearly see the mana of his ice lance had completed, with the beginnings of the lance appearing before his hand.

With a supreme effort of will, she forced her mind back to the present, putting her grief away for later. If there would be a later.

Time stopped? She didn’t know how to use this strange magic, and she had only a single chance in which to get it right.

The gray, color-leached world flickered again showing her a scene she had witnessed the first time around. The starry sky was clear above, and the forest renewed, and moments later the mountain exploded sending uncountable tons of rock down on top of her.

That was then…

She would have flinched if the spell allowed her to move or look away, but mercifully the world flickered back to the present moment before the avalanche hit.

Is it waiting for something? Anticipation prickled along her skin while time was held in abeyance. Ali read the description of the skill once again, racking her brain for some clues for how to use this magic.

She suddenly noticed the slow, persistent trickle of mana being drained by her Sage of Learning. Is Sage still working? It was then that it clicked. Arcane Insight was working too – her passive magic and her mind were unaffected by the frozen time in this realm, unlike her body.

It’s waiting for me to cast something, she realized. With infinite care, she mentally summoned her Grimoire. The sudden appearance of her magical tome was shockingly bright and colorful against the contrast of a static world cast in gray. It works. She willed the pages to turn to the imprint she had hoped to use with this magic. Her expectations of how the spell would work were so far from the actual experience that she had momentarily forgotten her plan. But her Grimoire obediently paged to the Elemental imprint, stopping on the variant she required.

Her mana flowed into her imprint causing a riot of brilliant color and magic as she summoned the largest, heaviest, and highest-level monster she had: the Forest Guardian. Still held in stasis, she nonetheless kept a worried eye on Roderik and the powerful magic that would be unleashed the instant she was freed from this bizarre world.

But it held, patiently holding the entire world back as her magic flowed; intricate runes swirling to form the giant monster of wood and bark. Minutes passed and as her magic neared completion, she prepared herself, bracing herself for what must come next.

It all happened in an instant. Her Forest Guardian appeared between her and Roderik, and the bizarre color-leached world of her mother’s magic vanished in an instant.

“Charge!” she screamed at her Guardian, while simultaneously wielding her barrier magic. Weaving her skill and her domain, she wrought several wickedly sharp golden spikes, fixed in place. Ice mana flashed brilliantly as Roderik’s Ice Lance pierced through the chest of her massive Guardian. But that was not enough to stop it. It roared in pain and anger and blurred with sudden speed as its Rush skill launched it forward.

The Rush lasted only two steps, but Ali’s bones shook from the raw force of several tons of high-speed wood and ferocity.

A musical, glassy tinkle sounded as his shield of ice shattered, followed by a disgusting, wet crunch and a gurgling sound. Ali’s notification chime sounded as her Guardian backed up, leaving the grotesque sight of Roderik hanging impaled on her barrier shards with a look of utter surprise frozen on his dead face.

You have defeated Ice Mage – Human – level 62 (Ice)

Ali bent over and threw up.

I killed him.

A person.

It didn’t matter that he had been intent on murdering her. She felt sick to the core of her being.

She knelt there dry heaving for a while, but the persistent regeneration aura from her Forest Guardian slowly began to make her feel better. She snapped out of it when the aura finally finished repairing her ankle and her bones twisted back into place, painfully shattering the ice that encased her legs.

As her awareness expanded, distant shouts and muffled explosions of magic made themselves heard.

I need to go.

She had defeated Roderik, but it had been by the skin of her teeth, and now she no longer had her Arcane Recall, nor her Arcane Bolt skill to help her out. Aside from the Forest Guardian, she had no minions left to protect her – the stinging snaps of her mana reservations releasing had died down to nothing. Already, there were plumes of smoke and fire and she could feel her domain burning.

Ali hauled herself to her feet, earning new scrapes and cuts from the sharp ice which her Guardian healed, and forced herself to approach the mangled corpse. She choked down the bile rising in her throat. It was one thing to deconstruct a strung-up Sewer Rat, but this had been a person. Before she threw up again, she deconstructed him, dismissing the barrier shards holding him suspended in the air. Then she stored his gear in her ring so that hopefully nobody would realize what she had done.

“Don’t let anyone pass,” she instructed her Guardian, stepping onto her barrier, flying into the small cave, and entering the ventilation shaft.

She fed the mana she had just earned from Roderik’s corpse into Domain Mastery, making Aether-Fused Obsidian flow from her Grimoire as she filled twenty meters of the shaft behind her with solid rock. Then she fled, flying in a dazed desperate shock through the countless ruined buildings of Dal’mohra to the library itself.

Her mind raced, while her emotions churned in turmoil. She had survived, but only by killing a person. There was a horde of angry people destroying her domain up above. She desperately hoped that Aiden and Havok, and the rest of the novices, were alive, but she had no way to tell.

But it was Roderik’s confident insistence that she was a dungeon that sent true threads of icy dread stabbing deep into her heart. For some reason, she couldn’t shake the horrid premonition of disaster that lurked deep in the back of her mind. As she finally collapsed onto the stone floor of the library, she retrieved the terrifying book she had been avoiding for too long.

Dungeons and Domains: A Complete Reference. Nevyn Eld.

The mere sight of the Lich’s seminal work filled her with horror and fear, but she had to know the truth. She had to clear the sense of impending doom that filled her heart.

Paging quickly through the chapters, she came at last to the piece she needed near the end of the book.

“What then is a dungeon? As we have seen, domain classes come in many shapes and forms. What specifically sets a dungeon apart from the rest? A dungeon simply consists of three things:

1) A domain that is attached to a place.

2) A domain that can be grown by the creator, through the creation of domain-specific monsters or items that expand and maintain its structure or mana-lattice.

3) A skill that allows dismantling creatures or items and allows the domain creator to use their domain magic to duplicate them.

Returning to the examples we have seen so far…”

A ghastly chill settled in her heart, dwarfing anything Roderik had caused. The book fell from her nerveless fingers, clattering to the ground as the realization slammed into her like a spike of ice through her heart.

She had a domain. A magic that was tied to the land, just as the book claimed. She had even studied the bone and death domain of the Ruins of Dal’mohra, fascinated by the remarkable similarities to her own.

Her plants expanded her domain, just as the bone piles and Deathcap mushrooms expanded the ruins dungeon, or Naia’s slimes expanded her smaller underwater domain.

And her pride – the Grimoire of Summoning – allowed her to deconstruct and learn new plants and monsters, just like Nevyn Eld’s book explained.

She was powerless to resist the clear and suddenly obvious truth that slammed into her heart with the force of a mountain collapsing on top of her. She could barely breathe.

The signs had been there all along. Even Naia had accused her of being a dungeon, and, in her naivety, she had refused to believe it – certain instead that the mimic slime simply had a poor grasp of the language. The dungeon-rage she had triggered when her domain had encountered the death and bone domain. Even her newest discovery that her Moss Creepers, Floral Menaces, and Spore Spreaders could grow the plants for her domain matched the Spitter Drones of the Ruins of Dal’mohra, spreading bone throughout the dungeon’s space.

Malika is going to hate me. Her friend’s parents – and indeed her entire life – had been destroyed by a dungeon. There was no way she would accept Ali after she found out. She could clearly see the expression of hate and anger on her face as she imagined meeting her friends and telling them the truth.

Within her heart, a deep empty loneliness bloomed as her entire life collapsed in tatters around her.

I’m the monster.

