Shattered ice and blizzard's roar,Will mark the end of this fierce war,For in my hand, the winter’s key,Unlocks the path to victory.- Mok’freja. Troll Ice Mage, Ambassador of Telim Gor.

Ali flew down the sewer tunnels, following the twisting path without paying much conscious attention, her mind filled with runes and the intricate structure of teleportation magic. She had a few exciting ideas while she was in the baths, and she couldn’t wait to try them out as soon as she returned to the Grove.

She very nearly zoomed around the corner when a scream of pain and the sudden icy bite of frost in the air pulled her up short.

What the…

Several heavy thumps echoed through the dimly lit sewer tunnels up ahead, followed by the screams and shouts of people in real pain. That’s not normal. Frost began creeping up the crumbling brick walls right before her eyes. Ali crept closer to the entrance of the next cross tunnel, cautious now, making out several voices and the sounds of heavy boots on damp brick.

A sudden clear shouted voice rang out through the tunnel, “Tell him, otherwise he will kill you!”

Was that Aiden?

“Miss Aliandra is friend. Havok not betray. If Havok tell, then he kill Havok and Miss Aliandra.” The Goblin Adventurer’s voice rang out, clear and recognizable, stunning Ali into stillness for a moment.

What’s going on here?

Ali carefully poked her head around the corner, but the sight that greeted her made her blood run cold – and not because of the frost gripping the walls. All the novice adventurers writhed in pain, pinned to the ground or the walls by pristine white spikes of conjured ice, leaving their blood pooling on the moss.

Thugs wearing the Town Watch colors marched toward them from the far side. But Ali’s eyes were drawn to the broad-shouldered man dominating the center of the tunnel. He stood with his back to her amid the blood and ice, a fine white robe gracing his back, radiating an intense mana that fueled the frost on the walls.

Mage – Human – level ?? (Ice)

She recognized him from the Goblin siege, but it was the pitiful figure of Havok pinned to the wall by several large ice lances that gripped her heart and made it impossible to breathe. There was so much blood on the wall.

“…but why are you messing with that green scum, this one on the ground is the mayor’s son.”

The voice sounded harshly indifferent to the suffering all around.

“Ok. Last chance, Goblin. How do I find Aliandra and her dungeon? Tell me or die.” The mage’s voice was loaded with spite and contempt as complex formations of ice mana surged within his broad frame.

Is he looking for me? Wait… dungeon? What is he…

“No.” The Goblin’s body was already pierced with ice, pinned to the wall, and drenched in his own blood. He could barely even twitch, but his face remained defiant, and his voice clear.

Havok! Ali was stunned to hear the defiant Goblin’s final resistance. What are you doing? He’s going to kill you!

“Fine,” the white mage snarled. Within him, the formations twisted, rapidly reaching a crescendo.

“Havok! No!” Ali screamed. Without thought, her mana flowed. In an instant, she summoned the strongest barrier she could muster, drawing heavily from the power of her domain to reinforce it. The dense golden wall of arcane magic snapped into existence right in front of Havok’s face as he hung helpless on the wall, staring down the wrath of the ice mage.

There were several loud cracks as lances of ice shot out, striking her barrier. The construct shattered, an explosion of golden shards and splinters of ice filling the tunnel with deadly shards and shrapnel that ricocheted from the walls and the mage’s Ice Shield, drawing blood from anyone it touched.

Shouts of alarm echoed wildly through the tunnel.

“Fuck!”

“Roderik, that’s her!”

“Get her!”

“Kill the dungeon!”

Every eye turned to see her standing there; a discordant mix of hope for salvation clashing against naked greed and rampant bloodlust.

“You’re mine!” Roderik yelled, vanishing in a flash of complex mana, and appearing right beside Ali, his grasping hand shooting out toward her neck.

Ali screamed. Cold billowed from the menacing ice mage, claws of frost bit through her cotton clothing. She snapped a wall of golden magic between them, blocking off the entire sewer channel. His hand cracked against the barrier, and he spat out a harsh curse, but Ali’s mind had already found a Toxic Slime at the far end of her range.

Her mana pulsed, and her surroundings flickered as Minion Teleport whisked her away. She instantly summoned a disk and took off down the tunnel as fast as she could. A tinkling crash and shattering ice echoed from down the tunnel she had hastily vacated. Roderik’s curse cut off mid-cry – somehow, the silence was far more chilling than anything that preceded it. He’s coming… hunting… why?

She threw up a tunnel-blocking barrier, but ice magic teleportation formations surged and Roderik appeared right beside her, ignoring her blockade. Frantically, Ali scoured the area, finding another slime and switching locations in the nick of time, just as several Ice Lances shot out toward her.

They’re… trying to kill me? Her heart hammered deafeningly in her ears. Breathlessly, she summoned a new barrier and raced down the dimly lit sewer tunnel while her mind struggled to grasp what had just happened. Her friends had just been assaulted by the Town Watch, and she was being hunted by a murderous ice mage. She had been living under a bounty for a while now and had even been shot at by an assassin with a crossbow, but nothing had prepared her for the murderous rage of this Ice Mage. It had all happened so fast; she didn’t even know if Havok had survived.

Why do they think I’m a dungeon?

She was still running on adrenaline-fueled panic, but her senses were already searching for another teleport target while she flew, hanging, white-knuckled, onto the edge of her barrier magic.

I need to tell them. It’s a mistake, I’m not a dungeon. But instinctively she knew he was not going to stop to listen to her explanation.

She threw up another barrier between herself and the suddenly arriving rush of Roderik’s ice magic spell before she found her next target – a Goblin one tunnel over. She teleported sideways, switching tunnels, and then shot down into the hole leading to her forest. She had the presence of mind to remove her golden barrier staircase, leaving another barrier blocking the passage downward.

I need my minions! Being attacked out of nowhere was one thing, but she had left most of her Kobolds behind at the camp so that she could travel unmolested through the town – a horrible blunder that was only now becoming apparent – and now she was stranded and vulnerable. That was so stupid. You knew about the bounty! she berated herself. And why had she split up with Malika? They had been so diligent about staying together for protection. Roderik was too high-level for her to deal with on her own; even the four of them could scarcely hope to stop him, could they?

She made a beeline toward the Grove and the tall landmark of her shrine, flying as fast as she could. If she could get to them, she would stand a good chance of fighting him off. She had left several Acolytes and Fire Mages, and they had served her admirably through all the terrifying bosses they had fought.

Roderik appeared high above the trees in a flash of mana and a burst of ice crystals, crowing in delight. “I found your dungeon!”

“It’s not a dungeon!” she yelled, but he paid no heed to her words. Instead, Ali dove left and swooped down among the trees in response to a surge of mana seen in her mana sight. A series of rapid-fire ice lances shot by, slicing through the trees, barely missing her as she swerved to avoid trunks and branches.

The only minion in range was a Stinging Jelly floating in the lake, but she took it, desperate to gain some distance from the power-crazed lunatic chasing her. She held her breath and switched, forcing herself not to gasp at the sudden shock of cold water, and summoned a new barrier, flying herself up out of the lake in a shower of glowing, mana-purified water. The ice lances punched through the surface of the lake right behind her, freezing large chunks of it into bobbing icebergs.

“I’m going to kill you, little Fae,” he yelled in a sing-song voice as if he were chanting a children’s rhyme, sending another chill racing down Ali’s spine. He’s mad. The mage’s mana flared high above her, and Ali summoned a second barrier to protect herself from the high-speed lances of ice. She dodged, but her barrier shattered, spraying sharp fragments of ice in all directions. She gasped in pain as several sliced through her leg, leaving the chill of frost creeping through her flesh as if his mana were trying to consume her.

“Why are you doing this?” she shouted in desperate confusion, gripping the edge of her barrier in white-knuckled pain. It had to be some mistake.

“I’m going to collect the king’s reward for killing your dungeon,” he answered gleefully and teleported suddenly closer.

Ali threw up a blocking barrier and teleported again as soon as she found another minion. The level-one Scavenger screeched as it suddenly found itself flailing in the air above the trees. She regretted not filling the cavern with more of her minions – without one in range she was vulnerable to being stranded and at the mercy of his lances.

“But I’m not a dungeon!” she yelled. Clearly, he was delusional, she was an adventurer at the guild, and as soon as she made him understand that, he would stop this crazy assault.

“You can’t fool me. Anyone can see this is a dungeon. And everyone knows this is yours.”

What?

“And nobody cares what happens to a dungeon,” he continued. “I can finally go all out. I’m going to squash you like a bug.” He punctuated his words with flourishes of his hand and the thwip, thwip, thwip of razor-sharp bolts of ice.

Ali’s heart thumped wildly, but she was finally drawing close to the shrine. One last teleport, swapping places with a Moss Creeper, and she felt how close her Kobolds were through Martial Insight. She sensed them all lighting up as the magic of Empowered Summoner reached them and her intelligence attribute spiked from proximity to her targeted mage.

“Shoot him,” she commanded, her voice breathless and hoarse from the frantic chase. Profound relief filled her as she swept past her alert Kobolds, drawing to a halt behind the grinning Fire Mages and their already glowing magic. Her vulnerability vanished; now she could fight! Her slimes would probably not be particularly useful against a flying mage, but her Fire Mages were more than sufficient.

The soft gentle pulse of holy magic settled on her, healing the cuts in her legs, and pushing back the chill of ice. Her skin suddenly warmed as balls of conjured flame bathed her in their comforting heat, and the familiar stench of brimstone.

Roderik flew out of the forest at the perfect moment. All four of her mages unleashed their Fireball spells simultaneously, while Ali lofted her Arcane Bolts out over her protective barrier in three glowing streams. Four intense balls of fire flew up into the air with sizzling intensity, making Roderik scramble to a halt in midair, his eyes growing wide in surprise. The simultaneous detonation rocked the Grove with a satisfyingly powerful shockwave of flame and heat.

“Again,” she called out, not wanting to leave anything to chance. Gobs of sizzling flame rained down onto the Grove, but she could repair that later. Four Fireballs were a lot, but the mage had been terrifyingly strong. And her Arcane Bolts were still finding a target within the giant ball of fire and smoke.

A surge of ice mana flared within the conflagration and suddenly there was a massive blast of icy power, instantly snuffing out every last trace of fire and blanketing the Grove in a sudden flash-frost. Ali’s barrier blocked most of the ice, but her Kobolds’ legs and arms were covered, pinning them to frozen moss.

“Fucking pathetic! You face me, Roderik Icecrown, with level twenty Kobolds?” The mage hovered in the air, his robes still pristine white, surrounded by a dense barrier of glittering ice. Gone was any trace of his prior amusement and excitement, replaced by a red-faced rage.

“You adventurers know nothing about fighting. You face stupid monsters and count your levels and think you’re strong. That all means nothing when you fight a person. I have beaten over a thousand people – you stand no chance against me. Allow me to show you just how outclassed you are.”

Deep inside Roderik’s body, an intense kernel of white mana appeared. The temperature dropped instantly, and the Grove filled with flurries of ice crystals. Ali heard only a soft swish and a sudden wet thump, and her eyes widened in horror at the sight of three lances of ice sprouting from the chests of each of her Acolytes. Her mages let loose their Fireballs, wreathing him in a second powerful explosion of fire, but the ice lances kept coming, piercing Kobold after Kobold until Ali stood alone among her impaled army of dead minions.

She fled. In the face of such immense power, she stood no chance. She teleported to a nearby ooze and then shot off through the forest, gripping the edge of her barrier for dear life as she desperately tried to put as many trees as possible between her and the furious mage bent on her destruction.

“That’s more like it,” he crowed, laughing as he gave chase. “Run, little Fae. Run for your life.”

She swerved side to side as the forest filled with the deadly hail of ice bolts stripping leaves and branches from the trees and thudding into the ground. She flinched as one clipped her cheek, but miraculously she avoided serious injury. A familiar surge of mana flared to her right, and he appeared amid a sudden blast of glacial air and mana that caused several trees to freeze and shatter. Frozen splinters of wood and ice tore into her before she could block all of them with her hastily created barrier.

She teleported away, again, leaking amber blood onto her now slick barrier. Ali had given up on trying to reason with him – it was beyond hope. All she could do was escape. Ahead of her was the small cave with the ventilation shaft that led down into the ruins below. She had to lose him somehow, but her mind despaired of finding a way.

