“I'm stuck!” One of them said and had a suction cup stuck to his chest.

“Me, too!” Another said, and he struggled to get free.

Ren saw that the unconscious ones were also stuck on suction cups, and he thought about how to get them free without getting the octopus' attention.

“What are you doing?” One of the stuck Sea Dwellers asked. “Get us out of here!”

“I'm trying.” Ren said.

“Just pull us free!”

“If I do that, it will know.”

“You can't just leave us here!” The other said, and Ren felt him start to panic.

“Your armor!” Ren said. “Cut it off and you'll slip right out!”

“Wh-what?” They looked down at themselves and saw the suction cups were only on the armor and not on their skin. “Why didn't we think of that?”

“Just cut it and go!” Ren said and they pulled out knives to cut the ties that held it to the back piece while he took out his hammerpick and started cutting away at the unconscious Sea Dweller's armor. There was a loud crash as one of the secured tentacles was broken free of the restraints, and Ren felt how happy the giant octopus was. He also felt what the giant octopus was going to do once it was completely free.

“Hurry!” Railyse said from where she still floated, but it sounded like she was right in front of him. “It's almost free!”

Ren nodded and freed the last three Sea Dwellers, and the other participants and attendees caught them as they floated down. Now what do I do?

“What was it you said when we fought the giants?” Teepo asked. “Bigger is better or something?”

Ren chuckled. “Go big or go home.” He said and cast Permanent Enlarge or Reduce Anything on himself several times and kept increasing his size. He felt the crowd's shock and amazement as he kept growing until he was of equal size to the giant octopus, then they all just stared at him with awe.

Ren tapped the giant octopus on what he thought was a kind of shoulder, and it shifted to look at him. He felt the octopus' surprise, and it started to freak out. Ren activated his Animal Affinity ability that gave him 50% to the chance that an animal will be friendly.

“Easy, there. I'm not going to hurt you.” Ren said and lightly touched the side of it's head. “I can see you're trying to get free.”

The giant octopus blinked her eyes at him as it calmed down, then she turned back to concentrate on freeing herself. Since the octopus was well within his Aura, Ren cast Charm Person on it to see if it would work. The giant octopus didn't stop what she was doing, but she did turn her head to face him as one of her tentacles snaked up and wrapped around his chest.

“I really like hugs.” Ren said. “I've had 6 arms around me before, and if you let me free you, you can beat that record by two if you want.”

“REN! NO!” Railyse yelled.

Ren held a hand up towards her, and used the one still touching the octopus to caress it. “What do you say? Let me free you and you can give me a hug.”

The giant octopus' tentacles slowed down and then stopped banging against it's restraints, and two more tentacles wrapped around Ren. It held the other two with solid water bats in front of him.

“Your Highness, remove the solid water, please.” Ren said, and Railyse released the water.

The octopus felt relief and wrapped those tentacles around him as well. Ren used his Enchanted Vision and saw the restraints were enchanted with the same enchantment that Lylyth had on her magical chains, and he almost laughed at the simplicity.

“Allow me.” Ren said as he knelt on one knee and touched one of the restraints, then he absorbed the enchantment. He popped it open with his fingers and the octopus was both excited and filled with disbelief... as was everyone else in the Colosseum. Ren almost laughed because the octopus and the Sea Dwellers had more in common than they realized, and he opened the last to restraints.

The giant octopus was finally free, and Ren felt its joy as it wrapped the last two legs around his chest and gave him a squeeze. He put his arms around it and gave it a gentle hug back, because he knew there wasn't any kind of solid things on the creature except for the beak of its mouth. The crowd gasped at the sight, and they thought the octopus was going to keep squeezing.

“Hey, do you want to go home?” Ren asked it, and he felt the giant octopus' happiness and a very flattering appreciation for how big and strong he was, then one of her tentacles moved up to lay across the cheek of his face. The suction cups stuck to him as the tip of the tentacle rubbed the top of his head and played with his hair.

“And now another female succumbs to the Prince Charming title!” Teepo said and chittered in delight.
