Ren had to use a Major Healing wand to refill his depleted Mana Pool. Iron Grip! He thought, and took out one of the small gold bars he'd made before coming to the dwarf lands. He held it in front of his face in the water and enchanted it with a glyph of Illumination. It glowed because of his Enchanted Eyes and he saw the runes in the glyph because of his Decipher skill; but when he checked the Read Rune description, it was only for unknown runes. He deactivated that skill and used Iron Grip on the gold metal.

Ren crushed it easily, took out his blacksmith hammer, and repaired it. The enchantment was no longer on it because it had been so damaged; so he enchanted it again, waited a moment, then crushed it. He couldn't hold his breath anymore, so he pulled his head out of the water, and then gasped for air.

Stat Change!

Hold Breath Level 3 (Beginner 0%)

Ren grinned, took a deep breath, and plunged his head and hands back into the water.

*

“What... what is he doing?” One of the dwarves asked.

“I dunno.” His buddy said. “Maybe he's trying to breathe underwater.”

“Ha! That's crazy.” The dwarf said. “No, I think he's trying to hurt himself.”

His buddy laughed. “We just watched him throw... what? A hundred or so wind bombs at the target?”

The dwarf nodded.

“There's lots of easier ways he could hurt himself.”

“I'm going to go get the healer.”

“Suit yourself.” His buddy said. “But I'll bet you first shot that he's going to laugh in her face.”

“You're on!” The dwarf said excitedly and ran over to the healer.

“Sucker.” His buddy whispered. “Can't he hear Ren laugh when he sticks his head up?”

*

Ren continuously used Iron Grip and Metal Repair while holding his breath, and had just gotten Hold Breath up to Level 4, when he felt someone tug on his cloak. He pulled his head out of the water, shook it out, and turned to see who it was.

“Yes?” Ren said as he saw Deresdra standing behind him.

“Are you trying to kill yourself?” She asked, and Ren laughed.

“No, Ma'am.” Ren said. “I'm trying to make it easier to hold my breath.”

Deresdra blinked her eyes at him a few times, shook her head, and walked back to the medical tent.

*

“Aw, damn.” The dwarf said.

“I told you.” His buddy said. “I get first shot.”

“All right, fine.” The dwarf said. “I was wrong.”

His buddy grinned. “By the gods, I can't wait to fire this thing on full automatic!”

“Only the first 50 shots!” The dwarf said. “We're splitting, remember?”

“I might forget in the heat of battle.” His buddy joked.

“You better not!” The dwarf said. “I'll never forgive you if you take all the Honor.”

His buddy laughed. “Don't worry, my friend. By the time this is over, we're all going to have lots of Honor.”

*

Ren dunked his head and arms back into the water. Once I get Hold Breath up to Intermediate, I'll do something else.

Stat Change!

Iron Grip Level 3 (Intermediate 0%)

Enchanted Eyes Level 1 (Intermediate 0%)

Sweet! Ren thought and kept working. This SPECIAL bonus is freaking awesome!
