Easily four meters long, it was one and a half times the size of Julia’s Shadow Spider, but whereas Julia’s spider was of huntsman-make, built thick for combat, this spider was not. It was an orb weaver type. With long, thin legs, a body strong enough to hold all those legs, and a bulbous, small abdomen, it might have been larger than the shadow spider, but it had to weigh less.

It was pale green and iridescent violet, with pure white eyes that ringed its head on tiny bumps like a crown.

It was magnificent.

And it needed to die.

Ezekiel cast to the sky, ripping a hole in the air and bringing the sun closer to Veird. Radiant billowing heat blasted out of the [Major Sunlight Rift], cooking the forest, setting fire to magical threads that refused to burn too much, and then, suddenly, caught fire. In a flashing second, 90% of the threads around them vanished. The monster seemed not bothered by the heat, as it raced forward, but the spell wasn’t meant to kill the spider. It would just prevent minor threads from building up as the spider tried to control the battlefield.

And no one in his party was bothered by the heat. [Animadversion] cut this small amount of friendly fire down to nothing.

Branches broke. The spider charged into the game trail, right at Tiffany, its front legs reaching forward like spears as its back legs propelled it faster than an animal that size had any right to move. Tiffany raised her left arm and her magenta shield with it, forming a dense barrier of magenta spikes.

One second passed, and everything changed.

The spider was not charging Tiffany anymore. It was directly above Paul, and spearing down with three legs full of power, with green venom swirling around the tips. Paul caught two spears on his shield. The third struck Julia, who had [Interception]ed the attack.

Decay splashed in every direction except the one it was meant to go, as reflection warred with reflection. Green acid caught on trees, on conjured Force. Ezekiel’s own shield splashed that acid back to the ground, pitting dirt where it fell.

Julia counterattacked with a [Strike] from her long blue blade, barely touching the spider.

Her sword broke in the contact.

The spider moved again, faster than it had any right to move, and struck at Tiffany’s back with three more flashing green limbs. It was moving too fast for her to completely dodge. Tiffany sacrificed a hit to the leg to protect her abdomen and chest. Acid sprayed.

Ezekiel threw a [Slowing Bolt] at the beast. Magenta frost struck, and then reflected, to bounce back at Ezekiel—

He canceled the spell before it reached him, not wanting to take the chance on testing his own reflection against the monster’s. The reflection was too strong. It wasn’t supposed to be that strong!

The weaver also wasn’t supposed to have [Lightwalk] but it had that, too. That’s how it was moving everywhere in the light, faster than it had any right to move.

Tiffany smashed down with her mace, missing the beast because it turned to light—

Ezekiel slashed at it with [Lightshape], the perfect counter to [Lightwalk] users. Rainbows filled the air, but Ezekiel had only clipped the very edge of the spider’s lightform. Reflection still worked when the beast was in lightform, it seemed.

The spider slipped around the battlefield, triple-stabbing at Julia.

Paul did something. The spider froze, briefly, but Paul froze in the action, too.

Ezekiel had a few fully-Physical spells he could use, but the only ones that could work here were [Luminous Beam] and [Vivid Gloom], and he didn’t want to destroy the spider.

He tried [Hermetic Razor], scattering 25, 100 point damaging molecular wires throughout the battlefield, outside of their own area. The spider broke free of Paul’s working and flicked through the razor wires like they were nothing. They might have been Particle Magic, but they were still mostly magic. He had hoped that they would work a little, but no.

The shockwaves of his [Physical Domain] might work, but again, he didn’t want to destroy the thing.

Julia reached over and touched Tiffany with a shadowy tendril, casting [Greater Treat Wounds]. Her leg hadn’t gotten that bad in the seconds since the acid strike, but it was oozing red, and it did not look good. The healing magics helped.

Tiffany Roared.

Ezekiel felt his body tense with power as Tiffany’s buff inundated him.

The weaver reacted, too. It flinched, turned, and attacked Tiffany, all in the same action, flickering through the light to strike at Tiffany again.

Ezekiel cast a large box of [Luminous Trap] in the spider’s way, sized to the monster. It was using lightform, so trapping it might do something.

The weaver crashed into the sudden darkness. Where it touched, the edge of the spell flickered like broken pond water. The weaver got sucked in, anyway. Ezekiel threw a [Merciful Ether Slime] at the black box and then wrapped the whole thing in a force cage of instantaneous, layered [Quick Wall]s, hoping that it would keep the monster inside.

But.

Those Force walls might not keep the spider in there.

When Julia had swiped her Force sword at the weaver, her sword had broken. The weaver punched right through Tiffany’s Force armor like it wasn’t even there. This Nacreous Weaver had abilities far outside of what Riri’s notes had said.

A moment passed, as everyone waited for something else to happen.

… A second moment passed.

With his mana sense Ezekiel saw that the spider was in there. His [Quick Wall]s weren’t supporting the monster's weight, though. The monster was all the way in lightform, and supporting itself in the black box. It was just… Hovering there.

… It wasn’t doing anything.

It was just standing still in the center of the very, very bright box, its eyes alight with white glows. The [Merciful Ether Slime] was spilling thick air into the space, so it was working, but none of the spell actually reached the lightform beast.

The fight slowed down, as nothing continued to happen.

Fifteen seconds passed.

The ether seemed unable to reach the monster, but… Maybe it was doing something?

Julia tentatively sent, ‘Is it dead?’

‘It’s not doing anything,’ Tiffany sent, not moving at all. ‘It really likes the light.’

Paul said, ‘Don’t anyone move, or do anything. It really likes the light. A lot. It doesn’t even notice that it’s dying.’

‘Is that going to kill it?’ Ezekiel asked. ‘Ethyl Ether kills insects back home, but I doubt it would kill spiders here? Right? And it’s in lightform. Is it using its lightform to breathe?’

‘I use shadowform to breathe when I’m a shadow spider,’ Julia said, staring at the black box hanging in the air.

‘It’s definitely dying.’ Paul sent, ‘I was about to suggest we run away, but if this works, it works. And I don’t think it’s dying to the ether. I think it’s dying to the sunlight. The Sun Rift isn’t doing much damage because of the spider’s innate reflection, but inside that box it is doing something.’

Ezekiel glanced upward at the bright Rift. ‘The sun can stay, then, but this other one can go.’

He canceled the ether slime before that ‘Volatile’ tag on the spell exploded the monster in their face. The ether didn’t seem to be doing much of anything, anyway, since the spider was definitely in lightform.

The spider did not react.

… Or maybe it relaxed into the heat and the light a bit more? Hard to say.

Tiffany sent, ‘Is this a deprivation reaction? All monsters are created, but some are created with specific weaknesses in order to control them during creation, but usually those are bred out of them before they’re released into the wild.’

‘The original versions were created, sure.’ Julia sent, ‘But Variants and mutations occur all the time in the wild. This is a Variant. Maybe the weakness came back.’

‘It’s definitely a Variant, for sure.’ Tiffany sent, ‘Destroyed my mace with a touch.’

‘It’s a much stronger Variant than Riri told us about,’ Ezekiel sent.

Did Riri send them into a trap? Or… No. Maybe not. Riri was being spied on, for sure, since she had said ‘even a hint’ would be too much, and there were no hints about this particular monster in her books; just general information. Riri had personally given him this weaver’s location while she was juiced up on Intelligence, so maybe she hadn’t been at her best?

… They were in the middle of a fight. Ezekiel got his head back into the game, even if the ‘game’ seemed to be at a strange standstill.

‘Its reflection is as good as yours, dad,’ Julia sent.

‘I have nothing that works on this monster.’ Ezekiel sent, ‘Nothing that won’t blast it away. I was about to suggest that we run away, too. And then this happened.’

‘I need to get a real weapon,’ Tiffany sent, holding up her empty hand. Her mace was gone. ‘Something that can’t be [Dispel]ed.’

‘It broke my sword, too,’ Julia sent.

‘That wasn’t a [Dispel]. That was something else,’ Ezekiel said. ‘Some Force-specific effect.’

Ezekiel watched through the mana as Julia silently tapped Tiffany with another hit of [Greater Treat Wounds], and the oozing hole in Tiffany’s leg sealed over. Mostly, though, he focused on the spider, inside of its cage. The spider’s eyes flickered with radiance, while the entire monster was awash in brilliant, hot light. It had stepped on that light to secure itself inside the black box, but it could step out at any time it wanted; all it had to do was go physical for a moment. The only thing keeping it in there was itself. The [Quick Wall]s around it were no match for it at all.

What sort of solid spells could he use, here, that wouldn’t obliterate the beast? Riri had warned that it was much more fragile than it looked, and he was inclined to agree. As for his smaller spells... He had [Incandescent] and [Frozen Mist] that would both exude physical heat and cold… But that would disturb the spider.

It was likely best to not disturb the spider while it was killing itself.

If they needed to evacuate and come back, Ezekiel would come back with a [Shadow Wall] spell that he could wrap through the battlefield, to prevent lightforms from escaping and from moving so well. If necessary, he could even vibrate the monster to death with his [Physical Domain], but that would likely obliterate it, too.

Julia sent, ‘You have [Flying Striker], dad. You need to make a true flying sword. Something solid. Something to use in this situation.’

‘I’ll think about making you one if you want it, Julia.’ Ezekiel sent, ‘I don’t want a sword.’

‘I’ll take a sword,’ Paul sent.

Julia wanted to laugh and Tiffany wanted to chuckle; Ezekiel could tell. He wanted to laugh, too. But no one made a single sound or moved a muscle. The situation was tense enough for levity, but not for actually enjoying that levity.

Julia sent, ‘I’ll take a sword made out of some bullshit fantasy metal, please. Something that can cut through solid rock as well as my Force sword can.’

‘Sure,’ Ezekiel sent. ‘We can visit the Adamantine Smiths of Underworld Nelboor. Their head offices are in the Northern Chasm Region of the Tribulation Mountains.’

Silence returned.

Tiffany’s buff ended, and Ezekiel sagged a fraction. He wasn’t the only one.

The spider didn’t care.

Julia added, ‘If you hadn’t turned off damage notifications, you would see that you were killing it.’

‘I’m not watching oceans of blue screens every time I fight, Julia.’

Julia joked, ‘Maybe you could get Rozeta to turn on global notifications. Little numbers appearing above damaged enemies.’

‘… I’m not going to do that, either.’

Tiffany added, ‘Tiny damage numbers and damage done to things you don’t know you’ve damaged isn’t shown anyway.’

Silence returned.

Minutes passed. No one spoke. Small fires started here and there in the forest, and Ezekiel got a few notifications for smaller monster life dying, but mostly, it was just a very hot day. The birds barely cared, the deer ran through the forest, unperturbed. The [Animadversion]s on his people kept the damage off of them, just like the spider’s own reflective carapace, or ability, kept it alive through the magical damage.

But the physical damage caused by Elemental Sun and a very, very bright space, would eventually get through its lightform. It was likely hotter in there than if he had thrown an [Incandescent] inside.

The ‘battle’ continued.

The spider was slowly dying. Its reflective powers were great, and the ability of its lightform to shrug off a great deal of the physical damage of the heat was strong, but slowly, surely, the damage piled up, and because it was such small amounts, the spider didn’t seem to care.

It was enthralled by the brilliance.

Seven minutes. Eight minutes. The Sun Rift would go out, soon. Their magenta shields were about to give out—

Without warning, the spider relaxed.

Its lightform dropped. Its long, iridescent green legs touched upon the walls of Force holding it in the cage. For one last, stretching moment, the weaver stared at the light, and the light burned.

The weaver died, slightly smoking, the light in its eyes going out as the entire monster went dim.

You have slain Radiant Nacreous Weaver!

85% participation!

+90.186e12 exp

It wasn’t enough to move Ezekiel’s Status at all. His own experience meter was ‘e20’. The Radiant Nacreous Weaver was only ‘e12’.

He breathed out, canceling the Sun Rift as he said, “It’s dead.”

At the same time, Tiffany relaxed, exclaiming, “Holy shit! Fucking Variant!” She laughed. “Radiant Nacreous Weaver!”

Paul blinked, breathed, and said, “Can we PLEASE do the Primal Blood Weaver from far away and with extreme power? Please?”

