Paul frowned. He thought. He said, “I’m not going to answer that.”

No easy answers, eh?

“Hmm.” Ezekiel looked down to the paperwork all around him. “I think I should… Not make it. And yet. I should, if at least to have for myself. But if I make this then I will want to give it to them, and then they won’t learn on their own. And they have to learn on their own, don’t they?” He said, “And if I make it for myself, it would surely do more harm than good, for all I know is how it works, but not how it works as a medication to a person… Or.” Ezekiel frowned. “Ah. It seems I can fill in those puzzle pieces, too.” Ezekiel’s frown deepened. “I could, theoretically, make this and then treat everyone I wished, but— No. They need other antibiotics and such to fight off infections during treatment, and a whole host of other necessities that are needed to treat the side effects of antirhine poisoning, which are a lot, and I have none of that.

“So if I gave them this part of the puzzle, they would plow ahead with this, and none of the other necessary pieces.

“And Calcium Disodium EDTA isn’t the only chelator out there. They might have invented a different one. This is just the one I remembered most of the pieces of, and which these notes helped me to figure out. Star Song doesn’t use the same words I would, but there’s acids and bases and solutions here and they all make sense...

“But if I gave them Calcium Disodium EDTA... They’re going to push this hard. They’re going to kill someone because they don’t have all the pieces, and I cannot give them all of the answers. But.” He asked Paul, “Should I, anyway? If I could prevent a death due to medical malpractice, should I? Because that’s what is going to happen here. I could prevent a death by solving this for them; by holding their hands as they administer this drug. But the only people who get Elixir’d are all mass murderers anyway, right?” He turned away, back to the papers. “So it’s fine if they die?

“And yet, Star Song wouldn’t risk their aunts and uncles to this treatment, would they. They said as much. Some would, though. Some would choose a different option.

“They would inflict the Elixir on a normal person, and then they would try to rid that innocent person of their lead poisoning. Maybe they already have test subjects lined up, down in the depths, chained to walls, destined to die for advancements in medicine.”

His voice trailed off.

Ezekiel stared at papers, his mind going dark places, unable to tear himself away peering deeper and deeper into the abyss. He thought back to when he saw that homeless guy picked up off the street, then shoved in a wagon that was off to war. How difficult would it be to shove a few of those poor souls in a different direction? Into the testing houses of the Alluvial District? Had that gathering last night, where he ate good food and enjoyed conversation with Scions and otherwise, happened high above underground caverns full of people filled with Elixir? Were there test subjects bleeding out in the dark down below, crying for help that would never come?

Or maybe the help would come, but it would be in a syringe that would kill them, and their body would be disposed—

“Sir.” Paul repeated, “Sir. You’re spiraling.”

“That’s all my thoughts are these days,” Ezekiel said, unable to tear his eyes away from the research in front of him.

“You need to step back, Sir. Erick.” Poi said, “Step back.”

Erick blinked long, and turned his head away from the papers. He shifted his body away and opened his eyes again. The papers weren’t there anymore. Ah. Poi had picked them up.

Poi looked to Erick, hard, then asked, “Do you want to talk about this? About these thoughts?”

Erick drew his knees up, crossed his arms over his legs, and buried his head. “Not really. I want these awful thoughts to remain fantasies; idle thoughts with no bearing on reality.” Moments passed.

Poi waited.

Erick lifted his head and sighed. He forced himself to relax as much as he could, which was not a whole lot. He said, “But it’s not possible for these thoughts to remain fantasy, is it? The Shades did this shit all the time. And Hunters go out and kill. I remember that room full of heads and body parts, from… Ah. Yeah. We saw that twice now, didn’t we? Once when the Hunters were at Spur, and again at Treehome. And monsters are monsters.”

Poi listened.

Erick asked, “I know you can’t talk specifics, but… Could you tell me if Star Song is full of the worst kind of people, or not? Are they worth being friendly with? I thought I knew. I thought I was making the right decision. But now… If I think too much about what people do behind closed doors… I start to spiral. It wasn’t always like this. This is the exact opposite of who I used to be.”

Moments passed in silence as the weight of Erick’s fears filled the room. Even Ophiel’s tiny twitters went away.

Poi broke the silence, saying, “Star Song is full of normal, powerful people. I can’t tell you specifics, but I can say that scandals can rip apart a Clan as fast as war is capable of the same. Hunting would be a scandal. Sapient experimentation would be a scandal. Star Song is not full of Hunters. They’re certainly not Shades. And if people do bad things around here, Clan Star Song is one of the ones that enforce propriety. And besides that: These Clans we’re dealing with are middle managers; they still answer to the High Clans.” He said, “Star Song is dangerous, yes, but these particular thoughts of yours are unwarranted. Star Song has given you no reason to think these awful thoughts of them. The only reason you’re thinking like this is because of your own trauma, causing you to imagine shadows before you actually see them.”

Silence returned. And then Ophiel sang a tiny song of concerned flutes, on his perch next to Erick. Erick looked up at his [Familiar] and the magenta guy flickered to white as he gained a dozen more eyes and leaped down onto Erick’s shoulder, becoming a fluffy ball of mostly feathers. Erick smiled as he patted the little guy. The little guy affectionately pushed against Erick’s face and hand.

And then the moment passed.

Odin turned into a magenta bird again, and took his place on Ezekiel’s shoulder.

Ezekiel breathed deep. “That did it. Thank you, Paul.” He stared at the ceiling, and said, “Star Song hasn’t shown themselves to be bad people. I shouldn’t judge them otherwise.” He looked to Paul. “You know how to make this molecule, now? Go ahead and tell your Mind Mage people, please. I don’t want to make this myself, for I know I will use it and Star Song won’t learn anything. But, I can’t let it be forgotten. Can you do that?”

“Um.” Paul eyed Ezekiel for a moment, then said, “Okay… Done.”

Ezekiel felt lighter. He stood up, saying, “Good. Thank you. Now to make some anti-Blood Magic spells.” He touched the dense air and the privacy in the room, then paused. “Ah. No. Not here. I’ll make it on the way to the weavers.”

Paul set his book down, and got out of his chair, saying, “I’m going to make you some tea, okay? Do you want any cakes or something— Ah! We can order room service. It’s near lunch anyway. Let us order room service.”

Ezekiel smiled. “That sounds like a wonderful idea.”

Fifteen minutes later, the hotel owner’s wife and a few servants dropped by with a large set of tea cakes, some rice wines, and a great big covered dish of white rice alongside several meats and sauces in smaller dishes. The wife wanted to set up the meal herself, but Ezekiel asked her not to, as he paid her double what the meal cost. It was a bit of a social blunder to not let her set up the meal, but Ezekiel was still on edge, and the wife seemed to understand that easily enough. He didn’t want to make her worry for her property and her life, but she seemed to worry, anyway. Perhaps it was time to get out of her hair.

As Ezekiel ate a hot meal with Paul, a tension in his stomach relaxed. He said, “This was a good idea.”

“I have them occasionally.”

Ezekiel laughed, while Paul smiled. Ezekiel said, “Thank you for sharing every good idea you share.” He glanced away to Odin, then came back, saying, “Looks like they’re still in line, but they’re close to the front.”

Paul laughed. “She could have gone around the world and back, by now.”

“Oh yeah.” Ezekiel said, “And she knows it, too. She’ll come back here with complaints, no doubt.”

“No doubt.”

- - - -

“I had the option of having a ceremony inside the Registrar’s room!” Julia said, as she stabbed her spoon into her rice bowl. “A whole gods’ damned ceremony! That’s why it took so damn long!”

Ezekiel joked, “I’m pretty sure ‘damned’ is the exact opposite of what happened.”

Julia frowned pointedly at her father.

“And she didn’t do the ceremony!” Tiffany said, digging into the leftovers, making herself a bowl. With a forlorn look that was also completely false, she teased, “After all that wait time. Such an opportunity! Lost forever!”

Julia frowned pointedly at Tiffany, too.

Paul teased, “Could have gone all the way around the world in less time than it took you to have your little ceremony.”

Julia exclaimed, “I didn’t know they were having ceremonies until we got inside the room! Everyone else seemed to know, though.” She added, “Everyone in line was mad at me when I came out after only 2 minutes.”

Tiffany laughed. “Oh yeah they were!”

“Enough about stupid ceremonies.” Julia changed the subject, “You got more books, dad.” She gestured her rice-flecked spoon at the nearby books. “Anything interesting in what Riri sent you?”

“Lots!” Ezekiel said, “From what I’ve read, Healthy Form is crucial to spider thread enchanting and spellwork, because it allows you to craft intent-imbued threads. Personal skill will allow you to turn those threads into long-lasting Charm Magic.”

Julia’s eyes went wide. “I was hoping I could do something like that. It’s Charm Magic? Specifically?”

Tiffany ate while she listened. Paul sipped tea; he and Ezekiel had already finished lunch an hour ago.

Ezekiel explained, “Spider silk is used for much more than that, but I remember you said you wanted to try some of that Charm Magic back when we were with Tenebrae, so that’s why I mentioned it.” He said, “Spider thread works well for all sorts of protective and small-use magics. Charm Magic. Warding. Binding Magic. It’s a form of enchanting, but not quite the same.

“What you do, broadly, is you have a base Charm spell, for instance. [Blood Dummy], let’s say. —I’m gonna make that one before we charge into the Blood Weaver’s place, by the way.— And then, with your base Charm in one hand, you need to get your enchanting spell in the other. All high-level enchanters use an enchanting spell to make their items. But you don’t need to worry about much of that for spider silk magic, because, for spider silk enchanting, you just use [Fabricate]! You might make spells you don’t want along the way, but the goal is to not make any new spells.

“It is suggested that you eventually make a tier two [Fabricate] spell that is specifically used for enchanting with spider silk, that you make specifically so that it will play well with your other magics, but won’t combine with your other magics. You don’t have to do that in the beginning, while you’re learning, but it is suggested for higher level ‘enchanting’.

“Spider silk items aren’t the same as those multi-use items made of wrought-quality metal that can last for a decade with little decay, like rods of [Greater Treat Wounds] with 50 charges. Spider silk magic usually only lasts days, or weeks, at the most, with durations based on the original magics you use to create the items. Whatever the duration, though, you can usually get a few ‘uses’ out of a well-made charm. Spider silk charms are great for short-term, inexpensive work.

“All you need is Healthy Form and the appropriate spider forms in order to make the appropriate thread. The reason why you can do this at all, is because magical spider threads are magically conductive, in the way that wrought-quality metals are conductive. But they’re less stable, due to being organic in nature. Though if there are metallic spiders out there with metal thread that never decays, I’m sure you could make true magical items. Riri’s notes postulate this, but do not prove it as possible.” Ezekiel concluded, “Anyway, I could talk a lot more about it, but thread magic is more about weaving skill and even a bit of gridwork, than most enchanting. It’s a great field which lends itself well to Charm Magic.”

Tiffany gave an approving nod as Ezekiel finished. Paul glanced to Julia.

Julia’s spoon sat in her bowl, untouched. She said, “Huh.”

It wasn’t a dismissive sound, though. It was one of someone realizing that the path they were on was unexpectedly nice. Ezekiel smiled a little, knowing that he had helped a spark in his daughter to blossom brighter.

He asked, “Have you worked on any Charm Magic?”

Julia smiled, but it was a sad expression. “Yeah. I have. It’s not tactically great. Here.” She handed him a spell.

Charm of Ward, instant, close range, 100mp + Variable

Create a charm of the contained spell that the wielder may activate on command, or upon taking heavy damage. Charm lasts 24 hours.

Create a Small Ward in the space where the charm is used that will prevent Variable damage.

She said, “The goal was a [Personal Ward] charm so that I could have endless [Personal Ward]s whenever one of them broke, but I’m having trouble putting that into a charm.”

“Ohh!” Tiffany said, “Smart.”

