Julia rushed toward the black box, saying, “Let it out, let it out!”

Ezekiel canceled the [Luminous Trap] and the [Quick Wall]s surrounding the beast. Tiffany stepped back as the green spider dropped to the ground. It curled in on itself as it steamed slightly, but not too bad. It was only barely cooked.

It smelled like shrimp. Or maybe lobster.

“It should be okay! Right?” Julia spun into herself, flesh becoming more of a suggestion and less of a reality, as she discarded her clothes and armor, turning into shadows that then morphed into a three-meter-wide Shadow Spider. With a voice like Evil, she said, “Bone apple teeth!”

Tiffany escaped, rapidly rushing down the game trail, saying, “Seeing you eat one spider was enough for me!”

“I hope to never see it,” Paul said, rapidly following Tiffany, getting out from between Julia and her prize. “Let’s go bury those bodies.”

Ezekiel escaped too, saying, “Love you, Julia! Have a good lunch! It’s certainly a pretty spider!”

As the first crunching sounds echoed in the slightly burned forest, Ezekiel caught up to his people who were still shaped like people. The three of them walked through the forest, headed toward the burial mound, breaking spider threads along the way like they weren’t even there. The magic was gone in those threads now. To distract themselves from the crunching sounds echoing from behind, Tiffany asked about burial customs, and why Paul suggested burial, to which Paul spoke of various burial customs the world over.

“We cremate in Spur because—”

Crunch!

“— Because necromancy is outlawed because people use it to—”

Crack!

“—use it to raise demons or angels because of the—”

Snap!

“—Because of the Quiet War—”

Splat!

Paul winced, his eyes closing briefly as they walked on, saying, “She’s doing that on purpose.”

A horrific, shadowy voice called out, “I am!” followed by awful, evil cackling. In a much nicer, [Prestidigitation] voice that was closer to her own, she said, “It’s just monster meat! You guys eat this stuff, too.”

Tiffany called back, “I like my meat on a plate and well seasoned, thank you!”

“This is half-cooked!” With a smaller, no less evil voice, Ezekiel heard a worried mumble, “Too cooked.”

Ezekiel distracted Paul and Tiffany from the crunching and munching, which was now quieter, asking everyone, “They bury in order to dig up later, and to question the people?”

They reached the burial site at the base of a tree, which was more like a garbage pile, and yet not at all. Despite the horror which was apparent only to his mana sense, Ezekiel at least appreciated the weaver’s cleanliness. The weaver had dug down into the roots of a normal enough tree, and then stuffed desiccated bodies and all of the belongings of the people into one location, and then covered it over with layers upon layers of brown and green thread. It almost looked like the tree was simply thick around the base, but anyone with true eyes to see could tell that this was the barest attempt at hiding something.

And that something was a small nest.

Spiders lived amongst the bodies. Small and brown, they nested.

“They bury bodies to maybe raise with necromancy one day, yes,” Paul said. “It’s part of the judicial system, sometimes.”

“Weird,” Tiffany said, as she reached forward into the brown and green threads, and pulled.

Thread snapped, revealing desiccated bodies, bags, rotten food, broken weapons, and more than a few animal corpses, too. Tiffany pulled out the first body from the desiccated pile, dislodging the tiny brown spiders who had hidden deeper when they sensed people tromping around nearby. ‘Tiny’ being relative. They were still the size of Ezekiel’s hand. Maybe they were babies? Or maybe there was something else going on there; Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure. There were no rads in these spiders though; they were not monsters.

“Dun glint weavers. Not monsters.” Tiffany brushed away a spider that had decided to attack her hand, gently tumbling the spider to the soft grass below. “No biting, please.”

Ezekiel used his lightform tendrils to help dislodge the bodies from their garbage mound, and set aside the glittering brown spiders. They weren’t as pretty as the Nacreous Weaver, but they weren’t monsters, so there was no need to kill them. In minutes, they had seven very dried humanoid corpses laid out on the grass, in the sun, and most of the spiders were trying to remake their colony around the animal bodies that were left behind. The dun glints might not have killed the people they nested around, but they had taken advantage of their larger cousin’s efforts to keep the forest clean. After their disturbance, the spiders began to spread green and brown thread over the remainder of the corpses, to once again hide from the light.

Ezekiel was pretty sure the Radiant Nacreous Weaver was female though, so… where were those eggs? Where was that nest? Or did the entire Nacreous Weaver / Light Weaver line start off as Dun Glints?

Were there any Light Weavers around here? Those would certainly be monsters.

Ezekiel sent his Odin out to look, as he went over the bodies they had found.

The bodies of the people were categorized and checked for identification, and then they were buried in a normal gravesite, with unadorned tombstones to mark their final rests.

There had been four women of various ages, and three men of various ages, all of them between 20 and 40. All human, or barely demi. Three of them had identification for Alaralti, the second main city of the Songli Highlands. The rest had nothing. Ezekiel put those papers into a pocket of his conjured armor; they’d report the deaths and the location later.

Looking down on the graves, Ezekiel wondered how the afterlife worked in Nelboor, since a lot of people were demi. Where were the lines drawn when it came to the Quiet War? Incani souls were more stable than human souls. Did that nuance of souls transfer to demi children? Did all demis go to Hell, automatically? Or was there a choice?

He could ask Phagar—

All somber thoughts fled as Julia walked into the clearing as a four-meter wide, two-meter tall, brilliant green spider. After the initial shock, he sighed. Why did Julia have to like spiders, like this? Why were spiders so useful? And why were there spiders at all?

Whose idea was it to make spiders after the Sundering? Were there spiders in the Old Cosmology?

Whoever made spiders exist on Veird did not need to have done that.

Tiffany stared at Julia. Paul stared at Julia.

Ezekiel frowned a little, but he stared, too.

Julia twisted her body around, displaying herself, asking in a pretty voice, “What do you think?”

Tiffany said, “You’re an unholy abomination of too many different monsters.”

“I agree,” Paul said.

Julia laughed.

“Prettier than the Shadow Spider.” Ezekiel asked, “What are the abilities?”

The giant pale-green spider that was his daughter, popped a blue box into the air, saying, “It’s a lot more than I thought it would be.”

Body:

Spider Mind

Vibration Sense

Radiant Presence

Venom Weaver

Prismatic Thread

All:

Force Weaver

She said, “Throw a [Force Bolt] at me!”

“No.” Ezekiel asked, “Are you using [Radiant Presence]?”

“Innate ability! There’s no need to ‘use’ it at all.” Julia twisted a little bit, showing off her own iridescence. “I have to have this nacreous shell in order to have [Radiant Presence] in the other forms, but I can do that. Watch.”

The green spider vanished into a swarm of light and shadow and came back out smaller, and yet twice as heavy with limbs twice as thick and powerful. Julia had great big green eyes in front and long fangs, with pedipalps ready to grip and tear, and an entire body made of green-black iridescence, in both shell and hair.

Julia said, “Shadow Spider form, Radiant Nacreous Weaver body, [Telekinetic Thread] from the Red Thread Weaver. There’s a lot of different options combined into a chimera, here. Much more than the usual 6 listed in the Familiar Form. A lot of thread options, mainly. And also! This is what the Weaver did to get through our armors. Give me a [Force Wall], dad.”

At Ezekiel’s cast, a wall of clear magenta Force sprung up to the side.

He asked, “Don’t you have that spell yet?”

“I Remade them! But it’s more impressive if it’s someone else’s Force spell.” Julia pressed her forelegs to the wall saying, “Watch.”

With gripping paws, Julia pressed through the Force, deforming it like it was made of gelatin. Then she lifted her paws away, and the Force Wall re-solidified in its deformed shape. She pressed her paws back to the magenta wall, and with a swipe, she yanked the solid wall into something not solid at all; into thread that coiled into the air, and then came down into Julia’s foreleg like a self-coiling garden hose.

With another motion, Julia transformed the collection of Force thread into a condensed ball of jumbled twine. She pointed that ball of magenta twine to the side. The ball rocketed away and spacked against a tree’s trunk, unfolded like strangling goo, enveloping the trunk with dense Force.

And then it turned hard again, wrapping the trunk in solid Force.

“Huh.” Ezekiel said, “One’s own conjured Force is usually extremely resistant to the control of another. I had thought the monster had just pierced through and reflected our conjured items. But… [Force Weaver] is a strong ability.”

“That’s why I wanted to use your [Quick Wall]!” Julia laughed an evil laugh, then spoke in her [Prestidigitation] voice, “Impressive! Isn’t it!”

Once again, Riri’s notes said nothing about [Force Weaver]. The abilities that the Nacreous Weaver were supposed to have were [Deflective Presence], [Light Thread], and [Light Weaver]; not [Radiant Presence], [Prismatic Thread], and [Force Weaver]. This was a Variant, of course. Maybe Riri just didn’t know that?

“Our armaments didn’t break due to reflection. The weaver willed our Force constructs to part.” Julia glanced toward the graves. “I bet the same thing happened to those people.”

Tiffany nodded toward the graves. “Yup.” She asked, “And [Venom Weaver]? The poison on its legs, I guess.”

“Correct.” Julia held up a foreleg. Venom flowed out of her fangs and became a spear-tip. She splashed the venom to the side, away from everyone, saying, “Useful.”

Ezekiel moved on, asking, “What does Healthy Form require?”

The green huntsman spider winced. Julia said, “I need to live as a form for a while and naturally produce some of the diet and life-based products of that form. I’m guessing it would take me a week to make the anti-magic venom of a Shadow Spider. Maybe less to make the fire-proof thread. Not sure about the rest.”

Ezekiel had wondered what the venom of a Shadow Spider was, way back when he first encountered that, and it had almost taken his daughter away from him. Now, though, he guessed, “Could it be an Extreme Light effect? Radiation injected into a victim to destroy while it impeded spellcasting? You’re not actually making antirhine, because normal shadow spiders [Shadowalk] all the time, and they couldn’t do that if they had antirhine in them. Unless the Shades had figured out chelation long before the people here did… I doubt that, though. Severely. That postulation doesn’t stand up at all.” Ezekiel asked, “How do you think your anti-magic venom works?”

Julia did a spider shrug, then said, “No idea. I could eventually find out, but I haven’t had the need to try until now.”

Ezekiel asked, “Do you want to live as a spider for a while? It can’t possibly be comfortable.”

“Sturdier than my human body. More physically comfortable, too.” Julia said, “But socially comfortable? This form has much to be desired.” She became dark blue light which transformed into her human body, already wearing her conjured armor like overlapping dark blue scales. She threw back her helmet, revealing her normal, human face, as she said, “I haven’t succeeded in a drider form, yet, but somehow I don’t think that’d go over well, either.”

“… Drider?” Ezekiel narrowed his eyes, then widened them, as he remembered. “Oh! Those human-spider people!” He instantly said, “That would not go over well.”

Julia waved him off, saying, “Meh!” She asked, “Are you going to make your [Blood Dummy] spell before we tackle the Primal Blood Weaver?”

“Yes.” Ezekiel glanced around at the gravesite, and at his people. “Not here, though. Let’s move closer to the target and take a small break.”
