“Ah.” Releasing his grip on my shoulder, Lei Gong smooths out my nightshirt with a few gentle pats. “That’s good, means we’re hunting different targets.”

What would have happened if we weren’t? Stepping away from the Lord of Thunder, I feign nonchalance while leaning against the side of the barge, closer to Guan Suo and Guard Leader. “I’ve been meaning to ask, why do the Azure Ascendants need a drop of Heavenly Water?” From what I’ve seen, Blobby doesn’t do much besides sit in my Natal Palace, and now that I have my Spiritual Water, I’m not even sure if I need him anymore. Given the choice, I’d like to have him back, but it’s only a matter of time before my luck runs out and something bad happens to us out on the Azure Sea.

Unfortunately, Lei Gong is having none of it. “Never you mind about our business, boy.” Flashing a childlike grin, he adds, “Ye lucked out in Sanshu, but this time it’s gonna be different. Ain’t no errant droplet here in the Azure Sea, so even if ye stumble across it, I’d wager ye won’t be walking away with all the spoils this time around.”

“And you never make a losing bet, am I right?”

“Never say never,” he responds with a laugh, “But I ain’t one to make a wager lightly.”

Sensing an opportunity, I ask, “So... How about we exchange information on how we’re tracking our respective droplets?” Whatever they’re doing, I doubt it’s worse than relying on a spoiled, cowardly octopus and a dumb but adorable bunny to lead the way.

Unfortunately, Lei Gong laughs and shakes his head, instead offering me a drink from his wine gourd. Much as I need a drink, I politely decline, mostly because it looks like the same gourd he had back in Sanshu, which means he’s been sucking on that opening for months now, if not years. Since he doesn’t seem willing to talk anymore, and I don’t feel safe enough to meditate in his presence, I go back to listening to Taduk’s conversation with the Tyrant, but it’s gotten too complicated to follow. They’ve moved on from the basics and are talking about semiotics, ineffable cues, and a paradigm shift between the human mind and the unknown.

Or something like that. They’re using a lot of words I don’t understand, which highlights the Tyrant’s early explanation regarding the limits of language. Without context, words might as well be gibberish and gobbledygook, hardly the best way to communicate with the Energy of the Heavens. The thing is, her symbolism is the same. Taduk calls the Phoenix a creature of destruction and rebirth, because in the local mythos, that’s exactly what they are. Legend has it, there was once a bird who tried to ascend to Divinity and form a human body, but was struck down by the Heavens in a blaze of fire, destroying everything for kilometres around. Bloodied, broken, but still drawing breath, the Phoenix limped away to recuperate. Centuries later, the Phoenix was stronger than ever and tried to ascend once more, and this time the Heaven’s sent down a blaze greater than before, but again, the Phoenix survived, but at great cost to its surroundings. Thus began a vicious cycle as the Phoenix emerged from each fiery tribulation stronger than before at the cost of even greater destruction to lands around it, eventually forming what is now the uninhabitable volcanic badlands south of the Empire.

Well... uninhabitable except for Defiled.

Problem is, when I hear the word Phoenix, it brings to mind a fiery bird who can die, but is always reborn from the ashes. Were I to guess what the Runic Device does, I would have thought it was linked to healing or regeneration and overlooked the destructive aspect of the local Phoenix interpretation. So... why would Heavenly Energy accept the Tyrant’s interpretation over mine? Assuming it all actually happened, does Heavenly Energy have a hive mind and remember striking down the Phoenix so many millennia ago? Or is there really a Mother watching from up above, arbitrarily testing us for her own purposes or amusement? Why can’t birds ascend? Is it because the Mother, like myself, ascribes to the Dao of All Things Cute and Fluffy?

Putting the theological debate aside, I go back to pondering runes and communication. Adding in my errant thoughts on Aura and staying home, I realize I’ve spent all this time looking for Blobby, but I haven’t tried calling him. I use my Aura to convey emotions all the time, so why can’t I use it to let Blobby know I’m here and looking for him, assuming he’s close enough to reach?

Keeping Guard Leader and Mama Bun between Lei Gong and myself, I close my eyes and focus on the feeling of home. Not home as a physical location, but the sensation of home and the emotions which come with it. Warmth and safety mostly, love and acceptance. Taduk’s comforting hugs, Alsantset and Charok’s supportive presence, the twins’ beautiful smiles, Baatar’s thumping tail, Sarnai’s uproarious laugh, this and more is what springs to mind when I think of home, and I distill those thoughts and memories down to a base, raw emotion before infusing it into my Aura.

Time stretches into eternity as I reach out with my Aura, searching every living thing in range one by one in desperate hopes of finding Blobby once more. I want him to know I’d really like it if he came home so I could stop coming out here to find him. I mean, yea, I sorta replaced him, but if he wants to leave, then the least he could do is let me know he’s still safe and sound, right?

Sadly, my efforts are wasted and I find no familiar presence in the waters around us before my Chi runs dry. With a mournful sigh, I open my eyes and am surprised to see everyone on high alert as they stare westward with similar looks of grim determination pasted across their faces. Even Ping Ping is alarmed by this unseen threat, surfacing next to the barge in siege-mode, which means shit is about to go down, though Mama Bun is still dumb and clueless as ever, desperately struggling to get out of Guard Leader’s arms and presumably dive into the sea. Quickly securing Blackjack inside my pouch, I stand with Unity and Tranquility at the ready and inch close to Taduk’s side, staring at the deceptively calm waters of the Azure Sea while waiting for the hammer to drop.

...

And waiting.

...

...

Still waiting.

...

...

...

Huh. This might be my fault. Not even an hour ago, I was super careful not to let my Aura slip out while using it to calm Sir Inky, and then I turn around and use my Aura to invite every creature in range here to home and safety.

Whatever this is... I brought this upon us.

Like the fucking idiot I am.

Chapter Meme
