Calen’s eyes widened in shock. “Hit it hard! Get ready to run!” If it could raise the other one to life again… well, it was a good thing he had invested in extra recall potions to get Mato out of there.

Everyone unleashed their attacks in a furious assault, but Calen kept glancing at the intense frown on Ali’s brow and the pure focus with which she stared at the monster before them. Seconds ticked down one by one like the beads of sweat dripping down his back. Daggers cracked against the shield while magical spells and his own arrows rained down upon the transparent spherical shield like the endless roar of hail on a tin roof. Suddenly, the barrier cracked and splintered, and his arrow flew through a gap, striking the Living Flame squarely in the center of its core.

“It… broke? The formation is gone.” Ali called out with uncertainty and surprise in her voice.

“Good. Keep a lookout for it,” Calen said. He had no idea what had just happened but tried to put it out of his mind for now. Worrying would do no good. “Ali, can you deconstruct the remains?”

“Explosion!” Ali yelled; all traces of hesitation vanished.

The boom of the detonation echoed in the empty rocky chamber, kicking up sprays of lava from the rivulets and pools. This time everyone rained down inside the Landing, some of the minions dropping hard onto the rock, and some splashing down in pools of lava, but the extreme fire resistance seemed to be doing the trick and almost all the minions were able to swim out and sprint back to the fight.

For four shield cycles, they endured. Each shield came with yet another panicked call from Ali that the Living Flame was attempting to resurrect its companion. And each time they managed to shatter the barrier before anything happened. It has to be connected, somehow…

“It’s empty!” Malika shouted.

“Oh, thank goodness,” Calen muttered.

“Domain Respawn!” Ali yelled.

“Ali, we need the dead elemental core deconstructed!”

“I did already! It’s not helping!”

The shield sprang up, and Calen burned his Righteous Fury. This was the critical shield, the faster they could shatter it the less mana it could regenerate, and starting on empty it might mean they might be able to kill it before the next one. He enchanted all his arrows fully, burning the expensive ones from his ring for just a little more damage, and even blowing mana on his explosion enchant when he could manage to clip the top of the elemental’s shield without risking hitting Mato. He downed a mana potion without missing a beat, and he still had ten seconds on his Righteous Fury when the shield splintered in a great shower of magical shards.

It didn’t last long after that. A short flurry of notifications made him sag in relief. We did it. Yes!

Your group has defeated Living Flame – Elemental – level 65 x2.Archer of Light has reached level 48 (+2).+20 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 30.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 34.Motes of Light has reached level 18.Explorer has reached level 28.Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 23.Eclipse has reached level 24.Righteous Fury has reached level 17.Mirage Armor has reached level 9.Cartography has reached level 11.Basic Daggers has reached level 2.

Following his computed attribute trajectory, he spent seven points each on dexterity and intelligence and put the remaining six into perception, marveling that, even now, he could sense the subtle sharpening of his eyes, and the lightening of his limbs as the attribute improvements took effect. He smiled – level forty-eight was phenomenal progress, but the thing that really caught his eye was that Radiant Archery had just reached level thirty.

One more arrow. His multishot skill had a regular, built-in mini advancement now – every ten skill levels he would be able to conjure an additional magical arrow, and the jump from three to four would certainly be noticeable. Fighting the spider swarms with four arrows and four simultaneous explosions was going to be a dramatic improvement every time they fought their way down to the Landing – and it would make clearing the Flame Broodmother’s summoned spiders that much quicker, letting him return to shooting the boss much faster.

His chime sounded once more and Calen sucked in his lips as he read on with mounting excitement.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Patron deity: The Wanderer.Blessing of the Dawn has surpassed level 20.Has exhausted stamina during a battle.Has exhausted stamina during training.Intelligence has surpassed 200.Sought out master-level training in stealth and movement.Successfully used Ambush during combat.Blessing of the Dawn gains Inexhaustible Stride.Blessing of the Dawn – level 23Mana: Your Dexterity, Intelligence, and Perception are increased by +76% [40 + skill + base intelligence / 10]. The stamina cost for your skills is reduced by 50.37% [3% reduction per skill level]. Reserve: 20%Light, Buff, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

He studied the Wanderer’s influenced advancement carefully, but it was just about perfect for him, and he quickly accepted it. He was always running out of resources in combat, and a whopping fifty percent reduction in the growing costs of his stamina skills would dramatically improve his staying power in combat and enhance his ability to scout longer and range farther with stealth before having to recover. And it would get progressively better as he leveled his skill up. Of course, the skills grew more expensive as they grew in power too – he would need to redo all his calculations. Now I just need one for mana too.

He stored his bow and sighed. I might need to invest in another notebook.

Mato shifted out of Bear Form and joined his friends in the aftermath; it had been perhaps the most boring fight he had experienced so far. His job had been to tank his elemental in the Landing, almost alone, accompanied only by two tiny Kobolds in their fancy shimmery robes, hiding behind their golden barriers. He had done that for half the fight, not worrying about doing any damage or anything complicated – just surviving, keeping his Brutal Restoration stacked, and blocking as much as he could to preserve his two little companions’ mana.

He hadn’t been able to see how the others were doing, but he could hear them shouting to each other. After a while, everyone joined him, and they had killed his one. Sure, there had been explosions that smacked him into the wall, cracked his bones, and burned his flesh, but he really didn’t have to actually do much.

I hope there’s something more interesting once we open the door. Let’s check what I got.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 49 (+2).+20 attribute points.Swipe has reached level 31.Brutal Restoration has reached level 34 (+2).Bear Form has reached level 30.Bestial Combat has reached level 28.Natural Prowess has reached level 21.Survival Instinct has reached level 23 (+2).Battle Trance has reached level 14.Last Stand has reached level 4.

He studied his skill growth carefully, grunting in satisfaction as he plopped himself down on the ground beside Malika. Just one more level to fifty! He dropped five points into each of his primary tanking attributes: vitality, endurance, and strength. Two of the remainder he spent on perception to improve his Survival Instinct, and the final three went to wisdom.

Not bad for being a punching bag for a giant animated fireball.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
