“We found it,” Malise said, emerging from the shadows beside Sabri and startling her. “That’s a boss. The entire room is filled with a poisonous cloud, and it knows we’re here. I couldn’t even get close.”

Sabri stared into the gloomy chamber. There were a few of the glowing mushrooms providing light that diffused through a greenish mist that filled the room. Dangerous-looking red-and-white toadstools sprouted in clumps around most of the perimeter of the chamber. Of the boss, she could see no sign, other than the dense webbing that hung in drapes from the roof and down the walls. Creepy as the scene was, she gave no sign of her unease. Courage! We can take this.

“I want some of those mushrooms,” Malise said, grinning and showing her gleaming white pointed canines. “Good poisons for my daggers.”

“We should collect the web after we beat it,” Brena added. “I saw a quest for it on the jobs board this morning. It pays quite well.”

Oh nice, Sabri thought, perking up at that. At least she could make some money today and make a dent in some of her debts. Maybe stock up on health potions, too.

“Everyone ready?” Brena asked.

Sabri nodded, getting to her feet and readying her shield and sword. “Where is it?”

“In the center, up on the roof,” Malise said, pointing, and then she stepped into the shadows and vanished again.

“Thanks,” Sabri said and advanced into the greenish mist.

You have been afflicted by Poison Aura.+0.3 Poison damage per second within the aura.Duration: Indefinite.

The green miasma clawed its way down her nostrils and into her lungs, provoking a bout of nausea and dizziness, but she strode to the center of the room, gazing upward into the dense shadowed webbing. Something lurked up there, deep within its lair. A hiss prickled the hairs on the back of her neck, and a massive black and green spider dropped down into the chamber suspended upon a silken thread as thick as a rope. Legs unfurled and it leapt.

Sabri dropped her weight into a defensive crouch and swung with her shield, imbuing it with her soul magic to strike with more damage. Her shield caught the spider right in the face, with a resounding crack, making the monster shy back, hissing angrily.

The spider’s legs clawed the ground like swords scraping across granite and it advanced, nearly as tall as Sabri – far larger than all the spiders they had fought on the way to the lair. Vibrant green markings on its razor-sharp legs glistened with viscous venom that flicked into the air as tiny droplets as it lashed out. She dodged backward, deflecting the strikes with her sword, and then retaliated with a counterthrust of her own.

“Avast, foul beast!” Theon yelled, rushing in with his heavy two-handed hammer already descending. Sabri winced as the massive steel head struck the spider with a loud crack, but this time the spider stuck to her instead.

The sword-like legs blurred toward her, one strike blocked by her breastplate, but Sabri judged the attack poorly, and her guard was just a little too high. The second strike slashed deeply into the flesh of her forearm, slicing down to the bone in an instant.

You have been afflicted with Poison. +0.3 Poison damage per second.Poison – Duration: 10 minutes. Count: 1

To her dismay, the poison stacked with the aura, leaving her seeing double for a moment and taking damage twice as fast. With the speed and power of its strikes, she would need to be extremely cautious. She didn’t hesitate, immediately retrieving one of her potions and downing it.

The loud crack and flash of lightning and trails of flame announced Brena and Cai’s entrance into the chamber, but Sabri had eyes only for the monster before her as it lashed out again. Desperately, she blocked and deflected its rapid slashes, retaliating with another sword strike, but she didn’t come out of the exchange unscathed.

Your Poison has increased to 2.

Theon hammered at the spider’s abdomen, drawing its attention away from her, and she reacted by using her Soul Shout, taunting it back to her before he could get bitten or slashed. But the strike intended for him glanced off the edge of her shield and found a gap between the plates of her armor, slicing into her leg.

Your Poison has increased to 3.

She grimaced at the wave of dizziness and weakness from the rapidly mounting poison and hit back at the spider, trying to ensure that it would stay focused on her. She fell into an anxious zone of blocking and deflecting while seeking openings to strike, but her health dwindled steadily away, even with the magic of her healing potion working to repair her wounds.

Your Poison has increased to 4.

Ugh, that poison. As soon as her healing potion wore off, she downed a second one, but her health was not doing well at all. As she blocked another furious flurry of strikes – some of them so sharp and fast, all she felt was the warmth of her own blood – her health dipped below half and continued to fall.

Twenty percent was their trigger to run and as she saw her health decline under the heavy strikes and constant poison drain, she dreaded having to be the one to call the retreat. Theon would not let her live it down.

But it was Brena’s voice that called out, “Run!”

She smacked the spider in the face with her shield and sprinted out after the others, feeling a guilty sense of relief flooding her body, but the massive spider did not give up the chase until they had entirely left the long web-covered tunnel. It chased them all the way, keeping the aura of poison on them right up until it finally gave up and returned to its lair.

“Why did you run?” Theon demanded. “I was just getting going.”

“I am on fifteen percent health,” Brena told him angrily.

“Well, use a health potion!”

“I did. You need to heal, Theon. Remember what the Guildmaster told you about your role on the team?” Brena’s face was flushed with anger.

“But then I can’t hit it,” he objected.

“I saw you heal yourself twice,” Malise said, joining the argument.

“Guys…” Sabri said, trying to make herself heard over the arguments. Her health had passed twenty percent and was still spiraling downward at an alarming rate. The spider’s venom still coursed through her veins, only the aura having been withdrawn.

“That’s not the point!” Theon yelled back.

“I need a heal!” Sabri yelled, losing her patience.

“What the fuck for? Take a potion,” Theon yelled.

“I used two already, I have ten stacks of poison. I’m going to die if you don’t heal me immediately.”

“Stupid weakling,” he snapped, but she felt his healing magic infusing her body with warmth, and her Tenacious aptitude reacted to improve the amount healed.

“Thank you,” she said. “I’ll need another one in a minute.”

“Fine. Whatever.”

The whole team sat down to wait out her poison, and she tried to ignore the daggers Theon was glaring her way.

***

Sabri slumped down on the couch in the guild hall, tired and sore, and feeling rather sick after all that poison in her system. They had made several attempts to kill the spider, but they had not been even close to successful. To his credit, Theon did heal her during the later fights – whenever she asked for it – but he grumbled about it every time, and she had been forced to call the entire thing off when she had run out of health potions, earning even more glares and grumbles.

She tried to ignore everyone, wanting to be alone, but she basically lived at the guild and had nowhere else to go. To her surprise, one of the bronze-ranked girls walked over and sat on the couch beside her.

“Here, you look like you could use this,” she said, offering Sabri one of the skewers she had sampled that morning – when she was still full of hope and excitement about hunting the new boss. Normally, she would have refused, but she felt miserable, and hunger was at least a part of it. With the number of health potions she had wasted today, she would be on light rations for the rest of the week.

“Thank you,” she said. And then remembering her manners, “I’m Sabri.”

“Teagan,” the girl replied and Sabri remembered she was the lead for one of the higher-level groups. A shaman.

She ate her skewer in silence for a while, and then because the girl seemed relaxed and friendly, she decided to ask. “How do you handle poisons in your group?”

“I have a poison cure spell,” she answered.

“Well, that’s not fair,” she muttered, uncharacteristically frustrated.

But the other girl didn’t seem offended. “Did you find a monster with poison?” Teagan asked, studying her curiously.

“We found the second sewer boss. It’s a level-eight venomous Tunnel Weaver with a poisonous aura that fills its entire lair. After I get about ten stacks on me, I can’t survive and we have to run, even with all my healing potions and Theon’s healing. When he remembers to heal.” She couldn’t help letting the frustration creep into her voice, even though her mother had taught her not to say unkind things about other people.

“That sounds difficult,” Teagan said, pursing her lips. Then she looked up and yelled loudly across the guild hall, “Hey, Basil, do you have a minute?” A quiet, studious-looking boy turned to face them, seeming a little startled at the volume.

Sabri hadn’t intended to let the whole world in on her problems and so she found herself fighting off a wave of heated embarrassment as Basil scurried across the hall to join them.

“What do you need, Teagan?”

“Sabri is struggling with poisons.”

Teagan said it so matter-of-factly that Sabri wanted to just sink into the floor and disappear. But Basil smiled at her.

“What kind of poison?” he asked.

“Venomous Tunnel Weaver,” Teagan supplied.

“Oh, that’s easy, here take these,” he said, retrieving a small crate with several dozen vials filled with dark viscous green liquid.

Antidote Potion – level 5Consume: Attempt to cure toxins, venom, or poisons afflicting you. Duration: 30 seconds.Created by Morwynne Fizzlebang – “Also good for a tummy ache!”Potion

“But… those are expensive,” she stammered, not wanting to take such a valuable gift.

“Morwynne let me have these to help with my studies, but now that I’ve learned the recipe I don’t need the extras,” Basil answered. “You can owe me a favor. Maybe bring me some samples of the spider venom, or a few poisonous mushrooms to play with and we can call it even.”

“I… thank you,” Sabri said, accepting the gift.

I’ll need to talk with Brena – maybe we can defeat that ugly spider, now.

Calen stepped into the Landing and surveyed the now almost empty chamber. Ever since Malika’s skill advancement, the more difficult groups of elementals had been going quite smoothly – even the few double Living Flame pulls had been tanked and burned down with minimal chaos and panic. Once they had figured out just how far to split them apart, that was. Double explosions were no joke, and they had wiped out most of Ali’s lower-level minions a few times figuring that out.

The key had been learning just how fast the elementals could move and judging the distance to the first explosion. That, and making sure that they didn’t get bunched up in the archway and detonate on top of Malika and Mato while they were scrambling to secure them.

All that remained now were the two enormous elementals guarding the three stone doors at the far side of the landing. Towering substantially taller than all the other elementals that they had fought thus far, he knew he was looking at a boss, even without using his Explorer skill.

Living Flame – Elemental – level 65 x2[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: GroupThe narrative has been taken without permission. Report any sightings.Monster Type: ElementalDamage: Fire, Physical

“Can we fight them one at a time?” Ali asked, standing behind him at the arched stone entrance to the Landing.

“I don’t think so,” he answered. Explorer identified the pair as a singular boss. It didn’t matter which one he focused his skill on, the result was the same.

“The flame auras are a lot wider, and they look more powerful,” Ali said, squinting into the room. “I can’t see the full extent, but they’re filling the entire Landing.”

“I see,” Calen said. It was a good thing they had decided to pull each of the elementals out of the chamber to fight them in the smaller cavern entrance before the archway. The boss auras would have made all the elementals in the room impossible to kill by healing them with their fire auras.

“Ali, how far do you think the boss will chase us before it has to return?” They had been down here quite a while and, at some point, the elementals back in the tunnel were going to be respawned. It would be rather risky to flee from the boss right into fresh elemental respawns.

“Maybe into the tunnel?” she answered, looking back over her shoulder.

“Ok, I think we should check that first,” he said, retrieving a gold coin from his storage, flipping it into the air, and pulsing a little mana into it.

You have gained the Blessing of the Wanderer+12 to Dexterity.+8% to Movement speed.Blessing – Duration: 3 hours.

He smiled happily at his patron’s blessing – for a boss with an unknown set of abilities, being able to run faster would be perfect. He didn’t even mind the loss of a gold coin this time.

“Let’s all back up into the tunnel and be ready to run. I’ll pull it and see how far we can go.” Everyone backed up to the far tunnel, but Calen remained in the archway entrance by himself. Right before they got into position, all of Ali’s Acolytes loaded him up with Restoration spells. He smiled a silent thank-you and slipped into the illusion of his stealth magic, vanishing from sight as he ran forward on silent feet.

The instant he entered the Landing, his body began to burn, ignited by the powerful auras of flame emanating from the two boss elementals at the far side. At least this would be a fight he would not be starved for mana. I’ll need to be quick. He hit his maximum range, and drew his bow, firing a single shot at the closest elemental instead of using multishot, not bothering to ambush or preserve his stealth. The bosses were certainly linked, but it didn’t hurt to be thorough. As soon as his arrow struck, both elementals turned, surging toward him in a smooth, flowing rush, while the air around them sizzled and shimmered with the intense heat and flame. I guess that would have been too easy.

