He spun about and sprinted back, making full use of his movement speed buff, but the two elementals were fast, almost keeping pace with him across the rocky ground of the Landing. He hopped over rivulets of lava and dodged rocks as he passed through the archway, running flat out, but he hadn’t been able to outrun the twin auras, and the intense burning was beginning to eat into his health as the restoration magic began to expire.

As he closed in on the tunnel where his friends waited, he saw them beginning to back up further, and the Kobolds refreshed their restoration magic when he reached the maximum range of their spells. But as they did, their little bodies ignited from the fire auras in a wave that clearly depicted the forefront of the flame aura. They scrambled to make more distance, letting out shrill chirps of alarm.

Calen sprinted up the tunnel, easily catching up with them, but suddenly the intensity of the flame abated, and he spun to find the two giant elementals returning to the Landing after almost reaching the tunnel.

“That looks like the limit of the domain enhancement,” Ali observed. “They’re tied to the area in the Landing.”

“Not quite to the tunnel,” he said. “That gives us a bit of time.” The dungeon would respawn the elementals in this region of the tunnels at some point, but not for a while yet. Now he just needed to figure out how to split them apart so they could kill them safely.

He made his way back to the arched stone entrance and surveyed the chamber beyond. Other than the twin Living Flames and the stone doorways behind them, the chamber seemed to be a roughhewn artificial cavern, carved out of the stone and left unfinished simply because the miners had little need to make it pretty.

“Let’s try having Mato tank one on that side by the wall, and Malika tank hers over here by this wall,” he suggested as the others looked in on the chamber beside him. It was just about as far as they could get within the Landing itself.

“You mean to fight it in the Landing?” Malika asked.

“Yes, there are no other monsters left,” Calen said.

“I’m not sure that will be far enough,” Ali said. “The aura coverage is huge.”

“Let’s try it,” Mato said. “We can run out if it doesn’t work.”

“How do we split them?” Malika wanted to know as she stared nervously at the two enormous Living Flames. While she had unlocked a potent tanking upgrade, it was recent enough that she was probably still a little uncertain of her abilities – and Calen had to admit, the larger elementals sure looked intimidating.

“Wait in the center with Mato, and the two of you agree which one you’re going to hit. I’ll pull them up the center to you guys and then you hit one and run off to your spot.” This wouldn’t be a difficult pull, he just had to make sure he didn’t do unnecessary damage so that it was easy for them to redirect their target’s attention from him, and for that, unenchanted multishot was perfect. It even split the damage so each shot would be weaker individually.

“Hmm, ok,” Malika said, hopping on one leg and then the other to limber up.

“Over here,” he said, leading them into the Landing, to where he had marked – just out of the range at which the two giant elementals had noticed him – and then gave them a few moments to set up.

“We’re ready,” Malika said after Mato finished transforming.

“Getting them.” Calen conjured two glowing arrows of light onto his bowstring, enchanted them with increased range, and then fired, immediately backing up to wait behind Mato and Malika.

The surge and hiss of the elementals gliding toward them was followed immediately by the sudden intensity of the flame washing over him. It felt like being dunked into a pool of raging fire, and his hair, and even the skin on his arms and ears, caught alight. The pain was mitigated quickly by the holy restoration magic from Ali’s minions, but nothing could be done about the stench of burnt fur, hair, and cooking flesh.

The pull went off like clockwork. The two Living Flames surged forward and there was a flurry of punches and clawed swipes and then Mato and Malika took off in opposite directions, and he took the opportunity to back away, trying to exit the aura of flame.

“Explosion! Double!”

Calen sprinted at Ali’s shout, only stopping when he was certain he had outranged both Living Flames. But the simultaneous detonations filled the entire Landing, a shockwave crashing into him from the left and then, as he became airborne, the second catapulting him to the right. His ribs crunched from the first impact, and his arm snapped audibly on the second. Ugh, fuck. Flaring his wings briefly, he dropped himself down to the ground and surveyed the damage.

Ali hovered in a golden bubble while Mato and Malika had both weathered the explosions well enough, bouncing off the walls and still holding the attention of their respective targets in more or less the appropriate location. But at least a third of Ali’s minions slid down the rock walls, landing in crumpled unmoving heaps, or splashed down in lava pools.

“Healers?” he asked, checking in quickly.

“Three alive,” she responded.

“How does it look?” If they were not in immediate danger of a wipe, he was most curious to see how the strategy would work.

“Not nearly far enough,” Ali answered. “Both of their auras fill the whole Landing.”

“That’s not going to work,” he muttered. Then, raising his voice, he yelled, “Retreat for now!” Everyone scrambled for the archway and the anticipation of safety in the tunnel beyond. Well, Ali sacrificed two of her Kobold healers to ensure Mato and Malika made it back safely – mostly Mato. Malika’s sprint left her Living Flame far behind.

“That didn’t go too well,” Malika observed as the giant elementals gave up and returned to their lair.

“Crispy,” Mato agreed, gruffly.

“I’m honestly not sure how to do this,” Calen admitted, eyeing the Living Flames as they glided smoothly back into the Landing. The auras were bigger than he had anticipated, and so were the radius and power of the explosions.

“Calen, the auras cast shadows,” Ali said.

“What do you mean, shadows?”

“I see it as a bright, turbulent glow of fire mana that fills the entire room. It’s a little like a ghostly bonfire burning on the rock. But it works like a light, the space behind the archway is dark, it only comes through the gap.”

“Wait, so we can hide out of line-of-sight, and it won’t hit us?” he asked.

“Yes, the flame aura projects out of the archway like a beam, about halfway into this space even from where they are right now.” She drifted over toward the archway and stopped a little off to the side. “Here, I’m next to the flame aura, but I’m not in it.”

He joined her, noticing that the ever-present burning sensation of this dungeon’s ambient atmosphere felt ‘normal.’ He stepped sideways to where he could see the twin elementals and suddenly his hair ignited, and his skin began to blister. Stepping back to where Ali was made it vanish instantly.

“Oh, well that changes everything,” Calen said, studying the space with an entirely new focus, trying to imagine the auras he was blind to, and where would be the best setup.

“Yes, Mato could do his cooking right here,” Malika suggested, wiping her brow. It only caused more soot to smudge across her forehead.

“If you like cinders,” Mato agreed. “What’re you thinking, Calen?”

“We should tank them here,” he said, walking up to the rock wall next to the stone archway, but a little off to the side – and outside of the Landing.

“Both of them?” Malika asked.

“Well, we should put the other one on the inside of the Landing. Backing up to the same wall.”

“Oh, back-to-back, with a wall between them?” Malika asked.

“Exactly,” Calen answered.

“Where do I put the healers? In the archway? Won’t they get burnt by both auras?” Ali asked.

“I’m thinking two inside and two on the outside, near the wall so the explosions don’t blow them around so much,” he suggested.

“That could work, so the wall provides cover blocking the damage from the other one,” Malika said.

“Yup, that’s the idea,” Calen confirmed.

“My minions are too weak to survive the pull, though,” Ali pointed out.

“Actually, I had a thought for that,” Calen said. He remembered something Mato had told him about his trip to the alchemist for fire elixirs. “Mato, how many of the level-twenty elixirs did you get?”

“Twelve,” he answered.

“You want to use them on my minions? Isn’t that expensive?” Ali seemed a little surprised.

“Well, if we hide them behind the wall on the first pull, only Mato’s healers will be exposed to the double aura. With some elixirs and careful barriers, I think we can make sure they survive long enough to beat the boss.” Burning fire resistance elixirs was going to be expensive, and he was sure people would think him crazy for spending them on minions. But the kobolds contributed enormously to their group’s healing and damage and making them more robust just seemed to be a sound strategy. Besides, for them, the potions and elixirs cost a few essences. Mato could easily harvest a batch of Ali’s fire grass and flowers, and then there was just the time for Eliyen and Morwynne to make them – a chore for certain, but a relatively reasonable investment.

“That actually sounds like a good plan,” Malika approved.

Calen quipped dryly, “I know, who would have thought – us having an actual plan?”

“Let’s try it!” Mato sounded excited already and quickly transferred the softly glowing red vials from his ring to Ali and her minions as she replaced the ones that had died.

“Why no shamans, this time?” Calen asked. Ali had switched up the distribution of her minions dramatically, heavily favoring rogues and bone mages, and had made an extra Hobgoblin and Acolyte.

“I can’t make them above level nineteen, so they can’t use the elixirs. The explosion is so large nothing can outrange it, so the rogues and hobs do more damage than the archers. I need to get some higher-level minions,” she said, sounding a little frustrated.

But it was understandable – they were facing a level sixty-five boss, and most of her minions were barely above twenty. It was probably only due to the fact that she had extraordinary gear and elixirs, and the Kobolds had a natural racial resistance to fire that this was even working at all.

“Ok, Mato, you take yours to the inside of the Landing. Malika, bring yours out here, we’ll kill it first and then all go inside.”

He set up the pull again, noting that Ali had hidden almost her entire force of minions behind the wall, leaving only herself and two Kobold Acolytes waiting near Mato’s tanking spot, barriers already up to protect them.

He fired. The glowing pair of arrows soared through the scorching air, striking both Living Flames dead center in their cores. Did that even touch their health? The familiar hiss and sizzle filled the Landing as they surged forward, gliding effortlessly across the broken rock and lava pools.

He waited, a little behind Mato and Malika as the two towering elementals bore down on him. His heart raced as his skin sizzled and scorched, but the two of them were fast, locking down their respective elemental before they reached him.

Calen sprinted back, following Malika out of the Landing, while Mato diverted to his side. Up by the archway, behind the golden barrier, a tall pillar of holy light told him that Ali had preemptively burned one of her acolyte’s Devotion recharges to ease them through the chaotic first moments of the pull.

“Explosions!”

Calen barely made it through the archway when the detonation slammed into his back, flinging him across the room and sprawling down the tunnel before he was even able to summon his wings. But he had only been hit by a single explosion this time, and as the Goblins and Kobolds rained down across the room, only a single mage failed to get back up.

Momentarily out of view in the tunnel, Calen triggered Eclipse to regain stealth. Sneaking back into the chamber, he lined up his shot and then unleashed it with a quality of technique that would have made Nendir proud. His arrow flared into brilliance at the last possible moment, smashing the elemental’s core back against the rock with the full force of his enormous Ambush critical strike. The elemental flames dimmed dramatically as they splashed against the rocky wall like water. He grinned, lining up his next shot – there was nothing quite like the feeling of a good Ambush.

While the boss’s damage output seemed much higher than the Living Flames they had encountered so far, just judging from the intensity of the flames, it had no particular surprises for them. The first explosion was followed by three more on the predictable timer, followed by a flame tornado and shield combo, just as expected.

“How much mana does this thing even have?” Malika complained.

“Probably five times more than the normal ones,” Calen said. At least, he assumed that number just based on Ali’s skills and how much extra mana her bosses had.

It took four cycles through the regenerating fire before the first Living Flame imploded and collapsed to the ground. Calen let out a sigh of relief. Their plan had not been flawless, and there had been many rather close calls during explosions, but their group seemed robust. Halfway there, he encouraged himself as they all charged through the doorway to where Mato was still tanking the other Living Flame.

“Calen, do you have any spare mana potions for my healers?” Ali asked.

“Yes,” he answered, flying over to each one in turn, handing out some of the cheaper mana potions he used for his own small mana pool. They probably wouldn’t help Ali much, but they should be ok for the Kobolds. He smiled to himself. There had been a time he could barely afford these, and now he considered them to be cheap.

The shield went up to the distinctive clang of Mato’s claws scraping against the impervious magical barrier. The flame tornado filled the inside of the giant bubble with a roar that caused the ground to vibrate. Calen returned to shooting, deciding to save his Righteous Fury for the one after it was drained.

“Unknown powerful magic spell!” Ali called out, making his heart lurch with anxiety. “It’s a domain magic!”

What is it doing? But all he could do was keep firing at the shield. This was the thing that could disrupt their entire strategy, and not knowing what it might be filled him with dread.

“Fuck!” Ali shouted. “It’s a domain respawn! It’s resurrecting the other one!”

“Seriously?” Malika exclaimed.

