The original book lay upon the table – even the sparkles of arcane mana hanging in the air frozen and gray. The same mana her mother had used to create the barrier that had saved her. The same as her own barrier magic. Trusting her intuition, she fed her barrier magic into the construction, hoping that the construct was detailed enough to repurpose the spell as it needed. Something connected right then, and her mana drained rapidly as the construction of the book neared completion.

The snapping of a whip caught her attention. One of the barbed tendrils of mana had come loose from Nathaniel, recoiling back and then flicking forward again. It paused, and to Ali’s horror it seemed to search around – like a monster, sniffing the air – and then sinuously began to weave its way toward her, as if seeking out the mana of her spell.

She struggled instinctively, but there was no way for her to move a muscle, or even feel her body. Her Arcane Recall spell would not end until her creation was completed – if that would even be any protection against whatever dark magic this thing was. She grappled with the unruly complexity of her creation, barely hanging on to her magic while the dark tentacle rushed in from the corner of her eye.

Right as the dark barbed serpentine magic was about to reach her, her mother’s book flared with an intense golden light – a sudden flash of brilliant color against the stark backdrop. Spontaneously activated runes burned with furious golden energy, flowing out to cover the book with an intricately formed barrier. The cover popped open halfway, and the barrier grew across the opening of the book in sharp, jagged protrusions that looked shockingly like fangs. Then the book leapt, snapping shut on the tendril of dark mana like the jaws of a crocodile crushing bones.

What the – Ali would have screamed, but she could not.

The dark mana ruptured into a cloud of magic dust, and the remainder of the tendril recoiled away into the distance emitting a wail that faded rapidly. Like something far beyond ordinary sight snatching back a wounded limb. The book dropped back to the table and simply bounced up and down for a bit, as if proud of itself, a broad crimson silk bookmark hanging out from between its pages and its rather vicious-looking jagged golden fangs. Its insouciant manner made her want to smile slightly despite the nausea clawing at her gut.

Before Ali could form another coherent thought, her spell finished, and the duplicate book appeared on the table. But Arcane Recall failed to end. She remained frozen in the gray world, the only source of color being the bizarre creature her mother’s book had turned into, and her floating Grimoire.

What? How is this possible?

She didn’t know how to end it. The binding of this place had always faded immediately. Movement caught her attention once again as the strangely animated book shuffled across the surface of the table to the gray duplicate she had just completed. It snuffled around for a moment, looking for all the world like it was sniffing her copy. A pulse of magic, almost too fast for her to register, enveloped the new book and suddenly the copy exhibited identical scuff marks, dings, and scratches, making it indistinguishable from the original.

Her jaw would have hit the table if that were possible.

Then to her absolute astonishment, the book scooted around and shoved the copy across the table, trading places with it, and then settled down by turning around once and plopping itself onto the wooden surface in front of her. The barrier magic slowly receded, and the fangs faded, leaving the book as it was before she had started. Then even its color began to leech away until it too appeared gray and lifeless.

Her spell ended.

Immediately, notifications appeared before her.

Arcane Recall has reached level 9.Barrier has reached level 38.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 31.Runic Script has reached level 26.Sage of Learning has reached level 22.Reading has reached level 13.

What… the heck was that? I had no idea my mother was so full of mischief!

***

Nathaniel stayed for ages, unleashing a formidable curiosity and a deluge of questions about her past, Dal’mohra, her mother, and her magic. Ali answered all of it as best she could, but lurking below all her polite civility was a burning curiosity and confusion directed at the now deceptively inert book resting on the table.

The book’s surprising animation, vicious magical teeth, and its power to manipulate her spells were quite terrifying – and she would have blurted out the entire thing, demanding answers, save for one thing. The book had undoubtedly saved her from the even more ominous dark magic that seemed to infect the Elven Archmage. Or perhaps it originated from him, she had no way to tell. All through Nathaniel’s barrage of questions, Ali carefully avoided looking at the book. Every now and then, her guilt worked its way to the surface of her mind, and she would again be tempted to tell him about the switch. But she always came back to the fact that the book had chosen her and had in fact gone to quite some lengths to make the switch undetectable even to the powerful scrutiny of a three-mark Archmage.

His copy isn’t missing any information, she told herself. But it was a poor consolation because she was quite certain she hadn’t duplicated whatever it was that had caused the book to wake up. Cautiously, she identified it.

The Nature of Magic – Book – level 47

Both books identified as exactly the same. She knew every single word and rune was copied exactly – Nathaniel would have what he needed, even if he didn’t go home with the original, and yet…

“I’m not sure you understand the significance of your shrine, Aliandra,” Nathaniel said, collecting the copy of the book she had just made and tucked it into his robe. “The only other Great Shrine on the continent that isn’t buried deep inside a hostile dungeon resides in the Troll city of Aman Rak, and they’re notoriously aloof and condescending toward other races. It was exceptionally difficult to gain even limited access to study it and they always prioritize spending their precious shrine mana on Troll advancement – even their adversaries – over all other races. As you know, I’m also the Guildmaster for the Pathfinders Guild in Ciradyl. Would you be open to allowing me to study your shrine at some point in the future? Would you consider taking a few Elven novices to join your class advancement ceremonies? I can offer a substantial remuneration per magical class unlocked.”

“That would be fine,” Ali answered. She knew her shrine was special, but she hadn’t realized it was quite so rare. “Please coordinate the novices with Vivian Ross – she’s responsible for setting up the groups. But I’m a dungeon, I have no need of gold.” She pulsed some magic through her Grimoire, creating a Dal’mohran gold coin and dropping it on the table in front of him.

“What can I offer, then?”

Behind the carefully controlled façade of his calm, schooled expression, she could tell he was eager to gain access to her shrine services.

She was about to repeat her commitment to keeping her shrine free, but she glanced at Ryn busy sorting books and a different idea popped into her head. “I would like Ryn to be able to borrow books from the restricted section of the Ciradyl Grand Library,” she suggested, gaining a sudden excited gasp from Ryn and a shocked expression from Nathaniel.

“You know those books are irreplaceable?” he said, after recomposing himself.

“Not after I’ve borrowed them for a day or two,” she answered, gesturing to the pair of books on the table in front of her. “I’ve already duplicated the previously lost Nine Paths of Ahn Khen several times for Elder Rezan. Consider it security for your most valuable knowledge – a backup copy, if you will.”

“Would you accept keeping it to a single book at a time?” Nathaniel asked, his face paler than normal.

“Perfect,” Ali answered. In response, he retrieved a sheet of paper and an expensive-looking pen. He wrote a note and then imbued the entire page with his mana signature before passing it to her. “Thank you,” she told him.

He seems strangely eager about all this. I still don’t trust him. When the Archmage looked away for a moment, she flicked her gaze to her Aunt. Lira nodded almost imperceptibly. Huh. Well done, be warned, keep going? Thanks.

“I will have Lyeneru create a quest for Calen when we have some candidates for the shrine,” the Archmage said. “Have him keep an eye on his ring, it will notify him when the quest is available.” He finally rose to his feet. “I must take my leave and return to Ciradyl. This has been a very productive meeting, thank you, Aliandra. I will be in touch.” And with that, he vanished, leaving the remnants of his Greater Teleportation spell slowly dissipating into the library.

Ali immediately tried to store the book in her ring, but for some reason, that failed. She let out a big sigh and flopped back into her chair. It had indeed been productive, but the unrelenting tension had turned her knees into jelly.

“Are you ok?” Ryn asked, reacting to her sudden display of pent-up emotion.

“Yes, that was just very stressful.” She hadn’t quite realized how much she had been holding bottled up until the pressure was abruptly removed and she was once again alone with her friends. She retrieved Nathaniel’s permission note and handed it to Ryn.

“At least you got a copy of your mom’s book, right? I got a level when he read the book you made for him.” Ryn said, examining the note excitedly before making it vanish.

“Yes, about that…” Ali glanced over to the big table where she had left the suspicious book, but that spot on the table was suddenly empty. What?

“On the coffee table, dear,” Lira said mildly. “Another cup of tea with a drop of honey?”

There! Ali paused mid-leap to the coffee table, arrested by the almost playful offer – much like her mother’s apparent shenanigans with the book – and the fact that the tome was quietly resting on the coffee table right in front of her couch, like nothing had happened. Ali hadn’t even sensed any magic. Clearly, she had been premature in blaming the Archmage. Oops. And she had even stood up to him – where had that suddenly come from? Could the book have… surely not?

“What are you?” she asked it, and then squeaked and leapt backward onto the couch when it wiggled slightly. “Aunt Lira! It – it just –”

“Yes, dear?”

Ali tried to wave away the teacup with a shaking hand, but her aunt had other ideas. A deft touch found her gripping the saucer and she took a desperate unsteady sip of the brew, inhaling its fresh herbaceous scent as she stared through the swirling steam at the book. She identified it again.

The Nature of Magic – Eldritch Tome – level ? (Arcane)

“What is an Eldritch Tome?” she asked, embarrassed to hear the quaver in her own voice. And… why the heck can’t I Identify… a one-mark book? The impossibility of it was unnerving. It had just been level forty-seven and easy for her to inspect, and now it inexplicably registered as less than level ten but obscured to her Identify skill. This makes no sense at all!

“It’s a monster, why? … Oh!” Ryn exclaimed as she saw the book inching its way closer to Ali.

Suddenly, the cover of the book burst open, and the pages riffled past, too fast to track, until it fell open and propped itself up as if inviting her to read.

Cautiously, Ali leaned forward, her barrier ready in case the sharp magical teeth made a reappearance, but what she found was a page she knew for certain hadn’t been there when she copied the book.

Dear Ali,

Congratulations on earning your Class. It is a milestone I know I have been anxiously anticipating, and with it, you have passed the final step from youth to adulthood. I do not know which Class you will choose, but I am certain it will reflect your love of magic and study. Whatever you choose, I want you to have this book in the hopes that it may help you with your chosen path. Remember that your father and I will always love you and be there to help if you ever need us.

Love beyond eternity,

Mom.

It was a note and a thoughtful gift, intended for a future that her mother had missed by a week, and she had missed by three thousand years. Coming on top of the stress of talking at such length with the Archmage, barely surviving an unknown and scary magic attack in the middle of her spell, and the bizarrely terrifying book that had saved her, Ali broke down and cried.

After a few minutes of tears with Lira and her friends trying to comfort her, a sudden presence of weight drew her attention downward, and there, nestled in her lap, was the book, as if it too wished to console her.

She laid her hand upon the cover. Mom, if only…

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
