Nathaniel jerked to a flustered halt as an ageless green face emerged from the trunk of the enormous tree right in front of him, staring at him directly despite the magic of his Greater Shroud. Her voice was melodic and resonant, filling the entire space with soft and gentle echoes, sounds that vibrated along the strings of her mana.

Dryad [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] – Sylvan, Tree Spirit – level ??? (Nature)

Lirasia? What is she doing here?

“Great Mother of the Deep Woods,” he said, instantly dropping his shroud spell and bowing to the Dryad. For a spell designed to cloak him from all senses, it had been undone twice now in as many days. He would most certainly need to go back to the drawing board.

“Why don’t you join us in the library for tea?” Lirasia said, drawing herself out of the trunk and dancing barefoot along one of the giant branches. “Aliandra awaits you there.”

“It would be my pleasure,” he answered, following her downward to where several tables and couches had been arranged around a cooking fire.

So Lirasia survived the scourging of her forest. The fact that she was here explained the uncommonly dense nature mana, but how it coexisted with the domain of Aliandra’s dungeon he could not say. It was a feat that defied everything he had ever learned about domains. Just one more unanswered question to which I will divine an answer. Yet these familial ties demand caution, yes, and a different approach. His lip curled. I must allow this dungeon to live, it seems – for a time bounded by convenience.

He flew down and alighted by a surprisingly ordinary-looking couch. Beside the couch was a small teapot emitting wisps of steam and an aroma of high-quality brewed Elven tea. “It seems you have excellent taste,” Nathaniel observed.

“Thank you,” Lirasia said.

Off to the side, a dark-skinned monk girl sat reading a book in the center of a poison cloud runic circle, her body periodically flickering with healing magic. His eyes narrowed slightly. One of Elder Rezan Jin’s disciples who had fought the dungeon boss yesterday.

And sitting at the table surrounded by dozens of books sat the Fae herself. “Hello Aliandra,” he greeted her equably, accepting an offered chair at the table where she sat next to a dark-haired librarian, unloading an enormous pile of books.

About to launch into his first question, he suddenly noticed the strange blend of violet divination and arcane dissipating from the Librarian – arcane mana that glittered just as golden as the Fae. His words lay forgotten upon his tongue.

“Thanks for rescheduling,” Ali said. Nathaniel Sunstrider appeared to be a touch rattled – perhaps at the sight of Lira – and it took a few moments for him to collect himself.

“It was nothing,” he said, looking around, his piercing blue eyes taking in everything. “So, this is the Grand Library Arcana?”

“Yes,” Ali answered. She was still not quite sure she trusted him, but she felt safer because Lira, Mato, and Malika had decided to stay, lending her some much-needed moral support.

“Are you truly her daughter?”

“I am. And this is my aunt Lira.”

“How is that even possible?”

“My mother bound me in a barrier spell of arcane magic, and I survived the destruction of Dal’mohra, waking up here when it finally expired.” She didn’t go into detail, but she was well aware that the Archmage had the power to wipe her out or order people like Lyeneru to do it. He seemed to be more interested in asking questions for now, so she would oblige.

“That must have been quite a spell,” he prompted.

“Legendary grade,” Ali admitted, taking more than a little pride at her mother’s final achievement.

“So that’s how it happened. I would have given much to see it,” Nathaniel said.

“Perhaps not,” Ali demurred. “The Blind Lich was present, and in the process of unleashing The Breaking upon the world.” The last was a deduction on her part, but everything Ryn had been able to dig up on the subject so far had pointed to her personal tragedy coinciding with the grand-scale catastrophe that had been unleashed upon the world.

“Aah, of course,” Nathaniel murmured, stroking his chin in deep thought. “I wonder… can you tell me why your mana is golden? It’s a highly unusual manifestation.”

“I don’t know. It’s always been that way.” The answer was clearly not what he wanted to hear, but it was the truth. She had always been happy that her magic looked like her mother’s, ever since she had been old enough to wield her first cantrip, but even back then, her mother’s mana had been unique.

He proceeded to bombard her with an unrelenting assault of questions, and Ali continued answering as best she could without giving away too many secrets. With the Town Council trial, she had at least been prepared in advance – here she was entirely at the mercy of his intense scrutiny and towering intellect. Although Nathaniel appeared at ease, his manner remained aloof. Ali was exquisitely aware of the unstated threat his presence presented. She had been worried about advertising her class to the town of Myrin’s Keep – but here was a member of the Elven Council of Archmages – who knew how far his influence reached?

However, every time Ali began to flounder, to feel overwhelmed, Lira would interrupt with a seemingly innocuous question for the Sun Elf that knocked him disproportionally off his stride. A moment of respite Ali used to recover her composure while the Archmage grappled with Lira’s unshakeable poise.

Suddenly he gasped, leaping to his feet mid-sentence. “What is this?” Before Ali could react, he reached for her bookshelf and snatched up the ominous black-and-silver tome. Nevyn Eld’s book.

“This is an extremely dangerous book,” Nathaniel said, staring at it, purple mana formations flickering rapidly in his eyes. Potent wards snapped into place about him, leaving Ali’s skin prickling from mere proximity to the Archmage’s spells. “Where did you find it?”

“It survived in a secure preservation enchantment in the library,” Ali said. “Ryn found it.”

“I’m afraid I will have to take this with me, it is too dangerous to leave here.”

“I don’t think so,” Ali said, standing up from her chair. “I am the sole survivor of Dal’mohra, and that book is the property of this library. I’d thank you for not engaging in petty thievery.”

He leveled a hard stare at her, but she met his gaze with unflinching resolve. She was not about to give up her book – even if it was the Lich’s magnum opus. “I watched my mother holding off his dark necromantic bolts. I saw his Death Knights, raised from the Council of Kings. I watched while he tore the city down around me. And I was forced to watch helplessly when my mother gave all her life energy to save me from his grasp. You may not take that book. It is mine, and I intend to use the knowledge it contains to defend myself and my friends.”

She held his gaze, their wills at an impasse. He could certainly take it by force, but she would not back down even in the face of his arrogance and obvious power. Besides, he would have to demonstrate he was going to steal it in front of Lira, someone he appeared to hold in high regard.

“In the wrong hands, this book can be used to –”

“Make dungeons stronger?” Ali finished. “I’m well aware of that. In fact, I’m counting on it. The only way I’m letting that book go is if you offer my mother’s book in trade.”

He sighed, breaking the stare, and sat back down, laying the black tome on the table before him. Then he produced the heavy, worn tome she had seen in his hands the first time she saw him, retrieving it from inside his robe instead of from a storage enchantment. He laid it beside the first one. It was scuffed and scratched from ages of use, but she could not fail to recognize it.

“I cannot let you have –” he grimaced, at least realizing what he was saying “– your mother’s book. It contains far too much knowledge and magic crucial to the survival and defense of the realm. It is for this very purpose that the Pathfinders were founded so many thousands of years ago. We stand against the timeless tides of evil first unleashed by the Blind Lich – it is why we exist. Without this book, I cannot be certain to hold the encroaching darkness at bay. Death Knights assemble in the far south under the command of the undead general, Haverron, The Devastator. The Dracolich, Kryostria, raids the northern kingdoms. I wish I could give you what you want, but I cannot.”

So, Kryostria was turned, then. Ali shivered. Lira had mentioned it – and Ali could scarcely believe it – but the fall of the great blue frost dragon known as The Frozen Scourge had to have shaken the world. This was the true terror of the Blind Lich – his bony fingers had reached out and grasped the hearts of the world’s greatest heroes and twisted them, corrupting and turning them into undead servants, slaves to his dark will. “Perhaps a different trade then?” Ali suggested, deliberately moderating her tone as she stared at her mother’s finest work with a strange ache in the depths of her heart. “I will copy Nevyn Eld’s work for you if you let me make a copy of my mother’s book for myself.”

“No scribe has been able to copy this book, it is too steeped in magic,” Nathaniel scoffed.

“I bet no scribe you ever met had Runic Script and a dungeon’s creation magic,” Ali countered.

Lira murmured, “Intriguing.” That was all she said, but it seemed her words rippled across the tense stillness of the room, soothing and even inviting.

For a long moment, the Elf steepled his fingers, concentrating on a future perhaps only he could perceive. Then he sighed. “Very well, if you succeed in copying it, I will agree to your trade.” His tone indicated skepticism, but she didn’t miss the eager, covetous glance at the black tome of the Blind Lich, but it was far too fleeting for her to be certain.

“Interrupt me if he does anything weird.” She sent the mental command as a set of intentions, impressions, to her Kobolds, earning several nods and the impression of alertness echoed back along her connection.

Then, she activated her study trance and got to work. It was a process she had practiced countless times, growing the small collection of books every time Ryn returned from the various libraries. They had started from nothing, and although it was still tiny, the several bookshelves that now made up her library were a source of great pride to her. She rapidly committed Nevyn Eld’s book to her memory using Sage of Learning, Arcane Insight, and Runic Script to ensure her recollection of every word, every inscription, and every rune was perfect.

Then she reversed the process, using Grimoire of Summoning, recreating the book in all its dark malevolence until her spell was completed and the book appeared on the table in front of her. She was most certainly getting better at this – the book was almost indistinguishable from the original.

She pushed it over to the surprised Archmage, watching him struggle to keep his excitement from leaking past his mask of composure. But he reciprocated, placing her mother’s book in front of her.

The Nature of Magic. Elowynn Amariel.

Ali’s hands trembled as she reached for the cover. It was bound in a similar black leather to Nevyn Eld’s book, but instead of the cold silver runes and a dark foreboding aura, this book shone with the golden glow of hundreds of tiny runes inscribed into the cover and along the spine. It was worn and scratched, sporting several dents, but otherwise seemed fully intact – and as beautiful as the first day her mother had shown it to her.

The book shivered as she laid a hand on the cover, or more accurately, her hand still trembled. Beside her, Nathaniel was already engrossed in reading his copy, so she began.

Ali activated all her skills, for this was no ordinary mundane text. The pages exuded mana like an endless geyser of golden dust and the dense script glowed with the light of hundreds of runic markings outlining the concepts and principles within.

Her awareness of the room and the arrogant Elven Archmage faded until there was nothing but her existence and the book itself. Time passed unnoticed as she struggled to commit the book to memory, to read every line, and to recall every rune. She had to reread many pages and spells to ensure she had gotten it just right before she was able to move on.

Finally, she closed the book and looked up to find Nathaniel studying her with an inscrutable expression on his face, his reading presumably long completed. It didn’t show, but Nathaniel had to be old. Either that, or the manner and fashion of the elves had not changed much in three thousand years. If it were not for the arrogant cast to his eyes, and the harsh line to his mouth, Ali might have considered him handsome for an elf – especially dressed in his almost regal enchanted robes. Nothing like the creature of mist she had seen bound and hooked by tendrils of ominously dark barbed mana. That had been a disturbing sight, and one which had vanished the moment her Arcane Recall ceased. She wasn’t quite certain how her spell worked, but she decided she was curious enough to try it again. If he knows about me, I need to know more about him.

She stopped time. The library dimmed, and everything froze in the familiar silent stasis of gray. Nathaniel Sunstrider sat before her, unshrouded this time and also frozen. The dark tendrils of strange mana writhed and twisted about him; their barbed hooks still embedded into the image of his body. She studied the disconcerting phenomenon for a while, but she could find no explanation. All she could guess was that it was something unique about him – and that magic was the only thing that moved in this strange world. And that it creeped her out like nothing she had ever experienced before.

Well, besides that terrifying monster at the logging village. She shuddered at that memory.

She ignored Nathaniel and summoned her Grimoire, beginning to work before the giant image of her mother’s book began to fray in her mind. She poured her mana into the construction, channeling her Runic Script to reproduce the magical runes, and studying the entire formation with her Arcane Insight. But her magic slowed, almost resisting her efforts as if something important was missing.

It wants…

