With a snip of her shears, Mellie collected the last stalk of herb she was looking for. Without the Guardian’s watch, the forest had become more dangerous in the past few days. Many of the areas she could explore before had now become infested with beasts that don’t often appear. Her shopping list of herbs was now taking twice as long as it did a week prior.

She let out a yawn after double-checking her parchment of herbs, making sure everything was done. Most days she would wake up early to either experiment or research in her lab, so it was odd that she felt so tired already. The huge crowd of people this morning was what she wanted to blame. Thanking everyone in place of Marina and Hecate was quite awkward, but luckily Hecate took over not too long after the line of Bee-ple showed up.

Socializing and small talk drained her energy faster than anything; that was why she preferred hanging out with plants most of the time.

She carefully tread through the muddy pathways. Going home and enjoying breakfast would be the next on her to-do list, preferably if Marina was the one cooking. The food she had in the past few days absolutely puts bee bread to shame. And she was not ready to go back.

The walk home was not far since she stayed on the outskirts of the forest. It didn’t take long before the trees thinned into the flat meadow. From here, the village of Pollen Patch stood lazily on an uphill slope, sandwiched between the contrast of the blue plain and the maroon sky.

After a few moments of travel, she entered the village from the direction of her house. No one really wandered over to where she lived, at least not until this morning, which naturally made it the quietest part of the town. She’s used to the peacefulness that came with it, perhaps enjoying it even.

She held onto the doorknob before turning it gently. The mechanical parts had weathered quite severely after being exposed in the windy plain for years on end. It was almost time for a replacement, though she doubted she had the money for that.

“I’m back.” She stepped through the door, expecting some liveliness from the room. “Miss Marina, Miss Hecate?”

She was greeted by nothing except silence.

On the dinner table, she noticed a parchment that had been written on, as well as a black cloak folded next to it. A worried look soon overwhelmed almost everything else on her face. Both Marina and Hecate had promised never to leave on a whim again, and even the day before, they had told her about going elsewhere. But now, there was nothing said to her except for this note.

She threw the basket of herbs to the side. Her footsteps rushed as she desperately wanted to know what had happened.

The handwriting had a quite distinct style, most likely by someone who had trained in calligraphy. Mellie assumed it had belonged to Hecate.

Dear Mellie.

By the time you have set your eyes upon this message, neither Marina nor I would be found within the grounds of this lovely village. The two of us are not the greatest at bidding farewells, so we decided to leave you this letter instead. And I apologize for my informality, my friend. Regarding the situation, the chief had informed us that the Guardian has returned and that our help is no longer required. We believed that we had caused enough trouble for the past few days, and it is best for us to depart before we cause more. The cloak I left behind would prove useful in dangerous situations by concealing your presence. The command to activate its ability is “corn”. Alongside that, we also left you half of the gifts from the Bee-ple. Marina and I agreed that the time we spent together was unforgettable. Fate shall bring us together again.

Your dearest and most honorable,

Hecate.

Mellie stared at the words on the parchment, not sure how to process what she had just read. She had only spent less than four days alongside these two strangers, and yet, they had brought more warmth to her house than any Bee-ple ever could. This was unacceptable! She wanted answers, not just from a note like this, but straight from the two young women themselves, and she wanted them now.

Behind her, a sudden knock on the door startled her out of all her raging thoughts.

“Mellie, it’s me. Are you home?” It was Chief Humphrey.

Just as she walked to the door, something compelled her to step away. The letter left by Hecate. It mentioned that the chief was the one who told them they could leave, and right afterwards, the chief coincidentally showed up at her doorstep for the first time since she first moved into Pollen Patch.

Something was off.

Instead of opening the door, Mellie remained quiet as she folded the letter before putting on the cloak left by Hecate. She wasn’t sure what the chief’s motives were, but this entire situation seemed suspicious. The basket of herbs was the only item she brought home with, and it needed to be disposed of. She tiptoed around the floorboards as she grabbed the basket, moving it into her lab where she dumped the entirety into another basket of herbs she had collected a few days before.

“Mellie!” The chief’s voice grew more aggressive. “Are you home? I need to speak to you.” He knocked once again. “Mellie, if you don’t answer now, I will have to enter by force.” He warned. “Do not test my patience.”

After the final set of knocks, the door flung open with a crack. In walked Chief Humphrey, alongside a team of three guards. Mellie froze in a corner. She knew if she was caught, the only thing awaiting her was most likely exile or even death. She decided to bring in the two strangers in the first place, and it would be no surprise if the chief wanted to punish her after the fact.

From here, Mellie watched the group of men search the house at the chief’s command. Every cabinet, every table, and every drawer were opened and left open. But what worried her the most was where the chief decided to search. He walked into her bedroom. She had stashed pages upon pages of valuable research information and, most importantly, the procedures for honey purification. To her surprise, the chief showed no interest in any of her notes and instead pulled out a necklace from under her pillow. Even in dim light, the gemstone chiseled into the center of the necklace glowed intensely. It was a gift from her mother before she departed the Hive Capital on her own. She treated it like a lucky charm, nothing more. The chief stared into the green gemstone. A wide grin cracked along his face as if he had just discovered the world’s greatest treasure.

Mellie knew this was her chance at an escape. Both the guards and the chief were clear of the path between her and the door. She held her breath. And slowly, she took her first step, then the next. Stride after stride, the distance closed. All she could hear was the drum-like beating of her heart. Adrenaline rushed through her veins as she carried herself closer and closer to freedom. The chief stepped out of the bedroom behind her, causing her to freeze again and almost throw her off balance. She was so close; the exit was only a step away. What’s worse was that Chief Humphrey was now walking towards her. If she did not take that one small step forward, it would be all over. With that ultimatum, she gathered every ounce of courage in her body, focusing all her will into one leap of faith.

A mysterious power launched her forward; perhaps it was fear of what’s to come, or perhaps it was the thrill of defying what she had been taught her entire life. The floorboards yelped in agony as a loud crack thundered at her heel. She knew it would happen but ignored it like it was the last thing that mattered to her. The twilight shone upon her face as she raced out of the village into the meadow. She always found the twilight sky to be rather dull since she was little, but today it felt different.

This all started because she couldn’t protect herself while scavenging for herbs. Back then, it was pure luck that Marina and Hecate were both around. But today was different. She saved herself and made the choice to save herself. She wanted answers, and the only way to do so was to find them herself.