“It does,” Clive said, “although that brings up countless more questions. The deep astral is an infinite ocean of unadulterated power, but how is he getting it to Earth? How is he filtering and stabilising the raw magic? Could McKean have reconfigured the grid to do all that?”

“Not directly,” Farrah said. “He’d need something to draw from. A hole in the dimensional membrane of the universe, but it would have to be stable. Is that even something that can happen?”

“It’s happened before,” Clive said. “The transformation zones naturally formed to seal dimensional breaches, like wounds scabbing over. We know it’s possible to stabilise a breach and tap it for power because that’s what Jason did with his spiritual domains. If McKean studied the transformation zones enough, maybe he figured out how to replicate some portion of that.”

“Wait,” Michael said. “Asano is doing this as well?”

“Asano Clan territory is more than just lines on a map, General,” Farrah said. “Within his domains, Jason can all but rewrite reality. The power to do that doesn’t come from nowhere.”

“Could that be what McKean is using?” Michael asked. “Instead of figuring all of this out, could he just be tapping into the power Asano is using?”

“No,” Farrah said. “Clan territory is isolated from the grid, so McKean couldn’t feed the magic into it. Plus, every indication is that he was careful to skirt Jason’s power. If that vine had encroached into Jason’s spiritual domains, he would have noticed, regardless of what McKean did to hide it.”

“Then how do we find the source of this magic?” Michael asked. “I don’t care how McKean did all this, just that it stops. Our forces are winning every engagement with the vampires, and we’re forced to retreat anyway. Our resources aren’t infinite, and if theirs are, we lose.”

“We stick with the plan,” Farrah said. “It’s just that now we know what we’re looking for, and what we have to do about it. We sneak into McKean’s base and turn off the spigot.”

“Very well,” Michael said. “I was holding off on deploying Asano until we saw what unpleasant surprise McKean had waiting for us. Now we’ve seen it, so I’ll give him the green light. The rest of you assemble your team and get ready to move. Hopefully, he makes a sufficient spectacle of himself to draw McKean’s attention.”

“I’m sure I’ll manage,” Jason said as he strode into the command centre. All eyes turned despite how busy the staff were at their consoles. Jason stood in the doorway, wrapped in a void. Only his blue-orange eyes were visible in the impossibly deep darkness of his hood.

“Don’t worry, General,” he said. “Making a spectacle of myself is kind of my thing.”
