But Stella wasn’t done with her spells, and she hadn’t neglected the lightning spell for no reason. The nuke spell floated towards Odrin gently, like a bubble drifting in the wind.

He saw it and his eyes widened, his gaze going past the spell to Stella in disbelief. He opened his mouth to say something else, but didn’t have time before the spell detonated.

Nathan’s heart was in his throat as the crystal sphere was suddenly full of radience. At this distance, the light alone should have flash-burned every member of the audience, and no physically possible material should have been able to contain that detonation. But the magical material of the arena held, and it cut down the light from dangerous to merely bright.

But it still meant Stella was stuck inside that orb with the rebounding energy of her own magic. He didn’t know if she could survive that. But between one moment and the next, the energy was gone, and Stella was left floating exactly where she had been, looking semi-translucent.

She faded back into full visibility with a satisfied smile and addressed the empty spot where Odrin had stood a minute ago. “Your stage? Darling, you’re not even scenery.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 7

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
