 small chapel. The days that seemed more magical due to the power of memories. The way the main hall looked like a secret realm as the sun shimmered through the stained glass depicting her Goddess in various acts through her tales.As she sang, the sound of a piano and soft harp strings sounded out in time. It almost made Kemy stumble over the next few words, but she caught herself.The song was about her Goddess and how she praised the love between two people. The pure honest affection and love they displayed had moved even her Goddess. The song went through hard talks they shared, the love they declared... the honest words when they promised each other they would never be apart.Kemy felt braver and more relaxed with each line she sang. Maestro somehow managed to make the soft strings and the piano sound just like her music teacher of the chapel. Each note softly in time but not overpowering or harsh.For the longest of moments, Kemy felt like she was home and she felt Muffet reaching down to catch a tear she hadn’t felt fall.Kemy was neither the best singer or the most dedicated learner. She was sure she had missed a few words and notes but she sang until she was out of words.The music slowly stopped and then there was silence. A warm pause after all was said and done.“Wonderful. I can see why she likes you,” Maestro said, breaking the moment. Kemy shrugged and gathered her scattered emotions back together. Maestro sounded affectionate in an odd way. Kemy shuddered as she breathed. “You were a very good player... the instruments were well practised,” she praised back, needing to say something.“Oh hush, you little charmer. I am a monster of my word. A tip for you,” Maestro’s voice dropped into a whisper.“Kindness gets you much farther than a blade. If it comes down to combat to death... you’ve missed something,” he saidKemy was beginning to see that her for herself.“Mother said your voice is great and you shouldn’t be shy,” Maestro said suddenly. That made Kemy blush just a little harder.“Well, let’s get you to Fera. Turn around and stick your hand out,” Maestro instructed. Kemy did so and something grew from the ground until it bumped into her hand.Soft and spongy.“The mushrooms will guide you, don’t worry. It wouldn’t do well for my feng shui if you fell unconscious at the bottom of the stairs from tripping,” he chuckled. More mushrooms grew until they formed an almost safety rail.“Thank you!” Kemy burst out with a smile. Holding on, she reached the bottom of the stone steps and the rail carried on, twisting around until Kemy reached another tunnel. Waddles quacked and Muffet chittered.“Onwards!” Kemy agreed.---Delta watched the girl walk slowly towards the kitchen area of the bar. She would be okay.“Little Kemy has got a tune, not like Isanella but she’s pretty good,” Maestro said to her, his large demonic face and thin fingers that looked designed to drag unfortunate people under the water, flexed.“Maestro, was she happy or sad when she sang?” Delta asked quietly. Maestro examined his fingers for a moment before answering.“One can be both. I felt the sadness was more of a... homesick vibe. Felt awful, good thing I never plan to leave home,” Maestro announced.“Yeah, you get to live here and rent-free as well!” Delta complained but she was smiling just a little.“I do the music! How can you ignore my amazing contributions to our lovely home?” Maestro gasped, acting as if Delta had wounded him.“Because half the music you try to play is rude or Benny Hill when something happened to the Moons!” she reminded. Maestro chuckled.“I can’t wait until you make large fall areas, I have the Wilhelm scream lined up,” he admitted.Delta shook her head and floated after Kemy.---Kemy hesitated as something pushed in her hand.She had merely opened a door before some gruff woman had escorted her... somewhere. The scent of cooking food and rich aromas had taken her by complete surprise. Why was there such delicious smells in the Dungeon?Something hissed... something bubbled...It was like a kitchen almost.The woman had sat her on a stool and for an odd moment, Kemy felt like she might have just drifted off to sleep in Durence and woken back up in the tavern.But that was popped when Cois nudged her.“Come on! Have some Shroom Pop!” he encouraged.The mug in her hands felt cold so Kemy gulped slightly before sipping it. She slowly put the mug down.The taste was... well... Kemy sipped again.It was kind of earthy, but it turned sweet as it passed her tongue. After a moment, the sweetness melted away into a distinct mushroom aftertaste.Kemy liked mushrooms but this was giving her tongue a midlife crisis. It tasted good like pop of the capitol, but it was also made from mushrooms.“How about something harder!” a new voice called from the back of the room. “Numb, you ejeet! The girl looks as old as me, she ain’t getting no ale until I know better!” the woman growled.“Sorry, Fera...” ‘Numb’ said, cowed. “Thank you for the drink,” Kemy said and sipped more of the complex liquid. “It’s alright, dahling, you’re a guest. Momma said to treat you right. You’re a nice girl, shame you got Cois as a guide,” Fera snorted. There was a grunt as Cois put his staff on the bar.“What did you mean by that?” he asked with annoyance. Fera was quiet for a moment before she put something heavy and made from metal on the bar as well.“What do you think I mean?” Fera said back, voice smug. Cois grumbled but to Kemy’s amazement, he didn’t back-sass Fera.“You gobbos think you are all so stronk,” Fera said before refilling Kemy’s drink without asking Kemy if she wanted more.Kemy sort of did... but also sorta didn’t.This drink was upsetting her on a spiritual level, but Kemy didn't reject the refilled mug.“Where… am I?” Kemy said, holding her moral dilemma in the form of a drink with both hands.“Swarthy Hog, dahling. My place and a rest point for folks. The last room before the big cheese himself,” Fera explained as the sound of a wet cloth began to wipe down the bar.“Big cheese?” she asked, afraid that Haldi had found her and came with more cheese.“Fran the Pig Knight,” Fera answered. There was a sudden clatter of mugs as every person in the bar, and there was more than Kemy had known about, all cheered.“TO FRAN!” they called and drank.Kemy sipped the drink in her hands. Excited but unsure at the taste.“Here ya go Muffet. Spiders in the corner are waiting for you. I think that’s what they’re saying. That or they’re so drunk they’re just dancing for dancing,” Fera seemed to pass something to Muffet. The spider crawled down Kemy’s face, seemed to nuzzle her before she crawled away.Kemy giggled and waved.“Bye Muffet!”She was feeling rather warm! She drank more of the pop. Waddles quacked, more a demand than random noise.“Listen, I can’t make that drink. I don’t have access to ‘Souls of the Nyxian river’ or ‘Infernal Brimstone’. Just drink water or pop for now!” Fera grumbled.Those were odd ingredients. Then again, alcohol had always been a dramatic business. Kemy was sure it was some weird duck drink that had barely any buzz to it.She giggled again, Duck drinks...She drained her mug and Fera filled it up again for free!Kemy was so happy!“Fran the Pig Knight, he sounds important,” Kemy said finally.“He is the boss of this floor. He deserves some respect,” Fera agreed. This made Kemy sit up straight.“The boss? The bar is next to the boss room?” she said with shock.“Isn’t Momma nice?” Fera agreed.Kemy felt her heart speed up as she was less than a tunnel away from the most deadliest creature in this dungeon so far...The boss.Kemy drained her mug in a single gulp.She hated this drink. But she also loved it!“Is he dangerous?” Kemy asked aloud. Fera cleared her throat.“He’s serious about his job, I can barely get him to come here for a drink,” she admitted. Kemy was nodding before the woman’s words caught up with her.She almost spit her drink out in shock but swallowed it due to how good it was.“THE BOSS CAN LEAVE HIS ROOM?” she screeched just a tad.There was a silence before a new voice spoke.“He can. Not often as I find training takes up too much of my time. Mother... encouraged me to be social,” the deep voice called and a wave of power crawled over Kemy’s skin. This feeling. It pricked at her very senses.Inside, a tiny voice screamed for her to run.Bosses had unique energies. A deeper, more violent coursing pulse of Dungeon power than anywhere else. It was usually so unique that one could not mistake it for anything else.But the feeling hitting her now was not the blood soaked aura she expected. It was like steel, solid and polished. The feeling coming off the boss who took a stool next to her made her think of... a knight. Solid and unwavering. His purpose and life dedicated to the kingdom he lived in.Fran the Pig Knight.Kemy felt more awed than afraid for a moment.“Fera... I’d like a pop,” Fran’s deep words called. Kemy was still until something large and wet pushed into her face. She yelped as a tongue reached out and gave her a curious taste.“Sorry about him, Bacon doesn’t meet new people often,” Fran’s almost gentle tone made Kemy finally able to speak.“B-Bacon?”“My pig, I ride him into battle for glory,” Fran’s tone remained pleasant.Kemy nodded slowly.Truth... was really stranger than fiction.She needed more pop… she heard the mug being refilled and winced at the fact she would have to drink another one… another delicious drink.This place hurt her head.Kemy kinda liked it.----
