"Thank god you're ok."

Althea nodded, one of her hands coated in congealing blood. I took a second glance at the corpse on the floor, finding two wounds. It looked like Althea forced her arm through the assassin's chest before slicing her in two. Our resident Breaker lived up to her name, tearing the would-be assassin apart.

I lunged down, grabbing Althea's shoulders. As I did, she looked up at me, and I hugged her. She squeezed me before I locked eyes with her, "You are ok...right?"

Althea nodded, her eyes glazed over, "Yeah...a bit shellshocked, but I'm ok."

I put a hand on her cheek, "What about Kessiah? Is she fine."

Althea nodded again without changing her expression, "Yeah, she...she went out. Caprika and I were here."

I pulled some water out from my dimensional storage, welling it in a circle. With technical prowess, I smothered the blood on Althea, cleaning her. As I moved it onto her face, I whispered,

"Close your eyes."

She did as told, going through the motions. The blot of clear water blurred red before I tossed it aside. The liquid splattered onto the ground and reddened a nearby carpet. I could've given two fucks about a rug though.

I grabbed Althea's hands, "Caprika needs my help. I can stay here if you need me to though."

Althea raised both her hands, "Uh, I'm fine. Go help her out. I'll stay here. You know...collect myself."

I hugged her again before standing upright. I walked back over towards the crowd of doctors. As I did, Helios supported his head in a massive palm. His other hand cast some healing magic on Caprika, keeping her from dying. Helios sighed,

"To think she was this...unable to handle even a non-classer. It mars the Novas name."

I stepped up beside him, leaning over towards her. Helios scoffed, "Ah, good to see her representative cares about her health. What tipped you off that she was injured? The fourth degree burns perhaps?"

I inspected Caprika, finding more wound than person,

"Priorities. I take care of my own."

"Obviously."

I ignored his jab, focusing on Caprika. The medical personnel struggled to whip out their medical supplies to suture the open veins shut. I grabbed several of the potions I stored, pouring them over the most grievous wounds. After getting her somewhat stabilized, I pinched several of the largest arteries shut with little gravity wells. It took next to no force. Her heart was weakening by the second.

As I inspected the rest of her wounds, Caprika stopped breathing. A few seconds later, and her heart stopped beating. Flashbacks of Delilath flared in my memories, spurring me on. I resolved myself to save Caprika. Failure wasn't an option this time.

With Hunter of Many, I got a rough model of what her insides were like. With an idea on what was going on inside, I raised a hand, opening her chest with an antigravity well. Air went into her lungs before I collapsed them with a gravity well. I alternated between the two, making a kind of CPR.

There wasn't enough mouth for more conventional means.

Once I stabilized her breathing, I formed another gravity well at the center of her heart. It compressed, pumping blood through her system. I held her other arteries shut, keeping the blood from pouring out of her body.

A bead of cold sweat poured down my head as I balanced dozens of gravity wells. The precise work challenged me, but it was either this or watch her die. Helios lifted his other hand, opening a portal in our room. From it, several more workers walked out, carrying supplies. Helios rolled his shoulders,

"This place is filthy. It doesn't matter if we save her from bleeding to death. She will die from infection."

I wracked my brain for some kind of solution. After a few seconds, I activated Event Horizon and molded it over Caprika. I worked the aura like a surgeon, sterilizing the air and ground near her without actually touching Caprika. I did so among a flurry of steady hands, every practitioner here doing their best to heal her.

I held up the effort, stabilizing her breathing and heart rate, praying they restarted. A few minutes passed, the doctor's faces turning grim. Even Helios's heart rate accelerated and his breath shortened. He leaned over and reached out a hand towards Caprika.

As he touched her fingertips, he whispered,

"Please...come back."

Another minute passed like an eternity. One of the doctors dropped his tools, putting his hands over his face. He gave up. Helios wouldn't let him. The giant stood up and snapped at the doctor like thunder,

"I didn't say you could stop, now did I? Continue before I flay you alive."

The doctor stammered to pick up his tools and continue working. From behind us, Torix floated into our room. The magician stepped off his dark cloud, landing beside us. He glanced down,

"Is that...Caprika?"

Helios growled, "Of course it is. Help her."

Torix opened his grimoire, channeling several spells at once. After a few seconds, Torix raised a hand and shot a spark of lightning into Caprika's chest. She convulsed before taking her own sharp breath of air. Her heart started in her chest, moving on its own.

Helios dropped to his knees, his hands shaking. He looked around for a moment before squeezing his hands into fists. The giant stood up, his composure already back to full force. With pints of blood being pumped into Caprika's body, her health regen roared back up again, her health ticking back up.

With tools at their disposal, the doctors began suturing her open arteries shut. At the same time, they wiped antiseptic over her wounds. Some of them even placed a gel that hardened over some of her wounds. With all the support, Caprika's health ticked up at a slow, steady pace now.

She was going to make it.

Helios pointed at the doctors, "We're taking her to a hospital. Now."

The titan opened a portal and pointed at it. Without any hesitation, the medical team placed several metal spheres around Caprika. A stretcher formed underneath her, letting them pick her up. The albony doctors lifted her up and pulled her towards the portal.

As it closed, Helios turned towards us. He looked between Torix and I,

"It seems as though I've underestimated your...resourcefulness. Your assistance is noted. However-" He pointed a hand at Althea, "You both will explain to me why she is unknown and what you're hiding. If you wish to deny me an explanation."

The stone around Helios's feet cracked as he glared at us, "I will use all of you as mana batteries. Is that understood?"

The way his voice came out was like icicle spears stabbing into my bones. It left me stunned by the absolute nature of it. There was no question of how or when. If we defied him at that moment, he'd destroy us with everything he had.

Torix placed a hand on my arm, worried I might say something stupid. I spoke aloud,

"Of course."

Helios turned towards his portal, his cape flaring. Stepping through it, the behemoth was gone along with all the medical personnel. He left us in an awkward kind of silence.

Torix let his hands drop onto his sides, "Here I imagined you'd be cheeky with him like you were before. What changed your mind this time?"

I pointed out where Helios was before, "Seeing him use Yawm's magic. That shit's terrifying."

Torix fell back into a chair of mana, letting his limbs drop to his sides,

"At least you know when to fear." He leaned back his head, "And here I imagined the undead couldn't be tired. Alas, I never lived a Harbinger's lifestyle."

I grinned, "Eh, you get used to it."
