******

290

******

Plans for Storytelling Class

Jan 14, 2041

To do:

*Don’t humiliate yourself.

*Do figure out how to make a klerm sound

*Visual component?!?!

*Read “The Frog Prince” and get ideas

In the old version of this story, there’s no kissing.

Instead, as soon as the king isn’t around to make the princess treat the frog with dignity, she throws it against the wall of her bedroom. “Now, you will be quiet, odious Frog!”

This assault breaks the curse, and the frog turns into a prince. He thanks her for unfrogging him, never explains what he did to make a witch mad enough to curse him in the first place, and they get married immediately.

Also, the prince’s loyal servant with a magical heart problem suddenly becomes a character at this point, but I have no clue what his deal is. I’ll think about him later.

It seems like a lot of literary people want to interpret all of this as the princess’s sexual awakening. Even though there’s no kiss, there is a bed. And the princess is so hot that it literally says she astonishes the sun, so I guess we can factor that in.

But why?

I could maybe talk myself into thinking that cruelty to amphibians symbolizes leaving virginity behind…if I had to temporarily, for a grade.

But that’s a lot of brain contortion. I’m sure Warin-doyis wants our stories to make sense without the audience having to try that hard. And I do have to present the story I come up with to the entire class.

With Lute there. I’m not giving him the ammunition.

What makes more sense?

Frogs. Princesses. Attempted murder. Stupid princes who don’t care about being murdered for some reason….

The frog never asks for a kiss.

It does ask to be seen as an equal.

Let me be your companion. Let me eat at the king’s table. Let me have exactly what you do. I am worthy of love. Don’t look at me like I’m something less than you.

That kind of thing.

The climactic part is when the frog asks to use the princess’s bed, instead of staying in the corner where she’s put him because she thinks he’s such a gross animal. And I don’t think he’s horny about the request either. He says he’s tired and he wants to sleep “as well as you.” He asks to be lifted up, from the floor to a higher place.

So it’s about breaking down the barriers between social classes, right?

Then it gets depressing.

The princess can’t stand it anymore. How dare a frog ask for her friendship? How dare it demand royal treatment?

It needs to die.

And I think it does. She silences the odious frog that’s asked for too much, and once it’s been shut up for good, that’s when the prince finally appears.

It’s almost like the story is saying the king was wrong.

He expects a princess to be respectful to a frog. But as long as she’s respectful to it, nothing good happens for her. As soon as she blows up and rejects the idea of sharing her world with someone from a different one, she gets a prince.

And the prince doesn’t hold any of it against her. He’s glad she attacked. Royalty should live together in palaces. Frogs who try to escape from their ponds should be smashed against a wall.

It’s a story about how people react when someone they’ve been looking down on asks to be seen eye-to-eye.

Only whoever invented it messed it up. Or they believed something I don’t. Or they never intended for people to get that message from it, but here I am.

A self-absorbed princess and a prince who might have deserved to be cursed, riding off into the sunset….I bet all the peasants hated them. Except for that random servant with the heart problem.

I’ll do a better version. Maybe something funny that’ll make Kibby laugh when she hears it.

If it’s the right kind of funny and Lute likes it, maybe send it to Boe?

Is “The Klerm Prince” too obvious for a title?

******

******

The Brute’s swing came in from the side, aimed at Alden’s left ear.

Catching the strike on his preserved backpack was intentional, but getting the backpack in front of that deadly fist in time felt like luck. Slamming his feet into the gouged dirt and throwing himself backward, landing for just long enough to launch himself immediately forward again, up and over the other boy who had already closed the distance—that was all intentional, too.

But bouncing around this much was a sign of desperation.

The Brute kept getting right up in Alden’s face so fast that he didn’t have time for anything else. They were twenty seconds into a three-minute duel, and Alden was trying his best to protect his backpack, his body, and run down the time for a draw. But three minutes was too long. Repeated close encounters with a Strength Brute, while using a shield this small, were bad for a person’s health.

I’m not going to make it doing this.

He’d stuck the knife Ignacio had given him into the elastic water bottle net on the backpack’s side before the duel started, preserving it all together because it was the best way to make sure he didn’t end up having his weapon stolen and used against him. He unpreserved for a second to grab the knife, then threw himself sideways. Then forward. Sideways.

Always just a finger’s distance out of his opponent’s reach. This wasn’t sustainable.

Try something else.

He needed this fight to slow down. To make it slow down, he needed to attack. To attack, he needed to be close. Being unpredictable was one way to stay close and not die to the next punch.

Maybe.

As always in a difficult duel, idea became action without being filtered through the usual thought processes.

Alden’s next leap didn’t throw him away from the approaching enemy, but straight toward him. Low. Backpack held up over his head hopefully.

The Brute stepped backward so that Alden hit the floor right in front of him instead of crashing into his legs.

This boy’s name was Rex. He’d spelled it “Wrecks” on the System name tag he’d worn the first week of class. Alden didn’t know much about him yet.

And he didn’t know much about Alden. Rex brought his fists down together. He should have gone for Alden’s body, but instead both of them slammed, a split second apart, into the backpack Alden was holding up.

Strength Brutes. Waving a shield in front of Heloísa was like waving a flag in front of a bull, and Alden supposed it must be the same for Rex. He didn’t quite believe he couldn’t get through Alden’s magic easily. He’d hit it hard already. Surely two more should do it.

He was an A-rank, punching normally, without any skill or spell boosting the strikes, so he was wrong about that. A strain like this would eventually be too much for Alden’s skill, but this wasn’t an eventually kind of situation.

Alden successfully stabbed Rex’s right knee, and tried to do the same to the left. If the Brute couldn’t run, then—

A hand gripped his gym suit near the small of his back, and suddenly he was flying.

I keep what I’m preserving safe. Safe until the last possible instant.

He hit the barrier that formed one of the long sides of their dueling block. He hadn’t lost his knife when he was thrown, but he took the brunt of the impact on that arm and felt the blade fall. He fell after it into the dirt. The realism setting was twenty percent. He was banged up. The suit had stiffened around his upper right arm and shoulder. His legs were okay, though.

Run.

He lunged upright, and immediately caught a foot in the chest that laid him out flat.

“Really, Rabbit?” Rex looked down at him. He was standing on one leg. He’d hopped across the block on one leg and then opted to kick Alden. “Yield.”

“I can go longer!” Alden said in a rush. “Run the timer out for the practice at least.”

The three minute timers were long compared to their usual one-on-ones. A reward of sorts, Alden guessed, for making it to this end of the gym and getting to enter the dueling blocks.

“No. I’ve got stuff to do.” Rex was a large dude. Tall and wide. He had a square head and a haircut that made Alden think of a bust of Julius Caesar his ninth grade history teacher had kept on a shelf.  “Concede, or I knock you out.”

Alden believed it was a dick move to force an unwilling person to hit you more when you were already clearly the loser.

“I concede,” he said.

The System called the end of the duel. A victory for Rex, who nodded at Alden with a satisfied smile, then turned to look at what was happening in the rest of the gym.

Now that they’d both finished their first duel, they had to run through all the challenges again. Alden was looking forward to it even though a couple had been tougher than he’d expected.

“Your shield’s good for a B-rank,” said Rex.

“Thanks. It’s actually a preservation skill. In addition to shielding, it—”

“If we hit the blocks at the same time again, let’s hang back and wait for different partners, though,” Rex said. “I wanted to fight you once to get your measure, but I need more than a B for practice since they’re letting us handle pairings ourselves today. They hardly ever do that.”

There were so many ways to make that request without saying I’m not good enough to practice with.

Alden wanted to point out that he’d just stabbed the guy in the knee. He wanted to mention that he could have stood under a dome-shaped shield and yawned in Rex’s face while he banged his fists helplessly against it.

“Yeah. Fine. I’ll duel someone else.”

“Good. Thanks. Did you know my older brother’s in your Coursing class? His name’s Ram. He’s a second year.”

“Really?” There was a person with a strangely square head in there. On the all-Brute team. Was that the right one?

“It’s cool you got on a team.” Rex smiled at Alden, like he meant it. “I mean a real one instead of that B team that was trying to do runs last term. You’re doing good for yourself, man. Later.”

He’s not the worst, but I wish I’d taken out his other knee, too, Alden thought as he watched Rex jog around the edge of the gym toward the first starting line.

He went to fill his backpack with a little more sand.

******

******

Back to the baton-stealing battle. Instructor Ivanova had stopped passing the batons out now that everyone knew the drill. Instead, she’d just left a pile of them at the starting line.

Alden took a purple one and stuffed it into his backpack with the end sticking out like last time. Identifying who you would steal from, and who would think they could steal from you, was half the work. He tried to be a good sport by not standing around waiting for particularly powerful students to clear the challenge, but he did make sure he ran in on the side where Jupiter wasn’t surfing six meters above the floor on a lifematter bag, chilling up there while she chose a victim.

She had two batons already. This was her third or fourth run, though, and the challenges were supposed to get harder on repeats. His interface said he only needed two batons to pass, like last time, but she must be after a third.

Good for her, learning to surf the skies with her powers. He hated being attacked by her, though. She always seemed to be doing something quirky, and then wham, he was gruesomely impaled. Or the moldy funk in the lifematter bag was attacking his mouth.

They weren’t supposed to give each other lethal injuries in this challenge, but still.

He tried to keep an eye on her and keep moving while he looked for someone he could take a baton from.

Olive was available, with her illusions, wearing a fierce expression on three faces as she tried to corner Astrid. Astrid was looking a little tired, but Alden didn’t think it was Olive’s doing. Olive was trying out a spear in class today, instead of her baseball bat, and Alden was having trouble not comparing the way she held it to the way Marsha held her polearm.

Marsha had just run in, too. That was actually a good thing. She’d ignore Alden and distract Jupiter. The mutable haft was already ripping through the air toward the lifematter bag.

I know I can take Olive’s baton.

Even without the gremlin’s contribution, he could sense the real her when he tried. The illusions felt like magic. She felt like life.

He was sure Astrid was going to beat her in a minute. She would just figure out which Olives were the illusions by trying to fight them all.

The Morph Brute was sporting a short pink mohawk today. She would be hilariously outraged if Alden dove in and stole Olive’s baton while she was distracting the Adjuster.

He kind of wanted to do it, but…

I wish Olive didn’t get her feelings hurt so easily when I beat her.

There’s Max on the other side. I’ll go tangle with him. He should be extra challenging by now.

The faculty weren’t clearing the floor in this section, so there were environmental hazards left behind from previous runs. Everly’s super slick ice patch was right in the middle, and people were sliding around on it, either intentionally to escape attacks or accidentally as a result of them.

Max would have laid traps the first time he ran. If they were still around, he’d have them as well as whatever he’d decided to put down this time.

Alden headed that way, dodging behind Mehdi and Winston, who were very busy with each other. Max caught sight of him coming and nodded.

He does look confident. Should I try to sense where those traps are? I think I can do that, but he’s looking right at me and paying attention. Should’ve thought of this while I was still on the sidelines and come up with a plan.

This’ll be good for me to—

Something slammed into the side of his left thigh so hard it felt like a miniature explosion.

His suit froze in an instant. Complete immobilization on that leg and full-body movement reduction. He fell and rolled with little ability to control it.

Tuyet? Reinhard? Heloísa throwing something?

