“I’m not like that anymore,” she said, her shoulders going back. “I’ve got responsibilities. People are looking up to me. So I’m not someone who can be casual with you about things like this. We can have some fun practicing together. But only when the instructors assign it, all right?”

Jeez. I know she’s not trying to shit on my morning, but this whole conversation feels more insulting than Winston just did for some reason.

“I only asked because we both happen to be standing here.”

He regretted that he sounded offended, but the regret was wasted. She didn’t even seem to notice.

“Good. Thanks! I know you’re great for what you can do, but I think Ignacio’s about to get here.”

Alden ended up waiting around for a while and then dueling Jeffy.

The Aqua Brute was tired from trying to sprint and hyper about the amazing things he thought he could do by swimming “in water in the air,” by which he meant he wanted Shapers like Instructor Plim to make high-speed water tubes he could travel through.

Alden lasted almost the full three minutes against him and considered it good practice, but it was kind of like he was fighting and Jeffy was fifty percent daydreaming and fifty percent remembering to tackle him.

“Traveling by Shaper highway would be fine,” Alden said when they left the block. “But I don’t think it’s the best possible use of your water moves.”

“No. I think the government wants me to find SAL ships. That sounds easy though, so it won’t take much time. The Artonans are almost finished with the ocean arches, but maybe they’ll build something else out in the water and I can help the divers? Being an Aqua Brute’s pretty important.”

Alden smiled. “It is, man. I’m glad you know it.”

He was so glad Jeffy was happy with his affixation. Everyone deserves to be.

“What happens when you get hit with a Shaped stream of water with the life jacket spell on? I know you tried.”

“Yeah I tried! It’s kind of like it jumps for you. Do you think we could use it in Coursing? That class is next.”

“I know that class is next. I’m going to be there, too.”

******
