Before he could remember that none of them were currently fighting in this part of the gym, he saw a yellow baton rolling away from him across the floor.

Is that what hit me? Huh. Then it must have been—

Winston rushed toward the baton, grabbed it, and then ran for the barrier that separated the baton challenge from their next one.

“I was beating you!” Mehdi shouted. “I was beating you, and you know it! Come back here!”

He slid across the floor behind Alden’s head, grabbed the baton sticking out of Alden’s backpack, and ran after the fleeing speedster.

Well, fine then. This was a bad start.

With his baton gone, the gym released his suit, and he sat up. His actual attacker arrived on the scene seconds too late. She’d lost her own baton as well as his, just like that.

“Yikes!” said Opal, looking at him and laughing. Her wand was in her hand. “That didn’t go well for either of us. It didn’t hurt too much, did it?”

“No. Good aim if you were going for my leg.” He hopped up. “But maybe don’t take me out a few steps from a Speed Brute and an Agi next time if you want to get my baton?”

“Sure thing! Back to the start for both of us.” She kept her wand in hand as she spun. Her auburn hair was in a tight braid.

“Why did you use your own baton as a weapon?” he asked. “Wouldn’t something like a ball of lead or a spike…or just a rock…be better? I’ve got stuff you can borrow if you need to.”

She smiled back at him. “No, I’ll stick with the baton. Surprise factor! Sorry to take you down so hard.”

Surprise factor? That doesn’t make sense. A hunk of lead flying at me from across the gym would have been surprising, too.

Opal had undersold her levitation powers when she was passing out rice balls. The reason she was here wasn’t because she could make small things float, but because she could make small things she’d placed under her wand’s control zoom toward her at high speed. She could basically make bullets the size of shoeboxes, although instead of flying away from her, they flew directly at her and stopped when they reached her. She could also send things away from her, but that was a floaty process. The spell that brought them in was the one she used as a weapon.

It was interesting. He pictured her standing in the middle of a room surrounded by hidden objects she’d spelled in advance, and then whenever someone dangerous approached her, they’d get shot by a harmless-looking candlestick or bookend.

But it’s not practical that she used her baton. That means she had to float her baton slowly away from her or drop it somewhere to set up for the shot and then wait for me to run between it and her. It was at risk of being stolen the whole time. I don’t get it.

Did she want us to both have to start over at the same time? Is she planning to practice on me or something?

He regarded her warily.

I can take her baton if I do it right at the start.

She took another yellow baton from the pile, and he picked a green one. They looked at each other.

“I’m not running in until I see you out there,” she said, shrugging. “Or unless we start on opposite sides. I know my limits. Don’t worry, though. I don’t really need to beat you again. I’ll go for someone else! Bigger fish. Promise.”

“You don’t have to. Now that I know how you’re playing, I can protect myself from you better.”

He ran out, and got back to it. He half expected her to break her word, but he had an intense game of chase with Max to distract him for the next couple of minutes. It ended in what was effectively a mutual loss.

Max caught him in one of the treadmill traps, but Max was limping. He was unlikely to make it to the next section with both batons when he was in that state.

“You stab people in the legs now?”

“It might just be a today thing. Are you going to take my baton and let me out of here?”

“I’m thinking about it.”

Alden let out a short laugh.

“Oh no! I lost it again!” The voice from near the starting line made him turn his head.

Opal was leaning over a fallen Olive. And Sanjay was running for the finish holding three batons, wearing an expression that said he couldn’t believe his luck.

“That’s a ridiculous mistake to make twice. She did the same thing to me.”

“She’s insecure,” said Max. “That’s the second time she’s ‘lost’ a baton just against Olive.”

“That means she’s insecure?”

“She’s really good in this section. Hunting people who are fighting other people seems to work for her. She’s pretending that she’s trying something new out and making it harder for herself by using the baton as her only weapon…kind of like you switching to a backpack and a knife as if you want to take a beating from everyone in class.”

“You’re insulting me because you fear me.”

“But you still want to get through this,” Max said, ignoring the gibe. “She’s deliberately risking the baton because she’s comfortable here. She can even show off and take out high ranks, instead of struggling in the other sections. She got Jeffy earlier. I’m sure she knows better than to keep doing it all period.”

Max gave Alden a hand and pulled him off the treadmill. “You owe me.”

“For what?”

“Letting Winston have a baton so easily earlier.”

“Fair.”

******

Eventually, Alden yoinked a baton from Haoyu while Haoyu was taunting Lexi right next to the barrier, and he got to hear both of them swear at him as he practically stumbled victoriously into the next section.

They were calling this one the lily pad game. Light that looked like rippling water covered the floor. Columns about six inches across rose from it and disappeared in random patterns, existing for only a few seconds. They had to cross without touching the ‘water’, but the lily pads were usually awkwardly far apart, awkwardly high, or awkwardly occupied by another person. They were allowed to shove people or jump on them if they needed to.

Alden thought Bobby would be proud to see how well he was using bits of sand and all the jumping practice they’d done together to navigate this fun little maze without needing to fight anybody.

He made it to the third challenge almost too fast, considering how much he enjoyed the lily pads, and his arms ached in anticipation.

Mountain rescue. His interface told him to carry a hundred kilo bag up a climbing wall. It had only been fifty kilos last time.

There were grips. The wall didn’t mimic earthquakes. The section he’d been assigned to climb was easier than what they had at North of North, but it still wasn’t easy. He used the backpack straps to hold the weight, and got it done with only one fall.

“Good work, Alden!” Ivanova called from down on the floor as he stood on top of the climbing wall and dropped the lifematter bag back down.

The instructor was a former Super Olympic speed climber. He expected she’d be giving good notes on this one after class.

He had a minute to take a breath up there while he looked at the fourth challenge. It was just crossing regular old floor…while Instructors Plim and Foxbolt shot at people from the sides. Despite the difficulty of it, it was a pretty spectacle.

Plim was using two jets of water, strong enough to take anyone without a special talent off their feet. And Foxbolt was an Adjuster who worked with illusion spells, like Olive. Unlike Olive, she could make her illusions have significant real effects beyond the visual.

Sound. Physicality. Heat.

She was really stingy about how she used it against them. Alden didn’t know if that was a choice or a necessity. She particularly liked fireworks, and usually, hidden in each burst of light, there were a few sparks that you couldn’t afford to run into. Because they’d burn through you like lava through wax.

He decided to focus on dodging Plim’s jets and trusting to luck and the bit of protection his backpack gave him for Foxbolt. He was sure she wasn’t adding danger to her illusions at all half the time.

That turned out to be the right decision, but it still wasn’t a smooth trip. The water jets seemed mysteriously attracted to him. Both jets came at him, to the relief of several people who’d been beleaguered by them. Everly gave him an apologetic look as she made it to safety.

She’d leveled up at the end of break. Instead of new spells, she’d taken foundation points with an emphasis on her speed and strength. He thought that choice was really showing benefits for her during a class like this.

Plim washed Alden out twice, while cheering for him, before she let him make his third run in peace.

The final thing before he was allowed to duel again was the most innocent-seeming task of all. They only had to sprint across the width of the gym fast enough to beat a timer.

Some people weren’t having much trouble with it. Like Everly, who was already gone.

Others were lying on the floor, trying to catch their breath or swearing vengeance against whichever instructor had come up with this. Alden suspected Klein, even though the man wasn’t here today.

The time they’d been given to beat was the average of their ten best times crossing this same distance during previous gym classes.

The problem was that they were often at their fastest while they were really fresh at the beginning of class. Or while running for their lives, fueled by adrenaline as a painful-looking death bore down on them. Or, in at least one person’s case, when they were racing their most hated rival, who happened to be a higher ranked speedster.

Winston was screaming as he tore across the gym, like he was trying to make Finlay hear him from Li Jean. Plenty of people were wet from getting hit by Plim in the previous challenge, but Alden was sure Winston’s drenched hair was all sweat.

They were allowed to use their powers of course. The people making it through this one easily either had new points or a new trick to rely on. Or they just hadn’t been going their absolute fastest in many of the previous classes. Whether that was because they hadn’t needed to or because some of them had been slacking, Alden didn’t know.

He did know he had often pushed himself as hard as he could for speed, so this was a beast of a task for him. He stood there, wanting to completely catch his breath before he even tried.

Sand on the floor, launch off of it as hard as I can, dive for the finish.

That had worked last time after a few attempts. Getting the jump right made a difference. Using My Body Becomes My Assistant would help with that, but he had thoughtfully been provided with two timers. One for if he was using wordchains, and one for if he wasn’t. So the time he had to beat would just get faster if he chained up, and besides, this was Thursday.

He’d decided to use wordchains on Tuesdays and during Coursing runs. Thursdays were for natural practice. Stuart said knights used them but didn’t like to rely on them, so Alden was going for that kind of balance.

“If I could just strap explosives to myself, I’d blow myself toward the other end,” Njeri moaned.

“That would kill you,” said Astrid, who was holding the other girl’s foot to help her work out a cramp.

“But I’m tired. As long as I reached the end before I died…”

She had Alden’s sympathy. Seeing her in that state made him sure he needed to rest for a couple more minutes before he tried it.

******

He considered his success on the first attempt that round to be close to miraculous. His foot hit the sand just right, and he landed so well for the next jump. His outstretched fingertips were brushing over the far edge of the finish line as his timer hit zero.

He sprang up and whirled, wanting to shout, “Did you see that?!” to the room.

But Winston was two feet away, staring at him with a beet face that was sweating buckets.

“I am focused on my future,” he gasped in Alden’s direction. “I don’t care about you beating a time I could beat in my sleep.”

“You look like you’re going to rupture something.”

“I’M EXCELLING.”

Maybe the teachers should lower his time a little. Considering.

Another person sprinted over the line as Winston turned away. Her short dark hair was wet, too, but it was just water in her case. She didn’t look exhausted.

“Hey, Maricel. Since we’re both here at the same time, do you want to duel in the dirt block? Looks like it’s free for us.”

She had been really quiet all term. Great in class from what he’d seen. He’d wondered if all the publicity might have slowed her down, but Fragment’s tutoring must have been intense. He couldn’t recall her failing or screwing up at anything she’d done since she got back. She’d busted down the obstacle course ahead of her team in Coursing in a way that looked reckless, but it had worked. So that might have been strategy instead of a mistake.

She looked at him now like she was surprised to see him. And then…like she was vaguely uncomfortable. And then she refocused.

“Sorry, Alden. But for these three-minute duels, I’m only fighting people who might give me trouble.”

His eyebrows shot up before he could stop them.

“I mean to say…”

“I enjoy making duels a challenge, too,” he said. “You couldn’t be here for a while, so there’s stuff I’ve learned that you haven’t seen yet. If you want to make it harder for yourself and you want me to put up more of a fight, there are options.”

“Of course. I didn’t mean to sound like you were no good, but…with all that’s happened. You understand? I…I shouldn’t have said most of the things I said to you during the first weeks of school. I’m sorry. I wasn’t thinking clearly, and I don’t want any of the same things anymore.”

None of the same things. Okay…I can go along with it. “You don’t have to be sorry.”

