He smiled and saved his work, dropped a couple of copies of both the original files and the combined video to his own memory device and onto the memory device from the station, then quickly sought out the news anchor. He knew she was a real go-getter and would listen to what he had to say, especially when he told her what the story was. He found her in her dressing room, and he knew she had an hour or so to wait before she needed to be in front of the camera.

He knocked on the door frame and leaned in. “Sorry to bother you.”

“Hm? Yes?” The very pretty news anchor turned in her swivel chair to look at him, and he caught his breath at her beauty.

“Um... well... I....”

“I could tell you not to ogle me like that; but, that was the effect I was going for.” She giggled, and the guy shivered as her laugh was music to his ears.

“Ah... miss, I...”

“Now now, don't be shy.” She said and stood up and saw he had a death grip on something in his hand. “Do you have something for me?”

“Oh! Yes!” The reporter said and stepped into her dressing room and held the memory device out to her. “Boy, do I have a story for you!”

“Really?” She purred and gently took the memory device from his hand and her fingertips rubbed his palm as she picked it up. He shivered again from her touch, and she smiled sweetly at him. “Tell me all about it, will you?”

“S-sure!” The reporter said and started to babble about everything he had seen that day. Her smile grew broader the longer he talked, and when he was done, she put a hand on his shoulder and gave it a squeeze.

“Thank you very much for coming right to me with this.” She said seductively.

“Y-you're w-welcome.” The man said.

“If I can work my magic, this will be the headline for tonight's show.” She looked at the clock. “Yes, there should be just enough time for the 5 o'clock show.”

“M-miss...”

“Yes, don't worry. I'll make sure that you have a sub-header credit.”

“Th-thank you!” The reporter said and shook her hand vigorously, then left her dressing room in a daze. She let him walk down the hallway for a moment, then gripped the memory device just as hard as he had and she walked very quickly to the news director's office. She knocked once and opened the door, then entered and shut the door behind her.

“We have a problem.” The pretty news anchor said.

“Oh? What problem is that?”

She tossed him the memory device and he caught it, plugged it into his laptop, and the video started playing right away. She told him how she got it and from whom, and told him what he said.

“Well, damn.” The news director said.

“What do we do?” She asked.

“We report it, of course.” He responded.

“But...”

“He wasn't the only one in the room.” The news director said. “If we don't do it, they will.”

“But...”

“I'll give it to Harris if you want to keep your distance.”

“No, I'll do it.” She said. “Harris is too straight-laced to watch that, let alone report on it.”

The news director thought about that and smiled. “Actually, you're right. I will get Harris to do it.”

“Excuse me?”

“This is going to blow everything out of the water.” He said and motioned to the laptop. “I think having an overly-emotional man react to it will give the story that much more of a punch, don't you?”

She opened her mouth to protest, then sighed. “Dammit, I can't argue against my own argument.”

The news director laughed. “I'll have a news-copy done up and given to him, then we'll see how he reacts.”

“I suggest you tape it while he reads it the first time.” She said. “He might not get through a second reading.”

“That is a wonderful idea!” The news director praised her idea, and she shivered in pleasure. “You have main credit for this, by the way.”

“As long as you...”

“Yes, sub-credit to the cub-reporter.” He smiled. “We must keep the underlings happy.”
