“God!” Ren said as the two women sucked and licked him, and he became more excited. They felt the difference in him and worked harder. If they didn't finish him quickly, he could possibly suffer even more pain. Ren put a hand on Lisa's thigh and she stopped sucking on him.

“What...”

“Straddle me, please.” Ren said. “I can't be so close to heaven and not feast my eyes upon it.”

Lisa's face burned a deep red, hesitated for only a moment, then nodded and carefully put her leg over his chest. She was already wet, and Ren lightly ran his hands up her thighs, across her backside, and hooked a finger under the edge of the thin cloth of her panties. He eased it aside to see her, and he appreciated the sight.

“Thank you.” Ren said and kissed her there. Lisa caught her breath and tensed up; but, it was only a brief kiss and she relaxed. She slid the tip of his member back into her mouth and continued to suck, then she spread her legs a bit more and it brought her womanhood much closer to Ren's mouth.

“Lisa, you look so good.” Ren said. “I have to.”

“Go... go ahead.” Lisa said, and Ren gave her one long lick. She shivered, and he licked her again.

“Thank you.” Ren said and licked her. “Thank you!” He said and started to work over her tip just as much as she was working over his tip. Lisa stopped sucking on him and looked at Stella.

“He... he really does like... mmm, god!”

Stella moved down to his scrotum. “I told you.” She said and licked him very, very gently. “He's really good at it, too.”

“I... god, yes!” Lisa said and she went. She slid him into her mouth to stop herself from moaning out loud. “MmmMMmmM!”

That just happened to feel really good for Ren, and he throbbed in Lisa's mouth. She took the cue and kept moaning around him as she sucked. They stayed that way for several minutes, and then Ren tensed up.

“I... I'm gonna...”

Lisa slid her mouth off of him so Stella could see how far it was going to go, and they watched as Ren finished and it shot almost 4 feet straight up.

“Gah!” Ren said, and he spurted again at about 3 feet; then it calmed down and a steady flow came out.

“That's...” Lisa looked at the mess and didn't know what to say, then Ren started to work her with his mouth again.

“It's amazing.” Stella said. “It's like... like he was...”

“Wh-what?” Lisa asked and tried to concentrate on what Stella was saying, and not on what Ren was doing to her.

“It's like he was designed to please women.” Stella said, and finally gave words to her scattered thoughts. She licked the side of his member to gather up some of what he'd expelled, swirled it around her lips, and swallowed it. “That's so good.”

Lisa looked at Stella, then at Ren's member. Her tongue darted out and licked some of it up, and she tasted it. Her eyes widened, and she took a bigger lick.

“You're right. It really does taste good.” Lisa said, then slipped her mouth over the tip to suck more of it into her mouth.

Stella licked the shaft and cleaned up the rest of it, and Lisa felt another orgasm building. She stopped sucking and laid her head on Ren's thigh when she knew she was about to have a big one, and Stella took over and worked the tip of his member. Lisa grit her teeth together as she went again, and her whole body tensed up as she squirted into his mouth.

“God, Ren!” Lisa said when he kept sucking on her. “S-s-stop.” She panted. “Give... give me... a minute.”

Ren gave her another lick, and her whole body twitched. “That's so awesome.” He said and licked her again. She twitched and shook, and he chuckled. “I just love your reactions!”

Stella stopped sucking on him and looked at Lisa. “Ren, ease off for a bit.”

“Yes, ma'am.” Ren said and stopped licking Lisa. “I really, really want to keep going, though!”

“We know.” Stella said.

Lisa was quite overwhelmed by Ren's constantly pleasing her, and she sighed as Stella rolled her off of him. She couldn't tell if it was a sigh of relief or a sigh of sadness, though.

“I'll distract him for you.” Stella said and slipped off her underwear. She moved to take Lisa's place and straddled Ren's face.

“Thank you!” Ren said, and started to please Stella.

“You... aren't supposed to... ah!” Stella caught her breath as Ren found a good stimulation spot. “Don't... don't thank a woman... before... before... god!” She said and braced her hands on the floor as she went. Lisa watched as Stella was just as vulnerable as she was to Ren's relentless attack, and she smiled.

“I'm so glad that you can't take it, either.” Lisa said and sat up.

“What... what are you... HM!” Stella tried to talk, but Ren grabbed onto her hips and dug his tongue inside of her.

“I thought, as his nurse, you can see him whenever you want.” Lisa said and slipped off her shirt. “When I found you in here, I thought... does she do this for him all the time?” She smiled. “Now I know you don't.”

“I... don't know... what you mean.” Stella said and tried to keep a level head as Ren kept pleasing her.

“If you were having sex with him all the time, you wouldn't be turned on so much.” Lisa said, wisely. She looked down at Ren's throbbing member, slipped it into her mouth for a second, then slid it out and looked at Stella. “You aren't completely clinically detached.”

“I... never said... Ren!” Stella said and went again. She squirted out, and it covered his mouth, his chin and his neck.

“I was scared at first.” Lisa said. “I mean, I've barely had sex at all in real life.” She said and straddled Ren's waist. “But I think you're right. Ren needs me.”

“Oh, FUCK!” Ren said as Lisa sat down on top of him. He slid inside easily; but once inside, Lisa's body clamped down onto him and squeezed him tightly.

“Ren, I'm sorry!” Lisa said and started to get up. “I didn't...”

Ren grabbed her hips and pulled her back down. “Don't stop!” He said. “It hurts... god it hurts! But... but you feel really good, too!”

Stella reached out and moved Lisa up a little. “Don't go all the way down and sit on him. He can't take your weight like that.”

“S-Stella!” Ren said.

“No, Ren.” Stella said. “Lisa, brace your knees and let them take your weight. We don't want to hurt him, okay?”

Lisa nodded and did as she was told, braced her knees and held her own weight.

“Now rock your hips.” Stella said, and Lisa did it. “A little more... not so mechanical, you need to feel it, it's not just the motion.”

Lisa took her advice and her rhythm changed to one that would be beneficial to both her and Ren.

“That's it.” Stella said. “Just like that.” She said. “Ren, you're not licking.”

“I'm... a little busy...” Ren said and held onto Lisa's hips.

“Lisa's doing all the work.” Stella said and moved his hands from Lisa's hips to her own. “Stop stalling.”

“Yes, ma'am.” Ren said and started pleasing her again. Stella waited until Ren matched his mouth movements to Lisa's hip movements, and she looked at Lisa. She was concentrating on keeping her technique going, and Stella smiled.

“You're right, Lisa.” Stella said. “I do like that you're here.” She said. “You didn't immediately run away when you saw me on my knees with Ren in my mouth, and that intrigued me.” She closed her eyes as Ren found that spot for her again. “You... you let us explain what was happening, and then you agreed to help.” She said. “That was...” She grit her teeth for a moment as she went a little, then she opened her eyes and looked at Lisa. “I admired that.”

Lisa kept moving, but Stella had half of her attention now.

“Plus, you really are cute. You're almost as cute as Ren.” Stella said. “I've never gone that route, since I like men so much; but, when it comes to you...” She smiled and reached out and cupped the side of her face. “I feel envious of Ren.”

Lisa's rhythm faltered and she looked at Stella with wide eyes. “Did... did you just say...”

“I'd like to kiss you.” Stella said and her face flushed a little red.

“You...” Lisa stopped moving her hips. Stella leaned forward and kissed her. It was just a light peck and lasted for only a second; but, the both of them felt the thrill. They stared at each other from only an inch away when it was done.

“That was my first kiss.” Stella said. “Thank you.”

“Mine, too.” Lisa said, leaned forward, and kissed Stella back. Both women gasped as Ren jammed himself up inside of Lisa and plunged his tongue inside of Stella. He'd watched their first kiss and couldn't hold back anymore. He wanted them both to finish again for giving him such a great gift; and after only three thrusts, he finished.

Lisa broke the kiss and held onto Stella as Ren unloaded himself inside of her, and that made her go as well. Her body clamped down on him tighter than before; but, he didn't scream in pain this time. Stella finished, too; then both she and Lisa relaxed after their orgasms. Stella moved off of Ren's face and looked down at where he and Lisa were still joined.

“I wanted to see how far...”

“Pretty far.” Ren said. “At least 10 feet!”

Stella chuckled and looked at Lisa.

“At least that far.” Lisa smiled. “I feel full, and I haven't even eaten anything.”

Stella laughed. “Okay, all joking aside... Lisa, ease up and off. Slowly.”

Lisa nodded and slid herself up and off of Ren, and she saw Stella's huge smile.

“Ren! The swelling's gone down!”

“Thank god.” Ren said. “I was scared that...” He shook his head, then looked at Lisa. “Thank you.” He said and looked at Stella. “Thank you both.”

“You're still really hard, though.” Stella said and watched his face as she used a hand to touch him. Ren didn't wince, and she wrapped her hand around him. “Anything?”

“Just... your hand.” Ren said. “No pain.”

“I'm so glad.” Stella said and let him go.

“Please... don't stop.” Ren said.

“I'm not going to.” Stella said. “I can't let Lisa have all the fun.”

Lisa chuckled. “I'm pretty sure we all had fun at the end.”

Stella grinned at her. “Switch places with me.”

“But...” Lisa looked down at herself and at Ren. He had made quite a mess.

“I can clean some of it up.” Stella said and bent down.

“W-wait!” Lisa said, and Stella stopped. “I... kissing you was... well, it was nice and all, but...”

“You only want Ren to touch you there.” Stella said.

Lisa nodded and Stella handed her one of the spare towels.

“Wipe off what you can, then rinse yourself off in the sink.” Stella said. “Then you can sit on Ren's face while I have fun.”

Lisa wiped between her legs to clean off as much as she could, then she stood up. Some of it dripped out and ran down her leg, and she wiped that up, too. Stella bent over and started to lick Ren clean while Lisa splashed water on herself.

“This isn't really working.” Lisa said, and Stella stopped sucking on him to look at her.

“That's because you have to use your fingers to dig it out.” Stella said, gave Ren another lick, and stood up. Ren watched as Stella walked over to Lisa, who had one leg propped over the sink, and then scoop up some water. She splashed it between Lisa's legs and made her gasp, and then she took Lisa's hand and extended her index and middle fingers.

“Wh-what are you...” Lisa started to ask, and then Stella slid Lisa's fingers inside her opening. Lisa gasped at the suddenness of it, then Stella slid them back out.

“Dig your fingers in there.” Stella said. “Gravity can get a lot of it out eventually, but you want as much out now as possible.” She said and slid Lisa's own fingers back inside her. “Scoop.”

Lisa bent her fingers and her body twitched a little, and Stella pulled Lisa's hand out. A large glob of Ren's expulsions came out with her fingers.

“That's got it.” Stella said and splashed more water on her. “Again.”

Lisa did it herself this time, and scooped out more. After the third time, there was almost nothing on her fingers.

“You've got most of it out, now.” Stella said. “How do you feel?”

“Really weird.” Lisa said. “My leg is starting to cramp, too.”

“I know just the thing for that.” Stella said and helped Lisa off of the sink. “Ren's magic tongue!”

Ren chuckled. “I don't think it's magic.”

“You're not a woman that's felt your tongue between her legs.” Stella said and led Lisa back over to Ren. He'd stayed on the floor and hadn't moved, not even to get a closer look at what Stella was doing to help Lisa, because he wanted to save his strength for something more important. Stella positioned herself over his groin, and she helped Lisa straddle Ren's face.

“I can't believe I'm doing this.” Lisa said. “I figured on the sex part, but...”

Stella eased herself down onto Ren, and she told Lisa to sit back a little. It brought Lisa's womanhood close enough to Ren's mouth for him to start on her, and she caught her breath. Stella rocked her hips and barely moved any of her body, and Lisa admired the sight.

“How... are you... doing that?” Lisa asked between panted breaths.

“P-p-practice.” Stella stuttered. “Ren... oh, god! You're so hard!”

Ren nodded, which rubbed his chin against Lisa's opening, and she grit her teeth to stop from moaning.

“Go... go ahead.” Stella said to her. “M-moan... moan for him!”

“I... I don't... OH!” Lisa yelled as Ren found a sensitive spot on her and used it. Lisa reached out and took Stella's hands to brace herself, so she wouldn't accidentally sit down and possibly hurt Ren.

“Let... let yourself... feel it!” Stella said. “Lisa! Let... let it out!”

Lisa looked like she was in pain for several moments, and then she screamed. “AAHHHHHHHH!!!!” She had one of the strongest orgasms she's ever had, and it sprayed out over Ren's chest. “OH, GOD!” She yelled as he sucked on her most sensitive part and went again.

Stella, urged on by Lisa's finally letting herself go, leaned back and doubled her hip-rocking motions. Lisa, quite spent now, slowly lowered herself down to rest her head on Ren's thigh. It took her a moment to realize it was Stella's thigh, and her eyes fixated on Ren going in and out of her. Lisa knew it wasn't happening that way, that it was Stella that was moving; but, with such a close vantage point, the illusion that it was Ren moving made her remember what they did in the game.

Ren, unperturbed that Lisa was no longer responding to his licks and kisses, kept licking and kissing her. He really did enjoy the feeling of her in his mouth and on his tongue, and with her opening still right by his mouth, he wasn't going to stop if he didn't have to.

