After nearly half an hour of watching Lisa and Stella tease him, Ren couldn't take it anymore.

“S-Stella? I... I need to use... the bathroom.” Ren managed to say. Stella nodded and held the wheelchair for him. He transferred over to it from his seat, and Stella rolled him over to the half-bathroom at the side of the room. She took him inside and Ren moved from the chair to sit on the toilet without flipping it up.

“Ren, I thought you said...”

“I don't need to... not that, I... by the gods, it hurts!” Ren said.

“Ren?” Stella was worried, because if he was complaining about pain, it must be very painful, whatever it was. Ren eased his pyjama pants down, and Stella saw the prominent bulge in his underwear. When he pulled those down, she gasped.

“Oh, Ren.” Stella said. “I'm so sorry.”

His member was quite swollen, even more than it usually was when he was excited. Ren tried to touch it himself and he winced.

“I don't know why it's like this.” Ren said. “Can you...”

Stella tried to touch it with her hand and Ren winced again.

“Why does it hurt so much?” Ren asked.

“If I had to take a guess, there's more blood in it than there should be.” Stella said. “The darker red color, the thicker veins, the engorged head...” She sighed. “Ren, I never thought that teasing you would... would do this to you.”

“Me, either.” Ren said. “I've admired you while you moved around and did things before, but...”

“You've never had a woman flaunt herself in front of you for so long and not done anything about it.” Stella said and sighed.

Ren looked at her. “Is... is that it? I held it in too long?”

“I hope so.” Stella said. “I don't know how we can fix it if we can't touch it, though.”

“Maybe if you licked it.” Ren said.

“Are you sure? You're really sensitive right now.”

Ren nodded and braced his hands on her shoulders. “Try it.”

Stella watched his face and stuck out her tongue. She very carefully licked the shaft and saw Ren wince only a little bit.

“That... wasn't too bad.” Ren said. “Keep going.”

Stella flicked her tongue out again and licked him, then again and again. Ren started to breath heavy; but, at least he had stopped wincing. She knew it was still painful for him, but he was fighting it. She decided to just lay her tongue against him instead of licking, and the flesh was so hot that it almost burned her tongue. He didn't wince, though.

“Ren, I'm going to...”

“Please... if it'll help, just do it.” Ren said, and Stella slipped her mouth over the tip. “AHH!” He yelled and clamped his mouth shut and grit his teeth together. His hands dug into her shoulders, but not enough to hurt or bruise her. Stella didn't move at all, and just held him in her mouth until he relaxed. After several deep breaths, Ren nodded to her.

Stella carefully slid him further into her mouth and stopped. She kept her eyes on his, and he nodded again. She slid back slightly and sucked, and he closed his eyes.

“HM!” Stella grunted.

Ren opened his eyes and Stella had a hand up and pointed at her own eyes. He sighed and nodded, and she moved him further into her mouth. He fought to not wince at the pain, and kept his eyes on hers. She moved him in and out and sucked as she watched his reactions, and when she thought he had adjusted to her, she tried to take him deeper.

Ren caught his breath as Stella's top lip touched his abdomen, but it was because of what she was doing, not from pain. She felt the difference in his reaction and flicked her tongue against him, to let him know she knew the difference. She eased herself back away from him and almost took him out of her mouth completely; then she went all the way back to his abdomen again. Stella felt him throb in her throat, and she knew he was now getting more pleasure than pain from it.

“Ren are you okay?” Lisa asked when she opened the bathroom door. “What the hell?”

Stella leaned back and slipped Ren out of her mouth. “Lisa, I...”

“You asked me over, and you're letting Stella do that to you?” Lisa asked Ren.

“Lisa.” Stella said, and she looked at her. “Our teasing had a... side effect.”

“He got hard and wanted a blow job.” Lisa said. “I can see that.”

“Come here.” Stella said.

“Wh-what?”

“Please, Lisa.” Stella said. “Just saying what's going on isn't going to work. Come here and see what's wrong with him.”

“Wrong?” Lisa looked at Ren and then at his member. “What's wrong?”

Stella held a hand out and waved her closer, and Lisa waked into the bathroom. “Give me your hand.”

Lisa wasn't sure what was going on; but she held a hand out to Stella, who took it.

“Watch Ren's face.” Stella said, and Lisa looked at Ren.

Stella put Lisa's hand on his member and Ren hissed and closed his eyes.

“Oh, my god.” Lisa said and pulled her hand back. “That really hurt you!”

Ren opened his eyes and looked at her. “Apparently teasing me like that caused me to... well...”

“He's backed up.” Stella said. “As far as I can tell, anyways.”

“B-b-backed up?” Lisa asked and knelt to get a closer look. “Oh, no.” She said. “It's so red and swollen!”

Stella nodded. “I guess normally when a woman is playing with him, he gets excited, he has sex, and then that's it.”

“Hey.” Ren said. “I last longer than-”

“You know what I meant.” Stella cut him off and smiled, then looked at Lisa. “This time, with excitement after excitement from us, he held himself back too much when his body didn't want him to.”

“Oh, Ren.” Lisa said and looked up at him. “We did this to you.”

“I'd say it wasn't your fault; but, damn.” Ren said and smiled. “You definitely proved that you can be so sexy it hurts.”

Lisa chuckled and a tear came to her eye. “You shouldn't joke.” She said and looked at Stella. “You've been trying to help him, and I-”

“It's all right.” Stella said. “I know what this looks like.”

“I... I thought you were... with me right there, too.” Lisa said and looked up at Ren. “Why didn't you ask me to help?”

“Stella's the medical professional and there's something medically wrong, and you know her view on physical interactions.” Ren said. “Plus, I didn't want you to think that I invited you over to only have sex.”

Lisa snorted a laugh. “I would have come anyways.”

“I certainly hope so.” Ren said, and she chuckled.

“I said not to joke about it.” Lisa said.

“I can scream in pain if you want.”

“Good god, no.” Lisa said. “I... I can't take that, especially since I... since we did this to you.”

“You can help.” Stella said and Lisa did that slow turn of her head to stare at her.

“Excuse me?”

“I've tried to get him excited, and I was pretty close.” Stella said. “I think you need to try it.”

“But...”

“Ren's right. I see this more as treatment than anything else.” Stella said. “But the two of you don't have a lot of experience with each other.”

Lisa looked up at Ren and they exchanged knowing looks. Neither of them had told anyone else that they knew a lot about each other because of the flash-forward 'memories' the game had shown them.

“Just that newness might be enough to... well, dislodge... whatever is stuck.”

“I don't know.” Lisa said. “I mean, you're right. We've only... I mean, I did do it in the hot tub...” Her face flushed red.

“Then think of that.” Stella said. “Remember how you felt that day.”

“I felt... naughty.” Lisa said and her face burned.

“You were sexy as hell in that micro-bikini.” Ren said and his member throbbed. “I can still feel your-Ah!”

Lisa slipped her mouth over the tip of him and sucked a little.

“Easy, there.” Stella coached. “Move slow. He's really sensitive.”

“Mm.” Lisa moaned and eased the pressure on him. Ren took a shallow breath and remembered Stella's advice and kept his eyes on Lisa as she moved in and out. At Stella's urging, she moved more and more of him into her mouth, and eventually worked all of him in.

“Good god, that's... Lisa, I don't know how you can... you're amazing!” Ren said.

“Hm mm.” Lisa moaned.

“You shouldn't talk with your mouth full.” Stella said, and Lisa laughed; which felt really weird for Ren. Lisa started to gag and slipped him out of her mouth, then she started to cough. “I'm sorry, Lisa.” Stella said and rubbed her back to help her. “Sometimes I don't know when to keep my mouth shut.”

“Then put it to good use.” Ren said and touched her hair. Stella nodded and licked him from the base to the tip, then slipped her mouth over him again. She didn't have to work him down this time, since she had already loosened her throat up; so she plunged onto him while her hand continued to rub Lisa's back.

Lisa took several breaths to calm down, and noticed how well Stella was doing. “Okay, I'm a little jealous.”

Stella slid off and sucked at the same time, and it made a kissing sound. “You don't need to be jealous, Lisa. I'm amazed you can take it at all, let alone get him all the way in.”

“But you just... it's like you're not even struggling.”

“I'm not.” Stella said. “Once I decided that it was easy, I relaxed.”

“Is... is it that simple?”

“Try it.” Stella said. “Don't think about what you're doing. Just do it.”

Lisa nodded and did the same thing Stella did. She licked Ren from the base to the tip, slipped him into her mouth, then plunged down on him and he slid all the way in.

“That's it.” Stella said. “Let the feeling of all that hardness become a part of you.”

Lisa moved Ren in and out, and she didn't think about what she was doing. All she thought about was the feel of him inside her mouth, and realized Stella was right. All she wanted was to keep that feeling for as long as she could.

“I... I think...” Ren tried to say.

“I have to see this.” Stella tapped Lisa's shoulder and Lisa pulled off of him. Stella turned her head and kissed the side of the shaft just beside the tip, then licked and sucked it to try and get Ren to finish. Stella felt him calm down a little, and she pulled Lisa in to do the same thing to the other side of his shaft. When Lisa's lips touched him, he throbbed several times.

“Oh... oh my god...” Ren stared at the two women as they licked and sucked on him, and then Lisa's tongue grazed the edge of the tip. Ren put a hand on both of their heads and they took the cue. Both women licked and sucked on their side of the tip, and his hands gripped their hair.

“AHHH!” Ren screamed as he went. It shot out in a straight stream across the bathroom and splashed against the mirror. Stella and Lisa watched with wide eyes as the stream lasted for a couple of seconds, then it lost power and eased down. They kept licking and sucking, because Ren still had a hold of their hair, and another spurt came out, it was at about half the strength of the last one, and then Ren's grip on them eased.

“Fuck, that hurt!” Ren said, and both women looked up at him. “Sorry for cursing.”

“It's okay.” Stella said. “I could tell it hurt.”

“Me, too.” Lisa said. “You didn't really enjoy that, did you?”

Ren cupped the side of her face. “It was the best feeling in the world to have a woman that cares about me, do what you just did.” He said, and Lisa's face turned dark red. He looked at Stella and cupped her face, too. “I need to ask...” He looked down at himself, and he was still rock hard. “Can you... please, I need you to keep going.”

Stella tried touching it with her hand, and he winced a little. “Just mouths again, then.” She said and looked at Lisa. “Tag team or double team?”

“We tried tag team already; but, double team helped him finish.” Lisa said. “We should start with that this time.”

“Shaft or tip?”

“Tip, please.” Lisa said. “It...” Her face flushed even redder. “I like that part more.”

Stella put a hand on her arm. “You don't have to be embarrassed for admitting what you like.” She said. “I like it when he goes down on me.”

“You do?” Lisa asked. “I like it fine, but... it makes me a little uncomfortable.” She said. “I feel... vulnerable.”

Stella moved her hand to her face. “You don't have to feel that way with Ren.” She said. “He loves doing it.”

“I really do.” Ren said and Lisa looked at him. “In fact... Stella? Can you...”

“I'll be right back.” Stella said and stood up. “I'll get the towels.” She said and left the bathroom at a fast walk.

“What are the towels for?” Lisa asked.

“For me to lay down on.” Ren said. “I'm starting to get sore just sitting here.”

“Oh! I'm sorry.” Lisa said. “I didn't think... well, you're sitting down, so I thought...”

“It's easier than standing, sure.” Ren smiled. “But everyone will have a sore backside after sitting for too long.”

Lisa nodded, and then Stella came in with a handful of towels, a bathrobe, and a pillow. She spread the towels out on the floor and put the bathrobe down on top to make a nice place for Ren to lay down on, then added the pillow for his head. He started to stand up, then stopped.

“Yeah, I definitely sat still for too long.” Ren said. “I need a hand, please.”

Stella and Lisa each took one and braced him as he slid off the toilet and knelt on the floor. He turned and sat down, then laid back.

“Oh, Ren.” Stella said when she saw his member almost stuck straight up. “It's kind of like you're suffering the side effects from a sexual enhancement drug.”

“Really?” Ren looked down at himself. “Is this what can happen?”

“In some rare cases.” Stella said and took off her top, then unhooked her bra. “I haven't heard about severe sensitivity, though. Usually it's just pain.”

“What do we do to help?” Lisa asked. She thought about taking her top off, too; but, there was no way she could compete with Stella in that department. When she remembered what department she could compete in, she stood up and undid her pants and slipped them off.

“We'll do what we can to relieve the tension.” Stella said. “If that doesn't work...”

“It's going to work.” Ren said and looked at Stella's breasts, then looked at the tiny little blue panties Lisa wore. “Good god, its going to work!”

Stella nodded and took her own pants off and laid on the floor by his legs, put her chest on Ren's thigh, and started to kiss and lick the shaft of his member. Ren throbbed for her, and she looked at Lisa. Lisa nodded and turned around to let Ren see her backside as she knelt by his chest, then started to suck on the tip of him.

