Lisa could feel Ren was still going at her, but she was almost beyond that now. Her entire being was concentrating on his member going in and out of another woman, and against her reasoning, her tongue darted out and licked him. Ren throbbed hard at the feeling and both Lisa and Stella felt the change. Stella looked down at Lisa and saw her tongue dart out again, and Stella was about to warn her that she might touch her, and then Lisa leaned in closer and licked them both.

“GOD!” Stella said and went unexpectedly. It wasn't the biggest one she'd ever had; but, it was right up there. Liquid poured out of her, over Lisa's tongue, and over Ren's member.

“Oh, god!” Ren said and he went. His liquid poured out and into Stella, mixed with her liquid, and came out over Lisa's still licking tongue and dripped down to pool on the towel below him. Lisa had witnessed what she'd done, and knew it had been something really special. She'd never had anyone react to her like that before, and she liked it. She liked it a lot.

Lisa used her tongue to lick Ren's member and Stella at the same time, and they both gasped. She smiled and kissed where they were still joined, just to give them one more thrill, then flicked her tongue out to touch the two of them. When they both sighed, Lisa knew the special moment was over. She moved back out of the way, lifted her leg over Ren, and sat up. She almost laughed at their shocked faces, but she held it in.

“That was delicious.” Lisa said and licked her lips. Ren and Stella exchanged glances, then looked back at Lisa.

“Yes.” Ren said. “Yes, it was.”

Stella waited a few moments to relax her pelvic muscles, then slid up and off of Ren. “I think we all need a shower.”

“I definitely need one.” Ren said. “Probably a cold one.” He glanced at himself and smiled. “A really, really cold one.”

Stella and Lisa looked at his member, then looked at each other.

“He can keep going in real life, too?” Lisa asked, and Stella nodded.

“He's the gift that keeps on giving.” Stella said, and Lisa smiled.

“So it wasn't just because we teased him so much, then.”

Stella shook her head. “He can go as many times as us, but it takes a lot longer.”

“I'm right here, you know.” Ren said. “You don't have to talk like I'm not here.”

“Hand job?” Lisa asked Stella.

“He's still quite hard.” Stella said. “It might be enough.”

“Ladies?” Ren asked.

“Rock Paper Scissors to see who goes first?” Lisa asked, and Stella shook her head.

“We can both get our hands on it.” Stella said. “There's no need to fight.”

“Geez, it's not...” Ren closed his eyes as both women grabbed him with a hand. “...a toy.”

Lisa and Stella started to work him up and down at a good pace.

“Never mind.” Ren said. “You can play with it all you want.”

They did.

When they were done, Ren had finished 4 more times and the volume he produced was back to the normal amount.

“That's good work.” Stella said to Lisa. “You're really getting a knack for this.”

Lisa chuckled. “Only for Ren.” She said. “The thought of touching another man like this...” She shivered. “Yeah, no thanks.”

Stella gave her a hug.

“Now what are we going to do?” Ren asked.

“Shower.” The two women said at the same time and laughed. Stella got the wheelchair and put a towel on it, and helped Ren stand up. He sat down and looked at the bathrobe.

“Should we even wash that?” Ren asked, and Stella laughed.

“I'll soak it and the towels in the tub before throwing it in the washer.”

“Are you sure?” Ren said and grinned. “It's pretty wet already.”

Stella snorted a laugh. “You made that sound so dirty.”

“It's a talent.” Ren said.

“Let's get you to your room.” Stella said and picked a relatively clean towel to wrap around Lisa, and one to wrap around herself, then they gathered up their clothes and left the bathroom in the bowling alley to go and take a shower in Ren's room. They took turns cleaning up, and when they were done, got dressed again.

“Now what do we do?” Ren asked as he sat in the wheelchair again.

“We still have to finish that game of bowling.” Lisa said, and Ren groaned. She ran a hand through his hair and then gave him a kiss. “Don't worry, we won't tease you like that anymore.”

“Hey, a little teasing is okay.” Ren said. “Just don't overload me with your sexiness, okay?”

“No promises.” Lisa said and grinned, and Stella laughed.

“Let's go back and finish that game, then we can do the rest of the tour and break for lunch.” Stella said, and they went back to the bowling alley.
