Cursing, he pulled back and tossed a half dozen [Fireball] talismans out of his spatial ring and activated them with a thought.

The streams of fire went in nearly every direction, and seemed like a chaotic and uncoordinated attack that would miss each of the attackers. But Matt used [Fire Manipulation], and at the last second, caused all of the spells to turn and slam into them.

That earned him a second of reprieve, and gave Aster a second to cast [Ice Spear] at the healer, who was recoiling from the ball of fire that had just hit her in the chest.

The shard of ice exploded inside her from Aster’s [Shatter], and Matt ensured that the woman was dead with a swipe of his blade. Unfortunately, he had had to take a [Shield Bash] to the arm in order to secure the kill.

The woman who Aster nearly killed with her giant snowflake tried to punch Matt in the side again, but he kicked out and tried to break her overextended knee, only to find her body was made out of what felt like concrete.

With his failed attack, he caught a punch to the face and felt his jaw pop out of place, spitting out a tooth a moment later.

Despite that, he didn’t allow the pain to overwhelm him, and quickly brought his longsword up and around, cutting the woman's arm off at the elbow.

The precisely aimed strike ignored the woman’s stronger than usual bones, and earned him some breathing room, which he used to twist and swing his sword around at the man who was rushing his rear.

His [Mana Slash] was cast at the last second, and he used its resulting explosion to tackle his remaining assailant with a burst of [Mage’s Retreat]. With the extra boost, he was able to overpower the woman. He had to send more mana into the spell than he expected, as the woman was far stronger than he had initially thought.

She felt like a Tier 14, despite only being a Tier 12, and when Matt felt her strength increase as she activated her own spell, he sent mana into his gravity gauntlets while morphing the first layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor]’s gauntlets into spikes.

His fist landed on her like a falling star, brutalizing her face and shoving her nose into her brain, hopefully bypassing her abnormally tough bones. Quickly turning his gauntlets off, he repelled her head with his concept, then reversed the polarity of the force to land a second blow that should have liquefied her brain. The finishing strike left him absolutely covered in blood and gore.

Before he could revel in his victory, he had to deflect a glowing shield that sought to decapitate him, diverting it with his sword to land on the neck of the woman he had just killed.

He had been taught well to never let a good blow go to waste.

At the same time, he felt a burst of happiness from Aster, and an accompanying burst of Genesis Energy, which told him that she had finally succeeded in taking out the archer who had been peppering them.

Regaining his footing and sliding back, Matt took a slash on his leg in order to lash out with a heavy chop that carved a furrow through the opposing man’s breastplate.

With a moment of reprieve, Matt cast [Cracked Mana Trap] without any additional mana in order to delay the man for a few seconds while his latest assailant’s ally closed in on him.

Even with that, he was forced to drop his blade as the remaining woman tried to impale him with a short sword. Using both his Concept’s repulsion effect and his forearm, he deflected the blade upward and punched with everything he had.

Matt felt a bone in his own fist break with the impact, but followed through with the attack properly, and felt the woman's ribs give under his blow.

Fighting defensively, he exchanged a few more attacks, buying Aster enough time to come back and change the fight from a two on one to a two on two. With her assistance, it only took them a few seconds to overwhelm their attackers and finish them off.

Picking up his sword, Matt and Aster rushed over to help Liz and Susanne finish off their two remaining opponents.

After a few bloody minutes, the final attackers fell, but they didn’t go down without leaving a few injuries on the four of them.

Aster had an arrow through her left rear leg, Liz had a set of needles that peppered her front like she had a run-in with a pin cushion, and Susanne was holding in her intestines in with her hand. She had nearly been gutted in the initial exchange, when a woman she cut didn’t go down as expected.

Matt had to gesture at his jaw to get Liz’s assistance in setting the bone back in place with a pop.

He was just about to thank her when a group of five rushed out of the forest at them. They had likely been waiting for the fighting to finish so that they could finish off the weakened survivors.

“Nope, fuck this, and fuck you.” Matt accompanied his words with a short burst of [Cracked Mana Spear] that cut through the five charging people. They threw up their defensive abilities commendably quickly, but Matt was out of patience for half measures and narrow wins. An [Earth Wall] cracked like it was made of flint, a [Water Bubble] popped almost as soon as it formed, and the last man’s tower shield managed to hold Matt off for nearly a quarter second before it too buckled.

Liz clearly agreed, as their blood crawled out of their bodies and started stabbing them. A few bursts of Genesis Energy told them the group had finally died.

Despite their injuries, they took a few seconds to loot the slowly fading bodies of their gear and items.

Dropping their house, Matt staggered inside and started charging the reserves to counteract the shielding he had going at full power, even as Liz cleaned off his island in the kitchen, where she helped Susanne lay down.

Instead of cutting away her armor, she simply retracted it into her spatial ring, allowing Liz to get to work and Matt to act as an assistant.

They weren’t by any means professional healers, but they needed to do more than dump a healing potion on a gut wound. While the risk of sepsis and its related infections wasn’t high for someone of their Tier, they still needed to flush her abdomen before they started properly healing her.

As they worked, Aster limped over and nuzzled Susanne, who scratched the fox.

Matt only kept half an ear out as Susanne talked to Aster, despite not being able to understand her yips and chortles.

The only good thing about Susanne's injury was that it was large, and gave the two amateur healers more than enough room to reattach and heal the cut intestines. The gaping wound made it a little easier to wash the waste that had leaked out away from her abdomen.

Once they double and then triple checked that Susanne didn’t have any remaining waste, they dumped a healing potion in her and stapled the wound closed before pouring a second healing potion on a bandage, and wrapping her stomach.

After that, a sore Susanne helped him pull out the hundreds of tiny needles that had perforated Liz’s body with tweezers. While it was slow and tedious work, none of the needles were in her face, which would have been a real cause for concern. They had seemingly gone through her armor as if it wasn’t there, though they didn’t seem to have done much damage to her flesh. It took them quite a while to find each and every one of the tiny needles, but the work itself wasn’t all that demanding, which at least allowed them to chat.

“I agree. That group was way too strong,” Liz murmured as Aster yipped something.

Susanne agreed. “Yeahhhh, I don’t think I’ve ever seen a group that strong at Tier 12. I’m assuming that their armor must be enchanted to the brim.”

Matt shook his head. “No, that's not it. It was their bodies that were strong, not their gear. I only checked it out a little before putting it away. I got a good enough look to prove that it's not that. While it's top of the line, it's not enough to explain their durability.”

Aster whined, and Liz translated, “Aster asked if maybe they were someone's rich kids or the like?”

Matt mulled that over, but disagreed. “That doesn't make sense. Why would some group geared to the teeth ambush us outright, and then not even try to flee when the tide of the fight turned away from them. Even if they were super confident in their gear, they should have tried to run once their healer dropped.”

Liz threw out her own idea despite Matt pulling needles from her neck. “Maybe they were a low Tier hit squad.”

Susanne made a noise of disagreement, which Aster seemed to back up, but Liz defended her idea. “Think about it. Most death squads are strong Tier 14 teams who are then kitted out after being trained to counter a few Pather equivalents. But what if the team was extra strong, and you wanted them to kill people and also get good rewards? Why not send them in as Tier 12’s? It would even get them underestimated by the majority of people who would be incredibly suspicious of any higher Tier team.”

Matt didn’t think she was right, but he also didn’t have a better explanation, so he left it at that.

Anything more they could learn would be from the group's belongings, and they needed to finish healing before they started going through loot.

After Liz’s needles were pulled out, they pulled the arrows out of Aster and Matt.

His broken rib was left to its own devices after he drank a healing potion.

They could have used spells or even talismans, but they all suspected that their talismans would be nerfed in some way soon, and their spells were meant for emergencies until they left this floor.

This was only the second level of this floor, and they had already encountered four teams, three of which attacked them on sight.

It wasn’t a comforting trend, as it only promised to get worse as they slowed down and ventured deeper, where everyone was pushed further together.

As Matt lay down on the floor, he concentrated on keeping the mana in their reserves topped up while working his still sore jaw.

Liz started going through the first group's gear, but it was indistinct and didn’t have any telltale signs from any of the Great Powers. But like Matt had said earlier, it was well crafted gear, about as good as Minkalla would allow.

Thankfully, Tier 14 materials and enchantments could only be so strong within the restrictions of the planet, which prevented teams like this from coming in with Tier 20 disposable weapons, and just killing everyone they encountered with wealth.

The second team that attacked them, and had been killed by Matt’s [Cracked Mana Spear], were a different story altogether.

They, unlike the first group, were very obviously Republican delvers, judging by their gear and items. As far as Matt could tell from the quality of their gear, the team had been on the Republican equivalent of the Path, though they weren’t notable enough to have been included in any of the briefings that Matt had received. Unfortunately for them, they were a case study in the dangers of delving too deep and too greedily; all their years of hard work were wasted because of a single bad decision.

Matt was just about to take a nap when he felt a ripple of Genesis Energy flow through his spirit, and it traveled with the mana he was sending into the house.

He jerked up, despite the pain, and started concentrating as much as he could on the sensation of the house becoming a growth item.

As his Genesis Energy flowed out of his spirit, he was able to follow it as it spread like an infection through the house. It wasn’t a perfect description, but it was the best way he could describe the change.

The Genesis Energy from his spirit spread through the house’s physical material and the accompanying spirit, but where it passed through, the material was changed. The spirit and materials of the items were strengthened and reinforced, while also binding to him like his other growth items. From their relatively ordinary house, things shifted and twisted as the Genesis Energy worked its magic.

Matt could feel as the unique energy completed its first pass and encompassed the physical house, before it started making leaps.

First, it jumped to his kitchen and started flowing through his range, and then to his fridge, and then to his spatially expanded cabinets. Even as he watched, the enchantments he had personally laid out morphed and changed. The changes weren’t large, and as far as he could tell, the function of the runes didn’t change. Just like he observed with Susanne’s armor binding, it was like print letters being changed to cursive.

After his kitchen was absorbed into the collective whole that was the house, both his and Liz’s work stations started to be absorbed at the same time.

He tried to concentrate on both, but focused most of his attention on his own room. What he found interesting was that he could feel his workstation itself bind to the room, and then to the house as a whole. It was like a nested binding that made absolutely no sense when he considered what he knew about linking enchantments, but the Genesis Energy seemed to easily accomplish the task anyways.

At the same time, as they were bound, he noticed that his workstation did what he could only call ‘settling in’. It was like they became unified and singular, despite remaining distinct items. With a thought, Matt knew that he could merge the two tables that made up an ‘L’ shaped desk into a seamless whole, and then break them apart once again, but he wasn’t so limited as to just return them into the original shapes. No, he was able to break off just a foot of the greater whole to create a smaller table that he could move around.

His tools also seemed to melt away into the workshop, and he knew that he could summon a carving pen at a whim, as long as he was inside the room.

