“I didn’t know I could make those,” Ali admitted, puffing out her cheeks. She had wondered about it before but concluded that she would need to deconstruct several more of the pack leader wolves before she learned it.

A little of the tension in her shoulders and neck eased as she watched the Alpha prowling among the smaller Starving Wolves, sniffing them, and establishing dominance with just his sheer size. A most welcome sight, indeed.

“Maybe if the lower-level ones die and I replace them, we can get a few more of the Alphas,” Ali reflected aloud, wishing she could unsummon her creatures without making them go wild and having to kill them. I may want to do that anyway, she thought. Then she checked her mana and sucked in a short breath of surprise. Her calculations hadn’t taken into account the steep cost of the level five Alpha – taking a whopping thirty-four mana, it was nearly as expensive as the rest of her pack combined. Valuable mana that she wouldn’t be able to use for anything else.

I don’t think I can afford another one. With a total of one hundred and fifteen mana reserved for everything she was going to have trouble lasting through a long fight. She could recover forty-two mana by releasing the Restoration circle, but she was still going to need to be careful with the mana cost of her other spells if she didn’t want to run out.

I hate this. He was used to enjoying a good fight, but Mato found this place to be miserable. He was outclassed in every encounter, and he was often struggling to keep control of himself.

She looks at me like I’m the monster. This was by far the worst part. And she’s right to be afraid. This was a dungeon – if Calen’s skill was to be believed, but the darkness of the place, the challenging level of the monsters, and being lost, all paled in comparison to the way she looked at him, her wide amber eyes filled with barely-suppressed fear.

He had no idea if Calen and Malika were even alive. And Ali had almost died again – this time to a rogue. The idea of losing his friends, and him being unable to help, gnawed at him. When had he come to care for them so much? Was it merely the dangers they had braved together?

He stepped over a tripwire and continued down the dark alleyway soon reaching one of the uncountable twisting dark streets that had long since blurred together in his mind with a sense of sameness. The only things to break the monotony were the sudden patrols of Kobolds, or occasionally skeletons that sent them fleeing into hiding whenever the monsters were too high level for them to face. Which is almost always the case.

“We should be pretty close to the library now,” Ali whispered to him. “It should be around there, past the next residential district.”

She had been directing their progress for most of the day and, slow as they were going, Mato still felt they had made some good ground. He peeked around the corner, spying a Kobold group on guard up ahead.

Mage – Kobold – level 8Warrior – Kobold – level 9Rogue – Kobold – level 7

Mage! He flinched involuntarily from the mere memory of that searing fire. “Kobolds. Can you handle the mage?” he whispered to Ali. “I can get the other two.”

“Yes.” Aliandra’s steady response diffused some of the bite out of his anxiety. He had no desire to face the mages. Even though he had reached a much higher level now, and had a lot of armor, he had no defenses against their fireballs, and being burnt alive was not something he was excited to experience again.

“Ok, I’m going.” He began his transformation, reminding himself to begin with his healing magic as he twisted into the shape of the bear.

Ali nodded to him, and he charged, his skill lending power to his muscles and accelerating him across the stone paving to slam into the Kobold warrior before it could even react. He used Swipe and Brutal Restoration simultaneously, striking both the dark rogue and the tougher warrior in a single sweeping attack.

At least she won’t have to yell at me from the start.

The darkened street suddenly began to glow with the angry red light of fire magic. A chill ran down his spine, as his body reacted to the remembered pain. Trust her. Ignoring the impending fireball, he swiped a second time, welcoming Ali’s Alpha wolf to the fight. Shifting sideways, he used the wall to block the Kobolds from flanking him and instead sent his intent to the Alpha wolf with a growl overlaid with a pulse of empathic emotions and images. It responded with body language indicating agreement and shifted to flank the Kobold warrior. Taking advantage of his positioning, the Alpha executed a brutal rending hamstring attack, causing the Kobold to stumble.

This is so much easier with a pack fighter. Especially with his Beast language proficiency aiding communication.

The Kobold warrior recovered its balance and wheeled with a powerful slash, striking the Alpha in the face with the rusty steel blade, but Mato was ready. He intercepted the damage using his Arboreal Sanctuary, transferring it to himself instead. Anger exploded forth from deep within him as his Primal Rage skill fought for control. But his power surged too. This time, he managed to remember to use his Brutal Restoration skill as he lashed out with his Swipe, connecting with both the Kobolds in quick succession, and even knocking the rogue off balance.

The warrior spun to attack him instead. That’s right; don’t show me your back! The rage began to ebb as his healing magic pulsed steadily, erasing his wounds. In the distance he could still hear the yelps and howls of the other wolves, and the whistle-thump of Ali’s bolts as she fought the Fire Mage. He was most annoyed by the warrior, so he focused his attacks on him, ignoring the smaller rogue and its pesky stabbing dagger. I have armor, you idiot! He sent the thought to the Kobold, even though it couldn’t hear him.

The rogue swarmed into the attack with a complicated series of feints. Instinctively, Mato took advantage of a small opening to slam it into the wall with his paw. The Alpha, anticipating his attack, placed itself in the perfect flanking position taking the opportunity he had created to hamstring it. He followed his surge of satisfaction with another swipe, knocking the hamstrung Kobold sprawling across the stone pavement with blood splashing from several deep claw gashes.

Beyond his world, the darkness glowed red again, and the heavy thump of a detonation shook the ground, but he ignored it, taking a wicked slash on his shoulder to savage the downed Kobold.

“Mato, heal!”

Heal… oh! He suddenly remembered to use his spell, applying it to the next attack, and a rush of soothing energy flowed through his body, easing his pain, and slowly clearing away the fog.

A soft chime sounded in his mind, and suddenly a stream of golden magic bolts arced over him and slammed into the rogue that was hamstrung between him and the Alpha. It panicked and tried to run. But it was still limping badly from bone-deep gashes in its lower calf, and the lingering effects of the Alpha wolf’s debilitating Hamstring attack prevented it from getting too far before the chasing bolts killed it.

The bolts, mid-flight, suddenly switched direction and began raining down on the unfortunate Kobold warrior. It screeched and lashed out with a frenzy of slashes. Down to one enemy, Mato ignored its blade and simply unleashed attack after attack at the Kobold, reveling in the ripping of scales and the spray of blood, until it, too, collapsed from the onslaught.

Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Kobold – level 8.Your group has defeated Warrior – Kobold – level 9.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Kobold – level 7.Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 7.+10 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 6.Swipe has reached level 5 (+2).Bear Form has reached level 6 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 7.Identify has reached level 5.

His restoration magic continued to pulse, slowly mending his wounds and freeing his mind from the grip of Primal Rage. He shifted, reverting to his Beastkin form, and breathed a sigh of relief.

I’m still in control. Better. That was much better.

“How was your rage?” Ali had lost all her lower-level wolves in the fight – they lay strewn across the street, still smoking from the aftermath of the fire. The only exception was the Alpha Wolf standing beside him.

“It was easier to manage this time,” he said. Realistically though, this fight hadn’t been nearly as hard as the ones which had put him in danger and their strategy had helped him enormously. “I leveled up to seven, and Bear Form got two levels, so I have more armor.”

“That’s good,” Ali said, sounding relieved.

“I’ll spend all my points on vitality. That should help too.”

Ali sighed, visibly relaxing at his words. I never want to see her terrified of me again.

He carefully moved to drag the corpses into a nearby house so that they could set up camp and Ali could use them for mana. It had been a long and stressful day, but winning this fight relatively easily had put him in a better mood.

Ali inscribed her healing circle for them and while she finished up barricading the doorway with several sizeable chunks of stone and deconstructing all the corpses, he sat within the circle feeling its soft healing magic restore his body from his wounds. He had been sitting quietly for several minutes when his notification chime surprised him. Curiously, he summoned the image of the giant oak in his mind, immediately noticing a denser vibrance to the aura of transparent leaves that swirled about its lower branches. New writing appeared upon the trunk glowing the familiar green and he drew closer to study it.

Requirements met for skill advancement. Survive a fight with less than 5% remaining health.Vitality has reached 50.Recover more than 1000 health from your own healing magic.Recover more than 1000 health being healed by an ally.Arboreal Sanctuary gains Advanced Regeneration.Arboreal Sanctuary – level 6You emit a spherical Sanctuary aura of nature magic centered on yourself. Range: 11.8 feet.Your natural health regeneration rate is increased by +107.9% [100 + skill + wisdom / 10] and you can recover even from critical injuries. Your regeneration is shared with allies (including animals, beasts, and plants). Range: Sanctuary.Mana: You can redirect damage from anyone to yourself. Range: SanctuaryNature, Domain, Area, WisdomAccept this advancement?

He stared at the notification in stunned silence for a long time.

Five percent.

It had been that close – that first fight after falling down the hole. The rest of the requirements seemed crazy, but nothing came close to that one. He was always being hurt, and his healing and Ali’s circle needed to do a lot of work as they crept through the darkness. Even now, the restoration circle was still working hard to heal his body.

“Mato?” He realized she had been shaking his arm.

“Sorry. I got a skill advance, Ali,” he said, sharing the update. The advance itself was substantial – his health would now regenerate, just like mana and stamina did, healing even the most severe injuries given enough time – if he understood the skill correctly.

As a passive skill, it wouldn’t require any mana, or even that he was conscious. Most people had to rely on potions or healers to recover their injuries, but, provided he didn’t die outright, he would heal automatically.

“That seems very good,” Ali observed quietly. “How much health do you have now?”

“Five hundred.”

Ali coughed and stared at him for a moment before speaking. “If you can recover a bit more than five hundred per hour,” she muttered a bit under her breath, clearly doing some arithmetic, “that’s nearly nine health per minute!”

“I can share my health regeneration with you and your minions too,” Mato said, beginning to appreciate the second part of the advance more and more. Already there had been numerous times when he was fighting side by side with Ali’s Sewer Rats or Starving Wolves. Even though it would only amount to a slow trickle of healing over the duration of a normal battle, any amount of healing was worth it. “What do you think?”

“It will definitely help,” Ali said.

That was enough for him. Mato nodded and accepted his first skill advancement.

Immediately, Ali glanced at him in open surprise shuffling backward a few steps, and then a few more, before she advanced again. She said, “How interesting! Mato, you’re not just sharing health regeneration. My stamina and mana regeneration are higher in your aura.”

“Are you sure?”

“Yup, look at this,” Ali answered and then shared her regeneration numbers with him. “This Sanctuary buff shows up as soon as I step close to you.”

Health RegenerationPercentage of maximum health regenerated per hour.

+107.9% Sanctuary.Total: +107.9%Stamina RegenerationPercentage of maximum stamina regenerated per hour.+100% Racial (Fae).+100% Sanctuary.Total: +200%Mana RegenerationPercentage of maximum mana regenerated per hour.+100% Racial (Fae).+100% Sanctuary.Total: +200%

“How in the world?”

“Look at your skill description again,” Ali said. “It has two clauses – the first one grants you passive health regeneration, which almost nobody has. The second clause shares your regeneration with your allies – it doesn’t specify which kind of regeneration, so it must mean all of them. You must have a base racial regeneration of one hundred percent per hour for mana and stamina, just like me?”

“Wow, that’s far better than I thought!”

***

Name: Mato BahrRace: Beastkin Buffs: Bear FormClass: Druidic Shapeshifter – level 7- Arboreal Sanctuary – level 6- Swipe – level 5- Brutal Restoration – level 7- Bear Form – level 6- Wolf Form – level 2- Primal Rage – level 6- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 5- Cooking – level 4- Wilderness Lore – level 5Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Beast- Mana (Affinity): Nature- Strong (Racial): +7 Strength- Tough (Racial): +10 EnduranceAttributes- Vitality: 50- Strength: 33- Endurance: 34- Dexterity: 7- Perception: 6- Intelligence: 8- Wisdom: 19Armor: 190Physical Damage Reduction: 49.22%Health: 500/500Stamina: 340/340Mana: 190/190
