The sun dipped down in the west, tinting the world in reds and golds, as a cold wind blew from the north. Tonight would be chilly, but almost every person out here on the dark, multicolored streets of Candlepoint was either bundled up against the cold, with subtly glowing [Conjure Armor]s providing both warmth and defense, or [Ward]s that provided much the same. The shadelings, though, they wore rags. Erick wasn’t sure if the cold didn’t bother them, but that was a possibility.

Except for the shadelings, nobody walked this Shade city without some form of protection active and highly visible; this was certainly not Spur, where a simple [Ward] or a tough piece of leather was expected. Everyone seemed both ready and waiting for something to happen, but also calmly avoiding outright violence as they rushed to wherever they had to be, without outright running.

That might have been why the architects of Candlepoint had draped the city in colored lights. To detract from the magic and dangers of the crowd? To make Candlepoint look more festive, and less deadly? To liven up the mostly silent atmosphere?

Or maybe Bulgan just liked pretty lights?

Eh. It was probably a joke of some sort; a play at happy colors hiding utmost violence. Jane had spoken of stuff like that in Ar’Kendrithyst.

Ophiel and Erick’s shadeling guide, Justine, headed north on a wide, black road, large enough for ten people to walk hand in hand and not touch the buildings on either side. The road did not need to be this wide. There were a lot of people out here, sure, but not enough to fill this large space. Maybe it was built this way so that no one had to walk too close to anyone else.

Most everyone gave Ophiel and Justine a wide berth, without making it too obvious. But the same was true for every small group Erick saw. Everyone walked in loose knit groups well separated from each other. No one walked alone.

As a pair of orcols eyed Ophiel, and a trio of shadelings eyed from Ophiel, to the orcols, and both parties parted ways like anyone would on a crowded New York Street, but also completely not, Erick knew he was unprepared for the obvious possibility of violence. Strictly speaking, he did not need to worry about Ophiel getting shanked, or anything like that, but allowing such a thing to happen at all could be seen as weakness. So Erick listened with [Hunter’s Instinct]s, but did not turn on Ophiel’s own [Hunter’s Instincts]. Using his ability this way would be subdued, but he didn’t want Ophiel to shift his display to hard feathers and slitted eyes, and further incite the people around him. He did turn on Ophiel’s [Perfect Hearing], though.

The silence of the street turned into whispered murmurs of grumbling stomachs and someone a street away demanding food and the tiny tinkling of rads in pockets of shadelings, while everyone else made little to no sounds. Leather creaked. Metal scraped. People yelled quiet threats well out of sight, but not out of earshot. A hand tensed around the hilt of a sword.

But nothing happened. Nothing that Erick could see, anyway. He might have heard the squelch of a dagger plunged into flesh, but that could have been any number of sexual sounds.

Nothing visible happened, the whole way to the Garrison.

Erick certainly noticed the skinny shadelings, though. Most of them wore normal clothes, if a bit messy, but some of them wandered on the street, with wide, blank grey eyes, staring at the heavens while their tattered clothes dragged across the ground. Others played with knives in the shadowed recesses of the alleyways near the main road, tossing their glinting shards of metal into the air and catching the handle, or drawing them across their skin to spill red blood into the darkness like it was some arcane rite. Not a single native looked healthy. Even Justine, with her white countenance and grey robes, looked haggard, like she hadn’t eaten a proper meal in weeks.

Her Status said she was 98 years old, but Candlepoint itself was only a few weeks old. Maybe Justine had been working in Ar’Kendrithyst for a long time, already? Or maybe something else was going on.

Whatever the case, there, Erick and Justine made it to the Garrison.

The Garrison was a giant of a building at least three stories large, but that wasn’t so important. What was important, were the hungry and obviously desperate shadelings he saw in the shadows of the alleyways around the structure, and the large Garrison guards positioned by the door. They were giants of incani shadelings, with black armor, decked out with horns to rival their helmets and swords to rival their whole bodies.

The guards seemed to be keeping the shadelings out, for they reacted to Justine’s approach, but did not seem to care when a pair of orcols walked in, and a trio of dragonkin walked out. But as they reacted to Justine, Erick saw that they were not shadelings at all. Glowing purple eyes stared out of a helmet full of shadows, while the armor of their arms showed clear separations between gloves and vambraces. They were summoned creatures of some sort. Similar to the Robes of Oceanside, perhaps?

Justine announced herself to the ‘guards’, breaking the silence of the street, “Justine Erholme, guiding Archmage Erick Flatt in his rounds of Candlepoint. Let me pass.”

The automatons spoke in unison, “Granted.”

The street returned to silence, as the automatons returned to stillness. Justine walked past them and up the short stairs into the Garrison. Erick followed.

They must have passed a sound barrier of some sort, because the Garrison was louder than the street by a dozen fold. Recovering from the assault on his ears, Erick took stock of the place. It immediately reminded Erick of the Adventurer’s Guildhouse crossed with a casino of some sort. Everything was red or gold or black, except the lights; they were of every color mixed to white. Shadelings worked counters and served food at a bar on the floor above and—

They were playing cards over at that table. And dice over there. And other games that were almost like roulette, with their spinning wheels and bets placed on a table made of red and gold.

This place was a casino, but different. It had the monster board, of course; that was right over there at the back of the large room, just like Erick had already seen once before. But there were parts of the place that were very much not standard ‘Adventurer’s Guildhouse’ fare. There were people turning in rads at an ornate, golden counter, and getting flecks of dark crystal in return; the ‘darkchips’, no doubt. Erick peered closer at one of the tables, using [Ultrasight], and saw that they were using those black chips to bet on their games. People paid for everything with darkchips; from the bar over there, to slipping the waiters and waitresses payments for drinks, to buying in at a gambling table. The rewards listed on the monster board were obviously pitiful compared to what someone could rake in with a lucky win.

When had this all happened? Surely there wasn’t a casino here the last time Erick checked?

Justine waited for Erick to move further into the Garrison with her, but she did not look impatient. She just looked impassive; she was here for him, and maybe not of her own free will. She was likely a plant meant to… do something. Erick wasn’t sure.

But before he got too far into that introspection, as he looked around, he saw a few familiar faces. They must have seen him first, though, because they were walking straight to him.

Justine stepped to the side, out of the way, as his neighbors in the Human District walked closer; Maia, Eduard, and Ramizi, the Fire, Ice, and Force mages from Oceanside. All three of them were humans. Looking around at the casino floor, he noticed that there were other humans here, too, but not as much as those of other races.

Maia neared, saying, “Hello, arch—”

A table nearby erupted into joy, as someone won something and bright lights flashed. Loud cheers from the winner’s party were cut short by what came next. Erick did nothing as a single second stretched out into something else. The attack was not aimed at him, or anyone he knew.

A shadeling covered in rags and little else rushed into the building, flickering into the shadows, straight to a different shadeling that Erick had not really noticed. This second shadeling was obviously an employee of the Garrison, or something along those lines; they wore a nice ruby satin and gold pinstripe, almost-costume; like all the other employees of the place. But they also had a black-armored automaton at their back, guarding them, or more appropriately: what the employee was carrying. The employee had a gold box attached to his hip on a thick, solid gold belt. That object was made to not come off easily.

The ragged shadeling, and three others just like him that Erick had missed, rushed the man, while adventurers got out of the way and the automatons —three of them now; where had those come from?— brought their swords down like the hands of vengeful godlings.

Three ragged shadelings scattered to the casino floor, bisected, blood fountaining across no one but empty tables; everyone near the event had moved faster than Erick would have thought possible. The fourth ragged shadeling managed to make it to the employee, wielding a summoned sword, but the employee stepped to the side, elegantly and effortlessly. The ragged shadeling missed his attempt to bisect the employee, and the slash of one automaton. Two automatons did not miss.

A torso went flying. Blood splashed. An arm landed near Ophiel.

While Ophiel hung in the air, and Erick had no idea what had happened beyond the obvious, or why, some other employee called out from the other side of the room.

“Pardon the interruption!” The shadeling was a gorgeous man from incani stock. He was lithe and tall, with dark hair and grey eyes, but he wore the most over the top red and gold sequined tuxedo Erick had ever seen, and he’d been to more than one Pride parade in his day. His outfit glowed, so did his pale skin, and so did his curling, bright, unnaturally red horns; they might have been lacquered to achieve that smoothness. The man said, “No one was hurt, so I hope everyone can continue living it up, at the Garrison!” He cheered, “Half price drinks for the next hour!”

A highly orchestrated display of magic and coordination resulted in drinks appearing on the trays of every serving guy and gal out on the casino floor. They started handing out bubbling pink beer steins and vibrant blue shots and glowing golden… gummy bears? No. Jello shots? Maybe. Whatever the case, the patrons took their drinks and gummies and were happy to have them.

Fuck. Erick was really out of his depth. Everything looked normal, but it was an ‘uncanny valley’ sort of normal; a mimicking of things he recognized as normal in other parts of the world, but not here, in a near warzone.

But as he turned back to the bodies on the floor, they were already gone. The man in the sequins had successfully distracted Erick, and most of everyone else, from the casual death of four starving and desperate shadelings. Or maybe Erick had read that wrong, and they were insane killers?

While he struggled to come to terms with what he had witnessed, Maia, Eduard, and Ramizi, looked to be in a much better state than him. Maybe they were used to seeing bodies torn apart in front of them. Ramizi was even drinking a blue drink.

Erick almost drifted away from Ophiel, back to his body in Spur, but Maia stepped one step closer. Erick returned to the moment.

Maia said, “Hello, Erick.”

“So many questions—” Erick jabbed at the drink in Ramizi’s hand with a feathered wing, whispering, “What the fuck are you drinking and why?” Then he pointed at the ground where the bodies had been, asking, “And what the shit was that?”

Ramizi said, “We’re the official ambassadors from Oceanside.” He held up the half-drunken drink, saying, “We all go back to the island every day, and they check us over for a few hours. Drinking this drink is a part of the job.”

Eduard said, “Only one of us participates per day. Yesterday it was me.” He glanced to the ground where the bodies had been, adding, “And that was a normal occurrence.”

Maia said, “Pardon me, archmage, but we don’t get answers to a lot of our questions, but I know you would, so can you ask your guide here the same question?”

Erick turned his attention to Justine, who had stepped back from Ophiel and the Mage Trio. He asked, “What was… What were the ragged shadelings trying to do?”

With a clear voice, but still quiet under the noise of the casino room floor, Justine said, “There is a system in place where shadelings are given sustenance until they are able to regain some of who they were. When this first step is taken, we are ejected from the direct oversight of the Clergy, and sent out to regain the rest of ourselves on our own. At this time, our meals are taken from us. We need rads to survive, but we are not allowed to hunt monsters for rads. Instead, there is another system.

“We each get an allotment of two darkchips per day from the Crystal in the center of the city. Some of us spend these chips here, at the Garrison, and make enough rads to survive, though it is tough. Others collaborate to offer services such as prostitution or drugs or a bed for the night, or food at a restaurant; anything to attract customers into spending rads and taking our darkchips, so that we might survive another day.

“The Garrison makes the most rads of any of us, as they control a large portion of darkchips in order to pay adventurers for their rads, but you can get nearly any service out in the rest of the city, if you know where to look.

“The only thing we are not allowed to offer are discounts. Master Shadoweater will know if we do, and the repercussions are… unwanted.”

After a long moment, Erick said, “Okay.”

And then he had nothing more to say. What could he say? That it was awful? That he wanted to help? He certainly wanted to help, but how could he, when they were probably lying about everything?

Maia frowned at Justine, then said to Erick, “That’s the same story we already heard.”

Ramizi said, “Shadelings need a baseline thousand mana per day to live.” He looked to Justine, saying, “Some of you can eat your own mana though, can’t you?”

“We all can. Most of us do.” Justine said, “But it is a wyrm eating its tail; there is some loss, each day. It is not enough.”

Ramizi looked to Ophiel. “Yesterday we saw a desperate shadeling kill and eat the rads out of the chests of two others.”

Maia asked Justine, “Whose fault is it that you live like this?”

