Erick had already seen what Mephistopheles had glimpsed happening behind Ophiel. This location was not secure. People were listening in on them right now. Erick even saw one dealer at a nearby table prompt an orcol woman into if she wanted another card, or not. The orcol startled a little, then went back to her game, but she kept an ear nonchalantly turned toward the VIP area. She wasn’t the only one listening in to Erick’s conversation with—

Ah. ‘Mephistopheles’. The devil that you make deals with for arcane knowledge, or something like that? Erick was almost sure that’s where the name came from.

Erick said, “Whatever works, works. But don’t deliver the spell to Spur or my house directly. Something untoward would likely happen in such an event.”

Mephistopheles set his bright red drink down, and said, “As you wish, archmage.”

Erick said, “Lovely establishment you have here, but I have other things to see.”

Mephistopheles nodded.

Ophiel departed the VIP area, then left the Garrison. Justine followed. The sun had set while Erick was inside the Garrison, and that apparently meant that it was time for the crowds to depart the dark roads of the city.

Of the dozens that had been on the streets before, now there was only Justine, Ophiel, and a pair of ragged, skystruck shadelings wandering south in the center of the road. Justine gave the pair of lost souls a short, tender look, then turned north. Erick followed.

Justine walked in silence to their next destination, while Ophiel floated beside her.

Candlepoint was still full of bright lights and deep shadows. But now, eyes peered out of every darkened corner, while wind carried over the tops of buildings and gently whistled on harsh edges.

Erick saw many almost-normal things as they traveled.

There was a five-story hotel with large windows, but the curtains were drawn in almost every window. Tiny noises coming from inside marked the building as a well-appointed bordello. Some of the curtains were not drawn, though. Shadelings sat in those windows, some of them nude, others in ragged clothes. All of them were beyond skinny. Some of them were smoking pipes, and exhaling blue smoke.

The hotel was just the worst offender, but Erick saw the same scene playing out in miniature wherever he looked, except where he saw violence. Where there was violence, Erick watched, but let it be.

This place was a nightmare.

Erick had to help them… But it could all be a trick. A game of some sort.

Okay. Okay. Erick frantically thought. Okay. So what if it’s a trick? What’s their goal? To appear so pitiful no one pays them any mind? That’s highly likely. But they’re suffering, in the mean time. Okay. Okay. So. I can help them, but never interact directly. Or even through intermediaries. That would lean into whatever trick they’re trying to pull. But! Fuck! I can’t not help! Shit.

Ophiel betrayed none of Erick’s inner turmoil. Or at least Erick hoped not.

Justine took Erick down a well lit side street that was only vaguely thinner than the main drag. Soon, they arrived at their next destination. It was nothing more than a simple, yet large roof of dark stone, held up by several pillars; it was a pavilion large enough to cover a small house, and lit up like a stadium, but there was nothing under the roof save a long, curling line of hungry shadelings.

It was a meal center. Erick had worked more than one of those in his time. This one was slightly different than he was used to, but it had all the hallmarks of what he expected.

At the head of the line, and heavily overseen by strong looking shadelings with long clubs in their hands, there was a long table, where shadelings walked up and were served small bowls of gruel, or something, in exchange for their darkchips. No one spoke as they got to the serving table, but everyone was chatting with each other further down the line. Some of them were even looking Erick’s way, but mostly they seemed to care more about Justine than about the floating ball of feathers beside her.

Justine stopped at the edge of the pavilion. She said, “This is one of the larger meal pavilions located around the city. We’ve only been at this self-sufficiency thing for a short while, but we are managing what we can, where we can.”

Erick asked, “Where is your food coming from?”

“From people like me. And others. We have a few smaller buildings enchanted to draw water from the air, and then we go in and [Grow] what we can. Water Season is almost upon us, though. We expect these meager offerings to increase greatly, once we can tap into the rising water table below Candlepoint.” Justine added, “There’s also a great deal of leftovers from the nicer establishments around the city. Those businesses are supported directly by the Clergy, with harvests that come directly from Kendrithyst.”

“I read about those water gathering runes.” Erick said, “They cost a lot to maintain, and they’re not that good.”

“We do what we must.” Justine said, “Most of the water goes directly to the water supply, for drinking. Bathing is a luxury reserved for adventurers and visitors.”

Erick looked over the line of shadelings, and said, “I’d like to see a home, now.”

Justine nodded, and turned back to the street. Erick followed.

The house Justine took him too was actually an apartment, not too far from the meal pavilion. The exterior looked about the same as dozens of others he had seen on the way to this one. The whole city looked to have been made by rapidly applied and barely concerned [Stoneshape]s, after all.

The inside of this apartment was clean-ish, though the absence of [Cleanse] was rather apparent. The smell of the bathroom was present even out on the street, but inside it was omnipresent. Erick had smelled worse houses, but not on Veird. The bed was a simple mattress of hay wrapped in barely stained cloth, with a small off-white blanket on top. There was no pillow.

Justine introduced Erick to the occupant of the apartment, a young male shadeling of human stock, named Irkil, who wore off-white clothes that were stained darker under the arms. He was a mousy sort of guy; kind of small.

Something clicked for Erick.

How were these people wearing clothes and having mattresses and all of these other accouterments of civilization, without actually having industry? Were these the simple cast offs of Ar’Kendrithyst’s plot to get adventurers into Candlepoint? Or was something else going on, there?

Erick looked to the bed. If that was a [Conjure Item], why had Irkil conjured it so poorly?

Teressa was rather unwilling to do most magics, but that was only partially because she wasn’t very good at them, but even she could conjure a four poster bed, if she wanted. She could do so much better than any of what he had seen around Candlepoint. Were the vast majority of shadelings un-Matriculated? Or was something else going on, here?

Erick asked, “Are you wearing [Conjure Armor]? Are you un-Matriculated?”

“No, sir! None of the above!” Irkil said, standing a bit taller as he said, “We’re forbidden from wearing armor. These are merely the clothes that I have bound to myself, for the moment. I hope to achieve something better when my employment at the Garrison or the Guard is approved.” He added, “All shadelings are automatically Matriculated into the Script, as soon as we find our names. This is the cutoff of the Clergy’s assistance, too. Some try to slow that process, but I was and am ready to begin my own life.” He gestured to his room, saying, “It’s not much, but it’s enough for now, and by this time next week, I’ll be much better off.”

Erick let that sit for a moment, then asked, “What do you mean, ‘bound to yourself’?”

Irkil frowned a little. He said, “I’m not sure how to answer… that? Uh. It’s... bound to me?”

Justine asked, “Would you like to go to the Crystal, and see the full listings of prizes? I can explain every single one to you, and what each Stat does. The ‘bound’ that Irkil is referring to is the ‘Soulbound Stone’, listed as a Lesser Prize for a hundred darkchips.” She added, “Every fully realized shadeling is given two soulbound stones for free, along with other items scavenged and repaired inside Kendrithyst. These items are usually enough to provide someone with a place to lay at night, and clothes to wear.”

Irkil happily said, “All I had were rags, taken from the pile. But if I work for the Guard, or the Garrison, or one of the hotels, I’ll have a lot more, soon enough!” His joy fell a fraction, as he added, “And I will, because I’m no layabout.”

Erick said, “I hope that works out for you, Irkil.”

“Me, too!”

Poi’s voice came to Erick, ‘Sir. Kiri has found your information regarding monsters eating rads.’

Erick quickly sent, ‘Tell her to look up spells to gather large amounts of rads from dead monsters, while she’s there. Super Large Area, if she can. I don’t expect her to find much, but a good foundation would be nice.’

‘Understood.’

Erick turned to his guide, and said, “Justine. I don’t care about the items for sale, or what they do. I just want peace and prosperity. If you are real people, and not some plot designed to burrow into the rest of civilization and destroy everyone from the inside, then time will tell more than words ever could.”

Justine stood strong. She said, “We accept the burdens of proof laid upon our shoulders.”

“Me, too!” Irkil said, enthusiastically, like only a young person could.

Erick asked, “Now what kind of food do you eat? Anything that a person of your original race would, or could?”

“Yes.” Justine said, “Rice and beans go a long way, and I understand they are cheap to procure. We would have to pay you in darkchips, of course. It is the currency we are allowed to use.”

“Rice and beans, then.” Erick said, “When I come back, I will be checking on everything I saw this evening.”

“You’ll be coming back?” Justine’s grey eyes brightened. “I understand.”

Erick asked, “Now… Is it true you cannot [Cleanse]?”

“Yes.” Justine said, “The Open Script is slightly different for some races, and we are among them. [Mend]. [Cleanse]. All Spatial magic. Most utility spells. These are locked to us.”

Erick almost offered to cast [Mirage Slime]s into the area. Each cast lasted an hour, and would constantly search out new problems to clean up. No one deserved to live in squalor. But then he stopped himself. If he offered to help, now, where would the helping stop? Erick answered his own question: It would never stop. Erick would lock himself to helping those who were obviously in need, and who knew if these people were malicious actors, or not?

No. He would not help them in that way. Not today. Or rather, tonight.

Erick turned to Irkil, saying, “Thank you for inviting me into your home.”

Irkil said, “No problem, Archmage Flatt! Thank you for visiting!”

The kid spoke with infectious enthusiasm, and with that thought entering Erick’s head, he wondered about disease. If they couldn’t use [Cleanse], they would likely face some sort of contagion sooner or later.

Erick turned his mind away from those thoughts and bounced Ophiel in acknowledgment. He headed out the door. Justine followed.

In the middle of the well lit street, full of colors and darkness and a road that was greyer than the rest, Ophiel hovered. Countless shadows of his feathered self spread out from his holding pattern, each one a slightly different color. Justine stood in the street next to Ophiel. Her shadows were much the same, though they were more solid and wispy, like carpets laid down around her feet.

Erick said, “I would like to visit again, some time soon. I would also bring you rice and beans. And rads, if my own research on the topic proves it is not a danger to us. And, I suppose, if Mephistopheles’ spells work.”

Justine kept her emotions, shoulders, and face, even; poised. But Erick could tell by the slight upturn and glow of her eyes that she was overjoyed.

Overjoyed at pulling one over on Erick? Maybe. But: Whatever. If there was no physical harm in helping these people, he would do so. These shadelings— these people… They seemed rather indoctrinated. Erick had stayed mostly away from the topic of who was actually causing these people their hardships after Justine had answered Maia that ‘everything that was wrong with them was their own fault’. But that was clearly not the true answer.

But helping people unlearn indoctrination was a difficult task; one that Erick was not willing to fight against, today. And besides that, he could be wrong, too.

“Thank you, Archmage Flatt.” Justine said, “I would wish you well in the usual way, but I fear you might take it unkindly if I pray for the eyes of my god to be upon you.”

“He’s had his eyes on me since I fell to Veird, Justine.” Erick said, “Farewell.”

Ophiel departed the field, dismissed back into the manasphere; Erick was not willing to risk bringing him back to Spur.

After a moment, Justine broke down in happy tears. Irkil rushed out of his apartment to her side, and she waved him off. Another four shadelings came out of the nearby shadows, and she began speaking to them. Some of them seemed happy. Others seemed worried.

Erick’s [Scry] eye, high, high above, caught the entire event.
