Erick stepped back through the [Gate] to Storm’s Edge, into the disused throne room of Regency Castle. Pillars of blue stone formed a spacious hallway through the center of the area, separating the place into three parts. Metal fish and sharks and other sea life swirled up and down those pillars in a frozen ode to the ocean. Blue and gold tapestries held to the sides of the room, while everything else was pure white stone. Pure white light filtered down from massive ceiling windows providing ample illumination for the space, though here and there on the pillars, and on the tapestries, a faint blue light also provided illumination for the room, giving the whole place an almost underwater feel.

But there was no actual throne in the room, and though there wasn’t any dust either, this place hadn’t seen visitors in days, according to the manasphere. Just the cleaning lady two and a half days ago.

“Are you sure you don’t want to become an actual king, Augustive?” Erick asked, as he looked around the architecturally-interesting-but-empty room. “You have the throne room.”

Augustive smiled a little bit, as he adjusted his gold-coin shoulder cape. “We might not be quite a democracy, but we’re close, and after talking with your Overseer Mox I believe I prefer being the custodian of the city instead of an outright ruler. Besides that, I believe a Regency connection to House Benevolence and you taking over the dungeons here will directly solve many of our problems, as it wasn’t until those dungeons a decade ago that we ever had any real problems with our various powers here in Storm’s Edge.” His voice turned a fraction serious, though, as he added, “The Regency will still get the agreed-upon taxes from the delvers, yes?”

“20%, if Gold Taker is up to continuing the task?”

“He should be. I haven’t had a chance to speak with him, but that is likely due to his reluctance to be around you at all.”

“I hope to alleviate whatever terror he might feel about me soon enough. Should I approach him? Or do you have a better idea?”

Augustive was a little bit surprised that Erick was asking for his opinion, but he rapidly found he liked the Wizard asking him for his opinion. “I’ll put in a word for you. Through his work in the dungeons, he knows that he doesn’t know anything when it comes to truly powerful people, and that makes him rather skittish around people like you, and others. He absolutely won’t speak to The Headmaster at all, and we asked if he wanted to see the Arbors of Treehome and he completely refused for various reasons. There aren’t a whole lot of people in the kingdom that know who Gold Taker actually is, and I would prefer to keep it that way, if you please.”

“I can do that, and I’ll wait for him to approach me.” Erick moved on, “So then, will you be going directly into meetings? Would you like my accompaniment for any of the major ones? Get everyone in a room and I’ll [Hasted Shelter] us so we don’t take forever to talk.” He added, “Or, I can give you a [Hasted Shelter] for yourself and your people to use.”

“… The second option, please, though I would appreciate your attendance at a later date, maybe in a few hours? After I get the full news out to my people.”

“Of course. Ophiel? Please help Augustive with whatever he needs.”

Ophiel hopped off of Erick’s shoulder, saying, “I’m here! I help!”

Augustive couldn’t help himself but grin at the little guy. “The Regency thanks you for your service.”

As Ophiel flitted onto a very surprised Augustive’s shoulder, another Ophiel flitted into the room and sat down on Erick’s shoulder, where he usually sat.

Erick said to Ophiel, “Cast whatever normal spells he wants, Ophiel.”

As Augustive reflexively gasped a little bit at the power Erick had granted him, no matter how temporary—

Ophiel happily said, “I can do that!”

Erick nodded, then opened up a [Gate] to his next destination; the Pit. And then he stepped through and closed the [Gate] behind him.

Back in the disused throne room, Augustive quietly tested Ophiel, “Could you give me a [Gate] to my offices? Please?”

“Yes!”

And then Ophiel opened a [Gate] to Augustive’s offices, where a few surprised clerks and one overeager guard went on sudden high alert, only to become very, very confused as Augustive stepped through. The Regent was giggling a little bit, but he stopped that, faking a cough to hide his giggle, as soon as he realized what he was doing. He was not used to this level of power, and it was a quaint thing to have.

Erick pulled his Sight away from Augustive—

- - - -

—to focus on the task at hand.

As the sun began to dip down behind the western mountains that encircled the Pit, casting much of the newly Shaped land into shadows, Erick watched as Archmage Wiloza flew through those shadows, anointing the land with great big transparent balls of radiance. She placed the final wardlight over the last dungeon, providing ample light above all seven black holes in the world. It seemed that Aroido had moved all of them back into position, and then moved back inside those dungeons to hide from the world, or something. Erick could not see any of them out here, and a quick search with Ophiel revealed no Aroido outside the dungeons.

He did see some flying fish made of more spines than anything else, floating through the air, flying down the northern monster road. Monsters once again followed the thick mana in the air, as it led them toward the Pit. It was nice that the system had not been disrupted much. Erick had an Ophiel fly over to the northern entrance to that road, to see if ‘Gold Taker’ was funneling mana through that road once again...

Everbless was not there.

A quick check of everywhere except for Everbless’s harbor revealed that the giant tentacled avatar of the world tree was nowhere to be seen.

And now that he was looking at the monster roads, he saw a problem; he saw the results of Everbless not funneling the mana like he usually did. There were a lot of monsters fighting in the northern, southern, and eastern monster roads. The anemic flows of naturally-drawn mana were still sluicing through the grooves in the ground, pulled along by the dungeons, but the bounty inside the chests of the other monsters was causing a bit of a pileup, as monsters fought to kill each other instead of to follow the flow to the bounty up ahead.

… Rather anemic, really.

Erick frowned at that.

He could fix that himself. Maybe he should. Show Everbless that if he didn’t want to come out, that he would be replaced. It was a bit of a dick move to do to a kid, but Everbless wasn’t a normal ‘kid’.

“Hey Wiloza!” Erick called out to the archmage.

Wiloza was about two kilometers away, but she heard him well enough.

She floated over to him rather fast, and then began to slow down as she approached. “Is something wrong, Wizard Flatt?”

“Not really. We’ve got most of this whole dungeon thing sorted so I’m going to be having some meetings with your people later, under a [Hasted Shelter]. You’re welcome to attend those meetings, but from what Augustive explained to me, you take a rather hands-off approach to the Regency?”

Wiloza set down onto the battlement next to Erick, saying, “I don’t get involved with the daily events or anything like that. I try to stay out of all Storm’s Edge politics, for that’s a mire that one can easily get lost inside.”

Erick nodded. That was much the same as Augustive had already explained. “A lot of the people in power don’t like to be in power around here, do they?”

Wiloza gave a small, easy grin. “That’s been the Regency’s official stance for a long time. There have been a few power-grabs by certain regents in the past, of course, but those times in history have always ended poorly for one reason or another. Shades come calling, sometimes, but often the outcome is a simple exodus of people to other, less authoritarian islands, or an execution of the regent in the worst of cases.”

“I’m kinda surprised about that. There are monsters out there, but I suppose those lands are more inhabitable than they are not?”

“Oh yes. The Archipelago is a vast string of inhabitable lands home to millions of people, and everyone can grab their boat and move to one of the other islands if they wish— Or [Teleport], back when you could do that sort of thing.” She said, “Once you’ve secured some walls, and made a few blind harbors, most of the sea monsters can’t get in and those that do you’re going to be able to kill, or to escape from.” She waved a hand toward the Pit, adding, “Even the flying fish will have trouble with a wall that is curved over toward the waters. The Tidewalkers have always been some of the more reputable, open-handed wall builders around, though, so though the Regency might only oversee Storm’s Edge, we have friends in all the islands.”

Erick nodded as he took in the sight of the fortresses Wiloza had built around the Pit, saying, “Excellent Stone Shapers, all around. Have you taken on many apprentices?”

“I have trained hundreds of students on stonework now and again. You can buy [Cityshape], after all, but most people don’t have the engineering knowledge or perspective to not have Shaped-houses crash down on them.”

Erick asked, “Did you train Gold Taker, in order to do the mana flowing, too?”

“Ahh… Yes. Gold Taker isn’t doing his usual job, is he. I did train him, actually. But only a little. He’s rather good at mana flows, and your [Control Weather] does much of the heavy lifting.” Wiloza frowned a little bit toward the Pit, asking, “Are you going to kick him out of a job, too? Like you are with the Aroidos?”

Ah. She was angry that he was taking over here. Well. It was her land, so she had every right to be angry.

Erick spoke as the Apparent King, saying, “This event right here will require everyone on board in order to make it function well, and Gold Taker is one of those requirements to a proper function. I don’t want to replace you, or him, or the Aroidos. So the question then becomes: what sort of job do you want here, Wiloza?”

“On-call backup; emergency response only.” Wiloza said, “But unofficially, I want to be involved with this every step of the way. This is my land, Wizard Flatt; I have overseen the safety of my people here for a very long time, and until I die that will not change.”

“No daily duties?”

“No.” Wiloza said, “I’m pushing 90. I like baking bread, going to plays, and doting on my great grandchildren whenever they should visit. I don’t actually like collapsing oceans onto enemies, or such-and-such.”

The Apparent King nodded. “I will then require you to speak and work with Vanya. Do you wish for an introduction?”

“Not today; a week from now, if you could. I am a bit squeamish around necromancers. Usually we kill those kinds around here.”

“Fair enough, for now.” The Apparent King asked, “Then what are we to do about Gold Taker’s unwillingness to appear before me? Augustive said he would ask Gold Taker to visit me first, but I want those monster roads handling the mana better. If necessary, I will enact some mana-shaping spellwork and a node network of my own, fully pushing out the need for Gold Taker at all.” Erick didn’t actually have such spellwork himself, for ‘moving mana around’ was more of an aura control thing, and not a real spell. But he could make such a spell rather easily. “It wouldn’t work nearly as well as a World Tree moving the mana of the world around, but with a large enough node network it would functionally be the same.”

Wiloza did not like that idea, but she spoke diplomatically as she said, “It’s good for Gold Taker to be involved with the dungeons, for he loves them more than—”

She never got a chance to finish her sentence.

A large tendril, blood red and thick as a dragon’s tail, slapped out of the sky, crushing into the space where Erick had been standing, sending stone flying, as a childish, angry voice screamed,

“MY DUNGEONS!”

But Erick had stopped time before the tentacle had crashed down.

As that tentacle still held in the air above his crown of black horns, Erick had casually moved Wiloza aside through an application of the only spell he could really use at-will, outside of the Script Second; [Gate], and only because of his Class Ability Gatemaster. Rozeta had said many years ago that he should be able to open and move around [Gate]s at will, and he could.

Gatemaster also allowed for something else that normal [Gate]s could not do, and that was to move without breaking.

In a near endless moment, Erick opened a portal of white lightning to Wiloza’s left, and then swept that portal over her, depositing her in a similarly-moving portal on the other side of the Pit, several kilometers away. And then he moved himself in the same way, to a position ten meters away from where Everbless’s tentacle would smash down.

He allowed time to resume.

The tentacle smashed. Stone flew. And then another tentacle smashed down again, right onto where Erick had moved.

Erick didn’t bother with the timeless trick this time. He simply lightstepped to another spot another ten meters down the wall of fortresses.

Everbless screamed, filling the air with red-tinged vibrations as he appeared in the sky in his full octopus-avatar. He was a crash of a thousand kilometer-long tentacles, each of them whipping back and forth, each of them lined with suckers and fangs for gripping and tearing. If he had any eyes in that form they were too small to see. He kinda looked like a tangled hydra, but a lot more menacing.

“MY DUNGEONS! NO STEALING MY DUNGEONS!”

Erick allowed Everbless to attack.

Twice more the child struck with a single tentacle, whip-fast, too fast for a normal person to evade at all. That was why Erick had needed to [Time Stop] the first time, but he honestly could not have said if that spell cast was another of his Class Abilities working, Failsafe: [Time Stop], or if he had been ready and waiting to cast that spell himself. Either way, he was here now, and he was acclimated to the battle.

He lightstepped another ten meters down the edge of the Pit.

Everbless screamed and attacked with multiple tendrils at the same time, sweeping the battlements and smashing down onto Erick five times in quick succession. Each time, Erick moved out of the way. Soon, Erick decided to only move a few meters out of the way, in order to test Everbless. He was here, wasn’t he? Might as well see what the kid can do.

Everbless smashed down once, lightly, and then tried to grip and pull Erick into the sky.

Erick moved—

The air turned solid, Forceful, as Everbless’s Domain spread across the land.

