“I’m here to talk now, and Yggdrasil is, too.” Erick looked up— “Ah. Here he comes.”

An iridescent white eye descended from the sky, slowly yet surely, looking a little bit embarrassed for whatever reason.

Erick said to Everbless, “Whatever has happened in the past is in the past. We’re here now, Everbless. We’re here, and though I won’t be able to stay, I can leave you connections with all the other great Arbors of the world, if you want to talk to someone your own size.” Erick smiled a little bit, saying, “And Yggdrasil is practically your brother, too, so that’s fun! Right? That’s fun.”

Everbless rolled his eye, but he was incredibly interested in Yggdrasil’s eye as Yggdrasil finally floated down to Erick’s level. Everbless tried not to stare, as he tried to be dismissive, “You’re not brother… Are you?”

“I’m not sure,” Yggdrasil said. “I am rather certain we are twins of a sort.”

“Bah! You talk like them. Fancy. Full words!”

Wyrmrest flicked his eyes toward Erick. He was annoyed, and he was finally able to overcome a little bit of the intervention in order to show his pure annoyance. He couldn’t overcome it all, though; all he could do was look at Erick and then go back to being confused.

Erick chose to speak, “Everbless. You’re going to live forever, and you’re going to share this world with Yggdrasil, and with the Arbors of Treehome. I suggest that you remove your intervention from at least Wyrmrest and O’kabil here, so that they can talk to you. They know everything there is to know about being an Arbor and can answer any question you might have on the matter.”

The sky cracked with a flash of golden lightning stretching from one oversized cloud to the next—

Everbless looked up, saying, “But moooom—”

A smaller flicker of lightning dusted across the nearest cloud.

And Everbless grumbled, before he swung in close to both O’kabil and Wyrmrest and plucked out some golden fizzes from their chests. He moved back away, quick as he could, grumbling, “Mostly broken anyway.”

Wyrmrest breathed deep, and then he declared, “It most certainly was not broken yet, young man!”

“It breaking already. Mom said it break if I broke too much.”

Something in Everbless’s words had pissed Wyrmrest off something fierce.

The starlight-suited orcol spoke with authority, “Young arbor. You are at least 4 years out from gaining cognizance, and that’s the public story. Privately, you have likely been speaking for seven years or more. You can use full sentences, and so you will. This baby-language does you no favors with me.”

“See! See!” Everbless said to Erick. “They call me stupid!”

Erick had to take a metaphorical moment, though. Was Everbless acting with his speech? All this time? He had certainly been acting when he ‘sneered’ with his [Scry] eye at Erick. How strange! How strange that Erick had missed all that, too. He actually felt a bit embarrassed that he had missed the baby-speech thing. Had he ever considered that Everbless might be acting? No, he had not; not really. But…

Without missing a beat, Erick said, “He did not call you stupid, Everbless. He merely thinks you can speak properly, and that you are choosing not to.”

Everbless frowned as much as a ball of tentacles wrapped around an eye could frown.

O’kabil spoke, “The smaller persons might be fooled into thinking you’re somehow still too young to be disciplined and treated like a full person, but Wyrmrest and I and the other Arbors of Treehome are old enough and experienced enough to see your baby talk for what it is; an attempt at shirking responsibilities. That problem leads to this: If shirking responsibilities, then how can anyone trust you with the dungeons at all?”

Everbless recoiled a little, looking actually hurt. “… People like simple talk. Treat better when simple.”

Oh man. That was a problem and a half. Erick didn’t even want to begin with that part of this problem right now, so he focused on the other half.

“I have it on good authority that the person who Sininindi sent to oversee the dungeons is a very accomplished mage, and that you can learn a lot from her,” Erick said, “But a part of learning magic is speaking well and being as precise as you can. Sometimes fewer words are better, but sometimes explanations of even a single complicated spell will take a whole day of back-and-forth lessons. If you aren’t speaking as clearly as you can, then other people might not take you seriously.”

Everbless sunk in the air, softly saying, “Mom says I can talk how I want. No one can tell me different— And the Shades speak funny so everyone knows they aren’t serious!”

O’kabil narrowed her eyes and Wyrmrest frowned. Yggdrasil’s eye went wide in complete disbelief.

Styling one’s speech patterns to those of the Shades was something only done in very specific circumstances, the main circumstance being if one was strong enough to stand up to any Shade at all, and if one had good reason to need a speech pattern to distinguish between ‘serious’ and ‘not-serious-yet’, like Killzone of Spur. But mainly, having a speech pattern that had anything at all to do with the Shades was still rather horrific.

Code switching was a thing that was valid, but to speak of Shades like this was a problem.

Before anyone could say anything against Everbless, Erick said, “I believe you’re only using that excuse because you don’t really know what it means to speak like a Shade. We’re in a ceasefire right now, and with me at the helm I hope that ceasefire turns into true repentance; A reformation of the Shades to what they were before the Sundering. But you talking like that, on purpose, without any regard for what it actually means, is a bad idea, Everbless. Unequivocally.”

Everbless scowled. “You can’t tell me what—”

“I can and I will and you will listen and do as I say when I speak to you as I am speaking now, for this world is not a world made just for you, or for me. It is a world for all of us, Everbless.” Erick said, “I will see this civilization through to the next world and the next and the next, but you are too young to know your place in that future yet, and the more you balk and winge at my simple declarations, here at the beginning, the smaller your part will be in the coming years. It’s really quite simple, Everbless. Do as I say, and you can be a part of the dungeons again. Until then, you’re out.”

The air tensed.

Everbless almost fought Erick on that—

But Everbless faltered fast, because he had some demands of his own. “Fine. I don’t like you. Go away Bad Wizard.” He looked to the orcols beside Erick, and to Yggdrasil, as he said, “I’ll talk to them.” He asked, “Fine?!””

“It’s okay if you don’t like me, but I love you, Everbless, twin to my son Yggdrasil. I’ll go away now, but not before I leave you with a small gift.” Erick reached through the air, into a portal, and he plucked out a small, portable Gate made of platinum. He held it forward, saying, “A [Scry]-Gate. If you trigger the spellwork within it will flicker some protocols at the Gate District, and summon a [Gate]. From there, you can [Scry] through that [Gate] in order to see both Yggdrasil at Candlepoint, and then, through some [Scry]-hopping through the other Gates in the district, you can look upon almost all the rest of the world.”

Everbless’s anger turned to confusion when Erick said he loved him. Confusion became wonder, before Everbless remembered that he was angry. Anger faded again under the presentation of Erick’s gift. Everbless instantly whipped a tendril out and took the little platinum ring, squirreling it away inside of his tentacle-body.

Almost nicely, Everbless said, “Thank you…” And then he narrowed his eye, saying, “I don’t love you.”

Erick chuckled a little. “That’s fine; I’ve got more than enough for both of us. See you later, Everbless.” He said to O’kabil and Wyrmrest, “Tell me when you need a lift back.”

“Won’t be necessary,” Wyrmrest said, “We can dissolve these bodies and leave.”

“I would like a return for my coat, if you could, Erick dear,” O’kabil said.

“I can do that; Father doesn’t have to,” Yggdrasil said, and then he turned to Erick. “Love you, Dad.”

Erick smiled brightly. “Love you too, son.”

Erick gave one final grin, and then he flickered brightly, lightstepping far away from that sunset cove.

He checked back on the sapient trees occasionally, there on that grassy hill above the rocky shore, while he was in meetings with the Regency’s people. The arbors seemed to get along a lot better once Erick was gone, with Everbless seeming to falter from whatever stance he had had before, all in order to pour out questions like a tidal wave. ‘What is an Arbor?’ ‘How old are you?’ ‘How big are you?’ ‘What do with people trying to swim inside roots?’

The other three answered as best they could, with Wyrmrest becoming less and less stern, and more like a grandfatherly figure as Everbless proved both his youth, and his willingness to grow past his youthful indiscretions. O’kabil was pleased as well, Erick could tell, but she was still holding back her final judgments because Everbless was a known liar… Or at least an exaggerator.

Even still, they spoke about this and that long into the night, as the stars took hold of the dark sky above, and giant clouds began to gently pour their rain far out to sea.

Yggdrasil and Everbless eventually discovered that both of them liked fish a lot, which led to a whole new conversation that Wyrmrest and O’kabil had to bow out on; they were both firmly land trees, and they only tolerated fish-talk when they had to.
