“This behavior is acceptable in certain ways, yes. But not as a tantrum, over having his toys taken away.” Wyrmrest said, “That is the behavior that is unacceptable. Erick.” The orcol looked down to Erick, but only a little bit, since Erick was currently the Apparent King, with his crown of black horns and body taller than usual. “This is how this should go: I want you to end the rain, and end this tantrum. Fight and win against his control. After that, if he should attack, do not protect us; these are merely conjured flesh vessels. If he should kill us, then you are to explain to him what he has done wrong, and then Drain him to a torpor. He will fight you on this and say he hates you very much, but once he is fully Drained of mana, then he will be quelled. When he wakes, he will feel refreshed. Depending on how he acts after he wakes up, we will go from there.” Wyrmrest said, “If he should talk instead of attack, then I would follow your lead.”

Erick said, “That seems appropriate, but is a Drain truly the most appropriate thing to do?”

“Yes,” Wyrmrest said, unequivocally.

O’kabil agreed, “Everbless is a real, solid tree, so a Drain would simply be putting him to bed, as you would any unruly child. You never had that option with Yggdrasil, and you didn’t need that option, either. Yggdrasil grew up well and Wyrmrest and I look forward to seeing him unsealed in the coming year, but Everbless only ever got a wild sort of upbringing and it has harmed him.”

The news of Erick unsealing Yggdrasil was still something of a worldly secret, and O’kabil erased her words from the manasphere even as she spoke them, but all the Arbors knew. More people besides them knew, as well.

Wyrmrest nodded. “I look forward to the day that Yggdrasil will truly become a member of our community, and I hope that Everbless can do the same.”

O’kabil said, “From what I am seeing Everbless has a ways to go before he could become an upstanding Arbor, so Erick, please end this travesty of a tantrum and let us commence with discipline. I pray to Sininindi that Everbless makes good decisions in the coming minutes.”

Lightning flashed across the near sky and thunder rolled across the world.

The storm surged and then recoiled by the same measure.

If that was supposed to be a sign from the Goddess of Storm and Sea then Erick wasn’t educated enough to read it like a Storm Priest or Sailor of Sininindi could. From their looks, Wyrmrest and O’kabil were similarly uneducated.

So Erick simply said, “I hope that the Arbors of Treehome can become good mentors to Everbless, as they were for Yggdrasil.”

And then he reached into the sky with Ophiels all around, and pulled.

For one terrible moment, the very world seemed too solid, too outside of Erick’s control, as though Erick was fighting a force in the very wind and storm itself. Which was exactly what he was doing. And then he flexed his [Physical Domain] through the magic in the air and he overrode the power in the sky.

With his supreme Particle understanding of the world, Erick sundered threads of golden divinity and broke goddess-empowered lightning upon the anvil of science-backed magic. In a less blasphemous sort of way, Erick merely tore apart Everbless’s [Control Weather] with his own; the original that he had planted inside of both Yggdrasil, and Everbless, back at their twin creation.

The sky cleared. Lightning settled. Rain fell, and then stopped falling.

The seas began to retreat.

To the west, the sun glowed bright red as the golden sky shimmered upon a calm, dark sea, and clouds began to stretch out from the small thunderheads they were, into great big towering stretches of white and pink and shadowed spaces, high, high above. Those clouds were thirty kilometers tall; much larger than any natural cloud could be, so they wouldn’t stay like that for long. They’d naturally turn back into rainclouds if Erick lost control of the weather at all.

[Particle Magic] couldn’t make clouds from nothing, or return them to nothing. That was one thing that divine magic could do that he couldn’t. The rain from [Rain Cloud], which was an Elemental Water and Air spell, worked completely in mana and produced rain that vanished as soon as it fell. Divine magic could do both; it could thread both normal magic and Particle Magic together, to make those clouds overhead that didn’t vanish after they were done.

There had been a few times at the beginning of Erick’s time on Veird that he had thought that gods were just very powerful mages; maybe even Wizards. But that was simply untrue. Wizards operated within their own rules, most of them secular, while gods operated on a level far beyond mortal understanding, and almost entirely within very personal spheres of influence.

Now Erick could probably do a [Duplicate] sort of grand [Create Weather] spell, but there was no need for that. Gods didn’t need to work in subtleties like that, though; not when it came to magic.

Aside from the differences in magic, the main difference between gods and Wizards was in action.

Where a Wizard would directly change the world, a god would hear prayers before bed, and then answer those prayers through subtly guiding people as those people wished, be that guidance through the glint of light from a raindrop to draw attention at the exact right moment, or through placing a rock in the path of a cart, to make an apple fall down and roll to a hungry kid’s waiting hand. Gods were more like a force multiplier on a person’s own actions, when they were able to be that way. The two gods that had bodies (that Erick knew about), Melemizargo and Rozeta, both tended to act more as gods when they could, and less like Wizards, unless they had to.

Erick’s view of gods was not normal at all, though, and he knew that.

The normal people, all across Storm’s edge, viewed the clearing sky and piled clouds as something very, very bad. The people at the submerged Blue Temple breathed easily even underwater, but they did not breathe easier as the rain ended and the water rushed out of the concentric rings of the temple, threatening to pull them out with the outgoing tide. They all knew that the storm had started unnaturally, and that it had ended unnaturally, too. With the Storm Prophecy making the rounds today, they were worried that something big was happening.

… Erick wondered if Everbless had heard that prophecy yet.

He probably had.

Maybe that’s why he had gotten so upset.

Now that Erick had forcefully quieted his sadness, though...

Everbless’s lightning ring crown flickered brighter, as though the 1,500 meter tall tree was unsure what was happening to the world around him; why his magic had been cut off. Then he startled as he realized that yes, his magic had been cut. Questing spellwork flowed out from the stormy tree and struck Erick’s various [Physical Domain]s, centered on every Ophiel all across the sky…

Everbless dimmed—

And then he flickered, furious.

A small, angry tentacled [Familiar] appeared before Erick, Ophiel, O’kabil, and Wyrmrest, there on the hill south of his harbor. ‘Gold Taker’ was a great central eye woven inside a hub of tentacles, with a few smaller eyes here and there inside his nest of a [Scry]-eye or [Avatar].

Everbless glared at Erick from ten meters away. “What you want!” He slipped in closer, stopping three meters away, yelling, “WHY YOU HERE?!”

Erick answered honestly, “I want to help the world and every individual achieve their goals in life, without myself or others harming each other in the process.” Erick asked, “What do you want out of life?”

Everbless was confused for a moment, and then he answered, “I want my dungeons!”

“Why?”

Everbless was confused again. “… Because they’re mine!”

“But there’s a prophecy that all the lives of everyone in the Archipelago will be in danger in several months, and we need those dungeons in order to keep everyone safe. Do you care about keeping people safe?”

“Yes! I care! What stupid question. Make them safe by testing them against ocean! They fail the Rules, they die, but not for real! I did good! I help others learn!” Everbless glared. “You do bad by taking dungeons from me!”

Erick nodded, and then explained, “I’m going to be working with the Regency and otherwise in order to ensure that the dungeons grow large enough to house 22.5 million people, if needed. Vanya Silver and Soltic Cross will be the dungeon masters for the dungeons. Unless something changes, all of the Aroidos will be helping to make Vanya’s vision happen. The dungeons are not your playgrounds anymore, Everbless. They are needed for the good of all.” Erick asked, “Would you like to be a part of that?”

“I am part of it! I control mana flows! I only way they survive!”

Erick nodded. “You have done a good job so far, but—”

“I do good! I know this.” Everbless sneered with all of his eyes, adopting an affectation that was strangely similar to how all nobles looked sometimes when they thought they knew more than you. He wasn’t very good at that expression, though, for he stretched out a tendril with an eye in order to look at himself. He rapidly decided that he had made the ‘face’ correctly, and then added, “I make dungeons successful. Without me, all dungeons fail! Mommy’s priests say this. Regency say this. Aroido say this, too!”

Erick continued, “… You are the only way they have been surviving these years since you’ve awoken, but did you know that in all the rest of the world, a well-maintained dungeon is self-sufficient, and actually produces more mana than it takes in?”

“The bad ones! The ones that make homes for monsters! I make no monster homes! I make monster deaths!”

Very seriously, Erick said, “The world needs that mana, Everbless.”

Everbless faltered a little at Erick’s sudden change. He was terrified of Erick, but he was being as brave as he could be. Quietly, he asked, “World needs mana?”

Pulling back a fraction, Erick said, “This world is only as stable as powerful people like you and I make it stable, and that means making life flourish in all the ways it can flourish, while ensuring that all that life doesn’t harm each other in that flourishing. So when those dungeons break due to any number of factors, monsters pour out of them, looking for better habitats, causing problems to the people outside. If the best habitat is inside the dungeons, under the eyes and power of a mature dungeon master, then there are no breaks, and no one outside needs to get hurt.”

Everbless looked a little lost at that whole idea. Quietly, he asked, “But breaks don’t matter?”

“I heard that the last time the dungeons broke it caused the deaths of 76 people.”

Everbless went still, but not scared. He looked more apprehensive than anything; not personally guilty, but guilty-by-association. “… I’m not supposed to talk about that.”

“I’m going to guess what happened, and you tell me if I’m right at all.” Erick said, “One of the Aroidos thought he was being replaced, and he went crazy, killing people and breaking the dungeon from the inside. The event might have involved multiple Aroido, and then those Aroido went down to Seafoam Manor. Those Aroido were never seen from again.”

Everbless’s eyes went wide. “YOU KNOW?” And then he narrowed his eyes. “How you know so much!?”

“An inborn curiosity about how the world works and a desire to understand others at all times. I figure out the rest along the way, and then use what I learn to try and ensure the best possible outcomes for all.”

Everbless hung in the air, looking at Erick, trying to figure him out.

Since he wasn’t saying anything, Erick gestured to his companions, asking, “Have you ever heard of the Arbors of Treehome, Everbless?”

O’kabil and Wyrmrest had stood listening to the conversation this entire time, both of them giving slight approval for Erick’s words. They were both mildly surprised that this conversation was going as well as it was, too, considering that Everbless already had a track record of killing people and he had already attacked Erick. There was also a bit of confusion for the entire conversation, as this avatar of Everbless’s was intervention’d against people knowing he was Everbless.

Mostly, there was confusion, and O’kabil and Wyrmrest both trying to overcome that confusion as fast as they could.

Everbless looked to the orcols with suddenly narrowed, hateful eyes, his voice turning harsh. “Those are Treehome Arbors!? I hate them. Make them go away.”

Ah.

Someone was badmouthing the Arbors, or something? Not Sininindi, but probably someone else.

Someone was probably badmouthing him, too, but Everbless hadn’t brought that up; he had just acted like Erick was a deathly problem all this time.

“I will not make the Arbors go away,” Erick said, “I need you to remove your intervention from both of them, so that they can fully join this conversation.”

Everbless spat, “I asked talk with them and they said too stupid to talk!”

Erick was going to metaphorically strangle someone in either the Regency, or, more likely, in the Priesthood of Sininindi. Who had done this to Everbless? Who had made him think this way about the other Arbors of the world?

… Actually, Everbless might simply be making exaggerations based on stories he had heard, or which had been told to him. One of the well known stories about the Arbors of Treehome is that they evaluated all other Arbors in the world in a loose sort of way, and if a great tree was found horribly wanting, or outright evil, then the Arbors of Treehome usually sent orcols to kill that tree and figure out what to do with the creator afterward, if the failed arbor hadn’t already killed their creator.

“I’d love to hear more about your experience with the Arbors of Treehome and otherwise. And look, they’re here now, ready and willing to talk.” Erick gestured to his companions again, saying, “This is Holy O’kabil, and Wyrmrest. They are but 2 out of 13, now that my own son Yggdrasil is one of their number. I have known them for a long time, and they helped me connect to Yggdrasil better, helping both of us learn how to be better to each other.”

“… Stupid Yggdrasil won’t answer letters, either.” Everbless exclaimed, “You stopped letters! Why you stop letters! Stupid Evil Wizard!”

… Well. Hmm.

Erick wasn’t about to badmouth the Storm Priestesses, for he was rather sure that they were to blame for this problem. Or maybe Sininindi herself had been blocking those letters from moving on, and then blaming Erick for that. Erick was rather sure that Everbless was exaggerating, too, and there was no way to know, for sure, where the exaggeration started.

