Erick held firm his own sunform against Everbless’s Domain, but he did not push back. He did not want to break the kid, for a broken Domain was a specific kind of hurt that sometimes sent people into comas. What Erick wanted, and the reason for him openly taunting Everbless like he had, was for Everbless to show himself, to see how Everbless handled that situation. Perhaps Erick had handled that poorly, though. There had been no need to truly taunt the kid. But then again, Erick hadn’t thought that Everbless would actually respond as he had.

So Everbless was handling this poorly, too.

Perhaps…

Perhaps, all Everbless had ever learned in the dungeons, from Aroido, from the delvers, from his entire life so far, was force, and so when someone actually threatened him with something as simple as the removal of his toys, this was how he responded. Erick suspected that Everbless saw his removal from the dungeons more as Erick threatening the ‘removal of his entire life’; not just the removal of toys. Everbless was still a kid, and this experience he was having was highly likely the very first time anyone had ever threatened him emotionally at all.

Raising Yggdrasil had been easier, since Erick had been there the whole time.

Erick dodged another seven strikes—

As Everbless screamed, “GO AWAY, SCARY WIZARD!”

Calmly, Erick said, “I will not go away—” Words were interrupted by another dozen tentacle slams, all at once. Everbless continued to attack, but Erick managed to keep his voice calm throughout the whole assault. “Stop this nonsense and let us have a talk, or else I will be forced to put you in a time out, Everbless.”

The assault tripled down. “Why you know me! Intervention no work!?”

“Take your pick of reasons,” Erick said, stepping left across the battlements of the Pit. A trail of tentacle-based destruction followed him. “I’m sort of like your father, for one. Yggdrasil is your brother, and he’s still a part of me. Any of the godly blessings I’ve gotten over the years. Many different reasons all could be valid; I don’t know. If you feel like having more discussions, then you must cease this assault. If you do not stop, then I will be firmly taking these dungeons from you, and you won’t have any say in them at all. All I’ve done is talk about what needs to happen next. All you have done is ensure that you’re seen as not mature enough to handle this sudden responsibility befalling the Archipelago.”

Everbless struck once more, but all the threat of the attack failed halfway through. The tentacle slapped down on the battlement and then flopped away, as the sky turned darker with sudden clouds. In a moment, the tentacle avatar wilted, and then a wailing filled the air as ‘Gold Taker’ vanished completely, disappearing from the sky.

Rain began to fall across the entire island and much of the local ocean, turning visibility down to near-nothing. It was not the storm of a century, or a sky filled with tornadoes or anything like that. It was just a storm of rain. But then again, it had only been ten seconds since it started, and it could get worse. Erick sent his senses outward to see if it was getting worse.

A quick check through Ophiel confirmed that the storm was nothing more than a dense rain, falling everywhere within Everbless’s reach.

Five minutes later, it was still just heavy rain.

It could rain for a while; that was fine.

Okay. So… This wasn’t that bad. Could have gone a lot worse.

Erick had spoken with the Arbors of Treehome about how to properly raise young Arbors many times over the years, even though almost none of their advice would actually apply to Yggdrasil, being as he was divinely sealed to Erick’s soul. Even with that major caveat, Holy O’kabil and Wyrmrest and Nosier and Home had explained a lot of ways of being that should still hold true for Yggdrasil, as they did for all Arbors.

Young living trees weren’t like people, with emotions that ran dry after ten minutes because their brains got tired of having those emotions. Their emotions did eventually run dry, and for much the same reasons, but an emotion due to an exceptional stimulus might last as long as a full day, or maybe a week. Younger Arbors experienced time faster, so a young tree might take a day to return to an even keel.

‘Leave a young arbor alone for a few hours after any sort of traumatic teaching moment, but don’t leave them alone for any longer than that, and especially not if their sadness causes problems for others.’

That had been the Arbors’ general consensus.

… And the rain wasn’t that bad? Yeah. The rain was fine.

Erick would go visit Everbless at sunset and introduce him to the Arbors at that time. They would likely have quite a lot to say about Everbless’s current behavior, and today seemed like the time to force that sort of introduction. The stormy guy was probably going to remember this first real interaction with the ‘scary wizard’ for the rest of his life… Which was kind of a shame, but if Erick had to be the stern uncle, then that was fine. Everbless probably needed a lot more solidity in his life than he was getting…

Erick looked to the raining sky again...

Lightning flashed, and the rain seemed to get heavier.

He needed to speak to the Arbors of Treehome right now, actually, to get their professional opinion.

- - - -

“And so that’s the current situation with Everbless,” Erick finished.

It had taken Erick half an hour to set up this meeting and then ten minutes to explain the situation, here in a meeting room near Arbor Holy O’kabil. The room itself was glass and steel and on the edge of O’kabil’s dominion. The tree herself grew outside in the distance, looking like a kilometer tall silver chalice, holding greenery inside silver wires and surrounded by silver spires. The other Arbors were not visible from this place, but three of their avatars had come in person, and all the rest had shown up as [Scry] eyes. Each of those avatars or eyes sat or floated atop their own large chair.

No one spoke outwardly for a good half a minute, after Erick had fully divulged the situation down in Storm’s Edge. Or as much as he could, anyway. The intervention prevented people from knowing that Gold Taker was Everbless, even up here, a quarter of a world away.

Erick had managed to speak around that intervention, mostly, but all the Arbors were talking amongst themselves while Erick explained everything to them, and—

Arbor Home, who had shown up as a brown and green eye, asked, “Pardon me, Erick. I’m still confused on the part where Everbless is killing people, but the dungeons are reviving them. I thought you had to die in a dungeon to get that resurrection?”

“Dammit. What is…” Nosier, who had shown up to the meeting as a lanky, 4 meter tall orcol who veered more toward the troll side of that heritage, was having a problem. “It’s some sort of mind lock, isn’t it? I feel it slipping away from me— I HAD IT, though. I had it. And then it went… What were we talking about?”

O’kabil, who had shown up as an older orcol lady wearing a silver dress with a white fur coat, said, “Explain it again, Erick. Smaller and less nuanced this time.” She took a drag of her long pipe.

All the Arbors nodded at that.

Erick succinctly said, “I took away Everbless’s toy because he was abusing the toy, and because other people need it more. And then he started crying and now there’s a minor hurricane developing across Storm’s Edge and the nearest islands. I am not going to return his toy; not yet, anyway. Other people need it much, much more than him. But, I think I want him involved with that toy, and in a very large way.” Erick said, “And also, I’ve gotten permission from Sininindi to finally interact with him, and also I want to introduce all of you to Everbless. Apologies that this meeting had to happen like this, and under these circumstances.”

Wyrmrest, who had shown up to the meeting as an elderly orcol man in a suit made of soft starlight, clarified, “And he attacked you when you threatened to keep his toy out of his roots, yes?”

The Arbors all stared at Erick; some disbelieving, others worried beyond simple words.

“Yes,” Erick said, “I didn’t fight him, but I did avoid his attacks. He destroyed a freshly-made fortress trying to get at me.”

Nosier frowned, asking, “And he knew who you were?”

“Yes.”

All the Arbors looked to each other again. Somewhere deep below the ground, their roots all tangled together, and they spoke privately about everything all the time. That conversation was likely going to last a long, long time beyond today—

O’kabil said, “I want to see him.”

The others looked to her.

Firebrand, an eye wreathed in fall-colored leaves that were also on fire, declared, “I want to see the boy as well, but not today. Not in an emergency.”

A few others agreed with that.

Wyrmrest said, “You need to be the sterner parent in this situation, Erick. You should Drain him dry. He’s a real tree, and it would simply put him into a torpor.”

Erick went a little wide-eyed at that. He knew that he might need to do that, but… “I was hoping I wouldn’t have to do that.”

None of the Arbors looked positively upon Erick’s answer.

O’kabil stood, saying, “I would take a [Gate] to him, to see the problem for myself. Perhaps there is no need to crush him under the heel of necessity.”

Wyrmrest stood, saying, “I would go as well.”

Nosier said to the group, “I have no stomach for ill-mannered arbors. I would always say that they should be spared, and that they will grow up differently, but the fact is that what an arbor is when it is young is exactly the kind of arbor they will be when they grow, and once you get to this point where they’re already speaking… You will wish you had never seen them when they were young, and you had said that they were making simple mistakes, for that will always weigh upon you when they start killing others.” He said to O’kabil and Wyrmrest, “You two should go and evaluate, and save the group the strain.”

Erick hastily added, “He’s not a bad kid. He’s just… He has some issues.”

Home said, “This prophecy of this ‘Storm not of Sininindi’s make’ could easily mean Everbless.” She added to the group, “He was ready for an introduction to us years ago, and yet the Church has said no, preventing our meeting! None of them wanted us to see what poor parenting they’re doing!”

“Wait a moment,” Erick asked, “You’ve tried to contact him before?”

Wyrmrest said, “Yes, but not seriously. We have heard that he was cognizant and we have sent representatives down there, but we have been rebuffed from more than a cursory glance at the youngling. I would have that in-depth glance now, Erick, if you would, and I would have you with us and leading the way.” He said to the others in the room, “Perhaps we should all keep our preconceived notions to a minimum, and approach this interaction with the severity and openness that it demands.”

Rapidly, many of the Arbors decided that Wyrmrest had the right of it.

Nosier said, “I don’t like it.”

He was in the minority.

And so, Erick opened a [Gate] in the room, back to Storm’s Edge, to the beach right in front of Everbless—

It was only open for a bare half-second, but that was enough, for the other side of the [Gate] was under the ocean. Saltwater rushed into the room, sweeping across the floor and splashing on everyone—

Erick shut the [Gate], and then he took control of the water that he had allowed in, [Watershape]ing it all up before he threw it through another [Gate], back into a random part of the ocean far away from Storm’s Edge.

“Sorry about that,” Erick said, as he opened up another [Gate], much higher on the beach, and only after confirming the location with Ophiel again. As rain soaked the world on the other side and the ocean crashed far below, lightning flashed across that darkened sky, and Erick said, “It appears Everbless has raised the ocean a few meters.”

Wyrmrest walked right on through. “Looks like he’s having a tantrum.”

“Thanks for coming,” Erick said, walking through, into the storm.

O’kabil followed, frowning.

- - - -

Under a darkened sky, before an ocean crashing most fiercely, Erick stood with two not-Orcols, facing a crying child who was not really a child at all. Everbless was too old to be called a child, even though he had only gained cognizance a few years ago.

Arbors aged much, much faster than people.

Everbless was a tangle of roots, like a mangrove, but also almost like a banyan, with a canopy made of lightning-filled clouds. A ring of lightning surrounded his entire upper body, like a crown buried in clouds. There was a hurricane going on, too, so if one didn’t know where to look, they might not be able to differentiate where Everbless’s canopy ended and where the storm began.

Erick and O’kabil were under their own [Weather Ward] type magics, so the rain didn’t really touch them, but Erick’s shoes were getting soaked, and O’kabil’s mist-rabbit fur coat was not as fluffy as it usually was.

Wyrmrest looked perfectly at ease under the crashing rain. His starlight suit seemed dry, even though none of him was dry at all. He stared out at Everbless, but he spoke to Erick and O’Kabil. “This is worse than I thought it would be. That temple over there— The Blue Temple, if I recall correctly— is completely submerged. I count no less than three crashed boats, and at least two major bloody incidents. Thankfully this occurred at a church, so they were prepared for it with [Water Breathing] it seems.”

Erick had to defend Everbless. “The Blue Temple is made to be flooded with people inside.”

Wyrmrest’s opinion improved, but only a little.

“They are prepared for storms; yes,” O’kabil said, “Since this is a land of storms, this is to be expected, and Everbless is a child of Storms, so this is all partially forgivable, but…” She said to Erick, “This is yet another nuanced case and I am not sure how to handle it exactly, but Everbless isn’t striking with lightning and he’s not purposefully hurting people… But this is all a terrible way for an Arbor to be.”

