Chapter 452

Matt found he quite enjoyed strange realms.

Having visited several, he could confidently say that.

He would even go as far as saying he recommended people visit true cooperative ones.

They were little more than fun games with a twist that ended with a near-unique reward.

The Unsparing had visited three pure cooperative strange realms over the last nine years and Matt had enjoyed each and every single one.

Their current one might be his favorite yet.

It was effectively a game of Catch the Spy. As the name implied, there were the quintessential two sides of spy and guard, each with their assumed roles in the scenarios the strange realm built.

Which came down to why they had chosen this strange realm when the Monster Collective group controlling it started selling uses, over the dozen competing ones they might be able to visit instead.

The rewards.

They were exceptional.

There were in fact three roles for the strange realm: spy, guard, and civilian, and each had their own rewards for how well one played their role.

For Matt, the more common civilian role had the best reward. For each successful round, the strange realm made it harder to see through subtle disguises one used. Importantly for Matt, it counted the veil he kept over his spirit at all times.

Not that the other rewards were bad.

They simply weren't as personally useful for Matt, and they were why everyone else had been excited to visit the strange realm.

Catching ‘civilians’ or protecting the objective as the guard made piercing others’ magical disguises easier. On the other hand, catching civilians as the spy and completing the mission, made creating more complex disguises easier.

For the winning side, the reward was fairly substantial, but Matt appreciated being able to get so much of the ‘weakest’ reward.

So, unlike some of the others, he put his everything into his civilian roles.

The civilians were mingled in with other ‘humans’ that moved around the scenarios internally, being judged on their acting along the roles assigned by the strange realm.

Similar to how the spies and guards would be given information about the surrounding area to the thing they were supposed to guard or sabotage, the civilians were given information about tasks they had to do in the world.

As both sides would get additional portions of the reward for it, the successful side generally tried to hunt down as many of the civilians as they could.

Those additional rewards were why Matt worked so hard.

His veil was so good that each of the ‘small’ improvements would have taken centuries of his effort to match the amount of progress.

Which was why Matt happily skipped along, giggling with the other kids in a park, playing the same three minute portion of a game he didn’t understand.

He had absolutely no idea where they were, the information he got as a civilian was less than what spies and guards got, and spreading one's spiritual perception was one of the easiest ways to get caught. So instead of satisfying his curiosity, he followed the directions given to him when he awakened in this body and played with the other children.

Between cycles, everyone who entered the strange realm were given a few minutes to mingle, which let them spread information, and Aster had given them some tips Matt was trying to implement.

Half of the Unsparing’s crew had entered the strange realm, the other half having locked down the ship, same as the three other independent exploration vessels, giving them a little more than two hundred participants in total. Their payment to use the strange realm had entitled them to preliminary information on the strange realm, but they learned much more by having Aster participate once.

A fair hand at illusions herself, Aster was a menace in this strange realm.

In her first round, she discovered something the other team hadn’t shared, if they had known it themselves. As a civilian, if you can successfully identify another civilian, you could also get additional portions of the reward.

Incorrect guesses were dangerous. Too many and the guesser wouldn’t get their next reward at all.

The issue was the strange realm wasn’t too picky about what it considered a guess. Oftentimes being a little too sure about a hunch was more than enough to count as an attempt. A single failure was rarely critical, but few admitted to having more than three incorrect guesses before being ejected into the waiting room.

Aster had only failed before she learned the general threshold, but Matt had mostly given up after two failed attempts ended up costing him his reward.

No one Matt had previously encountered was distinguishable to his eyes, even this many games in. As experienced explorers, everyone took the strange realm seriously, wanting to maximize their individual reward, and they all had perfect control over their bodies.

Whether it was a side effect of the strange realm or a consequence of his long training, Matt didn’t know, but he didn’t suffer from the fact he was no longer in his own body. He had zero issues adapting between rounds, not that the tasks they were given were difficult.

Most of the time he walked around in large looping patterns, delivering endless packages to the same people hour after hour, repeating the same lines the same way every time as the spies and guards dueled around them.

So instead of trying to identify people, Matt concentrated on his role.

But something about the strange realm this time was different.

He hadn’t figured it out yet, but he felt he had an opportunity near him. Watching him.

Inspecting the other children he was dancing with, Matt evaluated the scenario around him.

He was in a seemingly normal child's play area, complete with sand pit, slide, and climbable objects, but from what his dictated actions allowed him to see of the scenario, he believed they were underground.

That in and of itself wasn’t too strange, but something else was weird.

As he played and laughed at the appropriate times according to the instructions, he tried to inspect his surroundings with his peripheral vision.

The seesaw caught his eye at first. Something about the underside, where a worn out tire had been bolted into place as a spring, made him suspect it was out of place. However later in his cycle, when he was able to look directly at the seesaw, he was able to see it was ordinary.

Matt’s initial instinct was to dismiss the feeling, having confirmed things were safe, but after a few moments, he felt his suspicion grow once more.

Paying even greater attention, Matt tried to focus through the laughter and chatter of the other children around him.

He could almost hear it.

Like a dog growling quietly, he felt the sound more than heard it. As people passed the tire, the sound resonated. Like a balloon being touched by a needle and popping it, Matt saw through the illusion of the scenario.

Panic flooded his body as the world froze around him.

The birds, the trees, the other civilians, everything froze, no matter what they were doing, the color drained from them leaving mannequin-like remnants.

The only other things with color in the world beyond the child's body Matt inhabited were the tire still bolted to the underside of the seesaw, and a door at the top of the nearby hill.

Even with the panic flooding his unfamiliar body, Matt didn’t immediately run.

Instead, he waited to make sure that there wasn’t another layer to this game.

There wasn’t.

A face opened up on the tire and smiled as it blinked, its bug-like eyes focusing on him. Its smile parted to reveal massive pointed teeth.

It didn’t speak, but a moment later, the seesaw itself had a face that licked its lips, hoping to devour Matt.

Taking off in the best approximation of a sprint that his child body could muster, Matt felt his heart start to thump crazily, completely out of his control.

He hadn’t noticed it before being an immortal, but the body before this had no issues doing strenuous activities for hours at a time. None of his bodies had. He hadn’t considered it strange when it wasn’t his body, and anyone could be a participant. But now that the effect was gone, its loss was devastating.

His heart thumped painfully as fear grabbed him and ruined his attempts to steady his breathing. In fact, the more the world around him started to be converted into grinning faces, the more his temporary body tried to rebel from his control.

Matt hoped that was the ultimate test of this psychedelic nightmare he found himself in. He wouldn’t trust any strange realm to be non-lethal enough to stick around and watch himself get eaten.

With adrenaline pouring through his veins, he wrenched control back from the strange realm and drove his body forward.

He’d never been this unfit when he was a child, and he cursed as he felt trembling in his limbs as this body experienced its first life-or-death adrenaline rush, making running without tripping an exceptionally difficult task.

Gasping for breath as he fled, he didn’t slow as he threw himself through the door head first.

Matt found himself ejected from the scenario, confused about what had happened.

He could tell he was missing a part of his memories.

Something was suppressing his emotions, trying to make him brush it off, but Matt forced through the obstruction. His eyes widened as he regained his memories and checked himself over.

Looking inward, he had an extra portion of the civilian reward in addition to something else; a pile of something he hadn’t been able to sense before.

He wasn't entirely sure, but he was fairly confident that his reward for finding the oddity and escaping from the trap made it harder for others to possess his body without his consent.

He hadn’t been particularly worried about being possessed any time soon, but Matt was never going to turn down such easy additional defenses.

That was part of the reason he was so shocked the strange realm had bothered to edit his memory.

That wasn’t a normal habit of a strange realm.

They didn’t care, they shouldn’t try to protect Matt from the panic crisis he had pushed through. There had to be another reason why it, or possibly the face itself, bothered to mess with his mind, and he wanted to find out.

Given that he had been additionally rewarded, Matt believed he had uncovered a huge hidden secret.

When Aster and Liz appeared, they looked at him expectantly.

Still excited, Matt said, “Guess what I learned?”

Aster, gleeful, asked, “Strange spaces with faces? Yeah, we’ve been trying to get you through the mental barrier for three rounds now after each failure. Failure erases the memories without the chance to stop it. So does succeeding really, if you fail to prevent the memory wipe, but we aren’t sure what happened that caused you to fail after so many successful runs.”

Matt dug through his now unblocked memories deeper, looking for any anomalies and cursed. “Okay, that wasn’t even fair. First round after you told us I didn’t encounter one. The second one however, I was a ninety year old man, my heart gave out and it was considered a failure. How is that in any way fair? I want a retry.”

Aster snorted, thoroughly enjoying his misfortune, but Liz leaned in and kissed him on the nose, knowing it would needle him further. “I believe you, honey. Now come help us explain to the others while we have time.”

Matt broke first and grinned as he helped them try to awaken anyone else from the crew. “For the record, I am telling the truth. Fun strange realm though, I like that there is a hidden layer for those who can break through.”

Aster bounced on her toes as she agreed. “It's so cool. I wish we could take it with us. I considered making a game of this when we get back, but without the rewards, I don’t care enough to bother.”

Liz laughed. “Could you imagine Annie in here? She’d be the perfect spy.”

“Oh yeah, sh—”

The three of them bantered back and forth as they searched the crowd for the rest of the crew.

Allie, Zack, Susanne, and Rah would be with the second group to enter the strange realm, as someone had to guard the ship, so it would be nice to be able to tell them before they went in. Since other members of the crew were still entranced, they had to redouble their efforts.

With so many people, they weren't able to explain it all, so they resorted to just shouting the information.

After a few rounds of that, people started to come forward and corroborate their statements, but most people were unable to keep their memories intact for longer than a few rounds.

Matt, despite a few close calls, never failed again, and so gleefully rubbed it in when Aster got her own rotten luck situation. She found out the hard way that the stroller her baby body had been rolling around in was the location of the hidden face.

With her ability at seeing through illusions, Aster immediately ‘popped the bubble’, the term they had been using to describe the description of being pulled into the face challenges.

Being a baby, she was unable to walk and came out of the round with her memory wiped. It only took a single round until she broke free, but Matt thoroughly enjoyed being able to return her earlier needling.

When he finally got his own turn at being the spy, Matt had little issue in identifying over fifty civilians before tampering with the ‘printing machine’ and triggering the end of the round without ever being caught.

His guard round was more eventful, with his opponent being very competent. They nearly managed to slip a handful of impossibly sticky sludge on the track before the bobsled Matt needed to defend.

It was only because he ordered a last minute change to the lineup that he managed to divert their scheme, but it had been nerve-wracking on the other side.

