The moment his team made it through the gate successfully, the round ended and everyone was once more shuffled into the cycle.

Multiple days later, everyone exited the strange realm, even those who had never broken free of the memory erasers, finding their memories returned but with no additional rewards.

After telling the other half of the crew and explaining the best practices, Matt and the others watched over the ship while the rest of the crew used the strange realm.

Observing that, Matt was impressed the strange realm was still active.

It allowed a new group to enter three times a day. While the Tier 35 Pack that claimed ownership of the realm worked to cycle only once a day, it handled hundreds of people without issue, still looking perfectly stable.

They had only experienced one strange realm closing on them when they exited, but its energy patterns had been unstable before they entered and its fate was inevitable.

When the second half of their group came out and they handed over the last of the Natural Treasures they had agreed to trade for the opportunity, they immediately tore their way back into chaotic space.

Grumbling, Allie queued up a message explaining the trick of the strange realm, but didn’t send it out.

It truly wasn’t worth making new enemies for such a small gain. Instead, they infected the beacon outside the strange realm to silently transmit corrected versions of the rules to any group entering the node.

Looking at their Seekers, Matt frowned when they shook their heads.

Both Seekers had needed to start defining their questions to ask about ‘second best locations’ and such, because otherwise, the divination told them to start traveling back immediately so they would arrive in the next ten years.

They intended to at least check the breachpoint via the waypoint Allie had established but the Talent’s didn't seem able to account for that. That let them roam further afield and away from the Sects, who had arrived in force.

Since amassing a year before, they had claimed nearly a fifth of this bubble of higher layer energies.

According to some of the messages they intercepted, they had even sent a larger expedition to the proper second layer, where they intended to loot the much larger swath of worlds dragged in from the third layer.

Knowing Lila was on her way to those same worlds, Matt wished them luck, aware of what was coming their way. At least Lila’s ship had Sien, so hopefully the arrogant armada wouldn’t get bullied too badly if they tried to steal any of the dragon’s loot as they reportedly did in their segment of the breach.

In their bubble, those who tried to refuse the wave of Sects ships found themselves challenged by wave after wave of cultivators, each subsequent one a higher Tier than the last until they agreed to pack up and leave.

Or, that was what they did for the teams strong enough to fight to the end.

There were rumors passing between ships and waypoints that any group too weak had simply been culled by the passing Sects armada.

Matt wouldn’t put it past the Sects and their callous stance on life and power imbalances.

Following their Seekers’ best guidance, they were flying away from them, but things were starting to come to a head as the other assorted powers started forming a coalition to keep the various sects in their claimed territory. The Unsparing had already picked up several of the larger groups nearest the sects banding together and forcing them off the border worlds.

Currently, there hadn’t been any large-scale battles, but from everything they overheard, tensions were high and only rising.

Not that the other groups were doing it out of the goodness of their hearts. They didn’t return the liberated worlds to the original owners and instead secured them for their own factions, happy to have the Sects do the dirty work.

Following their path away from their eventual destination, the Unsparing hoped to hit more strange realms while everyone else worried about the breachpoint.

Sadly, two of the nearest strange realms had already collapsed during their travels, but they were able to pivot into less desirable strange realms.

One was slightly too low-Tier at Tier 27, but the other was simply not all that standout compared to some of the others they had entered.

Both were of the more standard slay monsters for a benefit, but only the lower-Tier one allowed them to absorb the essence, which they wouldn’t do. The reward from the first strange realm had been equally uninteresting, but the second strange realm had given them an unidentifiable bottle of ten pills, one set each, leaving them unsure how to feel.

The originally stated reward had been a short-term and single-use general comprehension boost. They had gotten that, but it was a much weaker version than what they expected for how well they did.

That strongly implied the pills were an additional, better reward, but they didn’t dare take them. The pills each of them got were unique, but the energy patterns of each pill were so complex, they needed to be professionally inspected.

Instead of Allie teleporting them back to the Empire, they had a solution which would actually tell them what the goods were right away.

Three expeditious corporations had, upon taking over a well-located Tier 25 world, established a deep area trading hub.

Bringing in three additional well known Tier 35 mercenary companies, they offered a safe place for anyone to trade their finds while taking only small fees. It was their ultimate destination, wanting to see if they could trade some of the loot they had picked up in the last several strange realms for information about any others remaining nearby.

The corporations used the platform to not only make money on the general market but they cornered exactly one market few others cared about.

Large scale material extraction.

Paying just under the settled world standard prices they bought haulers full of base high Tier metals extracted from rifts. The groups could have gotten better deals but then they would have had to leave their worlds uncontested while they escorted the batch of resources home. Instead for a small profit loss they managed to empty their holds knowing they could delve longer to fill them up over and over. Then on the last one the groups could leave and sell the final haul at a more favorable rate in their original Great Power.

Able to double dip by getting others to help protect the trading hub the three corporations spread the location of their hub to every other major faction turning into a default gathering point further boosting their revenue.

They had been focusing on hitting the cooperative strange realms early, knowing they would vanish quickly, but even with the ‘taxes’ they were paying to use the strange realms without a fight, goods were once again filling the ship’s holds.

Cooperative strange realms might offer less loot for a single small group from succeeding, but if a ship the size of the Unsparing had everyone work together, the rewards could be substantial.

Having gone through so much as they delved the strange realms with the crew of the Unsparing, the seven of them had already agreed to change their initial loot distributions to the standard one.

It would eat into their personal profits, but they were confident the crew would ensure the seven of them got any of the materials they wanted, even if they had to pay. It wouldn’t be right to take advantage of such kindness.

Not that it was only out of the kindness in their hearts. That played a role, but all seven of them were hooked and were thinking about future adventures.

With a professional crew already familiar with them, they could potentially use the same crew members until they reached Tier 35. Only then when they wanted to start exploring the third layer of chaotic space would they need a new ship and crew.

Considering none of them had technically left the first layer, they wanted to keep these people around and willing to go on adventures with them, possibly on short notice.

Allie’s waypoints wouldn’t disappear, and eventually they would have a half dozen waypoints scattered in various points through chaotic space.

It wasn’t really plausible, but Allie audibly daydreamed about the day when she could teleport to any world she wanted, having a waypoint close enough to manually teleport the final distance herself.

Chaotic space was too big for that to be reasonable, unless Allie wanted to stall at Tier 45 for a few million years, but Matt got starry eyed himself hearing her wax on about it.

It was a nice thought, and in a few thousands of years, when the worlds hopefully made their way to the second layer, they might be able to have an even more advanced version of what the Sects were now able to do.

When they arrived in the trading hub's real space, Matt was stunned at the level of activity.

There were over a hundred various exploration groups loitering around the system, each keeping a respectful distance from the bustling ship at the center of everyone's attention.

Matt had never seen a ship whose sides were removable, allowing it to turn into an open space station, but it was marvelous.

Every floor was packed with people trying to sell their goods they lugged in from settled space for a fortune, or trying to buy rare materials on the cheap from teams who already filled their holds.

Matt even noticed there were merchants from every Great Power acting as both buyers and sellers. He also noticed several representatives from some of the Empire's noble families and newly reformed knightly orders. A quick check told him they were being smart. They were offering to buy any Natural Treasures they wanted or found useful, at settled space prices.

He didn’t know how successful they had been, but it was a good idea.

In fact, Matt’s [AI] noticed dozens of the largest organizations with their own stalls or private areas, allowing them to make deals between each other and the smaller organizations that had gathered on the less-valuable worlds.

He was thoroughly impressed and immediately started looking for anything they could sell.

The first thing being advertised as an immediate buy almost made him laugh out loud.

When the others looked at him, Matt flicked a finger. “Look at this advertisement. ‘Buying rift mana stones. Top prices.’ Why don’t we empty our reserves and replace them with more valuable things.”

Aster chortled but Allie nodded and blinked a few times, coming back with bags full of mana stones.

Shrugging, she innocently asked, “What? I’ve saved most of my rift mana stones since we met. I might as well cash in now that the price is this high.”

Matt met unabashed eyes and laughed at her audacity. If they weren't such close friends, he probably would have taken offense, but it wasn’t like he wouldn’t share with her if she asked. Best of all, it gave them play money that wasn’t his mana stones.

Seeing he didn’t mind, Allie’s grin turned devilish. “Let’s take their shirts! I bet we can set up our own scheme here!”

Liz leaned forward and whispered in Allie's ear.

Allie looked surprised before laughing and vanishing once more.

Matt was about to ask Liz what she had suggested, but Allie came back with a string of spatial rings.

Spatial rings full of rift mana stones.

Everyone but Rah quickly told Allie where their stashes of mana stones were, and Matt could only look on in mild horror as even Aster shrugged at him and whispered a location to a now haggard looking Allie.

“Why am I the only one who doesn't have a secret stash of valuables? Me and Rah, that is!”

Rah shook his head, distancing himself from Matt with a smirk. “Oh, I also have one. But I only have the one, so I’ll take the theoretical loss on this venture.”

Phoenix Liz patted Rah on the shoulder, transmitting, “It's okay, Rah, we can loan you some money.”

Human Liz turned to Matt and smiled as he recognized some of the rings, putting on her best innocent Aster impression. Not letting that distract him, he realized he had been with Liz when she bought them shortly after they reached Tier 15.

As Matt tried to place the other rings, Liz must have thought he was actually upset and whispered, “It’s not like we really use them. I figured they might come in handy on a rainy day.”

As droplets of water began to land on their heads, Matt snorted as he checked the rest of the rings. A quick peek showed him rings packed full of mana stones of all Tiers.

“I feel like I should be collecting interest, but whatever.” Still bemused at their shamelessness, Matt pointed at the nearing station. “Okay. Let's get moving. Bunch of misers.”

Captain Stenson stepped forward and redirected them. “Ascenders, before we spend that vast fortune, might I suggest we go to an information broker and use these resources to buy information about the most valuable strange realms nearby. I know one of the smaller ones. He's not cheap but his information has always been good.”

Seeing the chance to prevent them being scammed, Matt immediately agreed.

Not that the others disagreed, but they complained about Matt ruining their fun the whole way.

Once they were in the bazaar, Matt had to slap away a hand that tried to reach into his storage ring unnoticed.

The Tier 27 looked terrified as he saw exactly who he had tried to pickpocket, but Matt didn’t do anything more than shoo the weaker man away.

Along the way to the information broker Stenson knew, Matt saw several things he wanted. His investigative efforts were aided by the merchants holding up their best wares, trying to entice them to their stalls.

Thankfully, the information broker was far more controlled.

Their room wasn’t large, but they were immediately led inside and given refreshments as a manager was fetched.

