The man was painfully attractive and his smile was laced with as much charisma as someone without a Talent or Domain for the effect could manage.

In perfect Empire, he said, “Good day, Ascenders. My name is Jairo, from the Weaver’s Web. It is lovely to have you grace my humble store so far away from civilization. Do you come to sell or buy? I have…” His grin widened as he leaned forward and finished speaking much quieter, trying to entice them, “Things you can scarcely imagine.”

The captain stepped forward and coughed slightly, gaining Jairo’s attention.

Upon recognizing him, Jairo grinned as he dropped the act. “Last time I talked to you, I remember you saying you swore off traveling with Ascenders.”

Captain Stenson smiled back, reaching out and shaking the Tier 20’s hand. “I was slightly inebriated at that time, but I was good until now. What can you tell me? What do we want to know?”

Matt watched as the two acquaintances chatted about old times. Listening, he was fairly sure both sides were quietly probing each other with the stories they told and making sure they were who they said they were. He didn’t know why they went through such efforts, but trusted the process.

When they finished, Jairo had relaxed and now lounged in his chair like his bones were made out of liquid.

After summoning an attendant to bring in refreshments, he said as they picked at the food, “I assume you have heard about the breachpoints?”

“Plural?”

Jairo nodded. “Two verified, with a third suspected, but it's on the far side, so we aren't sure if it's a true breachpoint. Which one do you want information on? I’ll sell it to you at only slightly above what I bought it for.” Seeming unable to fully give up the businessman routine, he added with a tantalizing smirk, “It's worth every credit, on my honor.”

They had already decided how much they wanted to share, and so Captain Stenson waved Jairo’s offer away, surprising the salesman.

“We were originally there in the first place. I’m surprised word hasn’t reached you of the fight.”

Jairo’s eyes narrowed and he shook his head. “Not a whisper. Now that is interesting. Speak. I’m willing to buy. What do you know about the breachpoint?"

“We have nearly a decade of relay scans, as well as full data maps of the breach world.”

They could all see that Jairo wanted that information, but instead of agreeing, he started bartering. “That information isn’t worth a ton, but I'll take it off your hands for old times’ sake. What about—”

Captain Stenson seemed to transform as he crossed verbal swords with the information broker.

Eventually, Jairo put his hand down. “I can’t agree until I see the information. Your price is too high if it's not fantastic quality.”

When Allie nodded, Captain Stenson shared the information and Jairo froze.

Finally he whistled. “Okay, this is valuable. Fuck you, you lucky duck. Hmmm. I don’t know how to handle this.”

Rubbing his chin, he stared at them before he shrugged. “I have an offer. I normally wouldn’t sell this for the life of me, but I don’t have anything else of equal value to offer for those telemetry readings. The top exploration groups will pay a lot for even the hint at possible world placements, and this much data will let them chart fantastic maps.”

Tapping at the air using his [AI], Jairo finally withdrew a data crystal from a slot in the table, tossing it to their side.

“Thats all I’ll share because it's only useful to half of you, so I don’t know if you want it. If not, you'll need to give me a few months to liquidate things or allow me to start shopping the information around first.”

Given the secrecy, Matt was expecting a lot, but he wasn’t expecting a strange realm that allowed people to upgrade their essence.

It was considered a secret to the guild in question, but they had been selling slots now that most of their elites had gone through already.

Its Tier was perfect at Tier 28. Not that such mattered too much, given that it was a safe strange realm and no one had made it past Tier 5, given the difficulty of the cultivation reset. However because of their Tier they would get a harder challenge than someone of the right Tier but the rewards were reportedly the same.

As Jairo said, it was perfect for all of them except Matt, Liz, Aster, and Susanne. As the guild found out the hard way when it sent a member who had a floor 5 Genesis Cultivation, the reward didn’t stack with Genesis Energy. Made worse by how their Back to Basics pulled it down to the lowest Tiers, Matt, Liz, Aster, and Susanne were ineligible for the reward unless they were lucky enough to advance past their converted essence.

If they made it farther than Tier 5, where their Genesis Energy ended, and were lucky enough to have the reward start working, they’d make out fantastically. But if they failed, they wouldn’t get anything from the strange realm at all.

Matt still agreed without hesitating. Information about such a strange realm, let alone a ticket they didn’t need to barter for, was valuable.

He was fine with that trade.

From there, they then bartered for the information on all the strange realms Jairo had before they moved on, but neither side put up too much of a fight and they paid in rift mana stones, which sold for a premium.

Having finally arrived somewhere nice, they gave the crew two months off to relax in the various shops and bars. Or that was their excuse for why they stayed around for so long, as Allie naturally formed a waypoint without stressing her spirit too much by speeding the process up.

Everyone except the occupied teleporter shopped the various stalls.

They took the time to get several items appraised, but none were more impressive than their seeds and the pills.

The seeds were all rare Tier 30 herbs needed for high-level alchemy that Liz was more than happy to get her hands on. Given their abundant energies, they would be fertile, leading to generations of excellent ingredients.

In fact, two of the seeds were nearing the level of pseudo-Natural Treasures, given their rarity, but they didn’t sell or use any of them, even with the fairly reasonable prices they were offered. They intended to shop around for the right buyer who would be willing to pay more than market value. Someone, somewhere would pay a premium for such seeds and that was who they intended to sell to.

They weren’t storage limited after all.

The unknown pills they got, on the other hand, were far more personally practical.

It had taken three Tier 35 appraisers over an hour, but eventually, they figured out the pills' effects. There were no offers to buy them, but that was only because the pills were perfectly customized to their bodies and would probably kill anyone else who tried to use one.

So long as the appraisals weren’t entirely wrong, each of the ten pills would give them incredible comprehension for whatever they were working on when they consumed it. Each was only estimated to last fifteen minutes, but the potency of the pills was reported to be extraordinary.

Someone had to test the reward, so Matt took one of them while working on his mana control exercises.

Almost instantly, he felt the pill sublimate into his flesh, then his mind, and finally his spirit. Honestly, it didn’t really feel like very much was happening.

Except his mana wavered slightly, as though it were trying to metastasize into a new element. Did it always do that? How did he only now notice?

All thoughts about the pill’s function were cast aside in favor of this new mystery, as Matt began to study his mana with renewed interest.

He intentionally allowed his mana control to slacken slightly with the goal of getting two streams of his mana to overlap, studying the resonance. He’d always held them apart before, because otherwise all kinds of crazy things could happen, but he’d never really studied the collapse before….

So then why did that strand over there cause destabilization all the way over there? There didn’t seem to be any connection between them….

Oh now that was fascinating. Could he replicate it?

Better yet could he change his methodology and figure out the storage gem from the earlier strange realm?

And then if he, if he… Matt grasped for the remainder of his thought, only to come up empty and with his mind feeling oddly drained. And the chair he’d been on was gone. Were the walls always that color?

He groaned slightly as he got to his feet, his muscles protesting an action for the literal first time in… centuries?

If he had any doubts about the pill working, they had been well dispersed. Though he could barely remember what all had happened, and reviewing his [AI] recordings were less than illuminating - half-finished notes and contextless clips of random things abounded - but he could feel the difference in his mana already, which on its own was astounding.

He hadn’t been willing to test such an unknown on something more valuable, like advancing his skills or trying to explore his Power, in case there were long-term side effects but he was much happier now.

And there were side effects, as the appraisers had warned.

About an hour after taking the pill, he suffered from incredible spiritual strain as he paid the price for all of the accelerated learning. His spirit felt shrunken, twisted, battered, and bruised, but all of that had been more than worth it, as he could tell his spirit was already healing all on its own.

Taking more than one pill at a time or back-to-back might do irreparable harm, but using them one at a time seemed to have no downside.

After his success, everyone else was eager to try at least one of the pills, but after that one use, nearly everyone agreed they would wait until they returned to the Empire to use the rest. The pills would be best used when they couldn’t make any meaningful progress on a skill or profession instead of speeding up ordinary training.

That and the crew were already speculating what other potions or pills they could take at the same time to maximize the comprehension effect. Adding even an extra five minutes would be worth nearly any price given that the pills were unique and irreplaceable.

They then spent their last weeks buying anything they could for mana stones. So long as it would sell for a better price in settled space, they were willing to make deals others considered bad.

Allie egged them on as she forced the waypoint to form faster than normal, challenging them to buy more things than she could easily teleport back.

The moment she finished, they wrapped up their efforts and once more tore into chaotic space. They had over a year of travel to reach the strange realm, and they didn’t want to risk it dissipating before they arrived.

They still had a few more years before they needed to return to the Tier 30 breachpoint planet and they wanted to maximize their efficiency before the final rush.

Jairo had known of several other still-existing strange realms and they hoped they could hit at least two additional ones before they were dissipated from use or the Unsparing had to return.
