I raised an eyebrow at him while frowning, “What? I have to all of the sudden?”

Yawm waved his palms at me, “No, no, not at all. It’s just that working on the cipher while within Schema’s domain can be quite detrimental. It can be far more problematic as well. If Schema discovers that your working with me, then you will be exiled immediately, I assure you.”

Keeja walked up with his sunken in eyes. It bowed to me while pointing towards the hallway.

Yawm walked up and placed a hand on my shoulder, “I won’t require you stay here, but I highly recommend it. You won’t dislike your room either. I treat guests with the utmost respect. You will be no different.”

Imagine a viscious, thirty foot long crocodile. Now imagine that it’s mouth was open, and your chest was between its jaws. With one move, this crocodile could clamp down and crush your organs out of your body.

That’s what Yawm’s hand felt like. It was an enormous set of jaws. Despite that, I kept cool,

“Alright. I can do that. It doesn’t really matter anyways.”

Yawm released me and pat my back, “Excellent! Keeja will prepare a meal for you and have it sent into your room at later hours. After you rest, we’ll have breakfast and the tea I mentioned earlier. Relax and enjoy your study while you stay here.”

Yawm walked back and unlatched his desk. He opened his hand, the green aura smothering the room. A feather pen materialized above his hand, along with a vial of ink. He dabbed it into the vail before writing out a few characters. Already engrossed in his work, he turned towards us,

“Keeja, Show him his room.”

Without a word, Keeja walked me through the hallways of Yawm’s ice mansion. After taking a few stair flights down, I reached the bottom of the lake. There was a layer of crystal at the bottom, just as before. Light beamed from the bottom, illuminating my room from a glass floor. One of the walls of the room was a window, showing the view of the lake.

Besides for the bed, desk, and a shelf of books, there wasn’t much in there. It was more than enough though. Considering I didn’t need clothes, it was perfect. Hell, I didn’t need the bed either. I walked over and sat on the desk. As I did, I extended my aura, Overwhelming pressure outwards. It let me sit on the desk without crushing it.

I glanced at the aquarium, seeing the shifting shapes of eldritch. I still didn’t understand how Yawm controlled them. I guessed he may answer that question tomorrow. My mind was sifting at the possibilities of the cipher.

After a few minutes, I turned around. Keeja was still sitting there, staring at me. His eyes were sunken in, hollow things. They had a way of looking through me. I frowned and stood up,

“Why are you still here?”

A second later, tears poured from the eyes of Keeja. They poured from the black holes in his head. Keeja’s mouth struggled open, the jaw shaking. Beads of sweat formed on it’s angular forehead. It’s thin knees wobbled before it scraped out a sound,

“Ra...”

I walked closer,

“Are you alright? This is freaking me the fuck out.”

Keeja gasped out another sound.

“Nnn...”

Seeing it struggle, I didn’t know what to do. Before I could decide, Keeja lifted one its wiry arms and pointed at me. In a raspy, weak voice, it seethed,

“Run...”
