While Luo-Luo was frozen with fear, Yan continued her conversation with Lin. “As much as I’d love to bring you hunting, we can’t. Not only do I have other matters to attend to, you forget that we’re in a military zone under martial law. We can’t go traipsing around armed with bows and crossbows, not without drawing unwanted attention.” Turning to Luo-Luo, Yan smiled sweetly and said, “Tell me, what sort of business does Rain have you working on? Perhaps we could help lighten the load, but I’m afraid all I know is it has something to do with... cheap iron? We didn’t have much time to speak of it.”

Even her interest sounded condescending, but Luo-Luo grit her teeth and explained to the best of her ability. “Sister Yan is correct, though also incorrect. Cast iron is more than just cheap iron, for it offers a whole new vista of possibilities. Even Lord Husband has yet to comprehend the full breadth of his discovery, too focused on its use in war effort to consider the deeper implications.”

“Oh?” Her full, pink lips pressed to hide a smug smile, Yan asked, “What sort of implications?”

“Well... all sorts.” Flustered by how quickly Yan cut to the heart of the matter, Luo-Luo fell back on an argument she had already used, but to no effect. “It’s so easy to create and use, we could replace so many mundane items with cast iron alternatives, like wagons, ploughshares, furniture, and more. Why -”

“Wagons?” Interrupting with a frown, Yan shook her head and said, “An iron wagon would be far too slow and heavy for a team of two horses. Four or six horses to a wagon would increase costs significantly, which all but invalidates any benefits a sturdier wagon might bring.” As Luo-Luo prepared her rebuttal, Yan continued, “Unless... What if you made the wagon smaller? Say, enough for two to four passengers... On the flat plains of Central, we could use them to move water and ammunition to patrolling units, or rush heavily injured soldiers back to safety and Healers.”

There was something in Yan’s eyes which kept Luo-Luo from saying she didn’t think the idea was feasible. Perhaps the poor girl was speaking from personal experience, having lost soldiers on her journey back to SuiHua. Not an unreasonable assumption since it took her at least eight days to make what should have been a five day journey...

“Wah, so smart.” Clapping her hands, Lin-Lin added, “And if those stinky Defiled show their ugly faces, then you can just smash them with your wagon, ya?”

...

Mother in Heaven...

“Yes!” Yan exclaimed, her eyes wide with excitement. “We could fix blades to the wagon to clear grass and Defiled alike. It wouldn’t work on a wooden wagon, the whole thing would come apart or be far too difficult to carve, but iron can be welded together. Can it be protected from rust? Oh, who cares, if it’s as cheap and easy as you say, then even as a disposable weapon, it could be worth it against the Defiled.”

Stomach queasy from picturing vehicles of destruction smashing through flesh and bone, Luo-Luo was saved by Tali and Tate’s arrival. She was so happy to put an end to this line of inquiry, she didn’t even mind that Tate threw himself into Yan’s embrace instead of hers, his plump, pink cheeks blushing as Yan smothered him in kisses.

What was it about Yan which drew men and animals alike to her? In Luo-Luo’s eyes, the half-deer woman was beautiful indeed, but she was far from the ideal Luo-Luo’s instructors instructed her to become. Perhaps that’s what infuriated Luo-Luo the most, that in spite of all the hard work and effort she put into becoming a paragon of grace and beauty, Yan barely had to lift a finger to rival, if not surpass her. As aggravating as it was, on some level, Luo-Luo was glad for the competition. After surpassing all her peers, she finally had a challenge to overcome, a trial laid out before her by the Mother Above.

And no matter how difficult a trial might appear, the Mother always left a path to salvation. Luo-Luo only had to seize it.

Chapter Meme
