Althea peered at me.

"Ok, for real, this is kind of freaky how much you know about Marcella. How?"

I shrugged.

"It's that skill I made, Infinity. While I was making it, I did let situations pile up, but at least I spent my time getting a bigger broom to sweep it all up with."

Althea pursed her lips.

"Huh. Uhm, great job then."

Marcella blinked.

"You're like a walking advertisement for him."

Althea gestured to me.

"Have you seen him? He looks evil to just about anybody. Someone has to try and make him look as decent as I think he is."

I leaned back.

"Ouch."

Althea sighed.

"I'm sorry, but it's true."

I put a hand on my chest.

"That's why it hurts."

Marcella peered at us.

"So you're both chopping up my actions to this aura, then?"

Althea and I peered at each other. We looked back to Marcella.

"Eh, yeah."

"Uhm, I think so."

Marcella sighed.

"It's like someone takes away what I've done no matter what I do."

I shook my head.

"You did that when you made a deal with the devil. We're giving you a chance to prove that you aren't the demon we've seen so far."

Marcella winced.

"I'm not getting back my position, am I?"

Althea rolled her eyes.

"Of course not. You're lucky you're alive."

Marcella leaned forward.

"You kill your rivals?"

I smiled.

"Rival? No. People that use nuclear bombs on civilian populations for leverage? An execution is on the menu."

Marcella let her hands slap her sides.

"Then what's the point in all this? Why are you still talking with me?"

I pointed at Rebecca.

"We want to know what happened to her and you. For instance, why do you have an aura and she doesn't?"

Marcella scoffed.

"Because she isn't an avatar."

I raised my hands.

"Then what the hell happened to her?"

Marcella gulped before frowning. She went to say something before she stopped. Fear spread over her before a resolve replaced it. She said.

"It was an agent from-"

She blinked before she snarled at herself. A moment later, blood began dripping from her nose. It poured out of her eyes, ears, and mouth. She trembled as her skin began melting even through the protective barrier of the antimagic shackles.

"It was an agent from Cygna, the Silent."
