"I'm partially sedated by that lich after having my life ripped out. Excuse me for my lack of elegance."

I raised my brow.

"We'll see how much life you have left after this conversation. Can you tell us about the Old Ones? Your contract? About Rebbecca?"

She snapped up, her eyes glowing blue.

"No."

Marcella's aura condensed over her. Marcella fought out of her gravity well before stomping to Althea.

"We'll see whether or not-"

My hand rested on Marcella's shoulder, my touch gentle. I smiled.

"It's better you don't."

Marcella gazed at her missing arm. Torix left runes that stopped it from regenerating, and it already scarred into a useless nub. I guided her with my hand back to the gravity well.

"I still have that if you want it back. However, you're going to have to explain your contract with Eonoth in detail, explain the sword, your aura, and anything you know about the Old Ones."

Marcella kept her eyes on me, but she sat down.

"Or else what?"

Torix's eyes flared red.

"Enough of this foolishness. You will disseminate that information, one way or the other. I've already demonstrated my expertise in regards to mind magic. I'll peel your thoughts back until you drool like a lifeless vegetable. Either that, or you can tell us what you know and allow me to verify with a quick psionic scan."

Torix let out a scathing laugh.

"Or else what? The arrogance. You've spent a long time atop a small hill, and you refuse to see the mountains around you."

Somehow, I doubted Marcella's condition more and more as we spoke. Marcella gave him a tight smile.

"If you're mountains, then there's a planet coming soon. It's going to crash here, and we'll see how tall you all are."

I nodded.

"Let it come. We'll crack it like everything else."

She shook her head at me in disgust.

"Not everything is something you can beat through high stats, Harbinger."

Tired of the pointless conversation, I made a psionic link with her. Torix's mind wrangled hers into a series of knots, Marcella incapable of even moving. I turned a hand to her.

"Do you think the mental entanglement is why she's talking like this?"

Torix crossed his arms.

"I doubt that's the case as I've done this with success in interrogations before, but this isn't accomplishing anything. Let us try a different approach."

Torix let her go, her aura returning in full force. Marcella's eyes opened wider, and she turned to Rebecca. Marcella bit her lip until blood came out. She turned to us.

"I just wanted to make sure no one hurt us again. All of this...I never wanted any of this."

I sat down and crossed my legs.

"None of us do, but at times, we destroy as we try to create. You can begin to redeem yourself, but it will take time, effort, and diligence. You need to accept that this has happened and that we're not your enemies anymore."

Marcella took a moment, peering up. A series of expressions smattered her face. Horror, reverence, shock, defiance, loss, and finally, acceptance. She gulped before taking a few breaths. Her eyes glowed blue. A second later, they faded. She murmured.

"My patron has spoken to me. Eonoth has offered my servitude in exchange for a slightly shorter contract than the other Old One. Ergh, Mesm-"

I pressed my fingertips together.

"Woah, now, don't say that name. No need to. Also, I'm not accepting that deal."

Marcella frowned.

"Why not?"

I smiled.

"It was brought to my attention that a few of my guildmates aren't exactly overachieving, so the last thing I need right now is another problem child that I have to look after."

Marcella leaned back.

"I'm...I'm a problem child?"

I shook my head.

"More like a...Sinking ship. That's on fire."

Torix moved his arms.

"And sharks circle the icy waters. Eldritch swarm the skies at this accursed vessel. There are many dumpsters upon its deck, and they too rage in an evergrowing inferno."

Althea laughed. Marcella shook her head.

"Your guild is nothing like I expected. I heard you were an unstoppable juggernaut, not a group of simpletons."

I smiled.

"You should remember Occam's razor. You've seen as much. And besides, just because we have skill doesn't mean we have the personality of cardboard."

Althea nudged me.

"Some people disagree."

My smile lingered.

"Eh, and they're pricks."

Torix peered off.

"Like you?"

I nodded.

"Just like me. Now-" I spread my hands. "We'll argue merits later and the lack of them later. Marcella. This is my final offer before we're pushed to further measures."

Marcella stared down. She turned to Rebecca, and Marcella closed her eyes. Marcella murmured her words like a last wish.

"Just...Please. Don't hurt my family."

I pulled out Valgus's shackles.

"From the looks of it, someone else has done that already."

I took one of the manacles and clamped it over her remaining arm. In an instant, her aura vaporized to nothing, and her hair turned from a deep blue into a blazing red. Marcella strengthened, but unlike Valgus from L-7, Marcella wasn't thousands of years old with time to accumulate energy and abilities.

As her aura vanquished, Marcella's eyes widened.

"My connection to Eonoth. It's...It's gone."

I shrugged.

"That's the idea. I'm beating fire with fire."

She cracked the ground under her feet as my gravity well lost its effect on her. She looked around, panic spreading over her face.

"It's gone. It's all gone."

She ran off, but I put my hand around her waist and pulled her back. She swung her hand at me, but I caught her fist. Her power didn't surprise me, considering what the manacles did. I frowned.

"Look, you're no Valgus Uuriyah."

She peered at me in confusion before scrambling to escape.

"No. Get away. Don't touch me."

She floundered about. I sighed.

"Look, stop moving, and I'll let you go."

Marcella kept flailing about. Althea walked up.

"Hey, come down, we're not-"

One of Marcella's kicks shot at Althea's head. Althea caught Marcella's shin in both her hands. Althea held the foot for a second before Althea's upper arm bones exploded. I winced as Althea let out a growl. The choker on her neck glowed, and she regenerated over the next few seconds. Marcella screamed.

"I'm not having someone put another one of your daddy's collars on me-"

Althea swiped her hand and sliced off the leg that kicked her. Marcella collapsed in my arm, and she let out a howl. Marcella grabbed at her bleeding nub where her leg had been. Althea looked at her torn jumpsuit.

"You make it so hard to be nice."

Althea adjusted her choker.

"And oh yeah, can you tell me you're jealous without saying it any louder? Sheesh."

Althea kicked Marcella's jaw, the precision and force just enough to knock her unconscious. Torix grabbed the side of his head.

"I've seen enough. Let me know whenever you've both exhausted your empathy and simply require the information."

His eyes flared black, and his words were icy.

"I'll arrange that it's gathered promptly."

A cold chill ran up my spine. Torix peered down at Marcella.

"You...They are a disappointment. What an unworthy enemy."

I hadn't told either of them Marcella's story, and seeing her shaking, pitiful figure, a burst of guilt and mercy arose within me. I raised a hand to our lich.

"We've got it from here. Go do what you do best."

Torix hovered off on a cloud of dominion mana. After a while, Althea and I sat down beside Marcella. After a while of waiting, Marcella awakened. She turned to Rebecca, who hadn't moved or spoken a word after we checked her mind and found it vacated. Marcella glanced at her sister and whispered.

"Is...Is Rebecca really gone?"

I nodded. Marcella's eyes reddened before she squeezed her hands against the grass. She shoved her face in the dirt as tears fell from her eyes. She lost all composure, and her body trembled as waves of grief coursed over her. The tall, defiant, and willful leader crumpled into a person who lost everything.

After a while, she stared forward in a daze. She looked up at us before speaking in the voice of a corpse.

"You know...This feels like the first time I've been able to think clearly in a long time."

Althea reached out a hand.

"It's that aura. It doesn't let you think at all."

Marcella grimaced.

"Yeah. Maybe."

I raised my brow.

"I've seen it on several people at this point. It imbibes the person with abilities, and they're often intuitive, powerful, and difficult to counter. It doesn't actually save you any time, though."

Marcella leaned back.

"It doesn't give time. It's opportunity."

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"See, that's shortsighted. You're assuming there's a limit to how much you could grow. From what I've seen, just about anyone is a formidable, given time. That's why time is the primary currency we use now. However, many people are tempted by shortcuts. That aura is an example. Sure, it allowed you to massively increase the size of your empire and personal potency."

I tapped the side of my head.

"But in order to maintain the sanctity of your mind, you've had to fight something off constantly. That eternal war takes up just as much time as the research, study, and training required to get to an avatar's end state. For example, I know another avatar that makes you look like a kitten, but he still doesn't have the time or energy to train."

Althea frowned.

"You mean Shalahora? Doesn't he help you with your psionics all the time?"

I nodded.

"Yeah, but it doesn't take much effort for him. Recently, that's kind of changed, but up until now, I was like a baby windmilling my arms while he was a hardened warrior with his hand on my head. He's struggling with it more now."

Marcella gawked.

"You know someone that strong?"

I turned my hand.

"Yeah. He could've instantly killed everyone in the Shattered Spires if he wanted to. He's not big on the whole mass murder thing, though."

I peered off.

"That's more of my thing at this point."

Marcella frowned.

"Is that why Elysium is so determined to get their hands on you?"

My gaze could cut stone.

"What do you know about Elysium?"

Marcella scoffed.

"I watched your streams while you were on Giess. The Gray Giant. I couldn't believe you were human, but Schema's approval of you verified all that. I fought long and hard to make sure I was prepared when we met. It fell to nothing in the end."

I shook my head.

"You destroyed over fifty of my elemental furnaces."

Marcella smirked.

"That's all I amounted to. A material setback."

Althea shook her head.

"For now, but it doesn't have to stay that way."

Marcella sighed.

"It will. I'm not able to fight without the aura."

I leaned towards her.

"It's the opposite. You're finally free."

Marcella shook a hand at me.

"Why don't you get it? I'm not free. I'm your prisoner. At least I chose to be under Eonoth. Now, I don't even get to choose who lords over me."

I put my hand on the ground.

"You've been a prisoner in your own mind. I know for a fact that everything you've done to help shape the spires happened while you were lucid. The situation only began to spiral out of control once you made a deal with Eonoth. That's whenever you began enacting greater and greater control over everything."

Marcella tilted her head.

"Where's your proof of that?"

I leaned my elbows against my crossed legs.

"I've been a leader. I know what decisions made from limitations are like. I've been analyzing the surface memories of citizens, and I've managed to create a bit of a timeline for when certain key events occurred in the Shattered Spires. A month after Central Park began turning into a dimensional chasm, you're policies began changing."

I turned a hand to her.

"At that point, your paranoia began to spike. Policies changed. Your approach ceased its improvement as if someone else began making decisions. That's because someone had. Your aura."

Marcella frowned.

"How is that even possible?"

Althea frowned.

"It's called mana sickness. It's weird, but mana can actually make a consciousness in your head. When it gets too strong, it takes over."

Marcella's eyes went distant.

"Even if that's true, you're giving me a lot of credit for what I did before I made my deal with Eonoth."

Marcella turned to Rebecca. Marcella closed her eyes.

"Maybe more than I deserve."

I raised a hand.

"Then what was your end game? Rule the world?"

Marcella shook her head.

"At this point, what can I even say in my defense? It all sounds...Ridiculous."

Althea crossed her arms.

"That's because it was."

Marcella pointed at me.

"You might be right about me, but isn't that what he's trying to do, too?"

Althea put a hand on my shoulder.

"Daniel doesn't rule. He leads."

A well of emotion rose in my chest.

"Thanks."

She smiled at me.

"It's the truth."

I didn't deserve Althea. Marcella sneered.

"Look. I'm not jealous of you two. More like...Disgusted."

Althea shrugged.

"Envy can take different forms in different people."

I laughed before I turned a hand to Marcella.

"Tell me this. What was the plan when you obtained the aura?"

Marcella looked up.

"Hm. Rebecca and I were planning to expand into Boston and a few other big cities nearby. We wanted people to get the blades and shields we had since they made killing the eldritch so much easier. It wasn't going to be easy, but nothing worth having is."

I nodded.

"But then you had to have the spires more secured, right? The Seer's protection wasn't enough. You started making the surveillance tree and having people's minds inspected. After all, Elysium could come in and infect you with the Hybrids at any point. Hell, I might infiltrate your operation as well."

I leaned back against my arms.

"There's some validity there, but the aura began getting its claws into you without you noticing. From what I gathered, you've probably been struggling to make anything happen without swinging your powers around recently. You know, brute forcing everything. That's because your ability to socialize has been eroding all this time."

