Althea rolled her eyes.

"What? How is Daniel a prisoner, and you're not? You're made of Daniel."

Torix's eyes flared green.

"Semantics. Now, let's go and finish uncovering the secrets of the Shattered Spires, shall we?"

I smiled.

"Let's."

Chapter Begin

We walked out of the cavern, finding the mist still pooling in the depths of Central Park. As was the case in the Grand Canyon, the dungeon's amassed energies might take weeks or months to fully disperse. As it did, reality would alter itself around the incoming land and matter. For a moment, I wondered if the new mass on the planet would affect the gravitation, but once more, that wasn't something I could stop.

We flew out of the chasm, the insects tucked into crevices like roaches avoiding light. At the surface, we hovered back over to the Infinity Plaza. We paced past the devastated entrance before each of us walked into one of the lower dungeon doorways. Within the rift, a soft field of alien flowers coated an idyllic valley.

Sunbeams stretched out of the fluffy clouds above, the star of this shattered dimension locked in place by some strange force. It hadn't changed even long before we walked in, and quite a few theories hovered around about the place. Some believed this was a dungeon waiting to trap people inside it. Others talked about how it devoured souls by luring people to stay here.

I thought it had a simpler origin. Someone of incredible means loved a certain spot at a certain time of year, and they enacted sorcery to ensure this place would forever be what they wished. Regardless of the origins, we imprisoned the two ousted rulers of the Shattered Spires here. Under a beautiful blue sky, Rebecca and Marcella floated in gravity wells. Maintaining the magic, a golem of mine guarded them both, its form imposing. Completing our security measures, one of Torix's ghouls whispered in their ears. It maintained the sleep spell that Torix cast earlier. I gestured at the ghoul.

"You've got your minions casting advanced magic?"

Torix stood tall.

"But of course. If I couldn't teach a ghoul such a simple spell, then what kind of professor would I be?"

He walked up and snapped his fingers. The ghoul flew off, heading outside to manage other affairs while my golem peered down at its quarry with intent. I raised a hand.

"We've got it from here. Can you stop anyone from entering?"

It nodded before pulling itself away with gravitation. I took over its midair suspension of our prisoners. Torix tilted his head at my golem.

"I'm not the only one with minions that implement rather adept sorcery."

Once gone, we marveled at the scenery until the two avatars of Eonoth awoke. As the flowers around us bent from a wave of crisp air, Marcella's eyes widened. Her aura bloomed around her, bursting out in a rush at Torix. The mage interlocked his hands behind himself, generating a near-mindless summoned skeleton.

The aura's psionic attack obliterated the minion, but unlike a physical attack, a mental one carried no momentum. The leftover psionics fizzled like a bloodthirsty sword striking the air. Torix attacked her vulnerable mind before Marcella reached out an arm at him. The dimensional space around Torix trembled, and a threatening bloom of energy mounted.

Before she finished her sorcery, I snuffed it out with my dimensional wake. Marcella growled before setting her eyes on Torix. The necromancer nodded.

"You've obviously never needed to refine your mental approach, madam. Given your natural abilities, I can understand why."

Over the next few minutes, Torix dismantled her psionic defenses while I defended us from her magic. Torix left me stunned at his efficiency. He'd leveled his game up. I put my hands on my hips.

"Where were you hiding those psionics?"

Torix waved at me as if sweeping up dust.

"Oh, that? It's hardly worth mentioning. We all have skills we aim to develop in time. In regards to you, these assaulting and pinning tactics mean nothing. You lob your minds at me with utter abandon, and I may cull them all I like. You'll simply regenerate your mind as if I'm fighting an endless pit."

I turned a hand to him.

"Regardless of it countering me or not, it's incredible."

Torix gestured to Marcella.

"I bring up the point as the matter of counters is essential. Marcella is innately different than you. Her mind begins to lack proper functioning as I cleaved pieces of it away. That's how it's supposed to go - a series of initial clashes where the first mistake results in a loss. Mind magic is similar to fencing in that regard. Your techniques forced me to abandon my previous tactics when against you.

Torix glowered at the two avatars.

"However, my methods are more than adequate when dealing with entities well within standard expectations."

Marcella snarled, spitting at me. Before it hit us, I raised a finger, and her saliva evaporated. I raised my brow.

"Charming."

Althea raised her hands.

"Hey, I'm not going to let either of these guys do anything to either of you."

Torix and I telepathized to Althea in tandem.

"What the hell?"

"To accuse your teacher of such misconduct. Why I never-"

Althea thought over.

"It's to make them feel more at ease. They'll listen to us more."

Torix and I gave each other a look.

"Makes sense."

"A proper plan with deft execution."

Marcella and Rebecca glared at Althea. Althea's idea, while a good one, reached neither of them. I rubbed my temples before Torix turned his gaze to Rebecca.

"Is she the other avatar of this supposed duo?"

His eyes flared red.

"And her psionics are the most impressive between them as well. Shall I?"

I tapped his chest with a fist.

"Let me. She has hundreds of these things in her head. They can be dangerous in a swarm."

Torix shook his head.

"Must every psionic duel be relegated to a simple swarming of foes? It's growing old even for someone as ancient as me."

I frowned.

"I think as we move up the galactic ladder, we'll see more and more of this kind of thing. Besides, you, of all people, understand how individuals aren't as strong as entire groups."

Torix sent a message in his status before answering me.

"I suppose I may need to incorporate more group psionics in my tactics then. Until then, I suppose we must leave the most dangerous individuals to you."

I shook my head.

"We leave those to Shalahora. We also need your precision here."

Torix steepled his fingers.

"Hm. I shall wait until I am needed then."

Getting to it, I created a link to Rebecca's mind. I expected the same rush from its occupants as before. Instead, a few disparate minds flowed in a spiral as if on standby. I went deeper while bracing for a multipronged ambush from the psyches. None came once more. At the absolute depths of Rebecca's mind, I gazed at a void.

I pulled my mind out.

"There's nothing there. She's gone."

Marcella's eyes widened.

"W-what?"

Torix leaned closer.

"Give us a moment to ascertain the cause. We aren't sure of anything yet."

After a few minutes, the lich strode back and forth.

"It would seem as though something has vanquished her mind to oblivion. There are no traces left. Even her long-term memories have turned to ash."

Marcella stood up.

"No. You're both lying. She's still here. Look at her."

Althea frowned.

"Maybe we can get her back? Torix, you know a lot of weird magic. Is there a way to revive her?"

Marcella gazed in defiance but with terror hiding under the surface. Torix shook his head.

"No. This entire set of actions and movements isn't being done by Rebecca. There exists a newborn golemnite that's had a template mind imprinted on it. It's puppeteering her body."

I massaged my temples.

"Ok...The golemites. They're ethereal beings, strong in mind magic, and effective scouts for larger empires. I met one, er, when I was interviewing some people on Giess and at Obolis's glassing party. I remember some religious zealotry and an overly happy, obnoxious tone of voice. So, uh, what in the world is one of them doing here?"

Torix clasped his hands together.

"It's many of them, not only one. Likely, it's a front used to distract us while the others escaped in the chaos of battle. It would seem only a few of the other golemnites linger within as they were unable to escape once Daniel bore down on them."

My eyes narrowed as I sifted through my memories. Torix weighed his hands back and forth.

"It would seem that someone or something implanted many of them within Rebecca's mind along with imprints of the psyches that Marcella wanted to make."

Althea took a step back.

"That explains why everyone was so confused after the fight. Rebecca had put these things in their heads, and they were doing all of her guild's work."

I crossed my arms.

"And they composed large parts of their minds by the looks of it. That's why they were so strong when we fought but are so weak now."

Torix stood upright.

"It's also the source of their obedience. They carried little agency since such large portions of their souls were dedicated to these beings. Having it centralized into a singular source allows for it to be easily hidden as well."

Torix gestured to Rebecca.

"In many regards, these entities mirrored their leader's exchange with the Old Ones. They took their independence for power."

I sighed.

"That's the problem. Power means nothing if it isn't yours."

Marcella hissed.

"Easy to say when you have steel all over your body."

I rolled my eyes at her.

"Talking to you is exhausting."

Marcella tilted her head, her left eye twitching.

"You're all very chatty with your leader, aren't you? Do you all enjoy wasting his time?"

Something was off with her. Torix loomed over Marcella. The lich's voice dripped with disdain.

"It's part of being treated as equals. You'd do well to learn a thing or two from Daniel's approach, considering the vast difference in the results of your leadership."

I waved a hand.

"Oh, she won't need to learn anything more about leadership. That's a thing of the past."

Marcella growled out.

"See? You did exactly what I expected. I read you like a book."

I furrowed my brow at her.

"Then you shouldn't judge a book by its cover. If you consider the situation for even a moment, you'll realize I wasn't given any other choice. You're entire persona and approach has been antagonizing me from the start."

I rolled my eyes.

"And nuclear bombs? You're insane. You deserve less than nothing. I can't trust you with a butterknife, let alone a city with living people."

Marcella took a breath, peering at Rebecca. Pain crossed her face before Marcella snapped at me.

"They were mine. I can do what I want with what's mine. All you've done is take from me. Take. Take. Take. That's all you are. A thief. I was right all along."

She was singular in her thoughts. It reminded me of Valgus. I let out a long breath.

"It sounds like you'd rather prove yourself right with your failure than be proved wrong with your success."

She took deep breaths before gazing at the ground.

"You don't know me."

Althea walked up.

"But we wanted to. We still do. You're the one that's closing that off. Not us. We want to listen and talk, but all you're doing is trying to upset us with words. Even in your position, and despite the fact your approach isn't working well, you're still doing it. Can you please change your approach and try to help us listen and talk to you?"

Marcella's words seethed.

"So that you can do what? Lie to me?"

Torix, Althea, and I met each other's gazes before letting out a laugh. Marcella roared out.

"Stop mocking me."

I gestured to Rebecca while staring at Marcella.

"Your best friend is dead, and you've hardly flinched. I'm wondering if language wasn't the only thing Eonoth took from you."

Marcella drained of color.

"You found its portal?"

I sighed.

"Obviously. I have it with me."

Marcella's brow was calcified in a perpetual scowl.

"You're going to destroy the Shattered Spires. That sustains this place, and without it, Schema will-"

I tilted my head at her.

"Do nothing. I've found other spaces like this. They can maintain themselves through other means besides pain and suffering. You've been believing false information that's been spoonfed to you. Do you mind telling me who told you all of this?"

She blinked.

"You...You're still lying to me. All of you. About everything."

I shrugged.

"I also cleared out the eldritch queen. In general, the entire system you made collapsed overnight. It's gone down to the roots. Accept that and move on."

Marcella gazed down.

"You took everything from me, and for what? Because I wouldn't obey you?"

Althea shook a hand at her.

"You stole from people while lying to them about what they were walking into. You enforced your will and killed anyone that didn't follow your orders. You invaded people's minds and even spied on everyone while letting those robbers kill at your doorstep."

Althea's voice deepened.

"You think we don't know you've been lining your pockets with those raider's spoils? This has all been to get resources, and all you really did with those spoils was make a lot of nameless tombstones out of families. These people were looking for a better future, and you made their children into orphans that we'll need to take care of."

Althea pointed at Marcella.

"Don't talk to Daniel about leaving a mess behind when that's all you've ever done."

Marcella smiled at Althea.

"Someone has to be the hero, right? I guess I'm the villain then."

Torix sighed.

"Life is not defined by a simplistic dual paradigm centered around moral identities."

Torix looked at me.

"You mentioned she was competent, didn't you? I've seen nothing of the sort."

I scratched my head.

"Huh...Yeah, she's not as sharp as I had hoped. It honestly feels like her abilities are highly circumstantial."

Marcella took a few breaths. She gazed at the ground.

