A step toward something, but a failure in the new.

The empty vessel breathed, had a pulse, and was by all accounts a living being, but the second it ran out of the inherent energy of life in its body, it would fade away. Like a human before the system arrived.

In so many ways, life was truly flawed before the system compared to the new world. Life was finite by definition, and there was no true soul in the same way as there was now. For life to persist, it had to absorb the life of other things to sustain itself. One had to consume nutrients from once-living things, creating a vicious cycle.

Now, that was no longer the case. As long as one had a soul, life was inherent. If the vessel was damaged, one didn’t need to consume resources from outside sources, but the soul would provide all the energy required.

Evolving meant moving towards perfection, and one of the steps humans took was the removal of the requirement to eat. This proved that eating was an inherent flaw that had to be fixed. That consuming life to sustain life was a failed design.

Yet… life remained finite. Even with all other flaws removed, the soul would one day run out of its ability to provide fuel. Another design failure, but one that only godhood could fix. Only gods could become immortal, after all.

A universally accepted truth, yet one he refused to acknowledge. He knew how to fix the body. How to perfectly preserve life… but what was life without existence? Without consciousness to recognize it?

Sighing, the man stood up. Despite his newfound power… it still wasn’t enough. But he would get there and create perfection.

Walking out of the chamber, a monk was already standing outside, waiting with a smile on his face.

“I congratulate the Chosen of the Daolord for his successful evolution,” the man said, cupping his hands as he bowed in recognition of the man who’d just stepped into B-grade.

“Thank you,” Eron nodded toward the monk, feeling the connection of sparks as their lives were intertwined. Same as many others, with every inhale, he felt all his connections. All the life he shared. All the lives he’d touched… and as he exhaled, the billions of pulses echoed through his existence, marking them all as one.
