“Shit,” he swore, laying a hand on the knotted tree to stabilize himself. “Give it back, quick!”

Ameliah held out the plate, and Rain snatched it from her fingers. The sensation was different this time, more like a normal linksight flash, though not quite. Rain slumped to the ground, propping his back against the tree as he stared at the plate in relief. The text was still there, as was the boost when he checked his interface.

“What happened?” Ameliah asked, crouching down.

“I felt the connection break,” Rain said, still staring at the plate. “It felt horrible, and I was worried that—” He froze mid-sentence. He’d looked up and seen Ameliah’s face mere centimeters from his own. She is…very close.

Ameliah peered into his eyes, then nodded and stood, offering him her hand. Rain felt his cheeks heat as he took it and let her pull him back to his feet.

“Uh,” he said, rubbing at his neck as he looked away awkwardly. “I’m sorry I kinda snatched it back.”

“Don’t worry about it,” Ameliah said.

Rain closed his eyes, took a calming breath, then opened them and held out the plate once more. “Here, try again. For science.”

“Didn’t you just say that it felt horrible?” Ameliah asked, not moving to accept it.

“Yes,” Rain said, nodding. “A normal person wouldn’t want to do that again, but a scientist would wonder if it happens every time.” I should draw out some xkcds. There are some good ones that people here would get, and I can manage stick figures. He pushed the plate toward her. “Please.”

“You’re sure this is a good idea?” she asked.

Rain nodded. “I’m sure. I won’t blame you if the link actually does break for good. I managed to bond the thing once, so that means I can do it again. I just need to figure out what I did while I was asleep.” …and repeat it with the other two. “Besides, it’s not like the buff is useful right now. It still wouldn’t let me use Immolate at full blast without cooking everyone nearby.”

Ameliah slowly took the plate, watching his face. Rain thought he hid his grimace well as the tearing sensation repeated itself, but apparently not well enough. Ameliah narrowed her eyes and stared at him. “The same?”

He nodded, checking his interface. “Yeah.”

“Hmm,” Ameliah said, holding up the plate. It vanished, then appeared again as she re-summoned it. “This is a really strange accolade. The metal is blue, so it came from a cold lair, but it gives heat resistance. It makes a certain sort of sense, but usually, it’s the other way around.” She summoned and dismissed it a few more times. “Whatever’s wrong, it’s with you, not with the accolade.” The plate vanished from her left hand, then appeared in her right. She offered it back to him. “It’s behaving normally as far as I can tell.”

Rain took it, and the bond reformed as before. He nodded, then vanished the plate and summoned another one.

Accolade of the Everdeep Fortress

+10 Perception

“Here, now this,” he held it out to her. He didn’t bother to hide his reaction this time as she took it. “Gah, same thing again,” he said, blinking owlishly as the sensation faded. Everything seemed just a bit dimmer.

“Hmm,” Ameliah said. A second plate appeared in her other hand, identical to the one Rain had just given her. She seemed to consider something for a moment before offering it to him. “Here, see if you can use my copy.”

Rain took it, concentrating on his linksight. Nothing happened. There was no pain, no flash of connection, nothing. His senses still felt dull, so he shook his head. “Nope, not working.” He peered at the plate. The buff was listed, unlike the unbound accolade, yet he couldn’t access it.

“Odd,” Ameliah said. “I’m still getting the bonus from both, even though you’re holding mine.” She stared at the accolade in her hand, then looked at him with a strange expression on her face. “This feels weird, you know. People don’t do this.”

“Do what?” Rain asked. She looks…self-conscious? No, it’s more complicated than that.

“Trade accolades like this, at least, not so casually,” Ameliah said, her expression fading. “There’s a process. Otherwise, what do you do if someone doesn’t give your accolade back? The only way to force the matter would be to kill them.” She gestured with his plate. “You’re showing me a ridiculous level of trust right now. I could just keep this, and there wouldn’t be a thing you could do about it.”

Rain shook his head. “You wouldn’t do something like that.” He grinned. “Besides, I’ve got yours, so you’re trusting me just as much.”

“Am I, though?” she asked.

Rain jumped as the plate vanished from his fingers.

Ameliah nodded. “Yeah, that’s not supposed to be possible either. Something is definitely wrong with you. The bond should have transferred the moment the plate passed into your domain, but it didn’t.”

“Right,” Rain said, thinking. “Wait a minute. The buff still worked for you when I was holding it?”

Ameliah nodded.

“Is there a distance limit on that?”

She shook her head, toying with Rain’s accolade between her fingers. “No. Accolades aren’t like spells. They don’t care about distance. Some nobles give them to their kids, but make them leave them in a vault or something. If they get themselves killed, the family doesn’t lose their inheritance.” She flipped the plate around one last time, then offered it back to him.

“Ah, that’s…pragmatic,” Rain said, taking it and feeling the link reform and his senses sharpen. “What’s the limit on how many accolades someone can have, by the way?” I wonder how many she has.

“Don’t you already know that?” Ameliah asked, raising an eyebrow. “How haven’t you already asked someone?”

“I have,” Rain said, “I just want confirmation.”

Ameliah’s face held the glimmer of a wry smile as she answered. “You can hold as many as you want, but you only have slots for a few to be active. Stronger accolades can take up more than one slot, and the number of slots you have is one per level, plus one. Of course, there are hundreds of rumors for ways to get more, but none of those are real. Also, it takes a while to get used to using all your slots, just like it does for stat boosts.”

Rain nodded along as she spoke. I should be able to convince the system to give me a screen for this… He looked back up, another question springing to his lips. “So, that extra slot, does that mean an unawakened can use an accolade?”

“Yes,” Ameliah said. “At least, that’s what I’ve heard.”

“Cool,” Rain said. “I’m thinking that once we’ve built up a bunch of accolades in the company, we can share them as needed. For example, take this cold lair. If we had people with cold resistance accolades, they could lend them to the delve team. Really stack them up. Optimize.”

Ameliah snorted. “You’re crazy.”

Rain smiled. “As I’ve said before, all this paranoia and selfishness isn’t productive.”

“You really…” she trailed off, then sighed deeply. “You’re too trusting, Rain. You haven’t been burned, not like I have. I once lent someone I thought I knew an accolade, just like you’re suggesting.”

Rain’s smile froze at her tone. Uh oh.

“He still has it,” Ameliah said, a bitter note twisting her voice. “He knew I wouldn’t kill him to get it back, so he just kept it. And it was a rare one, too, even among accolades.”

“Damn,” Rain said. “I’m sorry…”

Ameliah shook her head. “We should get back to the camp. I’ve got dirt to move and skills to swap, and you’ve got to figure out how to keep everyone from murdering each other over the lair. Good luck with that, by the way. I think I’ve got the easy job.” She turned, heading toward the fires the others had started while they’d been talking.

“Uh, right,” Rain said, following. “Speaking of that, do you think we’d be able to handle the lair without you? I don’t want to rely on you and Tallheart so much if we don’t have to.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said. “I’ll decide once I see what your so-called delve team looks like. Now come on, the sun is setting, and you’ve used up your questions for the day.”

They walked in silence for a few minutes, Rain struggling to keep up as Ameliah wove gracefully through the trees, stepping effortlessly over hidden roots that kept tripping him up in his haste. As they neared the camp, Carten’s voice boomed through the twilight. “Oi! There’s somethin’—oh.”

Rain stumbled out of the trees a moment after Ameliah, spotting Carten waiting for them.

The bearded man relaxed as he recognized them. “It’s jus’ you two,” he said, lowering his shields, his face splitting into a grin. “Done kissin’?”

Ameliah sighed and glanced at Rain. “Do you want to hit him, or should I?”
