And it would have kept going, too. The spell felt almost like it was eager to continue, to consume, to bring about the end as it was meant to. Cale pulled back sharply before it could, and in the same moment the Gift bore down around them like a divine cage.

The spell halted at the edges of its power, snapping and biting, but with them both working in concert, it failed to break through.

The words of the Gift lingered in his mind. It had left messages for him before, certainly, but that was perhaps the most direct warning it had ever given him. Cale wondered, as he sat there with his eyes shut, exactly how sapient this divine construct was. Who was the God of Magic, anyway? Cale had met many gods in his various lives, and he'd never seen a working this complex. To create something capable of inventing spells and gifting magic to the people, and yet to not involve himself when the likes of the Red Hunters came along...

One of these days, Cale thought, he'd need to have a word with this god. At least so he could understand how all of this had happened.

For now, he sat at the corner of the now-disintegrating domain. The last rule the Abyssal had enforced was not to stand, and while the binding was fading, it was still confused and would most likely continue to follow self-imposed rules for a while. This was the chance for everyone else to strike.

He'd done his part. The Abyssal needed to be sent back to the Abyss, but Cale involving himself risked unwinding pieces of his magic, and that would put everyone here in danger. He'd decided it was best that he focus his will instead on keeping his mana well within his control so that couldn't happen.

And as long as he was focused on that, he didn't need to think about what the Gift had said.

The roots of the former World Tree Yggdrasil form the foundation of this dead plane, and now the power of that death flows through your jaws, invoking the end of all things.

Cale had grown very, very good at lying through his lives. He hadn't lied about that. He just hadn't specified who he was good at lying to.

Centuries of life, and of all the lies he told, he was best at lying to himself most of all.

He forced himself to smile a tired smile.

Ah well. It wasn't yet safe to use his eyes, but it would be nice to use his mana sense to see how his friends-and-possibly-apprentices did with something like this. He could step in if needed once the binding wore off, but...

This was the type of thing that shaped a mage for the rest of their life.

The less he interfered, the better.

Given all the tales Flia had once heard about the Abyss, she had expected the Abyssal One trapped here to be a horrifying amalgamation of flesh and bone. She was deeply conflicted about the fact that Cale apparently wanted to save this thing. On one hand, she wanted to help it, because she really did love magical creatures of all kinds. The way they interacted with mana and their purpose in the Great Realms fascinated her.

On the other hand, who knew what it had done to the Loomweavers? They had to be missing for a reason, and even if they'd messed up, they didn't deserve extinction. But then the Abyssal didn't deserve to be trapped here, either, and from what Leo and Damien had told her, the binding that had been placed on it was something truly horrific.

Flia supposed she had difficulty believing it, despite the words and explanations of her friends. She couldn't fathom a single mage—let alone a group of mages—performing a binding so inherently cruel on something that was capable of thinking. A part of her thought that perhaps Cale had gotten something wrong, or at least that he was missing some piece of the picture.

But she chose to come along anyway, in large part because she couldn't shake what she'd seen in Cale's expression when he was bearing down on that assassin mage. Sneaks-In-Darkness. Some things he didn't leave to chance, and that was one of them. He'd decided almost instantly that Sneaks-In-Darkness could not be forgiven.

He'd made that same decision here with the Loomweavers, and though the rational part of her mind protested, another part of her—the one that had seen the face he wore and the bitterness with which he'd made that decision—thought that if he had spoken with such passion about what the Loomweavers had done, then he was just as sure about them as he had been about Sneaks-In-Darkness.

And as soon as the binding domain dissolved and she saw the Abyssal unfurl from within, she knew beyond a doubt that he had been right.

This Abyssal was no flesh abomination. It was a gentle, delicate thing, with gossamer wings not unlike that of a butterfly. It didn't quite have a complete form, given that it was partially between realms in the way that Abyssals had to be, but it was...

Flia didn't have the words for it.

It was light, dancing in the shape of a butterfly and creating the faint impression of fluttering wings. It was the shadow beneath, an echo of a shape that didn't quite exist within the realm. It was a keening song of loss that made her stagger forward before she realized what she was doing.

It was a story, somehow given substance, and it was beautiful.

The books she'd read a long time ago had described Abyssal Ones as orphans of broken realms that were then transformed by the Abyss. When a realm was lost or destroyed, for one reason or the other, there would always be a single survivor that the Abyss would cradle and cultivate. Those same books said that most mages found them terrifying and unknowable, but others—very few—said that the worst thing about them was that they were sad.

Flia fell into the second category. She was the only one here, perhaps. All the others flinched away from the Abyssal, but she stepped forward, her heart seized by that mournful song. She could almost hear the tragedy within it if she focused. The final moments of an entire realm and its desperate attempt to stay together, the lost stories and hopes and dreams of everyone within—

Sabri, the little shadeling she'd adopted and bound as a familiar just before all this, crawled out of her satchel and bit her. Gently.

Flia snapped back. There was no time to be lost in this, however beautiful or tragic it was. But now that she'd seen it for herself, she agreed with Cale on one thing: they needed to send it back to the Abyss. And he'd told them exactly what they needed to do.

"Threek!" she shouted. The kobold gave her a wide-eyed, terrified look. "You need to suppress it!"

She was trying to weave a spell. She didn't need to do much here; her attunement would do most of the work, so a basic, albeit massive [Orb of Water] would be sufficient. The problem was that she couldn't focus enough to do it—the Abyssal, now freed, was lashing out with waves of false domain magic that disrupted her attempts to mold the spell. It wasn't even doing it on purpose.

They'd known this would be difficult. Cale had warned them that if they tried it beforehand, the Abyssal would likely create some rule about spellcasting that would make it immensely more difficult for them to suppress it long enough to send it back. Doing it after was only marginally better, as long as they did it quickly.

"I-I can't!" Threek called out desperately. "You gotta—"

"You're three kobolds in a trenchcoat!" Flia screamed back, feeling a bit ridiculous as she did so.

It worked, though. Threek shuddered briefly as soon as she said it. Their magic was unstable, in large part because they struggled to acknowledge themselves, and the moment anyone else did so it went haywire. They dissolved immediately into a half-dozen, then a dozen, then two-dozen tiny, yipping kobolds.

"Threek! Focus!" Flia yelled.

To their credit, they did. They gathered themselves enough to all focus a glare at the Abyssal, which shuddered in response; the light dimmed briefly, and the domain magic lessened. Flia gathered herself just enough to force most of her mana into [Orb of Water], and a massive jet of not-water blasted out of her hand, filling quickly into an enormous sphere...

...that was just to the left of the Abyssal One, because it darted out of the way. Flia groaned in frustration.

"I've got this," Leo said grimly. Flia's eyes widened when she felt him casting a labyrinth spell. Really? The minotaur had refused to do that for as long as she had known him.

It worked, though. The Abyssal fluttered around in confusion, as if suddenly unsure where to go, and slowly began to edge itself toward the orb of water. It was almost there, but stopped just short, as if confused.

"A little more," Leo said, sweating. "I can't push the spell anymore. Damien—"

"Please," Damien muttered, so quietly Flia almost didn't hear him. And then he did something that astonished her.

He cast a decay spell on the space between the Abyssal and her [Orb of Water].

It pushed the Abyssal that much closer. It was half-submerged in it now, but it was struggling. Flia recognized the emotion radiating from it like it was her own. This was its first grasp of freedom, and it was confused and afraid.

She stepped forward and spoke in low, gentle tones. "It's going to be okay," she said, like it could understand her. "You're just going back to where you belong. You'll be free, and it might be scary at first, but it'll be worth it. Be brave, little one. There's so much more to see."

It didn't understand her, of course. It couldn't. But its struggles slowed, and it stared at her, almost as if it understood something.

Then, just like that, it turned and fluttered the rest of the way into the Abyss.

Just like that, it was gone. A pressure Flia hadn't even realized had been pressing down all around them vanished in the same moment. She let out a small sigh of relief and dismissed her magic, staring at the place where it had disappeared, then sniffed.

"It was beautiful," she said sadly.

Damien, Leo, and all two dozen versions of Threek looked at her as if she'd lost her mind, but she ignored them. It was beautiful, and she was going to do her best to remember it. Absently, she petted Sabri, thankful it had known to bite her when it had. If it hadn't...

Well, it didn't bear thinking about.

"Maybe abyssal mana isn't so bad," Flia said to Sabri. "What do you think?"

The shadeling vibrated slightly in her arms, then bit her again. She ignored it and continued petting its head gently.

Leo, watching this, sighed. "You get used to this," he told Threek conversationally. "Not to Cale, though. Speaking of which..."

Leo frowned, glancing around at first in confusion, and then with a look of dawning concern. "Where exactly did he go?"

Flia glanced up and blinked, then scowled. "I knew I should've stopped casting spells around him," she muttered.

Sabri vibrated in agreement, then bit her for a third time.
