The outer edges of Maria's black Soul Energy core already glow a light green coloring from the divine energy seeping out. Her Royal Blue Soul Energy fills her greater form, but other than the small amount let out upon its activation, this icy energy has not been fully tapped into yet. Doing so would have been catastrophic with allies nearby.

When she uses portions of it, like at the start of the battle, to channel through her sword and freeze the Demon's body doubles, waves of just enough blue soul energy pulsed out from the darkness to regenerate the lost essence.

However, now, the mental seal is lifted.

Instead of suppressing the core, keeping its abilities contained within, it is now able to react to the environment around it in its natural state.

The six Demon body doubles that all swing their axes at Maria from all directions widen their eyes at once...

An extremely strange aura ripples out from the Icy Angelic Goddess.

It is cold and domineering, making even the movements of divine threads in the air slow down.

For over a million kilometers in every direction, it feels like the Upper Realm has been plunged into deep space. There is no sound, no movement, no shockwave or overwhelming aura.

It just feels like something cold has taken control of the environment, like a domain of control has seized all of the free-moving energy around.

All of the demons around her freeze instantly, to become translucent crystallized ice.

Five of them fracture, crack into pieces, then burst and explode into glimmering tiny fragments.

The only one remaining is covered in fracture marks as well, but the instant it feels this overwhelming cold ripple through him, he channels all of the celestial energy in his body deep inside, to protect his own cores.

The Demon bursts into icy fragments just like its doubles, but a dense white and purple ball of light explodes backward. It is the only source of heat in this stagnant ocean of cold.

Maria can sense everything.

And finally, for the first time since she made it to the Upper Realm, her mind is finally clear.

A gravitational pull around her Angelic Form grows, as the True Core in her chest is finally able to reach out to adapt to the divine energy it craves.

The entire domain of green threads, for over a million kilometers in every direction, starts to fall toward her.

The clump of Celestial Energy within this domain runs away. The further away it gets, the faster it can run, and the larger it grows as the Demon's demonic energy bursts out from its core and starts rebuilding its body.

However, this is not what Maria focuses on at all. She only outstretches her arms with her soul sword rotating around her, and allows a massive chunk of the Green Zone's divine threads to fall in toward her.

The sky completely changes color.

All of the energy around turns into a blur, as it moves too fast to see, falling into a dark void inside the angel's chest.

Her wings grow, her dark royal blue body expands, and the glistening rainbow sword that floats around her in a slow circle glows with bright light, glistening and becoming stronger and stronger.

The black soul energy core itself does not grow.

No matter how much divine energy is pulled into it, the dark fist-sized Soul Energy core in Maria's chest stays exactly the same size.

The impossible problem of a divine core deep inside it, hitting its saturation point yet starting to hold more threads than physically possible, occurs all over again.

It was just over a week ago in the Lower Realm when Maria compressed hundreds of times more yellow divine threads than a normal fully saturated core should be able to handle; yet here she is doing it again.

The incredibly dense green core deep inside her black hole of a core relieves the energy stress by surging outward and growing her greater form, making gravity denser around her, but that doesn't stop her Soul Energy Core from craving more.

In fact, this feels like it is just the beginning.

The taste of power surging through her, as she grows to over 500 kilometers in size, only stimulates the nature of her Soul Energy to push further.

The true essence of her path reveals itself to the Upper Realm. A High Noble Vibration-equivalent breakthrough occurs from a brand new path when she truly embodies her desires—to become stronger by any means necessary, to chase the Rising Emperor, to ensure that she is not left behind.

Every single thread in a 1 million kilometer radius disappears, leaving the atmosphere completely bare.

The Blue Angel catches her sword as it rotates above her, then steps off the empty air.

A dense green and blue dent in reality pushes her forward, and the trails of light behind her glisten with sparkling source resin that now actively feeds off the divine energy that cycles through her Greater Form and this massive glistening sword.

The distance between her and the Demons running away is crossed in an instant.

The human ice mage just grew in pure strength by hundreds of times.

She swings her blade across her body, and slashes right across Sisco's chest as he tries to turn and block.

The High Noble Demon's eyes are wide with fear and confusion. The strange domain, cold aura, and clash of energies is too loud and chaotic for any noise to sound out, but his mouth words, "How... Could a unique path possibly form when we are still in power...?"

It forces all of its Celestial Energy into a small and dense shield, covering its cores again, but the massive angelic figure tears through it like he is a small Lower Race.

This High Noble Demon has never felt lesser than anything but a Royal in his entire life.

The visceral sensation of its Celestial Energy being frozen and destroyed is one he never thought he'd ever feel. Even a highly concentrated wall of the Celestial Energy it's been holding for tens of thousands of years is not enough to block this blow, it is only enough to slow her attack down.

The crystallized sword, with the density of an entire Noble Grade World, imbued with energy that can only be described as the essence of cold itself, slices through the surface True Core and its Demon Lord's Core.

Deep rainbow-colored icy gashes open up in its cores as it's blasted backward again.

Its body turns to ice and shatters again, leaving the look of despair and fear trapped in ice before it turns to dazzling dust.

What adds to its terror is the calm expression on the human's face.

As she lands a near-fatal attack on the peak of High Noble Demonic Existence, her icy eyes tell this monster that she never had a single doubt in her mind how this battle would go.

Maria takes another step forward, allowing her to fly upward hundreds of thousands of kilometers after the Demon's cores.

Even now, the small amounts of Celestial Energy try to flow through the damaged cores, but even from just a point of contact, the ice that has seeped into them cannot be stopped.

Cracks spread on both the dense purple and bright green cores, making it harder and harder for it to reform its body and maintain access to its energy.

Body doubles are created, but when they are summoned into reality they are already partially frozen. The body-swap technique to move its true body upward faster away from Maria is used, but it only helps to move a few thousand kilometers extra each time.

The body doubles continue to deform, becoming smaller, and freezing to shatter to glass faster and faster.

The desperate demon eventually gives up on cheap tricks, and uses all of its energy to run, high up into the realm.

The army and Citadel below all disappear out of sight completely.

The two of them even fly upward far enough to dive into a new pocket of divine energy.

This gives the Demon a small boost, allowing it to move slightly faster, but the benefits it gives Maria in comparison are immeasurable. Large percentages of the threads that fly by are not even absorbed by him, they just pass on their way to the black hole below that consumes them.

The Vibrations rippling out of Maria's ice suppress this Demon, making its consciousness dull. Its ability to regenerate becomes harder and slower every passing millisecond, and it begins losing access to the system itself.

While its freezing and fracturing body slowly reforms enough for it to look down at the Icy Angelic Goddess following, and gaining ground, it whispers to itself.

"Am I truly going to die...? Are humans really what takes us out...? Is this what happens every time...?"
