"It's a necessary evil. I don't wish to use the bodies of those I kill in such morbid ways, but I lack the potential for victory without them. Aside from that, I have never been able to afford potions or healing from experts. This is how I've diversified my skillset. Otherwise, I would've been completely subservient to Phillip Novas and, by extension, the albony. You've seen where that gets you."

I winced at the prospect. Tera opened a cupboard before pulling out several dimensional storage rings. He tossed them to me.

"These have food and other necessities you may need. I know it isn't much, but it should be able to handle the costs of moving us."

I checked their contents, finding enough food to feed an army. I smiled.

"I appreciate the offer, but I'll be taking a different form of payment."

I tossed them back, and Tera's eyes narrowed.

"Does that mean you're expecting a subspecies contract? We will not sign another of those cursed things."

I furrowed my brow.

"I'm going to be hiring you and your elite. They'll be able to join my guild and work for me. Everyone else is free to do whatever, given they follow a few rules. You know, don't kill, steal, all the basic ethical necessities required for a functioning society."

Tera's irises slimmed like the eyes of a viper.

"What percentage of our earnings will you be taking?"

I scratched the side of my head.

"What does that even mean?"

Tera rolled his eyes.

"You play coy, but I shall play along. You shall give us a quota of missions. We finish them for your members. We keep some of what we pillage, and you take the rest."

I inspected a row of bottles holding miniaturized natural elements.

"That's not gonna happen. Well, maybe the quota, in a way."

Tera stepped up.

"Stop playing games. This is our livelihood you're talking about. I appreciate what you've done, but I understand that no meal is given. It is earned, and we are more than willing to earn our keep. I want to know how much of our hunts you want to take."

I met his eye.

"Hm. About 0% of them, actually."

Tera's horned brow furrowed.

"That doesn't make sense."

I moved my hands.

"So think about it like this. I'm not here to get you to work jobs for me. It's more like...Hm, I'm directing you guys to accomplish certain tasks I want done. You do them, you keep the rewards. In return for choosing to follow my directives, I'll pay you guys for finishing those quests instead of handling other quests."

Tera's face scrunched up in disgust.

"You...You're paying us to finish quests for ourselves? How...How does that even make sense?"

I shrugged.

"No one on my planet wants to live in a desert. They're considered wastelands. You guys are going to be in those remote regions, killing and destroying eldritch. Do that, and I'll provide resources, support, whatever you guys need in the meantime."

I spread my arms.

"Think about it like this. I'm having you guys mow a lawn for me or something. After you finish, the lawn is yours."

Tera stared at his clawed hands.

"That's not right. You're paying us for landscaping our own yard. A-And you're giving us a yard. We don't own a yard."

I made the walls of a box with my hands.

"Oh, but see, that's where you're very, very wrong. You do, in fact, own a yard. Now, the thing is, your yard has to be in a certain spot. That's why I'm paying you guys. That makes sense, eh?"

Tera's eyes hardened.

"We're not a charity."

I lowered my hands.

"And I'm not a philanthropist. Those eldritch will run wild and scour the land for food if we don't have them handled at some point. Having you guys there eliminates them as a threat, and we may even be able to terraform the area over time if we play our cards right."

Tera turned a clawed hand to me.

"I'll believe this deal when I see it. That said, you plan on terraforming your own planet?"

I weighed my hands to and fro.

"You know, I haven't given it a ton of thought. The way I see it, there's a complex relationship with nature that I don't actually understand. Despite my appearance, I never graduated from high school, let alone college. What I do know is that land needs water. In that case, I could make plenty of water to land on the place as rain, but-"

Tera waved a hand.

"The oceans would rise. You'd become like Blegara in a few myriad years."

I pointed at him.

"Uh, sure. Tell me, do you know something about terraforming?"

Tera smiled.

"I do. It's a pastime of mine. I love the interplay of forces that generate the geology of a planet. You know, the lay of the land. It's a harmony not unlike music. Each twist and turn leads to a singular rhythm. Once you've found that rhythm, you can adjust it however you please. It's a thing of beauty."

My eyes widened.

"When did you learn all that?"

"On Absolon-22. It's part of how I managed to get the planet under albony rule. I found several species of eldritch that produced a few natural forces. After getting them coordinated and breeding, I worked with a few albony scientists to release them in certain areas. That collapsed several of their planet's farming structures.

I then leveraged their poverty into financing accounts for the empire. It also required working with a few Schemic lawyers to arrange the contracts beforehand so that the albony could get their due."

I nodded in awe.

"Wow. You really took them for all their worth, huh?"

A sad smile spread over Terra's face.

"No. I showed them the desperation of poverty and the evil of greed...But I did it for my family, and I'd do it again in a heartbeat for the hatchlings. For my people. Tearing their planet down kept us breathing. It's why this city has grown to such a majestic sight."

From his workshop, we got a great view of the expansive city. It was a series of poor, rundown slums. I kept my own judgments to myself as I nodded.

"Yeah. It's great you gave your all this for a planet."

"Speaking of, whenever we get to your planet, I'll have my team and me act as your skeptile squadron."

I waved a hand.

"Eh, that won't be necessary."

A smirk grew on Tera's face.

"Oh, but it will be."

I leaned against one of his workstations.

"What makes you say that?"

Tera stepped up.

"I've been thinking of how to help your guild since you offered us so much support. I have a few ideas."

"Such as?"

"First, you need an economist with global experience. I have that, and I can arrange for the needs of a population to be met."

"That's...Highly useful. What else?"

"Second, I know how to use different eldritch for potion ingredients or other useful products without having them come back to life later. I can share my knowledge with your guild."

"Hell yeah, that's also pretty useful."

"Third, we can help terraform regions. We skeptiles stay close to the ground, and we can speak to the spirits that rule over lands. We can harmonize those forces so that a place can become fruitful."

"Spirits, huh? I didn't know they existed, but it wouldn't be the craziest thing I've seen since joining Schema's system."

"It is as true as the sands of time. From this barren rock, we've reaped impossible harvests, and that is how we can work with the land to bring the most out of it. I'm sure you're able to handle food from what you've said, but we're able to do that without interfering with the soil over the long term. Our methods help hold the careful balance of nature."

I leaned forward.

"Is that how you feed the people here?"

"It is. We manipulate the climate with ritual magic. Once cast, we'll need a continuous flow of mana, but we have plenty of people willing to man the shift for such a job."

I scoffed.

"Mana will never be a limiting factor again. Instead, your problems will start to revolve around not blowing everyone up."

Tera smiled.

"Too much power, hah. It is a good problem to have. We can start now if you'd like. All we will need are the initial funds to warp to your planet. I am ashamed to say that we lack the ability to warp so many, considering we have so little accrued wealth in our clan."

A glimmer shined in my eye.

"Oh, don't worry about that. I've got a chauffeur."

Tera gazed at the ground.

"You're sure that's fine?"

"Of course. I don't want to leave you all high and dry."

"To the contrary, we skeptiles prefer that kind of position."

I laughed.

"It's a phrase. I'm not leaving you all on a new planet without support."

"But we can handle it."

"That's the thing, you won't have to. Besides, getting you guys going would help me accomplish my goals faster anyway."

"Help. Like us managing our own lands for your profit?"

"Profit? Probably not."

Tera pinched the horns of his brow.

"I cannot fathom why you're doing this for us. It...It makes no sense. You have nothing to gain."

I waved my hands in circles.

"Think of my goals and aims as being the mysterious desires of the Harbinger."

Helios walked downstairs, having heard us. The albony held a witticism waiting under his breath, but he chose to stay silent. I let him be before turning a palm to Tera.

"You have your elites gathered, right?"

Tera nodded.

"As much as I'm able."

"Then let's go."

We stepped out before each of us flew over to the center of the city. After passing a variety of slums in different states of disrepair, we stood beside the warping station and currency market. Schema's hirees peered at us, worried as a hundred skeptiles mingled about. The veterans under Tera, these individuals wore the scars and wounds of war, and they sharpened weapons made of bone and teeth as we arrived.

We landed amongst them. In silence, they grouped up behind Tera, who stood a head taller than the rest. What Yawm was for the porytians, Tera was to the skeptiles, but Tera led his race from abject poverty to prospective wealth. Unlike Yawm, Tera wouldn't be corrupted during his rise to the top.

I'd make sure of that. I raised my brow.

"Are you all ready?"

Tera gulped.

"Of course."

Helios took a deep breath, his mood like sour milk. He stretched out his hands, and our dimension bent. Springfield stood on the other end, and one of my architect golems waited for their arrival. Helios and I walked through before we turned to the skeptiles on the other side of the warp.

I gestured to the city.

"Alrighty then. Welcome to your new home planet - Earth."
