Rain grimaced, then stepped forward, waiting for an opening. He debated taking the spear from Kettel but decided that it hardly mattered. I don’t need a weapon. I am the weapon. He unclasped his cloak and dropped it to the floor, tossing aside his bag and bandoleer as well. He couldn’t rely on Force Ward alone, and he didn’t want to break anything.

The opening came as the monster lifted its leg up high to stomp at Samson.

Velocity.

Rain moved. He felt his armor drag at him as he kicked off from the ground, his body’s acceleration boosted by almost 1000%, fully twice the boost he’d used against the Plague Rat. He smashed into the back of the creature’s leg as if he’d been launched from a cannon. The spongy limb exploded into pulp, already weakened by the creature’s low health.

Completely out of control, Rain flew out from under the toppling monster, scraping and bouncing along the floor as he skidded to a stop. He’d activated Force Ward in time, the hit costing him less than a thousand mana. Damage was hard to calculate, as he had no way of knowing what portion had been blocked by the spell as opposed to his armor. He hadn’t felt a thing.

The Stumper fell like a tree, its leg quite literally chopped out from under it. Its torso hit the ground with a whump of impact. Kettel cheered as Rain scrambled back to his feet. That worked better than expected.

“Everyone, back!” he shouted, then walked cautiously toward the creature. It reached out toward him, trying to drag itself in his direction. He stopped out of its range and moved back, outpacing it easily. Its health was low, less than a tenth remaining. Rina raised her bow, but he held up his hand to stop her. Let’s see how much resistance you have. He hesitated, then shook his head. Refrigerate.

Refrigerate (10/10)

18-20 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 3 meters

Cost: 5 mp/s

He canceled it after a second, watching the monster’s health bar. It hadn’t changed. At least 20, then. Refrigerate.

Refrigerate (10/10)

36-41 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 3 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

Hum. Still nothing. At least 40? That, or it’s got so much health that I can’t see the difference in the bar. Damn it. I need floating damage numbers. Another thing for the list. Refrigerate.

Refrigerate (10/10)

89-102 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 3 meters

Cost: 25 mp/s

This time, he saw the bar move, so he kept the spell going. The creature’s health was dropping, ever so slowly. He checked his mana and cursed. He’d probably run out before it died, and he didn’t want to try a Nova. His breath fogged the air as he turned to face his companions. “Rina.”

The archer nodded, drawing back her bow. The Stumper had almost stopped moving, the slowing effect of Refrigerate taking hold as frost built up on its body. When Rina’s arrow hit, its arm cracked at the shoulder, falling off completely as the flesh shattered. Rina kept shooting. The last sliver of its health disappeared just as Rain’s mana ran out completely.

Your party has defeated [Fungiform Stumper], Level 11

Your Contribution: 25%

412 Experience Earned

“Damn, Rain, that was cold,” Kettel said. “And I don’t mean the temperature. Ye fuckin’ executed the thing! An’ what ye did to its leg! Hells!”

Rain shook his head, frowning as the adrenaline started draining away. Why am I feeling sympathy for a mushroom? It would have killed us if we didn’t kill it first. I need to get over this shit if I’m going to be an adventurer. Damn my bleeding heart.

“Well, that’s that,” Velika said. “Let’s take a five-minute rest, then we move on. I took a little look around while you lot were playing. There’s plenty more where that one came from. We wouldn’t want to keep them waiting.”

Rain shook his head, his temper flaring. I am so done with her bullshit. He walked away from the Citizen, then turned and sat near the groaning form of Bosco. “We rest here,” he said, his gaze meeting Velika’s. She looked amused. “I can recover quickly, but not that quickly. If you can’t wait, you’re welcome to go and clear the area yourself. The rest of us are staying here until we recover. Someone keep watch.” He didn’t wait for her reply, activating Aura Focus and letting his senses fade away.

Level 11, my ass.

Velika hummed to herself quietly, whittling on a chunk of mushroom tree with a dagger. One of the purple ones, of course. She liked the color.

The unawakened were nattering away, singing the praises of the Night Cleaner. The kid, Kettel, was even trying to come up with a new nickname for him. Most of his ideas were terrible. ‘Death Zone’ had a bit of a ring to it, though, even if it was a total exaggeration. She found it amusing how easily impressed they were. What Rain had done was hardly anything special. The nobles, at least, should have known better. It was like they’d never seen a real adventurer before.

Velika looked over at Rain. I have to admit, he IS a decent showman. Very flashy. Good sense of drama. Not much to back it up, though. At least he finally stood up to me. It turns out there’s a hint of a spine under that armor after all.

As they were in a lair, the party screen had let her see how close the man had come to the edge. Running out of mana was death for a mage, nine times out of ten. And he was definitely a mage; there was little doubt of that at this point. His defenses were terrible, to the point that he’d managed to injure himself with his own spells, even with them being as weak as they were. Still, she doubted that any of the unawakened had noticed he’d been hurt. They couldn’t see his health, and he had hidden his injury well.

She could see why he’d tried to hide it from them. Kin were nothing. Hardly a threat to anyone with a few levels under their belt. They were only dangerous because of their numbers, and even then, not very. She would admit that he was well-suited to dealing with swarm types, but bruisers were another story.

She didn’t know what his level was, but no adventurer with armor like his should have had any trouble with something like the Stumper. She was dying to ask him about the smith who had made it, but that would lead to an inconvenient line of questioning. There was a distinct lack of cervidians within the barrier. No, it was better that he thought she didn’t care about the sword anymore, now that she was a Citizen and had a Citizen’s resources.

She sighed, touching her breastbone. It still hurt. A Citizen’s resources... Yeah right. Westbridge, when I get out of here, I am going to murder you. Twice. No, three times.

To distract herself, she returned to inspecting the adventurer’s armor, marveling at the joints. It was impressive, even if the man inside wasn’t. He had wowed the dimwits with the body slam that he’d used to cripple the Stumper, but any real warrior could have done as much without breaking a sweat. Even when he’d used the cold aura, the damage had been piddly compared to how fast his mana had been dropping.

She sighed. No, not impressive at all. Except for the absurd mana regeneration. And that monster-dissolving cleaning spell. And the temperature control… And the speed aura… She paused, tapping her knife on her chin and looking up at the ceiling. Okay, fine, he’s not TOTALLY useless. This fucking town, though. Who the hells wants to be a Dynamo? He’s got no balance, no power, and no future. He’ll never make it past the wall before he gets himself killed unless… Unless someone strong takes him in…

She looked back at the meditating adventurer speculatively. Humm. Maybe I can convince him to take Spring if he doesn’t already have it. Now THAT would be worthwhile. My own Beacon. Now there’s an idea. I just need to persuade him to work for me instead of the Watch...

She chuckled and went back to carving.

It shouldn’t be hard. I guess Rina’s not the only one who found a pet today.

Sentinel Tabot swore softly, standing and brushing the snow from his pants. He’d lost the trail.

The Guilder was good. Very good. She’d vanished into the trees after spending a single night in their camp. Unfortunately, he’d been on duty and unable to talk to her before she’d disappeared. Today was his free day, though, and he’d decided to use it to track her down. Partly, he was curious about what she was doing in the forest, but more importantly, he wanted to see if she would be interested in joining him for a drink. She had the most beautiful eyes. His plans had been stymied, however. Her tracks led to this clearing, then vanished.

He’d been all over the area, investigating the pathetic shack and the various signs of habitation. Clearly, someone had been camping out here and started working on the foundation for a more permanent dwelling. He walked over to the edge of the hole and looked into it, wonderingly.

Did she know whoever was living out here? I wonder if—Ah!

Tabot reached up to his neck, then lowered his hand to look at his fingers. They came away red. His eyes flicked to his health, and his heart filled with despair. He was already dead.

He tried to turn to see his attacker, but failed, falling to his knees. The despair was already fading, replaced with an odd sense of calm. Damn. I guess I’ll never know if she would have agreed to that drink.

His vision darkened as he toppled forward, falling into the pit and staining the snow crimson with his blood.
