The forest to the east of Fel Sadanis had no name, not on any map that Ameliah had ever seen. It was simply marked as a small cluster of trees, when it was marked at all. That wasn’t to say it was small, however. She’d been walking for almost two days at this point.

She was finally getting close. The party she was tracking had made camp in a clearing a few leagues back, staying there for a while and only leaving recently. Why they’d left, she wasn’t sure. There was no way that the Watch would find them this deep in the wood. Perhaps they’re trying to loop around and head to Vestvall from the south?

She stood, shifting the massive anvil that she was carrying on her back. There had been some ropes in Tallheart’s hut that she’d used to make a harness for it, but it was still cumbersome. She’d had to stuff a few rocks into her pack and move it to hang in front of her, just to balance it out. The added weight was better than having to hunch over.

I don’t know why I bothered to take this thing…

Tallheart had been wise to leave it behind. The footprint that she’d been inspecting was shallow, barely an outline left in the hard ground. Although the smith was a big man wearing full plate, tracking him had proven surprisingly tricky. Her own footprints were much clearer, thanks to the damn anvil. Once more, she considered just dropping the thing, then discarded the idea. I’ve brought it this far, I’m not abandoning it now.

She activated Mask Trail, watching as the footprints that she had left were erased by tiny puffs of greenish magic, continuing into the distance behind her. Anvil or not, she wasn’t about to make it easy for anyone to follow her. She made sure to step on Tallheart’s footprint as she set off again. Mask Trail wouldn’t remove a person’s tracks unless they’d been in her party when they’d made them. That said, the spell worked by healing the affected area until it matched its surroundings. Tallheart’s footprint would be erased along with hers the next time she used it.

She kept going, looking for broken branches, disturbed snow, bootprints, and any other signs of the party’s passage. Tallheart was careful, but the others were less so, especially now that they were further away from the city. Jamus’s robe occasionally dragged on the ground, disturbing the thin coating of snow that had fallen from the canopy. The third member of the party had a limp, one footprint always deeper than the other. That would be the scholar friend that Rain had mentioned. She’d been worried that she wouldn’t be able to track them at first, but the trees had stopped the trail from being completely erased by the snow. Still, it was hard without a proper tracking skill.

She rubbed a broken branch with her hand as she passed, marking it for Mask Trail. The fact that the spell would heal the plant was the only reason that she could use it at all. Normally, Mask Trail had a prerequisite in the Tracking tree, a skill that she had never bothered to learn. However, the class bonus from True Jack did a fascinating thing when it came to unlocking skills. It let her substitute one prerequisite for another of the same tier. The only other restriction was that the new prerequisite skill had to have a logical connection to the skill to be unlocked. In this case, she had substituted Healing Word for the skill in the Tracking tree. She’d only needed to form the link in her mind between healing a person and healing a broken tree branch, disturbed by someone’s passage.

The rare class was a blessing for her at level five, one that she had her father to thank for. The unlock requirements weren’t as obvious as they seemed. Fortunately, it hadn’t lost the prerequisite substitution feature when she’d upgraded it.

The legendary class that it had evolved into made it even easier to unlock and train skills. It let her refund a skill point, freeing it up to put in something else. She’d lose the ability to use the skill, of course, but whatever ranks she had earned would stick around. It wouldn’t lock out anything that relied on it as a prerequisite, and the skill wouldn’t revert to rank one if she later put the point back in. The only problem was that it took around an hour of concentration to make each change.

Another notable problem with the legendary class was its name: Uncertain Savior. It was embarrassingly accurate. Unfortunately, she could no-sooner change it than she could change herself.

The wind rustled through the trees, carrying something with it. Ameliah froze, tilting her head. It had sounded like a voice. Was that…

The sound came again, clearer this time now that she was focusing on her hearing. She smiled. Message Tallheart. Tell Jamus that I heard that, and he isn’t one to talk. Her smile widened into a grin as she felt the spell connect.

Tallheart’s persistent headache immediately began to subside as Ameliah’s words ran through his mind. He straightened up slowly. Finally.

“I can’t help it, idiot,” Staavo said, pulling up his pant leg and pointing at his wooden leg. “And you’re leaving way more tracks than I am with that flaming dress you’re wearing. There’s probably a trail of orange threads leading all the way back to Fel Sadanis.”

“I’ll have you know that this robe has a durability enchant,” Jamus said, “It wouldn’t get ripped that easily. And you didn’t have to follow us.”

“Nonsense,” said Staavo, pointing rudely at Tallheart. “As if I’d pass up the chance to interrogate a 30-point. Look at him, for crying out loud! The things he must have seen…”

Tallheart frowned. Hurry, Ameliah. Jamus was his friend and knew that he did not care for endless blather, but the scholar, Staavo, brought out the worst in him. The two had been bickering non-stop since they’d stopped for lunch.

A flicker of motion caught his eye, though he heard nothing. Ameliah stepped out from the trees, moving quickly across the powdery snow. Tallheart was delighted to see that she was carrying his anvil on her back.

She waved to him, but he didn’t return the motion. Instead, he looked at Jamus significantly. He shifted his gaze back to Ameliah and he mouthed the word ‘boo’. Neither Jamus nor Staavo noticed. They weren’t facing the right way to see her and were caught up in their pointless argument besides.

A mischievous grin formed on Ameliah’s face as she nodded back to him. She moved further out of the sightlines of the arguing pair. Staavo glanced away, and she pounced on the opportunity, dashing forward to stand behind Jamus. Her footsteps were silent; she was likely using Stalk or some other, similar skill.

“Jamus,” she said, doing her best to imitate Tallheart’s deep voice. The corners of the smith’s eyes crinkled as the orange-robed man leapt several stride into the air, whirling in surprise. She’s good at that.

“Ahhhhhhh!” Jamus screamed, flickers of purple magic shooting from his fingers into the ground. “Ah… Ameliah? How did you… Don’t do that!”

Ameliah laughed, smiling at him. “Hello, Jamus. Tallheart.”

“I told you that you were leaving a trail, boy,” said Staavo, having also lurched to his feet. He looked unsteady, clutching at his chest. “This is Ameliah, then? The one you mentioned?”

Jamus nodded, still breathing rapidly. “Ameliah, how long ago did Tallheart put you up to that? Don’t you know I’m old? You could have given me a heart attack.”

“Psh, how do you think I feel?” grumped Staavo. “I’m like twice your age, boy, and you never told me what she looked like. She’s a silverplate. We’d be dead if she was hostile.”

“Ameliah,” Tallheart rumbled, cutting off Jamus’s reply. “Please help. They will not stop talking.”

It turned out that health potions tasted like lime.

It was wrong.

So wrong.

Because the system wasn’t standardized, potion colors weren’t a reliable method for determining their effects. Reason’s potions were colorless, but he added dye before selling them, tailoring them to match the interface of the buyer. In Rain’s case, that was red for health, blue for mana, and green for stamina. The flavor, though, was harder to control. It wasn’t something you could just change at the last minute. Reason claimed to have the best-tasting potions in Fel Sadanis, but while the lime flavor was palatable, it was still a travesty.

Rain shook his head, tucking the empty glass bottle back into a loop of his bandoleer. Health should be cherry flavored. Strawberry would also be acceptable. But lime? What the hell is wrong with people?

He glanced at his health bar. It was slowly filling thanks to the potion, but he wasn’t feeling any better yet. He’d have to wait for it to push him into overhealth. His skin was quite unhappy with the treatment that it had received at the hands of Immolate. That said, it was only a minor flash burn. Painful, but not dangerous.

Thankfully, the unawakened didn’t seem to be alarmed by the prospect of hanging out with a living bomb. On the contrary, they wouldn’t shut up about how awesome his spell had been. He had to admit, it had felt pretty satisfying to get some recognition at last. It almost made up for the fact that his face had felt like it was on fire for the entire time that they were lavishing him with praise.

Kettel had even called him cool. Hearing him use the English expression he’d taught him was the icing on the cake. Still, Rain had eventually made an excuse to slink away so he could discreetly use a potion.

His face had gotten the worst of it due to the slit in his visor, but the hot air had found its way inside at many other places as well. While his armor had no gaps that a blade could fit through, it was hardly airtight. Still, it had protected him merely by being a physical barrier between himself and the hot air. If he’d kept the spell going for longer, then the metal would have started heating up, and that would have caused other problems. Interestingly, a Nova might actually be safer than an extended channel at lower power.

I’ll try that next time. If I use an Immolate Nova, then chase it with a Refrigerate Nova, will it equal out? I don’t see a reason why it shouldn’t. It might cancel the damage, though. Damn it, more testing is required. Once I get Prismatic Intent, I could just do both at once, too. An IcyHot Nova? How would that even work?

A pebble plinked against his helmet, and he jumped, turning to see Velika staring at him. “Are you ready yet?” she said. “We’re almost done with this zone. You can recover your mana while we walk. There’s not a lot left.”

“One minute,” Rain said, glaring at her, then turning away. He surreptitiously pulled a stamina potion from his bandoleer and held it up to his eyes. It was green, as it should be. However, he remembered that the system had initially drawn his stamina bar in yellow before he’d changed it. Lemon? No, that would be too similar to lime. Banana?

He pulled out the cork with his teeth, then downed the contents of the vial.

Gah, sweet! That is NOT banana. What the hell is that? It’s like…bubble gum? No, not quite. Cotton candy? Irn Bru? Yeah, that’s it. This tastes just like flat Irn Bru. He shuddered and scrubbed at his teeth with his tongue. It would be better if it was carbonated. His eyes flicked to his stamina bar. It works, though. I wonder where Reason got the girders.

Rain had actually lost quite a bit of stamina since he’d entered the lair. It seemed that it drained faster, now that his Strength was boosted. He tucked the bottle away and lowered his visor, skin starting to feel better at last. There was just one final issue to deal with before they moved on. He cleared his throat. “Kettel.”

“Yeah?” said Kettel, looking over at him from where he was talking with the others. Rain motioned for him to join him.

“Here,” Rain said as Kettel arrived, reaching down to his belt to retrieve the Quickstaff. He extended it with a puff of mana, then held it out to the teenager.

An excited grin spread across Kettel’s face as he reached for the staff, but Rain didn’t let go when he tried to take it. Instead, he loomed. “If you lose this, I will make you regret it if it’s the last thing I do, or else my name’s not Sun Wukong.”

“Huh?” Kettel said.

“Just be careful,” Rain said, smiling as he released the staff. “It’s worth around three hundred Tel.”

“Shit!” Kettel said, recoiling and staring at the metal pole in his hand. “That much?”

Rain nodded, then turned and walked away. “Form up!” he said firmly. “We’re done here.”

The rest of the trip through the Forest of the Drowned was uneventful. True to Velika’s word, there weren’t many monsters left. Only one Trundler, and a few packs of the smaller rats. The party took care of them handily.

Velika led them to the entrance of a cave. From Melka’s description, he recognized it as the entrance to the Mushroom Caverns. According to Velika, the Kin had been guarding it.

Apparently, monsters behaved a bit differently inside lairs sometimes; otherwise, they would have tried to consume the entire forest.

The cave became a sloped tunnel that twisted and turned as it plunged into the earth. The walls were covered with a faintly glowing greenish moss, precluding the need to light one of the evertorches that Rain was carrying.

After about a fifteen-minute walk, the tunnel emptied out into a large cavern filled with mushrooms. There were tons of regular-sized ones, like you’d expect to find just about anywhere, but also some genuinely massive specimens, more like trees than anything else. Mushroom Cavern is right.

The ceiling was shrouded in shadow, as were the caps of the mushroom trees. The luminescent moss was enough to see by, even for those without convenient Perception boosts. That was good. Melka had warned him that lighting a torch in here would have been a catastrophically bad idea.

“Right, listen up,” Rain said in a quiet voice. Detection had already revealed a worrying number of monsters around. His ears picked up the slurping, sucking sounds of slimes, echoing in a way that made it difficult to pinpoint them.

“This is what the Watch calls the Mushroom Cavern, but that’s got too many syllables. I’m calling it the Shroom Cave. The big mushroom tree things are harmless, other than the purple ones. Don’t touch the purple ones. As for monsters, this is Slime central. Most of them are the same as those in the sewers, but there are other types as well. They like to climb the mushrooms, and sometimes they stick to the ceiling. Don’t forget to look up.”

“What’s the plan?” Rina whispered. “Straight across?”

