Rain nodded. “The entrance to the Tunnel is on the other side. Just like the Forest, there’s really only one way forward. That doesn’t mean it will be easy, though. Once we get out into the cavern, the slimes will come for us, but that’s not the real danger. As long as you don’t get any of their acid on you, it will be fine. The real threat is the Fungiforms.”

“Those Strangler things?” said Arlo, not attempting to keep his voice down at all. “Ha! I am not afraid!” His words echoed loudly through the cavern. Rain heard the tell-tale suck-plop of slimes detaching from the ceiling and falling to the floor. Detection confirmed that a few of them were headed in their direction, one of them particularly nearby.

He sighed. “Rina, get your bow ready, Arlo just attracted some slimes. And no, not Stranglers, at least, probably not. Stumpers. They’re big, like three-stride-tall big. Mushroom men, basically. Tough, spongy skin, usually around level ten. Slow, but if you get hit, you’ll get turned into paste.”

Kettel laughed. “I don’t care fer mushrooms. I vote ye just burn this whole place down.”

Rain shook his head. “Bad idea. Fungiforms are flammable. Very flammable. They tend to explode if you set them on fire, just like those Kin did.”

“I’m not seeing the problem there,” said Kettel.

“Think for a minute,” Velika said. “We’ll wait.”

Rain frowned. No need to be rude. “It’s not just the Stumpers,” he said, gesturing at the mushrooms covering the floor. “It’s a chemical-aspect thing. This zone, in particular. All of the mushrooms in here are just as flammable as the monsters. We’re here to get you lot a blue, not blast ourselves into orbit. I don’t think it would be quite that bad, but still. No fire.”

“Orbit?” Bosco said, raising an eyebrow. “Like a circle?”

Rain sighed. “Don’t worry about it. Rina, on your left.”

Rina jumped, looking in the direction he had indicated. A tiny green slime was making its way toward them, no larger than a house cat. She nocked an arrow and drew back, then hesitated, looking at him for confirmation. “Didn’t you say you wanted to try something on these?”

Rain’s frown faded. “Oh, yeah. Everyone, get back into the tunnel. It’s science time.”

Everyone fell back, Velika included. It seemed she was as curious as the rest of them. Rain smiled as the Slime headed for him. I can’t believe I was ever afraid of these. Granted, the first one I fought was quite a bit bigger. It was still level one, though, just like this little guy.

The white light of Purify wafted out to meet the monster, rolling over it like fog. As it did, the Slime quivered, stopping in its tracks. It sat there, wobbling uncertainly.

A small reaction, but no change at 20% intensity. It’s still at full health. Let’s try 50%.

Rain boosted the power. The white light grew stronger, now competing with the luminescent moss in brightness. The Slime freaked out, pulsating wildly. It started oozing back the way it had come.

Oh no you don’t. 100%.

As the light grew, something started happening within the Slime. The magic started seeping through its membrane, lighting it up from within. Still, it seemed to be resisting the spell, remaining as disgusting as ever as it made its best time toward the perceived safety of the mushroom trees.

Going further. 200%.

The full boost from Channel Mastery did the trick. Slowly, the Slime started changing color. It faded from dark muddy green to a translucent lime, like jello. It didn’t stop there. The color grew paler and paler until the Slime was completely transparent, like glass. He could see a single Tel floating within it, glimmering faintly.

Rain jumped slightly as the chime of a kill notification sounded. Huh. That’s odd.

The Slime hadn’t died. It was moving back toward them, no longer seeming to care about the spell that surrounded it. He pulled up the notification to check what had happened, deactivating Purify as he did so.

You have Purified [Slime], Level 1

Transformed to Crystal Slime (Neutral), Level 1

25 Experience Gained

Taming Possible

“Ah,” Velika said, walking past him to crouch down and peer at the Slime. “I’ve always wondered where Crystal Slimes came from. Now I know.”

“What’s it mean?” said Breggeh, looking at the Slime. “What did you do to it? Why isn’t it trying to attack us anymore?”

Rain shook his head, watching as the Slime bumped into Velika’s leg, then started trying to climb her. She kicked it away, sending it to splatter against the ground near Samson. It reformed quickly, seemingly unhurt. Samson took a step back as it started moving in his direction.

“They’re pets,” said Rina, intercepting the Slime. She knelt down to poke at it with her finger, making a large indent. It glommed onto her hand, and she laughed, standing. “My little sister has a big one. She bought it from a trader, though. I never knew you could make them.” She turned to look at Rain. “Do you mind if I keep it?”

Rain shrugged, watching the Slime as it crawled up Rina’s arm, heading for her shoulder. It froze when it encountered the sleeve of her shirt, pausing as if confused. That’s…kinda adorable. “Sure, you can have it, I guess. My interface says it isn’t friendly, though, just neutral. Maybe try feeding it or something. Also, don’t let it near your face. It could still be dangerous.” He looked at Velika questioningly. “Do you need to be a Tamer to tame a monster?”

Velika shrugged. “No idea. I do know that she won’t be able to take it out of here unless she manages it, though. Even real Tamers can’t do that. Anyway, as fascinating as all of this is, that’s enough playing around. I don’t want to be down here all week.”

Rain nodded. “Right, back to business. Form up, people. I’ll warn you if I see a Fungiform. As for the Slimes…” Damn it, now I kinda feel bad about killing them.

“No mercy,” Arlo said, looking at Rina’s Slime with distaste. “Monsters are not pets. You should get rid of that thing.”

Rina shook her head. “No, I’m keeping him. I think I just decided. I’m going to be a Tamer once I’m awakened. This little guy is just too cute.”

Arlo scoffed. “Ridiculous.”

“I have to agree,” said Samson. “Tamers are weak. You should learn the sword. I could teach you if you’d like.”

“Depths, enough,” said Velika, running her hands through her hair. “Rain, get them moving. No more purifying Slimes. They’re here to learn to fight and to get a blue, not to make friends with boogers.”

“Right,” he said. He glanced at the Crystal Slime as they continued. It had tangled itself in Rina’s hair, and she was struggling to pull it free with a tolerant smile on her face. He laughed softly. Best spell ever.

Unsurprisingly, you could not just Purify anything. There were limits. Slimes seemed to be something of a special case. They were filthy, low-level, and water-based, a trifecta of weaknesses that made them particularly vulnerable to the spell.

Fungiform Stumpers were none of these things. Purify did nothing.

“Dodge!” Rain shouted, keeping Force Ward active at 75% absorption. He’d already learned that blocking the monster’s heavy blows completely was a bad idea. Stopping its two-handed smash at Breggeh had cost him over four thousand mana and resulted in a spike of pain that had felt like an icepick through his skull.

Kettel darted back, stumbling as the ground shook from the impact of the tree trunk sized limb. The Fungiform Stumper was enormous, its height closer to three meters than three stride. It had two massive legs that supported the main trunk of its body, which was fully the thickness of an industrial refrigerator. It had no head, only a red mushroom cap, speckled with glowing orange patches. Two massive arms hung from where the cap met the trunk, hanging almost to the ground. Its body was made of spongy white flesh, with a few smaller mushrooms poking out here and there.

The monster retracted its arm and raised one of its feet to stomp at Kettel instead. Rain cursed. “Come on, Velika! If one of them gets hit like Bosco did, they could die!”

“So they should avoid getting hit, then,” Velika said with a shrug. “The thing is so fucking slow, a baby could dodge it. Stop freaking out, everyone. Just dodge and counter.”

“Yer not the one it’s tryin’ to make intah mash!” Kettel shouted, jabbing at the Stumper with the end of Rain’s staff. Unsurprisingly, it did nothing. That didn’t stop Kettel from trying again, striking three more times before he was forced to scramble away.

“Switch out!” yelled Arlo, trying to edge around Kettel to get at the monster. Kettel ignored him, continuing his relentless and futile assault.

They were fighting in a corridor between chambers, with very little room to maneuver. It was only possible for one or two people to engage the monster at a time, and it was refusing to be drawn out into the open. Rina had tried shooting it, but her arrows had simply bounced off. Rain had wanted to freeze it from a distance, but Velika had rejected that idea.

“Move, peasant!” shouted Arlo, swishing his rapier angrily.

“No!” shouted Kettel, “I don’t need yer help. I got this!”

Rain swore. “Kettel, get back. Arlo’s right. You’re not doing damage. Arlo, get in there. Samson, try to get around it.”

“There’s no point,” said Samson, calmly. “Its skin is too tough. We should retreat.”

“Unacceptable,” Velika said. “Listen to your commander.”

Rain grit his teeth in anger. He’d already tried to call a retreat when Bosco had gotten hit, but Velika had vetoed him. Attack was the only option she would allow.

It wasn’t completely hopeless, however. The enchanted weapons of the nobles were doing damage to the monster’s health bar, even if there was no physical sign of it. If they wore it down enough, then they’d start drawing blood, or whatever the mushroom equivalent of blood was.

Unfortunately, there was no time to explain the mechanics of health to the unawakened. Rain grabbed the back of Kettel’s shirt and dragged him out of the way, making room for Arlo to engage. “Get in there!”

“Hah-HAH!” Arlo shouted, flourishing his rapier needlessly and rushing forward. “Have at thee!” He started poking at the monster with rapid strikes. The narrow sword was bending alarmingly with each hit, the point failing to penetrate the spongy flesh of the Fungiform. That didn’t seem to discourage him, which was a good thing. It was having an effect, if only a small one. The monster’s health was down by about a third at this point, slowly being chipped away as Arlo kept stabbing.

“Moving in!” Samson shouted. He darted under the monster’s clumsy swing and rolled between its legs, coming up behind it. He spun, then started laying into it with his sword using long, drawing cuts. The Fungiform roared, which was disconcerting, considering its lack of a mouth. It shook furiously, the orange spots on its cap flaring brightly as it spewed a cloud of spores from its gills.

Rain was ready, activating Purify to wipe them from the air before switching back to Force Ward. It wasn’t the first time the Stumper had tried that little trick. He had no idea what the spores would do, and he had no interest in finding out.

He glanced at the party display and cursed. The others’ stamina was getting low, Arlo’s in particular.

“Rain, let me go!” shouted Kettel, struggling. “I can help!”

Rain pushed him away from the fight, releasing his shirt. “Go get Bosco’s spear. Breggeh, how’s he doing?”

“Still unconscious,” Breggeh said, looking up at him from where she was kneeling at Bosco’s side.

Rain cursed and looked back at the battle. “Damn it all.”

Bosco had gotten clubbed by the Stumper and been sent flying. If that wasn’t bad enough, he’d landed head-first and helmetless on a rock. Rain had Force Ward set to 50% for the hit, acting on Velika’s advice. Fortunately, the Citizen had been right about how Force Ward worked. She hadn’t explained in detail, but Rain had a decent idea of what had happened.

The ridiculous damage from the monster’s opening strike at Breggeh had come from the fact that he’d been running the spell at 100%. In essence, he’d tried to stop the monster’s massive arm completely. Since it hit like a truck, that was not ideal. Stopping a truck was hard.

At 50%, Force Ward softened the blow but didn’t stop Bosco from getting launched into the air. The initial hit had only done thirty damage, with the landing against the rock doing closer to seventy. Without Force Ward, Bosco would have been dead, not just unconscious. With Force Ward at 100%, Rain would have run out of mana, and Bosco would have still gone flying, only without the protection of the spell. There would have been nothing to save his skull from the rock.

Something was definitely screwy with how Force Ward dealt with momentum. After what had happened to Bosco, he’d upped it to 75%, and was hoping that he wouldn’t have to find out whether that was enough.

Damn it, Velika, what the hell are you thinking!

“Here!” Kettel said, arriving with Bosco’s spear. “Arlo, switch!”

To Rain’s surprise, Arlo actually listened, falling back to make way for Kettel. The blue-clad noble was panting heavily, his stamina almost empty.

Kettel yelled wordlessly, stabbing at the monster’s leg with the spear. The point skittered off to the side, doing no noticeable damage. Rain’s eyes widened. What the…

“It’s bound,” said Velika, then started laughing. “Why the fuck does he have a bound weapon? He can’t even charge the thing! Oh gods, this town.” Her laughter echoed through the cavern as Kettel stabbed again and again, the hits sliding off without penetrating.

“Getting…tired,” Samson panted, dodging backward. The Stumper had focused its attention on him, now that Arlo had retreated. Unlike the humans, the monstrous mushroom was still going strong.

“Velika, damn it!” Rain shouted.

“Fine,” Velika said, still chuckling. “You can go in and save them.”

I meant you, not me. He shook his head. This was no time for cowardice. “Rina, start shooting again. Its health is at about a third. The arrows might be able to penetrate now.”

“What?” gasped Arlo. “Only a third?”

Rain clenched his fists. “Kettel, get back! It’s my turn!”

“Fuck yeah!” laughed Kettel, ducking away as an arrow sprouted from the Stumper’s cap. “Kick its ass, Rain!”

