Bantering and bickering, the two of them lugged the raw materials over to where Rhys had indicated. Constructing the forge itself was relatively simple. A box where the fuel and metal would go, then a chimney. Rhys left the entire brick box open in the center, figuring he’d set up the place to put the metal later. Worst case, he’d just find a tough material shaped in a kind of bowl-ish manner, and pile the metal up in there. With Trash Intent, he could probably hold it in place well enough. He would just use a cauldron, but, well, if the metal was soft enough to melt in a cauldron, then it was too soft to patch his cauldron. It’d simply melt every time he tried to push the cauldron to its limits, and he didn’t really want to try holding molten metal into a three-dimensional shape with Trash Intent while also clutching onto the rest of the cauldron, while a highly pressurized, highly toxic material did its best to find a weak spot and escape. Not his idea of a good time. He had to find something harder, with a higher melting point.

We might be left using stone. The stone would crack, but he could at least use Trash Intent to hold it together. He was more worried about the insulating properties of the stone. It would take longer to heat the metal, and longer for it to cool in the bowl. Cooling wasn’t the problem, but heating was. Longer to heat meant it would take more fuel. He could use trees, but he’d rather use trash, and make this a trashy process from start to finish, not to mention absorb a few impurities on the way. It was fine to use some trash, but what if it took so long that he had to start using valuable trash in the fire?

Rhys turned and looked at the giant trash pile.

Okay, maybe that’s not actually a problem.

“What’s the holdup?” Bast asked.

“I need something to melt the metal in, and a firm metal strong enough to hold up against a cauldron’s heat,” Rhys muttered thoughtfully.

“What if you find another cauldron? A better one?”

“A better one? Where am I gonna find a better one? This one’s got the strongest mana signature in the whole—” Rhys paused. He thumped Bast on the shoulder. “You’re a genius, Bast!”

“Thanks for acknowledging it,” Bast said, grinning.

There weren’t stronger large mana signatures in the trash. That much was true. There wasn’t such a thing as a ‘better cauldron.’ But what there were, were small splotches of very powerful mana signatures. Jagged bits of metal where a cauldron had completely torn itself apart, leaving very little behind. Some of those mana signatures were powerful, more powerful, even, than the cauldron he’d found, it was just that the pieces of metal were so small that he hadn’t seen them as cauldrons at all. But he didn’t need a second cauldron, he needed a few bits of metal that he could stuff into a hole in the cauldron he had.

I can’t believe I overlooked something so obvious. Rhys set off across the garbage pit with vigor, seeking out those twisted and tangled bits of metal. Some were as large as his palm; others were as small as his fingernails. He collected them all, piling them up in his sleeves as he went.

Bast watched hm go. He shook his head. “Can’t say I get it, but I guess I don’t have to.”

Rhys returned after long with a pile of metal. “You find something to smelt the metal in while I was gone?”

“Didn’t know I had an assignment,” Bast returned.

“You know it now. Better late than never.” Rhys looked at him expectantly and clapped his hands. “So? What do you have for me?”

Bast shrugged at him. “Nothing?”

“Aw, come on. No more genius ideas?”

“Not really.”

Rhys clicked his tongue and shook his head. “I was counting on you, Bast.”

Bast threw his hands up. Rhys grinned, and Bast rolled his eyes back at him.

“Guess we’re going with the stone-trash solution,” Rhys said, and clapped, heading out into the trash.

“There he goes again,” Bast muttered, watching him scamper over the trash.
