Gabriel wiped out the skeletons before any of us could move. His rings shot out from his fingers like bullets, tearing through their skulls and ricocheting off one another. Before we knew it, all the skeletons crumbled into piles of bones.

The rings shot back to Gabriel and slid right into his fingers. He looked back at us and smiled.

“Impressive, isn’t it?”

Sure it was, but was I about to tell him that?

Nah.

Not to be petty, but I didn’t want to give him the satisfaction of—

“How did you do that?!” Reina let out, running over to him.

I sighed. So much for that.

But honestly, if I had lacked any sense of self control, I would’ve reacted the same way as Reina. I called [INSPECT] on Gabriel, curious about his stats.

[ANGEL: GABRIEL]

Level: 131

HP: ???

Description:

An angel who is obsessed with the rings on his fingers, primarily using them as his main source of offensive attacks. He is proficient with wind magic as well as a variation of it that causes objects to rapidly spin. He enjoys flying in a bathtub despite having his own pair of wings as well as collecting things that do not belong to him.

Assessment:

Fortunately, he appears friendly. Challenging him in a flying race will result in a loss. He already beat you once, and he’ll do it again.

Okay, first of all, he did not beat me during the Grand Skycurrent Race. He was disqualified for using magic, while I was disqualified for taking a shortcut.

But of course, that wasn’t the thing that stood out to me the most. Being Level 131 was no joke. I was Level 128 with an absolutely horrible stat selection, but him? Although I couldn’t see the specifics of his stats, it was safe to assume that they were more concentrated than mine, on top of the fact that he had an overall higher Level.

Compared to the rest of the party, his Level was the highest. From what I remembered, Reina was somewhere in the mid-twenties, while Meriel was somewhere in the seventies. And Kaelor…

I paused.

I never did [INSPECT] him, did I? I should probably do that once we regroup. From what I’ve seen, Kaelor must’ve been an insanely high level as well. Maybe being a Firstborn would make his stat window look a little different from the others I’ve seen so far.

Before I became too lost in my thoughts, Camille’s voice broke my concentration.

“It’s not over,” she said, pointing ahead. “They won’t die that easily.”

The ground rumbled once again, and the bones combined into dozens of skeletons. They continued moving toward us as if they weren’t dead just a second ago. Actually—I guess skeletons were already considered dead, but you get what I mean.

“Then how do we defeat them?” Reina asked.

Camille looked at me.

“Ah,” I said, pulling out Dawn Sunderer from my back. Holy magic would surely be effective against skeletons.

Honestly, I liked keeping the sword on my back instead of my [INVENTORY] since it made me feel cool as hell. Of course, actually drawing it made me feel even cooler. Maybe wanting to be a magic knight really was the best move for me.

Reina’s eyes lit up as I held the divine sword in my hands. “While we’re at it, let me teach you how to properly use a sword!”

“Is now really the right time?”

I looked ahead. The skeletons were walking toward us… slowly. They didn’t have any weapons and their mobility was quite pitiful.

“Go for it,” Gabriel said, backing off. “Let’s see what you’ve got.”

Camille stepped back, clearing the way.

As the skeletons approached the two of us, Reina gently pulled and pushed my limbs and waist, forcing me into the right position.

“There,” she said, looking at me from a slight distance. I heard her snickering.

“What’s so funny?”

“Huh? Oh, no, nothing. It’s just…” She laughed again. “Seeing such a small girl taking this pose… it’s…”

I aimed my sword at her.

“Hey, I was just kidding!” she said, gently tipping my sword back toward the skeletons. “We’ll just focus on three main attacks: a vertical slice, a horizontal slice, and a jab. That’s all.”

She walked behind me, holding my hands as we lifted the sword into the air. “We’ll do a vertical slice first,” she said.

I flinched. “Can you talk a little quieter? I’m not sure if you noticed, but you’re a lot louder when you’re right next to my ears.”

But she didn’t listen at all.

“Go!” she yelled.

I nearly went deaf from that.

We swung the sword from top to bottom, taking out the skeleton instantly. However, as always, I stumbled forward a step.

“How was that?” I asked.

She clicked her tongue. “Not good at all. You’re letting the sword control you instead of you controlling it.”

She took one hand off and placed it on my stomach.

“What are you doing?” I asked. “This is… how do I put it… weirdly intimate?”

I heard a laugh from far behind. That had to have been Gabriel, right? I doubt Camille would laugh at something like this.

“Try again,” Reina said as another skeleton approached.

We swung down, and the same thing happened. The skeleton was taken out in one strike, but I still took an accidental step forward.

I looked at Reina, who was pressed against me. “So are you going to keep hugging me like this or…?”

“I think I realize what the issue is,” she said, ignoring me. One of the skeletons came too close, but she simply kicked it back. “You’re not tensing your stomach whenever you swing. That’s why you always feel so unstable.”

“Tensing my stomach? Would that really help?”

She nodded. “Not only would it make it much easier to stay balanced, but you’ll be able to put a lot more force into your swings. Try it.”

She backed off, letting me take the next swing by myself.

When another skeleton came, I did exactly as she said and tensed my stomach as soon as I swung.

“It… worked?” I said as I looked down at my feet. I didn’t stumble like all the other times.

Reina smiled, slapping me on the back. “You did it!”

“Agh!” I yelped, stumbling forward.

I looked at the pile of bones from the skeletons I had killed. As expected, they didn’t come back to life. This holy weapon in my hand was highly effective against them.

“Try a horizontal swing this time,” Reina said. “It’s harder than vertical because now you’ll also need to really keep your shoulders loose and twist your entire body into it. Most of the force should come from your body instead of your arms.”

I nodded and took the stance Reina taught me earlier. When the skeletons came, I took a horizontal swing.

“Wah!” I cried as I completely missed the one in front of me, overestimating my reach.

I heard laughter from behind. It wasn’t just Reina. It wasn’t just Gabriel. Even Camille was laughing at me. Wasn’t she supposed to be the serious one out of the bunch?

I blushed, shaking it off and refocusing. The first few attempts were met with stumbling and awkwardness. Reina corrected me each time, and after a while, I managed to get used to it.

She taught me how to jab next, which was different from the other two swings since she actively wanted me to take a step forward as I did it.

“Now this is what I’m used to,” I said, smiling deviously. “Taking a step after each attack is my specialty.”

“Stumbling forward doesn’t count,” Reina corrected. “When you get better, you’ll also be incorporating steps into your horizontal and vertical swings. We’re just keeping it simple for now.”

Thankfully, learning the jab was much easier than the previous two. By the end of it, all the skeletons were down for good.

[TROPE COMPLETED: YOU CAN’T HAVE AN UNDERGROUND AREA IN A DUNGEON WITHOUT SKELETONS]

[ITEM ACQUIRED: BONEN’T POTION]

Effects:

- Prevents skeletons from coming back to life after death

- All pieces of bone touched by the liquid are affected, no matter the dosage

This item will now appear in your [INVENTORY]

Note: Ineffective against skeletons that don’t revive in the first place, such as Sans and Papyrus.

From the effects description, I’m assuming it’s one of those potions that I’ll have to throw and shatter.

Just when I thought the System messages were over, I received yet another one.

[LEVEL]

[129 → 130]

[STRENGTH]

[21 → 22]

I stared at it, skeptical. How did this happen? This wasn’t a trope reward.

I called [INSPECT] on myself.

[PROTAGONIST: Allene]

Level: 127 (+2)

HP: 601

STAMINA: 360

MANA: 550

Strength: 21 (+1)

Agility: 32

Vitality: 20

Endurance: 32

Intelligence: 19 (+1)

Wisdom: 35

[WARNING: Some values are kept hidden]

Unallocated Stats: 14

“Ready to go?” Gabriel asked.

“Just give me a second,” I said.

This was the same thing that happened when Meriel taught me how to use magic for the first time, wasn’t it? Back then, I got my first (+1) to Intelligence and Levels. This time, though, I got (+1) to Strength instead, and another (+1) to my Levels, bringing the total up to (+2).

How strange. I initially thought that it was because I was able to naturally gain Levels and stats in this world, but maybe I assumed the wrong thing back then. I’ve been through all sorts of different battles and events ever since then, but I never gained another Level naturally until now with Reina.

So what was different? Was it because of Meriel and Reina themselves? Was it something they had in common?

I shook my head. Why was the System in this world so complicated? I just kept asking more questions about it without ever receiving any answers.

Gabriel nodded toward the hallway that the skeletons were guarding. “Ready?”

I nodded.

As we walked through, I stayed behind the rest of them, making all sorts of theories about how to naturally gain stats in this world. I’ve been watching Reina’s and Meriel’s stats closely since I met them, and they’re able to naturally gain stats.

So why wasn’t it the same case for me?

“It’s dark,” Gabriel said. “Does anyone here know how to use fire magic? We just need something to light up the area.”

Before I could reply, Reina said, “I do!”

She snapped her fingers, and a flame erupted from her palm.

I looked at it, impressed. “Whoa. And here I thought you only knew Fireball.”

“I’ve been practicing here and there when no one else was looking. I’m glad to see that such a simple spell is so useful!”

Gabriel spread his arms wide, stopping us from moving any further.

“What’s wrong?” Camille asked.

“Look,” he said, pointing to our right.

There were iron bars just before us. A cell.

“Bring your flame closer,” Gabriel said.

Reina walked toward the cell, her flame illuminating what was inside.

My eyes widened.

There was a dead body within.

A beastman.
