Don’t turn it. That was what all of Montressa said. That was what her true self, watching the dream, said. But Montressa, the student, the girl, had to know. She always had to know. So she opened the door. And she saw Chaise.
The girl was lying on the floor. Montressa saw her torso and legs first. Then—she froze.
One of the undead had come this way. A ghostly, dark figure made of blackness. And it had found Chaise. The shadow was kneeling over her, stooped low. Chaise wasn’t moving.
“Ch—Chaise?”
Montressa was shaking. But her friend might be alive. She drew her wand. The tip sparked weakly, the light sucked up by the darkness that seemed to be drawing in everything. She saw the specter pause.
Montressa du Valeross raised her wand. She tried to shout.
“Get away from her!”
The specter turned. And Montressa saw its face. It was a Human face, the only solid thing in the ghostly, shadowed figure. But the Human face wasn’t right. It was deathly pale. And contorted in a huge grin. Eyes wide. Bloody teeth grinning at Montressa.
The girl halted. She stared at Chaise—her friend’s face—on the specter’s body. Then she saw the blood dripping from the teeth. She looked down.
It had eaten her face. The specter—Chaise—grinned at her, eyes wide. Montressa screamed. She screamed and screamed, backing away. The specter rose, floating. Chaise laughed. It was her voice.
The undead laughed and came at her. Montressa screamed as she threw up [Barrier of Air], the spell Pisces had taught her. The specter passed through the wall of whirling air and reached for her. And Montressa’s scream was real, in the dream, and in life.
Laughing and laughing, and Chaise screamed at her as the undead reached for Montressa—
 
——
 
The [Aegiscaster] woke up. She clutched at sweaty bed sheets, a second scream on her lips. Her throat was raw. She looked around, stared about the lit room, at the hovering [Light] spell by her bed. Even at night, her room was illuminated. For a second the young woman, years older, just sat there. Then she covered her face and started crying.
No one had heard her screams. Her rooms were warded. Montressa knew to cast the spell each night in case she dreamed of the past. She was too afraid to sleep again. So she just sat there, too afraid to cast a [Sleep] spell.
The dream was always the same. Chaise’ face. The last time she had seen Calvaron alive. Death, flying through Wistram’s halls. Death, regret, horror. That was all Montressa remembered.
She didn’t dream of the next part where Cognita had reached out and torn the undead apart, her body bright crystal that glowed golden. She didn’t recall the [Mages] fighting off the undead and the comparatively few casualties the Academy had taken. If it had been a city without so many high-level [Mages] and the Golems, the undead might have slaughtered hundreds of thousands. As it was, they had killed few.
But Chaise and Calvaron were part of that number. And in a way, Montressa was part of that casualty too. Even now, the [Aegiscaster] could close her eyes and remember.
A girl, rocking in a corner for months afterwards, [Light] spells illuminating every corner of her room. Ostracized in class for her friendship, no matter how much she denied playing any part in—
She opened her eyes. And her fear subsided. Never gone away. Never that. But now she had the object of her fear in front of her.
Pisces. The one who had unleashed death. Who had walked away after being exiled, with nothing more done! Because Cognita had demanded it. Because no one had brought him to justice.
Slowly, the sun rose. Montressa slowly untensed as the light illuminated her room. The rays dried her tears. She rose and dressed herself. When she greeted her fellow [Mages] the next day, she showed nothing of her night. Of the girl who had seen nightmares come to life.
But she never forgot. She could never forget. She greeted Isceil and Beza, ignoring Calvaron—no—Palt’s look as she told them what they’d all be doing today.
“We’re following them. All of us.”
 
——
 
Work was work. The days were much like the previous. Sometimes you could forget, think they were all the same. But time didn’t stop. And sometimes, you dreamed of what had been. What you’d taken for granted.
Infected again. Yvlon took the news silently as the [Healer] checked her arms the next day. The Gnoll [Healer] made a faint growling sound as she unwrapped the poultice she’d put around Yvlon’s arms. The [Wounded Warrior] looked at the weeping, red skin. She felt nothing as the Gnoll sniffed and made a face.
“It’s not better.”
“I’m sure my poultice worked, yes? But your skin—the first infection, it is getting better. But this spot—”
The Gnoll pointed. Yvlon nodded. The metal and skin didn’t mix. It irritated the skin, a foreign body. The [Healers] in other cities had suggested that in time her skin might accept the metal. Or not. Either way, at the moment it was a danger.
“Thank you. Can I use a healing potion?”
The Gnoll [Healer] hemmed and growled, but nodded. She held up a cautionary finger.
“If—if you are in danger, the potion should heal your skin and the worst injury first, yes? The body will use the potion best. But it will also give strength to the infection. Perhaps it will heal itself. But it may grow worse. My advice is you should not adventure—”
“Will I get better if I wait?”
The [Healer] couldn’t answer that. So Yvlon stood. She fished in her belt pouch.
“I appreciate all you’ve done.”
The Gnoll woman refused the tip. She frowned as she packed her tools away.
“Come back in two days, no? Or sooner if it looks worse. Clean it, try not to bother it—I will send a [Message] asking for a better poultice from my tribe.”
“Thank you.”
Yvlon smiled. She put the armor over her bandaged and re-salved arms. She felt nothing. The Gnoll [Healer] watched her go. Yvlon stepped into Liscor’s streets, out of the small clinic. She sighed. And then she went to find her team.
Some things never changed. Ceria groaned when Master Reikhle put them on scout duty again. Yvlon wasn’t surprised. The Gnoll didn’t like Pisces or Ksmvr around. What was surprising was that Walt’s team was on scout duty too.
“But we’re wearing armor!”
“Shut up, Walt! Your team was full of the idiots who decided to bother Erin!”
Ceria snapped. Walt and his team scowled.
“It was one slap! It’s not like it doesn’t happen in the north!”
“Erin’s not a [Barmaid]! And that’s not the point!”
“Silence! Get to your [Scouts] and get to work! This isn’t a nursery!”
Master Builder Reikhle bellowed, and the adventurers all shut up. With ill-grace, the Ensoldier Shields trooped off, and the Horns did likewise. Yvlon marched alongside Ceria, listening to the half-Elf grumble. She agreed broadly with everything that made Ceria so mad. But she had to admit, seeing the man who’d slapped Erin complaining about having his nose broken and his eye blackened made her wonder how far Erin had gone in return.
“There’s such a thing as too much retaliation, Ceria.”
“For Walt and his idiots?”
The half-Elf looked at Yvlon. The [Wounded Warrior] met her gaze.
“What if Erin had broken his arm?”
“Well—”
“If you say that’s fair, you might be over-exaggerating. Then again, I’d probably do that. At least deck whoever it was. But if she broke both his legs?”
“Okay, that’s going overboard. A bit. But Walt just doesn’t get it.”
“That’s true.”
There wasn’t much more to say after that. And Ceria was already huffing after the first thirty minutes. She really needed to build up her endurance. She was getting better, though; she didn’t already need a stamina potion. But she was still complaining.
“I think we should take fewer shifts. I mean, I’m practicing being boiled and trying to learn new spells. We could all use more practice time.”
“That is not what you said last time, Captain Ceria. I believe your quote was—”
“Don’t quote me, Ksmvr! I’m unreliable!”
The half-Elf waved her hands. The Antinium nodded, assimilating this information. Ceria sighed.
“It’s just—work. I thought we’d level a tiny bit, but we’re not exactly fighting, are we? We can find better work. When the Halfseekers finally get to Invrisil…”
It was a common refrain. But Yvlon doubted Seborn and Moore were in any hurry. She’d seen them recounting stories to Ulinde this morning. The young Selphid was hanging on every word. The two Gold-rank adventurers weren’t in a hurry to get back to the road. Nor was Jelaqua.
But it would happen. Someday. And sooner than you thought, even if it was later than you wanted. Yvlon rubbed one arm, adjusting her vambraces unconsciously. When they got to Invrisil, the Halfseekers would help the Horns cash in the bounty they’d taken from Liscor’s dungeon.
It made sense to do it in Invrisil versus Pallass—the Gold-rank adventurers knew someone who’d give them the best deal and you wanted that with all the various objects the adventurers needed to turn into pure gold. Griffon Hunt had taken their share to their broker already no doubt, but the Horns needed to build up a network.
And when they got the money? It would be a lot, even split four ways and three ways per team. It was a lot of gold. Yvlon had been thinking more and more about how to spend hers. She could upgrade her armor, buy artifacts—put the money to work, even. The Merchant’s Guild would help with that, as would Yvlon’s family. In fact, her parents could use some, if only for all they’d done for Yvlon. And the families of her old team, the Silver Swords…
But perhaps she could use it for something else as well. Yvlon bit her lip as she scrambled up a hill, taking Ksmvr’s hand as the Antinium bounded up, using his Ring of Jumping.
I could use my share to set myself up. Even divided, it’s enough money to make me as rich as any [Merchant]. It’s a better head start than Ysara had—
Abruptly, Yvlon looked at her teammates. Ceria was panting as Ksmvr stopped next to Pisces. The armored woman looked around and broke the silence.
“Have I ever told you about my sister?”
“Not once.”
“You have a sister?”
“You have spoken of her at length in our drinking chats, yes.”
Pisces and Ceria turned to Ksmvr. The [Skirmisher] returned the look blankly.
“This is not a common occurrence with you two?”
Yvlon smiled slightly. But she lost it as she grew thoughtful. Hissle waved them on and the Horns followed, listening to Yvlon.
“She’s the eldest in the family. The Byres family is only five people. My parents, Ylawes, me, and my older sister. Her name is Ysara.”
“Of course it is. Why are all your family members named with ‘Y’, Yvlon?”
Ceria rolled her eyes. The [Wounded Warrior] looked reproving.
“My mother isn’t. But she did marry into the family. Honestly, it’s just tradition. We used to have a complicated reason involving honoring our Terandrian roots, but no one in the family cares about that. Not even Ylawes and my father, and they uphold a lot of the traditions like well seeding, attending the birth of the first animal each spring, eating silver—”
“You have the weirdest traditions. Go on about your sister.”
Yvlon nodded. Pisces strode next to them rather than [Flash Step] ahead.
“Nothing much to say, really. She was the eldest. Not like Ylawes. She’s very—relaxed compared to the rest of the family. But growing up, all three of us were taught the sword. And Ysara was gifted, and I mean gifted with a sword. You’ve seen Ylawes fight, right? Well, he was never good at it, and he’s better than me.”
Ceria raised her brows, but Pisces nodded thoughtfully. He touched the rapier at his side.
“I could believe that. His footwork and swordsmanship are average. He is adept more at using his Skills and fighting in actual combat than he is at the pure art of it.”
Yvlon frowned at Pisces. The implication being that Pisces was better? The [Necromancer] shrugged, and Yvlon took it at face value. Pisces didn’t lie when it came to his abilities in fencing.
“Yes, well, Ysara is good. She might be better than you, Pisces. She’s beaten [Fencers] before. When they’ve used Skills. But she’s not a [Knight]. She doesn’t even have a [Warrior] class. She used to, but—well, she upholds the other tradition of the Byres family. If we’re not [Knights], we become [Merchants].”
“[Merchants]? No, wait, you told me about that once.”
Ceria looked at Yvlon. Ksmvr cocked his head.
“This is not new information to me, but I am rapt with attention.”
“Thank you, Ksmvr. Yes, she’s a [Merchant]. A good one. And I say [Merchant], but it’s actually [Armored Merchant]. She works in the north, which is why I haven’t mentioned her in a while.”
“And why did you bring her up?”
Yvlon shrugged self-consciously, avoiding Pisces’ gaze.
“Just thinking. I wanted to be a [Knight]. But that was mainly because I wanted to be like the female heroines in my books. I wonder how I’d do as a [Merchant].”
A thoughtful silence fell as the Horns marched on. After a moment, Ceria shook her head.
“I can’t see it. You? Selling, what? Silver goods?”
“My sister does sell arms. Well, armor, mainly. But I wouldn’t have to do that. It’s just a thought. You can’t imagine me being charming?”
“Yvlon, you’d be charming right up until a client insulted you. Then you’d push his face in. You have a temper as bad as—as Seborn’s!”
“Hm. You’re probably right.”
Yvlon ducked her head, brushing a blonde strand of hair out of her face. She glanced up and sighed as she felt sweat sliding down her back. If she had to put on her helmet in this heat—
“You know, I don’t think I can stand another day of marching in this heat. It’s summer. I’m calling it.”
The Horns nodded. Ceria grimaced.
“Want some snow?”
“How about cold air?”
The half-Elf nodded and pointed her wand. Yvlon sighed as the cold breeze chilled her. Almost too much. The [Wounded Warrior] shivered, and Ceria lowered her wand.
“I can cool us down, but I can’t do anything about travelling. Dead gods, should we stop working as much?”
“We did sign up, Ceria. We can’t just back out after one week. Two would be a show of good face.”
“Darn.”
“If you wish, Captain Ceria, I shall carry you.”
Ksmvr offered. Ceria looked like she might take him up on the offer. But Yvlon had a thought. She glanced around. But—to Rhir with it. She understood why Ysara had become a [Merchant] instead of the [Knight] like her father, Yitton, and Ylawes had wanted her to be. She understood what Ysara had meant when they’d talked. The Yvlon of now wished she’d been able to talk to her sister, because she understood Ysara now. You had to do your own thing. And Yvlon was getting good at thinking like—
