But something curious happened. After a few seconds of marching, Walt frowned.
“Hey! Stop, stop! We’re going the wrong way!”
The adventurers paused. They looked ahead and realized Walt was right. The Gnoll was taking them across the Bloodfields. Embarrassed, the Gnoll shook her head.
“My apologies. To the left!”
They resumed, going left around the Bloodfields rather than through the outskirts. But after a few more minutes of walking, Tommie frowned.
“Funny—it feels like we’re—”
They were veering into the Bloodfields again. Walt looked at Teriska. The [Pathfinder] was shaking her head.
“What’s wrong?”
“We’re going the wrong way. I—walk left! Follow me!”
She took them directly opposite the Bloodfields. The Ensoldier Shields hurried after her, now alert. They were no fools. But after a few minutes Walt swore.
“Stop!”
They were walking straight into the Bloodfields. It was no more than a thousand feet distant. The adventurers looked around.
“Illusion?”
“No. Something’s wrong. Stay put.”
Walt hurried over to the Gnoll woman. She was smelling at the pollen on her fur. He nodded at it.
“You don’t think…?”
“A trap. We have to get back to the road. I will send a [Message] spell.”
Teriska’s face was pale behind her fur. She reached for a scroll at her belt. Walt nodded.
“Hold tight everyone! We’re under some kind of illusion effect! Hold—”
He turned. And his face went pale. The Ensoldier Shields were walking forwards, their faces blank. Straight towards the Bloodfields. Walt bellowed.
“Halt! Company halt!”
The former [Soldiers] and [Warriors] jerked. They looked up and stared at Walt. A few took steps towards him—then began to swerve. Walt bellowed.
“No one move! Sit! Damn it, sit!”
His team wavered, but then they did. Walt turned to Teriska.
“We need someone to drag us out of here! And [Healers]!”
She nodded. The [Message] was away. Walt nodded at her—
“Captain! Stop! Stop!”
He jerked. He was—walking towards the Bloodfields. So was Teriska! Walt tackled her. Then he looked around. His team was fifty feet distant, bellowing at them.
“Stay! Down!”
Walt bellowed at them and grabbed the ground, as if it could hold him. Teriska’s face was pale. The Gnoll looked at Walt. He snapped at her.
“We’re under its effects. Do you have an antidote? A Skill?”
“No.”
“Then we wait. The other teams will bail us out. We wait and—Tommie! Belt! Stop!”
The [Shield Captain] looked up. Two of the Ensoldier Shields were moving. They got up and wandered forwards, faces blank, ignoring their friends grabbing for them. They walked into the Bloodfields. Into the sea of red.
 
——
 
They saw, of course. Before Teriska’s [Message] spell had even arrived, the adventurers had noticed the odd behavior of Walt’s team. Stan ran forwards, bellowing.
“You’re off-course! Come back! Get back here!”
But the Ensoldier Shields were too far away. As the [Message] reached Reikhle, the other adventurers raced forwards. The Horns of Hammerad scrambled towards their chariot. But they were miles distant! And the tiny specks of the adventurers were advancing towards the red.
Two of them trod on the crimson grass as Ceria watched. The half-Elf went pale. By her side, Master Reikhle uttered a soft curse.
“Dead gods.”
He had a magical spyglass to his eyes. Tommie and Belt were walking forwards. They jerked as whatever effect the pollen had on them left. And they turned. They saw Walt and their teammates waving at them, screaming frantically. The two [Warriors] looked around, realized where they were, and panicked.
“This way!”
Tommie tried to charge out of the Bloodfields, but the pollen turned him. It carried him towards the distant spore sacs. Belt grabbed at him, swearing.
“Tommie! No! Tommie—”
Too late. The first man ran over the razor-sharp grass. He tripped over a long root in the ground.
And the Bloodfields came alive.
The root ripped up and snagged the man in armor. It pulled him off his feet and began to drag him, screaming, towards the Bloodfields, hundreds of feet distant. Belt froze. He ran after Tommie, grabbing after him. He seized the man’s arms and pulled. But the root was too strong. Tommie and Belt both began pulling across the ground. Tommie let go with one hand and tried slashing at the root with his belt knife. But it was like steel.
“Don’t let go! Don’t let go!”
“I won’t! Cut it off you! Get your armor off!”
“It’s crushing my legs! Help me—”
Tommie was on his front as Belt tried to slow him. The red grass was cutting his face through the gaps in his armor. He was bleeding. But then he entered a barren spot in the ground. The grass vanished. Tommie froze. He twisted his head.
“Belt. Run—”
“Wh—”
The man looked up and saw the Watchertree. Forty feet high, it towered. A silent, pale sentinel. The area around it, two hundred feet, was clear. Belt froze. He let go of Tommie, reaching for his shield.
The first root stabbed up. It went through Belt’s armor, spearing his left leg, shattering bone and metal. He screamed. The root pinned him, drawing blood. Tommie shouted.
“Belt!”
Then another root burst upwards. It went through the ensnaring vine, severing it. Tommie struggled, trying to get the severed part off him. He was halfway free—
A root went through his shoulder. Barbs tore flesh. The man stared at the bloody anchor in his shoulder. He began to scream. Belt was screaming, pulling at the root. But it was holding him, pulling him into the ground. Tommie looked up. And the Watchertree waited. They were bleeding. Tommie fumbled for a potion.
“Got to—heal up, Belt—cut it out—”
He drank. His flesh began to heal. But the root tore his wounds open. And then another root, a spear of plant, went through Tommie’s right leg. He stared up at the Watchertree. Then down at his bleeding body. He gazed at the healing potion in his hand.
“No.”
They were trapped. Walt saw his two companions lying on the ground, being—being bled by the plant. He swore as Teriska held him down with his teammates.
“Let go!”
“We’re all infected! Don’t, Captain!”
“Let me go! Tommie! Belt! Hold on! Hear me?”
Walt was bellowing. But it was too late. The men were bleeding profusely. And the nearest team was—
Walt looked up. He heard a voice. He turned his head and stared.
One team was advancing across the grasslands. Faster than the adventurers on foot. Even the ones on horseback. They were heading towards Walt’s team with ropes, intending to drag them back. But the second team, riding a chariot, was headed straight for the Bloodfields.
“Go!”
The ice-chariot shot forwards as Ceria pointed. She was hanging on, her wand drawn. In front of her, Pisces was gritting his teeth, directing the bone horses. Yvlon and Ksmvr hung on in the back. They ignored Stan as he rode alongside them.
“Turn back! Turn back, damn it! You can’t get them! It’s a trap!”
“Pisces! Faster!”
Ceria ordered the [Necromancer]. Pisces nodded. The undead horses picked up speed. A thousand feet out, Stan turned his horse, swearing. He raced towards the Ensoldier Shields. And the Horns of Hammerad went on.
 
——
 
“I can’t believe it. Are they idiots?”
Isceil spoke softly. From their hidden vantage point, the Wistram [Mages] stared down at the ice chariot. They’d been camping in the foothills, observing the Horns all day. It was Montressa’s obsession, and Palt and Ulinde weren’t the only objectors to being forced to monitor the Horns. Even Beza and Isceil were chafing, and that left Palt hopeful.
But he hadn’t expected this. The ice chariot surged forwards, crossing into the red. Isceil looked delighted and incredulous.
“They’re actually going into the Bloodfields. Are they crazy? Those two adventurers are as good as dead! That entire team is!”
Montressa looked just as surprised. She’d been horrified and filled with loathing when she saw the undead horses. But this?
Beza half-rose. The Minotauress stared down at the tableau. The adventurers were in the aegis of the Watchertree. It would let them live, use potions, until they were out of blood to nourish it. It was a cruel death. Beza turned to Montressa.
“What do we do, Montressa?”
“Watch.”
The [Aegiscaster] hesitated. She half-rose. The brass orb rotating around her staff hummed. She hesitated. Turned back to her team. Palt held his breath, watching the four adventurers in the chariot. His promise to Erin. His eyes flicked up.
“Montressa—”
“Watch.”
 
——
 
There was no time to think. The Bloodfields surrounded them as the ice-chariot raced forwards. Yvlon felt the danger immediately. She bellowed.
“Ceria! The roots!”
The same trap roots that had gotten Tommie lay in their path. Ceria saw them and screamed.
“Left! Left!”
The Horns flung themselves to the side. The chariot turned, the undead horses carrying them onto the left set of wheels, missing the trapped root. Pisces turned the horses, swearing.
“What do we do?”
“Take us to the Watchertree! We need to get to them!”
Ceria pointed. But the red plains were coming alive. Yvlon saw movement to the left. And the huge insect beds.
“Steer clear of them! Pisces! Those are trapped!”
“On it!”
The [Necromancer] urged the horses onwards, and Yvlon braced as the chariot bounced across the uneven ground. She stared ahead. The two men were prone.
“It’s—bleeding them. But they’re alive!”
“Tommie’s got a potion. So does the other one. But the tree keeps stabbing them!”
Ceria called out. The chariot slowed at the edge of the barren dead zone. Pisces hesitated.
“If we run in there we’ll be hit!”
“Captain Ceria! Movement to our rear! Monsters!”
“What the—”
Ceria turned. Her eyes widened. Yvlon was staring at Tommie. The two men had seen the Horns.
“Get back! Get back! We’re trapped! The root’s as strong as steel!”
Tommie was screaming at them. He was hacking at the root in his leg and shoulder, sobbing with pain. Belt wasn’t moving. Pisces pointed at the Watchertree.
“That is the heart of the plant. Let me try to strike it! [Shatterbolt].”
He flicked his wrist, and the magical dart shot towards the tree. But Pisces missed. Only by a few inches, but it turned into a large gap as the magical bolt flashed past the tree. The [Necromancer] cursed. Then he pointed his finger.
“[Deathbolt].”
Yvlon jerked as a magical bolt of energy flashed from Pisces’ finger. This time, it struck the tree, but nothing happened. She looked at him.
“Did it—”
“I don’t know! It’s too strong! Ceria!”
The two adventurers turned. Ceria was staring at something behind them. She jerked as Pisces grabbed her.
“Ceria! Hit the tree!”
“Right!”
The [Cryomancer] turned back. She rose, aimed her wand.
“[Ice Spike]!”
The first shard of ice was dead-on. It hit the Watchertree along the bulbous top. But the ice broke harmlessly, not even leaving a mark. Ceria stared.
“Cast something stronger! [Fireball]!”
Pisces was shouting at her. Ceria nodded and raised her wand. This time, the [Fireball] exploded on the Watchertree’s base. The flames flared, and Ceria heard the roar. She peeked up and—
“Oh dead gods.”
The Watchertree was unscathed! No—it was smoldering. A bit had been torn out, but—Ceria raised her wand to cast again.
“Ceria! We’ve got company!”
She whirled. The half-Elf’s eyes went round.
“Oh, tree rot. What is that?”
Dozens of huge, red…blobs were rolling towards them. Dark red, covered in what looked like crude armor! Ksmvr loosed an arrow and watched it sink into the exterior.
“Blood Slimes. Captain Ceria, this is a Silver-rank threat!”
“They’re big! And they’ve got—armor!”
Ceria aimed an [Ice Spike] at one. She watched it shatter on the armor.
“[Ice Wall]! Pisces, fire!”
“On it!”
He shot flames at one of the Blood Slimes. With the other, he pointed.
“[Deathbolt].”
The magical energy hit a slime, slowing its roll towards their chariot. Ceria stared.
“What the—”
“Tommie! Forget the slimes! Get Tommie!”
“My spells aren’t strong enough! The slimes—”
Yvlon looked towards the slimes and then Ceria. Pisces was conjuring a Bone Horror. He gritted his teeth.
“I’ll send my Bone Horror. It may survive an encounter. I could try something larger, but that tree—”
The Watchertree was stabbing its roots up randomly, trying to attack what had hit it. Yvlon stared at it, then at the slimes. She looked at her sword.
“I’ll get the tree. Keep the slimes off us! Ksmvr, we’re going in.”
“What?”
Yvlon ignored Ceria. The half-Elf turned, cursing and reinforcing her ice walls. The huge slimes were slamming themselves against them. Pisces’ Warbear charged forwards as the [Necromancer] shot another [Deathbolt]. He was panting already.
“Comrade Yvlon—”
The Antinium [Skirmisher] hesitated. Yvlon grabbed his shoulder.
“Don’t argue! Ceria, freeze the ground and keep me covered! Now!”
“What? What are you—”
The two [Warriors] leapt from the chariot. They landed on the red grass. Ksmvr ran past Tommie and Belt. Onto the dead zone. Into the reach of the Watchertree.
“Ksmvr!”
Ceria screamed. The Antinium was running fast, like a blur, towards the Watchertree. But then—he leapt! The Antinium jumped. Ksmvr’s Ring of Jumping carried him into the air. Twenty feet! And below him, the earth exploded.
A piercing tendril shot towards where the Antinium had been, trying to skewer him. It shot up and up—just missed his feet. The [Skirmisher] swung, turning in midair, but he missed with his Flamecoat Dagger as the tendril began to withdraw into the ground. Too slow, though. Yvlon charged after Ksmvr. Towards the withdrawing root.
She swung her Sword of Weight. Unlike Tommie’s or Ceria’s spells, the enchanted blade had all of Yvlon’s strength behind it. Plus another thirty pounds of the enchantment. It cut into the thick, pale red tendril and cleaved through. Yvlon staggered as the root severed, the end flexing wildly. Ksmvr landed. Yvlon pointed.
“Go! Cover me, Ceria!”
She ran straight at the Watchertree. Ceria turned as Pisces leapt from the chariot.
“Go!”
With rapier in hand, he [Flash Stepped] into the red slimes, thrusting at a mana core floating in the bodies. His Warbear tore another slime apart. Ceria whirled. She pointed.
“[Ice Wall]!”
The ground grew a thick layer of ice which cracked as more stabbing tendrils tried to break through. Yvlon ran, slipping and cursing, charging towards the distant Watchertree.
At the same time, Ksmvr landed. Tommie was struggling with the roots. He looked up as the Antinium landed left to him.
“Potion! Belt needs a potion!”
“I have one. Recovery—”
