Ksmvr splashed the potion on the man’s torso. Ksmvr began sawing at the tendrils, then leapt back as more tried to hit him. He landed, paused, and jumped again. The Watchertree was stabbing at Ksmvr, trying to strike Yvlon. But she was nearing the base of the tall spire.
“[Ice Wall]—”
Ceria tried to block another root. But she was panting. Too slow. One arced out of the ground, stabbing at Yvlon. It tore across her armor. The enchanted metal took the impact. But it dented. And—Yvlon twisted as the root deflected. It shot past her face, striking across her helmet, gashing her face. Her blood spattered the ground, watering the red soil.
But she kept going. She shouted as she reached the base of the Watchertree. It stood, immobile. A malicious sentinel.
Yvlon lifted her enchanted sword. She gripped it with two hands and swung. The first blow cut halfway into the trunk! Ceria saw the entire tree shiver. The tendrils stabbing into Tommie and Belt convulsed and both men screamed. The Watchertree tried to hit Yvlon, but she was inside its range and the walls of ice were blocking the stabbing roots.
Yvlon wrenched her sword loose and swung again. The second cut enlarged the first. The Watchertree shook. The [Wounded Warrior] tore her blade loose with a shout.
“Fall!”
The third strike cut through. The Watchertree fell. It began to tilt and Yvlon ran back. The ground tore around Yvlon. The roots—tendrils—were spasming, flailing wildly! Ksmvr dragged Tommie out of his roots as Ceria scrambled after Belt. A flailing root hit her in the chest and knocked her flat. It was Belt who got up.
“The chariot!”
Pisces was falling back and shouted desperately. The Blood Slimes had dissolved the skin on his hand and the Warbear was missing a head! Yvlon charged back across the ground. The adventurers piled into the chariot.
“Let’s go, let’s go—it’s getting worse!”
Ceria screamed at Pisces. The Blood Slimes were rolling back, but all the plants around them, even ones hundreds of feet distant were shaking. Trembling! The [Necromancer] pulled Belt up.
Yvlon lifted Tommie with a grunt. They piled into the chariot. The undead horses carried them forwards, and Ceria thought they’d made it. Then she looked ahead.
“Pisces—”
The [Necromancer] glanced up. He’d been scrubbing at the caustic liquid on his arm that was trying to eat him alive. He looked up and his eyes widened. He turned—too late.
The chariot strayed close to the house-sized…plants. The huge, plump, rotten walls of plant that Bevussa had pointed out in their first introduction. Ceria saw the thing quiver as it sensed the chariot. She opened her mouth as Yvlon swore.
The first huge insect bed burst. Yvlon and Ksmvr looked up as the packed plant disgorged its contents. It had been hollow, and insects—tens of thousands—rained down. The adventurers looked up. Then the other three beds nearby exploded. The sky, the ground—all became insects.
“Hell on Rhir.”
Tommie whispered as he looked up. A swarm of hundreds of thousands buzzed down from overhead. The adventurers screamed. Ceria conjured [Ice Armor], but the bugs were already landing. She felt some tearing at her skin. Yvlon gasped.
“Keep—”
Yvlon inhaled a cloud of bugs. She gagged. Pisces—Ksmvr—Tommie—Belt—they were engulfed as the flying swarm began to descend. Huge bugs—as large as their hands, larger—were trying to eat them.
Biting. Sharp fangs, spiked legs that tore at the flesh. Ceria screamed. She could hear Ksmvr shouting, biting back.
“I am not food! You are food! Yvlon, there are too many to eat!”
“Pisces! Get us out of here!”
The [Necromancer] tried. He was blasting fire in every direction, hitting Ceria, the other adventurers. But the insects were slowing even the chariot. And Ceria had no idea which way was forwards. She screamed. The bugs were eating her. This wasn’t how it ended. This wasn’t—
 
——
 
“They’re dead.”
Amplified by their observation spells, the Wistram [Mages] could see and hear the other teams battling the waves of insects. It engulfed the chariot, a wave of writhing blackness. Palt felt sick. He could see Pisces and Ceria fighting the insects with fire, but even a [Fireball] wouldn’t have made a dent in the sea of bugs.
And the insects were attacking everything. Even the other plants—and the adventurers at the edge of the Bloodfields themselves! The ones who’d gone to save Walt were in mortal danger too as the insects flew at them.
Alais was shooting lightning through the air in wild bursts, but there were just too many bugs. Crossbow Stan and the other adventurers were helpless. Like Walt’s team, they could only swing their weapons, retreating.
“If we wait, the insects might do our job for us.”
Isceil’s voice was too calm. The Drake looked at Montressa, waiting for her reply. The [Aegiscaster] was biting her lip. Beza snorted.
“Those adventurers are innocent!”
“Montressa—”
Palt began. He saw the young woman’s face snap up. Montressa stared at Palt. Then she cursed. She stood up.
“Traitors take it! Everyone with me! [Mass Featherfall]!”
She launched herself off the edge of the cliff. The other [Mages] leapt after her. They floated downwards. Montressa ran forwards towards a bluff.
“There! Link! Isceil, take the focus! Hit the bugs!”
“First we hunt them, now we have to save them?”
The Drake complained, but he bounded past Montressa. He lifted his wand and Ulinde pointed hers at Palt. The Centaur nodded. He concentrated—
And joined the others. The Centaur felt his magic shift, combining with Ulinde’s. Beza grabbed Montressa’s arm. Then Montressa’s staff touched Ulinde’s wand.
Four. Isceil was the lead. The Drake inhaled as the four linked. His eyes flashed. He inhaled and all five [Mages] united their will. They drew on the mana in the air, in their beings. And the air charged.
Below, Alais looked up. Screaming, smashing insects, Ceria saw a beacon, like the sun. Isceil rode the magic. He opened his mouth and drew in a breath. The magic flowed through his lungs, igniting, changing. Palt felt it course through him, glorious. Isceil bellowed.
“Frostspark Galebreath!”
Then he exhaled. And magic, raw mana, took form. It shot from his mouth, a cloud, a blast shooting thousands of feet in seconds. Freezing wind and lightning, propelled by a blast of air that was actually visible. Three elements.
It hit the cloud of insects with a sound like an avalanche. The huge, black-red swarm exploded as ice froze them, lightning bolts struck them apart, and the wind sent the rest flying. The Wistram [Mages] staggered with the backlash of the magic. Isceil fell backwards, his throat torn, grabbing for a healing potion. Montressa was first on her feet. She pointed.
“[Chain Lightning]! Everyone, [Valmira’s Comets]!”
Palt raised his hand. He joined his magic to hers, drinking a mana potion. And comets of light, some the size of horses, shot forwards. Magic, glorious and bright, tore the sky.
 
——
 
For a moment, she thought it was over. Yvlon was engulfed. She was fighting, trying to breathe as she inhaled insects. Then—she heard the explosion. Felt the wind, blowing bugs off her. She inhaled, and it was glorious. The adventurers emerged, coughing. And Yvlon saw the insect swarm regrouping overhead. But then the magical comets flew down from the hills. Yvlon looked up and breathed.
“Silver and steel.”
The rain of magical comets tore apart the rest of the swarm, vaporizing anything hit directly, sending burning carcasses raining down from just the heat. The adventurers in the chariot ducked as insects, alive and burning came down. The chariot drove onwards, free of the swarm.
Stragglers attacked them, but the bleeding adventurers were healing, using potions. Pisces swore and shot his own flames overhead; Yvlon swatted a few coming for her head. Ceria conjured a layer of ice, and Ksmvr just bit a few bugs and spat them out.
“They taste bad.”
The two members of Ensoldier Shields and Pisces were worst off. They swatted and cursed as bugs showered them, but the chariot was soon racing clear. The insect swarm, decimated by the comets and breath attack, fell backwards, uncertain. And then all the adventurers were racing away from the Bloodfields. Yvlon coughed. There were bugs in her throat, moving!
She leaned over the edge of the wagon and threw up. Pisces, Ceria, Tommie, Belt—all did the same. Ksmvr didn’t, but he methodically crushed every bug clinging to the chariot. Yvlon wiped her mouth, wretched, spat out something—and then just lay back.
She was covered in insect gore. In blood. Her face was gouged deep. The healing potion was closing the wound—and she was coughing on bile. Ceria and Pisces looked little better. Tommie and Belt? Even with the potions, they seemed half-dead.
Yvlon started laughing. The Horns looked at her, and the two Ensoldier Shields. Then they started laughing too.
They were alive.
 
——
 
The adventurers met the ice chariot, along with Master Reikhle and [Healers]. The Horns and the two Ensoldier Shields were helped down as potions were thrust forwards. Everyone was exclaiming, asking what had happened—shouting about pollen—when the Wistram team approached.
They walked down out of the foothills. Ceria looked up from Alais and Kam hugging her and saw them.
“Montressa?”
They’d saved them. The Wistram [Mages] were panting. Montressa du Valeross stared at Ceria. Ksmvr pulled a huge beetle’s mandibles out of her back, and the [Aegiscaster]’s eyes bulged. Then Montressa focused on the skeletal horses.
Of all the things in the moment, that was the least consequential to Ceria. But Montressa’s face went white. She stepped backwards—and ran up against Palt. The Centaur put a steadying hand on her shoulder.
“[Calm]. Montressa, it’s alright.”
The [Mage] visibly calmed. But she stared at the undead horses. Then at Pisces. The [Necromancer] was being clapped on the back by Walt and supported by Stan.
“You—you saved us. You took care of the insects.”
Alais was the first to say something. She looked at the Wistram [Mages]. Isceil coughed.
“Yeah.”
“Why?”
The Drake peered up at Ceria. He glared, spat a bit of blood.
“We’re not monsters. We saw the other adventurers were in trouble and decided to give our aid. No need to thank us.”
Palt eyed Isceil. Ulinde hesitated. The adventurers and workers were silent as they stared at the Wistram team. Montressa hesitated as well. She looked at Ceria and then at Pisces.
“We did it because we owe Liscor. Not you.”
She turned away. Ceria opened and closed her mouth a few times.
“Thank you. You saved us.”
Montressa didn’t reply. It was Yvlon who spat out a pincer and growled.
“Funny that you’re all the way out here, though. Why were you here, then? Watching us?”
“Yvlon—they just saved us.”
Ceria stumbled as she walked over to her friend. The [Wounded Warrior] glared. Abruptly, she tore loose of Caddin and the other two adventurers supporting her. She began walking forwards. Her sword was still drawn. It rested across her shoulder blades, gleaming across the silvery metal armor the [Wounded Warrior] wore.
“Yvlon!”
The woman ignored Ceria. The Wistram [Mages] tensed as she approached. Beza made a fist, but Palt put his arm out.
“Steady.”
“We’re not fighting. We saved you.”
Yvlon kept walking. Straight at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] hesitated. She raised her staff, and the glowing brass orb hovering next to her pulsed.
“Yvlon—!”
Ceria’s voice was one in a dozen. But Yvlon didn’t stop. She never blinked. Her grip slowly tightened on the hilt. The [Mages] wavered where they stood. Then Montressa leapt aside. Isceil stumbled back. Yvlon walked past them. Her head turned, and she stared straight into Beza’s eyes. The Minotauress opened her mouth, and nothing came out.
“Thanks for the assistance. Stay away from my team.”
Yvlon strode towards the door to The Wandering Inn. Ceria’s jaw dropped. The other adventurers stared after Yvlon. After a moment, Walt exhaled hard.
“Damn. Byres does not fuck around.”
 
——
 
Later, Erin shouted when she saw the Horns. She rushed forwards.
“What happened? Are you all alright?”
The Horns had to debrief Reikhle, and get Walt’s account and the [Pathfinder]’s. They told Erin—then Olesm and Zevara—then the Council. The Bloodfields encounter was not small fries. Master Reikhle himself sent through a missive to Pallass.
“The pollen and those pulling roots—those are new. The Bloodfields are…evolving.”
Olesm paled as he checked reports for anything like the pollen that Walt’s team had been hit by, or the grabbing-roots that had got Tommie. Zevara nodded.
“The Bloodfields are always dangerous. But this is another step. I don’t know if I can recommend we proceed with the road. Councilmembers…”
Lism paced back and forth, tail thrashing angrily.
“Damn the Bloodfields. An army could clear it. A hundred [Mages] throwing long-range fire spells? We should get Pallass’ army to do it! We only fight there to avoid having another Bloodfields somewhere else!”
“Better not to fight at all! If the Humans would stop sending their armies and return our land—”
Ceria was so tired she didn’t hear the other Drakes and Gnolls arguing. After a moment, Zevara stood up.
“Enough! There’s only one decision we need to make. Continue the project or not?”
“We need a road.”
Lism’s statement got nods from even Krshia. The Gnolls looked around, finding Olesm. Raekea growled worriedly.
“What do we do, Strategist Olesm? If the road’s in danger of that pollen or the plants reaching out—”
“We alter course even further east. If need be, we’ll build a wall alongside the Bloodfields to keep the plants from endangering travellers. But it can be done. From now on, no team is allowed within four miles of the Bloodfields. I’ll notify Pallass, confer. Master Reikhle, do you think it can be done?”
The Gnoll was longer in replying. But he did nod.
“I can make the road out of range of even pollen. It can be done, yes? But it takes brave teams such as today to guard us.”
He nodded at the Horns. Ceria grinned. Pisces cracked one eye open, blinking. Lism hesitated, but it was Krshia who nodded.
“Indeed. This is a heroic act, yes? Worthy of commendation, or at least a bonus? Hrm?”
“Well, it was pretty good. And those Wistram [Mages] helped. Damn. I suppose they earned their keep. But even so, they weren’t authorized—”
The Council began arguing over the ramifications of the Bloodfields, the politics—the Horns didn’t listen. Erin tugged them away, offering them food, baths, and beds. Wearily, Ceria collapsed onto a table, leaning up on Pisces.
“Hells. That was something.”
“Montressa and her team saved us! Can you imagine—”
