The Centaur [Illusionist] was in the kitchen. He addressed a white Gnoll cub perched on the counter next to him. She stared into the bubbling pot as the Centaur checked the flame. He blew, and flames shot from his mouth, adding to the blaze.
“Just a bit more heat. That’s a good boil! Now—reduce!”
He waved his fingers and the flames abruptly reduced. The Centaur moved quickly, going to another tray. He addressed his audience as he spoke. Lyonette was sitting next to Palt, on a stool, taking rapid notes.
“Now, the rice is excellent even on its own, but it needs more to make it good. You can make a good chicken mix, or vegetables, or a sauce—but this is my favorite. We have some squash, some sweet potatoes here, and some Yellats. I add the Yellats for the spicy taste, but if you just want the sweet and savory, you can omit. See, we’ve chopped the vegetables and added the herbal oil. Remember to use spices! Now, we have a nice cover of the oil on the tray—we’re going to bake this in the oven.”
He trotted over to the stone stove. Lyonette raised a hand.
“What spices, Palt?”
“I use thyme and sage and some pepper and salt.”
“Thyme, sage…pepper…salt…”
Mrsha wagged her tail, watching the Centaur add fire to the stove with a flick of his fingers then insert the tray.
“It doesn’t take long to bake. Now, I’m going to use some magic to expedite the process, but that’s because I’ve been doing this a long time. Non-spellcasters can just wait fifteen minutes. You have to get an even cooking, so just throwing flames won’t work.”
The Centaur was warming the inside of the stove. It was complex—if you didn’t know how to create a magical field inside the stove—but he had a magical formula he could use whenever he wanted to cook like this. Erin was still kicking up a fuss as the Centaur lectured about proper heat.
Soon, the veggies were baked. Swiftly, the Centaur returned to the rice pot he’d been checking. The saffron rice was nearly done! The water had evaporated, but it wasn’t dry.
“Perfect. Now, stir in the vegetables at this stage. We’re losing the rest of the moisture, so be sure it’s at this point! Now, we take off the heat and cover this with a towel!”
“A towel?”
Both Lyonette and Mrsha stared as the Centaur did just that. He winked at them, navigating the kitchen, which wasn’t made for a Centaur, with surprising grace.
“Exactly! To steam, you see? It makes the baked vegetables softer. Now, we’ll add the baked vegetables we didn’t add for difference in consistency. Put some other dried vegetables on top—see? Some nice leaves, dried to add some crunch—and there we go! It’s not exactly [Chef]-cuisine, but it’s fast and my favorite go-to.”
Mrsha and Lyonette stared down at the finished dish of saffron rice mixed with vegetables. Mrsha sniffed at the rich scent, and Lyonette blinked.
“That looks—really good!”
The Gnoll cub looked doubtful. There was no meat in the dish! Palt waved a finger.
“Save your skepticism, little Mrsha! This is excellent cooking! Your Gnoll tribes love this food, believe me. Of course, you’d add lots of meat like some chicken—I’ll give you the recipe I use for Isceil and Beza’s share, Lyonette—but this is vegetarian. No meat! Centaurs don’t like as much meat in our diets.”
“It smells really good. Go on, Mrsha. Try some!”
The Gnoll cub didn’t need a second prompting, for all her doubt about the lack of the good stuff. As Palt put some into a bowl, she blew on a spoonful and popped it into her mouth. She chewed doubtfully, but then her eyes went round. Flavor! Such as she’d never had! Mrsha began scarfing the food.
“Don’t gobble, Mrsha!”
Lyonette looked amused and embarrassed. Palt laughed.
“She’s tasting the saffron. Now, remember, it’s quite expensive, so just use a tiny bit. And don’t waste any!”
Lyonette nodded, eying the rich, red-gold threads that Palt had given to Erin as a present. She tasted the rice and gasped.
“It’s so—good! The flavor is amazing!”
“You think so?”
Palt sighed in relief as he preened a bit. Lyonette nodded.
“Erin doesn’t cook like this. She uses spices—when she remembers to—but her foods like the pizza don’t have much.”
“Ah, yes. Well, it’s good in its own way. But this is cuisine. You could give it to a [Gourmet] and they wouldn’t throw it back in your face. Most of them. And the pizza would be a hit at Wistram. Actually—”
This must have been the thing Aaron kept trying to make! Unsuccessfully. Palt wondered if the other Earthers had rediscovered it. But he was low on the need-to-know poll, and the Earthers were a huge secret. He smiled as he eyed the pizza Lyonette had prepared.
And he’d memorized the recipe! It was just a little secret, but he’d send it back to the Ullsinoi faction tonight. Even recipes were being restricted in Wistram! The Academy’s factions were fighting over everything from Earth and the big ones had a monopoly, hence the Earther-hunt.
“What do you think? The rice might be hard to come by, but you can use saffron in any number of ways.”
“It’s excellent. Thank you, Mister Palt.”
Lyonette smiled at the Centaur. Mrsha did too, a bit warily, but pointed at her bowl. Lyonette scolded Mrsha that she was ruining her appetite. But Palt was only too happy to offer her more.
“It’s nothing. And I have my own stock of rice—I can give you a bag! I imagine you’ll have to import—no, wait. Ask if Pallass imports it from Oteslia. If the Walled Cities aren’t fighting or having a tiff, I’m sure Oteslia grows it.”
“Is it expensive?”
Palt waved the question away.
“It’s like wheat, Miss Lyonette. It’s just that it grows best in Baleros. We grow it in the water, you see. Lizardfolk love it. Rice is to Baleros what bread is to Terandria and Izril.”
“I see. It’s certainly different. Thank you for showing us how to make it. And cook with spices. As I said, Erin’s got her own style of food, but it’s…well, simple.”
The American-based fast foods Erin liked to whip up were popular, but this reminded Lyonette of food from home. It took a bit more effort, even for what Palt called a simple dish. But the Centaur had only been too happy to do some cooking.
“Now, shall we see what’s gotten Miss Solstice so upset?”
“I suppose so.”
The [Princess] sighed. Palt trotted out of the kitchen with a plate in hand. Erin was still fuming, talking to Drassi, one of the female Gnoll [Waitresses] she’d hired, and two female [Actors]. Everyone male was out of range.
“And he was acting like he did nothing wrong! Hey Lyonette! And—Palt? Hey! Guess what happened when I was giving out cookies?”
Erin was surprised to see Palt, but only a bit. He’d been here every day, trying to ingratiate himself into the inn. The Centaur winced when he heard about the butt-slap incident. He wondered if the adventurer who’d made the unfortunate life decision had lost any teeth.
“It’s a compliment, they say. Like touching your tail. Eugh! Old Drakes doing that are the worst.”
Drassi was complaining. Erin folded her arms.
“Anyone does it in my inn, they get kicked out! And hit with hammers! Got it?”
She glared around. Lyonette just sighed. The [Innkeeper] was on the warpath.
“Erin, did you find the Horns? I thought you were going to check on them.”
Erin hesitated.
“Oh. No, they were on patrol. But then that jerk Walt and his team—”
“Was it their fault? I mean, I wasn’t there, but maybe they got the wrong impression?”
That came from the side. Erin looked askance as she stared at a Drake.
“What?”
He looked uncomfortable at the stares, but he went on, determined to make his point.
“If they thought you were flirting—”
“I wasn’t!”
“Did you smile?”
“Of course I—smiling is not flirting! I can smile at you without wanting to flirt! And butt-slaps aren’t part of that! Hey! Who thinks a smile means I’m automatically interested in you? Huh?”
No one was willing to look at Erin. The lunch crowd—one half of it—coughed and went to their drinks. Relc, sitting at his table, nudged Klbkch.
“Idiots. You know they’re into you if their tail touches yours. Right, my guy? Right, Klb?”
“Stop elbowing me. I am not your ‘guy’ either.”
Erin was still fuming as she sat down. Mrsha hopped into her lap and gave her a hug. She smiled, but then she scowled at the door. Palt approached with the steaming plate, and a few Gnolls looked up.
“Why don’t we all calm down? Miss Erin, I’m sure the adventurer has learned his ways if I know you. Rather than dwell, try this!”
“Ooh! What’s this? Rice? And it’s yellow! Like, uh—stir fry!”
Palt’s face fell only a tiny bit. But then he brightened.
“You’re familiar with it?”
“Of course! Yeah! It’s like, uh, Chin—”
Erin paused and bit her tongue on what she’d been about to say.
“—rice! Did you make it, Palt?”
“I showed Miss Lyonette a bit of how to use the saffron. Would you like a taste?”
Modestly, the Centaur offered Erin the plate. She took the spoon and gingerly tasted it.
“Whoa.”
“Is it good?”
“Whoa. It’s good!”
Her comments and the word saffron made more guests look up. One of them coughed.
“Is there more?”
“Saffron rice with vegetables! Any takers? It’ll be—two silver a plate?”
“That’s a lot! Your prices are sky-high!”
One of the regulars complained. Lyonette scowled.
“It’s new! I’ll drop the price later! But this is made with saffron. You know, the stuff that comes from Chandrar and is worth gold for just a tiny bit?”
More interest. Palt watched as Lyonette hurried into the kitchen. Erin was still exclaiming over the food as Mrsha tried to sneak bites off her spoon.
“It’s so—flavorful! Hey, I wonder if Lasica knows how to make this? You told me you cooked, but not like this, Palt!”
The Centaur sat at the table, moving a chair out of the way. He was pleased by her reaction.
“I do dabble. I’m fond of using spices and no one else in my team can cook. Well, Isceil prefers to roast meat and Beza can make…Minotaur cuisine. But I do most of the work.”
The [Innkeeper] eyed Palt.
“Oh yeah? You know spices well? Because you’re a stoner?”
The Centaur sighed.
“I really wish you’d stop calling me that, Miss Solstice. There’s nothing wrong with what I do. I’ve explained it. It’s a personal choice. The fact that you’ve never tried anything is what’s odd.”
“No, it’s normal!”
Erin scowled. Palt sighed. He really could have used a good cigar, but Erin had banned it in her inn, talking about second-hand smoke. But she really didn’t like the idea of drugs. Palt didn’t either. Drugs? He wasn’t passing out powders or the kind of stuff that made your hair fall out! It was just dreamleaf! Dead gods, [Healers] used it as medicine!
But he was here to charm Erin, not to fight. So the Centaur patiently nodded to her meal.
“I can assure you, there’s nothing harmful, Miss Solstice. And my offer stands to try some of what I have to offer. But if you don’t want to try it—are you happy with the dish?”
“Yeah! It tastes great! And rice—I haven’t had rice in ages!”
The Centaur crooked his fingers, conjuring a [False Sound] spell around them. Well, it was more than just a spell—it was a fake conversation, far more advanced than your average [Hush] spell. He’d had to copy Erin’s voice and mannerisms, but anyone listening in would hear a conversation about trite nonsense instead. Far less obvious than Montressa’s methods. Palt was an [Illusionist].
And he was here against Montressa’s wishes. The Centaur glanced around, but Montressa wasn’t anywhere to be seen. Obviously; she was still banned from Erin’s inn. But he recognized a friend sitting in one corner.
Ulinde was speaking with Moore and Seborn. The two Halfseekers were sharing a drink and speaking to the Selphid. She was wearing a different body—a nice, female Drake’s. Palt was sure she’d gotten it from the Halfseekers; he remembered how hard the Selphid had been looking for a replacement body up till now. He flicked a finger under the table and Ulinde glanced up in the middle of laughing at something Seborn had said. She only flicked a finger before turning back to the two Halfseekers. Palt saw a flicker, invisible, but readable if you saw magic.
Later.
He nodded and turned his attention to Erin. Palt was taking a risk, speaking to her. Not in a physical sense; he was pretty sure she wouldn’t try to kill him. No, he was jeopardizing his relationship with his team. With Montressa, especially.
She had not been happy to learn that Ulinde and Palt had visited the inn without telling her. There had been an argument, nearly a fight. But the Centaur deemed it worth the risk to keep doing so. Erin was valuable. Montressa, she was fixated on Pisces and the Horns of Hammerad. But Palt had his eyes on the prize.
Erin Solstice was letting Mrsha lick a grain of rice off her face when she looked up and saw Palt chewing on something. She paused. The Centaur was chewing on a toffee, and yes, there was bits of dreamleaf in it. But Erin didn’t know that. He coughed.
“So, Miss Solstice. Not to bother you, but I was wondering if you’d thought about my proposal—”
Erin put down the spoon, and Mrsha picked it up. She frowned at Palt.
“The one where I go with you to Wistram? Or give up my door? Nah. Nope. No way.”
Palt looked at her.
“You won’t consider it, just a bit? There are people from your world in the academy, Miss Solstice. You’d be safe!”
“And a prisoner, right?”
“Not—exactly. The Academy wants your protection, and there are powerful forces at work—”
“Like Wistram? So you want us to be the most powerful? Or just to keep your secrets.”
The Centaur bit his tongue. Erin went on, staring at him.
“I’ve seen what your team did to my friends. I don’t trust Wistram. And besides, this is my inn. I’m not leaving, right Mrsha?”
The Gnoll looked up as she finished Erin’s plate. She frowned and waved a spoon at Palt, nodding. The Centaur forced a smile.
“Nevertheless, Miss Erin, we have been sent to rescue anyone from Earth. This world is dangerous.”
“Yeah, and so’s Wistram. I’m not going.”
“Fair. But if you’d consider—”
Palt broke off. He hurriedly twisted his fingers as Lyonette approached the table. His spell unwound, and the [Princess] approached Erin.
“Erin, can I borrow you a second? Sorry, Palt.”
“Not at all.”
The Centaur sat back. He kept Mrsha company as Erin got up and spoke with Lyonette. He was listening, of course. Mrsha licked the plate as Lyonette drew Erin aside.
“So—we’re ready to start work on the inn, Erin. Can we start with the back wall today?”
