Casually, the armored woman walked a bit ahead, next to Pisces.
“All this marching about. It’s not exactly snow, but nearly as bad. It reminds me of that time we were in the snow and we’d just fought those Crelers, remember?”
“Oh? I remember us at Albez, having to drag our loot back. The Crelers were different. We fought a juvenile one, right? Which was huge. And Pisces used the bears, but I don’t remember the trek back. To the cave was hard. But on the way back, didn’t we—”
Ceria’s rambling voice cut off. She looked up at Yvlon sharply. So did Ksmvr. He tilted his head. Yvlon raised her brows.
They stared at Pisces. The [Necromancer] was muttering as he read from his notes.
“The spell is complete, but how do you enhance the effect like he claimed? It makes no sense! Is it just pure mana or is there a way of adding more death magic to the [Deathbo—”
He looked up and blinked at the others.
“What?”
“We were talking about the Mossbear cave, Pisces. Remember? And how we got back to Esthelm?”
The [Necromancer] seemed confused for a moment. Then his eyebrows shot up. He hesitated.
“…That would be frowned upon, surely.”
The Horns glanced at each other. Yvlon raised one eyebrow.
“Says the [Necromancer] with a two-thousand coin bounty on his head.”
Pisces wore a very curious expression. Tentatively, he paused. Hissle looked back, confused. The [Necromancer] regarded his team.
“Even if I had a—solution, what would the other teams say? I assumed we were trying to ingratiate ourselves with them.”
Ceria nodded, and her voice was reasonable.
“Yeah, but my feet hurt.”
“It is utilization of your abilities, Comrade Pisces.”
“And you’re our teammate. So stop holding out on us.”
Yvlon nudged Pisces. He blinked at her. It was something old Yvlon would have never said. But—if you looked at old Yvlon, and the one now, they were so different. She smiled a bit. After a moment, Pisces smiled too.
“I’m afraid I only have two. But that gives me an idea.”
 
——
 
The team working on the road was laboring and cursing another day. And it was another day. Thunder Solace and the Boltspitters had both drawn the lucky straw today and were at rest. Alais and Stan were even sitting, letting their team maintain their watch. But they stood warily when they heard the commotion.
“Something wrong?”
For an adventurer in his middle years, Stan could move fast. And he had a crossbow in his hands, ready to fire. Crossbow Stan and Alais saw Caddin and a bunch of adventurers and workers pointing at something in the distance.
“What? What’s the delay?”
Growling, Master Builder Reikhle came storming over. For an answer, one of the Drakes just pointed. The Gnoll growled. Then his eyes went wide as he shaded them.
“What is that?”
In the distance, something was racing over the hills. Not the various adventurer teams scouting around, and not Kam’s mounted team. No—this was something else. Alais bit off an oath.
“What are they doing now?”
She pointed, and Stan stared as well. At first, he didn’t know what he was looking at. Then his eyes widened.
It was…a chariot. Or a sled. No, it had wheels, so it was technically a chariot. But it was more like a sled. The wide-bottomed chariot was made of some pale yellow wood and had a decent lip to prevent anyone tumbling out. But it was mainly a box on wheels.
Wheels made of ice. That was the first ridiculous thing. Alais spotted the icy wheels from a distance. That had to be Ceria’s doing. No—one was pale ivory. Bone! It was made of bone!
Then you realized—the entire chariot was made of bone. And ice! But that wasn’t the main thing that had the workers and adventurers in uproar.
Two undead horses pulled the chariot. They were clearly undead; they were made of bone. Alais’ jaw dropped. The undead horses pulled the chariot up a steep hill. They were heading back this way! Of course, it was time for the Horns’ break.
“Are they using that thing to travel? What the hell are they thinking?”
“It beats walking!”
Some of the adventurers nodded. They were all footsore from yesterday. Even so—Alais saw the chariot climbing. The undead horses struggled their way up a hill. It was not a smooth ascent. The chariot, as a vehicle of travel, was not designed to go up rocky terrain. Nor were the wheels; the ice was chipping apart! But it was being repaired as fast as it broke.
And the horses were relentless, despite their burden. It was more like the horses dragging a block of wood up an uneven slope. Normal horses probably would have thrown off such a burden, but undead horses didn’t complain or even falter. They ascended the crest. Alais saw the steep incline. The riders didn’t because one horse went over the lip, then the other. Alais saw a half-Elf shouting, waving her arm. Then the chariot went down—
The idea of a rollercoaster hadn’t been invented yet. And if anyone saw the Horns and Hissle going down the hill, screaming as they smashed into rocks and bounced off parts of the hillside, no one would think of a rollercoaster either. But soon the Horns were riding across a flat. Now, Alais could hear them arguing as they drove towards the staring workers.
“I said brake!”
“How? The horses can’t do it! Whoa! We’re tilting!”
“The wheel’s broken on the left!”
“Cast [Ice Wheel] on the left side, Ceria!”
“That’s not a spell! Give me a second—”
“[Bone Wheel].”
Pisces pointed, and bone appeared, bridging a crack in one of the wheels. Ceria protested.
“Hey! Ice is better!”
“Bone is lighter.”
“Well—ice is heavier. And thicker!”
“Can’t you combine the spells? Make a bone-ice wheel?”
They stared at Yvlon. She raised her hands. The chariot clattered towards the adventurers. Ceria was trying to keep her balance as the chariot threw its passengers around. It was hardly a smooth ride.
“Ow. Ow. This is not comf—”
As the chariot came down, it tilted sideways, throwing Ceria against one wall. She bit her tongue. Yvlon, who was wisely keeping her mouth shut, shrugged.
“It’s not comfortable, but we’re not walking.”
“True!”
“What in the name of fur is this?”
Reikhle strode up to the Horns, staring. He glared at the undead horses as the workers murmured. Ceria appeared over the side and waved at him.
“It’s our means of transport, Master Reikhle. It can get us around. Don’t worry, we won’t make Hissle run; he can ride with us!”
The Gnoll stared. His eyes shifted to the Drake, and Hissle waved one claw weakly.
“Master Builder Reikhle, it is faster than our march.”
“You’re using the undead, Ceria?”
Alais stared at the half-Elf. Ceria stared back at the [Aeromancer].
“That’s right, Alais. Don’t be jealous.”
“Jealous?”
“Our horses don’t break their legs. Or if they do, Pisces can fix them.”
Yvlon looked around. Alais hesitated. There was a point there. She stared at Pisces and cleared her throat. Stan spoke.
“Were the horses—how’d you get the bones?”
The [Necromancer] raised his eyebrows.
“I bought them, of course. I have any number of bones. The issue is actually storing them in my bag of holding. But to your point—finding horse bones is not difficult given any population of horses in a city. Rather, buying them is difficult. [Hostlers] are surprisingly difficult to persuade when it comes to a beloved creature.”
“I’ll bet.”
“Anyways, this is our mode of travel. We’ll walk if we have to, but this is easier. If bumpier. Hey, Ksmvr! Go grab us some pillows while we have lunch at Erin’s inn.”
“I shall attempt to persuade Bird to impart some of his Fortress of Fluff.”
The Antinium hopped down from the chariot with the others. Reikhle eyed the undead. But after a moment, he just nodded.
“Do your work! You’re covering a mounted team’s share, then. If you can’t keep up—everyone, back to work! You’re not being paid to stare!”
“Undead. I can’t believe it.”
Caddin shook his head as the others returned to their posts. He stared at Pisces as the Horns took a lunch from the magical door and began to eat, chattering about how to reinforce their chariot. But some of the other adventurers were less hostile.
“I’d ride that instead of walk.”
Stan glanced at Alais, murmuring to his team. Some of them seemed horrified, especially at the bone chariot, but more than a few were inspecting blisters. And on their wagon, the Horns were grinning. It was—different. True. But it was them. And Pisces was smiling slightly.
“Not a bad idea, Yvlon.”
“Thank you. I’m ashamed you didn’t think of it. Looks like we know who the better [Necromancer] is.”
The [Wounded Warrior] replied, straight-faced. Pisces choked on his mouthful and Ceria laughed so hard she had hiccups. Ksmvr opened his mandibles in a smile. The Horns turned to the fifth member of the chariot. Hissle eyed the specially-made lunch they’d received from Erin. He lifted a hamburger and eyed the brownies on the floor of the chariot.
Hissle gazed at the Horns of Hammerad, and his voice was resigned.
“You’re going to insist we travel by chariot from now on, aren’t you?”
“Yup.”
Ceria raised her eyebrows at him. The Drake nodded, sighing. Then the [Scout] glanced around surreptitiously and lowered his voice.
“Good. I was getting tired of marching everywhere.”
 
——
 
Laughter. Walt’s team was far from the road, and they couldn’t ride back for lunch. But they’d seen the chariot, and they were muttering about it.
“Undead horses? Dead gods, is there anything [Necromancers] won’t animate?”
“Better horses than people. That shifty-eyed bugger must have come up with it. What’s his name? Pisces? Disgusting. At least they’re not zombies. Little better, though. How does his team trust that [Necromancer]?”
The Ensoldier Shields nodded. The all-male, all-[Warrior] team was not in a good mood. They were still annoyed by their encounter with Erin, which had earned them a ban from her inn! And derision and scorn from their fellow adventurers.
“Yeah, well, Ceria’s always been insane. And Byres is cracked in the head ever since losing her team.”
Sourly, Walt, the [Shield Captain] leading the team, poured water onto his face. They’d been marching hard and since they were all wearing heavy armor and weapons, they were tired. But Walt wasn’t about to pay for stamina potions for everyone!
“Those bastards are eating snacks while they’re driving around, Walt.”
One of Walt’s teammates, Tommie, groused. Walt swore in reply.
“Troll balls, I saw it, Tommie! What do you want me to do? Let those idiots ride around. We have a job! Hey! Hey, Gnoll lady! Are we taking a rest yet?”
Ahead of them, the [Pathfinder] assigned to their team looked back with an annoyed expression on her face. She reluctantly held up a paw.
“Five minutes!”
“Bitch.”
None of the Humans were in a good mood. Even so, Walt cuffed the [Maceman] who’d said that, and the man swore at him. But pissing off the Gnoll in charge of their group wasn’t smart. Walt was in a filthy temper.
“Shut it! We’re going to get this done and get back! Five minutes!”
The Ensoldier Shields took their break, groaning and cursing. Walt reluctantly got on his feet and ordered the rest of his team forwards after the Gnoll after what felt like one minute. They weren’t always this bad-tempered. Erin Solstice breaking Belt’s nose and blacking his eye over a single incident was what had them angry. If she’d slapped back, that was one thing, but this was too much!
But the debate over the incident between the adventurers and Walt’s team was background noise to Walt. He’d say something to Ceria when they got back. Or Stan. Stan, now he was good at being friendly. Walt was tired as he marched on, but they were on the lowlands now, bordering the Bloodfields. That was something. As their grousing turned to silent marching, Tommie pointed to the left.
“Lookit that. The Bloodfields. There’s a brown splotch. See it?”
Walt turned. The omnipresent Bloodfields that had stolen the easy route through the valley was usually out of mind, if not out of sight. But it was true. There was an irregularity in the already-irregular Bloodfields. Walt had noticed how the terrain changed from dense to desolate, but it was always red with some other colors. But this—he paused.
“Hey! Gnoll lady! Uh—Teriska?”
“Hmm?”
She trotted back, frowning at him. Walt pointed out the spot.
“What’s that?”
The [Pathfinder] looked. It was indeed a large brown patch of land amid the red. The ground seemed dead there. She shrugged.
“Looks like dead earth to me, yes? Perhaps even the Bloodfields could not survive.”
“Or someone did the sensible thing and salted the earth.”
Tommie grunted. The Gnoll nodded.
“I noticed it, and we will make a report, yes? But we must scout around it.”
“Sure. Lead on.”
Walt grunted. They were as close as they were allowed to the Bloodfields—two miles away from the closest edge. Far out of range of anything. Even so, Walt did not like their proximity to the Bloodfields. He stared at the brown spot, then something else caught his attention.
A patch of huge, spore-like mushrooms. But big suckers. If he could see them from this far away, they had to be huge, twice as tall as he was. Walt stared at them, considered pointing them out to this team, but then decided against and kept marching. You didn’t want to stare too hard at the Bloodfields.
They kept walking. And in time, they got back to debating about the undead chariot. Not that they wanted one! It was too bad you couldn’t use horses everywhere. But undead horses? Well…
None of the adventurers nor the [Pathfinder] Gnoll noticed the change in the air at first. Then, the Gnoll looked up. She called a halt and pointed.
Something was blowing towards them. The Ensoldier Shields were downwind of the Bloodfields, and they saw a faint—mist?—on the wind. No, not a mist.
A faint red…haze in the air. It blew over the adventurers before they could do anything. Reflexively, Walt covered his mouth and didn’t inhale, and the others did the same.
“Everyone okay? What was that?”
“Pollen.”
The [Pathfinder] announced. The Gnoll sneezed as she lowered her paw. Some of the red was in her fur. Walt saw a bit on his armor and flicked it off uneasily.
“Damn pollen? Is it acidic? Poisonous?”
“Doesn’t feel like it. Damn, damn—anyone feeling sick? Why didn’t that bird-lady warn us about—”
“Pollen’s not part of the Bloodfields. They do not flower. Nevertheless, we should report this. I am calling us back.”
The Gnoll [Pathfinder] looked visibly uneasy. She pointed back towards the distant road. The Ensoldier Shields brightened. Now that was more like it! In high spirits, they turned and began marching back towards the road.
