“The Horns of Hammerad. They’re friends. They stay at the inn. I was just wondering where they were.”
“They’re probably on patrol. They’ll be back, but don’t hold your breath. They could be a few hours; they’re all on foot save for one team. Say—can I have another one of those cookies?”
“Sure.”
 
——
 
The Bloodfields waited. A bit closer from where the road was being built. But not too much. The furthest edge of corruption was still two miles safely away. And there it stayed, no matter where her team went. That was intentional. The [Scout], Hissle, and Ceria’s team had strict instructions not to get any closer to the Bloodfields. And the half-Elf couldn’t argue with that.
She panted as they hiked up a steep incline. Little stones cascaded down around her, dislodged by Yvlon who was climbing after the Drake, Hissle. Their [Scout] moved efficiently, sure-footed even on the rocky terrain. Yvlon was less graceful; she was wearing full plate armor, and despite the good fit and light, enchanted metal, it was still armor. She was sweating in the heat.
Ceria wasn’t. She’d taken to cooling herself down with ice magic. But she was tired. She stumbled on a rough patch of footing heading up the slope. She tipped backwards, began to flail—and a hand caught her.
“Captain Ceria.”
“Thanks, Ksmvr.”
“Steady.”
Yvlon turned. Ceria regained her balance and kept climbing. She was wheezing when they got to the top of the crest. Hissle was surveying the area. He turned as Ceria’s loud panting broke his concentration. The Drake eyed the [Cryomancer] and the other three adventurers. Pisces was sitting at the top of the hill on a rock; he’d used [Flash Step] to get up and was reviewing his book. Yvlon wiped her brow, looking only slightly fatigued. Ksmvr waved at Hissle. The Drake hesitated.
“Alright, we’ll take a five minute break!”
Ceria collapsed onto a rock next to Pisces. He eyed her as she panted. He opened his mouth. Ceria pointed at him.
“If you—say anything—I’ll stab you.”
“Ah.”
The [Necromancer] went back to looking at his book. Ceria wanted to die. She was dripping sweat. A cool object pressed against her cheek and she started.
“Water.”
Yvlon offered Ceria the flask. The half-Elf gratefully took it and drank. The water was cool—thanks to the ice cubes she’d added to it not half an hour ago. She handed it back after a few sips—she knew better than to gulp it down—and Yvlon drank gratefully.
“Ah. It’s nice having an [Ice Mage] around.”
Ksmvr nodded, also drinking. Pisces glanced up at Ceria as said [Ice Mage] bent over.
“Indeed. Are you all right, illustrious captain?”
“Shut it, Pisces. I don’t…want to hear it from you. [Flash Step] is illegal!”
“I could teach it to you. If you were so inclined. But it does require work. And if used incorrectly, you could break a leg on these rocks.”
Pisces raised a brow. Ceria groaned. She’d seen Pisces using his spell to carefully ascend.
“I don’t want to work! Why are we working? Someone tell me that! We’re rich from the dungeon! Why are we working?”
“I thought you said you wanted to keep our team busy. I was only too happy to rest.”
The [Necromancer] raised one brow. Yvlon smiled.
“This was your idea, Ceria.”
“Shut up, Yvlon.”
Ksmvr opened his mandibles, peering around. They had a good view from the rocky bluff they’d climbed. And the hills looking down onto the valley gave them a view. Green, and the basin that was Liscor to the north. And south? The Bloodfields. But also, the rise in land. Hills, rocky, unable to support even the crimson death zone. It was through this area that the Horns, led by Hissle, were traversing. Finding a route for the new road.
“Captain Ceria, I believe we will not be going uphill for the moment. There is a valley ahead. I believe we will be scouting it next.”
The half-Elf didn’t look elated at the news.
“If we go down, we have to go up again, Ksmvr.”
“That is true, Captain Ceria. Is my motivating speech a failure? How about this: our time is finite, so we only have three hours left by my calculation until our assigned work period ends. We will only be marching for two more hours, upon which time we will begin our return trip. How is that? Captain Ceria? …Captain Ceria?”
The half-Elf was trying to lie down in the dirt. Yvlon rolled her eyes. But she looked a bit tired herself.
“Ceria, get up. We’ve only been hiking for two hours.”
“Two hours!”
“You’re out of shape. Grimalkin is right. You got soft at Erin’s inn. You’ve done worse.”
“When I had to! But this was a mistake! We should quit!”
Ceria groaned. They’d been working on their job with Liscor for the last week, now. Enough time for all of them to get used to the routine. And hate it. Every day was the same. Stand around on guard duty or help build the road, or patrol. And the patrolling, the scouting, was the worst.
The worst part…was the constant hiking. Not the tedium. Ceria could handle tedium; she and her team were able to amuse themselves teaching Ksmvr new things, arguing with Pisces taking on all comers, or just gossiping. But the hiking was tough. On her especially, but it was just hard.
Scouting meant, well, moving, stopping, and moving some more. Hissle would survey for potential threats or problems that would impede the road—like a deep valley—and order them to check it out, or keep moving across the uneven terrain. They’d gone up very steep, rocky inclines, following Hissle, their dedicated [Scout].
The Drake was sympathetic—to a point. But he came back and pointedly nodded.
“We have to check out the valley. Reikhle won’t build through it, but there might be threats. Everyone up! Be watchful for monsters.”
Ceria hauled herself to her feet with a groan. She descended, stumbling after Pisces as the [Necromancer] zipped down the first incline with a smooth [Flash Step].
“Hissle, why can’t we use horses?”
The Drake sighed.
“Two reasons, Miss Ceria. First, horses attract monsters. So do we, but animals are tasty to monsters. But we could use them—if we had animals used to this terrain. But without, there’s no way a horse can navigate some of the spots we need to move. Like that gravel a while back.”
He nodded at the rocky landscape.
“I wish I had a Skill that gave my mount [Sure Footing] or something. But without it, even a pony would break an ankle in this terrain. I’m sorry, but aside from that other team—”
“The Whistling Bows. Kam’s team.”
“They’ve all got that Skill. Or their leader does.”
The half-Elf cursed. She’d seen Kam’s team riding in the distance, happily chatting to each other. Yvlon shrugged.
“I’m not a fan of hiking either, Ceria. But it’s good exercise and it keeps us out of the inn. Where you’d be drinking and eating by midday.”
“I’m allowed to do that! Where does it say that’s illegal? I can live how I please! I just wish we had horses.”
Ceria snapped. Yvlon shook her head. Ksmvr raised one of his three hands helpfully.
“There are a breed of huge goat in the Terandrian kingdom of Kilav that are suited to mountainous travel. They are domesticated for riding and considered extremely dangerous siege specialists due to their ability to traverse mountains and nearly vertical ground with ease.”
Everyone, Hissle, Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon, turned to look at the Antinium. Pisces nodded; Ceria just frowned.
“How do you know that, Ksmvr?”
“It is part of my education. I studied Kilavian warfare, among others.”
“You know about mountain goats in Kilav and not how to tip [Waitresses]?”
Ceria shook her head. They passed by Pisces. He was sitting on a rock. Even Hissle eyed Pisces askance as the [Necromancer] used his Skill to zip down the slope to another seat. He wasn’t lording it over them, but—Ceria glared daggers. Pisces coughed, hiding a smile.
“That is actually not Ksmvr’s failing, Ceria. Drakes do not prefer to tip, as a species. The fees for those working in such industries are calculated as part of their wages and thus the menu item costs. In that sense, Ksmvr was educated properly.”
“Well, why am I tipping, then?”
Ceria frowned. Then she cursed as she felt a familiar irritation on her feet, where her sandals were rubbing against one heel. She stopped.
“Blister!”
“I told you sandals were a poor idea to go hiking.”
Yvlon looked disapproving. Ceria had torn her toes open twice and gotten blisters. Now she applied some healing potion, ignoring Yvlon’s disapproving look at the waste. Ceria grumbled.
“I don’t care if it’s a mountain goat or an Eater Goat! I’d ride anything—I’m getting blisters on my feet! Isn’t there a better option?”
“None. So keep moving. We have to cover this ground, Captain Ceria. And you are contracted with the city.”
Hissle urged Ceria onwards. The half-Elf groaned and picked up the pace. She was indeed used to this, for all she ran her mouth.
By now, the adventurer’s teams were actively betting and lobbying for duty watching the building teams, rather than going scouting. Ceria agreed; casting [Icy Floor] to help some workers transport a block of stone, or so on was preferable to this. Only teams like Kam’s who had horses weren’t complaining.
It wasn’t a bad job. They were being paid well for guards! And they weren’t in much danger; the few monsters they’d happened across had been easily dispatched. And the dangerous ones the Silver-rank adventurers had teamed up on, like the Face-Eater Moth nest a few days back. No, it just wasn’t fun. And Ceria had forgotten how hard some jobs adventurers took were.
For instance, lunch. Again, it was worse for Ceria. Ksmvr happily chowed down on the food provided for the adventurers and workers alike. It was free as part of their job, so Ceria shouldn’t have complained. But she did. Vocally.
“What’s this? This is just—rations!”
She eyed the salted fish, bit of crumbling cheese, and hard bread they were given. It was filling, but hardly good, even washed down with cold water. Yvlon sighed.
“Ceria, enough. You’ve been complaining over every little thing. You’ve gotten spoiled by Erin. This is no worse than I had in any number of jobs. But Erin serves that greasy stuff. Filling, but this is better if we’re going to fight. And the city’s providing it to us for free.”
The reprimand turned Ceria’s cheeks pink. Embarrassed, the half-Elf waved the bit of fish around.
“But I like Erin’s food. This is—”
She stopped as she realized everyone was looking at her. Even Pisces was staring at her meaningfully. Ceria turned red. She chewed in silence. Okay, it was decent food. Just—
“I admit, Erin’s food is somewhat more flavorful.”
Pisces acceded after a minute of silent chewing. He gulped down some water and silently traded his bread for Ksmvr’s fish. The Antinium had a thing about gluten. Pisces chewed on his fish and then continued.
“Erin could provide us with lunches. One wonders why the city didn’t ask her to cater for our teams.”
“Knowing the inn? I’ll bet Lyonette charged too much and Erin didn’t want to make that much food in advance. Which is a shame. She needs to hire a cook.”
Yvlon cast a knowing glance towards the magical door sitting—currently inactive—in the distance. They could actually see the road from their vantage point. Ceria nodded, still embarrassed. She peered down at the workers, then pointed.
“Hey. Isn’t that Erin?”
“Where?”
The other Horns and Hissle looked. The Drake shaded his eyes. He had a Skill and nodded after a moment.
“That’s her. She’s got a basket. Looks like…what are those things?”
“Cookies!”
Ceria didn’t have to guess. She sat up longingly.
“She’s handing them out to—the Ensoldier Shields! Damn! Walt and his team! Just because they’re all wearing armor they get to sit around—”
“Ceria!”
The Horns were watching from their spot. They were just above the lip of the valley, and any further down they’d miss seeing Erin. Hissle looked about, ready to order them to stop hanging around, but then he glanced back.
“What’s that?”
Erin was shouting furiously. From the distance, no one could hear her, but the [Scout]’s enhanced vision saw her furiously pointing at one of the adventurers. Ceria shaded her eyes.
“What? What happened?”
“Looks like something’s made your friend mad. Oh—I think I saw. One of them slapped her on the behind.”
The Drake said it passively, but the half-Elf swore, and Yvlon twitched.
“Those disgusting idiots! I’m going to kick Walt’s teeth in!”
“It wasn’t on the tail. Oh—wait. I guess that’s bad, isn’t it?”
“Like the tail.”
Pisces informed Hissle. The Drake frowned. Ksmvr nodded.
“I understand this is another form of establishing dominance between sexes. A bad one.”
He looked at Yvlon, and the [Wounded Warrior] nodded. Hissle stared back down.
“Well—your friend’s not having it.”
Erin had thrown the basket down and was advancing on one of the laughing adventurers. The all-male team of the Ensoldier Shields were arguing with the other team—Hauntgheist, whose female members were also looking very upset. Then—Ceria groaned appreciatively.
“Ooh! She punched him! Did I see that?”
“Yup.”
Hissle watched. He looked at the sprawled figure.
“Nice hit. That had to be a Skill, right? Alright, back to work!”
“What? But I want to see—”
“No excuses! We have three more hours! We need to check out this valley now! Keep marching!”
 
——
 
Palt the Centaur was cooking when the door slammed back open and Erin Solstice stormed back into the inn. He heard her voice first, shouting.
“Those jerks! Hey! Hey! Let go of me! I’m gonna kick him in the nuts! I’m gonna boil nuts and throw it on his face! I said let go—”
“Sorry, Miss Erin. But they are working. Master Reikhle wants you off the work site.”
“He slapped my butt!”
“It wasn’t your ears or t—oh, wait. Well, it’s all better if you stay away from them.”
The second voice was male. The first, female one’s was far more sympathetic, but whoever was pushing Erin back into the inn had orders. There was a commotion coming from the magical doorway. Palt longed to investigate, but he couldn’t even send a spell out. He was concentrating.
“And…we add the saffron-mix. Note how I have the crushed saffron threads with a few uncrushed ones? We add that to the water—the caramelized onions are already mixed with the rice. And now it’s cooking! You see? Simple, easy—this is flavor. Just enough salt, saffron, some onion and we’ll have a dish. Now, we need some sides…”
