“I don’t like it. It’s staring at me.”
“Then don’t look at it. It’s not going to creep up on you.”
“I can’t help it. It’s like a loose scale, you know?”
“…No.”
“Okay, then a rough patch of fur or something. You know what I mean!”
“My fur is always combed, thank you.”
“Go to Rhir. Look, I swear it’s watching me. Don’t you feel the same way? It’s always there and I feel like it’s growing.”
“It’s your imagination. Just get back to work.”
“You’re telling me you don’t get nervous when you stare at it?”
“I don’t. That’s why I’m not bothered.”
“…Your fur’s standing up.”
The Gnoll [Worker] glanced up and patted the hairs on his neck. The Drake [Laborer] crowed. He pointed at the red splotch in the distance as the two took a break from clearing the earth. The green grasses, fed by spring rains, were growing tall and wild.
In places, flowers, grass, and other plants were waist-high. There were only a few actual trees; even this far out from Liscor, opportunistic [Lumberjacks] would take down the comparatively rare wood and haul it back to the city. And the High Passes were not forested by and large, anyways. The rocky terrain of the higher hills supported only shrub-like plants or smaller.
And yet, the valley here leading out of the High Passes and into southern Izril seemed idyllic. For grazing, at least! But no [Shepherd] would raise their animals around here. They preferred the Floodplains, for all of the dangers of Rock Crabs and Shield Spiders. Because beyond the lush grasses lay a crimson stain. It occupied the valley, cutting off an easy route south.
The Bloodfields. They waited in the distance. The two workers unconsciously turned. The Gnoll sniffed the air warily. They were too far and the wind was blowing the wrong way. But even so. The foreign terrain that began where the red grasses began was…uncanny. To Erin Solstice, it looked like a vision of Mars.
Not Mars, Mars, the actual planet which was mostly dust and hot stuff. Erin had seen all kinds of actual data about Mars from her world. But the Bloodfields looked like what people had imagined Mars might be if it was inhabited by alien life.
Red grass occupied the Bloodfields. It seemed—shiny. The light caught the blades, which were razor sharp. Even the grass thirsted for blood. But the grass was hardly the worst of it. Large, bulbous plants dominated the landscape. In places, strange, spore-like protrusions and huge thorny vines, dense clusters of plants seemed to be almost like a jungle. But the sudden dense spots were like oases amid the crimson. The rest of the Bloodfields were apparently spacious.
Deceptively so. Tall, pale trees, some sixty feet tall, others even higher, dominated vast, circular dead zones. Watchertrees. And the bulbous sacs were filled with insects. What few creatures made the Bloodfields their home were also changed. Erin had seen a rabbit. With teeth! And the rabbit had seemed more like a predator.
“See! I told you! You don’t like it either!”
The Drake crowed, catching Erin’s attention. The Gnoll grumbled and turned away, refusing to answer. He caught sight of Erin watching him and paused. She waved.
“Hi.”
“Uh oh. It’s her.”
The Drake saw Erin too. He stared at Erin. She waved again and lifted the object in her hands.
“I’m just watching. Wanna cookie?”
The Drake and Gnoll stared at the cookie Erin was munching on. Well, she had a little basket. The Gnoll sniffed again and seemed to like what they saw. The Drake licked his lips.
“For free?”
“Sure! I mean, you’re working really hard.”
Erin gestured around vaguely at the immediate area. About three miles south of the Bloodfields, Drakes and Gnolls were building a road. A legit road. It was flat and everything. True, it wasn’t asphalt, but they were tearing up the sod, pounding the road to somewhat smooth levels, even rolling objects over the surface.
They were creating a wide path, able to hold two wagons abreast comfortably, out of the wilderness. And they were building it around the Bloodfields, bridging the impassible expanse in the spring and summer. To bring Liscor into contact with the other cities.
They were doing it fast, too. It had been only a few days and the road stretched as far as Erin could see in one direction as she leaned out of the magical doorway. A nice, straight road, heading south. Towards Pallass. She waved the basket at the Gnoll and Drake.
“Cookies?”
“I’ll have one.”
The Drake came to a sudden decision. He trotted over and grabbed two. Erin had only offered one, but that was fine. The Gnoll came over too. He took a cookie and bowed slightly.
“Thank you. Er—”
“Erin. Erin Solstice.”
“Of course. We’ve, uh, heard of you. Thank you for the—”
“Cookie. Don’t worry, this is just a vanilla one. It’s made of sugar. Flour, butter, eggs—mostly sugar. And vanilla.”
The Gnoll brightened. He took a cautious bite and smiled even further. Erin smiled too as the Drake scarfed one.
“Hey! This is really good! Can I have another?”
“No. But your friend can take another.”
The Gnoll did. He dipped his head again. He cast a longing glance past Erin into her inn. It was a fairly good day, and some guests were inside, watching the Players of Celum. It was also cooler, and Drassi was passing by with some cooled beers on a platter. Erin would have invited the Gnoll to step inside, but a loud voice came from behind the two workers.
“Hey! Break time’s over! Get back to work, you two!”
“Aw. Damn. [Taskmaster] Eigusha is on our tails again.”
The Drake groaned as he turned. The Gnoll made a face too. He hesitated and looked at Erin.
“We’d better get going. Thank you. It’s, uh, good to meet you, Miss Erin.”
“You too!”
The [Innkeeper] smiled as they left. She could hear the Drake and Gnoll as they trotted back to the working team, scarfing their second cookie.
“That was her? She’s shorter than I thought she’d be. And a lot less insane.”
“We saw her going through her inn. I told you she wasn’t crazy.”
“Yeah, but you hear things. Remember the skeleton in her inn?”
“No. I thought it was a Hobgoblin.”
“No, that’s different. She had, like, five. I thought she was mating with them, but it didn’t smell like that—”
Erin lost her smile. She stared narrow-eyed at the Gnoll’s back. Then the world began to move. Alarmed, Erin jumped—until she realized someone was picking up the doorframe that connected her inn to this position. She peered out the door and saw two grunting Drakes hauling the door. They jumped when they saw her.
“Hey! Where are you taking me?”
“Moving the door, Miss. Master Builder Reikhle’s orders. Don’t mind us.”
“Oh. Okay, then. Wanna cookie?”
“Sure—”
“Miss Human! Please stop feeding my workers!”
An aggrieved voice shouted at Erin. She turned, and stepped out of the doorway. She looked around, feeling the warm air on her neck. There was a breeze, but the sun was out in force. The grasslands south of Liscor felt hot. And hotter when you saw the teams, the Drakes sweating, the Gnolls with damp fur. They were not a happy lot, but they worked hard, in shifts. And the one motivating them to work harder was striding towards her.
“Oh. Hey. Master Builder. I was just—”
The Gnoll strode up to Erin. He pointed at her door.
“We’re moving your door up. To follow the road. There’s no point in keeping it the same spot. And I need more workers, so I’m sending Eigusha through to Liscor. No problems, yes? Good? Good! Stop bothering my workers, please. What’s that?”
He pointed at Erin’s basket. She lifted it.
“Cookie?”
The Gnoll sniffed the basket, took three cookies, and chewed one. He frowned.
“Sweet! I’ll share this with my quartermasters. Fine, you can give them out if they’re free. But don’t get in the way. Eigusha! The door!”
He waved and another Gnoll, female, trotted towards the door. The Drakes paused, and she hopped up. The Drakes were carrying the door, so the floor of the inn appeared at torso level. Eigusha jumped and landed in the inn. She blinked around unsteadily, suddenly in an inn. It was an odd experience the first hundred times you did it. Then she turned. The door closed as she briskly adjusted it to Liscor.
“Ooh. I hope Drassi gets it back to here.”
Erin frowned. Reikhle shrugged.
“Eigusha will be back in less than twenty minutes. And this door’s handy. We don’t have to set up camp, we can request supplies and personnel in moments—you’re not charging us for it, right?”
“Nope. I’m getting money from the city. Well, I don’t have to pay as many taxes.”
“Ah, excellent. In that case, I’ll keep using it how I please.”
The Gnoll [Builder] nodded to himself. Erin eyed him.
Master Builder Reikhle was…interesting. The Gnoll had no time for anything that wasted time. He’d been hired through Pallass to do a job, and this was it. Anyone—adventurer or worker—who was shirking got the back of his paw. In a literal sense. The Gnoll wasn’t afraid to knock heads, but he wasn’t violent.
And it was true that a Drake and Gnoll work team needed it sometimes. Erin had seen two fights as she’d watched that day. The workers got on each other’s nerves, both working and on break. And it fell to Eigusha, the [Taskmistress], or Reikhle, or the other supervisors to deal with the arguments.
Snarling Gnolls and hissing Drakes weren’t the adventurer’s jobs to break up, especially because the Humans were often the target of ire of both races combined. Speaking of which…Erin followed Reikhle as he strode back towards the door.
“Where’re you putting the door?”
“Just up towards the front of the road. We’re not going to walk all the way up when we can move the door, surely?”
“Oh. Makes sense. But aren’t we closer to…the Bloodfields?”
Erin gestured at the red grass in the distance. Reikhle glanced over. Like the other Gnoll, he sniffed the air, but dismissively.
“We’re three miles out. And I have the road moving away from the Bloodfields. See?”
He pointed impatiently, striding so fast that Erin had to jog to keep up. The road was being built along wooden stakes hammered into the ground. Reikhle himself had measured it with some device from Pallass, and now the road was straight as an arrow. [Laborers] were moving ahead of the team pounding the road flat, pouring dirt, raising it above the surrounding dirt. And another team was digging…Erin frowned.
“Is that a ditch? Why’re you digging that?”
“To have enough dirt to elevate the road! And for drainage, obviously!”
Reikhle snorted. Erin peered at the road.
“Oh. But it’s made of dirt. Won’t it wash away with rain?”
The Gnoll gave her a side-eye.
“Not my roads. This one will eventually degrade, but [Weather-resistant Structure] is my Skill, and this road will last thrice as long as a normal one! We could have made it out of stone of course, but your city wants the road done fast. And dirt is a lot faster. We’ll probably be rebuilding it in the years to come, but I’ll have a temporary road built in less than a month. If you slugs would get to work and stop sitting on your tails!”
He bellowed past Erin. A group of Drakes and Gnolls cursed at Reikhle as Erin winced. The Gnoll strode past her.
“Don’t bother my workers or get in the way!”
He left Erin. She walked to the side; the road was indeed moving at a rapid pace. Almost as fast as she could walk! Part of it was Skills, but the rest was just organization. Reikhle had teams such that everyone was always working. Erin sidled up to her door as the two Drakes put it down.
“Cookie? Cookie.”
She offered her basket. The two sweaty Drakes took it with gratitude. One was a female Drake. She leaned against the door as Erin stared at her arms. This Drake had muscles. And breasts. Fun fact: Drakes were mammals. Erin hadn’t really known that. The Drake eyed Erin too.
“Thanks, Miss Innkeeper. Don’t mind Reikhle. He’s always like that.”
“Oh? You’re from Pallass, then.”
The Drake nodded, flashing Erin a grin. Erin smiled back as the other Drake scarfed another cookie, more interested in her basket than anything else. The female Drake smiled crookedly.
“That’s right. We’re part of his team. I’m a [Hauler]. Decent-leveled, though. See these?”
She hefted one arm. Erin nodded appreciatively.
“What Skills do [Haulers] get?”
“Ones that let us work harder.”
The other Drake grumbled. The female [Hauler] nodded.
“But also carry more than we should. It’s like having a miniature bag of holding for dirt. See?”
She nodded at the team dumping dirt on the ground. Indeed, they seemed to be carrying far more than they should, and the team pounding the dirt flat didn’t need to stop for quite a while. Erin whistled.
“Nice. So—Reikhle’s a good boss?”
She’d seen him striding about, and after a few days of having him walk through her inn to work, she was curious. Hence the basket of goodwill—Erin twitched it out of the reach of the male Drake. He’d had four cookies. The female Drake grinned and took another one.
“Reikhle? He’s decent. Hey, these are really good! You have any water?”
“Oh—when the door’s open—”
Erin gestured at the door. The Drake nodded, wiping sweat from her brow. She nodded at Reikhle.
“I know he’s tough. But he’s a [Builder], not some prancing [Architect] or [Engineer]. You need someone to make one of those complex elevators or some artful piece of marble, get someone else. Reikhle gets the job done cheap and quick. Without magic, too! Which is good. [Mage]-built roads always have something wrong with ‘em.”
“Huh. Well, I’m just interested. You’re all working hard, so I thought I’d share some…say, are the adventurer teams here?”
Erin looked around. The Drake shrugged. She waved a claw.
“There are a few on watch over there.”
“Useless sacks.”
Her companion grumbled. He eyed the two teams of Silver-rank adventurers standing around chatting, a few keeping watch in every direction. His ire might have also been due to the fact that the teams were Human. Entirely so. Erin inspected both teams. But she didn’t see the ones she was looking for.
“Where’re the others?”
“Scouting ahead. Scouting the area. You know, to keep the immediate area clear of monsters. Watch for gaps. We’re going into the hills to get around the Bloodfields. And dead gods, that’s going to be a pain.”
The female Drake nodded knowingly towards the incline ahead of them. The grass disappeared, and rocky terrain began. Erin imagined the builders would have to break the stone, find a way to build the road up. She nodded.
“Ooh. Yeah, that’s tough. Condolences.”
“We’ve done it before. But it’s no picnic. You looking for a team?”
