Shaking his head, he continued, adopting a more serious expression. “Recall that it is the first group that discovers a lair that assigns the name. I’ve experienced this myself, though I don’t know all the details of how it works. Anyway, setting aside how silly some adventurers can be for the moment, there is something important to notice in this list.

“In case you weren’t aware, the Watch always names lairs the same way, listing the location, element, and date. The Crimson Swords had several accolades named in that manner, and this is yet more evidence of plate hunting. The Watch does not sell accolades, nor do they tolerate them on the open market. As a Custodian, I feel that it is my duty to return these plates to the Watch, and that is a duty that I intend to fulfill. However, the nearest stronghold is in Fel Sadanis, and as we have no intention of going back there, they are ours to use for the moment.”

He nodded to himself, not waiting for the crowd’s reaction. “Also, there are the duplicates to consider. For bronzeplate Guilders, any permanent accolade is essentially priceless. While specialized equipment might provide a greater boost, it can be equally expensive, if not more, unless you happen to be friends with the world’s best smith.” Rain nodded at Tallheart, getting another chuckle or two out of the crowd. “It also requires maintenance,” he continued. “Accolades do not. Only in extreme circumstances would most people sell one.

“If you are buying accolades, on the other hand, it makes much more sense to purchase a single tier-two rather than several tier-ones, due to the nature of the scaling. For this reason, full sets are considered a sure sign of plate hunting, or at least, a sign of having discovered a fallen party.” Rain sighed, running a hand through his hair. “One full set, I would believe, but two? And with the Watch accolades on top of it?” He shook his head. “Not likely.”

He raised his hands, sensing that the crowd was getting restless. “Anyway, I’m not trying to justify my decision to you. I’m well past that point. I just want to make it clear what having all of these accolades means. There are implications, particularly if the full list becomes known. One day, Ascension, too, might be accused of plate hunting, simply for having these.” Rain sliced his hand through the air. “This is why we will NOT discuss it. Not with outsiders. Not with provisional members. Not even with each other without wards to protect us.”

Rain looked over the crowd, which had become deathly silent. He continued, passion creeping into his voice. “My goal is for our organization to be a force for good in this world. A force for change. We must be better than the Watch. Better than the Guild. Certainly better than the Bank. Our character must be beyond reproach, and our reputation unstained. Pure. Even then, that is not enough. We are nowhere near the level of these organizations, and the world is not a safe place for the weak. We must build our strength until we are able to defend ourselves. We have to get stronger. These accolades will help us do that.”

“Yeah!” Carten yelled, clapping. After a moment, a few others joined in, then a few more. Rain raised his hands once more for silence, watching Ameliah in the corner of his eye. She nodded to him encouragingly, bolstering his confidence, and he nodded back. Here we go.

“Now we come to the crux of the matter,” he said, increasing his volume, though the complaints from his throat were becoming hard for even him to ignore any longer. “The codes are not set up to deal with the distribution of these accolades. There are some preliminary rules covering lairs cleared by the company, but nothing for combat against people. The closest thing we have is the provision for unexpected monster encounters while not on company business. The codes state, simply, that everything goes to the party involved. Therefore, as I see it, the accolades belong to Tallheart, Ameliah, and myself, to do with as we please.”

“So give ‘em ta the company then!” Kettel yelled, jumping to his feet. “Share, like ye said ye would! Besides, I helped, didn’t I? I lobbed a Firebolt at ‘em! I should get, like, two for that! At least!”

“Kettel, depths take you, sit down!” Vanna shouted, suddenly pushing herself out of her chair and whirling to stare at him over the heads of the crowd.

Kettel shifted his gaze to her, balling up his fists and opening his mouth, but she cut him off.

“Stop acting like a child,” she snapped.

“Wha?” Kettel shouted back. “Say tha’ again!“

“Sit. Down.” Vanna’s voice was arctic. “Rain isn’t finished yet. Stop interrupting.”

“I gotta right ta’ talk,” Kettel said hotly. “I’m jus’ sayin’ what everyone’s thinkin’.”

“That’s it,” Vanna snapped. “Sit down, or I’m fining you a thousand credits.”

Kettel snorted incredulously. “You can’t do that,” he said, crossing his arms.

“She can, actually,” Rain said forcefully, attempting to regain control. He softened his tone, conveying disappointment. “Kettel. Please.”

“Fine,” Kettel said, dropping back into his seat with a huff.

“Anyway,” Rain said, shaking his head. That kid is a lot of work. He cleared his throat again. “We do intend to share the accolades with the company eventually; however, now is not the time. We have another plan for them. As I said, Ascension is not strong enough to defend itself against the threats we face. Because they were plate hunters, the Crimson Swords were silver level. Other than Ameliah and Tallheart, we are all bronze at best. We need more silverplates. Two are not enough to keep the rest of us safe.”

Rain spread his hands in front of him. “We’re working on it, obviously. Awakening our members is the purpose of Ascension, after all. However, it is going to take time for us to get there. Time we don’t have.” He sighed. “In all honesty, we have been lucky to have done as well as we have so far. This company is barely a month old, and already we have added fifteen new awakened to our midst. Now, with access to the depths, we have the opportunity to awaken many more. We will do this, but it is not going to be nearly as fast as some of you are expecting.”

He paused. “Unless some of us skip the line.” He held out his hand. “What I am proposing is this. Ameliah, Tallheart, and I are going to take these accolades, and we are going to use them to delve. Just the three of us. Where we are going, it will be all that the two of them can do to protect me. Bringing more people is out of the question, let alone a full party. With these accolades, I just might be able to survive long enough for them to get me to silver.” Rain closed his fist. “I will gain the strength required to carry you. That is my promise.”

The reaction of the crowd was mixed. A few people clapped, others cheered, and some looked unsure or even angry. Rain hid his frown as he waited. Eventually, things died down and a single hand went up, though not one that he’d expected.

Rain pointed. “Yes, Meloni?”

She rose, glancing at Jamus, then cleared her throat. “I…don’t like this. What if…what if you get yourself killed?”

A deep rumble stopped Rain before he could reply, and he turned to see Tallheart push himself up from the wall.

“Rain will not die,” he said, shaking his head slowly. “I will not allow it.”

“Well, you heard Tallheart, so that’s that,” Ameliah said, clapping her hands as she stood. [Sorry, Rain. I know you didn’t want us to interfere, but enough is enough.]

She lithely hopped up onto the stage, casually spinning in mid-air to land beside him before laying a hand on his shoulder. “Rain is a better person than I am,” she said, addressing the crowd. “He insisted on trying to make you understand, rather than just telling you how it was going to be. We’re doing this. If you have a problem with it, you can direct your complaints to Tallheart.”

Tallheart rumbled. “No. You can not.”

A barking laugh from Carten broke the tension, and then, amazingly, the majority of the room joined him. Ameliah squeezed Rain’s shoulder lightly, and he felt the anxiety drain out of him. “Come on,” she whispered. “Let’s go.”

“Hang on a second,” Rain whispered, running through his plan in his mind. “I still need to talk about the equipment we recovered, and then the changes to the codes, and then—Ameliah, that’s starting to hurt.“

Ameliah loosened her grip slightly. “You don’t have to do everything in one day, fluff brain,” she whispered. “You got through the hardest part. Take the win.”

“I…” Rain paused, then smiled. No, she’s right. “Okay.”

“Good,” Ameliah said, as he allowed her to guide him from the stage. “Nice work, by the way. For you, that was a really good speech.”

Rain blinked. “What do you mean, ‘for me’?”
