The new provisional members can’t vote. They don’t matter. I will see them treated well, but they can’t be my focus. My keys are Ameliah, Tallheart, Vanna, and then the full members, with the awakened and unawakened as the two major voting blocs. I need to keep them all happy without letting myself become a tyrant.

Rain shook his head. I would be lost without CGP Grey.

He frowned as he considered the subject of political philosophy once more, his quill scratching across the page independently of his thoughts. The Prince had been the first thing that had come to mind upon searching his memory for help. Unfortunately, other than the odd quote or two, he could recall almost nothing of Machiavelli’s signature work on the merits of professional assholery—or the downfalls, depending on your interpretation.

Recovering a book he’d read was possible, he knew. He’d been doing it on and off with The Hobbit for weeks now, intent on reading it to Ameliah once he finished. It took a ridiculous amount of effort, however, and that was for a book he actually liked. The Prince would be incalculably more difficult, as would The Republic, The Art of War, and that random collection of John Locke essays. Like most of the things he’d been forced to read throughout his education, he’d actively loathed all of them at the time. Now, he wished he’d paid more attention.

He needed more help than a recovered YouTube video and some snippets on ethics from The Good Place could provide.

Trust and goodwill only get me so far. If not for Tallheart and Ameliah backing me... He shook his head. I need to do better, even if I have to be a bit of an asshole to do it. Rule zero: Without power, you can affect nothing.

Rain frowned as an errant drop of ink ruined the page he was working on. No, not ruined. It’s just a small spot.

With some effort, he forced himself to ignore it and continue copying from his interface. He’d been alternating between using his word-processor and a quill, only using the latter once he was completely satisfied with what he wanted to say. For this page, at least, he thought he had everything how he wanted it. It was simply a matter of writing it out.

The scratch of the quill was the only sound as he worked. He’d ordered the watchers on the walls to keep quiet unless a dangerous monster was spotted. Ameliah needed her rest, even if he was to have none.

He had tried to sleep. Really, he had. He’d brought his bedroll into Ameliah’s room and everything, moving this desk in here to make space. Both of them were still extremely sensitive, and not in a good way. Sharing the bed was out of the question for the moment, even though it was large enough. It wasn’t a lack of comfort that had left him staring numbly at the stars. It was what he’d found waiting for him behind his eyelids.

The face of the man that he’d sentenced to die.

The judgment in his expression.

The hole where Dozer’s happiness had been and the remnants of the link that made it impossible to forget.

…

Rain’s eye twitched.

He set down his quill, then picked up the sheet, staring at the damn splotch. He couldn’t ignore it after all. He’d have to start again.

Setting it neatly with the others in the discard pile, he replaced it with a blank page. Before reaching for the quill again, he bumped up his Focus to forty past the cap and activated Essence Well, sending a few thousand mana to himself.

That would cause some mild soulstrain, he knew.

That was the point.

It was still mostly dark when the first notes of the morning bugle rolled over Rain’s walls, making him look up from his work. He’d closed his HUD, not wanting the clock as a distraction. Clearly, it had worked.

He narrowed his eyes, then looked back down at the page he was working on. This one wasn’t a part of the codes. Instead, it was a drawing. He’d spent more time reading blueprints than making them, but anyone could draft a building—or encampment in this case—given access to a ruler and with sufficient attention to detail.

I need to finish this so Ameliah can get started today. More recruits are coming. I can feel it.

He dipped the quill.

I’m not stopping now. I can’t.

The next interruption didn’t come until almost twenty minutes later—movement from the curtain blocking his door. He looked up as Tarny’s face poked in. Good, I can get him started on some of this. He beckoned. “Come in, Tarny. Just a moment while I dimension this wall.”

He moved his ruler, scraping the nib of his quill along its edge. It took him three trips back to the inkwell to complete the stroke to his satisfaction, as he was being exceedingly cautious about drips. Once the line was in place, he added in the number specifying the distance, then moved to the other side of the page to work elsewhere while the fresh ink dried. Once he finished this blueprint, he needed to write out a new version of the accolade pamphlet, and after that—

Tarny coughed politely.

Rain paused, then grimaced. Oops.

Focus soulstrain was dangerous. It helped him order his thoughts immensely, but the tunnel vision was just as much of a problem as his normal attention issues. He sighed, lowering his quill. “Tarny, sorry. Good morning.” He wiped the nib on a scrap of cloth, then Purified the stain into oblivion. That worked, at least. Something about ink belonging on paper, but not on a rag.

“Good morning…” Tarny said. “Captain…are you alright? Did you even sleep?”

“No, I didn’t,” Rain said, raising a hand. “Yes, I should have. I tried. It didn’t work.”

“Captain, you need to recover. You can’t push yourself like this, not right after being injured.”

Rain frowned, running through a Detection sequence. “You’re right, Tarny. I am fully aware that I’m being pigeon-headed.” He rubbed at the bridge of his nose, then let his hand fall to the desk. “I’ll rest soon, don’t worry. Can you please go get Vanna, Tallheart, Ameliah, and Romer, then come back here with them? We need to talk.” He gestured to the piles covering the table. “I’ve made a little progress on the codes, and I’d like to review it with all of you. After that, I need to give a speech.”

“I… Yes, Captain,” Tarny said, though he clearly wanted to argue.

Rain smiled. Good man. “Thank you for worrying about me, Tarny. Tallheart is in the workshop, and the rest of them are in the tavern. I’m surprised they’re not already in here to check on me. Oh, since you’re going that way, would you mind bringing me back a cup of coffee, please? Black.”

“That depends…” Tarny said, narrowing his eyes. “How much have you already had?”

“Uh…none. Why?”

Tarny just looked at him.

“Okay, maybe I had a cup or two,” Rain lied. It was easier than telling the truth.

“Captain—“

“I know, Tarny, I know. Please. Just get everyone so you can all tell me I’m stupid at once.”

“Fine,” Tarny said, shaking his head as he turned to leave. “But no more coffee. I don’t even know how you can drink that stuff, especially without milk and honey.”

Milk and honey? Rain shuddered, returning to his drawing. Heresy.

Common Knowledge: Accolades

3060-10-01

Notice

This informational pamphlet is a publication of Ascension. The Common Knowledge series is intended to provide an overview of various topics. Some background information and descriptions of experimental procedures have therefore been omitted.

The facts presented here have been verified to whatever extent possible as of the date of publication above.

This document may be copied and distributed freely, provided that no modification is made to the content or to this notice.

Accolades

An accolade is hereby defined as the system-granted reward for destroying a lair. The underlying reason for this system behavior is not known, should any underlying reason exist.

According to reports and firsthand experience, an accolade is granted to all party members upon core destruction, provided that certain conditions are met. These conditions have yet to be experimentally determined, but in the typical case of a fully-awakened party, up to eight people may receive the reward. Refer to Common Knowledge: Awakening and Common Knowledge: Parties for more information.

Physically, accolades appear as metallic plates bearing, at minimum, the name of the origin lair. The color of the metal indicates the elemental alignment. Upon binding, the effect of the accolade is revealed and appears below the lair name. If unbound for any reason, the effect description will be hidden again.

Binding

Note: A comprehensive overview of the concept of the soul is not available in the Common Knowledge series, and the term ‘soul’ is used without definition. A summary of the pertinent facts regarding accolades and the soul is provided here:

To be used, an accolade must be both bound (tied to the soul), as well as slotted (equipped).

Accolades bind immediately upon core destruction.

Once bound, the physical plate may be dismissed, at which point it will vanish.

Accolades may be re-manifested with an effort of will.

Accolades will also manifest automatically upon the death of the holder.

Plate hunting is punishable by death.

A manifested accolade typically remains bound until:

It is deliberately unbound.

It is touched by another individual.

The owner dies.

Binding and unbinding is subject to will, though the effect varies from person to person.

As an example, for some, accolades unbind automatically when dropped and may only be kept bound with an effort of will. For others the opposite is true. In both cases, once out of contact, will is not required to maintain the binding.

A full discussion on this effect is beyond the scope of the Common Knowledge series.

There is no limitation on physical distance between the holder and a manifested accolade.

Some accolade holders use this mechanism as a defense against plate hunters and to otherwise preserve their inheritance. However, leaving accolades manifested allows the possibility of theft. For this reason, the practice is not common. Further, coercion remains a concern, as it is possible for the plate holder to summon a previously manifested accolade, regardless of distance.

A person may bind an unlimited number of accolades.

A person may only slot a limited number of accolades at one time.

The number of available slots is equal to one plus the individual’s level.

Stronger accolades require more than one slot.

The slotting process is automatic unless a person possesses more accolades than they can use, at which point the system will typically provide an interface.

It is not known at this time whether it is possible for an individual to deliberately unslot an accolade without unbinding it in the case where excess slots are available.

Classification

Accolades are categorized according to element, tier, and grade.

Element influences the type of bonus granted by the accolade. Some bonuses, such as extra health, can come from any element, while others, such as resistances, are significantly more common from accolades of a matching element. A full list of boosts and probabilities by element is not available at this time.

Tier refers to the number of accolade slots required to use the accolade. In general, Tier-1 accolades are said to drop from lairs under rank 10, Tier-2 from lairs under rank 20, and so forth. It is not known at this time whether this is due to probability or an absolute rule.

Grade refers to the quality of the buff, and it is largely convention rather than a property defined by the system. It uses the same terminology as classes: common, uncommon, rare, and legendary.

Accolades come in two main types: single-use and permanent.

Single-Use Accolades

Single-use accolades, also called voucher accolades, may be redeemed for a reward by the accolade holder. It is not known at this time whether any special restrictions exist regarding voucher redemption, including the effect of the accolade tier.

Common rewards include Tel, Crysts, and raw materials. Significantly less common rewards have been reported, such as magical items and respecialization effects.

A full reward table is not available at this time.

Permanent Accolades

Permanent accolades, also called true accolades, provide the holder with a buff, similar to magical equipment. Flat boosts to attributes, vitals, and resistances are common. Multiplicative boosts are rare, as are skill grants and unique effects.

A full reward table is not available at this time.

Rumors, Speculation, and Conflicting Information

Accolade bonuses stack without limit.

Accolades are physically indestructible.

Accolades allow you to exceed the resistance cap.

Accolades can be combined.

Accolades break down if unbound for too long.

Accolades can be manipulated or stolen with a hidden skill.

Accolades decrease synchronization.

Accolades do not cause soulstrain.

Accolade quality is improved by clearing a lair with a smaller party.

This is dangerous. See Common Knowledge: Lairs

Additional accolade slots can be acquired without leveling.

Valuation

Single-use accolades are valued based upon the stated reward, while permanent accolades are valued depending on the quality of the bonus. Due to the high value and wide variability of accolades, they are typically only traded by auction. Refer to Common Knowledge: The City of Lights.

The following is a rough appraisal method for permanent accolades of tier-three and lower, based upon element, tier, and grade.

Price = BasePrice * ElementalFactor * Tier * Grade

Notes:

Start with a base price of 1 GranTel for accolades with common bonuses.

Uncommon accolades, such as those that grant skills, should be assigned a higher base price or appraised outside of this system.

An accolade’s element influences its value only when the buff is aligned with that element.

As an example, one thousand health has the same intrinsic value, whether it comes from a Heat accolade or an Arcane one. Ten Arcane resistance, however, is forty times more valuable than ten Heat resistance, given the relative scarcity of the element and the high demand.

Refer to Common Knowledge: Elements for more information on element abundance.

For non-elementally aligned bonuses, omit the element from the calculation.

Numerical weightings for grade are:

Common → 1

Uncommon → 2

Rare → 3

Legendary → 4+

A more accurate appraisal method may exist:

For example, one could divide the numerical boost by the number of slots required. The result could then be compared to similar accolades to determine a relative valuation. This method would require an extensive database of accolades, which is not available to Ascension at this time.

Warning

Accolades are a powerful asset for any individual, but that power comes with danger.

