Ameliah woke to the scratching of a quill.

Immediately, memory crashed into her, and she forced her breathing to remain slow and even. If she was alive, the only reasonable explanation was that she’d been captured. She dared not hope that Tallheart had been able to save them. He had said many times that he was not a fighter.

Damn it.

She’d underestimated them. Severely.

If I got any of them killed… If I got him killed…

The sudden upwelling of emotion was destabilizing her breathing, and she quickly clamped down on that line of thought. No. I can’t think about that right now. Deep, even breaths, Ameliah. I can torture myself for my own stupidity later.

Mercifully, the quill had continued through her distress. Whoever was writing didn’t seem to have noticed.

As she regained control of herself, details began filtering in through her senses. Firstly, she was in a bed. Her connection to the Earth was muted but still present, meaning that she’d been raised only a short distance above the ground. The mattress was soft, and the heavy blankets warm. The air, too, was comfortable against her skin.

Amazingly, she was in no pain, not even from the heightened sensitivity that would come with being healed. She HAD been healed; that much was clear. With the level of system integration she’d reached, she didn’t need something as clunky as a menu to instantly know that her health was at full. Likewise, she didn’t need a clock to tell that it had been almost a day and a half since she’d gone down. It was currently around midnight. Whatever those arrows had been, the blood-draining effect had been powerful. She had to fight off a shudder as she recalled the horrible…suction.

By any measure, she should have been dead.

There was a pause in the scratching of the quill, and she forced herself not to stiffen.

Did I give myself away?

After an anxious moment of silence, the quill continued once more.

Is it him? Is it the archer?

Ameliah’s heartbeat was climbing, but she forced herself to remain still. It doesn’t matter if it’s him. I couldn’t handle him at my best. I certainly can’t handle him right now. He didn’t kill me, which means… Shit.

Seeing with her ears was something that she’d never quite gotten the hang of, but she could tell that she was inside. The sound of the quill echoed slightly, though it was muted. That meant carpeting, or perhaps tapestries on the walls. Her perception accolade was helping, but not enough for her to determine more than that. The stillness in the air was a bigger clue, as well as the warmth. Though…if it’s a fireplace, I should feel warmer on one side… Magic? Just good insulation?

Other than the sound of the blood in her ears and the scratching of the quill, all was silent.

Depths... This is bad.

Taking yet another slow breath, Ameliah began focusing on controlling her heart rate. She would keep pretending for as long as possible while she recovered her strength. She might even switch out a skill or two like she should have done days before. Damn it.

There was one thing she could do with the skills she had now, however.

Message.

The connection formed, and it was all she could do not to melt into the mattress with relief. If the spell connected, it meant the recipient was alive.

[Rain, I’m—]

There was a sharp snap of a breaking quill. “Ameliah!”

Ameliah’s breath caught as she recognized the voice. Her eyes flew open, and she saw stars. The ceiling was glass—large, flawless panels, supported by thin metal beams.

“Ameliah, I’m here,” Rain said, his face rushing into view. “Are you hurt? How do you feel?”

“Confused,” Ameliah said, blinking again as he knelt at her bedside. “Rain…” She began to sit up, then hissed as her soulstrain revealed itself at last.

“Relax, you’re in the camp,” Rain said, reaching out but stopping with his fingers just short of her arm. He grimaced. “Shit. Don’t get up. You’ll hurt yourself.”

Ameliah shook her head, fighting through the discomfort as she forced herself into a sitting position. The room, she now saw, was one that she had made. However, it had been transformed. The earthen walls had been decorated with blankets, and a layer of furs carpeted the floor. Rather than a curtained archway, a proper wooden door had been fit snugly into one wall.

There was furniture. The bed, of course, but also a desk, a folding screen, and even a few potted plants. The light came from a pair of light bulbs set into opposite walls and guarded by linen shades. There was also an unlit oil lamp on the desk.

“I cozied it up a bit,” Rain said, sounding embarrassed. “Luckily, there was enough glass cooling for me to finish the ceiling. How’s the bed? Is the soulstrain bad? I told Mlem to get something as soft as pos—“

“Rain,” Ameliah said, stopping him. “What happened?”

Rain let his hovering hand fall to the edge of the bed, a tortured expression flashing across his face before he forced it into a mask. “The Crimson Swords are dead.”

Ameliah didn’t relax. Rain wasn’t done speaking yet, and his tone…

“I used everything I had against Hegar,” he said, looking down. “It wasn’t enough. I ran out of mana. Anton burned your wounds shut after you passed out, then dragged you over to where Hegar had me pinned. The company tried to help us, but Hegar kept them at bay by threatening to kill me. Things…devolved. It came to a head when Dozer got free and threw himself at Hegar.” Rain took a deep breath, then closed his eyes. “Hegar killed him.”

“Oh, Rain,” Ameliah said, reaching out to take his hand. That’s horrible…but… “Was anyone else hurt, or…”

“No,” Rain said. “When Dozer died, it hurt so much that I passed out. It was like the obelisk all over again. Samson says that Hegar thought the company was mocking him. He was going to kill everyone, Ameliah, but Tallheart got there just in time. He killed Hegar without warning, then hunted down Anton and ended him. He won’t tell me the details, but I can imagine what happened. I’ve known he has been hiding his strength, but the way the others described him, he was…terrifying.”

Ameliah worked her jaw. “What about the mage? Did I kill him?”

“No,” Rain said, shaking his head. “You didn’t kill him, but he’s dead all the same.”

“Then, did Tallheart—?”

“No, well…” Rain closed his eyes, looking away. “No. Vanna and the others captured Brovose, but it was too dangerous to keep him, so…” Rain took a deep breath. “I ordered his execution. Tallheart killed him, but I am the one responsible. Me.”

The pain in his voice felt like a knife to the gut, overriding the surprise she felt at what he’d just said. She squeezed his hand gently, and the physical pain helped push the metaphysical away. “Rain, I’m so sorry. This is all my fault. I just…”

She stopped, taking a moment to collect her thoughts while Rain remained painfully silent.

“Please, let me explain,” she said, trying to hold herself together for his sake. “I know you won’t forgive me, but I want you to understand. I only did what I thought was right. We had to show our strength, or they would have kept coming back. Remember what I told you. I traveled with them for four days before we found you, and they weren’t the type to let something like this go. Hegar was prideful. Arrogant. Plus, with what Lana said and what they did to Stint…”

Still, Rain remained silent, and she continued in a rush. He has to understand. He has to. “I didn’t think it was possible that I’d lose, not against bronzeplates. Please believe me. If I’d known they were that strong, I’d have been better prepared. I’d never have—”

“Stop,” Rain said. “It wasn’t your fault.” He opened his eyes, finally meeting her gaze. “I’m the one who needs to apologize. If I’d trusted you and not held back like you’d asked, we might have been able to win. You were right about them, Ameliah, but it was even worse than you thought. They were plate hunters. That’s why we lost.”

She breathed in sharply as he said this. Seemingly on their own, her thoughts flashed back to her brief journey with Hegar’s group. To one moment in particular. Anton, staring at her over the fire with a hunger in his eyes.

At the time, she’d interpreted it as lust, all too common in her experience as an adventurer. Now, to her growing horror, she realized it had been something else entirely. It felt as if the floor had dropped out from beneath her.

They were evaluating me! The third night on the road, Brovose asked me to share stories from any lairs I’d explored. I’d already decided I wanted nothing to do with them at that point, so I told them to mind their own business. Hegar wouldn’t drop it, though, so I told him I’d never been in one. If I hadn’t lied… They might have…

Rain’s grip on her hand tightened, bringing her attention back to him. “You couldn’t have known. Don’t blame yourself.” He shook his head. “We were lucky this time. We have to learn from it, Ameliah, so it never happens again. We have to do better. We have to be better.”

Against her will, Ameliah let out a small gasp. In her hypersensitive state, Rain’s grip had become crushing.

He immediately released her, horror flashing across his face. “Shit! I didn’t mean to—”

“It’s fine,” Ameliah said. Then, despite knowing how much it was going to hurt, she pushed herself forward to wrap him in a hug. Rain stiffened but quickly returned the embrace. She took solace in the pain, knowing that she deserved much worse. “I’m sorry about Dozer,” she whispered, squeezing as tightly as she dared.

“Me too,” Rain said, pressing his neck against hers. “Me too…” Ameliah felt a tremor run through her, and she realized that Rain was crying. That was all it took to shake the tears loose from her own eyes. The two of them stayed like that for several minutes, weeping softly against each other until they finally got themselves back under control.

“Thank you,” Rain said softly, releasing her. “If you had died, I… don’t think I could have… I can’t lose anyone else, Ameliah. I just can’t.”

“I…” Ameliah said, then sniffed to cover her hesitation. Just say it. “I feel the same way.” She shook her head, looking down at her lap. “Now do you see why I don’t like getting attached?”

Rain smiled wetly as he nodded. “I’ve always understood. It’s worth it, though. It’s better than being alone.”

She met his gaze, smiling back. “Yes.”

A few hours later, Rain was in his old room, sitting at a desk. Ameliah was asleep next door, safe and warm. That room would become their new bedroom, leaving this one to become his captain’s office. It was freezing cold due to the lack of ceiling, and the walls were bare save for a single naked bulb. He didn’t even have a lamp for backup if the power went out.

None of that mattered. What mattered was what lay on the desktop—numerous piles of papers, each perfectly neat and aligned.

One of the piles was the entirety of the codes as approved by the company, there for reference, though he didn’t really need it. The next stack was taller, the beginnings of his new version with numerous modifications and additions. The pile after that was work orders for the board, and the one after THAT was a collection of schematics—one of which was for a ballpoint pen.

The damn quill he was being forced to use was driving him insane, but he refused to use pencil, not for anything that was going to be final.

The largest pile by far was that of all his discarded sheets. It was just as orderly as the others, however. The smudged or otherwise ruined pages were stacked flat and uncrumpled. They could be re-used. Myth had an alchemical process for breaking down ink and removing it from paper, something Rain had yet to manage with Purify.

The height of that pile was proof of just how long Rain had been at this. He’d started after finishing with Ameliah’s room as a way to keep his mind occupied. The more he’d worked, the more he’d realized just how much further he had to go. There was just so much to do.

He had been shirking his duties for too long, though perhaps ‘shirking’ wasn’t the best term. No, he’d been doing things, but not the right way. He needed to create a proper structure for running the company, rather than just leave everything to Vanna while he got distracted. That could not continue.

Vanna had been doing admirably, it was true, but she was only one person. There was simply too much, and besides that, her leadership experience came from running a work crew. She didn’t know how to steer something this big. Rain did, or rather, he had access to the knowledge. There was a pretty big difference there—one that he was playing catchup to overcome.

If he was to leave, he needed to ensure that the company wouldn’t fall apart. That meant the codes had to be rock solid. Orderly. Further, he needed to structure things so he remained in control without having to do everything himself. That meant hierarchy.

The captain was the leader, master of all. The quartermaster was second in command, responsible for managing the company’s resources—both supplies and people. Below that would come the councils: administration, logistics, engineering, education, justice, and defense.

At the moment, his focus was on the second to last.

Ascension was to have judges—three of them, separate from the offices of captain and quartermaster. That separation wasn’t because he was afraid of a repeat of the Brovose situation. Such matters would remain within the captain’s purview. Instead, the judges would handle internal matters—disputes over the codes, punishments for infractions, and so forth. As captain, he could overrule them, though he would refrain from doing so unless absolutely necessary. He was setting people up to understand the benefits of separation of powers without actually giving up any power yet. That could come later, once people were ready.

For now, he would work within the framework he had created. He had been a fool to think that he could just do democracy without understanding how it worked. How power worked. He would never again lose focus on the rules for rulers.

Rule One: Get the keys to power on your side.

Rule Two: Control the treasure.

Rule Three: Minimize key supporters.

Rain frowned, dipping his quill back into the inkwell. The third rule was particularly distasteful. He would respect it, though. He would have to unless he wanted his company to break free of his control.

