Your group has defeated Living Flame – Elemental – level 62.

That was rough, she thought, staring down at the still-pulsing dark blue-black fiery core that was all that remained of their first defeated Living Flame. And beyond the archway, dozens of these monsters still lurked. While the others were all able to use the Elixirs of Fire Resistance, Malika’s resistance was way too low for that to be effective. Her Ruby Hairpin was literally keeping her alive down here, but it was still woefully inadequate on its own in the face of something like these powerful elementals.

She had been excited when she had learned to dodge magic and explosions, but the reality was she could dodge about a quarter of all attacks, and if she didn’t drink one of the fire absorption potions right before the Living Flame’s explosive shockwave of fire, she usually lost around three-quarters of her life from the blast and whatever additional damage it did as she was buffeted about by the flame or the rock she was slammed into. And then she would have to sprint back, burning her stamina to heal herself and just barely reach Mato in time to heal him.

One of the explosions had been terrifyingly close – both she and the acolyte had been flung out of range simultaneously, and Mato had been left facing the elemental’s wrath entirely alone. When she had made it back, she could tell from the surging stamina energy that he had burned his powerful defensive ability just to stay alive. When she had touched him with her Healing Mantra, it had been instantly clear that he had lost way more life than he actually possessed, and he was surviving entirely on the thirty-second buffer of temporary health granted by his skill.

I’m holding the team back.

It was not even a question; she knew that she was the weakest of their group. And it had nothing to do with the fact that she had the lowest class level of the four of them. She loved her class, her bloodline abilities, her relentless aptitude, and her speed. But the harsh restriction of not being able to wear armor or use a shield – the main source for defensive attributes and enchantments – was making her more and more vulnerable the deeper they delved into this dungeon. And by extension, she could feel she was holding her friends back.

Enlightened Evasion had scaled nicely, but the incoming damage profile was simply too choppy and chaotic for tanking. When she had first learned Soul Armor, it had provided a whopping twenty percent reduction in physical damage. She had been filled with excitement, anticipating how her skills would grow and how she would transform herself into a robust melee fighter, capable of shrugging off monster attacks with the aid of powerful skills.

But as she’d leveled up, the skill had simply not kept pace. It required more and more armor or evasion rating to match higher-and-higher level monsters, and at her level, Soul Armor had dropped to just a little more than ten percent damage reduction. And, try as she might, she could find no way to fix it. Without the ability to wear armor, there was little option for improving her armor rating, other than grinding out more levels for Soul Armor. The others – Mato for instance – could simply switch the armor they were wearing to match the dungeon or upgrade their defenses with an appropriate amount of gold and access to a good blacksmith. It was a versatility she was becoming increasingly envious of. At some point she was certain it would become better to give up on her defensive skills and rely on gear instead – but then her skills would cease to advance, and she would have been better off picking a warrior class instead of her monk.

None of this accounted for the fact that she still had no skill for magical resistance.

She sighed. Why does everything have to be this insane fire?

She kicked the elemental core on the ground, and it rolled over, exposing something unusual beneath it. She reached out to grab the flickering dark blue flame that seemed to have been a part of the Living Flame’s core, but to her surprise, it did not burn or give off much heat at all, instead, she felt a slow trickle of energy causing her stamina and mana to tick up like little pulses of regeneration.

Essence of Living FlameA crafting reagent that combines fire and life affinities.Mana: Combine 3 Essence of Living Flame into one Greater Essence of Living FlameMana: Split Essence of Living Flame into 3 Lesser Essence of Living FlameValue: 45 goldReagent – Mana Essence

Wow. The value appraisal did not do justice to the feeling she got from her skill. Something told her that not only was this a valuable find, but it was useful for crafting rare and powerful items.

I can’t just sell this; I need to do some research.

“That was a tough fight,” Ali said.

“I don’t want to try another one till my Last Stand recharge expires,” Mato said. “Can we wait here for a bit?”

“Malika?” Ali’s voice had an unusual tone, and she looked up, irrationally expecting to be called out on her worthlessness to the group, and the weakness of her class. She was certain Ali would never do anything like that, but it was hard for her to ignore the unwanted fear.

“I was wondering…” Ali spoke, looking at the corpse. “Right before each explosion, there is a surge of mana that… well, it’s humongous.”

Malika’s mind flipped gears instantly. She could see stamina usage, but Ali could see mana. If the creature’s mana was surging for the ability, that meant…

“You think the explosion is expensive?”

“Yup, almost certain.”

“I can try on the next one.” Malika didn’t know why it hadn’t occurred to her. Perhaps it was the melee style of combat the Living Flame employed. But, if the explosions really did consume enormous amounts of mana as Ali suggested, she could attack that directly with her Soul Strike.

It’s a solid idea.

“I think the tornado thingy only regenerates its health as a side effect of it being fire magic,” Ali continued. “It looks a lot like my Inspiration skill. I think its purpose is to regenerate mana.”

“Oh,” Calen said, realization dawning in his expression.

There were always four explosions before the tornado regeneration. That meant the explosion likely cost a quarter of the creature’s entire mana pool, give or take a bit, depending on how much its attacks cost. If she attacked its mana, there was an excellent chance they could reduce it to three, or perhaps even two explosions per tornado.

“Hopefully it doesn’t just regenerate faster,” Malika said thoughtfully. “But if that ability is on a recharge, then we may be able to kill it much faster. All that time spent running back between explosions would be spent shooting it instead.”

“I’ll be ready to try it again in seven minutes,” Mato announced.

She looked over at him, a little surprised, but she had noticed several times that, although he seldom participated in their strategic discussions, Mato always paid attention, and clearly demonstrated that he understood everyone’s role. She found herself a fire near him and sat down to meditate until he was ready.

As soon as he was ready, Calen vanished into the shadows and Malika sprang to her feet, curious to see how their new plan would go. With a flash and a hissing sizzle of fire, Calen reemerged from the Landing with a single huge elemental chasing him.

The intense heat of the elemental’s aura of flame washed over her as she stood back, waiting for Mato to secure it. She studied it curiously, noticing the intense white swirls and flows of its stamina coursing within its ambiguously shaped flaming form, most of it concentrated within the dense blue flame of the core. She was getting used to fighting with Soul Sight now, but after their strategy discussion, she wondered how this monster appeared to Ali’s mana-sight – she had mostly taken Ali’s ability for granted, but it must reveal a world she simply couldn’t perceive.

Time to make myself useful. Her skin began to crisp, and her hair singed as the Living Flame rushed into the mine tunnel. Mato swiped at it, drawing it quickly to the tanking spot facing the rock wall, and she stepped in to begin her assault. As she had discovered against Alexander Gray, speed was vastly more effective at draining mana than power, so she focused mainly on her punches. All she had to do was release Soul Strike as rapidly as possible, which meant short-range punches delivered as fast as possible while managing her stamina. She felt rather strangely blind, attacking its mana. It was an unseen, invisible energy – what might it be like to see it the same way every detail of its stamina flow was revealed to her via her Soul Sight?

She used Healing Mantra continuously, keeping her mana pool below full so that the constant stream of the Living Flame’s mana that she stole with every punch was not wasted. But keeping her own health topped up was not sufficient, and she began to divert the excess mana, converting it into stamina and adding extra heals for all Ali’s melee minions standing nearby, helping to lighten the burden on the dedicated acolyte healers.

“Explosion!” Ali yelled.

Malika downed a fire absorption potion immediately, but she successfully dodged the explosion this time and continued her assault. First one down. If Calen was right, they tended to come every thirty seconds, so she had a little time to wreck its mana pool – and having successfully dodged the blast meant she could be that much more efficient. She fueled her Divine Step, accelerating her body till her punches began making a whistling noise as they flew through the scorching air.

Thirty seconds later, as exactly as she could determine, Ali called the next explosion. This time, the magic smashed into her body with the force of a giant hammer tossing her across the hallway like a leaf in a hurricane, ripping through the entirety of the buffer her potion granted her in an instant. Her body smacked into the roof, and she controlled her momentum absorbing much of the force using Divine Step. Her Healing Mantra surged as she repaired the flesh that had been burnt to the bone and restored the cracked ribs from the impact of the shockwave.

She was off like a flash, running back to the battle, stepping off the air directly, rather than waiting for her body to reach the ground first. She pulsed some healing into Mato, but the acolyte was doing a good job of keeping him healthy, so she resumed her flurry of punches, flickering with stamina in her Soul Sight while the Soul Strike energy flashed off the Living Flame. Each time her punch landed; she felt more stolen mana flowing into her.

Should be about now. She kept up her assault, and for a while, she thought she had simply misjudged the time, but as the seconds drew out, she realized the explosion wasn’t coming. Suddenly a Soul Strike returned significantly less mana, and then the next one returned nothing.

“It’s dry,” Malika called out. Immediately she switched to attacking health with most of her strikes, throwing in a single mana attack now and then just to collect any mana that may have regenerated. The next explosion time came and went without effect.

Suddenly the shield appeared along with the tornado of flame. This time Calen burned his Righteous Fury on the shield, and it went down in record time.

“It’s only at fifteen percent,” Ali started, and then yelled, “Explosion!”

She must be right, it’s for regenerating mana, she thought as the shockwave shattered her ribs again, flinging her down the tunnel and searing through her skin and flesh. She tucked in the air and spent her stamina on Divine Step, hardening the air under her feet with her magic and springing forward. Immediately, she healed herself and charged back to the fight, switching fully to stealing mana again. There was no next explosion, the Living Flame just imploded, collapsing to the ground soon after the anticipated thirty-second mark had passed.

Your group has defeated Living Flame – Elemental – level 63.

As she picked up the Essence of Living Flame that it dropped, storing it in her ring with the first one, she reflected for a moment that she no longer felt useless – and all it had taken was one simple realization about how to use her skills more effectively.

Sabri sat on the couch looking at the enthusiastic faces of her team.

“We should do it!” Brena said, excitement and pent-up energy spilling out from the Gnome.

“I’m game for some smashing,” Theon said, the big paladin hefting the enormous two-handed hammer that probably weighed more than she did. It was bad enough that he insisted on naming it.

Sabri glanced at the other two, sitting across from her. Cai nodded silently, the monk not much for speaking, and Malise purred her assent, the catkin rogue always seeming a little too eager for stabbing.

“What about you, Sabri?” Brena asked, making her start in surprise. It always surprised her when Brena made a point of explicitly seeking her opinion – especially given how obvious the Gnome’s preferences were. “We can’t let the other group get ahead of us.”

That was really what all the excitement was about; the Guildmaster had warned them that Aliandra had made two new sewer bosses. The other novice group had already found and killed the first one – a Toxic Slime, guarding a cache of weapons in the center of the sewer. They had come back filled with excitement, sporting a few new weapons and class levels, and her entire team was now talking about how they should be the first ones to find the other boss and defeat it.

“I’ll come,” Sabri answered. She wasn’t particularly excited about being the first, but seeing how quickly the other group was leveling up had certainly caught her attention. If she could get stronger, she could take on more jobs and earn some money to pay back her armor, shield, and ring. She was in debt already, and she had to earn it back before Rezan would let her send any money home to her mother.

“Yay!” Brena said, hopping to her feet. “Let’s go.”

As they stepped outside, Sabri’s nose caught the aroma of frying meat and another vaguely familiar smell she could not quite place. Glancing around, her eyes caught sight of a small, wooden food cart with an old, wrinkled woman busy working her cooking skills and filling the street with smells that made her stomach grumble.

She was about to turn around when Brena said, “Hey, do you want to try it?”

“Oh, ok,” she said, quickly running a mental tally of the few coins she had as everyone crowded the cart.

Tabitha’s Tasty Bites.

There were only two items on the menu – a skewer of Bristletusk Boar meat for twenty-five copper, and something called ‘chef’s choice’ for just a single copper.

