“Why is there such a big price difference?” Theon asked.

But Sabri didn’t have to consider it for long, “Can I try the Chef’s Choice?” she asked, holding out the hard-earned copper coin. The old lady took it with a toothy grin, ladled out a bowl of what seemed to be a stew, and slid it across the countertop in exchange. Sabri accepted the bowl with a polite smile; twenty-five copper pieces for a snack was an extravagance she couldn’t afford.

Everyone, save for Theon and her, opted for the skewers. Sabri spooned a large helping of her stew into her mouth. The flavor that blew up her tastebuds could only be described as revolting. Week-old rancid rat had tasted better, and this was over-spiced with some intense peppers that made her break out in a sweat instantly. Chewy, too. She swallowed and took another bite, the inside of her mouth and her throat on fire. At least it’s food. She quickly shoveled the rest into her mouth, working to minimize the damage with speed.

You have become Well-fed.+5 to Vitality.Duration: 6 hours.

Oh, that’s nice, she thought, studying the surprising buff while she polished off her stew in short order. “Thanks,” she said, returning the empty bowl, surprised to find the old lady giving her a befuddled stare.

“How was it?” Theon asked.

“Hearty,” she said, struggling to find something nice to say about what she had just eaten. “The buff is really good.”

“Oh? A buff?” he said, and immediately stuck his spoon in his mouth. His face turned a bright shade of red and he spat it out instantly, alternating retching noises, profanity, and trying to scrape it off his tongue.

Behind the food cart, the old lady doubled over in a fit of cackling laughter as she slapped her knee, pointing at Theon as she wheezed helplessly.

“What’s wrong?” Brena asked, her skewer half eaten already. “This is delicious! And I got four vitality!”

Sabri glanced back and forth between the old lady, still laughing at Theon, and the happy Brena and she got it. “The chef’s choice is cheap because it’s a prank?” she asked.

“You’re a smart one, young lady,” Tabitha gasped at last. “How come you could eat it? Do you not have tastebuds?”

“I’ve had worse,” Sabri answered. Not much worse, for sure, but there had been a few times etched into her memory.

“Ooh, a challenge! You’re a good sport, here, take one of these, you’ll like it better,” Tabitha said, offering one of the skewers. “On the house.”

“Thank you,” Sabri said, and tried the skewer, finding it to be quite delicious as Brena had said.

***

“You really need to get a two-hand weapon like my Seraphina, here,” Theon said, caressing his hammer while he strode along beside Sabri. “You will never be able to do enough damage carrying that dinky little shield.”

Sabri tuned him out, studying the sewer walls and the roof as they passed. Theon loved explaining to her why she was inadequate, unlike himself. She had tried to be polite and point out the advantages of her shield and sword, but it was like talking to a wall for all the good it did.

The most frustrating part was that he had a good point. She didn’t do much damage with her sword and shield compared to the others, and she was constantly reminded that she wasn’t pulling her weight in the team. Of all of them, she was dead last in how much damage she could do – Brena and Malise could beat her with their eyes closed. Her only small consolation had come when she had realized that even Cai’s fire-enchanted kicks and quarterstaff did more damage than Theon and his stupid hammer. When she had pointed that out to him in frustration, he had gotten angry and hadn’t talked to her for the rest of the day. Probably worth it.

Sabri recalled the encouraging words the Beastkin, Mato, had offered when she had been struggling to choose her class, using them as a talisman to ward off her insecurity about her role.

Sabri followed along behind Theon as they delved deeper into the sewer tunnels. The normal ambiance of damp moss and mushrooms slowly gave way to something decidedly darker. Instead of the crumbling brickwork illuminated by the ever-present soft golden glow, she found the roof draped with thick curtains of spiderweb that seemed to gleam and absorb the scant lighting. The effect was eerie and beginning to creep her out.

“Spiders,” Malise purred, her cat-like pupils dilating to enormous size in the darkness. “And something… something is watching.” She hissed softly and claws extended from her fingertips. Malise was almost creepier than the dark passage, but Sabri had come to trust her phenomenal senses.

“Sabri in front, Theon pull back to second,” Brena said, reiterating the marching order.

“Why can’t I go in front?” the big paladin complained. “I have plate armor too.”

“You’re our only healer and Sabri’s the tank. You know this already,” Brena said, her voice clearly carrying an edge of annoyance at the repeated explanation.

Theon grumbled, but fell back to his assigned spot, giving Sabri a few blissful moments of peace during which she did not have to see his glares that no doubt drilled into her back.

Up ahead, a dark shape shifted deep within the webbing, lowering, many legs unfurling. Several eyes glinted in the dim light.

Tunnel Weaver – Spider – level 5.

Alright, she told herself, mustering her courage and stepping forward, determined to do the job the Guildmaster had selected for her in this group. “Incoming.” She readied her sword and shield and as the monstrous spider descended, and, as soon as it came into range, she smacked it with her shield, imbuing it with a little of her magic to do some extra damage.

The dull thud of her shield was answered with a loud hiss. Then the full bulk of the monster emerged, dropping to the ground. With a scramble of limbs, it raised itself up to a height that was almost level with Sabri’s chest, and she immediately took an involuntary step backward as it lunged toward her. She raised her shield to intercept the rapid flurry of strikes from its razor-sharp legs and snapping mandibles, grudgingly giving ground under the weight of the impacts that left splatters of glistening green fluid.

“Die, vermin!” Theon roared, barreling into the spider with a huge overhead strike of his massive hammer. The heavy impact drove the spider to the ground with a crunch, and it hissed and turned, lashing out at him with its legs, leaving a line of blood dripping from his arm.

“Argh! I’m poisoned! Tank this damn thing, what’s the matter with you?” he yelled.

Sabri frowned. If you had just waited a moment… but she kept her thoughts to herself. Instead, she used Soul Shout. Her voice rang loudly in the tunnel, shimmering and vibrating in the air as her soul magic imbued her shout with potency. The spider flinched, instantly turning back toward her, and lashed out twice. She blocked the first gleaming black slashing leg, but the second slipped under her guard.

You have been afflicted with Poison.+0.3 Poison damage per second.Poison – Duration: 10 minutes. Count: 1

Sabri ignored the poison and retaliated with her sword, a compact thrusting strike that bit shallowly into the chitinous thorax armor without compromising her guard further, and then the rest of the team engaged. Cai’s feet and quarterstaff blurred, leaving trails of fire lingering in the air as he struck. Malise appeared out of the shadows with a wicked dagger strike that crunched through the abdomen, spraying ichor across the webbing and the walls. Sabri blinked as the entire tunnel lit with the searing white flash of Brena’s arc lightning tearing into the monster.

Theon glowed with a flash of yellow-white and the wound on his arm closed rapidly before he hefted his hammer and unleashed a great whirling strike.

Sabri frowned. Now you can heal in combat? The big Paladin had insisted that he couldn’t heal while he was wielding his hammer, but now, when it was himself that was injured, his spells suddenly seemed to work. Health potions were expensive, and she had mostly been forced to rely on them during battles. Why couldn’t we get the priest? she wondered, not for the first time. The other team loved their priest, but it was not her place to question the Guildmaster, or even her teammates who were already far more experienced than her.

She grew more and more defensive, blocking and deflecting as many strikes as possible while her health slowly trickled away. All she needed was to land enough damage to keep the spider focused on her – and if she failed, she would just shout to taunt it again. But the monster stuck to her like glue until the others managed to whittle it down.

Your group has defeated Tunnel Weaver – Spider – level 5.

“Good job, everyone,” Brena said.

While the others began to chat about the fight, Sabri sat, her mind filled with calculations as she studied the several poison debuffs she had earned. She was down about a third of her life and the poison had a while to go still. There was no way around it – she used her ring’s storage enchantment and retrieved a precious health potion.

But before she could open it, Brena said, “Theon, heal Sabri, she’s poisoned.”

“Ok,” he said, and she felt the welcome pulse of his holy spell and suddenly she was full.

“Thank you,” she offered. Not having to burn one of her potions was a relief.

“But I got poisoned too,” Theon declared. “You need to learn to hold aggro better. If you had a better weapon, you wouldn’t have lost the spider, and I wouldn’t have needed to hold back.”

Sabri sighed and stashed her potion. She would just need to listen to his rant while she waited for the poison to wear off – likely she would need another heal in a couple of minutes and it would be better if she wasn’t arguing with him when that happened.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
