The tunnel was broad and wound its way ever downward, the walls and floors bearing the marks of the ancient miners as it meandered, following whatever vein of ore they had harvested. Sections of the tunnel were remarkably smooth, as if someone had suddenly decided to employ a designer instead of a pickaxe – clear signs of the work of earth mages. But the tunnels carried the weight of ages. Half melted rubble and slag piled up in all the nooks and crevices, deeper than her waist in some places. Many of the side passages had caved in or been eroded away by the slowly dripping lava that seeped from the ever-present fissures in the rock.

It had been so long since she had taken this passage, and even that had been only one time, that she simply had no recollection of it. Besides that, it now flowed with rivulets of lava which were only present because of the dungeon’s mana. As they carefully picked their way around the treacherous footing, she was ironically reminded of her own sewer with its brick tunnels and flowing sewer water – now purified by her mana and mushrooms. Except these tunnels had lava instead of water, and nothing grew here.

“Side passage, one elemental,” Calen called out from up front.

Ali turned into the side tunnel, finding that it opened up into a small chamber, meticulously carved out of the solid rock by the ancient miners. In the far corner was a dark hole leading downward, presumably a shaft to a lower excavation, now a sink for a ‘lavafall’ – a brilliant cascade of glowing molten rock that poured down into the depths from the river that wound its way through the chamber.

Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 41 (Fire)

This one would be a challenge to fight – she could see its flame aura filling the entire chamber.

“Mato? Can you tank it over by the lava river?” she asked.

“Yup, sure thing,” he answered, sounding quite jovial about the whole thing, especially considering he would be the one sticking his face in the fire. But he was clearly in his element, so to speak, at least the fighting part – not necessarily the burning part.

He charged it, smacking it with his paw, and drawing it back away from the group. Ali had to react quickly to position her healers close enough to reach him, but remaining out of the range of the flame aura.

“Attack,” she said, sending in the rest of her minions, keeping an eye on her monsters and the Shard of Flame’s health. It took all of ten seconds before she noticed the first problem. “Fuck,” she muttered and pulled her Scalding Slimes out of the fight.

“No good?” Calen asked.

“They’re not taking much damage,” Ali said. “But it seems that steam is close enough to fire to not do any damage either. They may actually be healing it a little, I can’t tell.”

Firebolt volleys exploded outward in devastating sprays from the Shard of Flame, striking the burning figures in the chamber. Mana flickered continuously as the healers rotated through their entire party, topping everyone up.

Ali was just about to fire off a shard of barrier magic when something surged out of the river of lava. A great blob lashed across the jagged stone and slapped Mato in the face. And then another stretched out and yanked one of the kobold rogues into the river, dragging it under.

A giant, black-speckled orange glowing glob burst from the river, sloshing itself across Mato’s back, and immediately began enveloping his body. Even with his powerful regenerative magic and the fire resistance provided by his new armor, his health began to plummet.

“Adds!” Calen announced.

“Devotion, keep him alive,” Ali instructed.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress.” The kobold’s glowing pillar of light filled the room with lambent holy radiance as she poured her healing into Mato’s body while he struggled with the animate lava and the Shard of Flame.

A sudden snap in Ali’s mind told her that her rogue had perished somewhere deep under lava, and the river surged again as a second blob splashed its way ashore, leaving a trail of molten rock on the ground behind it.

Lava Lurker – Ooze – level 37-39 (Lava) x2

“Lava oozes,” Ali said, immediately recognizing the name from the blobby corpse of searing lava Mato had brought back with him when he returned with Basil from their fire plant expedition. And with that realization came the possibility that this Emberforge Mine dungeon had not been as trapped as she had thought. Something for later.

One of her mages erected a wall of bone, blocking the ooze from reaching them, but its body simply blackened and incinerated pieces of the bone wall and it oozed its way through the small gaps, reforming like a relentless puddle of viscous, super-heated goo.

“The oozes are healing the elemental,” Ali yelled, suddenly realizing that the two great blobs of lava were producing enough heat from their bodies and the trails of lava they left behind to trigger the Shard of Flame’s fire absorption. Presumably lava affinity was close enough to fire that it counted. Whatever it was, the Shard of Flame was almost back to full health.

“Swap attacks to the oozes. The left one,” Calen called their target, synchronizing their efforts. “I’ll try to pull the other one off of Mato.”

Ali redirected all her minions, and as she did, the pillar of holy magic faded from her acolyte. Suddenly, the health of her Hobgoblin and Malika both began to drop precipitously.

“Devotion!” she called out desperately, but she was too late to save the Hobgoblin who perished under the weight of the ooze of lava. The ooze mindlessly ignored everything hitting it and finished enveloping its meal. Malika saved herself with her own healing spell, but as soon as the kobold lit the room with its empowered magic, everyone’s health stabilized once more.

“We have to kill it fast,” Ali said, pouring mana she really couldn’t afford to waste into shards of barrier magic, firing them into the ooze in the hopes of accelerating its death and relieving the pressure from her healers.

The whole chamber suddenly filled with brilliant light as Calen clearly came to the same conclusion she had. An intense hail of radiant arrows of pure light mana filled the air, slamming into both oozes simultaneously, somehow managing to accurately fire two arrows at the same time.

The ooze which had just made a meal of her Hobgoblin turned to attack one of her shamans, its health slowly ticking up, presumably from having just eaten, but the one that had been trying to consume Mato peeled itself off him and tried to slither-crawl its way toward Calen. In an instant Mato whirled and struck, slamming his paw down through the ooze, spraying molten lava into the air in a sizzling cascade. Tough roots sprang from the ground to grapple with the monster, instantly set alight by the lava and the fire of the domain. The ooze ignored them, slipping its body between the roots and flowing past as if it hadn’t even noticed. But Mato’s strike had taken its toll, and all three of her shamans finished it off with a triple blast of lightning, enhanced by their vulnerability curse.

But they were by no means out of the woods. Malika flickered with constant healing magic as she hammered the lava monster with her bare fists, each punch burning away the flesh on her fists, only to be healed again by her magic for the next punch. Ali could only imagine how much pain she was in, but somehow Malika seemed calm, almost serene, dancing with grace and balance around the clumsy ooze.

Ali retaliated at once, sending in her Brine Oozes, but both of them lasted as long as a few droplets of water tossed into a scalding pan.

Calen’s arrows ceased splitting into two, focusing on the remaining ooze, and its health began to fall rapidly. The only problem was that they didn’t exactly have a tank for it, and it was bigger than her shamans. It began enveloping one of them, lava flowing rapidly around the goblin’s body, its touch incinerating flesh and muscle. But the shaman did not falter, igniting both her shield and sword with lightning enchantments even as she was being consumed. She summoned a Lightning Nova totem to her hand and shoved it into the center of the ooze’s body, following up with a potent Lightning Bolt right before she died.

Ali slashed again and again with her barrier shards, working desperately to whittle its health down and simultaneously corral the monster. Finally, with Malika’s flurry of punches, the last few seconds of Calen’s righteous fury, and the full force of the remainder of her minions, they defeated it, right before it could finish consuming the shaman’s corpse.

“You three heal, you use your prayer, and you drink this,” Ali instructed, handing the nearest Acolyte a mana potion. They were already running low, and it would do nobody any good to run out of healing while they were down here. Most of her force was quite low, some of them even below half health already, but with the two lava oozes down, the pressure eased noticeably, and the healers began to get everything back under control.

Finally, after what seemed like ages, the fire elemental imploded, dropping its flaming core to the ground, along with a Lesser Essence of Flame, and Ali breathed a sigh of relief.

“Well, that was insane,” Malika said. “I’m almost down to half stamina.”

“Half?” Ali gasped. She could scarcely believe it. Among the insanity of fire and lava damage, Malika had been healing more or less continuously, keeping herself alive, and even supplementing Mato’s healing while they fought the Lava Lurkers. And she still has half her resources.

“Yep, they took a lot out of me.”

Ali glanced forlornly at her own nearly empty mana pool. Granted she was supporting an entire dungeon with more than seven thousand mana, but that left her with just a little over a thousand mana to fight with. It was just more than a little unfair – if she could have brought her bosses in here, the fights would be more than a little different.

Although my bosses would be a terrible choice for this dungeon. Her guardian was vulnerable to fire – it had more than thirty thousand health, but still, this was a fire and lava dungeon. And her Kobold warrior was only level ten. The Hobgoblin would be the best choice, but she didn’t have any fire resistance yet.

“At least Thuli will like these,” Malika said, storing the essence.

While Malika sat to meditate – noticeably choosing to sit in a small pool of lava – Ali set to the task of recovering her mana.

Variant: Lava Lurker added to Imprint: Ooze.

I wonder if Naia would like these?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
