“Maybe she thinks you are going to take her job away from her.” Teepo said.

Maybe. Ren thought. I guess she could be scared that she won't be as necessary if I'm around.

“You could offer her the position officially.” Teepo suggested.

What? You mean Mayor?

“Yeah.” Teepo said. “I mean, there's a town council, but she pretty much runs everything anyways.”

That's true. Ren thought. I wonder if I should just tell her, or wait and make an announcement for the whole village.

“Both.” Teepo said. “That way it's not a surprise to her and the council, and it gives them time to adjust to the fact that you're just too awesome for them.”

Ren snorted a laugh and thought about how far it was to the village. “Russell? How about a piggy-back ride?”

Russell glanced back, and looked forward again. “Are you crazy, mister? I can't lift you!”

Ren laughed. “I meant I'd give you one.”

“Oh! Well, I dunno.” Russell said. “I like running, and it's not that far...”

“I can run a lot faster.” Ren said, and Russell slowed down, then came to a stop.

“I heard you say you ran all the way here from the city.”

Ren nodded, and turned a bit. “Hop on. I'll run a bit, and if you don't like it, I'll stop and let you off.”

“That's fair, I guess.” Russell said and climbed onto Ren's back and locked his hands under Ren's neck. The cloak provided a cushion between them, and Ren held onto Russell's legs.

“Ready?” Ren asked.

“As I'll ever be.” Russell said, and Ren started to jog. “Hey, I thought you said you could run fast?”

Ren chuckled. “I'm taking the advice I give my mount when she's hauling an unfamiliar load.”

“What's that?”

“Go slow until you get a feel for how the load changes your balance and movement, then run for all you're worth.”

Russell laughed. “I never heard that before.”

“It works, though.” Ren said and leaned forward slightly. “Here we go!”

Russell kept laughing as Ren took off, and he ran faster than anything Russell had ever seen before, let alone rode. The fastest thing he'd ever ridden on was old Bessy, his dad's retired milking cow, and she ran pretty fast when you poked her with a stick.

They arrived at the village about 10 minutes later, and Ren put Russell down and stored his helm and gauntlets. Russell led Ren over to Fern Farnham's house and knocked on the doorframe.

“Mister Farnham? I got someone here to see you.”

“Russell?” A young black-haired girl about 10 years old asked when she came around the corner of the hut. “Who's come to see daddy?”

“That would be me.” Ren said, and the girl froze when she saw him.

“M-my... m-my... m-my L-Lord!” The girl stuttered and tried to curtsy. She stumbled and nearly fell, but Ren reached out and caught her before she could hurt herself.

“Easy, there.” Ren said and stood her up on her feet. “You don't have to curtsy.”

“But... my momma always said...”

“I'm sure she meant if you could do it safely.” Ren said, and the girl blushed.

“I... I'll practice every day, my Lord!” The girl said. “I'm... I'm sure you'll enjoy seeing it when I get better at it!”

“I enjoyed seeing it this time.” Ren said and smiled. “So you don't have to practice much more.”

“Th-thank you, my Lord.” The girl said. “My... my mom's at the bakery and dad's in bed. He hurt his leg...”

“That's why I'm here.” Ren said. “I came here to help.”

“Yay!” The girl said and grabbed Ren's hand. “He's whining more than our pig before we slaughtered him.” She went into the house and Ren went with her. He saw it was nice inside, and the temperature was cooler than it was outside. It seemed a little dark, but that was because of the lack of windows and not because of the straw and mud. The furniture was actually of good quality, and the girl led Ren to the big bedroom.

“Daddy? My Lord is here to see you.”

“Hm? What?” Fern mumbled, then tried to sit up. He bit down on his lip to stop from screaming, and grabbed his leg.

“He's here to heal you!” The girl said excitedly, and Fern looked at Ren.

“You don't... look like... a healer.” Fern said through gritted teeth.

“I'm not, but I do have the skill.” Ren said and stepped close to the bed. “What happened?”

“I was a darn fool.” Fern said. “I tried to make sure my bull wasn't getting at my milking cows, but the blasted thing knocked me down and stepped on my leg.”

“Can I look at it?” Ren asked.

Fern nodded and pulled up the pant leg, and Ren saw a black and blue bruise covered the entire calf. He sat down on the edge of the bed and examined the leg closely.

“Your knee is dislocated, and I'm pretty sure you've got one or two breaks in the leg.” Ren said.

“You're only pretty sure?”

“I can heal the bruise easily and put the knee back in place; but, I don't think I can fix the broken leg.”

“Why not?”

“I'd need a higher skill to diagnose major injuries properly, so I'm only guessing here.” Ren said. “Do you want me to do what I can?”

“If it'll ease some of this pain, sure.”

Ren took out a Major Healing wand and concentrated on the dislocated knee and used the spell. It popped back into place and then he concentrated on the bruise and used another spell. The bruise faded and Fern took a deep breath and relaxed.

“Oh, yeah.” Fern said. “That's much better.”

“Daddy!” The girl exclaimed and hugged her father, and he hugged her back.
