“Come into the courtyard, and I'll show you how to use the enchantments.” Ren said to Croggart and Dorcot, then motioned for the guards to come, too. They followed him and he assigned Croggart all of the Wind stones, Dorcot the Water, Wohrum the Terror, Kharpik the Fire, Golir to one automatic crossbow, and Broxor to the other one.

“You shouldn't need them; but if you have any trouble gathering up the Warriors, let lose with what you have.” Ren said. “Then shut the gate and pull up the drawbridge.”

They nodded and Ren went back outside to the waiting prisoners. “I'm not bringing a guard, because I'm going to trust your Honor-bound surrender.” He said to the Commander. “It'll be a short ride, so you better hold on.”

The Commander's eyes widened as Ren grinned and went to the front cart. He climbed in the back and presented a diamond pendant to Lady Neram, and to Nathalia.

“Ren, they're beautiful.” Narhilda said as she put hers on, and Nathalia nodded slightly as she equipped hers.

“They match their owners, then.” Ren said, kissed them both on the cheek, and told them to hold on. He jumped down to the ground, walked around to the front of the cart, and looked at Princess. “It's heavy, even with the lightness enchantments. Go slow until you feel it out, then you can run.”

Princess huffed and nodded, and Ren pat her, then climbed into the driver's seat.

“Okay.”

Princess leaned forward and pulled, then the carts started to roll. Ren heard her hooves scrape the road, then she got them going at a good speed, then she ran. There were shouts of 'slow down' and 'by the gods', but Ren ignored them. They made it to the city a couple minutes later and Princess slowed down. She took the corner slowly and the extra long cart made it around without any trouble. Everyone got out of the way of such a large cart, and stared at all of the soldiers in the back. They got to the Main keep a few minutes later and Ren pulled up to the gate, and concentrated on his personal Aura and pendant.

“Where can I park this thing?”

The guard just stared at him. Ren turned to the other guard.

“Parking?”

“There isn't any.” He said. “No one ever brings a cart.”

“I wasn't going to make these men walk all the way here.” Ren said and motioned to the soldiers tied in the back. “I'll just put it over there.” He said and Princess walked over to the spot. Ren climbed down and tied the reins to a small tree, then turned to Princess to whisper. “I normally wouldn't tie you, but I don't want them to think you're going to run free.”

Princess huffed.

“Yes, if anyone tries to hurt or take you, run them over.” Ren said and undid the straps holding her to the cart and left them laying there so it looked like she was still attached. Princess nodded and Ren pat her neck, then went to the back of the front cart to help Nathalia and her mother climb down.

“That was quite the ride.” Narhilda said, and her daughter laughed. Ren stood on the back of the front cart and saw the soldiers sitting there in shock.

“How the hell did it do that?” The Commander asked as Ren untied the ropes holding everyone to the sides of the cart. He walked around to the back and untied the end and helped everyone get out.

“She's my mount.” Ren said. “She's strong and fast.”

The Commander shook his head. “I've never seen a ram do any such thing as I've seen today.”

“That's because she had to pull so much weight.” Ren chuckled. “You should see her when she runs normally.”

Narhilda and Nathalia walked over to him.

“We should get inside.” Nathalia said. “There's a long line, though.”

“Concentrate on your Aura and the pendant.” Ren said and he felt her Aura sync with his, and turned to Narhilda. “Think about the pendant. Remember it's beauty.”

Narhilda looked at it and closed her eyes.

“Now think of House Neram, and what it means to you.” Ren said, and a minute later, Narhilda's eyes opened as her Aura matched Ren's and Nathalia's.

“By the gods!” She said as Ren's Aura went out to over 75 feet.

Ren smiled. “My Lady, please take the lead.”

Narhilda grinned and started to walk. Ren held an elbow out for Nathalia to take, and followed her mother past the line and into the Main Keep. He held the rope tightly, and pulled the soldiers behind them. Once inside everyone stopped to look at them and the line of prisoners tied together. They walked unimpeded down the left hallway to the last door and a guard there opened it for them.

“You can't take them in there with you.” The guard said. “House Members only.”

Ren was ready for this argument. “Since they attacked my House, and I defeated them, I took them into custody. They are under House Neram's protection until I release them.”

The guard opened his mouth to protest, but then he shrugged and waved them through. The procession entered the large meeting hall and the noise slowly died as the House members got a look at what had entered the room. Lady Neram ignored all the stares and walked over to her section. It was small, as she was only a Minor House, but there was enough room for her to sit in the main chair, Nathalia to stand beside her, and for Ren to get the other 22 people into the area by storing the rest of the seats. He didn't untie anyone, however.

“You are prisoners under my command.” Ren told them. “Do. Not. Nod.”

Half an hour later, the last House members entered the chamber and everyone sat. The Council entered the chamber and everyone nodded to them, except for everyone in the House Neram section. The Council members all looked over to where they should have gotten more Honor, and saw the large number of people in that section. Someone started to ask why House Neram had so many retainers and no one else was allowed, then Ren held the rope up and all of the prisoners' hands raised slightly as well. There was an outburst of talk and accusations, and the head of the Council tapped a hammer onto a stone tablet.

“Order will be maintained.” The head of House Lodur said. “House Neram, you have not paid the proper Honor requirement to the Council.”

“That's because you don't deserve it.” Lady Neram said. “I will not nod to arrogant fools, just because they believe I should.”

Gasps were heard around the chamber at Lady Neram's truthful words. Lord Lodur's eyes widened at the blatant snub, and was tempted to censure her for it.

“Go ahead.” She said. “Censure me. Show everyone here you're just as big of a fool as they all know you are.”

More gasps were heard and Ren smiled as conversations stared and became so loud that it was hard to make anything out. Lord Lodur coughed and put the hammer down.

“We are all gathered here today...” Lord Lodur said. “...for the trial of Ren Neram.”

The room burst with new conversations about the subject, and Ren chuckled and leaned down to whisper in Lady Neram's ear.

“That's pretty slick of them.” He said.

She nodded. “It's sure to waste nearly all of the afternoon.”

“It's too bad it won't work.” Ren said. “Go ahead, My Lady.”

Lady Neram stood, and everyone looked at her. She smiled and spoke. “I challenge your right to put Ren on trial for disobeying an illegally issued Council Edict.”

The entire room fell silent, and the Council members all had shocked faces.

“Can she do that?”

“I thought there was going to be a trial?”

“Shhh! It's just getting good.”

“Smack them down!”

“Which one?”

“I don't care, I just want to see someone smacked down!”

Lord Lodur tapped the hammer on the stone tablet again. “Order. Order!” He said, and the place grew quiet. “Do you have any proof of that, Lady Neram?”

She chuckled. “Of course I do.” She said and took out the order. She read it through, and no one spoke. “Now that you have heard the ridiculous terms of their cease work order, you should also know that the Council was NOT IN SESSION when it was issued.”

“Hey, she's right!”

“They announced the break over a month ago. I'd forgotten about that.”

Lord Lodur tapped the hammer again. “The Council doesn't have to be in session to issue edicts.”

“Since when?” Someone shouted.

“Order!” Lord Lodur said.

“What I'd like to know, is how many of the Council actually voted for this?” Lady Neram held the edict up. Several Council members looked around at the other members, and everyone saw doubt on their faces.

“No one is going to admit that this was just a plot to hurt House Neram, and in turn, every business that we dealt with?” Lady Neram asked. “The Honor they lost because you wouldn't allow them to complete their contracts on time.” She shook her head. “How were you going to give that back?”

No one on the Council spoke, and Lady Neram laughed.

“How arrogant you are.” She said. “I'm so glad that Ren was so Honorable that he went to every business we dealt with and canceled his orders; just so they wouldn't lose any more Honor, or the fees he'd paid.”

Most of the House members gasped; but, the ones that Ren had dealt with all nodded slightly.

“They all wanted to give him a refund, especially the ones where he'd paid for extra workers to help cover the orders.” Lady Neram smiled at the reactions from the crowd. “Ren paid a good wage for an honest day's work, and that burned you up inside.” She said to Lord Lodur. “Didn't it?”

He frowned but didn't say anything.

“We knew it was you, Lord Lodur, because we got the notice almost right after Ren paid one of your guards 10 weeks salary for guarding his workers shoveling silt at the mines.” Lady Neram said, and looked at the other Council members. “How many of you have been unhappy that gold... actual gold coins, and not debt payment notices... was starting to seep back into the economy?”

The other House members started agreeing that actual money was going around now, and Lord Lodur scowled.

“Order! ORDER!” He said and slammed the hammer into the stone tablet. It broke and he didn't know what to use the hammer on anymore, and dropped it. “All of that is just hearsay and conjecture.” He said when he calmed down a little. “Unless you have some actual evidence, the Council will ignore your protest.”

Lady Neram laughed. “Really? You speak for the entire Council, and you didn't even ask them what they think.”

Lord Lodur's eyes widened as she blatantly pointed out his mistake.

“You should have at least pretended to confer about it, you idiot.”

“Now, that's enough!” He said.

“No, it isn't.” Lady Neram said. “I want it put to an open vote. If the majority of Houses here believe you are an honest and honorable man, and can do no wrong, then you have nothing to worry about.” She said and grinned. “But, if they believe that Ren is the one who's honest and honorable, and that you are running the Council like your own personal plaything... if you are issuing edicts without the entire Council's knowledge illegally, and out of session, then that will be quite apparent.”

“I run the Council here, Lady Neram.” Lord Lodur said. “Not you. I'm the one that can call a vote, and I'm not going to.”

Several gasps were heard and conversations started up again. Lord Lodur picked up the hammer and hit the desk. It made a dull thud and he sighed.

“Well, then.” Lady Neram said. “You leave me no choice.” She turned to Ren and nodded slightly. He motioned for the soldiers to back out of the House Neram space and then led the whole group of prisoners to the center of the chamber floor.

“These soldiers you ordered to... what was it? Oh, right. You ordered them to 'Capture and Contain' Ren so he couldn't make this meeting today, even though it was Ren that made this emergency meeting happen in the first place.”

Half of the people in the chamber stood at those words, and stared at the Council.

“You sent 2 whole squads to detain him?” Lady Longore asked.

“2 squads? Are you kidding?” Lady Neram laughed. “These are the top officers of the Battalion they sent.”

“Inadmissible!” Lord Faldihr said. “There's no proof that we sent...”

Several Council members turned to stare at him, and he frowned.

“Commander.” Lady Neram said. “As a prisoner, you are Honor-bound to answer truthfully.”

“You are not allowed to question people in this chamber without my permission!” Lord Lodur exclaimed, and everyone stared at him.

“Really?” Lady Neram asked. “As far as I know, according to the law, I can interview my prisoners anywhere I wish.”

Lord Lodur clamped his mouth shut.

“Commander, who told you to come and get Ren?”

The Commander pointed to Lodur, Faldihr, Greentree, and Breakwater... then the chamber nearly exploded at the audacity of the Council members sending the military to assault a House.

“QUIET!” Lord Lodur shouted. “WE run this PLACE! Not YOU!” He turned to Lady Neram. “I'm placing you under arrest for accusing the Council of illegal activities.”

“Thank you.” Lady Neram said.

“What?”

“If you'd said 'the Council is arresting me', then I couldn't say anything.” She grinned. “But you said 'I'm arresting you', and it gives me the option to challenge you.”

His mouth dropped open. “You... you...”

“Lord Lodur, I challenge you.” Lady Neram said.

“I accept.” He said.

“I opt for a replacement champion.” They said together.

Lady Neram nodded slightly to Ren, who brought the soldiers back to the House Neram section. Lord Lodur turned and nodded slightly to someone behind him and the dwarf left the room at a run.

“The arena will be ready shortly.” Lord Lodur said.

“That won't be necessary.” Lady Neram said. “Right here on the chamber floor will be fine.”

“If you choose the venue, I chose the conditions.”

She nodded.

“No armor, weapons...” Lord Lodur grinned. “...or projectile enchantments.”

“Submission or unconsciousness” Lady Neram said, then turned to Ren. “He did what you said.”

“You played your part well.” Ren said and kissed her on the cheek, then kissed Nathalia on the lips. He equipped his Travelling Clothes, left his cloak on, and stepped down to the floor and concentrated on his Fear Aura.

“Hey, you're already breaking the rules!” Lord Lodur accused.

“My Aura isn't a projectile weapon.” Ren said, and grinned as Lord Lodur had to agree. A few minutes later, a dwarf, if he could be called that, stepped into the chamber and walked over to stand across from Ren. He was about a foot taller than Ren and his fists were nearly the size of Ren's head.

