Ren stared at the multiple popups he received after the Commander's surrender.

Notice!

You have soundly defeated an entire Battalion of troops. As this has never happened before, you have been granted XP for every member of the Battalion (462) as if you had dueled them personally.

Rewards: Commander (x1): 10,000 XP; Senior Knight (x1): 5,000 XP; Knight (x20): 3,000 XP; Senior Warrior (x40): 2,000 XP; Basic Warrior (x400): 1,000 XP

Total XP Gained: 555,000 XP

Fame Bonus: 88%

Influence: +231,000 (500 per member average)

Honor: +46,200 (100 per member average)

Notice!

Because of your high Influence (338,970) and Honor (54,230), everyone will now see you as a Prestigious Lord.

Notice!

For defeating your first army in battle, you have been granted a Fame bonus.

Fame: +9240 (20 per member)

Notice!

You have maxed your Fame at 10,000. You are now Revered. Your extra Fame has been converted to XP, and you have been granted a 10 Level Bonus to all Auras.

Fame to XP: 79,900 (1 Fame = 10 XP)

Notice!

You kept a cool head during a major crisis, and inspired those around you.

Command Aura Bonus: +5% XP, plus 1% per Player/NPC under your command (7).

Total Gained: 66,600 XP

Running Quest Update!

You have shown an influential member of society (and hundreds of witnesses) what you can do, much to their surprise and horror.

Rewards: 10,000 XP

Fame Bonus: 100%

Notice!

Because you gained more than 1,000,000 XP from a single action, you have earned the top spot on the 'XP Gain' Leader Board. Your game handle: REN, and your total: 1,068,650 XP, have been posted to the main website and the public forum. Grants +5 Levels to personal Aura.

Aura (Personal) Level 8 (Advanced 30%) Your presence is such as those near you will be in awe of you and your accomplishments. Current distance: 20 foot radius

Level Up!

You have gained 17 levels and are now Level 25. 170 Stat Points have been automatically allocated.

You have unlocked:

Special Class Rune - Store Spell

Class Skill: Artisan (grants 5 levels to Appraisal, make things look more expensive, with higher quality and value)

Special Class Skill: Retain Essence (can absorb an enchantment, then transfer it onto another item)

Class Skill: Intense Student (doubles all knowledge abilities when inside a Library)

Special Class Skill: Craft Construct (unlike a familiar, it is only semi-sentient. Limit: 2)

Craft Construct/Familiar Recipe: Homunculus (Humanoid)

Craft Construct/Familiar Recipe: Homunculus (Iron Defender)

Craft Familiar Recipe: Dedicated Servant Crafter

Special Class Skill: Artificer Knowledge (grants 5 levels to Appraisal, can tell what kind of magic is in an item)

Class Skill: Improved Toughness (you are now much harder to hurt)

Special Class Skill: Improved Homunculi (grants +1 Familiar, sneak attack, weapon proficiency, automatic spell storage on creations)

Special Class Skill: Craft Wand (Can make wands that cast spells: 50 charges. Spells Known: Fireball, Minor Healing)

Special Class Rune: Holding (grants +5 slots of storage)

You can view the individual gains per level in the Level Up Menu.

Notice!

Your familiar is now Level 26, and it grants you a +5 to your Craft Familiar skill.

Craft Familiar Level 7 (Beginner 90%)

Ren dismissed the popups, and stood there in shock. I never imagined...

“Ren, are you okay?” Teepo asked as he landed on Ren's shoulder.

I'm fine, Teepo. Ren thought, then turned to the men still on the battlement wall. “Get me several lengths of rope, and gather up all the Knights you can find here. Tie them up, and then together.” He turned back to the Commander. “I'm sorry about this.”

The Commander nodded slightly. “So am I.” He said. “If I'd known...”

“You'd still have come, but you'd have brought a catapult or two.”

“At least.” The Commander smiled.

Ren took out some rope and tied the Commander's wrists. “I've had an idea about those, by the way.”

The Commander shook his head. “Don't tell me yet.” He said. “If I'm not removed from my post for this epic failure... you and I have a lot to discuss.”

Ren smiled. “Don't worry, Commander. I'll tell the assembly it wasn't your fault. You were just following illegal orders that you couldn't refuse.”

The Commander's eyes widened at the truth in Ren's words. “How do you know that?”

Ren chuckled. “Would you normally have a Battalion march and assault a Minor House?”

He shook his head again. “A squad is usually enough.” The Commander looked around. “I'd have brought a Regiment or even a Brigade for this.”

“It wouldn't have made much difference.” Ren said and smiled. “If you'd taken more time to gather forces, I would have more time to make better defenses.”

“Better defenses?” He asked, surprised.

“What? You think this is all I'd have done if I knew you were coming?” Ren asked. “I'd have had fire traps all over the place. Spiked pit traps. Trenches. Leg holding traps by the dozens.”

“We'd have seen those giant things a mile away.” The Commander said.

Ren laughed. “Normal-sized ones, about a foot across. Covered in dirt. You'd never see them.”

“Covered... in dirt...”

“Don't tell me you've got those huge things just sitting out in the middle of the field.” Ren said, and the Commander looked away. “How many?”

“2 dozen. Right across the width of the field.”

“Did you leave space between them for the catapults shots to land?”

He shook his head.

“You must set half of them off every time.” Ren said.

He nodded.

“You're right, Commander. We will have a lot to discuss after this.”

“We've got them all, Ren!” Croggart said, and brought over the end of a rope. “Counted them myself.”

Ren tied the Commander near the end of the rope Croggart had, and nodded. “Did you clean them of weapons?”

“Nope. I even gave them back the swords and shields that they dropped.” Croggart said, then guffawed. “Of course I took their weapons.”

Ren grinned. “I had to ask.”

Croggart nodded slightly. “What do you want us to do with them now?”

“I'll bring the cart out and you can tie them to it. I'll be taking them to the meeting.”

“What about all the Warriors?”

“You can round them up after I'm gone.” Ren said. “But just in case they decide to regroup and attack again, I'll show you and the guards how to use the protections on the battlement walls.”

Croggart smiled. “That would be great.”

“The automatic crossbows are still loaded, too.” Ren said, then went inside to get the nice plush cart and brought it out to Croggart. “I've got to go in the house and get ready for the meeting.”

Croggart nodded and Ren went inside the house. It was a little crowded with all the people in the main room, so Ren stepped to the middle of the room and concentrated on his personal Aura.

“It's okay, everyone.” Ren said. “The danger is over now that the army's Battalion surrendered.”

“They WHAT?!?” Most of the people exclaimed.

“After a short battle, the Commander came to his senses.” Ren said and smiled. “I've captured the officers, and I'm taking them to the council meeting after I get changed.”

A few people congratulated him, and the rest sat there in silence. Nathalia came over to him and kissed him passionately.

“I don't know what you did, but I gained 8 levels, Major Healing, a Mana shield, and this.” Nathalia held up her fist, and four cat like claws made of Mana, grew out of her knuckles. They were bright blue and were about 3 inches long.

“They look sharp.” Ren said. “You can tell me more later.” He smiled. “We have to get ready for the meeting.”

Nathalia nodded. “Ma, we have to get ready.”

Narhilda came out of the kitchen and passed some plates of food to the guests. “I'm not going.”

Ren turned to her. “My Lady, you have to come.”

She shook her head. “I have to stay and take care of everyone.”

“My Lady...” Ren said. “...I'll make you something nice to wear.”

Narhilda looked at him. “I can't wear anything else.” She said. “I'm in mourning.”

Ren smiled. “I've got an idea about that.”

“Show me.” She said, her face full of hope.

Ren took the two women into the old bedroom and he modified a different royal dress, and added the pattern for the white chiffon dress, so it would fit underneath it. He dyed it red to match both his clothing and Nathalia's dress, added the white parts where appropriate, then sewed it up, but left out the white chiffon parts.

“Put this on.” Ren said and handed it to Narhilda.

Narhilda put the dress on, and it fit over her mourning dress easily. The white chiffon became the under-skirting for the royal dress, and she marveled at it.

“With this, you're still wearing your mourning dress and can still honor your husband's memory.”

“Oh, Ren.” Narhilda said. “You're amazing!”

Ren smiled. “Now will you come to the meeting?”

“Of course, dear.” Narhilda said. “I have to show this off!”

Nathalia chuckled and equipped her own dress. “Should I leave the cloak on, too?”

Ren nodded slightly. “Yes. We're going to give the council a show. With our combined Auras, we can cover the whole building.”

Nathalia smiled and Ren stored his armor, then equipped his red royal suit to match the two women.

“I think that's everything.” He said, and asked Nathalia to concentrate on her personal Aura. “Let's go.”

Ren told Narhilda to walk in front, since she was the Lady of the House, and he held out his elbow for Nathalia to take. They walked out of the bedroom and were greeted with silence.

“We're leaving for the council meeting.” Narhilda said. “Please stay and enjoy the food. We'll be back in a few hours.”

There were several nods and Narhilda turned and walked out of the house. Ren and Nathalia followed her out into the courtyard.

“The cart is out on the road.” Ren said. “The officers are tied to it.”

“Ren!” Narhilda exclaimed. “How could you do-”

“Mother!” Nathalia exclaimed right back.

“It's just for show, My Lady.” Ren said. “They are prisoners, and I'm returning them to the council.”

Narhilda sighed. “Very well.” She said. “I don't like this, though.”

“Neither do I.” Ren said. “But it's necessary.”

She nodded slightly and Ren led the two women out to the cart. The loud chatter Ren could hear stopped as everyone caught sight of Lady Narhilda, and then Ren and Nathalia. The two women climbed into the back of the plush cart and settled down for the trip. All of the dwarves stared at them and they held their heads up high. Ren smiled and ran back into the courtyard to get the baby fire elemental from the oil barrel. It had eaten all the remaining oil and was sitting on the bottom.

“Hey, there!” Ren said. “Are you full?”

It's color changed slightly and he picked it up and tucked it into the hood of his cloak, then went into the stable to get Princess.

“Hi, there.” Ren said and opened her stat window. “Wow, 15 levels!”

She huffed and stood up. Ren helped her assign her 75 stat points and he could almost see her muscles getting bigger. He knocked on Ruck's cabinet.

“Are you okay in there?” Ren asked.

The cabinet door opened and Ruck stepped out.

“Whoa.” Ren said as he saw Ruck was almost double in size. “Let me guess. One of your perks was double capacity.”

Ruck gave the 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren smiled wistfully.

“You're not going to fit on my back anymore.”

Ruck pat Ren's leg and ran across the stable, up the wall, and across the ceiling to end back above Ren.

“Nice.” Ren said and grinned. “I'd say you're nearly as fast as me, now.” He turned to Princess. “I need a ride to the Main Keep.” Ren said. “We're towing soldiers behind, too... actually, you know what? We should put them in a cart, too.” He took Princess out of the stable and out to the road.

“By the gods! Look at that ram!” One of the Knights said.

“It's gigantic!” Another said.

“Look! Golden hooves, too!”

No one told them to be quiet, so they kept talking as Ren hooked Princess up to the front of the cart. Ren went back into the courtyard and took some of the lumber he'd piled up and made a really long 2 wheeled cart. He changed the front so it could be attached to the other cart, and added benches inside so the soldiers had somewhere to sit. Ren enchanted it with a double glyph of Antidark (8 runes total), pulled it out to the road, and the prisoners stared at it.

“Did he have that this whole time?”

“He knew he'd win.”

“How do I get out of this chickenshit outfit?”

“You secure that shit, soldier!” The senior Knight said.

“Untie them from the cart and move them aside, please.” Ren said to Croggart, Dorcot, and the guards. They did so, and Ren put the long cart in the right spot then attached it so it would swivel when they turned the front cart.

“Okay, put them inside and tie them to the front and sides.” Ren said and ran up to the workshop. He started the forge and smelted up a little bit of gold and iron ore. He stirred it quickly, and since there wasn't a lot, he added a bit more gold ore. Ren opened up his locket pattern, and edited it. He took off the front and enlarged it to be about 4 inches long. He took one of the crates of diamonds and picked out 3 similar-sized oval ones. Ren was tempted to give them a basic enchantment, but then he had an idea. He took out the plans he made for the House Neram crest mold and set the design in his mind. He placed a hand on the diamond oval and enchanted it, thinking that he wanted everyone to know what it meant. Ren felt a Mana drain, and looked at the stone as the House Neram crest etched itself onto the surface of the diamond.

Hidden Class Skill Unlocked!

Your ingenuity has given you the ability: Enchant Design. You can create designs and enchant them onto objects. You can imbue these designs with Mana for various effects.

Ren's eyes widened after he dismissed the popup and examined the diamond.

House Neram Diamond

This diamond has been enchanted with the crest of House Neram. It grants the wearer: Aura (House Neram). Distance: 10 feet. Can combine with other Auras or effects to increase both distance and effectiveness.

“That is so cool!” Ren said and enchanted the other two diamonds. He poured out enough molten metal and let the system form it into 3 pendants, then set the diamonds into them. He took one, equipped it, and dismissed the popup. He turned off the forge and ran back down to the cart and the waiting men.

“Sorry.” Ren said and pointed to his pendant. “I got distracted making this.”

“You... you just...”

