“By the gods!” Someone exclaimed. Ren didn't turn around to see who it was, because it didn't matter. The big guy wasn't phased at all by Ren's Fear Aura, so Ren closed his eyes, and switched to his Hatred and used Connection to add his Screaming Terror ring to it.

“By the GODS! Do you feel that?” Someone exclaimed, and Ren thought it was the same voice.

“I'm sorry we had to meet like this.” Ren said.

“I'm not.” He said, and smashed his fists together. “I heard you were a good fighter.”

“I'd rather be fighting for fun; but I'm fighting for something important this time.” Ren said, and the big guy grinned.

He nodded and Ren nodded back.

Notice!

You have entered PvNPC Special Mode: Duel

“Begin!” Lord Lodur said and the big guy swung a meaty fist at Ren's head. Ren dodged easily and punched the guy in the side. He grunted and elbowed Ren in the head, and it whipped to the side. Ren turned around and tried to kick the big guy, but it was caught and the big guy picked him up and slammed him into the floor. Ren bounced off the floor and the big guy kicked him into the podium the Council was sitting at.

“Argh!” Ren grunted as he hit the solid stone base. The big guy walked over and Ren kicked out at one of his legs and connected. The big guy's leg slid out from underneath him and he toppled forward. Ren slid to the side and the big guy hit the Council's desk face first and made a dent. Ren swung his elbow backwards and hit the back of the big guy's head and shoved his face through the wood. The big guy got his head stuck, and Ren grabbed his leg and hauled him out of the desk. The big guy looked at him like he was crazy.

“What did you do that for?” He asked. “You had me.”

“I don't want you to lose because your ears are too big.” Ren said and grinned.

“Ha!” The big guy said and cracked his knuckles as he stood up. He took a fighting stance and lunged at Ren, who ducked and ran to the Council's desk. Ren hopped on top of it, turned around, then jumped and grabbed the big guy around the neck. Ren's momentum carried them forward and he jammed the guy's head into the hard floor. The guy's forehead bounced off the wood and he was dazed for a moment. Ren knelt on one knee and punched the back of the guy's head as hard as he could, and the guy grunted as his nose smashed into the floor.

The big guy grabbed Ren's foot and pulled, and he fell back as the big guy stood up. He punched Ren in the face, then swung him by his foot into the Council's desk, and shattered the front of it. He grinned and stepped back to let Ren climb out of the rubble. Ren smiled and took off at a run, hooked the big guy's chest in a tackle and brought him to the floor. Ren knelt on him and punched his face several times, until his Skull Cracker ability's 20% chance to Stun kicked in.

He rolled the big guy over and stepped across his back to straddle it, then picked the guy up and rested the big guy's armpits on his knees. Ren grabbed him under the chin, then sat down on his lower back, pressing the big guy into a Camel Clutch. The guy immediately snapped out of the stun because of the pain, and started waving his arms. Ren pulled a little harder and the big guy grunted in pain.

“Submit!” Ren said, and the big guy shook his head slightly. Ren leaned back and pulled harder.

“AhhhHHH! I submit! I submit!” The big guy said.

Notice!

You have defeated your opponent in Hand-To-Hand combat.

Rewards: 1700 XP

Influence: +2500

Honor: +1000

Notice!

You have defeated an opponent 90 levels higher than you.

Fame: +1650

Notice!

Excess Fame converted to XP (x10): 16,500

Notice!

PvNPC Special Mode: Duel, has ended.

Ren let him go immediately and switched to his Camaraderie Aura. The entire chamber was deathly silent as Ren helped the guy stand up. He took out the three quarter full Health potion he'd fed the horse with, and shared it with the big guy.

“That was a good fight.” The big guy said and took a drink. “What the hell kind of move was that?”

Ren smiled and took a drink. “It's called a 'Camel Clutch', and it's really painful if applied properly.”

“You don't have to tell me that!” The big guy said and laughed as he rubbed his lower back. “I'm gonna feel that tomorrow.”

“Just like I'm going to feel your fist in my face.” Ren said and rubbed it and passed the potion back. “Damn, you hit hard!”

“Hahaha!” The big guy clapped Ren on the shoulder and finished the potion. “That was the point!”

Ren laughed, and then looked around. He saw everyone's hands in the air.

“Motion to dismiss all charges has been carried.” Lord Lodur said in a sad voice.

“What?” Ren said.

“You're free to go.” Lord Greentree said. “So go.”

Ren looked at the Council member's clothing and frowned. “Annette would be so disappointed in you.” He said. “After all the hard work she did to make this Council a fair and honest forum.”

Lord Greentree had a shocked look on his face, and Ren turned to the big guy.

“Come on over to House Neram sometime.” Ren said. “We can have a few fights for fun.”

“As long as you show me how to do that move.” He said and smiled. “And after I recover.”

Ren nodded slightly and walked back to House Neram's section.

“What about the illegal order to attack a House?” Ren asked Nathalia in a whisper, as he equipped his red royal suit.

“They're voting now.” She whispered back. Lady Neram raised her hand and so did nearly everyone else.

“The order is hereby nullified and no consequences will be dealt to the Commander and his troops.” Lord Lodur grumbled.

Ren leaned forward. “My Lady, perhaps...”

Lady Neram nodded slightly and stood. “I motion for the Council seats to be audited, and any wrong doings by Council members should make their seats invalid; with elections to be held next year for replacements.”

“Seconded.”

“All in favor?” A Council member dressed in blue on the end said. Once again, nearly everyone raised their hands and Ren grinned. Lord Lodur got up from the desk and left the room. Lord Faldihr followed him a moment later.

“Motion carried.”

The room erupted in shouts and cheers, and Ren hugged Nathalia. Lady Neram turned to them and hugged them both.

“We aren't out of this yet.” Narhilda said. “They still have a stranglehold on the economy with all the debts still owed in labor.”

Ren nodded slightly as he turned to untie the Commander and his Knights. “They do have a stranglehold for now; but by the time the contracted labor is over, no one will want to work into debt again.”

The Commander nodded to him, and Ren nodded back.

“I'll probably see you in a few days.” Ren said to him. “I've got a good deal going on expensive armor and enchantments.”

The Commander chuckled, nodded slightly, and led his troops out of the chamber.

“Now what do we do?” Nathalia said.

“Let's go home.” Ren said and kissed her.

“That sounds great.” She said, and Ren held out his elbows for them to take. They grabbed on and he led both of them out of the chamber.
