Panic overwhelmed reason as he kicked and struggled against her might, but he might as well have been a fish on a hook fighting against an experienced fisherman. She didn’t waste her strength contesting him as he fought, but simply held firm and let him waste his efforts as she endured and waited. Whenever he paused to breathe or find his bearings, she reeled him in a little more, pulling him closer centimetre by centimetre until he feared his ankle might break. How was she so strong? Not physically, no, for even Reinforcement couldn’t explain how her thin arms were so unyielding and unwavering as they dragged him ever closer to death, so powerful each tug threatened to rip his leg out of its socket.

“No!” The denial erupted from his lips before he even knew he’d spoken, but it was too late for shame now that death was upon him. Turning over onto his belly, he dug his fingers into the packed, sandy dirt and fought for purchase and freedom with all his might. “NOOOO!”

“Foolish worm,” the Uniter snarled, and even through his panic, Hideo could sense the old bastard’s rage. “Useless coward. The Razor’s Edge. Find it. Hold to it. Look upon your foe and see her struggles. This duel is not yet lost, your strengths more evenly matched than you think.” Gasping for air, Hideo fought the urge to keep screaming and reluctantly craned his neck to gaze upon the monster, only to find her puffing for breath the same as him. A sheen of sweat sat atop her brow while her arms and legs trembled with exertion, and her shoulders sat slumped in fatigue, signs Hideo overlooked in his panic. Ancestral Beast though she might be, she was still a young woman unfamiliar with strife and struggle who was fast approaching her limits. The brightest candles burn down fastest, meaning she pushed herself too hard too fast and kept nothing in reserve, whether it be stamina or Chi. That’s how she overwhelmed him so quickly, because he let fear overcome reason and had yet to give this battle his all, but now, clarity and anger gave him new purpose.

Uttering a growl of contempt directed at himself, Hideo pushed himself to his feet and hopped up to go along with the predictable tug, one meant to pull him off balance and send him back to the ground. Turning around in mid-air, he was treated with the sight of Mei Lin’s wide-eyed surprise at his unexpected reversal, and he grinned at her ineptitude. If she had time to be surprised, she had time to react, but she’d wasted her one and only chance to retain the upper hand. While still mid-hop, he Cloud-Stepped towards her with arms outstretched, aiming to tackle her to the ground none-too-gently. Even then, the damnable monster almost dodged aside, but in her haste to evade him, she’d forgotten to untangle her scarf from his ankle. Rather than Cloud-Step a second time, he drove his snared foot down in the air and Deployed his Domain to stomp down on the scarf and stop her in her tracks. Her yelp of surprise was wonderous to behold, her alarm and apprehension a balm for his wounded pride, and as he closed his arms around her lithe, supple frame, he allowed himself a moment to take in the sensation of their first embrace.

Only his moment never arrived as his arms closed in on empty air, and he belatedly noted the piercing pain in his left flank. There, embedded in his Domain Armour was a spear, one that would’ve bounced harmlessly off his defenses if they’d all been in place, but Hideo’s modifications had changed all that. Though the spear failed to pierce through the outer layer, there was no middle layer to shunt away the force of impact, which threw him aside mere moments before he would’ve caught Mei Lin. That wasn’t even the worst of it as the Reverberating aftershocks rippled through his abdomen and set his inner organs to bleeding, but he was not out of the fight just yet. Snarling as he turned to face his attacker, he howled in mixed glee and fury as he sighted the fiery Sumila riding headlong at him with her lance extended, only to blink and find the tip already at his throat. This damnable roosequin was faster on the charge than it had any right to be, launching itself at Hideo in an unbelievable burst of speed, and he had no choice but to take the lance head on.

The world blinked as everything faded into darkness, and he regained consciousness just in time to slam into the ground, though the pain of impact was a mere afterthought compared to the agony radiating from his broken jaw and bleeding organs. Even a Peak Expert on the level of Bai Qi would’ve died to this attack, but Hideo was no lowly Martial Warrior. He was a Cultivator on the path to True Divinity, one who’d Refined his body to near perfection, but that didn’t make the pain any more bearable. Groaning only made it that much worse, but he had no choice but to move as he sensed another threat hurtling towards him from above.

A cloud of sand and dust rose up from where Hideo lay only a fraction of a second ago as an invisible blade of wind scythed into the ground. Pushing himself to his feet, he redeployed his standard Domain Armour just in time to block two successive wind blades with his raised arms while frantically Healing his jaw. Easier said than done, for there was just too much to focus on at once. Gliding through the air like a Celestial being of beauty and wrath, Du Min Yan unleashed a flurry of Wind Blades upon Hideo which hammered home time and time again, while Sumila circled around with her Quin for another charge. What’s more, there was also Li Song and Dastan fighting their way through the crowd with a cadre of elites from Falling Rain’s retinue, Zheng Luo’s musical strumming’s which could turn deadly without notice, to say nothing of Mei Lin who was huffing and puffing for all she was worth in an effort to summon the strength for one last attack.

There was just too much to do and too many threats to account for, how was one man, even a Refined Cultivator like himself, supposed to manage it all?

Kill Falling Rain.

The thought came over him unbidden and he found himself already lunging towards the damnable savage with arm extended. A shard of Honed Domain shot out towards his comatose foe, only for Mei Lin’s infuriating silk scarf to shoot out and shatter his attack in mid-flight. Cloud-Stepping over for the sake of speed and speed alone, he howled in victory as he drove his fist down in a Mountain Collapsing Strike and anticipated how it would feel to render Falling Rain to a pulp. The impact rocked Hideo back on his heels, but instead of soft flesh and brittle bone, he was met with a wall of water more viscous than mud and unyielding as steel as it exploded into a spray of droplets before his strike. The Guardian Turtle’s work no doubt, squealing as it launched a ball of water at him, and the impact shoved him off the docks while his shoes tore up the wood underfoot. Ignoring the pain, he threw himself at Falling Rain again, for the savage runt must die even if –

No, no, no… What was he doing? How could a mere savage’s life be worth more than Hideo’s? He was a Cultivator on the Path to True Divinity, a rising dragon who would one day seize the Emperor’s golden throne for himself, so how could he sacrifice himself here?

Kill Falling Rain.

A moment of hesitation, that’s all it took to cost Hideo his one and only chance, for even as he steeled his resolve and launched a Mountain Collapsing Stomp that would most certainly connect, reality quivered and trembled as a deluge of Heavenly Energy flooded the immediate area. Radiance blinded him as it erupted into existence, a burning incandescence which seared his eyes and drove the air from his lungs while cutting him off from his Spiritual Senses. Time passed in this dark vacuum of nihility as he experienced an eternity of non-existence, unable to even hear the sound of his own beating heart or feel the sensation of his dry, parched mouth. When he finally emerged from the nothingness, he almost wished for the nothing once more, for he found himself lying on sandy soil once again and still in debilitating agony, his body battered and sore despite his nigh-impregnable defenses. Pushing himself up out of the furrow his body had dug in the dirt, he came face to face with a sight he could barely comprehend, for there before his eyes was none other than Falling Rain, emitting a golden light discernable only to the Spiritual Senses. Though still strapped down to his cot on the docks, the savage was comatose no longer, howling in sheer agony as the Energy of the Heavens surged through him in a display of Purity unlike anything the world had ever seen before.

The sound of his screams would haunt Hideo until his dying day, so utterly inhuman in tone and timbre yet so familiar it all but demanded empathy. This was pure, unbridled torment, and Hideo could see why, for here on the docks, Falling Rain had begun refining his physique before all of Meng Sha, and there was nothing Hideo or anyone else could do to stop it.

“And so the Void is Shattered once again, this time by a savage child, no less,” muttered Wisdom Vyakhya, his words barely audible above Falling Rain’s gut-wrenching screams, and only then did Hideo realize the old monk stood behind him. “New waves inevitably overtake the old, yet how can one so young have such attainments? Is the Abbot truly so wise as to have foreseen this outcome, or is this the work of fate conspiring against me? Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, the Path to Nihility was never meant to be easy, but even this seems too much for these old bones to bear.”

No… How could this be? How could Falling Rain have Shattered the Void? Even enlightened and blessed as he was, Hideo was years away from being ready to take this final step, yet this arrogant tribal runt was already on the cusp of Divinity? No, this was impossible, there was no way it could be true, and yet the evidence was right there for Hideo to see and experience as the Energy of the Heavens coursed through the damnable savage in a torrent that might well be felt the world round, or at least that’s how Hideo saw it. Visibly, there were no changes to be seen, just a scrawny runt strapped down to a legless cot while screaming his heart and lungs out, and yet Hideo could not deny the changes he felt taking place, changes that belied his meagre comprehension. There was a solidity to Falling Rain that went beyond the physical, a sense of weight and significance Hideo could not put into words, as if he were standing at the base of Mount WuShan and unable to see the peak from his perspective yet still aware of its grand majesty and presence.

The Heavens were eager and demonstrated their joy, the Heavens were angered and unleashed their rage, the Heavens wept, the Heavens sang, and the Heavens did everything else in between, but still Falling Rain continued to scream while growing ever more significant with each passing second.

And then, without warning, the turmoil came to a complete stop. The Energy of the Heavens rescinded and reality returned to normal, but most jarring of all was how Falling Rain stopped screaming. The resounding silence echoed out into Meng Sha and across the world itself, a stifling blanket of stillness that strangled Hideo where he stood, like a lump in his throat he could not disgorge. A second passed, then another, then a third before his heart resumed beating, the sound and sensation driving off the suffocating silence but there was still no relief to be had.

For Falling Rain stirred and lifted himself up off the docks, still affixed to his cot in a feat of nigh-impossible acrobatics as he pivoted in place to land on his feet –

Only to falter as he became aware of his restraints and freeze in place as momentum brought him back down to the docks where he fell flat on his face with a booming thud heard by all.

“Fuck.” Uttered with all the vehemence of a man wronged, Falling Rain’s cot came apart around him as he pushed himself to his feet and brushed himself off, looking no different from the last time Hideo saw him. He was still short as ever, with a youthful expression and old, tired eyes which spurned everyone and everything he saw, the result of his casual arrogance which was ingrained into his bones. Running his hands through his hair to adjust his bun as he took in his surroundings, his expression lit up as Mei Lin hopped into his arms with a girlish squeal of delight. “Hi wifey.”

“He bullied me hubby!” she declared, and the change in Falling Rain’s expression was terrifying to behold, the calm ocean transformed into a surging tsunami of rage and vengeance as he followed his little wifey’s finger to find Hideo at the other end. There wasn’t even time for regret before the world came crashing down upon him, and in a daze of bewildered retrospection, Hideo marvelled at how neatly his Domain Armour had been undone. It wasn’t raw power or a focused thrust which broke through his defenses, nor was it similar to Mei Lin’s dispersal. Instead, as Falling Rain’s punch hurtled towards Hideo’s still mending jaw, his Domain Armour was rent away by a whirling tide of Honed Chi that tore through all three layers in the blink of an eye.

Which went on to tear through Wisdom Vyakhya’s Domain Armour as well, as the old monk intercepted the blow on Hideo’s behalf.

