The crack of bone was audible to all as Falling Rain’s forearm broke upon impact as his fist slammed into the old monk’s palm, but if you only saw his disgruntled expression, you would think having his bones protruding from his flesh was merely some minor inconvenience. The savage retracted his arm with his scowl, his wound mending so quickly Hideo wasn’t sure if he’d imagined it in the first place, and only then did Wisdom Vyakhya speak. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, such ignorance, such sin. Ascension is unheard of in one so young and deserving of admiration, yet your first act as a Divinity would be to violate the long-standing Treaty of inaction? Tread carefully child, lest you bring down death and destruction to the world itself in your haste to shed blood and wreak havoc.”

Cracking his neck and fingers like a barroom thug, Falling Rain flashed his hateful, insolent grin before summoning his weapons to him, the shimmering steel of his sword and shield shooting over from behind and into his hands as he took an aggressive stance, while his polearm stood upright behind him without any support. “I don’t remember signing no treaty,” he declared, a statement so chilling Hideo didn’t even have it in him to react, though a chorus of gasps rang out from the crowd. “Nor would I have to, as I am no Divinity. Move aside you dusty bag of bones, for my wifey has been bullied and I will see the perpetrator brought to justice.”

“I don’t need justice hubby,” Mei Lin declared, struggling to hold back a tide of wildcats, bears, and rabbits from charging at the hateful runt. “Just kill him dead, ya?”

“Not a Divinity you say?” Shaking his head in scorn, Wisdom Vyakhya continued, “A bald-faced lie, or true ignorance on your part? This Wisdom knows not which would be more contemptible. Whether you admit it or not and implausible as it might seem, you are one capable of wielding the raw Energy of the Heavens, and thus you are restricted by the Treaty. Act again, and this Wisdom will have no choice but to respond in kind and accept the sin of the countless deaths which will follow.”

“You know,” Falling Rain began, flourishing his sword with a dark smile that sent chills down Hideo’s spine, “I’m getting real sick and tired of your hypocrisy. Every time, it’s the Enemy warning the Empire to adhere to the Treaty while you keep pushing the limits to see how much interference we’ll accept, because you know we have no choice. We actually care about the people we defend, whereas you and yours would see us all dead and gone. Isn’t that your endgame? Your so-called truth? You aim to break the cycle of reincarnation and render this world unto nihility, because only then will you be free of all worldly distraction and able to focus on your Path.” Shrugging in his customary dismissive manner, the runt continued, “Sounds to me like the excuses of a weak-willed whiner who blames others for his own failings, but that’s besides the point. If your goal is nihility, then why do you care if I break the Treaty and kill everyone here? Wouldn’t that just bring you one step closer to your goal?” Though his grin remained fixed in place, Falling Rain’s amber eyes hardened and grew cold as he turned his gaze upon Hideo. “So fuck the Treaty. I’m no Divinity, but I don’t care either way. I’m going to kill him, and there’s nothing anyone can say or do to stop me.”

A statement spoken with the utmost conviction, and Hideo knew there was nothing else he could do but accept his fate. Such was life, trials and tribulations without end, until death came to claim him, and today, death’s name was Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
