There was a fine line between confidence and arrogance, one Hideo struggled to navigate without falling victim to the latter, but since reaffirming his convictions, he would dare say he’d done better than most would in his place.

It was all thanks to the triumvirate of virtues he held above all others, tempering his confidence with diligence and humility. Having come so far in so short a period of time, he yearned to test his limits and see how high he’d truly risen, but it was safer to take things one step at a time. Powerful though his physical body might be, he was under no illusion that his bare skin, flesh, or bones could ward off a Honed blade or Amplified thrust, and any injuries to his improved physique required far more Chi to Heal than before. That being said, it was still a struggle to rein in his arrogance while knowing he could largely ignore almost every opponent not carrying a Spiritual Weapon, especially when he saw first-hand how even the Peak Experts of the Mataram Clan kept a wary eye on the movements of the crossbow-wielding commoners. Falling Rain’s Irregulars had many an Imperial Noble shaking in their boots as well no doubt, terrified their Peak Expert relatives were no longer enough to keep the riffraff at bay. There was no Chi skill to prevent oneself from being shot in the back, and there were many more commoners and crossbows than there were Peak Experts.

And once the commoners picked up on this themselves, then Peak Experts might well be forced to emulate Divinities who spent their entire lives under a cloak of Concealment in order to avoid an untimely death delivered by an unseen dagger. Why Falling Rain would encourage such a future was a mystery to be sure, though it was entirely plausible that the savage runt was wholly ignorant of the far-ranging consequences of his short-sighted actions.

Bows and crossbows were no threat to Hideo however, for he could stride naked through a storm of bolts and arrows without using any Chi and still emerge with only cuts and bruises so long as he exercised a bare modicum of caution. Before his ignoble death, Yuanyin handily demonstrated that even a barrage from those hateful Spiritual Rifles used by Falling Rain’s lackies weren’t powerful enough to kill him, the bullets destroying flesh on impact but merely fracturing bone for the most part, save for areas where Yuanyin was most vulnerable, like his eyes. Not because he’d been negligent when Refining his physique, for Hideo shared this same vulnerability and many others he wouldn’t care to pit against a crossbow bolt. The soft flesh of his neck, under his armpit, or around his groin among other areas, but not even the Uniter had a solution for ridding the human body of these weaknesses. There was a limit to how much one could refine those areas without negatively affecting his flexibility, mobility, or other important aspects beyond sheer durability, for even Cultivators were still mortals yet.

That being said, Hideo’s physique alone wasn’t what gave him the confidence to stride onto the battlefield in silken clothes alone. The entire two-week journey to Meng Sha had been spent learning how to utilize his Domain under the Uniter’s personal guidance, a feat which was laughably easy once he grasped how to perceive it. Not with his physical senses, but his Spiritual ones, so his Domain was no longer a thin, invisible film covering his body that he more or less could feel was there. After Forming his Golden Core and entwining it with his mind and soul both, his Spiritual Senses had improved by leaps and bounds allowing him to perceive even the most subtle stirrings of Chi around him, which in turn meant he could feel the changes in how he manipulated his Domain and shaped it with Will alone. Just a few days of practice was enough to familiarize himself with the sensation and now his Domain was every bit a part of him as his arms and legs, responding so smoothly there was hardly a need to even think and focus about what he wanted from it.

His dynamic entrance onto the battlefield was proof positive of his staggering development, showcasing not just his fine control of his Domain, but also how large it had grown in size. It’d been so laughably easy even the memory of it filled him with glee, so satisfying to watch as his Domain billowed out to cover the entirety of the towering gates and bring it down with a single Mountain Collapsing Stomp. An impossible feat for the Hideo of yesteryear, because even though it was the same Mountain Collapsing Stomp, a hinged gate was different from a stone wall. The latter was fixed in place and had only two choices, to endure or break, but the former was built to yield without breaking. How embarrassing would it have been if Hideo marched up to kick down the gates only to leave a dent in the otherwise unmarked metal, or worse, driven his boot through metal and wood both and gotten his leg stuck in the process? No, this feat had only been possible because of the rapid expansion of his Domain, for before, even centimetres would be too large a unit to measure it by, but now it extended out exactly five metres and eighteen centimetres from his skin in all directions while at its resting state. When necessary, he could stretch it even further to approximately nine metres, though it was difficult to say if that was equidistant on all sides, nor was it a size he could maintain for more than a few minutes.

This was a Domain far beyond what even the greatest Peak Experts could match, but still fell far short of even the weakest Divinities, for reasons Hideo now understood as clear as day. The Core he Created before was flawed and defective, and the same could be said of the Cores of every Martial Warrior outside of those loyal to the Imperial Clan. The result of a war of misinformation waged by the various Emperors of the Azure Sea over the past several millennia, an unseen yoke slipped around the throats of the outer provinces to ensure Eastern superiority reigned supreme. While the specifics of the matter escaped him, he likened it to building atop a crumbling foundation, which was why the Martial Warriors of the Outer Provinces were unable to grow their Domains beyond a few centimetres. They simply lacked the infrastructure to support it and the Spiritual senses to realize their failings, a most simple and insidious flaw combined with a weakness which made it near impossible for the outer provinces to solve, like asking a blind man to sort a pile of linens by colour. In spite of his limitations, the Uniter discovered how to overcome this weakness and now Hideo’s Golden Core provided more than enough support for his Domain to break through those unseen limits, and they would both only continue to grow as he progressed along his Path.

Already he’d seen no small improvements over the last two weeks, and this was only the beginning. Today, he would kill Falling Rain, tomorrow, the Dog Emperor, and then he would have words with Zhen Shi and Vyakhya regarding their disappointing lack of faith…

As for his current level of strength, kicking down a gate was the least of what he could do with his Domain, something he hadn’t even practiced beforehand. The true value of his new and improved Domain lay in its ability to defend him from all manner of attacks, which was where the bulk of his time had been spent practicing. Whether the attack be physical, elemental, mental, or emotional in nature, his Domain was all he needed to ward it off regardless of the vector. It wasn’t so simple as Deploying his Domain, but required he compress it down into three, razor-thin layers to weave a synergistic defense, one the Uniter unimaginatively called ‘Domain Armour’. The outermost layer relied on Reinforcement and Compression to form a nigh-impenetrable ‘plate’ of Domain, one harder than any steel which could ward off Honed Blades and Amplified thrusts alike. It was so sturdy, Hideo could stand idly by as the Transcendent Gen rained blows down upon him for a full minute without taking damage, and even longer if he cared enough to actively defend himself. This was in no small part thanks to the middle layer of his Domain Armour, which used Reverberation and Deflection to absorb or divert all manner of forces, whether it be something as mundane as blunt impact, rare like extreme heat and cold, or more esoteric like attacks to the Soul such as those delivered by Zheng Luo’s zither. As for the innermost layer, this was the foundation of the entire framework, and thus the most important layer of all, because not only did it support the other two layers, it also allowed him to more easily Externally Reinforce, Amplify, Lighten, and Stabilize himself in combat by exerting his Internal Chi skills on the layer itself. A novel experience to be sure, like wearing a second skin that pushed you along when you wanted to run or jump, and Hideo looked forward to the day when he learned how to revise the Mountain Collapsing Strike in the same way.

With this Domain Armour, Hideo was like a tiger given wings, able to match an average Peak Expert in strength, agility, and speed, but it was not without its downsides. The most obvious one was that it required an effort of Will to maintain, to say nothing of the sizable amount of Chi siphoned away with each blow. It was the same as Runic Armour, except better because it offered increased flexibility at the cost of constant upkeep. Hideo could set limits on his Domain Armour to ignore any forces under a certain threshold to lower consumption, or gather his defenses at one point to better withstand a powerful attack which might otherwise break through, or make any number of modifications on the fly to better suit his needs. Against the Transcendent Gen, he could set his Domain Armour to dissipate heat as quickly as possible to defend against his pillars of flame, or create a layer solely meant to shield him from scouring water when facing the Water-Blessed Transcendent.

The possibilities were nigh endless so long as Hideo had the Will and intelligence to use his Domain Armour effectively. The easiest change to make would be to put on a set of Runic Armour and limit himself to using only the innermost layer of Domain Armour alone, which would require much less focus to maintain, but after seeing the lamentable fates of all who trusted him, Hideo knew better than to place his fate in the Uniter’s hands. In all likelihood, Gen had been wholly unaware of the drawbacks when merging with his Runic Armour, though those limits to his progress were no barrier to him now that the Transcendent was wholly in control, but as far as Hideo could tell, there was no discernable difference between the Runic Armour worn by the Chosen of Heaven and the Runic Armour worn by those like Mataram YuGan who’d merged with the Transcendent within.

Meaning in all likelihood, there was no difference, and Hideo would be a fool to wear any Runic Armour crafted by the Uniter or his minions.

Not an issue as far as Hideo was concerned, for even a passing familiarity with Domain Armour gave him the confidence needed to stride into battle unarmed and unarmoured, while he had his cadre to protect him from surprise attacks. Although the Uniter could order them to turn on Hideo, the old schemer still needed his pawns and proxies to do what needed to be done. For all his bluster of overthrowing the Dog Emperor, it was clear that he lived in perpetual fear for his life, as evidenced by how Hideo had never even met him face to face. Gen had, as did Vithar and many of the savage tribal chieftains, but even Wisdom Vyakhya did not warrant a personal meeting with the Uniter, and Hideo suspected it was because he wasn’t even in the Western Province and still hiding outside the borders of the Empire itself.

All this and more passed through Hideo’s mind in the blink of an eye as he Healed his wounds and frantically tried to find some way to escape from these dire straits.

A wild beast clad in human flesh, there was no other way Hideo could describe her, this most monstrous of monsters Mei Lin. So fetching and cherubic in appearance, yet so bloodthirsty and merciless in demeanour, the sight of her readied to strike was almost endearing if he hadn’t experienced firsthand how fearsome she truly was. Others might still be taken in by her playful disposition, girlish movements, and deceptively light-hearted expressions, but Hideo could sense the killing intent pouring off of her in an unending gale and it chilled him to the bone. There was no anger, no hatred, nor even minor animosity in her actions, only a driven desire to see him dead and gone, but not before she had her fill of fun. Those wide, brown eyes which once seemed like limpid autumn pools were now windows into the soul of a determined killer, one who was so inexperienced she should rightly prove no threat, yet learned so quickly with each exchange he wondered if it was all an act. She had a way about her that made her look oh-so dainty and adorable, and the manic fixation and murderous intent was part and parcel of it all, a quality hidden just beneath the surface which one would expect from a bloody blackguard who hunted and killed humans for sport rather than fame, honour, glory, or even gold. The curious tilt of her head, the darling set of her jaw, the lackadaisical manner with which she swung her arms and skipped about as if playing a merry game of tag, almost every visible facet of Mei Lin’s persona stood in stark contrast to the feral killer he sensed inside, and it was this discrepancy of a human face being worn by someone who was anything but which unnerved him so.

These were the mannerisms of a predator playing with her prey, and Hideo saw himself reflected in Mei Lin’s honest, wide-eyed stare as a dead man walking.

