Never before had he felt so helpless against a foe, so utterly outmatched and overwhelmed. This was no girl, but an Ancestral Beast, and though Mei Lin was apparently not a Divinity, Hideo had never felt the need to distinguish the two before today. How was he supposed to fight someone capable of overturning the Heavens in her anger? Supposedly she lacked the ability to do so, but he could hardly take it on good faith, especially after seeing how beloved by the Heavens she truly was. The Energy of the Heavens leapt to obey her Will in a way he’d never seen before today, offering her a burst of speed, power, or durability whenever she needed it most, and who knew what else it offered her? This was the first time he truly felt he had no recourse in a match, though to be honest, he’d never taken a fight he wasn’t at least somewhat confident of winning. Even accounting for the rare times when he lost, against Dastan, Fung, and Zheng Luo, he’d never once believed he was the inferior Warrior, for he’d not lost to his foes, but to himself. His own personal failings led to his defeat, not the strength of his foes, for if he’d been more confident, diligent, and humble, then he would stand undefeated under Heaven. Alas, he was too stubborn to acknowledge this truth early on, so those bitter defeats were much needed lessons which led him to his current staggering heights, and yet still he was no match for the Ancestral Beast Mei Lin. There was something fierce and primal in the way she moved, so utterly unlike anything Hideo had ever seen before, darting, hopping, and twirling about with effortless grace, superlative speed, and a carefree gaiety that belied belief. All the while, her decisions were wholly lacking in sound logic or predictable reasoning, as if everything she did was based on pure, unfettered instinct.

Which meant that even if Hideo was unable to predict her next move, it was easy enough to anticipate her next attack a fraction of a second before she delivered it.

This was one of the first lessons he learned from his failure of a Mentor, how to read your opponents. To demonstrate, Old Juichi spent an hour avoiding every last one of Hideo’s attacks without setting foot outside a single square metre, one conveniently outlined by the stone tiles of the family sparring grounds. At the time, it seemed like magic to Hideo, as if the old bastard knew his every thought before he even thought them, but it was merely a matter of experience. There was nothing magical about guessing your opponent’s target by tracking his eyes, or seeing the arc of a slash in the set of a Warrior’s shoulders before he even raised his weapon. The body had a thousand different ways of giving away your intent, and Mei Lin’s body was so honest and forthcoming Hideo could see her attacks coming almost a full heartbeat in advance.

While it might not sound like much, a heartbeat was all he needed to raise his arms in defense as she pounced towards him with arms outstretched. Not held forward like a true pugilist, ready to jab, punch, grapple, or block, but held out to either side and trailing behind, like a child running through a field without a care in the world. Despite this laughable stance, her speed was startling to behold, faster than even what he could manage with his Refined Physique and Domain Armour helping him along, but not so fast that he couldn’t at least keep up. This was all he could do however, see her attacks coming, raise his guard, and fall back to minimize damage, for all his attempts to Deflect or dodge ended in absolute failure.

Not that he was any better off blocking, for as her dainty palm strike landed on his raised forearms, his Domain Armour simply shattered before her might, exposing him to the full weight of her attack.

Though the palm strike itself seemed like little more than a dainty slap delivered by tiny, uncalloused hands wrapped in a fine silk scarf, the impact shredded both of Hideo’s forearms and sent him reeling back several steps, some of which were intentional to avoid the brunt of her strike, while others were most certainly not. Infuriating is what it was, for a suit of Runic Armour would have saved him much grief here today, but how was he to know coming in that he’d run into an adolescent Ancestral Hare capable of shattering his Domain Armour with little more than a touch? It was such a strange Chi working, one he’d never seen, and he was desperate to uncover the secrets behind it.

Not for the sake of curiosity, but because if he knew the exact mechanism she was using to break through his defenses, then he could add in countermeasures against her. She wasn’t cleaving through his defenses with Honing, nor was she tearing them apart through raw Reinforced strength, both of which would have been countered with Deflection. It wasn’t Reverberation tearing his Domain asunder from within either, nor was it a well-timed and well-aimed effort of Amplification to break through in one fell swoop. His Domain just kept shattering no matter how many times he reformed it, not breaking in one specific area where force was applied or pierced through by a focused strike, but just coming apart at the seams before even coming into contact with her palm, like the waves parted before the bow of a ship. Even as he watched, there was nothing he could do to keep his Domain Armour from dissolving into a loose and formless cloud of Chi, one which spread out in all directions until it was stretched so thin that his Will could no longer keep it from merging with the Heavens once more.

In military terms, it’s as if Hideo’s soldiers were fleeing before every charge and leaving the targets they were meant to be guarding wholly vulnerable and exposed, rendering his Domain Armour to be about as useful as a light spray of mist.

Again, Hideo had time to Heal and recuperate before Mei Lin’s next attack, so he sought to turn the tides of battle before his vast reserves of Chi eventually ran out. A more experienced combatant would not have given him the room to breathe, but fierce and formidable though she might be, she was clearly no Warrior. Though she had a knack for knowing when and where to attack, she put no thought into her follow through or next step. As such, she had no choice but to stop and assess the situation to see if there were any new dangers about, whether it be Monk Eyebrows’ match against his furious, rotund counterpart, or the silent stare-down between Divinities taking place all around them, or any of the soldiers filtering in behind him. Until she was certain it was safe to strike, she wouldn’t attack again, which gave Hideo all the time he needed to prepare for her next attack and even spare some time to uncover the mystery of just how in the hell she kept dispersing his Domain Armour.

“Sacrifice the middle layer to strengthen the cohesion,” the Uniter ‘helpfully’ supplied, and even though Hideo understood the words well enough, he had no earthly idea what it all meant. While trying to parse through the message, Mei Lin attacked yet again, and Hideo paid a dear price for his distraction as her palm slipped through a gap in his defenses to settle firmly atop his chest. Light as a feather, that’s how her fingers felt upon his robes, barely more than a gentle touch, yet the impact sent him staggering backwards before falling on his ass and coming to a complete stop. Leaping back to his feet in unseemly haste, he moved to raise his defenses, only for a hacking cough to interrupt his efforts as he spurted a mouthful of blood and no small amount of scattered tissue from his damaged lungs.

So this was what it meant to cough up blood, a decidedly unpleasant experience he would not like to repeat, as if the blood in his body had tried to flow in reverse and even now was still stuck in his throat and nose.

“The principle behind her attacks is one of dispersal,” the Uniter continued, his tone curt and words clipped as if angered by this embarrassing display, but he shared as much of the blame as Hideo himself. Imperial Officers had aides for a reason, because Sending messages in the midst of combat was distracting and counter-productive, yet the Uniter thought it fine and dandy to give lessons while Hideo fought for dear life. The old bastard didn’t even have the decency to keep his message plain and simple, but instead spoke in the same long-winded manner he always used. “Similar to how a cold draft cuts through a warm room, this young Ancestral Hare is using her Chi to displace your own. A combination of Honing to sever the bonds of your Chi working and Deflection to scatter it, with an added element of offensive Lightening this Sovereign has never before seen, imparting a buoyancy to the surrounding metaphysical fabric of reality which encourages the dispersal. Most interesting indeed, but easily countered by tightening the weaves of your Domain Armour and binding the layers more closely together to prevent your Chi from scattering in the first place. Think of it like a string stretched taut, only to snap and shoot away, so you braid the string with another to keep it from breaking.”

As if Hideo was supposed to understand all that from ‘Strengthen the cohesion’.

Redeploying his Domain Armour was simple enough, requiring only a moment of focus to direct his Will, and with more practice, even this much wouldn’t be needed. It was similar to training in one specific Movement over and over again, until performing it became second nature. Modifying his Domain Armour was far more difficult, as it was one thing to dress yourself, but another thing altogether to tailor your outfit on the fly. Even with the Uniter’s guidance to help him along, Hideo took six more blood-curdling attacks from Mei Lin before he was able to Deploy a modified Domain Armour that he thought could hold out against her, only for his hopes to be cruelly dashed by the next attack. Three more palm strikes later, he Deployed a second version, wherein he abandoned the second layer’s functions altogether in favour of using it to hold the inner and outer layer together. The trade-off was that he would need to be wary of targeted Aura bombardments and manually defend against Zheng Luo’s musical blasts, but as luck would have it, the beautiful and talented Imperial Servant had abandoned her offensive efforts and was instead focusing her talents on bolstering the hearts of Imperial soldiers instead.

The right move, all things considered, because while Zheng Luo’s disharmonic blasts could lead to the deaths of several prominent Mataram Peak Experts, it would mean nothing if the rank and file lost heart and fled the field. Although Zhen Shi’s plan to drive the Imperial army to despair failed to bear fruit, the after effects of such an insidious working were not so easily dispersed, but now Zheng Luo’s rousing melody was filling the hearts of Imperial soldiers with courage and conviction both.

If only she could see past her ingrained misconceptions and accept the truth for what it was, for then she would stand on his side by her own free will, but he would have her one way or another, her and Mei Lin both.

The darling little Ancestral Hare was so fetching and cute, her brow furrowing and cheeks puffing as her dainty little palm landed lightly atop his modified Domain Armour, one which held firm before her efforts to disperse it. Careful not to break her delicate little bones, he grabbed her by the wrist and pulled her close with a smile, and so shocked by her failure to injure him, she barely even put up a struggle. “A troublesome little imp, aren’t you,” he murmured, while reaching up with his free hand to stroke her soft, honeyed cheek, so smooth and malleable in spite of her wicked scowl and futile efforts to push his arm away. “So very much like Eri-Hime, in spirit and in form.”

He wanted to say more, pull her in close, perhaps even force a kiss upon her lips and taste her flesh, but the next thing he knew he wasn’t staring in her eyes anymore, but up at the clear, sunny skies overhead. “Ugly,” she declared, and the world shifted as he spun about once, twice, then thrice before coming to an abrupt stop as he crashed into the sandy soil and dug a furrow across the ground. Without the middle layer of his Domain Armour to cushion the impacts, Hideo was feeling the full force of having his head bounced off the ground, which left him dazed and confused in spite of his skull showing not even the hint of a bruise.

How was she able to throw him? Both of her hands had been occupied at the time, one caught in his grasp and the other fending off his touch, but then something pulled his feet out from under him and unceremoniously slammed him into the ground as if he were a thresher meant to separate wheat from the stalk. Feeling a tug on his leg, he glanced down in confusion and found a length of white silk wound about his ankle, with the lovely Mei Lin waving her arms in wide circles while winding the rest of her scarf about her shoulders, pulling it taut and dragging him back so she could fling him around again. Fear bubbled up from within as he met her brown, obstinate eyes, so full of pique and grievance he knew his end would soon arrive. She was done playing now, done indulging her whims, for Hideo had touched her reverse scale and now she was finally ready to kill.

