“I saw that when I first opened the door to your room.” Lisa said. “You needed help getting dressed.”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “I'll be able to do it myself in a couple of days, though.”

“What?” Lisa asked. “So quickly?”

Ren smiled. “I was hurt last week and it makes it hard to move around and dress myself.” He said. “I'm almost healed.”

“Can you show me?”

“Sure.” Ren said and started to unbutton his shirt. Lisa's eyes widened because he didn't even hesitate to show her, then she caught her breath when he opened his shirt up and showed her the nearly healed bruise that covered his chest and abdomen.

“Oh, my god.” Lisa said and reached out to touch the skin. “May I?” She asked, and Ren nodded. Her fingers grazed the edge of the bruise, and she marvelled at how muscular he was. It wasn't as prominent as it was in the game, but that was because she knew it reflected his character more than his actual physical appearance. Lisa traced the edge of the bruise down his side and to the top of his pants, then she felt his intake of breath. She could see that he was still excited, even though they'd been talking for a while.

“So that's real, too.” Lisa said, instead of just thinking it. “You can stay ready for a while.”

“Only when I've got a good reason.” Ren said and she looked at him.

“I said that out loud?” Lisa blushed, and he chuckled.

“I do that sometimes, too.” Ren said.

“You do?”

Ren nodded. “The last time was really embarrassing.” He said. “My girlfriend Elise, my nurse Denise, and I went to buy bathing suits.”

“Bathing suits?” Lisa asked as she continued to probe his bruise. “For what?”

“The pool.” Ren said. “When I saw it at the new place, I had to try it.”

“You have a pool?!?” She asked, surprised.

“Yeah.” Ren said. “It's Olympic-sized, has a shallow end with a Jacuzzi, and a diving board.”

“No way!”

“Yes way.” Ren said. “Anyways, we got to the shop, and the sales clerk asked us what kind of bathing suits we wanted.” He grinned. “I said 'see-through'.”

“You didn't!” Lisa exclaimed, and started to laugh.

“I did. Out loud and in front of two very surprised witnesses.”

Lisa laughed and let her hands wander over Ren's chest. He wasn't sure if she was doing it consciously or not; because her eyes were kind of unfocused as she gave him a little bit of a massage. Surprisingly, it didn't hurt. She was both gentle and thorough, and Ren looked her in the eyes as her laughter died away. She kept moving her hands, and neither of them spoke for several minutes.

What am I doing? Lisa thought. I'm... I'm touching him so much... and he... he's letting me. Her hands stopped moving and Ren put his hands on hers.

“Don't stop on my account.” Ren said and slid her hands over his chest. “That actually feels pretty nice.”

“Doesn't it hurt?” Lisa asked. Please say it doesn't! I don't want to hurt you.

“Not even a little bit.” Ren smiled and let her hands go.

Yes! Lisa thought, and kept feeling his chest. “It's fascinating.” She said. “You look so strong, and yet you're so weak.”

“It disappoints me a lot.” Ren said. “Whatever was done to me, degenerated the ligaments and tendons. I could probably pick you up and toss you on the bed if I wasn't like this.”

Lisa took a deep breath as she thought about that. “I don't think I would like it much if you were that forceful.”

Ren nodded, and moved back to the center of the bed. Lisa was going to ask him what he was doing, and then he laid down on his back and held a hand out to her.

“Feel like cuddling for a while?”

“O-okay.” Lisa said and laid down beside him. “I've... well, I've never done anything like this before.”

“That's okay. Nathalia gave me lots of practice.” Ren said, turned slightly onto his side to put his head on the pillow, and motioned for her to come closer. Lisa did so, and put her head on the pillow as she faced him.

“Like this?” Lisa asked, and he nodded.

“We were together for a long time before we crossed that last line.” Ren said, and used a hand to touch the side of her face. “When we did, we didn't do it every time we went to bed.” He said. “I actually like to cuddle.”

“You do?” Lisa asked, surprised.

“Sometimes there's not enough time to do much more than that.” Ren said. “Either something happens or we were just too tired.”

“So, if I said that we weren't going to... um... that you and I...”

“I won't get mad.” Ren smiled. “Actually, with my condition, we'd have to be careful. I could get hurt easily, especially if you get... energetic... about it.”

“R-really? You can get hurt like that?”

Ren nodded. “This is from falling on an exercise ball.” He said and indicated his chest. “Can you imagine what would happen...”

“Oh... oh, my.” Lisa said as she thought about the consequences. “What can we do?”

Ren smiled. “Do you want to know so you can use the information, or are you just curious?”

Lisa smiled back. “A little bit of both.”

Ren propped himself up on an elbow, and leaned over her ear. He started to whisper to her about what they could do as he ran a hand through her hair. Lisa closed her eyes as she listened to his voice, and enjoyed the feel of his hand as he touched her. Each time he said something that he could do for her, his voice went deeper, and every time he said something that she could do for him, he gave her earlobe a light kiss.

A few of the things he mentioned she really wanted to try; but, only because it was Ren. She would never even consider some of them if it was anyone else. Ren stopped talking and leaned back, and she put a hand on his arm.

“Is... is that all?” Lisa asked as she opened her eyes and looked at him.

“You just want me to keep whispering to you.” Ren said, and she nodded. He leaned back over her and caressed her neck, then told her that she could ask him for anything, and he would give it to her. Her body shivered slightly, and he told her that he liked it a lot that she would lay there and let him touch her.

“But... don't you...”

“I do.” Ren said. “Very much.” He smiled. “I won't force myself on you, though.” He said, and removed his hand. “If you decide that you want something to happen...”

Lisa took his hand and put it back on her neck, then moved it lower. She turned to lay on her back, and the hand she still held moved to her chest. Her breathing stopped as his hand grazed her breast, and he felt she was very excited. She didn't tell him to stop like she did the first time, so he cupped the small mound of flesh and she started breathing again. He could feel her heart racing in her chest as he massaged the sensitive flesh through the thin fabric of her top.

Lisa opened her mouth and sighed as he shifted to her other breast and gave it the same amount of attention. His touch was gentle and a little rough, which turned out to be the perfect combination for her; and it drove her a little wild. It was just enough for pleasure, but not enough to trigger her fight or flight response. She writhed and squirmed on the bed as he played with her, and she fought to respond and not respond at the same time.

When Lisa grabbed his hand with one of hers, Ren thought he might have pushed it a little too far; but, she grabbed his neck with her other hand and pulled him down for a kiss while she pushed his other hand down to her waist.

She kissed him like he was the last drink of water in a desert, and his hand slid past her waist, across her hip, and slipped under the edge of her skirt. Unlike what she had expected though, he didn't try and play with her. What he did was scratch her itch instead.

“Oh, my GOD!” Lisa exclaimed as he generously scratched her private area. “A little... left... left... OH!” Her whole body fell limp as Ren took care of something that she was too much of a lady to do in public. He kept it up for nearly a full minute, until he heard her sigh and he removed his hand.

“How was that?” Ren asked, seductively, and she laughed.

“That felt sooo goooood!” Lisa said. “I finally let you touch me there, and I can't believe you did that!”

Ren chuckled. “I couldn't let you suffer anymore.”

“Thank you.” Lisa said and kissed him. “Thank you so much.”

They made out for several minutes, but Ren didn't try to push things. Lisa's mind and heart were at ease, because even though she'd let him touch her before, he didn't take it for granted that he could touch her like that again. She kissed him more enthusiastically, and Ren kissed her back.

There was a knock on the room door, and Lisa froze stiff. Ren stopped kissing her and leaned back on his elbow.

“Come in.” Ren said. “We're decent.”

Stella opened the door and came in. “Sorry to interrupt.” She said, when she got a look at Ren's open shirt. “I'm going to start making lunch soon, and I wondered if Lisa would like to stay.”

Ren looked at Lisa, and saw her face was a deep red. “I'm sure when she gets over her embarrassment, she'll want to stay and have something to eat.”

“I'll make sure there's enough, just in case.” Stella said. “Carry on.” She smiled and shut the door.

Lisa put her hands over her face. “Oh my god!”

“Don't worry about it.” Ren said. “Stella's great about these things.”

“She caught us making out on your bed!” Lisa exclaimed. “And your shirt is open!”

Ren chuckled. “She's my nurse, Lisa. She's seen me naked lots of times.”

“Oh... oh, right.” Lisa said. “I'm sorry! I didn't mean...”

Ren cupped her face. “I said not to worry about it.” He said. “Do you think we can talk for a while?” He raised the bed up to a sitting position. “I'd like to know more about you.”

“Really?” Lisa asked. “Don't you want to keep kissing me?”

Ren smiled. “Like you wouldn't believe.”

Lisa held out a hand for him, and he took it. They sat there and just talked about their lives. After almost half an hour, there was another knock on the door.

“Come in.” Ren said, and the door opened to reveal a woman he'd never met before. She did look a little familiar, though.

“Hello! I'm Barbara's sister, Melanie! I came with the papers for the house!” Melanie said excitedly.

“Great!” Ren said. “Stella! The papers for the house are here!”

Stella came over from the kitchen and shook Melanie's hand. “It's nice to meet you.”

“Same here!” Melanie said and looked around. “I don't see a table or anything we can sit around.”

Stella pulled the rollaway table from the side of the room and slid it in front of Ren and Lisa.

“Thank you!” Melanie said and opened her large purse. She pulled out a big folder and put it on the rollaway table. “There's a few places to sign!” She said and put a pen on the table. “I'll take you through it step by step!”

“You're really excited.” Ren said.

“I am!” She said. “I'm making more on this sale than I've made at my regular job in the last two years!”

“What?!?” Lisa exclaimed, then put a hand over her mouth. “Sorry.”

Ren chuckled. “Let's get this done.”

It took nearly 20 minutes for Melanie to walk Ren through all the paperwork. He signed all the spaces he needed to, and put his initials on the spots for initials, and Melanie gave him his copies of the documents.

“There!” Melanie said. “You are now the owner of a brand new house!” She said, happily. “To be so young and can afford such a place! You must be so proud!”

“I am.” Ren said. “Thank you for coming over.”

“You're quite welcome!” Melanie said. “If that's everything, I'll run this over to the bank!”

“Actually, I think there is something...” Ren said and smiled.

*

Elise sat at her desk and gathered all the information that she thought she needed. She was glad that she had access to Ren's raw data from two different sources, and could compare the two. She found the discrepancies between the server side information and the client side; and discovered the time stamps were only slightly different.

Since she knew that Ren didn't know about it, or could have done it himself, the server side files must have been altered to reflect what the tech department wanted, and not what had actually happened. Elise added in the actual footage from Ren's feed that used the unmodified data, and highlighted all of the relevant popups. It was a massive amount of information to sift through, but that was what she excelled at. Her mind was like a sieve for numbers and she could do calculus in her head.

It had taken her several hours to gather all of the evidence she thought would convince her boss to give Ren what he was due, and even added footage of her conversation with Max, the head programmer. She smiled as she copied everything onto a USB drive.

It will have to wait until lunch. Elise thought. I can't take up company time with this. She tucked the USB drive into a pocket. Despite it having an effect on the company, it's still a personal grievance.

She smiled. I know the boss will do something for Ren! Mr. Torren likes him almost as much as I do!
