“I briefly sensed an extraordinary power from your chamber. I want to know what you did just now,” Tavza said.

Zac inwardly complained. It was certainly convenient that all these rich heiresses, from Astora to Iz, and now Tavza, were content in trading resources for information. At the same time, it drove home just how poverty-stricken he was compared to the real scions of the Multiverse. Just once, he’d like to make a clean trade without involving his secrets or unpredictable Karmic entanglements.

Still, in contrast to Astora’s offer, this was an exchange Zac could stomach.

“I used a Core-improving treasure,” Zac said.

“That doesn’t explain the fluctuations I sensed,” Tavza immediately rejected.

“It does if the treasure was infused by the power of a Stellar Wanderer,” Zac shrugged.

“Then your Cosmic Core…” Tavza hesitated with a slight frown on her face.

“I won’t say it’s perfect, but it’s not far off,” Zac said.

“You’re almost ready to break through again? How can a mortal cultivate this quickly? It doesn’t make sense!”

Zac snickered as Ogras stepped out of the shadows, his face green with envy. “Are the Heavens blind? Have they turned their gaze away from this decrepit realm?”

“The Heavens reward the handsome,” Zac said with a smile.

“That cannot possibly be true, or I wouldn’t be suffering like this,” Ogras muttered.

“Are the two of you done?” Tavza asked.

“No, let me vent a few more minutes, or I’ll develop gout,” Ogras muttered, lifting his hands in surrender at Tavza’s withering stare. “I’m joking, of course. Please, do go on, Mistress An’Azol.”

“How did you acquire a treasure infused with the fundamental power of the First Era?” Tavza asked.

“The trade was to explain the source of the energy fluctuations, not where I sourced the item,” Zac said.

“… Fine,” Tavza relented. “Nevertheless, you should be careful. You are not the first to draw on the powers of Ancient Arcana. Its transcendent nature seemingly makes it a perfect addition to any path and cultivation system. That’s also why it cannot be tamed. Instead, it will try to distort you in imperceptible ways, making it no less dangerous than the First Era’s corruption.”

“I’ll be careful,” Zac promised before he froze with alarm. “Wait, what about the epiphanies? Like the ones we got from the seals?”

“The pure enlightenment of Ultom should be different. It holds no latent will of the races of Ancient Arcana, as far as we can tell,” Tavza said, allowing Zac to breathe out in relief.

His three-month deadline would be impossible without relying on a whole bunch of purified corruption. Not to mention, his whole path was propped up by the insights he’d accumulated under the influence of tainted bathwater and while collecting seals.

“Thank God,” Zac muttered before turning back to Ogras. “Anything on the outside?”

“Found a few trinkets, mostly rusty and in desperate need of restoration,” Ogras sighed. “No sign of our friends or foes. I’m starting to think we’re not seeing the real chasm. The terraces are completely exposed. I feel we should have spotted someone by now. We know that we’re not the first who made it here.”

Zac had the same thought. They hadn’t traveled nearly as fast as Esmeralda, and they’d been further delayed by Mox. There was at least one party of humans that had arrived before them, and there were undead who’d gone ahead. There was also the extremely powerful cultivator who forced Zac into the storm where he found Tam’s memory lantern. Someone that powerful wouldn’t have any problems reaching the Hollow Chasm.

“I’ve been considering this issue for a while, and I agree,” Tavza interjected, ignoring the exaggerated shock on Ogras’s face. “The Hollow Chasm is not as linear as it would appear.”

“Meaning?”

“We first visited the Fifth Garden, then the Third Hell. This sequence makes no sense, no matter what theories or concepts I apply. Neither do I believe the order is random, leaving me with one conclusion. The order of our crossing is chosen by destiny, and those walking another path will travel along a different route.”

“Destiny…” Zac muttered. “Threads of Fate?”

Tavza nodded. “The trial wants us to rectify the past, so it sends us where we can make the most difference. Accordingly, we shattered the status quo in the two realms we passed.”

“Wait, if the trial sends us to the most suitable realms first, doesn’t that mean the opportunities will only get worse with every place we enter?” Ogras grimaced.

“It would also mean that the risk of entering a realm in the middle of dangerous upheavals will increase as others complete threads of fate in realms we haven’t visited yet. There might even be people lying in ambush further down the road,” Zac added.

“It’s only a working theory,” Tavza reminded him.

Zac got back to his feet with a grunt. “Well, there’s only one way to find out.”

Ogras laughed as he followed Zac out of the hidden chamber. “Are you getting antsy from the idea of someone else kicking up a storm when that’s your thing? Don’t worry; I’m sure you’ll find ways to make things worse.”
