Choking back my squeal of delight, I take in the sight of Taduk’s gift, a tiny, scared bunny the size of my palm. Sporting a beautiful, black, short-furred coat with a white underbelly, his nose and eyes are also lined with white to give its features a lovely contrast. Although bigger than Mama Bun’s babies, this bunny is leaner than his new siblings and much more vigilant. Where the other bunnies would happily hop around and explore their surroundings, this new bunny, who I’ve already named Blackjack, stands stock still with arms and legs poised to fight or flee.

Resting my cheek against the table, I eye my newest pet with a smile. “Hiya cutie. Did Teacher find you in the wild?” Reacting to the sound of my voice, Blackjack turns to face me head on, nose twitching a mile a minute. So cute. It looks different from the other bunnies, more alert and jumpy, but I guess it’s because he’s a wild one. Placing my right hand flat on the table, I slowly slide it towards Blackjack one centimetre at a time, doing my best not to spook it. “Don’t be scared, everything’s gonna be fine. The big scary turtle won’t eat you. Why don’t you come with me and meet your new family?” It’s gonna be so fun. I hope Blackjack is a boy and Tawny One is a girl, then they can be a couple with themed names. Letting him sniff the back of my fingers, I wait until Blackjack seems comfortable with my smell before moving to pick him up. “Come here my sweet bun bun, lets get you something to eat and – Ahhhhhhh!”

A shrill screech emerges from my mouth as Blackjack chomps down on my index finger and tears away the top joint. Cheeks working furiously, it swallows the morsel and bares its fangs to reveal four bloody incisors. Clutching at my wounded finger close, I hiss in pain and ask, “What the fuck is that?”

“That, my boy,” Taduk says, swelling with pride, “is a Cloud Chaser Hare. See how fierce it is? A predator born, destined to rule the treetops and skies.” Sneering at Mama Bun, he adds, “Far more majestic than any mere rabbit.”

“Uhh... Yea. Thank you.” I guess. Stopping the bleeding with an effort of will, I wash away most of my blood with some tea. “Very cute.”

Just my daily reminder of how everything in this world is looking to kill or eat me. Fun, fun, fun.

“Put the fur-bag away.” Placing her teacup down, Guard Leader stands and faces the forest. “We have company.”

Turning to follow her gaze, I watch as a group of people file out of the forest from the gap Ping-Ping left in her wake. Numbering close to a hundred strong, their shabby, hemp clothing, straw cloaks, and conical hats mark them as woodsmen or commoners, but their weapons tell a different story. Spears, swords, axes, and bows bristle as they form up in battle-lines with practised efficiency. Responding in kind, my retinue also moves into formation, but instead of lining up shoulder to shoulder in the open, Jorani’s people take cover behind wagons and half-dismantled yurts, readying their bows and crossbows for my signal. Off to the side, Chey slips away on quinback with her entire squad, hoping to circle around and flank our enemy while Wang Bao and his cutthroats make their way to the front, hefting makeshift shields to defend against the first barrage. Carrying yurt doors, folding chairs, pot lids, and anything else which might stop an arrow, the former Butcher Bay veterans sneer confidently as they prepare for battle.

Looks like months of training have borne fruit, but my people deserve to be confident. Clad in garo leather armour and armed with the best weapons money can buy, we also outnumber our enemy by more than two to one, unless they have more warriors hiding in the woods. Doesn't matter if they do, Chey and her quins will make short work of anyone they find.

Trapping the blood-thirsty hare beneath my water basin, I hurry over to join the front lines. Giving Ravil, Pran, and Saluk the order to load their guns and aim for the enemy leaders, I strap on Tranquility and draw Peace while quietly cursing over the loss of my finger tip. Makes it harder to keep a firm grip on my sword, but hopefully things don’t escalate that far. Holding my Officer’s token up for the intruders to see, I yell, “This is Warrant Officer Second Grade Falling Rain. State your intentions, or die where you stand.”

Woo... Chills. I can see why people love being arrogant, it’s pretty fun.

The rabble of woodsmen-turned-soldier don’t like what they hear, as evidenced by their disgruntled looks and hushed arguments. Giving them a minute to sort things out, I stand tall and proud with hand held high, wondering if I should keep it up or put it down. Maybe physically seeing the token will scare them off, but an argument could be made that it looks like I’m hiding behind my rank.

Dilemma...

After a short discussion, one scruffy warrior steps forward and responds, blissfully ignorant of how much danger he’s really in, staring down the barrel of Ravil's gun. Drawing himself up to full height, the enemy leader yells back, “We do not fear death. Release the Divine Turtle or face Ping Yao’s wrath!”

Oh, it’s the turtle ninjas. Thank the Mother. Glancing back at Ping-Ping, I yell, “Okay. Wait one second. I'll go get her.” Stopping in my tracks, I turn back to the turtle ninja’s and add, “Actually, maybe it's better if you go to her. She's napping.”

Well, that’s one scary, dangerous pet taken care of. Now what am I supposed to do with a voracious, meat-eating, cloud-hopping hare?

Man... All I wanted was a cuddly, adorable red panda.

Chapter Meme
