He shifted sideways, pulling the pack of skeletons with him, placing himself beside the gossamer glowing chain that catapulted upward, snagging a bat out of the sky and dragging the struggling creature to the ground with a crash that splintered two skeletons from the force of the impact. Calen saw that? Nice! Mato roared, lashing out with an empowered Swipe that tore through the lightly armored bat hide as if it were paper. The blood that sprayed across his face and the skeletons he was fighting surprised him for a moment – it had been a while since one of these had been alive instead of the more common, putrid rotting zombies.

Mato sensed the incoming fireball before he even felt the heat. As his Survival Instinct leveled, he was beginning to gain more and more subtlety with his perception – and telling the difference between a fireball and a sword without being able to see it was a remarkable advantage. The detonation sent bones and rotting flesh flying before Malika seized the chance to top him up with a quick heal.

The chain of light expired, and the bat frantically launched itself into the air to get away, despite its grave injuries. Mato ignored it, content for the moment that he had enough monsters to engage with, and charged through the doorway and into the darkened room within the ruined building, dragging the remnants of the monsters along with him through the hail of fire and arrows. His enhanced senses adjusted quickly, picking out the roaming forms of several zombies and skeletons that still wandered within.

Suddenly, a magical wall of bone sprouted out of the floor with a creaking crunch that set his teeth on edge. He charged, relying on his mass and momentum to crash through a section of the bone wall, sending dust and shards flying and the Kobold mage on the far stairs scurrying upward and out of sight.

Click.

Shit! Traps! His Survival Instinct warned him of the attack, but it was already too late. Multiple darts slammed into his flank, several of them bouncing off his heavy armor, but a couple were placed perfectly to deliver their poison.

You have been afflicted with Poison.+3 Poison damage per second.Poison – Duration: 10 minutes. Count: 1

Immediately, three squat Dwarven skeletons emerged from the swirling dust and darkness, wearing plate armor and wielding shields and swords of that same reddish-black steel. He swiped crosswise hitting all three of them with a powerful blow, feeling the stabbing pain as his attack ripped through their armor. A touch of Malika’s healing and the long slow pulse of his restoration magic began counteracting the damage of the poison as he shifted sideways, pulling his enemies further into the room.

His job was not to kill them all, merely to collect them and rush to the top of the building again. But as he reached the stairs, Survival Instinct screamed at him, and he desperately tried to guess which direction to block. He lucked out, blocking one of the two rogue ambushers, but the second stabbed from the shadows, burying its darkly glinting dagger deep between his ribs. The burst of pain was so extreme he stumbled, crashing into the wall. Fuck, Ambush! He roared a challenge, realizing belatedly that he should have done that to reduce the rogue’s strength at the first sign of danger.

Live and learn, he thought, noticing Malika had collected the skeletal and Kobold mages from the corners and was sprinting toward him, dodging bolts of magic. “Second floor, go!” she yelled. “Heal incoming!”

Mato charged up the stairs with Malika close behind, only to run face-first into a wall of bone that sprang up out of nowhere. A large barrel tipped into the stairwell from above, pouring copious quantities of toxic green liquid over his head and shoulders – a liquid that looked suspiciously like wyvern spit. Stinks like it too.

Your Poison has increased to 2.

A distant detonation sounded from somewhere far above, rocking the foundations of the walls and triggering a pained screech from beyond the stairs. Mato swiped at the wall of bone, spending the health to tear it to shreds with his claws while Malika’s magic topped him up once again.

With their enemies still hot on their heels, he and Malika raced up the stairs into a broad open second level, lit by the still-flickering gobs of flame – remnants of one of Ali’s fireballs. Corpses lay everywhere, burnt past recognition. Whether they had been undead or not, Mato didn’t much care; instead, he charged the still-moving figures in the far corner.

His Swipe tore into the bone-studded leather armor the warriors were wearing, much softer targets than the usual plate armor, but the longswords set his danger sense off, tearing great slices through even his dense hide.

Another bone wall appeared between him and the mages huddled in the corner, and he heard a thump and a muffled curse from Malika.

“Fucking wall,” she grumbled. “I can’t see shit.”

He was just debating how he could corral the monsters chasing him, the new ones, and still hit the wall, when Malika backed up two steps, then raced up the sheer bone barrier and leapt over the top.

“I’ll bring the mages,” she said, freeing Mato to drag the monsters he had already secured off to the stairwell again while stealing a little of the damage she incurred to himself to give her an edge.

Mato took to the stairs again, charging upward after verifying by the sound of her breathing that Malika was just behind him. The two of them emerged onto the roof with a veritable horde of Kobolds and skeletons right on their heels. Ali and Calen were already firing at skeletal wyverns overhead, so he simply rounded up all the monsters, trying to create the tightest pack he could. Calen would appreciate it; he did like to be efficient.

“Ali, we’re ready,” Malika called out.

The first fireball struck, detonating almost on top of Mato. The flame seared his flesh, burning his fur up in a flash of sulfurous stench that burned at his lungs. The holy magic of an Acolyte and Malika’s simultaneous searing surge healed him to full in an instant. My health is getting whiplash! Mato thought. This strategy worked, but he didn’t have to like it.

In the second between the fireball and the blinding flashes of lightning, Calen’s shining chain dragged a skeletal wyvern down into the crush. Blinded by flame, Mato Swiped to his left flank, guided entirely by Survival Instinct and memory, claws shredding through bone and scales as the wyvern crashed to the ground.

Your Poison has increased to 3.

One of the most annoying things about the skeletal wyverns – apart from the flying – was the fact that mere proximity was enough to be afflicted with their poison magic. This time, though, the wyvern did not escape. The constant barrage of lightning and fireballs destroyed everything that wasn’t getting constantly healed.

“Incoming, next building,” Calen announced, and within a few moments, Mato was being lowered to the ground to repeat the entire exercise once more.
