White lightning struck a white boulder that was covered in moss, half-buried in a rock garden at the side of a real garden, and a house. Erick stepped out of the light. For a brief moment he was imposing. Larger than life. Broad-shouldered and with a crown of black horns on his head, with a robe of white shimmers and deepest black, just in case Quilatalap had some guests. But there were no guests. And so, Erick smiled, transforming in that moment from the Apparent King, to just Erick, as he dispelled his horns and ditched his shoes, to feel the greenery underfoot.

A wonderful little house stood not too far away, three storied and with a pair of mage towers on the north and east sides, with a cozy little forest all around. Erick felt a tug in his heart that was deeper than usual as he took in the sight before him, for he was home, and he didn’t want to leave.

For the first time in eleven years, he wouldn’t have to.

Not for a while, anyway.

Erick brushed away happy little tears as he breathed deep the scent of a well-tended garden to the north, and the new forest all around. He searched for smells of dinner, but it might be too early for Quilatalap to be doing that. Maybe he was reading in the library? Unless someone snuck into the dungeon again and needed to be tested, or rescued, of course. It was hard to mana sense properly in the dungeon, so all Erick could rely on were his actual senses.

He was reasonably sure he was alone.

Erick laughed as he hopped off the boulder, to walk along a mossy path toward the house, saying, “Looks like we get to make dinner this time, Ophiel. What do you want to try?”

Ophiel hovered in the air beside Erick, looking like a white crow with four wings, three eyes, and an eye on each wing. He was trying out a new form right now, but he would probably pick another one in a few days, for he switched when he got excited, and at the question of dinner, he got truly excited.

Fluffing out into a mess of wings and eyes, Ophiel announced, “Want purple!”

Erick nodded. “Go and get a few violetberries from the garden, then. Just a few, though!”

Erick almost gave a few more instructions, but Ophiel had already torn off through the air, toward the garden, whistling in happy violin sounds as he dove right into the violetberry plant. That little guy sure could tear through greenery, but it was just a plant. He’d repair it later—

A flash of shadow shattered the air near the door to the house, before rapidly transforming into Quilatalap. Erick’s heart stilled at the sight of him. The man was physically as amazing as always, thanks to being an orcol, but Erick felt a lot more for him these days than he ever had for any other orcol on the street. All others paled in comparison to his Quilatalap. How Erick felt was the same way that Quilatalap felt about Erick, too, and though they had discussed marriage, both of them had decided not to do that for a while. At least not until Erick decided to actually retire.

Which would likely never happen.

But.

Erick had some good news today, and he couldn’t wait to share it.

Erick smiled wide. “Quil!”

Quilatalap grinned, taking in the sight of Erick, saying, “You look way too happy. Your boss finally approve you for a vacation?”

“Better than that.” Erick went right up to Quilatalap and grabbed the larger man’s hands. Erick was only about 20 centimeters shorter these days, not the full 60-ish he used to be, so the disparity between them wasn’t nearly so pronounced as it had been in the beginning. ‘The dragon was out’ at least a little bit, all the time. Erick looked his love in his eyes, saying, “I’m ready for a real break.”

Quilatalap’s breath hitched—

Ophiel reappeared, absolutely painted with the purple remains of a should-be-much-larger violetberry harvest. The little guy only had three big berries in his hands, which had to be the smallest fraction of what he had actually tried to eat.

“Berries!” Ophiel announced, and then he held them out for Quilatalap to take. “Make pudding!”

Quilatalap smiled as he took the berries, the tiny purple morsels looking even smaller in his big hands, and then turned toward the house, one hand still holding Erick’s. “Let’s talk inside.”

- - - -

Erick sat down at the side table with a pot of tea while Quilatalap got to work in the kitchen. Eggs and sugar and vanilla beans came out as Ophiel hummed a song, happily watching the archlich make his pudding.

Quilatalap asked, “So it’s really happening, then? All the major problems fixed?”

“There will always be problems and I’ll probably have to deal with something, but yes.” Erick happily said, “A few big things are still happening. Last year’s elections in the Cities are still giving the House and Candlepoint problems, but we’ve got a decent government going over there now, and they can handle it. It’s not fully democratic, but it’s a nice model combining every good part and leaving out the bad… Or at least the rule of law and peaceful transfers of power seem to be holding. Dragons are dragoning, but it’s not nearly as bad as anyone thought it would be.”

Quilatalap nodded. “I’ve heard about most of that. Something about a woman from the Sovereign Cities in particular, either a scandal with a dragon, or something? How much meddling did you have to do?”

“Not much at all, actually!” Erick happily announced. “That woman you’re talking about is Bertha Givingtree—”

“That’s the one.”

“—and she was ousted in a lawful election in Killtree, due to some shenanigans with Dragon Emprazala, which caused some other Blessed Noble to be elected, so the circumstances of that election caused a disruption which made it all the way to the Greater Candlepoint Court. I had to judge Bertha personally, and then judge Emprazala, and then the other guy, Nicko Lowgrounder. It was a bad deal all around, but the new guy is probably fine, and if he’s not, then Bertha will come back from that loss. She’ll run in the reelections in Killtree in four years and she’ll either win, or she won’t.”

Quilatalap chuckled. “All this democracy. Almost like the Fractured Citadels.”

“Speaking of them, have you heard from Death Throne lately?”

“Yes. They’re still slowly being bled to true-death by oozes, yet they refuse to implement the basic requirements for a Gate Network and assistance.”

“… Yeah. That’s one problem I haven’t been able to fix.” Erick discarded that dark emotion, and turned brighter, saying, “Ah! But speaking of the Network. That’s what brought me here today, besides you.”

Quilatalap smiled as he put the pudding into the oven.

Erick announced, “Kiri finally regained most of her power!”

Quilatalap’s eyes went wide as he briefly looked shocked. Amazement came fast, and then a softening. With a knowing voice, he said, “So that’s it, then. Someone else finally has [Gate], and the power to use it.”

“Took Kiri longer to do her Worldly Path than she wanted since she had to travel through thirty-nine dungeons and then finally come back home, but she got it. Her [Soul Realignment] incurred a minimal loss of power, and then I helped her make her first node out of Benevolence last week. Tasar helped the whole way through, of course. A few others might eventually walk the Path and eventually find me, and I’ll have to do the same for them. But that’s not a problem for a while.” Erick looked at Quilatalap. “Gatemaster Kiri has taken over my greater duties on the Network. She won’t have nearly as easy a time as I had, though, considering she doesn’t have Time Magic.”

Quilatalap laughed loudly. “As easy a time as you, eh?”

Erick grinned. “Easier than it could have been.” And then he lost his grin. “It’s actually been closer to 20 years for me, Quilatalap. Sometimes I feel like I’m so disconnected. Nothing feels real.”

Quilatalap sat down beside Erick.

Erick said, “It’s all obviously real, but… Jane’s down in the Underworld, liaisoning between the Dungeon Guild and the Adventurer’s Guild City below Quintlan, to solve some of the bigger dungeon breaks. She’s been there for the last month and I was speaking to her every weekend but… I can’t call her every one of my weekends, because then I’d be calling her every 12 hours sometimes. And so, I ended up going four months without talking to my daughter.”

Quilatalap spoke seriously, “It’s time for a real break. Are you ready for a real break?”

“… I want to be. But. I’m terrified that when I open my eyes again, that I’ll be the dungeon slime, and that all my everyone will not want me because I am fake. I don’t know if I can handle that.”

“That’s not how it works. I’ve done the tests myself and you’ve seen them. You have easily picked out fake Quilatalaps and they don’t even try to pretend to be real, unless they’re acting directly under my authority. It’s not slavery or mind control or anything like that; it’s me allowing them to act in my stead, as myself. Like a royal knight, or something similar.”

“Yes, but… Is it wrong for them to be made to like being that way? Is it… An unnatural order of events? Is it like the goblins, imprinting on a higher power?”

“Dungeon slime masters are simply people, Erick, and goblins are people too. You might as well say it’s wrong for a person to love a comfortable bed, or a hobby they like.”

“But the copy will want my life, right?”

“He’ll reluctantly take over your life, if you approve, but he will probably rapidly decide he likes being his own person. Look at mine. They all have different names and they all are perfectly fine not interacting with the people I prefer to be around, and even love, in one case.”

Erick felt a flush of joy in his heart, but he was still worried. “Well you’re pretty special, so it makes sense that your copies are special, too. Not all of them are like that.”

“I admit that I have had an easier time of it than most because I’m something of a hermit,” Quilatalap said, smiling. And then he put the smile away and got serious again. “The dungeon master slime will rapidly discover if it’s the slime or not, and everything flows from there. I have two copies helping me with the dungeon all the time, and they’re wonderful people; just like me, but different. If you make a copy, and if you give them some of your power, then they’ll be exactly like you are, too. And that’s what you want, right?”

“I do want that. That’s the purpose of finally doing this. But… Will the copy be okay with taking over for me, while I’m gone? Or is that advanced slavery? And face stealing?”

With a knowing tone, Quilatalap said, “I know you, Erick. You want to go right back out there and never stop working, ever, even if it is not what you truly want, because when the Wizard of Benevolence is in his tower, all's right with the world.”

Erick didn’t particularly like that saying, but it had gotten around the world in recent years, and he had grown numb to it. Mostly.

“I do want to keep working… But also not. I love helping people! But I have a network of family that helps me do that, and if I made a copy, they wouldn’t be treated right by those people. And it wouldn’t be Poi or Teressa or Kiri or Jane’s faults, either. It’s the nature of the beast.”

“Well… There are other ways to do this sort of thing without having your copy walk around in the House like it's you. You could actually change how the House works, and you could not be ‘Gatemaster Flatt’. We could turn over this entire dungeon to the copy and have him create the proto-Script that you’ve been itching to make for years now, and then if anyone wants to come in and ask questions, or deal with bureaucracy, then they could do that through him.”

Erick froze a little.

“… Ah. That option. The r-word.”

Retirement.

“Yes. That option. It’s time. All the world is different and we could truly get lost out there if we wanted. No one could [Teleport] right onto us. And we’ve had this conversation a hundred different ways. If you want to go through all those words again I’d love to, but… I thought you finally made up your mind this time?”

“… Yeah. I’m just… Worried. About everything.” Erick turned back to him. “Would one of your copies want to work with my copy, you think?”

“Oh yes. Most definitely.” Quilatalap asked, “You did tell people what was happening before you came here tonight, right?”

“… Mostly.” Erick paused. Truly, he could do a semi-retirement. “I had come down here today to get an… Extended vacation. Not. Not a real break. But.” It would be a lie to say that Erick had not thought about retirement, in depth. Could he turn a vacation into a… A retirement? “Well… Poi knows the truth. Everyone else knows that I’ve been pulling out for years, making way for others. Kiri’s [Gate] was the only thing truly holding me there… aside from all the people, of course.” Erick said, “All the major monsters are gone, into dungeons. The Dungeon Guild is killing the bad dungeons, and Jane is high up in that, just like she wanted. House Benevolence and the Gate District are stable, and it’s not like I’m vanishing… Especially not if they can get a dungeon master copy to answer questions and cast some important magics. I didn’t tell them that was happening tonight, but… The system is robust enough to survive my absence for a year or two, and when I come back… I’ll be able to take a much lesser role in the system. Something that doesn’t have me locked in meetings for 50 hours a day.”

Ophiel bounced around on the table as he waited and waited and waited for his father to stop talking, so he could talk instead. Instantly, when Erick finished, Ophiel shouted, “Pudding!”

Quilatalap grinned at the little guy and then he got up, to take out the pudding from the oven. A few quick magics later and a chilled purple pudding sat in front of Ophiel, who rapidly turned into a bundle of feathers and tiny beaks and eyes, to devour his little treat. Most of the meal went everywhere except for inside Ophiel’s mouth, because Ophiel didn’t actually have a digestive tract, or anything, really, except for a mouth and a tongue.

The tongue was the important thing these days, and it was a rather recent development.

Erick watched it all happen, saying, “And Ophiel is at an important part of his growth. I want to be there for him more. Yggdrasil is already truly deep into his teenage years. He’s nothing like Jane was, but I can tell I need to spend more time with him, too.”

Maybe he should make this vacation more permanent.

