“We’ll talk about the memory thing later, with Erick and Quilatalap. For now, know that you don’t have to be anything more than an extreme backup, to help prevent everything from falling apart. You can be Erick’s replacement here in Candlepoint, or, you could simply be another person in the street. Kromolok or Zolan or Kiri might ask for something here or there, because they’ll know about you, but you are absolutely free to be your own person, Erick.” Not-Quilatalap said, “As for the memories, you have everything except for the new task that Erick is heading up, which is what required him to make this backup with you, because he wasn’t sure if he would survive what he needs to do next. You don’t have to be involved in that, though. It’s not your fight.

“I still love you, and you still love me, and nothing has to change there at all.”

There was a lot to unpack there, but Not-Erick asked, “What task? What is the original doing?”

“Something very important, I am told, but not world-changing.”

“Ha!” Not-Erick said, “That’s a lie. The second part, anyway.”

“He is a rather bad liar. Even eleven years as a statesman can’t change that.”

Even though the emptiness of the room was filled with the soft sounds of a drama unfolding on the viewing screen ahead, silence dominated.

Eventually, the movie ended.

Eventually, there was true silence. Darkness all around. Shadows in the forest.

Not a single monster to be seen.

And then Not-Erick asked, “What is the task?”

Not-Quilatalap said, “I’m not allowed to know. I assume you aren’t either.”

Not-Erick asked, “Do you still call yourself Quilatalap? Or… Or is that a faulty memory?”

“Nothing has been removed except for that single task. By every possible metric, you are Erick. By every possible measurement, I am Quilatalap. Always have been.”

That wasn’t a real answer, but he was trying to be there for… Not-Erick in a way that Not-Erick needed, but didn’t exactly want.

“… I won’t be keeping the same name.” Ezekiel said, “I’m Ezekiel.” He looked up at Ophiel, saying, “And that’s not my Ophiel, is he?” Erick felt something else that was missing inside. “And I don’t have Yggdrasil either, do I?”

Ophiel fluttered around at hearing his name—

And then he shifted, as though someone else had taken control of him, probably because that was exactly what had happened. Ophiel turned into a 6-winged, many-eyed being, and then he bowed. His form shifted back to his 4-winged crow form, and then he took off, turning to light and then passing through the window above the bed, to vanish into the night.

“So there are a few things missing,” Ezekiel said. “Not just the memory of this task.”

“A few things simply can’t transfer. Wizardry is one of them, too. So… Erick apologizes for all that.”

“Yeah. Had enough trouble with Wizards over the years, haven’t we.” Ezekiel said, “Ar’Cosmos’s Wizard turned out okay. But the other two… Not great— Ah. Is the ‘unmentionable task’ about another Wizard?”

Not-Quilatalap shrugged. “He’s not saying.”

“… Just as well. You know... I’m finding myself rather more and more enamored with the idea of making some earth-tech and hanging out in the streets of Candlepoint. Maybe I’ll open a magic item shop… Ah. It’s going to be… Really hard to not pursue Poi or Teressa or Kiri or Jane— fuck!” Ezekiel added, “And then there’s Meph… and Syllea. Kirginatharp. Lapis and Aisha… Oh… Kirginatharp doesn’t treat repros as well as he could— Oh holy fuck. Jane has killed more repros than anyone else I know! This is going to be a lot harder than I thought.”

“Or, you could not interact with those people.”

“… Is it bad that I’m considering that?”

“You’re Ezekiel. You’re not Erick. You can follow in the exact footsteps of the original, but most simulacrums choose to abandon that idea rather fast. A few choose different names, like you have. Almost all dungeon masters become the people they need to be in order to take care of their dungeon space, and to be the person who made them. It’s a smooth adjustment almost all the time, as long as the input person isn’t a danger to themselves. And you are not that.”

“Ha! Yeah.”

Silence.

… Ezekiel asked, “Do we have to meet with Erick? Because I don’t really feel like that at all.”

“He is the Grand Wizard of Benevolence, so realistically, we should see him and ensure that what is happening here is what he wants. But we don’t have to.”

Ezekiel chuckled. “Yeah. Fuck that guy. Going off on vacation and leaving me to hold down the fort— Oh! I could make some jokes that only he would find funny. That might be fun... Okay. I changed my mind.” Ezekiel hopped out of bed then put some clothes back on as he said, “Let’s go!”

Not-Quilatalap rolled out of bed, moving slower than Ezekiel, saying, “There’s no real hurry. No one is going anywhere.”

- - - -

Ezekiel rushed through the open archway into the white room beyond, already saying, “I promised myself that I wasn’t going to do this outside of a true emergency, Erick. We both remember when Nirzir’s double went bad, and when Kiri’s double plotted to murder her! Not all repros are a good idea!”

Erick and Quilatalap stood in the room, both of them dressed for travel, with Ophiel fluttering on Erick’s shoulder. Quilatalap looked calm as he looked to his own double, standing behind Ezekiel.

Erick, however, was very, very remorseful. He rushed to say, “The problem came up literally four days ago and I could die to fix it, so I’m so sorry to do this to myself but it had to be done. I am so, so sorry, Ezekiel.”

Ezekiel frowned, taking in the sight of himself. And now he felt bad for being angry. Well damn. Ezekiel said, “Fuck. It must be bad, then?”

“Possibly bad. Possibly not bad at all. Hard to say until I… Well…” Erick went quiet.

Ezekiel decided right then and there, “Glad I don’t have to bother with that shit. Have fun saving the world. I’m here if you need me!”

Erick said, “It’s not like that. But… Thank you. You have fun, too.”

“… You know? I think I will.” Ezekiel smiled, and then he transformed. A bit taller. A bit hotter. A bit exactly how Erick had always wanted to be, but he had an image to maintain, and people knew him for him. Ezekiel was a whole new man, though. As he flexed a larger arm and put his other hand to his thinner waist, Ezekiel smiled at Erick, flashing perfect teeth and blinking his new magenta eyes, saying, “It’s the Zolan-Treatment for me! I plan on having a lot of fun and also making a lot of new earth-tech that you have yet to get around to making. Ring me if the world is about to collapse. Otherwise I’m busy!”

Erick looked up at Ezekiel, muttering, “Dammit. I was going to use that form sometime.” And then he said, “You better help around Candlepoint some!”

“Yeah yeah, Old Man Wizard— Oh! You should put on a robe and wizard hat—”

“I am not doing the beard and pointy hat look.”

Both of them knew that Ezekiel did not mean that at all, and that Erick had cut him off before he could complete the meme.

Ezekiel smiled a bit more, but then he lost his smile, saying, “Good luck, Erick. I’ll hold down the fort.”

Erick relaxed. “Thank you.”

Ezekiel joked, “Oh! Oh! Oh! Now you owe me a thousand years servitude!”

Both Quilatalaps scowled at the poor joke, but there was no heat to their looks.

Erick simply laughed. “That might have scared me ten years ago. Not anymore. You have [Fairy Banishing], too, and it works very well.”

Quilatalap said, “I love that spell, and I love you for making it, but do not joke about that shit.” He looked to Ezekiel, saying, “You probably shouldn’t joke about that, either.”

Ezekiel felt rather secure in [Fairy Banishing], but he took the advice for what it was; the recommendation from a loved one.

Not-Quilatalap said to Ezekiel, “You can joke about it with me once the originals go their own way. By the way, I call myself ‘Quil’; you don’t have to keep calling me ‘not-Quilatalap’ in your mind.”

Ezekiel instantly said, “I wasn’t doing that, Quil.”

Quilatalap, Quil, and Erick all glanced at each other.

Erick said, “Glad to see I remain a terrible liar.”

“You really can’t tell me the emergency?” Ezekiel said, “I’m going to figure it out anyway, as soon as I think around the holes in my memory.”

Erick paused in thought, frowning a little.

Ezekiel waited for Erick to come to the right conclusion.

Erick said, “It’s about why we haven’t been able to become a Full Wizard these last ten years.”

“Ahhh… Well. I’m sure that’s an emergency somehow. I always thought we’d… You know. Get around to full-crystal when necessary. With [Fairy Banishing] and our Health, full-crystal really hasn’t been necessary at all. So I assume it is, now?”

Erick scrunched his face… Then he looked to Quilatalap.

Quilatalap shrugged. “I honestly don’t know if this new ‘clue’ to attaining full-crystal form is really a clue at all. But the emergency which demands full-crystal… It’s all connected.”

Ezekiel looked to Quil.

Quil shrugged, because of course he had no idea what the originals were talking about.

Ezekiel said to Erick, “We’ve accreted to full-crystal, but then when we transform back to a person through Small Wizardry, the crystal form simply vanishes as though it never existed, and we don’t gain the full immunity to other people’s spellwork that we should have. We’ve tried phylactery shit and that was a disaster. Rozeta has suggested that we— well. You. Not really ‘we’, anymore. Anyway. She’s suggested that you not do Big Wizardry, so we haven’t sung to the mana… What could it be? What changed?”

Erick listened and tried not to give anything away. He succeeded, as far as Ezekiel could tell.

Ezekiel was pretty sure he could still operate as he was used to operating, sussing out microexpressions and seeing and knowing everything that he was witnessing.

Erick said, “Hopefully it remains true that there is no need for any Big Wizardry to solve this accretion problem, and that this… Other event might simply be another red herring to chase for answers.”

“Well… Maybe this other event is related. Anyway! If I trust anyone with Wizardry, it’s you. So.” Ezekiel happily said, “Good luck with whatever crazy thing you’re doing next. I’ll be here, being myself, and I think I’ll work on making film and video more reliable, while minimally interacting with the family… Whenever they want to come see me, anyway. The House might interact with me more?”

Ezekiel realized there was too much hope in his voice as he said ‘family’ after he had said it. But he couldn’t take it back; it was done.

Erick softly said, “Kiri will come here sometimes, for sure. She’s the Gatemaster now. The rest of the House… The Overseers will come here sometimes if they have an emergency. With you looking different, though… I’m sorry, but the only emotional problems there will be, will happen on your end.”

“I can be a different person. This is how [Polymorph] works, right? I’ll be FINE, Erick.” Ezekiel tried to brush off that concern and change the subject, saying, “Don’t blow up the world on vacation, okay?”

“… I will not blow up the world.”

Ezekiel frowned. “Now see… When you say it like that, I get worried.”

Erick repeated, much stronger, “I won’t blow up the world!”

Ezekiel narrowed his eyes. “Not lying. Good.” He pulled back. And then he looked to the left, and opened a small Benevolence [Gate]. On the other side lay the original gate space, and it looked the same as Ezekiel remembered. He closed the [Gate], then said, “Looks like I can still check on the Benevolent Sky, too. So I’ll keep a lookout.”

Erick relaxed almost all the way, but there was a certain tension which never really left him these days. Ezekiel knew that tension well.

But that shit (mostly) wasn’t his problem anymore.

Ezekiel turned to Quil. “Anyway! I’m going to see if my everything still works! Want to help with that?”

Very seriously, Quil said, “It should, and I do.”

“Wait wait!” Erick interrupted, “You don’t want to share your dungeon core status before you go?”

“Nope! I thought I would be excited to look at that, but I haven’t looked at the thing and I don’t care to. I’m the backup in case of emergency, Erick, and I find myself truly loving that whole idea.” Ezekiel grabbed a suddenly-smiling Quil by the hand and dragged him away, saying, “I can wait a few days before caring about paperwork!”

As Ezekiel left the room, shooting one final smile at Erick, he was pretty sure he could tell at least two of the other guy’s thoughts. The first was probably, ‘I haven’t even looked at my own Status in years, so that’s likely reasonable.’ The second was likely, ‘This’ll probably work out fine.’

A lot of mitigated speech in those thoughts, with words such as ‘likely’ and ‘probably’ being used by him and Erick both, so Erick was rather worried about whatever was happening out there. Ezekiel was, too. But...

But Ezekiel was confident that he could handle his own responsibilities (they were a lot less than they used to be!), and when someone finally came looking for Erick, and found him instead, he could fill that gap for as long as needed.
