Ophiel rapidly finished his treat, and then shook himself, turning back into a 4-winged, 3-eyed crow, scattering purple pudding everywhere as he did so.

Quilatalap gave the kitchen a quick [Cleanse], and then said, “So let’s do this. Let’s set up a day-to-day simulacrum of yourself and let him work as much as he wants, while you and I and Ophiel take a vacation somewhere. Zenipeq and Citadel Frostflower have a really nice dungeon that I’d like to visit.”

That sounded all sorts of nice. Erick hoped it would really be that easy. “I’d like to visit the Freelands of Nergal, too. The liberated slave states are finally organizing, thanks to that Wizard from Ar’Cosmos. She’s still deciding who she wants to be, so her name changes every month, and House Benevolence is finally contracted to help— ahh. But that’s work. I suppose.”

“They have a dungeon down there, right? We can put another simulacrum of me and you in there, too. And if they don’t have a dungeon, we can make one for them.”

Erick smirked. “Where’s this word ‘simulacrum’ coming from?”

“Do you like it? I was thinking ‘clone’ wasn’t good enough, since that’s already a spell, and saying dungeon master slime is too much. They’re calling them deems in a few places, but that’s too close to demons, and it’s not something I approve of. I don’t really like the Dungeon Guild’s names for them, either. So. ‘Simulacrum’. It’s a defunct Old Cosmology term for a near-perfect copy of a person.”

“I like what the Dungeon Guild calls them because Jane calls them that. ‘Repros’. Short for ‘reproductions’. What’s wrong with ‘dungeon master slime’, though?” Erick instantly added, “Well. I know the problem. The dungeon master is you, but the slime is also the dungeon master, and that gets confusing.”

Quilatalap smiled. “Focusing on words, now? Are you hesitating?”

“… I am. Yes.” And then Erick stopped hesitating. He warped his guts and his skin a little, as he reached into his shirt, so it didn’t hurt and he didn’t make a mess as he removed a fist-sized, iridescent white sphere from his belly. The secondary core glowed with crystallized Benevolence. “Let’s do this, and if he’s… I don’t know. Sad about this? Then I can let him out into the real world and then never do this again.” With a weighty voice, Erick said, “That’s happened before, you know, to other repros. And then if they try to control the repro they go insane and Jane and her team has to go murder them.”

Quilatalap strongly said, “I 100% doubt that that will happen with your clone.”

“… Hopefully.”

“It won’t, Erick.” Quilatalap said, “You have to seriously ask yourself if you found yourself in this situation, if you could love it, or if you would hate it, and I don’t think you are asking yourself that question seriously enough. Being a dungeon master is immortality and control over a demiplane, economic and political might, and a connection to the greater world on a level most people only ever dream of. And, you can fully change who you are. Physically, anyway. We’ve already had this discussion but… Could you truly not see yourself enjoying that? If it were you, as a dungeon core?”

Erick tossed the core to Quilatalap, saying, “I’ve taken the psychological profile of the Dungeon Guild, too. I know it will work. I know I would enjoy this life. I’m just hesitating.”

Quilatalap held the core in his hands, and it vanished. “Then we’re done. You’re free of your obligations to House Benevolence, and to Candlepoint, and all the rest. For as long as you wish to be free. If your repro is anything like you, they’ll probably want a break in ten years, too.”

Erick stared for a moment, trying to recover from the sudden drop in his stomach. His voice rose a little high as he uttered, “Just… Just like that. We didn’t even go anywhere and do it properly?” Erick laughed, his brief fear vanishing like so much fog in the sun. “Gods above, Quil. Just! No hesitation! I love that about you, but it’s damned scary sometimes.”

Quilatalap laughed once, saying, “You’re the big bad scary Wizard. I’m just the archlich.”

Ophiel trilled, declaring, “I’m Ophiel!”

Erick reached over and patted the little guy’s head, saying, “Yes you are Ophiel.” As he picked up the little guy and put him on his shoulder, Erick asked Quilatalap, “Let’s go see him?”

“I thought you did the Dungeon Guild’s exam? No no. We’re not going to him.” Quilatalap stepped back into the kitchen, saying, “He’ll wake up dizzy and weird, and after an hour he’ll acclimate to his new body and then he’ll start thinking again. He’ll be here soon enough. But in the meantime—” Quilatalap began taking out flour and eggs from the cold storage again. “It’s close enough to dinner time right? I’ve been saving up some good lunar stag and some flowing flour to make deer noodles, and now seems like a good time for a small celebration.”

Erick smiled—

And then Erick glanced out the kitchen window. The forest was rather normal this close to the house, but massive monsters prowled out there, eager to chomp on anyone who strayed out of bounds, and there were lots of no-go areas in this particular part of the dungeon. If you didn’t know the proper way to get here then you’d be captured and probably killed, and when you came back to life you would be inside Quilatalap’s naughty jail. If the monsters and traps of the forbidden forest didn’t get you, then you would trip one of the many, many, Absolute Domain traps, and suffer the same result.

The naughty jail (of which Erick was embarrassed every time Quilatalap called it that, which was probably why Quilatalap called it that) was a rather boring office-like room, which caused any occupants to suffer through a 30 minute presentation, via a runic record/video player, about what everyone needed to know about House Benevolence’s dungeon’s rules, along with a few possible reasons why the viewer was seeing this presentation. Once the warning was given, the occupant would be shoved out of the dungeon, directly deposited into another office space back in the real world, inside House Benevolence. From there, a failed delver could return to the main entrance of the dungeon, and try again…

Erick asked, “The clone won’t die to some monster or trap, will he?”

“Absolutely not. He’s on a safe path through the trials, and until he fully recovers who he is, then all of the powers you gave him are locked.”

“… So he could step off the trials.”

Without looking up from kneading the dough, Quilatalap said, “A repro of mine is looking after him. Erick-version-2 is perfectly fine, because right now he’s just a slime learning how to be a person, mimicking the original. When he learns how to be himself, he’ll also be you, and you’re fine with your own magic. What spells did you give your repro?”

Erick smiled. “All of the ones I trust myself with.”

“So almost none.”

“Untrue! I gave him everything.”

Quilatalap nodded a little, saying, “You haven’t had to do a Forgotten Campaign yet, despite everything, so this will probably work out, as well.” He set the dough aside to let it rest, then moved on to the meat preparation. “Not what I would have done. My repros got the basic set, and have regained most of their own magics, but they certainly didn’t start off with everything… Anyway. We’ll be able to talk to your Version-2 in a few hours, so… Do you want spicy venison? I’m kinda wanting some spicy tonight.”

“A 4 out of 10, max.”

“I can do that.” Quilatalap smiled. “Do you think they’ll come after you? On our vacation?”

“Oh yeah. Someone will. Jane, probably. Burhendurur for sure. Or maybe Teressa will tell them all not to bother because ‘nothing bad will happen with his absence’. That’s what I’m really hoping for, and maybe...”

The conversation went on, Erick happily speaking of the near future, and of his worries, and how he had already set up everything to succeed without him. But soon, talk turned to goals, and to what Erick wished to get done out in the world. Talk returned to the recent past, as Quilatalap spoke about all that he had been doing in the many different dungeons he managed the world over.

He was up to 27 dungeons, with 18 of those on the Surface. He truly loved this life, and his repros did, too.

Dinner came and went, and the sky outside turned dark.

- - - -

Erick lay in bed with Quilatalap, warm under the covers as they watched a v-record that Quilatalap had imported from Songli. This particular magitech was still new, so the machine consisted of twenty v-records, all lined up on the automatic v-record player, all primed to pick up where the previous one left off. Setting it up was always a struggle, because what it actually did was enlarge and play the moving lightsculpture in the center of the player onto a bigger screen, while the record played the voice and music to go along with video.

The machine fucked up on record #16, and Erick had to take it apart and put it back together again, but he managed to make it work, and soon, he was back in bed with Quilatalap.

Erick said, “You should get one of the newer ones.”

Quilatalap chuckled. “This is the one you bought me, not two years ago. I like this story, too. It’s not been updated to the new machines.”

“Then that’s another thing I want to do on this vacation—”

“I know you want to stay away from the ‘r-word’, but to call it a vacation is not what you really want it to be, is it, Erick?”

“… I am under no illusions that I will ever be able to actually retire… Anyway! Maybe I’ll go into technology production when we come back from vacation. Make a good video recorder, and player. Hand out some more copies of the laptop… Or maybe I should wait five more years on that one. The last time— The problem was that people simply don’t know the basic tech that goes into that machine, and thus there is no way for them to do anything with the laptops except pull them apart and then completely fail to understand what they’ve done, or how anything works at all. I probably have to start with transistors and binary and… Ugh! Adding machines.”

“I like your calculator. Now that is something that I am surprised did not catch on.”

“Book Magic solves number problems without any real learning on the part of people. No need to have adding machines at all… I’m kinda mad no one liked my calculator either.”

“That’s enough work-talk for now,” Quilatalap said, smiling, pulling Erick close again.

Erick laughed a little, then said, “Fine fine. We’re watching a movie, I guess.”

“Eh. We’ve seen it before. Say. I have a question for you. If you could go to any time period, or place, where would you go?”

“Ha! Well… Where would I like to go?” Erick thought for a moment. “I suppose… a nice vacation could be had at… I really don’t know, actually.”

Quilatalap said, “I’d like to visit the future, I think. Skip the next 90 years. See where Yggdrasil takes us all.”

“… Oh? Well. That’s… Hmm.”

Erick went silent. Thinking.

Quilatalap simply smiled softly, watching the v-recorder play its ‘movie’ on the air beyond their bed.

Erick asked, “Do you really want to go that far?”

“Yes.”

“I can’t do that.”

“I know.”

For a long moment, Erick sat there beside Quilatalap, an unwelcome presence looming between them, and all around. Erick hadn’t noticed it at first, but now…

“Where is the dungeon master slime who took my core?”

Quilatalap kept his eyes on the viewing screen ahead, as he said, “He’s around here somewhere.”

The unnerving presence grew.

Night lay heavy and silent on the forest outside, thick with shadows and hidden depths. The bedroom was dark, except for that which lay illuminated in the light of the v-player. Ophiel nuzzled into himself on the headboard above Erick, his eyes closed as he breathed, just a little bit. And Quilatalap breathed not at all. Usually he breathed. Breathing was not just an affectation for him. It was a reminder he was alive, and his bodies were also semi-living, so they did need oxygen-exchange with the atmosphere...

Mimics didn’t breathe, though.

“… You are my Quilatalap, right? Not a repro?”

Quilatalap smiled softly, and then he turned to Erick. His eyes were dark and large. “I’m both.”

Erick felt his heart tear. He did not move away from his love as he whispered, “I thought I could still tell you apart.”

Not-Quilatalap said, “Usually you can.”

Erick’s heart did not beat. His breath did not hitch.

He hadn’t breathed and his heart hadn’t pumped blood for a while. And he hadn’t noticed until now.

In that moment, Erick realized that his core was where it usually was, next to his heart, but his heart was a collection of tubes and cells that were still organizing themselves, while his guts were still forming into a proper digestive system, and his own lungs were unmoving sponges in his chest. His own brain was a collection of goo.

With a deep sadness, Not-Erick said, “I’m not Erick.”

“That’s untrue.” Not-Quilatalap said, “Everything up until this moment, right here, is you, being Erick. You were in a fugue state for a while, though. Took you about seven hours to come out of it. And now you’re here, and now you know who you are. The rest of your body will organize faster now that you know who you are, but that’s just cosmetic stuff for people like you and me.”

Not-Erick curled up with Not-Quilatalap, his voice a small thing as he whispered, “I was hoping it wouldn’t be like this for the repro.”

Not-Quilatalap hugged him back, saying, “It’ll be okay. You’re still you, and now you can go right back to work tomorrow if you want. Or you can stay here with me in this dungeon. Or we can go out and visit the rest of the world. See what’s changed. We can also visit your original, if you want. The original is out there right now, waiting for your decisions, and currently agonizing over how real you are.”

Sudden mirth.

Not-Erick laughed. “He would be agonizing over this, wouldn’t he.”

Not-Quilatalap nodded.

The movie played on.

When the v-player switched to disk #18, Not-Erick had come to a decision, but he had a few questions, first.

He asked, “What year is it?”

“1450. Same as it should be. Nothing changed there.”

“I assume that I’m to become the backup at Candlepoint? And that my memories have been altered a fraction?”

