Nathan blinked at the exchange, not entirely sure about everything that had just happened. He hadn’t been particularly worried about Kaelis taking the arm - it didn’t hold any of his antimagic, and it wasn’t like it could be used to scry him. But then again, he didn’t know what kinds of abilities were out there. Maybe there was somebody who could smell his arm and find him across continents.

Kaelis sighed, then inspected the rings on his finger. He twisted one and grunted. “An uneven exchange.”

Garna’s expression was similarly stern. “You gained knowledge. Are you content?”

The man’s disappointed expression transformed into one of delighted satisfaction. “I am. That was high-tier healing, and to break a mithril blade on contact? It is a potent force. If the Seal did not convince me, this did. We will arrange this war,” he pointed towards Nathan. “And you will win it for us.”

Sarya rolled her eyes at the melodrama. “Where? What continent do you want to conquer?”

“Not conquer. We’ll do it in Ostren,” the man answered with a subtle smile and a glance in Khachi's direction. “Not the grandest ambition. But our feud with the Aleph grid has never been a matter of territory. Prestige is the currency of the game, and Ostren will guarantee us the largest audience.”

Garna, Sarya, and Brox all laughed aloud. “It’s a continent of craters!” protested Brox, but not in a serious way. In response to the Heirs’ confused look, he explained. “It’s where we killed Olita, Deiman, Isera, and Sereth.”

“And Tirien,” Sarya corrected.

Brox just waved it away. “Pah, God of weddings. Sereth was the nightmare to slay. Secrets never die.”

Kaelis clapped his hands together to cut through the byplay. “A land of grand deed and modern gathering. Action there will signal that Davrar is changing once more. That is your goal with the Conclave, yes?” His eyes grew suddenly piercing, emphasizing the depth of his question.

Sarya mirrored the expression, suddenly deadly serious. “Yes. Let the rest of the original council know that this is the time to revisit the nature of Davrar.”

He smirked. “I’ve already started. It will be a reunion of the elders.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 2

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1274

Bottomless Stamina : 120928/127400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 7329/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 2

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
