Mehdi was commiserating with a Strength Brute, and Reinhard was explaining some idea he had about the Meisters getting together and trying to convince the school that they should be allowed into the S-only class because they were better at duels than a lot of the non-Meister S’s.

Alden did agree that the situation wasn’t fair, but these three were overlooking how much they’d sucked during this class. They’d been sending fuzzy yellow rockets into orbit. Lexi had had the same problem at the start, not quite getting how his Avowed strength translated to a tennis racket, but he’d taken the opportunity for what it was and adjusted until he looked like a Racket Meister. Which had to be the point for someone in his position.

It must feel pretty boring and delicate to them, though. Not like firing arrows or dodging a throw from Big Snake that makes the ball explode.

“Alden, what do you think?” Reinhard demanded when Alden stepped out. “This is stupid, right?”

“Don’t ask him. This kind of thing is more at his level.”

That little barb came from Winston, who’d been surprisingly focused on his performance instead of his drone all class. Alden couldn’t find any approval for that, or even much annoyance at the attempted insult.

“I got a great workout,” he said, raising the shaker of peanut butter and protein powder he’d packed before leaving the dorm in salute. “I’m going to make the most of it. And I’m glad we don’t have to wear uniforms anymore.”

He had on a comfy brown shirt, and he was letting his leaf ride on his arm, carefully held in place by his auriad. Both were hidden by his long sleeves. He was training to fight chaos. It was a new year. He would give these complainers the gift of his positivity whether they deserved it or not.

“Me too!” said Mehdi. “I spent my stipend on new outfits. I’m going for something more East F this year.”

Alden hadn’t realized there was a specific look associated with eastern F-city. He supposed he’d find out what it was when Mehdi made it to their next class. “Sounds good. See you in Coursing.”

“See you there,” Mehdi said.

“You’re in Coursing?” Reinhard asked.

“He’s in Coursing?” Winston demanded.

“Whose team is he on?!” they both asked at the same time, with a note bordering on outrage in their voices.

Whoops. So much for spreading a better attitude, Alden thought, letting the closing door be his only answer. They sound pissed.

He added water to his shaker at a fountain. One of the new faces passed behind him while he was there.

“Alden?”

“Yeah?” he looked around. “You know my name?”

The girl smiled wide. “Of course.”

He didn’t like that ‘Of course’ was such a fair answer to that question, but she seemed nice enough. Her name was Opal, which she delivered with an eye roll despite it being a fine name and her wearing opalish looking studs in her ears. She had long auburn hair and a figure he was going to get tired of a few people trying to make into a conversation topic after every class.

Most excitingly, she was another B-rank. And second most excitingly, she’d brought rice balls to share with everyone.

“They’re just rice and seasoning. I can’t really cook much,” she said, “But I had a morning MPE last quarter, and we were always starving afterward. I thought this class would be the same.”

She pointed a wand that didn’t look much different from the one Stuart used to levitate things at a rice ball and sent it toward Alden’s waiting hand.

“I’d make it spin for you,” she said, making a couple of loose casting motions with her left hand in the direction of the ball. “But I got rice all over that girl Olive when I was trying to show off a minute ago, and she didn’t seem okay about it.”

B-rank Adjuster. With a wand.

Alden wasn’t going to gossip with someone he’d just met about another classmate, but knowing Olive…she was freaking out about the possibility of being worse than another B-rank. Max and Alden regularly beat her in duels. She was sensitive about it. Here came a girl Adjuster with an “O” name who might be able to do the same, and that person was throwing food at her?

She probably won’t care about the “O.”  That’s just me being weird.

“Thanks for breakfast,” he said. “So, do you make stuff spin with a spell impression? And what you do with the wand is also a spell impression?

Always good to see more spells in action.

“Yes. My skill is boring. It just lets me sense the location of anything I have an active spell on. That makes it possible for me to send things behind me without losing track of them and stuff like that.”

“Neat.” He was thinking he’d have to treat her somewhat like a Shaper when they fought. Anything he wasn’t preserving might get yanked out of his hands or thrown at him.

“Can you lift people?”

“I’m size limited,” she said. “People are too big for now.”

He should be able to hit her with the heaviest of the heavy sandbags then.

“You look like you’re thinking of how to duel me.” Opal was squatting beside her big container of rice balls, trying to get the lid to snap back on.

“No. Well, only a normal amount. I was having appropriately violent thoughts for a student here.”

“Don’t worry.” The lid of the container finally sealed with a pop. “I’m not somebody to be scared of. I’m in this class because I was having trouble matching the pace last quarter. I wasn’t terrible, but you know….” She shrugged. “B stuff.”

B stuff.

“If you want to study together sometime or get in some practice, I’ll be around,” she added.

Alden doubted he’d take her up on that, but he thought about her while he downed his shake on the way to the MPE building.

Opal and the other new faces here today had already taken a Combat 1 class previously. Right now on campus, there were two Combat 1’s. Brand new students were placed in the regular one. Alden and most of his classmates from last quarter, who’d had the half-term introductory MPE course, were in this accelerated class.

There was a regular and an accelerated version of each of the basic six “Combats” that made up the core gym classes for hero program students. Passing two accelerated courses would allow someone to skip a number and go to the next basic course. So if Alden passed this term’s Accelerated 1 and next term’s Accelerated 2, he could jump straight to Regular Combat 4. He’d still have to have the same number of MPE gym class credits to graduate, but if he did that, he could replace the combat class he’d skipped with an extra elective, like Rescue or Coursing.

This created some more flexibility and was a way for students to move forward a little faster or slower depending on their situation.

Not that everyone viewed it as an opportunity when the faculty recommended they step down to an easier level. Søren wasn’t with them this morning because he was taking Regular Combat 1 instead, hoping to get his Shaping under control at a slower pace and then maybe bounce up to rejoin them in Accelerated Combat 2 next term. He was the only one who’d agreed to do that, even though there were a couple of others who must have been given the same suggestion by their advisors.

I wonder if I’ll still be here for Combat 4, 5, and 6. Or what.

Last term, that thought would have been tangled up with choosing season panic. Now it was just a thought.

He’d do his best, enjoy school as much as he could, and get ready for the day when Stuart was ready to go be knightly together.

It’s good.

Almost everything is really good.

When he was on Anesidora, he wanted messages from Chicago a little more than when he was busy in Rapport I. Jeremy was texting like usual. Boe though…

He doesn’t exactly seem angry anymore.

Boe had sent a picture of himself holding up the toy caboose Alden had bought him and rolling his eyes. He’d sent another one that said he’d read the letter Alden had included with it and, “It was well written. I understand.” Whenever Alden messaged him, he replied with something that sounded close to right.

Close to right. But not quite.

I’m pretty sure we’ve officially hurt each other’s feelings at this point.

It had happened before and been fine before. Alden was trying not to worry that it wouldn’t be this time.

It’s harder when we’re this far apart.

He didn’t know what to do other than keep being Boe’s friend while he waited for the messages to feel right again.

“Too slow!” Mehdi shouted, sailing past him and running ahead down the hall and into the classroom where their Coursing class would be meeting four days a week. On Fridays, at the indecent hour of five AM, they’d be meeting in the gym instead to run obstacle courses with their teams.

“Were you racing him?” asked Ignacio, poking his head out of the classroom door as Alden reached it.

“Mehdi? Only in his imagination.” Mehdi was wearing baggy black pants with light-up stripes on the side now. Maybe that was East F style? “I heard that Kon had conned you into joining our bonkers team, Shrike. What were you thinking?”

A blue elastic hairband hit Alden’s ear. “Hey!”

“Say nothing negative about our team, or I’ll kick you out and you will no longer be Konstantly Awesome with us,” Kon said. “Sit. Sit your Rabbit butt down. This is our team seating area.”

He started slapping the tops of desks in the back right corner of the room. Seven of them. To get into this class, they had to be on a team. Runs would be five people or fewer, but they were supposed to have alternates.

Kon had put this team together with remarkable speed considering it had all been accomplished last week while people were making final adjustments to class schedules. But the more remarkable thing was that he’d gotten this team approved when its composition was sort of rough.

“I’m thrilled to be here,” Alden said sincerely. “And I’m looking forward to practicing with all of you guys. But you have to admit our team looks…not like the others. We’re a more creative grouping of talents.”

“Alden, would you give me back my hairband?” Everly called from a few seats over. “He took it from my desk.”

“Don’t help her, Alden. She could have been one of us, but she chose the worse option. Love means nothing to her.”

“I want to be <<more social>> this term,” Ignacio said. “Kon says we will have fun.”

“Yeah, we will,” said Alden. “We don’t have to win to learn a— ”

“Why are you so negative today?” Kon asked.

Alden blinked. “I’m not. We’re going to learn a lot and come up with some interesting strategies.”

“We’ll win!” said Kon. “Say we’ll win. Try it.”

Their teammates were taking the desks he’d slapped. Alden, Kon, Haoyu, Lexi, Mehdi, Jeffy, and Ignacio.

The other teams in the class were made up of hero program students who’d been at CNH longer, with the exception of the girls occupying the cluster of desks to their left. And Vandy had put that team together. It was her, Everly, Tuyet, Maricel, Jupiter, Rebecca, and Heloísa.

If Alden looked at it one way, it was a group of girls who all liked hanging out together. But if he looked at it and compared it to their own team—

“We’re going to die so much in this class,” said Haoyu, slipping into the seat beside Alden. “Except maybe if there’s a water obstacle. Hi, Vandy!”

“Nobody wore their uniforms,” Vandy said, looking at them all with disappointment. Her own uniform was neat as a pin.

“I look forward to dying with you whenever there isn’t water, Kon,” said Alden. “And possibly when there is.”

“At least the weakest member of our weakest team has a sense of humor.”

The words made Alden stiffen. They’d been said offhandedly, and it wasn’t some idiot like Winston saying them. It was the adult who’d just entered the room. He was a tall man dressed mostly in black, including the black socks he wore with no accompanying shoes. He had a disinterested look as he stood there blowing on a cup of coffee.

“I’m Instructor Ash. Sit down, everyone who’s not sitting down. I don’t want to wade through a flock of you to get to the front.”

All the students went quiet. The only sounds were rear ends landing in seats.

“Nice set of rings,” Instructor Ash said to Alden as he passed on his way to the front.

Alden wasn’t sure if that comment was meant to be an insult. The instructor said it in the exact same whatever tone he’d used to call Alden weak. And though the words had gotten the entire class to stare at Alden, Instructor Ash just went to the smart board and started writing on it. With a hand covered in more rings than either of Alden’s hands.

Are they real?

Alden reached out with his authority to check. He was trying to do more of this type of thing even though it didn’t feel natural. Yesterday, he’d practiced with the kit Stuart had put together for him, trying to feel the patience and life of a wild nyip pod.

That was too hard still. This was much easier by comparison.

Yep. Most of those are enchanted. They’ve got something more to them than metal and wood.

I can tell just by trying.

“Weakest for now.”

The words came out in a whisper. Alden hadn’t meant to let them out at all. He was just feeling the truth of it in a new way. Only Haoyu heard him well enough, or cared enough, to acknowledge him.

With a thumbs up.

Alden grinned at him and returned the gesture. Then he pulled his tablet out of his bag to start taking notes.

******
