286

******

“I’ve been using it as a tool to mark my page.”

“A <<bookmark>>,” said Stuart, holding Alden’s living leaf up so that the sunlight coming through the streamview cottage’s front wall filtered through it.

It was early Sunday on Anesidora and a weekday morning here. They’d agreed last night that if Stuart’s parents weren’t pounding down the door of the cottage to demand answers he should go to school and Alden should head back to Earth. But now they were both dawdling—Alden packing up too slowly and asking too many questions, Stuart eating his first meal in microscopic bites.

“I think the tree might appreciate it more if you wore this against your skin or set it out in your student house. Let it accompany you. You can give it back to the forest before your next binding.”

Alden considered one of his socks, which was being gnawed on by the ryeh-b’t in the corner, and decided he didn’t really want it back after she’d punched a bunch of holes in it.

“Is that what I’m supposed to do with a leaf like this?” he asked. “A little like what you did with the stick?”

“It’s one option…not an obligation. The tree gave it to you. Assigning emotions to the offering isn’t incorrect, but guessing exactly what the tree felt and trying to understand it in our own terms, isn’t likely to approach truth. This leaf is a wish to connect with you. Whether it was given to comfort you, honor you, or out of curiosity is harder to say.”

“But if I’m nice to the leaf, the forest will hear about it?”

“If you bring it back here. I don’t think a single leaf can convey something all the way from Earth.” He tilted his head. “But our planets are connected through the Contract, so maybe? I don’t know if anyone’s ever tried something quite like that.”

He looked at the leaf harder.

Alden zipped his suitcase. “As long as it’s positive.”

“It’s very positive! If I received one, I would wear it. They’re not spontaneously given frequently even to knights of Rapport I or my family. I could ask for one, but that’s different.”

“You think I can be a knight, and the trees do, too. That’s a lot more support than I did have.”

Stuart set the leaf back on top of Alden’s spell book. It was on the table, surrounded by first meal dishes. “I want to tell you that you don’t have to prove yourself…”

“But it would be untrue.” Alden went over to tug on the sock for Other Alden’s amusement. She sank her back claws into it and bit the hem of his jeans in retaliation.

“I have to prove myself, too,” Stuart said. “More than others.”

“You shouldn’t, and I shouldn’t,” Alden replied. “But we do.”

“So it is.”

“We’ll do it together.” Alden let go of the sock and rubbed the smooth warm scales on the side of the ryeh-b’t’s neck. “One step at a time. And shouldn’t we really do what we said we would and get you to LeafSong? I’d rather stay here and talk, but we’ve got at least a year’s worth of things to talk about now. We couldn’t cover it all in a few days even if we did refuse to leave the cottage.”

When they’d returned from the old house last night, they’d continued discussing Bearer and making plans for what they’d do in the coming weeks. It had been wonderful. But Alden had come down enough from his unprecedented string of emotional highs to feel concerned about how much he’d knocked over in Stuart’s life by firing almost every truth missile in his arsenal at once.

Yes, they were both excited and determined to move forward together. But only days ago, Stuart had had no idea that he’d be carrying secrets of this size, too. He hadn’t known that Alden’s news would put him even more out of synch with his family, or that he’d need to start thinking about having a partner for his knight career in a definite, immediate way.

And it wasn’t like he hadn’t already been dealing with his own trouble.

“With the Ro-den contract,” said Alden, “you really looked at what was going on with me and tried to understand what was wrong. And then you fixed the problem. My problem. Even though it wasn’t something easy. I…haven’t had many moments like that in my life. When someone else was paying attention and being present, when and how I needed.”

He’d been trying to put that thought into words since he’d been freed from the enforced secrecy. He wasn’t sure he’d hit it exactly on the mark. There were some vulnerable untapped depths to this gratitude, as well as some weirdness he didn’t want to get into about growing up with either no attention or the wrong kind.

“You did really good for me,” he said. “It’s all right if you focus on yourself for a while now. I know everything I’ve told you about me is new and…”

“Intense?” Stuart suggested.

“Oh, no! You called me the word.” Alden almost laughed. “I think of you as the intense one.”

Stuart did laugh.

“Because you are,” Alden insisted. “Ask Ro-den. Ask him in class today. In front of everyone.”

“That would be amusing, but not wise.”

“You have a funny-mean side.”

“He told me he was considering what was best for you just as much as what was good for himself. And he assured me that you had a close understanding of each other and that he believed you wouldn’t want to have your contract broken.” Stuart paused. “Those were all lies.”

“Of course they were.”

“And he intended to run over me with one of the campus carts,” Stuart said with a nod. “Before he realized who I was.”

“Huh?”

“I should say he only meant to threaten me. Everyone else was getting out of his way. Why should they have? He can’t run over students.”

“When was this?”

“Moments after I decided he might be responsible for your strange behavior. Alden, I don’t want to focus on myself to the exclusion of your situation. What happens to you from now on will affect me. And the reverse.”

“I know. I’m not trying to say let’s ignore all my complications. I think…I’m worried that the complexity of my complications is making them seem more urgent than you finalizing your own decisions. And they’re not. Me being a wizard, me planning to be a knight with you, me wanting to learn more about everything and needing your help to do it—those all matter. But they’re still going to be here causing trouble for a long time. Now that you know I’m The Bearer of All Burdens and can stop worrying about what I’m going to do for a skill, the most important thing for us is getting your feet planted on your final path. Right?”

“Yes, you’re right.” Stuart said it firmly, but his fingers twitched against the table.

“That’s what I mean by asking you to focus on yourself. It’s not that I don’t matter, it’s just your turn. I’m also trying to remind you it’s a good time for you to take whatever you need from me. You have to do all the hardest parts of this yourself, but if you find a way to burden me with some of it, do.” Alden held a hand to his chest. “I can bear it.”

“Are you going to be one of those knights who does that frequently?”

“Will it be a burden for you if I am?”

“I’ll endure it.” Stuart looked up at him. “I know it’s my turn. In the way you mean.”

Alden nodded. “I’ll be here as soon as you need me, for as long as you need me, even if Earth is on fire and your parents are trying to punish you by banning me from the Rapport.”

They had both acknowledged the possibility of that happening.

“I can get at least one more teleport favor, can’t I, Mother?” he added.

[Of course, Alden. If Stu wants you here, here you’ll be.]

Stuart inhaled deeply.

“You saw her message, too, didn’t you?”

“Yes.”

“So we’ve got that much of the future taken care of, whether you go to first binding right now or next summer.” Alden stepped over to collect his book and his leaf.

Stuart handed them to him. “Have you ever thought it would be better if I just became your votary?”

The words seemed to sizzle in the air even though he’d spoken them quietly. Alden was shocked by the question. And, after a blink, Stuart was flustered by it himself.

“I mean,” he said, glaring down at his own hands as he let go of the book, “some streams of thought must naturally lead you in that—”

“I believe what you’ve said about yourself,” Alden said. “And I’ll believe what you say in the future.”

He thought the question was probably no more than a hiccup, and just a little bit of proof that he was right about all of his missiles changing the landscape for Stuart in more ways than could be grasped in only a few days.

Stuart seemed much more displeased with himself about it than he should have been. “Why did I ask that?” he said darkly.

“It’s not like it was an insulting question.”

“It is, though!”

“To which of us?”

Stuart unleashed a shrill scoffing sound that made Other Alden drop the sock and flap across the room to check on him. Alden saved a plate from being knocked off the table by nudging it with his shin.

“See?” he said, while Stuart tried to protect his school clothes from a worried ryeh-b’t. “I’ve given you all of the stress and questions I’ve had all this time. And you’ve handled it much better than me, but you’re not perfect. You have to think about stuff.”

“I am not offering to be your votary.”

“I understand that.”

“I would be good at it, but I will not do it for you or anyone else. It is not my path.”

“I believe you.”

“What if my parents had heard me say that? Or Asay? Or Noh?”

Alden snorted. “I think, for at least a while, they’d be too confused about why the Avowed needed a votary to be excited that they’d finally forced you to do things their way.”

“Maybe,” Stuart grumbled.

“We’re all right,” said Alden. “I’ll see you in a few days if I’m not banned. Let’s get to work.”

******

******

Alden’s school weeks now started on Monday mornings with “Accelerated Combat 1— A/B Fitness” at eight o’clock.

It was a class he had been mildly disappointed to have on his schedule because it was basically two hours of regular PE once a week, and he’d thought he could get more out of his time by using the slot for a workout with Bobby. After seeing how it was actually going to go, he was more enthusiastic about it.

On Tuesdays and Thursdays, the whole Accelerated Combat 1 class would be in the gym, but this Monday meet-up was only for the A and B-ranks. For their first class, they joined Instructor Ivanova at the track behind the MPE building. She explained that they’d have a different activity every week and hopefully a few guest instructors. She might set individual challenges for them based on their talents and whatever was going on in a particular session, but mostly this was going to be a fun, casual class where they learned from one another.

They could wear their gym suits or regular workout clothes. They were allowed to bring enchanted gear to try out if they had any. She’d give advice when she could, but the only real rules were that they had to show up, participate, and not kill anybody.

Their assignment for the first class was to play tennis with at least five different opponents. Ivanova had the track draw them lines to make “courts,” and they had its wall-style hurdles in place of nets. The basic rules of tennis popped up on their interfaces, but they were welcome to ignore them if their opponent agreed. They didn’t even have to use rackets if they didn’t want to.

Alden saw it as the school putting together a menu of other Avowed for him to choose from.

He let Max layer zones on both halves of the court so that he could practice taking advantage of the one that boosted speed and work on maneuvering around the other two. Then, Haoyu agreed to a more cooperative game where he punched the balls with Boxing Gloves and neither of them scored a point unless Alden managed to catch the ball on his racket with his skill instead of hitting it back. Since Haoyu had trouble sending the balls where he meant to, and Alden found halting a ball’s momentum with a racket instead of his hands a little brain melting, it was hard for both of them. They celebrated when they finally got it right.

By the second hour, Njeri and Lexi had both developed impressive accuracy that sent Alden running or jumping toward the least convenient corner of the court every time. And the Object Shaper played true to his class by redirecting the ball toward his own racket or away from Alden’s with swift gestures.

And, to make it a little more interesting, there were some new faces to look at. Everyone else was trying to play with the newcomers or size them up, so Alden didn’t bother asking any of them for a game. But he’d enjoy meeting them later.

They ought to be decent enough at whatever they do, he thought as he sprinted for the field house at the end of class. Since they’ve had a whole term to practice.

It felt odd not to head toward the gym locker rooms, but those should currently be crammed with S-ranks who’d just finished their special new S-rank-only class.

The field house smelled like new paint. There were showers free. Nothing to complain about, in Alden’s opinion, but of course people were complaining.

He heard them griping while he rushed to clean off and get into fresh clothes. They were so hung up on the fact that this was real MPE time for the S-ranks that they couldn’t appreciate how valuable the tennis games they’d just played had the potential to be.

