r Dungeon was cracked at the edges, letting in fresh air. The crack was so small that he couldn't even get his hand in or out, but he didn't need to.He pulled out some of his cheese, made by his feet, and placed it near the crack.Thomas Darkblade would win.He always won.---"This is a trap," the Gunsmith commented as they eyed the line of food and massive buffet table along a resting spot of an open fire below a massive mural of a woman and the Dungeon."I am hungry," the Alchemist admitted before dropping some of the meat into a test tube of solution that turned a soft blue."It is food, but I wouldn't even know what to test for," he reported."Are you poisonous?" The Necromancer asked a roast chicken which sat up on its boney drum legs.It made a strong 'x' with its wings and flopped back down."At what level between dead and alive is there a line for you?" the Mage asked and the Necromancer smiled, moving a finger near the mage and coming away with a dusty glove finger."We're all rotting on some level. Some just do it quieter than others," he said and wiped the Mage's dead skin on his robes."Yeah, but there has to be a limit!" complained the Archer as he dug into a lemon tart."I don't animate toenails," came a response."Because they're not technically flesh?" the Warrior guessed."No, I don't like toenails," the Necromancer said as he made his way to the soups."I always wanted to ask this, but how did you even get into death magic?" the Gunsmith asked around some sort of pasta dish with juicy pork meatballs."When I was young, my pet fish died. I was so upset, it stopped being dead. That was a hint," the Necromancer smiled as he sipped his chicken noodle soup. The Mage was struggling to understand how the Necromancer could even touch soup after the library..."Maybe it was just asleep?" the Warrior suggested as he dug into a salad with cherry tomatoes and dressing."It pulled itself out of the cat's mouth with some effort so no," the Necromancer added.The Mage looked around and found he was not really drawn to anything. He didn't have a sweet tooth or a hankering for meat. He was about to give up when he spotted an unusual dish. It looked like little white grains and there was a dark bottle next to it with the letters 'Soy' on it.The taste was bland and simple.The sauce made it a little tangy.It was perfect."Soy? I'm going to call you 'Soy Boy' now," the Alchemist said after seeing the bland meal. The Mage didn't mind.He wondered if he could chop the core minerals and vitamins into this meal but keep the taste simple... some sort of super scholar meal.All the benefits, but none of the time wasting.Mash in some fish heads and egg yolks too...The idea was coming together.
