“Correct,” Tallheart said. “Does everyone else understand?”

“Yes,” Jamus said. “I need a drink after that, but I believe I have it.”

Rain nodded. “I’ll join you. I think I can smell my brain cooking. I might be thinking about this too hard.”

“You think about everything too hard,” Ameliah said, jostling him playfully. Rain smiled.

Tallheart rumbled, smiling as well. “For Rain’s armor, I will add Heat Resistance, Cold Resistance, and Thermal Regulation to the Thermalitic Bronze core; Chemical Resistance and Mana Capacitance to the Chemical Pewter inner layer; and Force Resistance, Hardness, and Durability to the Force Steel outer jacket. There will be supporting and binding runes on all three layers to make the item act as one whole, using all five main armor slots.”

“What about self-repair?” Rain asked, struggling to keep his composure.

Tallheart shook his head. “That would consume too much of the metal’s capacity. Without it, the armor will require significantly more Tel to create and maintain.” He shrugged. “We cannot be concerned with economics in the depths. I will make you a shield and a proper weapon as well.” He turned to Ameliah. “Have you decided upon a build? What do you need?”

“I’m working on it,” Ameliah said. “The camp is almost done, but there’s still a lot for me to do in Vestvall as a Geomancer. The mayor wants fortifications, and so do I for my peace of mind. We can talk about me once you’ve finished with Rain. I’ve…gone through a lot of swords. Not that I doubt you, Tallheart, but will you be able to make something good enough to handle my stats with what you have in the camp?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Perhaps. Perhaps not.”

Ameliah nodded. “I’ll pick a build that doesn’t need much equipment, then. Once we’re deeper and we have what you need, I can respecialize.” She hesitated, then shook her head. “Can I ask…sorry. Never mind.”

“Ask,” Tallheart said.

“I…shouldn’t.” Ameliah frowned, shaking her head.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “You have a question about Snowlilly.”

Ameliah winced. “Yes. Sorry.”

“It is okay,” Tallheart said. “Ask.”

Ameliah sighed. “I just wanted to know what her class was. Was she an Equipment User? That’s the thing I can think of that makes the most sense.”

Tallheart nodded. “Yes, she was. At first. When she reached silver, she became a Wielder of Deep Vengeance.”

Rain had to fight to control his reaction. That class sounds…dark.

Tallheart chuckled softly to himself.

Jamus shifted awkwardly. “What’s funny?”

“I was just remembering,” Tallheart said. “Lilly and I would discuss metalwork for days on end, just like we are doing now. We would huddle in cracks in the stone while I worked, and she would slaughter the monsters drawn by the sound of my hammer.” He smiled. “Those conversations are some of my best memories. It was dangerous but also…simple. Us against the depths.”

I…don’t know how to respond to that.

“Thank you,” Tallheart said, stretching his neck. “Speaking of my work has helped. Jamus was right. I should be remembering her on her birthday, not trying to forget.” He chuckled. “Let us return to the surface. I have an apology to give.”
