Ameliah placed her hand in the middle of Rain’s back, moving up to stand next to him. “It wasn’t that bad. Ellis said it was more…a toss. Like a sack of potatoes.”

Tallheart frowned, looking away.

Rain sighed, pinching his forehead. “Jamus is right, Tallheart. You can’t do that to a person, even if they deserve it.”

Tallheart rumbled unhappily, turning around and picking up his Telscribe once more. “I will apologize tomorrow.” The scratching sound resumed. “I wish to be alone.”

Ameliah’s hand left Rain’s back as she walked forward. “Tell us what’s bothering you, Tallheart. What’s really bothering you.”

Tallheart didn’t respond, and Jamus stood, laying a hand on his shoulder. “Staavo irritates me too, sometimes, but this seems like more than that. What’s going on?”

The scratching stopped, and Tallheart sighed.

Rain moved forward, speaking in the awkward silence. “I told Vanna to have people give you more space. There won’t be any more silly requests.” He paused. “I’m sorry again about the fork.”

Tallheart set down his tool and turned around. “That is not the problem.” He shook his head, frowning as he corrected himself. “Not the only problem.” He took a deep breath, letting it out slowly. “Today was her birthday.”

“Oh,” Rain said, feeling as if he’d been clipped by a passing car. He shared a look with Ameliah and Jamus, who’d had similar reactions.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “It is not an excuse. I should not have lost my temper.”

“It’s okay,” Rain said, stepping closer. “Birthdays are…hard.”

“Yes,” Ameliah said, wrapping her arm around Tallheart’s shoulders. “We’ll make sure nobody bothers you for the rest of the day.”

Tallheart shook his head, gently pushing her arm away. “Foolish. There is work to be done.”

“It’s okay to take a day off,” Rain said.

Tallheart snorted. “Take your own advice.”

Jamus chuckled. “He has a point, Rain. You look like someone punched you in both eyes. Have you been sleeping enough?”

“Everyone keeps asking me that,” Rain said. “You know the answer.”

Ameliah sighed as Tallheart turned back to his workbench, then looked at Rain. “Have you made any progress at all?”

Rain shook his head. “The Bastion still falls apart when I try to leave. I can feel Dozer in the chaos now, but I don’t have anywhere safe to put him, even if I could find a way to—sorry. Tallheart probably doesn’t want to hear this right now.”

“It is fine,” Tallheart said. “Today is just a day like any other. She would have laughed at me if she saw me like this. She always said I was too sentimental.”

“Maybe tell us a story about her?” Jamus said. “A happy one? I find that it helps to remember good times, even if it hurts.”

Tallheart shook his head. “Not today.”

The scratching of the Telscribe began again, and Rain peered over Tallheart’s shoulder to see what he was working on. It was a breastplate—made of bronze.

Huh.

“Ask your question,” Tallheart said, not looking up.

Mindreader. Rain smiled softly. “It’s okay, Tallheart. I’ll ask later. Come on, Ameliah, Jamus, let’s give him some space.”

“It is alright,” Tallheart said. “I have changed my mind. I do not wish to think of the past. Your questions will keep me in the present.”

“Uh oh,” Ameliah said, forcing a smile. “Now you’ve done it, Tallheart. He’s got question permission now.” She turned to Jamus. “Run while you can. Save yourself.”

“Pshaw,” Jamus said. “I’ll stay. I need to witness this.”

“Witness what?” Ameliah asked.

“Rain breaking the record,” Jamus answered. “Carten and I have started keeping track of the highest number of consecutive questions he’s asked without pausing to breathe.”

Ameliah’s smile became genuine as she laughed. “What’s his current best?”

“Five,” Jamus said. “His lung capacity is improving.”

Tallheart rumbled with amusement.

“I hate you all,” Rain said, smiling to show he wasn’t serious. Nice work lightening the mood, you two.

“Go on, Rain,” Ameliah said, moving behind him to massage his shoulders. “You can get to six. I believe in you.”

Rain snorted. “I refuse to play this game.” He sighed as Ameliah removed her hands. That actually felt really nice. “Just one question to start, Tallheart. You’re sure you don’t mind?”

“Yes,” Tallheart said. “Next question.”

Rain smiled. “Why bronze?”

“Thermalitic Bronze,” Tallheart said. “It is an alloy of about nine parts Heat Copper and one part Cold Tin. It is the best surface metal for most enchantments dealing with either Heat or Cold. I am using it as the central core, which I will then cover with Chemical Pewter before adding a final layer of Force Steel. I would like to go further, but I lack the materials. Arcane Crysts would help significantly, but I would need…hmm…at least ten.”

“Here it comes,” Jamus said, pulling away from Rain and raising his hands as if to ward off an explosion. He looked at Ameliah. “You see how he’s begun vibrating?”

Rain swatted at him. “Anyway, Tallheart, I get that different materials have different elemental alignments based on their intrinsic runes, but—”

“Hold on,” Ameliah said, cutting in. “What’s an intrinsic rune? I’ve heard the term here and there, but I’ve never gotten a coherent explanation for what it means.”

“Every material has a rune,” Tallheart said. “For metals, that includes alloys. I am the wrong person to ask about other things, though I have some knowledge.” He picked up the unfinished breastplate, then set it aside, replacing it with a sheet of paper that he stole from a neighboring workbench. “This is the rune for copper,” he said, sketching quickly with a stub of charcoal. “And this is the rune for elemental Heat. There is a rune for each of the eight elements.”

“Yes,” Jamus said, nodding. “I knew that.”

“Heat Copper is made by combining the correct ratio of powdered Crysts and molten metal.” Tallheart continued. “Anyone may do this, but without the proper alchemical skills, the result will be poor.” He drew another rune, then pointed at it. “When the materials are combined, the rune changes. Note the similarities. If done poorly, it will be distorted, like this.” He drew another rune.

“Okay…” Ameliah said. “And the intrinsic rune is important because…?”

“It must match the runes used in the enchantment,” Tallheart said, continuing to draw. Rain blinked, then smiled. Some of the shapes were already starting to wiggle ever so slightly. He was looking forward to Ameliah’s reaction when she noticed, assuming she didn’t know what was coming.

“This is the sequence for Heat resistance,” Tallheart said. “It is made from the Heat rune, as well as several others. If I want to add Heat resistance to Heat Copper, the alignment with the intrinsic rune will result in a stronger enchantment. It is not so in iron.” He pointed at the page. “This one. See how the shape is different?”

“Not really,” Jamus said, squinting.

“Hmph,” Tallheart said, adding yet more runes to the page. “This is the rune for Cold Tin. If I tried to add Heat resistance to Cold Tin, the enchantment would not hold. The runes are in opposition. Thermalitic Bronze, however, preserves the properties of both Heat and Cold.” Tallheart began another rune, this one breathtakingly complex. The harder Rain looked at it, the more it seemed to change.

“Tallheart, how are you doing that?” Ameliah asked, staring.

Rain smiled. Ha.

“I am not doing anything,” Tallheart said. “Runes become more difficult to read as they become more complex. It appears to move because you do not understand its meaning. It has also been written on paper, which means it will degrade. It will not last much longer.”

“Crazy, right?” Rain said. “I still haven’t gotten over it.” He pointed at the notebook. “It shouldn’t be possible, but there it is. It’s like an optical illusion, but way worse.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

“My head hurts already,” Jamus said. “Rain, have you written a Common Knowledge article on runes?”

“No,” Rain said. “I started to, but a pamphlet won’t do it. I think I’d need a whole book to do this justice.”

“Many books,” Tallheart said.

“I’m starting to regret asking, honestly,” Ameliah said. “Is it too late to run?”

“Things are, hmm, different if you do not add the Cryst to the alloy, but instead use it as a focus,” Tallheart said, ignoring her as he set down the piece of charcoal. “Sometimes, it is necessary. It requires fewer starting materials and is less dependent on the metal, but the enchantment will be unstable. The Cryst will eventually fail, at which point it will need to be replaced. Hmm. What else? Some enchantments do not require Crysts at all. Hardness. Durability. Weight. Permeability. Hmm. Even basic capacitance runes. These can be done with Tel alone in most metals, though not all. The higher-tier runes require—”

“Stop, please,” Ameliah said, raising a hand. “Me understand. Fire metal good for big fire magic. Kill many monster.”

Tallheart snorted, and Rain smiled at Ameliah. “Tallheart likes talking about runes—once he gets going, anyway.”

The smith’s face returned to impassivity as he tilted his head. “Or perhaps I have learned that if I do not explain fully, certain people will never stop asking questions.”

“It is a bit of both, I think,” said Jamus mildly. “Incidentally, Ameliah, that was a wonderful impression of Rain from a few months ago.”

“Thank you,” Ameliah said, bowing.

Rain smiled. “Anyway, Tallheart. Thermalitic Bronze is good for Heat and Cold, and you are using two other metals for Chem and Force, making three layers. My question is, don’t you have to use less of each metal to keep the armor thin enough? Won’t that limit the enchantment?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Yes and no. Do you know how equipment slots work?”

“Yeah,” Rain said, nodding. “I asked Staavo about that one a while ago.”

Tallheart frowned. “What did he tell you?”

Rain shrugged. “A person only has a limited number of slots for magical gear. You can obviously carry as many swords as you want, within reason, but you can only activate the bonus from two at a time—some bullshit about the interaction with the soul or whatever. Anyway, there are twenty slots, not including temporary charms and stuff. Two weapons, ten rings, one amulet, chest, legs, feet, hands, head, underwear, and overwear. That’s it.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Good enough.”

“I have a question,” Jamus said, raising a hand. “Rain, wasn’t your old armor all one item? You said it could regrow itself, right? Even something like a whole glove? How does that work? And speaking of gloves, I have always wondered, why are they treated as one item and not two? Are they not separate?”

“Two hands, one whole,” Tallheart said before Rain could inform Jamus that he’d broken the record. “It is the way of the world. If only one is worn, the effect drops by half.”

“But why, though?” Jamus asked.

“Ask a scholar,” Tallheart said. “To answer your other question, yes, Rain’s armor was one item. Making a joined set using all five main armor slots is straightforward. There are advantages and disadvantages to doing so. Adding additional slots is more difficult, but possible.”

“I see,” Jamus said. “Thank you.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, looking back at Rain. “For a given slot, there is a maximum power for each enchantment. The limit also depends upon the metal used.”

“Okay…wait,” Ameliah said. “Let me make sure I understand what you’re saying.” She pointed at the unfinished breastplate. “Let’s use that as an example. If you were going to add Heat resistance, how much could you get out of it?”

Tallheart raised an eyebrow. “Do you mean a stable enchantment, or do you mean something like the failed core breaker?”

“The stable kind,” Ameliah said.

“Two hundred,” Tallheart replied easily.

“Okay,” Ameliah said, hovering her hand over the metal. “And if you made it twice as thick?”

“Two hundred,” Tallheart repeated.

“Wait, what?” Rain asked.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Adding more metal increases durability and total enchantment capacity. It does not increase the maximum quality of a specific enchantment. To get more Heat resistance, I would need to use a different metal, such as Grand Thermalitic Bronze.”

“Uh…” Rain shook his head. “So if you…thinned it down instead? Could you get two hundred Heat resistance from, like, a brass button on your jacket?”

“Do not confuse brass and bronze,” Tallheart said. “They are different. And no, you could not.” He touched the breastplate. “This much Thermalitic Bronze will allow the maximum level of both Heat and Cold resistance. It could be made smaller, but not as small as a button.”

Jamus scratched at his ear. “So when you add more metal, you add more capacity? With the pewter and the steel, the armor would give…what? Two hundred resistance to Heat, Cold, Chem, and Force?”

“No,” Tallheart said. “You have the correct idea, but it is not that simple. For Chemical Pewter, one hundred and fifty resistance is the maximum. For Force Steel, it is one hundred.” He shook his head. “Force Iron would allow two hundred, but it has lower affinity with Hardness and Durability, apart from being weaker in general. It is not worth the effort of adding an additional layer to use both.”

“Okay…” Ameliah said. “Why can’t you just make two extra layers of bronze? I still don’t understand why making it thicker wouldn’t work.”

Tallheart frowned. “It is as I said. The limit for a single enchantment is determined by the alignment between its rune sequence, the slot rune, and the intrinsic rune of the material. The amount of material only matters until that limit is reached. Adding different metals will not allow you to exceed the limit. The runes will interfere.” He rumbled. “The skill of the smith also matters, but for this level of item, it is not an issue.”

“Oh,” Ameliah said, snapping her fingers. “It’s like there’s a cap. I think I’ve got it now. You can’t go over two hundred Heat resistance because that’s all Thermalitic Bronze can tolerate. Assuming you have enough metal, can you still add other stuff like mana capacitance?”

“Yes,” Tallheart said.

Ameliah nodded, grinning in satisfaction. “And you’re using more than one metal because it lets you get better alignment with the enchantments you want. It gets you more for less—more bonuses, less metal.”

