Tallheart rumbled, accepting the small wooden box the man behind the desk was offering him. Inside would be the Force Crysts he’d purchased back from the company. He turned away wordlessly, heading for the exit.

“Thanks, Smelt,” said Ellis from somewhere behind him. “That should be all we need for now.”

“Right.” Smelt cleared his throat, raising his voice slightly. “You’re welcome, I guess.”

Ellis laughed. “Don’t mind him. That was his thank-you rumble.”

“How can you tell?” Smelt asked.

Tallheart didn’t wait to hear Ellis’s response. He turned his head, ducking as he guided his antlers through the low doorway. He veered left, walking around the large group of humans practicing Swordplay under Samson’s direction. Over the past few days, Ameliah had knocked down the walls separating the company hall from the tavern and the old workshop, combining all three into one massive room. The stage where Rain had given his speech was gone. It was in the new tavern, he believed—on the other side of the kitchen and food storage rooms. He hadn’t bothered to investigate. The tavern was for the city humans. It held nothing of interest to him.

Tallheart frowned as he approached the northern wall. His smelter was set up here, larger now, and sunken partially into the ground. A large firebox was built into its side, threaded through with pipes of Thermalitic Bronze for better heat transfer. Nearby, charcoal had been piled beneath a table bearing various molds and tools for shaping molten rock. The smelter’s drain was set low to the ground opposite the firebox, near several neat rows of bricks that had been left there to cool. There was also a large pile of crushed ore nearby, ready to be added to the intake.

Everything was in order except for the group of four humans lounging nearby. They were supposed to be working. Instead, they were playing dice, seated on the ground and surrounded by their cast-off protective equipment. None of them noticed his approach until he was right on top of them.

“Hmm,” he rumbled, low and deep, making his discontent known.

“Ahhhh, shit,” Kalman said resignedly, looking up. There was a smudge of charcoal on his cheek. “Fun’s over.”

“Fun for you three,” said Corrin, the Geomancer. “The dice are against me today, yeah? I’m going to be on kitchen duty for the next month. Hello, Tallheart. Sorry, we were just taking a little break.”

“Tallheart,” said Taron, nodding respectfully before looking back at the others. “I’m not letting you out of it, Cor. The dice have spoken. You are officially the soup maid.”

Ellis appeared at Tallheart’s elbow, the former farrier having followed him from the storeroom. He smiled up at Tallheart, gesturing toward the dice game. “And that is why we’re not allowed to gamble with credits. Soup maid. Ha.”

Tallheart rumbled in vague agreement. He walked over to the smelter, then pressed a hand against it, sending his senses through the metal. He could barely feel the liquid, meaning that it was mostly nonmetallic. The response from what little metal there was told him that the tank was almost full. The humans were not taking a break because they had finished. They were neglecting their duty.

He shook his head slowly, then looked back at the seated workers. “Drain the excess, then continue adding ore.”

“Um, sure,” Corrin said. The Geomancer got up, then dusted himself off and walked over to the drain valve. “It’s just... Can you extend this spout a little further, please? I almost burned myself earlier. If it were longer, my hand wouldn’t have to be so close to the molten rock, yeah?” He paused awkwardly. “Don’t bother if it’s too much trouble.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, frowning as he placed a hand on the spout. It was troublesome, catering to everyone’s needs. He much preferred working alone. Focusing on the enchantment woven into the metal, he supported it with his will as he used his other skills to make the requested modification. Fortunately, Heat Copper was a simple alloy. It was easy to sculpt, even without tools.

“There,” he said, taking his hand away. “Do not let the stone cool in the spout. It will clog.”

“Right,” Corrin said. “Thank you.”

“Mmm.” How much longer will it be before he can use Stonemolding? Rain is going too easy on them.

“Uh… Excuse me? Tallheart?” the last of the humans said, her voice hesitant.

Tallheart turned to look at her silently. To his mild surprise, she didn’t shy away. Many of the humans had started doing that ever since he’d dealt with Hegar and Anton. Instead, she extended a hand.

“I’m trying to meet everyone,” she said. “I just wanted to introduce myself. I’m Lana.”

“I know who you are,” Tallheart said, considering her hand.

“Oh, sorry Lana,” Ellis said, stepping forward. “I should have told you. You’re supposed to bow. Cervidians don’t really—”

Tallheart rumbled, taking the woman’s hand with extreme care. Humans. He shook it gently, then released her.

“She’s a provisional member now,” Taron said, though no one had asked. “I know because I ran her combat test. She’s actually pretty good with a staff for someone with no training.”

Tallheart turned away, heading for the metal-banded wooden door in the northern wall. It led to a set of curved stone stairs that descended to the workshop.

“Compared to you, everyone is good with a staff,” Kalman said behind him.

“Hey!” Taron protested. “I let her trip me! Rain said to go easy.”

“Wait, he did?” Lana asked. “I don’t want any special treatment…”

“Don’t worry about that, Lana,” Corrin said. “He said to go easy on everyone. As long as you’re in decent shape, we can teach you the rest, yeah?”

“Oh,” Lana said, sounding relieved. “Okay then.” There was a pause, then she raised her voice. “It was nice meeting you, Tallheart!”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, not looking back.

“Is he always like that?” Lana whispered, likely thinking her voice too low for him to hear.

“Pretty much,” Corrin whispered back. “He doesn’t like strangers.”

“That’s putting it mildly,” Kalman replied at a normal volume.

Tallheart shook his head slowly, opening the door. Foolish.

“Hang on, Tallheart,” Ellis said. The crate he was carrying clinked in his haste. “I need to bring these down there.”

Tallheart grunted, leaving the door ajar and beginning his descent into the earth. The walls transitioned from dirt to stone as the stairs curved in a tight arc. Ameliah hadn’t dug down that far, just enough to shield the company’s crafters from casual divination. Even a few hands of earth were sufficient to block Scrying Pool. It wouldn’t stop something like Piercing Gaze or Eavesdrop, but local Diviners weren’t the concern. Rain suspected that the Watch was observing them from Fel Sadanis.

Paranoia. Good.

Tallheart shook his head. More elaborate precautions would have to wait. The only counter-divination runes he knew were those to prevent targeted tracking. He had an extensive network of them built into his armor for obvious reasons, but he’d never felt the need to learn how to ward an area. It was easier to just move on whenever he was discovered.

He frowned. Things have changed. Perhaps it is time to learn.

…

It would require Arcane Crysts. I already have a use for the two that are left. Troublesome.

A wave of hot air washed over him as he entered the workshop, almost directly below where the humans had been playing their game. He took a moment to look around. Staavo was over by the anvil, and Myth and Reason were having a conversation in Vejik at a workbench covered with alchemical equipment. Romer was also there, hunched over a much cleaner station and working on something Tallheart couldn’t see, likely one of his runestones.

Tallheart tilted his head, considering. His antlers easily cleared the high ceiling, which had been designed with them in mind. A Crystless anti-divination ward is impossible in every metal that I know. Perhaps it could work in stone, however. I am not sure. I could ask him...

Tallheart sighed softly. No. He could not inscribe it, even if he could uncover the sequence. He is too inexperienced.

Knowing Ellis wasn’t far behind him, Tallheart moved out of the doorway, walking toward the rapidly spinning generator on the far side of the room. It was tied into a flywheel, which, in turn, was coupled to the steam engine. All of this together took up the entirety of the back wall. Despite the constant motion, a quiet rattle was all that could be heard. The noise of the machinery was being suppressed by the Muffler—in retrospect, a waste of precious Arcane Crysts.

The engine itself was quieter now, regardless. They’d made various improvements, one of which was a method for recycling the steam. The return pipe was made of bronze, and it snaked back and forth like the entrails of a dead animal. That had been another of Rain’s ideas, given in a rare moment when he hadn’t been hidden away in his room meditating. He called it a condenser, and it was working well enough that they no longer needed to refill the water tank every few hours.

Approaching the boiler, Tallheart peered at the pressure gauge, then frowned. The steam engine got its heat from the molten contents of the smelter, the bottom half of which descended through the ceiling nearby. The two tanks were connected by a heat exchanger made of Thermalitic Bronze. It wasn’t anything fancy, just a solid bar that passed through the wall of the smelter and into the side of the boiler. He had enchanted it to allow the rate of heat conduction to be adjusted—and to not melt, of course.

Nudging aside the fabric-like insulation, Tallheart touched the bar with a finger. He used Mana Manipulation to access the control runes and increase the bar’s thermal resistance. While he was at it, he also refilled its capacitance rune and the capacitance rune of the smelter itself.

There was a clatter of glass from behind him as Ellis set down his burden. “Here you go, guys. These are all the bottles Smelt had. He’ll ask Mlem to pick up more from the city.”

“Thank you,” Myth said. “This should do for now.”

“You’re welcome,” Ellis said, then sneezed.

Tallheart frowned, then walked to the flywheel and pulled a nearby lever. The remnants of the Forgewagon’s drivetrain engaged and a blast of cold air rushed into the room through a vent in the ceiling, drawn in by a steel fan.

“Hey!” Staavo yelled, spinning around to glare at him. “I was finally getting warm!”

Tallheart shook his head, then jerked his chin in Ellis’s direction. “Unawakened.”

“So?” Staavo asked.

“Fumes,” Tallheart said, gesturing to the valves protruding from the bottom of the smelter’s tank.

“Bah,” Staavo said, waving a hand. “That’s what healers are for.” He grumbled to himself, turning back to the anvil.

“Thanks for worrying about me, Tallheart,” Ellis said, moving over to join him near the flywheel. “Now that you have the Crysts, are you going to make the Force Steel? Can I watch?”

Tallheart considered silently, then sighed. “You may watch, but you must remain silent.”

“Thanks,” Ellis said, beaming.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, moving toward the anvil. Staavo was still there. In the way. “Move.”

“Rude,” Staavo said, not even turning around. “I’m working here.”

“Work elsewhere,” Tallheart said.

Staavo sighed, setting down the pliers he was holding. He turned, planting his fists on his hips. “I would if you made me my own anvil and tools! How many times do I need to ask? I am starting to think all that hammering has made you deaf.”

Tallheart clenched his teeth. That is enough. I will not tolerate this. Not today.

He shook his head as he spoke, raising his pitch to imitate a human voice. “Make me a shovel, Tallheart, for I do not wish to walk to the city to buy one. My toes are cold, Tallheart, make me a heater plate for my room. Make me an anvil, Tallheart, so I can pretend that I know how to use it.” He let his voice return to normal. “That is how you sound. You are not a smith. You do not need an anvil. Move.”

“Listen here, you—” Staavo began.

“Staavo, please, don’t argue with him,” Ellis cut in. “He’s a little stressed right now.”

“I am not stressed,” Tallheart said.

“You are,” Ellis said.

Tallheart’s frown deepened. “Out,” he said, his voice becoming harder than steel. “Everyone.”

Ellis winced. “Sorry, I just—”

“Now,” Tallheart said, hearing chairs scraping behind him.

“I’m not moving,” Staavo said stubbornly, crossing his arms.

Tallheart narrowed his eyes.

Rain sighed, rubbing at his neck. “I’ll talk to him, but honestly, I think I’m on Tallheart’s side. I had no idea people were bothering him that much.”

Vanna nodded. “All the same, he went too far.”

“Yeah,” Rain said, shaking his head tiredly.

“You don’t look so good, Rain,” Vanna said. “Meditation isn’t sleep.”

“I know,” Rain said, opening the door to the stairwell. “Trust me, I know.”

Leaving Vanna behind, Rain descended the stairs, hearing Jamus’s voice through the door at the bottom, which was ajar. He pushed it open the rest of the way, spotting the orange-robed mage sitting on a stool near Tallheart, who was standing hunched over a workbench with his back to him.

“You can’t throw an old man like that, Tallheart, no matter how much he deserves it,” Jamus said, looking up mid-sentence as Rain shut the door.

“I did not throw him,” Tallheart said over the rhythmic scratching of a Telscribe.

“He says you did,” said Jamus. ‘Help,’ he mouthed, motioning Rain over.

“Tallheart,” Rain said, clearing his throat. “What happened?”

There was a click as Tallheart set down the Telscribe, then he turned to look at Rain, his face unreadable. “You already know.”

Rain sighed. “Yes, I do. Ellis told me.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, shaking his head.

Jamus glanced awkwardly at Tallheart, then looked back at Rain. “How is Staavo?”

Rain shook his head. “He’s pretty pissed, but he isn’t hurt. His prosthetic fell off when he went down, but it didn’t break or anything.” The door behind him opened, and Rain jumped, turning to see Ameliah. He nodded to her, then turned back around.

“That is a relief,” Jamus said. He shook his head, then glared at Tallheart. “That doesn’t make it okay. Staavo is my friend, too, you know.”

Tallheart rumbled, a note of annoyance entering his voice as he spoke. “As I have said, Jamus, I did not throw him.”

