Trisha turned and greeted everyone, commented on their attire, and everyone found places to sit down. She sat down in a comfy chair next to Ren, and looked at him with genuine interest.

“So, you're the famous Ren Haddon.” Trisha said. “How do you like being a celebrity?”

Ren laughed. “I'm not famous or a celebrity.” He said. “I've given out one autograph, and that was more of a joke than anything else.”

Trisha smiled. “You don't know how popular your show is, do you?”

“I know a lot of people like it, thanks to my public relations specialist.” Ren nodded to Barbi. “I know it had great viewership numbers for the 6 episodes that have aired...”

Trisha nodded. “I received the official cancellation notice before coming over here.”

“You did?” Ren asked. “Does that mean...”

“I'm a subscriber and I enjoy your show, too.” Trisha said and glanced at Barbi. “Somebody didn't get back to me before today about coming to see you.”

“I was going to save you for the press conference, Trisha.” Barbi said. “We've got the new toy line ready to ship to stores and the streaming service is ready to go national, now that we've got the system set up for the extra load.”

“You lie.” Trisha said, and Barbi shook her head. “Are you keeping it under the subscription service for the website?”

“Yes, after a long talk to Ren's Financial Advisor.” Barbi nodded to Elise. “We decided to not become money-grubbing idiots set out to fleece the customers.”

Trisha laughed. “Good, good.” She said. “Having loyal fans pay money just to see something they used to see for free is not a good way to keep people happy.”

“We're not gouging the advertisers, either.” Elise said, and Trisha looked at her. “It's not their fault the station cancelled the show. They shouldn't have to pay any more for the same reason that the fans shouldn't.”

“How will you make money at it?”

“Sheer volume.” Barbi said. “Once everyone learns that the only place to get more of the show will be from the website...”

“Wait! Did you say more of the show?” Trisha asked, surprised. “I thought it was cancelled!”

Barbi nodded. “They cancelled after the sixth episode; but, they had another six ready to air, with the next three cut together without background music.” She said. “We have them and can get them prepped for streaming by next week.”

“Oh... oh, my.” Trisha said and looked at their faces. “This is going to be a great story!”

“It's going to be better than that.” Ren said, and she turned to look at his grin. “I helped to fix the game it's based on.”

“You... you did...” Trisha looked at all of their faces again, and nods were given all around. “Oh, my.”

“Let me tell you how it all came about...” Ren said.

Trisha and everyone else were held, almost spellbound, as Ren told them about everything that went on in extensive detail.
