Nick’s jaw hit the floor when he read the word Legendary.

He hadn’t even begun to wrap his head around the astonishing revelations the Crimson Blight had bestowed, but he knew deep in his bones that his journey had arrived at a crossroads. He could continue walking down the path to power he’d been following since his new life began—a versatile warrior specializing in swordplay, force, and pure mana—and protect his people as one of Aurora’s elites.

Or he could embrace the opportunity offered by his bloodlines. Become something new, never before seen. The explosive growth he’d experienced since entering the dungeon had only scratched the surface of the possibilities that lay before him if he embraced that potential, but Nick was worried about the price he would pay in exchange.

After assimilating the blight and absorbing three dreadbeasts, he wasn’t completely human anymore, and the prospect of losing himself—let alone losing control and becoming a cataclysmic threat like the beings whose power he’d stolen—scared him to the marrow of his bones.

He was deeply conflicted that his Concept contained elements of the Hollow God, the System, and the Crimson Blight. The first Ascendant was a terrifying foe. While Nick wasn’t important enough to warrant the Dreadlord’s direct attention, being marked for death by the dreadbeasts’ progenitor was certain to bring danger to his doorstep, and every use of Dreadeater only made things worse.

The System seemed hellbent on making him its pawn, subjecting him to incredible peril at every turn in hopes he would become a more valuable piece on its cosmic gameboard. On the other hand, everyone he knew was in the same boat, and the situation wouldn’t change much in the short-term, regardless of his decision.

Oddly enough, the Crimson Blight was the least threatening of the bunch. He was certain that the millions of worlds it had infected in pursuit of its optimal size had gone through their own apocalyptic hell before arriving at the benign harmony that governed their present existence. However, that was ancient history. He hadn’t sensed any hostility in its words, and the Ascendant viewed Nick as its child—an ally in the fight to save the universe from destruction by eldritch horrors from another dimension.

Any way he sliced it, letting the Labyrinth flourish was worse than any other outcome he could imagine. It was a Seed of Corruption, feasting on suffering as it grew into something capable of opening a doorway to beings who would devour this plane of existence. He hadn’t even begun to grasp the full implications of that revelation, but it seemed the Earth was at the forefront of a war between entities greater than the gods, fighting to prevent an invasion from unspeakable evil.

He didn’t know what awaited him if he embraced the magic capable of remaking him on a fundamental level. But in the end, losing himself was a small price to pay to save his people, let alone the countless lives that would be extinguished if the Mad God had his way.

Besides, after everything I’ve experienced so far, I still feel like myself. The people I love have kept me grounded despite the countless hardships I’ve endured. Even if I become something that I can’t even begin to imagine from where I’m standing now, I must believe that I will always value those bonds and the planet of my birth over the pursuit of power.

In that moment, Nick made his choice. He would follow any avenue of growth that didn’t involve sacrificing innocents along the way—become what he must to defend humanity and the universe itself. He took a deep breath, ready to face whatever the future held, embrace his transformative journey, and follow his new path to power all the way to the peak.

However, taking that first step would have to wait a few minutes longer.

He had another batch of updates waiting in the corner of his view, but he refused to look at them through sheer effort of will. No matter what bombshells they contained, making sure his friends were all right was even more important. He had no idea how to find Bandit and Kenji, so he started running toward where he’d last seen Lurk—stamina brimming over after absorbing Zora’s core.

Relief coursed through him when the dino appeared around the next corner. She was battered and exhausted, but nothing looked life-threatening, and Regeneration was gradually repairing the damage as her mana refilled. She came to a staggering stop beside him and collapsed, triumphant but utterly spent.

He scratched the space behind her eye ridges. “Well done, girl. I’m glad we both pulled through. Stay here and get some rest. I’ll find our friends.”

“That won’t be necessary,” a familiar voice rang out, followed by Bandit’s furry form leaping into Nick’s arms. Kenji and Yarren were close behind. While both men were severely wounded, they were alive. Kenji was worst off—massive shield mangled beyond recognition and spear shattered in three separate places. One arm was twisted at an unnatural angle, and fresh latticework of scars had joined his extensive collection.

Nick hadn’t had a chance to use his elixir, so he handed it to the strategist. The concoction would only take the edge off his wounds, but it should help with the pain and hasten his recovery. “Thanks.” Kenji quaffed the flask and handed it back. “I needed that.”

Everyone sat down to recover from the grueling ordeal while Nick reached for his Wand of Healing, treating the most severe injuries until his reserves ran dry. Yarren could tell they wanted some privacy, so he gave the party some room under the pretense of checking on the library. When the native was out of earshot, Nick shared the story of everything he’d experienced, starting with his battle with Zora and ending with his encounter with the Crimson Blight.

“Incredible,” Kenji said in a low voice. “It seems that in addition to living through events that have fundamentally changed all life on Earth, we’ve been swept up in something that will determine the fate of the universe itself.”

“It’s too much for me to take in right now,” Bandit added. “But I finally have a name for the force behind the dreadbeasts. The Hollow God is my enemy too. I’ll devote the rest of my days to keeping his ilk from touching my planet again.”

“I know you’re worried.” Kenji put an arm around Nick’s shoulder. “And for good reason. That being said, I can’t wait to find out what a Legendary class can do. You should take a look at the list and share the details. You can always decide to go another way if it seems like more trouble than its worth.”

He nodded his agreement and called up his menus, ready to examine the rest of his gains. Next in line was the quest-completion notice.

System Message: Quest Update

Congratulations. You have defeated the final dreadbeast in the quarantine zone and completed the emergency quest.

Your party’s performance has been rated as: Phenomenal.

Aurora has acquired the ability to add nonhuman settlements to its faction and has been awarded 3000 City Points.

Each member of your team will be given a key that can unlock a high-quality bloodline trait from the bloodline library and a significant amount of species experience.

For your individual contribution, you have been granted an additional reward:

7 Baseline Attribute Enchantment Pills.

For saving the primary planet in a neighboring sector, [Earth, 1] has received a significant amount of planetary experience.

The personal reward seemed odd, but Nick was eager to get his hands on a new bloodline trait of his choice. He opened the box that had materialized by his boots and put the key and pills away until he was ready to use them.

Before he did anything else, he opened his city menu and invited Bandit’s tribe to join his faction, granting them access to Sense Hostility and Vital Energy Manipulation. The official notice was followed by dozens that were initiated by Liz, adding over fifty beast tribes to Team Earth within a matter of seconds.

Nick grinned at her ambition, thrilled to know she’d been busy while he was away and looking forward to their reunion. When he returned his attention to his updates, a message appeared that shocked him to his toes.

Congratulations. You have met the requirements for species evolution.

Your personal contribution has allowed you to evolve ahead of your species, which has acquired 11% of the experience required for general evolution at this time.

“Fuck me,” he muttered in disbelief. He’d earned a fat pile of species experience for completing this quest, and he knew he’d stolen some from the dreadbeasts too, but the scale of his gains blew him away. Zora was on the cusp of evolving to Grade C. When I absorbed its core, I must have claimed every scrap of evolutionary energy along with everything else.

That was when Nick realized why the System had granted him the Baseline Attribute Pills. It converted the attribute bonus from Blightborn into free points so my body didn’t explode, which means I still need to cap Charisma.

If he took the pills, he could max out his conditioning for D Grade here and now. He knew your total attributes affected the classes offered every twenty-five levels, and his instincts were dead certain that improving his species grade would influence the selection too. That meant if he wanted to pick up the best possible class—a Legendary no less—he needed to eat those pills and evolve before he looked at the list.

“Astonishing.” Kenji laughed when Nick shared the news.

“I’m looking forward to learning what improvements reaching Grade C offers, and it’s heartening to know that humanity is already 11% of the way there. The contestant species we encountered in the tower told us that it normally takes centuries or more. I’m also curious to see what kind of milestone bonus you receive for being the first person to max your conditioning. If I push hard, I might be able to do the same fast enough to pick up a lesser bonus.”

Filled with a fierce and rising excitement, Nick pulled the pills out of his backpack and swallowed them with a swig from his canteen. When they slid into his stomach, a prompt from the System appeared, asking him which baseline attribute he wanted to improve.

“Charisma, please.”

When those words left his lips, warmth began building in his stomach before spreading throughout his body, although most of the heat flowed into his brain. A wave of emotion broke over him—intense empathy for his friends, his people, and everyone on Yarren’s planet who had been devastated by the dreadbeasts.

As tears ran down his cheeks, Nick read the next update to appear.

As a milestone bonus for being the first member of your species to reach the cap for every attribute in D Grade, you have been granted 50 free attribute points.

“That’s one hell of an incentive.” Kenji whistled. “You should spend them before switching classes.”

Whatever Nick might have said was fated to go unuttered, because that was when his evolution began.