Then again, Markus wasn’t even totally sure if Drathok was trying to keep him here. He was really fucking confused by it, honestly. First, he’d tried to get him killed. Now, he was helping him. What next? Would Drathok care if Markus found a loophole and tried to speed his way through the rest of his contract? Maybe Markus had caused some kind of trouble for him. Perhaps that’s why the gods weren’t coming anymore. He’d definitely lied to him about something.

Maybe Drathok would be happy to see the back of him. He couldn’t be sure. Nothing that the demon did made total sense to him…

Which was why a definitive solution was simpler. Killing him didn’t involve having to make sense of anything…

Markus put the book down. He’d probably burned through a good hour just now reading and talking, and with the clock ticking down in his mind, he knew he needed to spend the last moments he might have in this world preparing.

He checked his mana again, his Essence Stones, Ember’s crystal. She was still absent, and it was likely for the better. He didn’t want her to have to face whatever this was with him. It was gonna be fucked up enough for him to have to deal with—she didn’t deserve that.

All the gods had been sent away… it was just him and Rika. They sat on a fence overlooking a sea of lava, legs dangling, as Markus prepared to dive on in.

Was he stupid to have turned all these gods away?

He was stupid to insult Randall as he had. He was. He could’ve been more courteous, more calm, heard him out better…

No. That guy was a piece of fucking work. He’d have taken total offense to Markus’ refusal regardless. All he cared about in the world was his own gratification.

But the others…

He’d chosen his own path. It was the path that would lead him to survival, that would give him his best chance. He’d done things he’d regretted on the way, and he’d perhaps continue to do things he might regret, but this was about getting past this trial, about escaping, about living. It’d only ever been about trying to survive in a world so hellbent on refusing him that right.

It’d only ever been about freedom. About not being shackled and chained.

Markus would be free.

And all the planning and preparation in the world didn’t do shit in the face of that solemn mantra permeating his mind.

He would be free. No matter what.

That was all that mattered to him.

He looked at Rika. Took comfort in her being sat beside him.

Nothing else mattered but his freedom.

He thought of Randall. His gleeful, smiling, sadistic face. His shrill voice. His shining golden eyes.

He would be free.

The alternative was too terrifying to consider.
