"Mngfrgh," Evi said again.

"Are you trying to say something?" Cale glanced at her.

"Mngfrgh," Evi said a third time, then smacked herself in the helmet. The clang echoed through the desert.

After it faded, she spoke as if nothing had happened. “The key would need to be returned to its true shape,” she explained. “An academy keeps it in one form, but if it is held by a different organization, it would take a new form to suit that organization."

"So it would need a shape similar to the way a dark lord’s armies are structured," Cale mused. His gaze sharpened slightly—hadn't he just observed the similarities between the Red Hunters and the way the armies of a dark one were usually set up? Had the Red Commander done that on purpose?

He couldn't exactly interrogate the Red Commander anymore, but there was still technically a squad of underlings that would be sent to Brightscale. The organization hadn't lost all its power or members in the wake of their leader's death; instead, it had mostly just lost its momentum.

So its underlings might very well still have an inkling on what their commander had been planning. That was important. If any of those plans was associated with the tournament, then it was almost certain he had known something of this and that the Lesion was somehow important to their plans or to the cults.

Cale supposed he’d have to find out exactly when they were planning on visiting. He glanced up from his musings to find Kryva watching him, something keenly observant in her eyes.

“You have acquired some crucial insight, I see,” she said when he met her eyes, chuckling. “It has truly been a pleasure meeting you, Cale Cadwell Cobbs. I look forward to working with you in the tournament. Make sure you attend, yes?”

“Of course,” Cale said, mostly because he was at a loss as to what else to say.

“As to the lesson on dark magic..." Kryva adopted a thoughtful expression. “I doubt it is quite so easy to access this ‘shadow’, or many more mages would have done it already. Am I right on this, Evi?”

“I, ah,” Evi said. “The meditative trance to even try usually blocks out all other senses. I thought it’d be prudent. Since we were discussing the key. But I don’t necessarily expect anyone to succeed, no. You’d need a particular affinity for it, or to join the dark lord. Uh, it’ll still help them with their melee magic though! Dark magic is emotional, so they’ll benefit from even trying.”

“It was not a criticism.” Kryva chuckled. “That was a clever move. I will offer my own assistance, I think. Perhaps one of our students will have a true affinity for the Dark.”

With that, she waved a hand, and Cale felt her cast [Tea Party] a second time. The second cast of the spell conjured delicious-looking plates of pastries in front of every student; somehow, it broke them immediately out of their meditative trances, and there were quiet exclamations of surprise and joy as they began digging eagerly into the snacks.

Cale had no idea how this was supposed to help with the dark magic thing, but he had a much more pressing concern. "I thought tea magic was closely related to baking magic," he said. "But does it... does it overlap that much? Did you just conjure croissants? You have to teach me. Or at least let me look at the spell!"

Kryva laughed softly. "Well, I suppose I could," she teased. Then she paused, her brows furrowing slightly and a hint of surprise showing in her eyes. "...But I believe you have something more important to concern yourself with first."

"What could possibly be—" Cale stopped mid-sentence as a dread energy filled the air.

He turned slowly to Syphus.

Its plate of pastries was empty, somehow, which was interesting; Cale noted he had once again missed his opportunity to observe how it ate. Probably more important, though, was the fact that its infernal eye had grown into an ominous, burning thing that gazed down on them with terrible power.

"Syphus," he said. "Please don't tell me you did dark magic on your eye."

"I did dark magic on my eye," Syphus said. "Please help. I can see this big pulsating egg thing and I don't like it."

That made sense. Syphus didn’t tend to like any reminder of the mess that was organic life. Though he had no idea why it would be looking at an egg, of all...

Cale paused. “Syphus,” he asked incredulously. “Are you looking at the Lesion?”
