Rain smiled, lying flat on his back atop a pallet within the tent Vanna had set up for him and Ameliah. This tent was made from thick monster pelts, not linen, and it felt more private despite being smack-dab in the center of the camp. He couldn’t hear any noise from their neighbors, nor even Tallheart working at his forge in the distance. An incandescent bulb hanging from the central pole cast warm light over the interior, making things positively snug.

The snug feeling could also have come from Ameliah, lying perpendicular to him and once more using his chest as a pillow. Rain had his arm draped over her waist, and she was tracing tiny circles on his forearm with a finger. They were both armored, but with the enchantments active, the sensation came through clearly. They’d also removed their helmets and gauntlets. Such things were fast enough to slip back on in an emergency. Rain had been taking advantage of the opportunity to run his fingers through Ameliah’s hair, the Malleable Ring loose around his finger, though he’d paused to look at his status.

“Hey,” she said, laughter in her voice. “Did I say you could stop?”

“Sorry,” Rain said, smiling and resuming the motion. “I was distracted.”

“Mmmhmm,” Ameliah said, not sounding surprised. “Get those three levels yet?”

“Class, no, skills, yes,” Rain said, then pulled open the skill card for Channel Mastery.

Channel Mastery (11/15) Exp: 1,334/11,200

Allows intuitive control of channeled skill intensity and tick rate

Minimum skill intensity: 0%

Maximum skill intensity: 200%

Maximum skill tick rate: 1.2s

Minimum skill tick rate: 0.8s

Skill mana cost modified by intensity adjustment

Skill intensity per tick modified proportional to tick rate

“Anything interesting?” Ameliah asked.

“Channel Mastery,” Rain replied, doing a bad job of hiding his excitement. His generally giddy mood after hearing about Ameliah’s soul progress wasn’t helping. “It does exactly what you said, look. Let me read it to you.”

Ameliah listened patiently, then shrugged when he finished, clearly not sharing his enthusiasm. “I’m glad you’re happy, Rain. Most people feel robbed when they find out. Sure, if you slow a spell down, you can concentrate damage to break resistances, but more damage would have had the same effect. As for increasing the tick rate, it would be one thing if it let you get around the damage limit, but that’s on the receiving end, so it won’t help. The speedup is useless for most spells.”

“It’s not useless for Detection!” Rain said. “Do the math, Ameliah. If it keeps scaling like this, it will be continuous at rank fifteen. Real-time tracking of whatever I’m looking for.”

Ameliah snorted. “As long as whatever you’re looking for doesn’t have resistance.”

“Bah,” Rain said, waving the hand he’d been using to stroke her hair to dismiss the window. “So I use a tick of fifty milliseconds at high power. I would barely even notice the lag. It would have been great to have this afternoon, let me tell you. Reason had me traipsing all over the forest, looking for a list of plants longer than my arm. They aren’t entities, so I can’t use IFF to bundle them up, but with this…” Rain snapped his fingers, “I could run the whole sequence like that.”

“If you say so, macro boy,” Ameliah said.

“Hey, careful,” Rain said, craning his neck to smile at her. “What if Kettel heard you? That could catch on.”

Ameliah laughed. “Don’t worry about it. We’ve got Muffle runes now.”

“Huh?” Rain asked, blinking. “Wait…what?”

“I thought you knew,” Ameliah said, lifting her head slightly. “Romer figured it out this morning.” She pointed at one of the tent walls, and Rain’s jaw dropped as he saw that there was indeed a rune painted there. The ink was black, barely standing out against the Deepcat hide, but it had a slight reflective sheen—doubtless from ground-up Tel.

“You must be blind,” Ameliah continued. “How did you miss them?”

“I’ve been looking at you, not the tent,” Rain replied, rolling his head the other way to see a second copy of the rune on the opposite wall. He peered over Ameliah’s raised head to see a third painted on the inside of the flap. “You’re very distracting.”

“I am,” Ameliah agreed contentedly, settling her head back down on his chest and snuggling his arm tighter around her.

“Why aren’t they glowing?”

“Romer’s level five, Rain. I don’t know what you were expecting.”

“Glowing,” Rain said, shaking his head, then laid his head back as well to look at the ceiling. “I guess I need to talk to Romer. I’m surprised he didn’t mention it when I got back from my run with Jamus. I was running Winter for his literacy class, and he had plenty of opportunities to brag about it while the students were working. He’s been obsessive about the runes we found in Lady Sale’s lair, doubly so since I asked him to find a way to secure the council meetings. Why didn’t he tell me he cracked one of them?”

“Would you have derailed his entire class to interrogate him for the details?”

“…maybe.”

“Well, there you go,” Ameliah said. “He knows you.”

“He could have told me after,” Rain said with a sigh. “Though I suppose that would have just disrupted my algebra class instead. If I hadn’t jumped right into it once he finished, half the students would have had the chance to escape.”

Ameliah laughed. “Speaking of running, how’s Jamus? Did you two have a good guy talk?”

Rain grinned. “He and Meloni are getting married.” Jamus had authorized him to spill the beans, given that he planned to tell Carten tomorrow. Once he did that, the whole camp would know in short order anyway.

“About time,” Ameliah said, her tone conveying not the slightest hint of surprise. “When?”

“On the first,” Rain said, slightly put out. “He asked me to conduct the ceremony.”

“Really?” Ameliah asked, raising her head again to look at him.

“Oh, now you’re surprised,” Rain said with a laugh. “Yes, really. And I accepted. For some reason, he didn’t go for my initial suggestion that Carten do it instead.”

Ameliah smirked. “Tallheart would have been even better. Remember what he said to us?” The emotion suddenly drained from her face, and she spoke in a flat tone, deepening her voice. “Now, kiss.”

Rain laughed, kissing her on the forehead, though it was awkward from his current angle.

Ameliah sighed happily. “You know, I’ve never been to a wedding. Ellish or otherwise.”

“Ellish?” Rain asked. “Jamus used the same word, but I didn’t get a chance to ask what it meant. Does that refer to like a sect or something?”

“Nothing so specific,” Ameliah said, waving a hand. “It means people who follow El above the other gods. Most do, outside Xiugaaraa. There, it’s all Dystees, Dystees, Dystees, with El demoted to steward or something. Don’t ask me to explain the pantheon. I’m not an expert.”

“You are compared to me,” Rain said, smiling. “I asked Jamus why Samahleah isn’t in charge of marriages, given that she’s the goddess of love and all that, and apparently, that was the funniest thing I’ve ever said. He wouldn’t tell me why.”

Ameliah chuckled. “Oh, Rain. So innocent.”

“Huh?”

“Here,” Ameliah said. She rolled her head to the side, levering herself up to bite playfully at his lips. “Let me teach you a few things.”

*CLANG* *CLANG* *CLANG*

“Tallheart!”

Pausing with his hammer raised in mid-swing, Tallheart looked up. Slowly, the echo of metal crashing into metal faded into the night. He squinted, seeing Vanna step into the flickering light of his forge.

“It’s late,” Vanna said in lieu of a greeting, crossing her arms and fixing him with a particularly human glare.

“So?” A scratchy voice asked. Staavo’s grease-covered head popped up from behind the half-reconstructed forge-wagon. “We’re working.”

“I am working,” Tallheart corrected. “You are an invader.”

“Bah,” Staavo grumped, waving a hand at him.

“What you’re doing is keeping everyone awake,” Vanna said.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, returning his hammer to his belt. “Apologies. I will ask Romer to ward the area tomorrow now that he has learned the required rune. A dozen of them should be sufficient.” He turned to look flatly at Staavo. “Unfortunately, the formation will only block noise. It will not stop goats from getting in.”

“Hardy-har-har, you lumbering hat rack,” Staavo replied, planting his hands on his hips.

“Staavo,” Vanna warned.

Tallheart rumbled, amused. She did not understand the game.

Staavo walked over to Tallheart, then slapped him on the back before pointing to a strung-out assembly lying on the ground. “You were right. That gearbox will never work. I’ve got no fucking clue what Rain was trying to say, and he can’t draw for shit. Meet you for breakfast to talk about it before we hunt him down?”

“Very well,” Tallheart said, turning toward the camp and walking past Vanna into the darkness. “Good night, old goat.”

“Bark-eater.”

“Hop-foot.”

“Shovel-face.”

“Smooth-skull.”

There was a pause, then Staavo muttered, “Damn it, I’ve got nothing.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, wearing a satisfied smile. He could practically hear Vanna’s eyes rolling in her head behind him.
