“Princess, I have to lift you out of here.” Ren said and climbed onto his distorted Phantom Steed. “We need to have the ghouls come out to track us, and then your path will lead them right back here.”

Princess huffed and leaned close. Very well.

Ren grabbed her by the saddle formed on the back of her armor and picked her up easily, even though she was so much bigger than he was. Everyone, even Elerlyth, expected him to at least tilt a little; but he held her out to the side, his arm extended out, and it didn't look like it was at all difficult for him to stay that way.

“Everyone, go straight up.” Ren said. “Don't muddle Princess' hard work.”

The distorted mount he rode reared back and went straight up.

“That looks so weird.” Billy said.

“SHUT UP, MAN!” Tommy yelled, and Billy winced.

The rest of the Phantom Steeds did the same thing as Ren's; they reared back and went straight up. Once they were up high enough, Ren stopped and took out the Staff of Earth and pulled the dirt around and away from the crypt's doorway.

“Let's go!” Ren turned towards the town and flew off. They all followed Ren, and Clint didn't even have time to argue that he was the leader of the party.

*

Officer Holly Stonewall was having a hard time keeping her temper as she talked to the airhead that had the same name as her in real life. The 'Holly' that worked in Ren's shop was all alone at the moment, and Officer Holly tried to get a straight answer out of her.

“What do you mean he isn't here?” Officer Holly asked.

Holly shrugged. “All I know is that Annie said he was going to be gone for a few days.”

“Then where's Annie?” Officer Holly asked.

“Out making deliveries.” Holly said.

“Where?”

“All over the place, I guess.” Holly said.

“How long is she going to be?” Officer Holly asked.

Holly shrugged again. “I don't make deliveries.”

Officer Holly closed her eyes for a moment, took a deep breath, and opened them to look at the ditsy woman in front of her.

“Thank you.” Officer Holly said through a fake smile and partially gritted teeth. “You've been very helpful.”

“You're welcome!” Holly said, and let her bubbly personality out. “Thanks for stopping by!”

Officer Holly left the shop both frustrated and angry. She let her pent up anger out and stormed down the street.

Stupid ignorant wench! Officer Holly thought. I'm glad she's not real, because meeting someone like that in real life would kill me... or her. She thought and smiled as she let the thought roll around her mind. Oh, yes... definitely her.

Officer Holly hit something and bounced off, lost a quarter of her Health, and fell to the ground. “Ow!”

“Oh! I'm terribly sorry!” Frikara said and held out a hand. “Let me help you up.”

“T-thank you.” Officer Holly said. It was like hitting a brick wall. “I wasn't watching where I was going.”

“Neither was I.” Frikara said and chuckled. “I think we both need to be more careful.”

Officer Holly rubbed her chest where it had hit Frikara's shoulder.

“You're hurt.” Frikara said and turned round. “Lusinia!”

Lusinia came over and looked at the two women. “Yes?”

“This woman and I ran into each other, can you check her? She's hurt.”

“Of course.” Lusinia put a slightly glowing hand out and hovered it over Officer Holly's chest. “You're only Level 1?”

“I am... wait, how did you know that?” Officer Holly asked, surprised.

“It's my gift from Lord Ren!” Lusinia said happily, then she nodded. “You're quite bruised and you've lost a quarter of your Health.” She said, much to Officer Holly's astonishment. “Let's get you to the healer.”

“Everyone!” Frikara said, and the other maids came over to her. “We're headed to the healer!”

“Ooo, we haven't been there before.” Navruth said.

“I hope there's a food stall nearby.” Verwynn said.

“Andrela? Lead the way.” Frikara said, and Andrela deftly moved through the crowd and led them across several streets to the small healer outpost.

“I've been all over the city, and I didn't know this was here.” Officer Holly said.

“Neither did we until Andrela told us.” Frikara said.

They all went inside and the healer there diagnosed Officer Holly right away. He healed her, and warned her that staying at Level 1, even inside the city, was not a wise thing to do. Frikara paid the 10 silver fee, despite Officer Holly's attempts to pay instead. They left the healer outpost and Officer Holly didn't know what to do. She was actually in the company of the very thing she had gotten angry at Ren for.

“You look troubled.” Frikara said. “What's wrong?”

Officer Holly sighed. “I'm sorry, I... I know it's not your fault that you're in this situation...”

“What are you talking about?”

“I know you're Ren's personal maids.” Officer Holly said.

“And?”

Officer Holly looked at her with wide eyes. “You're okay with that?”

“Are you kidding?” Frikara laughed. “It's the best thing in the world!”

“Wh-what?”

“When we were under contract to... our last...” Frikara shook her head. “No, he doesn't deserve to be spoken of in the same context as Ren.” She said and smiled. “Ren is...”

“...generous...” Lusinia said.

“...strong...” Verwynn said.

“...handsome...” Andrela said.

“...kind...” Navruth said.

“...and more desirable than any man we've ever met.” Frikara finished. “We would do anything for him.”

Officer Holly sighed. “Like sleep with him.”

“We sleep with him every night.” Frikara said and then smiled. “I sometimes feel bad when we take advantage of his good nature and pile on top of him.”

Officer Holly blinked her eyes several times.

“The feel of his hands on our skin, the touch of his lips on our necks...” Frikara sighed.

“He's always treated us with respect.” Lusinia said. “Not once has he made us feel like...” She stopped talking and looked at the other maids. “Frikara's right. I won't speak of the last one.”

“I just hope he can talk to the others soon.” Navruth said.

“Me, too.” Andrela said. “If he gets permission...” She took in a deep breath. “Oh, I hope they say yes!”

Officer Holly looked at Frikara. “Say yes to what?”

“To going farther than just playing.” Frikara said. “I can't wait to have-”

“Frikara!” Lusinia said, and she sighed.

“I'm sorry, I shouldn't let my thoughts go there.” Frikara said. “Thank you, Lusinia.”

Lusinia gave her a quick hug. “Let's go back to the house and get something to eat.”

Frikara nodded slightly.

“Great! I'm starving!” Verwynn said, and the others chuckled.

Officer Holly couldn't believe what she had heard. Ren wasn't lying. She thought, surprised. He really hasn't taken advantage of them.

“Are you hungry?” Andrela asked Officer Holly. “Would you like to eat, too?”

“I... I would, actually.” Officer Holly said. “Thank you.”

The group of 6 women, 5 short ones and one tall one, chatted animatedly as they walked over to the Housing District.
