RIVERWALL

David walked off the last steps into the basement, the latest crate-full of #67's stone sculptures in his arms. The golem had all but forgotten about Rinka and instead spent his day roaming around, picking up small stones and rocks, and carving them with his metal hands.

The construction workers working on the Allwarden compound had to chase him away from the supply of masonry stones and bricks. The golem apparently didn't make a distinction.

David had to admit that the brick sculptures had a nice look to them. Maybe he should buy rocks, bricks and semi-precious gems for #67 to work on? Would he even notice the difference?

He let the thought float away as he stashed the crate next to the small pile of other stuff they'd started accumulating: old clothes, housewares, extra book copies, leftover materials, a few crates of 67's sculptures, and various other things.

All carefully catalogued by Niala, of course. Rummaging for things wasn't efficient.

It might just be a pile of things, but to him, it represented something else; the accumulation of memories and proof that he and Niala were settling down roots. Not too long ago, he thought he'd be on the road until his old days. Now, he was looking forward to growing this pile of stuff. As he turned around and left the basement, palming the light back off, he idly wondered how big it would grow and what sort of clutter it would be made of.

He didn't hear the crate he'd just deposited shift by itself a few centimetres, closer to the rest of the stuff, forming a more compact pile.

Linzy looked at #67 as he carved yet another animal into a small rock. His eyes zoomed in, his hands smoothing out a little paw-pad, and then he was done. He held the new waving dog at arm's length, staring at it, before turning his eyes toward Linzy and approaching her. He offered the dog sculpture, palm out, and waited.

She smiled and picked it up, observing it and running her hands over its details. She didn't know how #67 did it, but he was able to texture the rock to an incredible degree using just his hands and fingers. The tiny paw pads even had the right slightly rugged texture.

She looked up at the golem, who was staring at her. “Yer really good at carving stones, 67. Do ya like doin' it so much? I'm always seein' ya carvin' something.”

#67 pulled back a bit, holding his hands up and staring at them. “These are – the devil's hands! - my tools!” He said with his off-key voice.

Linzy tilted her head. “Hmm... anything else ya'd like to try with them mitts?”

The golem let his hands fall and refocused on the goblin. “When do I – get out of this joint! – start!?”

She grinned. “I was jus' thinking... glass is a kind of mineral, right?”

#67's eyes jerked and re-aligned. “That's crazy talk!”

Inside the mostly finished reception hall of their embassy, David and Niala stood in front of their newest “hires”. Ten azure guards who had volunteered to be part of the First Scion's personal guard, with Alimaya the elf as their captain, at the front.

They wore the traditional Azure Guard armour, but painted in shades of white, light blue and yellow, the official colours of the Reign Ascendant. They had even added a simple orange sash to the outfit, a colour which Jordo said denoted security and house guards. All very on point, and a surprise; David and Niala had expected the standard Azure Guard colours.

They were, after all, just loans from the Amberfall crown. Technically, these men and women had “emigrated” to the Reign Ascendant, but the term was meaningless. Under the treaty between the two countries, all lawful residents of either were automatically granted dual citizenship. In effect, the difference between the two nations existed only on paper.

Alimaya saluted her new commanding officers. “Captain Alimaya reporting for duty! The Scion Guards are ready for inspection!”

David sighed, while Niala barely contained her smile. She directed it at him, and his resignation retreated, leaving just enough eagerness for him to play along.

He took a step forward and addressed his “troops”. “Scion Guards, this is your formal induction under the employ of the Allwarden family. Your orders have been processed, and your transfer is effective as of now. You no longer report to the Amberfall crown, and will no longer receive direct aid from them.”

He waited a beat before continuing. “You are now, for all intents and purposes, a new unit. Your only commanding offers are Captain Alimaya, here present, me, David Allwarden, my wife, Niala Allwarden, and our new marshal, Leandro Gustall.”

Breaths were held in, and eyes snapped toward an opening side door through which came walking out a somewhat younger-looking Leandro, in his heavy knight plate, decorated with Reign Ascendant colours. The large man had a huge grin on his face as he marched up to stand beside David and Niala, eyeing his new troops.

He slammed a foot on the floor. “Scion Guards! I am Marshall Leandro Gustall! Sworn to the house of Allwarden, as all of you are! I vow, today, to turn you all into the most elite force this continent has ever seen!” His grin never left his face.

The man was genuinely happy. Every guard was terrified.

Alimaya made the best showing of it, registering the barest of despair on her face. “Gene- Marshall Gustall, I was not aware you had joined the Reign Ascendant.”

Leandro let out a single laugh. “Captain! Retirement was simply too boring, and besides, I was offered a truly appetizing incentive!” He let his eyes scan the sweating guards. “Soldiers of clay for my hands to mould! My friends, once I am done with you, no single sane person will even dare think to approach our wards!”

David gave his troops a few seconds to regret their decision before moving on. “I will now reveal a few things to you all, which are critical to performing your task properly. The marshall will give you a full briefing, but I wanted to be the one to tell you the major points.”

He dipped his head once and continued. “Firstly, I have received the same imbuements, and more, that you did as Azure Guards. I also have a great store of mana. In a fight, I am not to be your primary; my wife, Niala, is.”

He looked at everyone, making sure they had all understood. “Secondly, I also have an ally, which I will present to you right now. Do not attack him when he appears.”

Under the puzzled looks of his troops, David closed his eyes and found his inner sea, where he set about breaking mana once more, summoning a horse-sized Leviathan in the room with them.

Gasps and shuffling equipment underlined the sea-serpent's appearance. David held a hand toward him. “This is Leviathan. As I said, he is an ally, and so, he is also your ally. Treat him as such.” He gave a nod to Leviathan.

The mana beast dipped its head, his thunderous voice filling the hall. “Greetings, Scion Guards. As my Lord said, we are united in purpose, to serve and protect the Allwarden family.”

David sighed and returned his attention to the troop. “Finally, two revelations about my wife. I ask that you keep these to yourself. We are telling you as a show of trust, and because it is important that you know what we are capable of.” He turned to his wife. “Niala?”

She nodded with a grin and stepped forward, ears flopping. “Hi everyone! I'm Niala Allwarden. I hope you'll enjoy working with us! I'm an alchemist, and my brews will always be available to you for free, so don't hesitate to let me know if you need something!”

Most of the Scion Guards didn't try to suppress their smile at the mention of free Niala potions. She continued. “Now, two secrets about me. First, I have, relatively recently, inherited a gift.”

She held out a hand, and the air within the hall began to swirl, coalescing into a ball of churning winds. She moved her hand around, and the ball followed, until she willed it closed and it landed on her open palm. Concentrating on it, she willed it smaller, more compact, until it was a smooth sphere. She looked back at the troops who had their eyes glued to her.

With the tiniest of blushes, she kept going. “I can control wind, to a certain degree. I'm still learning, and I'm getting better, but there you have it. As for my second secret...”

She closed her eyes and began weaving a story into the wind sphere. She released it as her eyes snapped open. Her violet mana dove into the sphere as wisps of energy, like dye in water, soon turning it the colour of her eyes.

The winds inside the sphere joined each other into sinuous shapes, like an embryo growing to maturity in a few seconds. The sphere stilled, and the thing inside unfolded. Wings of violet energy broke the surface, shattering the translucent shape, and a falcon made of tangible amethyst air currents screeched, taking flight once around the room before alighting on Niala's shoulder.

She gave the ephemeral construct a few head scratches, its head pushing into her touch, clearly enjoying the feeling. She turned her attention back to the troops. “So, I'm also a weaver.”

None of the troops said a word.

Until Sybil's mouth worked without her consent. “I'm so happy I signed up for this! I don't even care about General Gustall's torture anymore!”

All nine other guards face-palmed in sync.

The bunnykin man stepped off the autocar inbound from Bellharbour, following the small throng of migrant workers. Adjusting the half-moon reading lens resting on the bridge of his nose, he gave the town a look over. Quaint, but ebullient, as he was told to expect, with new buildings in various stages of construction wherever he laid his eyes, and work crews busy on every one of them.

He pulled at the chain of his breast-pocket watch, checked the time and dipped his head. Storing it back, he dusted his suit, straightened a perceived wrinkle, hefted his travelling case, and stepped forward, disappearing in the crisscrossing crowds.

After asking for directions, the bunykin made his way out the west gate, following along the main road out, which was in the process of being widened and paved. He walked past a rather large railcar station in its early stages of construction before finding the road he was looking for.

From what the guard had told him, this road had remained unmarked and unnamed until recently, though the new sign had put a stop to its anonymity. It now displayed: Alchemy Street.

A fitting name.

He turned down the street, and soon came upon a gated compound. A guard in yellow, white and blue armour stood at the entrance.

The bunnykin stopped a few paces away. “Greetings. I am Rupert Dellong. I was told to seek Lord and Lady Allwarden?”

The guard observed him for a moment. “Are they expecting you?”

Rupert spoke as he retrieved a letter from his pocket. “They are expecting someone, but they do not yet know it is me.” He held out the letter. “If you would, please hand Lady Niala this letter. It should resolve any immediate questions.”

The guard took the letter from his hands, flipped it over once, and nodded. “Wait here, sir. I'll announce your presence.”

Rupert bowed in thanks, stepped to the side of the road, and waited.

The wait was, thankfully, short, and abruptly interrupted with a surprised exclamation from a voice he hadn't heard in a very long time.

“Uncle Rupert! It's really you!” Niala shouted as soon as she caught sight of the bunnykin.

He turned his head toward the girl- or rather, the young, fully grown woman. It really had been a long time. He smiled despite himself and turned to face her rapidly advancing form.

She slowed down just enough not to slam into him, instead merely knocking a bit of air out of his lungs, as she locked him into a hug.

“Niala, dear, it is good to see you in such good health.” He said

She let go and pulled back, leaving her hands over his arms. “Uncle! I read the letter! Dad really asked you to come work for us? And you accepted?”

Her ears wiggled. “I thought you didn't want to work in Amberfall ever again?”

He gave her a one-sided smile. “Well, I do owe your father quite a lot, and I won't exactly be working in Amberfall now, will I, Lady Allwarden?”

The woman, his niece in name only, let go of his arms and folded them over herself as she blushed and looked away. “I'm still not used to that...”

He quirked an eyebrow. “To being called a lady?”

Her ears twitched as she looked back at him. “Yeah, that. Doesn't feel... true.”

He chuckled. “No, I guess it would not, for you. You are missing something that most nobles need.”

“What's that?”

He leaned forward. “A sense of superiority.” He revealed, winked, and straightened back up. He looked at the man who had come along with Niala and whom he had ignored thus far.

A tall and well-built young man, with scary eyes, ever so slightly leaning forward, toward Niala. Rupert excused himself from his “niece” and faced the man. “You must be Lord David Allwarden. I am Rupert Dellong, here for a potential position as seneschal to the Allwarden family of the Reign Ascendant.”

The man glanced at Niala, receiving some silent signal, and visibly relaxed as he approached him. “It is a pleasure to meet you, Sir Dellong. My lady wife bolted off as soon as she got the letter, so I haven't had time to ask. Are you really her uncle?”

Rupert shook his head. “No, unfortunately. I do owe Cornelius quite a lot, and I have worked for him as the regional manager for the Sonnel branch of the Cococo – the Cornelius Concoctions Company, as you may know it. Lady Niala's fondness for me probably stems from my closeness with her father.”

Niala stepped closer and joined the conversation. “That, and Uncle Rupert is super nice and reliable!” She added with a swishing tail and a smile.

The gentleman bunnykin bowed his head at Niala. “Your ladyship is too kind.”

Niala grimaced. “Stop that, please, uncle. It feels weird when you talk to me like that.”

“Unfortunately, if you do deign to hire this fallen noble as your seneschal, I will be obligated to address you as such, my lady.”

She squinted. “...Fine, but only during working hours. If you call me a lady when we're in private, I'm not letting you eat my cooking.”

Rupert blinked. Niala's cooking... she had been 14 the last time he had seen her, and yet he could still remember her dishes from then, when she had only taken up the craft for a few years.

And now, almost a decade later... his mouth nearly salivated at the thought of what height her culinary skills must have reached.

He nodded with enthusiasm. “As you wish, Niala.”

She smiled.

Both because she was happy to see him again after so long, and because she had started to realize how much of a powerful weapon her cooking was.

Angeline might have been partly to blame for that.