He was a great man, but he was only one person. Everyone knew that soon, he wouldn’t be able to hold back the trouble. There would come a day with not enough food, and they would have to start choosing. Which baby? Which old one? Which unique and precious self could the village continue on without?

And then…a girl of the village disappeared on a hunt.

A whole day and a night passed, and just when they decided she must be lost to them forever, she stumbled back into the village. Her body was covered in stings. Only one of her eyes would open. Her hands and arms were so swollen she could barely carry the gift she’d brought them, and a wonderful gift it was for those hungry people—a basket lined with wax and filled with the nectar of the thrumming flowers.

She told them that she had walked much farther than she should have, following a smell that had reached a nose made more sensitive by need.

“And I found them there,” she said through lips so thick they could barely understand her. “I stayed until I had squeezed the nectar from every one. Eat. Eat.”

Why, they all asked her. Why hadn’t she cut the flowers and brought those instead? In the village, the flowers could be dried, and the stingers that lived inside them would die. They could have had the nectar that way, without her being hurt.

“We could only have the nectar once that way,” she explained. “If the flowers and the stingers are still alive, someone can walk to them and harvest every few days.”

She said she would do the job herself every time she could.

“I wish I could thrum like you and soothe the stingers,” she told the elder brother. “But since I can’t, and since you are so busy for us, the pain must be endured.”

Upon hearing that, the good, tired wizard suddenly had an idea. He went to the home his younger brother had built for himself; it was nearly a tree palace by then, with more room than any family in the village had. And when he found his brother he said, “You are so powerful, and you find new truths as easily as I might discover a twig on the ground. I’m sure you’re busy, but just this once, won’t you find a truth our people need and make it into a magic for us? Won’t you find a way for everyone in the village to make this noise?

“Hurrrummmmmm. Hurrrummmmmm.”

It was a sound he often used in his songs, and I’m sure you can hear why. Such a soft tickle against your ears.

“Hurrrummmmmm,” said the elder. “Hurrru—”

“I know the sound the flowers make,” said the younger. “I don’t need you to reproduce it over and over. Why would I go around figuring out how to give people new sounds? And why would you even want me to do that? If everyone in the village can thrum, half of your songs won’t be special to them anymore.”

******

******

“There are two versions of the story from here,” Esh-erdi said.

He’d pulled a small bottle out of one of his pockets, and he was taking occasional sips from it. Alden was afraid he was preparing for another croak.

“The first is the version everyone else tells, in which the elder brother speaks words of reason, then appeals to the younger brother’s <<absent>> compassion, and finally pleads and praises until that filthy stain of a wizard has an orgasm of the ego and decides he can offer his time if everyone in the village will talk to him like that while he works.” Esh-erdi gestured dismissively. “But you’re not as young as most audiences, so I can tell you my version instead. It’s better.”

“That doesn’t surprise me,” said Alden.

******

******

“If everyone in the village can thrum, half of your songs won’t be special to them anymore.”

And that was when the elder looked upon the younger and finally accepted the truth—he was related to one of the worst people who’d ever drawn breath. There was probably a poisonous fish in the river, missing a couple of eyes and a fin, that was more valuable to the village than this man. After all, the emotional damage caused to everyone else by having such a person living in a tree palace above their starving village had to be taken into consideration.

That younger brother had been nectar-sucking his whole life, but he let that girl go milk flowers by herself until she almost swelled to death? You think someone as powerful as him didn’t already know those flowers were there?

And so the elder resolved himself not to tolerate the younger’s personality for a moment longer.

“My brother,” he said, “you are not my brother anymore. And if you do not help us now, then I will croak at you like you are one of those beasts I killed that day….I’ve always been very suspicious about that situation, by the way. I know I’m not the clever brother, but that doesn’t mean I’m stupid.

“So are you going to help us, or are you going to find out what the sound of your death is?”

******

******

“I like that version,” said Alden.

“Thank you. I made it up when I was a child. I think it’s an improvement.”

******

******

The younger had finally swallowed a grain of the fear that the people less fortunate than him ate daily. He agreed to do what his brother had asked of him. And though he did work day and night, the teller of this story hopes you won’t praise him for help he was forced to give.

The village that had nurtured him in his youth might have been so much safer and happier, if only he’d used a small fraction of his power for the sake of the others all along.

At least he was working now. Every morning, the elder came to him and said, “Have you found something that will help our people thrum?”

He answered no. And no. And no, not yet.

Until one morning, when the elder came, the younger said, “Your strength is enough to bend a stick, but your hands reach for the whole forest. If you want one of them to thrum for today, I can do it. But you want all of them to thrum forever? You ask too much.”

“One day, my body will nourish these trees that shade us,” said the elder. “Our people will still be here. Another time of hardship will come. We must give them something that will last.”

When he came again the next morning, the younger said, “I’ve thought of a way to do it, but I’m sure you’ll say no. Your sounds are things of power you’ve made for yourself. I think if I perform a certain magic, you might give  the thrum away to many people, and as long as you do not make the sound ever again yourself, they will keep it. If you live long enough in this way, then when your body goes to nourish the trees, perhaps the village will continue thrumming without you.”

“Yes,” said the elder.

“Yes?” the younger asked in shock.

“What an amazing thing you’ve just told me,” said the elder. “That the sacrifice of one of my sounds could do so much good for so many other people…truly, the universe is a kind place if that is possible.”

“You fool,” said the younger. “You think it’s so easy? The song you sang to comfort the girl with the stings last night was the most beautiful of your life. If you do this, you will never sing so beautifully again.”

“Will the others not sing with me with the new sound I have given them? Will there not be many hurrrummmmmms, when always before there has only been mine?”

“You fool,” the younger said again.

But the magic was completed that night, and in the morning, the villagers  all went together to the flowers. They coaxed the nectar from the blooms and drank of its sweetness, and nobody was stung.

And when it was time again for the elder to sing, it was true that his song wasn’t as good. Worse storytellers say that it mattered not, that he felt nothing but pride and happiness, and that when his people added their new thrumming to his song, all was made more than right.

I doubt that’s true.

Though the elder was certainly proud and he was certainly happy, was there not a new splinter in his heart? A small one. One he could live with without regret.

But must we pretend it wasn’t there even on that first day, when he had sacrificed only a single sound?

Even the worse storytellers agree it appeared at some point, that splinter. For there were so many sounds to give.

The one that tempted the pollinators, the one to frighten the pests, the one that traveled far to call back villagers who’d gotten lost in that dark forest. He gave away the sound that eased a mother in her labor and the one that pulled the worms from the roots. The whisper that reached a single ear. The sounds of every animal and plant in the forest, one by one, as his people found uses for them.

Call the flying creatures from their nests, the running ones toward your net. Make the soft patter of the rain to hide your footsteps from the ones that hunt you.

Here. Try reenreenreen, as high as you can, and the mogaroo will come. Her meat will be rich even when all the other game has turned to bone.

Try otyuuuut, very softly, and you may look at the beautiful grippertail in its plumage season without frightening it.

Try zzzzzz, zzzzzz, zzzz. And then tatatatatatatatat, as fast as you can. That will get you something good out of the pinkbark trees.

The elder brother gave all those sounds away. Eventually, he gave every sound away, except for the most dangerous one.

By the time he was an elder of the village in truth, he would not even risk using the speech he’d been born with, for what if a word was too close to the sounds he’d given away? What if, by a single word, he broke the magic his brother had devised, and robbed the people of their new voices?

They hadn’t had another hard season since he gave them the thrumming. Whatever terror came, whatever problem arose, the flexible voices of the villagers could solve it.

The younger had left after the last sound was given. He couldn’t stand being reminded of his brother every time someone opened their mouth, and I’m sure he was envious of the elder’s many friends, lovers, children, and grandchildren.

And the unclimbing beasts? They rarely hunted near the village, because the elder, with only one sound left to him, had to use it every time he spoke. He learned to say BRRR-BRRRRUUP-BRRWEEEEE-eeeeeeeemp! in many different ways—quietly, merrily, gratefully, sadly—but it was still an ugly sound that made even the people who had heard it all their lives feel a shiver of fear.

Once every few years, when a beast who didn’t know of him came too close, he would once again be forced to unleash its power to protect them all: BRRR-BRRRRUUP-BRRWEEEEE-eeeeeeeemp!

Pardon the coughing. I think I vibrated something too much with that last one.

The children born in the village thereafter were born with the beautiful voices, too, and for each of them, a day would come when they asked their parents what was wrong with that kind elder who walked around with no songs at all and only different versions of a repulsive croak? He couldn’t even speak a name for himself other than BRRR-BRRRRUUP-BRRWEEEEE-eeeeeeeemp!

He couldn’t talk a fish toward him or a bloodeater away from him. The thrumming flowers grew everywhere around the village by then, but the elder couldn’t even taste them without someone else soothing the stingers.

He seemed to the children like someone so different he barely belonged in the village at all, but their parents treated him with more respect than any other old one. And they talked to him plainly, as if the croaks he gave them in reply were nothing more than normal words. Sometimes, they even urged him to sing with them, though he almost never did.

Why didn’t the adults complain about all the croaking? Why didn’t they ever ask that broken elder to stop it? It was a mystery so hard the children couldn’t squeeze the juice from it.

Then, their parents would tell them this story, and they would finish it by saying, “The elder is a wizard who could sing and speak more beautifully than any of us if he chose to. Instead, he chooses to croak, so that the village thrives. He lives with a splinter so that we have everything else. Why would we mention his loss to him, or the ways that he is different from us, when we know it might drive the splinter deeper?”

Most of the children understood; they grew in wisdom from the story and learned to respect the elder as their parents did. Only a few silly ones went on feeling that the croak and the elder who made it were a lot of trouble. And those only thought that way until the first unclimbing beast of their lives came.

The croak had grown the more the elder used it, you see. And with no other sound, he mastered every nuance of the one he had left. By the time he was old, the elder’s greatest croak would shatter the skulls of every beast within a week’s walk of the village, while up above them the flying animals still flew and in the river, the fish still swam.

It was the most terrifying of sounds, but it did real harm only to the dangerous beasts.

“Can you make a sound like that?” the parents would ask the children who trembled at their legs.

Of course they couldn’t. Even the elder hadn’t been able to make a sound like that until he gave up all the others. The perfect croak that hurt the hurters and spared the innocent was the talent his suffering had bought, and they say that on the eve of his death, the elder unleashed the best one of all.

For many generations after that, the unclimbing beasts vanished from that forest. And though it was long before The Woman of Power was born to take her turn protecting them, those people slept at ease and ate their fill and the village the elder had loved grew high and wide.

They remembered him, and we remember him, and your children will remember him when you tell them this story.

For his people, he lived.

In our voices, may he continue to live forever.

******

******

