Snow Jays, they were called, and they were tougher than they looked for their size. It regularly took three good hits to bring one down now that the elemental enchantments on his arrows were depleted. The monster he’d chosen to target had already taken a few shots, though. It exploded in a puff of snow as Stint dove from the rocky outcrop to dodge the rest of the swooping swarm.

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 44%

“Rahhh!” Mereck roared wordlessly, flailing with the flaming branch he held, exploiting the monsters’ aversion to fire to herd them away from himself, Meloni, Ruce, and Dust. A series of metallic pings sounded, announcing the impact of several Snow Jays on Gigs’s shield, those he’d managed to catch with Taunting Shout through their resistance. Val—currently invisible—sniped two more of the things as they flew away, wheeling for another pass, though only one succumbed to the sourceless beams of Light Magic.

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 12%

“Gods damn it!” Telen shouted, scrambling to collect the daggers he’d thrown unsuccessfully. “That fucking asshole!”

Stint searched for his arrow with his eyes but didn’t see it. With a curse, he drew the last one he had remaining. He had wooden arrows, yes, but those would do next to nothing.

Velika’s irritated words echoed in his mind as he scrambled back atop the rock and readied his bow with numb fingers.

‘Fuck this. I’m going further out. You’re on your own for a bit.’

That had been two hours ago.

One hour ago, Rain’s Immolate anchor had flickered and died.

If not for Mereck’s healing, Meloni’s stock of Ephemeral Oil, and the spare winter gear Dust had been carrying, they’d have succumbed to frostbite by now. Not that they weren’t all going to die, regardless. The blessed opportunity afforded them by the system hiccup had turned to disaster.

They wouldn’t last much longer, and there was no one down here to save them.

In the encounter before this one, Rain’s Force Ward anchor had failed too. As a consequence, Telen had nearly lost an arm, crushed into a mangled mess. Saving it had taxed Mereck to the extreme, and the Healer had already been showing signs of potion sickness from all the alchemical concoctions he’d been chugging. Velika, damn her, had taken the Winter anchor.

And then there was Dust. The horse had needed healing a few times, and that had only placed more strain upon him. He was only standing against the crushing weight of the zone through pure grit and spite. As the battle had continued, he’d kept snorting and tearing impotently at the frozen ground.

Even if we make it through this...

“El’s bollocks!” Gigs shouted, pointing behind them. Stint tore his eyes from the incoming flock to see an enormous, aoaka-like beast drop heavily to the ground from a ledge above them, landing with a booming roar of pain. One of its curved horns was broken, and its shaggy white fur was stained with red, reflected by its lowish health bar, but red wasn’t the color that nearly made Stint’s heart stop.

Lowland Frost YakLevel 19

“B-b-blue!” Meloni shouted.

Stint goggled, almost losing his grip on his arrow before a cry from Val brought him back to the present.

“Stint! Kill the damn birds! Gigs! Get in front of it!”

Light Magic flashed, and another dialog appeared before Stint’s eyes.

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 4%

With a curse, Stint dove, loosing in midair, his hesitation having thrown off his timing. The arrow struck true—gods bless Seeker Shot—but the snowbank he landed in took his breath away.

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 84%

Your party has slain a level-13 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 5%

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 9%

By the time he struggled free, there were only two left, and the blue, which slammed into Gigs as he watched in horror. The Tortugo went flying, brute strength or a monstrous ability overpowering Unyielding Defense and sending him slamming hard into the wall. Val blasted another of the Jays, not killing it, as Telen shouted and charged.

“High physical defense and Strength!” Ruce warned, feeding them information from Threat Assessment and Identify Weakness. “Weak to Heat! Weak to Chem! Telen, get out of there! Attack from range! Meloni! Hit it!”

“Just a second!” Meloni shouted, rummaging while Stint kicked at the snow, searching for an arrow. He didn’t see what it was that she threw, but the tinkle of breaking glass and the beast’s outraged bellow suggested a few possibilities.

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 34%

Val must have taken out the second-to-last Jay. Stint rose with his arrow, but he was too slow to avoid the last one as its beak stabbed into his shoulder. His vague worry for Gigs vanished beneath the sudden, clenching freeze that gripped his chest, stealing the breath from his lungs. The padded gambeson he wore beneath his jacket had softened the blow, but the monster’s magic had reached his skin. The rings he wore blunted the elemental attack, but they weren’t designed to handle something this strong. His health dropped from full to a third in an instant.

“Stint!” Mereck shouted from somewhere near where Gigs had crashed against the wall.

The Snow Jay tumbled away, flapping and shrieking as it rebounded from the impact, Stint’s frozen blood painting its beak. Before it got back in the air, Dust got to it, stomping it mercilessly with a hoof. This only appeared to make it angrier, but a further three stomps kept it on the ground until Ruce got there, advancing with the burning branch. Dust retreated just in time to avoid getting burned.

Your party has slain a level-14 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 9%

All of this barely registered as Stint fumbled at his belt for a potion. He couldn’t breathe. His lungs were frozen shut. Finally, he worked free the cork and poured the fruity liquid into his mouth, except he found he couldn’t swallow. His throat was frozen too. Panic rose in him as his eyes flicked back to his health bar, which was creeping ever so slowly downward as the cold stole what was left of his life.

“I’ve got you!” Mereck yelled, appearing from nowhere and slamming his palm against the wound.

Stint coughed and spluttered as his frozen organs twitched, his health jumping back upward.

“Thing hits like Tallheart!” Gigs shouted from out of sight, proving he was okay. “Telen, stop that! It’s slow, but it clips you, you’re dead!”

“It’s bleeding!” Telen shouted. “If I can hit it with Lingering Bleed, it might double—“

Your party has slain a level-13 Snow Jay

Your Contribution: 2%

Val flickered back into view as the flash of light faded, shouting over Telen. “Just lead it around! It’s not worth going in! Hah!” Light stabbed from his extended hand, striking the shaggy beast on the flank. It didn’t seem to notice. “Gigs, don’t try to block it again. Bait it and run. Stint, stop dying and shoot it! Ruce, find him some damn arrows!”

“Right!” Ruce said as another crash of breaking glass signified the use of another alchemical grenade.

“Oi!” Gigs shouted, the cry echoing with magic. The beast snorted, then turned.

“Come on, get up,” Mereck said, pulling on Stint’s shoulder, having been healing him this whole time.

“He-hells,” Stint coughed, grabbing his bow and accepting the Healer’s help.

“Someone stop that damn horse!” Val shouted as Ruce appeared with a bundle of arrows.

Stint’s eyes went wide. “Dust!” he shouted, but it was too late.

Not even half the size of the shaggy monster, the charging horse slammed into it from the side. Dust cried out in pain, tumbling away from the force of the impact, which had come with the sound of breaking bone—not the monster’s, from Dust’s shriek of pain. The Yak merely stumbled, then shook the air with its rage as it turned to face the unexpected assailant. Telen zipped in to drag his dagger across the beast’s flank, but it ignored him.

Not remembering having drawn, Stint loosed a Piercing Shot that took the beast right in the eye. Almost as surprising as his panicked aim was the fact that the adamant shaft pierced the fleshy orb, the powerful monster’s health apparently low enough for the skill to overcome its defenses where Telen had failed.

With a tortured cry of agony, the monster tripped over Dust’s crumpled body, landing partially atop the horse as its brutish head slammed into the ground, driving the adamant arrow shaft the rest of the way into its brain and silencing its cry. It still had health left, but apparently not enough to survive that kind of injury.

Your party has slain a level-19 Lowland Frost Yak

Your Contribution: 26%

Level Up!

“YES!” Val roared.

“Dust!” Stint yelled at the same time, limping forward. “Mereck!“

“I’m going!” the Healer shouted, rushing out in front of him. “Gigs, help me!”

The chaos was suddenly joined by the sound of slow, powerful clapping, and despite his concern for Dust, it was enough to make Stint turn his head.

Velika stood there, wearing a self-satisfied smirk. “Well done,” she said, lowering her hands to cross her arms. “Took you long enough.”

“You!” he shouted dumbly before a cry of pain from Dust made him whip his head back around.

“Me,” Velika agreed. “Sorry for abandoning you, but with me here and Rain’s anchors in your pockets, there was a chance someone could get left out of the party.” She uncrossed one arm to wave a hand. “Some of you were onto me, surely. Or onto the captain. Hopefully not both of us.” She shrugged. “Well? Did it work? Everyone get a cap up?”

Sudden warmth interrupted Stint’s planned reply, and he gasped, the snow melting around them as Rain’s magic poured from the not-dead-after-all anchor in his pocket. The heat only grew hotter as it was joined by rage. If the Immolate anchor was working, then the Force Ward anchor probably was too. Velika tricking them was one thing, but the captain being in on it?

“He’s okay!” Mereck called, the relief this generated only partly blunting Stint’s indignation.

“You found it even before you left us, didn’t you?” Val accused, brushing snow from his jacket like he hadn’t spent most of the fight invisible and untouched. “That impatient fit you threw was all a show.”

“Obviously,” Velika said. “I had to catch it, weaken it, and dump it far enough so you wouldn’t find it until you’d started to really believe I wasn’t coming back. Let me tell you, keeping its mana drained while I waited was really annoy—“

“What the—!?” Mereck cried.

Stint looked to see Dust squirm out from under the monster corpse, the horse’s broken bones apparently mended. What was more attention-grabbing, though, was the sudden and unexpected formation of a ball of flame beside the horse’s head. The Firebolt—for that was clearly what it was—went streaking off to slam into the canyon wall. Dust whinnied and reared before he took off, more flaming missiles streaking out from him in all directions as he raced in excitement through the melting snow.

Velika chuckled. “Nice. Eight for eight. This won’t end badly at all.”
