He stood, checking a ragged purse and adjusting his sodden clothing. Then he went over to where his basket had burned to ash. He picked at a few scraps of fabric; Seborn followed.
“What are you going to do?”
Irrel pointed.
“Swim.”
“To another settlement?”
“Maybe.”
“That’ll just repeat the problem.”
“Probably.”
“You’ll be dead when some drunk or idiot decides to take you out. Your people are monsters from here to Drath, you know that.”
This seemed to irk the boy at last, because he gazed up from the basket and spoke.
“Yes. I know that. My choice. Not yours.”
The Drowned Man stopped. He’d been so fixated on the problem that he’d forgotten one of the first lessons of the Halfseekers. He was talking at Irrel, not to him. He halted.
“I’m…look, I’m trying to help you. I’m sorry if I’m coming across as giving orders, I’m just trying to help.”
“I know. Thank you.”
“If I could bring you to a Dorhmin group, you’d be safer. If it’s a matter of distance, or finding them, I can help. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer with nothing better to do.”
“No.”
Irrel pulled a wet cap off his head and squeezed the water out of it. Then he peered up at Seborn and once again elaborated.
“Not my people. Not my home. Home is gone. I am alone.”
“Oh. I’m sorry.”
Then Seborn realized this wasn’t just a simple problem, it was the problem the Halfseekers had heard so many times. He saw Irrel pull the cap over his head and thought that the cap was too well-made, too well-fitting to be just scavenged clothing. And his shirt under all those rags appeared tailored for his arms. Irrel turned to Seborn.
“Don’t be. Sad. We deserved it. No surrender. No mercy. No regrets to be had. Waters gone red, skies gone black.”
Seborn felt like someone was squeezing his chest suddenly. He stood there, mouth open, as the boy recited those famous lines. Irrel cast his eyes to the blue skies. A storm was coming in from the north.
“Fearless all; we’ve ever been damned.”
He looked at the Drowned Man, and now the daggers were back in Seborn’s hands.
“Bloodtear Pirates.”
The boy nodded, his gaze fixed on Seborn, water running from his clothing as he stood in the middle of nowhere, the group who had damned more nobles and [Knights] than any war in modern history.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
He should have…not killed Irrel. He hadn’t, but the right move was…
Not to. But dead gods, he was Bloodtear. Murdering bastards of the sea who deserved death.
Yet he was a boy.
It was obvious now. The way he fought, his fearlessness, and the reason he was here.
Bloodtear. And not just any of them. Irrel snacked on some eels roasted by Gilam’s fireball, which were actually very tasty.
“Rosech’s son. Me.”
“You.”
Seborn remembered it, now. A single Dorhmin boy, ignored through the entire fight as that [Admiral] had cut his way through everything on the decks. Ignored…until the ending when the enraged [Prince of Men] had tried to kill Erin.
A spear through his neck. Irrel sat so calmly, watching Seborn. The Drowned Man sat down too.
I should…arrest him. Haul him off to someone. Who? Etril? The Wellfars kill Dorhmin as pests. They might conscript him—doubt it.
Who else? Zevara? What’s she going to do, lock him up? 
He couldn’t have been more than fourteen or fifteen either. Maybe sixteen if he was small, but he was just a kid. What had…
“Admiral Rosech was your father?”
“Yep. Found me. Dead.”
“I know.”
Irrel had no tears to shed. Dorhmin…Seborn wasn’t sure if they could even cry. Irrel tossed the scraps of eel into the water and spoke matter-of-factly.
“Did it for me. Bad. Didn’t want.”
“Did what?”
“Everything.”
The Drowned Man’s head rose. Irrel sat there, and the wind was blowing the scents of rain over them. Suddenly, Seborn’s lips were dry. He licked them.
“What…the war at sea?”
“Yes. Steal luck. Steal fate. For me. Everyone wants. I didn’t. Maxy wants. I didn’t. Rosech wanted. I didn’t. For me, he says. For me.”
The boy was talking now, his voice a low bass that seemed without inflection, but he was gazing around, turning left and right. Surveying Moodfut, the empty seas. He gestured around at it, at Seborn. His lips moved in a smile, but there was no mirth in it.
“Dorhmin die. Rosech wanted more. Future…always the future. I wanted father.”
He paused.
“A living father.”
Seborn Sailwinds said nothing. He was afraid that if he did, he’d say something insensitive or—wrong. Because the Bloodtear Pirates were bastards and monsters who’d killed and stolen from innocent people without remorse or quarter, for all they’d been nobles.
Yet the boy made him feel bad. He hadn’t chosen that war. He cleared his throat.
“Didn’t you—meet other Bloodtear Pirates afterwards? Or did the entire crew die?”
“Some lived. Ran away. Don’t want that.”
“So you’re just fishing for a living in the middle of nowhere?”
“Yep.”
“And what comes next?”
“You tell me.”
Oh, that was it. Seborn sat there and articulated it just because he felt sort of stupid.
“You’re lost. There is no place to go for you, nothing to do.”
Irrel smiled with a surprising gentleness for a [Pirate]’s son.
“Said well. Thank you. For not killing me. Deserve it.”
“No one deserves to be murdered at your age.”
A shrug.
“Seen some. What now?”
He was waiting for Seborn to attack or make some other move, and the Drowned Man cursed.
“Dead Erins damn it. I’m not dealing with this.”
He stood up, and the boy blinked.
“Leaving?”
“No, I’m taking you to a place where I don’t have to make these decisions. Now I have to call for another damn coach…I wonder if I can just get Tissl’s. Come on. I’m taking you to an inn. If they don’t kill you and me for bringing you—it’ll be better than here.”
And they might actually kill him for this. Irrel, Rosech’s son.
You fool. His crew are the reason so many people died. His father killed Seve-Alrelious. Erin might kill him herself.
Seborn could just hear Lyonette screaming at him. But he gazed at the boy, and a half-Giant took possession of his hand. He patted Irrel on the cap for a moment. The boy went still; Seborn had the impression he’d almost attacked out of reflex.
I need to get Jelaqua on my side before we get to the inn. Slip through the door and talk to her, then…even if they turned him away, it was a start. Maybe a Dorhmin could live in Liscor? It was still raining. Plenty of fish. Hexel was building a permanent lake, right?
“Come on. We’d better get out of here before that crew or [Lord] comes to fight.”
Though they were sailing out of the harbor. Seborn didn’t trust Gilam not to take potshots with that wand. He was walking up through the village when he realized Irrel wasn’t following.
“What is it? I can swear on a truth spell that I’m not tricking you.”
Irrel studied Seborn’s face, then shook his body left and right. Without much neck muscle, it was his version of a shake of the head. It was oddly endearing.
“I believe you. Won’t go. Putting you in danger. Thanks. No thanks.”
Seborn sighed. Another idiot kid. He squatted down.
“Listen. It’s not because I’m trying to be a [Hero] about it. I’m a Halfseeker. This is what my team and I did. If I didn’t do something, they’d haunt me until I died—and afterwards, since apparently we all turn into damn ghosts or something. Now, we can argue about this here or argue when we’re dry, in a coach, and eating something.”
The Dorhmin boy thought about this. He twisted right and left, as if debating swimming into the harbor. Then he stood.
“Okay. Coach?”
“Yep. We’ll get one—”
“Dodge.”
Irrel kicked Seborn in the chest and rolled away. Seborn backflipped, about to shout, then saw the vehicle skidding towards him. A single horse, eyes wide and bloodshot, foaming at the mouth, was stumbling onto the sand—
The overnight carriage. The door was hanging ajar, and there was blood—Seborn whirled.
“Tissl!”
The doors burst open, and the girl leapt out. She hit the sands and ran towards him. Her face was white and covered with blood?
Purple blood?
“Seborn! Seborn—”
He grabbed her.
“What happened?”
His eyes were faster than her mouth. He followed her pointing finger and jerked. There, splayed in the seat, was a dead…monster.
It was a monster. It had half-crawled out of Driver Ridmec’s body like some horrific centipede. Seborn had seen horrors in his time, from Crelers to Facestealer, but this was enough to turn his stomach. The man’s face was still twisted in a smile as it hung from the insect’s body. But the insect was dead.
It had been chopped into three parts—the culprit was the Orichalcum sword still embedded in the wood paneling. Seborn looked at Tissl.
“You did that? What—”
“He’s coming! He said he’s coming!”
The half-Elf was shaking. She was shellshocked. Seborn heard a voice.
“Bad. Very bad.”
Irrel was staring at the bug-insect with familiarity. He touched the bundle on his back, then turned to Seborn.
“I know him. Run. Run fast.”
The Gold-rank adventurer reached for the horse, but the animal had collapsed, and it looked run to death. So he gazed around.
No stables he could see. He slung something from his back.
The [Message] scroll.
 
——
 
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — This is a priority emergency. Driver Ridmec is dead. He was infested by some kind of insect monster. I need another [Driver] now.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Adventurer Seborn, please clarify. How was Driver Ridmec slain again?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Something was living inside him. I think it was Alchemist Irurx’s creation. It tried to kill the half-Elf girl. I need another [Driver] now.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Hello?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — We need—
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Seborn, Guildmaster Tealve. We’ll get you that [Driver]. Can you drive the carriage?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — One horse is out, the other’s gone.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Damn. Get us precise coordinates where you are. The stupid scroll spell still lists you in Moodfut. We’ll get you to Invrisil. Don’t you worry; the Pride of Wellfar has freed itself from the webs. You’ll get a [Hero]’s welcome at the Guild, Seborn. You called it well in advance. We’re evacuating Moodfut.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — What?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — The Alchemist is sailing down from Treant’s Farewell, just like you thought. Tell me you’re at least a hundred miles inland by now. How far did you get? Just run on foot; he won’t be able to catch you if you have a head start.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — We never got out of Moodfut.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Seborn, he’s right on top of you.
 
(We hope you’ve found Wistram’s new Messaging Service has catered to your highest expectations! Do you have a moment to fill out a short survey about your experience? You may be entered in a sweepstakes to win a Tier 4 scroll! Please write how many stars out of five you think our service rates!)
 
——
 
Lord Gilam’s ship came back into the harbor of Moodfut in front of the storm. He threw himself off the ship without waiting for a gangplank; there would not be one.
The [Sailors] were leaping into the water, screaming like children. Sloshing to the shore as the people grabbed things from their houses.
A storm was breaking upon them.
It buzzed. It chittered. And it swept ahead of the ship like a reaching hand. Insects beyond counting. That ship they came from sailed through the waters, groaning and writhing as it moved.
Shifthold. It was not the largest ship Seborn had ever seen, and it resembled more of a cargo ship than a warship or even nimble passenger ship. But it had armor like the Iron Vanguard’s famous plated ships, and it rode low in the water. As if all of its sins weighed it down.
He was standing in the village, shouting orders. Not running…because he was a Halfseeker. He kept yelling at Tissl to run. But she was standing still, petrified with fear. And Irrel? He was just watching.
“Abandon everything and run, you idiots! Get every horse and go—!”
The one horse that they had, and a few from the stables, were pulling children loaded into wagons. Adults were running—the smart ones. The idiots were still grabbing coins and valuables.
A coach drove into the village, and a huge man with a bullwhip leapt out of one of House Reinhart’s carriages.
“I am Lord Gorthes Reinhart! What the hell is going on here? I was catching up to that bastard who tried to run me off the road when that young woman stabbed him and turned the coach around! It saved me the effort of lashing him—what is that sound? What is that storm?”
Seborn spun. The man was staring at the distant ship with a landlubber’s obliviousness.
“That’s Shifthold. A [Pirate] is coming to kill everyone here. I need you to get everyone in the carriage. Tissl first!”
He shoved her forwards, and the [Lord] stared at the half-Elf. His furious mustache worked along with his jaw.
“That’s Shifthold? The [Alchemist] that kills his own kind?”
“Yes. How many can your carriage hold?”
Lord Gorthes blinked at Tissl. Then he snapped his fingers.
“Right. No problem.”
He stepped into the carriage and snapped.
“Step on it, [Driver]!”
His carriage began to turn. Seborn cursed.
“Stop! Stop, you coward—”
“Lord Gorthes, wait! I’m [Lord] Gilam Quellae—”
The young man sprinted after the carriage. The door opened as it took off, horses racing, and Lord Gorthes stared at the young man.
“Lord Pellmia’s son you say?”
“Yes!”
Gilam burst into a relieved smile. Gorthes’ boot kicked him into the air. The [Lord] pulled the door shut.
“Excellent! Silver lining and all that! Good day to you!”
He raced ahead of the other wagons, and Seborn swore a blue streak after him. Gilam picked himself up.
“I’ll kill you! I’ll kill you and wear your skin, you—”
Seborn turned. The buzzing was growing louder. Now, he saw the ship coming into the bay. He gazed at Tissl. She was still holding the chest. Irrel glanced at it too; they might have been the only two with a calm head here.
Well, calm for a given value of ‘we are dead’. Seborn did a few calculations.
We’ll never stealth or outrun that ship. But maybe…
“Cellars. Everyone get into a cellar! A closet, even! Close up everything—airholes, gaps, everything! Don’t make a sound!”
