Seborn walked off. He felt the [Fisher]’s eyes on his back, then the man muttered.
“Well, if it’s disbanded, what’re you doing going around calling yourself one?”
Which was a great question. Seborn kicked his way across the beach. This entire journey had been a waste of time. All he’d done was spend gold and find out he really wasn’t actually that motivated to go back to sea. At least, not as the Seborn who had left.
What do I do, go back to the inn? I can’t settle down. Neither can I stay there. What would I even do, drink and wait for the next moment when it’s my turn to die?
…I could do that.
But Moore wouldn’t have been happy. Moore had deserved something more. They should have made him quit years ago, the soft blubbing ball of gentleness. But he would have been lonely, and that’s why they continued. Then he’d found Ulinde, and that had been something—but Erin’s death had broken him a bit.
Seborn had hoped he’d rally, return to being the old Moore. If they’d just disbanded, let Jelaqua settle down and Moore could have opened a bookstore or something, and Ulinde might have quit—
He was the only one who would have left, probably. Then maybe come back. Now?
Now…
“On land, I’m Seborn the Halfseeker. At sea, I’m Seborn, my father’s son. I’ve always wanted to outrun the latter and be my own man. But Seborn the Halfseeker lost his team. So what is he now?”
Just some idiot escorting a kid to her future. Seborn hated escort requests. But he supposed it was something.
Once a Halfseeker…he was walking up from the beach and the shallow pier where smaller boats could dock—nothing like the [Lord]’s ship, let alone anything larger—when Seborn caught sight of that stranger again.
The one who was hunched over and wearing a cloak that quite obviously hid their features. They were trudging back from out of the water. Had they been swimming?
Most [Fishers] around here either used lines or nets—but this figure had a huge wicker basket with water sluicing out of it. And from the smell and the way it moved, it actually had live fish inside. Quite a lot too.
Seborn glanced down at the figure’s feet. Curious gait for the land. And the footwraps were oddly flat…
Flipper feet. But it’s even. Not a Drowned Man. Hunched. He might be five foot seven if he stands straight. Odd, odd…
He didn’t miss the way the other villagers eyed him either. Seborn began to walk up the village. He had to leave and join up with Tissl; the chest was stashed just around the bend of the harbor in some trees. But he kept turning his head.
One of the [Fishers] spat at the figure’s feet, and they deftly moved right. Some of the [Sailors] were pointing too. The [Fishmonger] from yesterday scowled as he brought the basket over.
“Put it—”
They went around back. Then came to the counter. She slapped coins down.
“How many eels can ya get? There’s a [Merchant] coming in later. Get me a basketful and I’ll make it worth your while. Understand?”
The figure nodded, and Seborn eyed the coins. From the few silver and mostly copper, he doubted the [Fishmonger] would make anything worth the while. He walked past the figure and caught the odor of fish and something…else.
Something Seborn recalled from his days at sea. He glanced at the stout little figure and grunted as he saw a protrusion along its backside, hidden by cloth.
Tail. Not a long one. Could be a Scorchling Drake with a water-based element. Could be…I’ll eat Jelaqua’s boots if it is. Not local to the village either. 
None of his business. Tissl was waiting. Seborn strode off and glanced over his shoulder four times.
He got the distinct impression the small figure wading back into the water was eying him.
Dangerous. Don’t.
That low murmur had sounded male. Had he known that Tissl had a magical spell that powerful? Perhaps. But then Seborn wondered. Had he been talking to someone else under his breath?
 
——
 
“Goblin with flippers? No, that’s stupid. They saw his face. Recognized him. What species…a fully taken Drowned Person? But they’d sign to me.”
Tissl heard Seborn before he found her. She was sitting on the place where they’d buried the chest, dagger out, trembling with nerves.
“There you are! I nearly peed myself! What took you?”
“It’s been five minutes. Calm down. At least you’re taking it seriously, though any idiot would know you’re hiding something. C’mon, let’s dig it up.”
Seborn got his shovel out, and they dug up the chest again. It was lightweight though too cumbersome to carry by oneself. Tissl had to open it and investigate it to make sure all the gear was in there.
“Phew. Okay, to the road!”
“Yep. Nice and slow. Remember, we’ve got most of two hours to kill. Get closer, bury chest, hang out. Breathe.”
She nodded, and they hiked through the forest, carrying the chest, alert for sounds, though the worst thing they saw was a Waisrabbit; Seborn saw her jump, dagger raised.
“If you’re this freaked out, then fighting might not be for you. Everyone gets terrified their first time. You could rent the gear out, though I don’t know how Selys—a friend—does it. Or just donate or sell it. That’d be easiest for you.”
She glanced at him as they buried the chest and went to the road. Tissl was breathing hard, and her cheeks were flushed.
“I…I don’t know what I want to do. I feel like I want to be an adventurer. To see what it’s like. I can always quit, right?”
“If it doesn’t kill you, sure.”
Seborn kept peering over his shoulders at the village of Moodfut. He should have paid more attention to the road in case someone was coming, but he was distracted. Tissl went on, feeling her way forwards.
“I’d love to go home and show Mom.”
“You’ll put her in danger. Everyone there too, if they know what you have. Did you tell them you had the location of a ghost’s treasure?”
She shut her lips, and he nodded.
“See? It’s hard. It’s damn hard. Let’s just get to the inn. Then you can see what real adventuring is like. Visit Liscor’s dungeon. Or a safer one. Fight a Shield Spider. See if you can gut one and then…”
He kept up a light banter, telling her about the trade of adventuring. Two hours passed by fast enough; Tissl remarked as he was checking the time.
“You smile when you talk about adventuring with your team. How’d…you said they were gone. How’d they die?”
He froze up.
“We were being heroes. Only idiots like the Silver Swords do that. Good adventurers run if they think there’s a chance of dying.”
“Sounds like they ain’t good, just good-at-their-jobs.”
“Those are the ones who make it. Don’t follow us as examples. I was prepared the entire time you were asking for my help for a trap. You could have been luring me into a beating. The only people you trust are your teammates, and only if they’ve already saved your life.”
“Sounds awfully depressing.”
“Have I talked you out of it? Here’s the carriage. Remember, let me do the talking.”
He saw a cloud of dust on the roads. Tissl turned and smiled at Seborn.
“Well, you might have. But then I remembered you lie a lot. And you appear happier when you talk about your team. I reckon they were the best.”
“Yes. They were.”
They stood. Seborn strode over as the [Driver] slowed.
“Seborn Sailwinds? Straight to Invrisil?”
“That’s right. We’re not in danger. I have one passenger here and some cargo. We’ll grab it.”
Tissl was already running into the forest. Seborn was glad he had done this through the guild; the [Driver] had good instincts and didn’t like someone running off. Brigands loved to mug overnight carriages given the vehicles had magic in them and, often, important passengers. Seborn wasn’t relieved though in theory the hardest part was over.
Damn it. He stared at the sky as Tissl brought the chest over. They’d done their best to make it less impressive. Seborn had coated it with some paint he carried to disguise objects or leave signs; the black didn’t really look convincing on the clearly elegant chest, but the [Driver] seemed honest.
“What’s that? Treasure?”
“That’s right. Family heirlooms this kid dug up. Mostly just gold and old gems inside. Few interesting pearls.”
Here was the lie Seborn had come up with—you always lied with the truth. The [Driver] whistled, and Tissl reached for her pocket.
“You could have one, Adventurer Seborn.”
“No thanks.”
Seborn watched Driver Ridmec’s face. Here was the important part…the [Driver] glanced at the box a few times, but he didn’t show any suspicious gestures. Seborn nodded to himself.
The trick was that most overnight carriages had [Drivers] used to transporting [Merchants] or nobles. A chest of gold and gems was certainly eyecatching, but they’d have had worse temptations before. Relics, now, that’d have them thinking, but Tissl and Seborn’s act had fooled the man.
“Alright, up you go. It’s going inside in case of [Thieves].”
“No worries, sir. I have [Enigmatic Compartments], so no one’s going to know what’s inside.”
Seborn loaded the chest into the coach with Tissl and stood back. Then he took a breath.
“Okay, Tissl. Change of plans.”
Her expression of relief turned to worry. She stared at him as he jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“I have something to take care of in Moodfut.”
“What? No! You can’t leave! I need your help!”
The [Driver] glanced at Seborn.
“I heard this was because of a [Pirate], Adventurer. Do I take her…?”
“Straight to Invrisil, and if you want to send a City Runner to The Wandering Inn when you get there, they’ll tip you well. Tell them I sent her. You’re an honest man, right?”
“Too honest to let a kid down.”
They clasped hands, and Seborn looked at Tissl.
“There’s someone I need to…check on.”
He couldn’t just drive off. Even with all the cause in the world—the damn ghosts were nattering at him. Seborn scowled at Tissl.
“You’ll be fine. I have to do this. I’m a Halfseeker, and there’s someone who needs my help back there more than you. If he’s who I think he is, they’re halfway to running him out of the village or gutting him. Who knows? I might be right behind you. But you go.”
He slapped the carriage’s side. Tissl looked from him to the driver. Then she began to wrestle the chest out.
“No! I’ll stay! Can we pick him up, too?”
Seborn groaned as the [Driver] began to rub at the back of his neck. They both felt this simple errand getting hard.
“You and he have different destinations. He’s from the seas, I’m almost positive—he’d be in more danger in Invrisil with adventurers than you. You’re safe.”
“Swear to it, Miss!”
Ridmec tipped his cap, and Tissl’s head swung between the two. She pleaded with Seborn.
“What if I wait for you and—”
He leaned over and whispered in her ear.
“Listen to me, this is not a good idea. I know I’m making this harder, but this is only easy until it’s very, very hard. Just get in the carriage and go. You’ll be okay, I promise.”
The Drowned Man awkwardly patted her on the shoulder. Her face screwed up, and she glanced at Ridmec. Seborn’s head was already turning towards the village. He had a sudden, ominous feeling as he stepped back from the overnight carriage.
As if he were making a mistake. Or perhaps…he glanced over his shoulder.
“Good luck, kid.”
“Thank you!”
She waved as the carriage began to speed up. Seborn waved once, then began to run into the village. He heard shouts from there, and he cursed. From one problem to the next. When he saw the two [Sailors] swinging at the figure covered in robes, he drew his daggers.
They were just children.
Why didn’t anyone see that? Just the skin. Then one of them tore the hood back, and Seborn sighed.
Green skin. Not a Goblin, except by the sea’s standards, where Goblins were actually a group you could trade with and you walked wise of. Instead, they had other sub-people. Drowned Folk knew these ones well. He’d killed them, parlayed with them, before he’d been a man with a conscience.
“Dorhmin.”
 
——
 
He had huge, green eyes. That was one of the things that made Dorhmin so uncanny. They had no pupils, rather like an Antinium. Their eyes were jade green and protruded from their heads, which were almost featureless compared to other species. It was vaguely fish-like; blubbery lips and two nostrils were the only features aside from their sharp teeth. All their actual interesting anatomy was on their back, which had fins running down to their tails, or their clawed hands and flippers on their legs.
Webbed fins under their armpits, the ability to move in the water as gracefully as could be—and they breathed water and air with ease. The one thing they lacked were levels. They could speak, even if Seborn had never heard one saying anything like a complete sentence, and use weapons. Even crew ships.
He knew them as a menace who’d climb a ship while almost everyone was asleep and begin slitting throats. But that had been as Seborn the [Depth Pirate]. As Seborn the Halfseeker…
I’ve heard of them appearing in coastal settlements before. Normally, they’re run off or killed. This one’s just a kid. They get way bigger. That [Fishmonger] might let him stick around as long as he can bring in fish, and he can probably beat any Level 20 [Fisher].
But [Sailors]? Ah, there was the problem. [Sailors] knew Dorhmin, even this gutterbait lot. And they had picked a fight already.
“I knew it. I fucking knew it. It’s a damn Dorhmin!”
They were swinging on the kid while he ducked and shielded his head. He was waddling around in all the clothes he could to hide his features, and some of the other [Sailors] were egging their friends on.
“Watch out, he’s got teeth!”
Some of the villagers were shouting as well.
“Here, he’s working for Miss Uew! Don’t…ah, hells.”
No one wanted to step in and incur the wrath of the [Sailors]. As Seborn sprinted down the village way, he saw the boy wasn’t actually getting beaten down yet. He was moving back, raising his arms and blocking punches, shielding his vulnerable eyes.
Of course, that just made the [Sailors] madder. One kicked him in the stomach, and he skidded, but didn’t grab his stomach.
“Don’t. Bad.”
Seborn shoved aside a trio of [Sailors] who recoiled from him and shouted.
“Gold-rank adventurer, idiots, move aside! Leave him alone!”
The two fighting [Sailors] recoiled. They saw Seborn’s daggers were drawn and hesitated.
“What, you want to gut this monster, adventurer? Go ahead!”
They drew back, and the Dorhmin boy—and he was definitely a boy—backed up. He had something on his back, Seborn realized. A long object wrapped up. A weapon?
“I am Seborn of the Halfseekers. Leave the Dorhmin alone. He’s not a threat.”
