He addressed the crew instead, and one scoffed at him.
“Trust a Drowned Man to side with a sea creature. You mad? I’ve seen them disembowel a man with their claws!”
“So have I. They’re not all monsters. Like Goblins—”
Too late, he realized his instincts were rusty from all his time at the inn. He lost the villagers as the [Sailors] hesitated. They began to whisper.
“I told you we should have run him out! What if he brings his tribe down on us?”
“It can speak—”
“So can Children! Ever seen one of those things? They’ll eat you alive. Why’s he protecting it?”
Seborn held up a hand as he edged closer. The boy was moving back towards the water. Sensible; he’d be able to swim like a fish to safety. But the [Sailors] were glaring now.
“We’re not some landfolk sods you can order around, Drowned Man. We’re a crew from Treant’s Farewell. [Storm Sailors] don’t give way to Drowned Folk ever.”
If you’re Storm Sailors, I’m a [Pirate Lord]. Seborn gritted his teeth.
“I’m a Halfseeker of Izril. And that kid is under my protection. If you want to dance with blades, try me.”
He lowered his stance, and they hesitated, uncertainty in their eyes. Gold-rank was a reputation unto itself. Seborn thought he had them backing up as they glanced at their friends. Too much work for this. One muttered sullenly.
“You should be on our side! What the hell does being a Half—whatever mean, anyways?”
“It means…”
The kid was hesitating, now. He’d heard Seborn and was moving up slowly. He had a basket of overturned eels. How the heck he’d caught them so fast was beyond Seborn, but he was gathering them up, unafraid of the [Sailors]. Once they had a moment, Seborn would tell him to get out of Moodfut. Maybe they’d have to get a boat to drop the kid with his people. What a headache. Could Mrsha find a Dorhmin?
Then the basket the boy was loading up exploded into a ball of fire. Seborn hit the ground hard, the Dorhmin kid in his arms.
He got an elbow to the stomach, an uppercut to the face as he landed, skin burnt.
“Not me, it wasn’t—”
The boy twisted in his arms, and his mouth opened wide. Wide—he could have bit Seborn’s head off, and he was all teeth.
Seborn dodged the bite just in time. He rolled away.
“It wasn’t me!”
The kid was fast. He was on his feet and tense—until he turned and realized Seborn couldn’t have fired the [Fireball]. Indeed, the strident voice sounded above the screams of the villagers.
“What is that monster?”
Lord Gilam Quellae was bloodshot, clothes askew, and clearly still hungover despite the empty vial in his hand. But his aim was disturbingly good with the wand he was holding.
“Drop it!”
Seborn shouted. He drew a throwing dagger and saw the [Lord]’s eyes widen. He took cover against the railing of his ship and pointed his wand without showing more than a corner of his face.
He’s got combat experience.
“What the hell are you doing, Drowned Man?”
“He’s protecting a Dorhmin, milord! Scum of the sea!”
Seborn was drawing breath to make the same argument to the [Lord] as he had to the [Sailors]. Lord Gilam just glanced down at Seborn, then at the Dorhmin boy, and his face became one of disgust and contempt.
“Well, what are you waiting for? Kill it.”
The Gold-rank adventurer hesitated; he saw the crew of around twenty on the beach glance at each other, count their numbers, and look at him. He shoved the boy towards the water.
“I’m warning you—”
They charged him, and he hesitated a second too long before stowing his enchanted daggers. He snapped a punch across one’s face, took another down by kicking them in the legs and stomped their head into the sand.
The [Lord] was watching with unabashed delight as Seborn took down three, four, six of the crew before they were past him. Eight broke away, trying to down him; he vanished as they charged, reappeared behind their backs, and throat-punched the first to turn around. Then one threw sand in his eyes.
“[Dirty Sand]!”
Cursing, Seborn did an [Evasive Leap]. He ran into another Skill that hit him in the head with an elbow, and he was trying to see. The water—
He dove into it with a dozen [Sailors] after him and the Dorhmin boy. Both were trying to swim for it. Just outswim these Human idiots who couldn’t catch them if they got to the open water.
They tangled with the [Sailors] amidst the surf where the sand met water, and Seborn felt hands locking onto him. Then he was breathing water and cursing. This would be such a stupid way to die.
Moore would be proud.
 
——
 
Tissl felt something was wrong the moment she saw Seborn running into the village. She wanted to wait for him, to see what he’d sensed, but the [Driver] was insistent.
“We’ve got to get you to safety, Miss!”
He had the carriage rocketing up the road in a second. The horses were laboring, panting and wide-eyed, but he lashed them until they were galloping.
For a [Driver], he didn’t treat them right. Tissl didn’t say anything; Seborn had told her to be quiet until they got to Invrisil. She played with the painted struts of the chest.
They were heading north. The crossroads that split headed east and north from Moodfut; the [Driver] raced past another wagon that rolled out of the way. It had fancy heraldry on it, and a man stuck his head out the window.
“You bastard, I’ll have you whipped for that!”
“Wasn’t that a nobleman’s carriage, mister?”
Tissl stared over her shoulder. The little slat in the driver’s seat was open so Ridmec could speak to her. He twisted his head slightly.
“We’re an overnight carriage, Miss. We have right of way in emergencies. We’ll be at our destination in no time.”
She frowned. Then she checked the map she’d brought that had led her here. It had all the local roads, and she traced a route.
“So we’re heading north?”
“Yes, Miss.”
Ridmec kept glancing at her, sidelong, without looking at the road. Tissl hesitated. Then she casually adjusted her seat so she could stare at him and feel the big chest against her feet.
“I think we could go east first. North only takes us up the road.”
“Oh, this is a faster route, Miss. Don’t you worry, I know all the backroads and tricks.”
He chuckled. The half-Elven girl nodded. Then she glanced over her shoulder.
“D’you think you could take me back, even so? That adventurer was my friend. I don’t feel right without him being here.”
“I’m afraid he’s entrusted me with your safety, Miss.”
“Right, but I’m asking. I insist.”
Ridmec didn’t slow. He actually lashed the horses again, and one screamed. But he just kept…staring at her. She edged the other way, across the seat, and his head turned further. Now he was looking back nearly entirely the wrong way. Like an owl…she stared at his bulging tendons and his calm smile.
“We’re almost there, Miss Tissl. It won’t even be fifteen minutes at the rate we’re going. Don’t worry.”
“That fast? All the way to Invrisil?”
Now, the girl was pressed up against the back of the carriage. And Ridmec was smiling wider and wider. Something was writhing against his cheek, as if it was under his skin. He opened his mouth, and a black feeler poked out of it and pulled at his cheek. Something spoke from within his skin.
“The Alchemist wants to see you first, Tissl. Don’t scream. No one can hear you. Don’t scream.”
 
——
 
Then it was blood in the water. Sand in his eyes. All his Skills, all his levels and experience—it all meant nothing in a brawl in the water.
They were thrashing around, a dozen men versus two. In the surf—Seborn was punching, but he was slower in the water, out of practice. He had to get a grip on his opponents. Drown them—of course, they were trying to do the same to him. One had an arm around his neck, and he couldn’t break the Skill-enhanced hold—
Then the waves hit them. They were fighting on the beach, in the shallows where sand met water. The waves were hard and regular; everyone went tumbling head-over-heels, and you had no idea which way was up.
Sand billowed as Seborn swam upwards, or so he thought, and hit the ground with his head. He cursed in the water.
“Kid!”
Thrashing shapes. Someone kicked at him. He used [Shadowstep] again—grabbed one of the figures, and this time, he drew a dagger. Unenchanted, but he stabbed it into the man’s arms and legs until he let go with a shriek.
No body shots—they’d die bad and slow from that. And if he killed one of them, the [Lord] and the [Sailors] would make this go to the death. But he had to get them off—
Wave.
It swept everyone but Seborn, who had been braced for it. Then he finally saw the Dorhmin boy fighting in the water. He had three of the [Sailors] on him, and he was thrashing around himself, clawing at them, biting—even with their Skills, he was keeping them away, but another wave kicked him off his feet.
He’s never had to fight in the shallows before. Not like this. Seborn grabbed a fist as a [Sailor] came at him. They wrestled, exchanging slow-motion punches until he felt the wave coming. It lifted him, and he let it propel him into a headbutt into the other man’s face.
It left his head ringing, but Seborn was more in control now. He made his way forwards, cursing and wishing he had another [Shadowstep].
Blades drawn—one [Sailor] saw him and reached for his weapons, but Seborn lunged. He put the dagger against the chest, point-first, and pushed.
Get lost. The figure retreated; the others didn’t. They were grabbing the boy, trying to tear an arm off—Seborn grabbed one, and the boy broke clear of the other.
Neither Seborn nor the Dorhmin boy choked their opponent; they were in the water. They did what seafolk did and pulled them down.
Wrestling in the sand. Fighting until the Humans realized that their opponents had no need to breathe. They did—and they began to panic. Seborn let his opponent go after putting three holes in their left leg; they’d not come for him without healing. Then he looked around. Rose towards the surface—
 
——
 
—Breached the water and sound resumed. More than the rushing vastness of the ocean. Voices screaming.
“I’m bleeding, help us get the—”
“He bit me! I’m bleeding!”
[Sailors] were staggering onto the beach. Some merely had inhaled water or taken blows; a few were badly cut up. One was a mess of blood, and Seborn saw huge bite marks on his back. The boy again.
Seborn cast around, and he was there. Panting. There was blood coming from one nostril, red as anyone else’s, and he had several cuts, but he was alive.
“C’mon. They’ve lost the fight.”
“No. Swim.”
The boy argued back, eying the [Sailors]. Seborn shook his head.
“That [Lord]’s watching us, and the only thing keeping him from [Fireballing] you is his crew. He’ll take the ship out of harbor after you. We settle this on land.”
He was hoping he could. The boy hesitated, then to Seborn’s surprise, just nodded once. No fear in his eyes.
“Storm at our backs. No regrets, aye.”
That sounded so familiar. Where had he heard…? Seborn swam forward until he was sloshing onto the sands. Then he shouted.
“I am a Gold-rank adventurer, and if you codbait want to make it a killing matter, you’ll all be fishfood before I take a scratch! Adventurer’s Guild law—this lad is under my authority, no one else’s!”
They stared at him, then turned as the real opponent strode over the sand. Gilam Quellae was clapping, but he eyed Seborn and the Dorhmin with equal distaste.
“I am a [Lord], and you are protecting a monster, Drowned Man. I do like seeing a brawl, but as a noble of Izril, I insist you let me deal with this.”
“Adventurer’s Guild Code 55. It’s my decision what to do with monsters. No one overrides that. Do I have to lodge a complaint with the Adventurer’s Guild as a Gold-ranker, or to House Quellae?”
Gilam glowered at Seborn. He eyed the Dorhmin from head to toe, then shook his head.
“This continent is full of you bleeding hearts. From sea to shore, cowards and sympathizers, all of you! Dead gods—get yourselves up, you useless rabble! We’re leaving.”
“But lord, they—”
The [Lord] walked past one of the [Sailors] who’d started the fight. He kicked the man in the face so fast that Seborn barely saw it. The man went down, and Gilam shouted.
“Up! Get a move on!”
His crew hesitated, then stared at Seborn. They glared death at the boy, but then they began to pick themselves up, calling for bandages, drinks—Seborn just exhaled. He turned to the boy and saw the Dorhmin eying Gilam as the [Lord] sauntered back to his ship.
“Dangerous.”
“Yeah. C’mon, let’s get out of here before he finds a book.”
There was no Adventurer’s Code 55, or if there was, Seborn was pretty sure it didn’t let him outrank nobles. It was just as well that Gilam was an idiot. Then again…Seborn wasn’t convinced that young man could read.
 
——
 
It was never that easy, of course. The villagers had to have their way afterwards. Their headman pointed a trembling finger at the Dorhmin.
“We want him out of our village! He’s brought enough trouble down on us!”
“He’s done nothing but fish for you for a pittance. But I’ll take him all the same. Clear off and leave us alone.”
They dispersed, muttering. Seborn sat down on the ground, panting. That scrap had been tiring for all it was short. After a moment, the boy sat down too.
“Thanks.”
Now that Seborn was closer, the fishy smell was definitely stronger, and he eyed the young Dorhmin with a reserve of his own.
“Don’t mention it. You need to leave. I’ll help you either get to another settlement with a boat or see if they’ll sell me one of theirs. But you know you have to leave. That [Lord] might be worse than most, but they won’t trust you here.”
“I know.”
So he was capable of more than monosyllabic statements. The boy nodded to Seborn.
“Irrel.”
“What?”
“Name.”
“Right. Seborn Sailwinds.”
They nodded at each other, and once more, Seborn had to re-appraise the kid. He drew a water bottle, washed out his mouth of the salt water he’d been breathing, and spat. He handed it to the boy, and Irrel did the same.
“Not many Dorhmin could take on a dozen [Sailors] and come out of it without more’n scratches. How’d you learn to speak?”
“Taught.”
“Were you separated from your group?”
“No. Not Dorhmin.”
“Huh? Not…well, are you lost?”
“No.”
“Well, I need to take you somewhere else.”
“No.”
The Drowned Man was getting a bit annoyed when Irrel stopped drinking water and turned his head slightly. His eyes had no pupils to focus, but he conveyed looking directly at Seborn.
“Don’t need help. Will go. Thank you.”
