Irurx half-twisted in his seat. And he actually laughed with amusement. It was a bit too loud, too boisterous. There were all kinds of laughs, but this one somehow drowned out the other laughs in the room. As if it were the only one that mattered. The only one that could exist.
“Beauty is an aphrodisiac indeed, sir. I had heard the King of Medain ‘married’ her. That is a lie.”
“What? He’s got a statue and everything. And documents. Her and the Silver Killer. You saying you know better?”
The man looked affronted at having his facts questioned given the tall tales of tonight. Irurx pushed his drink back. His eyes glittered.
“I would bet my ship upon it. Though you are correct: I have not been to Medain since the ‘marriage’ was announced. Perhaps I should to confirm the truth.”
“You must have a good ship. Trade currents are all mixed up with the New Lands.”
One of the [Storm Sailors] commented slowly. The big man with the Kraken’s tattoo was just gazing at Irurx, and the woman next to him had put down her drink. The half-Elf sat back.
“I may. So it was love that tamed the madman. I see. How…accurate, really. There is no way for gossip to know the truth of that conversation, and yet it is so accurate—the power of classes? Or just the nature of people?”
Another of the [Storm Sailors] was losing her appetite for this story. She snapped at him.
“Hoi, fellow, you sound like you know the truth. Either spill it or stop bragging!”
Someone kicked her. She began to throw a punch, then caught the silence engulfing table after table at last. And now, the [Innkeeper] was looking to the door.
If you shouted for a [Guardsman], one might come. If you screamed, screamed like a stabbing or shouted murder, that would get them, if not as fast as you needed. A patrol would arrive for that. But it had never occurred to the [Innkeeper] how to rouse more than that. He wondered if a man could scream that loud.
As if thinking of that, the [Barmaids] who’d been hurrying to leave went for the back doors. One gasped—backed up. Marvin spun.
A tall figure engulfed entirely in a hood of grey was standing there, face shrouded by a mask, like the ones that the Players of Celum wore on stage. A smiling man, features exaggerated.
He was broad enough to fill the doorway. He—if it was a he—didn’t move. The figure just stood there, and the front doors had a shadow behind them too. And now…the half-Elf was speaking.
“To my knowledge, the Twisted Alchemist is a picky man. Hate defines him. Love is an idea so old to him it has escaped his book of recipes. If there were any seed from which it could bloom, it would be curiosity. Fascination. That circlet that Ceria Springwalker wears does curious things to her mind. It has an effect which he might have thought meant they’d be—kindred spirits. You see, they come from the same kind of place. True half-Elven villages. It was more than a passing coincidence. The Village of the Spring is older than even the one he hailed from. It has its roots in the Hundred Kingdoms of Terandria, in the founding of Erribathe. It is that old.”
“So what? She’s no [Lady] like the [Princess] of Erribathe. But she is hot. Seen her statue? Nude. I can respect a [King] who puts that kind of thing up.”
The idiot sitting next to Irurx cast around. He was, perhaps, hoping for a cheer or a few ‘yeahs’ from the lads. He wondered why everyone was so…quiet. The [Storm Sailors] had stopped drinking. Irurx’s head turned. The hand the other diner was drinking with began to shake uncontrollably.
“Royalty. There is no bloodline older than the memory of half-Elves. It matters not at all to most of us. As half-Elves reckon such things, you could say she is royalty of a kind. Trapped in that miserable place so many crave. Passing centuries without change. So few of us have ever lived that damned life. And she left. She left—and those who do leave have always become individuals who mattered. So perhaps that’s why she charmed him. Why she might still be the one person who can behold Shifthold’s truths and not flinch. Only—”
The half-Elf paused, staring at nothing.
“She neither flinched or rejoiced in it. He expected one or the other. That was what was so hurtful. The labor of centuries and it did not even stir her frozen heart. It was simply not to her tastes. Perhaps that was the biggest blow to his ego. It should—does it not matter?”
He looked around. No one answered him. The [Alchemist] shook his head.
“Ah. I see the conversation of equals has ended. Brave sailors, I do appreciate swapping tales this night. I had not heard the one about Irurx. But then—I have not been to port in five months. It has been a long voyage at sea.”
The half-Elf stood from his table. The inn’s guests leaned back as a shadow opened the doors. One of his crew. The [Storm Sailors]’ knuckles were white on their mugs.
“H-how the hell did you get into port? Can’t be. You’re just having a laugh at us. The Pride’s just in the bay.”
One whispered. They stared out the window, and Irurx smiled at the young woman. They were all young to him.
“All the wonderful magical sensing items on the Pride of the Wellfar are indeed complex. And a true expert finds countermeasures for such things. But I’ve found, in my long years, it pays to have the right paperwork. A man may read the ink and see the stamps and never focus on the face. Mostly, though? I think it’s the stories.”
He drew his travelling cloak around him in a swirl of wet fabric. Then he pointed a finger at the [Storm Sailors].
“If you think to see Shifthold at sea and turn tail and run, you make the mistake of all green [Sailors], young man. From Drowned Ships to Bloodtear Pirates—they look so innocent. Until that flag waves high, you’d never know her from any other ship.”
“But her hull’s black, and she buzzes. The crew. The bugs—”
The man sitting in his chair sounded like he was pleading. The [Alchemist] just sighed.
“Have you ever found a nest hidden behind a wall? Insects hide. But then, those are the tricks of the trade. A drink in a pub and a meeting of sea’s children is traditional. We drink, and we boast. You, who survived a magical hurricane, I salute you!”
He swept the mug up and hoisted it into the air. Drank before their horrified eyes. And grinned. Then he wiped his mouth and dug his fingers into the side of his face. Into his flesh—and pulled pieces of it away.
He was burned underneath. Some gagged, and now a moan was rising from the others. But the half-Elf just planted a foot on his chair.
“Here is my boast: I have sailed the waters deep longer than I have stood upon land. A hundred and seventy years following the tides. A little less than half that, now, in a village that never aged. I have dueled Zelkyr’s children as he hid in his cabin. I have seen Dragons fly. I have seen Dragons die. And I am young as legends reckon such things. In my prime.”
He paused.
“I dye my hair.”
Every eye fixed upon his hair, and the half-Elf turned. He nodded at the [Innkeeper] standing against the wall.
“It was a pleasant night, Innkeeper Marvin. I tarried here a moment longer than I needed; your inn is a respite to my bones. I trust you shall level. Thank you for aiding me; I had feared I would have to search for hours.”
Marvin didn’t know what he meant. Then he remembered the half-Elf asking about one of his kin who’d been here. As any worried half-Elf might. And Marvin had assured him that she’d gone…
South.
He turned dead white, and his mouth opened, but no words came out. The Alchemist was walking towards the doors. His two bodyguards followed him, and one of the [Storm Sailors] half-rose.
She had a throwing dagger in hand. He was right there. An entire city was around them and the Pride at the docks. There was never a better moment to rid the world of a monster. If she just—
She froze in place. Irurx had turned back. His eye fixed her, and she sat back slowly. Then the half-Elf smiled.
“Traditions are important, even to terrible men and women. Without them, we are nothing but common murderers and brigands. I would not assail a sailor at port without cause.”
They wanted to believe him. The eight [Storm Sailors] sat there as Irurx strode to the door. He put a hand on the doorframe and glanced back.
“Just to clear the record—tell those you meet that I am still quite, quite enamoured by the Ice Squirrel. She is levelling. And I am now thinking of grander things. I rather fancy that we shall meet again. I am looking forwards to it. But a point of clarity?”
He lifted a finger, and his eyes found the place where he had been sitting. The man now frozen and shaking like the others.
“She is not married. The High King of Medain may think he is above being called to account for his lies. I find that notion amusing. Should he spirit Ceria away with his might and wealth and lock her in a tower—”
He grinned.
“…I have the heart of a [Knight]. At least one. I took umbrage to that comment. Do forgive me.”
Thus saying, he swept a bow to them, theatrically, and then turned. In a moment, he was gone into the rains outside. Even so, it took ten seconds or more before someone moved.
One of the [Storm Sailors] lurched upright; she and her friends began to speak in a rush.
“That was—”
“Was that real?”
“Had to have been him. I’ve never been more scared in—”
“Someone call the Watch.”
“Krakens take the Watch! Get out there and tell anyone on the streets. Wake the Pride! Shifthold is docked! Or near enough—they can catch him!”
“You idiot, if he sees you—”
Voices rose. Someone ran out the back doors—more were just sinking to their knees, hugging each other. Marvin the [Innkeeper] was staring at the golden coins on the table where Irurx had left them. He was afraid to even go near them.
The [Storm Sailors] were making for the doors, beginning to shout.
“Up, up you curs and sea’s teeth! Up; [Pirates] stalk the streets! The Alchemist! Sound the alarm! He’s here! He’s heeeeeere—”
The merriment from outside, like a distant paradise, didn’t turn to alarm right away. Confusion, denial…everything was so slow. One of the women was vaulting a table, cutlass in hand, when she turned her head.
Someone was sitting in his chair, having a panic attack. He was clutching at his chest, twitching—the man who’d been mouthing off to Irurx about Ceria’s attractiveness. He was probably just relieved to be al—
He was frothing at the mouth. The [Storm Sailor] turned in slow motion. She saw the man jerk up, and his eyes rolled back in his head.
“Wait—”
A pair of mandibles burst out of his chest. Then a row of spines exploded out of his back, blood and flesh hanging from the gleaming chitin. Something inside the man, wearing his skin, chittered. It leapt forwards as the first scream arose. The [Storm Sailor] swung her cutlass, shouting, and the inn erupted into chaos.
“Run!”
Marvin leapt through his own windows without stopping to unlatch the shutters. He was no fit man; he’d never vaulted an obstacle, but he burst through the window and was on the street and running as if he were a [Gymnast], his staff behind him. In the inn, the screaming horror was fighting the [Storm Sailors].
—And on the streets, the merriment had turned to dread. Yells were coming from elsewhere. At first Marvin thought they were cries of alarm. But then he heard more too-high-pitched shrieks. Coming from other restaurants. Places where you…ate. Without a care in the world.
The Pride. He ran towards the harbor and docks before realizing that Shifthold was there too. But when he came to the port…the [Innkeeper] halted.
The ships.
The ships were burning. Trade ships and military ones. The House of Wellfar’s vessels. They were going up in flames, covered with some kind of jelly that burned brighter than belief. Marvin shielded his eyes. And he saw, in the distance, that glorious ship, the Pride of the Wellfar?
It was covered in spider’s webs. Like a spider the size of a hill had climbed all over it.
The [Alchemist] had planted a trap. The Pride was flashing with spells burning through the clinging webs, and the webs weren’t sticking properly to the decks; he must have launched something at it. But every other ship hadn’t had the barrier spells to block the pyrophoric liquid.
They burned, and a single ordinary trading ship was sailing out of the harbor. Job done. Now there was no ship that could follow it. Marvin saw the brown, ordinary wooden planks ripple like a living thing shivering, and then they flipped and became black, shiny, like a bug’s shell. Shifthold shivered, then swam out of the harbor under the moonlight.
That [Alchemist] stood on the decks, humming to himself as he waved at the Pride engulfed in his webs. He’d bought that particular recipe, which could stymie even a legendary ship like that, from a delightful woman.
A Spider. They all knew each other, though he had to admit, he didn’t really care for her. She was too distant and removed. She’d had her fill of vengeances and mortal concerns. He was still entangled.
If there was anything he wanted, Irurx mused…it would be for someone to have shared the triumph of the war at sea with. Someone who could pass the eternities with him. Someone who understood.
His crew said nothing as they stood at their posts. He had never created one with a voice or the mind to speak words he cared to hear, nor longed to.
“I’m changing. Metamorphosis never ends.”
Grand visions. But, Irurx reflected—there was always time for one more half-Elf.
He had all kinds of new ideas for this one.
 
——
 
“Come on, come on. Why are you not bothering me today of all days?”
Morning. Seborn Sailwinds was praying. He knew he might not really be in the spirit of praying since he was more willing a single thing to happen, not casting his hopes to the winds. But he reckoned that it wasn’t that big an ask, was it?
All he needed was for a little Gnoll girl to pop up and his day would be set. After all that she’d been following him around, was it that improbable?
He was having a rough morning anyways. His back hurt. His head hurt from lying on a hard surface, and salt was flecked on his face and armor.
Sleeping in the sea breeze did that. When he sat up in the little fishing boat, he rubbed at his back, swearing. His companion was little better off.
Tissl had tried to lay down on the long lengths of wood that were seats, but the bow in her back as she lay there made Seborn wince. Literally no back support; she’d have the worst spinal pain he could imagine when she woke.
He debated waking her, but figured she’d probably been unable to sleep. Spinal agony or less sleep? Kids were more resilient.
