“Now you and the girl are my guests, Seborn Sailwinds. I have so many q—”
The lightning bolt exploded overhead, but the shockwave blew more insects into the water. Irurx slammed against the railing, then sighed.
“Always the interruptions. What now?”
He turned around, and the Pride of the Wellfar bathed him in a furious orange glow. The second attack spell burned across the waters, a cone of orange light that set everything it touched on fire. Shifthold’s hull burned as chitinous growths rose to block the deadly light.
The [Alchemist] held very still as the greatest ship of the Wellfar advanced. Lord Etril Wellfar was at the wheel, eyes locked on the half-Elf. Irurx exhaled.
“Unexpectedly early. To arms.”
Shifthold turned, and the insects swept towards the Pride as it opened up with attack spells from each side. The crew began pouring onto the decks as the two ships circled. The air was screaming and buzzing. But the [Alchemist] was watching the trio stumbling onto the beach out of the corner of his eyes.
The half-Elf wasn’t getting away.
 
——
 
The Pride of the Wellfar was fighting Shifthold! Miracle after miracle. Seborn stumbled onto the shore, knees weak. He saw the two ships fighting in the storm of insects. They were continuing to boil out of Shifthold’s hull. Each second, the Pride blasted more away, but it seemed like Irurx had an infinite supply—and the two ships were nearing enough to board.
It was ridiculous, the tiny Shifthold versus the giant warship, but Irurx’s decks were ablaze with his own siege weapons. Alchemical weapons were bursting over the Pride’s magical shields, and boarders from both parties were passing through the barriers. He saw an insect that was all long limbs leap onto the deck of the Pride and begin attacking everything in sight.
“I thought the great wars of the sea were over. Damn—this is insanity. Come on, Tissl. Where’s your chest? We have to go!”
The moment that Irurx re-focused on them, they were dead. He just needed a few hundred insects to chew them to pieces. Seborn was hauling the half-Elf up the beach. Irrel followed. He had that long object in hand and something in his other.
A piece of cloth. Just a cloak or cape, faded into filthy grey. He was working on it with one hand. Seborn didn’t pay attention to it as Tissl finally turned.
“Wh-what was that thing you summoned?”
“Antinium from Heaven. Not my faith. I think they just sent one to help out. I owe Pawn big for that.”
“Got any more?”
That wasn’t Tissl or Irrel’s voice, but Seborn was so shaken he shook his head.
“No.”
“Ah, excellent.”
Lord Gilam put his sword at Seborn’s throat. The Drowned Man froze as a ring of steel descended around him. He gazed up.
“You’ve got to be kidding me. Now? The Pride is buying us an escape! We should run!”
The [Lord] of House Quellae glanced over Seborn’s shoulder. His crew were trembling so bad they could barely keep the blades straight, but his was level.
“There is no way to outrun a flying opponent on foot or even horseback. I’m well aware, and you should be too. This is our only safeguard if the [Alchemist] comes towards us or manages to repulse the Pride. Tie her up! Him too!”
He shouted at the villagers of Moodfut. They approached, heeding Lord Gilam without thought until Seborn snapped back.
“She’s a child! Are you all that heartless? Isn’t there a drop of courage in your bones?”
He gazed at the [Sailor] nearest him. The man wouldn’t meet his eyes. Tissl just peered at Gilam, who snorted.
“Courage is for moments when there’s an actual chance.”
Thereby demonstrating he had no notion of what the word meant, he motioned, and a [Sailor] approached Tissl with a bundle of ropes. The [Rogue] was trembling, but he knew if he moved, Gilam would cut his throat. The [Lord] was daring him to try with his eyes. So, Irrel spoke.
“Dangerous. Don’t.”
The same quiet words halted the [Sailor], and his eyes swung towards the Dorhmin. He snarled.
“Can we gut this thing too, milord? For all we know, it led the Alchemist here!”
“Be my guest. But hurry up. The Drowned Man looks ready to commit suicide. You all saw it; he came at me.”
The [Lord] never took his eyes off Seborn. The two were staring each other down. They heard Irrel’s quiet voice.
“Two warnings. Don’t touch her.”
“Look, the fish-freak’s got something. Is that a flag? What’s he got there—watch it, might be a blade.”
Seborn’s eyes shifted sideways. He knew that refrain. Two warnings…
“Three warnings. Blood in the water, blood in the skies. No mercy. No regrets, aye.”
“H-hey. I know that rhyme. What’s he holding? What’s he—”
Then there was a gasp. And a faint sound, perhaps of a blade dropping from fingers that had suddenly gone numb. A [Sailor] backed up past Seborn, and Gilam’s eyes shifted left.
“You damn idiots. What’s…”
Then he stared too. Seborn dared to move his head slightly. He felt the blade cutting his skin along his throat, but he saw what had the [Sailors] petrified. They were backing away from something Irrel was holding.
Blood was running down one of his wrists. He’d cut his own flesh with his sharp teeth. It was a simple thing he’d drawn on the grey canvas.
Like an [Innkeeper] had once made a flag out of a pillowcase…the material didn’t matter. What he held, the symbol, mattered. This was no white flag.
It was a skull, the oldest sign on the seas. That alone would make a [Sailor]’s heart jump in their chests. But this one…this one was weeping a bloody tear down one eye socket.
The flag of the Bloodtear Pirates blew in Irrel’s hand as he held it. He looked nothing like the legends who had sailed against Terandria’s blue-blooded children, but as the harbor glowed with magic and monsters and illuminated his back, there was something of them in him.
Admiral Rosech’s son. The Bloodtear Pirate held a symbol that they knew, the people of Moodfut, that every people who lived next to salt and sea knew.
“That’s a lie. That’s just a—they’re dead. Get back.”
The [Sailors] around Irrel had drawn back. They eyed each other, counting their numbers. There were nearly thirty of them. One Dorhmin boy. Tissl was looking at Irrel and at the chest lying forgotten and to the side. He glanced at her.
“Stay back. Everything in front of me dies.”
“Get back!”
The [Sailor] nearest him slashed with a Skill. His blade swung towards Irrel’s throat in a deadly curve, and there was a ching. One piece of the sword spun through the air and hit another [Sailor] in the leg.
She cried out. Everyone, Seborn, Gilam, the villagers, gazed at the broken sword in astonishment. Then at the bundle of cloth that Irrel had used to block the blade.
The cut had revealed something. Now, the Dorhmin boy drew the sword from its cloth sheath. It was a longsword, and in his hands, it brought light to the darkness. Seborn had never seen such a beautiful blade.
The weapon that had belonged to the [Prince of Men], the Blade of Humanity, left no trail in the air. Nor did it shine with a thousand colors; even the writing on it didn’t glow. It just waited, a sword made to take lives without end.
“Come die.”
Irrel stepped forwards, and the [Sailor] nearest to him backed away, dropping his sword. Another raised a weapon. A crossbow. They fired.
The bolt struck the guard of the sword as Irrel shielded his face. He swung the sword out of guard-position. Reset his stance.
An arm fell to the ground. The [Sailor] clutched at her arm. She staggered—he swept the blade through her head at nose-height. Advanced.
Stumbling—they backed away from him. Another [Sailor] dropped his sword. He turned to run.
“W-what the hell is that?”
Lord Gilam Quellae saw his crew backing away. Then running. The villagers were doing the same. The boy they’d mocked was walking forward, and anyone who hesitated or raised a weapon died. He ran through a [Fisherwoman] with a hunting spear raised, his swordwork…
The Bloodtear Pirates had taught Rosech’s son well. There was no hesitation in his eyes. He had given them three chances. That was all you got.
He was coming at Gilam, sword pointed forwards in a bladesman’s stance. The [Lord] was frozen, his blade at Seborn’s throat.
“Stay back! You’re just a monster! You don’t deserve that sword!”
He shouted at Irrel, and the boy replied.
“Take it from me.”
Two warriors of the sword locked gazes. The [Lord] was shivering. His arm tensed. He gazed into the face that had watched his family and friends dying for a father’s silly dream.
The last one the [Prince of Men] had ever seen.
Gilam turned and ran.
Seborn nailed him in the shoulder with two daggers, but the [Lord] just sprinted up the village, deflecting the third and fourth. Seborn turned—and Irrel halted.
“Knew he’d run.”
That was his only comment to Seborn. The Drowned Man was speechless. He had known who Irrel was, but when he held the Relic-class blade, the heirloom of Erribathe, in his hands, he seemed to be someone else entirely.
Weighed down by a terrible burden. Instead of chasing the villagers and [Sailors], Irrel knelt. He planted the sword deep in the ground and then sat, cross-legged.
“Sorry.”
To Seborn? No…he was staring at the [Fisherwoman] he’d cut down. Blood was coating his arm. He looked up at Seborn, and then the Drowned Man saw the Dorhmin boy cry. Water gathered around the edges of his eyes and ran down his face.
“It always ends like this. Deserve this. We all do.”
He rose, and turned his body. The Mad Alchemist and the Pride of the Wellfar fighting behind him. As if it were mere background noise. He shook himself. Picked up the sword.
“Not done.”
“No. We have to get out of here. I…that bastard’s right. We’ll never run far enough inland on foot. If the [Alchemist] throws a wave of insects at us, we’re dead. Unless the Pride can send him packing fast enough.”
Seborn was feeling at his throat to make sure he wasn’t bleeding too hard. He and Irrel were watching the battle, but they were interrupted by a quiet voice.
“Seborn? Irrel? Can I ask you a question?”
Tissl. Irrel turned, and his mouth opened slightly. She was wearing the magical armor from the chest. The Orichalcum sword—sabre—was in her hand, and in her other hand was a strange crossbow that had no place to put a bolt. But it was glowing with magic condensing in the firing groove.
Seborn blinked at her.
“What?”
“What…what level was Alchemist Irurx? Everyone knows him. He’s centuries old. What level was he before the war at sea?”
Seborn answered automatically.
“Named-ranks are Level 40 or higher. But some hit Level 50. For a bastard like that? He was probably above Level 50. I think I once heard Saliss complaining that he helped bring Erin back to life. That he was doing alchemy even Saliss couldn’t. And Saliss is over Level 50, I’m almost sure. So…at least Level 50.”
“Oh. Okay. So that’s why. Ma always said past Level 50 was the land of myths. He must’ve hit Level 60 then.”
Tissl was staring past Seborn. His head slowly turned back to the battle. And then he saw it.
The Pride of the Wellfar was losing.
 
——
 
They kept coming. Wave after wave from his decks. They were already littering the Pride’s deck, but they were getting worse. The [Alchemist] had kept his worst creations for last—and the ones who emerged now?
Bathed by magical flames. A pillar of mana burning a hole into Shifthold from above. The spell that had destroyed the Assassin’s Guild burned through dozens of figures, and one of them lurched through the blaze and came out—unharmed.
It screamed with five voices as it raced up the bridge of twisted light towards the ship where Wellfar’s [Sailors] bathed it with more magic. But the magic just glanced off its chitin. And the blades—
The blades were chipping on its shell. The Twisted Alchemist was laughing.
“I have set my sights on grander experiments! Lord Etril Wellfar, thank you for delivering my new ship, alone!”
He bowed over his deck as a cyclone burst from one of the launchers and pierced the Pride’s shields. Flame became crystal, which fell to the decks and began writhing towards the nearest [Sailors] as liquid.
Hunter-killer solutions. Now, the [Lord] standing at the wheel, firing spells from his wand, saw the trap.
It had never been about the half-Elf girl. The attack on Treant’s Farewell had been authentic and a ruse. Irurx had sabotaged every other ship who could sail with the Pride—but known they’d break free of the webbing and think they’d corner him.
He just—wouldn’t—die. They’d put a hole in his head three times. And his alchemy—
Level 60. A single man had become a force like this great ship he had been entrusted with. Irurx turned and fed a passing insect from a vial.
It grew. And grew as he threw it skywards. When it fell, it was forty feet tall and still growing.
A titan crashed to deck. Etril turned to his kinfolk and crew.
“Kill it. Every master of blades, come with me. We join my mother tonight.”
He pulled his spear from his back and began to walk down his deck towards the [Alchemist]. The half-Elf ignored the challenge and produced another vial. He flicked it contemptuously.
“I have mastered cold that not even Ceria can dream of yet.”
His insects froze. The magic shields rebuilding on the Pride froze. The crew of Wellfar—Lord Etril burst from the frozen shell around him a moment later, coughing. Trying to breathe.
“Above. Take cover—”
 
——
 
The two ships were nearing, now. Circling closer and tearing each other to ribbons. Shifthold was screaming, but Irurx was prepared to sacrifice his ship—he had a new one in mind. The Pride was winning the naval battle, but his crew were winning the boarding action.
Into this duel, there was only one tiny little vessel. A pleasure ship, albeit made well. It had nearly run aground, and now it drifted in the harbor, rocked by the waves. Insects buffeted the sails along with rain and water.
But it sailed. Not easily; a Drowned Man hung from the rigging, adjusting the mainsail alone. He was the only one who knew how and could be spared. So he howled down at the helm where a half-Elf was holding the wheel.
“Turn! Turn to port—left!”
Tissl threw the wheel left, and the ship moved—slowly, reacting to her motions with a delay. She was learning it as each second threatened to see them list or even capsize. But the wandering trajectory of the ship brought them ever-closer to their destination.
Perhaps the embattled crews of both ships ignored the little vessel because they couldn’t believe any ship would approach them. Or, more realistically, it didn’t matter. It only attracted the half-Elf’s attention when Irurx turned his head and saw the prow of the ship approaching Shifthold’s railings.
