“…That’s the second unexpected thing today.”
He stopped laughing, truly confused by this turn of events. Had that [Lord] grown a spine and thought to offer him his prize to make him flee? Well and so—Irurx would help him grow another.
But no, the Human wasn’t in sight. There wasn’t a Human on the ship. There was only that Drowned Man clinging to the rigging. The half-Elven girl at the wheel…
And a Dorhmin, foot resting on the railing. Peering at him. He had a sword on one shoulder. A sword so beautiful and so deadly that Irurx remembered it, though he had only seen it once as a boy.
He halted, and Irrel spoke through the storm.
“Irurx. It’s me. Irrel.”
“Irrel?”
The Writhing Alchemist turned from his battle; Lord Etril and his forces had retreated across the decks, out of the hail of his deadly concoctions. Now, he peered at Irrel. His eyes widened in shock, then he smiled!
“It is you! What are you doing, child? I nearly killed you along with the village! Where is your crew?”
“Dead. Fled. I ran away.”
“Well then, come aboard, and I will sail you to any port you wish! How did you convince the half-Elf to surrender? Or is the Drowned Man here until the end?”
He was in a good mood. Irrel ignored the question. He was gazing at Irurx’s face.
“Alchemist. Before the battle, my father told me. If he died, if we lost, find you. You are a half-Elf of honor. Sometimes.”
Irurx resented the ‘sometimes’, but he dipped his head.
“Rosech and I respected each other despite our many differences. He succeeded in his quest. For that, he is a legend of the seas.”
“Yes. He did.”
Not a muscle on Irrel’s face moved besides his lips. He did not smile. Irurx…couldn’t read him. He had seldom spoken to Dorhmin save as experiments. The half-Elf saw the boy glance at the ship. Then at the village.
“Blood on the decks, by sky or by tide. Three chances given, everything we see dies. No mercy…regrets? Aye.”
He bowed his head, and the half-Elf glanced at the Pride.
“Wonderful additions to the Bloodtear Pirate’s poetry, Irrel. Could this wait? I have a ship to take.”
The boy lifted the sword from his shoulders. He pointed it one-handed at Irurx, and the [Alchemist] felt an unfamiliar thrill of terror run through him as the Sword of Humanity faced its foe: everyone and everything. The Dorhmin spoke in a voice that rang over the fighting and the crash of waves.
“Alchemist Irurx, I challenge you to a duel. Fight my crew or flee.”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes bulged as he looked from the half-Elf to Seborn and Irrel. He turned.
“Me, duel you? Boy, I am Shifthold. My crew could wipe you out in the blink of an eye. Why would I lower myself to dueling any man or woman?”
Irrel met his eyes as Irurx tried to sneer. And the [Alchemist] felt his heart sink, because the Dorhmin had already trapped him with simple logic.
“Because you’re a man of honor. Because I am Rosech’s son. Because I’m a pirate. Yield or die, Alchemist.”
The ship was close enough now to kiss Shifthold. The other ship tried to take a bite out of the wooden hull; Tissl swung the wheel away.
“Seborn!”
The Drowned Man was swearing. The boy had leapt from the prow of his ship onto Shifthold’s deck! Irurx stared as Irrel came at him, longsword raised. He exhaled once. Then he reached for his side and drew a shortsword.
“You are your father’s son. But you’re not him.”
He leapt through the swarm of bugs blowing across Irrel so fast the Dorhmin boy barely blocked it. Irurx’s swing tossed Irrel across the deck—he hit a line of insect-monstrosities coming up from one of the decks and stumbled upright.
“Shit.”
The [Alchemist] was on him like a flash. And he wasn’t even using potions—
Irurx slashed across Irrel’s chest, then backstepped, twisted around, deflecting two cuts, and riposted. His blade should have run Irrel through, but the Sword of Humanity flashed, and a shield of magic caught the blade’s edge. Irurx tsked, then side-stepped as Seborn leapt out of his shadow, daggers stabbing. He caught the Drowned Man with a slash across the chest; Seborn rolled as his Wyvern leather armor parted.
Maughin’s mail was torn, but it had saved him. Irurx shifted as Irrel and Seborn tried to spread out.
“You did say ‘crew’. Fortune loves you, Seborn Sailwinds.”
“No. It doesn’t.”
They charged him, Irrel’s sword raised, Seborn slashing low. The [Alchemist] parried both in a blur, and then slashed across Irrel’s chest. He flicked the blood into the boy’s eyes and ducked the arrow made out of a shooting star. He locked eyes with Tissl, then shouted.
“Do you think Level 60 means nothing? You haven’t a hope, boy! Lower your blade before I kill you!”
He had been staying out of range of the Blade of Humanity, for all his bluster. Even now, he watched it as Irrel wiped blood out of his eyes. The Dorhmin boy snapped a bug out of the air, chewed, and spat it onto the ground.
“Never.”
But his glance at Seborn told the Drowned Man he didn’t have any better ideas. The Drowned Man was panting as he knelt on the decks. That damn half-Elf was a swordsman too! Seborn hated ancient [Captains].
However, without his insects—the Drowned Man threw a dagger. Irurx cut it in half. He raised his brows at Seborn.
Really?
Seborn turned his shoulder. Tissl was swinging the ship around. He gazed at Irrel.
“Promise me you won’t die. Halfseekers don’t die.”
“I’ll try.”
The boy whispered. So—Seborn sighed.
“Charge.”
They came over the decks as the [Alchemist] stepped towards them, blade blurring. He cut, slashing, tearing a cut through Seborn’s cheek that would have taken his head off if he hadn’t turned it with his blade.
He was too fast. They didn’t have a chance. He was toying with them—the [Alchemist] was taking on both of Seborn’s daggers and Irrel’s longsword with his shortsword at the same time, his blade a whirl. His other hand flicked something at the Dorhmin boy.
“Watch—”
The stream of insects covered Irrel, and he cried out, vanishing into a swarm of flesh-eating locusts. Seborn leapt and was kicked backward, shouting with horror and loss as Irurx sighed—
The glowing blade nearly touched him this time. The Mad Alchemist leapt back, whirling, as a pale light burst from the storm of insects covering Irrel. He emerged, swinging, and he wasn’t dying. He wasn’t even bit.
“That blade—”
Insects were vaporizing around Irrel as the sword emitted streamers of purifying light. The Alchemist reacted at once, slashing across Irrel’s chest, no more mercy in his eyes.
A clash of sparks? Armor? For a second, the boy was covered in—Irurx’s sword hummed as it vibrated, and then he hissed; Seborn had thrown a dagger into one arm. He swirled, now off-guard. That sword—
The Blade of Humanity rang once, like a bell, as Irurx tried to parry it. Irrel was coming in fast and low, swinging quicker, and when Irurx’s sword met the other blade, the sound and shockwave it emitted visibly twisted the sword in his hands. He grimaced; Seborn felt nothing as he lunged in again.
Irurx wavered, that dreadful blade in his eyes. He backed up, keeping Seborn away with a spray from a vial.
—Stabbed through Irrel’s arm and tried to pin him to the deck—the boy swung his blade across Irurx’s waist, and the half-Elf had to leap over the slash. It almost touched him. He landed, panting.
“Faster, boy? You can’t—”
Irrel was charging towards him like a [Lancer]. The half-Elf smashed him to the side with brute strength, and Seborn kicked him in the face. He received a punch that flattened him, but Irurx pivoted away. He stared at Irrel.
“That’s Galas. Dorhmin don’t have that. Do they?”
“Trained hard.”
The half-Elf glanced to his left and side-stepped behind a mast. It sprayed Irrel with blood as he slashed half through it, and Irurx kicked him in the stomach. Then Irurx wavered and saw the mast of his ship falling.
That blade had cut it in a single blow—Irurx spun, caught Seborn and stabbed him through the shoulder, running him into the railing.
Tissl rammed Shifthold with the ship, and Irurx stumbled on the rainswept-decks. Seborn tried to grab one arm—he was hurled to the ground. Irrel locked blades with the [Alchemist], straining—the half-Elf regained his footing and began to push.
The strength of a madman in his eyes. He was laughing again. The [Rogue] put his strength behind his daggers, but with his and Irrel’s strength, the half-Elf was still pushing them back. So, the [Rogue] whispered.
“[The Half-Giant’s Push].”
He saw Irurx’s eyes widen—then the [Rogue] heaved, and Irurx’s feet left the deck. He twisted—hit the side of the Pride, and fell into the waters. Irrel dove in after him, sword in his hands. Seborn was already falling.
They found the [Alchemist] in the waters, and he was no longer laughing. He slashed at them, reaching for his vials, but the boy swam around him, stabbing from every angle. And the Drowned Man was reaching for Irurx, heedless of the blade drawing his blood. 
The Twisting Alchemist had seen their eyes before. He breathed deadly water into his lungs and saw the half-Elf diving after them. He remembered the Naga’s servant falling into the deeps, a laughing Named-rank adventurer holding him.
He saw that terrible sword he had not felt the kiss of yet. Remembered the words of the glowing Antinium. Saw the diving Drowned Man and remembered the name of an inn.
So he mouthed at the Dorhmin boy.
“I yield.”
 
——
 
The insects were lying on the water in such profusion it seemed like you could walk over them. The harbor was torn to pieces, and alchemical liquids floated over the water. The bodies of Irurx’s creations were washing up on the beach.
He was right there. Lord Etril Wellfar had eighty spells capable of making the shot. He triggered none of them. A duel of honor had concluded, and besides—
He didn’t know who would be standing if he unleashed all the Pride had left. So he just watched for signs of treachery, but there were none he could see.
Alchemist Irurx clapped Irrel on the shoulder. He looked as upset as anyone had ever seen him—his eyes were glittering like needles rammed into his brain. But he still smiled and swept the boy a bow.
“Your father would be proud to see it.”
“I’d rather he saw it. Stupid. I regret it all.”
The half-Elf’s grip tightened on Irrel’s shoulder, and the Drowned Man standing next to him stirred, but Irurx just shot Seborn a warning glance. He lowered his voice.
“It is the privilege of children to speak that way about their parents. Someday, you will understand what Rosech won for you, Irrel.”
“I know what he won. I wish he had chosen himself.”
Irurx’s tight features relaxed slightly, and he gave the Dorhmin a second look. Then he nodded slowly.
“I see. Then I merely salute you. And you, Seborn Sailwinds, and Tissl Venleather. Few have ever bested Shifthold. We shall meet again.”
Then he stepped back across his broken decks bleeding some kind of black ichor, and Shifthold began to move. It sailed out of the harbor, past the Pride. After a moment, Seborn took the wheel of his ship. He locked eyes with Etril Wellfar—then spun the wheel in the opposite direction of Shifthold.
“Lord Etril. Should we not give chase to Shifthold?”
One of the [Ladies] of Wellfar demanded. Lord Etril turned his head.
“And risk him taking the ship? Don’t be an idiot.”
“But he’s—”
“The Reinhart’s Citadel-class ship, Velistrane, is sailing south at all speed. Wistram is trying to track him, and Pheislant is sending its armada. Repair the ship. We give chase the moment Velistrane is in range.”
The half-Elf was moving fast. Could he slip away…? Etril watched the deck scramble into action. He himself stood there. Watching the Drowned Man sail away.
“That is a Bloodtear Pirate. By rights, we should hang him. Anyone on either [Admirals]’ ships is condemned to death, Lord Etril. No conscription nor mercy for those two crews.”
His first-mate spoke after a moment. Etril nodded.
“We’re too busy giving chase to Shifthold.”
“And our rudder’s broken.”
“Well, go fix it.”
Silence. The young [Lord] stood there, arms folded, visibly upset for many reasons, but his eyes lingered on that departing ship with the three people on it.
Etril kept watching the Gold-rank adventurer he hadn’t had a chance to talk to properly. Seborn Sailwinds had to know that boy had a death sentence in every port in the world. That he was taking him to sea made sense…but why had the girl gone with them?
He imagined his mother smacking the back of his head and rubbed it and laughed.
“A crew sticks together. Ah, storm’s blessings upon us all. We are the might of Wellfar on the seas! It is our duty to be shepherd and protector and to pass what law there is amidst the waves. [Ship’s Mage], prepare a Ship’s Log to go to every port that hears Wellfar’s words!”
He shouted at one of the [Mages], who could indeed prepare a written summary of any notable event at sea. Such things were, if not standard, vital sources of news.
“Aye, Captain?”
The man didn’t exactly leap to attention as he turned from picking pieces of insect shell from his bare feet. Lord Etril was aware of the crew’s eyes upon him and the murmur that swept the decks, but he wasn’t done.
“Be quick about it, man! Shifthold first, as it pertains to the Pride. Then the other ship, Seborn Sailwinds, and the other two—find their names, and don’t spare the details.”
“As the [Lord] of the ship orders, so will it be done.”
A crossed-arm salute and a longer stare. Etril turned his head.
“I’ll want a copy of it myself, magus. I expect it to be a work fit for my late mother, or I’ll have you cleaning the insect bile from the decks. No details omitted, no part left unsaid. There was something about a carriage and a driver infested? Find the poor man’s details and get a dictionary. Too many such stories use the same word over and over to describe such matters in my experience. The ‘clash of swords’ or the ‘whirl of blades’ I want to see not once in it!”
A look of brief confusion flitted over the [Ship Mage]’s face, but some of the crew started. One called out, a young [Lady] of Wellfar who’d seen her first action.
“A proper Ship’s Tale, Lord Etril? Doesn’t the Guild o’ Captains restrict them to a page’s length?”
“So they do, so they do. Well, if we go over, send it not to them. Send it to…[Harbormasters]. The largest pub or tavern in a city. But [Ship’s Mage], it had better be worth the coin of sending!”
Now, the man had a glint in his eyes.
“Aye, Captain. I reckon I could do that, if you’ll let the crew and I recall the events properly and investigate the matter.”
