Seborn stretched, then sat on the edge of the boat they’d dragged onto the largest sandbar to sleep. Water was rushing up and would soon be in danger of flooding the boat, but it was fine. They had loaded their cargo on the boat; now all they had to do was row it back to the village.
The fact that they hadn’t and had spent the night in the open was because Seborn would rather have stabbed himself than leave a chest filled with Relic-class treasures in that village. He’d made that clear to Tissl, and she seemed to get the stakes.
“Relic-class gear. She can wear most of it—but she’ll stand out like a sore thumb if she does, and she can’t protect any of it. The chest might guard it, but it’ll kill a lot of idiots and everything around it even if she locks it all up. You can probably just grab the chest too. What a mess.”
He was shaving his Human half with a straight razor as he sat there, using salt water and a bit of shaving cream. It was really good incentive not to cut yourself. Seborn sighed.
“Damn it, Erin. Why me?”
He knew the answer, if it was some kind of divine providence that had brought him here. Or the spirit of the Halfseekers…it had to be him. If this kid had dug up the treasure with that idiot [Fisherman], he’d likely as not have killed her there and then or demanded half of it. Or gotten everyone in the village to jump her.
Tissl was sharp enough as kids went, but still too young. But she’d just dug up a haul of treasure that made the best Gold-ranker gear look like a Bronze-ranker’s soiled loincloth. She was now someone who mattered…until she got killed or her possessions were taken from her.
“Come on, Mrsha. Just one call. If we get an overnight carriage, we could be there in two days.”
Maybe they should have done that, but they’d been tired from digging and checking there wasn’t more treasure and then testing the items. Normally, Seborn wouldn’t touch a Relic he didn’t know unless he had to, but Tissl had sworn it was safe…once she’d claimed them properly. And who could resist? This wasn’t just one item, it was gear from a legend.
He’d gotten over his head, he had to admit. Now Seborn was stressed.
“What’s in two days? Somewhere I’m going or are you slitting my throat in the night like you kept threatening everyone including my Ma would do?”
Tissl was awake. She sat up as Seborn flicked the razor back into its sheath. He glanced at her.
“Pretending to be asleep?”
She rubbed at her back.
“Nah. My back was killing me.”
“Start learning to pretend. Most people fall for it. You can hear a lot that way.”
She flopped against the boat’s edges and dug around in her bag of holding. She had a lot of very dry travel rations—mostly Yellat mash with other bits of dried meat and vegetables or nuts attached. Seborn offered her a honeycake, and she began to gobble it down.
“You giving me advice? I thought you were gonna come with me.”
“I’m no babysitter. I’ll take you to somewhere that can help you. The Wandering Inn. There you’ll have to learn, and learn fast. Tell no one what you have. Not even them; some of that lot have loose lips. If you can survive a year, then you’ll be able to call yourself a Named-rank adventurer. And then you’ll be damned, just like your Mother said.”
Poor kid. Tissl stopped chewing.
“Like Lehra Ruinstrider? You sure you’re not just blowing Dreamleaf up my bum? We don’t know what the gear does…”
“You have an Orichalcum sword. It cut my Wyvern leather gear like it wasn’t there. That alone makes you high Gold-rank.”
“What, so I’m just a Named-rank because I picked up the right Relic? That’s not very fair. Is that all Lehra did?”
Seborn shook his head, slightly amused by her indignation on behalf of Named-rank adventurers.
“No. I said after a year you’re Named-rank. By then, you’ll either have lost it or prove you can keep hold of what you’ve got.”
“Oh. How good are my odds?”
Seborn was staring ahead. He knew other people who’d found a huge haul at sea, like Wil Kallinad, and tried to make a name for themselves. True, [Pirates] were bloody, but…all of them had ended up with throats cut and their treasures taken.
“You’ll be okay if you use your head. We just have to get you to the inn in one piece.”
That was the goal. She cocked her head, frowning.
“That’s not hard, is it? We could hitch a wagon and—”
“No. I’m not even convinced we go back to the village. But they’ll be searching for this boat—I think we do that. But getting the chest to a place where we can get picked up by an overnight carriage is the hard part. I need to trust the driver or we disguise the chest somehow.”
“Aren’t you making Giants out of Goblins?”
“That chest looks valuable. It doesn’t radiate magic, which is one thing, but anyone can tell what you’ve found. And all it takes is one person who thinks you’re worth the effort. Never take chances you don’t have to.”
“So? We just toss it in that bag of holding that was in there and—oh—”
She’d figured out the flaw in her plan. Seborn nodded.
“Rule of adventuring: never put a Bag of Holding inside another Bag of Holding. Same for chests. There’s no way for us to transport it except by hand. That’s probably why the half-Elf left it there. Was it something he was going to pick up or…?”
He was suddenly very curious about Captain Etroc d’Anametis, the famous half-Elf. Tissl shook her head.
“He said it was so he could pass it on since he was retiring when he put it there. Seems like he never found anyone worthy of it.”
“No one ever tugged at his heartstrings enough? No darling grandchildren or relatives? No lover?”
“Uh. He said he died in a brothel, so I think he didn’t really have many of those.”
Seborn grinned. There was a bit of gritty realism along with all the fantastic gear. He kept munching on breakfast.
“You need to show your face in the village. I really don’t want to do it, but we might leave the chest somewhere hidden. Show our faces—then meet up, grab the chest, haul to the meetup point, and go. How good are you at acting?”
“I can probably not say I found a ton of treasure.”
Tissl was shivering, and he knew she’d give it away; she had that awestruck expression he himself was having to keep from his face or movements. But the [Rogue] had to keep her safe.
Keep her safe, you idiot! He felt like the others were all shouting at him, living and the dead. If only he had Jelaqua—
He hadn’t thought of her since he’d left.
Okay, he’d thought of her, but he hadn’t wanted to talk to her or say anything more. What else was there to say? She’d done the right thing, the damned thing.
He hoped she was happy for the rest of her days with that giant hammerer, Maughin.
Right now, Seborn wished she were here so they could split up and share this burden. Hells, he’d settle for a Silver-ranker he could trust.
Gothica.
The Drowned Man fixed Tissl with a look that made her fidget.
“You’re scaring me a bit, and I can’t read minds, Seborn. What?”
He took a breath.
“I’m…not good at this. Being supportive, and I’m no Captain. So I’m going to be direct. We’re in more danger than you think. I know you think I’m a Gold-ranker and I can help, but that chest is going to have every [Thief] worth their salt in miles coming after us. It’ll have our [Driver] shooting us in our sleep if he knows what it is. This is the kind of gold that drives honest men crazy.”
Tissl’s ears drooped. The girl was still a village kid from Izril. She put a hand on her belt knife.
“I know that, and I can cast a spell—I won’t let anyone take it.”
“You won’t slow them down. I won’t slow them down. I’m a [Rogue]. The minute a Level 30 [Warrior] grabs me, I’m in trouble. A group could end us both. The village could kill us. A hundred civilians can kill a Gold-ranker if they’re mad enough. We have to be careful. The person I’m most worried about in that village isn’t even the people. It’s that [Lord].”
She squinted at him.
“What, the one who was insulting everyone? Him?”
“He’s as good with a sword as a Gold-ranker. Don’t laugh. I don’t joke about stuff like this. And I trust him as far as I can throw his ship.”
Now she was getting it. Tissl bit her lip.
“So…we just pretend it’s normal, grab the chest, and get to the road? And if the carriage takes us to Invrisil where the magic door is…”
“No stops, no breaks except to use the bathroom. No inns, and we take turns sleeping. The [Driver] won’t ask too many questions; he’s used to this. The most he might think is we’re some kind of couple and I’m coercing or abducting you.”
She began to grin, but his face was serious.
“It happens. A good man would call the Watch. Whereupon a lot of honest men find the chest…”
“And we get our throats slit. Great! How d’we fix that?”
Seborn was thinking.
“Well…we just have to lie.”
 
——
 
(Hello and welcome to the new [Prince]-class Messaging Service courtesy of the Terras Faction of Wistram Academy! Your full list of benefits can be found here, and terms and conditions apply to any messages sent here. We look forwards to bringing more magic into your life!)
 
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — I need an overnight carriage sent to me immediately. Why is my [Message] scroll acting up?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Hello, Adventurer Seborn! This is an automatic upgrade applied to all [Messages] going through us.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — I hate this. That’s not important. Get me an overnight carriage now. I have an emergency passenger I need to move to Invrisil.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Of course, Adventurer Seborn. I’ll contact the Driver’s Guild and get you an expert. May I confirm your location is Moodfut along the western coast? We have some glitches that occasionally misassign your location.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Yes. I need a Level 30+ [Driver]. This is urgent. The Mad Alchemist who wiped out that village has been spotted, and my companion is a half-Elf kid.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — I understand completely. We are notifying the Driver’s Guild and forwarding this to the Guildmaster.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Do they have Termin the Omni-something or Chaoisa Who Hates Men?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — We’re checking…no, both are unavailable. The Guildmaster is now aware of your request, Adventurer Seborn, and has approved everything.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Good. We’ll be on the road just outside the village.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Your [Driver] is going to be Driver Ridmec, and he should arrive in 2 hours. Is this enough time? Is the [Alchemist] at Moodfut? We can have the village evacuated. This is the Guildmaster.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — He’s only been sighted. I’ll update if I see him.
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Acknowledged. Good work, Halfseeker. That was the Guildmaster. Can we assist you in any other way, Adventurer Seborn?
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — No. Thanks.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Wait. Can you notify The Wandering Inn I’m inbound and need a room?
Adventurer’s Guild (Invrisil) — Absolutely, Adventurer. We will have a City Runner deliver it directly.
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — Thanks.
 
(We hope you’ve found Wistram’s new Messaging Service has catered to your highest expectations! Do you have a moment to fill out a short survey about your experience? You may be entered in a sweepstakes to win a Tier 4 scroll! Please write how many stars out of five you think our service rates!)
 
Seborn Sailwinds, Gold-rank Adventurer (Moodfut) — 0 stars. Go eat a Creler. Stop spying on me.
 
——
 
Seborn finished writing in the scroll, then swatted at Tissl, who kept giggling as she read over his shoulder.
He felt slightly bad about that. It was for a good cause, but calling in an actual alarm about Irurx was no light matter. He might endanger someone else who actually saw the bastard. But it’d stop the [Driver] from asking questions, and they’d have the carriage in a mere two hours.
“Okay, let’s start the next part of the plan. Remember, if it goes bad, don’t lead them to the chest and get help before coming back. If we have the chest, gear up and run. The chest is the least valuable thing.”
“D’you always have plans?”
“Always, and backups. It makes me feel better when they go bad.”
This was a simple operation, anyways. Seborn just hated how…easy it had been. True, nothing in Tissl’s journey had been that hard. Her getting this far on her own had been relatively hard for her, but for him, he’d just done some rowing and pulled up a fortune.
He didn’t like that. Adventurers were as superstitious as seafolk, and Seborn was doubly so, and he was someone who prayed. Everything in him was waiting for the catch.
However, the journey back to Moodfut went just fine. They docked after stowing the chest, and the only comment the [Fisher] had was to ask what had taken them all day.
“The kid wanted to keep checking places. We spent all night digging.”
Seborn wore a grumpy expression as Tissl slouched her shoulders and moped up the village. She was overdoing it a bit, but the [Fisher] just grunted.
“You had it longer than I thought. Missed the entire night’s fishing and the morning’s catch.”
They haggled over the price, and Seborn let him have too much gold from the amount they’d agreed he’d get back—it was fine. It was all damn fine. He saw the [Lord]’s ship was still docked and the [Sailors] were wandering around.
“That lot cause trouble?”
The [Fisher] grunted as he pocketed his coins.
“No more’n any others. Rough crew, but the [Lord] just drank himself onto the floor. Kept hinting, like, we wouldn’t want to see him angry and that he had all these friends. Heard it before. He’ll probably sail into a rock and get marooned when he finally wakes up.”
Good enough for Seborn. He was glancing around for Tissl—she’d already jogged out of the village. The [Fisher] pointed to a distant figure.
“Yon half-Elf’s split. There’s gratitude for you. Why’d you help someone for all that and not a spit of reward?”
“She’s a kid. It’s my job to care about people like her.”
The [Fisher] tilted his head with a real frown this time.
“Aren’t you an adventurer? Don’t see many of them doing charity work save for the Silver Swords.”
“Halfseeker.”
“I reckon I’ve heard that name before…who’s your Captain?”
“Jelaqua Ivirith, but the team’s disbanded. Thanks. I’ve got to go too.”
