He began shouting, and the villagers not running turned to him. Most kept running; it was instinct. But the [Sailors] regarded the moving storm and began sprinting for the houses. Seborn whirled.
“Tissl, drop the box. We have to find you a hiding place.”
The half-Elf was Irurx’s target. She had to be; there was no other reason for him to come here. How had he known…? No time. Now that Seborn realized she was Irurx’s target, he grabbed her arm.
To his astonishment, Lord Gilam grabbed her other arm.
“Yes, this way! Help me, you lot! I’ve paid your wages—this way!”
Seborn was shocked by the young man’s sudden bravery. But Gilam was ushering Tissl…straight towards the beach. He was trying to drag her to—
“Let go of her, you idiot!”
“Idiot? That’s the half-Elf the [Alchemist] wants! He’ll slaughter us all unless we give her to him!”
Gilam shouted back at Seborn. The Drowned Man drew his dagger.
“Let her go.”
Gilam drew his sword, one-handed. Seborn felt his skin crawling. He was aware the young man was dangerous. He tensed as Gilam’s eyes narrowed. Then there was a ringing of steel.
The [Sailors] had turned and drew blades. And—Seborn heard a voice.
“He’s right. Send her off, Drowned Man. Don’t be a fool!”
The [Fisher], Enlock, and the villagers. They were gazing at Tissl with madness in their eyes. She was shaking.
“Seborn?”
The Drowned Man gazed into her eyes and smiled. He couldn’t do it like Moore. But the lie came so swift and easy.
“Don’t worry. It’s going to be fine. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer.”
He stood in the standoff, and Irrel spoke, his flat voice barely audible over the storm as it broke over the village.
“He’s here.”
 
——
 
The Writhing Alchemist stood on the decks of his ship and laughed. He saw a tableau on the beach, and he held up his hand, pulling the insects back. This was a familiar sight, even if he had never seen it in this exact configuration.
A Drowned Man shielding a half-Elf from the mob. He’d seen that before—but what was that next to him?
“A Dorhmin?”
The half-Elf blinked. He hadn’t seen one of those in a settlement he’d attacked before. It reminded him of Rosech’s son. But he was a busy man; his sabotage at Treant’s Farewell wouldn’t last forever.
He had a plan and a timeframe, so he called from his ship as they all went still. The [Alchemist] drank a potion, and his voice boomed over the bay.
“I am Irurx the Alchemist. You know what I’ve come for. Turn her over.”
He saw the Drowned Man slashing at the [Lord] and shouting, keeping the mob back. Irurx laughed softly.
Everyone was talking about the Players of Celum, as if that was real drama. He plucked a flying insect buzzing past him and popped it into his mouth, chewing it as it writhed. Another thing he had in common with Ceria Springwalker, really.
“Once they turn the half-Elf over, kill every one of them except the Drowned Man and Dorhmin.”
His crew didn’t react, but he knew they had heard his orders. The Mad Alchemist might be a [Pirate], a kin-killer, and a twister of flesh and dignity, but as he’d told the [Storm Sailors]…he had standards.
He watched the Drowned Man backing up, daggers slashing. After a moment, Alchemist Irurx found a pair of spectacles. Then a handy book on adventurers he’d taken from the Adventurer’s Guild in Treant’s Farewell.
“That is Seborn Sailwinds. Halfseekers…he would know Ceria.”
He turned to one of the hooded crew who was making strange sucking sounds through their black cloth.
“Get me a bottle of wine. Something Drowned Folk could appreciate. We don’t have time for more than a toast, but I’ll just give him the bottle.”
 
——
 
“Back, back!”
Seborn was slashing with his daggers as he shoved Tissl down the beach. They were trying to get at her, shouting at him to let go. But they didn’t want to get near his blade. The other thing keeping them back was Irrel.
The boy had grabbed a fishing spear, and he was stabbing it at anyone getting close. Even now—there was a flash, and Irrel’s spear blurred.
He deflected Lord Gilam’s sword, and the [Lord] staggered.
“How the hell—?”
Seborn wanted to know that too. The kid was a [Swordsman], and a good one. But Irrel just kept muttering.
“Bad. Bad.”
“I know! Just—”
“Seborn, he’s right there. He’s staring at us.”
The Drowned Man twisted. He could see the Alchemist standing on the deck of his ship. Irurx waved, then pointed. Seborn twisted. He ducked the crossbow bolt that fired through the spot where his head had been.
They had to—there was nowhere to run. There was only one place where he could avoid the crowds. And that was—Seborn twisted. Then he grabbed Tissl.
“Irrel, run!”
The [Rogue] vanished as he [Shadowleapt]—then hit the wooden deck of Lord Gilam’s ship. He’d used the shadows up there to escape the mob.
“My ship! He’s up there—get a ladder, idiots!”
They had no way up for a second. Seborn was panting as he reached for the door of the cabin. It was enchanted, wasn’t it? They might—
“Seborn Sailwinds. My kin, if you please.”
The [Alchemist]. He was seated on the railings of Shifthold, and Seborn saw his ship below the man. It was…bulging at the sides. Little orifices opened in the sides, tiny holes disgorging insects. It was a living monster.
A Named-rank monstrosity. A ship with a mouth that swam, not sailed through the waters. And on deck—the crew.
Hooded figures with too many limbs. A spindly pair of legs belonging to an insect. A hornet’s stingers sticking out of one’s chest. But most were humanoid—and armed.
They had siege weapons on Shifthold. Strange magical lobbers filled with glowing vials. And worse—hooked harpoons loaded and ready to fire.
All he had to do was speak and this ship would be damned, however much money Gilam had paid for it. Tissl whispered.
“It’s you. The Alchemist.”
“Oh, you know me? I’m flattered, my dear. Come on now. You’ve been quite brave. Adventurer Sailwinds, I have a bottle to offer you for your bravery and our mutual association.”
The half-Elf clicked his fingers, and a bottle appeared on a little platter that one of his monstrosities held out for him. He proffered it to Seborn across the gap between their ships. The Drowned Man didn’t know what to do.
This is it. He was all instinct.
“Try to take her and die.”
He couldn’t leap the gap between their ships. They’d be dead in a heartbeat, and maybe…maybe that was better than whatever Irurx had planned for Tissl. A terrible thought, but Seborn had no more left. Irurx raised his brows. His face was all burn scars, but he still seemed terribly dignified.
“You are a Gold-rank adventurer indeed. I salute you, Seborn. But here, I insist. Give her to me. The only way you survive this is to let her go. Refuse and you both die. Upon my craft, I swear I will respect either choice.”
His eyes were ravening madness. He seemed so interested, like a man of science waiting to see the outcome of an experiment. Seborn turned to Tissl. The chest…?
She’d left it on the beach. He glanced at it, then spoke.
“Get inside the cabin. Don’t let him take you alive.”
“Don’t. He wants me. He’ll kill us both.”
She whispered back, then tried to walk forwards. He grabbed her. Irurx was grinning.
“Listen to her, adventurer. I applaud you as well, Sister. What is your name? Tissl, I believe?”
The girl faced him directly, and he was many, many times her age. But they were both half-Elves, and though she was shaking like a leaf, she managed to retort back.
“I’m Tissl Venleather.”
The most curious thing happened, then. Irurx’s avaricious face changed, and his eyes widened in genuine surprise.
“Venleather? Wait, I know that name…you wouldn’t happen to be the daughter of Disabella, would you?”
“Y-you know my mother?”
Seborn saw Tissl jerk, and Irurx snapped his fingers.
“Yes. What a coincidence! Ceria met your mother. It truly is a small world. A half-Elf who survives being entangled as she did—it came up over dinner. So I know you, Tissl. Come along. I will treat you kindly, I promise. I am Irurx, then, the outcast of Terandria. Kinslayer.”
The depths of his eyes seemed to grow deeper. Tissl retorted as she leaned on the railing.
“I know you! You’re the half-Elf who doesn’t love himself. The one who blames his people for everything. Their mistakes and his. And he can’t stop blaming them or admit he was also wrong. The one who sails in a circle, chasing his own tail.”
Seborn turned to stare at her. Her cheeks were flushed as she shouted that over the water. The effect on Irurx was even more pronounced. A faint flush danced over his face, and he hesitated before snapping back.
“I take it that was your mother’s opinion?”
“And mine! I don’t even know you! You’re just a monster. Leave Seborn alone and this village. You can have that one, though.”
She pointed at Gilam, who flinched and tried to hide behind the crowd. Alchemist Irurx nodded slowly, eyes on her.
“Oh, yes. You have my word. We shall have to have a longer conversation than most, my dear. It is a custom. As for that fellow—why not? I could take the village that was all too willing to give you up too.”
A moan arose from below, and Tissl snapped.
“Leave them alone!”
Irurx gestured, and a magical bridge of purple light formed between their ships. It reached the railing where Tissl stood as his crew began to climb the railings.
Seborn’s dagger cracked the magical spell, and the bridge fell to pieces. One of Irurx’s crew had to hang onto the railings.
“I said you’re dead if you try to take her, [Alchemist]. Fight me.”
Irurx eyed Seborn and shook his head.
“You’re making a mistake, Drowned Man. Crew? Aim.”
The [Rogue] was poised to leap. Tissl grabbed Seborn’s arm.
“Seborn!”
He glanced down at her and smiled as he gestured to Irurx.
“You don’t ever give in to their demands, Tissl. That’s another rule of good adventurers.”
“Please…just tell Mom I found it. That she was right. You don’t have a chance.”
She jerked her head at the chest, and she was crying. He reached down and touched her hand as she clutched at his arm.
“I know, Tissl. But I have faith.”
He put his hands together. Clasped them as the [Alchemist]’s eyes narrowed. Irurx spoke slowly as Seborn uttered a prayer for dead men, for impossible odds. For what should be instead of what was.
“I have heard that word recently in new context. Strange. Let us see. Avoid the girl.”
He lifted his hands, and the Drowned Man drew his other dagger to throw. The sky was black. He thought he saw light in the distance, past the whirling insects, like the dawn, but it was too far away.
The world was collapsing.
The [Palace of Fates] was open.
It was today.
In another place, another dimension, a [Prophet] was praying for no one’s salvation, only their end. Hundreds of beings called forth from the infinite realities, whose territory bordered on the divine, flew to exact wrath and retribution.
Like it often happened, one of them, just one—
Got lost.
 
——
 
It had a thousand eyes, each one swivelling in a different direction. The form was the same, but the nature was something else.
The Antinium Worker appeared in a blaze of light like the sky, through the storm. When it stepped onto the deck, even the Drowned Man seemed stunned.
The Alchemist of Shifthold was shaking. He gazed down at his hands with a kind of clinical interest—then at the being who had appeared in the flash of light. Irurx licked his lips and whispered.
“What…what is that?”
Seborn Sailwinds didn’t know. He had no idea where this being had come from or for what purpose. He had seen Pawn’s summoned beings, but this was not a Worker from Heaven or even an Aberration.
It turned and gazed at him. Seborn backed up a step, and Tissl went with him. They couldn’t help it. It was radiant with colors that Seborn had no names for. Made up of shifting particles, motes of light that only existed in the dreams of Antinium. And it was made up of a soul of a true believer, called from Heaven’s gates.
From another world.
From another time. It surveyed the ship, then Irurx. The [Alchemist] and his crew, who quailed in the face of something they didn’t understand. An insect beyond even his means. Then—the angelic Worker spoke.
“bE VeRY aFrAId.”
It drew a weapon. A mace, and the [Alchemist] croaked.
“Wait. You are the glorious species. The finest children of Rhir. I am Irurx! I have corresponded, attempted to correspond with your Grand Queen. With Xrn of the Centenium! We are allies! I admire your people! Let us parlay!”
He gestured, and the purple [Light Bridge] formed. The Antinium angel halted, many eyes focused on Irurx. Then it turned to Seborn. The Drowned Man shook his head.
“Help us, please.”
From the waters he had dove into, Irrel was watching the Antinium, and the boy was afraid of it. He feared few things, but he thought his father would have swallowed and then grinned that mad, fearless smile if he saw it upon his decks.
It was something Irrel didn’t understand. The boy thought the Antinium peered at him as it took a step onto the [Light Bridge]. Irurx smiled and made an entreaty, remembering he had the wine bottle in hand. He proffered it to the Antinium.
“Then you understand; we are allies!”
The Anginium blinked its eyes all at once. Then its mandibles rose in a smile.
“nO.”
It leapt over the light bridge in a thirty-foot dive onto Irurx’s ship, and then it screamed. Irrel dove under the water, but he still heard it. A scream that went through his soul—it seemed to never end as Irrel reached for the thing he had been unwrapping. But he hesitated.
Was now the moment? When he poked his head out of the water he flinched; something was falling. Seborn and Tissl had leapt from the deck of Gilam’s ship. And then he saw another body falling.
One of Irurx’s crew, clawing at flames that burned without ceasing. The [Alchemist] was shouting something. Then—
The Worker from Heaven exploded. The blast made all three dive into the water; when they surfaced, everything had gone silent. Insects were raining into the water around them, stunned by the shockwave.
“He killed it.”
Tissl’s moment of hope was consumed by horror as she stared above. Seborn whispered.
“Maybe it took him with it. Or did enough damage to his crew…”
It was the first foolish thing the Drowned Man had said. Irrel told him so.
“No. Got another?”
“No. I don’t think I even deserved one.”
Shifthold was groaning. Its decks were…rippling. Like an insect that had experienced something unpleasant, resetting itself, checking for damage. And the [Alchemist]?
He walked to the railings of the ship and stared down into the waters at them. Then glanced over his shoulder.
