But escape first. Fierre hesitated. She was the maddest of the three; she clearly wanted to make good on her finger-breaking threat. But she acceded to their common-sense.
“So, what do we do?”
“Get out?”
“Yes, but that means going through all the traps that are between us and the exit.”
“True…but if we assume the traps escalate until here, we can break out. Or—go for a wall. We have enough scrolls.”
“That’s tricky. I say—we scout backwards. The thing about these rooms is that they’re designed for people coming in. Not going out. Let’s take a look around.”
 
—-
 
What was happening? Thirteen processes were confused by the direction the intruders were taking. They were…leaving.
Most of the room traps only worked when you entered one way. A decision Archmage Valeterisa had time to regret—or would have if she had the capacity to regret. As it was, she noted the intruders blowing open door after door with spells.
They had the firepower for it. And with their artifacts, they moved back through the layers of traps. A few things slowed them up, like the swarm of conjured insects, the illusion of green and contact pollen—but these were the non-lethal traps. If they struggled, they just rested up and moved on.
By the time the intruders were at the door, a good fifteen processes were aware enough to call off the attack on them from the entire mansion’s defenses. Valeterisa had made an analysis of cost-to-benefit and decided to just repair what had been broken, fix the gaps in her security, and move on.
She was still thinking of her project. That mattered. Intruders? She had never visited the other captives. So she let them break the door to her mansion and leave. It was annoying…but they hadn’t the tenacity to reach her.
In the end…they were at the high end statistically. But they weren’t even at the top. Valeterisa filed them away in her head.
And that was her mistake.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin stepped into the sunlight. Fierre instantly retreated. Salamani blinked at the morning light.
“We’re out. I guess…well, my boatman probably thinks I’m dead. But dead gods, there are a few [Lesser Teleport] scrolls here and I’ll swim to be away from this damn isle. Ryoka, Fierre—I’ll go with you wherever you want. Back to Lady Ieka, to the nearest Runner’s Guild—I am forever in your debt.”
“Don’t exaggerate, Salamani. We did this together. Without you we probably wouldn’t have made it out.”
Ryoka smiled at the Mage Runner. He gave her a serious bow.
“Don’t you exaggerate, Ryoka. I was going to die. Never mind that Ieka hired us both—I won’t forget this. But let’s get away from this damn mansion before something comes after us.”
“Just one second. I need to put on more clothes. Umbrella, umbrella…aw. It’s covered in my…stuff…”
Fierre was grumbling. Salamani winced as she shook black, dried vomit back into her bag of holding and onto the floor. He held his nose and edged away.
“Follow me, then. Let’s just teleport as far as we can. I’ll use a scroll, get someone to come for us. Unless that mansion…let’s just all teleport.”
“Maybe. But hear me out, guys. I think we have one last card to play.”
Ryoka waved a hand. Salamani and Fierre looked at her. The City Runner had made the level, calm decision to leave the mansion.
But she’d be lying if she said she was anything but pissed. Like Fierre, like Salamani, Ryoka did not like this Archmage of Izril. It had just occurred to her that it was stupid to play her game. Going through her mansion?
“What do you have in mind, Ryoka?”
Fierre waited. Ryoka glanced at her.
“We might have failed to get to the Archmage through her stupid mansion. But that’s not our job. I say—I say we try one last thing. And if it doesn’t work? We can leave. It won’t cost us more than we’ve gained. What do you say, Salamani? Fierre?”
She told them her plan. Salamani grinned. So did Fierre.
“I say—let’s do it.”
 
—-
 
Archmage Valeterisa had devoted ten of her processes to fixing the damage. She had analyzed her mistake; exterior runes. She hadn’t figured out how they’d gotten an item into the cells, but she would fix the runes, and the barrier to need deactivation. That was all.
Her body moved as she thought. She let some of her mental processes take care of casting. While the rest tried to break through. And that was how she’d existed. She had given a decade of her Human life to her project. She would give another decade if she must. No one would wake her.
No one would break through her dungeon. Even a Named Adventurer; they’d done as the intruders had done, gotten to Layer 9 and left. So she was confident—if she had the emotional capacity for that—that—that—
Five of her thoughts lit up. Something was happening. Her danger-warnings were going off. And something…she blinked.
Something was happening outside her mansion. No—to her mansion. And the isle. It was demanding more and more of her thoughts.
 
Alert—fire.
Alert—attack. Defensive spells firing.
Alert—attack. Defensive spells firing.
Alert—sound.
Alert—[Message] spell. Contents…
Alert—attack. Defensive spells recharging…
Alert—
 
For the first time in a decade, the Archmage’s lips slowly moved. Her voice, disused except to vent her frustration in screams, spoke.
“What—what is happening?”
The isle was called…well, it didn’t really matter anymore. It had been some ecological paradise, and then a rat-infested warren.
Now it was just on fire. Rats fled into the sea, or hid in their warrens as three figures roamed across it. They were casting spells.
They had a lot of scrolls. They had multiple wands. They also had some alcohol. So the three drunk figures cast spells and shouted.
“Archmage…Valeterisa! Get the fuck out here!”
Ryoka screamed. Salamani cast another [Message] spell. Fierre opened a scroll.
“Activate whatever this one is! Oh crap—”
A huge snowball ploughed into the side of the mansion. The defensive spells were going crazy, flinging multiple spells from the invisible mansion. Good thing all those summoned monsters were taking the heat.
They had a surplus, a surfeit of magical resources. From all the people who’d died thanks to this crazy Archmage. It felt right to use some of them. Ryoka threw a bottle and watched it splash into the ground.
“Oh crap. I think that was a healing potion. Salamani—let me borrow your wand!”
“One second. This is for you, Archmage! [Fireball]! [Fireball]!”
The Mage Runner shot them at the invisible mansion—whose protections were actually weakened enough to reveal a huge, rather lovely seaside mansion. It even had glass windows on the front; the back had turned into an ugly stone compound. Ryoka Griffin laughed as the wind blew surf at the mansion. If this didn’t work they’d—they’d just leave! Or find a bunch of crap and throw it on the front door or something.
The three were so busy venting their fury and shouting obscenities that the Archmage of Izril had to repeat herself three times before Ryoka heard the voice.
“What are you doing?”
The City Runner, Courier, and Vampire girl froze. Fierre stopped waving the bottle of alcohol and the wand. Salamani dropped the scroll and whirled. Ryoka looked up. Then she turned around.
Archmage Valeterisa hovered in the air. Not alone, either. Her shadow familiars—nearly a hundred of them—were flitting about her. An army of Golems had snuck up on the three from behind. Oh—but what really caught the eye was the giant maw of shadows hovering over their heads. Contained, but reaching for them, full of malice.
Ready to drop.
The three froze. Ryoka Griffin stared up at the Archmage of Izril. She stared at them. Her eyes were flickering.
“Recalling memories…intruders…no audio logs kept…who are you? Answer before I kill you. You have set fire to my isle…how many [Messages]? Count: 4,388…ah. Damage to property estimated…answer me. Who are you?”
Ryoka Griffin hesitated. But Salamani and Fierre were frozen. So the City Runner, in that way of hers, having experience with Dragons, absent [Necromancers], and so on, spread her hands.
“Uh…Runners? We have a message for you, Archmage Valeterisa.”
The hovering [Mage]…stopped. All of her fragmented thoughts. All of her separate selves…finally came together. She became one once more and realized only now, how much she had lost.
And it had all come from a single young woman. Valeterisa’s vast intellect focused on her. Each self joining together. Mainly because the girl’s statement was so ridiculous she couldn’t believe it.
“You. Are Runners? You have a delivery for me?”
She looked at her burning isle. The spells, summoned monsters still dueling with her defensive spells. The spells still in effect, sending a burning rain after the rodents—
At Ryoka Griffin. The City Runner saw Valeterisa staring at her. An old woman—okay, in her sixties. No spring hen. Looking surprisingly…normal. A woman, distracted, but no grand, otherworldly features like Az’kerash.
Except for perhaps the faintest tinge of magic that hung about her. Power, waiting to be kept, that made the air excited.
The Archmage of Izril waited. Ryoka Griffin spread her hands weakly. And she said the only thing that came to mind.
“Well…it worked, didn’t it? We have a message for you from Lady Ieka Imarris. Do you have a seal?”
