The City Runner threw the first jar of acid in her doppelganger’s face. The Archmage’s thought processes halted as the first reflection went down in record time. The City Runner hit the second with a jar of acid—the other two broke free of the vines and charged her.
They were as fast as she was. One kicked the young Human woman in the chest while the second swept her legs and tried to stomp on her face. That was an aggressive combat style. But neither one used Skills, which they should have done. Neither did the young woman.
A third thought process joined the other two. That was so odd. Did she not have Sk—
The young woman raised her hand as one of her clones raised a foot to stomp her face in. The air in the room hurled the doppelganger into a wall and left red paste which faded after a few seconds. The second doppelganger tried to copy the gesture.
Nothing happened. The Archmage’s three thoughts watched the City Runner blow the second one into the wall and then run over and kick the life out of herself. That was…strange.
Just how had she done that? A Skill? But a Skill would be copied…an artifact? But no magic had been…
And meanwhile, the next two traps had failed.
 
—-
 
The door swung open and Ryoka Griffin, panting, raised the jar of acid.
She saw Fierre, standing in the hallway, stomping on something which slithered away. A moving…shadow?
“Fierre! Are you alright?”
The Vampire spun. She stared at Ryoka; the City Runner had a growing bruise on her arm from where her clone had punched her.
“Ryoka! What happened?”
“Doppelgangers. They got me. A classic.”
Ryoka felt like it was. Fierre stared at her.
“You beat up yourself?”
“Four of ‘em. They didn’t have my acid jars, thank g—thank goodness.”
Ryoka shook her head. She was still shaken, a bit. But she’d taken care of them fast. It hadn’t been hard. Fierre shuddered at the thought.
“Four of me—how’d you win? I’d be so freaked out at killing myself.”
The young woman shrugged.
“Eh. Low self-esteem. That was actually sort of fun. I always wanted to punch myself in the face. And they couldn’t command the wind.”
“Uh. Okay…”
The Vampire decided she needed to build up Ryoka more often. The City Runner was busy investigating the next hallway.
“What happened here?”
“I was attacked. Little…shadow-things came out of the walls. Tried to grab my bag of holding—well, they got it. But they didn’t get me!”
Fierre made a triumphant fist. She’d lost her bag of holding, but more than one shadow familiar had been destroyed by the angry Vampire. None came to attack Ryoka now. The City Runner nodded.
She was tired. The young woman looked around. This hallway stretched further with no door in sight.
“Looks like we passed the first test. We might be under attack again, so let’s make a plan—we could be in danger so—so—”
She yawned hugely. Fierre stared at Ryoka.
“Ryoka?”
“Sorry. That just took it out of me. I shouldn’t be so—tired—”
Ryoka yawned and realized something was wrong at the same time as Fierre. She grabbed the amulet.
“It’s not—not a spell? Is it…?”
 
—-
 
The soporific gas usually kicked in after the shadow familiar attack. The Archmage was satisfied to see it worked. The Runner collapsed as her friend watched. The Archmage waited—the other girl hadn’t taken any precautions against the gas that she could observe. She waited…waited…her three thought processes added a fourth as the Vampire girl looked around and cursed. And when the Runemark Golems came marching towards her, the little girl hit one hard enough to crack the enchanted stone.
 
—-
 
“…Ryoka? Ryoka, wake up!”
Ryoka Griffin woke up a bit later with a dry taste in her mouth. She looked up and saw Fierre shaking her.
“Whuh—Fierre? What happened?”
“You’ve been asleep for the last ten minutes! Wake up—I think I gave you the right antidote.”
“Wh—what happened?”
The young woman rubbed at her head. She looked around blearily; the tonic that Fierre had applied was taking off the effects of whatever had put her to sleep, but she was still groggy.
“I think it was the air. Or maybe you got stung? I don’t know.”
“You didn’t fall asleep?”
The City Runner looked at Fierre and then remembered—Fierre could grind up poisonous leaves without gloves on. She did it as one of her side jobs.
The Vampire grinned.
“Nope. Lucky for you I was here—look at this.”
She pointed and Ryoka saw four Golems. Well—the remains of them.
They were like jigsaw puzzles. The Runemark Golems that Fierre identified them as were all made up of parts. An arm, a shoulder blade, a fist—each one enchanted with a glowing, magical rune.
“It’s hard to destroy them. They’re designed to break easier than their actual bindings. So they can come back together. Recyclable foes. I dealt with them.”
Fierre had taken one of Ryoka’s tripvines and used it to web the pieces to prevent them coming together. Ryoka looked at the Vampire.
“And you beat all four?”
“I punched them. I told you it works! But uh—it took a while.”
Fierre rubbed at her cheek. She’d gone several rounds with the Runemark Golems while Ryoka napped; only her Vampiric toughness and endurance had let her win.
“Those boxing punches you taught Alber actually helped. A bit. You shoulda seen it! I gave one a hook, and then I did that counter thing—”
She broke off as Ryoka grabbed her friend and hugged her.
“Thank you. That’s for earlier. Let’s not get separated again, shall we? If we go forwards—we go together.”
“What? But going one at a time works. You’re the weak link here.”
That was true. Ryoka had been saved by Fierre after escaping a trap that had passed the Vampire by. Now though, the City Runner wanted to make up the difference.
“I can at least help our progress here. You take my amulet; you can react faster so you’ll see something if we’re on top of it.”
“Okay. What will you do?”
Ryoka concentrated. She closed her eyes and the dead air in the hallways pushed forwards. She sensed the corridor ahead. The connecting passages, the air coming under a secret hallway, a pit trap—she opened her eyes, inhaled, and pushed.
“Wind fist!”
She punched and the wind blasted down the corridor. It set off one trap door which opened up seamlessly ahead of Fierre. The Vampire girl blinked at Ryoka. The two stood there and Ryoka turned beet red.
“Uh…‘wind fist’?”
“I’m trying to fake a Skill. How does [Wind Fist] sound?”
“Eh, I like [Gale Fist] more.”
“Good point. I was just copying this…guy. Who shouts his own name.”
“Guy? What guy?”
“Er, I met him in Liscor. He’s cool. He’s this Drake [Spearmaster]…”
 
—-
 
“…named Relc.”
Four of the Archmage’s processes listened. Now the intruders were in a more open, labyrinthine area, she had periodic spells to listen to them. They moved out of her ‘earshot’ and she noted the fragment of conversation for later automatically, saving the data in her memory, as it were.
Then her process realized she had far, far too much conversation saved and deleted the scrap since the term ‘Relc’ had turned up nothing in her knowledge banks.
Four of her thoughts—a whole 10%—were now devoted to their progress. Even as she was, Valeterisa loved a good statistical anomaly.
And the two young women were that. Not only were they dodging most of the traps with ease, they had a unique skillset that allowed them to navigate the area.
One of them, the tall one who looked Drathian, was clearly using the wind somehow. With a Skill? She had used it to sense the layout of the labyrinth completely. She was headed for the door and avoiding or anticipating most of the traps that had any noticeable tells, like the fake wall with the spider-summoning artifact.
Not that there was any good route that let you avoid traps. Who would do that? The Archmage saw the smaller girl leap at the spiders just in time for the rune spell to activate.
The spell should have locked down her muscles so the [Furry Spiders] summoned by the spell could overwhelm her, but the little girl just ran through it and punched the spiders to death. She ripped off a leg, dodged a leaping spider—
She was as strong and fast as a Gold-rank [Warrior]! Some kind of [Brawler]? She waved at her friend. The City Runner jogged forwards—and fell on her face as the rune trap got her.
Strange. The other girl dragged her friend to safety, killing a shadow familiar that went after the bag of holding. The familiar’s remnants vanished, to be reformed in the binding chamber. The entire dungeon was designed to be reused; no sense in temporary constructs that needed replacing.
The Archmage’s four processes combined were enough to note details about the intruders, like their appearances. And even have a bit of emotion—curiosity. The two had gone through the second layer with ease, navigating all the traps designed to slow them down while the gas worked.
By rights they should have been stripped of their belongings, affected by the gas and proceeding fights, and worn down for the third layer’s trap. They were not, and the Chamber of Insanity, which had gotten the Courier awaited down a door they were reluctant to enter.
The Archmage’s thoughts tracked them. But they did not summon more processes. The two might bypass this room, which would be interesting to see.
Yes…interesting.
But there was still no chance they’d make it to her.
 
—-
 
The door was incredibly suspicious to Fierre and Ryoka. But they knew it was a trap; the spiral on the doorway indicated to Ryoka that it might be some mental effect.
“So we should go in together. Or let me. I’m good with mind stuff.”
The City Runner couldn’t tell Fierre about Teriarch’s geas, but the Vampire girl was adamant.
“Vampire. Ryoka, when has being a Vampire not worked for me in this place?”
“…Well, once we get outside, one of us can go sunbathing.”
Fierre shoved Ryoka, but gently.
“No one makes traps for my kind anymore, Ryoka. Look, I’ll go in. We’ll try to block the door, but there’s a stupid barrier spell. I go in, and…well, we’ll see. Okay?”
“…Fine. Just be careful. I can’t use the wind; the doors are airtight. Just go in, and…”
“Okay. Okay. But take one of my healing potions. You’re out. Actually, take two. And…”
Fierre rolled her eyes, but she took two potions and entered the door. It swung shut behind her; Ryoka waited.
And waited.
And…
After four minutes, Ryoka had heard nothing. But after four minutes, the door swung open. Ryoka saw someone standing in the pitch-black room.
“Fierre?”
The Vampire girl was stock-still. Motionless. Ryoka knew something was wrong. Fierre was audible now—mumbling.
“…said you’d come back…Mom, Dad, someone for dinner…can’t drink another drop…”
“Fierre?”
The City Runner hesitated. Fierre was in the center of the room. Something was very wrong. Ryoka knew she should back up. She stepped forwards—
Caught herself.
No. Something was wrong. It was a fool’s idea to go in there. If the room was open—Ryoka summoned the wind.
The Vampire girl stumbled as the wind blew at her back, a blast of air meant to knock her out. But she caught herself.
“Fierre! Come on!”
Ryoka shouted. The wind had activated the room. The darkness lifted for a second and Ryoka saw glowing runes, etched on every surface—she closed her—
 
“Hello, Ryoka. Ye don’t look so well.”
 
A voice spoke behind Ryoka. The City Runner turned. The dungeon…was gone. But she would have known something was wrong anyways.
“Ivolethe?”
The Frost Faerie hung in the air behind Ryoka, perfectly still. Her wings weren’t moving. Her crystalline face stared at Ryoka.
 
“Stupid Human. Ye fell for a trap. Did you really wander into a [Mage]’s trap like the stupid cunt that you are?”
 
“I…guess I did? Thanks. You’re not here—you weren’t there to point it out.”
Ryoka Griffin blinked. She felt…stupid. The Frost Faerie nodded slowly. She looked at Ryoka.
 
“‘Tis madness, you know. Created madness. But luckily for you—you know I’m not here. Don’t you? And you don’t have levels. Watch your friend. She’s of this world.”
 
The words made Ryoka realize the world was spinning. She was babbling something—no, her body was. She looked at the Frost Faerie.
“Ivolethe? Are you…actually here?”
For answer, the fae grinned. Ryoka saw the blackness vanish and the glowing form—
 
—-
 
“…saw a Dragon.”
Ryoka Griffin opened her eyes. She was crouched in the hallway, shielding her face from the dark room. Fierre was lying on the floor, muttering.
Her head ached. But—the flashes of those runes weren’t turning her into a gibbering wreck anymore. Ryoka Griffin had fought it off.
Had that really been Ivolethe? The girl didn’t know. She did know something was wrong. Focus—she staggered upright.
Her bag of holding was missing. One of the shadow-things had stolen it. Damn! And she had no idea how much time had passed.
Fierre was still in there. Ryoka saw the runes flashing at her, trying to drive her towards insanity. But fake insanity, Ivolethe had called it. Whether it had been really her or Ryoka’s subconscious, she was right.
Ryoka had seen worse. It couldn’t have been that long, if nothing else had signaled that. Ryoka didn’t have a dry mouth or wasn’t feeling tired…she looked into the room.
“Fierre!”
She pushed and the wind grabbed at the Vampire. Trying to drag her out of the room.
“Fierre! Don’t look! Close your eyes!”
The Vampire girl looked up. Her mumbling stopped. Too late—Ryoka Griffin realized her error. She saw Fierre’s head raise. Her black hair tumbled around her glowing eyes.
“Do you hate me? I’m hungry, Ryoka.”
She stood up. Her head twisted left and right. And she—Ryoka backed up.
“Fierre. Don’t—”
The Vampire leapt at her. The City Runner reached for her bag of holding that wasn’t there. But she’d hesitated anyways.
 
—-
 
That was how they fell. The Archmage’s four thoughts were…disappointed. They observed the one called ‘Fierre’ dragging the other girl’s leg up, swinging her into a wall.
Insanity. Simulated, but effective. There had been a record of a trap in Albez like this that Valeterisa had read of, by the great Warmage Thresk, one of the masters of his time. She had replicated it on a lesser scale and 83.9% of all intruders failed here.
In the end—the anomaly got this far. Something was happening to the two—but the other three processes moved back to research and the last one didn’t have the capacity for analysis, much less emotion.
