Back to work. She was so, so close…what was she missing? Valeterisa sat there…trying to piece together magic. She had almost come close. Something about the wind-magic that hadn’t been magic had…spoken to her. A clue? But then—
She was lost again.
 
—-
 
The shadow familiars and Runemark golems subdued both intruders now that they were helpless. One had been rendered unconscious by the other. The shadow familiars, actually somewhat intelligent compared to the Runemark Golems or most of the autonomous traps, investigated the two.
They had simple orders. If the intruders were alive, they were put into the cells. The small one definitely was, for all the Chambers of Insanity had turned her into a gibbering wreck.
The other was trickier. The primitive familiars flitted about, noticing the blood on the ground. She had been injured.
The Vampire girl had thrown her into a wall. So they registered fractures, a broken nose—two puncture wounds on her neck.
Lack of blood. But she was breathing. So—they spirited her away, through a bound teleportation spell.
Into the cells. The Vampire girl followed, and both were contained in the cells which prevented magic and most Skills from activating. A holding area with a suppression field.
Now there were three captives. The Mage Runner raised his head slowly; hunger had weakened him not at all since only a day had passed. He saw both young women being put into cells. The shadow familiars tended to the injured one with a healing potion and then left them. In time…
They both woke up.
 
—-
 
“Ryoka? I’m so sorry, Ryoka, wake up!”
“Let her rest, Miss Fierre. If she’s injured…”
The voices made Ryoka restless. She—didn’t hurt. But she was tired. Healing made you tired. And Ryoka was also just sleepy.
A bit of exhaustion from fatigue, the sleeping gas…
She opened her eyes in the cell. A glowing field of magic, almost invisible unless you walked back and forth to see it at the right angle—separated her from the hallway. Glowing sigils, like a second barrier of magical paint, formed a block around her cell, clearly keeping the magic active.
And across from her…two more cells, fairly small, lacking chairs, furniture—anything besides being boxes of stone—held Fierre and a man she recognized.
“Fierre?”
Ryoka looked up groggily and then felt at her neck. The last she had known, Fierre had thrown her into a wall and then been biting at—
Her neck was healed. Ryoka relaxed. But the Vampire girl’s voice was still fraught with guilt.
“Ryoka, I’m so sorry. I didn’t know—”
“It’s not your fault. It—it was the room. I should have gone in first. It was—”
Insanity. Ryoka remembered more and more. They had been defeated. She sagged. At least they were alive.
Then she registered the other man. Salamani, the Mage Runner, the Human [Mage] with a trace of Lizardfolk in him, was almost completely human. But he had slitted pupils.
A Lizard’s eyes. The Courier waved at Ryoka.
“I was telling your friend that, Miss Griffin. Insanity trap. Got me too. There was nothing you could have done; even a good mental charm would break under that many layers of magic. The only thing that could have beaten it was a charm one Courier had. Valceif—but he lost his…”
Ryoka Griffin felt a shock run down her body. She stared at Salamani and came back more into the world. The man gave her a miserable look.
“You’re Ryoka Griffin, right? Your friend Fierre—told me about you. So did Lady Ieka Imarris. I’m sorry we had to meet like this.”
“Who—who’re you? I mean—I know you. You’re Salamani, aren’t you? The Mage Runner? Lady Ieka? What’s happening?”
She’d seen him in the scrying orb during the famous delivery. But also—he was a Courier. The man smiled weakly.
“Some introduction. And yes—that’s me. Let me explain…”
It took him two minutes to clear Ryoka up on what was happening. When he did, Ryoka thumped her head against the magical barrier.
Lady Ieka had hired him? Of course she had. She wouldn’t really have trusted her with the request. Ryoka felt like an idiot. Salamani sat cross-legged as he looked at her and Fierre; he couldn’t see the Vampire, but he’d been speaking to her. Just as well; in her distress, Fierre wasn’t hiding her fangs or red eyes.
“If it helps, Miss Griffin, you got as far as I did. And better too, to hear your friend tell it.”
“I messed up. Ryoka, I’m so sorry. I bit you—”
Fierre’s voice became strangled. Ryoka glanced at Salamani, but the man didn’t seem to notice. He pitched his voice to Fierre, trying to smile.
“Don’t worry about it. You were insane. I bit myself under the insanity spell, although those damn familiars healed me. And punched myself in the groin for some reason I don’t know. Insanity spells do weird things to you.”
“Are you both okay? Salamani, if we’re captives, does that mean…”
The man grimaced.
“I’m sorry, Ryoka. But no one’s checked up on me since I arrived. Then again—it was only a day before you. But…I haven’t been fed either. And to look at it—this might be our end.”
“What do—”
He pointed and Ryoka saw. There were more than three cells here. In fact, there were dozens. Maybe forty in total? The familiars had cleared Salamani, Ryoka, and Fierre’s; they must have had orders to do so. But they hadn’t cleared the others.
Ryoka saw…bones. Piles of cloth. Even artifacts, gleaming, attached to emaciated bodies. She fell silent. Salamani nodded.
“Our forerunners. I’m…sorry. I wish I’d left a sign, Miss Ryoka. But I don’t think any of us are surviving this.”
She wanted to contradict him at once. But—then Ryoka looked at the Courier’s gaunt face and understood.
He was a realist. And now—he was thinking as she should have. Archmage Valeterisa. People would have sent many to ‘wake her up’. To get her help. Not just Runners. Couriers—maybe even adventurers.
Everyone had died here, if the corpses and the fact that Valeterisa hadn’t been seen was any indication. They had all died.
“No.”
Ryoka Griffin sat there for a while, covering her face with her hands. Fierre was apologizing.
“I didn’t mean it. I—”
They all fell silent. Despair was written across Salamani’s face. Ryoka Griffin sat there, thinking. The Mage Runner interrupted her thoughts with a pained cough.
“If you’re willing to talk—I’d like to. I have at least a few more days left. I’ve been getting thirsty, but…it beats being alone.”
She looked at him. He was resigned.
“You’ve tried everything?”
He nodded.
“Lost my bag of holding. And my spells—useless. I recognize the spell we’re under. It’s a [Field of Suppression].”
“I don’t know that spell. I’m not a [Mage], sorry. What does it do?”
He gave her a strained smile.
“Even if you were—it’s advanced. I’m a Wistram graduate and I’m lucky I took those advanced courses. You see these barriers? They’re high-grade, but in theory we could break them. I’d definitely try, but I can’t cast magic. Or use Skills. Even if I had, say, a [Bound Spell] Skill—it won’t work. [Power Strike], Skills that allow you to move about or do anything—all fail.”
“The spell affects Skills as well as magic?”
Ryoka glanced up. Salamani nodded.
“Good spells do that. It’s advanced magic. Tier 5 or Tier 6, I’d guess. But a field spell is…setting up terrain. Not as hard to do if you have unlimited resources. It’s one of those spells that benefits from a single place. Like casting [Zone of Frost] before using lots of ice spells. As bad as a damned aura. And without it—I could punch this barrier for a month and it might not break.”
He’d been trying, Ryoka saw. The man’s knuckles had bled and broken. Salamani looked at her, in the calm phase of despair.
“I’m sorry. Feel free to do what you want. I won’t blame you.”
Ryoka was going to. Salamani had painted a perfect trap. A perfect holding cell the kind Zevara dreamed of. However…he was wrong to despair just yet.
Because Fierre was Fierre. And Ryoka…could still sense the wind.
“Fierre, get up. See if you can hit the barrier. Don’t lie there. I’m—I’m going to look around.”
Ryoka edged to the very front of her cell and stared down the hallway. Fierre looked up. She slowly stood and flexed one arm. She looked at Ryoka.
“Your friend—is she strong? I only saw her for a second, but if she’s…er…part-Dwarf? There might be a chance. I doubt Archmage Valeterisa left a gap in her preparations, but she might have trusted in the [Field of Suppression] too much.”
Salamani hesitated. He had seen Fierre, so he knew Fierre was too short to be a half-Giant. Ryoka nodded at Fierre. The Vampire girl bared her fangs.
“I’m not a Dwarf, Salamani. But I’m still strong. Hold on—hiyah! Ow, that hurts so much!”
She hit the barrier with a sound that made Salamani jump. He stared towards the side, wide-eyed with sudden hope. Meanwhile…Ryoka looked around.
The holding area was hard to see from where she sat. Just the glowing cells…hm…it looked like a lot of the visitors had left their belongings when they died. But only what was on them; the shadow familiars had stolen the rest.
Ryoka couldn’t see with her eyes very far. But the wind was her friend. And it told her that they were underground; a passage led upwards. Into a branching hallway—
No. Ryoka dragged her attention back down the steps. She needed a way out of here. She sensed…
The area where they were was the large part. Cells, where the air was allowed to flow in and out, including the one with Salamani, Fierre, and Ryoka. Oh…he’d relieved himself in one corner. Ryoka was grateful for the dead air. But down the passage was something…interesting…
“I…think our belongings are piled up over there.”
Ryoka murmured as Fierre hit the barrier again, to no effect but her own shout of pain. Salamani glanced up at Ryoka.
“You’re right. I can barely see something if I stand in the corner. How did you know that?”
She smiled at him.
“Not all of my Skills are inactive, Salamani. Can you describe the stuff for me?”
Hope sprang into the Mage Runner’s eyes.
“I…can barely see a table. Overflowing with items; it’s amazing the familiars piled it up. But they’re stupid like that. Primitive constructs. They must have orders to put it there, but the Archmage never investigated.”
“I can sense it too.”
Ryoka’s bag of holding was familiar to the wind. Also—the slight odor of Fierre’s puke was something Ryoka could sense coming from another bag. They were piled at the very top.
“That’s a lot of magical items.”
“Yes, well—I wouldn’t grab from there. So many artifacts in close proximity? They must be suppressed or they’d be reacting to one another and that might tear apart the entire damn mansion. There’s a design flaw if ever I saw one.”
Salamani shuddered. Ryoka agreed; she’d been told all day and night about bags of holding reacting to one another.
“If the field’s working on them, we might be in trouble. But the bag of holding is clearly working…so maybe we’re in luck.”
“How so?”
The young woman smiled tightly.
“Well…I’m betting the Field of Suppression only affects magical artifacts up to a certain level, right Salamani?”
“Right enough. Alchemical weapons might work fine. If we had some.”
Ryoka nodded. Her heart was pounding. Please let the Archmage not have predicted this.
“Well—here’s the question for a million gold coins and our lives. Salamani, did you see when they tossed me and Fierre in here—how did we get in? Is there a control switch or something?”
The Mage Runner’s unique eyes flickered.
“No. Familiars are quite stupid. They can’t deal with switches that well…they just pushed you into the cells. It’s a one-way spell. Quite simple. What do you have planned?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka. She grinned, showing all of her teeth. So did Ryoka.
“Hold on. It might take a few tries—but I think I can get my bag.”
She closed her eyes, settled down cross-legged. Salamani opened his mouth to ask a thousand questions—and then he felt something.
In the prison cells, the wind moved. The Mage Runner’s eyes widened as he felt a breeze blowing his hair. He closed his mouth, looked at Ryoka, and waited.
 
—-
 
The first gust of air was short, controlled, and knocked over the pile of artifacts and belongings. The shadow familiars didn’t come, which was a relief; they must only do the organizing when a new person was captured.
So Ryoka had time. And happily—her bag of holding had fallen to the ground. It was very hard getting the wind to blow so strongly to move the bag while not blasting everywhere. Especially at range while using her senses and Salamani’s eyes.
Really, it was the kind of thing Ryoka should have thought of and practiced ages ago. But, ironically, her current prison was an excellent teacher and Ryoka had until she died of dehydration.
“Almost, almost, come on you little bastard!”
“Shh! Let her concentrate.”
Salamani cautioned Fierre as the Vampire girl swore at the bag of holding that had been rolling around the cell in front of Ryoka for the last half-hour. Ryoka was sweating; controlling the wind was harder the more fatigued she got.
It had taken two hours to get it here. Now—it was so close. She stared at it and begged the wind. Capricious, it blew the bag left, right—and finally, finally—gave her a blast that knocked her on her ass. When Ryoka got up—the bag of holding was lying in the cell.
“Yes!”
The other two cheered like mad. Ryoka grabbed for her bag of holding and opened it.
“Finally! We can get out of h—”
She yanked an acid jar out of the bag, aimed at the glowing runes, and realized.
The bag of holding was on the inside of the cell. The glowing runes were on the outside. Salamani and Fierre stopped cheering.
“…Ryoka. Did you mean to get the jar of acid out before you got your bag?”
“It wouldn’t have worked. I thought—can I pass items out of the cell?”
Salamani slowly shook his head. Ryoka Griffin pawed through her bag. Half the magical items weren’t working. Healing potions and mana potions did her no good…
“Fuck.”
“Is there anything we can use?”
“Uh—uh—I’ve got food in here.”
“I hate you so much.”
Fierre banged her head on the magical wall as Ryoka took out a handful of sand and threw it at the wall of the cell. Salamani looked at Ryoka.
“A mana potion wouldn’t help you, would it?”
“Nope. Damn.”
Ryoka slumped. She hadn’t thought this one through! If she needed to reach into the bag of holding, then, damnit, she couldn’t break the runes of her cell.
