“At least you can move stuff. Maybe there’s something else. My bag of holding has scrolls…none of which will work. But another adventurer or Runner might have left something powerful enough to work even with the field.”
Ryoka sat up. She looked at Salamani. The man’s eyes were burning.
“I thought I was dead. Don’t you give up just yet. We have days, at least!”
She nodded.
“Of course not, Salamani. And in fact…I have a better idea. What if—is there a sword, or staff over there?”
The man and Fierre squashed their faces against the magic walls. Fierre nodded.
“I see a sword! It’s definitely enchanted! Look at that, Salamani!”
The man’s eyes lit up. Ryoka smiled tightly.
“What if I brought one almost into your cell? Halfway? Maybe—”
The other two nodded. Ryoka gritted her teeth. This was going to be even harder. Concentrating that much wind to blow a sword around? Well, she had done it with the bag of holding. And she had turned her doppelganger into jam. Just another reminder of why her trump card—flying about—might have gotten her killed.
“Okay. It’s going to take a while, but same as last time. Just—back me up. Okay, guys? I’m just a bit…tired.”
“Take your time. No rush.”
Salamani gave Ryoka a thumbs-up. So did Fierre.
“We’re going to make it out, Ryoka. Let us know anything we can do.”
The City Runner nodded. She fished in her bag of holding for a stamina potion and then had a thought. Slowly, as she reached for a stamina potion, she looked into her bag.
“Oh. There is something you two can do.”
“What? Anything.”
The two looked at Ryoka curiously. They saw her get up, and then work on another project.
Ryoka had a sleeping bag and blanket in her bag of holding for emergencies. And even stuff like rope, gear for climbing, caltrops—everything a sensible City Runner carried.
It took her seven minutes to make the little curtain with the blanket and some other tools. Ryoka’s voice was muffled.
“Okay, turn around. And cover your ears.”
Salamani and Fierre stared at her. Then they shuffled around. Fierre sighed. Ryoka Griffin relieved at least one of the pressures on her. Then she had a sandwich. Fierre grumbled as she watched Ryoka noshing. Salamani had a pained look of a man starved for a day and a half. Not that pained, but like, really jealous.
“I take it back, Ryoka. This is so lame.”
“This is the reality of the situation. You try not having these problems for half a day. Back me up, Salamani.”
“I really don’t want to.”
 
—-
 
The Archmage of Izril’s thoughts milled about. Trying to make it work. She had taken the idea of looking at a problem from multiple perspectives to its extreme. Her thoughts were all focused on one…breakthrough.
One aspect of magical theory she had deemed most valuable. If—if—if she could make it work, she would surpass Zelkyr—at least, current mage-theory in this one area. Even the old Archmages hadn’t gotten to this level; the theory had been lost.
But it could work.
Her other thoughts were doing their thing. Valeterisa ripped up some paper absently to vent the frustration at being so close. It was one thing to look at a problem from multiple angles—but she had slowly built up the magical theory and understanding, the basis for this simple, infinitely complex formula over a decade.
So close.
Her intruder-monitoring thought was passive. It did not check on the ones in the cell. What was the point. None had ever escaped so her mind had long since discarded the possibility.
That was her flaw. If she had been monitoring the cells with visual, audio, or any other of her means, she would have seen the Courier reaching for the hilt of an enchanted sword, whispering.
“Almost…almost…got it!”
Salamani grabbed the hilt poking through the barrier. Ryoka gasped and Fierre spoke.
“Do it! Before it gets shoved out!”
“I’m doing it! Please work, please w—”
The Mage Runner stood and pressed the tip of the sword into the ground just outside his cell. He scratched at the glowing runes that enforced his barrier with the enchanted sword.
Ryoka saw the sword glowing. A mint glow was coming from the magical sigils on the edge of the blade. It was an enchanted sword—over the last hour, Fierre and Salamani had both identified it as one of those ones with a projection effect, making the actual sword’s reach longer and far more deadly. A common effect.
Right now, the enchantment was unneeded and Ryoka prayed that the sword had a strong piercing or anti-magic effect. It just had to scratch—
She saw something peel up from the stone floor. Fierre gasped. Salamani worked even harder, frantically.
“Don’t let the sword fall in the barrier—”
The two young women watched as Salamani dug at the weak point of the rune he’d identified. More slivers of enchanted paint or whatever the runes had been drawn with. And then—the barrier vanished.
It just winked out. Salamani’s head jerked up. He stared at the empty air and put a trembling hand out.
“You did it! Free us! Free us!”
Fierre jumped up and down. The Mage Runner stumbled forwards. For a moment, Ryoka wondered if he was going to pull a classic double-cross and run off. But he didn’t. He raised the sword, began hacking at Fierre’s cell.
Her force field vanished. Then it was Ryoka’s turn. Fierre took the sword from the weaker Mage Runner as he stumbled over to his bag of holding. Ryoka saw the Vampire lift the sword, bring it down.
The barrier vanished after three hacking blows. Ryoka looked at Fierre. The Vampire girl smiled at her.
“I knew we could do it. If you didn’t stop for that sandwich, we’d have been out thirty minutes ago.”
Ryoka stood up and hugged her friend. Fierre squeezed back.
“I’m…so sorry I bit you. Please, please forgive me? I never would have, I swear.”
She whispered. Ryoka whispered back.
“It’s okay. I mean, I’m going to have to live as a Vampire from now on, but you can show me everything. I’m really hungry.”
Fierre let go, her eyes wide. She looked into Ryoka’s brown pupils and then punched at Ryoka.
“You bloodbag!”
The City Runner grinned. But then she nodded to Fierre and touched at her neck.
“It’s fine. Really. We can talk about it later. Let’s get out of here first. Where’s Salamani?”
He was eating out of his bag of holding, despite the stale food. He looked up as Ryoka and Fierre walked over.
“Thank you. Thank you. I won’t forget this. Let’s…let’s…”
“Let’s take five.”
Ryoka suggested. Fierre and Salamani looked at each other, nodded, and then relaxed. After a second, Fierre stood up.
“Bathroom.”
“Hah! I knew it.”
“Shut up, Ryoka.”
 
—-
 
An hour later, Ryoka was fully fed, watered, somewhat relaxed—and she’d taken stock of…everything.
And everything was her fortune. Salamani’s and Fierre’s as well. They had taken apart the entire holding area. Opened each cell. And looted damn near everything.
“At least two Couriers have died going after Archmage Valeterisa. And this is at least Gold-rank gear. The only thing we need to make sure of is that we don’t bring bags of holding outside the cells or they’ll implode and we’ll die. Besides that—we are now rich.”
Salamani had helped gather the gear up. Since it had all belonged to the intruders, the odds of it being cursed in any way were low, but he and Fierre had checked for magical traps.
As it was—Ryoka was now armed with dozens of scrolls. She had the highest grade of potions, six wands, and three enchanted weapons. Oh—and she was wearing armor. A chainmail shirt, some leather greaves, two rings—
“We’re at maximum magical resonance with this gear. We can mix and match later. Right now, I think we have an Archmage’s fingers to break.”
Fierre was similarly garbed. Even Salamani had upgraded, and he had been a Courier. No one had interrupted their gearing up; now all the treasures were loaded into the best bags of holding. Ryoka had kept hers, and Fierre’s er, vomit-bag was actually good enough. She had kept hers while divesting most of her possessions out of it.
“You could get a…cleaner bag, Fierre. Just saying.”
“My mother gave it to me, okay, Ryoka? She and dad saved up for it. I can’t get rid of it.”
“I’m at capacity in my bag of holding. We might have to make trips—if we can get to the Archmage.”
“Maybe prioritize. Some of this gear isn’t worth as much as the rest.”
“That’s like saying that’s only hundreds of gold coins rather than thousands, Miss Fierre…why don’t we put the rest in a sack and drag the stuff around? If we do one sack per person, the magical resonance shouldn’t activate…”
That was the fun part. The amazing part. The part that made all of this worth it. It distracted Ryoka from the reality. And it was this:
“We’re still in the Archmage’s dungeon. We might be close to her, but odds are there are at least a few more traps between us and her. If she’s smart—a lot.”
Salamani, Fierre, and Ryoka were now a team. They looked at each other, and grimness descended over them.
“I don’t know where we are. But Fierre’s right. We have to be on our guards. We might get lucky and a trap would only put us back here—but some of those traps are deadly. I nearly died to that room full of mirrors. If you two want—I’ll try to finish this delivery myself. I owe it to you two.”
The Mage Runner offered. Ryoka hesitated only a second before shaking her head.
“No way. We do this together. Let’s just see where we are.”
They climbed the staircase with Salamani using a Pendant of Truesight that hadn’t served the adventurer well enough. Or maybe it hadn’t prevented the trap from working. But with it, he was confident enough to not be on alert for magical traps.
“Hm. We’re definitely past the first set of traps.”
They were in a hallway enchanted to look like the actual interior of a mansion. It had a carpet, wallpaper—according to Salamani, it was all fake.
“Looks like this area is just meant to lead to the dungeons. Spelled. There might be guardians—Selphid’s tits! Back, back!”
There were. The instant they left the holding area, the shadow familiars and the next layer of roaming guardians beset them. No Golems this time; a circle flashed and a huge, roaring Manticore appeared, a summoned b—
“[Siege Fireball]!”
Fierre blasted the monster out of existence. She tossed away the spent scroll as Salamani used two wands at once. Ryoka aimed a wand and blasted a cluster of shadow familiars.
“Okay. We know two things. First: more traps. Second? We’ve got gear.”
The three looked at each other. There had been at least thirty dead people’s worth of possessions. Not all of it had been powerful, but as Salamani had said—some powerful individuals had owned this stuff.
“Which way do we go?”
“That at least is obvious. I can sense the magic coming from that direction.”
Salamani pointed down the hallway. A long hallway waited for him. He narrowed his eyes.
“…Concealed runes. Can’t tell what they are. Yep, there’s definitely more traps. But we have to brave them. At least we’re geared up beyond even what most Couriers could afford. Let’s see what the hallway has to offer. Fierre? Ryoka? Keep an eye out.”
“Sure…”
Ryoka frowned. She was fatigued, although only mentally, from the efforts and their escape. Even so, she felt a bit of worry. Something was…wrong. Salamani grabbed an adventurer’s tool, one of those rolling balls that triggered traps like the one the Horns had used. He tossed it forwards, gingerly, wand at the ready.
 
—-
 
The intruders had escaped. Eight of the Archmage’s processes devoted themselves towards finding out how. She began mobilizing the entire mansion’s defenders to converge on the group. But she was still…absent. If she felt anything, it was curiosity and irritation.
Yet—at the same time. There was a certainty. They were not going to reach her. They had bypassed six entire layers of traps by emerging from the cells. And they might be armed with new artifacts if her analysis was not wrong.
What of it? No one had woken her. Couriers had come. Great challengers. They had still died, even those that got past here, all 1.8% of them.
The intruders had bypassed six layers.
Ten remained. And these traps—
 
—-
 
The ball got halfway down the corridor when the [Chain Lightning] trap activated.
“Dead gods!”
Salamani’s barrier spell he’d cast out of caution absorbed half a dozen bolts as six [Chain Lightning] spells activated at once. The ball was vaporized. Salamani himself went reeling backwards; only the breastplate he’d equipped saved him. Fierre caught two more bolts too, and they had been at the back of the corridor.
“That’s the trap?”
Fierre, horrified, picked herself up. Salamani was cursing with Balerosian expressions. Ryoka caught part of it.
“—Gazer’s eyes can look up my—that is a new level of trap.”
He grimly looked at Ryoka and Fierre, indicating his scorched breastplate. Ryoka shivered.
“How is she making all this?”
“Rechargeable runes. Miss Ryoka, it’s not actually that hard to make a spell that keeps activating. Supplying it with mana is the hard part, but if she’s in here—which she is—her dungeon runs on her. I could probably make a Rune of Chain Lightning—and if I could do that, with enough money I could make a hundred. That’s the kind of insanity you get in Wistram, or at least, the higher floors.”
Salamani sighed.
“At least we have scrolls. Fierre, break out the anti-electricity ones.”
“On it. We can probably walk through once we cast enough of them. I just hope there’s not a second layer of spells we didn’t see or activate. Or we could just activate the trap enough that—”
“No.”
Salamani and Fierre looked at Ryoka. The City Runner was shaking her head. She looked at the Courier, and at Fierre, and said it.
“No. Nope. No way. I’m out. I’ve done this before. I’m bouncing. I want out of here.”
The Courier blinked. Fierre looked at Ryoka.
“But we’re so close! Ryoka—”
“We think we’re close. But Fierre—that trap was meant to kill us. Not just subdue. If the Archmage gets serious—you were right. There’s risking our lives and that.”
Ryoka nodded to the hallway, still smoldering. Salamani hesitated, and then nodded.
“You—you’re absolutely right, Ryoka. I’m not thinking. Even Couriers turn down bad deliveries. And this? This is a bad delivery.”
“We’ve been playing her game. Going through her death-mansion? Forget about it.”
The Runner felt like she was thinking like a…Runner. They had more money than she could have dreamed of. They had their lives; she wasn’t going to risk a trap of that caliber. Besides, this wasn’t over. She had an idea.
