Archmage Valeterisa no longer dreamed. She no longer slept. She was beyond all of that.
Or rather, part of her was. She had learned magic. Like those before her, she had delved deeper into the mysteries of spellcraft and magic. Only—in her era, Zelkyr’s creations had sealed the greatest achievements of magedom away. Behind a test that was suicide to attempt.
So few [Mages] knew what magic was. The rest played around at it. Even the most accomplished like Feor were children playing in the sandbox with toys the true [Mages] had left behind.
That was how Valeterisa would have described it, if you forced her to make an analogy for spellcraft in this era. But she had not been content to remain low-leveled, to shy away from what it meant to be a [Mage].
As a girl, she had wanted to be an [Archmage]. She had kept that dream, even as she aged. Now—with her short Human lifespan, she had already reached Feor’s level of spellcraft despite the half-elf being nearly four times her age. She had stolen away from the politicking of Wistram Academy to further pursue her goal.
Valeterisa had achieved one thing. One great technique of old. But—in the way of those who lacked a guide, the knowledge of old—she had dived into the heart of magic. Too far, without anything to pull her back.
She did not dream. She…thought. A part of her thought about thinking. Another was counting, making sure she ate, rested, excreted, kept herself basically clean—the functions of the body. Another was pursuing magic. Yet another monitored the mansion that was her home. Another tried to crack the spell from one angle. Yet another reviewed all the information she had ever learned.
She was—fragmented. Using a Skill she had obtained, and magic to aid it.
[Parallel Thoughts]. A technique great [Mages] had used across the ages. But even one of the former, true Archmages of Wistram—Archmage Chandler—who employed the same Skill for his own ends would never have gone this far.
Az’kerash, the Necromancer, who was still alive even if Valeterisa and the world had no idea—fragmented his mind. He had experience with the technique, and the powers of unlife, his enhanced intellect, and magic to aid in the process.
Even so—he could sustain about fourteen simultaneous thoughts. And that took its own toll, as moments like his encounter with Ryoka Griffin had once demonstrated.
Archmage Valeterisa had over forty selves thinking with her mind. She had forgotten her own name. A singular part of her remembered for her.
Parts, working towards a whole. One kept her alive. One looked for danger. Most pursued magic, cycling between ideas. Trying to crack the grand theory that had consumed her for over ten years. Sometimes they devoted themselves to lesser tasks. But few of her separated selves had time for anything else.
One to eat and rest. Another to watch for danger. Another to just—scream. Be angry. Break things when the stress got too much.
Where was the one who remembered her name? The woman was lost in her head. And there was no self to tell her that.
Her fortress of a home held a Courier. She was aware of this—dimly. But he would die of starvation or madness before she ever roused herself. And two more were coming. Valeterisa sensed it.
How arrogant. The two were coming, like the Mage Runner had, to wake the Archmage of Izril. Ten years she had spent here. Countless people had tried to rouse her, for their own designs or out of concern.
They had failed. Couriers had failed. [Knights] had failed. Adventurers—
They would never make it to her. There were too many traps. And the two young women did not get off to a good start. Statistically…
They were doomed.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin stared at the distant mansion and felt her heart pounding in her chest. It…was familiar, and nostalgic at the same time.
She had done this before. Run deliveries like this, that was. She had delivered to the Horns of Hammerad, run the High Passes, and then reached the Necromancer himself.
But that had been then. Ryoka had survived close calls since then, but this was different. This wasn’t just survival. This was putting her life on the line for a delivery. For money. Or in this case—Lady Ieka’s help.
“Is this unhealthy, that I missed this?”
“Probably. I’m shaking.”
Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle was so nervous she thought she was going to throw up. Or maybe that was the rat’s blood. She felt…powerful. But unlike Ryoka, she hadn’t actually done anything like this before. Ironically, the Vampire girl was the rookie in life-or-death situations.
“Just listen and don’t rush into things and we’ll be fine, Fierre. Actually—we might not be, but don’t panic. You’re a Vampire and I’ve done this before.”
Fierre started and nodded. She bared her teeth.
“Leave it to me! This Archmage might have traps, but I bet she’s not ready for a Vampire. Especially—a real Vampire.”
She opened one hand, and her tendons and fingers locked into claws. Fierre’s eyes were glowing in the twilight. Ryoka eyed her.
Fierre had been cured. What that meant was that she had been cured of whatever Teriarch knew was afflicting her people. Accordingly—her weaknesses had led to some incidents. Garlic, sunlight—Ryoka hadn’t slapped her with a cross, but she was fairly certain Fierre was far more vulnerable to all the traditional weaknesses of her kind.
On the other hand—Fierre was stronger. It hadn’t been instantaneous; she’d gotten better day by day. Today?
“How fast do you think you could move if we run into trouble, Fierre?”
The Vampire girl scratched her head. She looked around. A green rat looked up, saw the glance, and turned to dive into a hole that led into the rat warrens.
Fierre blinked over and grabbed it so fast Ryoka barely saw the speed. The City Runner saw Fierre snatch the rat up, brush dirt off, and bite it. She tossed the rat over her shoulder a moment later. The rat landed among its fellows, who fled the corpse before coming over for the free food.
Kosher rat. Ryoka shuddered as Fierre turned.
“How fast was that?”
The young Human woman stared at Fierre and felt her heart skip a few beats. Not just because of the unnatural sight—but because that was so cool. She hesitated, cast her eyes towards the distant mansion. And then she nodded.
“I…have no idea. Let’s find out.”
The Vampire girl blinked.
“Huh?”
 
—-
 
“Okay, this is about a hundred meters! I’ll count as accurately as I can! Go ahead and run when I clap my hands!”
Six minutes later, Fierre was standing away from Ryoka just up the beach. The Vampire girl was scowling. She kicked at a clump of grass.
“This is so…stupid.”
She hadn’t meant it seriously. Ryoka Griffin, on the other hand, had.
“What?”
“I said, this is stupid!”
Fierre shouted back. Ryoka ignored that. She wished she had her iPhone. Or a stopwatch. Well—she’d do her best. She had to approximate a hundred meters anyways.
“Just run when I clap my hands! Okay? Ready—go!”
There was such a thing as doing some actual research, rather than saying ‘wow, you’re fast!’ Ryoka clapped her hands and started counting. Fierre blurred at her.
“One Mississippi, two Mississippi, three Mississippi—”
Ryoka Griffin got to ‘six’ before Fierre flashed past her. The City Runner stopped. She stared at Fierre.
“What?”
“How’d I do? I think that was fast. That was fast, right?”
The Vampire girl panted. Ryoka looked at her. She had been closing on seven. But that meant Fierre had just beaten the world record by, oh, three seconds.
“That was…fast. The world record is 9.58 seconds, Fierre. You were like—six and a half.”
“What? And I was only three seconds faster?”
The Vampire girl didn’t seem to get what that meant. Ryoka Griffin shook her head.
“Three seconds? Fierre—you’re not an athlete. The man who trains his entire life and runs on an actual track—and is way taller than you—runs three seconds slower.”
“Oh. Well—I’m a Vampire.”
Fierre preened. On the other hand—Ryoka Griffin now knew something. After a bit of calculation, she nodded.
“Interesting. You’re about 40 mph at top speed. Forty miles per hour. So you’re about as fast as a horse’s top speed. Not as fast as a cheetah. Interesting.”
So Fierre still lagged behind Hawk. Ryoka had clocked the Courier’s top speed above hers, even if he couldn’t keep it up. On pavement, not grass and dirt, it might be different. But…Fierre wasn’t almighty.
Just fast. Her twitch-speed was insane. That was probably what gave her the feeling of moving so fast; her reflexes were a lot better than a horse’s.
None of that made Fierre any happier. She actually shoved Ryoka slightly.
“Stop calling me fast as a horse! I’m a Vampire!”
“And that’s amazing. But you’re not invincible, Fierre. Want to test your bench press weight? Damn—this is where Grimalkin’s weight set would have come really in h—hey!”
Fierre picked up Ryoka and tossed her into the surf. The Asian girl went flying. That was scary. On the other hand—she didn’t fly that far.
“I don’t think you’re stronger than Grimalkin! Or even Relc, by much!”
Ryoka shouted back. The Vampire girl threw a sandball at her. It hit Ryoka in the face and the City Runner went underwater as it stunned her.
“Ryoka!”
 
—-
 
It turned out Fierre had great aim. And even if she wasn’t as strong as Grimalkin—she was strong enough to knock Ryoka silly with a mudball. Ryoka lay on the sand.
“Sorry! I lost my temper. Shoo, you little pests!”
Fierre kicked a rat trying to eat the City Runner. Dizzily, Ryoka got up.
“I’m going to call that ‘Gold-rank’ strength, reflexes, speed. Maybe a bit below a specialist. Hold on, I swallowed some water. I might throw up.”
Fierre edged back. The Vampire girl could swim just fine, even if she hadn’t practiced it much. She was coordinated, fast, strong—after Ryoka rested on her knees and hands, she looked up.
“If you had Skills, you’d be really invincible. Vampires don’t get Skills, do they?”
“I never leveled. Old Bamer says there were Vampire Lords, royalty who had powers like turning into mists. Even Skills. But those might be relics. Look, I’m really sorry. It’s just—I’ve never felt like this before.”
The girl squatted by Ryoka. The Runner girl nodded.
“I know. I’m really happy, Fierre. But just remember—there are things that can take you apart. I met a man who could have set this entire island aflame. He’d have been able to beat you without even using his best Skill—and he lost to Belavierr.”
Fierre’s eyes widened a touch. But she took the warning about Ser Raim seriously. Ryoka sat up.
She had met a Dragon. And the Necromancer. Both of them could kill Fierre. Maybe she could get stronger. But as it was—she had to be careful of overconfidence. And if there was one thing Ryoka Griffin knew, it was overconfidence. Also—getting your fingers bitten off.
“Okay. Measurements over. Let’s do this.”
“I’m ready to fight.”
“Great. But remember—we’re delivering a message. It’s not going to be easy—even if it looks like we can just knock. I’ve got a [Detect Magic] amulet, here. One of my rings deflects arrows. I’ve got a bunch of potions—my caltrops, sand—”
Ryoka’s items were all geared towards escaping or slowing down whatever she ran into. She’d used her funds to buy a few low-grade items, but she had been nervous about entering a highly-magical zone.
She had two trump cards. One was a bundle of cloth in her bag of holding she’d been waiting to have made. She hoped it wouldn’t break. It might not be good in an enclosed place. The second was…
Erin’s jars of acid. Ryoka had six. She’d asked Erin for some since nothing else on her travels had been as effective. If Ryoka had carried six when she met Venitra—she might never have had the trouble she did.
She had prepared, in short, as much as she could with the time and resources available to her. When Ryoka turned to Fierre—the Vampire girl reached into her bag of holding.
“Ugh. Everything’s covered in…well, my stuff!”
“No time to wash it off. We want to be done before daylight, remember? What’ve you got?”
“Well…ick, ick…blood, healing potions, a backup wand that fires [Steel-Barb Dart]. A dagger, enchanted with a weak piercing enchantment. And…aha!”
The Vampire triumphantly pulled out her best weapon. Ryoka stared at…
“Is that your journal?”
“It’s my notes! See? It contains all my information on Izril!”
Fierre flipped through the magical repository of her knowledge for Ryoka. The City Runner stared at her.
“Where are your weapons?”
“I have my fists! I can probably beat up Madain!”
Ryoka Griffin covered her face. Once again, she ran into Fierre’s sense of superiority. And fair play to her—she could have probably punched out any [Gang Leader] in Reizmelt even pre-panacea. But here?
“Fierre. Have you ever fought a Bone Behemoth?”
The Vampire hesitated.
“Uh—no? Those are huge, aren’t they?”
“Only like, thirty feet tall. My friends conjured a Frostmarrow Behemoth. Fierre, one of them was below Level 30. The other one was just over it, I think.”
“Oh. Well—we’re just going to deliver a message, right?”
Ryoka sighed.
“Stay behind me. Let’s go.”
“Actually, you should stay behind me. Vampire, remember?”
Fierre pushed Ryoka back as the two turned towards the mansion. Ryoka opened her mouth, but didn’t argue.
They should have brought Durene. Or Alevica. Someone with either the ability to rip apart a tree, or the magical prowess. Or even that Vampire Hunter guy. Or Ylawes…Ryoka was suddenly full of regrets.
Then again, how hard could it be to wake an Archmage who had been a recluse for a decade? Ryoka wished she had something to knock on.
“Okay, I’m not detecting anything magic so far…”
She was holding her amulet as she peered at the mansion in the distance. Fierre nodded. She was walking forwards and Ryoka suddenly fixated on something.
The mansion was set in the middle of the rat-infested, grassy isle. But there was a bare patch of land around it.
“Hold up, Fierre—”
“What? You said—”
As the two walked forwards, Ryoka saw the flicker from beneath the soil a second before Fierre walked forwards.
“Fierre! Stop! It’s a hidden sp—”
The Vampire girl exploded as she stepped onto the first magical landmine.
 
—-
 
