Statistically speaking, poor performance. The two intruders hadn’t even detected the landmines. Well, one had, but that put them well below the bell curve. Larger groups had tried to reach her. Numbers were just a disadvantage. The first one stumbled back as the artillery spell went off. A homing [Spear of Light] aimed right at her, enhanced to nearly triple the destructive yield. She went running, and dodged it. Barely; the explosion knocked her to the ground.
However, a second spell activated on the heels of the first. It should have struck her; the City Runner had been blown off her feet by the first impact. The second spell flashed down towards her as part of the Archmage watched, impartially.
Flicker. The Archmage’s consciousness stopped, tried to track the blur that had intercepted the fallen Runner. Part of her mind took a bit more thought processing.
What had that been? She had been sure—
 
—-
 
“Fierre?”
Ryoka Griffin could barely breathe. She was hanging off the shorter Vampire girl’s shoulder. Fierre was sprinting away from the mansion, with Ryoka on her shoulder.
It really hurt. Ryoka was half-blinded from the spell’s impact, anyways. But she had seen her friend die—
“Ow, ow, ow! It hurts so much!”
That wasn’t what most people said with her injuries, though. When the Vampire girl got them out of range and dumped Ryoka on the beach, Ryoka saw—
Fierre’s legs and part of her stomach were torn open. Bone shone around torn flesh. Her blood had stained the grass. But—
The injuries were already healing. With incredible speed, Ryoka saw the wounds closing. Fierre gripped at her arm and Ryoka saw—her arm had been broken by the impact, slightly. Now the bones snapped together.
“That hurts so damn much!”
“Uh…”
Ryoka Griffin stared at Fierre. She should have been paste. A landmine did not let you walk away with those kinds of injuries. Fierre’s skin was tough. Ryoka should have measured that. How hard was it to hammer a stake into her chest?
“Fierre? Are you—”
“No, I’m not! Why didn’t you detect that?”
“I saw it only when we were right on top of it! It must be camouflaged!”
“Your amulet’s a piece of junk! If I find that [Merchant] who sold it to you, I’m going to eat—”
Whumph. Something hit the dirt at the top of the incline. Both young women went running.
“Dead gods, it’s still after us?”
“Run further away!”
 
—-
 
Artillery spells. Seriously? Ryoka and Fierre peeked over a sand dune at the very edge of the island, as far away from the mansion as possible.
“Okay. It stopped firing. So we know there’s landmines and a spell that blasts anyone coming towards the mansion to pieces. And we can’t see the Archmage’s magic with our level of spell. Ideas?”
“Give up?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka’s expression. The Vampire girl was trembling, now that they were safe.
“Oh, come on, Ryoka! You were right! I’d be dead if I wasn’t stronger now. And that wasn’t a fun way to find out I can survive a Tier 4 spell. I think that was what it was.”
Ryoka blinked. Instead of comforting platitudes, she focused on Fierre’s face.
“You’re sure Tier 4?”
“Based on the power of the spell? Pretty sure. Tier 5 can vaporize you. Tier 3 is usually weaker and you can’t delay it. Like—[Delayed Fireball] is Tier 4—[Fireball] is Tier 3.”
“Oh.”
The young woman wasn’t sure if Fierre’s abilities to appraise spells was actually that helpful. Either way, she was dead if she stood on that landmine—or crippled at the least. She narrowed her eyes.
“No wonder people can’t get to the front door. Well, I have my trump card. But I don’t know…I could try flying towards the door, but the wind isn’t under my control. I’d probably be hit by a spell or the wind would pulverize me by sending me into the ground or something.”
Fierre blinked.
“What? You’re not giving up, Ryoka?”
The City Runner gave her friend a blank look.
“Of course not. We’re not dead. We should have expected this much, Fierre.”
“But—”
That was the difference between City Runners and normal people. Fierre closed her mouth as she saw Ryoka investigating the distant mansion. They really were insane.
“Hm. The wind is strong around the mansion. Sort of weird.”
Ryoka muttered. She was trying to see if she could sail on the winds with her trump card into the mansion. She might hit it hard, but what if she threw Fierre? Wait, that could work. Throw her into the wall, get her to ring the door—but the door was probably trapped.
Still—something was off. The wind was blowing…Ryoka Griffin closed her eyes.
She could…sense the wind. Not concretely, and even if she asked it to blow hard, it sometimes failed her. She needed a teacher. Teriarch had offered some insights, and Ryoka had learned to call the wind stronger since the fire at Riverfarm. But she seldom tried to use the wind to scout.
Yet—if she wasn’t wrong…
“What is it, Ryoka?”
The City Runner started. She narrowed her eyes at the mansion.
“I think…I think that damn mansion is fake, Fierre. The wind’s blowing straight through where it should be going around the walls.”
“What? Fake?”
Fierre started. She looked at the mansion and groaned.
“Oh, skunk blood. Of course! It’s the oldest trick in the book! Is the Archmage even on this isle?”
Ryoka felt sick. She might not even be here! But first—they had to test this idea. So Ryoka opened her bag of holding.
“Hold on. Let’s just make sure this is actually an illusion. There’s something there—just not the disturbance in the air a mansion could create. That door…might be real. Here—help me set up this. I just need a handkerchief—and a stick or something—”
Fierre offered Ryoka a rat. The green rodent squeaked and tried to get away. Ryoka stared at the rat.
“No. That’s cruel.”
The Vampire girl gave Ryoka a long look. She opened her mouth and Ryoka slapped the rat out of her hand.
“Stop that.”
She was no huge animal advocate, but Ryoka was definitely against cruelty and Fierre eating the rats did bother her. The Vampire girl sulkily got out some vomit-stained blood bags.
“I’m really hungry. Being blown up makes you hungry.”
“I wouldn’t know about that. Here—”
Ryoka finished her creation. It was…a handkerchief tied to a stick with some twine. She tossed it up and Fierre felt the wind blow. She saw the little parachute open and the stick flew off. It flew towards the mansion’s walls in the distance. Even Fierre’s enhanced eyes lost it, but Ryoka grimly nodded.
“It went straight through.”
“Darn. Well—now what?”
Ryoka Griffin thought about this. If they couldn’t see the Archmage’s mansion, was it underground? Accessible only via teleportation? Or…her eyes narrowed. She closed her eyes and felt for the wind.
“Aha.”
 
—-
 
Unexpected. The part of the woman’s mind which was tracking the two was infinitesimally small. Basically only there to record and watch for dangers to her person. Even so—the two’s progress had defied the statistical norm.
They had found the invisible mansion without going for the fake one. Now—they stood at the entrance, investigating carefully.
Somehow, they had found it. Though no magical resonance had occurred. A Skill? It was still within parameters.
After nearly twenty minutes of bickering, the two entered the front door. Which was, of course, not trapped. Just reinforced.
 
—-
 
The door slammed shut and it was at that moment that Ryoka Griffin knew she’d been duped.
“It’s not designed to keep us out! It’s designed to—”
“Hiyah!”
Fierre punched the door as hard as she could. The impact was thunderous. The door—which had no knob on the inside—remained shut. Fierre shouted in pain.
“Aaah! That hurts so much!”
She’d hit the door hard. But the enchanted wood didn’t budge. Durene with her club? Ryoka shook her head.
“We’re in trouble, Fierre.”
The two spun around. The opening to the mansion, which they’d been investigating through the untrapped door—was a long hallway.
Stone. The invisible mansion had been resting on the cliff’s edge. Ryoka hadn’t seen any of it, just known it was there. The door had appeared and like idiots, they’d gone in.
Now—she saw faint scorch marks, detritus like empty potion bottles or glass—evidence of other people having come through, waited here, and gone on, sometimes clearly having attempted to exit.
“Well, we’re not the only ones who tried this. I doubt we can break out with our bare hands, Fierre.”
“What about your acid?”
“Doesn’t work on non-organic materials. Doubt it’d do anything.”
Just to be sure, Ryoka glanced around the walls, floor, and at the door again. All stone, except for the enchanted door. Actually…it might be stone too, just spelled to look like wood.
“Like a damn dungeon. That’s what this is. An Archmage’s dungeon, only there’s a living person controlling it.”
“Statistically, that’s how most dungeons come to be. Someone makes their own fortress, it gets buried or lost to time and bam, a thousand years later you have adventurers.”
Fierre walked in front of Ryoka down the long hallway. Ryoka sighed. They were doing—okay so far, but this felt like more and more of a mistake. Now she remembered, she had barely survived Az’kerash and the High Passes! What made her think that meant she could just survive this?
There was one door at the far end of the hallway. Ryoka Griffin and Fierre walked towards it warily.
“Okay, this time we’re checking this door. Maybe try to put a wedge in, so we can get out.”
The two young woman clustered around the next door, which was pearly-white and had a little…arch?…carved into the door. Ryoka frowned at it.
“Someone has a sense of gamesmanship. That’s either someone messing with our heads, or it’s telling us what lies beyond.”
“Well, I’ll go first. No arguments.”
“Fierre—I can’t let you risk your life again. Let me—”
The Vampire girl grabbed Ryoka as she reached for the handle. Fierre held Ryoka by the shoulders seriously, looking up at her taller friend, then hugged her tight.
“I’m not losing my first Human friend. If anyone’s going to be in trouble—I have a better chance of surviving. No arguments.”
She turned, and faster than Ryoka, yanked the door open. Fierre looked into the room filled with mirrors, took a deep breath, and stepped through.
“Fierre! Don’t—”
Ryoka moved, but an invisible barrier held her back. The door slammed shut.
 
—-
 
The Room of Similarities took out 14.2% of all intruders alone. And those who entered almost never left without serious damage, or needing to use the artifacts they’d brought, or magic or a Skill. Of the intruders, 0.6% had ever left unscathed.
The first of the two walked into the room and Archmage Valeterisa’s watching mind-segment stirred. If it could be said to be interested in the results…it waited as the girl spun around from the closed door and raised her fists.
Both waited.
…Nothing happened. The girl looked around. The Archmage’s mind expected the mirrors to work. But…something was wrong. An invalid template had entered the room. The Archmage tried to make sense of it and another of her parallel processes devoted itself to the puzzle. Of course, she only had magical data. If she could have seen the room, it would have been obvious.
The Vampire had no reflection.
 
—-
 
“Fierre! Fierre! F—”
The door opened and Fierre waved at Ryoka from the other side of the room.
“Hey Ryoka, I think the trap’s dead! Nothing happened!”
She had opened the other door, which had released the magical lock on Ryoka’s side. Fierre peered through the other corridor.
“Come on!”
Ryoka spied the mirrors. She guessed what had happened.
“Fierre, it’s the mirrors! You have no reflection!”
The Vampire girl slapped her forehead.
“Duh! Gah! I forget you people get reflected by mirrors!”
Ryoka opened and closed her mouth. Then she saw Fierre whirl.
“Hold on. Something just moved. I—”
She stepped through the door as Ryoka drew breath to tell her to wait. And the door slammed shut.
“Fierre!”
Ryoka Griffin raced forwards, then felt the door slam shut. She was ready, though. She looked at the mirrors, drew a tripvine bag, and threw it.
The magical vines burst in the air as Ryoka was reflected across all the mirrors. Ryoka would have settled for mud, but she hadn’t time to make any with the water and sand in her bag of holding. Whatever was coming out of there—
Ryoka saw herself in the mirrors as she braced, one hand holding a jar of acid, the other in her bag of holding. She saw…nothing.
Just herself. The other Ryokas were tensed, ready to move. Ryoka Griffin stared at the vine-covered mirrors facing her. Four in all. They were all large, segmented, covering a half of the room.
Nothing happened. Then—one of the Ryoka’s straightened. She turned to stare at herself. And then began to walk towards the mirror’s edge.
Ryoka felt the hairs on her neck stand up. She saw another Ryoka stand. And then the other two. They walked towards the edge of the mirror. Pushed out of the glass. Three were blocked by the vines, and began to fight them. But the last exited. She raised her fists, and her face twisted in rage—
 
—-
 
The Room of Similarity was her finest work. The mirrors were actually all relic-class artifacts. But she had come up with the concept. Not only did the mirrors reflect the person trapped within, they created doppelgangers with the same spells, Skills—the exact strength of their opponent.
And four? Well, one was bad enough. But four opponents with your Skills and magical abilities and fighting style could overwhelm even experts.
Most people survived, of course. 79.3% progressed onwards, because they had gear, or potions or other items that the mirrors couldn’t reflect. 6.5% turned around and refused to go further until they were forced to continue or captured.
The mirrors weren’t perfect. They just took the base person—the Courier had fought his reflections with spells but triumphed because he had healing and mana potions as well as artifacts.
But the Archmage had data about both intruders. Neither one was magically significant to her [Detect Aura] spells. One was…odd. She had wind-element attributes and the other one was plain invisible. But neither was even close to Gold-rank threat levels. So her thought-processes, all two of them, expected the mirrors to triumph.
After all, even if the opponent could win, the psychological impact of fighting your reflection—even killing one took its toll. Few could just—
