 stabbed me and almost killed me a second time as it exploded, and now I have to sit down with a buttstain after an otherwise pristine experience of this Dungeon,” the woman said, and Caline’s mind went blank.No one had spoken to him like this in a very long time.“I am… dare you…” he spluttered before reaching for his four-fingered badge, but Yattina slammed something down on the desk before him.It was a rolled up scroll with the symbol of a complete hand on the wax seal. Five-digits.“I made a quick visit back to HQ,” she said and Caline stared at her.This was not good.The hand of Fairplay symbolized the five men and women in charge of Fairplay that served directly under Director Ripdoy. Which one was it? If it was the Finger of the Blades, he might have a chance to spin this back onto the insubordinate woman…It was also annoying that Yattina seemed to have used the portal twice, but her clothes only looked as if they had been cleaned and repaired rather than smaller. He unrolled the scroll and glared at the sign of the research department, a crooked hand with the thumb raised, ready to push down on a pen.“I wasn’t aware that Manager Visp and you were on speaking terms,” he observed, voice devoid of any emotion.“Unaware of things beyond your immediate scope of imagination. Color me surprised,” Yattina said coolly.This piece-He read the missive as fast as possible, his face paling with each line.‘Commander Caline of the Blades.It has been brought to my attention you have somehow acquired and also wasted twenty units of the ‘Hellion Robot’ series. On top of that, your actions nearly ruined a valuable understanding in Dungeon science.I contacted the Manager of the Blades, Bronco, and he has agreed to allow me to set your punishment. He asked me to let you know that this is not negotiable. Bronco is a smart man who sees what a colossal mess you have caused. Enough that he and I skipped our week long arguments and got down to sorting this out before you somehow cause a second Shattering.Right now, you are demoted to Third rank, whileResearcher Yattina is promoted to Fourth, making her, effective immediately, your superior.She will be in charge of supervising your actions until Fairplay has concluded its first contact with the local dungeon. One more toe out of line and I will take your Soul Armament, rejoin it to your body without anesthetic and then demote you to recruit for the next ten years.I do not tolerate those who waste my time, my research, or this paper I am using to write to you. You have done all three, and it’s only because of years of service that you are not heading to the Diseased Right toiling in relief work until the day you die.The good news is that you get to keep your office, because Researcher Yattina prefers her lab like any sane woman would.Do not make me come down there.-Jeina Visp.There was movement, and Yattina slowly and deliberately took her time reaching over and taking his four-finger badge,dropping her own three-finger badge on the table where it landed with a clack, on its pin for a moment.“I prefer to recycle. Hope you don’t mind, Blade Caline,” she said softly.He opened his mouth, readying his Core Armament for retaliation until the last words of the message came back to him like a slap to the face.‘Do not make me come down there.’His blood froze, as if the woman could sense his intent across the world.Jenia Visp could not only melt his soul weapon, but also manipulate it. Her own tool was vastly stronger too. Rumor was that she could read the mana veins of the world in her lab, right down to tracking one person.A skill the Manager of the Scouts envied, the index finger of Fairplay for prodding.“No… issue, Ser Yattina,” he whispered. It was a big issue.It was a massive issue.The ‘box’ he owned could only be opened because he tuned it to his badge for security purposes.Curse her. Curse this town. Curse this freak of a dungeon.Curse them all.The moment he thought this with intense emotion, he sat upright as something like a wedge of cheese moved down his gut.The old man’s curse! He rushed past Yattina and to the latrine in agony.“Some people don’t handle loss well,” he heard Yattina say, but he couldn’t do anything but waddle away.---Delta paused as she took a break on crab island, resting in a hammock.Something had pinged her.“The goblins are hatching,” she said, sitting up instantly. She tried to get off the hammock, but her physicality made her flip over and tangle her foot in the hammock in her haste.“Help!” She twisted around for a moment before remembering she was near-omnipotent in this space. Her foot phased through the hammock, and she stood up to the gaze of a dozen crabs.“No one saw a thing,” she said smoothly, sand in her hair.“Come along Primal… Prim! Prim!” she told the screen, and the thing let out an alarmed ping.‘Sub-system has been named. Cursed with existence! No!’Prim was so funny. Between her and Nu, Delta had a comedic duo at her fingertips!
