Jelaqua and Ulrien were both of the same opinion. Typhenous, Revi, and Moore were all inspecting the spell, but it was apparently hidden in the ceiling. Seborn and Halrac were in their own conference, inspecting the room now the spikes were gone. Both [Scout] and [Rogue] were ready to leap to safety if the trap reactivated, but their Skills were telling them they were safe for the moment.
“I’m of the opinion the trap is magical. It activates the moment I cross this threshold. See?”
Seborn was talking to Halrac. The [Scout] nodded. He could see a faint aura around the part of the room Seborn had described.
“Cross that line and step anywhere in the room and the trap activates. Want to try breaking the floor?”
“Worth a shot. Do you have a hammer?”
“Allow me.”
Ulrien stepped forwards and both Seborn and Halrac retreated. The big [Warrior] took his greatsword out and gripped the blade with both of his gauntleted hands. Using the hilt of his sword like a hammer, he cracked the stone floor with a mighty strike.
“Hm. Not spelled against strikes. Will that do it?”
Carefully, Ulrien inspected his greatsword as Halrac and Seborn knelt by the cracked stones. Ulrien’s blade was enchanted, but he obsessed over it. Halrac nodded as he saw no aura around the stones.
“That does it. Let’s tear up the room and see if that deactivates the trap.”
So they did. Moore and Jelaqua and Ulrien began hitting the ground, Moore with his staff, Jelaqua with her flail, and Ulrien with his greatsword. All three could break the stone and Halrac, Seborn, Revi, and Typhenous helped clear the rubble away.
No one used a hammer. A sledgehammer was less useful than an enchanted weapon. You could swing Ulrien’s greatsword all day and not chip the blade or hilt, whereas a sledgehammer would eventually break.
It was hard on the hands, though. Twice Ulrien had to take a break and massage his hands. Mordhau, as the technique he was using was known, was not meant for repeated strikes like a hammer.
By the time an hour had passed, half of the room was destroyed and the smooth tiled flooring had been broken away and a rougher surface had been exposed. Seborn once again entered the room and very cautiously walked from side to side, testing to see if the trigger mechanism for the spell had been successfully destroyed.
It had. However, that didn’t mean everyone crossed through the room at once. Halrac carefully entered the room and did the same test as Seborn, senses alert for anything suspicious. Only after he was done did he let both teams go through one at a time.
That was the first room. The second was a pit trap nearly thirty feet deep. Halrac showed the Halfseekers where he and the rest of his team had strung up a rope bridge to cross without having to touch the ground. The third room was filled with books on shelves—they were supposed to explode when read. The adventurers walked past them without touching any of the tomes.
The fourth room they came to was unfamiliar to both Seborn and Halrac. It was locked by a door, and after determining the door itself wasn’t trapped, Halrac and Seborn carefully opened the door and gazed into a circular room with a grating floor and very dark pit.
“I’m not going in there.”
“Me neither. Think the door closes after someone goes in?”
“Obviously. Let’s take it off.”
Some traps were predictable. Halrac motioned Ulrien over and explained what they wanted to do. Ulrien sighed and grabbed the door’s edge. He was incredibly strong—strong enough to swing around his greatsword like it was nothing, and Halrac had seen Ulrien beat a Minotaur in arm-wrestling once. But no matter how hard Ulrien strained, the door wouldn’t budge.
“Allow me to help.”
Moore had to duck his head as he grabbed the door with one hand. He and Ulrien pulled at the door and now Halrac heard creaking as the door and its hinges fought with the wall of the dungeon to be freed.
“Room for one more?”
Jelaqua handed her flail to Seborn and stepped up, edging between Ulrien and Moore. Between the three strongest adventurers, the door was beginning to come loose. Ulrien grunted.
“Ready? One, two, three, heave—”
The three adventurers pushed, and with a crack of breaking stone, the door broke off its hinges and they let it crash to the ground. Rubbing at their arms, they let Seborn and Halrac inspect the room again.
“Enchanted doors. As if they didn’t expect us to pull each one off. Waste of time.”
Halrac grunted. Seborn nodded.
“Waste of time. And I bet the door’s not got more than a protection spell on it. Still, it might be worth taking back with us.”
“Why? Who needs a door with a protection spell?”
“Someone might pay some gold for it. You must admit, enchanted doors aren’t cheap. If worst comes to worst, some Bronze-rank adventurer can use it as a shield.”
The dry comment made Halrac grin unwillingly. He got along with Seborn, which wasn’t surprising as both occupied the same role in their party. Seborn nodded at the center of the room.
“Ah, I see. It’s a pressure mechanism.”
“You think so?”
Halrac was surprised. He hadn’t seen any magical aura that would have indicated a detection spell, but he hadn’t noticed the way the grate was wired to a spring until Seborn pointed out the tiny grooves where the grating would descend to trigger the trap. Halrac shook his head, grateful for a second pair of eyes.
“Simple trigger. Typhenous, I need a ball of webbing. Heavy. Unless Revi wants to use one of her summoned creatures as a test?”
“Spare me.”
Revi rolled her eyes as Typhenous spun out some sticky webs from his staff. The enchanted webbing would only last a few minutes, but it was a useful tool and one of the reasons why he was in Griffon Hunt.
“Mind if I add something to it? I can conjure grass, or grass clippings. If it’s weight you’re after, that might help.”
“By all means, Moore.”
The half-Giant tapped his staff and some magical grass and vines grew out of the stone. He carefully mixed that with the webbing and came up with a heavy ball of plant matter and webs. Halrac and Seborn rolled it to the door as they talked conversationally.
“I haven’t had time to see Revi fight. She’s your second [Mage], right?”
“[Summoner], actually. She can conjure spirits of Stitch-warriors or summon other creatures. It’s useful, but not when we’re disarming traps. Her summoned creatures can’t think for themselves.”
“Ah. Here we go. Would you like to do the honors?”
“Sure.”
Halrac kicked the ball of heavy matter into the room. He saw the grating descend fractionally, and then both he and Seborn leapt backwards.
“So that’s the trap.”
“Yep. Acid mist.”
Halrac and Seborn backed up into the previous room as all the Gold-rank adventurers drew back. A very fine spray of colorless liquid was shooting down from above. It didn’t affect the stone or metal, but the instant it struck the plants and webbing, the ball began smoking and disintegrating with a subtle hiss.
Jelaqua shook her head as the others waited for the trap to finish its work. As a warrior, she and Ulrien were of the least use in this situation. She leaned against a wall with Ulrien, ready to help if called upon, but mostly alert for a monster sneaking up around them. Since they were fairly confident no monsters existed in the trapped rooms they’d passed through, she allowed herself a short conversation.
“How many more rooms are like this, do you think?”
Ulrien shrugged his broad shoulders as he watched the acid make the stone walls slick with moisture.
“Impossible to say. But there has to be a limited number. Once we’re through here, we can be sure our exit’s safe. Unless there’s a teleportation trap hidden on the way back?”
He looked at the other [Mages], all of whom shook their heads. Typhenous tapped the walls with his staff.
“I have been checking for that diligently, as per your orders, Ulrien.”
“As have I.”
Moore nodded. Reassured, Ulrien looked at Revi. She shrugged, looking embarrassed and annoyed.
“Not my specialty! I told you that Ulrien! But I haven’t seen anything either.”
He nodded. The adventurers sat back when it became apparent the acid wasn’t stopping anytime soon. They began to chatter idly while they waited. Other, less-experienced groups might have stayed on their feet or tried to find something to do, but the Gold-rank teams knew patience was their biggest asset.
“Acid mist. Great. Didn’t Erin say she used to sell acid?”
“Sell acid? You must have heard her wrong.”
“I’d believe anything of her. Want to try and bottle it up?”
“It’s magical acid. It’ll disappear after a few minutes.”
“Ah.”
“I hate traps like these. What’s the point? A few seconds of acid and you’re dead. Why waste spell power keeping it going?”
“I guess in case someone casts a spell. The acid probably wears away at magical protections too. If you’ve got an enchanted cloak for instance, this is probably when the acid eats away.”
“Nasty. Hey, anyone want some food?”
“You brought a snack? What’s the point? We’re five seconds away from Liscor.”
“I get munchy when I’m bored, and this is boring. Toasted baguette anyone? I’ll share. Ham and cheese. Erin made it for me.”
“I’ll have some.”
“Well, if you’re offering…”
Jelaqua split her sandwich with Typhenous and Seborn. As they ate, Ulrien looked over at his counterpart. Jelaqua’s white face was pale as death, and she was unmistakably a corpse, but there was still life behind the eyes. Literally.
“You lot are very relaxed, especially in the middle of a dungeon.”
She grinned at him, chewing and swallowing her meal. Part of Halrac wondered whether Jelaqua could taste the food she ate—then he remembered her complaining about trying to keep her body’s taste buds fresh so she could enjoy food.
“Shouldn’t we be? What’s the use of tensing up?”
“We like tense. And serious. Halrac and I are both former soldiers—and we hunt Griffins. Idle chatter in the field can alert our quarry and get us all killed.”
“Right, that’s in the name of your group. I wish we were so efficient.”
“No you don’t. You’d quit if you couldn’t talk every two seconds.”
Moore nudged Jelaqua with one finger. She grinned and swatted at him.
“Okay, I wish I was that efficient.”
“Each to their own. It’s not like the Halfseekers don’t get the job done.”
“True. Hey, was that a compliment? From Halrac the Grim no less. Hah!”
Jelaqua laughed and Halrac scowled. She waved at him.
“Don’t take it so personally. I’m happy to hear that, really. And I wish I had a title. All I get called is ‘corpse snatcher’ and ‘body thief’, and all Selphids get called that.”
“I didn’t ask for my title. Ulrien doesn’t have a nickname. There’s no reason for me to have one if you don’t.”
Halrac snapped and rose. The acid had stopped, although the walls were still wet. He went to study the room with Seborn while Jelaqua turned to Ulrien. The Selphid looked concerned.
“I didn’t mean to offend him.”
Ulrien grimaced, looking at his friend’s back.
“Don’t take it personally. Halrac just doesn’t like the attention. It’s nothing to do with you.”
“Yeah, well, you know how titles go. We don’t choose them, other people do. And you have to admit, it suits him.”
Jelaqua winked slyly at Halrac, whose shoulders had tensed up. Ulrien smiled and covered it with a hand.
“He has a point, though. Halrac’s one of the best [Scouts] on the continent, and probably one of the best ones working as an adventurer, but he’s hardly as noticeable as your team is. Come to that, the Halfseekers have more of a reputation in the south than Griffon Hunt does.”
“Aw. Stop. You’re making me blush. See my orange cheeks?”
Tickled, Jelaqua laughed and pointed to her cheeks, which were indeed glowing slightly orange. Ulrien smiled and Typhenous leaned forwards, chewing aggressively while crumbs fell into his beard.
“Ulrien does have a point, though. I’m quite old, but the Halfseekers have been around for a long time, haven’t they, Miss Ivirith? I wouldn’t be surprised if you were older than I was. When I was young, I remember hearing you’d come from Baleros as a Silver-rank adventurer. I recall a time when the Halfseekers were one of the best Gold-rank teams on the continent. There were seven of you back then, weren’t there?”
Jelaqua stopped laughing. She lost her smile, and Ulrien saw Moore sit up slightly. The two Halfseekers looked at each other wordlessly. Typhenous coughed.
“Forgive me if I misspoke. I did not mean to pry.”
Adventurer deaths were common, but each party remembered their own differently. Halrac and Ulrien had buried more than a few friends, and it was courtesy not to bring up the fallen. But Jelaqua shook her head. She put her hands on her knees and sat cross-legged as Moore rested his weight on his staff, looking tired.
“Eight. There were eight of us, not too long ago. We were great, yeah. We thought we could become a Named Adventuring team. None of us were on that level of course, but together? We could have taken down a nest of adult Crelers and fought our way through a trio of Wyverns like that.”
She snapped her fingers softly. Halrac and Seborn half-turned—they were trying to saw through parts of the grate. Jelaqua waved a hand and they turned away.
The other adventurers sat a bit closer. Revi scooted over, looking concerned.
“What happened then? If you don’t mind telling. I remember hearing the Halfseekers had lost a lot of their group, but I never heard what happened.”
Typhenous cleared his throat gently.
“I ah, heard it was in relation to the Sepicus Delve, where you fought through the caverns and looted the swallowed treasures…?”
“Close, but not quite.”
Jelaqua grinned and then shook her head, closing her eyes and frowning sadly. Moore’s head was lowered.
“It was actually after that. We got chewed up down there, but we came back, all eight of us. I was wounded and needed a new body, Moore was too hurt to walk and needed the poisons leeched out of him before he could be healed and Seborn was asleep when it happened. Our other five members were checking over our loot when a fight broke out.”
“Over treasure? But that’s such a rookie…”
Revi broke off at Ulrien’s glance. Fighting over magical artifacts was a typical end to many groups, but he had a feeling that wasn’t what Jelaqua was referring to.
He was right. Jelaqua shook her head.
“If it was a quarrel over treasure…no. This was different. It was betrayal, pure and simple. One of our own turned on us. He slaughtered four of our own and fled with everything we’d found. We went after him of course, but we never found him. Moore, Seborn and I are all that’s left.”
