Trey was sitting in the banquet hall with Teres, trying to explain what a shortcake was to an interested audience of servants and a harried [Cook] when Gazi found him. The half-Gazer strode through the crowd and jerked her thumb.
“Come.”
It was indicative of her personality that no one asked questions. Trey and Teres were following Gazi out of the banquet hall in an instant.
“Why are we—”
Gazi’s head turned and she cut Teres off with an answer.
“A messenger has come for my lord Flos. He desires you to hear what is being said.”
“And wh—”
“War.”
The word precipitated a crash of broken pottery. A woman who’d been carrying a load of dirty dishes dropped them when she heard the word. Gazi glanced at her and the woman immediately bowed.
“War?”
Trey said it faintly. War? Now? Of course, Flos was the King of Destruction, but—
“It will be war.”
One of Gazi’s eyes turned to follow the servant as she bent to pick up the broken shards. She didn’t say anything, but Trey would have bet his eyeteeth—since he didn’t have any actual money—that the woman would be telling everyone in earshot as soon as she was out of sight. And Gazi probably knew that, but she walked on.
As it turned out, war had already been declared by the time the twins and Gazi reached the throne room. They entered to hear shouting, and saw a young man wearing leather armor, covered in a thin layer of dust and sweat, shouting at Flos.
“—will not kneel to you! Hellios has risen, and our soldiers are marching towards this city at this very moment!”
Flos sat on his throne, flanked by Orthenon and Mars as he stared down at the messenger.
“So Queen Calliope desires war?”
The young man’s eyes blazed up at Flos. He didn’t seem to notice the twins as they edged around the room, nor Gazi as she strode up to the throne and took a place next to Orthenon.
“You know she does. Her hatred of you burns no less brightly than my own, King Flos of Reim. You killed my father, and for that you will answer at last.”
His father. Trey looked at the young man. Was he a [Prince]? Certainly, Flos seemed to be treating him like one, to let him yell at him in front of his vassals. But why had a [Prince] come himself? He certainly wasn’t attired like one, and he looked like he’d been on the road for hours, if not days.
“That I killed King Treland is reason enough to hate. But I would have thought your mother had more sense. She knows what war brings. She has seen it once. I doubt she would be foolish to wish for it again.”
His words made the young prince flush with fury.
“We have held our peace because you slept, in cowardice. But now that you are awake, it is war, Flos of Reim!”
“And why were you sent? Did your mother fear I would slay her messenger?”
“I took his place. I had to see the truth of it myself, that you were awake. I wanted to lay eyes on my father’s killer myself.”
The young man’s eyes burned as he put his hand on the sword at his waist. No one moved, despite the threat. Orthenon stared coldly down at the prince, Mars with intensity, watching his hands. Gazi looked bored; only one eye was on him. Two were for her King and one—
Trey shuddered. One was watching him and Teres. Watching them react to the prince.
“Tell me your name, bold son of Calliope. You have not given it. If I am to be at war with the kingdom of Hellios, I would know who brings such tidings.”
“I am [Prince] Siyal of Hellios. And I swear to you, King Flos, that I will have vengeance for—”
“Your father. Yes, I heard.”
Flos sighed. He stared down at Siyal with an expression Trey and Teres hadn’t seen on him before. It wasn’t anger. It was more like grim intensity. It was a very kingly expression in that sense, but there was something else in the way he looked at Siyal.
Disappointment.
“So you seek my head as a matter of vengeance. You would not be the first, nor the last. But why for Treland? He was not worthy of it. Far better to come after me for those countless thousands I slew, or your shattered kingdom. Why waste hatred for the death of a worthless king, even if he was a father?”
“How dare you.”
Siyal’s eyes blazed and he actually unsheathed his sword a fraction. At once, Orthenon and Mars both reached for their sword hilts. The prince halted, eying both of them.
“I did not come here to bare my blade, King Flos. But one more word of insult and I will shed my blood, regardless of the odds!”
“I hear your words, Siyal. But what I said was no insult. It was the truth.”
Flos cut off Siyal as the young man looked as if he might truly rush the throne. He stood up and stared down at the young man.
“You think your father was a man worth avenging? He was not.”
The King of Destruction raised his voice over the young man’s voice.
“Silence! He. Was. Not. Because I am a [King], know that I speak the truth. Your father was no hero, no great ruler, boy. He was a fool and a monster. You have a King’s word on that.”
“Liar!”
It was amazing, Trey thought, that Siyal could shout that at Flos, much less to his face. A King’s word…but Flos didn’t grow angry. He just stared Siyal down, and the [Prince] lost a bit of his bravado in the silence that followed.
“I will not lie, even for the fallen. That your father died does not change the nature of his sin. Neither did his Class. He treated his subjects like animals—no, worse than that.”
“He was a [King]! He deserved an honorable death, not an execution on the battlefield! How he ruled was no business of yours!”
“His people cried out for justice. They came to me, begging for protection, to bring down a king that cared more for his own wealth and that of his friends than his people. Is that the man you admire, Siyal? Or did your mother never tell you of his failures, only my crimes? I went to war for the thousands who died under his rule, not to steal land or wealth.”
Siyal’s face had gone pale as Flos spoke. He pointed a shaking finger at Flos.
“I will not listen to your lies. You are no worthy [King]. You dare to talk of a [King]’s duties when you abandoned your own kingdom? You—you have no right to speak of my father to me.”
Flos stared down at Siyal, that same cold disappointment in his expression. He shook his head slowly.
“You and I use the truth like blades. But I have the courage to face it. My failure and who I am does not change reality. Your father—”
“Silence!”
Siyal did draw his blade, then. And Orthenon and Mars did the same. They leapt off the throne’s dais, surrounding Siyal from both ends. He whirled to face them, face pale but jaw set.
“Orthenon. Mars. Enough.”
Flos stopped his vassals with one hand. He looked down at the [Prince] as Orthenon and Mars stepped back, sheathing their blades.
“You are fearless, Prince Siyal. But it takes more than courage to make a man. But at least you have that. Your father had not that.”
It was cruel. Flos’ words were harsh and cutting, and Trey saw the marks they left on Siyal. They cut deep, because Trey knew they were true. There was something in Flos’ voice, the way he spoke that made the truth self-evident. And some part of Siyal knew it.
The prince sheathed his sword. Tears stood out in the corners of his eyes as he glared up at Flos. His voice was rough, but steady.
“You have heard my message. Hellios declares war with Reim. My duty here is done. When we next meet, it will be under banner, bearing arms.”
He pointed at Flos.
“I will find you on the battlefield. I will hunt you down and claim your head with my sword.”
The King didn’t blink.
“I shall try to spare the effort to pick your face out from the legions of my enemies.”
He lifted a hand in dismissal. Siyal turned and stormed from the room, face crimson. All that time he had not glanced once at the twins. They were beneath his notice.
The two double doors closed behind Prince Siyal of Hellios, and Flos sat down slowly upon his throne. Only then did Mars and Orthenon turn to face him. After a second, Gazi stepped down and joined them.
And then Trey saw the curtains near one of the balconies move. He stared as Lady Maresar pushed them back. She calmly walked over to the others, putting an arrow back in the quiver at her side as she did.
Flos glanced at Maresar, at Gazi, and then the twins as they hesitantly came to stand before his throne. He smiled a bit at them, wearily.
“And so it begins.”
“War.”
This time Trey said the word and felt a chill. It was strange. One person said it, and suddenly it was true. He glanced at the doors Siyal had left through.
“Was he really a [Prince]?”
“Oh yes.”
Everyone in the room except for Teres nodded at once. Mars grinned as she tapped her chin.
“Did you see the way he kept it raised the entire time he was talking? The royals have a way of talking and standing that just screams their class. It makes you want to trip them whenever they walk past.”
Orthenon frowned at Mars before turning to Trey.
“I am surprised he came alone, but yes, that was [Prince] Siyal. Doubtless he must have come here against his mother’s wishes.”
“Calliope knows I would not stoop to ransoming her son.”
Flos looked mildly annoyed by the implication. Orthenon bowed to him.
“Of course. But the roads are not safe, my King. He must have rushed here.”
“I saw his horse as he rode in. It looked dead. That fool probably rode it at a gallop all the way here.”
Maresar’s lip curled and Flos shook his head. He sat with his back straight against his throne, staring at the ceiling.
“Yet his message was plain, and perhaps warranted such actions, at least in his mind. War.”
“It has come at last.”
Gazi’s eyes glittered with excitement. Orthenon and Mars nodded, and both looked…eager. It wasn’t a thought Trey would have associated with war, not in his world. But there was a spark of that in Maresar’s eyes, and when Flos looked down—
Trey could see it there too. That awful glimmer, that silent spark of terrible things. Terrible, glorious things.
“War.”
When he said it, Trey got goose bumps again. Only this time, Flos did not seize his sword and rush out of the room. Instead, he sighed.
“We have much to do.”
He looked at his steward.
“Orthenon, apprise me as we walk. Mars, spread the word. Lady Maresar, if you will send messengers to the furthest villages? We must ready my subjects to retreat behind the city’s walls at once. Gazi, be watchful as always. And you, Trey, Teres…”
He turned and the twins tensed with anticipation. Flos smiled.
“You have seen my kingdom in decay, at peace, such as it is. Now see its true heart. We prepare for war, at last. It is time to break my long slumber, my endless fast.”
He paused, and only Trey noticed the slight rolling of his eyes, and the look of chagrin on Flos’ face. He turned.
“Come. Follow.”
And they did.
 
——
 
To Trey’s surprise, the rest of the day was not filled with people running about and general confusion. Oh, some people moved faster than normal, but Flos walked down his corridors at the same pace as always, and took time to greet the people he met as usual.
He had an explanation when Trey asked.
“War has been declared. But though Hellios is far closer than the lands of the Emperor of Sands, an army will not appear on my doorstep tomorrow. Or the day after, for that matter.”
“That is the convenience of a formal declaration of war.”
Orthenon nodded as he stepped out of a cluster of servants and messengers. He was the one working hardest, and Trey and Teres got to see exactly what going to war meant you had to do.
The first and most important thing was to make sure everyone knew there was a war going on. It wasn’t as if everyone had a telephone—or a [Mage] capable of receiving a [Message] spell. Within the hour, people on horseback were racing to all parts of the kingdom, bearing the news of war.
But that didn’t mean people were about to come rushing towards the castle with swords in hand, ready to fight, either. It did mean they harvested any food available, and made preparations to leave their villages and towns at once if an army came their way.
“You see, Teres, Trey, an enemy army will strip the countryside. Even if an army does not attack civilians—and there are many which would slaughter any of my subjects they came across—they will destroy villages and kill by their simple passing. Once we know from which direction the army approaches, we will begin evacuating those in need.”
Flos told them this in between readying his capital for war. There was so much to do he was giving Orthenon a hand in organizing. The walls had to be inspected, soldiers manning the battlements and watchful at all times, and gear had to be distributed. Not everyone walked around ready for battle like Mars—most people found wearing anything heavier than cloth fairly tiring, let alone plate armor or chainmail.
And not everyone got that, either. Helmets were in short supply, armor needed patching, some weapons could use a whetstone, while others had a broken haft. Potions needed distributing, pack horses and other animals found to haul all of the army’s supplies and equipment—the list went on and on. It wasn’t as if Orthenon and Flos had been neglecting doing any of this, but they’d had an entire kingdom to get working again. Now, all of these preparations were the first order of business.
Amid all of the busy work, Trey felt like the most useless lump. He could only watch as Flos strode around, taking care of matters that Trey wouldn’t have thought to address. At least Teres could say she was helping a bit—she scribbled down notes for Orthenon as he assessed the number of soldiers they had, how many saddles were in working repair, and so on.
Not so for Flos and Trey. The King of Destruction didn’t use lists, and he didn’t need another person to run messages for him. He told Trey that he just needed him to watch what he was doing. So Trey did.
He watched as the second declaration of war reached Flos in the throne room. And then the third. And the fourth.
 
——
 
This time the messengers came together. Two delegations of armed soldiers approached the gates and demanded entry. The bulk of the soldiers remained at the gate, watched warily by soldiers from the walls, as a smaller delegation entered the throne room.
One man came alone, sweeping into the room with a bow towards the throne, his silk robes swirling around him as he approached the throne and then bowed again. The second man marched in with four warriors at his back, a scroll of parchment sealed with wax in his hands.
“I take it you two come for the same reason?”
Flos sat on his throne, staring down at the two unalike messengers. It was the man in robes who spoke first.
