“Your Majesty, I come bearing word from my home country of Germina. I am humbly [Ambassador] Illius, authorized to speak for the Quarass on matters of state.”
Flos nodded at the man as Trey stared at Ambassador Illius. He sounded like a complete ponce. That was, until Trey realized he probably was all the things he said. So…just weird.
“What does the Quarass will, Ambassador Illius?”
Flos knew. Everyone in the room knew. But somehow, the good ambassador managed to stretch a single statement into multiple sentences.
“The Quarass has determined that a state of war exists between our two nations. Having searched for an alternative, she has concluded that none may be found save by arms. We declare war upon the nation of Reim and I am tasked with ensuring this message is delivered to his Majesty Flos so that an understanding is reached.”
Flos nodded as Trey rubbed at his ears and Mars yawned. The King turned to the man standing stiffly next to Illius.
“And do you come with the same tidings, messenger?”
“Your Majesty, it is not for me to say. I am entrusted with this letter, and may not return until I have seen it to your hands.”
The man stepped forwards, offering the scroll. Not directly to Flos, but to Orthenon, who came down to receive it. Only after the steward had checked the scroll—for dangerous magic or poison, perhaps—did he deliver it to Flos.
The King broke the seal and read from the scroll as everyone in the room waited. It took him only a few seconds, mainly because Trey saw his eyes skimming down the very long scroll all the way to the bottom. Then he rolled it up and nodded. He said one word.
“War.”
The ambassador and messenger both bowed their heads. Flos looked down on them. Trey was practically eating his fingers. Three nations had declared war? Three? But the King of Destruction looked as if he’d expected nothing less.
“I have read your senate’s declaration of war, messenger of Xar. And I have heard your words, Ambassador Illius. You may go.”
They went.
 
——
 
Apparently, all of Flos’ vassals and Flos himself had known more nations would be declaring war. And apparently, Teres had figured it out as well, which meant only Trey was caught off guard.
“Well it makes sense don’t it?”
She explained it to Trey when he pulled her aside—for what Trey had assumed to be a mutual freak out, but which became a stern lecture. Teres frowned at Trey as if not predicting war was a fault.
“You heard how scary Flos is supposed to be, didn’t you? Even if they think he’s just woken up, no one nation is going to pick a fight. It’s probably a lot of them that decided to gang up.”
Just how many was a surprise to both of the twins, though. Because not an hour after the two delegates had left, another declaration of war came to Reim. This one came in a box, and it was delivered by a [Runner].
In fact, it took a while to get to Flos. A servant came with it as Flos was walking around his city with Orthenon, making sure there were no glaring gaps in the wall. Only when Orthenon had spoken with the man did the small box reach the King.
“Is it another declaration of war?”
“I believe so, my King.”
Flos sighed. He eyed the package.
“I think I know which nation this one comes from. Elmvettelashar. Or whatever the name is.”
Orthenon shook his head at Flos’ incorrect pronunciation as the King took the package and began to unwrap it. It was tied with a bit of twine, and the package itself was a cheap wood box, hardly fit for a King. Trey edged away from the box nervously.
“What about traps? What if there’s a b—poison or something?”
Flos shook his head.
“This came through the Runner’s Guild. They do not allow such deliveries. It would ruin their neutrality. And this is a declaration of war, I am sure of it, as is Orthenon. Less formal perhaps, but cheaper. Let us see what they have—ah.”
Flos’ hands had unwrapped the parcel. Trey recoiled and Teres clapped a hand over her mouth when they saw—and smelled—what was inside.
The King’s face didn’t change as he showed the contents of the box to Orthenon. The steward stared with disgust at the slightly rotted heart in the box. Flos handed it to him and Orthenon immediately handed it to a servant with orders to burn the box and everything in it. Only then did Flos notice Trey and Teres’ pale faces.
“It’s not a human heart. I think it’s probably a goat’s.”
Teres was able to ask the question. Trey felt if he opened his mouth something else would come pouring out.
“But—why—?”
“Ah. It’s an ancient tradition. This is the way the people of Elmvett declare war. In the past they would have used a real heart, but this is probably more convenient.”
The King waved away the smell and the twins had to go sit down for a bit. That was the fourth declaration of war. The fifth and sixth arrived the next day. But before Trey heard them, the first assassin was discovered in the castle.
 
——
 
Trey awoke the next morning to a scream. He rushed out of his room, and Teres ran out after him with the sword Orthenon had given her. They followed the raised voice and people running and found Gazi.
She was kneeling over the body of a child.
Her sword was drawn, and there was blood on it. Trey knew what had happened, but he didn’t want to know. He stared at Gazi with dull horror beating in his chest.
She straightened, after wiping her sword on the dead child’s clothing. She turned and paused when she saw Trey and Teres staring at her. But then her head turned. She bowed as Flos strode towards her down the corridor.
The King stopped when he saw the body. He stared at Gazi, and Trey saw his face pale. He knelt by the small corpse and the pooling blood. She had raven hair. It was a she. Flos gazed down at the child and then up at Gazi. He sighed, and it was as if part of his heart left with it.
“Ah, Gazi. Did she have to die?”
The half-Gazer bowed her head. Then she produced something and held it out carefully to Flos. He took it.
It was a dagger, coated with something dark and brown on the tip. Flos didn’t touch it. He only stared at the dagger and then dropped it.
“An [Assassin].”
Maresar spoke softly behind Trey and Teres. They turned to her. She had an arrow nocked as she stared at the child’s body. There was no sorrow there, just concentration.
There was on Orthenon’s face, and Mars’. They came at a run, Orthenon first, Mars slower, running with sword and shield in hand, wearing her plate armor as always. Mars turned away from the body and Orthenon sheathed his sword harder than necessary. Flos stared at the crowd of servants and soldiers, and then at the twins.
Neither one of them could look at the body. But they couldn’t look away. Trey stared at Gazi. And then at the child.
“How?”
Flos looked at Gazi. She answered softly. As if by reflex, she smiled as she spoke, that same, damned smile that Trey hated so much. It wasn’t a smile. It was a grin. Something devoid of actual emotion.
A mask.
“A group of refugees arrived last night. They claimed to have been driven from their village by soldiers. They had marched for days. Some died. They were all starving.”
Orthenon rubbed at his face.
“I heard the report. I ordered them fed and given a place to sleep. And this child—”
Gazi turned to him, looking vaguely surprised.
“You knew they would send assassins the moment my lord woke.”
He didn’t reply. He just stared at the body and turned away. Orthenon walked down the corridor as Flos stood. He stared down at the child’s body and then looked at Gazi.
“I ask much of you.”
He did not say thank you, or that it was a job well done. If he did, Trey thought Teres would have attacked him with the sword in her hands. He did not know what he would have done. Gazi nodded once. Then she turned. She sheathed her sword and began to walk in the other direction down the corridor.
Someone covered the child’s body with a cloth. Someone else carefully picked up the dagger and wrapped it in several layers so the deadly poisoned edge was not visible. Flos walked towards the twins. They stared at him.
This was the feeling Trey remembered. This was it, pure and raw and sudden, cutting through the vague acceptance of this world, all the time he’d had to adjust to a new reality. Suddenly, he truly was a stranger in a strange land.
Until he remembered they did this very thing where he came from too. Not at home, but in his world.
Flos looked into his face. The King was silent for a while. Then he spoke.
“Some nations use assassins, Trey, Teres. This reeks of Germina. Ambassador Illius’ people train such killers and the Quarass…she would do this.”
That was all he said. He turned away and began walking towards his throne room. It took a long time before Trey and Teres moved. And when they did, they stumbled. They walked along the stone corridors, hearing the hushed voices and knew they did not belong. They did not want to belong.
Not here. And Trey remembered Gazi’s smile.
And he hated her for it.
 
——
 
There were more shadows in the throne room that day. Flos sat heavily on his throne, and he did not smile. The fifth declaration of war reached him as Orthenon was speaking quietly.
“War with Ultea. A rider rode up to the gates and shouted it.”
Orthenon relayed the message, a look of disgust on his face.
“Barbarians. They didn’t confirm it was a true messenger from their nation. Anyone could have claimed the same.”
Flos was in no mood to debate the issue. He clenched one hand as he sat on his throne, looking as though he would have rather drawn the sword at his side instead. It was another plain sword from his armory. Not enchanted.
Not like Gazi’s.
“It is enough that I hear war declared, Orthenon. When we see their banners marching, we will know the truth.”
The steward nodded. Flos turned towards the twins, standing like ghosts. His voice softened, but he did speak to them of war.
“It is not like your world. There are no signed treaties, at least, none that require my signature. Some nations do send formal missives, but many are like Ultea and use actions, not words. Other nations are subtler, but some do not bother with declarations at all.”
The twins made no reply.
 
——
 
The sixth declaration was the most dramatic of all, and if it hadn’t been for Orthenon and Flos, Trey and Teres would never have spotted it. The King was walking out of his palace when he uttered an oath and stared up. Orthenon stared up and the twins barely saw a flaming arrow before it struck the wall of Flos’ palace. It did not shatter, but rather dropped downwards, out of sight.
Flos strode to the battlements. Trey and Teres saw a rider with a bow in hand. They had shot the arrow at the walls. A banner—dark blue, emblazoned with a white bird clutching a second flaming arrow in its talons—flapped wildly, attached to the horse’s saddle.
The meaning was clear. War, from a sixth nation. By this point Trey was numb to it.
Flos stared at the rider, hands gripping the battlements tightly. He turned his head towards his steward.
“Orthenon. If that arrow struck one of my subjects, catch that rider and kill her.”
The man nodded and strode away. Trey stared at Flos. The King’s eyes followed the rider until she had vanished. She was allowed to go; no one had been harmed by the arrow as it fell to earth.
Twenty minutes later, Flos was in the war room with all of his vassals, including Lady Maresar and the twins. He sat on a large chair clearly meant for him, staring darkly at his steward as the man spoke.
“Ultea, Oblinat, Xar, Germina, Hellios, and Elmvett have all declared war against us now, my King. It is safe to assume they have formed a coalition and will send an army of combined forces to assault the city. I have received reports that most of the armies are on the march already.”
Trey felt a cold pit in his stomach, but Flos just nodded as if that was inconsequential. Trey couldn’t help but keep glancing left, to where Gazi stood with arms folded in one corner of the war room. No one was standing with her. Teres was deliberately sitting with her back to the half-Gazer.
Now one of Gazi’s eyes turned towards Trey. He looked away quickly.
“Will any more declarations arrive?”
“Doubtful, my King. These are all the ones I had predicted.”
Orthenon stared grimly at the map of Chandrar as Flos stood up and paced back and forth in front of the table. He turned to Orthenon.
“After yesterday, how many soldiers do we have in our army?”
Orthenon paused. He looked at Teres, and she was the one who answered.
“Just over six thousand soldiers. Six thousand two hundred and fifty…six.”
Flos nodded.
“Six thousand soldiers. A fine number, all things considered.”
“But very small.”
Mars mumbled that. She was playing with a dagger in her gauntleted hands. She hadn’t spoken much before this; Trey hadn’t seen her around the castle as Flos and Orthenon were moving about. Orthenon eyed her and nodded shortly.
“We will have more. Possibly as many as two thousand from the refugees headed towards the city. Not all will be raw recruits either; there may be a good handful of veteran warriors among their number.”
“Continue adding them to the ranks of our army as needed, Orthenon. But will it be enough?”
“I do not know, my lord. I can only work off of rough estimates of each nation’s strengths, but from what scouts and fleeing refugees have said, each nation has sent around ten thousand soldiers to do battle.”
Ten thousand soldiers. Trey felt his heart stop for a second. Against six thousand—
Flos nodded. His mouth twisted wryly.
“Ten thousand soldiers used to be an army large enough for any one nation. Not so these days, I suppose.”
“Not to go hunting for the King of Destruction’s head.”
Gazi shifted as all eyes turned towards her. She looked at Orthenon.
“Do you have a total number?”
Orthenon paused.
“One claim puts the army at seventy thousand.”
Someone made a small sound. Trey realized it had been him. Orthenon’s head turned towards Trey and his tone changed, becoming slightly more reassuring. It didn’t work.
“That number is probably highly inaccurate. There may well be over fifty thousand soldiers marching—perhaps as many as eighty thousand depending on whether it was an experienced [Scout] that counted or a [Farmer]. But of that number, a decent portion won’t fight in battle.”
“So? We’re still dead, right?”
Trey didn’t want to be a downer, but he had to speak the blindingly obvious truth when he saw it. Flos drummed his hands on his chair’s armrest as he sat back down.
“[Porters], [Cooks], [Hostlers], and [Healers]…they would account for several thousand depending on the size of each army. Still, Trey is correct that we are largely outnumbered.”
