The Ice Crow Golden Core shot toward me, passing through the wall of flames as if it wasn’t even there, then they began to dim and extinguish as its frigid aura suppressed them.

Interesting. No doubt that will help me advance with the Ghost Qi Technique… an ice elemental Golden Core. Heheh, to think they would deliver so many treasures to me.

I didn’t care much about their means of trying to extinguish the fire, as I simply sent even more Qi into it, causing it to come back to life. The Ice Crow Golden Core did a good job at keeping the wall down, however that Hei Tu guy clearly wasn’t an ice type cultivator, and so controlling it would have diminishing returns.

Therefore, I could somewhat match the core’s output even in my evolution state.

“Fellow Daoist Hei Tu—”

“Silence.” He said, looking at me with a complicated expression. “We should retreat and inform the sect elders. This thing is too strange.”

Oh? Someone with some common sense. I chuckled coldly.

It was too late.

As the agonising pain in my body began to fade, I could tell that my evolution had come to an end. I managed to sit awake through all of that, and cultivate at the same time.

I’d only reached the seventh layer of Qi Condensation, but that was enough for me to deal with these guys.

I stretched my wings and straightened my back, revelling in the feeling of my new body. The aching and soreness gradually faded away, and a beautiful seven colored light enveloped my body as the evolution process was finishing up.

My feathers glowed with an iridescent light, and I began floating toward the sky without willing to. I didn’t float too high, but high enough to see the expressions of the cultivators below turn to panic.

Some looked like they wanted to escape, some like they wanted to fight, but without question, they all looked at me with incredible greed. Even that Hei Tu fellow, who seemed so cool-headed a moment ago.

You all may be at a higher cultivation level than me… but I doubt any of you are above Level 5, and I don’t think you fools even know what an ‘Evolution’ is. Let me show you then…

As that thought appeared in my mind, the multi-colored light flooded my vision. I heard some attacks bounce off my protective layers, but I didn’t pay them any mind. System said there would be a certain amount of protection during the evolution process, and I guessed it was strongest when it was on the verge of being done.

The seven colors kept getting brighter and brighter, and with my current height, I doubted anyone with eyes would not have noticed me. That meant that both Mother and the sect elders these guys talked about would soon be upon me.

I wasn’t sure I wanted to deal with all that headache.

Finally, the colors subdued, and using my Divine Sense, I saw all of them converge into a single feather on my now long and beautiful tail. That feather turned from its previous orange tint to a dim light blue color.

I couldn’t help but feel some amount of disappointment upon seeing that.

I hope my tail won’t look like a rainbow…

A moment after that happened, the protection I’d gained from evolving faded.

[Congratulations, Fa Xiaolan!]

[You have evolved from [Phoenix Chick] to [Elemental Phoenix]. Though you are still a chick, you’ve climbed up the hierarchy!]

[Please check out the new perks—]

Later, I can’t read all that right now!

[...]

[Fair Point.]

Not a moment after I dismissed System, a dozen or so sword Qi slashes, spear thrusts, whip… whips and other attacks flew toward me.

I dodged all of them within inches without using Side Step, then soared toward the sky. My new body felt fresh, powerful, filled with vigor, and yet a little unfamiliar. I guessed it took a bit of time to get used to.

Ironic that both times I ‘hatched’ I had to fight for my life. I didn’t mind, as a sharp blade wasn’t forged in honey and dew.

I let out an inhuman screech, my voice echoing throughout the entire forest, scaring off whatever little birds and weak Spirit Beasts were left in the vicinity.

The humans looked up at me with a mix of fear and determination, though I couldn’t tell if they wanted to fight or run away.

Either way, I gave them no choice but to do the former.

I dove toward them, stretching my wings and summoning my Myriad Qi Needles. However, I soon found out that controlling eighteen of them was more difficult than I’d anticipated.

So ranking up the skill doesn’t give me immediate mastery… that makes sense.

I gave up on six of them and stuck to the twelve I’d already mastered, I couldn’t afford to experiment against cultivators an entire major realm above me.

With my claws primed, beak at the ready and flames surrounding my body, I dove at the most dangerous of them all, Hei Tu.

He clearly hadn’t expected the sudden attack, as he could only raise his weapon in defense at the last second.

My needless bounced off his barrier and disappeared into nothingness right before my talons connected with it. Cracks appeared on its surface, and it shattered shortly after my flames seeped through them.

Hei Tu slashed with his sword, the Qi surrounding it shooting toward me at point blank distance. My Heaven’s Protection shattered, and both of us took a step back.

However I wasn’t allowed a break as a spear attack threatened to pierce my heart. Sparks flew off as I stopped with my talons, and I sensed a fire attack coming my way.

I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry. Did that fool really use a fire attack… against a Phoenix?

His attack had no effect on me, and if I wasn’t locked in combat with the Hei Tu guy, I would have actually laughed in his face. However, they weren’t the only cultivators present.

One of them weaved a set of hand signs, and a formation appeared above us, then slammed into me with the weight of a hundred elephants.

I struggled to resist, but in the end collided with the ground.

A suppression formation… hah!

I found myself quite amazed at the fact they’d thought to bring a formation master along. Though this flimsy thing could hardly be called a formation…

A formation required preparation, this one done in haste was nothing more than a toy!

I flared my Phoenix Fire and the pressure lifted immediately, as the formation shattered in less than a moment. I side stepped and waved my wings, forming a series of hand signs that summoned my Nirvanic Flames into a purer, more powerful form.

With both fires ablaze, I willed them into being flame Dragons once again, and sent them at the group.

[Skill: Flame Dragons(Novice) has been created.]

Oh? That’s new!

As soon as that skill got added to my set, the control I had over both Dragons increased, as did the mental capacity necessary to control them.

To think there was such a thing!

As panic rose amongst the cultivators, I took to the skies once again, weaving through the attacks of those that didn’t have to deal with my Dragons, and willed another twelve needles into existence.

I sent them toward the defenseless Hei Tu, but given the constant bombardment of sword Qi, spear Qi and other attacks I couldn’t discern, only about half of them made it to him.

However, he must have expected them, as I caught him… rotating his sword and creating a swirling vortex that ate my needles.

Ok, what the fuck is that skill?

I didn’t have too much time to observe as the man using the spear began circulating a large amount of Qi into it.

He created a projection far larger and sharper than the actual spear, and stabbed toward me with pinpoint accuracy. I dodged it by a hair’s breadth, but the attack caught me on the tip of my wing.

I plummeted through the air, and saw Hei Tu’s sword slash toward me with a similar attack. I cursed inwardly and activated Heaven’s Protection, which absorbed some of the damage, but still allowed the sword phantom to slash at my chest.

I tumbled backward like a kite with its string cut, breaking bushes and saplings in my wake.

A tree stopped me, and I spit out a mouthful of blood, then quickly Side Stepped, dodging an actual spear flying straight at my head. Taking advantage of the darkness, I slipped into Stealth and Shadow Cloak, becoming almost invisible to the chasing group.

“Fuck, where did it go?”

“Be careful, it has a stealth technique!”

“I can’t detect it, fuck! How advanced is that technique?"

“Group together, stay vigilant!”

Hei Tu gave orders while the others followed, their eyes scanning around the shadowy forest. I held my breath and waited a little for my injuries to heal. I hadn’t lost that much HP, but the injury to my wing would prove fatal in combat.

The man himself was quite vigilant, his eyes glowing with a strange light. He must be trying to break through my skills with some kind of special technique.

As if it’s going to be that easy!

I inspected the cultivators. They all looked to be on guard, scanning the environment, each with their own different technique. However, my skill turned out to be far above their paygrade.

They must have already put their defenses up, my needles won’t be able to do anything… unless— I gulped, remembering the skill description of the Myriad Qi Needles.

‘Can be imbued with elemental affinity.’

I summoned twelve of them and focused my Nirvanic Flames. They slowly turned into a bright yellow-orange right before my eyes. I could feel tiny amounts of Nirvanic aura seeping out of them, which brought a smile to my face.

The easy part was done… next.

I targeted one of the weaker ones, the man who used the ‘formation’ on me. He didn’t look like anything special, wearing a dark blue robe with the symbol of the pill sect on his chest.

However, he also threw pills and provided some sort of supporting role. His usefulness would show in a drawn out battle, something I wanted to avoid.

My evolution signaled my location, and the best case scenario would be nobody seeing it, but how could anyone ignore a multi-colored light shining in the middle of a forest? That was basically the sign of a treasure being born.

Without hesitating further, I watched the man’s movement, calculating his position before and after reacting to my needles and… attacked!
