“I always thought it was weird how healing potions made people sick like that. They cure normal wounds right off. So why do sicknesses get worse? Sometimes, they’ll fix my cold right off. Other times, they get worse.”
Again, the [Healer] eyed Durene.
“They shouldn’t ever be used in times of sickness. And with respect, the healing potions you probably use shouldn’t have that effect either. Healing potions are essentially regenerative energy poured into the body. They let the body heal fast, to the point where it ‘remembers’ being before it was hurt. That’s why they work so well even with serious injuries. Of course, they can also hinder; you can’t build muscle since a potion will just revert any gains you make. And the same goes for illnesses.”
“It gives the sickness strength?”
Pirose pursed her lips as the kettle boiled on the small fire she’d lit. She poured the tea into a cup, caught herself, and poured Durene a cup too. She offered the girl a cup, and Durene tasted the liquid.
“Close. In theory, a good potion augments the body’s strength to fight off the sickness. And a master [Alchemist]’s potions will do that; they’ll allow the body to recover from the illness if it’s at all possible, doing the work of weeks or months in seconds. But in practice, most of the energy goes to the illness for some reason. So suddenly your small cold has more strength than your body, and it gets worse and turns into something potentially deadly. I can’t imagine how strong your body must be against disease. Well, I’ve seen it first-hand.”
“I’m tough.”
So saying, Durene gulped her tea. She knew the liquid was close to boiling, but it was only hot on her tongue. Pirose blew on her cup, eying her.
“Even so. Your infection was beyond bad. I’ve given your people a lecture on everything they did wrong. Again, your [Witch] friend saved your life. Her craft saved you in the time it took for me to arrive. You should thank her when you see her next.”
“It wasn’t that bad, was it? Me being sick?”
Shocked, Durene prodded at her chest. Pirose slapped her hand down and sipped her tea. Her silence spoke volumes. Durene looked around the cottage.
“Well, thank you. I owe you so much. Is—where am I? Are we in Riverfarm?”
Pirose’s eyebrows shot up.
“Of course. This is one of the new houses built. I’ve been staying here—with little to want, I might add. Except for new reading material. The [Steward], Mister Prost, has been very accommodating. As has Lady Valerund.”
“Rie? Prost? Where are they? Can I see them? I can walk today.”
Pirose nodded.
“I told them you were well yesterday. I think they’ll want to meet with you. But before I let you rush out that door—”
She held up a finger as Durene started for it. The girl turned. Pirose frowned.
“You’ll do some tests, and I’ll ask you some questions before I’m satisfied you’re well. Don’t lie. I have a truth stone for difficult patients.”
“I’m fine. Really. I feel great. A bit weak, but I can do anything you want.”
Durene patted one arm. Pirose put down her cup.
“You can prove it to me. Take a breath.”
She ran a series of quick tests, from listening to Durene’s lungs as the girl breathed in and out to making Durene stand on one leg and answer some questions about her childhood. Pirose didn’t seem convinced Durene was fully recovered; she asked about the color of Durene’s urine and even what her other leavings looked like this morning, and she forced Durene to strip.
Blushing fiercely, Durene let her inspect the scar with practiced fingers and answered truthfully that she could barely feel the fingers. Pirose might have kept asking questions but for the strength test; when she handed Durene a length of thin firewood and asked her to snap it, the half-Troll girl, exasperated, picked up a log and snapped it in half.
The spray of splinters shot across the room and into the fireplace. Pirose stared. Durene hadn’t even used her knee; she’d just flexed the wood, and it had split like that. She stared at the wood; it wasn’t even that dry. Durene abashedly dropped the wood pieces.
“Sorry about the mess.”
“Well, that proves that. You have a Skill? You must. Even for your size, that was impossible.”
“I do, um, have a Skill. [Enhanced Strength].”
Pirose’s eyes widened.
“On top of your natural body? Dead gods. One wonders how you were ever hurt to begin with. You could have killed a warrior in steel plate with your fists.”
“I fought the Goblin Chieftain. I think he was their leader. He had an enchanted axe. I nearly got him. But he got me.”
Durene frowned and sat down in a chair. Pirose silently regarded her and then the wood littering her floor.
“That’s a battle as I understand it. But you’ve satisfied me that your body’s well. If tomorrow I check and your scar’s nearly healed, I’ll consider you fit for anything.”
“Thank you. Again.”
Pirose smiled softly.
“It was my duty. No more, no less.”
She showed Durene where the broom was, and the two were finishing sweeping up the wood splinters when a sharp rapping came from the door. Someone opened it before either woman could answer, and a voice called out.
“Durene! You’re awake!”
The half-Troll girl turned. She saw a flash of dark red, a sweeping dress patterned with silver. Beautiful, costly fabric, something completely alien to Riverfarm. A face with skin not roughened by weather. Painted nails, lilac-touched lips, and two sparkling indigo irises. The mouth lifted into a delighted smile as Lady Rie Valerund walked, no, glided towards Durene. The girl froze up instinctively, but Rie threw her arms around Durene and hugged her.
“Rie?”
“It’s a delight to see you, Durene. No—a miracle. After your third fever, I thought—Miss Pirose, can she be on her feet so soon?”
Lady Rie turned to Pirose, looking mildly alarmed. The [Healer] inclined her stately head, combining a nod with a slight curtsey for Lady Rie.
“I judge her to be almost recovered, Lady Valerund. When the sickness was defeated, her strength came in a rush it seems. She went from barely lucid to being able to stay up nearly a day yesterday. This morning, she rose before me.”
“Amazing. Truly. We owe you a debt of gratitude, Miss Pirose. If there is anything I or the demesne of Riverfarm can do for you…His Majesty wishes it to be known that no reward is too large.”
Lady Rie bowed slightly. Pirose paused.
“The offer by His…Majesty is most gracious. But I am paid by Lord Veltras for my services. I executed my duty to the best of my abilities, as I do with any patient. I am only glad Durene is so healthy.”
“Just so. Durene, please sit. You look well, but why risk it? Here. Prost will be here shortly. He will be as delighted to see you as I, I’m sure. We’ve already spread the word that you’re on your feet; there are many waiting to greet you. But we shall take it slowly. You have so much to catch up on…”
Rie fussed over Durene, guiding her to one of the chairs in the small living room that was combined with the kitchen. Bemused, Durene sat, watching the [Lady] arrange her dress to sit in a humble chair herself.
This was not the Rie that Durene remembered. The woman Durene recalled was just as elegant and beautiful, but the girl distinctly recalled hating Rie’s guts. Not least because Durene was convinced Rie was attempting to become closer to Laken than she had any right to be with Durene at his side.
She was exquisite, that Durene had to admit. Compared to the plain, honest folk of Riverfarm, a [Lady] like Rie was a brilliant, rare creature, exotic and wonderful. And scheming. She often tried to talk with Laken privately, or flatter him. And while he had ignored most of her attempts, Durene hadn’t missed any of it. How could she? It was obvious.
How did you seduce a blind man? With soft hands and a soothing voice. And that was what Lady Rie had and Durene didn’t. The half-Troll girl had been paranoid that Rie would manage to trick Laken in some way, and she had hated Rie with all her heart—she’d had the feeling Rie regarded her as an obstacle, not as competition or a rival. So Durene was naturally cautious, remembering their history.
But today—all of Durene’s jealousy and worries not only seemed to be groundless, but her old emotions also felt far away. Durene found herself smiling at Rie. She was so grateful to see a familiar face, and the [Lady] felt completely genuine.
“What’s been going on, Rie? Why are you so upset? I’ve only been out…half a week?”
“Half a—”
The [Lady] didn’t even blink at Durene not addressing her by her title, but she inhaled sharply. She looked at Durene, and then at Pirose, who made a face and shrugged. Durene looked from woman to woman, and Rie was opening her mouth when the door opened.
“Durene? Are you—”
A weathered man stepped into the room. Prost was every bit as worn from his old class—[Farmer]—as any of the men and women Durene knew. But he was stalwart despite it all, and of late, he looked taller. More distinguished. And certainly kinder than the man Durene had known. Indeed, when he saw Durene, he strode over and hugged her as well!
“Durene! Girl. It’s a sight for sore eyes to see you on your feet. But should you be out of bed?”
“I’m fine, Mister Prost. Really! I feel as strong as ever. I’m sorry to have worried you!”
She must have been really badly hurt for all of them to be so anxious. Durene smiled, and the man stepped back, looking her up and down. His eyes fixed on the top of Durene’s scar, and she blushed. He looked away hurriedly. Pirose made a disapproving sound.
“We need to get you into proper clothing.”
Lady Rie nodded at the thin dress Durene wore. The girl nodded and only now wondered where the clothes had come from. They fit her well, and there hadn’t been anyone close to her height or build in Riverfarm. The [Lady] went on.
“I can have someone fetch your clothes. And we’ve kept your cottage maintained—as well as we can with that bird attacking anyone on sight. As for the rest, we’ll get you sorted, don’t worry, Durene. You can take it slow these next few days. Assuming Mistress Pirose thinks it’s wise?”
“I’m leaving tomorrow if Durene continues to heal at this rate.”
Pirose replied blandly. She sat at the opposite side of the table as Durene, Lady Rie, and Prost sat around the dining room. Prost still looked incredibly relieved to see Durene on her feet, but Rie’s eyes were now flickering to Durene’s face, and a cautionary frown was written on her features. Durene felt her own hint of reserve return as she looked at the [Lady].
“What is it, Rie?”
The woman pursed her lips and looked at Pirose.
“How much do you remember, Durene? Or should I say, has Miss Pirose told you what’s been going on?”
“Nothing. But I remember everything. I remember the battle. Us losing—the Goblins beating us back. And that Hobgoblin with the axe.”
Durene closed her eyes. The room went quiet. Slowly, the [Paladin] remembered the battle. It had all been going so well. She’d been leveling up, they’d been harrying the Goblins—until the Goblins reached the city and took it in an hour. Then Durene and the army that Wiskeria had called for had camped, anxious, waiting for a fight until the Goblins started hurling rocks at them. Wiskeria had been nervous, debating whether it was time to attack. Then she’d gotten the message, and they’d gone in. They’d been winning. Right up until—
“We lost. Right?”
Rie hesitated. It was Prost who nodded. His voice was low.
“We did. The Goblins overran our lines. We were retreating—we might have been wiped out but for Lord Veltras’ army. They saved us.”
“I remember. Wiskeria said. But was it really Tyrion Veltras? The Tyrion Veltras?”
Durene looked wide-eyed at Prost. He nodded, and his gaze reflected a touch of the awe she felt. Tyrion Veltras. He was a [Lord], perhaps the most important [Lord] in the north. A real war hero, a man who controlled a huge amount of land—he had sent his army to save Riverfarm?
“They pushed the Goblins back. And Lord Veltras himself rode to Riverfarm. He took out a group of Goblins that had tried to attack Emperor Laken. Well—it was more than that. But he showed up just in time, and no one can deny that. We’d have lost you, everyone fighting the Goblins, and perhaps Riverfarm and His Majesty himself but for Tyrion.”
“And then Laken went with him. Why?”
That question had plagued Durene since she woke up. Prost and Rie exchanged a glance.
“They struck a deal. Lord Veltras needed Riverfarm’s trebuchets. They’re invaluable. Or rather, they were. His Majesty, Tessia, the engineering team—they all left after building as many trebuchets as they could. They went with the army.”
“To fight the Goblins?”
“Um. In part.”
Again, both older Humans looked at each other. Pirose just grimaced into her teacup. Rie’s fingernails absently flicked delicately. She looked at Durene.
“What else do you remember, Durene? Anything after that?”
“I—had a conversation with Wiskeria. She told me I was out for a week and that I couldn’t go after Laken. I guess I got sick again because I had to sleep. I remember having a fever the next day. I heard you talking—you were all pretty worried. And then I woke up and went out into the rain. Sorry about that, Mister Prost.”
The man nodded, blinking. He looked at Rie, and she shook her head.
“Anything else?”
“Um—the next day I woke up, and I was feeling a lot better. I could get on my feet, but Miss Pirose had me sleep. We read a book. And today I felt just fine.”
Durene looked around. She had a sinking feeling that something was off. The looks Prost and Rie were giving each other and her told her something was amiss. Both looked back at Pirose. The [Healer] shrugged.
“Her sense of time’s off, but her memory is quite good. There’s nothing to worry about. But you should tell her now.”
“Tell me what? Is something wrong?”
Rie nodded. She smiled tightly and smoothed her dress.
“You’re largely correct, Durene. All that happened. But I’m afraid you’ve misunderstood how long you were sick. It wasn’t a handful of days you were lying abed.”
Durene could see that. She frowned.
“How long was it then? A week?”
Prost and Rie shook their heads. Durene whistled.
“Two weeks? No, three? It can’t be longer than three.”
She looked from face to face. But their expressions were grave. Prost shook his head slowly.
“It’s been far longer than that, Durene.”
“But I remember…”
