Day ?
 
Dawn struck the city of Manus, illuminating the tops of the buildings first and working its way down the Walled City. It took a while for the sun to reach the center, the secret center of the city where they gathered. And that was fitting; even light could not so easily find Manus’ heart.
And those that walked in the keep, one of the most secure places in the world, did not begrudge the lack of sunlight. They had artificial light of magic and fire; if they longed for the sun, the security of this place, this city, was a welcome trade.
For their city was Manus. It was no Salazsar with its simpering impractical architecture, or even Pallass’ unoriginal, boxed design. Oteslia? Waiting to be burned. Fissival? Weakest of the Walled Cities—practically a miracle it hadn’t been destroyed yet, hah! Zeres?
Zeres was pretty good. But the minds who’d designed Manus had been determined to build a city that would never fall. And, to be fair to them, it hadn’t, which was considerable in itself because Manus, perhaps as a product of destiny or bad luck (to their enemies), was based right on the border zone next to the five Hives and land claimed by the Antinium during the First Antinium War.
For proof of the architect’s determination, you had only to look to Manus as a city compared to other cities. Not Manus’ design—a many-sided star that allowed its walls to overlap and hit any threat—but the way the wall had been built unlike every Walled City still standing.
The wall itself was slanted a few degrees outward, so the tops of the wall put the bottom into shadow. Due to this unique miracle of engineering, it meant that anyone trying to slap a ladder against Manus’ outermost walls would have it fall on their heads by force of gravity alone.
And if they decided to hunker under the battlements, or try some other method of climbing up, the machicolations, the meurtrières—or as they were colloquially known, ‘murder holes’—built into the wall would allow the defenders to mercilessly assail those below with boiling oil, spells, arrows, or just a few rocks dropped from a height.
This overhang was a feature seldom seen in most architecture, let alone on this scale. It required exceptional engineering knowledge to pull off, or even describe. Overhang, machicolations, taluses, and so on—it was a language the defenders of Manus had inscribed into their lexicons. How else could you even describe a city like this?
Beyond the first wall was a glacis and a secondary, inner wall on top of the incline, ready to fire upon the helpless invaders who had finally taken the outer wall, only to find that they were now exposed and facing a second wave of defenses from a situation deliberately designed to place them at the most disadvantageous position possible.
The outer wall protected the first, lowest layer of the city, which could and would be sacrificed in time of attack. It was filled with buildings, of course, mostly residential; the valuable architecture and goods lay past the second wall, in the heart of the city. Should the enemy somehow take that wall, they would still not seize Manus as easily as Pallass, with its open floors. In other cities, an army forced to fight in the streets might have a home ground advantage, but they would be demoralized fighting with an opponent that had summited the one major defense of the city. Manus’ soldiers, on the other hand, would simply retreat to another level of fortifications: that of the inner city itself.
Slanted walkways, choke points, portcullises, plazas that allowed those seeking the inner city to trickle in reinforcements slowly while the defenders had three or even four ways to quickly block an army’s advance—the city was a fantastically fun place to be if you were a child or tourist, with its crazed architecture and unique landscape. Was it fun to live in? Well, Manus’ residents certainly numbered as many as any of the other Walled Cities. And the soldiers didn’t seem to mind it much either.
So, then. By ground, Manus was unassailable. By air, almost likewise. The architecture had been made by Drakes keenly aware of the nature of three-dimensional combat. So Manus incorporated towers, narrow passages that would stymie a flyer, and sacrificial heights that could be evacuated in case of aerial spells. Or Dragon’s fire. Archers could pepper an enemy in a game of cat-and-mouse, giving fliers little opportunity to maneuver.
But again, this was all architecture. What did Manus have besides extreme paranoia? The answer was its academy. The officer’s academy of Manus was to Izril—perhaps much of the world—what Wistram was to [Mages]. The sprawling complex in the inner city boasted a curriculum and facilities even the Titan would admit were impressive.
And if Manus didn’t have a [Strategist] who was Niers’ exact equal, you could argue their school turned out far more graduates and leaders than Niers’ smaller, private academy. Drakes from every city, and Gnolls too, came to Manus to learn the art of war. That was what Manus had to offer.
The largest army. The training schools that produced legends like General Sserys or Dalthson Forwing. The bastion of Drake might against the numberless Antinium. Manus did not export goods but sheer military might. This was the City of War.
It was also fairly poor, as Walled Cities went. Second-poorest, only defeated by Oteslia, in fact. A military juggernaut Manus might be, but the money that went to fuel its military industries and import fine Pallassian steel, Oteslian foods, and the best magics from Fissival along with the quality Drake and Gnoll recruits it so desired meant that it was weak to economic pressure or sanctions.
Yes, Manus had stockpiles of preserved food that could last it for potential decades in siege, but those were rations. It could and did experience food shortages or a lack of goods, which the other Walled Cities often did not. For who wanted to take their goods so close to the Antinium Hives? What could Manus really sell that, say, Zeres or Salazsar could not? Thus, Manus often found itself weaker in areas that did not involve swords.
Still, Manus was only a punching bag in diplomacy until the Walled City went to war. Then its coffers flowed with the spoils its soldiers looted. So other cities treaded carefully around Manus. It was needed.
Manus was a gateway of sorts. A bastion that held the land of Drakes and Gnolls from the Antinium. While it stood, the Antinium could never march forwards without exposing their backs. And the Walled City could be surrounded, but never taken. Not by the Ants. They had broken themselves twice on Manus’ walls without ever managing to take the city for themselves.
That alone had given Manus more value in the last few decades. A renewed importance beyond acting as a war leader in repelling foreign armies from Izril’s shores. It made Manus’ defenses all the more important to maintain. When the Third Antinium War occurred, it would be Manus that stood on the front lines again and dared the Grand Queen’s armies to assail them.
Anyways, that was Manus. The people were still people, and the [Soldiers] weren’t always at war. And in the center of the inner city, the keep, the heart of Manus was guarded at all hours. Walking down these halls now came the rulers and protectors of the city. There were many of them, but a select few, eight in number today, had been called to a council. They walked down into the most secure spot in the keep. Eight came, but the war rooms in the keep could have held dozens of their number. Hundreds in one.
Manus had Lords and Ladies of the Wall. But, unlike other Walled Cities like Salazsar, whose venerated ranks of aristocracy grew fewer with each century, or Pallass, whose nobility were almost unknown in the face of democracy, Manus’ Lords and Ladies of the Wall added to their ranks with each decade. They did not trust in heritage alone for worth. So Manus’ own added to their number, choosing the most valorous, high-level, and sound of judgment and elevated them to their peerage when they appeared.
Those were the Lords and Ladies of the Wall who came to answer the call now. They were [Generals] and [Captains], [Commanders] and [Strategists]. And they acted in conclave, under the lead of their ruler. Manus was an elective monarchy, and their leader ruled for two years with each election unto perpetuity if they did their job well. That meant that, with a host of poor leadership, Manus’ champion would be replaced often, but with a wise one, they could reign for decades unchallenged.
This was the room they stopped in. An angular table—a decagon—allowed for ten seats around itself, cut from one block of black marble. As the eight called to the room took their seats or greeted each other, the table flickered to life. The magical map depicted Izril in miniature.
The geography of the table was perfect, or it had been when the table had been made some two thousand years ago. Some parts of the geography had been corrected to match the present terrain, but clumsily. The [Mage] who had created the map table first had been an artist; those who had endeavored to alter it in centuries past had not had the same level of skill.
Still, it would do. And as the eight waited, the person who had called them here walked from her own tunnel down into the room. Her stance was heavy. Her wings folded. But her gaze was no less determined. Just more tired. She entered the room, and those seated stood at once and bowed to her. The Drake returned their bows with a short nod. She did not speak as she went to one of the chairs—they were all the same—and seated herself. But with perhaps one exception, she was above everyone else in the room.
She had ruled Manus for fourteen years. And she wore the trappings of her station, even in this secure room. A set of armor any Named Adventurer would envy. A helmet crafted to fit the Drake skull, the cold-blue metal emitting vapor even in the cool room. Armor made of wide, shimmering scales of every color, which flashed as they caught the light. Dragonscales.
On her clawed feet were boots whose soles never touched the ground, made of a leather from a hide no one could name. And lastly she carried a glaive, the air around it crackling with an unspent thunder of electricity at her side. Manus’ people knew it as the Fang of Manus, but those who were privileged to wield it as a symbol of authority knew it by its old name. The first name, given to it when Manus was still new.
Parentkiller.
It was said that it could damage Manus’ walls. All these things she carried, and they were heavy. The Drake set her glaive against the table, and the eyes of the eight went to it for a moment. But they had seen it and her armor a hundred thousand times, so they made no comment and focused on her instead. The Drake had blue scales, as blue and pale as the open sky, mixed with white and, a rarity, yellow. Three colors gave her scales a quality as exotic as any Lizardperson’s, although that was an unspeakable insult to her and thus the city.
Because she was Dragonspeaker of Manus. And beneath her armor of state, her clothing was white in mourning. The six Drakes and two Gnolls who filed into the room dared not speak at first as Dragonspeaker Luciva Skybreath settled herself in her seat. She looked around heavily, meeting each eye. Then she began without preamble.
“We are here to discuss the Siege of Liscor. The battle that followed at the Bloodfields. And the ambitions of Tyrion Veltras. We have held our conclave en masse with all our peers. Let us talk frankly now. Your thoughts?”
The Lords and Ladies of the Wall exchanged swift glances. Not of nerves; just waiting to see who had the most pressing opinion. That came from a Gnoll with half of his face damaged, his nose, cheek, and jaw along his left side all scar tissue. He enunciated carefully, and his eyes were sharp despite the damage to the rest of his face.
“If I may, Dragonspeaker. We came close to disaster at Liscor. Pallass’ Assembly was slow to act, and their idiocy could have cost us our gateway to the north. We have been complacent; that much has been discussed. In the coming days and weeks, we shall question how and why Pallass was so lax and, indeed, the circumstances under which the Humans obtained so many trebuchets. It bodes ill. But this has been discussed. I say we have averted disaster, though by no action of any Walled City but luck and Liscor’s own defenses. As for the battle at the Bloodfields, we were dealt a loss. But it was a small battle—”
He broke off, grimacing. His eyes flicked to Luciva’s and away. The table held its collective breath. Not a minute into the conversation and it had already been brought up tactlessly. The Gnoll Wall Lord spoke in a pained voice.
“I beg your apologies, Dragonspeaker. I misspoke.”
Luciva went still for a moment. But then she shook her head quietly.
“No. I agree with your assessment, Wall Lord Makhir. It was a small battle. Larger than the ones we have fought in recent years, but small considering the scope of the wars we have traditionally had with the Humans. In centuries past, in the battles that first formed the Blood Fields, our armies held humanity off by the barest of margins, and the dead lay in such profusion…it was a small battle. If one that I consider beyond all acceptable cost.”
A small exhalation came from all those present. The Gnoll, Makhir, bowed his head.
“I agree. And yet, the remark was insensitive.”
“I take no offense, Makhir. No one here is to blame.”
He nodded and fell silent. Luciva looked about, meeting every eye. And no one made comment. They did not need to. It hung in the air unspoken.
The history books as they were being written would record Tyrion Veltras’ battle at the Bloodfields after being unable to take Liscor as an act of spite—or perhaps calculated gains. The Humans in the North did take the lead in the battle, yet the losses were hardly substantial on either side in the grand scheme of things. But it had cost Dragonspeaker Luciva everything. The reinforcements from Manus had taken part in the battle. And that had resulted in…
Her daughter’s death. Luciva closed her eyes. Just for a moment. And she breathed out slowly. Heavily. In the dark room, illuminated mainly by the magic table’s glow, the Wall Lords and Ladies could see bright flashes from the small opening in Luciva’s mouth as she sighed. And they smelled something acrid.
