“Yes. Although you may sit up.”
So saying, the [Healer] left the room. Durene sighed and sat up. After an interminable amount of time where Durene just stared vacantly at the weird mixtures and the mortar and pestle on the table across from the bed, she heard the footsteps and saw the [Healer] come into the room with a large bowl.
“A stew. Let’s see you keep this down.”
“That’s not much. I could eat three bowls. I’m ravenous.”
The woman blinked at Durene. The girl blushed. She ate a lot, but it wasn’t as if she gained weight—well, not fat. The [Healer] shook her head.
“No matter how you feel—here. Do you need a hand?”
Durene shook her head. She took the spoon, lifted the bowl up, and began to eat. There were bits of meat floating in the lentil stew. It was hot, good—she barely tasted it. The stew would have burned Laken’s tongue, but Durene had finished the bowl in under a minute. The [Healer] looked shocked. Durene smiled a touch smugly.
“Told you.”
“Can you keep it down?”
“Of course!”
The woman folded her arms.
“Give it fifteen minutes.”
“Can I stand up while I wait?”
“No.”
“Then can I do something? I’m bored.”
The woman considered this.
“Wait.”
She left the room and came back quicker this time. Silently, she handed Durene a book. The [Farmer] turned [Paladin] blinked at it.
“What’s this?”
“A book. If you need to entertain yourself, use this.”
Durene hesitantly stroked the cover. The book was bound expertly, and it wasn’t nearly as worn as the trio of books she’d seen on Miss Yesel’s shelf. She opened it and saw a lot of neat words arranged on the page. They blended together seamlessly on crisp paper. Durene’s eyes widened.
“This must be expensive!”
“Mildly. You may borrow it. I’ll take your bowl.”
The [Healer] did just that. She left the room and came back to see Durene paging through the book restlessly. The girl closed it, embarrassed, and the [Healer] frowned.
“Not to your taste?”
“No…but it’s just that it’s a lot of words. And I can’t—er—”
“Ah.”
The woman looked at Durene’s blush, then the book. She instantly understood what Durene was saying. Durene hung her head in shame. She couldn’t read it. She knew her basic letters and numbers, but a book wasn’t something she’d ever owned. She didn’t know if anyone in Riverfarm—the old Riverfarm—could read that well either. Mister Prost could, and a few others, but reading wasn’t a necessary skill. The [Healer] briskly took the book back from Durene.
“That’s fine. I suppose there’s no help for it. If you wish, I will read to you. Otherwise, I can ask and see if there’s something you can do with your hands. Knitting? Carving?”
“I wouldn’t mind knowing what the book was about. If it’s no bother, Miss.”
Durene blushed again. She had to admit she dearly wanted to know what the lovely tome contained. The front was a title—she could make out a few words, but the fancy calligraphy and the plain, pale-purple binding didn’t tell her much. The [Healer] nodded.
“Very well. It is something of a good story. I’m rather taken with it myself. This is a chronicle of an adventurer’s life. Not an adventurer, but…the tales of Thivian Stormless, the famous hero known as the Lightning Thief. Do you know of him?”
Wide-eyed, Durene nodded. That was an old name. An adventurer who’d passed away not too long ago. One of the names everyone knew, of course. He’d died when she was…eight?
“He has a book? I remember hearing about him dying. They said he died at sea, fighting a horde of sea serpents. And they said he could still steal lightning as it fell from the sky. Even Archmage Amerys’ lightning! Is that true?”
The [Healer] smiled.
“I think he died in his bed. But I do recall him as well, and I even had the privilege of seeing him at a banquet once. He was a talented [Thief]; he stole any number of hearts even in his late years.”
“You saw him? Really?”
The [Healer] coughed, a blush rising to her cheeks.
“It was what prompted me to get the book. I will read it if you’d like.”
“Please. But—can I have another bowl of soup?”
On cue, Durene’s stomach rumbled. The [Healer] blinked.
“You’re hungry still?”
Durene’s eyes darted to the bowl. It wasn’t a bowl meant for a single serving; you could fit half a pot in it. It was probably meant to hold salad, not soup. Durene was embarrassed, but nodded.
“I’m sure I can keep it down.”
“Well…let me get another bowl. I’ll read to you, and if you’re still hungry…”
The [Healer] took the bowl and left. Durene sighed and sat in her bed. She felt at her chest; her skin was still tender. The injury really had been bad; normally, her skin could shrug off even her kitchen knife when it slipped. That Hobgoblin with the axe…Durene closed her eyes. Then the door opened.
This time, the [Healer] was back with a bowl of soup and half of a rounded loaf of crusted bread. Durene’s stomach rumbled loudly, and she reached out. The [Healer] blinked as Durene tore into the bread. She kept the bowl and watched as Durene ate the loaf down.
“Eat slower. You’ll give your stomach a cramp.”
“I always eat like this. And I’m hungry.”
Durene complained. She reached out, and after a moment’s hesitation, the woman handed her the bowl. The soup went down slower this time, but still quick. Durene tasted it and savored the bites; the bowl was gone in a few minutes. The [Healer]’s eyes widened as Durene handed her the bowl back.
“You weren’t exaggerating, were you?”
“I said I was hungry. I could do a third bowl. Probably.”
The woman opened her mouth. Then she just shook her head.
“You’ll wait an hour this time. But if you’re still hungry then, I’ll get you more. Dead gods. Have I been underfeeding you this entire time?”
“Everyone thinks I eat less than I do. It’s fine.”
Durene sighed. She sat back, and the [Healer] sat across from her. The woman eyed her, then opened the book she carried.
“Well, you’re certainly the most lucid I’ve seen you. Incredible, really. Your fever broke yesterday, and you’re already able to stand.”
“That’s normal.”
“Not for someone who’s gone through what you have.”
Durene supposed that was true. An axe blow to the chest would put down most people, healing potion or not. She shrugged.
“I could really walk around. Honest.”
The woman pursed her lips.
“Tomorrow. As I said. You’re not to leave this bed except to use the bathroom.”
“Fine. But what will I do?”
“Listen. I’m going to read this book to you, unless you object?”
The woman’s brows raised. Durene yelped.
“What, for the rest of the day? Until I go to sleep?”
“That’s part of my job. And it’s why I’m here. I want to see how long you can stay up.”
“I can stay up all day, thanks. You’ll read that entire book and then some.”
The half-Troll girl folded her arms. The [Healer] just shook her head.
“That remains to be seen. Now, sit there until your stomach’s digested that food. Don’t lay back or it may come up.”
She opened the book. Durene settled against the headboard comfortably. She felt odd and couldn’t place why. Then she realized that not once had the [Healer] looked askance at her skin. And she looked completely normal around Durene. Well, she had been tending to her for three days. The [Healer] opened the book, licking one finger as she flicked to the first page.
“Very well. Let me know if you feel sick or ill at any moment. Ahem.”
 
Five days into the storm that raged across the sea, and the ships still sailed on. One ahead, five behind. The Bloodtear Pirates, one of the most feared and dangerous [Pirate] navies in the world, were in hot pursuit of the Waveblade, the stalwart vessel captained by Gallheart herself, a Drake with two scars across her face, one of the finest [Ship Captains] to ever leave Zeres’ harbor.
She stood on the bow of her ship where she had lashed herself to the wheel, and still she steered her ship onwards, though it had been five days since the storm began, and she had neither slept nor abandoned her post.
 
Durene’s eyes widened as the [Healer] turned a page. The woman’s voice was soft, and she was no natural reader, but the words and language were unlike any story Durene had ever heard told. It had form, structure—it wasn’t a fireside tale, but something as good as the travelling [Storyteller] had told. No, better. The [Healer] smiled as Durene sat up. She began the second page.
 
The storm blew even fiercer, threatening to drown the ships. Yet the Bloodtear Pirates did not relent. The Waveblade had a treasure they sought, and so even as the waves threatened to capsize the ships with each swell, they sailed through them. Gallheart took her ship through one wave, and then the next. But the third caught her unawares, and it bore down on them. She cursed as she looked up at the waters rushing down as one of the Bloodtear Pirate ships turned over, swept away by the water.
“Damn them and this mission,” she swore. “If this is the end…!”
And it was at that moment that the waters disappeared. The wave crashed down, but for a hundred feet, from bow to stern, the air was suddenly clear. Waveblade sailed through the wave as two more Bloodtear Pirate ships were broken by the massive wave. But someone had taken the waters that would have doomed Gallheart’s ship. She turned her head.
And there he stood. The [Thief] of legends. He stood on her decks, smiling, his eyes, one real, one enchanted, glittering. Thivian Stormless. He swept Gallheart a bow.
“Why the startled look, Captain Gallheart?” He laughed lightly. “Surely you didn’t forget the Lightning [Thief] was your guest of honor? If I can steal a bolt from the heavens, a wave is child’s play. Or didn’t you think the legends were true?”
“If I thought the legends were true, I’d have wondered how Thivian Stormless could have landed us in the worst storm this side of the century,” Gallheart snapped back. “Tell me this cargo’s worth it or I’ll throw you overboard now and damn our contract.”
“Once more, Captain Gallheart. The fate of Baleros may rest on it. If the Eye of Medusa is not returned, there might be war between the Gazers and the entire continent. Take us on. And you’ll be rewarded in not just gold, but glory.”
“Gold’s enough for me. Glory fills no holds. Just you keep your hands at the ready, Human. Because there are two ships on our back, and I have no doubt more seeking to block us. Once this storm ends, we’ll get our bearings…”
 
Durene listened as the [Healer] flipped from page to page. And the book unfolded, a tale of daring and wonders caught on page. The half-Troll girl had never heard the like. Her eyes were fixed on the book as she sat, forgetting about her desire to get up. And, true to both their words, the [Healer] read into the night and Durene listened, pausing only to use the bathroom thrice and eat a large dinner.
The book closed with Thivian Stormless’ last daring tale, and Durene felt her eyes flicker shut moments later in the darkness. The [Healer] regarded her and shook her head as she blew out the candle she had lit.
“Incredible.”
That was the last word Durene heard before she fell asleep.
 
 
Day 5 – Durene
 
Durene heard the same word the next day. She was on her feet this time before the [Healer], whose name was Pirose, even awoke. The older woman left her room to find Durene scarfing down a plateful of bread, salami, some hard cheese—all that Durene had found in the cupboards. The half-Troll girl paused guiltily, but Pirose just shook her head.
“Incredible.”
“What?”
Durene tried to hide the food behind her back. Pirose ignored that. She gestured to Durene on her feet.
“If I didn’t know you were half…well, I would have assumed you had some kind of healing Skill. Without healing potions, an infected injury that deep usually takes months to heal—if it even gets better. You’re a lucky young woman.”
“Well, it’s long for me. Four days is the longest I’ve ever been out. And I once cut my arm nearly to the bone. But I was back the next day. I heal quick.”
Proudly, Durene stuck out her chest then she remembered the scar. The [Healer] blinked at her and opened her mouth. She saw Durene checking her chest; the tip of the scar was just visible at the hem of Durene’s dress. The [Healer] frowned as Durene lifted a hand.
“Don’t touch it. And don’t lie on your chest when you sleep, obviously. It’s still yet to heal. You may recall that you were sick? The healing potions are too dangerous to use even now, so it’s had to heal on its own. You’ll still be weak for…at least a day if your healing continues to be this quick. And you’ll have a scar.”
“I know. Thank you for looking after me.”
Durene mumbled. She absently bit into her breakfast. Pirose shook her head.
“I’m just doing my job. I was sent by Lord Veltras to ensure that Riverfarm’s wounded were cared for. You were my last patient.”
“Lord Veltras sent you?”
Durene nearly choked on her next bite. Pirose smiled.
“Of course. He struck an alliance with your [Emperor]. Emperor Godart, isn’t it? Part of that was a [Healer] who could tend to the injured. Especially you. Lord Veltras is not a man to forswear himself. I am his best [Healer]. Until I came here, I was with the main war camp. I’ll be travelling north tomorrow, I think. I expected another week until I was sure you wouldn’t relapse, but this is astonishing.”
“I’m just good at healing. Thank you. Uh, Miss Pirose?”
Durene was suddenly shy, as if the two hadn’t spent last night gasping over Thivian’s exploits in the book. Pirose smiled, and her stern face warmed slightly.
“My job is reward enough when my patients live. As I said, it was a challenge this time. I know infections, but you did as much work as I. When I think of the state of your wound when I first arrived—idiots with healing potions should be hung.”
“You mean Beniar? What, did he pour a healing potion on me?”
“Three. Your people couldn’t tell that they were accelerating your illness with each potion. I can understand that as you were being carried off the battlefield, but your [Witch] friend should have known better. Then again, she was the one who stopped them from killing you. Idiots.”
Pirose sighed. She walked past Durene and found a kettle. She seemed used to the house they were in, enough to make tea without having to look for anything. Durene fidgeted. Were they in a village other than Riverfarm? This couldn’t be Pirose’s home; it was far too modest and newly built.
