She stood in front of the [Witch]wearing the pointed hat, swaying. The news of Laken’s disappearance, the loss from the battle, her yet-to-be-healed injury all made Durene’s head swim. The girl was tall, strong, with a [Farmer]’s muscles and a build that came from her heritage. Her skin was cracked, grey, and rough. She was taller than almost any Human, six foot eight. And she was strong. But right now, she could have been knocked over by a feather. Words were nearly doing the same trick.
“Where?”
The [Witch] frowned. She was young—although maybe older than Durene by a few years, three at most—and she was dressed in a long, dark-blue robe. Her hat was pointed, and but for a broom and a crooked nose and some warts, she could have been a young version of the [Witches] that Durene had heard about in children’s stories. But Wiskeria’s normally business-like manner, intelligent eyes, and spectacles were…not. Now, she looked worried as she avoided the question.
“Where what?”
“Where are they?”
Durene was in no mood for questions. She clenched her hands, and Wiskeria, mindful of being picked up and shaken like a rag doll again, backed up. At last, she answered, speaking quickly and eying Durene as the half-Troll girl swayed again.
“I don’t know exactly. Durene, you’re in no condition to move just yet. If you’re thinking of following them, forget it. They had Skills and horses. They were trying to catch Tyrion Veltras, I think. And if he’s where I think he is—”
“Just tell me where! In what direction did he go?”
Durene covered her face. She wanted to cry. Nothing was right in the world. She heard nothing for a moment, and then Wiskeria sat next to Durene. She put a hand on the half-Troll girl’s shoulder, and Durene felt it trembling. She looked up and saw the desolation in Wiskeria’s eyes too. They’d failed. The two sat together for a moment, and then Wiskeria spoke.
“South. They’ve all gone south.”
“South…?”
The news hit Durene like a wall. She looked around. She barely knew where she’d woken up. Her chest throbbed. It had been healed, right? It looked—red. Inflamed. Like a really bad cut. Durene touched it and made a sound.
“I don’t feel well. You used a healing potion, right? I think I need another.”
She tried to open her shirt to see the injury. It was being given air to breathe. The scar was bad. Red. Puffy around her grey, cracked skin. Wiskeria looked alarmed. She put a hand on Durene’s arm, trying to steer her towards the bed. But Durene was far too heavy for the [Witch] to move.
“Lie down, Durene. You’re still not healed. You’ve been sick. You need to rest, okay?”
“I need to go after Laken. I think…I’m healed, aren’t I?”
Durene sat automatically. She touched at her chest and winced. The blade had gone straight between her breasts. That Hobgoblin…it was hurting a lot more now. Wiskeria put a hand on Durene’s shoulder. Incredibly, when she pushed, Durene felt herself flop back. The bed groaned.
Durene’s head swam. Wiskeria appeared above her, worried.
“The healing potion worked. But it also caused complications. You have a good [Healer] tending to you. Just—rest. Let me get her. It’s good that you woke up. But you need to rest, Durene.”
“I have to find Laken.”
The world was fading out. Durene kept on blacking out. Red, hazy pain, and Wiskeria’s voice flickered in through her mind, filtering in through sleep as it pulled her down.
“Sleep. You’re going to be okay, Durene. Laken was worried. Just—sleep. And get better.”
“I thought I—”
 
Day 2 – Durene
 
It was a bad night and a worse day. It felt like forever. Durene slept and woke in bursts. Her chest was on fire. It burned with a deep, inner pain that tore her apart from the inside. It hadn’t hurt as badly when she was cut in battle. Now, it felt as though she were being burned. Her body was hot. And the pain—it went down inside her chest. Deeper, sickness turned to agony.
“It hurts. It hurts.”
Durene didn’t remember when she first called out for aid. She didn’t for a long time, until it was too much to bear. She’d never had anyone to look out for her. Not since she was thirteen. But she called out anyways.
And they were there. Voices soothed her. She felt cool hands, cloths mopping at her brow. Then—unkind swabbing at her chest, pain bursting there. She pushed away weakly, but the hands came back. And above her, swimming into focus and out of it, were faces. Voices. Some were familiar, others not.
One was Wiskeria’s, kind and worried. Another was stern, sometimes worried, sometimes not, but always filled with steely determination, snapping. Durene heard Mister Prost, Beniar, even Lady Rie, but never the voice she wanted to hear. They mixed together over the long night and the day until the conversation was one confusing blur.
“Not going…increasing…tell him another day.”
“Clearly—my brews and poultices—”
“My authority here. If you—”
“Complexion’s poor…what should I write…?”
“…asking about you, Durene.”
“Further south? Dead gods, what is Tyrion—”
“…here. Continue your conversation—”
“Not getting better? Maybe if…”
“…Another healing…you mad?”
“—No! Drop…and she will die. You…down now and leave my—!”
And then at last, a voice broke through the fevered mists.
“Durene. Laken’s doing well. He’s coming back as fast as he can.”
“Laken?”
Durene opened her eyes. She heard an exclamation. Wiskeria was looking over her. Durene blinked. The [Witch] bent hurriedly.
“How do you feel? Durene?”
“I’m okay. I just had a—nap. I’m hot.”
There was a strange look on the [Witch]’s face.
“You’ve had a fever.”
“Oh. Good I didn’t have a potion. That makes it worse.”
“Yes…you should rest. Laken will want to hear you’re awake. Healer Pirose? Hold on, Durene. Let me just call her.”
Durene put her head back. She shook it gently. Her chest hurt, and it was hot. Not as bad as the night, but her lips were parched.
“I don’t need a healer. Just a nap. I’ll get up tomorrow. Can I have some water?”
“Of course.”
Wiskeria grabbed a pitcher from the bed and offered Durene a cup. The girl drank thirstily and laid back.
“I’ll be fine. Tomorrow…I heal fast.”
“I know.”
Durene closed her eyes. The world swam. She licked her lips and raised her head.
“Can I have another cup of water?”
But Wiskeria was gone, so Durene lay back again. She was hot, then cold. The world swam, and the fever and the pain in her chest began to ebb. Too slowly. She licked her lips, wishing Wiskeria would return. She was a bit too—too weak to grab the pitcher herself. Which was rare. Durene murmured into the air as the night returned.
“Thirsty.”
 
Day 3 – Durene
 
The rain woke her up. Durene licked her cracked lips. She heard it pattering overhead. On a roof of some kind. Not hers; she knew the sound the rain made when it hit her thatch. This was different.
Slowly, Durene opened her eyes. She was hot all over. And…weak. The fever hadn’t broken yet. But she was oh so very thirsty. And someone had put a bandage on her chest. Durene frowned at it. She couldn’t ever remember having a cut that needed anything like that.
Normally, even the worst cuts she’d had closed in a few days. And were they tending to her with a [Healer]? She vaguely recalled Wiskeria saying that. That was…nonsense. All Durene needed was some broth, some time, and she’d be right as rain. The worst of the fever was over.
The patter of rain distracted Durene. She sat up unsteadily. The world swam, but she was very, very parched.
“Thirsty.”
She didn’t remember getting out of bed, but she did feel each step in the unfamiliar…room? Yes, it was a room. And here was a door. Durene pushed it open. The rain. She just had to find—
The room past her bedroom looked foreign. New. One of the houses in Riverfarm? Someone had set up a lot of strange equipment here. Clean linens, needles, glowing potions—even scissors and a thin saw for some reason. Strange. Durene stared at it all and then saw the door. It was so close.
Step. Step. Durene chanted to herself, grabbing at a passing chair for support. It groaned under her weight.
“Door. Thirsty. Step. Door—”
And there it was. Durene leaned on the handle, and it opened. She saw the rain coming down in sheets. The landscape was dark, and a bolt of lightning arced down in the distance. It threw the world into relief. Durene saw a row of houses opposite her. A familiar mountain in the distance. Yet the houses were foreign. But the rain was familiar, and when she stepped into it—
Durene sighed. It cooled her skin, soaked the bandage on her chest and her light clothing. She opened her mouth, letting the rain fall into it. How long she stood there, gulping down rain, she couldn’t have said. But then Durene heard a scream.
“Monster!”
Someone shouted it from afar. Durene’s eyes opened with a snap. She looked around. A monster? Instinctively, she looked for the long greatclub she’d been using. But it was gone. Durene’s hands curled into fists. They would do. She stepped forwards—
And saw a girl pointing at her down the street. The child was standing in the door of a house down the street, light at her back. Pointing at Durene. Slowly, Durene stopped. She saw someone rush to grab the girl, a man, and more doors flicker open. The call of ‘monster’ was taken up for a second by another voice, and then someone roared.
“Durene!”
Swaying, the half-Troll girl turned. Prost ran towards her, ignoring the rain that soaked his clothing. He grabbed at her as she leaned on the doorframe.
“What are you doing?”
“I’m thirsty.”
He stared at her. Durene blinked at him. Her chest felt worse than before. The dull pain was back, and the water wasn’t helping. He looked around.
“Get the [Healer]. And shut up whoever’s shouting that. You five, help me bring her inside.”
“I can walk.”
Weakly, Durene protested. Prost looked at her. Durene shook her head.
“I don’t need to be a bother, Mister Prost. I can walk back to my bed.”
“You’re sure?”
Durene smiled. The concern in Prost’s voice reminded her of…a long time ago.
“Yeah. I’ll just—”
She took a step and let go of the doorframe. The world spun.
 
Day 4 – Durene
 
The next time Durene woke up, it was in her bed. Her bed…no normal bed could fit her. Wrong house.
She stared up at the ceiling and realized the rain had stopped. This time, she felt much, much more awake. And finally, there was someone in the room. A woman with her back to Durene, dressed in green and yellow clothing, was mixing something in a bowl behind Durene. The girl blinked at the unfamiliar back and sat up.
“Um. Hello?”
The woman whirled about, jumping in shock. She had a stern face. Her eyes widened as Durene swung herself out of bed.
“You’re awake.”
“Yup. Sorry for the inconvenience.”
Durene didn’t know how they’d gotten her back into bed. But she felt better after another sleep. Not as thirsty. And much cooler. She got to her feet. The woman’s eyes widened.
“You shouldn’t be able to get up! We haven’t been able to treat your wound with healing potions, not since it was infected—lie back down!”
“I’m fine. It doesn’t feel bad. I don’t want to be a bother.”
Durene muttered as she looked around the room. She shook her head; her legs felt wobbly, but she felt sure she could make it back to her cottage at least. She walked around the bed, and the woman blocked her.
“Absolutely not. You’re finally getting better, but you’re far too weak.”
“I can walk. Really.”
Durene sat on the bed because the only other option was to pick the woman and put her to one side, and that was fairly rude. The woman—was she the [Healer]?—pursed her lips.
“You can talk and walk. That’s impressive, I’ll grant you. I wouldn’t expect even a Gold-rank adventurer to do that so soon.”
“It was just a fever.”
The half-Troll girl smiled uncertainly. The [Healer]’s brows shot up. Durene anxiously looked down at her chest. But the bandage on her chest had disappeared, and the red gash on her front was only a tiny bit enflamed. The [Healer] noticed the look and nodded.
“You’re pulling together faster than you have any right to. Conscious and able to get up?”
“I can walk if you want me to.”
Durene informed the woman calmly, a bit nettled by the strict tone. Maybe the [Healer] was used to patients other than [Farmers]. She was fine. Three days out of commission was bad enough. The [Healer] just shook her head.
“Lie back down.”
“But I—”
“No arguments. If you can get up tomorrow, I may let you move about. Your injury closed in two day’s span from what it was. That’s healing power. And if that’s so…one day of rest.”
“A day? In bed?”
The thought horrified Durene. She moved to get up again, but the [Healer] placed a hand on her shoulder.
“[Healer]’s orders. I insist.”
“I understand, Miss. But I can’t just sit here and—”
“[Order of the Samaritan]. Lie down.”
The woman’s eyes flashed. Durene found herself laying back and pulling the sheets over herself before she knew what she was doing. She blinked up at the woman. The [Healer] sighed.
“You used a Skill on me?”
“I’ll use more if I have to. I don’t intend to lose you, not after a battle that hard-fought.”
That seemed like a poor reason. Especially because Durene had lost that battle. So had the army. The half-Troll girl closed her eyes for a moment, remembering. That was why the woman was here.
“Fine. I’ll stay in bed. Don’t worry about me. You’re tending to the others, right?”
“Others?”
The woman looked blank as she reached for her poultice or whatever was in the bowl. Durene’s head rose a bit, and she frowned.
“The others from the battle. How’re they doing?”
The [Healer] had a very odd look on her face as she turned.
“Them? They’re fine. I’ve seen to them already.”
“Oh. Well, don’t let me keep you. I’m right as rain. Sorry I walked out yesterday.”
“Of course.”
Another frown. The woman felt at Durene’s brow. Then she shook her head.
“Your fever’s broken. Tomorrow, if you’re well, we’ll let you stand up. Please don’t get up. I’m tired of having to chase you down.”
“You’ve done it before?”
“Six times already. You don’t remember? You keep looking for your cottage. Or this [Emperor] of yours.”
The woman smiled drily. Durene blushed. She lay in bed as the woman checked her scar and then dabbed something cool from the bowl over it.
“I’m sorry. But I’m awake now.”
“Yes. You are. And since you’re still awake, I suppose you could do with some food.”
Durene considered that.
“I am hungry. Do I have to stay in bed for that too?”
