Durene broke off. That first day had been a blur of voices and pain. And now that she thought of it, the sky had been all too clear after that night of rain where she’d gone outside. But it couldn’t have been longer than three weeks, surely? She looked around, growing restless. Rie hesitated. It was Pirose who stepped in. The woman spoke calmly, putting down her cup.
“I can’t tell you how long you were initially sick for, Miss Durene. It took me two days to reach Riverfarm from the main force with Lord Veltras. I haven’t his movement Skills, and I had to travel with an independent escort from his command. When I got here, the potions had accelerated the infection in your chest. It was into your lungs and almost down to the bone. I didn’t think I could save you, even with my Skills and techniques. But somehow, you recovered, and faster than anyone could have dreamed. Even so, that healing process…have you seen people taken sick by infection?”
“Once. Davimy got cut bad around his leg. He took weeks before they had to cut off his leg. Then he got sick and died two days later. And sometimes I know it takes weeks, but you see a [Healer] and use poultices. You can move about unless it’s real bad.”
Durene muttered. Illness and infection weren’t too common, even in Riverfarm, what with potions. And when it happened, it was bad. But…she looked up. At Rie.
“How long was I asleep? Just tell me.”
The [Lady] nodded and took a breath.
“Durene, you’ve been fighting your illness for fifty days. Today is the fifty-first day since the battle with the Goblins.”
The world spun. Durene put one hand on the table. Prost reached for her arm, but Durene stood up.
“That can’t be! Fifty-one days? I was only out for a few days! A week! I would have remembered that. I—”
“You had a fever for weeks. Three, in fact. Each one worse than the last. When Prost found you in the rain, the last one was breaking. But while you had them, we thought you might die. You didn’t wake up. And the infection was so deep—I saw it. And I’ve never seen anyone survive a wound like that.”
Rie shuddered. Prost nodded, looking pale. Durene looked wordlessly at Pirose. The [Healer] nodded.
“The healing potions closed the wound, but the disease took root. And when that idiot adventurer—”
“Beniar.”
“—when he decided you weren’t healing fast enough, he accelerated the infection rather than letting it heal naturally. If you’d just stayed and rested after the [Witch] who treated you gave you the first potion, you’d have been fine. As it was, you survived. But it has been fifty-one days.”
Durene stared. She looked around the table at Prost’s grave face, Rie’s anxious one. At last, the pieces fit. This house, Pirose being accustomed to living here—the houses she hadn’t recognized.
“What happened while I was gone? Tell me. Please?”
She whispered it, unsteady. Rie stood up. She laid a hand on Durene’s arm gently.
“More than I can say, Durene. Don’t worry; Riverfarm isn’t in danger from the Goblins anymore. And—you may need to sit. There’s a lot that’s gone on that you need to know about. Where to begin? The Goblin Lord’s dead, for one. But the siege—well, it’s been complicated.”
“Siege? What siege?”
Another round of glances. Durene felt as though she were meeting the strange folk that Laken had summoned. The fae. She raised her voice. She couldn’t help it.
“Where’s Laken? I want to see him. He’s back now, right?”
It had been fifty-one days. Surely he was back in Riverfarm from wherever he was gone? Why wasn’t he here? But the look in Prost’s eye—he shook his head.
“He’s still not back yet. Durene. He went down to Liscor. You know where that is?”
The name was only vaguely familiar. Durene’s heart sank.
“Isn’t that a Drake city?”
“The northernmost one. Right in the High Passes.”
“But that’s hundreds of miles away. He went there? Why? Did the Goblin Lord run that far? Why did Tyrion Veltras need trebuchets?”
Aghast, Durene looked around. Prost hesitated. Rie bit her colored lip.
“It was an entire event. And while I can assure you His Majesty is safe, Durene, it may be weeks before he returns still. And his prisoners will bring more trouble than I can imagine. As if we don’t have enough for him to deal with when he returns.”
“Prisoners?”
The world was shaking on its axis. Durene looked around, breathing faintly. She wanted to run, burst out of the door so Prost, Rie, Pirose, all of them would stop looking at her like this. Cautiously, as if she might explode from what they were keeping from her. Or lash out.
“Goblins. Hundreds of them.”
“Goblins?”
Durene’s incredulous, horrified look made Rie stand up again. She walked past Durene and poured herself some cold tea.
“We’ll explain everything. But before you leave, Durene, you must understand. Riverfarm’s changed. It’s larger. Much larger than you remember. And we have more problems to deal with. Emperor Laken Godart cannot return quick enough. So much is different. But Durene. It’s going to be alright.”
Rie laid a warm hand on Durene’s shoulder. The girl let it happen. She met Prost’s concerned gaze, and saw the reserve in Pirose’s eyes. And Durene held still. Laken was gone. He was gone. And she—she looked around, and everything was different. So very different.
When she had gone to war, Riverfarm had been a collection of nearly six hundred people, already bursting at the seams, the remnants of a few villages banding together.
Today? It was over two thousand.
