Oxidization in the air, much like the sparks that the Fang of Manus sometimes gave off. It was one of the reasons why the inner war room was bare of carpets and why all of the other guests, save the youngest, touched the ground or the wall before touching anything metallic. Especially the Gnolls; you could get a damn good shock, and scorch marks in fur were hard to get rid of. On Luciva’s back, her furled wings stirred, but that was the only nod to her emotions she let slip.
Wings and breath. That marked her as Oldblood, but more than that—True Oldblood, the rarest of all those who bore their ancestors’ heritage. Manus was famous for that, too. The old bloodlines ran strong in the city, and the people respected that as much as military genius.
And speaking of old blood…another Drake leaned forwards, filling the silence Makhir’s comments had caused. Her scales were teal, but that was such a poor word to describe the color. The scales shone and flowed, more like water than a solid. And her wings, the yellow spines along her neck, all were sculpted. If Luciva was a shining example of the full extent of her heritage, this young Drake was the radiant sun itself. She was beautiful. And when she spoke, it was crisply, loudly, without a hint of awkwardness.
“A small battle. We lost tens of thousands of Drakes in total. So did the Humans. A small army’s worth, [Hunt Commander] Makhir, Dragonspeaker. It may be few in comparison to the population of Drakes as a species, but it is still a blow. One we must reply to. That’s why we’re here, isn’t it? Let’s not waste time.”
The others nodded soberly. The fact that this Drake looked younger than any other Drake by at least a decade was unremarked upon. She was meant to be here. The next to speak was a Gnoll who had brought his spear to the table.
“Is this a prelude to war? Tyrion Veltras was halted from besieging the city, I remind you all, not only by luck, but by his peers. Magnolia Reinhart was instrumental to that. She threatened her own people to avert the battle.”
One of the two female Wall Ladies, General Milka, leaned in, her claws gripping the table. Her scales were prickling with a static charge as she sat next to Luciva, but she didn’t even acknowledge the jolts of static.
“Does that speak to her practicality, sense of honor, or simply a Reinhart scheme though, Spearmaster Lulv?”
Lulv frowned.
“I am uncertain. But I think her actions have attracted the goodwill of some of our peers. My informants—I submitted a report you may have all read—tell me a Courier bore a message straight from Oteslia’s city to her mansion.”
Another Wall Lord, Aldonss, shook his head, unmoved by the lightning, which seemed to actually congregate around one claw tapping on the table. Lightning powers and Manus had been associated with the leadership for generations.
“I saw the same report. Whoever is making an overture to her is not being subtle. Need we be concerned?”
“Not yet, I think. The north is in more turmoil. They’ve started a political war amongst themselves. I have no doubt it will develop further as the nobles return to their estates. If this is Magnolia Reinhart’s scheme to take advantage of this in a way that harms us, it is hard to see. Whether it benefits her in the north, though…”
Luciva raised her claw to prevent someone else replying. All eyes fastened on her again. The Dragonspeaker nodded.
“So. Back to my question. Is this a prelude to war?”
“Perhaps not against all the north. But Tyrion Veltras has made his position clear.”
Wall Lord Makhir growled, and the others nodded. So did Luciva.
“As have many peers of the north. Let us say Lady Magnolia Reinhart is averse to war. She and her faction do not represent the north. And it is humanity, once again, which has launched an assault that was unprovoked. Do we agree on this as well?”
“Hm. I do.”
“Barring the usual tensions? I do.”
“Sunken ship. Two murders of Human [Merchants] on the roads. Hm—we have not had a major war save for the Terandrian incursion four years back, and that was only backed by Izril’s nobility, which they disavowed quickly. This was unprovoked, I agree.”
Spearmaster Lulv drummed his paws on the table.
“Tyrion Veltras does have a reason. His wife.”
The table fell silent. After a moment, General Milka shook her head.
“That was nearly four years past. He may have cause, I grant, but those who followed him even when it became clear that Liscor was the target have no excuse. Unprovoked I say.”
The rest agreed. So did Luciva. She spread her claws on the table.
“So. Leaving out what must be done in Liscor, the fault with Pallass, Magnolia Reinhart as an individual, I ask this question: given the unprovoked assault on our people, should we reply?”
And then there was silence. The eight paused. After a moment, Lulv spoke up.
“I am against it. Let the north tear itself apart for months or a year. Our interference might unite them.”
Makhir clenched a paw into a fist.
“And if we do not reply? Will another Walled City? They must know we have teeth, or how else will they back away? These are not rational foes. They are like dogs, circling, testing. They must have blood drawn, or they will come back with less fear.”
General Milka nodded. Wall Lords Aldonss and Kishield dissented. The youngest female Drake, who had remained silent, flicked her claws at the map. Wall Lord Aldonss spoke as Luciva glanced at the youngest Drake, trying to read her reaction.
“I agree with Lulv. If we reply, we risk inciting a conflict. And we cannot risk it. Not with the Antinium.”
Aldonss looked around the suddenly quiet table. A few of his peers grudgingly nodded, but Luciva didn’t. She wanted another opinion. So, the Dragonspeaker looked to her left at the youngest Drake and nodded to her. “Rafaema. Your thoughts?”
The Drake was poking at the geography of the continent. She looked up, blinking, as the other members of the Security Council looked at her expectantly. Her tail swished—in embarrassment?—and she replied in the same, clear, definitive voice.
“If they attack us, we attack back. It’s as simple as that, isn’t it? Why are you all debating about it?”
Without hesitation. Manus’ High Command glanced at each other. And one by one, they nodded. All except Lulv and General Milka. The rest had been swayed though, and they turned to Luciva. They didn’t need to voice their opinions; she had eyes.
The Dragonspeaker nodded. She closed her own eyes, thinking for a long moment. Her wings and tail stirred. The others waited. After a minute, then two, Luciva silently opened her eyes.
“It is an action that cannot be ignored. The south must answer.”
A sigh, and that was all. It was done. Lulv grimaced, but beyond that, he listened as Luciva went on.
“We will take the lead in this. The other Walled Cities may know of it—and we may request the best fliers of their cities. The True Oldbloods are needed. Manus’ children need not bear the entirety of the risk alone.”
Rafaema’s tone was hesitant as she lifted a claw, for all her words had been the deciding factor.
“You intend to go forwards with our first plan of ruination?”
“It is the one we decided upon. There is no need to adjust it.”
“Which one is that? I forget.”
Rafaema’s question was answered by Lulv as he leaned over. Luciva ignored the whispering and went on, speaking names, which got nods. A few suggestions were made, more names floated along with the cities the Drakes hailed from. But the majority of the work had been done in the decision-making. The names and plan itself had already been meticulously thought-out and prepared for execution. Manus’ elite didn’t waste more frivolous time talking.
“Thank you for your counsel. I will give the order.”
Dragonspeaker Luciva paused for a moment, then marked a document with her signature, stamped the magical wax with her ring, and it was done. The file would be copied and indexed, and the plan would go into action. Results would take a while to appear. Yet she knew what had been done, and the small action felt heavy.
How personal was this decision? Luciva wondered. She had no answer, but she had gotten no pushback. Not from the Security Council, nor Manus’ most important resident, who sat in this very room.
Nor would the other cities do more than offer minor complaints; she expected only Oteslia to object, and only in words. The only other figure she could name who might interject had drawn these very plans up. The Cyclops had said nothing; it would be done.
So she cleared her throat and brought to docket the only other item worthy of the Security Council’s time.
“One last thing before we adjourn?”
 
——
 
Rafaema was already half out of her seat. Surprised, she sat. Even for smaller wars, the Security Council’s time was precious. What could merit this? Luciva gestured.
“Aldonss. Your report on the Noelictus rumors.”
Noelictus? Rafaema’s brow became a mass of confusion. That was a Terandrian nation; completely inconsequential to Manus’ politics. But a few members of the Security Council, like Milka and Makhir, sat forwards suddenly with apparent interest.
“Ah. I intended to save this for the next meeting. To be brief, Dragonspeaker—I have authenticated the reports from Noelictus.”
Lulv was clearly struggling to remember as well.
“What’s this one about? Is that the file flagged on some village and the upset there? War with Ailendamus?”
Luciva shook her head.
“Not Ailendamus. They’re far out of our radius of concern even if they invaded. Rather, it was one of our Grade 9 threats.”
Rafaema almost sent her stack of papers flying. Grade 9?
“We don’t have any of those anymore! Do we? The Immortal Tyrant’s dead. The Antiinium we’ve met aren’t that dangerous, and the rest of them are still on Rhir if they’re even alive…the Deathless are extinct—they were killed when I was young—Old Hungry? No, wait, Noelictus is inland.”
She rattled off the few, very few, threats that warranted Manus’ highest threat classification. ‘Old Hungry’ was the largest Kraken to ever exist. Luciva gave Rafaema a frown.
“None of them. This is about the…Witch.”
A susurration ran through the Security Council. Lulv had been closing his eyes, trying to recall the report. Now he cracked one eye open. General Milka put her claws together. Rafaema hesitated.
“Oh. Her. She hasn’t caused trouble for ages. Nothing major since before I was born.”
“That situation has changed.”
Wall Lord Aldonss informed the Council. His report was extensive, and Lulv and Rafaema made faces when they saw the length.
“I suggest you read it; the entire scheme is, in retrospect, difficult to fully appreciate. The matter is settled. The Witch is on the run, for once.”
Makhir was audibly disappointed.
“Not killed?”
Luciva murmured.
“No one kills that one. The fact that anyone bested her…so. [Witches].”
An unfamiliar class to most Drakes. An old one. Aldonss nodded.
“I recommend vigilance. Not just for her; the [Witches] of the north are apparently moving. Gathering. Whether in support or defense, it’s hard to say. News of Noelictus has not spread openly; the Court of Dusks and Landsreight seems to have tamped rumors down well. But I might suggest a clandestine anti-[Witch] operation if any try to move past Liscor…?”
Luciva frowned as the Security Council murmured. Makhir lifted a furry finger.
“I’m against. Wisdom says we don’t need to join in on that sort of thing.”
The Dragonspeaker agreed.
“Put a proposal together if you feel strongly, Aldonss. Tell me if there’s any credible reports of the Witch arriving on Izril. That’s all. Adjourned.”
Not once did any of them actually say the Witch’s name, which Rafaema thought was overkill. Then again, names had power. And the events of Noelictus were far away. So the Security Council rose to their feet, then strode back to their tasks.
Luciva bade them all farewell one by one. A few of High Command stopped to talk with her or exchange brief goodbyes among themselves; the rest filed out, returning to their homes and other duties quietly. This meeting had most certainly happened, but none of them would ever talk about it.
Only one Drake lingered in the room afterwards with Dragonspeaker Luciva. She was hunting for something she’d dropped. It turned out to be her personal bag of holding, under her chair. Luciva patiently let her fasten it to her belt, then nodded as the young Drake turned.
“What do you make of this, Rafaema? Was that a wise decision or not?”
Rafaema turned, surprised. After a moment, she shrugged slightly, and a bored, even tired expression crossed her face.
“It’s fairly normal to me. Humans have always been Humans. The Antinium bother me more. They’re new.”
She frowned. Luciva nodded seriously. The Antinium were a threat two decades old, but they marked a change in the balance that had existed for ages between Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans.
“Spearmaster Lulv and General Milka were correct in saying that a war with Humans would be disastrous. The Antinium would not be idle. We risk much by provoking them, even in reply.”
Luciva was stating the obvious. Rafaema nodded, tilting her head from side to side, regarding the magical map on the table. She considered Luciva’s statement, then turned around and shrugged again.
“Maybe. But then they would get away with it. And why would we ever allow that?”
And that was that. It was a pure answer, without second thoughts attached. Luciva nodded.
“Thank you for your time. No doubt my peers took your words to heart.”
“I just said what I felt. See you, Luciva. Um…sorry about Hedica.”
“Thank you.”
Rafaema left. That left just Luciva standing at the table. She looked back towards the passage that would lead her up to a place where she could give the orders that would set the plan in motion. But she didn’t go right away. Instead, she sat back down in her seat and leaned on the table, ignoring the magical geography her arms and head rested on. She didn’t know if she’d made the correct decision.
That was why she had called this meeting, to deliberate over one point. Had grief swayed her judgment? Had they been right to listen to Rafaema’s opinion? Luciva didn’t know, but she had made her choice, and she had learned not to second-guess herself. She rested her head on the table, taking some small relief in the fact that no one would intrude on her here, at least not for a bit.
The decision had been made. The plan would work. Manus, and the Drake cities, would have their vengeance for Tyrion Veltras’ aggression, at least in part. But today, all Luciva felt was grief.
 
 
Day 1 – Durene
 
