Nu couldn’t see the harm. He purchased it and the messages slowly changed through each stage. It was pretty clear to see which mode was which.Stage 1: Live, Laugh, Loot.Stage 2: Experience, Hum, Learn.Stage 3: Warned, Listen, Sweat.Stage 4: Livestock, Slaughter, Looters.Stage 5: Gonna, have a, BAD time.There was a stage 6, but the words were perhaps a bit apocalyptical in nature so Nu just kept that hidden for future purposes. Nu grinned wickedly at the poor fools that set that one off... he took one more peek at it, just to enjoy the imagery of the fate they would incur.Stage 6: You made Delta cry.---“Feeling better?” Fera asked gruffly as Delta lounged on her bar with a cocktail glass in her hand. Delta didn’t conjure alcohol, she just liked the shape of the glass for her orange juice.“Much. I guess I was just exhausted after helping Deo. Plus... when was the last time I just relaxed?” Delta said, stretching happily like a cat.“Imagine working since the day you were born,” Fera agreed sarcastically as she polished glass with a rag.“You’re welcome to take a holiday,” Delta mumbled around her OJ. Fera’s yellow eyes opened as her nostrils flared.“And leave who in charge? Those idiots?” Fera asked, pointing to the gaggle of goblins in the corner. Cois was tied to a pillar as Billy aimed knives with one eye closed. Cois was screaming around a gag and Numb was trying to diplomatically calm the argument.Nearby, a bundle of Billy’s arrows looked burnt to spindly sticks.“What about that girl you hired? Nina?” Delta asked and Fera shrugged.“We’re a 24-hour joint. She needs at least 4 hours sleep or something,” Fera said casually as if she could perhaps push Nina to ignore that need.“You sure she didn’t say ‘8 hours’?” Delta replied with an amused smile. Fera merely grinned back.“Might have been six,” she admitted.“My services are available, Matron Fera,” Lord Mushy offered and Fera eyed the gentleman mushroom sipping sweet sugary water from a cup.“Ever poured a double Jack special without exploding?” she asked and Mushy turned to look at her.“No, but I am quite flame-resistant these days,” he admitted.The things Delta heard in her Dungeon could fill a book.She wondered how Nu was getting on?---

Nu was beginning to think the Mushroom Grove had peaked at ‘lots of Gutrot mushrooms’ and was now trying to distract him with all these other upgrades that didn’t actually improve the original room’s function at all.He opened the room's secondary menu to see the types of mushrooms that were able to be made and found the issue.Nu groaned.

Nu cancelled the production and looked at the combinations. He sorted it by ‘priority’.

Nu stared at the screen, flickering glitches appearing on his face.He sorted by ‘least important’

“WHAT IS YOUR OBSESSION WITH PIGS?!” Nu screeched and Boary looked up, a frown on his tusked face.“Current company excluded,” Nu amended with clenched teeth.He dragged out the Blackhole piggle and when he went to drop it into the discard, the little wastebasket symbol began to flee as if to thwart Nu.“I will not have insubordination in my own existence! Get back here and delete the disaster pig... me!” Nu ordered. His words were jarring.Was some part of him deeply wishing he could weaponize the Blackhole Piggles?Sure!Did that mean it was wise?No...But... Nu held the Blackhole Piggle selection with a nervous glitch forming.Wisdom was his dump stat.Nu looked at the edible mushroom and slotted it in with the piggle...

Delta could have baby pig minions. Nu would have booby-trapped blackhole mushrooms that would suck people inside out...It was a natural balance.
