Malika felt the subtle shiver that pulsed through her body, her mind, and her soul. All her skills suddenly came just a little easier, and she knew Abiding Perseverance had ticked up again. Her fists flew, following the seventh form of the most basic sequence in the Nine Paths of Ahn Khen, and she channeled a little more stamina into accelerating her movements, pushing them even faster. The rest of her extra stamina went to boost her attributes by overcharging Perfect Body and empowering her Soul Strike even more.

The pulses of her soul magic punched clear through the trunk of the giant Treant, flashing blue as each rapid strike ripped a little more mana from the monster. It felt like trying to empty an ocean with a teacup for all the effect it had on the giant mana pool, but she knew her punches were coming quicker, and overcharging Soul Strike allowed it to steal more mana per strike. Eventually, she would wear it down.

Stamina flickered within the monster, but she ignored this formation. She had already learned which one was which – this was the heavily empowered crushing blow, and Mato could handle the damage just fine, so she left it to him. Sure enough, a fraction of a second later, the loud crack and shimmer in the air told her he had reflected the damage back to the tree with a well-timed Critical Block.

A surge of mana flared within the floating eye demon beside her, and she teleported out of the way. Or at least she tried to, forgetting in that moment that all teleportation was suppressed. Her magic was repelled like she had tried to dive through a wall of soggy mattresses that absorbed it without any tangible effect. Quickly, she scrambled sideways, unleashing a couple more strikes into the tree, barely dodging the dense, golden, sparkling cone of energy unleashed from the massive central eye. She definitely did not want to get in the way of that. The Malevolent Oak’s mana suddenly dipped dramatically.

With near instant reflexes, the mana was replenished as the other Treants donated extra. It all helps, she reminded herself. Their target was the entire shared mana pool of the four monsters, not just this one, and despite all appearances, they didn’t possess an infinitely deep well of mana.

There! Suddenly, she saw the formation she had studied, learned, and marked. An unusual ability that sent stamina flowing down through the tree’s extensive, dark roots, and almost always ended with a large increase in mana – an ability she had deduced was the same corpse-composting skill Seth had identified. She channeled her energy into her eyes and pulsed it outward with a glare using Martial Disruption. Stamina turned into a searing pulse of energy that shot from her eyes, tearing the formation into shreds even before it had finished coalescing.

I may not be able to steal as much mana as that demon, but I can prevent it from feeding. Again, she could only affect one of four, but a quarter less mana recovered was a substantial win.

Malika dodged back down as the sensation of heat emanating from her eyes faded and pulsed more stamina into Mato than she needed to fully heal him, causing her overheal nova to burst forth from his body and granting Clarity and health to all the melee within range.

There, that should hold them for a bit. Then, she felt the subtle shiver through her body once again, and again shifted her reservations, boosting her power. The glow from her fists brightened perceptibly, and she grinned fiercely. The longer this goes, the harder I hit…

Ali’s Grimoire flashed brightly as her third Bone Champion appeared right beside her, hunched over with his head bumping up against the curved barrier dome. “Get to Basir and keep Mortal Wounds up on his tree,” she commanded, deleting a section of her barrier dome briefly to let him out.

“Yes, Seeker,” he intoned, wasting no time as he launched himself through the gap and into the fray, but it was then that she noticed the problem.

All around her, the healers were frowning, casting with feverish urgency. Belmar cursed into his bushy beard and downed a fresh mana potion. Somehow, the damage had escalated, and they were all struggling. Ali didn’t have to look far for an answer, as soon as her gaze left the convenient protection of her barrier, she saw all the mages and archers being bombarded with an unceasing rain of rot-bolts, and the treants were rapidly gaining mana again.

Previously, with the Treants split into two groups, the circles of the rot-bolt minimum range had intersected in a stretched oval of generous size, enough to create a safe zone for all the ranged damage dealers and healers. Now that the giant treants were split to the four points of the compass, there was still a safe zone, but it had decreased down to barely enough area to contain her half-dome barrier.

This is backward. Ali was protecting the only people who weren’t getting hit. Obviously, the raid needed the healers inside the barrier for the Death Storm, but she could do it out there under the rot bolts with little extra risk and effort.

“Move. I need everyone to move with me,” Ali decided, unhitching her barrier dome from the ground and moving it out into the storm. She got several surprised and fearful glances from the healers, but the moment they realized she wasn’t removing their protection, they shuffled along with it as she slowly shifted them out of the safe zone. She didn’t even have to say a word; the mages and archers immediately filled the suddenly vacated area, and the healers suddenly started smiling.

“Aye, thank you,” Belmar said, wiping his brow with the back of his hand as he pulsed several holy formations out of his other arm.

“Yes, that’s a load off,” Teagan said, refreshing a totem and firing a long ribbon of emerald-green nature healing through the barrier and into the mage group outside.

Outside, the rot bolts fell like hail, rattling and cracking against the golden dome, but the barrage didn’t scare any of the healers inside.

Oh, mana! Ali thought as a rising surge of reclaimed mana rushed into her mana pool, leeched from the constant rot barrage by her barrier’s magic. Not eager to be turned into a lightning rod again, she began to channel all the excess into her Empowered Summoner, grinning at Tol’brekk’s roar of delight as Ali shared her increased power with every minion.

With the most critical issue taken care of, Ali summoned her fourth Bone Champion, assigning it to keep Mortal Wounds on the last treant, and then returned her attention to micromanaging her oozes to prevent the composting root ability from consuming any corpses.

The oversized raid group fell into a tentative rhythm, damaging a tree until Lira’s avatar possessed it, and then shifting over to the next one around in a circle. Ali and the rest of the mages took care of the summoned treants again and again until she lost count of the number of waves that had come. Several Death Storms came and went, each one raising the mana levels within the treants substantially, but Ali had quickly learned to bleed off her excess mana by dumping it all into Empowered Summoner before and after the Death Storm, and her Eyes of Agnor were doing an incredible job of burning through the regenerating mana, keeping things mostly under control. They looked like a pair of nightmarish, leathery jack-o-lanterns blazing with golden light from their eyes.

“Twenty percent,” Ali announced. All the treants were getting low, but Healer’s Sight told her the first one had just hit the marker Calen had asked her to call out.

“Switch, next tree,” Calen called immediately.

“Death Storm,” Ali warned as the now-familiar, massive swell of mana surged from the trees. She ordered her minions to drink their potions. They had undoubtedly made a huge difference to the boss’s mana regeneration, but there were not many potions left. Should I make more? Do I have time?

Ribbons flared across the raid, and the healers buckled down and struggled against the onslaught, their magic the only thing keeping their friends alive.

Ali frowned as the Mortal Wounds effect dropped and the Treants’ mana pools began to rise dramatically, but there was little she could do. Already, they had reduced the regeneration by an enormous factor, but each Death Storm was bound to be a setback.

Right as the ribbons of death magic dropped, the treant below twenty percent health remaining chose to heal instead of summoning more treants, but Ali had expected exactly that, and her golden darts found their mark. It was a small thrill of victory, even though she had probably only gained the raid a minute or two of time, but sometimes those extra minutes meant the difference between winning and dying, a cycle broken that could trigger a downward spiral.

Sabri’s treant hit the twenty percent mark, and then Basir’s. But then they hit a snag. Lira’s avatar possessed Mato’s tree – the last one. With no more viable targets, it was reduced to holding in place, rendering the fourth treant immune. What now? But just before she called out to Calen, the avatar vanished, reappearing overhead again in the spectral form of Lira, spewing fresh taunts at them. For a second, she gazed upward in suspicion, the risk weighing on her mind. No. We have to do this now.

“Go,” Ali commanded. All her minions tore into the remaining treant as she channeled more and more mana into empowering their extra damage. This skill is amazing. It didn’t hurt that in this fight, she had more mana than she knew what to do with. I guess I know what to do with it now.

“Twenty…” she said, but overhead, Lira screeched fit to wake the dead. A bone-chilling screech that went right through her like the wail of a banshee. The air around the undead spirit’s hovering form rippled with black and green mana, pulsing outward from her and smashing into the raid group below, ripping and tearing at their life in an unceasing frenzy of deafening noise and, she realized immediately, a blatant attempt to overload them.

Ali’s mana hit maximum instantly. Already primed, she instinctually funneled all of it into Empowered Summoner before she exploded. Two of her priests flared with the light of Devotion, struggling with the enormous increase in damage.

“Use everything!” Calen commanded, instantly flaring with his Righteous Fury.

“Bloodlust!” Ali shouted. If Calen’s recharge had expired, so had the one on Bloodlust, and the blood runes burst out into the air. Across the full range of her minions, she triggered every single recharge and ability she could find to enhance damage. She burned through the charges of her wand, but still her healers were struggling with the damage.

Just as she was about to despair, Teagan’s voice rang out with a shout, somehow imbued with her nature magic. Tiny green glowing leaves shot outward from her, as if carried upon a gust of wind, spreading out through the raid, coming to rest, circling the heads of every single caster.

You have gained Primal Ritual+30% to spell haste.+30% to Intelligence and Wisdom.Magic Buff – Duration: 30 seconds.

Someone got a fantastic evolution! The ritual was amazing, but Ali didn’t have time to dwell on it, directing the attacks of her minions and reorganizing the now suddenly much faster healers to keep them all alive. But the biggest effect was the giant boost to her intelligence. Almost every skill Ali had, including the ones that boosted her minions, carried the intelligence trait, and every single one of her minions benefited from the sudden increase in her personal power.

Roars, shouts, the crashing of weapons, and the detonations of magic filled the air as she urged her minions on. They tore through the first treant like it was a bundle of reeds and then trained the entire raid group onto the second. Ali disrupted the next heal, relying on her Bone Champions, the tanks, or the Eye of Agnor to interrupt the treants that attempted to respawn their fallen clone. The second treant fell under the onslaught, and they quickly moved to the third. But an instant before the tree collapsed, the Primal Ritual, Righteous Fury, Bloodlust, and many other short-duration buffs which they had burned for extra damage, expired.

Her power dropped, her minions weakened, and her healers began to struggle again.

Oh crap, why now… one final push! She steeled herself. What’s next?

“Devotion,” Ali called, commanding her last priest to use the skill, and then she poured all her remaining mana into Empowered Summoner, urging her minions, trying to eke out every last bit of damage. The Dark Druids shone brightly with her donation of spell power, dispensing restoration to nearly the entire raid. Tol’brekk triggered Last Stand, burning almost all his remaining health to fuel an enormous strike. “Attack! Everyone attack!” Ali shouted. Her Armored Drakes and Devouring Consumptions ignored the summoned treants, turning to attack the last remaining clone. Even the freed-up tanks were trying their hardest to do what little damage they could.

Unbelievably, the bedlam somehow swelled to hitherto-unimaginable pitch, like the thunder of a thousand dragons bellowing at the peak of their destructive wrath as they unleashed infernos across the face of the world. She shivered, eyes darting and doubtless gleaming with mana-sight as she surveyed the final throes of the battle, struggling to wrest fact out of chaos.

“Five percent,” Ali said, her voice sounding strangely calm to her over the continuous screeching of Lira's specter, and the deadly pulsing magic she was emanating. Unexpectedly calm, considering what was going on inside her.

“Three percent.”

“Two percent.”

Twin beams of sizzling void shot down through the center of the treant as her two dragons unleashed their breath attacks in tandem. The beams seared holes through the treant’s battered trunk, punching out the other side and disintegrating a matching pair of holes through one of her Bone Champions on the other side.

Magic flickered to life, but Ali’s darts Disrupted the attempted heal, and the Treant collapsed to the sound of a chime.

Suddenly, all noise ceased as if a blanket of silence had been cast across the clearing. The pulsating magic stopped. Lira turned and stared straight into Ali’s soul with a look of sudden lucidity.

“Aliandra, dear. Please… you must end this. Kill me. Please.”

Then the magic pulses and the unearthly screams returned as the healers scrambled to react to the sudden shift.

Ali swallowed, but the lump in her throat would not go away. That was her. She knew it deep down in her heart. All the taunting and insults before had been the undead thing Nevyn Eld had summoned, but that just now… that was Lira.

