And she wants me to… She asked me to… Ali couldn’t even finish the thought. With a feeling like she was struggling against the weight of the entire world, she spoke. “Attack.”

The rest of the fight passed like a dream; the screeches were muted, as if shouted in the distance. She felt her mana flowing to empower her minions. She heard the roars of her dragons and the sizzle of their void magic. But all of it, even the heavy detonation of fireballs in the air, all sounded so far away.

She was aware of the fight, and a large part of her mind was actively engaged with keeping her barrier magic up, empowering her minions, and directing her forces. But in her heart, she knew she was killing Lira. She knew that somewhere, trapped within that thing, some sliver of what her aunt had been, had endured. It did not help in the slightest that she wanted this release, that she even begged for it.

But then it suddenly stopped. The damage pulses, the screeching, and everyone held their collective breaths.

“Thank you, Aliandra…” the voice trailed off into a sigh that resonated through the entire cavern.

Then, a tremendous gong sounded. A reverberation so loud that the ground shook and rocks were dislodged from the cavern ceiling far above to come crashing down into the forest below. A rushing sound filled the air as viridian-green mana coalesced within the specter of Lira’s chest. More and more mana gathered, growing brighter and brighter until the entire cavern shone with a brilliance that was painful to even behold, that cut through shuttered eyelids, that penetrated even to the marrow of every person looking on.

Ali gasped. How… how was this death? What was happening? A crazy, utterly irrational hope trampled through the devastation of all she had feared in this moment. Now the whole world seemed to hold its breath, the very silence between reverberations pregnant with an impossibly deep stillness.

Expectation. Something had to break.

[Realm] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has cast the mythic spell: Cycle of Rebirth.

The incandescent kernel of blazing green mana exploded, flattening trees and knocking everyone to the ground with a devastating blast. Ali’s barrier dome cracked. The specter of Lira vanished instantly, vaporized by the explosion, and with her extraordinarily acute perception, Ali witnessed mana – all of it – somehow condensed into a tiny form which fell from the sky.

Ali dispelled her barrier, flying upward, desperately reaching with her hands. Her fingers stretched outward, and a small brown object landed in her hands.

An acorn? Huh?

Somehow, she had expected something… grander.

Suddenly, Ali found herself yanked to the ground as the acorn imposed an incredible weight upon her. Ugh… she sat up, blinking away stars, but somehow, she still clutched the acorn in her hand. She gaped at it in disbelief and used Identify.

Acorn of RebirthAn acorn that glows with an intense inner light. But the viridian-green of its potent mana is shot through with ugly black veins that pulse like a fevered heartbeat. Soulbound (This artifact is bound to a soul)Curse of the Lich (The Acorn of Rebirth was cursed during its creation by the magic of a Lich. If it is used, the soul housed within it will be annihilated or corrupted beyond recognition.)Blighted Corruption (The Acorn of Rebirth is dying.)Quality: Mythic, Unique.Soul Phylactery

Lira?

Still alive, but dying?

It was impossible, but it had to be.

“Mato! Help me!” Ali tried to scream, her voice coming out as nothing more than a hoarse whisper. But in the wake of the silence left by the mythic world magic, he heard her.

Mato stared at the realm-level notification of Lira’s mythic world magic, dumbfounded, utterly unable to process what had just happened. They had killed her, a frustrating aerial finale to the battle against Lira’s undead specter, and then the world had exploded with light and magic.

That notification had undone him.

Did she… Did we… Did we just…

“Mato! Help me!” Ali’s voice was filled with such despair that it froze his heart.

He roared, charging toward her, shifting to his Beastkin form on the way, but his eyes caught the focus of her attention. Something small was nestled in the palm of her hands. Something that radiated an incredible power, yet was pulsing with darkness and corruption.

And as he approached, a stabbing lance of pain pierced his heart, and he felt the corruption spilling over from the thing in Ali’s hands, somehow connected to his deepest being through the mentor enchantment he had refused to rescind. He stumbled, falling to his knees and clutching at his chest as he began to rot from within, the sense of invading undeath seeping rapidly into his body.

“She’s dying,” Ali said, tear-filled eyes meeting his own as she raised her hand, uncurling her fingers to reveal an acorn.

Acorn of RebirthAn acorn that glows with an intense inner light. But the viridian-green of its potent mana is shot through with ugly black veins that pulse like a fevered heartbeat. Soulbound (This artifact is bound to a soul)Curse of the Lich (The Acorn of Rebirth was cursed during its creation by the magic of a Lich. If it is used, the soul housed within it will be annihilated or corrupted beyond recognition.)Blighted Corruption (The Acorn of Rebirth is dying.)Quality: Mythic, Unique.Soul Phylactery

“Please, you must help her.”

Lira! Mato stared at the acorn as the corruption bloomed within him, and he knew she was in there. The pain was real, overwhelmingly real, but his heart leapt within his chest. This was the reason his mentorship enchantment had never faded. She was alive! Somehow, inexplicably, alive. Struggling against the invading mana, he transformed. His shift to Tree Form was sluggish, as if the corruption were twisting him from within, resisting the change with the strength of a mountain. He bore down with his willpower, forcing his body to change, and his roots began to extend down into the rotting creep and the ground below. The pain grew excruciating as his body grew taller, bark forming with infinite slowness, his branches stretching and creaking in agony as he clawed toward the air above.

I’m not going to make it. He didn’t have much time. He was dying faster than he could grow.

He heard Ali cry, “Havok, help!” The small green goblin rushed over and poured out a circle of softly glowing white flames to consecrate the ground.

Then, Ali pointed a wand at him and Mato felt a chilling energy shoot from it, infusing him with a strange rush of clarity and alacrity to his mind.

You have gained Winter’s Desolate Celerity.

Suddenly, Mato’s transformation accelerated, his branches stretched upward, and his leaves burst forth from freshly budding twigs. Then his mighty Sanctuary aura burst forth, ripping through the cloying rot of the domain around them, and for the first time, he felt the corruption slowing down.

The great black rot that gnawed at his bark, his leaves, spilling from the heartwood of his trunk, ceased spreading, and then, like a boulder painstakingly pushed to the peak of a hill, it hovered there for a seemingly endless moment, and then it began to dissolve. Slowly at first, almost imperceptibly, the black rot evaporated into a dark mist that slowly curled upward like the smoke from a freshly snuffed candle. The effect began to accelerate. Black wounds receded from his bark, vitality returning once again to his branches, and his form expanded, reaching higher and further, the weight of his Sanctuary growing deeper and more profound.

Mato drew the dark veins of pulsing corruption out of the acorn, draining them into his massive body to be washed away by his magic, washed clean.

“Thank you,” Ali whispered, reaching with her tiny arms to try to hug his enormous trunk.

Tentatively he cast his mind toward the acorn she held and used Identify.

Acorn of RebirthAn acorn that glows with an intense inner light. The viridian-green of its potent mana is darkened by a foul curse.Soulbound (This artifact is bound to a soul)Curse of the Lich (The Acorn of Rebirth was cursed during its creation by the magic of a Lich. If it is used, the soul housed within it will be annihilated or corrupted beyond recognition.)Quality: Mythic, Unique.Soul Phylactery

You have earned the Title: Incorruptible.The very touch of your mana eradicates blight and corruption. Your Healing magic grants +2487 [wisdom] to resistance against corruption and blight. Title

He had no words. He only knew he would have done anything for Ali, and somehow, incredibly, Lira was not dead. He knew it was her soul resting trapped within the acorn, and he felt his mentor’s enchantment slowly restored to its former pristine state. How she was in there, and what to do about the curse, were things that could be left for tomorrow.

For now, she wasn’t dying. And that was enough.

All around the clearing, the adventurers slowly stirred, picking themselves up from the ground, dusting themselves off, or just sitting by themselves, staring off into the distance as they processed the aftermath of the ridiculous battle.

Serene in his Tree Form, Mato retreated to his expansive grove with his mind-tree and examined his notifications and growth.

Elemental Shapeshifter has reached level 138 (+9).+90 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 58 (+2).Swipe has reached level 72 (+4).Brutal Restoration has reached level 68 (+4).Bear Form has reached level 66 (+3).Rampant Growth has reached level 37 (+2).Bestial Combat has reached level 55 (+3).Natural Prowess has reached level 54 (+2).Survival Instinct has reached level 68 (+2).Battle Trance has reached level 50 (+3).Last Stand has reached level 20.Herb Gathering has reached level 27 (+2).

Nine? I haven’t seen that many levels at one time in ages. It had been at the end of Aman Rak, defeating Tol’brekk, but it still felt like ages. Mato contemplated his attributes and growth, settling on twenty points for vitality. He added twenty-three points to strength and twenty-two to endurance. Given how much he had spent on wisdom recently to unequip the parasitic gear, he spent only seven points on that, choosing ten for perception instead. He split the remainder, putting five into dexterity and three into intelligence.

I hope I’m strong enough for whatever we have to do to save Lira. Because Ali’s family is my family and I’m going to do whatever it takes to see her well again. He felt renewed, restored – perhaps even possessed by a shining hope that had been almost dead in his heart not ten minutes before. Lira. You no longer belong to the Lich.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
