“So you’re Mister Powerful, huh?”
“You saw my effectiveness against the Acid Flies, did you not?”
That made Erin pause.
“Oh. Yeah. You were pretty cool then. Um, thanks again.”
Pisces waved a hand at her and fixed his attention back on his soup quickly. Erin thought his cheeks were slightly pink. She smiled and had another thought.
“Why don’t you teach me magic, then? I’ll get rid of your tab if you do.”
The [Mage] looked up from his soup and stared at Erin.
“Teach you. Magic? Good Mistress—”
She glared.
“Erin, then. You do realize that magic is not as simple as waving a wand about and chanting words, don’t you? Becoming a [Mage] such as myself requires years—sometimes decades of intensive study.”
“I know.”
Erin didn’t actually know that, but it made sense. But now that the idea had hit her, she was suddenly caught up by it. Magic. It seemed so strange and incomprehensible and yet—
“But, uh, can’t you teach me a bit of magic? I’d love to learn. I think mages are cool. I was a big fan of Harry Potter growing up, although Draco was sort of cute too—”
Pisces glanced at Rags and got a blank look in return.
“…Who?”
Erin blushed.
“Never mind. Forget that. But will you teach me something? It doesn’t even have to be a lot. I just want to learn about magic.”
Rags looked up and stopped picking at her scabs. Erin sensed the Goblin scooting closer from chair to chair as Pisces considered her offer.
“And you would forget my tab?”
“I’ll forget your tab and I’ll start buying alcohol.”
That seemed to swing the scales. Pisces nodded. He sat back ponderously in his chair and intoned in his important-sounding voice.
“Very well then. Let us begin with the Mage’s Test. Observe.”
Pisces raised a finger, which began to glow with blue-white light. He began to trace something in the air. Where his finger moved, the light from it seemed to leave an ethereal residue. Erin squinted at it, fascinated.
“This is the basic test for determining aptitude. I am drawing—”
The gentle glow of blue magic was half-complete in the air when something interrupted Pisces’ lecture. A flash of light bloomed right in front of his nose. Pisces yelped, overbalanced in his chair, and crashed to the ground.
Erin backed up. Pisces flailed around on the ground as Rags dove out of her chair and underneath a table.
“What was that? Get it off!”
Something was hovering in the air in front of Pisces. He batted at it frantically and then paused as he saw what it was. Slowly, he sat up, and Erin saw something floating around his head. It looked…like a firefly? A firefly made of red and gold—no, more like a spectrum of those colors flickering together and winking out in front of the [Mage]’s face. It was beautiful and mysterious.
“What is that?”
Pisces stood up. He slowly reached out, and the firefly became motes of light that danced around his hand. He stared at them.
“It’s a messaging spell, but I haven’t seen one like that since—”
He broke off, frowning. The pinpoints of light began to coalesce into strange, flickering shapes. Erin squinted at them, but they didn’t look like letters. Or…were they words? She couldn’t describe it—no, she couldn’t even understand it.
Each fleck of light twisted and became hovering runes or symbols, but they also made Erin think they were words. But could you make a single letter or shape into an entire concept? And they…they hurt to look at. Erin’s eyes ached trying to take the strange, magical shapes in.
It was as if they didn’t exist in normal, three-dimensional space. And the more Erin looked at them, the more she developed a painful headache and stinging behind her eyes. She had to glance away.
Rags was desperately trying to stare at the magical message, but she seemed to be in as much pain as Erin, clutching at her head and prying her eyes open with her dirty fingers.
Only Pisces seemed to be able to look at the shapes without any pain. He frowned and stood up. For a moment, his face was thunderous as he stared at the flickering spell, and Erin was disconcerted by the raw anger in his expression. Then it became melancholic almost as fast. He reached out as if to quash the little spell, then let it rest upon his fingertips. He murmured half to himself, then blinked and glanced at Erin.
“Why would—no. Wait. I must read this. I, ah, will be going now. Thank you for the meal.”
“No—problem.”
Erin shaded her eyes and watched as the dusty robes and sandaled feet made their way to her door. They paused, and she heard Pisces’ voice again.
“—Regardless of your feelings, you should still hire some sort of protection. The more aggressive types of monsters and wildlife will soon return to this area.”
Erin looked up and blinked as one of the shapes pulsed a message she couldn’t understand into her brain. She covered her eyes. When she dared remove her hand, Pisces was gone.
 
——
 
Bodyguards. Hired help. Bouncers. Security. People with pointy sticks. They ranged from people who were good in a brawl to retired or active adventurers willing to take easier jobs in exchange for pay.
They were expensive, but it beat being stabbed repeatedly or eaten by a monster. That was Pisces’ opinion. Erin heard pretty much the same thing when she saw Selys next.
The two young women were walking through the marketplace in Liscor, shopping. Erin was accompanying Selys, having placed her orders with Krshia already.
It was very strange. In some ways, Selys was just like any girl around Erin’s age. The female Drake looked at the latest fashions, checked out jewelry, bought food and supplies for the week, and chattered happily with the shopkeepers like any young woman living on her own.
If Erin closed her eyes, she could imagine she was back in her world. But when she looked at Selys, it was hard to ignore the scales. And the tail. And the conversation.
“Look Erin, I know you want to stay in your inn, but it’s not safe. At least hire one of the low-level adventurers. They’re not that strong, but I could get you a good deal. Maybe we could call it a perpetual extermination request. Then the Guild would pay some of the costs.”
Erin shook her head as they walked down the street.
“I don’t see why I need protection, Selys. I haven’t seen any monsters lately, not even the Rock Crabs. The only things I see are those weird dino-birds in the sky and Rags and the Goblins.”
“Those are bad enough. But you haven’t seen the really bad monsters because the Watch keeps them away! Look Erin, I don’t want to hear you’ve been eaten or munched up into little bits one day.”
“Lovely image.”
“Thanks. But the Watch is here for our protection. If they’re not guarding you—”
Selys broke off, frowning. She and Erin stopped their progress down the street. There was a crowd ahead of them, mainly Drakes with a few Gnolls mixed in.
“What’s that all about?”
Someone was shouting. No, someones were shouting. Erin stood up on her tiptoes but couldn’t see past the bodies in front of her. Then all of a sudden the crowd opened up, and several Drakes thrust their way through.
“Out of the way!”
Erin jumped aside and stared as a group of four armed Drakes pushed their way out of the crowd. These weren’t guardsmen, but they definitely weren’t civilians either.
“Adventurers.”
Selys whispered it to Erin as she drew her against one side of the street. Indeed, all of the pedestrians were giving the Drake adventurers a wide berth.
The Drakes shouted angrily back into the crowd behind them and stormed down the street. Erin watched them go. Then out of the crowd came a familiar figure.
Relc pushed aside the crowd and emerged from the press of bodies, tail lashing angrily. He turned, reached back into the scrum, and pulled out a smaller, dazed-looking Drake guardsman.
“Stop!”
He shouted at the backs of the Drake adventurers, but they ignored him. Fuming, Relc went to chase after them, but the other [Guardsman] grabbed him. Relc and the Drake began arguing furiously.
Selys looked from Relc to the adventurers anxiously.
“They must have gotten into a fight with the Watch. There will be trouble over this.”
Erin looked at Relc uncertainly. His tail was furiously lashing the ground as he argued with the other guardsman.
“Is he going to arrest them?”
“I hope not. Adventurers and the Watch don’t get along. If he does, there will be trouble. Well, there’s already going to be trouble at the Guild, but an arrest would really make things worse.”
Selys watched anxiously as Relc seemed to get angrier and angrier, despite the other guardsman clearly trying to calm him down. He tore himself away and began marching down the street after the adventurers, who had already disappeared from view. Coincidentally, his path took him right in front of Selys and Erin.
The Drake froze up when he saw Erin. She hesitated, not certain what she should say, if anything. Before she could make up her mind, Relc whirled around and marched in the opposite direction, dragging the hapless Guardsman along in his wake. He didn’t look back once.
Selys breathed out softly.
“Well, that was lucky. It’s a good thing he decided not to do anything. I’d hate to see a fight break out in the market, especially since we’re not done shopping. Good thing seeing you calmed him down, right, Erin? Erin…?”
She looked over at Erin’s face. The Human was wiping at her eyes. Selys’ eyes widened, and her tail began to twitch.
“Oh. Um. Sorry. I didn’t mean—let’s—let’s go.”
Gently, she took Erin by the arm and led her away. The crowd stared at the Human curiously, but lost interest now that the adventurers and Relc were both gone. Only a few Gnolls stared after Erin’s back but quickly looked away when a certain Gnoll shopkeeper stepped out of her shop and glared at them.
 
——
 
“Here. Have a cup of this.”
Selys handed Erin a steaming cup of something bittersweet. Erin sipped at it gratefully and tasted what she imagined was a root-vegetable. Well, it wasn’t bad, and it was warm.
“Sorry about that.”
“…It’s fine. I just—I guess Relc wasn’t expecting to see me. He looked angry.”
“Well, yes.”
Selys bustled around her small home, fetching another cup of root-tea for herself as she made Erin at home. The room she’d brought Erin into reminded Erin of a normal apartment, except it was quite open and spacious. The chair she was sitting on was also sized differently so that the legs were higher off the ground than normal.
At last, the female Drake took a seat next to Erin.
“I guess it was another incident with the adventurers. I didn’t recognize them from the Guild, so they must be from further south. And the ones we’ve been getting lately, well, they don’t like to obey the laws as much, so we’ve been getting a lot of complaints at the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“Mm.”
Erin had almost forgotten Selys was a receptionist at the Guild.
“They were all Drakes. Aren’t there Gnoll adventurers too?”
“Oh, a few. But that was probably an all-Drake team. Gnolls—well, Gnolls don’t like working with other species as much. And not as many become adventurers, so we haven’t been getting as many.”
“What about Humans? Aren’t any of them adventurers?”
“Lots. Most, in fact. But this group is from down south. Past the Bloodfields. They must have risked the journey—it’s not too dangerous if you go wide around it—in hopes of finding worth in the north. Rare, but it happens. But they’re from the south.”
“…Right?”
Erin frowned at Selys. Selys frowned back.
“They’re from down south, so they’re all Drakes or Gnolls.”
“Right, right. Because all Drakes live in the south…?”
Selys paused.
“…Erin. Do you not know the local geography?”
“Um, no.”
Erin fidgeted in her seat. Selys sighed, but smiled.
“You really need to pay more attention. Wait here for a second.”
She put down her cup and bustled about her home, rummaging around in drawers. Erin sipped at her tea until Selys came back with a piece of paper.
“Do you know anything about this continent?”
“I know we’re on a continent. How’s that?”
Selys jabbed Erin playfully with one claw. Erin yelped and nearly knocked over her tea.
“Sorry, sorry! I forgot how soft you Humans are! Sorry!”
“It’s okay.”
Embarrassed, Selys picked up a quill and unscrewed an inkpot.
“Here, let me show you. The name of the continent we’re living on is Issrysil, according to my people—but no one says that. Everyone calls it Izril. It looks…like this.”
Selys drew on the piece of paper and outlined a body of land that looked vaguely like a triangle up top, but narrowed near the center and became vaguely shoe-shaped near the bottom. It was fairly ovoid in total, though, or maybe that was just the result of Selys’ drawing skills.
“Okay, this is roughly where all you Humans live. See? The entire northern part of the continent except where the mountains start. From here…to…here.”
Erin peered at the giant squiggly oval Selys drew around the northern section of the continent. Then she added small triangles for mountains two-thirds up the map, a long line of them stretching across the continent, nearly cutting the top third off from the bottom.
“And here’s Liscor. See, we’re the only way through the High Passes. Technically, there’s a route through the mountain range over here…but it’s infested with monsters. And of course the coastal routes to the east and west.”
Selys drew arrows through two sections of the mountain range and circled the small dot where Liscor was. That was roughly in the center of the map, where the continent was narrowest. Erin wasn’t good at geography—or topography—or whatever maps were, but it looked like Liscor was in a valley of some sorts.
“See, that’s why Liscor is so important. Without us, any goods have to go by land or sea all the way around the continent or brave the High Passes. And that’s not a good idea.”
“These High Passes aren’t safe?”
“Not even for high-level adventurers. Nasty creatures live around there—they make the local monsters look harmless by comparison.”
“Oh. But if all the Humans live in the north, what about the south? Are they all…Gnolls and Drakes?”
“And Antinium, but only in the Hivelands. Right along the northwestern coast below the High Passes, see? There are other species, but there are only three—four, I guess—in Izril.”
Selys shook her head as she began marking the bottom half of the map. She pointed out a small area in the lower half of Izril along the mountains and coastal range. A corner of the south.
“Here are the five known Antinium colonies outside of Liscor. Past this point is their territory. The Hivelands.” 
She shivered.
