“Does that cover what you spent on food and torches?”

“It’s a start.”

“Well, there you go then,” Veron said and handed it to the man. “Now we just have to find a few more of these, then pay for Ailis’ purchases, and we’ll break even.”

“Was that a joke?” Elke asked.

“Yes,” Veron said.

She smiled slightly.

“I’m sure we’ll find a few more rusty swords,” Ailis said.

“It’s really the experience we’re here for,” Isaac said. “I’m not joking by the way.”

“Yeah, I agree,” Veron said. “Just kind of funny to find hidden treasure worth fifty iron after we just survived an onslaught of what, just as many rats?”

“I fail to find the humor in that,” Ailis said. “Five silver is five silver.”

“It is. So, ready to move on? We’re about a fourth of the way there,” Veron said.

This time, Elke visibly smiled.

I’m not even sure if I meant that as a joke. But we did just survive a bunch of rats. I guess I’m still a bit on edge. Knowing that I would return if I got eaten by rats kind of makes it feel even worse. I’d have to live with that memory.

Yeah. No thanks.

They checked their maps quickly, adjusting the route they planned to take to almost entirely avoid the sections leading through the broader tunnels. This way, even if they encountered another large group of rats, they would have a better chance of funneling them through one of the smaller entrances or doorways.

And on they went, Veron at the front as they checked through rooms and corridors, most of them decidedly empty, and dark. Only the broad hallways had torches, and he was pretty sure no other adventurers had put them up either. They had their next encounter in another small room, their approach far more efficient this time. Five skeletons were waiting for them, Veron and Ailis taking care of the two next to the doorway, and the others joining in right after to help clear the remaining three. It was a quick affair.

They laid the creatures to rest, and took two more rusty shortswords with them, and an old battle-axe. Isaac checked some of the rooms but they didn’t come across any other hidden stashes.

They found a group of dead rats in the next section of broad tunnel, already extracted. Another team must’ve passed through. The next door they found that led towards their goal was locked again, so they assumed whoever had passed through before them had not chosen the same route.

They fought three more groups of skeletons, none numbering more than four, none managing to injure any of their group. Three more rusty swords and one axe joined the dangling collection that Isaac carried.

And then they reached their goal.
