“Never do what he is doing. If you must cook—do only what you are certain of. Cooking, like anything else, is a means to an end. If it is an adventure like the Necromancer cooks, it will almost always end in a dark place. Usually a toilet.”
Az’kerash glared at her as his Chosen looked up uncertainly. Then he scoffed at her ingredients.
“Do you have enough salt, Nerrhavia? One supposes these new lands risen from the sea will be replete with salt deposits. Possibly enough to replenish how much you are using.”
He was…too chatty. And he was sniping at the literal pile of salt in front of her. Maviola kept poking it.
“I don’t think most people eat this much salt, Lady Nerrhavia.”
“No, of course not. We are baking with salt. This fish will go under it. But first—cut open the belly, girl.”
She handed Maviola the knife, and the fiery haired [Lady] cut the fish open.
“Ew, ew…do we have to pull its guts out?”
“Only the inedible parts. The rest we will bake, including the bones. And stuff the center with herbs. This is a common mix from when I was a girl. Any will do. Skeleton, show the new child how to wash her hands.”
It was nostalgic. Toren looked slightly nervous as he made the newest Chosen wash her hands. Across from them, Az’kerash was having Devail break an egg into a bowl.
“I think I recall infusing ground meat with eggs. Maybe a bit of flour.”
“Pepper, Master?”
Ijvani suggested. Az’kerash gave her a blank look.
“Yes…yes. Put a bit in. This is a lot of meat so—a handful? It’s called a ‘spice rub’. I distinctly remember that.”
Nerrhavia stared at the four eggs mixing with ground fish, not ground beef, and a handful of black pepper. She was long dead—but she shuddered.
He was already damned. But his Chosen were enjoying themselves, and he was too. He was smiling, white hair a bit messy with flour already. Why he needed flour for a terrine…he wasn’t even making any bread to go with it.
Nerrhavia stuck the herbs into the fish, making all her Chosen take part, and then pointed at the salt.
“This goes on top. Then we will bake it until cooked. If you are cooking—you will check on your food to make sure it is done. It is not about memorizing a time—though it is a good rule of thumb. The food should be cooked hot inside and out. Too hot on the outside and cold on the inside will make someone sick.”
“Why salt, Nerrhavia?”
Maviola laughed at the fish, which vanished under a pile of salt. It might offend Perril Chandler’s Terandrian sensibilities, but Nerrhavia just shook her head.
“It was how we cooked when I was a girl. The salt can be reused—though most will not. It is cheap for a place that has access to much salt. I remember when I was hungry, I would take a piece of the salt crust and nibble on it.”
“Didn’t you cook, Lady Nerrhavia?”
The new Chosen spoke, and Nerrhavia glanced at her. She was interesting. The Tyrant took her time in responding.
“We did. But we did not have enough to eat even when we cooked. There is a difference between having enough and making it taste more than adequate. Without enough to fill your stomach, the preparation matters less. Now, you are going to make me bread. And I will touch nothing. Rescue the flour, skeleton.”
Toren stomped over to grab a bag of it. He felt like the great Necromancer and the Immortal Tyrant of legends were raising a bunch of incredibly stupid and deadly Mrshas. He liked it more than being torn apart every day, but wow.
Things were weird these days. Belavierr was still trying to reclaim her daughter, and Nerrhavia was teaching them to cook.
He would have said this was all so silly that they had lost the plot altogether…but the skeleton slowed as he came back with the bag of flour. He reached out…slowly…and a furry paw, dead but beautifully stitched together, took it from him. Two bright eyes blinked at him, and sharp teeth grinned.
Of all the Chosen, the newest to join their ranks was most well-made—in that you could think she was alive, fully, even more than Kerash and Bea in disguise. She also scared him like nothing else.
“What is it, Toren? Master, Master Chandler, look, I’m making bread!”
She waved the bag of flour, and the undead was rewarded with Az’kerash’s smile as flour flew everywhere. Nerrhavia instantly slapped the back of the girl’s head.
“Do not harm my Chosen, Nerrhavia.”
“Then teach them not to waste food.”
The undead Chosen covered her furry head protectively. She was, in fact, what appeared to be a Cat Beastkin. Though she could also turn far more like a cat if she rearranged herself. Toren suspected Az’kerash had copied someone else’s design to come up with a cat…girl. A catgirl? It sounded about right.
She scared Toren, and he stood behind Maviola, who was trying not to get egg on her hands as she cracked them into a bowl. She didn’t understand what made him so nervous, but she had no context.
“Nekhti, you may join us in cooking if you do not wish to learn from Nerrhavia.”
“But I want to make bread.”
She went back to listening to Nerrhavia scold her. Perhaps the Immortal Tyrant also sensed Nekhti was more…animated than some of the Chosen. She had appeared with personality and even more of an emotional grounding than Devail or Wesixa.
“You have improved, at least, in your creation of the Chosen. Why…Nekhti? Are you inspired by the ancient greats, Az’kerash?”
The [Necromancer] was staring at his terrine with the vague apprehension of a man who realized he didn’t know when it was done. It was a slimy mess—he didn’t recall it looking like that.
“I should…we should bake this, shouldn’t we? Yes. Ijvani, start a fire in the oven.”
“How hot, Master?”
“Hot enough to turn meat crispy, but not black. Funny you should mention that, Nerrhavia. By chance, Nekhti named herself when I speculated. It seems she enjoyed the name once it was floated, so I thought it a fitting tribute.”
The new Chosen beamed as she flicked her ears back and forth. Nerrhavia glanced at Toren as the skeleton watched Nekhti.
“Hm. How many will you make?”
“Not a legion. But enough. They will go soon…to the new lands. I will not send them away unsupervised, of course, but they must grow and learn. And—you have said that there is something there that we need. Just put the terrine in the oven, Venitra. Don’t make such a face. You will have to at least pretend to eat, and once I give you the ability to taste, you will appreciate all of this.”
“Yes, Master.”
The huge bone-woman sulked, but she seemed to drink in his smile. Nerrhavia…quickly ordered Maviola and Nekhti to mix up a dough.
“Yes, the new lands. It will be the target for many groups. Across the world.”
“For land and more that you have not said.”
“I imagine it was obvious. I showed Erin Solstice two clues…were you not paying attention?”
She stiffly showed them how to knead the dough. Nerrhavia glanced over, and the Necromancer, who had machinations across the world…
…Was so busy watching Devail eat a tomato slice and spit it out he only focused on her statement after a moment. Then his head snapped around.
“What?”
“The pottery. And thread. Or did you think I was merely taunting her for nothing? Whether or not they find what I dearly suspect to be there…I would think you would scramble to find the missing component of Seithbone.”
Toren and Maviola were eyeing Nerrhavia now as Az’kerash blinked and grew excited. He swept his hair back and blinked.
“That’s what’s hidden there?”
“I thought I would spell it out for you. Since you were so oblivious.”
She gave him an arch sneer, and Az’kerash’s eyes focused—then he burst out laughing with rueful amusement.
“Lost to sea! So you’re telling me that we will soon be competing for…?”
“It will not be simple. Rather amusing, yes.”
Why was she telling him all this for free? Toren looked at Maviola, and Belavierr’s daughter knew intrigue, even if she was only months old. Nerrhavia had led Az’kerash on a merry dance, feeding him tidbits in exchange for his help.
Right now, she was laying things on the table so obviously even Healing Slime was catching up as it ate an orange. Toren glanced at Nerrhavia’s puppet, the Drake woman tapping a claw to her lips, and he realized something.
She looked a bit worried. She kept interrupting Az’kerash as he tried to lecture his Chosen into making little ornamental figures out of fruit or vegetable.
“Little tomato soldier-slices. I remember we’d roast them on a pan over a fire and eat them hot. They never looked as good as when they went in.”
He chuckled. Toren saw him checking on the terrine…the [Necromancer] opened the oven, recoiled from the smoke, and coughed.
“Eugh. It smells like—perhaps too hot, Ijvani.”
“I am sorry, Master!”
“No, it’s my fault. My fault. We could at least taste it. I’ve seen stranger dishes from the kitchens. If we…don’t we have some of that ‘ketchup’? It’s mostly like the sauce I remember glazing dishes with. Yes, a nice glaze—”
Flustered, the Archmage of Death rushed around trying to save his creation. It was already doomed to Rhir’s hells, and Nerrhavia pointedly took out her baked saltfish and let Nekhti crack open the baked salt. They unburied the fish, and the cat-Chosen squeezed her eyes shut as she licked the salt.
“Salty! Taste! Master, I tasted something for the first time ever!”
“You did? And I missed it?”
He was woebegone, then Az’kerash stared down at the grey-black ‘terrine’, roughly assembled in a jello mold shape. There was too much egg vaguely holding together diced, not ground, fish, and black pepper had given it all a grittier texture.
Not enough seasoning, too much seasoning. The ingredients were disturbingly meshed and not at all separate. Toren took it all back.
Az’kerash was about as good at cooking as he, Toren, was. Erin would have fired both of them from her kitchen.
To be fair, even Perril Chandler knew that he’d messed up, but conscious of all of his undead kids, he was trying to cover his sins with ketchup. He eyed Nerrhavia’s baked fish, which she was dissecting for the edible meat. Nekhti and Maviola gobbled down a piece, and both smiled.
“Going to taste your fine cuisine, Necromancer? Or shall we focus on Seithbone components?”
She gave him a mocking smile—but Toren thought it was still worried. She was giving him an out. Yet Az’kerash saw his Chosen staring at the horrible creation with pride and gulped. He lifted a spoon that Wesixa handed him.
“But we have not tried the food yet, Archmage Chandler.”
“True, Wesixa. True…Devail, h-how does it taste?”
Nerrhavia looked up sharply; Devail had taken the first bite of the food, and he looked…confused. The thin undead, all sinew and muscle, with his rapier at his side, turned to Az’kerash.
“I do not know what taste is, Sir Chandler. My mouth is doing odd things. It wants to do this.”
He had no real stomach since he was so compact, so he spat out the food, and Az’kerash hesitated. The [Necromancer], who knew exactly why Devail had just done that, hesitated as Ijvani dug him out a mound of food for him to fill his mouth with.
“You told them to call you Archmage Chandler? Sir Chandler?”
Nerrhavia tried to interrupt Az’kerash. He looked at her, and the man…
The man, Toren realized, blinked through white pupils and tried to avoid smelling the food. Since when had he smelled? Since when had the undead [Necromancer], the [Undying Lich, Myth of Death and Vengeance] had taste?
But he looked so nervous as he lifted the bite of horrible terrine to his mouth—then Toren saw Nerrhavia bite her lip as Az’kerash replied.
“I thought it was more fitting. I will confess, my Chosen—this might not be of the same quality as I had in Silvaria. When I was there, I remember—I remember—”
He was laughing weakly, taking a half-bite of the food, chewing as his undead body tried to gag—and forcing the food down through the same will that had seen him break armies with his magic alone.
He barely swallowed, and even Nerrhavia applauded that. A rueful [Archmage] of Wistram, quickly grabbing a cup of water. A famed duelist, trying to look good for his apprentices. A father in front of children trying to teach them—
And then, it came upon him as he remembered more of what it was to live. Az’kerash’s smile, his nauseated look—and the words, the words came back to him as if he had heard them for the first time.
The smile winked out. He looked up, and Toren saw a man with faint brown eyes, tinged with black sparks radiating outwards, and a face lined by years, black hair slightly floury—staring at him.
Who…? For one second, Toren looked at a living man, or as close as he could see. A copy of, perhaps, the [Archmage of Death]. Sir Perril Chandler. Son of Silvaria.
Then the rest of the man’s life came flooding in. Toren saw a bloody line open across his neck. As if cut there—twice—one cut halfway through his neck, but stopped—the second severing it all.
An executioner’s axe. Ijvani dropped the spoon as the death-wound appeared. Az’kerash’s eyes opened wide, and the color bled out of them. Even his pupils, black, seemed to bleed outwards until a white core appeared.
His hair turned white. He stood there—and tears ran from his eyes. Tears…and he looked down at his hands. A dead man’s hands.
It was then that Toren glanced over and saw Nerrhavia’s worried face. For this was not the impartial lich, the emotionless, nearly inanimate master of death who had barely looked up from his works when Ryoka Griffin first found him. That being had been ground down from a century of war. A century of death and defeat.
This man…this was Perril Chandler, the one who had lived so long, done so much—and been betrayed at the end of it. Been executed by his own kingdom.
One a living man full of foibles and ego and mistakes.
The other the very incarnation of undeath’s vengeance against the living. He had been changing this entire year. Reminded of what it was to be alive by Teriarch’s gift. By observing the living.
By Pisces. And this was good, wasn’t it? He had helped people. Taken sides. If you said that, most people, perhaps even Erin, would have agreed.
But if you said it to Nerrhavia? She would have looked you in the eyes with the same apprehension that was in hers now and asked you one thing:
Who did you fear more? The Lich who forgot he had ever breathed or the man who had once loved?
“Master? Master, are you alright? Venitra, you messed up the fish.”
Ijvani tugged on Az’kerash’s arm, clearly worried. The blackmetal skeleton looked at the huge bone knight, and Venitra protested.
“I did not! It was…Bea! She cracked too many eggs.”
“No I didn’t. Did I, Master?”
