“We have not been overrun by monsters, so I think they’re alive. I have not seen them since, and our few approaches have been warned away. The ones on Izril? Holding. Levelling, to hear it. There is a 7th Hive now.”
“More dangerous than the rest?”
Silvenia conjured a toothpick and hid her mouth as she cleaned her teeth. It was a habit of old.
“But for the Small Queen, I could wipe them out in five minutes I think.”
“You say that about every army.”
“It is a good benchmark. But what’s this about the Crossroads of Izril? Do you know where to find them? Our own colonists might use it well.”
Czautha frowned. She and Serinpotva were old—but ironically, Silvenia was older than the ‘young’ Djinni, who wasn’t nearly as old as some could be, and the Empress of Harpies in exile.
Serinpotva’s feathers and hair had turned greyer with age, but she was youngest of them all. She frowned at Silvenia.
“Is this a joke? I would have thought you knew the most of them.”
Silvenia’s eyes glittered. She put down her toothpick.
“I know they existed. But I did not live on Izril long. Dragons are zealous. What I know is that they were closed after the City of Shields fell.”
“Before my existence. Why?”
“Because they destroyed it, and it was there of course. Do you think that a Tier 9 spell going off wouldn’t leave a scar visible even across the ages?”
Thanks to their alliance, the Demons knew more of the history of the world than most nations that had forgotten. Serinpotva exhaled.
“So that is where it was. The records I read indicated not where, and I did not put that together. I know of the Crossroads of Izril. My mother’s empire knew it.”
Ah. Silvenia’s eyes sharpened with great interest.
“Then you know how to fulfill the quest?”
The Death of Wings shrugged.
“To find them—yes. But I had a question. Why were the Crossroads of Izril not used in your time, Silvenia?”
That was easy. The half-Elf sighed and put her head back as the Demons listened or talked and enjoyed their lives below. She spoke to the ceiling.
“A Tier 9 spell blasted the City of Shields. It ruined part of the Crossroads of Izril, and, I think, the effects are still felt to this day. Why did I not explore in my days as an adventurer or [Archmage]? Simple. I had heard that they were closed—and entire Walled Cities cut off—because the Crossroads were blighted. Like Rhir. Even opening or passing through it was death. Imagine a firestorm opening where once had been a safe haven.”
Czautha shook her head.
“The sins of the City of Shields must have been unimaginable. Or…their foes that wretched.”
“Both!”
Silvenia grinned. Then she glanced at Serinpotva. The Death of Wings nodded.
“It answers why it was closed. But the question is—what has changed over those ages? I know how to get to them. I even suspect they are still used. There is more than one way to enter. Be it Skill. Be it place. I wonder why this [Innkeeper] posted the quest. Was it just the City of Stars?”
“…You make it sound as if that will be difficult, even if the Crossroads open fully.”
Silvenia leaned forwards with great, great interest. Serinpotva slowly nodded.
“What I know, Silvenia, Czautha, is this. The Crossroads of Izril are unto a different plane of Izril…with different challenges. With great reward for treasure seekers, but I know this: it held more than one Walled City. And every single one is lost. If not destroyed completely—lost. Mershi may lie there. But if I were going, I would take you, Silvenia. And no one lesser.”
The Death of Magic relaxed then. She sat back, smiled, and knew she’d sleep soundly that night after she stopped pacing.
“Oh, Serinpotva. Then I shall go whenever you call. You do know how to make me smile.”
She lifted a glass of the wine she’d made, and the Death of Wings exhaled as a gust of wind blew up a glass and she caught it between two feathers. Czautha joined her, and they clinked glasses.
 
——
 
That night, Erin Solstice ate an acceptable meal of goulash. She regretted her choice. Goulash was a stew of noodles and beans, a kind of variation on a stew and a nice soup.
But she’d ordered it to be extra-fancy and impress Niers, and he made fun of her as the Fraerlings ate their food. They kept dropping on by his table where he was playing a game of chess, and Erin scowled hugely as she sat in the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Oh, hello, Miss Solstice. I just happened to be coming by with some pulped cerdoy fruit. Well, I say ‘pulped’, but we actually have a machine that harvests the nuts, crushes the fruits, removes the spines, and then we ferment it into this drink. Utterly banal, I know. It’s practically water.”
“It’s just alcohol.”
Erin grumbled as Iuncuta Eirnos did a double-take. The woman stared at her glass.
“Alcohol? I never thought of it like that. I guess it’s the exact same as a beer that tastes like piss. What do you do? Oh yes, you ferment wheat. What’s that you have, Commander Rozcal?”
“Just Yellat juice. Alcohol made from Yellats. Same as piss-beer. Is that a kovta-kebab?”
“Oh, it’s just meat on a stick. Not like we put anything on it like spice rub, cut it out of a Melonfrog, put some lovely lemon-orange juice on it—”
“Frog? Yuck!”
The Fraerlings threw up their hands.
“Oh, we can’t eat frogs now? First no eating snails, then no eating frogs; well, I object to you eating cows! I like cows, so no more beef for you!”
Niers had to save Erin from them, mostly for his own good. The sulking [Innkeeper] was taking it out on him via the chessboard.
“I suppose we can write this one off. The day, I mean.”
“You said it. I’ve learned my food lesson. I’ll never fight the food cartel again. Respect the [Chef]. Kiss the [Chef].”
Calescent hesitated as he poked his head through the [Garden of Sanctuary] to see if she liked her goulash. That was a funny saying. He should put it on a sign or something. You never know what could happen.
Niers Astoragon smiled as Erin chomped down on her food. He looked at her and exhaled.
“You know, what with all this momentum happening, it’s good to relax now and then. Healthy. I don’t take my own advice, but I’m decent at giving it. Tomorrow, why don’t we talk about Perorn? She’s my only officer on Izril, but I trust her more than Foliana.”
A toothpick poked him from the side, and Niers swore, hacked it in half before it could poke again, and shook his fist to the side. Erin laughed faintly.
“Alright, alright. I would like to meet her, especially if the Horns are in her area. You win.”
“Good, and tomorrow—”
Niers Astoragon thought it had been a productive day. Food could really bring things out in people. Bring them closer together, remind them of things…
Food mattered. Especially because a lot of important events happened at a meal. Assassinations, weddings, food poisoning…
And sometimes—the Fraerling sat bolt upright. His eyes opened wide, and Erin looked over to see if Foliana had poked him again. Niers was frozen, and the Fraerlings watching stopped laughing, and Foliana drew a dagger. But Niers just held up a hand and then wiped at his brow. He looked around and then coughed.
“What’s today’s date? Someone? Anyone?”
Eirnos stared at him, then called out the date. Niers nodded. He pulled out a calendar, made a mark, and then cleared his throat.
“Alright. Time check. Tomorrow, I’ve got an engagement with Miss Erin.”
“Aw, come on, don’t use that word.”
“A date?”
“…Go back to the first one.”
He winked at her. Niers heard a laugh, and then he spoke over the beating of his heart. It sounded like excitement and joy.
“We’ll go over her inn, plans, and so on—and two Skills. And that makes it roughly…four months. My new Skill is off cooldown.”
He winked at Erin Solstice with all the mirth in the world. Then he reached for a sorbet. You had to have dessert, too.
