“Adoive is a misguided child of Khelt. He oft considered his importance paramount to any around him. I was glad to know he lived; he has sent more desperate pleas in the decade since he was banished.”
“That long?”
Pewerthe was surprised. Many Kheltians did not fare well in a world where they had to pay for food and shelter. Fetohep inclined his head and sighed.
“His poor threats indicate he has risen in some regard. Pay it no mind. [Bandits] will not try Khelt’s border and find them lacking.”
Even now. His gaze searched Alked’s, and the Named-rank adventurer bowed.
“Who would be mad enough to try a Jaw of Zeikhal, Your Majesty?”
“True. True…though he made odder threats this time.”
Fetohep turned and put his hands behind his back. He stared east then, across the seemingly endless Zeikhal. Not towards any one nation he might pick…his gaze seemed to search and find nothing.
Fetohep had an unerring sense of direction and the ability to place any nation on a map relative to his current location. Pewerthe frowned.
“Your Majesty? Who has this Adoive fallen in with?”
“A…group of troublemakers who had preyed mostly south of Khelt. I say ‘preyed’, but their actions have been beneficial and troublesome, both. They have clashed with Khelt, local empires, and refuse to be bound by any laws. Decent fighters, but civilians. Have you heard of…a ‘Prophet’?”
He spoke the words slowly. Pewerthe had never heard the word used like that, and Alked frowned. He leaned on his relic of a bow as Fetohep’s gaze searched the sands. What he did not say to his citizens was this.
The Prophet had heard of Khelt’s lands of milk and honey. Despite neither flowing from Khelt’s sands, despite the fact that they imported it, despite location and a world apart, he took it as a sign. Adoive had requested, then demanded, then threatened in the Prophet’s name, and Fetohep had ignored him as he had a decade past.
But this last missive was more direct. And it had ended with one note:
The Prophet comes for Khelt.
And of any threat ever made to him in his six hundred plus years of existence…Fetohep felt a prickle upon his dead flesh. A warning, perhaps, and the light of his eyes shining with undeath and magic felt a strange force pressing at him from far, far away.
It felt like—
Faith.
 
——-
 
Today, after yesterday.
Today, as in, ‘today after yesterday when an [Innkeeper] revealed there were six dead gods who might try to consume my soul and told me she had met Gnomes’…was an interesting day.
What would today bring? The real question at least eight people asked—most likely many, many more—was this:
“What is Erin Solstice doing today?”
And the answer came to them, by hook or by crook, through informants or conversations with her directly or magic—
“She’s comparing recipes. For food.”
Naturally, after they thought about it, laughed, cursed her very existence, or threw the teller out a window—those who heard what Erin was up to decided they could find some good eats as well.
But first, you had to admit that there was something offensive about comparing Fraerling food and Khelt’s cuisine to cooking as the rest of the world knew it.
To put it finely, as the [Earl of the Rains] explained to some bemused guests as they toured Desonis—a shower of rain falling on the [Magic Parasol] that Lady Menrise had conjured for the group, a vast pink shield overhead—
“…I would not say Desonis is poor, but Khelt’s opulence is the very definition of decadent. Kaaz is rich, and you would call Kheltian largesse—?”
He turned to Hundredlord Cortese, and the dueling [Lord] stalking forwards next to his grumpy cat who was getting her paws wet in the mud—the lioness Baeris—retorted.
“Disgusting, of course.”
He was walking next to Princess Seraphel, who kept gingerly poking the ground with a walking stick. She had a riding skirt on, and it was not fit for Desonis’ mud. Even if the walkways were paved with stones and gravel for some kind of grip in the wet—
They could not use dirt because the endless rainfall would turn it to mud. She had fallen twice already, and one of her Thronebearers had used up her supply of [Restore Appearance]. Seraphel’s new, best servant, the Bringer of Toilet Paper as Rabbiteater had dubbed her, Beacle, had at least two cuts on her arm and leg Seraphel looked incredibly guilty about.
[I Bear My Mistress’ Stains] included minor cuts and bruises. Rabbiteater kept staring at Beacle, which was why Seraphel had resorted to the unseemly walking stick.
That was so disturbing to the Izrilian Goblin it had quite put off the mood of Altestiel’s tour of his lands. Cortese had told Rabbiteater to stop commenting on it because it was embarrassing Seraphel. Menrise had provoked the discussion of Erin to distract everyone, and Altestiel brought up the cooking.
In fairness, normally the Thronebearers would have scouted the way, set down actual dirt or made sure Seraphel had not a chance of falling. But, uh…there were about a fifth as many as Seraphel warranted, especially for a state visit.
She was going to Izril, after all, and most of the Thronebearers were prepping for the journey. The crown was fully in support of the joint effort.
Just not Seraphel. They could not gainsay her—so they didn’t. Altestiel did try to lighten the mood a bit.
“Just look on the bright side, you all. You’ll experience some fine Desonis cooking and our hospitality before we sail on across to Izril—and during the dry season!”
“…The what season?”
The other four of the Ivorybound, the Umbral Diplomats—Rabbiteater wouldn’t stop coming up with nicknames, and worse, people were starting to refer to them like that—looked askance.
“Altestiel, I am delighted we can take your fine ships from Desonis—your fleets are as mighty as Pheislant’s and famously so. But dry?”
Seraphel wanted to get back to his mansion, but he had taken them through the wetlands flowing with literally thousands of streams of water criss-crossed by the high-ground where his citizens walked. But Altestiel had been taken with the notion of cooking, and he was determined to give them the real thing.
“Oh, when it’s monsoon season, we couldn’t walk for being blown away. A noblewoman in full skirts? I once saw a poor woman from Nadel flying two hundred feet before we caught her!”
Menrise, predictably, started laughing at the idea. Seraphel just shook her head.
“And why, pray, are we here? I don’t imagine anyone cooks in the rain.”
Altestiel grew serious.
“No, we’ll stay at one of the towns up ahead. They have a kitchen—but I asked them to prepare us a fresh bounty.”
“Ah. Well, what are we eating?”
Cortese and his lion licked their lips. The man had an appetite for food, duels, and cats. Sex might feature lower down, but those were the top three. In reply, Altestiel gave him the blankest stare in the entire world.
“I have no idea. Kiish, do you know?”
“Not a clue, Earl. It’ll be served with forkev.”
“Ah, good.”
The Ivory Four gave each other a look of long suspicion. Rabbiteater tapped Altestiel on the shoulder.
“…You don’t know what we’re eating?”
“I know what we’ll be eating. Fish, or maybe some game if they’ve got pigs, venison from deer…I hope they don’t try to buy something fancy. It’ll be served with forkev. The cut of meat doesn’t matter as much.”
That was the main point, obviously. This offended Cortese so much he began to argue with Altestiel—and nearly fell into one of the swampy channels. Not so much a fast-flowing river as a freshwater channel, six feet across and deep. It connected the many lakes and ponds to the inlets that ran into the sea—and when the tide changed—sometimes back up into Desonis’ marshes.
Freshwater fish lived here, and freshwater monsters. This was Hydra territory, and Rabbiteater himself didn’t relish a marshy fight. Desonis was horrendous to invade for a land-based army, and Altestiel, as their [Earl], was an expert on this kind of fighting front.
But it was not combat they had today. Altestiel caught Cortese, laughing.
“Forkev’s a…topping? Spice? All and more, Cortese! Surely you’ve had it?”
“We, that is to say, I have. It’s delightful. We buy some from [Merchants].”
“[Merchants]. It’s not locally made. I bet it’s just a spice rub.”
Altestiel scoffed, and Kiish made a similar sound of disapproval as only a local could at their falsely-exported cuisine. Now, Rabbiteater was getting interested, so he turned his helmeted head and saw a bunch of men and women in the rain.
One was a Drowned Folk; the others had the classic raincloaks of oiled hide or similar material that kept them dry. Only their eyes were visible as they bowed to Altestiel. They were all clustered around what seemed to be a fishing line in the ground.
A big one. Practically a rope, and they were hauling up a huge piece of canvas. Not a net—and the weight was so intense all of them had to lift it as Altestiel suggested they give them a hand.
“Haul the rope. Come on, it’s probably at least several hundred pounds!”
Water ran from the sides, and Cortese grumbled. Rabbiteater seized the rope since this was fun, and Seraphel gingerly grabbed a rope—and was nearly hauled off her feet as the energetic Goblin heaved.
“I didn’t come to work! Why aren’t you using a net, Altestiel?”
“The fish are too small for it! Or rather—”
“Eels!”
Menrise shouted as the canvas bag opened and the contents went spilling into an actual net, which caught hundreds of the writhing, tiny little black things—the water and some of the ones so small they went through the net sploshed past the haulers.
An eel landed in Seraphel’s hair, and she began to freak out.
“It’s on me! It’s on me—”
“It’s just a wiggly eel. And there’s only five. Here’s one.”
Rabbiteater tossed it down the neck of her dress by accident as it flopped out of his gauntleted hand. Cortese saw his lion bite one off the muddy ground.
“Eels? They’re tiny, Altestiel!”
“Well, they’re for the forkev. Come on, Cortese. Let’s let them haul this back to the town, and we’ll get to watching them mix it up. It’s always in a Dry Spot.”
 
——
 
The towns in Desonis were, naturally, on high ground and monsoon-proofed against wind and rain. But even then, it was so wet that you had to be okay with the rain and water being most places or go insane.
But because they needed somewhere to store food where it wouldn’t rot, every house and settlement had ‘Dry Spots’. Which were zealously water-free. It was also here you’d retreat if the floods were coming.
Rabbiteater grunted as a ghostly hand poked him in the shoulder. He ignored it as it went through his armor. Then it poked him again. And again.
Seraphel was trying to get back at him for the eel and his mockery. The Goblin was used to friendly Redfang punches and studiously ignored her. Menrise took pity on Seraphel and handed the [Princess] a wand. When the 4th Princess tapped Rabbiteater on the side with it, the spark of electricity made him shout and leap to his feet so fast it scared the [Mixer Cook] half to death.
The old woman nearly dropped the dried baby eels as Rabbiteater apologized and shoved the red-faced Seraphel. Altestiel glowered at them.
“You’re going to ruin the food! Children, the lot of you. Rabbit has an excuse.”
“I’m sorry. Forgive me.”
Cortese ignored the altercation. He was still looking highly offended.
“I thought we’d eat the eels! They’re quite tasty. I liked how you reared them, but this? Really?”
They were drying the eels and grinding them up into a paste! The [Mixer Cook] had a rolling pin and a stone base, and she was using the eels as a kind of powder. She had fennel, green onions, and so many spices that Rabbiteater’s mouth was watering. Some looked hot, and he knew Desonis had fiery cooking to make up for the wet.
“Why baby eels?”
“They taste better. And it’s not as if we’re taking from the channels. Allet—this town—has several eel channels. They feed them every day like we did.”
Before they’d come into the town and gotten dry, Altestiel had given them all sacks of what Rabbiteater had discovered were spicy peppercorns and told them to throw them into the channel they’d gotten the eels out of. The water had turned frothing with all the hungry shapes, and Rabbiteater had been astonished to learn it was an entire fishery.
But rather than a building, Desonis’ folk kept channels of ‘safe’ freshwater creatures they intended to nurture. They hung nets to prevent larger predators, like sharks, Hydras, or anything else, from getting into the area and, in some cases, fed the fish on specific diets.
The fatty eels went into a lot of dishes, but these little ones, once they’d been baked of their oils and the oil saved for other tasks, were ground up and mixed with a positively neverending amount of shallots, roasted peppers, and even some big, squashy tuber-plant they denuded of shell. They put the charred shell in the forkev as it was ground up.
It was a kind of ‘waste not’ cooking that created forkev, the main spice you put on the catch of herring that was waiting for the Ivory Five. Over time, it had become a national cuisine, and while the red paste did not seem that appetizing to Seraphel, who thought they’d mostly ground it up, she didn’t often see what went into the individual components her [Chefs] used to prepare their dishes.
Cortese and Rabbiteater could appreciate when the [Mixer Cook] put the prepared sauce into a big pot and then spooned in lard.
“Ooh. This is good now.”
“Ah. No objections.”
The Hundredlord’s stomach rumbled as he rubbed his hands. To complete forkev, you had to add in a broth and some lard. You could make do with…butter…and some lesser liquid, but each town had their own variation of the recipe.
When it was done, it was less paste and more a rich, semi-liquid sauce that was drizzled generously over a prime filet grilled on a cast-iron pan and served to the five. Seraphel expected a second course or appetizers, but aside from some braised seaweed salad on the side, Altestiel looked delighted.
“A simple, filling lunch. Fresh, hot, and perfect after a light shower. Dig in!”
Rabbiteater sat behind a ‘privacy screen’ as he opened his visor and shoveled a bite in. He stuck his head out from the side as the Desonis folk watched and then raised two thumbs.
“Ish good!”
The eels made all the difference, especially when you raised them on a special diet. Altestiel beamed as Seraphel ate faster than she normally did. Maybe it was the cold and wet or being with friends—but she actually had an appetite.
“If only we could stay here a month! I like this so much!”
