Cheese, wine, beans, fish…the Quarass knew all of that. So she watched as a frothy mixture of warm water, crushed, dry Yellats, and steamed beans were mixed together. Along with fungus.
“Fungus?”
Khalid looked horrified and nauseated to learn that most of his favorite dipping sauces included fungi that were grown on the wet mixtures to give them that flavor. The Quarass flicked her fingers at him as Vaitsha kept well away from the vats.
“If you eat mushrooms, this is no different. It comes on a smaller level, but this is the heartblood of cooking. Without it, you would have no yeast to make bread. No taste in anything not fresh! Time and time again, Germina has recovered this knowledge and sold it to the world.”
Especially when apocalypse happened. Germina might be poor now, but at times, it had reinvented yeasts for breads and sold them to a world rebuilding out of ash. The Quarass missed those times. Rebuilding was always in her favor because she remembered. The parts before that…less fun.
Yeast germ was another component too. She would admit that the brown water looked…brackish at best and unappetizing, especially with a foam of literal bacteria on top. She knew it as a good sign the fermentation was happening, and one of the managers of this plant bowed to her deeply.
“Germina remembers, Khalid. See? Fraerlings may have the technology we lack…but we have the craft.”
She had visited Fraerling settlements, and they had magic and metal that could automatically mix dough, harvest huge animals, which they needed…but their quality-of-life tools weren’t always good for the end results.
Germina used unenchanted wood, solid vats for their fermentation, not metal or enchanted materials. It meant they did wear down over decades, but it added to the growth and flavor. Naturally, Germina had more skill to it than that.
The workers were adding in yeast to the vats in progress, and this was a process of months of slow fermentation—but the end result would be a sauce so fine that it would drive the Emperor of Drath to buy some of her supply. And Fetohep as well.
The previous Quarass had let this place go slack—but the new one was making up for her previous incarnation’s laxity. The workers lifted a glowing stone attached to the stirring poles out of the vat—and Khalid and Vaitsha had seen how tubes were affixed to the innards with the same magical stone.
Magic. The yeast and bacterium grew well on it. Too much could be…nasty…but you could also make fine poisons by adding magic to the fermentation process. Just enough to give them a kick and accelerate or enhance an already fine creation.
The Quarass herself deigned to taste the final result. After months or years of fermentation, the sauces were poured into huge manual vises that were slowly pressed to release raw liquid. You could keep doing this for a long time.
But she always relished…the Quarass held a little spoon out, caught some dark orange liquid, and it tasted fine on her tongue, rich and sharply salty until it leaked a tiny bit of sweetness for relief.
“Good. Add two cups more yeast. Two cups…one tablespoon. Two months, and we will have a second taste then.”
She addressed her manager’s head and licked her lips. She had a lot to offer a friend—and good cooking and sauce were but one thing.
She was willing to be Erin Solstice’s friend. The [Innkeeper]—had met ghosts, and the Quarass felt a connection there.
But she was wary as well. Wary of Erin Solstice’s incautiousness—or perhaps desperation. The Quarass had to know what Trey Atwood had witnessed. Her spies hadn’t been able to overhear what had put Flos’ army into disarray thanks to Gazi, but she knew something had been said.
The problem was…if Erin Solstice knew the Quarass, she knew the issue just like the Quarass of Germina. Which was—neither one knew which side the Quarass would choose.
She had been on the ‘right’ side and ‘wrong’ side so many times she lost count. She had been overthrown, been a hero—she took the side her current incarnation thought was best for her and Germina and Chandrar. She wanted to be on Erin’s side.
Even if some Quarass’ personalities were so bad as to overpower her wisdom—again, like the last one—most Quarasses had learned lessons.
Such as why Roshal was dangerous. The darkness that lay in delving into their ways. When to stand together, why isolationism would end up with you dying alone and surrounded. Even the benefits of mercy and kindness and a people that were well-fed. Although the Quarass had also observed how a blade was far more direct.
This was why the Quarass was willing to take Erin’s ‘side’ until she had a better offer. And she knew that Erin had talked to a lot of people.
Including the Emir Yazdil. He had reached out to the Quarass regarding an alliance on Izril. She had refused to hear him out, citing the King of Destruction as a dangerous foe to gainsay in any way.
They both knew she was lying, but he had dropped it. The Quarass was going to Izril with few allies, but she mostly wanted the rewards, not to have another colony to manage. She was an opportunist who sought only Germina’s glory, and everyone else was grist to that mill.
Or so she thought. Right up until someone asked her for an audience that she had not expected—but who was so respected in Germina even she agreed without making them wait.
“Seer of Steel.”
“QUARASS. I APOLOGIZE IF I HAVE DISTURB—”
Tulm adjusted the volume on the scrying orb, and the Quarass took her fingers out of her ears. Even so, the Seer of Steel’s voice was so gargantuan it sounded loud.
“APOLOGIES. TULM. HOW DO YOU BEAR TO TALK WITH ME SO OFTEN?”
“Earplugs. Quarass, we salute Ger, our allies of old.”
“So too to one of Mithril, so too to the one who has chosen to walk war their lives ahead. Leaders of the Iron Vanguard. Why come you to Ger?”
She was glad they didn’t seem to regard her as a child. They were clever enough to know the Quarass—the Iron Vanguard had some ties to Germina. But she had not nearly as much power as when she had dealt with the Dullahans of old.
The world was changing. Still, the two Dullahans bowed to her as their heads rested on pillows, then their bodies withdrew. There was formality to how the Quarass symbolically lay on one side on a bed of pillows, head propped up as if it, too, were detached from her body.
It made them smile.
“GERMINA OF FEW NATIONS HAS LONG SINCE UNDERSTOOD OUR PEOPLE. WHERE THE BLIGHTED KINGDOM DOES NOT. WHERE EVEN BALEROSIANS DO NOT. DRATH, GERMINA, FEW ALLIES.”
The Seer of Steel nodded to her, and the Quarass nodded back.
“And Demons? Are they allies or merely fair-weather friends?”
A Dullahan woman had been serving the two food. She slipped, and Tulm’s body stopped her from falling. She fell back, blushing, as the Seer of Steel frowned a second. Another Dullahan took over, and the Quarass observed their cuisine as something similar was placed in front of her.
Drath had long traded culture with the Iron Vanguard, so that informed some of their foods—as well as a strong seafaring tradition. But Dullahans were a visual people. If they ate in this situation, it was not for sustenance but to add to the talks.
Visually, it looked like a flower slowly being unwrapped by two lacquered chopsticks. A beautiful flower, but an artificial one; petals falling away onto a plate. Revealing a disc of soft bread stamped with the heraldry of Germina.
Very beautiful. Very flattering. Flowers for dry Chandrar; it also baked in a floral element to the bread itself. You had to be very good to keep the bitterness out—and the Dullahans had fruit-based sauces from Baleros’ warmer lands.
They did love fruit, Dullahans. It was a prized commodity in the cold north and one reason they pushed south so often. The two politely ate as pieces were served to them; this too was ritual. They were not eating at their own pace, but taking moments to have a piece delicately inserted into their mouths by a helper. In a Dullahan-only environment, it meant you were dining the same dish, the same way. Communal.
The Quarass, for her part, had prepared shaved ice colored with sweet honey and dyes. She had personally had to show Vaitsha how to do it; there was art in drawing a ship among waves on the ice so fast it didn’t melt or grow out of focus.
Just a bit of art she’d picked up. A ship roaring through the waves, no other iconography, but it made the Dullahans smile. They appreciated the other’s menu for a moment until the Seer of Steel spoke.
“WE ARE NEUTRAL IN RHIR. ANY OTHER STATEMENT WOULD BE UNTRUE AND UNWISE, QUARASS.”
“Very well.”
If Wistram were listening in, it wouldn’t be any shock. But she had mainly wanted his reaction. Judging by his frown, they weren’t in direct alliance.
Tulm had looked a tiny bit disconcerted, though, and hid it with the Dullahans’ ‘blank’ mask they thought they did so well. But nothing obvious stuck out to her.
Good to know. The Quarass harvested all this data like she always did, and the Dullahans’ heads exchanged a look.
“RECORDS SPOKE OF HOW DANGEROUS IT WAS TO GO TO THE QUARASS EVEN IN ADAMANTIUM. SHE COULD FIND ANY CHINK IN ARMOR. ANY WORD SPOKEN WAS A VOLUME TO HER. WITH APOLOGIES, QUARASS, I SEE IT IS TRUE.”
She took it as a grand compliment and smiled. They wrote that of her in their secret files? Tulm took over with a duck of his head.
“We shall be direct, Quarass. Straight as steel, for we are not the Iron Vanguard that once shone like Orichalcum but a lesser metal. We are headed to the new lands. You surely know that.”
You and every nation. It didn’t surprise the Quarass. Of all of Baleros’ Great Companies, the Iron Vanguard was the only one with a huge naval presence. Howling Maelstrom might want to go, and the Titan surely did, but they had stymied both at their attempts to build up navies.
It was one of the reasons why she didn’t fear Balerosian invasion as much as Terandrian or—until she had watched the Circle of Thorns explode—Izrilian. The Iron Vanguard was a good check on Balerosian ambition, and ironically, Baleros would be more dangerous if they were gone.
The Titan’s forces on Izril worried her. As did his Fraerling allies. But the Dullahans?
“If you seek an alliance, I am tethered to the King of Destruction. Surely the Iron Vanguard does not lack for strength?”
They had great war-vessels of old, and while they kept to their north…how much power would they send to Izril? The Quarass was interested, but the next thing Tulm said made her worry.
“We are sending fifteen Divisions of Armor to Izril, Quarass. Fifteen to start, and we would count Germina’s fine [Assassins] and your network of knowledge—and advice—among our allies if you would agree to it. Warriors would be welcome, but your favor we crave.”
Fifteen? The Quarass kept her face relaxed, not giving in to any liar’s signs, but she was stunned. That wasn’t a colonization force.
That was an invasion force fit to wipe out any competitors. 
“Why…would the Iron Vanguard desire new lands that greatly? Surely they are aware of the axiom your people first spoke: ‘The hammer that falls harder rebounds ever higher’.”
That many soldiers would make them a huge target. Unless they knew other nations were sending just as much? But Tulm shook his head, and the Seer of Steel spoke quietly.
“…NO EYES UPON US. SPEAK, TULM.”
“We do not go for mere treasure or lands, Quarass, though that is one goal. We go…because I have just been informed by two sources, both very trustworthy, that there is every reason for us to make this a matter for our entire company. It stems from the heart of our people, and you, of all, know it full well. I have heard it from a…contact who has spoken to me personally. And from Terandria. Do you know what they say?”
She knew ahead of time as soon as he began. Only one thing would make them move with such vehemence. Such wariness and anger because they had been burned before. Literally. She spoke, and her brows crossed.
“Dragons.”
“At least two. And we believe the Walled Cities hide at least one. Not light foes either. Our allies in Terandria have told us they witnessed one of the oldest, most deadly.”
“Which?”
Which ones were still alive after the Creler Wars? The Quarass sat there as Tulm spoke, and she sighed very quietly.
Oh, him. Why now? She had thought he was done and had learned every lesson. Why…
“QUARASS. WILL YOU JOIN US? WE OFFER YOU THIS INFORMATION DESPITE THE DANGERS OF ALERTING OUR FOES OUT OF OUR LONG FRIENDSHIP. FOR THE SHIELD KINGDOMS OF CHANDRAR ARE OUR ALLIES IN THIS FIGHT, AND YOURS IS THE MOST TRUSTWORTHY OF THEM.”
She looked up as the Dullahans watched her. In response, the Quarass lifted her shoulders.
“Seer of Steel. When Tulm convinced you to take this call with me, he told you I would not agree or disagree in the moment. Yet still you asked. Why?”
A startled, booming laugh came from the Dullahan, whose massive face sat four times taller than Tulm’s on a pillow. Tulm himself blinked, but then his head nodded ruefully. The Quarass flicked her fingers and lifted them to her mouth
It still smelled sweet from the vats of fermenting sauce. Sweet…but it cloyed now, like war and blood and a hefty burden. Again and again…she nodded to them.
“I will make my decision and remember how we spoke. No more, no less.”
They bowed, and the Quarass was left sitting in silence afterwards. And this knowledge changed much.
Sides and sides. Shakily, she turned on the scrying orb. Where did Erin Solstice fall? Her people had warred and loved Dragons, or so Trey claimed, but only in stories. If Rasea was an ally that could be relied upon—
One great ally or enemy had left her home. Left it to Eldavin, who was so unsettling, and had seemed to quit her responsibilities for…Nerrhavia? Truly? She had taken on a job, and in her way, had already made it successful.
A [Merchant]. The Quarass had suspicions about why, and it would be a sad thing if she were right, but—
The image of Cognita Truestone appeared as she walked next to a far shorter Stitch-man, who kept glancing up at her as a bevy of servants moved to the Truestone Golem’s command. Eight feet tall, made of marble, beautiful, carved, precise—the greatest of Golems, Cognita Truestone had been months in Nerrhavia’s Fallen already.
She had a wide-brimmed wicker hat that seemed to be meant for someone on vacation. Perhaps she was no longer as certain as she had been when the Quarass had seen her last. But her green eyes were still dangerous.
And she was looking right at the Quarass. The Truestone Golem lifted a finger as the Quarass froze.
“I dislike spying, Quarass. Do not make me remember Wistram.”
