The mockery had hurt her feelings. She’d showed them a pizza, and one of them had laughed so hard he’d fallen off a table. Her tricks that had impressed the Drakes and Gnolls of Liscor and Humans of Celum…would not have won her acclaim in Fraerling cities.
“It’s just because they have amazing technology. My food is great.”
“Indeed.”
“My world might not have magic, but it’s got culture. Lots of it. Countless thousands of years of good food.”
“This is self-evident.”
“I don’t deserve to be called basic.”
Erin scowled as she talked with another of her friends far-flung across the world. She waited for some affirmation, and when it was slow in coming, she glanced up and glared.
Fetohep of Khelt was staring out a window as if the dawn over Khelt’s capital city were the most wondrous thing he had never seen in his entire six hundred years. When Erin cleared her throat meaningfully, the ruler of Khelt exhaled.
“Erin Solstice. You are Khelta’s successor and a young woman of great integrity, wisdom, and courage.”
“Thanks for saying that, Fetohep. And taste.”
The Revenant stared out the window, and his golden eye-flames shrank a bit. Erin Solstice narrowed her eyes.
“And taste.”
He lifted one finger, and a ring shone gold as his robes’ almost transparent seafoam pale layers of cloth blew around him like the wings of some great bird in the morning air. A turban of similar material patterned like a blossom sat upon his head, secured with another binding of gold.
He hadn’t necessarily been going to do a broadcast worldwide. He’d just taken his time dressing up.
“—I shall put this as gently as possible, Erin Solstice. Your own…taste…in both attire and cuisine are best informed by your subordinates. Such as your friend Selys, who has some eye for detail in your wardrobe. A good ruler knows when to delegate one’s abilities.”
He never met Erin’s gaze, but he pointedly glanced at her t-shirt and worn jeans and the apron she’d tossed on in about five minutes. And the long white socks, which didn’t match the denim blue or the forest green shirt.
Erin’s cheeks puffed out in outrage.
“You don’t even know my menu! It’s got lots of great food on it!”
“Yes…your child-guest, Mrsha, has occasionally sent me essays on her favorite meals. And my spies have occasionally rendered me with other details of your inn. The finest meals, it seems, were made by [Chef] Imani.”
“I make pizza. Are you gonna be a pizza snob too? They even made fun of my toast! Who does that? It’s good bread! Bread is bread!”
He had been trying. He really had. But when she said that, the King of Khelt took arms against the [Innkeeper] for the first time. Like A’ctelios Salash—some things could not be allowed to stand unchallenged.
He snapped his fingers and turned so fast that Erin Solstice had to move her scrying projection to keep up.
 
——
 
The great [Baker], Shoeme, whose designs inspired and fed many of Khelt’s citizens day-to-day, was taking Farmer Colovt to task over his deliveries of grain when Fetohep of Khelt arrived.
“I need the mix, the mix, Colovt. Nothing less will do. I—Your Majesty.”
Farmer Colovt bowed to Fetohep at once, and the ruler of Khelt met the man’s eyes in a moment of…appraisal. It seemed like there were shortages in some of the farms. Due to the skeletons being called off for other tasks, some of the harvests were slower in coming out. And that was definitely the reason.
Any delay was, of course, unacceptable. But the King of Khelt lifted a hand.
“Baker Shoeme. It is I who have taken countless thousands of Khelt’s endless servants for my projects. Forgive Colovt any discrepancies in your plans.”
“Your Majesty—of course. Of course, think it forgotten!”
The [Baker] instantly reversed his ire and was so flattered that he would have gone without his deliveries for a month. After all, though Fetohep often visited many industries, he rarely sought out the food artisans—because he didn’t eat. If he praised them for a new dish, it was because it had taken Khelt by storm.
He wondered if his attempts to make food as Fetohep had ordered had taken the king’s notice. But in fact, Fetohep gestured to a spectral young woman who rolled after him, looking annoyed.
“This is Erin Solstice. A friend of Khelt and a woman I hold in esteem. Know this, Shoeme, before you speak and know that I come to you as a representative of Khelt. In full awareness that I treasure Erin Solstice’s goodwill, and even her words, and that she is an [Innkeeper] second perhaps to only one in Izril—she has said to me this morning that ‘bread is bread’. Educate her.”
Shoeme and every baker and apprentice in his kitchen turned from bowing to Fetohep to Erin. The [Innkeeper] gulped.
“I just meant—”
 
——
 
By the time Nanette tugged two boys into the inn’s [World’s Eye Theatre], there was a small crowd. Not as many adults—they had jobs. But the youngest boy squirmed and glared at her.
“You can’t make me do anything! I’m a [Lord]! I want to see Ryoka. Why am I here?”
“Because it’s interesting. And it matters. And because I think so.”
Nanette’s reply made Sammial puff up, but Hethon stared around the theatre.
“Wow! What is—”
Then they looked up and saw the broadcast reflected on the dome overhead. Despite the rounded nature, the picture seemed to adjust so they got a straight view. Sammial’s mouth opened, and Nanette glanced down and saw Mrsha, Visma, Apista—snacking on the syrup—Ishkr, Calescent, and even Imani and Palt and others sitting in the chairs and watching.
Erin was in the center of the domed amphitheater, and despite her indignation and expectations—Sammial blinked up as Nanette watched. Why was he here?
Well, the little witch had thought that if there was one thing Sammial and Hethon Veltras might learn at the inn—amidst humility, appreciation for non-nobles, a perspective into other species—
It might be good taste in food. And Sammial, for all he was an impatient, energetic boy, stared up and found a seat without a word.
Because he was engrossed in watching.
A Stitch-man had two arms in a pile of flour that he lifted, and it showered down in two plumes of what seemed like smoke. But it was not all one color. Or rather—there were gradients of color in the flour.
Not pure white—and not all the same flour, in fact. Some of it was slightly coarser, and there were individual grains. Black Ashwheat, a more yellowed flour mixed with the predominant wheat—
“In Khelt, I have flour from every continent and land in the world. Not all are much different, and not all are good, you understand. It is the work of a fine thing to mix it so that the dough that results is not patchwork. But so I do.”
He began to stir the black Ashwheat into the regular golden wheat that came from Khelt’s own fields and einkorn, mixed with a hint of soft red winter—
These were types of wheat. Only Khelt could afford this kind of—experimentation. Someone like Shoeme, with nigh-unlimited resources and funds, could be so picky. But he was not Khelt’s best baker simply because of riches and enthusiasm.
He did have Skills. To begin with, the baker took the mixed flour, which now seemed to run like some pale river, into a vast mixing bowl. A skeleton stirred it as he poured in water taken from the river and added salt.
The very foundation of most breads was those three things, and even here, Shoeme did not vastly differ. At first. But the mixing of the dough—a very difficult and laborious effort—went to skeletons with their own white hats.
That was their only job at first, for the [Baker] showed Erin and the audience a piece of dough already mixed up. He portioned them by hand and instinct, but his apprentices would weigh them on a set of scales to make sure they were exactly the same weight.
Racks of balls of dough about the size of four hands together sat in front of four gigantic wood tables, each perfectly square. Erin Solstice folded her arms.
“So you’ve got a special flour mix, and you get skeletons to knead your dough. So what? I’ve done exactly that! I had a skeleton once, you know.”
Shoeme glanced at Fetohep, who was watching from one side with every citizen in a ten-mile radius cramming the streets for blocks.
“…Does Your Majesty employ [Assassins]?”
“Not at such time, Shoeme. Continue to educate her.”
Erin Solstice huffed as the audience tittered.
“I get it. You’re working hard, and I do respect it. But food just—goes. You eat it, and it’s gone. So why work super hard on it?”
The [Baker] turned his eyes to her with a kind of wrath.
“Why does a man climb a hill, Innkeeper Solstice? Just for his health? If you cook to eat, you will get only that. But this…have you seen a [Fencer] practice his blades? If you watch only a novice, you would say anyone can be a warrior. But this is unto baking what swordsmanship is admired for.”
And with that, he took one of the pieces of dough, and standing before the table that he could have stretched out on head-to-toe and still had room, the tall Stitch-folk [Baker] tossed the dough up and around in a familiar pattern. Spinning it like a disk so it grew wide…and wider…
Mrsha was not impressed at first. She could toss dough and catch it. But the small ball of compressed dough stretched out until it was pizza-sized, and she decided that would be nice for lunch. Then it stretched out until it was twice as large, the size of a tower shield all around, and Shoeme caught it, and Ekirra licked his lips.
What a large pizza.
Then he spun it, and it was so huge it could have engulfed Erin if she could stand, and he brought it down like a balloon—catching the air under it—and it sat like some puffed pillow, billowing on the table like a bedsheet made of dough.
Then Mrsha was impressed. Hethon’s mouth opened as the dough caught the air.
“Whoa! It’s huge!”
A king-sized bed of dough, equally thin, hovered with the air trapped underneath. Erin protested.
“Okay, that’s cool, but that’s just a trick.”
“Trick? The air makes the dough thin in the center, you silly Human. Thinner—and because it is I, Shoeme—”
The [Baker] took a corner and pulled, and to Erin’s disbelief, the dough stretched across to the very edge of the table. A look of satisfaction fell on the man’s face as he regarded his audience.
“[Untearable Dough]. A small Skill, like [Faster Mixing], which allows the skeletons to move the dough better. I have other Skills—but observe. Apprentice, where is my shopping list?”
“Here, great baker.”
A young Garuda handed Shoeme a list, and he showed the inky, messy writing to the audience. Then he tossed it on the table as he stretched the dough across it in a perfect square. As the dough fell—you could see straight through it.
It was transparent and so thin that it needed to be patted down or the pockets of air would keep it raised. The [Baker] and an apprentice pulled it across the table, and when that sheet was perfectly set, they covered it with a layer of cloth and took another ball of dough.
Erin realized the four tables—and the dough—were deliberately set so you could layer the stuff and let it sit like that. The shape of the counters allowed Shoeme to stretch the thin dough—and the result, once it had sat and dried enough, would be layers upon layers of incredibly thin stuff.
Perfect for pastries or other similar goods. In fact, it was this very dough that another aspiring amateur had used to make his layered pastry with jam between each layer of hundreds.
“And you call this the same as your bread?”
Nothing would do for Shoeme but to take some of the prepared dough and create a pastry with it, layering in honey, [Flash Baking] it in an oven with such intensity of heat that it charred the outer layers but left a soft, barely cooked interior. Then he added powdered, subtle herbs and baked nuts and presented it upon a platter with another drizzle of honey.
Then, and only then, he looked at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] muttered as her audience stared down at her.
“Fine. It’s hard work, and I don’t know bread. It looks amazing. I get it.”
“She gets it, Your Majesty?”
Shoeme turned to Fetohep of Khelt, and the ruler’s eyes flashed with amusement.
“If she does—summon the Four Winds of Teral. Tell them they can redeem their shattered name if they manage this in two days. Two days…send forth for a Courier. What other dishes might we educate this [Innkeeper] with? Come forth, my greatest citizens of Khelt!”
“Oh, come on. I don’t need to eat it!”
Erin began to protest as every [Baker], [Chef], and other expert began calling out. But nothing would do but for Khelt to parade their dishes in front of Erin until the [Innkeeper], in wrath and thoughtlessness, snapped.
“If I wanted to see cooking all day, I’d watch a food channel! Not this!”
Drassi, slowly munching on a quesadilla in between her shifts at work, glanced up. Fetohep placed his fingers together and smiled.
He luxuriated in the laughter of his citizens, the inspiration in Erin’s challenge to his bakers, and this moment like a man standing in the sun. For this was Khelt as it should be. Until a shadow fell across his face and he plucked something from a sheaf of [Messages] and read it.
“Your Majesty?”
Pewerthe and Alked Fellbow were often in his company, both to learn and see how Khelt functioned. And because they knew the secret of Khelt’s weakness. Fetohep stood back as Erin’s tour of the culinary world continued. The [Potter] waited as Fetohep read, then added the [Message] to a discard pile with a sigh.
“Is something wrong?”
“Nothing, Pewerthe. Ironically, this is merely part and parcel to the correspondence I would have received even before Khelt’s name returned to the minds of the public. It was an appeal from a former citizen.”
“Oh. Which one?”
Only Khelt could have so few former citizens that you could reasonably name them. In this case, Pewerthe didn’t recognize the name Fetohep spoke.
“Adoive.”
A few of Khelt’s citizens grimaced at the name. After all, they might have known why he…? He was exiled. As Pewerthe knew—either you left or you did something so unforgivable that you were banished. Refusing to obey the few laws could be that or refusing to mend your ways even when given a second chance.
Sometimes, it was a mix. But almost everyone wanted to come back. In this case…Alked’s sharp eyes had picked out several lines of the rather long missive.
“He seemed…unusually aggressive, Your Majesty.”
Few people made threats to Fetohep. The King flicked his fingers dismissively.
