When Erin Solstice called Niers Astoragon the next morning, she looked tired. So tired that the Fraerling’s first comment was, against his desires—
“Should you be resting, Erin?”
She gave him a suspicious look. There weren’t bags under her eyes, but there were subtle clues, like how she seemed ready to topple forwards out of her wheelchair or how she kept yawning. And the lack of hair combing that made her hair a tangled mess.
“Are you exchanging notes with Lyonette? She’s been making me rest all morning. I’m good. I just watched a, uh, movie.”
“Ah.”
The [Innkeeper] stared at the Fraerling as he kept his face straight.
“You know what that is.”
“Yes, I do.”
Erin opened her mouth as, behind Niers, an entire team of Fraerlings wearing what looked suspiciously like hard-hats were consulting blueprints. They had opened a tiny tunnel network and were installing some thick magicore into glass venting as [Enchanters] placed down runes.
“…What’s that behind you?”
It was not the first time they had met, but it was one of the first times they had ever spoken face-to-face. Niers knew that Erin had talked to him already and they’d done that, but he regretted taking the call at work. Because, annoyingly, he wasn’t the most interesting thing to her.
He glared—Foliana kept waving her paw and searching for her morning’s abominable creation. Then Niers smiled and gestured behind him.
“Upgrades. We’re back at Elvallian.”
“Already? Didn’t you go flying off somewhere?”
To lay waste to a Selphid Gathering Citadel, fight an emergent Old One or the beginnings of what might become one, save a [Doctor], and watch a worldwide bombardment?
“Yes. We got back yesterday—I flew to one of the warfronts to check up on things. But we do have a base of operations here. It was an interesting two weeks. Almost as interesting as yours.”
Erin made a face.
“You know, coming from anyone else, that’d sound really stupid. But I’m glad you get it.”
He couldn’t resist the delighted grin on his face. She got it. You were only allowed to say this to someone else who…who was on this level. Not just Level, but ‘level’. You told some nobleman this and he thought you’d spent all day on a leisurely hunt or something.
“I was thinking we could talk about your Skill. If you have time.”
“Sure…but what’re you upgrading? Those Fraerlings are so…not-cute. Cool! Can I say hello?”
His smile faltered. Tallfolk and Fraerlings. He told himself that everyone had a normal, generic reaction at the start.
“I could introduce you to—Commander Rozcal of Reton. Rozcal!”
“Cats! I thought you said your citadel was warded, Astoragon!”
The largest Fraerling that Erin had ever seen in her life—which meant he looked like an incredibly buff toy doll—broke away from overseeing the supervision and stared up at Erin. She waved at him.
“Hello! I’m Erin Solstice! It’s amazing to meet you and Niers! Uh—Gnomes laugh at you!”
The huge Fraerling, who was the most bluff and friendly of the ones who’d come to join the offensive against Jungle Tails and the Dyed Lands, did a double-take with every Fraerling in earshot.
“Gnomes laugh at you? Er—Gnomes laugh at you too! Is that a traditional saying we have?”
Niers felt his skin crawl. He was instantly brought out of socialization straight back into what Erin had said yesterday. Rozcal looked at Niers, and the Titan hesitated. It sounded vaguely—
Erin gave Rozcal a serious—and surprised look.
“You don’t use Gnome greetings any more? Like ‘Gnomes laugh at you?’ Do you at least know how you’re supposed to greet other Fraerlings or visitors when they come to your settlements?”
The Commander tugged at a red beard, looking worried.
“It’s not something we’ve done for…maybe I know it? The Architects have their formalities. Would you oblige us, uh, [Innkeeper] Solstice? Half of my city, Reton, wants to talk with you. And every Fraerling hereabouts too.”
Erin Solstice nodded seriously and drew herself up.
“Well, if you were to greet your great cousins if they came to you, or Dragons or Tallfolk—you would say ‘Gnomes laugh at you’. And then as they come into your settlement—you’d say ‘Welcome Gnome’.”
One of the [Architects] making notes on a piece of foolscap paused with a pencil mid-scratch. Rozcal actually nodded along.
“Welcome Gnome. So simple yet s…”
He hesitated. Niers was slowly choking to death. Rozcal looked at him and saw a few Fraerlings laughing, and then he got it.
“Wait. That’s not—”
He stared at Erin as she began laughing. Laughing so hard she nearly fell out of her chair.
“I got you! I got you with a Gnome joke!”
It was the stupidest thing Niers had ever heard in his life. This was how she opened up with the Fraerling folk? Like—
The worst part was that all the Gnomes would have approved. Every last one. Rozcal turned beet red—then he laughed so hard he nearly popped out of his armor.
“Niers! You made it sound like she was some kind of cunning Demon-[Strategist]! I like her.”
“Hi! Hello, everyone! Whatcha doing? Upgrading the tunnels? I thought Niers had nice ones.”
“Yeah, trapped to Rhir’s hell and back, but no insulation. It’s cold as a Snow Golem’s ass in there right now. We’re installing magicore conduits for magic, heating, cooling…and a kitchen. Well, you’re Erin Solstice. I expected something weird, and I’m glad to see none of the Titan’s friends are normal. Or maybe that’s just Tallfolk.”
Another Fraerling stomped over. Iuncuta Eirnos eyed Erin with one eye, the other covered by an eyepatch. Erin groaned.
“Oh no. You’ve got a Chaldion too. Wait, magical conduits? That’s so…cool. Do we have anything like that? I think Drevish came up with some in my blueprints…”
That got Niers’ ear, but Eirnos and Rozcal were there, and then Patrol Captain Shoike from Itelloi was also walking forwards, and to his great pique, he realized this wasn’t going to be a daring conversation about Skills.
Damn it.
But then—Erin looked better for not discussing matters of state first thing. Eirnos didn’t get the Chaldion reference in context, but even she recognized Drevish’s name.
“What, do you think the Architect came up with that first? I’ll grant you, he was smart enough to use water and oil and experiment with the concept. Even other materials. But we’re Fraerlings.”
And by that, Eirnos meant that anything Fraerlings had was a tech level or two above Tallfolk. Which was true. But it was that kind of arrogance that got you stomped on in a war.
Well, Niers had also just shown her a mass-scale bombardment, and her Fraerlings had gone to war against insane Selphids, so he let her have that one. Erin was delighted.
“So you’re moving into the citadel? And did I hear ‘kitchens’? I didn’t even have breakfast, actually. I had to do a morning dance.”
“A what?”
Erin waved that off, and her stomach rumbled. So did half the Fraerlings’ in reply. And as if summoned, someone decided to bring in cuisine to the conversation.
“Hello, Erin. It is me. Mm. Foliana.”
The Squirrel Beastkin shuffled back into frame holding a huge pot with steam rising from the lid. Niers, who had been jockeying with Fraerlings for attention…slowly stepped back as she put it down. Half the Fraerlings sniffed at the pot, looking intrigued, and Erin laughed.
“Hi again, Foliana. Do you cook?”
“No. Never. I hate it.”
“Ah. Um, but you did cook?”
The Squirrel Woman nodded. She peered at Erin.
“You like mac and cheese.”
“Yep. I had some yesterday, actually. Pretty good homemade stuff. I like the box too, but you can’t beat someone doing a homemade. Speaking of which—Lyonette, what’s for breakfast? Continental?”
The Fraerlings were interested as Lyonette hurried over, saw them, squeaked, ran off to tell everyone there were Fraerlings in the [World’s Eye Theatre], and Ishkr brought over a continental.
Which was, in Erin terms, scrambled eggs, hot bacon, a slice of toast, and usually an optional other grain-type food. In this case, a pancake with some butter and syrup on it. It was the most American breakfast you could name…aside from perhaps a slice of pizza microwaved.
Erin Solstice had been surprised when Joseph complained about all the ‘American’ food until Imani took over. But even Imani had refused to make it when she was working at the inn regularly. Calescent didn’t care, but she had assumed most people thought of this as a traditional breakfast.
Which showed what she knew. The Fraerlings, however, educated Erin rapidly. Half of them looked at her breakfast plate, and their faces fell.
“Dead gods, Astoragon. Couldn’t you give her some of that gold you claim you’ve got mountains of? What level did you say she was?”
Rozcal muttered a bit too loudly in Niers’ ear. The Titan, though, was still retreating to where some Fraerlings had their safety equipment stored for working with Magicore. He placed an enchanted mask on his face that filtered toxins and fumes out of the air.
“What? What’s wrong with this?”
Erin looked incredibly hurt as she stuck a fork in the eggs. Rozcal was embarrassed.
“What? Nothing! It’s lovely food, Miss Solstice. A fine inn. Beautiful…eggs. All mashed up like that.”
“I have a [Chef]. He can do weird eggs, but I like scrambled. I even showed him how! Anyone can do it, even Mrsha!”
“Yeah. I can tell you didn’t even beat the eggs right. Did you add any milk to it? Just a dram.”
“Milk? In beaten eggs?”
Erin looked horrified by the thought, but the Fraerlings were eying her toast.
“Is that toast?”
“I think it is.”
“Tallfolk toast? Here I thought I’d get out to see the world…that’s not toast. That’s not bread.”
Erin Solstice, who had pioneered Octavia’s baking soda and a certain reform in the local bakeries, looked shocked.
“Wh—it’s made with baking soda! And yeast! It rises! And it’s fluffy!”
Patrol Captain Shoike raised a hand as her keen intellect focused on Erin’s implications.
“By this—do you mean you didn’t have rising bread before this? Is…the ability to make bread rise a selling point in Tallfolk cities?”
Erin inhaled and exhaled. She pointed a finger.
“Wh—what do you guys eat, then? Huh? Huh? Hey Foliana, you made mac and cheese? Show ‘em how good it is.”
“Does she mean macaroni and cheese? Is that literally all the dish is?”
Rozcal whispered to Eirnos as Foliana proudly took the lid off her pot. She put a bowl down, lifted a ladle up—and if you had a [Food Dangersense], it should have already been going off. Why a ladle?
“I made it. Tell me if it looks right.”
Erin’s proud smile turned to distress. Foliana slopped something into a bowl as Niers took cover behind one of the construction areas. Some of it splashed up, and the burning ‘liquid’ landed near Rozcal’s feet.
The Commander of Reton’s Crelerbane forces stared down at the foreign substance and wished for his armor.
“Is that—cheese?”
He took a sniff, and Eirnos gagged. Erin just stared as Foliana lifted the bowl up. She looked expectantly at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“What…what’s that supposed to be?”
The Squirrel Woman frowned.
“…Mac and cheese?”
 
——
 
For the uninitiated, mac and cheese referred to several dishes. Some were from-the-box foods from the USA, which had dried noodles, powdered cheese packets in fast-cooking meals that just required you to boil the noodles in water and add the packet of cheese mix in at minimum.
You could do more, but even Erin would admit it was basic. And tasty for what it was. More advanced home-cooked meals used actual cheese and bread crumbs, and there were endless variations of the stuff that even a restaurant would serve.
Foliana didn’t know this. She did not cook. And because Three-Color Stalker was used to eating almost anything in pursuit of her targets, when she had consulted with Geneva Scala about making it, the [Doctor] had, unfortunately, given Foliana an accurate description of what the boxed stuff was.
Powdered cheese. Foliana’s first quest was to find a cheese that was more powder than solid. She had consulted with one of the local food-providers, and after sorting through cheeses of increasing crumbliness, she had found several ones that were practically powder.
Like the blue part of blue cheese. Or the mold if you scraped it off brie. Not knowing which cheese worked, Foliana had included probably half mold, half cheese and melted it into a pot.
She had also failed to understand that just because the name was ‘mac and cheese’, it did not mean you had macaroni and cheese noodles in equal parts.
It was mostly liquid—and the smell actually made one Fraerling walk off and lie down with a gas mask on. And in fairness—everything Foliana had done was actually like other food dishes. But she had mangled even that.
Iuncuta Eirnos had personally disposed of the offending dish. She had, as Fraerlings shouted at the offended Squirrel Woman to burn it—and the other half pleaded not to spread the smoke and smell of it further—stomped over to a window.
Eirnos had fired a crossbow with a glowing stone out the window, then slapped the lodestone-bolt into her crossbow and fired the second shot at the pot.
The teleporting pot of ‘macaroni and cheese’ popped out of the citadel as Foliana glared at Eirnos. It showered down on some new students, who screamed as they made their way to the fortress for class.
Niers Astoragon decided he’d be nice to them in class today. But in the meanwhile, Erin Solstice was humbled enough to sit there as the aggrieved Fraerlings still in the mood to eat stomped off towards their new kitchens.
“If you want to have a good breakfast or food in general, Miss Solstice—your food might be new, but everyone has a specialty. Why don’t we give you a tour of our kitchens.”
Erin huffed a bit and decided she didn’t have the appetite for much breakfast after seeing a moldy, baked soup of cheese. But she crossed her arms defensively.
“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Well—I’ll admit some of my cooking is utilitarian, but so what? It tastes good. What do you guys have?”
The Fraerlings looked at each other. Niers poked his head back up, and Erin’s confident look wavered a bit. She eyed him, and the Titan remarked.
“You might win at chess, but that was a bad opening play.”
 
——
 
Fifty minutes later, Erin was still hungry, but no longer hungry for her breakfast. She was also sulking. She had agreed to call Niers back later, but she’d actually turned off the connection to Elvallian.
