The Quarass turned off the scrying orb fast and sat back. Her heart was beating faster than it had all day. Dangerous? Dangerous and too smart, even for someone who had lived a fraction of the Quarass’ life.
This was why she hated Golems.
 
——
 
Cognita had eaten food before, but she had never tasted it. It had not been high on her master’s list of priorities, even when she and her sisters had expressed an interest in it.
After all—taste buds weren’t a thing for Golems. Superfluous to their function. Even Zelkyr, who had obsessively created Golems for every purpose to exacting designs, saw no need for something that benefited only them.
She thought about it after chasing away the Quarass. Why did people demand food in such varieties and with such preparation?
You could grow Yellats in these vast fields, with their wiry, deep, leafy green stalks—almost spiky—sticking up from the soil. Yellats and a few other cheap plants could feed most species to their nutritious desires.
But they wanted beef. They wanted sugar. They grew unhappy without such things. Why, Cognita remembered a Drake, first very young and then older and older, scales turning grey and flaking off his body no matter how many unguents and tonics he bought.
One of his favorite meals was a little sweet dumpling you dipped in sauce. So Cognita had learned to make them up, mixing things she could not taste, obsessively heating them to the right temperature and hoping that he would be hungry enough to nibble on them as he poured over a book or wrote.
She had been proud of cooking that. But Nerrhavia’s Fallen…she walked with the Merchant Boiregon, who she had been hired by.
He stared up at her with such a look of glee and gratification that she was serving him—and why not? She had demanded not much gold, only enough to suit her needs. And his business was twice as profitable as it had been already.
He was a Stitch-man who had grown up in Illivere. And he gazed at her, the greatest Golem still walking this world—and that was something she desired. Desired, but it did not make her feel better when she looked across the fields.
“Your workers would be better as Golems.”
She turned her head, and the [Merchant] hastened to reply, mopping at his brow. Boiregon gestured to the fields of toiling Hemp folk.
“Of course they would be better, Cognita. Tireless, requiring no sustenance or breaks or pay. In time, perhaps Illivere will sell me a dozen such Golems for transport. Whatever you think is best. But the cost…”
He trailed off, and Cognita’s head turned. She saw Hemp Stitch-folk, looking tougher and often bulkier than their Cotton or Silk counterparts. Even they looked up to stare at her as the dry sun beat against her marble skin.
They were pulling Yellats up from the soil, cutting away the inedible leaves, and trimming off bad or rotten parts. Efficient motions, but backbreaking work. There had to be at least two thousand here, as far as the eye could see.
They were replanting the seeds at the same time to avoid wasting any growing time. Already, wagons were piled high with Yellats.
“It will be a profitable winter. Izril is already demanding more Yellats. Something to do with their fields burning. Campaigns in Baleros, the new lands…you foresaw it all.”
Boiregon looked smug, as if she had not told him to buy these fields two months ago. Told him she would leave if she was not listened to in every aspect. His nerves over purchasing so much farmland and industry had already been soothed by economic forecasts.
“Tell me, Merchant Boiregon.”
“—Boiregon is my name. If anyone has the right to say it, it is you, Cognita. Please.”
She paused, and not once did her carved face move as he looked at her hopefully.
“Merchant Boiregon. Tell me. Do you enjoy eating Yellats in any form?”
He blinked, and some of the [Servants] looked at each other as the Stitch-man puzzled over the odd question. He answered uncertainly. As he did, Cognita gently swatted a fly wanting to buzz in front of his ear. She adjusted his robes—which she had picked out and heated for him before she dressed him.
A perfect servant. Come nightfall, she would prepare a meal if not by hand, then by his inclination. Report to him on his lands more thoroughly than any [Seneschal] he could hire. Stand with him at events.
Some mocked Boiregon, calling him the ‘Cognita’s Merchant’ already. But they were envious too, because she had done so much in so little time. He himself did not seem to know why she had decided he was worthy of serving. But he was enjoying it, and answered unguardedly now.
“Yellats? If it’s part of some dish, I don’t mind. Fried properly, and a [Chef] can make anything taste good. Why, I think yes, I enjoy them.”
“Could you eat one every single day of your life?”
He shuddered in reply.
“What, like some Hemp worker? I would rather eat sand. Or starve.”
A few of his servants didn’t look at him, and the Silk Stitch-man never noticed. But Cognita did. She looked at him, and his smile turned uncertain. But she did not leave, nor pluck his spine from his frame in one movement. She just raised a hand and gently touched his chin with it.
He went still at the odd gesture as she held his chin. The servants watched as the [Merchant] froze in uncertain nerves…and Cognita felt nothing.
No tingle, but perhaps that was because once Zelkyr had done the same to her. And this was not the same. She let go and turned.
“I am told anything tastes…better…the longer you have gone without. Today, I will study how Yellats are cooked. I shall greet you at noon.”
She turned and left. The [Merchant], shaken, made as if to stop her, but Cognita was already striding away.
When she prevailed upon a [Master Chef] in the city, the nervous Stitch-man diced a Yellat like you would a potato, though the tuber was softer and the ‘mouth feel’ was weaker unless you stiffened it with a bit of flour and fried it.
“—though it does grow less soft in water than a potato, so you may boil it, Miss Cognita. Lady Truestone. Er—er—one takes care with Yellats. Any fool can mash it up or serve it cooked, but you have seen the little potato wedges all fried up? Yellats burn slower, so you will overcook it before charring the sides. You make the cast iron pan scream like so—”
The pan was so hot that the oil was spitting when he tossed the first slice of Yellats in, and the streak of steam and spatter of oil would have made anyone but him flinch.
His cloth skin was thicker, arms corded with muscle, and the Stitch-man looked at his nervous Garuda apprentice with satisfaction. Then he gazed up at Cognita, who lifted a cast iron pan that had to weigh fifteen pounds and flipped it like it weighed nothing at all. She caught it with two fingers, and she had been made better than he.
“I see.”
“So—I shall do a pan of seared Yellats. Remember, the marination—”
“Sixteen minutes minimum or two hours. Ideally overnight. I do not need repetition, Chef.”
Then she copied him motion for motion and sliced each Yellat into identically-sized pieces, waited until her pan was just as hot, and copied his motion beat for beat.
Except for Skills—the [Chef]’s confidence slackened. Perhaps he had never met a cooking Golem and thought there was some…intrinsic quality that she could not copy.
“Ah, but can you tell when it is perfectly crisp and ready to eat?”
He blustered as he tried to make his pan exceed hers in method. Then he saw Cognita taking a spatula of wood and flipping certain slices of Yellat, moving others into the center of the pan. She rearranged eight pieces and waited six more minutes before moving. She did not…stir or keep the slices moving.
He expected them to be burned because she took the pan off the flames first. But when she began flipping them, he saw each side was perfectly seared. Almost identical.
She caught his eye.
“I have observed variation makes good cooking. So this—”
She slightly over cooked some, let the heat distribute itself unequally, to give it that un-uniform texture that some called aesthetic. When she was done, it was hard to tell which plate had been made by which.
“Skills to regulate temperature, to cook faster or prevent food illness or procure rarer ingredients—without Skills that add magic or something else, there has never been a [Chef] who can do what I cannot. Thank you for teaching me.”
She put the plate down. The Stitch-man stared down at his plate with hands resting on the table that shook. When he looked up, he did not like her.
“So that is Golems. I am glad I do not live in Illivere, Lady Truestone.”
“They cannot do what I do.”
She met his gaze until he flinched. The [Chef] stared down at her plate and tasted one Yellat. Then his face grew even more frustrated, for he clearly did not taste the inferiority he sought.
“At least—did you enjoy it? Can you make new dishes?”
He spoke to her, and Cognita’s jade-green eyes fixed on him. Slowly, she picked up a raw Yellat and crushed it within her hand. He paled and backed away, but all the Golem said was this:
“It is soft. It feels different than a potato or sponge. I enjoyed touching it for a second. If I could eat it and gain anything from the action, I would have. But neither this nor many other things have been—enjoyable for me. I thank you for your attempt. I will keep searching. Perhaps I was simply not made for it.”
The wrath of the [Chef] restrained only by his fear of her turned to…something else as Cognita turned away. She turned because she did not like the sympathy in his eyes nor the pity. When she left his kitchens, hurriedly, he came to the doors and threw them open. Then he shouted across the streets of the capital city of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Tyrant’s Rest.
“Someday, Cognita Truestone, I will make a dish as even Golems enjoy!”
Stitch-folk heads turned as they heard his wild pledge. And of that, they told stories, whether or not it would come true, because they enjoyed such things. But Cognita just lifted a hand as she turned her head.
“I wish you joy in your goals.”
She whispered back, too quietly to be heard, but she doubted he really wanted to hear her reply anyways. Cognita looked around, then blankly touched the sunhat on her head.
“I have yet to find mine.”
Then she went back to find the Merchant Boiregon and tried, for a moment, to serve him. She’d cook the yellats tonight, and wait for a word of praise. To enjoy the affection and respect he gave her. To try to love him and do it all again right. No matter what he asked, to prove she was the servant without peer.
But it was not the same.
 
——
 
Food made by those who would never eat it was a stupid thing. They could make it well, though. You did not have to enjoy cooking to make it taste good.
A spell could automate stirring a bowl. In the same way, a dedicated Golem could fry an egg. There was a myth that the Quarass liked to tell that the care and craft made for better results, be it cuisine or anything else.
The myth was that it was the emotion that made it better. The truth was that an artisan just put more effort and detail into their creations. The passion was a means to the greater result. But Cognita, Golems in general, were the lie in that ideal.
Robots, or the fake Golems of Earth that Nerrhavia had been told about, would be another kind of that lie. They would paint pretty pictures and create delicious food, and someone would say it was wrong. As if you had to enjoy it or feel to surpass. But it had ever been this way.
For instance. She hated cooking. It was as mundane as lacing up shoes or shoveling dirt to her.
Yet she could cook. Passionless competence was hers. Whereas—
Az’kerash seemed to be enjoying every second of this. He was animated, smiling, patting Bea’s head, and speaking of giving the other Chosen, even Venitra, tastebuds.
He could not cook.
“Great Nerrhavia. With respect to your…welcome condescension to all that I do, I was the Archmage of Death. Son of…Silvaria. I have dined in countless fine banquet halls, and I have a taste for fine cuisine.”
“Yes. And you cannot cook. Please stop. I did not beg my enemies when I was tortured in battle. I beg you now. Stop.”
Nerrhavia clasped her hands together—or rather, her puppetted body did. She gave him an earnest look, and he scowled at her as his Chosen gathered around the kitchens he had ordered cleaned. They each had a table of stone and their own recipes.
Nerrhavia was cooking mostly because Az’kerash was. He had been inspired by watching Erin Solstice dealing with food. She had agreed to join in because the Chosen might as well learn something, especially Maviola…
And she was worried. Privately, she was. She had expected something else of the Necromancer of such terror. He was refreshingly easy to manipulate in some ways. In others?
She shifted her gaze left and counted.
Seven Chosen. And one Healing Slime being fed handfuls of flour by a skeleton in an apron and a hat. Of the lot, Toren looked like he actually knew how a kitchen knife worked. He was methodically dicing up a carrot for a stew, and Az’kerash was going to make a terrine.
Or rather…
“This is a terrine lox sandeis d’œufs. I recall eating it at a banquet. It may be complex, but we will recreate it and taste it—those that can taste. One should know how to cook as well as dance and sing and fence.”
Devail looked happy because he could taste, and Oom, the Acid Slime reincarnated, shifted. That might have been unease, though. Nerrhavia stared at Az’kerash.
“You. Cannot. Cook. Do you even know what you just said?”
The Necromancer looked annoyed—then uncertain.
“It’s a dish.”
“Do you know what a terrine is? Lox sandeis means ‘with fish’ in old Erribathian. D’ouefs is older. It means with eggs. You’re making a terrine; that is a disgusting loaf of ground meat that Terrandians claim is fancy. Out of fish. And you’re putting an egg in it, likely raw.”
Of the lot, none of the Chosen seemed impressed or disgusted by the concept. Only Toren opened and closed his jaw uncertainly. He knew food, at least food that living people ate, and that sounded sort of gross.
“I distinctly recall eating it. It will be good practice. We will do it together. Come now, Venitra. Pluck the bones out of the fish like I showed you, and Bea—you have your gloves on?—chop the fish meat up finely.”
Nerrhavia rolled her eyes, but she was watching the Necromancer. The arrogance of an amateur thinking he could replicate any dish with a bit of effort didn’t surprise her. That was the most normal thing, actually.
He had been one of the greatest [Mages] of his era, and they thought cookery similar to spellcraft but easier. Meanwhile, she addressed her audience of Toren, Maviola, and a new Chosen.
