She was the Fallen Archmage, the Curse of Elves, and sometimes, when she was not called to the battlefield or allowed to roam the world—she did despair of it.
Everything in Rhir was corrupt. Plants could grow in the soil, but vermin burrowed into it. Vorepillars were the least of the issue; at least they ate everything. Contaminants could find their way into almost any room, and the corruption changed even the people, like Bazeth, giving them horns and different skin tones…
However, you could live here. Cows could, if checked regularly, still produce milk. A Yellat was a damn Yellat, and you could even fish in places. She had left the Demons enough of her magic that even if she was wounded or died in fullness, they could endure.
—The one thing they could not do was preserve, though. Even with bags of holding or magical storerooms, the one thing Demons did not keep was preserved goods.
A year was considered the expiry date of even the best foods. Anything longer in storage and something might…pervert it. And not in a fun way. Silvenia had once sliced a wheel of cheese open and saw the remnants of an eye staring at her. To be clear—it hadn’t been there before, and she’d had nothing to do with it.
So any cheese, wine, or other long-term goods were usually spoils of war and a luxury you ate quick. That was Demon culture. Everything was ephemeral, so make it count.
She liked that. But when Silvenia had returned, she’d restored some of her great magics. They could only function with her vast mana pool, sadly. She could set up powerful barriers and countless great workings—but all of it required mana, and the Demons had deactivated the fun stuff when she was in her coma.
“Let’s see. Cheese, cheese, cheese. Where’s my hat collection?”
She had a hat collection in her tower. She’d ported the entire thing from Wistram when she was expelled, at great effort, and they were still mad about it. Silvenia did collect things. Trophies of war, books that Wistram really wanted back, artifacts, a cat…
It was wearing her hat. Silvenia plucked her farmer’s hat off the cat’s head. She liked cats. She barely ever adopted them, because they died. Everything died around her.
“Good cat. Did you enjoy your tour of the Traitorous Archmage’s tower?”
It meowed at her. She smiled at it—then carried it outside and put it in the palace of the Demons.
“Now, be good and never come back. Everything dies around me.”
She flew off, conjuring a bucket of metal just for the look of it.
 
——
 
She didn’t like wasting time, though, so when she got to a herd of cows, Silvenia just used a spell to milk them. The nervous animals calmed down as she floated past them, yawning.
It took ten minutes to get a thousand cows worth of milk in one of the vast, safe pastures. Too long for her. She sighed, but then flew with a veritable stream of milk through the air behind her.
“Grapes! Where are the grapes?”
She scared some Earthers out of their wits—they might say it was ‘cool’ or ‘their dream’ to fly through the air, but few actually enjoyed having [Flight] cast on them. And they had talked about superheroes—but somehow, Silvenia didn’t fit the bill.
“G-grapes?”
Flora was nervous, despite Silvenia telling her multiple times she liked her. It was Bazeth, one of the Demon [Generals], who pointed.
“They were relocated to one of your Paradise Domes, Archmage…”
“Oh, the ones I copied from the paradise. Yes, yes. Thank you. Milk?”
He shook his head, and she cast [Greater Haste]. The fastest milk in the world flashed downwards until she found a dome where a vineyard lay.
The thing about being the most powerful spellcaster around was that she could do…anything. You wanted to be a half-cat person? She could do that. You wanted pointy ears like a half-Elf? Your vision fixed?
She had obliged the Earthers’ silly requests for a bit because it amused her. Sometimes, she called Demons to her and, like a Djinni, granted their wishes.
Czautha hated it, but Silvenia meant well. She was sometimes sad because if there was peace on Rhir…she would have made these paradise domes until she grew sick of it. Probably after the third one. Made places that grew food for you, or Golems, or…
It did not have to be this way.
She had more power in her tonsils than the [Chronomancer], Nereshal, had in his entire body. And she’d had her tonsils removed. The only thing he had on her was his somewhat impressive indigo hair. Damn his style. Silvenia plucked thousands of grapes and tried to remember how you did it.
Crush grapes, put milk in vats…magic could do all of it. She flew to a special room, a box in her tower bounded by magic, and passed into another dimension with little effort. But the instant she flew in, she spoke.
“Regular flow. Let’s see. I’ll make it a challenge. Four minutes. Then…a thousand times dilation.”
Four minutes? She burst into a flurry of spellcasting. Create the vats! Wait, did you stir the milk? Crush the grapes?
“Aaah! I’m not going to make it! Bottles, bottles…[Create Glass Bottle]! [Shadow Doppelganger]!”
She split in half so she could panic twice as hard—but at three minutes and fifty-two seconds, she stopped.
“I made it.”
Smugly, she folded her arms, and the air—changed. Time sped up. Silvenia, who had speculated on time snapping between Earth and this world like a rubber band, knew something about time magic.
After all…she saw the milk curdling below her a thousand times faster than it should. Silvenia sighed and pulled an hourglass out of thin air. She watched the grains of sand fall like a never ending stream.
“I forgot how long wine takes to age. Cheese is easier. Let’s do a stop at…how long does good wine take? Ten years there, fifty there, a hundred…”
She marked several bottles and a keg out for ten years, demarcated another zone for a longer passage of time, and the last for a hundred years. Even with the time moving faster here, it’d take a while. Silvenia was already getting some cheese out of the process.
 
——
 
Later that afternoon, a surreptitious Death of Magic was feeding a cat some cheese and watching it burp. She was a bit mad.
“Wine needs yeast? This is why I stick to magic.”
She’d summoned a [Vintner] to explain why things hadn’t gone well and a [Cheesemaker]. Both had informed the unhappy half-Elf that aging wine a hundred years was mostly a gimmick. Some specialty magical wines benefited, but she’d fixed her bad batches of what was mostly just old grape juice. Rewinding time sucked.
She wasn’t perfect. In fact, Silvenia quite admired good [Cooks], and they liked her. When she popped into the kitchens to ask if they needed anything else for the banquet, one bowed to her.
“Stop that.”
“Death of Magic—without you, we would have starved for the last century. You are peerless in magic, and I shouldn’t bow to you?”
She laughed at the Demon who looked so at her. She hated that. This was why she preferred the other Deaths’ company. Silvenia touched her chest.
“Nevertheless, stop. I am a half-Elf; it was always unfair because I had the time to learn magic that my peers didn’t. Most had to chase immortality whereas I had it from the start. I am the greatest magic-user in this world…but I respect the greatest of cooks. If you are that, then make me something delightful. For I am hungry. I was pleased to see how you used my works. And I was last so happy when I killed Othius’ father.”
This [Cook] had earned her respect. Which took some doing. The bowing woman with two curved horns like a ram did not look like much.
She had not even been a [Royal Chef], or the other top-level classes, at the time—and the Demons, like the Blighted Kingdom, had high-level people in spades. But she was now…
A [Cook of Cornucopia]. A very fascinating class. So Silvenia sat and watched with pleasure as the woman showed her what she had done with Silvenia’s cornucopia.
[Cornucopia]. It was a spell…of sorts. Really, it was more referred to as an artifact. Bags of Plenty, Neverending Feastcloths, and the like could produce food.
Most people thought of them as adventurer-tools, but many nations had used them as a way to feed people…until they realized the drawbacks.
Magical food was less filling than regular food. You could literally starve to death on it. It tasted wonderful, but it was magic.
Some beings could fuel themselves on magic alone, like a [Mage], and there were minimal side-effects. But most people died on such diets, so a [Cornucopia] was a way of stretching food out at best.
Skills that produced food were superior, and Silvenia hated that. But the spell, at least, was inferior. She could obviously win a war against some [Baker] who got [Free Baker’s Dozen] each day. Silvenia could create an automated time-sped garden that, using Golems, spat out a thousand loaves in a day…until the Golems went rogue or the garden got corrupted and produced giant weevils fed for generations upon free food.
…There was a reason she didn’t do that anymore. So Silvenia had left the Demons a [Cornucopia] spell along with her other gifts of magic, if only that they might use it in dire need.
Thankfully, they hadn’t starved enough to need it that badly. But the [Cornucopia] had still been around, mostly unused, until this [Cook], Ribe, had come up with an idea. Now, Silvenia watched and laughed in delight.
“Ah, how clever! How clever! I wish I could show some fancy [Chef] this, or a [Hedonist]! They would be so appalled!”
Ribe was taking food out of the cornucopia, which could make anything—and she was, at this moment, demanding the highest-quality marbled beef. Perfectly cooked and so succulent they dripped with fat. Bone marrow from Wyverns. She took this fantastic food with no substance…
And she put it in a steel press, squeezed the ribeye until the meat was a paste devoid of juice, the marrow dripped into a pot, and then began to dip pieces of bread in it. They soaked up the juice and flavor—and by the time the magical food vanished, they had taken on some of the taste.
“I make a kind of stew too, Death of Magic. I once poured a fine terrine in one to take the flavor and offended a former Terandrian [Lord] terribly. The Drathian visitor told me I had done the world a favor. Thence they fought.”
Silvenia laughed so hard she nearly cracked her ribs. But then she swooped down and grasped Ribe’s hands, such that the [Cook] was nervous.
“If you desire anything—height, a change in you, a little piece of magic—ask. Ask, for you have won my favor. This is an idea that I have never heard from a cornucopia! I have seen [Blood Mages] use Cloaks of Plenty to fuel spells, but never to use the food to impart flavor!”
She had no idea it would even do that! But it worked, and so the richest foods her spell could produce became the flavoring of simpler dishes. It seemed that, unlike merely combining a steak with some other dish, using it in a broth would let the qualities of flavor linger. As if the magic were strong enough to trick water into believing it tasted better than it did.
So, Silvenia was happy, and she took a plate of food from the delighted Ribe’s hands. It was, the woman protested, a simple bread soup, not fit for the Demon’s highest table. Staler bread flavored in the cornucopia’s richer meats, placed in a broth filled with fresh goat’s meat. There was some purple onion, cream from the same cows Silvenia had milked this morning, and a sausage that turned out to be fish. She put some of the fresh-made cheese in a sprinkling and ate it with a spoon as she sat on one of the towers of the palace of the Demon King.
She would not eat with the Death of Wings and the Death of Chains; she would let them celebrate, and the Demons, for they were more relaxed without her. Or rather, that was her plan until a giant woman with wings landed next to her.
“Silvenia. You have prepared my feast. Why do you not sit with us?”
Silvenia jumped. A bird the size of a house should not be stealthy enough to sneak up on her.
But then—the Death of Wings, Serinpotva, was the greatest and highest-level Harpy living, and her vast, dark wings revealed her somber face like someone parting a veil.
“I thought I’d disturb your festivities.”
“I would be disturbed without you. Come…we shall talk of the world’s affairs. Czautha tells me you are cooped up. I would not have you restless like a chicken.”
“Nonsense. Go enjoy yourself.”
The Death of Wings’ cause was older than Silvenia by far, but the half-Elf was older than this particular Harpy. Yet Serinpotva was more direct than Czautha. She struck so fast that Silvenia was too slow. The Death of Magic flailed…then hung from Serinpotva’s claws by the neck of her dress. The Harpy lifted her up, then took off, and Silvenia dangled there like some catch of the day.
“Wheeeeee.”
Because it was hilarious, she laughed all the way into the banquet hall until the Death of Wings popped her into a seat.
The Demons cheered her, and the Harpies set up a clamor as they ate higher up. Harpies put their dishes at head-height since they didn’t even have wing-arms like garuda. They pecked delicately as they chattered, and Czautha thanked Silvenia for the new food.
“It was amusing. But come now. Have a bread soup. I saw how my cornucopia was being used, and it made my day.”
Her mood restored, the half-Elf spoke to the other two Deaths. Czautha, ever-changing, was a rainbow, a cloud of a woman in full motion. Serinpotva, the Harpy, perched as she sat, great wings, like the deep blue sky at night, slightly open as she pecked at the food. She had a Human’s face and torso—bird wings, and the feathers became skin in time. Like Minotaurs, some Harpies had Human features entirely while others took more to their bird side.
Serinpotva? She wore ancient armor that rippled with her movements, light enough to let her fly. Armor of a kingdom long dead. Proof of her birthright—Izril. And she would have not even claimed the whole of it. Just enough land for her people to thrive. But Drakes and Gnolls and Humans would never give it back. They had claimed it and claimed they were now the rulers by right of generations dead upon that land. Nevermind who had been there first and longer still.
Czautha looked grumpy, now, and protective of Serinpotva, whom she cared for. She turned to Silvenia and spoke as she tapped a pumpkin filled inside with something that had been roasted within the vessel.
“Serinpotva had thoughts of the <Quests>. She missed most before she woke. It was not my choice to discuss the world’s state of affairs, but she is keen.”
Silvenia glanced up, and the ruler of Harpies spoke—the only one among them with a crown.
“How badly do the Antinium fare?”
