The bickering Chosen barely registered with Az’kerash at first. Then…Perril Chandler looked around, and they fell silent. For his mouth was open. Tears fell from his eyes, and his look of horror scared even them into silence.
“…Master?”
Bea spoke. And it was she, she who wore the face of a woman long dead and the same name, who looked worriedly at Az’kerash. She reached out—and he recoiled, slamming into the stone table. Bea halted, confused—
“Oh no. Necromancer—haven’t we wasted enough time? Shall we put aside these childish diversions or what?”
Nerrhavia muttered, then raised her voice. She tried to sound as arrogant as possible. But he barely looked at her. His eyes were focused on Bea. When he finally looked around—
Perril Chandler was there. He looked out of a dead man’s eyes and at his hands. Tears still ran from his eyes, and his voice shook almost like his Chosen. For they were afraid and didn’t know why. What Perril Chandler said was this:
“I’m…I’m sorry, Nerrhavia. My Chosen…my children. I’m sorry.”
They stirred, for he had never called them that. Not fully. Nerrhavia lifted a hand to say something, but it was too late. So she closed her mouth and waited. Az’kerash looked at Toren, then at the fish they’d made and the bread rising in the oven. Slowly, he walked over, checked on the rising loaf.
“Bread. I haven’t eaten bread in…over a century. I forgot what it tasted like.”
“If you want it, Master, it is all yours.”
Nekhti piped up, and he looked at her. Still, the tears rolled down his cheeks.
“No. No…I would share it with you, Nekhti. With you all. I wish you had tasted the bread I had as a child. Tomato-slice soldiers. Hot bread by the fire in the winter. Terrine?”
He looked at the mess blankly. Az’kerash was a being of a hundred plus years ago, and his memory had faded over that long while, his reasons lost on Izril with time. But now, he was coming back. And bringing…everything.
“That is not a terrine. I ate far finer, and I remember now. I thought it was so rich I spat some into a handkerchief just like Devail did. Not even cooked, I remember saying, which made the Lightherald laugh, and I jumped because I was afraid…”
His hand shook. Toren felt a slight…tingle run down his spine. He looked around for Maviola, his fleshshield, and realized she had crept behind him, holding Healing Slime in her hands. The three slowly backed up behind Nerrhavia as Perril Chandler spoke on.
“I lied. Ijvani, Bea, Venitra, Devail, Wesixa, Nekhti, Oom, I lied. I don’t know how to make a terrine. I can’t cook. It was never something I pursued. I would burn all the food I made—I could roast things at a campfire or with magic, and that was about it.”
“I can’t tell you can’t cook, Master. It looks good to me!”
Venitra spoke up with that way children did, to tell their parents they were infallible because they had to be. But Az’kerash closed his eyes, and he wept.
“No. I can’t cook. I wish I had learned. But even that foul taste reminded me…reminded me of eating as a boy. Dining with the man I thought was my friend. My land. My kingdom. I was a son of Silvaria. I coined the term, like the Drakes called themselves ‘Sons of the Walls’. I was so proud. And they…they killed me. They lied and put me in chains. And when I looked in his eyes I knew he had lied. Then they cut off my head.”
His voice was changing. It was shaking now, like an echo. Two voices. The Az’kerash of now and a man screaming his last words as the [Executioner]’s axe descended. Perril Chandler looked up, and it was him now.
“And I swore—I would have my revenge. Swore it with the dregs of my soul. My love. My greatest friend. My king. I wrote my grudge in their blood. Drowned in it. Still, it was not enough. The living—no voice rose for me. No nation. I swore it upon them all, my death.”
His Chosen were shaking when he looked at them. He had scared them before, but always with cold words and his dispassionate anger. This?
They had never seen this. Not the shaking hands. The eyes draining of hope. Toren looked down. The flagstones of the castle were blackening, twisting into some strange substance, as if he were killing them.
Nerrhavia put out a hand, and the seeping madness halted in front of her; it ran across the kitchen.
“Az’kerash, come to your senses.”
He looked at her. Then the Necromancer spoke. And—and then Toren saw it.
Oh. There it was. He had wondered if this were really the greatest monster of the modern age. He had supposed that he was, and he was just…in recovery. Beaten. Changing. That even the monster they called the Necromancer of Terandria was a man in the end.
But now, the skeleton felt different as he saw the figure staring out of Az’kerash’s face. For there was the betrayal and rage to slaughter millions. There was the creature that rose and would not stop. Had not stopped for a century.
[Undying Lich, Myth of Death and Vengeance].
“There…you…are.”
The skeleton’s voice rasped in the air. Everything changed. Sometimes quickly. Az’kerash’s head slowly turned, and he looked at Toren.
He knew who the skeleton was. He didn’t murder Toren or Healing Slime, and when Bea shook with terror when he stared at her—he slowly reached out and touched her cheek.
“Bea. Don’t be afraid.”
But it was different. When Az’kerash turned, Nerrhavia saw him focus on something, like a man who had been staring at the brickwork only noticing it was a wall for the first time.
“The New Lands, you said, Nerrhavia? New land…great treasures. Seithbone.”
“Yes…more for your creations.”
He nodded, but in a static way. Up. Down.
“They’re coming for it. Why didn’t I think of it before? They will come for it. The land first, and treasure later. They will sail across the seas with their banners and soldiers and [Knights]. Terandria. I know they are coming.”
“Have you not left enough of them dead? I thought you had greater plans for your children.”
Nerrhavia was trying to draw him back, but it was too late. She, who had beguiled Dragons and tricked Djinni and danced a world upon her fingers like a game of string—
The Immortal Tyrant searched for words and found she had none. She wished, then, that she had once known an [Innkeeper] or that they walked together. For all Nerrhavia had ever done when she found those who stood on the edge of things was to push them off that cliff. She did not know how to catch them as they fell.
All this because of a meal. It was perhaps the worst dish she had ever seen served. Food…food…
Damn food. Sometimes, it was just a single meal that was all it took. One bad dish. Toren felt Maviola holding his clavicle tight in terror as Az’kerash spoke.
“I do, Nerrhavia. They have a future greater than even you or I. A new world for us all, and I will raise them to be better than I was. But in this world I will leave to them—Terrandia will not be in it. If I must crawl, I will drag them into the lands of the dead with me.”
Nerrhavia slowly exhaled as Az’kerash looked up. She gently lifted the baked fish, without passion made of it. It was still far superior to the terrine, and she would stand by her statement every time.
You could make that which was beautiful and unsurpassed without love or care. Without emotion or desire. Creation was a fickle thing like that, and gave itself to the unworthy, the machine.
But a destroyer? She looked at Az’kerash. And no Golem in the world could break apart a continent like the hatred in his eyes. So, then.
Now, the Necromancer was going to war.
 
——
 
Food, like bodies, inevitably became nothing at all. Ultimately, it was all feces on the ground or a rotting body’s innards lying open to the sun. Even the prettiest corpse was but marrow or a shell slowly decomposing in a wooden box.
If you hadn’t ever seen that sight, if you were young, you could probably cling to a world where you had never woken up to the sound of glass breaking or a door splintering inwards. If you had never truly screamed, you wouldn’t know how it felt.
When people spoke, then, of the ‘look’ a [Soldier] had who had killed, or a [Murderer] or anyone else, it was that. You might never come back after stepping foot there.
In a sense—it was like going on an adventure to another world in a twisted way. You would leave something behind and change until even your friends would not recognize your face.
What you had to remember with that war—with this, was a simple thing. Food might pass into your stomach, become unrecognizable with the first bite. You might never forget the feeling and the moment when you killed someone—or it might all blur together until it seemed that was ‘normal’.
…But a meal could still taste good. A simple hug could still feel more real than the roar of a bonfire, and the point to cooking, to eating, was more than to stay alive.
It was the eternal struggle for people. Not the struggle to live, find love or happiness, but the struggle to come back and sit down and…eat. To find the reason why you cooked for people.
Even for her.
Silvenia, the Death of Magic, cooked. She also cleaned, and she would spitefully don a Terandrian uniform, apron and all, and carry a duster as she flew over the lands of the Demons.
“[Scourge Color: Everpale White]. [Wave of Radiance]. Combine spells.”
A wave of light flashed over stones and grass and what few plants could grow in Rhir’s blasted earth without encouragement. The light did what the spell said it did—
It scourged. Bugs, plants, even the soil twenty feet deep. Then Silvenia shot down pieces of stone floating behind her and fused the ground solid. She kept moving, and she slapped a hardhat on top of the maid’s ruffles on her head as a Demon child stared up at her.
Silvenia winked. The child ran and hid. The Death of Magic flew on as her ‘people’ kept their distance.
Scourging places of life to keep it antiseptic-clean was a bad idea. Wistram had done that, but a void of space invited nasty things to settle in. An ecosystem was desirable…except in Rhir.
Silvenia was creating a ‘ground’ of stone that would be sealed such that anything deeper than twenty feet would have to crack the stone before it came up. There could be Vorepillars, Creler eggs, toxins—she wasn’t going to bother with all that.
“Cleanup done.”
It took her an hour to scour an area around a town, and she saluted a floating being like a rookie [Soldier]. Czautha ignored Silvenia’s salute.
“Thank you, Silvenia—”
“Happy to help, sir!”
“—we don’t need any roads—”
“Just say the word, sir! It’s not like I have anything better to do with my time, sir!”
The half-Elf’s face was half-flesh—half magic keeping her bones and skin together. She, like Czautha, like all the Deaths, had wounds that might never heal.
Silvenia’s were just more obvious than the shapeshifting Djinni. She could sense the wounds in Czautha’s very core. But hers were on her body, and it made her gaze difficult to match, even for hardened Demons who had seen countless injuries.
The Djinni’s glower was unmoved.
“It had to be done.”
“Absolutely. Would you like me to weed your garden next? Shine your shoes? Tuck you into bed and give you a kiss? Who’s the Djinni here, me or you?”
That nettled the Death of Chains. She expanded, like a thundercloud, eyes flashing with lightning.
“If you objected, you could say so, and no one would protest. Don’t make light of my people.”
Silvenia laughed and flew back, like a sparrow, doing a loop-de-loop. Then she grabbed at her hair.
“I apologize, Czautha, truly. But I am going mad. A girl knows Gnomes. That girl knows Gnomes, and Earth comes to Rhir, and I am not allowed to leave?”
Her own temper was shaking the air, and Czautha exhaled.
“It could be a trap. And even if it were not—the Demon King has told you no. I have told you no.”
“Then accept my poor jokes. Because I am, well and truly, going mad. Ask me to do something. Dare me to put another hole in 5th Wall. Please. Please.”
It was not just her poor sense of humor that was making Silvenia so annoying—it was frustration. They had known each other long enough that Czautha saw it. So the Djinni thought. Czautha’qshe slowly spoke.
“Serinpotva has returned. Her people are celebrating. Could you…prepare something worthy of that?”
“For a lovely moonlight dinner? Wine? A feast? I can do that.”
Silvenia’s eyes brightened. She clicked her fingers.
“I will see you l—”
Then she blinked out of existence. Czautha shook her head; when she descended, the Demons flocked to her, and she smiled and they loved her, as did her kin.
Breaker of Chains. She was the hero of Demons. But Silvenia…even to her people, they knew her as destruction.
 
——
 
Silvenia knew she was feared. In the few seconds it took to teleport to her destination, she thought it was fair.
She was war. She loved it, and unlike Czautha, who did it to an end, Silvenia had taken to it. She would use Crelers, tricks, watch soldiers die and sleep comfortably. And this was fair because she had lost everything to war, and it was only right it amuse her.
In fact, Silvenia had taken the side she thought of as just…or just enough. But the truth was that even she was more than a sword to be swung until it dulled from sheer slaughter.
There was…a frustration to her that she had seen in Az’kerash, when she had learned what became of that daring Archmage of Death. He had risen and fallen in the time it took her to recover from the wounds.
Wounds he had helped deal her. She had admired him, even if she had shown him on that battlefield the limits of his magic. It had broken Zelkyr. But he…Silvenia had a kinship with the Necromancer of Izril.
She too knew betrayal. But his was unfocused. He had dragged his kingdom into death with him. She had a cause. And she was far older than he; in that sense, he was one of the prodigies not blessed by immortality that could rise to such heights within a mortal’s lifespan.
“—You should have been mortal until death kissed you on the brow, Necromancer. Your little [King] should not have wasted that talent. You would have been stronger. Once you have all the time in the world, you level slower.”
That was a truth as well. It had taken Silvenia far longer to reach this level, and she suspected it was due to her heritage. The same for all beings who had both levels and immortality on their side…well, most were like Dragons and refined what they had rather than chasing levels.
She was not Dragon-old, but she had met them. And so, she thought of the Necromancer as a worthy rival, if young in this new arena. She thought of him as possibly living, too. Silvenia hadn’t seen his body. She assumed anything she hadn’t personally killed might come back.
