Menrise had her own screen to eat with her face uncovered, and the [Lady] of Tourvecall, with her own helmet, had gifted Rabbiteater his. He nodded, and Altestiel laughed.
“I’ll take enough forkev for months to the new lands! We’ll make more there if we can get everything. Ship-cooking won’t be as grand, but we’ll have experts with us. And frankly, I’m keen on having some good food from Erribathe and Gaiil-Drome.”
“Oh? Not a fan of Calanfer, Tourvecall, Kaaz, or anyone else’s cooking, Altestiel?”
Cortese began to look testy, but Altestiel clarified.
“Don’t be silly, Hundredlord. I meant that we’re sailing in a wave filled with half-Elves.”
There were ‘waves’ of ships going out to prevent them running into each other, and the second wave was being led by Altestiel himself. But he had agreed to escort the half-Elves.
“They wanted either Pheislant or Desonis—or Nadel, but Belchaus isn’t joining in—to be their escorts. Raiding at sea. We’ll probably land with the half-Elves. So you’d better get ready for vegetable and fruit dishes!”
He laughed at Cortese’s expression. Rabbiteater…looked up slowly as he drank from a straw.
Half-Elves. He knew that the Order of Seasons was going, and he was supposed to talk to the Summer’s Champion and the other [Knights] before he went. He didn’t know who of his friends would join, and he wanted to talk to Ser Greysten—he had gone to The Wandering Inn!—but Rabbiteater was reminded of what Erin had said.
Elves and Gnomes. His blood stirred, and the [Knight] almost said something. But then he nudged Seraphel.
“Pass the brown stuff.”
“Which brown—”
“The soy stuff. From Drath. You have some too. You don’t eat anything you don’t know.”
He poured some on her plate, and the picky [Princess] glared at him.
“Ser Solstice, I would like you to not make decisions for me. As in, ‘if I do not know whether I am going swimming’, that is not an invitation to push me! The same with food!”
He didn’t see how a [Princess] could have every food in the world served to her and always want to eat cake and ice cream. Rabbiteater sighed. Maybe that was why she was so picky.
“It’s gonna be fun seeing you eat outside a palace. Heh. Heheheheheh.”
He couldn’t wait. Hundredlord Cortese grinned with understanding as Seraphel bit her tongue and tried not to bring up the sieges she’d survived. But then Cortese leaned over.
“See here, Altestiel. This is good, but I won’t leave Desonis by boat or by horse until you serve me one meal of Hydra!”
Rabbiteater looked up, and Seraphel gulped. Hard. But Altestiel just glanced up with a grin as Menrise clapped her hands with delight.
“Well, Cortese, if you want that dish—you’d better supply the meat yourself. Who wants to organize a hunt?”
Rabbiteater raised Seraphel’s hand for her. She poured soy sauce all over his food.
 
——
 
[Princesses] didn’t respect how hard it was to have food. She thought that a mackerel, which someone had to ride from the coastline up into town—a two hour ride after it had been caught at sea—with fermented soy sauce as a dish, forkev that came from eel fisheries, and all of it made for five noble-type visitors was something you were allowed to ruin to get back at a ‘mean [Knight]’. Then she wondered why Rabbiteater, said [Knight], got so upset that he dumped the rest of his glass of water all over her.
Altestiel got both sides, although he tended to lean on the dignity of a [Princess]. But if they had been on another continent, say, Chandrar, and in Germina, the Quarass would have known better than for a visitor to disrespect food, her, or her people.
They were all about appearances, no substance. She respected how hard it was to make any kind of sauce, from forkev to the Drathian condiment.
In fact—Germina made all of it. They were poison experts, and that also translated into being rather fine fermentation and spice experts in their own right. It was said that even if you died of being poisoned, your last bite would be worth it in Germina.
In fairness, it was mostly the sauce. Germina was poor. It had rich moments, but like Reim, it often fell back on the Yellats.
Yellats. Plant them, water them once a week, and they grew. They surpassed potatoes, corn, and even crops like rice and wheat for ease of harvesting. They liked dry, hot soil, and so many Chandrarian nations had avoided famine on them.
But the same benefits made the nations that harvested them poor. They were too plentiful to command huge shares of the market, and while they had become one of the staples worldwide—well, Germina could not compete with actual breadbasket nations either.
Take Nerrhavia’s Fallen, for instance. The Quarass was staring at a scrying orb. She had given up on scrying the inn after spending most of her morning trying to see what Erin Solstice was up to.
No way to see what her [World’s Eye Theatre] was doing. A shame—her Skill wasn’t penetrable by any of the means the Quarass knew, magical or otherwise. The Quarass wanted to know what Erin Solstice wished of her.
But the [Innkeeper] appeared to be taking a break, so the Quarass scried the only other targets she could. Namely—the ones she knew Erin Solstice had contacted alongside her to reveal she had met Gnomes and Elves.
Now—Erin Solstice hadn’t tried to reveal the other people to the Quarass. She had probably thought she was being cunning, and she had been. But the Quarass had heard several voices when she opened the connection, and she could [Replay Memories]. It was sort of her thing.
The two things she had been able to identify, perfectly, and then trace to people with educated guesses were the background sounds from two of Erin’s contacts.
Namely—the unforgettable voice of Cognita Truestone and the creak of sails and a ship. From the two and Erin’s own contacts, the Quarass had guessed it was either the father of Seborn Sailwinds, Therrium Sailwinds, Minotaurs, or most likely—
Rasea Zecrew. She confirmed her hypothesis that it was Rasea by observing the [Pirate] at sea. Rasea probably thought no one could scry the Illuminary.
She was wrong. And how did the Quarass know Erin had contacted Rasea?
The [Pirate Captain] was having an early lunch.
“Food? Is it some kind of [Innkeeper] power? We’ve got food! We’ve got culture! Tons of it! More culture than Khelt has shit! Someone make me a fancy lunch—if that Erin Solstice contacts me, I want to be eating like some royal!”
She was stomping up and down her ship as the Quarass watched. The young Quarass’ own stomach rumbled, but she glared at one of her bodyguards who tried to offer her a lunch. She was taking a tour of Ger’s own facilities.
Something about food made you appreciate the effort and styles that went into it around the world. The Quarass had lived hundreds of lives, taken every drug, been an alcoholic, a [Monk], and eaten world-class cooking and literal dirt in times of hunger.
And she still liked good food. She watched, now, as the [Pirates] demonstrated that while they lacked for manners, a variety of foodstuffs, and a working stable economy—they could cook in interesting ways.
For one thing—when you thought ‘pirates cooking’, did you think of some evil [Sea Chef] with a cleaver hacking down boarding parties over a stove spitting flames and even worse cuisine?
Because if you did—that was stereotyping and you were dead wrong. Most [Pirate] ships had a very small galley, their cooking area, and some didn’t even have stoves.
Hold on now. No fire? Well—let a reasonable mind put their cooking another way. What did fire need?
Fuel. And on a ship where, even with holding magic, you had to store freshwater, food, and everything else, did you want to store cooking wood?
Second—even if you had a magical stove, an expensive, heavy luxury—did you want [Pirates], drunk [Pirates], drunk [Pirates] who rammed each other with ships and often damaged their own ships greatly in battles, to have an open flame anywhere on their ship?
The answer was no. A commonality between [Pirates] of now and the ones of Trey’s world during their golden era was that they had a lot of barrel-food. Hardtack, preserved foods, pickled or dried…
Dire. No wonder they raided ships for fresh food and fished out of desperation. But the good [Pirates] did have an edge on their Earthworld counterparts.
“Hm. Trey Atwood knows a lot of history. I wonder what Erin Solstice knows? I want Earthers. At least…at most ten. And if they are all like Trey and Teres, three may be more than I need.”
The Quarass knew the error of keeping too many prisoners or allies who caused chaos. She had just shown Wistram that.
The New Lands. She was going there too. It was a lure that the Quarass could not ignore. The only question was whether she went in person or delegated. There was much to do, and Flos was one major headache—but for now, the Quarass appreciated [Pirate] cooking.
Rasea Zecrew demanded bread. Fresh bread.
She had no fire. Her ship had been built like Drowned Ships, and they hated fire and light in the deep where either could get you noticed and killed. If she had a stove, it would be without magical flames—just heating runes.
But she intended to cook, and so her [Galley Chef] painstakingly mixed up some dough with a lot of chopped up grapes, oranges, and so on.
“Aw, come on. I hate bread with too much fruit in it.”
“It’s Scurvykiller Bread, Captain. Shut up and eat it. It’ll take at least an hour, probably an hour and a half.”
“Damn. Well, hoist it over, then.”
The [Chef] slapped the ingredients into the dough ready to bake and then shut and secured the hatch. Then Rasea kicked the entire unbaked loaf of bread over the side of her ship.
At this, even Highborn Vaitsha, the Quarass’ Chosen who sat with gloves on her hands—for her body was poison—made a confused sound.
Khalid, the Quarass’ [Champion] in training, also blinked. But the Quarass just murmured softly, humoring her two protectors and closest servants.
“What separates [Pirates] from other cultures is not what they eat, Vaitsha, Khalid. They take from other cultures like they live—stealing. Drowned Folk are unique. [Pirates] are not. But how they cook is interesting. See?”
She pointed, and the scrying orb zoomed in on the Signal Stone she’d hidden on Rasea’s ship. Then everyone saw the length of rope that the Illuminary had tied to the bobbing capsule in the waves behind them.
It was already heating up. What Vaitsha saw, to her amazement, was a glass cylinder, tapered at both ends like a rugby ball—Trey had described it to the Quarass once—with a metal hatch on one side that could be secured. It was water-tight, and the entire thing was enchanted.
“What is it, Quarass?”
“An oven. Of sorts. It is the cleverest thing a [Pirate] has ever invented—do you see? It only works on sunny days, and they take it off the ship for fear of fire.”
It was probably hot in there, even with the water surrounding it. It was, the two citizens of Germina realized, indeed an oven. But they, as a landlocked people, needed the Quarass to explain how it worked.
It was a solar oven. The glass was making the warm sun shine down a hundred times harder and heat the inside of the capsule to a cooking temperature. The bread might be bumped from bobbing in the waves, but it would come out hot. The glass had a magnification spell on the side of it, and so the entire thing was like putting a magnifying glass on an egg.
Or bread.
And Erin Solstice had the gall to claim that all bread was alike. The Quarass was mostly interested in seeing if Erin contacted the [Pirate], but she didn’t in the hour it took for the Quarass to arrive at her destination via a carriage.
What did happen was still worth watching, because in between watching Cognita Truestone at her own work, the Quarass saw Rasea offering the baked bread to a guest.
But the Drake, predictably, turned her down. He sat stiffly as she assured him, ironically, that no one was listening in, even Erin, that she could tell. The Quarass’ eyes glowed with mirth, but she already knew what the Drake wanted.
“Payment upon signing the contract.”
The representative of Zeres was bold to set foot on the Illuminary. Bold enough to tap the contract—but Rasea just tossed it over her shoulder after crumpling it up.
“That’s not how I do things. You have my word—pay me half now, half after. But you’d better have a list of sails, and if your friends sail under the wrong ones, don’t blame me.”
The Drake folded his arms with a glower.
“Any non-Drake sail is our enemy. Keep them from landing, and we’ll put a bounty on each one you down. Too bloody for you? If they turn back and you can prove it, we’ll pay for that too.”
Rasea grinned at that. Not a friendly smile. A warning one, like her Anglerfish half.
“The Illuminary doesn’t wash our hulls in blood, Drake. Watch your tongue. We’re not your armies after Gnolls.”
“You—”
He got angry, but she had a hand on her sword. Rasea spat on a hand and held it out, and the Drake glowered before doing the same.
“I’ll not sail against Drakes for one month. One month…and any ship I down, I’ll log and bother your lot about.”
“Through the right channels. Never to a Walled City. Wistram is watching. Not scrying orbs or—”
“Aye, aye. Shut up. Have some bread afore I stuff it somewhere else. Then get off my ship.”
Rasea looked discontented, but the Zeres Drake seemed pleased. And well he should. It was probably not easy to buy peace with Rasea’s ship even for a month, or cheap, and it likely galled Zeres to do it after she had taken sides against them.
“…but they cannot afford to fight her. And if she stops more nations from landing on Izril, the better. If we sail for Izril, I will have to deal with her.”
She was a roving pain in the butt, and in that sense, the Quarass could see why Erin Solstice wanted her. Rasea could trouble even Flos Reimarch…or be a useful ally.
But why Cognita Truestone? Of the two—the Golem was the more dangerous, more unpredictable, and at the moment, the most lost.
The Quarass took a break from watching via her orb to tour one of the fermentation facilities that made sauces—including copies of Drathian condiments.
It was an art. One that many peoples understood, but not why. In fairness—the Quarass herself had had an incomplete understanding of germ theory before Trey told her everything. Microorganisms were in fermentation and broke down food over time to different stages, which people ate.
Often, it could be dangerous and produce deadly bacteria or just rotten food, but certain foods in the right storage conditions fermented well.
