Rane’s interference had changed the parameters of the fight even more than Terry’s had, showing that he was more than a shadow, and would have to be taken into account.

Still, Rane only interfered at need. When he was attacked directly, he responded with exactly twice the fervor as what was sent his way. As an example, one of the legionnaires slashed for his arm, and he deflected before cutting two rents in that automaton’s arm mirroring where it had aimed its blow.

The message was clear. The fight continued because he wished it to, and attacking him would shift his opinion.

Tala was watching closely, and that is likely the only reason she saw one of the stronger reality threads—one shared by all five—twang in an odd rhythm.

Such things weren’t really aligned with the physical, but Tala still felt like the other end was the nearest other squad. Whether that was a dozen blocks or six miles she didn’t really know.

-Well, if it was only a dozen blocks we could see them… I see evidence of other fights just out of sight, but none are in easy range. Shall I expand?-

Tala hesitated barely a heartbeat. No. I need to trust the city’s defenses and learn what I can. I’m not meant to be a front-line fighter against low level—

Tala was cut off as she felt an upwelling of authority and power the likes of which she’d never sensed before.

It wasn’t more concentrated than other workings that she’d experienced or witnessed, but the scope was incredible.

The Black Legionnaires were seized entirely without magic and flung to the north and east. They’d been torn from Tala’s slowly tightening encirclement as easily as a breath disperses dandelion fuzz.

Terry looked after his prey, letting out an annoyed screech.

Tala saw hundreds—no thousands—of other automata similarly expelled from Platoiri from all over, each arcing up and out.

Huh… the Revered City Lord was able to do more than I expected. I guess that means the city is safe.

A moment later, a voice echoed through the streets, putting her assumption to lie. “All citizens retreat to hold or fortification. Notices will be temporarily visible in each primary square, noting those which are open to any who can make it to them. The forbidding will only hold back the Legion for an hour at most. Do not delay. All combat authorized officials come to the City Lord’s Estate per the plans put forward by the Eskau of War of the House of Blood. We must organize and coordinate our defense.”

Tala would have brought out healers for the wounded, but Ironhold was anchored in the House of Blood’s hold at the moment, and while it was nearly in range, the ‘two deep’ nature of such an anchoring had pulled in the effective distance at which she could reach it. That was foolish.

-I’ll fix it. Give me ten minutes for the logistics. We need to pack it up regardless.

Done.

Rane had already moved over and checked in with the arcanes, turning to her a moment later.

All told, it had been less than five minutes since the Black Legion slammed down upon Platoiri, and the city was beginning to bubble over with controlled chaos.

Columns lifted up in some of the nearby squares, already marked with the information promised by the city-wide announcement.

Lea came to Tala, a contemplative smile across her features. “I felt and suppressed my body’s attempts to resonate with them.” Her smile grew. “I think I found the first thing to ‘Refine’ away.”

Tala nodded. “Maybe so, but be careful. Some things which we see as disadvantages can be turned in our favor with the right perspective.”

Lea opened her mouth to instantly argue back, but instead, she hesitated. A moment later, she nodded. “I’ll consider it. Thank you, Mom.”

Tala gave a wide smile of approval.

Rane came over, Terry on his shoulder. “The survivors can get to the nearest safe holds, working together. I assume we should go to the estate?”

Tala shook her head. “Get to the House of Blood’s hold. I’ll go and come back as quickly as I can.”

Rane opened his mouth to argue, but Tala held up her hand.

“Coordinate with the Talons, love. This is far from over.”

He only considered for a moment before nodding. “Understood. I’ll get that moving. Be safe.”

“You too.”
