She pulled the umbral wyrm apart in a cascade of gore and terror. Bones fit for a whale flung in every direction, driving into crystal towers and falling into the darkness of the city below. Blood and viscera flowed. Dark flesh smoldered here and there, surely full of shadow essences. The umbral wyrm was dead, in the single most entrancing and awful display of power Jane had ever witnessed. But the show was not over.

A brilliant white grand-rad, two meters across, hung in the air, gently floating toward Fallopolis. Loud boos rocked the air, fifty damage here, a hundred there, decrying killing for her own personal gain, but she didn’t care; Fallopolis merely welcoming the grand-rad to herself. As the white crystal touched her body, it cracked, breaking apart and coming back together, condensing into a brilliant star the size of a raindrop, to disappear into Fallopolis' chest.

The crowd was still booing.

“Shut thy mouths!” Fallopolis spoke, and the air died. [Scry] eyes were pushed back. Light and shadow played across the Crack as Fallopolis turned back to Yetta, then stared at the Tower mage. She pointed at the man. “You’re now bound, by ancient pact; we’ve all agreed, and now it’s fact.”

No one had a chance to move before a cold darkness flowed through the crystal of the Crack, stabbing into Allan, through the slits in his dark armor, into his fingers, seeping into his body. If he cried out in pain, Jane did not know; shadows clogged his throat. And then it was over. The man stood, he shook. He stilled. He breathed.

Allan sighed, and said, “A pact, then.”

Fallopolis laughed from every direction at once as her body shattered into shadows.

Jane stood to the side of the Crack. The road to Forward Base was empty, save for countless [Scry] eyes, watching, waiting for the Champion to begin her assault on the city. Where would Yetta go first? There were no wolves or giants prepared to strike; the only creature for kilometers had been the wyrm, and that threat was gone, now. The Dead City was dead silent.

Yetta and her people were silent, too. The Champion did not turn to scold the man in the dark armor; she hadn’t tried to stop him from bargaining with Fallopolis, either. She just regarded him, like blocks had fallen into place; like the most obvious thing in the world had happened.

Yetta turned to Jane. “What are you still doing here?”

“I’ve been appointed as your guide to the City. The Shades think it’s all rather hilarious; like you now have a double quest giver.”

“I don’t accept you.” Yetta said, “Get out of my sight.”

Jane nodded. “Gladly. I will be leading the charge into whatever dungeons you decide to open for us, though, as well as retrieving any people you tag as ‘rescued’." She stressed, "You must actually tag them and say ‘rescued’, just so you know.”

Yetta’s face filled with righteous outrage. Jane couldn’t blame the Champion for her rage; Jane was angry, too. She just hid her anger, for now.

Yetta stormed, “Is this all just some game to you! I need to save my homeland! But now I have to trudge through this shit! This amusement park that should have been blasted to dust centuries ago!” She yelled, “I don’t give a shit about any fucking adventurer who got themselves trapped in this Dead City, trying to steal from Shades! We have the rest of the world and my homeland to worry about!” She turned to her people. “We’re going straight to Planter.” She turned to Jane. “Away with you, shadeling.”

The old Jane would have tried to smack the shit out of anyone who insulted her like that; to call someone a ‘shadeling’ was like telling all the watching Shades that there was a new minion to be had. Jane was already on thin ice, in that department. Tania Webwalker still hadn’t accosted Jane, but Jane had seen more shadowspiders, staring at her from crevices and from around corners, than anyone else in the Army had seen in their entire careers.

Today’s Jane just bowed, demure, saying, “Champion,” as she stood even further to the side of the Crack.

Yetta, Basil, Allan, and Cyril started down the sandy path into Ar’Kendrithyst, pretending to ignore Jane, but Jane was openly staring at each and every one of them. They were each poised for an attack from any direction. That was smart of them. Tendrils of thought connected them to each other. That was also smart. They were probably screaming at each other right now, if Basil’s twitching face and Yetta’s narrowed eyes were any indication. That was not smart. They needed to either control their expressions or wear complete helmets if they lacked such control; two of them were wearing full plate, the rest of them could, too.

Allan, in his full black armor, walked tall; either thinking he could get out of a pact made with a Shade, or expecting to die well before completion.

… Or maybe he expected to extract help from the Shades, by giving them an obvious plaything. That was a valid angle, too. It was widely suspected that Bulgan did much the same thing, running the gamut of the Shade elites, extracting pacts, running the risk of becoming a shadeling well before he got enough of whatever-it-took to become a Shade.

But if Allan expected Killzone, or even Jane, to allow another person to become a Shade, then Allan would be dead before he left back for Odaali.

Dorthy lingered on the path, coming even with Jane.

Dorthy asked, “Maybe you can tell me how it’s possible for anyone to work alongside these monsters? That’s what I’d like to know.”

Jane said, “They have been rapidly preparing for Yetta’s arrival, ever since Planter put himself on the Kill and Exterminate Quest. In their original plan, we had no way to rescue the people they have captured. Now, we do.”

Dorthy paused. She asked, “What was their original plan?”

“The Shades’ original plan still involved the dungeons, but they were also going to throw their worst at you, right away, killing hostages every hour Planter remained alive.” Jane said, “We talked them down to what it is today, and to give you a week.”

Yetta yelled behind her, “I would have preferred the gauntlet!”

Jane almost argued that Yetta had no idea what the fuck she was talking about, but she kept her mouth shut.

Yetta stood where the red highway started, and the sands of the Crystal Forest ended. The entirety of Ar’Kendrithyst revealed itself to her, and she either paused to gauge the danger, or to stare at the beauty of all that crystal under the noon sun. Allan, Basil, and Cyril flanked her, having much the same unknowable reaction.

Dorthy walked down the sands to join them, saying, “I want a guide, and I want to save some of the people, Yetta.”

Yetta said, “Every day we delay, more people die in Odaali.”

Dorthy said, “Then we conscript the people we save. They’re Ar’Kendrithyst adventurers; they have to be higher level than the people we have defending the front lines.”

The wind blew, while Yetta remained silent, thinking.

Yetta sighed, saying, “You have a point.” She looked back, frowning as she appraised Jane. “What level are you? What’s the most dangerous monster you’ve killed?”

Jane strolled down the sands, toward Yetta’s party, saying, “Level 49. Vampiric Kraken.”

Basil spat out, “On your own, nitwit!”

Jane repeated, “Vampiric Kraken.”

Basil laughed. Black-armored Allan turned to regard Jane through his thin-slitted face-plate.

Yetta asked, “[Shadowalk]?”

“Yes. Like I said, I won’t be under your power, and you’re not expected to defend me.”

“Good.” Yetta said, “I accept your offer as a guide. I will not be defending you; you are not part of my party. If we are in danger, you are expected to run.” She declared, “We will be saving the people on the way to Planter, and that is all.”

Jane asked, “Could you perhaps just kill all of the Door Guardians? The Army would like to save the hostages, even if you cannot.”

Dorthy said, “We could do that, Yetta.”

Yetta frowned. “Fine.” She turned back to the city. The thin pulse of her Divine Scan blasted out from her in a sphere of thick air. A second passed. She pointed down into the depths of the city, into the darkness to the right of the red highway. “First stop is down there.”

Everyone else gazed into the dark depths of the city, but Jane did not have to; she had been running all across this city for the last month. She knew what Yetta’s Divine Scan had revealed.

Jane declared, “That would be Fallopolis’ dungeon. Expect wolves and some tips for adventuring in the city. She doesn’t like to kill people unless they piss her off; she might even have tea and cakes set out for you—” Jane smiled, adding, “Because Allan here just betrayed the rest of the world.”

Black-armored Allan flinched, but he otherwise ignored Jane. A dark [Scry] eye floated down from him into the depths.

Yetta glared at Jane. “How much information are the Shades feeding you?”

“None.” Jane said, “Killzone is quite talkative, though.”

In truth, Killzone was only one of five voices feeding Jane tactical information, but he was mostly quiet after the initial confrontation was over; he only spoke when absolutely necessary. But Yetta, and more importantly, all the [Scry] eyes watching, did not need to know that.

Tactical lies were necessary. Guiding Yetta through the Dead City was only one small part of the massive machinery that the Army had organized for today.

- - - -

In the middle reaches, down a wide staircase carved into the kendrithyst, where sunlight stayed above and the crystal was black as night, laid the entrance to Fallopolis’ dungeon. The walk down here was easy; lightorbs had been strung the whole way and all the monsters native to this part of the city had either been banished or eaten.

It was also rather illuminated, down here, because the entire path to Fallopolis’ dungeon had been littered with lightwards that spelled out hints for tackling the Dead City. Watch your back. Watch the crystal. Don’t make noise. Don’t anger the Shades. Be proud, but not too proud. Be angry, but not stupid. The sorts of helpful knowledge that anyone should know, but not everyone cared to believe.

The fact that a Shade put those tips into the air, though, would drive people to ignore such normal caution, which, Jane reflected, was probably part of the reason for putting those tips into the air at all.

The dungeon entrance itself was at the end of a black bridge, where crystalline doors had been ripped out of a solidly dark kendrithyst tower; the dungeon was open, but the lightorbs and lightsigns that had littered the way here, were not present inside of the dark tower. Shadows loomed inside. Someone was crying in there, but a slap shut them up.

A musical note escaped, but another slap, harder this time, quieted further noise.

Everyone noticed the inconsistencies, but what they mostly noticed was the object sitting in front of the dungeon.

A two-meter tall meat cake rested in front of the dungeon’s entrance, atop the black crystal road. The cake was two layers of meat and fur with white bone protruding here and there. The very dead monster had obviously not been a meat cake until maybe ten minutes ago. Parts of it were falling off of the whole, while Jane watched from her place at the back of Yetta’s party.

“What the FUCK is that supposed to be!” Basil yelled, holding knives in his hands, ready for almost anything, but he was clearly not ready for a meat cake. “Hell!”

Yetta asked, “Jane?”

Jane said, “75% chance the cake is really dead. I think Fallopolis has made a welcome out of a test."

“HelloOOoOO!” A dark, grandmotherly voice called out from the shadows, “WelcoOOme to my dungeoOOn!” Fallopolis made her appearance, slinking out from darkness behind the meat cake. “I have put on teEEa, for theEE, and a little shoOOw!”

She clapped.

The middle reaches for kilometers around flashed to light, and life. Pastel illusions of fluffy monsters bounded and played through the air. Pink shadowolves with overlong fangs clipped at each other, while purple shadowcats tore them apart with too-long tentacle-tails. It was a mockery of life and death, where nothing really died; the monsters just split into smaller monsters, who went careening around the middle reaches, playing and eating each other.

If Jane hadn't seen what Fallopolis had done to the umbral wyrm, this light show would have been an immaculate display of power and ability.

Behind Fallopolis, in the first room of her dungeon, light appeared, illuminating seven naked, bloody people, each with a musical instrument grafted in the place of their hands, or their mouth, or in place of arms or legs. Jane winced as they played completely out of tune; they were trying. Jane would make sure they got proper treatment as soon as Fallopolis finished whatever it was she was doing.

Yetta’s party rearranged, silently, tendrils of thought connecting all of them together.

Jane’s own tactical helpers back at the Command Center were silent; waiting for the other shoe to drop.

Only 4 seconds had passed since Fallopolis turned on the lights.

Yetta called out, “Release the hostages.”

Fallopolis ignored her, turning to Allan, saying, “Have teEEa with meEE, my little shadeliIIng.”

She gestured, and a grand set of tables and chairs and porcelain cups appeared atop the black crystal highway. Doilies and draperies covered the surface; a pile of cloth. A long-limbed shadeling servant appeared like a mockery of a butler, with a full bedsheet draped over one arm as he held a canteen of steaming water in the other.

All the while, horrible ‘music’ filled the air, as bloody, naked people, struggled to appease their jailer.

Allan said, “I have prior engagements; I cannot sup with yo—”

