Jane stood atop the sands in the Crack, roughly at the midpoint between the Dead City and the Forest, looking at the flag at the beginning of the opening in the wall, and at the sky just beyond; the ridge of sloping sand blocked her view of the actual Forest.

She was here on a mission, half volunteered, half by necessity, placed in this mid-ground spot by a compromise; she was where she needed to be. This was the way of things, when one was dealing with the Shades.

The Crack loomed above, a wide, hundred meter tall rent in the red-purple-smokey crystalline walls of the Dead City, while the sun beat down from high noon, scattering through the kendrithyst crystal all around Jane like she was at a rave party. A strong wind blew from inside the Dead City, through the Crack, causing the blue flag atop the pole at the entrance to flap wildly, spacking and cricking as it whipped in the air; the only real noise for kilometers around.

And right beside her, in the best possible central position inside the Crack, stood Fallopolis, an old Shade of unknown age, who looked, and even sometimes acted, like the kindly old grandma she resembled. Fallopolis stood in the middle of the Crack for the same reason as Jane. But as time ticked on, Fallopolis’s reason for being here had changed from at least one reason, to at least two. It was Fallopolis’s second mission that was starting to grate on Jane’s nerves.

Jane’s nerves were already very, very frayed; but she held it together. She could hold it together until she didn’t need to.

“YoOOu should invite your faAAther to visit when this Champion kerfuffle is oOOver.” Fallopolis said, adjusting her hair with one hand, while holding a kendrithyst crystal staff with the other and checking herself in its reflection. “This is your faAAther’s ploOOt, after all. I woOOuld congratulate him! With tea and caAAke! Once Planter is dead! Ah haAA!”

Fallopolis had said the same thing several different ways since they started their waiting game. Jane did not rise to the bait then; she would not rise to the bait now.

“Damn this hair.” Fallopolis picked at her wispy white hair, trying to get it to stay in place. “Ugh!” She pulled; her hair came out, her hair grew back. “Speak, child, or I will violate the agreement! I murder you, right now.”

Jane immediately said, “My father is an archmage, and none of your compatriots would allow such a thing to go unchallenged. In this current political climate, I cannot condone such an action.”

“Damn this hair!” Fallopolis let go of her staff. The crystal hung in the air where she placed it, as she used both her hands to pull at her unruly grey mop that supposedly passed for hair. She huffed. She dropped her arms to her side. She asked, “How would yoOOu curl your hair?”

“I would not.” Jane pointed to the clip around her held-back hair, saying, “I do this with [Conjure Armor].”

“Phhbt!” Fallopolis asked, “How would yooOOOu straighten it?”

“Between two hot pieces of metal.”

“An idea! I could try this.” Fallopolis hummed. “I shall not murder yoOOu today.”

Jane said nothing.

Fallopolis suddenly stood straighter. “SHE’S HERE!” The Shade demanded, “Tell me my hair looks good!”

Jane looked at Fallopolis, because to not look at her before she answered would be a grave mistake; emphasis on the grave. Jane pointedly did not look too far backward. She had already seen what the Shades had prepared to welcome the Champion and her party, and if Jane looked at it too much, she would lose her mettle. Fallopolis’ hair, though, Jane could look at that. The hair was a mess, as always, but it was an organized mess; part of her costume.

Jane said, “Your hair looks good.”

Wild-eyed, Fallopolis demanded, “Tell me the truth!”

“Your hair looks like an organized mess.”

“PERFECT!” Fallopolis turned to shadow, to air, wisping away into the walls of the Crack. “Don’t tell them about me! I am making entrances!”

Jane did not ignore Fallopolis, not at all; to ignore her was to tempt fate. But she did pretend to ignore her, as the old Shade flitted through the crystal to lie in wait under the third most obvious natural shadow in the stone. Jane was pretending to ignore quite a lot, right now.

Jane stood taller, watching the ridge of the sands at the top of the Crack; waiting.

A dog appeared over the edge of sand; brown and shaggy and obviously a summoned elemental of some kind. The dog looked at Jane. Jane waved, curt, once; just to acknowledge the dog’s presence.

The dog spoke, “What the fuck are you?”

Jane answered, “Normal human; Jane Flatt. You probably met my father, Erick Flatt. I’m with the Army. Consider me a continuation of your quest.”

The dog looked up and behind Jane, then back to Jane. “What the fuck is going on here?”

“I will not repeat the speech I have been given to a dog. This is neutral territory, in as much as anywhere can be neutral inside A—” Jane cut herself off. She had almost called the city ‘Ar’Kendrithyst’ while the Shades were watching. That would have been a mistake. Jane continued, “Inside a great city such as this. I have been given a declaration to share with the Champion and her people.” She dutifully added, “And you will hear it, upon pain of the city opening, and every Shade adding itself to ‘Atunir’s little quest’. End quote.”

The shaggy dog said nothing.

Jane waited.

The shaggy dog asked, “Some binding terms from the Shades watching?”

“They will give none. You are entering their territory, and I am the one who got tagged to give this speech, so come on out, or go away. Those are the only options.”

Jane cringed, hoping that they would pick one of the given options, and not the obvious third—

“We could just kill you.” The dog said, “And every single Sha—”

A chorus of boos filled the Crack, like a stadium of angry voices, vibrating the sand into a mire. Jane did not sink into the sand, but the dog did. Some of the more notable objections included:

“You would kill your quest giver’s daughter!? Shame!”

“SHAME SHAME SHAME!”

“Kill the dog, kill the dog!”

Jane stood strong, but her bones felt like jelly. Damage ticked off, 10 here, 30 there. 500 points of her [Personal Ward] vanished in three seconds.

The objections turned into a cheer, just as loud, just as damaging, when five people stepped into the entrance to the Crack. One of them was a brown-skinned woman, Jane’s own age, wearing yellow maybe-leather armor, the color of wheat. She was Yetta, obviously, according to the divine energy surrounding her, and the voice of Killzone speaking into Jane's mind.

The feed of telepathic communication between her and the Command Center gave her lots of information every second; she was not in danger right now, but if anything changed…

Behind Yetta came a dark-skinned man, wearing brown leathers and clutching two long daggers; Basil Bay, childhood friend to Yetta. A burly woman crested the sand ridge beside Basil, completely covered in grey plate armor a bit darker than Teressa’s grey magic; Dorthy Bay, also childhood friend to Yetta, sister to Basil. Dorthy was human, like all of them, but she was one of the largest humans Jane had ever seen. Next to that large woman was a skinny man, completely covered in black scale armor; that would be Allan Trow, mage of the Tower. And finally, came a pale blond man in white cloth, with gold accents; Prince Cyril Odaali.

The ‘audience’ ‘behind’ Jane went quiet.

Yetta walked forward. She stopped fifteen feet from Jane. “State your speech, then remove yourself from my sight.”

Jane did not hesitate, “Firstly: You will refrain from popping any [Scry] eyes. Every eye you pop, means someone dies. The City has prepared for you, Yetta, and this is one of the many new millstones you must carry on your journey though this dark place.”

Yetta went still. She nodded.

Jane said, “Secondly: 25 Shades have each prepared a dungeon for you. Every prepared dungeon contains a Door Guardian, a Mid Boss, a Final Encounter, and a Daydropper nest. For every dungeon you do not clear, you will find an appropriate encounter from that dungeon aiding in Planter’s defense. As a reward for clearing a dungeon, besides preventing a future threat, you will also be rescuing people from certain death. These are the same people who will die if you pop the [Scry] eyes.” Jane added, “You need to be aware, that the second you step into the Garden, then the people at the bottom of every dungeon that you have not cleared, will die. The Army believes that there are 350 people in total.

“These are the threats and the games that the Shades have prepared for you."

Yetta nodded, narrowing her eyes.

Jane continued, “The Army has declared the whole thing unfair, and in the course of the Shades' preparation for you, the Army has gained you several concessions.”

Yetta glared, her voice a heavy weight, “What have you bargained for in my name?”

Jane nodded. “The concessions are as follows, and no more: I am allowed to guide you, if you wish, and I will not be overly targeted by the Shades.

“You have the option to send the Army into any dungeon you wish. You just need to kill the guardian protecting the front door, so that we might rescue these people in your place. Using your Divine Scan will reveal the general location of every prepared dungeon; they all have Daydroppers growing inside.

“You have one week to complete as much as you are able, and then all semblance of this prepared order will be abandoned. Whatever you have not completed will happen as it is wont to happen.

“And lastly, if you abide by the spirit of this event, you might even get help from the Shades whose dungeons you clear, or who you please in some way. This is one such encounter, right now.” Jane turned, gesturing, and finally looking at the monster behind her. “Your first event is this Umbral Wyrm.”

Down where the sands of the Crack touched the red crystal road leading to Forward Base, twenty meters out, began the body of a black wyrm made of shadow and bone. Two hundred meters long and as wide as the highway itself, the sinuous creature wrapped around and through the kendrithyst crystal, its half-shadow body half inside the road and nearby towers, just as much as it was exposed. Shadow licked across the whole, completely silent monster. It had been staring at Jane since the moment she had begun waiting for Yetta to appear, but now, the dark monster was staring at Yetta.

The Shades were controlling its insanity somehow, and none of the learned mages at the Command Center quite knew how. The veterans all suspected it was being controled through sheer telekinetic power.

And not to be undone by the horrible monster, countless black-rimmed white [Scry] eyes filled the air, everywhere; the Shades were watching.

And not to be undone by all of that: Fallopolis finally made her entrance.

A grandmother’s voice echoed in the kendrithyst crystal all around the Crack, “HellooOOooOOooOO, new CHAMPION!”

Jane moved left, getting well out of the way.

Cheers filled the air as Fallopolis strode out of the stone, from every direction all at once, shadow gathering like iron filings slamming into a magnet in the center of the Crack. She danced one foot out of her own shadow, kendrithyst staff swinging wide; a parade marcher’s baton. Shadows flashed, and she was wearing something like a tuxedo, but spikier. Spotlights came all around, lighting her up, casting shifting darkness and brilliant illumination throughout the red-purple-smokey crystals of the Crack.

Fallopolis sang, “Greetings! ChoOOsen of AtuniiiIIIr!”

Boos filled the Crack, directed at Yetta.

Yetta and her people were prepared for a fight, but they did not move. They waited, just as silent as the umbral wyrm staring at them. They were talking to each other with [Telepathy], though, if the lines of intent around their heads were any indication of a truth.

Fallopolis gestured toward the umbral wyrm with her kendrithyst staff. “I’ll kill it for yoOOu, if one of you take Planter’s place, as the next Shade of the Gardens!”

The mage from the Tower, Allan, instantly said, “I accept!”

Fallopolis went still.

Murmurs filled the air.

Fallopolis asked, “You accept?”

“Yes,” said Allan. “My conditions are that we kill all the daydroppers and Planter and the Kill and Exterminate Quest completes, and I get completion credit, along with the 10 points.”

Giggles filled the air, along with some grunts, some whispers, and some angry words.

Fallopolis said, “ThoOOse are caveats, if I’ve ever heard!” She turned to the watching [Scry] eyes, and the wyrm, putting on a show for them as well as for herself, “I accept!”

A violent air seized Reality around the wyrm. The umbral wyrm began to struggle as something invisible held it in place. Bolts and Beams and fire and light shot out from the monster in every direction as it realized it was under deadly attack, but all of the wyrms efforts were redirected back into the beast; a trick of Shade magic, or another application of some other unknown spell, Jane didn’t know; no one really did.

Fallopolis swung her arms wide, bringing to bear the full force of her awesome power. The wyrm was pulled from the highway, with the ease of pulling a loose thread from the hem of a shirt, and all the horror of pulling a heartworm from an artery. The monster split here and there. Blood poured.

And Fallopollis pulled.

