50

+0

30

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Turning on [Hunter’s Instincts] was like making the entire world make sense. She could see the ways monsters moved before they moved. She could feel the wind and understand there were monsters waiting around the corner. She could touch the stone and know every ambush lying in wait.

The effect was multiplied by ten when she was a spider. But she wasn’t a spider right now; she didn’t need it, because she saw everything inside that tunnel, and she knew she could handle it.

A blip of blue, and Jane stood in the throat of the dungeon. She activated two auras at once. Blue fire crashed out of her body, filling the tunnel, at the same time her [Cleanse Aura] kept the air clear of all toxins and smoke; the fresh oxygen of the transformative [Cleanse Aura] even ramped the fires of [Flaming Shrapnel Aura] up to eleven, while it kept the air easy to breathe. Hundreds of Bolt Shrooms had zero time to react to the new stimulus before they turned to ash, and that ash swept away on thick air.

Hidden snakes, hissing and fast, jumped out from the dying grove of Bolt Shrooms. Two were sliced apart instantly, as Jane’s [Hunter’s Instincts] revealed them well before they leapt. She gracefully slipped around another two, slicing them apart like one would draw a line through the air with a laser, holding her thin sword at exactly the right angle for maximum severance.

In moments, the tunnel was completely clear of threats, as debris and death turned into thick air. But beyond that tunnel, there was a very large threat, and because of the Bolt Shrooms and the vipers, Jane knew who this dungeon belonged to.

Jane cut her auras and stepped back from the tunnel.

A voice echoed in the hallway, “I demand you become a spider for the rest of this. They’re much prettier than you stupid bipeds.”

The voice belonged to Treant. He was likely some biped in the distant past, but he had transformed himself into a tree sometime far in the past, too.

Jane bowed to the darkness down the tunnel, and said, “Of course, Treant.”

She discarded her weapons and her armor with a thought, then became a spider. She remade her armor even before the blue mist in the air from her previous armor had had time to vanish back into the ambient mana.

“You’re so pretty like that.” Treant said, “This is enough, and I’m bored of your incursion. I’m sending up the hostages now. Be sure to taunt Yetta that she should have come down here herself. I was prepared to greatly help her kill Planter.” Treant shouted, “That man would better serve the world as a compost pile! Cultivating Daydroppers! The nerve. The squirrels and the birds and the toads are perfectly acceptable meat sacks!”

Command Center whispered in Jane's mind that the Daydroppers in Fallopolis' and Treant's dungeons were now gone.

Spider-Jane lifted up on her eight legs, playing to her strengths when it came to Treant, displaying her eight-legged body, and took a bow, saying, “I will tell them this, if you agree to give Yetta some true assistance in killing Planter. Perhaps some lesser boon?”

“… Sure.”

Jane hated to bargain for such a thing; Treant’s gifts were horrific things, but there’s no way that Treant wouldn’t interfere in the fight with Planter anyway. Her words had been personally chosen by Killzone, though, so maybe they were the right words.

Jane watched the tunnel ahead of her, with all eight of her eyes. The darkness was non-existent to her in this form, so she saw the unfortunate hostages well before they entered the light. They were corded through with fungi and dripping poison. They shambled. They made no noise.

The hostages were all dead.

The fungi inside of them was controlling their bodies; there was no magic where their brains were, like there was in any living person. Knowing this trap before she sprung it on the people back at the Command Center was one of the many reasons Jane had this job.

But she betrayed nothing of this knowledge, either through her words or her posture. As the hostages silently took their positions around Jane, each of the five taking hold of a leg, Jane pretended, “Don’t worry. You’re safe now. Here we go.”

She teleported the hostages into a clean room, nowhere near the Command Center, then teleported herself to another clean room, where she dismissed her armor and [Polymorph]ed into a flame slime.

Jane was fire and air, flickering and insubstantial, barely able to see her surroundings with a slime's primitive Mana Sight. With [Ultrasight], though, she was able to turn an impression of the world into something workable; she was in an insulated, stone room. Liquid had gotten this slime for Jane a week ago, in preparation for what she was doing right now: when dealing with Shades like Treant and Planter, it was necessary for Jane to be able to immolate herself, ridding her body of all the spores and parasites and other living things some Shades liked to inflict upon others, like the ones that had transformed Treant’s hostages into hosts.

Eating the slime’s core was not pleasant; it was on fire. But Jane had healers nearby for the experience, and she gained the first step on a long, long road to [Fire Body].

Flame Touch, touch, 1 MP

Burn a tiny part of your surroundings.

After getting the flame slime, and seeing the road to [Fire Body] lying ahead of her, Jane ramped up her acquisition of Shadow Essences for [Shadowalk]. She was still a few hundred short of that goal, but Jane was nothing if not persistent.

It took her days of uncomfortable, persistent eating, but two days ago, weeks after joining the Army, Jane finally finished consuming all the Shadow essences needed for [Shadowblend] to transform into [Shadowalk]. If she ever slurped the insides out of a shadowolf ever again, it would only be for pure survival purposes.

Shadowalk, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the night.

In the clean room, Jane turned on [Flaming Shrapnel Aura], burning everything around her, as she burned in her flame slime body; the room had been built expecting this kind of abuse. Jane felt the parasites inside of her ignite, as they whined, as they popped and flickered to ash, as they leapt from her slime into the rest of the room. That would not do. She turned on [Cleanse Aura] and the flames around her burned blue; twice as strong as before. Jane waited. When she was sure she was clean and the people watching gave her an 'all clear', she turned off her flame aura, leaving [Cleanse Aura] active for just a bit longer. She plopped and rolled down the room. Someone opened a wall, and she slipped through. The wall closed behind her.

She waited.

“All clear,” came a voice, like hearing someone underwater.

Jane [Polymorph]ed back into a person, conjuring her woven armor back onto her body, clipping her hair back up behind her head. She was standing in a room with a doctor and a priest, both of them behind a [Temperature Ward].

The doctor, wearing the white vest of his office, said, “None of the rescues were salvageable, but private Kiri and her people came back clean. You’re clean too, according to our scans.”

The priest, wearing the white robe of her office, said, “We’re not sure if the Champion and her people are in danger; the Bolt Shrooms didn’t appear until after they killed the Door Guardian. You will need to warn them.”

Jane nodded, saying, “Thank you for your hard work.”

Jane went back to the break room. She grabbed another mana potion and downed it, along with another two donuts. She needed one more level; she needed Polymage. If she had that, she would be able to use all of her monster abilities in all of her forms. That meant the [Eyes of Magic] of the shadowspider would always be available, at all times. But that was a mission for another day.

She refocused on the current mission.

And then she went to the Command Center.

When Jane rounded the corner, Liquid intercepted her with a little bag.

The grey metal dragonkin wrought said, “Take some of your father’s rings. The Champion ran into a cursed dungeon. Animated objects. They already burned through their first sets of rings. Since the three people we know who have [Fire Body] are not available, there will be no rescue on dungeon #4.”

Jane took the bag, slipping it into a pocket of her [Conjure Armor]. Liquid sent Jane an image of Yetta’s current location on a black bridge, and then sent another image several hundred meters away; Jane’s [Teleport] target.

Liquid said, “Go.”

Jane went.

- - - -

A blip of blue put Jane on a ragged, broken facet of a dark tower, in the lower middle reaches of Ar’Kendrithyst. A foot slipped, dislodging stone, but she quickly regained stability. Shards of kendrithyst crystal still clipped down the side of the tower, setting off a ringing, tinkling echo into the shadowy darkness all around.

Jane went still, waiting for the darkness to make a move.

The darkness seemed somewhat shy.

Jane almost became a spider, just so she could get a better look at her surroundings, but she was running [Hunter’s Instincts] right now, and that, alongside her own developing instincts, told her that becoming a spider right now would be a very bad idea. Yetta and her people were nearby, and they shunned all communication with anyone outside of their own party; if they saw a spider hanging around, for any reason at all, they would try to murder it with everything they had. Jane would have to do this as a human.

Jane decided: in for a penny, in for a pound.

She threw a bright [Special Ward], a twenty meter long fluorescent bulb turned up to spotlight bright white levels, down into the canyon of the middle reaches. She [Shadowalk]ed into the stone at her back, well before the fireworks could begin.

And begin they did.

Shadelings waited in ambush. They lifted out of the kendrithyst like bobbit worms sticking up from the sea floor, all around, on every tower, atop every bridge. Red fire and blue lightning crashed into where Jane had been standing, but she was already moving, [Shadowalk]ing, keeping to the very top surface layer of the kendrithyst tower, flowing down, from one bridge to the next. She reached the first set of three shadelings and conjured her sword to slash through all three skulls. Jane moved like a dancing assassin.

The shadelings were mindless; they had accepted someone’s command to kill whoever entered this territory, and Jane qualified. She chopped heads off of shoulders, dodging deadly magic, flowing into the dark crystal at her feet as needed, in and out again, [Shadowalk]ing from one side of the canyon to the other. Taking heads and leaving the bodies behind, [Hunter’s Instincts] guiding Jane’s actions. Sword and intent and every instinct Jane had, began to flow together, playing a song of surgical destruction alongside the thrumming beat of her heart.

In two minutes, the ambush was cleared; that’s when another ambush came.

A buzzsaw of Force crashed through where Jane was going to be, if she had not noticed the attack, if three of her handlers had not reinforced what she was sensing, four seconds before it happened.

Jane, for her part, merely let the buzzsaw pass by, then she flowed into the crystal at her feet and backed up, as a second Force buzzsaw, invisible this time and unnoticed by her handlers, zipped through where she had been standing. The invisible buzzsaw clipped through the crystal, her handlers going silent for a brief moment, then profusely sorry for having missed the invisible spell. Jane sent back feelings of brushing it all off; she was much too focused on her surroundings to take or give offense at a missed attack. Dodging and weaving and living on the battlefield was why she was out here, anyway. It was her job to see what other people could not.

Jane lifted from the dark bridge, like some magnanimous princess shedding robes made of shadow.

Yetta, Allan, Cyril, Basil, and Dorthy, were a hundred meters down the dark bridge.

Jane’s massive tube light illuminated every dark and shadowy thing for kilometers, like someone had brought the sun down into the lower layers of the Dead City, revealing that the crystals down here were full of ever-twisting darkness.

Yetta and her group walked toward Jane, as Yetta said, “Welcome back.”

Jane bowed, quick and done. “Thank you for clearing the Door Guardians. I’m being told that nineteen people have been rescued, so far.”

Basil demanded, “How the fuck did you manage to get a shadowspider! I’ve been looking for one this entire time!”

“A lot of luck. A lot of help. A bit of skill.” Jane asked, “Would you prefer I guide you as a spider?”

Yetta shook her head. “Then they’d send spiders after us, and we wouldn’t know which you were.”

“Well then she has to guide us as a spider, Yetta! I want one.” Basil turned to Jane. “Spider form, yes.”

Jane looked to Yetta. Their whole group stopped ten meters away from Jane. Jane was comfortable in all of her forms, but being a spider down here was a really, really good idea, if Allan could lay off of trying to murder her.

Yetta frowned, then said, “Spider form, then.”

“Yess!” Basil laughed. “I’m gonna get me one of those fuckers!”

“As you wish.” Jane nodded, saying, “And— One of the shadelings dropped these.”

Jane pulled out the ring pouch Liquid had given her. She lobbed it, underhanded, toward Yetta’s group. The ring pouch caught in midair, slowly descending toward Allan. He telekinetically opened the pouch when it came close enough. Several silver-diamond rings floated into the air.

