Small laughter echoed through the otherwise silent city, originating from several of the dozens of [Scry] orbs hanging around Yetta. Smaller voices spoke of quest givers giving help in the middle of the quest. Some complained of too much help, too soon. Most of them were silent; watching.

Allan and Dorthy each took a ring. When they put them on, Jane saw the diamond rings smoke and sizzle, along with a bracelet wrapped around Dorthy’s left gauntlet, and a belt wrapped around Allan’s right leg. The belt and the bracelet turned to ash, while the silver diamond rings held steady.

Dorthy said, “Most appreciated.”

Jane nodded as she ditched her armor, [Polymorph]ed into her spider form, and coalesced her blue armor again, practically all at once.

Several shady voices gave small approvals.

Basil said, "Don't shoot the spider with the armor! That's easy enough to do." Basil nudged Allan. "Right, Allan?"

Allan said nothing.

Yetta nodded, then pointed down to a lower layer, practically in the Underworld. “The next one is there.”

To Jane’s [Eyes of Magic], the glow of the Dead City around her was like looking at a parade of lights, but down there, in the deep, actual darkness, there was no light. Jane knew who made the next dungeon, and she was worried.

She attempted to telepathically link to Yetta, but was rebuffed for a hundred damage.

Yetta glared at Jane.

Jane chose her next words carefully. “That dungeon number 2? That one was created by Treant, and though he left you with gifts, he would have given you a lot more if you had cleared his dungeon.”

Yetta threw a telepathic connection at Jane. ‘What the fuck does that mean?’

Jane sent all the most pertinent information as quickly as she could, ‘I said that to fulfill a promise to the Shade known as Treant to tell you about missing out on loot. You need to check yourselves for parasites. Treant is going to help kill Planter and you might not like his help. And the next dungeon is made of antirh—’

The crystal all around Jane and Yetta, vibrated. Damage ticked as Shades began to boo.

“We want banter!” “Too much [Telepathy]!” “Spider’s good, tho.”

Jane cut her connection with Yetta, saying, “Gotta give the audience what they want.” She pointed toward the next dungeon with one long, spidery leg, saying, “That’s going to be a dark time.”

“I love these little clues,” whispered a Shade.

Another Shade whispered, "She's quite good at this."

Yetta said, “Lead the way, then, guide,” as she sent some messages around her team.

Allan and Cyril began casting some sort of healing magics, and a few ‘tsk!’s echoed from a few [Scry] eyes.

Jane grabbed the edge of the dark bridge and set down thread, before she slipped off of the crystal highway, falling down into the illuminated depths, headed toward the darkness. When she touched the bridge below, she anchored her thread and moved aside. Dorthy came smashing down, one hand on the thread, two feet crashing into the bridge, giggling the whole way.

“This is better.” Dorthy looked up to see Allan and the other three descending on a [Force Platform]. Dorthy turned to Jane, saying, “Traveling like that makes me sick.”

Jane normally wouldn’t have noticed, but with eight eyes and [Hunter’s Instincts], she saw through the slits of Dorthy’s armor. Dorthy had winked at her.

Dorthy was playing the game, and she might have always been playing; misdirecting the Shades as much as she could. Maybe they all were? Well... Of course they were? Jane wasn’t so sure.

Jane would have smiled, but with the fangs that was a bit tough, so she just nodded her whole three-meter body, and began to lead the way, down the dark bridges of Ar’Kendrithyst, under the watchful eyes of every single Shade of the Dead city, further and further down, to where the lights of the Dead City died.

Hopefully, the Army’s part in all this was going as well as Jane’s.

By the time this was over, the Army would have a good lead on Bulgan, more information on every Shade, and at least one enemy of Spur would be dead; Planter had overstepped himself in the eyes of his people. Even if Yetta failed, if she only managed to weaken Planter, the other Shades would rush to kill him, hoping to qualify for the 10 ability points reward of the Kill and Exterminate Quest.

That was the rumor, anyway.

Now… If it were possible for Shades to complete that Quest? Jane had no idea.

Killzone and Silverite seemed to think they could.

- - - -

As Jane walked down a broken crystal bridge and touched down onto dirt of the Underworld, where parts of the city were completely dark and there was no crystal, she wondered if her father had left for his wyrm hunt, yet.

A quick check in with Command informed Jane that, yes, Erick, Poi, Rats, and Teressa, had all left for the extreme northern reaches of the Crystal Forest an hour ago. They would likely be gone for several days.

Jane silently wished him luck, as she guided the Champion and her people deeper into the darkness.
