"Yeah," Stella nodded. "I didn't get a good look at it, but it streaked azure blue flames from its wings as it flew."

To Ashlock, that sounded like a small phoenix.

"Interesting..." Ashlock said. The talk of ocean life was also fascinating, as it had only been a month, and water was the third of the five Laws he comprehended, so the ocean must have appeared halfway through his slumber. "Did anything else happen while I was asleep that I should know about?"

"I killed the Mirrored One," Stella said flatly, as if stating the sky was blue. "The other egos are still unaccounted for."

"You killed him...? Did the Mirrored One leave anything behind?"

Stella shook her head. "Not even a soul. No wonder he was so desperate to try to fill that void. Though he had assumed Tiberius's appearance to try and have a meeting with Diana, which caused a brief scare."

"What? Did something happen to Tiberius?" Ashlock asked. If Tiberius were to die, he wasn't sure how Nox would react. She found him both annoying and endearing.

"The Mirrored One had suspended him in some mirror dimension. Nyxalia arrived and was able to pull him out, and he's since recovered," Stella assured him. "Though he still jumps in fear at his own reflection."

"That's unfortunate, but it's a relief he survived. What of the rebels?"

"Still being tracked down and hunted, but without your presence, the Ashfallen Empire's reach and control are significantly reduced. Diana has been ranting to me about it, and the groups we assimilated from the fallen Empire are cooperative on the surface but are secretly resisting us and withholding information," Stella shrugged. "That's about all I know. Diana would be able to tell you more."

"I see..."

"Oh! There was one more thing. A month ago, Diana established the Ashbound Order and sent over a thousand cultivators and Mudcloaks from the sect into the Eternal Realm. They should all be coming out in a day or two."

That was going to be a lot of Qi and a diverse inflow of dao knowledge.

"The Ashbound Order, huh? That's a good name."

"Right?" Stella bobbed her head in agreement. "They will help restore order across our Empire, as things have been a little chaotic since the Chairman fell. Anyway, enough of that. Have you got a domain yet?"

Her eyes were practically sparkling with interest.

"Sadly, no," Ashlock admitted. "I haven't even reached the Monarch Realm yet. Apparently, my ascension will trigger the Era of Ascension, letting the Heavens obliterate me and everything around me."

Stella frowned. "That's no good, Tree. We need you in the Monarch Realm while these rebels are still about, in case they get past me and Larry and strike you directly. We have already had a few incidents of hit-and-run attacks on our outer cities done by them."

"They've been doing that? Shit, I need to get my act together then," Ashlock sighed. While just echoes, the eons he had spent assimilating Laws had left him exhausted. "But I just don't know what to do. Maybe I can use some of my gains from absorbing the Monarchs to learn some new techniques to resist the heavens, but even then, to protect the entire ninth layer of creation..."

"Why don't you ask my mother?" Stella suggested.

"The World Tree?" Ashlock paused. That wasn't a bad idea. If ascending was going to be so catastrophic, then he wouldn't be able to fend off the heavens, protect his cities, and fight the World Tree at the same time.

Senior Lee had warned him that the World Tree would be his greatest hurdle for initiating the Era of Ascension.

But what if they could work together?

"Stella, it's about time I had a proper conversation with your mother," Ashlock decided.

Stella scrambled to her feet and beamed. "I've been waiting for this. I'll have it arranged right now!"
