The helmet of the thing's was long, like the xenomorph off alien. Two cameras pointed in off directions, surveying his surroundings. Some type of thrusting jetpack was on his back, along with two folded wings. They unfolded whenever the thing turned towards me. In his hands, he aimed a short machine gun with a green laser pointer at me.

He opened fire. Blue bullets slammed into my front as a stream of blue fire exploded behind the alien, propelling it into the air. I lowered myself while leaving a hand up. Before he could get distance, I slammed a wave of telekinetic power on top of him by pulling my arm down. It was enough force to stop him from getting further away, but he wasn’t put onto the ground.

I lifted both my arms and surged my ascendant mana. After gritting my teeth, I slammed him downwards with all my strength. Like a bird being crushed by a falling cinderblock, the alien rushed towards the ground. When it hit the forest floor, a few loud popping sounds echoed through the forest. I overestimated the force increase my ascendant mana had made. My bad.

I walked up to him before lifting him with a hand. His legs were broken, one bone sticking out, covered in blue blood. I frowned, inspecting the long head and size of the creature. It couldn’t have been more than five feet tall, straight puny compared with my now hulking frame. It’s gun wasn’t much better than a human’s gun either. The plasma bolts just didn’t have the piercing power to do meaningful damage.

FearFighter Scout(lvl 341) – A member of the FearFighter faction in deep space, this is one of the preliminary scouting members. The FearFighters are mercenaries that use fear tactics instead of brute force during operations. Often times they are preferred by clients that are preferring a more subtle approach in their mercenary needs.

This means assassination, deprivation tactics, and other means of keeping a client safe are employed. While not the largest or most well-known of the mercenary guilds, they are perfect for protecting middle to smaller sized parties that aren’t interested in conquering areas. The fact that their prices are middle of the pack as well means they are quite affordable.

This specific member is relatively new, with the average FearFighter hitting the mid-450 range in levels. Of course high level members exist, but are often rare when compared with far larger factions, like empires. This enemy holds no threat to you, but bad blood is something most would rather not have against any mercenary faction.

Lots of useful information here, but I was at a loss. I tapped my chin, wondering what to do. Taking him to Torix was the likely option, so I slung the alien over my shoulder and turned towards our camp. In the corner of my eye, something moved in the distance. A few more blips in the corner of my eye snapped. By then, I wasn’t alone. A green laser pointer appeared on my chest.

Then another. And another. Twelve more laser pointers later, and they had surrounded me. I couldn’t help but smile, the ascendant mana pumping through my veins. As the crimson tendrils of my mana streamed upward, my armor grinned. The deafening sound of gunfire rained down a moment later. Ready and waiting for the first strike, I snapped the neck in my hand.

It was time to unleash the tempest.
