It must be because there were teams progressing forward now. If she had the wind blowing the way it had been, she’d just be helping people toward the finish line.

“My shield goes directly between us and Galecourse unless the situation changes. She’s only doing a standard front shove, so that’s where the wind should be coming from. I’ll pay attention to the rules for any of the other attackers when I have them in sight. You guys focus on fighting.”

“Rules?” Kon asked.

Alden was already stepping through the barrier with his shield angled toward Galecourse, one arm through a loop on the back.

He set a pace that was close to a jog for him. Haoyu was on his left flank, Lexi his right. Everly was keeping herself directly behind him so she’d take the minimum amount of wind, and she was tied to Kon by a long rope. Lexi was tied to Alden. The hope was that the Roberts brothers, as the only two who had no wind resistance talents, would be stuck to someone who had better options if the group got split. But Alden was afraid the rope was just going to get in the way.

His shield of yellow webbing was turned horizontally, and it had a spare fifty-kilo sandbag tied to the front of it. Alden wasn’t sure which of them had gotten creative and added it, but it wasn’t trouble to carry this way and they might find a use for it. Kon was hauling an even bigger one on a shoulder. Everly had a small one that she’d coated in layers of ice until it resembled a white bowling ball. Haoyu and Lexi were keeping themselves unencumbered.

The jog ate the distance rapidly. They were approaching the middle of the floor, and nothing bad had happened. It was almost uncomfortably quiet. Alden was keeping his eyes pealed, so he saw when Galecourse lifted her hands.  He lowered himself a little, and slowed down a little, the others following suit as the air turned into a battering ram once more.

Alden felt it against his lower legs, rushing past like a river.

“I like you, Alden,” Kon said just loudly enough to be heard over the wind. “Look at us not flipping through the air like shopping bags caught in a Speed Brute’s draft.”

“Thanks.”

“Why aren’t they attacking yet?” Haoyu asked, peeking around the shield to see his parents and then poking his head back in with his hair sticking straight up.

“Winston only just crossed with Sanjay,” said Everly. “Maybe that—”

The wind ended. Alden followed Vandy’s mother with his eyes as she repositioned, ready to get the shield between them again as soon as she stopped. Suddenly, he saw something strange.

Ahead of them. It had been there one second and gone the next.

“Did you see that?”

“I did,” Lexi said. “I don’t know what it was.”

“Let’s wait for a sec.” Alden turned the shield toward Galecourse as he paused.

The whole group shifted even closer to him before stopping.

“What did you see?” Haoyu murmured, poking his head out again to peer in the same direction as Alden and Lexi.

“It was like a flicker?” said Lexi. “It didn’t look like any of our classmates’ spells.”

Alden had seen a bit more than a flicker, but still not enough to describe it in much detail. “A wispy light that stretched from the floor into the air before disappearing. It was fast.”

“Some kind of spell indicator?” said Everly.

“Ignacio’s grandmother,” Haoyu suggested. “My parents don’t have anything like that.”

“Well, the gym might have made the indicator itself,” Lexi said. “To give us a cue. It’s not necessarily a normal part of whatever spell was cast.”

Out of the corner of his eye, as he did another scan of the adults, Alden saw that Big Snake had his attention locked on Max’s team as they moved forward again. Not in a straight line. They’re detouring for some reason.

“Max might be dodging whatever the mystery spell is,” Alden said softly. “We should, too.”

Nobody argued.

While they’d discussed the unidentified phenomenon, a third team had formed back at the starting line. Reinhard was leading a group of people Alden rarely interacted with outside of class. They were all A-ranks who were less ambitious, argumentative, and perfectionistic than the class average…which meant they’d probably let the archer have his way.

“Third team incoming, wind incoming,” he said, starting forward.

“I wish Klein and your parents would move,” Everly groaned. “I’m getting a stomachache waiting for an attack that’s not happening.”

Reinhard led his team out onto the floor. A second later Heloísa shouted, <<Too slow, Mehdi!>> in Portuguese and did the same with another group.

All at once, as if the entry of a fourth team was a signal, the adults acted.

Wind came from the left, hitting Alden’s mat of webbing and rushing around his ankles again. Two more of the strange flickers appeared. He just barely managed to see them as he whipped his neck around. One flicker was way out in front of Reinhard’s team; Heloísa’s group would intercept another in just a few strides. And a board was flying from Big Snake toward Max like a javelin. And three S-rank Brute attackers were entering the field. Two were on the ground, running at the teams in the back. One was launching himself up onto an aerial block high overhead and then off again at an angle that would lead him toward…

“Klein! Klein! Klein!” Alden yelled, unable to do the clock thing because there was no above-our-heads o’clock. He barely stopped himself from yanking the shield around to intercept the incoming instructor. That would leave everyone vulnerable to Galecourse.

The others were already moving.

They weren’t too slow. With Klein coming in from a height, there was time for Lexi to get Writher between all of them and the oncoming enemy, and for Haoyu to step in front of Everly with his fists raised, and for Kon to insert himself between the instructor and Alden’s vulnerable side.

It just wasn’t quite enough.

Klein’s legs tucked up to skim over Writher’s swipe, and his torso twisted away from Haoyu’s strike. It was the same as in the classes where they were supposed to catch him; he was so good at dodging by millimeters. There shouldn’t have been space in their tight little group for him to slip through without taking a hit, but he found one anyway.

Alden knew the slow-motion replay would reveal a series of graceful, flawless micro-adjustments on Klein’s part. Right now, though, it felt like a missile landing in their midst while everyone’s attempts to stop it comically misfired. Klein’s feet slammed into Konstatin’s right thigh, and Alden’s eyes struggled to keep up with what happened after that.

Instructor Klein was moving a lot to dodge a line of burning chain that was suddenly flying around them all. Alden felt heat graze his own chest and saw an icy bowling ball hit Klein’s butt as he twisted. And he thought, Ha! Fuck. This is bad. Kon! What about Big Snake? I need to look—

Then a lamp was shattering against Haoyu’s fist, shards of ceramic from its base showering over them all like stinging confetti.

And Klein was gone from their group.

I kept the shield where it needs to be, Alden thought, drawing in a breath. Galecourse hasn’t repositioned.

A lampshade was still flying across the gym toward Max’s team.

“Owowow! Fuck!” said Kon, laughing and cursing and clutching his leg while he lay on the ground.

“I got the lamp!” said Haoyu.

“Lexi, what was Writher doing?” Alden asked. “You almost sliced me.”

“I’m all right! I can take a lamp!”

“Heloísa said this was twenty percent pain?!” Kon demanded. “She’s lying. She’s crazy. She’s a crazy woman who can’t feel pain. That’s why she can drink hot sauce like water.”

They were all talking over each other at the same time, except for Lexi, whose eyes were as wide as Alden had ever seen them, and Everly, who was on the floor.

Alden glanced away from the ten other things he was trying to keep track of to check on her. She looked annoyed. She also looked stiff from the chin down to her bare feet.

“Are you dead?” he asked, shocked. “Or unconscious?”

“Dead,” Everly said flatly. “And I missed Klein’s face, didn’t I?”

“You got a bum cheek with your ice ball,” said Haoyu. “How are you dead?”

“You’re dead! Why are you dead?” Kon asked. “Klein got you, too?”

Everly’s eyes flicked to Lexi. Kon and Haoyu noticed at the exact same time Alden did.

They all fell silent. The wind stopped.

“Ohhh. Just a little accident, then,” said Haoyu, bending down to pick Everly up. “Completely understandable. Could have happened to any—”

“Lexi…did you kill my girlfriend?”

******
