Okay, maybe not all of your stuff. Gretchen thought, and then held in her laugh as she imagined Ren storing all of his clothing and fighting in his underwear. That made her think of the frilly underwear she had worn under her Travelling Clothes, then she imagined him wearing those... and she laughed at the thought... right when the sword blade swiped at Ren from behind and dented his helmet.

Everyone turned to look at her in surprise and her face burned bright red. Gretchen clamped her mouth shut and didn't say anything, and everyone looked back at the fight.

*

Ren dismissed the Mana Shield because it wasn't helping at all against the phantom sword, and the sword's partial intangibility was difficult to fight against. He had tried to dispel it, disenchant it, move it, block it, and deflect it... and none of them worked.

It has to be a skill. Ren thought and jumped 30 feet to the side and out of the way. The blade disappeared from where it had just swiped and reappeared next to him. Let's see if it's based on sight.

Ren cast Obscuring Mist on top of Glastor, and since it was the Master Level spell, it was a cylinder of cloud 50 feet in diameter and 50 feet high. Ren jumped another 30 feet to the side and the phantom sword kept swiping at the spot he had been and didn't change to where he was now.

Ha. Ren thought and cast Obscuring Mist on himself, then used his Displacement ability and made a copy of himself 20 feet away. He turned invisible and took out the Staff Of Earth and activated his Hands of the Gods ability Rocky Hands, and made a series of earth and rock walls in front of Glastor and himself. Using his Heat Sense Aura, he knew exactly where Glastor was and put various obstacles in the way.

*

Glastor couldn't see anything and stopped using his Phantom Sword ability. He stored that sword and took out another instantly, chose the Windstorm effect from it, and swiped the sword at the Obscuring Mist. It cut the mist and pushed it away, dissipating it, and he saw 10 foot high staggered dirt walls in front of him.

Glastor smiled and changed swords again, chose the Earthbane effect, and swiped at the closest wall. He had thought they were Earth-based spells and would disintegrate, so he was surprised when all the sword's effect did was cut a huge gouge out of the wall and it only partially crumbled. He bowed his head in respect and took out another Reverberating Shield, jammed it into the ground, then slid the sword into the slot on the top of it and started to punch the shield like he had before.

This time, the Reverberate effect of the shield combined with the Earthbane effect of the sword, and the vibrations spread out. He didn't target Ren, he targeted the Earth walls... and the resulting shock waves started to shake all of the Earth-based constructs apart.
