Falling into a sullen silence, BoShui leans back to stare at the darkening skies. Everyone leaves to give us some space, aside from the two old codgers who continue stuffing their faces. Doesn’t look like they plan on leaving before all the food is done, which might take awhile. I don’t know if it was on purpose or if it was to let Tali practice, but Charok made way more food than our family can finish.

After a long pause, BoShui finally speaks out loud. “After Uncle BoHai explained why my father made me his heir, I decided to indulge in food, wine, and women, taking what pleasure I could before my time ran out. Whatever merits I earned or strength I gained, I was destined to become a stepping stone so why bother working hard only to give all the rewards to my killer?” Bringing the gourd to his lips, he gulps down the remaining wine as if hoping to find courage at the bottom. “For the longest time, I thought myself ready. At some point, the true successor would challenge me to a duel and I would die due to lack of skill or underhanded machinations. I resigned myself to fate, but now, as my time of reckoning draws near, I realize how afraid I truly am.” Sighing, he whispers, “I want to live...”

“Then fight.” My response slips out without thinking, empathizing with his fear of death. “Struggle with tooth and nail to survive. The future is not set in stone, none of the Patriarch’s plans matter as you still draw breath. You are Han BoShui, Expert of the Empire. Are you going to let some sheltered, spoon-fed dandy take your life and everything you’ve accomplished? Sober yourself up, go back to your tent, and practise, because your life literally depends on it.”

His voice is so quiet I can barely hear it above the sounds of the old codger’s slurping. “And if it’s too late to matter?”

“...Then I’ll avenge you. Whichever one of your siblings takes your life, I will send them after you to apologize with head in fucking hand.”

“...Thank you.”

“Hmph. Idiot children.” In a condescending tone, the half-wolf geezer interrupts our little heart-to-heart with unsolicited advice. “The weak are prey to the strong. Just kill the boy’s siblings and be done with it. Problem solved.”

“Pei.” Mistaking this for a group discussion, Guan Suo throws in his two cents. “Your solution is only temporary, better to chop nails and sever iron. Kill the boy’s father before a new heir is appointed, and all the spoils fall to him.”

“Bah. Might as well tell them to wipe out the entire clan and loot their coffers. The solution must fall within their means.”

“Does it not? If the little scamp can’t deal with a mere Han Patriarch, then she’s wasted her entire life. You’re right on the other matter, one must pull up grass by the roots, but I thought it went without saying.”

“Using external help is no good, children must learn to deal with their own problems.”

Trading incredulous stares with BoShui, we quietly leave the two old codgers as their discussion devolves into mud-slinging and name-calling. It's kinda cute seeing two old farts making friends. At least... I hope they're making friends.

While escorting BoShui back to his camp with a full complement of my guards, I ask, “So... exactly how many siblings do you have? And how strong is the Han Patriarch?” I mean... their suggestions weren't terrible, we could do the first to buy some time then work on the second. Who’s the little scamp? I should figure that out and ask her for help. Can't be the turtle, Guan Suo would never be so rude to Ping-Ping.

Shrugging, BoShui answers, “Two full-blooded siblings and seventeen half-siblings, but I’m only comfortable murdering one or two of them without knowing which one is the true heir. The pitfalls of having a conscience I suppose. As for the Patriarch... I’m not sure. Stronger than Uncle BoHai at least, or he would’ve killed my father for sending BoLao to the Confessor.”

Hmm... nineteen is a little more than I expected, and despite having never seen his uncle in action, I’m not confident we can kill someone stronger than the eight Spiritual Weapon-wielding Major General. Dude looks awesome in his spiked boots and gauntlets, like some medieval biker gangster or something. Besides, as Clan Patriarch and one of three shot-callers of the Society, I imagine BoShui’s scumbag daddy is fairly well-protected. Ugh, this is so bothersome. Is every faction in the North so full of strife or is the Han Clan an outlier? If not then we’re really fucked when it comes time to fight...

This really begs the question: After millennia of discord and dissension, how did the Defiled overcome their enmity and band together to attack the Empire and why didn’t we see it coming? There were no rumours or inklings of Defiled unification before their coordinated attack on the three Provinces, which means their alliance was less than a year in the making. How did their leader or leaders manage such a miracle? How are they communicating across such vast distances quickly enough to coordinate movements down to the minute? Do they have Defiled Radio or did they station one Defiled every kilometre and used Sending to create the longest game of broken telephone in history?

So many questions but I’m hardly qualified to ask them, much less put together an answer.

Whatever. Putting what I just learned to use, I focus on the positives in life, chatting with my friend about training and martial skills. Even if I can’t swing the outcome of the war, what I can do is put my best foot forward while doing everything I can not to start new feuds. Even better if I can make new friends, so it’s important I remain humble and pleasant throughout my entire stay in Nan Ping.

Peace and Tranquility is a state of mind, not two weapons I use to handle my problems. Balance in all things, not just martial skills and mindset, but in social interactions and stressful situations. I will become the embodiment of friendliness and harmony. No off-hand remarks, no funny looks, no accidental insults, just a pleasant, affable young man seeking like-minded individuals to make friends with.

Yea... this is going to work out great...

Ah, add that to the list: No sarcastic quips.

... And no eye-rolling.

Or smirking.

Or ogling.

Or sighing.

...

......

Ah fuck it. We’re probably doomed.

Where my furbabies at? I need a cuddle.

Chapter Meme
