“Divergent...” Rain said, then shrugged. “Khurt said aberrant, but whatever. Yes, like that. Her Froststorm is twice as big as it should be, and not because of an accolade or metamagic. After she started talking, she gave me the details. Compared to what my interface tells me, her version has twice the range and twice the cost. That’s just a pure power upgrade, though, and not what I’m interested in. I’m talking functional changes. Bakal’s Nature Mage—whose name is Lellermen Green, by the way—claims to have a divergent version of Cultivate. The normal spell just makes plants grow faster, but he says his lets him control how they grow. You saw the fruit in Bakal’s garden. Some of those apples were the size of grapefruits. That’s not natural.”

“I did wonder about that,” Ameliah said. “It’s a little odd, but not too unreasonable. If Cultivate helps plants grow, it isn’t that big of a stretch for his version to just make them...grow how he wants them to. Bigger. Sweeter. Whatever.”

Shit. No discomfort had shown in Ameliah’s face as she’d been speaking, but Rain winced anyway. Lerith’s skills were divergent... THAT is how far it goes. Filth, I’m such an idiot.

He hurriedly cleared his throat. “Next question. How did you know Bakal was dangerous? Was it just what you saw with Mana Sight, or was it more than that?”

Ameliah tilted her head. “All his stuff was enchanted, and so was his wall. That makes him rich. You don’t get rich in a pirate town by being weak.”

“I mean, that’s fair,” Rain said, rubbing at his neck. “How about Thrast, then? You were really calm about it when you showed up at the end of our duel. How did you know he wasn’t a threat to me?”

“You didn’t seem concerned, so I wasn’t concerned,” Ameliah said with a shrug. “Plus, Nails was narrating. I’m not sure where you’re going with this.”

“I could tell he was weak,” Rain said, scooting closer to her, excitement flashing in his eyes. “I knew. And with Bakal, I knew that I didn’t want to mess with him. It was like...sensing their power level... Sorry, reference.” He scooted closer to her along the edge of the bed. “And when I’m with you, I just feel...safe. I can’t explain it.”

Ameliah blushed slightly, taking a moment to respond. “Are you sure it’s not just Perception?”

“I thought that at first, but now I’m not so sure,” Rain said, removing his Perception accolade to check. The vague sense of safety didn’t change, though the light in the tent dimmed to his eyes. He rubbed at them, blinking to help himself adjust before looking back at Ameliah. “My other idea is that it has something to do with Linksight, but that shouldn’t be working right now, not with my soul all plugged up.”

“Hmm.” Ameliah considered. “What do you get when you’re near Tallheart?”

“It feels like standing next to a rock,” Rain replied honestly.

Ameliah laughed.

“No, a big rock,” Rain waved his hands, chuckling as well. “Like...solid. Immovable. A good place to take shelter against a storm.”

“I know what you meant,” Ameliah said, laughter still underpinning her tone. She pursed her lips, sucking on her teeth for a moment. “This sounds like it might be adventurers’ intuition.”

Rain whipped his head around faster than a cat hearing an electric can opener. “Adventurers’ intuition?”

Ameliah motioned him back with an amused expression. “Wow, Rain, easy there. It’s just a phrase I’ve heard in the Guild, not a skill. Retired graybeards gossiping about how this team or that team is going to get themselves killed. Based on what you’re describing, though, there might be something there. A ‘thing,’ as you like to say.” She shrugged. “You should probably ask Staavo.”

“Yeah, probably.” Rain couldn’t contain his grin. “He’s gone past gray, well into white. I’ll bug him tomorrow.”

“Where is he, anyway?” Ameliah asked. “Didn’t he come down to set up the generator at the clinic?”

“Back up top with Tallheart,” Rain said, waving a hand. “He went with Clubbs on his last water delivery of the day. This city is damn inconvenient, let me tell you. Anyway, you really didn’t feel anything from Bakal? Something instinctual? That’s what it felt like to me. An instinct.”

Ameliah shrugged. “I mean, maybe? Nothing that couldn’t have been just a hunch.”

“How about me? How do I feel to you, sitting right here.” Rain reached out, taking her hand and placing it against his chest.

“Hmm,” Ameliah said, groping about with her fingers. “Firm. Just a hint of give. Like a nice juicy steak.”

“Oh, stop,” Rain said, smiling and rolling his eyes and deactivating Tactile Transference. “Plenty of time for that later. Turn off the enchantment. It’s a distraction.”

“Fine,” Ameliah said, returning her palm to the center of his chest and closing her eyes. “I don’t know. I just feel...you.”

“And what do I feel like?”

“Warm, I guess?” She opened her eyes, taking her hand away. “Fuzzy? It’s probably just in my head. Then again, I’m not the one with a rip in my paling.”

“Warm and fuzzy...” Rain lowered his chin, scratching at his beard. “Warm and fuzzy. Okay.” He looked up to see Ameliah smirking at him, but he refused to be diverted by her clear amusement. “Here’s what I’m thinking. Strong people, like really strong people, have oversoul, and everyone, awakened or otherwise, can feel it. I don’t have that, but I have something similar that makes unawakened want to run and hide when my paling is open. They can feel the chaos because they don’t have system palings to block it.”

He waved his hands, becoming animated as he worked through the problem.

“Remember the system debug output? The Majistraal clearly thought forming a core was something that should happen eventually. What if that—soul stuff, I mean, purifying essence, making a core—what if that’s behind it? If the system is training wheels, then going beyond it means...”

Ameliah waited for him, wearing a patient expression.

“Okay,” Rain continued once he’d ordered his thoughts. “Before the system, before the Majistraal, people probably just did it the hard way. Nothing says an unawakened can’t enter their own soul. Without the system’s modifications to the paling, they wouldn’t have to deal with chaotic essence constantly getting pumped in from outside to keep up the pressure. And without that, they could slowly purify the whole thing. Then they could build a core, strengthening the connection between their soul and their body. Then, with the essence from their core, they could start to add pressure themselves, leveling up, and—” He tilted his head, then looked up. “Okay, fine, there wouldn’t have been levels, but you see what I’m getting at, don’t you?”

“Leveling without the system,” Ameliah said. “Bypassing your cap. Yes, very exciting. Also, completely and utterly impossible. If it was that easy, everyone would be doing it.”

“Easy?” Rain scoffed. “Do you have any idea how mind-numbingly boring it is? I’ve been trying to make an essence pipeline between my core and my paling for weeks!”

Ameliah rolled her eyes. “Weeks, subjective. You’re spoiled, and you know it, Mister ‘Engine of Change.’ Getting stronger takes time.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Rain said.

Ameliah stuck out her tongue at him. “Let’s say this all makes sense, and you can level up by navel-gazing or whatever. If an unawakened tried pumping themselves up with essence like you’re describing, why wouldn’t their paling pop like a bubble?”

“They’d need to learn to strengthen it, of course.” Rain rapped his knuckles against his chest, making a metallic clang. “A system paling is like a free suit of armor. Well, not free. You need an essence monster, but whatever. A system paling is strong, but it blocks the senses, both in and out. That’s probably on purpose. We know that with a natural paling, unawakened can feel chaos and that they can’t go too deep before they get overwhelmed by the pressure. Without the system, being near a ‘natural’ goldplate would be just like being in the depths. System palings let strong people interact with weak ones without snuffing them out like candles. The damage limit is the same way. It’s a safety measure.”

“I’ll admit, it does make some sense, even if it’s all speculation,” Ameliah said.

Rain grinned at her. “Natural palings must stay permeable as they get stronger. That’s what my plug is, no? It’s a barrier I built from my own essence. I can feel with it. Like skin. Linksight is what I get when my soul is wide open, though... It’s less feeling people and more feeling the system itself, or at least the connections it makes between us. This, though, this is subtle. If linksight was working, I doubt I’d even notice it in contrast. It would be drowned out.” He tilted his head, struck by a sudden thought. “The Watch can detect lies, and that’s not a system skill. It’s something they’re taught. Bartum said so. That means I can get better at this.”

“Right, I remember you talked to him about this stuff,” Ameliah said. “What did he say when you asked him to teach you Watch Reading?”

“How do you know I asked him that?” Rain asked.

Ameliah arched an eyebrow. “You’re saying you didn’t?”

Rain chuckled. “Right. Anyway, when I asked, he said not only that he wasn’t allowed to teach it to anyone, not even a Custodian, but also that he couldn’t remember how it works in the first place. Literally couldn’t remember.”

Ameliah frowned. “Have I mentioned that I never want to meet Warden Vatreece? Like, ever.”

Rain nodded. “Tell me about it. Anyway, the more mastery of your own soul you have, the more you can...I don’t know...get?...from other souls around you. ‘Adventurers’ intuition’ might just be what people call the feeling. They probably don’t even know what it is. Hells, it’s just like Staavo and his perfect Ice Bolt. With enough time and practice doing something, you can get damn good at it, even if you don’t understand the underlying mechanics.”

“And oversoul?” Ameliah asked with a small yawn.

“That too,” Rain said. “The more power you have, the easier it is for others to sense it. Oversoul is just soul pressure that’s strong enough that even a system paling can’t block...” Rain trailed off, grimacing and pinching the bridge of his nose. “No, it can’t be just pressure. It’s deliberate, remember? They’re circumventing people’s palings on purpose. Otherwise, unawakened would die before an awakened ever felt a thing. Wow, not just lowering your own paling, but someone else’s too? Talk about a flex.”

Ameliah yawned again, much more loudly this time.

Rain looked up, brought out of his musing by the sound. “Sorry. You said you were tired.”

“It’s fine,” Ameliah said when she recovered from the jaw-cracking yawn, though she was clearly not. She looked exhausted.

“No.” Rain shook his head. “You’re tired, and I’m babbling. You were right. This is all speculation. I need to run some tests.”

“Scientific method,” Ameliah said, tapping the side of her nose.

“Exactly,” Rain said with a grin. “Here, I’ve got an idea for solving both problems.” Lying down and making room on the bed beside him, he patted the blanket. “First test: extreme proximity.” He grinned at her. “Little spoon?”

Ameliah smirked. “Only if I can turn the enchantment back on.”

“Well, duh.”
