She deigned to acknowledge him with a tiny dip of her head. "That was the single worst healing experience I've ever had in my life." The corner of her lip twitched up. "But I am alive. For this, I thank you."

"There's no need to thank him," Sateryn muttered. "He is a healer. That is what he is meant for."

"Nevertheless," Prinna said, before Thomas could snap something back at him, "he completed his duty admirably. You also owe him your thanks."

Sateryn's mouth formed a little moue of displeasure, like a toddler being told to eat his vegetables. Thomas enjoyed every second of it.

That's right, he thought, biting back a smug smile. Thank me.

"You have my... gratitude," Sateryn said at last, clearly hating each word.

Prinna's gaze met Thomas's and he saw fond laughter for her husband in her eyes. Then she grew more serious and proper again. "When I am restored to my rightful position, I will remember what you have done for me, Healer Thomas."

Uh, what?

Then she held out her hand, palm down, and fingers demurely tucked. Her intention for him was clear, and Thomas decided what the hell and took it to gently kiss her knuckles.

"Um, it was nothing," Thomas lied, straightening. Then he remembered that he was the healer here. "I would suggest that you absorb appropriately leveled healing crystals, just in case there are any lingering effects... Then, you know, get some rest, drink plenty of fluids, and eat your vegetables." He hooked a thumb over his shoulder. "I'm going to go."

"I think that would be best," Sateryn said.

-----

"The good news," Thomas told Jo and Zach later as he crouched at the bank of a stream and scrubbed at his shirt, "is that I think I invented a skill." Some of the gunk that had purged out of Prinna had definitely gotten on his shirt, and it stank. He scrubbed harder. "Though it’s not listed as a skill on my status sheet. Anyway, I can now purge you of any poison or venom... I guess maybe hangovers too."

"Sweet," Zach said.

"What's the bad news?" Jo asked. She was standing upwind from Thomas, not that he blamed her. “If there’s good news, there has to be bad news.”

"I think people would rather deal with the poison than go through the purge," Thomas said. "It's really, really unpleasant."

"I don't know," Zach said. "I have had some wicked hangovers."

Jo wrinkled her nose. "I don't understand how you were able to create an unofficial skill. Is that normal?"

They both looked at Zach, their team Wikipedia.

Their wiki shrugged. "I manipulate fire all the time without a skill."

"Akilah said you are a mana channeler." Thomas lifted his shirt out of the water, wondered if he was ever going to get the stain out, and began scrubbing again. "It's kind of your thing."

"I can inject poison but that's just forcing it out using a weapon that's meant to deliver it. It's not actually doing anything other than what poison already does," Jo said.

Thomas decided just to give up on the shirt and went into his backpack for another. Thankfully he had brought a spare though it wasn't his favorite. "You can always OD on high level Adaptation mana and see where that gets you."

"I'll think about it," Jo said, in a way that meant absolutely not. "Also, I can't believe Sateryn didn't pay you for putting you through all that."

"I think letting me leave with my life was payment to him," Thomas said. "He is such a dick, and I don’t know if Prinna’s any better. But I did get some pretty high-level Adaptation mana out of it." He had used enough that the excess mana was no longer affecting his brain… that he could tell, but he was still so full of Adaptation he felt like he could burp sparkles.

Since it was level 5, he was going to encourage it to attach to his core. Maybe if pushed it, he could create another unofficial skill. Perhaps something to do with combat? Or should he save that for his actual skill slots? Something to think about.

"So, are you guys up to run the Griffin Dungeon again?" Zach asked slyly.

Jo looked alarmed and Thomas said, "Yeah, I could go for one more dive."

"What?" Jo snapped. "Are you kidding me? What if Sateryn changes his mind and wants his own private healer? We need to put space between here and this town."

Zach also looked shocked. "Dude, I was joking!" Then he caught Thomas grinning at him and relaxed. "Ha, good one."

"No, this place sucks. Let's get back to Shadow City," Thomas said. "I want to convert the rest of our Wood mana drops into Shadows and level 3 mana so we can make a killing back on Earth.”

Plus he had some pointed questions for Akilah.
