Reforging had become an almost monotonous project, one that, in her times of greatest frustration, felt like it was forever out of her grasp.

This, though? This she could make obvious progress on.

And so she continued, leaving none who came within her aura to survive.

When things were winding down, the partial view that she kept on her family let her know something odd had occurred.

Rane’s gaze had unfocused for a moment, and then he’d paled, leaning over to talk with Lea so quietly that Tala couldn’t hear it over the tumult around them.

The girl’s joy had bled away, replaced by an odd seeming, quiet certainty.

Alat? What happened?

-Finish up. I’ll let them tell you.-

Tala grunted and did so. If it had been urgent, Alat would have told her. Still, she leaned a bit more heavily on ‘quick’ kills than she had before, and the reavers seemed to finally understand that this wasn’t a feast, ready for the taking.

It was a killing ground.

Those that had still been pouring in lessened, and finally, the influx ceased, leaving a bare handful to be slain in the last moments of the slaughter.

A minute after the last died, Tala was satisfied that none had escaped her notice and that no more were coming.

With the demonstration over, she turned and strode to her family, calling all of her tools back to herself and returning them to their various sheaths and spots, awaiting her need.

Rane smiled, but there was still a tinge of something in his eyes. “Wonderfullly done, my love.”

Lea hopped forward and gave Tala a hug. “Thank you, Mom. That was really fun to see.”

Tala dismissed her armor to hug her daughter, then her husband. “I’m glad you liked it.” She then met Rane’s gaze. “What happened?”

He winced slightly, then sighed. “Alan took a turn for the worse. He’s… he’s dying. The Healers give him less than a month to live without significant intervention, which he has refused.”

Tala closed her eyes and took a deep breath, letting it out slowly. “Very well. I hope that he passes in peace.”

“No.” Lea’s voice was firm without being disrespectful.

Tala turned to her daughter. “Lea. You can’t force someone to be healed if they don’t want it.”

Lea shook her head. “No, that’s not what I’m saying.”

Tala frowned. “What then?”

“You won’t just ‘hope he dies peacefully.’ You’ll see him again.” Her eyes were hard. “It’s been a year, but you offered me a gift for Binding. I want to meet my grandfather before he dies.”

Tala stood with open mouth for a long moment. She wasn’t surprised, not really. She’d known that Lea hoped to use such a situation to this exact effect, but she still had hoped that Alan would die quickly, making this a non-issue.

She turned to regard Rane, and the big man shrugged. “Ironhold is already packed up. We can be to Marliweather inside the day.”

His tone indicated that it was still up to her, however. Tala closed her eyes and grimaced. Finally, she gave a slow nod. “Very well… So be it. Let’s go to Marliweather and introduce you to Alan.”
