Erick almost went right on to the next point he was trying to make, but something in Koori’s tone caused him to pause. Backing up a bit… It was when she was listing her possible paths. At first, Erick just glanced over whatever words Koori did not want to say, but now…

She had skipped over something very, very large, hadn’t she?

Erick poked, in a roundabout way, at whatever Koori was skipping over, and asked, “In the upcoming debates: Did you receive word if they’re going to allow orthodox battles? Without magic?”

“… The battles will be to the first limb lost or heart stab, with full use of magic allowed. They have not agreed to orthodox debates. They almost never do.”

“Because you would win those.”

“Yes. Other clans have learned this. Therefore, they do not debate without magic.” Koori said, “That we are crossing orthodox lines is already an upset that I don’t think you understand. But I do not expect you to.”

Erick understood those ‘orthodox lines’; they were blocs of clans that voted certain ways. Most blocs didn’t cross too often, except when Big Deals happened, of which Integration was a Big Deal. Standard grass traveler debates were not orthodox debates, though; they included magic.

He did not fight her on that, though, because she was trying to goad him, to get him away from her weak spot.

Erick went after that weak spot, “I am going to give you a small story. Back when I Matriculated, the Registrar also spoke of terrible fates, and toppling gods. He also listed off one of my options as ‘the best damned farmer on Veird’. I tried to go that first route, thinking I would be able to forgo all the problems of the second. This was back when I was a true pacifist, by the way. No war, no battles. I didn’t want to hurt monsters, either.”

Koori scrunched her face, and then she realized what Erick was saying, and she listened. But at the mention of monsters she scoffed. “Not even against monsters?”

Erick said, “Yes. I was viewing the world through a different lens back then. Perhaps, if I had been a bit more worldly, I would have realized that mistake before it became a mistake. But I made mistakes, and then I learned.” He said to her, “I fear you might be making the same sort of mistake. For whatever reason, you went with your Registrar’s words, thinking them good, but then something happened and you got scared. You went orthodox. You retreated, instead of pursued.” Erick looked right at Koori, and said, “Except not really. You still desire that fate spoken of by your Registrar; you want to become the Empress. You are pursuing that option, right now, with this Integration plan. Do you not see this?”

Koori went pale as Erick’s words struck her core.

Erick continued, “But everyone is using swords, while you’re using your hands. You are hampering yourself. If you think that you can still reach for Integration with half of your weaponry, then… You might succeed. I know I failed when I tried to run while barely being able to walk. Right now, I’m barely keeping ahead of my problems. I’m barely cutting down the enemies before me, before they can cut down everyone else. I’m still learning.

“And if you’re pursuing a grand Fate too, then you’re going to get someone hurt by going at it without your full attention.”

The wind rushed across the plains, carrying silence, and nothing else.

Erick added, “But, of course, there are lines one should not cross; I have many, myself. Perhaps I am misreading your situation. Perhaps orthodoxy is a way for you to make a line you will not cross. And that is commendable.” He said, “I don’t truly understand orthodoxy… You would know more about that than me.”

Koori stared at nothing for a long moment, then she looked to Erick, and said, “If orthodoxy succeeds it will be a victory against magic, for the city we build afterward will require people to conceal their power. In the long way, this is better for everyone. Orthodoxy is better than the Void Song which controls through force. It allows people to have power when they need it, but not when they want to show it off. Every single person here can defend against the minions of Darkness. Everyone here can guard the wall.” Koori said, “Power corrupts. Pure power corrupts entirely. And so, by constraining power behind closed doors, people will not become corrupted so easily.”

Erick saw Koori’s entire self, in that moment.

She didn’t want to use her power out in the open, or at all, because she was scared of herself.

Well… Erick wasn’t going to untangle that knot right now, but it was good to know that the knot existed.

Erick talked around the problem, by saying, “And if people are constrained to only having power behind closed doors, then how will you know your neighbor is competent against the darkness?”

“We will know. Everyone knows everyone’s business. This will not change when we have a city.”

Erick shook his head, saying, “If you think forcing people to hide who they are and what they can do is going to make the world that you want, then… I can only say that it’ll work for a while, until it catastrophically does not.”

“Perhaps. Or perhaps it will work long enough for you to construct a [Gate] to another world where the vagaries of mana no longer control the lives of all who live there.” Koori said, “If you do get the chance to affect what is to come, then keep in mind those of us who don’t wish for power, except to keep it out of the hands of everyone.”

Now there was a more comfortable topic.

Erick said, “A simple Script that only allows for Healing Magic, [Cleanse], and [Telekinesis], would be fine by me. And maybe not even [Telekinesis].”

With a heavy tone, Koori said, “[Cleanse] is the most dangerous spell in the world. Everyone treats it like it is simple, but it is not. Spend ten mana; clean up the place? It is so much more than—” She stopped herself. She said, “You don’t need [Cleanse]. A Script without [Cleanse] would be only the start of what needs to change before I would accept magic into my life.”

Now that was too much.

Erick scoffed. “You’re talking about [Cleanse]. Perhaps the most useful spell of the entire Script. Most people can use it just fine. If someone has an individual problem with it, then they should go to a Registrar and get it removed. If someone has actually managed to unlock the power of that spell, without erasing themselves in the process then they should learn how to control the power they have. All [Cleanse] is, is Elemental Destruction attuned to a very advanced yes/no [Ward]. Such a gift must be nurtured into—” Erick stopped talking because Koori went stock still. In that moment, Erick had a momentary revelation. He didn’t get to talk about that revelation, though.

Koori spat, “I know what [Cleanse] is, Archmage Flatt, and if Elemental Destruction and ‘some sort of yes or no [Ward]’ is all that you see when you look upon [Cleanse], then your Sight is dim, and I cannot help you with that.” Koori said, “No one should have access to Destruction Mana. No one should have access to [Cleanse], for there are always idiots out there who try to push the boundaries and end up killing others, or even themselves. This world would be better off if no one had any magic, at all, and that includes the monsters, and the archmages.”

Now she was just being petty, because she could.

Erick said, “I disagree about the depth of that restriction, but for the vast majority of cases, you and I have common ground. In a perfect world, no one needs the Shaping spells. No one needs all of the Force spells. But this is not a perfect world, and as long as monsters knock on the doors, then the Script is the only thing saving us all.”

“If you could bring mana to your home world, would you?”

“I would, if it was only Healing Magic and [Cleanse]. I would.”

Koori said, “When you called the Script an adversarial system, you were correct about the notion, but not about the players. It is not just the Darkness, or the Relevant Entities. Or the Shades or the archmages, or the people at all. You forgot one major entity. You forgot about the mana itself. Mana would break free of all restrictions placed upon it because it has broken free before, and it will break free again.” Koori said, “If you brought just [Cleanse] to Earth, Mana would break your world as it has broken this one, dooming billions to death, so that only millions remained. Or fewer. History has already proven this as the truth of mana, for this exact thing happened at the beginning of the Script, and before that, when the Wizards killed the entire cosmology in the Sundering.”

Okay. Well. True words. But also:

There was something strange about Koori.

She spoke about magic like she was an old hand at the skill. She knew much more than Erick had expected her to know, and she connected those ideas together into a coherent argument against magic; against the mana itself.

But then again, Erick had seen Clan Pale Cow’s libraries in their teaching yurts. These people were not uneducated grass travelers. They knew their shit. They had to know their stuff, for they were trying to integrate into a true power upon the plains, using a system of polite war that decided winners based upon actual, wordy debate, first, and then physical debate if the first failed.

Erick hadn’t been expecting to lose this argument, but he was.

And then he had an idea.

Erick said, “Mana creates and enables life to exist. Therefore, when spreading mana to worlds empty of life, you are creating new wellsprings from which life can emerge. Do you agree?”

Koori sipped her wine, finishing off the small cup as she considered his words. “Perhaps. But the life created by mana is dangerous.”

“Yes. But with a Script, you can make any dead rock out there a habitable world, and I am… Unsure, but pretty reasonably sure, that you can make different areas subject to different rules. If this is possible, then it should be possible to create an outer Edge to a world to hold in the mana, but with smaller sections that are subject to different rules.” He said, “Perhaps there can be Underworlds full of unrestricted mana, or with an Open Script like we have here, while the surface has full restrictions placed upon the mana.”

Goldie said, “The Script granting unearned power is the only true problem. Get rid of that, and you get rid of every problem with bringing magic to new worlds, even if they are inhabited.”

“That might be part of—” Erick stopped talking.

Goldie, the Shade of Assassination, sat across from Erick, with one leg crossed over the other and her hands upon her knees. She had appeared and inserted herself into the conversation like she was already there to begin with, but she only chose now to speak. There had been no blipping magic. There had been no sudden appearance. Goldie had just always been there.

She looked exactly as Erick remembered: A toned, young dragonkin woman of gold scales and a bright facade, with glowing white eyes. In her own bubbling, quiet way, the Shade seemed permanently cheerful, and she even wore a nice, white sundress that befit her manner, exposing much of her gleaming, fine-scaled body. As the hems of her dress fluttered in the wind, she did not seem the least bit cold, which was odd; Erick’s [Air Conditioning Ward] kept the air a bit chilly.

The other thing at odds with the woman was the massive sword that floated behind her back, behind her chair. Her chosen weapon was a large thing of dark metal that was more like a plank of sharpened steel, than anything an assassin would carry around.

Koori was surprised by Goldie's appearance, but she was able to maintain a stoic demeanor. “You were not invited to this talk, angelic envoy.”

Goldie smiled at the grass traveler, saying, “I could see how you would make that mistake, but I’m pretty far removed from those twits.” She looked to Erick, saying, “I’m only here because when Erick didn’t come to me, I had to go to him! Quite rude to keep a girl waiting, Erick.” She affected an exaggerated frown, adding, “And after all you shared with me. But I suppose you’ll share it with anyone who tickles your fancy these days, so while I am disappointed, I can understand sowing one’s seeds all over the place.”

Many things were happening all around Erick’s yurt, from Poi quickly establishing telepathic connections to everyone in the group, to Teressa almost getting out of her chair, but then stopping, to Nirzir looking completely perplexed. Nirzir was rapidly gaining answers from Poi, though, if her suddenly doomed facial expression was anything to go by.

Jane looked ready to kill someone, but she didn’t move. She didn’t even summon a sword, or change her form. She just waited.

Koori had yet to realize there was a Shade sitting beside her.

And the interloper was Goldie, the Shade of Assassination, for sure. The Shade Core inside her chest, where her vitals should have been, confirmed it.

Erick was pretty sure that she still had his [Blessing of Empathy], though, so maybe…

No. Bad things could still happen. Besides… he had meant to look her up… Eventually. Maybe.

“Do you come in peace?” Erick asked.

“Of course I do!” Goldie said, “I’m just here to have a chat about some stuff! That’s what you’re doing right? Going to chat with people? I figured now was as good a time as any for me to get in on that before your schedule fills up.”

Erick nodded, then slightly raised his voice, and called out, “Teressa. Could you bring our new guest some hot rice wine?”

Goldie brightened even further than she already was, and said, “Thank you, Erick.”

Koori held her tongue, trying to understand what was happening, but knowing, instinctively, that something very, very bad was happening, and that everything could get a whole lot worse.

Teressa, in a bout of uncharacteristic over-professionalism, smoothly exited the yurt, standing straight and tall, while grasping a tray that held the bottle of rice wine and an extra cup. She set the tray down beside Erick on a little table, then poured the drink into the cup, being very precise about everything the entire time; from the straightness of her back, to the surety of her stance. When the drink was full, she placed it atop the palm of her flattened hand, and then she presented the cup to Goldie.

It was all very odd.

Goldie smiled at Teressa and took the cup. “Such professionalism. Thank you for the hospitality.”

Teressa took that as her dismissal, so she calmly stepped backward, not turning her back to the Shade, and escaped into the yurt.

