Goldie sipped the drink, then asked Erick, “How would you like to move this conversation along? Shall we continue to talk of things that won’t happen for a hundred years, or would you like to discuss all the dragons you’ll be finding and killing?” With a dark promise in her words, but nothing untoward present in her voice, she asked, “Or would you like me to inform all of those dragons where the others of their kind are, and we can move this dragon fight up to today?”

Koori still didn’t quite understand who Goldie was, but she was getting there.

Erick asked, “Would there be less collateral damage, this time?”

“Unfortunately...” Goldie wiped a stray tear from her left eye, scattering the droplet of light to the white floor of the yurt where it evaporated into a dark spot. She breathed. “There will be casualties. This is sort of why I came to you; to mitigate upcoming problems before they become problems. I did not expect Terror Peaks to be that competent.” She regained herself, fully, and said, “And this time, I could use an operator who I know I can trust.”

Koori had very much noticed Goldie’s teardrop. For a brief, long moment, her eyes fixed upon the spot of black on the white wood of the cart. And then she glanced up to Goldie, and recognition appeared in Koori’s mind, and upon her face. She kept it together, though, only betraying her inner thoughts with the briefest of hard flinches and a sharp intake of breath. Her earlier confusion left her, and in its wake, came stoic calm. She said nothing. She only watched.

Erick spared the smallest of attentions to Koori, and only because she was an unknown actor, and things could turn very, very bad for her if she fucked up and said something wrong. Everyone else inside the yurt was perfectly calm, and ready to… escape, Erick hoped. He hoped they wouldn’t do anything stupid like trying to fight Goldie, or to start a fight here, of all places.

Erick asked Goldie, “Did Queen fuck up somewhere along the line? Is that why the war with Terror Peaks took 4 million lives?”

Goldie explained, “It was a mutual failure, of so, so many parts. Some of the larger failures were Terror Peaks getting hold of so many Extreme Light materials, and so many soul spears. That came out of nowhere, and we’re pretty sure that unknown backers were involved, somehow. Perhaps Kirginatharp was involved, for there was definitely some [Duplicate] going on in there. Tyli —Kirginatharp's Elite— She hasn’t found anything yet, or else she has, and she was told to ignore it. I’m not keeping too up with that thread, since there are so many others out there happening all at the same time. This thing happening right here, in these grasslands, looks to be the next big event in Nelboor, so I’m mostly focused on this place, now.

“The whole thing with Songli was a success, though. Even with all those deaths.

“Unless something very large happens, Songli will be able to bring about Empire, as planned, and that means many, many more people, all living their lives as they desire, which means we’ve done some good in the world.” Goldie said, “Now, if the remaining people of Songli would learn to defend themselves instead of letting themselves be defended by others, then that would be a total win. But I’m not made of miracles; I’ll take what I can get.”

Erick innocently asked, “Songli was a success?”

Goldie frowned a little, recognizing Erick’s anger. In response, she said, “No one expected you to get taken out by a soul attack, and, like. Honestly, Erick. That was embarrassing for you. You did clean up rather well afterward, but those first few hours could have been so much easier. Next time just kill them all and be done with it.”

“I will never do that.”

Koori flinched, then stared at Erick.

Goldie nodded, saying, “And that is why I chose to come here. You’re going after dragons now, and they’re one of the final impediments toward Empire and progress. It’s disgusting, actually. But anyway. To make a long journey short: I could point you in their directions. Or I could point out all of them to each other. There would be disasters either way, but your ‘debates’ in Ooloraptoor would be disastrous, anyway. Might as well cut to the end! Cut out the problem, now, with as much severing light as you can conjure!”

… And he had just gotten through with telling Koori to ‘step up’.

Ugh.

Great timing, Goldie.

… Which was probably exactly why she came here, in this particular moment.

“I cannot,” Erick said, “I have limits, too. I’m trying to confront whoever tried to kill me without killing them back, and with compassion. If they deserve it.”

Goldie’s cheerful facade broke a little, revealing pain and sorrow and exhaustion. “Aye. I thought you might say that.”

Erick chose compassion for Goldie, too, saying, “You have a hundred and one years to do a thousand and one good deeds. Don’t try to do them all right now. Take a break. Step back. See the world for what it is, and not for what it could be.”

Goldie gave a sad smile. Though her mouth was upturned, her eyes were on the verge of tears. “I see too many options for good, Erick. And so, I take those options.” She wiped away another quick tear. “Queen is inconsolable after the disaster of the Chelation War. She will take a break, because she cannot do otherwise. But I can still keep going, and so I must. When the wars of Nelboor have stopped, then I will stop. That is my goal, because it is an eminently reachable goal.” She asked, “Won’t you join me in ending the wars of this land?”

“… I advise you to think a lot more deeply about getting involved in any more wars, for your involvement makes you culpable.” Erick wanted to scream at her, but that would accomplish nothing, and so he simply said, “Culpability in so many deaths goes directly against the idea of you repenting for your sins.”

Goldie sniffled. “I thought Songli would do better. I thought it wouldn’t be that bad. 200,000 deaths. That was what I foresaw.” She breathed. She stared off into space. Then she looked to Erick. “You’re supposed to be relaxing, right? So why are you going after dragons?”

“They went after me, first.”

“Right. I knew that. You said that.” Goldie sat straighter. She dried her tears. And her facade of cheerfulness fell away, completely, as her voice took on a Darker tone, “But you know so little about how dragons exist and operate. You don’t even know the dragons’ greatest desire. It is this desire that informs everything they do, and even Kirginatharp is not immune to this need that is emplaced upon his very soul. Shall I tell you? It might help.”

“Yes.”

Erick agreed without hesitation. Shades didn’t lie, after all. They might twist the truth, but they certainly did not lie. Whatever Goldie said would have bearing on what was to come, for sure.

“It is to do with Wizards.” Goldie said, “Dragons hunt Wizards in order to have the Wizard spend themselves against their dragon curse. Weak Wizards can cure a single dragon, dying in the process. A strong Wizard could cure a dozen dragons before dying. A truly strong Wizard could cure Kirginatharp, himself, who was the source of the Dragon Curse, for it was he who was directly cursed by his brother Idyrvamikor.

“There has never been a truly strong Wizard born on Veird, but that does not stop Kirginatharp from looking.

“Dragon civilization has gotten by, though, for Wizardry is not the only answer to the Curse; it is simply the best, most permanent answer.

“There is another, temporary, localized cure. The cure of True Magic; the cure of Easy Wizardry. This cure is only obtainable in one spot in this world, for that spot is the cure. It is a Vision of another place and time, where a dead cosmology still holds and dragons can live without killing each other. Only three dragons are forbidden from that place, and I know that you can guess every one of those three.”

The wind whistled.

Erick thought. He knew exactly what Goldie was talking about.

No one said anything.

And then, Erick changed topics, and lightly said, “You left notes on Shendeng’s pillow to make him think I stole his rain spells… What the fuck, Goldie?”

Goldie’s seriousness vanished like mist under the sun. She returned to her joyful self and laughed out loud, exclaiming, “That guy steals from everyone! He has no room to talk!” When she saw Erick wasn’t laughing, she said, “In a straight fight you would win against any five archmages of his level. Don’t worry about him.” She looked to Koori, and Koori managed not to flinch under the dissecting gaze of the Shade. With a small frown, Goldie turned back to Erick, saying, “As far as what you were talking about before: if the Script didn’t grant unearned power to everyone then the Darkness wouldn’t need to escalate against them. If the Script was just a holder of mana, and nothing else, then that would be fine. Among many other problems, such as [Cleanse] accidentally killing unborn children—”

Koori flinched again.

“—face stealers would not exist, for [Polymorph] would not be available in a potion.”

Erick said, “If people did not have the Script empowering them then everyone would have died to the Shades and other monsters long before now.”

“I know we did wrong, Erick.” Goldie said, “We’re pulling back and making amends as best we can because Melemizargo demands it, but the other half of that unspoken agreement is going to need to be honored, eventually. We gave up power, which means the Script needs to give up power, in return.” Goldie said, “And another thing— Two points, actually. One: it is a myth that Melemizargo controls all the monsters. All he did was empower Ancients who controlled their own subsets of monsters, but he stopped doing that. If the people of this world want those Ancients gone, then they’re going to have to do it themselves. And two: The problem of monsters will always exist in the mana. If the Script was less controlling, those monsters would be a lot less violent. If you want to be truthful about ‘what makes monsters kill people’, you should blame the Script.”

Erick said, “I’m not about to talk to anyone on Melemizargo’s behalf right now, and the Script is certainly not to blame for the actions of all monsters.”

“Eh. That’s true too. But whatever. Y’all were talking about problems of degree, when the problem of the Script has nothing to do with degree, at all! And since I needed to talk to you anyway, I said the words that needed to be said.” Goldie set down her cup on the floor beside her. “Thanks for the drink. Good luck with whatever dragon-thing you’re doing; I won’t get involved unless you ask me to get involved. Farewell!”

And then she was gone.

No fanfare. No departing lights. No waiting for a ‘goodbye’, though Erick wasn’t sure he would have given one, anyway… Which was probably why Goldie chose to leave like that; She was a very capable prognosticator, and likely saw every possible way their conversation could have gone.

Erick felt he handled himself well? Did he? Yeah, probably.

Koori, though, breathed out hard then inhaled just as hard, before leaning over and putting her head between her knees, trying to get hold of her emotions— And then she shot up, to sit rigid, and calm. She remained silent.

No one else was silent.

The entire caravan had noticed the Shade in their midst, but no one made a move until after it was over, and now that it was over…

Yelling. Screaming. Spells being launched into the open with no rhyme or reason. [Ward]s getting cast into the air and getting left behind as yurts started moving out of formation; someone had tried to cast a protective spell around themselves but failed to anchor the magic to an object. Cows were getting really upset because their people were upset. Everyone moved away from Erick’s yurt.

Erick’s yurt continued on just fine, though. He slowed the vehicle down as everyone else raced away, because everyone’s day was rather thoroughly ruined, but he didn’t immediately come to a stop.

While all of that was still in the middle of happening, Koori looked to Erick, and said, “I wish to continue this conversation later.” And then she got up, turned toward the other yurts, and leapt off of Erick’s yurt while simultaneously yelling at everyone to calm down.

Koori went to work.

Erick almost didn’t let her have the last word. He almost told her that her own desires for the removal of easy magic from everyone perfectly mirrored the desires of the Shades. But Erick had more wherewithal than that. So, instead, he simply remained in his chair and poured himself another glass of rice wine.

He offered, “Anyone else want some hot rice wine?”

Jane came out, saying, “Sure.”
