Mato checked his health again, the thread of worry winding tighter around his heart. The Hellfire Wargs were only barely past level fifty; he had been confident in his ability to hold them while the others took care of the archers. But he hadn’t anticipated the intensity of the hellfire, or for them to be such tenacious fighters. He shifted sideways, careful to stay within range of the Acolytes which were his lifeline. Even with their powerful holy magic, and his own Brutal Restoration, his health was steadily declining. As much as his position was exposed, he couldn’t afford to move out of range of Ali’s healers.

The warg to his left lowered one of its heads, opening its mouth unnervingly wide and baring the long vicious fangs Mato was all too acquainted with. Then it breathed out the powerful torrent of hungry black flame that obscured everything save for the malevolent red glow of its eyes. The cone of fire spread out in front of the creature of darkness and embers and enveloped his body and the bodies and faces of his nearby attackers. For four seconds, his world was agony as the flames ripped into his flesh, consuming whatever it touched. He could only thank his high endurance for allowing him to retain his consciousness. The breath attack ceased, the blast of flames dying down, but the pain lingered as the persistent hellfire settled into his wounds.

His druidic restoration magic and the tiny pricks of the Kobold acolytes’ holy magic combined to keep his body barely in fighting shape, but he was progressively losing ground to the hellfire. His health was once again lower than before, after the painful exchange, and the excessive use of his Brutal Restoration was consuming his mana at a furious rate. It wasn’t simply the hellfire breath attack, though. He had been a wolf for a while, and he remembered what Pack Tactics felt like. He could even sense the peripheral thoughts of these creatures as they reveled in causing his pain; whatever skill they were using was a much more advanced version of his old Pack Tactics. They had encircled him early in the fight, and they were using feints and flanking to pin him down, constantly trying to separate him from his allies and the Kobold healers.

Knowing the strategy that they employed did nothing to help him.

One of the wolves on the perimeter raised both heads to the roof and let out a howl that echoed through the rocky chamber, harmonizing eerily with itself and reverberating through his bones. All the wolves’ attacks immediately after the howl would be more powerful, he had discovered. Survival Instinct flared, warning him of several simultaneous threats. He braced, blocking the bite from a wolf attacking his side, grimacing as they forced him to ignore the simultaneous lower-damage flanked attack from behind. The wolf’s double-headed bite attack tore into the flesh at the back of his hind legs.

You have been afflicted with Hamstring. -50% to Movement speed.Physical – Duration: 20 seconds.

The wolf directly in front of him prepared to disengage, using the movement skill that left lingering trails of hellfire burning on the ground. Trails that were harder to avoid while hamstrung. As soon as it moved, his Swipe battlemaster retaliation triggered and he instantly reacted with a powerful sideways raking slash of his claws, empowered by both Brutal Restoration and Bestial Combat, taking a large risk to spend the health for extra damage. His claws tore into the rapidly retreating wolf tearing, deep gashes across its flank, and knocking it rolling. As the attack connected, thick gnarled brown roots appeared attached to the rocky ground, created by the triggered Grasping Roots spell, tangling the Hellfire Warg and pinning it in place.

Swipe’s Battlemaster. He had loved this skill for pinning flying creatures when he had first unlocked the advancement. Now, however, it was the only thing keeping him alive – and barely at that. Frustratingly, the attack only connected about half the time against these monsters – their movement skill and high evasion were often sufficient to take it out of range before his strike landed. This time it had connected though, and he could feel the rush of healing magic as his Brutal Restoration was enhanced by the extreme damage of his empowered Swipe. The pack eyed him warily, clearly cautious of his dangerous strike, as he breathed a little easier. The higher damage-empowered restoration would give him a little longer to survive.

The Hellfire Warg next to the one he had just hit and pinned to the ground turned one head towards its packmate and breathed. Mato dodged backward, hamstring making him too slow to fully avoid the blast of hellfire as the Warg filled the area with intense black flame. Everything burned, Mato’s shoulder, and the side of his head where he’d been too slow to dodge, the roots, and the trapped Warg.

Fuck. Within the intense hellfire, the injured Warg’s wounds began to rapidly close over, fur sprouting to replace that which was lost. The tough roots pinning it to the rock of the cavern floor lasted several seconds before turning into brittle charcoal and shattering. The eyes in both heads fixed him with a malevolent look, glowing a brilliant red within the dark flame. It snarled, smoke curling from its mouths, and leaped forward to attack him, long fangs bared.

“Mato’s struggling!”

Ali’s voice carried over the din of battle like a lifeline thrown to a drowning person swept overboard in a storm. He had been cursing his inability to communicate in Bear Form, forced to rely on his friends taking out the archers quickly enough to come to his aid. Switching forms mid-combat to tell them he was struggling would have spelled an instant death. And his friends seemed to be struggling to take care of the archers quickly, for some reason he couldn’t see.

The roar of hellfire breath washed over him once again, preventing him from hearing Calen’s instructions to the others, but as the flames died, he saw them all on the move. Calen’s strategy was immediately obvious. The healers began to scramble across the rocky ground toward him. Once again, he admired his perceptive friend for instantly grasping the situation and creating the opportunity. He wasted absolutely no time taking advantage of the new placement, using his Charge to reach the relative safety of the rocky cavern wall and wheeling about to face his tormentors. As he did so, four armored Hobgoblins waded into the fight, swords and axes flashing in the firelight. The wargs were forced to shift their formation yet again to account for the new threat. One of the Hobs shouted using the Rallying Cry skill Ali had mentioned. As the booming voice washed over him, he felt his body strengthen. Mato roared a challenge, growing in confidence now that he had a wall at his back and the Hobgoblins to provide a credible threat disrupting the flanked attacks.

The game had changed, and the wargs clearly knew it. Their attacks became significantly more aggressive, risking his claws to take him out quicker. But with Hobgoblins interfering with the synergy of their pack tactics and being unable to hamstring him, Mato took the battle to them, Swiping powerfully, and even taking some of the splash damage from the hellfire away from the Hobgoblins using his Arboreal Sanctuary.

A warg triggered its movement skill to disengage after Mato had successfully blocked its bite, and his retaliation skill triggered. His strike slammed into the creature, blinding it in one eye and leaving a bloody trail down its neck and shoulder. The roots immediately coiled around its paws, holding it in place. The Hobgoblins tore into it, one even blocking the hellfire breath of a nearby Warg with his shield, preventing the monster from getting aid. A deafening crack and brilliant flash illuminated the trapped monster as two lightning bolts tore into it, followed by a volley of intense glowing arrows, and suddenly Malika was darting among the wargs, her fists and feet unleashing brilliant blue-white flashes in the darkness of the hellfire conflagration. He felt the surge of Malika’s aggressive healing magic coursing through him, repairing burns and bite wounds.

You have gained Clarity.

Malika had gained something new recently, and it seemed to calm his mind while simultaneously giving his regeneration a much-needed boost. He lashed out, spending his previously carefully hoarded mana to power his Brutal Restoration.

Thank goodness! The pinned warg collapsed, crashing to the ground amid a hail of arrows and magic. Mato roared again, ensuring the remaining demonic wolves would be focused mainly on him as his friends joined the fight. They must have killed the hunters. Finally. He attacked, carefully keeping watch on his allies. Survival Instinct warned him an instant before he was engulfed in another torrent of flame. He roared, channeling his frustration and pain into the challenge. He felt his retaliation trigger and spun to strike the disengaging warg, but this time he wasn’t quite quick enough, and it blurred away, shooting across the rocky terrain, and leaving a trail of black flames behind it. He let it go, annoyed that he had missed it, but he was certain it would be back.

A second warg collapsed in a hail of brilliant arrows and lightning, and Mato felt the pressure subsiding. The warg that had escaped let off a howl and Mato felt the power spike through his Survival Instinct as the one to his left tried to bite him with both ravening maws. He wheeled his bulky body to the side, losing a large chunk of flesh to the fangs of the wolf before he was hit once again by the blast of hellfire. The warg that had evaded him earlier stalked closer, just as he had predicted. It let loose a breath attack, hellfire streaming from both mouths in an intense wave that tore through the battlefield. On instinct, he diverted the damage from Malika and the Hobgoblin caught in the blast to himself, wincing at the extra damage, but by now his health had recovered enough to take it. Malika executed a flip out of the fire, trailing black flames from her body, but the hellfire blast kept rolling outward.

But, from within the flames, two dark forms appeared, rising from the ground. What… what is that? Red glowing eyes blinked and turned their glares upon him. From the conflagration, a warg howled.

Shit! As the hellfire abated, his fears became real. The two ‘dead’ Hellfire Wargs had gotten back to their feet. They turned to him, and once again he faced a full pack of six.

Malika dove back into the fray. It was impossible. She had never seen a dead monster resurrect. In fact, she knew such magic was impossible. So, how… But she couldn’t deny the evidence before her eyes. Nor the shimmering stamina in her Soul Sight. Both downed Hellfire Wargs were back on their feet, breathing their fire again.

I don’t remember hearing the chime when it died. She hadn’t really been focused on that, so she wasn’t certain, but despite the impossibility of what had just happened, she tore into the monster with a furious flurry of attacks. They were definitely in trouble, Ali and Calen were almost certainly running low after taking out those two frustratingly slippery hunters with their teleport and mirages, and even Mato had to be running out of mana. She slapped him again, healing him, and loading him up with her Clarity buff. They were going to need it.

She, however, had Relentless. She gritted her teeth at the intense pain of hellfire she allowed to blast into her face, her eyes and skin burning away in the searing flame. Even without her mundane vision, the monstrous two-headed wolf in front of her was clearly visible in her Soul Sight, wreathed in powerful wisps of white energy as it used stamina to lash out at her. She kicked it in its left face, pulsing Soul Strike through her heel and feeling the small, welcome trickle of the health it returned to her. The warg lunged forward to bite her, releasing the hellfire breath. This was what she had been waiting for, she had convinced the warg that she was more dangerous than Mato, and now it had decided to forgo the pack to kill her. She danced backward, bit by bit, dodging its vicious fangs while pouring stamina into her Healing Mantra to repair her face. The flames refused to die, but her body was once again in top shape. She dodged backward again, progressively drawing the Warg away from its pack-mates. As soon as she was far enough away, she put her back up against a misshapen boulder and simply duked it out with the two snapping and snarling heads while arrows and magic slammed into the back of the monster.

It took a few minutes, but the warg dropped to the ground once again. This time she was paying attention, and sure enough, there was no chime signaling the death of the monster.

“Ali! Clean it?” she yelled.

“I got it,” came the answer as her tiny friend zipped over on her golden barrier and began casting her unique magic on the ‘corpse’, golden and green runes flowing from her fingers in streams. Malika prepared to return to the fray, when one of the Hellfire Wargs howled, spinning around and unleashing its hellfire breath to engulf both her and Ali. Malika dodged the magical flame. Ali simply extended one hand toward the blast and a large curved golden barrier sprung up in front of her, diverting the hellfire around herself and the downed Warg, while her deconstruction magic continued to spiral out of her other hand, pulling mana from the not-corpse.

Ali’s got this, Malika thought, smiling grimly at the crazy image of the tiny Fae holding back the horrendous torrent of hellfire with her magic. She sprinted to the side of the warg and punched it in a head, Soul Strike flashing brilliantly against the dark of the warg’s coarse, wiry fur. She spun and kicked the other head, right in the teeth. It left her foot burning with hellfire, but it was worth it as she finally secured the monster’s attention, and the hellfire breath sputtered and died. Then she repeated her dance, drawing the warg away from the pack. At that moment, a notification chime sounded, and the light of Ali’s magic dimmed.

“One down,” Ali announced.

Nice!

Ali hunkered down behind her curved barrier while she ran her deconstruction magic on the second-last warg. The final one was breathing hellfire at her, and she could feel the intensity and the heat as the flames rolled off the sides of her barrier magic. She had to pour an unreasonable amount of mana into the golden construct to keep it active against the onslaught, but she had plenty to spare after deconstructing the other corpses.

