Race: Demonic WolfActive Buffs: Demonic Power, EvasionClass: Hellfire Warg – level 53- Bite – level 48- Hellfire Breath – level 46- Pack Fighting – level 41- Demonic Howl – level 38- Flame Dash – level 35- Heat Vision – level 31- Demonic Power – level 39- Evasion – level 35- Melee Mastery – level 33- Tracking – level 25Aptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Hellfire- Immunities (Racial): Fire- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy, Ice or Cold- Damage Absorption (Racial): Hellfire damage is absorbed as healing- Demonic Resurrection (Racial): Fall dormant for up to one minute upon reaching 0 health. Sufficient Hellfire damage will cause revival with full health. Recharge: 24 hoursAttributes- Vitality: 122- Strength: 307 (+153)- Endurance: 102- Dexterity: 408 (+203)- Perception: 285 (+142)- Intelligence: 61- Wisdom: 103Armor: 371Physical Damage Reduction: 20%Evasion: 1061Dodge: 41.68%Resistance: 371Magical Damage Reduction: 20%Health: 1220/1220Stamina: 714/1020 (306 Reserved)Mana: 1030/1030

“What do you guys think?” Ali asked, sharing the Hellfire Warg’s status with her friends while she examined the world as swirls and shades of heat with a unique double-vision that came from possessing two heads and four eyes. She had enough experience using unfamiliar perception skills now that the bizarre vision was only mildly unsettling. It was really not that different than using two Kobolds simultaneously, although the heat perception was new.

“Well that explains the resurrection,” Malika said. “They fall dormant, and hellfire revives them.”

“They heal from hellfire damage too,” Calen said, frowning.

“Oh, yes,” Mato said. “I saw that a lot.”

“That’s a lot of attribute points,” Malika said.

Ali ran a few calculations in her head before she said, “It seems to get fifteen per level.”

“Well, that’s unfair, isn’t it?” Mato grumbled.

“Not really,” Ali said. “My Forest Guardians get twenty.”

At Mato’s frown, Calen added, “You get to wear enchanted gear though, Mato.”

It was too bad that its highest attribute was dexterity, rather than something more useful like wisdom or intelligence so she might take advantage of it for her empowered summoner. It was the same with her Guardian – strength meant it was great at hitting things very hard, but it wasn’t super useful as a boost for Ali’s own attributes.

“That’s cool,” Mato said after a few moments. “Twenty would be so nice though.”

“It’s going to be very useful for your dungeon Ali,” Malika answered. “But it might be a bit too dangerous to use down here in the mines. Especially given that the enemies will heal from it. Might not be worth the mana.”

“That’s a ridiculous ability,” Calen finally added his opinion.

“The resurrect?” Ali asked.

“No, your ability. You walk into a dungeon, defeat a few monsters and now you can make them. Then you tell us the details of all its abilities.” Calen twitched; a gesture Ali recognized as him catching himself in the act of summoning his notebook.

“I can’t do the elementals,” Ali pointed out. Although Calen was probably right. In terms of gathering intelligence on how the monsters they encountered actually functioned, her Grimoire was a superb tool.

Well, it’s also my Martial Insight allowing me to see the status, she thought, but that was something she would never have realized without Seth’s insight. It was especially true if, like the Hellfire Warg, the monster was of a category she already knew. It took three or four kills before she could read the monster’s aptitudes, health, and skills.

“Even if you can’t do all the monsters, at least we can confirm our theories and make efficient strategies,” Calen offered.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
