Not really corpses, she thought, studying the downed Hellfire Warg. She had never successfully used her skill on a live monster that wasn’t one of her own minions. But the skill had clearly said ‘unresisting’, and whatever state these wargs were in when they ‘died’ was apparently good enough for her spell. Malika had guessed it, and so had she – as soon as she had seen the wargs resurrecting, she had known what she had to do.

Her chime sounded several times, but she ignored it, saving her curiosity for later. The last remaining Hellfire Warg was no longer breathing on her; instead, it seemed to be trying to eat Mato.

Good luck with that, silly wolf, she thought. Now that Mato had support, and there were a lot fewer enemies, there was no chance that it would beat him. Sure enough, she heard Mato’s thundering challenge ring out as he charged the wolf, somehow scragging its dodging hindquarters with a swinging paw and dragging it backward beneath his chest, trapping it for a moment between his powerful forepaws and champing jaws. Bestial roaring rose from both beasts as Mato vented his considerable frustration on his foe, paws churning and fangs repeatedly tearing chunks out of its shoulders and neck.

Finally the chime rang out and Ali walked over to deconstruct it.

“Fuck, that was rough,” Malika said, sitting down on a block of rock that was not on fire from lingering hellfire.

“You can say that again,” Ali agreed. The hunters had been frustratingly difficult to pin down, and the resurrecting Hellfire Wargs had been entirely unexpected. She could tell Calen had run out of mana several times during the fight. In fact, her Acolytes and shamans had too. At least her Acolytes hadn’t all run out at the same time, and they had been able to rotate their prayer skill to recover mana. “Alright there, Mato?”

His grin flashed briefly, weariness written into the droop of his shoulders. “Yeah, that last one was satisfying though. I guess I listened to the Guildmaster’s lecture on mental resilience, right?”

Ali smiled back, realizing what he meant. Recovering from tough – make that brutal – fights like this, was far more than a matter of simply downing a few potions and taking a nap. That was why Mato loved his cooking, Malika her meditation and she chose to lose herself in a good book.

Mato nodded. “We did good. Thanks for the save, Ali.”

“Anytime. Only because I like your cooking.”

He snorted at that.

“I think we should call it here, and return tomorrow,” Calen said, wiping his brow with the back of his hand and earning relieved nods from everyone.

The notification chime sounded as the final huge warg evaporated into motes of mana, filling the cavern with a brief fading light.

Your group has defeated Hunter – Flamecaller Elemental – level 64-65 (Hellfire) x2Your group has defeated Hellfire Warg – Demonic Wolf – level 52-56 (Hellfire) x6Grove Warden has reached level 60.+10 attribute points.

Yes, at last! Sixty! Ali pursed her lips momentarily and then spent four points on wisdom. The remainder she divided evenly between intelligence, perception, and vitality.

Arcane Insight has reached level 31.Barrier has reached level 45 (+2).Martial Insight has reached level 36.Empowered Summoner has reached level 28.Minion Teleport has reached level 21 (+2).Identify has reached level 16.Inspiration has reached level 12.Imprint: Flamecaller Warrior updated to Imprint: Flamecaller.Variant: Flamecaller Hunter added to Imprint: Flamecaller. Variant: Hellfire Warg added to Imprint: Wolf.

Surprisingly, she recognized some of the rapidly inscribed runes as they flowed into her Grimoire. Lots of fire magic was being inscribed, but usually, it was way too fast for her to understand any of it, but as her Arcane Recall grew, her ability to recognize quick magical formations was improving dramatically.

“Congratulations on sixty, Ali,” Calen said, smiling at her.

“Whoa, sixty?” Mato echoed.

“Nice work, Ali!” Malika called over.

“Thanks!”

Inwardly, she was having a small party. Sixty it is! Ali could tell that the levels and skill gains were slowing down as she became stronger, but still, achieving sixty was something she wouldn’t have dared to dream of until very recently. And sixty was the level at which the Adventurers Guild considered her to be a gold-ranked adventurer, an achievement which, according to Calen, was something that was recognized across the continent. But her notifications did not stop.

New skill unlocked.Mentor: Clarence.Class level has reached 60.Has restored the Grand Library Arcana.Arcane ArchiveMana: Mentally search for information in any book you have read.Arcane, Knowledge, Perception, Intelligence

Is that Ryn’s skill? She would have to ask, but it certainly seemed that she was being offered a librarian skill on the strength of the rather dubious definition of having ‘restored’ the grand library – and having a book as a mentor.

There were several other skills unlocked and available for her to choose from – three arcane damage skills including Arcane Blast which she had studied for her traps, and two nature magic spells, a direct damage spell, and a skill that could summon insect swarms.

None of them she liked over her current skills, but she was both curious and happy to discover that the skill unlocks didn’t stop at forty. She would study them later and consult with Calen to see if she had missed anything important. Looking further, she realized that her notifications weren’t done yet.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: ClarenceBarrier has reached at least level 45.Intelligence has reached at least 250.Synergy: Arcane Recall has reached at least level 10.Has understood advanced theory of magical efficiency.Has blocked the Elemental Storm ability of the Inferno.Has studied an advanced Mana Shield in combat.Barrier gains Ultimate Defense.(Your Barrier is opaque and has +[skill x 10]% resilience)Barrier gains Mana Absorption(Your Barrier absorbs a portion of the mana from magic it blocks, returning it to your mana pool. Percentage absorbed is scaled by intelligence, affinity-compatibility, and understanding.)Barrier gains Mana Shield(Damage blocked by your Barrier consumes your mana pool before the Barrier sustains damage. Damage is scaled by the level difference between the attacking spell and Barrier’s skill level)Choose one advancement.

“My barrier spell advanced!” she exclaimed, sharing the three choices with her friends.

“Your mother’s book is really helping you grow,” Malika said after reading the shared details.

“You’re right,” she said. First her Domain Mastery, and now her Barrier had advanced – both on the strength of her understanding even just a little about her mother’s theories of magic and efficiency in mana usage. Of course, there was also the direct influence of Clarence’s mana through the mentorship enchantment. But this advancement had required a combat feat, it seemed. Two, in fact. She could still see her barrier melting under the onslaught of the Elemental Storm of fire as Mato struggled to reach the safety of a rock, feel her panic as she desperately poured her mana into the failing barrier to try and keep him alive against the literal inferno. And she still recalled the incredible mana structure of Alexander Gray’s Mana Shield.

“I’m glad you got a good advance for that,” Mato said as if he could see her thoughts.

“The only problem is… well, they all seem good,” she said. Ultimate Defense would have made protecting Mato vastly easier, and it plugged a glaring hole in her defenses – any beam-style light magic seemed to ignore her transparent barrier magic. Mana Absorption would depend on just how much mana was returned, but it seemed amazing, and Mana Shield would be quite ridiculous, making her barriers indestructible until her enormous mana pool ran out.

“I don’t recommend Mana Shield,” Malika said, surprising her.

“Why not? It seems very good.” Indeed, if she stacked regeneration and used skills like deconstruction or inspiration, she could keep it going even longer.

“It’s how I defeated Alexander Gray,” she answered. “I just kept stealing the mana from his shield until he ran dry. He couldn’t do anything about it.”

“That’s… a good point.” Ali hadn’t even considered that angle. While mana-stealing abilities seemed rare, her barrier magic could gain a new weakness by linking it permanently to her mana pool. At least without that, she could choose to make more barriers or do something else.

“What about Mana Absorption?” she asked, studying her options with deeper consideration. She had to admit she was rather partial to the idea of earning more mana simply because of the time she had spent with not much to work with, but she wanted a second opinion just in case her experience had biased her too much.

“I like it over Ultimate Defense,” Calen said. But he was also the mana potion addict in their group.

“Why do you rate it higher?” she asked.

“You actually use the transparency of your barrier a lot,” he pointed out. “You block your Acolytes’ line of sight on the party quite frequently and I’m pretty sure the opaque barrier will prevent them from healing through it – it will be like trying to heal through a rock wall. Another source of mana gain will give you more options in battle.”

“What if I end up gaining too much mana?” Ali asked. Perhaps she would need to look into some of her new offensive offers to take on a mana-intensive one.

Calen’s eyes widened and he let out a quiet, strangled noise.

“Sorry,” she muttered, glancing over at Mato and Malika, but neither of them had more to add, so she chose Mana Absorption, opened her updated skill description, and shared it.

Barrier – level 45Mana: Summon an arcane barrier shield. The barrier is a freeform arcane magic surface that resists physical and magic damage. You can move your barriers freely. Gain +4.5% [skill / 10] of the magical damage blocked by your barrier as mana over 30 seconds.Arcane, Defense, Movement, Intelligence

“Four point five percent seems good,” Calen said, having recovered from his bout of shock. “And it will grow.”

“It doesn’t say so directly in the description, but the offering said it would be scaled by affinity compatibility, understanding, and intelligence, too,” Ali said. It would remain to be seen how much mana her barrier would return to her, but any amount would be worth it in some of the longer fights she had experienced recently. She was cautiously excited about the ability. She summoned a barrier, intending to ask Malika to hit it, but she paused at the unfamiliar sensation as the skill snapped into reality.

That felt different, she thought, the barrier springing into existence with way less effort than she was used to. She dismissed it and tried again, finding she had substantially more control over the density and shape of her magic.

“Something wrong?” Malika asked.

“No,” she answered, eyeing the barrier curiously. “It’s just… it seems like it received a hidden control upgrade too.” As the shimmering barrier hovered in the air in front of her, she bent it with her mind. It warped effortlessly into the half-dome shape she had spent so many hours practicing. She pushed again, warping it easily into a perfect sphere, and then she widened it, realizing her capacity had expanded yet again and her barrier could be dramatically wider than she had been capable of just a few minutes ago against the Flamecallers and their Wargs.

An old memory sprang into her mind, an image of herself, lying on the ground just freed from her protective magic, using her Arcane Cantrip to create a butterfly. She reached out with her will and bent her barrier into shape, easily recreating the golden sculpture and making it fly around. Only this time, the sculpture was the size of Mato’s body.

“Wow!” Malika said, eyes widening in awe. “I remember that…”

“Hey, Ali,” Mato said, an uncommonly serious expression on his face. “I know I sounded a bit casual earlier, but seriously, thank you for looking out for me in that battle.”

“No problem,” she said, smiling at him.

“Any chance you have a beast you can make, so I can talk to you?” he asked.

“I may just have the thing,” she said. It was unfortunately fire-based, but perhaps it could solve Mato’s communication problems.

“What’s that?” Calen asked.

Ali flipped open her Grimoire and channeled some mana into the wolf imprint. A few minutes later the spell completed, leaving a huge, smoldering, two-headed wolf-like creature standing before her, a low growl rumbling through its throats.

Hellfire Warg – Demonic Wolf – level 53 (Hellfire)Your reserved mana has increased by +322.

“You got the warg?” Calen’s voice sounded both excited and incredulous.

“My Grimoire decided it was a wolf.” She had no idea why it would decide something demonic didn’t require its own imprint, but she wasn’t about to complain. Sometimes her Grimoire’s idiosyncrasies worked in her favor, and sometimes they didn’t. These wargs had been powerful and challenging to kill, and they would be a great addition to her minion army as soon as they were back to fighting monsters that were not immune to fire, or healed, or outright resurrected from it.

“Obviously, it will be harder to use down here,” she said. “I don’t want to heal or resurrect our enemies. But it might be useful, right?”

“Well, that’s something,” Malika said, poking at it repeatedly while healing her fingers.

Ali flipped her perception to the Hellfire Warg, noticing immediately that her vision and sense of smell were greatly heightened. She could see the heat of her friends’ bodies and the bright glow of heat coming from the fires out in the greater cavern. She could smell the intense sulfurous odor coming from the flames and pools of black bubbling tar.

“Tell Mato I’m listening,” Ali instructed.

What came back was a complex image and sensation medley of a hungry bear.

“Well, that’s definitely you, Mato,” Ali chuckled.

“I can’t help that I’m always hungry,” he said, pouting dramatically.

Ali pulled up the status of the Hellfire Warg, studying the black flame-wreathed text that echoed from the Warg’s mind to hers.

