Despite his reticent attitude, this unnamed, terrifyingly powerful turtle had a gentle heart. Her first attempt at scouting the [Pashi’Har Bell]’s location ended in disaster. She only remembered reaching the foot of the mountain her dreams guided her to. The next thing she knew, she was falling off one of the waterfalls with her emotions going berserk.

The turtle had staunchly argued that he was simply rinsing his shell inside the waterfall, and that safely landing on his back was a sheer coincidence. He also argued that he was too lazy to shake her off as he brought her back to “Little Bubu,” his B-grade pet plant. The fact that outsiders never stumbled into Bubu’s deadly dreamwaves was also coincidence and not the result of the turtle’s protection.

Of course, Vilari would have washed up on some random shore instead of reaching this hidden valley if she hadn’t carried the right fate. It turned out that the turtle’s master was the one who inadvertently created the idols that became the [Seven Downfalls]. She was an aging Supremacy whose Dao Heart faltered, most likely a previous master of the Anima Court.

A Monarchy that lost control was a disaster, not to mention someone standing at the peak of cultivation. She had managed to seal off her unraveling soul before it broke the Anima Court and its surroundings in two, yet some things slipped through the cracks. The idols were born when her emotions ran amok, then transformed by the profound spirituality of the Left Imperial Expanse. The turtle had sensed his long-departed master on Vilari and provided assistance.

Vilari suspected it wasn’t the full picture. It wasn’t without reason she suspected the idols were connected to Jalach, making them items not originally of this Era. Rather than simply growing old, the turtle’s master may have resorted to exploring unconventional means of progress after reaching the limit of her path.

It didn’t really matter. The turtle would never tell, and the private matters of Imperial Supremacies weren’t something Vilari was qualified to investigate. Either way, the chance encounter was a weight off her shoulders. [Seven Downfalls] had become increasingly important to her cultivation, and she planned on making it the bridge between her Soul and Heart.

And yet, she’d always been afraid to get too attached because of their unclear origins. They still probably contained hidden dangers on top of their overt attacks on her mind. Seeing as this soft-hearted senior didn’t say anything, the threats should at least be manageable.

The turtle suddenly cleared his throat, dragging Vilari out of her thoughts. “If you’re going, take this with you.”

“Senior, I cannot accept this,” Vilari said with alarm as a hexagonal shell flew into her hands. “I’ve already skirted the rules. I’m aware that exchanging my Erudition wasn’t enough to stay in Senior’s garden this long. Taking your shell will break the rules.”

“Children shouldn’t be so calculative. Just take what’s given and go on your way.”

“The court elders—"

“What are they going to do to me? I’m too chewy to be made into soup,” the turtle scoffed. “Besides, I’ve seen most of them start meddling over the past weeks. So what if I throw out an old discarded shell of mine?”

“Then… thank you, Senior,” Vilari said.

She wasn’t sure what its use was, but the shell of a Peak B-grade turtle had to be priceless. She could fashion it into an unbreakable heart protector if she couldn’t figure out a better use.

“Before I leave, may I ask for Senior’s name? I’d like to remember my benefactor correctly.”

“What’s the use of knowing the name of an old turtle with one foot in the grave?” the turtle muttered as he sank beneath the waters. “My time has long since passed, and my companions are long since gone. It’s fine to be forgotten.”

Vilari sighed, deeply bowed in his direction once more before flying away.
