“Bird! This is a battle! Your friends will die if you don’t fight! They’re not even dead!”
The Antinium’s head rose.
“What?”
The Fraerling shouted as Ulvama turned.
“I am the Titan of Baleros! Do you think I don’t have Skills? Look!”
He pointed down and Bird focused on the first [Soldiers] Numbtongue had cut down. The dead [Soldiers], cut into bloody…chunks?
Where was all the blood? For that matter—Bird frowned down at the Drakes who’d been hit by the [Lava Orb] spell. Ulvama blinked.
“What.”
They were covered in soot, immobile. But not charred. Their armor was burnt away or actually melted but—Bird turned and saw Badarrow catch a Drake climbing up and slash across the [Soldier]’s shoulder.
The Drake fell, crying out, as a sharp blade cut through metal. He clasped at his arm.
“My arm! He got my—”
He stared at the limp limb. Tried to move it.
“I can’t move my—it’s still there. But he cut it—”
“Some kind of Skill! Get a healing potion! Get a h—”
The other [Soldier] went down as a boulder tossed from above mashed his head. Or…he lay there, dead to the world, as his companions shook him, completely immobile. But his head wasn’t pulped.
“They’re alive, Bird! [I Left the Carrion None of Their Due]! So shoot the b—”
Bird raised his bow and the last Oldblood fell in the distance, an arrow between their shoulders. He began loosing arrows like five archers combined. Ulvama stared at Niers.
“A Skill that doesn’t let one side kill the other?”
The Titan swung himself off Bird’s head now he was unsteady. He whistled.
“You damned bee! Get up here! I need a command vehicle!”
Apista flew up to him, a wing slightly crushed. Two soldiers down from a stinger to the eyes! She let Niers swing up onto her back. He buzzed towards Ulvama.
“Recharge your mana. I’m giving you a [Boost Spell] next.”
The [Shaman] just looked up at him.
“You can make us not kill them? You never said. You never used.”
She was fairly certain she would hear about the Titan of Baleros never killing a foe in battle. The Fraerling stared at her.
“What’s the point of always fighting a bloodless battle? It’s a strategic Skill to bleed a foe of resources or take prisoners. When you crush your enemy—”
He looked over his shoulder at Bird and made a sound.
“—Pick your battles. Bentill will get a lot of wounded, useless [Soldiers] they have to tend to. And these civilians will fight harder.”
Bird’s head slowly turned as he somehow kept hitting targets. He spoke, once.
“I do not know if she will hate you or like you. You are everything she wants and does not want. You confusing person.”
Niers Astoragon blinked at him. Then he shook his head and turned. The battle wasn’t over. He grinned, his eyes flashing.
Home. Ah, this was home.
 
——
 
This is what the Drake [Commander] felt. Shock of this new force aside. The Frost Wyvern—Goblins. Antinium?
The soldiers were reacting to all of that at once. Another Antinium had made his choice. He accepted the paint and went streaking down into the battle. That great warrior—
“Aura Skill! It’s not working! It’s not—”
A screaming Oldblood Drake had tried to kill some of the attackers. She had exhaled deadly, choking shade at her foes, and some of them had gone staggering away, unable to breathe, attacked by the cloying darkness.
But it hadn’t killed any of them. Why? Someone was advancing on her.
Crimson eyes in the darkness. A shade wrapped around her, so thick that a cast javelin slowed and stuck in midair.
An aura of midnight. [Goth]. On her other side, Grass Shell was conjuring…grass. And painful burrs that hurt even if you stepped on them with boots.
Not everyone had an equal impact. Fierre was throwing Drakes around; Garia had kicked and punched down several foes, but they had also cut her, and the [Martial Artist] was realizing she needed to single out foes in the melee.
But Fierre—she was going berserk, and the Drakes saw a short Human picking up and hurling foes in full armor. Ignoring cuts to her; they seemed to heal within an instant, as if she had a permanent low-grade healing potion! She leapt onto the back of an officer, and the screaming Drake ran around, trying to yank her off until they collapsed. Fierre raised a bloody mouth and Drakes backed away.
They didn’t even recognize they weren’t actually being killed. Even so—the [Commander] of Bentill’s forces could have still rallied. Still forced three dozen fighters and that group on the hill back with unacceptable casualties, but won.
If not for that monster. She tried—the Drakes forcing the Lomost tribe back were attacking full-on, rather than slowly wearing them down.
“Now! Advance the spears! [Barbed Charge]!”
The [Soldiers] thundered forwards at the Gnolls. Then—their momentum slowed. The [Commander] saw the Gnolls accelerate in a howling attack. They hit the Drakes coming at them and it was her forces who vanished in a melee.
“[Countercharge].”
Her Skill vanished as someone not only ate, but reversed it. It wasn’t a rare Skill. She knew she was up against some kind of commander. Some kind of—
“[Granite Formation]!”
Another line turned into a holding action as the Gnolls tried to move forwards and attack it. In response? She saw Drakes staggering as the Gnolls’ clubs, axes, and their own weapons suddenly began to glow. Each blow sounded and looked like a bolt of lightning.
“[D-Defiance To The Last]! [Unit: Razor’s Edge]”
She ordered a stand. No Gnoll fighters would pass beyond that killing ground. In response? The Gnolls pulled back and a flight of arrows showered the empowered Drakes.
Someone was reading her tactics and casually, even contemptuously, beating them! And it was so fast—she was maneuvering an entire army with the aid of her command staff.
Somehow—they were all losing. Who could do that? Some great Gnollish [General]? A [Strategist]? Who…
She thought she saw him in her mind’s eye. A giant, laughing down at her. The [Commander] wobbled around, terrified, trying to see her foe. If she had thought of the name, realized who it might be, she would have instantly had it.
A giant.
The Titan of Baleros. 
But what good was the world’s greatest [Strategist] without an army? The Lomost Tribe was rallying, healing its wounded, and surging forwards. Still, the Bentill army was reforming. Beginning to close and dangerously encircle Numbtongue’s position. The [Commander]’s terror and losing the war of Skills didn’t account for the numbers difference. The Titan needed Numbtongue to keep fighting. To multiply his Skills and put the enemy into disarray.
He needed…
 
——
 
The Soldier left the wagon. Ulvama spun around; she had forgotten he was there. Paralyzed, he was the only fighter who hadn’t joined the fighting. She almost cursed at him—then stared.
“What. What did you do?”
He didn’t answer. The Antinium halted. Ulvama waved her arms, eyes bulging. Even Bird turned.
“Oh. That is new. What is your name?”
Niers Astoragon looked right. He saw the [Exemplar Warrior], the Free Antinium’s forgotten warrior, gaze up at him. Ulvama screeched—then he opened his mandibles.
“I. Hkve. Nne.”
Ulvama froze, arms raised. Bird’s mandibles opened.
“Soldiers don’t speak. I…how did you do that?”
It wasn’t speaking like Bird did. It was clicking, barely audible as a proper language. From vocal chords that were never configured for…
“Khere? W-kre?”
The Titan stared at the Soldier. He spun, pointed.
“There. The Gnolls are faltering. Hit them there and don’t let them overwhelm it!”
“You—”
The Antinium leapt down the hill. Ulvama stared at him. He charged down the slopes, so fast the Drakes fighting and pushing into the Gnoll lines despite Niers’ Skill saw him only as a blur.
Unlike Numbtongue, unlike the other attacks, they saw him. They began screaming.
“Antinium attack! Prognugator attack! New Antinium attacking!”
Their lines wavered in the face of him. Pivr, Xeu, Flying and Silent Antinium, the Painted Antinium—all looked around. The terrified Drakes pointed up, completely missing Bird the Hunter, at the horror of the Hivelands.
The newest breed of Antinium. After all—he could be nothing else. Forget that he had the body of a Soldier.
This Antinium was crimson. From head to toe. The blood-fire of the Redfang’s paint. The Drakes screamed as he surged towards their lines and the Gnolls ran back, yelping.
“Crimson Antinium! Don’t let him close! Don’t—”
Ulvama was hopping up and down and screaming.
“My red paint! He stole all my red—”
Crimson. He liked that name. Maybe? The Soldier raised a fist as he charged towards the first Drake. The spear shot at his stomach—and he pivoted. The Drake stabbing saw the Soldier rotate, twisting as he caught and moved along the spear’s length with one arm—and then at the elbow flying at his f—
The [Exemplar Warrior] crashed into the line of Drakes alone. They tried to kill him, stabbing. He swung left, knocked two Drakes down with two fists moving, caught a spear aimed at him, hit another Drake with an uppercut, spun, threw a Drake in front of the others to stop the attack on that side.
The other Antinium stared at him as the Soldier fought. Here was the secret. Soldiers did not know how to fight. The other species thought they were great warriors from the start. Soldiers knew how to kill from the moment they emerged from the Birther sacs.
But fight?
Touma the Great had punched down six Drakes. But they had stabbed him and the healing potions kept him alive, as had Gna, who’d been guarding her squad. Yet this Soldier—this old one—
He moved like Garia and Fierre. No, better than them. Garia had explained, but Touma the Great hadn’t understood what she meant by shifting her posture because she did it like a Human.
This Soldier, the Crimson Antinium, rotated with his punches. He swung with all his momentum, all four arms moving, blocking—independent of one another.
Even Soldiers and Workers had trouble commanding all four arms separately. They tended to move them together, especially in the heat of battle. Touma had never seen any Antinium fight like that. He raised his fists and the Antinium around him, Soldiers and Workers, watched.
Then—they began to copy him. It was almost like—a current running through them. Pivr and Xeu glanced up. The Soldiers and Workers were growing sharper. Pivr looked around and Xeu spoke.
“A…Queen…?”
Not yet. Not—she turned, scuttling, and a Drake ran a spear through one of her eyes.
 
——
 
“Xeu! She’s down!”
Numbtongue spun. The Silent Antinium’s Prognugator was under attack. Pivr leapt at the [Soldiers] and Infinitypear led a counter charge. No sooner had they driven off the [Soldiers] and tried to tend to Xeu than someone screamed.
“Snapjaw!”
Badarrow nearly left his cliff as he saw the Frost Wyvern spiraling, wings shredded by arrows. The Drakes advanced as she emerged, fighting. Numbtongue immediately began trying to fight to her, but Niers roared.
“Push in, Numbtongue! If you leave, they’ll wipe out your group! Badarrow—”
His voice thundered to the [Sniper] via his Skill. Badarrow snarled, in no mood to listen, but the Titan bellowed into his head.
“Protect Snapjaw! Bird, shoot them down! Ulvama, boost Snapjaw! Defensive spells! Snapjaw, get that Wyvern to those rocks! I don’t care if you have to drag it! Go!”
They were beginning to falter. Niers began using more Skills, but—the Ghostly Hand Goblins looked at each other. One stopped throwing rocks at the Drakes still trying to make it up the pass. They stared off into the distance. Then one plucked at Badarrow’s sleeve.
“Hob. Hob!”
“Shut up and fight!”
The [Sniper] was trying to place one of the longest-range shots he had. He saw an entire column of Drakes advancing on Snapjaw, who was urging Icecube up, but he had clearly wounded his legs. She had a sword. She was strong. But—
“Not that arrow. This.”
Badarrow nearly punched the Goblin yanking on him, but he saw it was one of the first Ghostly Hand Goblins he’d met. She had something.
A strange assortment. Octavia, hurling a Pepperspray Potion down, stopped, and stared as the Goblin hurriedly mashed a semi-transparent…
“What is that? A mushroom? I’ve never seen…”
The Goblin ignored her. Carefully, she coated the paste onto a simple steel arrowtip, and jabbered.
“Quick, quick—”
She had coated nearly the entire arrow with it when the strange glowing paste on the little stick she was using to slather it on…suddenly dropped off the stick and melded into the ground. The rest of it slowly sank through the little stone bowl and into the ground. Octavia’s eyes bulged.
“That’s some kind of ethereal effect! What in the—”
Then she focused on the object the Goblin held out to Badarrow. He stared at the glowing arrow.
The [Sniper] rose to his feet. He aimed out, mind suddenly clear.
[Eagle Eyes]. [Farshot Mastery]. [Doubled Range]. [Two Mile Shot].
He was building Skills. He felt his consciousness zoom in. Bird was pelting the Drakes, but they had shields and thick armor up. Badarrow thought of the best Skill to use. When he was younger—he had used this Skill.
[Shattershot]. Today? The Goblin [Sniper] spoke as he drew back, aiming for the center of them all.
“[Splintershot Arrow].”
The arrow arced up, a glow lost to all but Octavia, Badarrow, the grinning Ghostly Hand Goblin, and Niers. He watched it land, but couldn’t even see it as it sped through the air. He had to rely on his [Battlefield Awareness]. But he felt the effects as it landed.
The threat indicators of every Drake in a fifteen foot radius—
 
——
 
Snapjaw saw a glowing arrow land. It shot downwards, and a Drake [Shieldguard Warrior] cried out.
“Incoming enchanted! [Stonewall Shield]!”
His shield rose confidently. It was even enchanted. The arrow went straight for him, in the center of the formation. Snapjaw cursed—saw the arrow pass through the shield—the Drake’s chest—then explode into multiple copies which shot through the other Drakes and into the ground.
The [Eater] watched as, slowly and without a sound, every [Soldier] collapsed like puppets with their strings cut. The other Drakes backed up.
“They’re all—retreat!”
Icecube rose to his feet, whining. Snapjaw urged him to cover as more arrows from the enemy army sang down. But she stopped to blow a kiss up at her lover.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon sat there for a second.
“I want that damn arrow. How did…?”
Then he refocused. The last act of the battlefield was taking place.
 
——
 
The Gnolls were fighting with the newcomers. Avoiding the Crimson Antinium, but clearly aware he was on their side. They actually covered the Goblins, shooting arrows into the Drake melee.
