Garia blinked at him. She saw Bird reach up with two hands. He lifted his hat up. He cast a mocking glance over his shoulder at Xeu, Octavia, the soldier with no name, Fals, and the others. Everyone else? Even those who’d suspected something. Even the ones who had seen the worst and best of what Erin Solstice could conjure.
They stared up at the laughing man. Salkis’ mouth opened wide, then wider. Gna fell off her horse and hit the ground with a thud. Badarrow, Numbtongue—glanced at Ulvama, whose eyes were bulging. At Pivr, whose wings were fanning with clear disbelief. Garia choked.
“The—the Titan of—”
His eyes shone. He laughed, that little legend. He shouted down at them.
“Now—will you risk it all? I will give you the rest.”
 
——
 
They came down the slopes in a blaze of sudden light. The Drake [Soldiers] stared up at the sunburst of color, the flash of magic.
“Enemies spotted!”
The [Commander] of Bentill’s army glanced up, hidden behind the lines of [Soldiers]. To prevent Gnolls sniping her.
“It must be one of their hunting parties. Looks like a [Shaman] in the mix.”
The odd display of colored magic was no [Light] spell. The idiots had given their position away. She thought she saw [Archers] heading up across the ridgeline.
“Superior vantage. Send an Oldblood after them?”
“And get them shot? You idiot. Two mounted wings and [Shield Warriors]. Flush them out and keep them off our backs.”
“Yessir.”
Close enough. The Drake rolled her eyes. She turned back to the folding Gnolls. They’d held the breach, but they were losing ground.
This was a distasteful battle, but the Lomost tribe would lose its warriors. Then they’d remove that Goblin tribe the Gnolls allied with. Savages and monsters working together.
“Surrender or perish!”
The Drakes at the front had orders to avoid a slaughter. Once they reached the tribespeople past the warriors, the Lomost tribe would have a stark choice. Almost…
Something made her scales prickle, though. Something felt off all of a sudden. The Drake [Pursuit Commander] looked around. Then she spotted the second group charging down the slopes.
“Enemy [Swordsman]! Group of…three dozen!”
“That’s not a threat. [Archers], turn and volley!”
The entire rank of [Archers] turned, pivoting, and their bows came up. They focused on the distant figures. The [Commander] glanced at them. What was…that wasn’t a Gnoll. But her officer was shouting.
“Volley—Ancestors!”
The scream came and the [Commander] saw two hundred bowstrings simultaneously snap. The [Archers] recoiled, some screaming as their bows exploded, striking them.
“Enemy attack!”
“No, Skill! Replace those bows! Heal up and—”
The [Commander] shoved forwards, restoring order. Like any good Drake army, Bentill began to pivot. The front lines of Drake [Soldiers] created a spear wall, facing the newcomers. Archers or not, they were outnumbered by the first rank, and the Drakes were set, dug in, and had mages, archers, and Oldblood support. As the [Commander] caught another clear sight of the figures charging down the hill, she stopped and stared.
“What is…”
 
——
 
The Soldier with no name saw them go down the slope like a lightning bolt. Indeed, the sky was changing. Although the Goblin had put away the guitar for the sword.
The Drake army pivoted towards them, but they didn’t see them at first. The Drake [Captain] in front finally got a view of them. The glowing red sword of crystal was one thing, but then you looked at them and realized—they weren’t Gnolls. At least, not all Gnolls.
And that green skin wasn’t scales. The Gnoll [Hunters] on the cliffs stared down. Some shouted in horror, but the Goblin with the longbow snarled at them as he drew an arrow. Bird himself put an arrow to his bowstring.
The [Captain] stared ahead. Then shouted.
“Goblins! Goblins! The damned Goblins are coming to—”
He hesitated. Because that wasn’t quite accurate. The group slowed slightly as they came to flat ground. The Drakes saw roughly three dozen fighters. One of them blinked.
“A Goblin. A-Antinium?”
The shouts of horror came from the other Drakes. There were Antinium behind the Goblin. The [Commander] of Bentill’s force shaded her eyes in disbelief.
For there they stood. At the front was Numbtongue, Fierre, Salkis, Sergeant Gna, and Pivr. The Drake [Commander]’s mouth went dry.
“A Goblin, a Human, a Drake, a Gnoll and an Antinium? And another Antinium. And…a bee?”
Apista buzzed around Numbtongue’s head as he charged forwards. The Drakes looked at each other. Were they dreaming?
“Hold your ground! [Counterspears]! Ready!”
The [Spear Captain] bellowed, and the spears aimed as the Hobgoblin charged forwards. Behind him ran the others. Fierre, heart pounding out of her chest, ran after him. Infinitypear ran with his spear as Sergeant Gna, on horseback, shouted.
“Follow Numbtongue into the breach! Watch those spears! Get in close or you’re dead! [Swarmblades]!”
Her own sword was buzzing and a cloud of strange insects was buzzing around it—Gothica’s parasol was folded, but the tip was a dagger point.
From his vantage point, Bird carefully aimed downwards. He saw Numbtongue charge at the Drake lines. One Goblin. Running ahead of the others. But so few—
“Now.”
From high above, on the cliffs, a dancing [Shaman] cast her spell and cackled.
“[Lava Orb].”
Ulvama pointed down. Numbtongue saw the flash of orange. The Drakes in front of him looked up and screamed. Shields rose as a burning orb of molten rock landed among them.
“Fill the gaps! Find that [Mage]! Don’t—”
The [Spear Captain] screamed desperately. He opened his mouth and Badarrow’s arrow hit him in the back of the throat. The Drake collapsed without a word and his Skill vanished.
Numbtongue saw the Drakes jerk as their poised spears wavered. He grinned and ducked a thrusting spear. The Hobgoblin cleaved upwards, and six Drakes recoiled, staring at their severed spear hafts. The ones behind them aimed at Numbtongue and saw the crystal sword turn.
Shorthilt’s ghost slashed across the first line of Drakes. They collapsed without the blade slowing. He dodged a sword and sundered another with his own.
The Dragonblood crystal blade never halted. The tip of it pierced a shield and another Drake’s chest. The Hobgoblin was still moving forwards, soldiers collapsing around him. His momentum barely slowed as the Drake line wavered—
And then the others hit it. Fierre surged into the gap and someone stabbed her. She ran onto the sword and gasped.
“Fierre!”
It wasn’t a deep cut. Her skin was like iron. Fierre grabbed the sword as the Drake recoiled. She bent it—then punched the face through the helmet. Someone else tried to bring an axe down on her shoulder. She recoiled—but a flying kick tossed the Drake into several of her friends.
Garia landed, and followed the kick up with a roundhouse punch that dented the chestplate. She whirled.
“Fierre! Are you—”
“Keep moving! Forwards, and don’t stop!”
Gna thundered past them. Garia whirled as Infinitypear rammed into a [Soldier] with a spear. He grabbed the shield and mace as the Drake shouted.
“Antinium! Antinium! Someone—”
Rasktooth darted under the struggling two. The smaller Cave Goblin stabbed hard at the other Drake’s groin. The [Soldier] screamed and the two were on him. Gna saw a blur hit the wavering [Soldiers] on her left. She barely even caught a glimpse of Salkis; she whirled through eight [Soldiers], slashing from one to the other, transferring her momentum from strike to strike.
She was laughing. Yet the Drake paused to look at her blades. They indeed had a cloud of spectral insects around them. As Gna locked blades with a Drake she picked out as an officer, the insects landed, biting, stinging, making the Drake cry out and waver. Gna rode past him and caught him on the backswing.
“Amateur. Rally! Rally—”
She was the [Captain] on the ground, pulling Fierre and the other warriors back, focusing them around Numbtongue.
 
——
 
The entire charge took seconds, and Bentill’s entire right flank dissolved into pure chaos. The [Commander] couldn’t believe her eyes.
Those were high-level fighters! Some [Mage] had cast a powerful spell from above—and they were taking arrows.
“Oldbloods under attack! They’re—Ancestors!”
Someone pointed up. A screaming Drake was descending. She had two arrows in her wings. Even as they watched, the [Soldiers] saw an arrow go through a second Oldblood’s wing. Then the hand holding a wand.
“Dive! D—”
The [Pursuit Commander] saw one of her Oldbloods doing just that. She dove towards the ground—then twisted—and hit the ground without levelling out. Someone had hit her in the wing as she dove.
“Surround the flanking force! Wipe them out!”
The army was trying to do just that. Highly dangerous combatants or not, they were outnumbered by a huge margin. The Gnolls saw the pressure abating and pushed back, but once the attack was dealt with…
Something was wrong. The Bentill Drakes saw the new group pushing in…and they weren’t falling. What was…?
 
——
 
Dirtmouth spat a cloud of dust into the face of her first foe, and ran them through. But she couldn’t pull that trick more than once. The Redfang was no Numbtongue with a magic sword. Hers was just steel and she had chainmail—
But the next warrior who she met was some kind of veteran. He charged into her.
“[Bull’s Ram]!”
She went flying backwards as the others fought around her, running into [Lineholders] and other classes. This Drake was huge and he or she was fully armored. They tried to bring an axe down, armored gauntlets flashing.
On her back, Dirtmouth desperately raised her arms. She wasn’t going to be able to bl—
The battleaxe touched her chest and she forced it back with a roar. The Drake staggered as she shot to her feet.
“Damned Goblins—”
They whirled their axe. Dirtmouth saw the slash and leaned back. She blinked. Then she raised her sword and slashed. This time the Drake staggered.
Stronger. [Hob’s Strength]? Behind the Drake, Dirtmouth saw one of the Workers overpowering his opponent, raining down blows with a maul and shattering the other’s guard.
[Hob’s Strength] plus…
The axe on the backswing nearly hit her again, but she twisted and it cut into her side, tearing the chainmail—but not deeply. Why? The Drake backed up, confused.
The glowing silver paint on Dirtmouth’s skin flashed. She grinned at the second layer of magical armor. The veteran soldier swore. Yet even that didn’t explain why…he saw Dirtmouth blur at his neck and raised his guard too slowly.
 
——
 
“[Unit: Speed Raid].”
The sudden increase in speed caught them off-guard. Niers saw Fierre misjudge her timing and slam into an opponent before recovering. He lowered his finger.
“Keep up the pressure. Ulvama. Throw an invisibility spell on Numbtongue!”
She glared at him, but then began to chant, waving her claws. Niers switched focuses.
“Gnoll lines are reforming. Bird, one more Oldblood over there. Hit her. Bird? Bird?”
The Antinium still had Niers on his head. He lowered his bow slightly. Four Oldbloods, all downed. Bird stared down at them.
“I have killed them.”
“Hit the last one. Force coming up the ridgeline! Riders and infantry! Alchemy 1, hit them!”
“Aaah!”
A scream answered him as Badarrow’s archers pelted the advancing Drakes. Octavia and some of the smaller Goblins rose from their cover—before Badarrow shouted at them to stay low—and tossed their alchemical vials.
They were safe. The Drakes were caught completely off-guard and the Tripvine bags and sticky vials slowed them. Badarrow drew an arrow and downed one [Soldier]—then another—with pinpoint shots through the eyes.
“Snapjaw, the archers are readying a volley. Drop.”
Niers barked through a Skill. He saw below him, in his mind’s eye of the battlefield, Numbtongue suddenly vanish. Ulvama wiped at her brow, panting with the effort of casting through her magical paints, but now there was an invisible Hobgoblin with a crystal sword slashing through the Drakes.
“Timer on the invisibility spell?”
“I don’t know! Fifteen seconds?”
“Excellent. [Hear Me]! Numbtongue, strike forwards and clear those [Lineholders]!”
The Hobgoblin charged and Niers swivelled so fast he preempted Snapjaw’s drop. She came out of the skies with Icecube, and the Frost Wyvern exhaled a deadly freezing mist over the back lines of the army.
The shock of the attack was almost as valuable as how many [Archers] and [Mages] it got. Niers’ eyes narrowed.
“Snapjaw, fly! You’re under [Arrowguard]—evasives, now!”
The Goblin [Eater] pulled away with notable reluctance, but the arrows swerving before they hit her or her mount wouldn’t do that forever. Niers was grinning.
The enemy [Commander] had no idea what was happening. This wasn’t even a chaotic battlefield on Niers’ end; he had a very small group to micromanage, but it was a hundred, a thousand times worse on the receiving end. Still—Niers was managing personalities, not trained soldiers.
“Bird. Hit the final Oldblood.”
Bird had shot one arrow and clipped the Drake’s wing. The Drake was descending, and, as Niers watched, Bird clipped the other one right on the edge.
Precision shooting. But he knew those were not near-misses.
“Bird. What’s wrong?”
“Bad birds. Bad birds…they don’t look like bad birds.”
Bird was muttering to himself. Niers stared at him, then down at the fighting. Ah. Damn.
Badarrow was erasing [Soldier] after [Soldier] and the other Goblins were doing a fine job. He saw Pivr, the two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, and Xeu all fighting without reservations. They simply put themselves on one side of the attack ground and carved in. Xeu’s scythe-arms were almost as unstoppable as Numbtongue, and she appeared and slashed her foes, skittering away as Pivr leapt and launched himself about, attacking with mandibles and his own scythe-appendages.
He was in more danger, honestly, but under so many Skills and Normen and Alcaz’s protection, he was surviving. The two Brothers weren’t showy, but they were deceptively good. They just waited for an opening and a club would descend with perfect brutal precision.
However. Niers saw Garia, Fierre, and even some of the other Antinium slowing.
“Civilians. Bird, shoot them through the head. Don’t worry about casualties!”
They were afraid of killing the Drakes. It would be different if it weren’t so one-sided. Bird hesitated. Salkis was wiping out the Drakes, and she and Numbtongue were pressing in, but they’d be lost if the others couldn’t back them up.
“Gna. Get them moving!”
“I…”
Bird’s hesitation hung in the air. Niers swung himself towards one of Bird’s earholes.
