The little Gnoll girl practically danced on the spot, waving an autograph card. Yerranola winked at Feshi, who was embarrassed for her glutton of a friend who loved seafood. Adetr edged over, a bit respectfully; after all, they were the Titan’s students.
“We haven’t met, yes?”
Feshi nodded at him. He nodded back.
“Adetr of Steelfur. Honored Feshi, it is my privilege to meet you. And this is—”
He looked at Yerranola, who froze mid-reach for a lobster claw.
“Uh, Yerranola. Hello! Are you made of metal? Amazing. Yerranola. Does anyone mind if I have a bite…?”
“Help yourself.”
Everyone agreed; the lobster was too huge for anyone but Gire to make a dent in it. Yerranola rubbed her hands as Mrsha held out a quill.
“Autograph? Sure! What’s…whoa. What is this card?”
She stared, suddenly moving her buttered fingers away from the card. Adetr was recalling trying to fight Yerranola—to his disappointment it hadn’t resulted in the Titan appearing—and glanced with disinterest down at the card Mrsha was holding.
“Who orders a lobster for food? Miss Rose, I know Silverfang has a lot of money, but it’s more expensive here. We could have gotten you a cheaper one.”
Feshi was whispering to Rose, looking at Gire who was wolfing down fries. Rose pointed.
“It wasn’t Gire. It’s Mri.”
“What? She has that much money?”
The other people eating at the table were eyeing the fascinating group sitting there. Four big names, and Mri and Rose were the odd ones out. The smell of cooked lobster hung in the air, and perhaps it was inevitable.
“Hey! I knew I recognized that giant! And look, I smell lobster! See? See, Emper? I told you someone else would buy lobster. Hey! It’s me!”
There came the cavalcade. The six people sitting there turned and saw four people striding their way.
Lehra Ruinstrider; Suxhel, the Gazer; Emper, the Stitch-Man [Monk], sighing; and Elgrinna, the Dwarf, holding a bucket.
A bucket of crab from the exact same stall. Mrsha’s eyes went round, but Lehra knew her.
“Mri! It’s Mri! Or was it that other n—”
Suxhel elbowed her in the stomach and the Stargnoll went oof. She hurried over.
“Is that lobster? My team wouldn’t let me buy one because ‘no one buys lobsters as a snack’. Well, look who’s the ignorant person here, eh, Suxhel?”
“Lehra. Stop bothering these poor people. Sorry about that folks. Our ‘amazing’ Named-rank adventurer doesn’t ever quit.”
Elgrinna grabbed Lehra by the tail. Mrsha bounced up and down at the table, and Rose, looking at her, and at Lehra with an awe that didn’t quite fade, waved her hand.
“No, sit, please! Mri would love the company. She bought the lobster.”
“Can we share? I’ve got crab and shrimp!”
Lehra plonked her bucket of food down and suddenly it was a feast. Adetr found himself staring at Suxhel, and that was a competition you were destined to lose. Abruptly, he was sharing a table with many of the people he had used his prediction of battle against.
And…they were nothing like the shades he had fought. Gire had once thrown a spear through his eye, and he recalled the peerless way she’d fought with her small tribe.
But that was just her phantom at war. Her real self ducked when she saw an Ekhtouch Gnoll trotting by and tried to hide under the table. Far from being the focused warrior wearing the Blade of Mershi, Lehra Ruinstrider was light-hearted, slapping him on the back and asking after Chieftain Iraz.
This was a new moment for Adetr. Uncomfortable. He looked around.
I’ve killed you all—
His mindset was largely lost though. Yerranola was gobbling food and Feshi, exasperated, went with Rose to get more so they wouldn’t be seen just leeching off the others.
It could have been yet another moment of convivial meetings, and, by now, only Inkar and Tkrn were missing. By now, they knew each other by name, aside from Adetr.
“Shame that Venaz isn’t here. Or, uh—uh—that funny Lizardguy and the Plain’s Eye fellow. He was interesting. What was his name?”
“Merish. Venaz and Wil and the others went north, I’m afraid.”
“Ah, damn. For that Professor? The Titan? I wanted to go with you! But I forgot. Besides, I guess I have to stay at the Meeting of Tribes.”
Feshi stared at Lehra as the Stargnoll rolled her eyes. Maybe it was just words; Lehra had the air of someone who made a lot of promises. Even so…Mrsha’s eyes were shining.
Lehra knew Mrsha too—at least part of it. It was Elgrinna, the Dwarf woman, and Emper, who regarded Mrsha and introduced themselves. What they knew, exactly, was unclear, but Suxhel smiled at Mrsha.
The entire moment was lovely. It was also extraordinary, seeing how Mrsha sat there. Gire peered around, eating, and all these other famous people were chatting.
But the Gnoll woman couldn’t stop staring at that little girl. She peeked at her from around one of the tents. One of her companions stared at her, then at the small team who’d followed their friend.
“Prha. What is with you?”
The Gnoll warrior of the Sofang tribe didn’t answer. Some of the other warriors muttered.
“She’s been like this ever since she was called to Chieftain Mrell’s camp. What did he do?”
“Should we burn down his tent? If he said anything—”
“I heard Chieftain Torishi got involved. If Sofang’s in trouble, it’s all our tails on the line. Prha—”
“She’s real.”
Prha stared at the little Gnoll girl who laughed and wrote things and signed with her paws. Her companions had no idea what she meant. Not yet. But they were beginning to.
Chieftain Mrell was watching too. Not as conspicuously pressed up between two tents like Prha—not that anyone noticed aside from people passing by—but dining at a far distant table. They watched her. But Torishi had forbidden them from getting close. And what…
What could you say? Then they saw the inevitable happen.
“Autograph? Sure! For who? Visma. Ekirra. Got it. Hey, you hold onto that, you know these things are valuable, right? But for free lobster, I’ll autograph anything!”
Mrsha took the cards Lehra signed and Emper took the quill next.
“It is an honor. A strange one, because we are not icons. I suppose Lehra is, but as a role model or inspiration…”
He stared pointedly as the Gnoll tried to lick butter off her nose. Then passed the card along.
The new thing was to get multiple autographs of famous people. Or—and this was a move for someone who had the most valuable autographs—to get all the names on one card. That meant it had been in the presence of all the biggest names and was therefore most valuable.
Mrsha asked Feshi and Yerranola to sign the card for her two friends, and so a six-name card would blow her two friends’ minds with envy. Feshi did so, seeing the delighted look on Mrsha’s face.
“Yerra, sign the card for Mri.”
The Selphid didn’t move. She was staring down at the first card Mrsha had offered her.
“This…I know these names. Feshi, look at this?”
Gire glanced up from her first ever mouthful of ice cream as Adetr sighed, but decided he could go for some shrimp as Rose convinced him they were, in fact, good, and not giant bugs. He dipped one in sauce just in time for Feshi to exclaim.
“The Players of Celum?”
The others looked up. Lehra with keen-eyed interest, as did Gire who had heard the name before. Adetr raised his head, looked blank, and went back to dipping prawns.
“No way. This is impossible.”
Yerranola lifted the card. She stared at it.
“There’s not supposed to be more than, what, ten cards with the entire cast’s names on it. I wanted to go see them, do you remember, Feshi? Then they left Invrisil—this is genuine! It seems like it!”
“You know the Players of Celum? Or is that a gift?”
Lehra instantly turned to Mrsha. Gire stared at her small friend, as Mrsha looked smug. She fished something out of her bag of holding.
If you think that’s cool—
Yerranola and Feshi had assumed Mrsha was some lucky recipient of a rare card. Then they saw her pull out a Jasi-special signature, with a kiss mark from lipstick. A Wesle monogrammed card. Kilkran, Emme—she had every single one.
“Dead gods. You could buy a hundred lobsters for this much! A thousand! How did you…?”
Gire gaped at Mrsha, and there it was. The little Gnoll sat there. Smug—yes, very smug. But the common thread was this.
I was there when they started. I was at the first shows. I can get you autographs if you want. Jasi’s a friend.
Yes, it was self-aggrandizing, yes it was bragging. But it was also—Rose covered a smile as eyes turned to disbelieving looks.
“It’s true. I know it’s amazing, but Mr—Mri was there.”
“So she actually fought Raskghar? And survived a Creler attack?”
Adetr leaned forwards. All eyes swung towards him. Mrsha nodded. She had been there. She had seen it, done it.
Nothing would do but for Rose to help her explain the context—the inn, and tell the story of the Face-Eater moth attack. Feshi shook her head wordlessly, and Lehra traded looks with her team. It was Gire who muttered.
“That’s amazing. You really survived that. You’re not a [Paragon] or big…”
Mrsha glared up at her friend, but Gire went on.
“But you did that. Wasn’t it scary? The Drakes are declaring war and the Walled Cities might send a unified army to attack us. I might have to fight. I don’t want to. But you…you’ve done it. I guess I have to, too.”
She appeared smaller, despite her huge size. Afraid. Mrsha gazed up at Gire, and grabbed her paw. The older warriors looked somberly at Gire—but who were they?
Lehra was sympathetic, but she was a young adventurer, rapidly risen to Named-rank. Feshi and Yerra were students, but only Yerra had seen real wounds. If anyone, it was Elgrinna and Emper who grew silent. And Adetr.
It was hard to explain what it was. Adetr studied Gire and wondered if she could become the same unstoppable force of battle as in his visions. Fifteen. He thought Ekhtouch would surely be worried too. A warrior could be as ready as they could ever be with training and still freeze up or snap in battle.
She was young.
He remembered killing her. Even if that was just a vision.
The Steelfur warrior twitched.
Into that uncertainty, Mrsha gazed up at Gire’s uncertain face. How big she was. And how young. Like Ekirra, in her way, for all she was far smarter and taller and quicker.
It will be okay.
She wrote on the card and held it up. The others watched the little girl. Mrsha scribbled quickly.
I have seen bad people. Belavierr. Raskghar. Giant moths. Tyrion Veltras. Lism. You can beat them. My best friend is Ryoka, the Wind Runner. She beat the Assassin’s Guild. You can win. You just have to do the right thing. You just need Erin—
Her quill slowed as she wrote that name. Gire was reading.
“Who’s Erin?”
Rose’s head rose, and her face turned despondent at once. Adetr regarded her, then Mrsha. He saw the little Gnoll with her brown fur and gold ears sit at the long wooden table for a moment, surrounded by delicacies, rich as could be, with all those famous cards, by important people.
When her head came up, her face was bleak and none of that mattered. He thought she would cry, and began to rise to go to the bathroom. But she didn’t.
She sat there, eyes shining a bit, and then looked up at Gire. Mrsha began to write, hesitated, and tore the card in frustration. She motioned at Gire and made a few signals with her paws.
“Speak for you? Okay. What do I say?”
Mrsha looked solemnly up at her great friend. Around at the others. War was coming to the Great Plains. Or not? She didn’t know. She was no [Strategist]. No adventurer.
Her eyes did a circuit of the table. In the distance, unseen, her parents looked at this little stranger. Mrsha stood up. She tried to express herself—and she had to own, Gire was more eloquent in translation. But this was the core of Mrsha’s message:
“There are bad people out there. Terrible things happened and terrible things will happen. I know. I have seen it. But I have also survived. Bad things may happen now. Stupid Drakes and people may try to do something horrible. They can try, but we just have to stop them. There are consequences. We just have to beat them up.”
 
Feshi listened as Gire spoke for Mrsha. Lehra was grinning, but Mrsha’s face was serious. And…Feshi felt her hair rise as Mrsha went on.
 
“I have seen Raskghar. They tried to eat me. I have seen Facestealer. A Goblin Lord killed my tribe. Humans tried to kill my city. They nearly did. Headscratcher and Shorthilt died to stop them. It is never easy. But it can be done.”
 
She stared up as the others focused on her. The teasing grins faded. Adetr looked at the little girl. Mrsha felt something building in her chest. Like tears, but it was also hot. Righteous and sad and…oh, how she missed Headscratcher. How she missed them all.
 
“Terrible, stupid, stinky people do terrible things. I lived, despite the [Witch]. Despite it all. I won’t let them do it again. Some day, I will be big and no one will ever do such things again. My friends won’t let it happen either. We all knew Erin. And each time this happens, we level up. When she comes back, everything will be okay. Until then—we have to do Erin-things.”
 
“Who?”
Mrsha ignored the question. She felt that certainty building in her. That memory of long-dead heroes she had known.
It was disconcerting to the adults. It was—to Feshi—like hearing the Professor talk. Too weary for a child to say. And yet—Mrsha gazed so confidently up at her that Feshi had to look away.
We can win. Gire’s eyes lit up as she looked at someone who had seen and done things she could never imagine. A girl who had gone somewhere Adetr’s great Skill could not encompass because it was not war she had seen. Beyond the imagination of the [Paragon].
It was an inn on a hill. Mrsha stared at that vision. As humble as could be, sometimes. Not nearly as grand as the Meeting of Tribes, but there was magic there. That was what this place lacked, for all its grandeur and important people.
Perspective. So what if every evil Drake city in the world declared war? Beat them up. All you needed was a flag, an [Innkeeper]. You needed guests of an inn and…
Something was building inside Mrsha. A feeling. A familiar one. She regarded all of these adults, not seeing her parents, noticing even the Weatherfur Gnolls watching her. She had a strange power. A presence despite her age.
She had brought something from home. Mrsha looked at the greatest assembly of Gnolls in the world, and the resolve built in her.
This was her people. This was their moment of triumph. They should not be so small, and sad. What could they not do? Had this army been there, Tyrion Veltras would have run screaming off a cliff. Had they been there, Stone Spears would not have died.
