And yet, he was not the full quarry of her studies. Along with Fierre trying to learn how to use her own Aura—the Titan’s night-walk being a stepping stone for everyone who hadn’t gained an aura from that alone—she was observing the final outstanding member, the new talent.
Even the Gnolls were glancing back at her, although she just looked like a short Drake. But even under an illusory Skill…what did it look like?
Because to Fierre, it seemed like a grinning flash of teeth. Two crimson eyes flashing amid the darkness. The darkness…which extended downwards from her black parasol, lined with a bit of white and crimson cloth. Like shade amplified. Her clothing was dark, a copy of Fierre’s, and her hair was black, bangs hanging low over her face.
Gothica’s [Aura of Midnight] wasn’t a hypothetical. The Goblin rode under a shade of her own making, and the other Goblins kept sticking their hands in, or even faces, poking at her, clearly asking how they could do that.
She would swat at their hands or chatter back, but she was clearly pleased with herself. Not only that—Fierre watched as Gothica raised one hand.
“Glove.”
The Cave Goblin handed the Gnoll [Hunter] a few silver coins that Fierre had no idea how she’d gotten and he traded her some very small riding gloves made out of decent leather.
“Ah, gloves? Good luck in making it if you can craft that. Nice Skill.”
She nodded with distinct pride, and he rode forwards. Gothica set the riding gloves on her lap, produced some charcoal, and began turning them as dark as the rest of her clothing. She wanted gloves, dark boots, and, apparently, of a higher-quality than Fierre’s own clothing.
“Gothica…why are you dressing like that? Do you have to?”
Fierre rode forwards and couldn’t keep a peeved note from her voice. Gothica glanced up.
“Yep.”
“Why? Does your class demand it?”
“Mm.”
That wasn’t an answer. Fierre blew out her cheeks.
“You know, it’s my style technically. You’re just copying it. I don’t know how you got the class, but can’t you show some appreciation?”
The [Goth] Goblin glanced up. She eyed Fierre, and to the Vampire girl’s amazement, blew the bangs out of the way with her—Fierre’s trademark scoff.
“Peh. Your style? I do better now.”
Fierre debated picking up Gothica—no, Gothica and her pony—and throwing them off the side of the road. She snapped back.
“Well, I’m looking into your class, so do me a favor? Take off your, uh, clothes.”
She slowed down as she realized the implication of that last bit. Normen and Alcaz looked up and then away. Gothica raised her eyebrows. Fierre tried to clarify.
“I mean, get rid of the clothes. Put on some other clothes, brighter, and try using your Skills. Okay? Then we can establish if it’s related to the [Goth] class. How about it?”
Gothica considered the question amiably. She nodded, smiled, stared Fierre in the eye, and replied.
“Make me.”
Fierre twitched.
“Gothica, I know you’re being…but I could make you, so can we at least talk about it?”
Gothica thought about it.
“No.”
She began to ride ahead, smugly. Fierre heard the other Goblins go, ‘ooooh’.
“Fierre? You okay?”
Garia raised her head from where she and Fals were plotting more travel routes, to show Snapjaw when she returned. She gave Fierre a concerned look, because she had noticed a commonality in Fierre and Ryoka.
They both had a temper. Fierre smiled at Garia, waved, and rode forwards until Gothica was in arms-reach. Gothica eyed her. Fierre smiled like the sun—that burning ball of fire that turned your skin to blisters in minutes—
Her hand shot out and grabbed Gothica’s parasol. The Goblin yelped and Fierre felt a twinge of pain.
“Fierre! She put blades on the—”
Normen shouted. Fierre winced—she remembered that, but she tightened her grip and yanked up. What was metal or glass to a Vampire, a real Vampire?
Up Gothica came, holding onto the parasol and kicking at Fierre.
“Let go!”
“Up your butt!”
The Goblin shouted back, with an amazing display of colloquial language acquisition. She started kicking at Fierre’s face, but the Vampire girl shook her so hard that Gothica let go. She hit the dirt as her pony stopped.
“There. Now, will you listen t—”
Fierre turned and realized dominance had not been established. Because a furious Goblin leapt onto her own pony, and began to punch, claw, and bite. Fierre yelped and tried to ward her off as the pony panicked.
The sight of the two fighting over the parasol made Numbtongue sigh and stop playing again. He saw Badarrow riding over to break up the second Goblin fight, as the Soldier sat there on the wagon, paralyzed by the first choice he had to make himself, and just as Salkis opened the photos and videos app on Ryoka’s phone and began to really freak out.
Into this moment, Niers Astoragon, Titan of Baleros, saw it happen. He rose to his feet, staring. Bird stared too.
“Give it back!”
“Say you’re sorry for mocking me!”
“Up your butt twice!”
The two were fighting and the Vampire was winning. She was stronger, faster, even under sunlight, and she was taller and heavier than Gothica—a very rare experience. The enraged Cave Goblin wasn’t about to take this lying down, though—but as Fierre kept shoving her off, she realized there was no way she was going to get her precious parasol back by force.
So she stood back, as Fierre grinned mockingly, keeping the parasol high out of reach and the other hand blocking Gothica like the first [Footballer]—a class that had not been invented yet.
Yet. But Gothica’s eyes flickered and trailed towards the parasol, now devoid of its shade effect. The crimson glare narrowed. She raised her finger and Bird saw the faint shadow under it condense.
Like…rainwater. Droplets of shadows gathered. Fierre went cross-eyed as a little orb of shadow gathered around Gothica’s finger.
“What th—”
The miniature bolt of shadows shot forwards and Fierre twisted amazingly in the saddle to avoid it. It shot past the pony’s head and struck the rocks with a faint crack.
“Dead gods, what was that? A spell?”
Fierre was hanging sideways in the saddle. She stared up at Gothica.
“Gothica, that was amazing! Was that your a—”
The [Goth] leapt on her and brought her, kicking and punching, down to the ground. Fierre unconsciously threw a punch and Garia shouted.
“Fierre, don’t—”
Fierre punched the shadows from Gothica’s parasol as the Goblin grabbed it and felt like she’d hit a wall of slime. Her fist slowed—Gothica grinned—
—And sent the Cave Goblin flying. Gothica bounced once, and Normen saw her smack into a horse’s hooves. Fierre stared at Gothica in horror, and heard the Goblin start screaming fury. She shot to her feet.
“Gothica, I am so sorry—”
And yet it was the manifestation of an aura’s powers. A serious aura. Ulvama eyed Gothica in shock.
“That’s…high class. Isn’t it? I’ve only seen manifestations of auras twice back in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
Octavia whistled. Ulvama nodded slowly. Bird began to trot over, speaking to Niers.
“I wish you had given me [Aura of the Bird]. I am sure I would have gotten it. Then I would fly and find Mrsha. That Soldier is having trouble with a name. I vote we give him the name of Jexishe. She would not mind because she does not exist, is this not so?”
“Bird.”
“I am also in need of going poo. Maybe I can give this hat to Fierre? She is currently beating Gothica.”
“Bird. Shut up. Stop the group. Now. We’re about to enter a battlefield.”
Bird froze. He heard Niers’ tone, turned his head, and raised his voice.
“Everyone! Halt!”
Fierre stopped at the odd note in Bird’s voice and Gothica stopped trying to bite her fingers off. The Gnolls, Numbtongue, everyone glanced at Bird, first in amusement. Until they saw him draw his bow and put an arrow to the string. Bird spoke, pointing with another hand.
Irry rubbed at his eyes. How did…? But then he saw the way the finger was pointing. Heard Bird’s voice.
“There is fighting over the ridge line. Two miles ahead of us. Gnolls versus a Drake army.”
The Lomost [Hunters] stared at him. Sergeant Gna looked away from the teasing Goblins. Salkis glanced up from the iPhone.
Inside Bird’s hat, Niers Astoragon put on his still-damp socks. His nerves sang. He heard it. He felt it. A familiar calling.
“You idiots. You stupid, shortsighted idiots. You did it. Well done.”
Irry galloped up the hill, and came back just as fast. He shouted, and half the Gnolls went to charge down the hill before Numbtongue and some of the others yanked them back. The Lomost tribe was under attack from an army from the Drake city of Bentill.
 
——
 
It shouldn’t have surprised anyone. Niers Astoragon listened to the argument, but he was speaking to Bird and Fierre, who were huddled with him.
“It makes sense. It completely makes sense with the Drake mentality. You saw what happened at the Meeting of Tribes. The Drakes have been implicated in the worst scandal in living memory.”
“But they want to attack the Gnolls and make it worse?”
Fierre didn’t understand. But then—for all she was a ‘Vampire’, she was young. The Titan smiled tightly.
“If you know you’re going to fight with someone in a bar, do you wait for them to get themselves psyched up and ready? Or do you attack them when their back is turned? When they’re in the lavatory? Me, if I wanted to win, I’d stab them as they were having a drink. This Gnoll tribe and Drake city have already been at odds. This was just the excuse.”
It would be the first of many conflicts in this region. Niers could see it. His mind was racing ahead of this, considering the implications. For the Antinium, the South, other forces…
But then he snapped back to reality. The others had never left.
Below the ridge, along the foothills of the Lomost tribe’s territory, a Gnoll tribe was under attack. They’d clearly been retreating and possibly hoping to head higher, but outriders had cut them off.
Niers understood a few things instantly: the Drake army from Bentill had certainly caught them unawares. No Gnoll tribe went to war with their young and non-combatants.
They were in the center of the semi-circle formation. Defended by a wavering line of Gnoll [Fighters] and [Warriors] while their [Archers] exchanged shots with a steady Drake line slowly advancing.
“Classic Drake attritional warfare. It favors them. Do you see, Bird? The Gnolls could flank and attack, even hide in an open setting. This army is making them protect their tribe. The [Commander] down there isn’t a fool.”
Bird said nothing. He was staring at the blood. The fighting. The Titan heard the suppressed shouting.
“—go down there and die. Don’t be stupid.”
Numbtongue was holding Irry back. The Gnoll was shouting at him.
“Our tribe is down there! Our people.”
“I know. Shut up. You attack like that, you’ll die.”
The Gnoll calmed slightly, because Numbtongue was staring down at the fighting. His grip on the other Gnoll’s shoulder was so strong it was beginning to bruise. Badarrow spat.
“Bad fight. Cornered-death.”
One of the older Gnolls whispered.
“They can’t be intending to slaughter the entire tribe.”
Salkis just grunted.
“Maybe not. They don’t have to. Wipe out all the fighting adults and the tribe’s a goner anyways. They’ll have to leave.”
She had less of an emotional reaction than almost anyone else there. Garia stared at her, shocked, and opened her mouth, but it was Gna who spoke. She was practically vibrating.
“Don’t focus on the future! They’re losing Gnolls every minute, even with potions! Are we going to get down there or what?”
The [Sergeant] was staring down at the battlefield. Numbtongue watched Badarrow as the Gnoll looked up. Then around.
The two City Runners, Garia and Fals, appeared horrified, but they were almost as surprised by her suggestion. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings exchanged bleak looks and adjusted their hats. Fierre and Octavia both seemed sick and shocked by turns.
However. The Goblins and Antinium were both silent. Bird was talking to himself, watching the battle, Pivr and Xeu were both watching in dead silence from their sections, while Numbtongue and Badarrow glanced at each other. Ulvama silently watched the Soldier with no name staring at the powdered paints. She was slowly, slowly pouring the red and silver dyes into basins of water. She watched the fighting narrow-eyed.
What were they thinking? Gna’s pointing hand lowered slightly. These two species though…this was not their fight. And—she looked down and cursed.
“Thousands of Drakes. Lots of Gnolls. We are a force substantively in the dozens. As Revalantor of the Flying Antinium, I must add my strategic insight and say we will most likely perish in any maneuver.”
Pivr clacked his mandibles open and closed. He saw Normen glance at him.
“…But in the interest of being likable, I will support any suicidal action, in theory.”
Xeu glanced at him. She shook her own body side-to-side.
“Impossible. Death is certain. Gnolls perishing. Let us move on.”
She scuttled sideways, glanced back—no one followed her, not even the Antinium. Xeu scuttled back, poked the nearest Worker, scuttled off. The Worker, Infinitypear, stared at her. Xeu stared back, nonplussed.
“Brother, you’ve got a magic sword, don’t you? At least help us get them up the slope. We can lure the Drakes off.”
Irry pleaded with Numbtongue as the other [Hunters] drew their bows, arguing about attacking or setting up on one of the cliffs to shoot down at the archers. Numbtongue was still counting.
Yep. Thousands of Drakes. The Gnolls outnumbered them—it might have been ‘only’ four thousand [Soldiers] down there versus a larger tribe. But in terms of fighting adults…he saw children slinging rocks at the Drakes, but the [Hunters] here had iron arrows at best. Those Drakes had proper armor, proper formations.
His grip tightened on his sword. Numbtongue looked over and saw two—no, three—Goblins standing to his left. Not the physical form of Badarrow, or Irry pleading with him.
“Gonna die today?”
Shorthilt stared down at the fighting. He raised his head. The Ballad of the Thirteen Redfangs seemed to play around him. By his side, Pyrite grunted.
“Death. Probably.”
He agreed, but he looked up at Numbtongue. The [Soulbard] silently spread his claws apart. What should I do?
Pyrite grunted again. He tried to pick up a stone and bite it, and his claw passed through. Shorthilt was silent. Pyrite glanced at the third figure, torn, only partly there, silently staring down, almost as if he didn’t see the fighting.
Reiss, the Goblin Lord. Pyrite turned away from Numbtongue.
“Why are you asking?”
