The Meeting of Tribes had begun to lose its luster. After months, the tribes had, ironically, had enough of each other. There was a natural flow to the events; at first it was a twenty-year mega-reunion with all the celebration and fun you could want.
Then you got the traders, the pacts from tribe-to-tribe buying goods, making alliances. Lastly, and this was now, was the deliberation of Chieftains. The wrangling, the decisions, some great, others less so, and then the Meeting of Tribes would break up with good accomplished and, hopefully, benefits gained for all, even if some more than others.
Someone had thrown a hammer into that cycle, and it was called ‘Drakes stealing our magic’. To another extent, ‘Raskghar’.
Much had been said by important people on television. But the truth was that what was done had been done for a long time. There might be traitors. There certainly had been injustice, between two peoples who had been friends and mortal enemies. It was a complicated situation.
The end result, though, was that the adults had lost their cheer. They waited, sensing the worst on the horizon. Did they want war? No, for many reasons. But you looked around and realized that Drakes—maybe a few Drakes, but maybe quite a lot—had stolen your magic. Stolen your future, your children’s future. Engaged in the kind of treacherous actions…could you forgive it? You thought of other tribes, driven out of their homelands. A friend killed in a city, past wars…
And you wondered if one of your own people had helped them. That was…even worse. So the Meeting of Tribes was waiting, and that twenty-year gathering now sounded like, instead of a moment of unity and strength, the precursor to something terrible. [Shamans] looked up and spoke of this era.
The Waning World. Perhaps—one of the last ones? At least, one of the last to have even memories of great magic.
That was the conversation for the worried, the old. However, it was not all Gnolls. Some had done this before. The amateurs saw the sky falling and thought it meant the end of everything. Some people who’d had it fall on them before looked up and went to find a stepladder to prop it back up.
A laughing pair of children raced around the Meeting of Tribes, followed by an awed crowd of lesser children. In the pecking order of youth, they won, and so Cers and Gnoll cubs from every tribe followed in their wake.
Of course, they were careful. They stayed away from the biggest thoroughfares, and it was odd, because they were very different, from temperament to height and even age.
Nevertheless, Gireulashia and Mrsha raced about, often with Mrsha clinging to Gireulashia’s shoulders. Chieftain Torishi had a careful eye on them, even if she was busy, and she smiled to see it.
Feshi thought it was incredible, but Gire looked and acted younger. She still displayed hallmarks of Ekhtouch; for instance, she had already learned Mrsha’s paw-language and they often used that to talk.
“I’m glad you’re here, Mrsha. Things were so boring at the Meeting of Tribes until you came.”
Mrsha rolled about in some grass and then sat up and stared up at Gire. She had barely gotten started seeing all the Gnoll tribes and things to do. She signed back emphatically.
Nuh uh. Boring?
What about playing games? Sparring? The races on horseback, good things to eat? Amazing sights? Gire sighed.
“Boring. The games are, at least, and I’m not allowed to eat much. Sparring isn’t fun. Races aren’t fun. Things you can do easy are boring, right?”
Mrsha raised her paws to say that if she could become Mrsha the Legged and beat Ryoka in a footrace, she’d do it nonstop just to prove she could. But then she thought about it and had to nod.
This was true. It was no fun to play Ekirra in chess. Even Mrsha could beat him unless she closed her eyes—and only because he rearranged the pieces.
“Hard things are fun.”
It was odd to hear Gire, who was capable of the most erudite language, talking like that. But on the other hand…it was fundamentally true. Mrsha tilted her head.
What things are hard for you?
Gire searched for listeners before leaning in conspiratorially. Cers waved at her; he and a bunch of children from four entire tribes—Longstalker’s Fang, Greenpaw, Ekhtouch, and Silverfang—were following the two leaders respectfully.
“Kick the ball, Gire!”
Gire had one of Joseph’s footballs—not one of the autographed ones—but a nice, bouncy ball. She obligingly kicked it.
The Gnoll children stared up as the ball flew over the walls of the Ekhtouch tribe’s enclosure. Past the Meeting of Tribes. Over the heads of some Gnolls riding about on horseback. Cers stared at the ball, mid-dash after it. He glanced back, realized no one was going to race him for it, and, whining, went to hike to get it back.
The [Paragon] looked at Mrsha.
“Magic. Magic isn’t easy.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. That was another thing they had in common. Gire leaned down to whisper to Mrsha so that even the other Ekhtouch children couldn’t hear.
“…I want to be a [Wizard]. I know I can do it, even if I have no magical talent. Or go to Pomle and learn more than just hitting things. Or be an artist. Or…”
Her face screwed up and she glanced towards the busy tribes. Ekhtouch and all the Chieftains were debating what must be done, what would happen next vis à vis the Drakes and all this international attention. Gire waved an exhausted paw at it.
“I don’t want to do that. I don’t just want to fight and lead. That’s boring.”
She turned back to Mrsha for a nod of understanding. What she got instead was a [Relc Kick] to her shin.
Mrsha bounced off and lay there, stunned. Curse your defense! Gire blinked down at her and picked her up and patted her.
“What was that for? Are you okay?”
Since violence was clearly not effective, Mrsha the Pacifist shook a paw at Gire’s bewildered face. She had to explain, because Gire looked hurt.
Don’t say that. You can do something. Don’t be a stupid Lism. You can do something to help. I envy you.
Gire’s brow furrowed. She glanced at Mrsha’s small frame, then her own. She looked at Mrsha, and her ears flattened a bit. She half-nodded, then stared at the card Mrsha had held up to use proper names.
“Sorry. I forget. Um…what’s a Lism?”
Mrsha tried to explain what the most objectionable form of creature in the world was to a bewildered Gire, who thought it was a kind of evil, money-grubbing salamander until she realized Mrsha was talking about a person.
Yet. That wasn’t why she listened to Mrsha alone. Not just because Mrsha was a white Gnoll or [Druid], or her connections with Liscor. That was all part of it, but she had a mysterious power. That was why Feshi watched her play.
Mrsha had brought something into the Meeting of Tribes. A perspective from home. Feshi watched as she waved her paws, puffing up her chest, swaggering about clumsily on two legs.
Don’t be a Lism. Be a Relc! Punching things hard was a very valuable ability! Ever seen a [Relc Punch]? 
“But I’m too young. Chieftain Firrelle says that all the time.”
Mrsha scoffed. She blew air out of her mouth and stuck her tongue out.
Young? She knew some people who were only one or two years old. And they were shooting Wyverns, taking names—literally—and chopping up Flesh Worms.
Mrsha slowed. Her ears drooped, then she met Gire’s gaze with determination.
You can do something. Something bad is happening. Isn’t it?
Gire bent down.
“Yes. It might be war. It could be—very bad.”
She grew somber, with uncanny perception of all that might come to pass. Most children wouldn’t understand that, not entirely. Yet Mrsha just sighed.
Then we should do something.
Gire looked astounded.
“What, just like that?”
Mrsha rolled her eyes. She reached up and Gire put her huge paw down and held her hand.
That’s how it works.
Gire listened as Mrsha told her a story from home. Feshi, sitting on a chair and watching Mrsha’s animated paws moving and Gire’s face as she listened, murmured to herself.
“…I really wish I knew what she was saying.”
She stood up to ask Mrsha to tell her as well—or Gire to translate. That was when one of the Weatherfur [Guards] trotted forwards. He touched her shoulder. Feshi looked over and saw a grim Gnoll’s face.
“What is it?”
“They’re declaring war on us, Feshi. Chieftain Torishi needs you.”
Feshi’s fur began to rise. Gire looked up, and Mrsha paused in her story. The first howl rose, breaking the other sounds in the Meeting of Tribes, followed by horns, other calls.
So it began.
 
——
 
Who began it first? No…before that.
Did you believe in synchronicity? A confluence of events? The same realization, or action, occurring simultaneously across the world? Just like how an invention could be realized by multiple people concurrently without them ever collaborating.
It was not random. There was a pattern, made of pieces that were connected and genuinely unrelated. Yet consider—
The Meeting of Tribes already had the potential to enflame tensions between Drake and Gnoll populations. The show of force made enemies of the Gnolls…or people who thought they might be enemies of the Gnolls…nervous.
However, it was also a time of weakness as much as strength. The authority of the Gnolls travelled to the Great Plains, but many tribes could not send everyone. Thus, they were actually weaker, split, with their most important Gnolls absent.
Yet who would make an enemy and invite the wrath of countless tribes? No one wanted to be the first to pop up. Not unless there were too many targets to count.
Or…you thought war was an inevitability.
There were other flashpoints. The city of Marwsh was one such city that flipped its traditional stances fast. It had seen a beloved Senior Guardsman stabbed in the streets—and it was not the only Drake settlement to clash with strange Plains Gnolls who left behind few survivors.
Add to that the Gnollish reaction. Gnolls across Izril had already seen tribes wiped out in Chandrar. Now it came to light there was a continent-wide Drake conspiracy.
“It wasn’t the Gnolls who threw the first punch, though.”
Grand Strategist Chaldion had convened one of the inner security councils of Pallass. He smoked on a puffer. General Dulm of 1st Army, General Shirka of 3rd Army, General Edellein of 4th Army…the regulars of these get-togethers had been joined by two more [Generals], several high-ranking [Senators], and other officials. One of the [Strategists], a Garuda, cleared his throat.
“You’re sure, Grand Strategist?”
Chaldion stubbed the cigar on the ashtray for a moment to respond.
“I’m confident in this: what you’ll see from the Gnoll side are fights, smaller raids, maybe, thefts, burned grain silos—nothing in the vein of actual military action. The Tribes have concentrated their strength in the Great Plains. No tribe will make war; young hotheads no doubt took matters into their own claws. That is quite different from a declaration of war. How many battlezones are emerging?”
“A lot are simply declarations, Grand Strategist. But there’s a few armies on the move. Mostly around the Great Plains region. After the Woven Bladegrass tribe’s sacking of cities…”
“Naturally. And how many Walled Cities have issued some declaration of war?”
“None. Yet.”
Edellein glanced up at the ‘yet’. The [Strategist] understudy to Chaldion looked up. The Garuda saw Chaldion nod.
“Then who’s pivoting?”
“Zeres’ army has moved the siege of Oteslia wider. Fissival’s army is moving faster, and a Wall Lord Dragial—ah, the former Wall Lord—was spotted en-route to meet them. I see detachments from Salazsar, but that might be in response to the Oteslian siege; the Gemscale family banners are in greatest proximity and they’ve called representatives of at least two Gem Regiments.”
“What about Manus?”
Chaldion puffed on the cigar again. The [Senators] listening shifted. Technically, Chaldion was under house arrest, and there would be a public hearing discussing his actions. He would not actually be forced to bear witness.
And if anyone wanted to protest outside of his guarded home, or throw things, they could. They could also demand he was removed from his position and the Assembly of Crafts would hear them out and vote on the issue.
None of that stopped Chaldion from being right here. He wasn’t ‘giving orders’; he had been placed on a kind of military probation. He was just listening. And speaking. And they’d do whatever he suggested.
“Manus has sent two forces. The first one is unrelated—I am bringing it up in case officers were not aware, and in light of possible maneuvers. However, it headed north weeks ago. Plural. A small group of high-level [Soldiers] led by none other than Spearmaster Lulv.”
General Edellein interrupted, suddenly tense.
“A strike on the Antinium? That’s the last thing we need.”
The Garuda [Strategist] ducked his feathered head.
“No, [General]. They skirted the Hivelands and headed north.”
“I’ve been aware of it. Possibly unrelated. They might do something—we’ll review the Hectval-Liscor war later. What is this second army?”
Chaldion’s eyes sharpened. The [Strategist] bowed.
“Breaking news, Grand Strategist. It’s…a large force. Under anti-scrying effects, they left the city fast. Our [Informants] believe it might be as large as eighty thousand alone, and if they pull from garrisons on the way…”
That was standard procedure for Manus. Chaldion stopped.
“Why would Manus send an army? They have as much desire as we do to not see this escalate. I can understand Zeres and Fissival taking a position against the Tribes. This?”
“Another thing, Grand Strategist?”
Chaldion’s one good eye glinted.
“What?”
“Dragonspeaker Luciva is leading the force herself. They’re bearing southwards; they’re skirting the Great Plains by our projections of their travel. Maybe it’s Zeres? Or Oteslia?”
The Grand Strategist just drummed his claws on the table. His eye flicked back and forth. Everyone else was guessing too, but did they have all the facts? Chaldion cursed under his breath.
Did he? What Chaldion saw, individual, conflicting motivations aside? He stared down at a glowing map of Izril.
Individual battle zones between Drake cities who wanted battle and had the most hostile relationships against Gnollish tribes in the region. Strike first if it’s going to be a fight.
“Idiots.”
But the thing about this kind of war was that other cities and tribes saw the fighting. And the potential for it to spread…he was watching a wildfire tossing embers into the sky.
“General Duln. I’m minded to pull the reforming 2nd Army into the city. I suggest the Assembly of Crafts votes to mobilize the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th armies. Now.”
