Then Woven Bladegrass would be conducting its own battles with its alliance. At the same time, other tribes would hold the Great Plains, responding to an incursion. They were all on the same side…but tribes would fight and die with only their closest allies, rather than forming one unified army.
In that case—what side was Ekhtouch on? Gire stared at Mrsha and hoped it was Silverfang’s. But—
“I’m Mri. Stop! Stop!”
Mrsha, exasperated, toggled her speaking stone. She pointed at Gire’s paws which she had been unable to tag once after an entire minute.
“No one beats me at Five Paws, Mrsha. I could close my eyes and only use one hand. Sometimes the children can touch me—but they’re the ones who’re the best at Triumphs. I don’t think you can do it.”
Mrsha’s eyes narrowed. Her paws blurred.
Don’t you mock me, you giant Yellat! I am Mrsha the Great and Terrible. Take—
Her two-armed attack missed Gire’s one paw. Gire lifted it up, moved it left, right, as Mrsha punched and furiously struck at her paw, trying to touch Gire’s palm-pad. She missed. In her fury, she launched into a flying kick at Gire’s stomach.
Take th—
Gire caught her by one leg. Mrsha dangled there upside-down and saw the nine-foot tall Gnoll give her a reproachful look.
“Kicking me is cheating.”
Mrsha tried to punch Gire, but her flailing limbs were far too short to reach the [Paragon]. Realizing she was failing even there, she reached for something. Gire saw her draw a wand and—
[Mudball]!
An orb of mud shot forwards at Gire’s face. Mrsha felt the [Paragon] let go. She landed and saw Gire dodge the [Mudball] at point blank range. She swung her head just under it, and a foot rose, sweeping sideways and up like—
Like Ryoka’s best kick. Only it wasn’t a spinning hook but a roundhouse, the shin coming towards Mrsha’s head with bone-crushing force—
Gire halted well clear of Mrsha and frowned.
“Don’t do that, Mrsha. I nearly kicked you.”
Mrsha stared at the giant leg. She nodded slowly and raised her paws.
Five Paws was a stupid game, anyways. For children. Only someone without class or dignity would try too hard to win or cheat.
Gire yawned. Mrsha saw her sit back down, cross legged.
“Okay. I forgive you. What do you want to do next?”
Mrsha sat there, panting a bit. She had done her best, but Gire had truly not even been strained, even by Mrsha’s most underhanded Lism-tactics. Her [Mrsha Kick], developed from the Relc-school of fighting arts, had done nothing!
It was true what Gire had said this morning. Even this game with Mrsha the Incredibly Athletic…was making the [Paragon] bored. For the first time, she was patently bored but, like the growing girl she was, clearly trying to make herself look interested for Mrsha’s benefit.
“We can play other games if you want. Like football.”
Mrsha’s eyes narrowed. Was she being patronized? It was the kind of thing big kids said to others, like Visma’s big brother. She had heard Satar use that exact same tone of voice when Cers begged to play.
Mrsha had never recognized it before, but her new friendship made it obvious in Gire. The Gnoll [Paragon] smiled at her. Mrsha folded her arms and sat like Gire.
No way. I’m a big girl. Let’s do something fun.
Gire nodded reasonably, but she was distracted.
“We could…go get something to eat? I can pay for whatever you want.”
Mrsha’s ears twitched. She saw the too-casual look on Gire’s face as she glanced towards the Meeting of Tribes. And these treats would just happen to be in line with Chieftain Torishi’s orders that Mrsha was an honored guest, eh? Nothing to do with a certain big Gnoll girl being prohibited from anything but her specific diet.
I could use some food. Let’s get snacks!
Gire smiled eagerly and picked Mrsha up. With Mrsha riding on her shoulders like she did with Moore, Gire trotted to the entrance of the Ekhtouch tribe.
“Where are you going, Gire? You have lessons.”
“I’m taking our guest out.”
The Ekhtouch Gnolls exchanged glances. But Firrelle was busy and Gire pointed to some Gnolls who looked up.
“We will ask Weatherfur to accompany us. We cannot be rude to the Silverfangs, can we? Or Weatherfur?”
“No…”
The [Guard] drew out the word with clear reluctance. Gire didn’t wait for a counterargument, so she strode with Mrsha as the Weatherfur Gnolls followed. Mrsha sniffed the air and saw Gire brighten with delight.
“Miss Qwera said that you can buy whatever you want as long as it doesn’t ruin your appetite. And she gave you money, didn’t she?”
Mrsha gave Gire a superior look and signed with her paws.
Give me money? Do I look like a Peon? I’ve got lots of gold.
Gire blinked.
“Really? How much? I have sixty one gold coins, you know. All from odd jobs or monsters I killed and such. A lot of money; Ekhtouch doesn’t give me an allowance.”
She seemed rather proud of that. Mrsha sighed and patted her on the head. Good for you. She saw Gire frown, and thus had to show her the bag of holding with so many gold coins in it that Gire’s eyes popped.
“How did you get that? Did Qwera give…?”
The Golden Gnoll? She wasn’t that generous. No, this was Wer’s bad-luck money. Mrsha hoped he was okay…but the upshot was that no food was out of reach. Anything was fair game, from the free stalls to the most expensive luxury items.
“Mrsha…you’ll share with me, right? I shared my breakfast with you.”
Mrsha gagged at the memory of the steamed health buns, but she nodded munificently. She sniffed the air, and, like a [Sailor] clinging to the bird’s eye mast—which was Gire’s head—she pointed. The giant Gnoll made her way through the crowd.
Gnolls turned and stared at Gire, of course, but ironically, this was, in a way, safer than Mrsha being alone. People saw Gire and the tiny Gnoll cub and thought—well, that had to be Ekhtouch’s [Paragon] and some Gnoll kid. Mrsha, with her brown fur and painted gold ears, was probably with the Golden Gnoll of Izril, and none of them stopped to think about her being alone, a white Gnoll, or her lack of speaking.
Besides, Mrsha had her speaking stone setup.
“Left. Left…I want that.”
The first stall they stopped at was offering a rare food. The [Stall Manager] looked suspicious, but the first handful of silver coins Mrsha plonked down was enough to make him call to the special [Chef].
Both were Drowned Folk, incidentally, one Human, one Drake. But they were also part sea-folk, so they weren’t as hostilely regarded. Mrsha saw one huge eye blink at her as the Drake with long tendril arms—three on his Drowned Folk side—reached for a cleaver, a pot lid, and the cage with the fresh ingredients.
“What’s that you want?”
He didn’t have the same resonance as Seborn’s voice, but the half-Squid Drowned Drake was a fascination to Mrsha. Gire answered for her.
“Um…it looks really good. All of it. Mrsha, what are we getting?”
The Drowned Man saw the strange Gnoll girl point to one of the items listed. The [Stall Owner] blinked.
“An entire grilled lobster?”
“And that!”
The girl insisted. The [Chef] grinned.
“Spiced lobster tail? I cut off the tail, prepare it—and the rest’s the Sailor’s Grill? You have expensive tastes, little girl. Can you pay for it?”
For answer, the Gnoll girl reached into her bag of holding and slapped a gold coin on the counter. She stared challengingly at the [Chef], who laughed uproariously, then read the piece of paper she pushed over the counter.
My friend’s a [Rogue] who was at sea. He is a Drowned Man. I also know a [Pirate].
“Ah, you know a Drowned Man? And a [Pirate]? Well, I’ll give you the best lobster we have, then. How about…this one?”
He pulled out a big lobster. Mrsha brightened up. Gire licked her lips.
“M-Mri. You can’t eat all of that, can you? I guess I’ll have to eat the rest…”
Mrsha nodded, smiling at her big friend who looked alive again. Salivating as the [Chef] asked how spicy Mrsha wanted her food.
“It’ll take twelve minutes. [Fast Boiling] on the water…come back within thirty or it’ll lose the taste, got it? I won’t forget your faces.”
Mrsha nodded. Then she grabbed Gire’s hand and pointed.
Onwards, then!
“We’re not going to wait for it?”
Mrsha the Impatient gave Gire a look of scorn. Wait? For twelve minutes? She had to grant the Drowned Man chef that it might be fascinating to watch, but she had scented something else on the breeze.
No lobster snack is okay without second snacks! Buy that, buy that!
She pointed instantly at another cart, where a specialized half-Elf vendor was selling a very peculiar stock.
“All the way from Terandria! Gelato! Special containers—it’ll last for up to four hours so long as you keep it away from heat!”
She had come from Terandria, at great time and effort, travelled all the way to the Great Plains with her cargo and knowhow, and paid for the recipe and materials. It was a huge expense—and this particular half-Elf had recouped her expenses in the first day. She was here after months doing victory laps and establishing her savings fund for retirement.
“Is that…ice magic?”
Mrsha stared at the half-Elf. There was a reason she’d been drawn to the half-Elf, although she seemed nothing like Ceria. Oh, they were both half-immortal Elves, but this woman was far older, with wrinkles, and even reddish hair.
“Hello there. Are you interested in a bit of gelato? Ice cream? It’s not cheap, but I can sell you a scoop. Just one second while I finish this order.”
The half-Elf was creating something amazing for a customer. Children watched, although most couldn’t afford to buy even a scoop of the stuff without getting a silver coin from their parents. Mrsha saw a big dollop placed in the center of what the half-Elf was creating.
A basin of frozen ice, which she made out of water set into a wooden mold. She closed the simple lid and offered the entire thing to the Gnoll waiting to run it over to his Chieftain’s tribe.
“And it won’t, uh, melt?”
“It’s good for hours. You can even keep it frozen.”
The half-Elf assured him. She sat back, stretching the lower half of her back, just in time to see Gire’s head rise. Mrsha had been writing urgently so she wouldn’t have to hand cards over. Gire cleared her throat.
“Excuse me, are you a [Cryomancer] by any chance? I—I mean, my friend Mri knows a half-Elf [Cryomancer]. She’d also like to buy some gelato.”
The half-Elf peered down at the little girl, but she had spotted Mrsha making the lobster order.
“Well, that’s very interesting. I’m not a [Cryomancer]. I’m simply a [Naturalist Mage]. My specialization is magic in combination with existing things. No giant walls of ice unless I’m standing near a lake, I’m afraid. What’s your friend’s name? We might know each other.”
Gire hesitated, but Mrsha pretended to ‘whisper’ in her ear.
“Ceria Springwalker.”
The half-Elf vendor slipped slightly as she went to clean the knife she’d been cutting the gelato into portions with. She didn’t cut herself, but she stared at Mrsha.
“Ceria…I know that name. Isn’t that the adventurer who was—?”
Gire herself had recalled the name and was giving Mrsha a strange look. The Gnoll girl nodded proudly, defiantly clinging to Gire’s paw. Ceria wasn’t dead! Ksmvr was alive, and doing silly things in Chandrar. So Pisces and Yvlon were okay, and Ceria too!
But that wasn’t what had the half-Elf blinking. She rubbed at her face.
“Springwalker. I’ve been to their village. Springwalker…I don’t know her in particular, but I do know where she came from.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. Oh? She’d always thought Springwalker was a last name. Apparently not.
“We name ourselves after our homes. Springwalker is a Terandrian village. In fact—it’s known for water-related gifts. Hence the name. I went there to learn some purity magics. It’s a very traditional village…although it’s had a bit of unrest. It always does. I’m sorry, that is quite amazing. You’re a well-travelled girl, aren’t you? Mri? Where do you come from?”
Gire saw Mrsha hesitate. Behind her, some Gnolls with Weatherfur’s dye looked up. This was what Torishi and everyone who knew Mrsha worried about. For a girl who couldn’t talk, she had a fat mouth.
 
——
 
A scowling Gnoll with fur like metal found he was actually sinking into the earth. He shifted his posture, but he was so heavy that he was literally twice the weight of some other Gnolls his height.
Even so, that made Adetr into an unstoppable warrior. One of the greatest to emerge from the Steelfur clan. He was something of a loner, but a respected battle leader and, the stories said, possibly Iraz’s successor by nature of his Skills.
That was why other Steelfur Gnolls, who themselves had the classic metal fur that made their tribe so renowned and feared on the battlefield, eyed Adetr as he lounged against a wooden post.
He never relaxed and had said publicly he wouldn’t ‘waste his time’ at the Meeting of Tribes. He just stalked around using his battle-prediction Skills. And yet here he was, clearly waiting near the food section.
“You’re late.”
He growled as someone approached. The Steelfur Gnolls pointing at him saw a young Human woman hurry over. Ah, that explained everything. But who would have thought? Adetr?
The [Battle Seeker]’s glare hurried off the members of his tribe as Rose stopped.
“Sorry. Everything’s in chaos. So…d’you want to sit and talk?”
She glanced around. Adetr touched the Ring of Silence he’d brought.
“Anywhere is fine. Let’s talk again. You were explaining the history of where your people passed ours. The…dark times?”
“Medieval ages. The dark ages is a nickname.”
Rose sighed. She peered around wistfully.
“You don’t want to get anything to eat first? Explore the Meeting of Tribes?”
This was a habit of theirs. A somewhat uneasy habit, but Krshia had agreed with Rose that it had to be done, or Adetr would have only a half-truth without explanations. Still…Rose was tired of feeling like a history professor teaching a student who knew nothing of Earth—at all—the history of everything. Especially because Adetr had seen…
Modern warfare. He’d fought tanks, seen the effects of guns against his tribe, and, Rose couldn’t believe this, had even been hit by some kind of aerial bombardment. Even maybe a nuke.
Adetr was a [Battle Seeker]. He was also a fine warrior, or so she was told, but one of his Skills, a rarity among any normal person, was [Vision of Greatest Battle]. It allowed him to see…well, what it would be like to fight someone else.
