Indeed, Numbtongue—already knew the answer. But he looked around and saw the other Goblins. Young Goblins, and Antinium. Octavia too—and she was no warrior. She was less of a warrior than…Erin.
He could not ask them to do something like this. He had promised to save Mrsha. However.
Badarrow was looking up. Snapjaw was flying low. They heard her cursing before she leapt off Icecube’s back.
“Bad-bad battle! What’s happening?”
She landed hard, and the other Gnolls recoiled from the Frost Wyvern. Numbtongue eyed Icecube. He turned to Badarrow.
“Badarrow. We need a plan.”
“Hm. Shoot and run? Hit [Commander] and run away?”
The [Sniper] was trying to find the Drake in the enemy army, but he was unsportingly making the tactical choice of not wearing fancy armor or a helmet or sitting in the center of a clear command formation. He glanced up as Numbtongue put a hand on his Dragonblood crystal sword hilt.
“You do that. Keep Octavia and others back. When the Drakes come—run. I will go with Gnolls.”
Irry looked up. Numbtongue glanced around.
“Only those who want to come with me.”
“Numbtongue?”
Octavia seemed shocked, then horrified as she saw the Hobgoblin staring down at the battle. Salkis began to grin.
“Are you saying…?”
“Absolutely not. That’s a death mission right there. I’m no [Fighter], but they’ll mince you up in seconds. You won’t even get to them before they shoot you dead!”
Fals looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin gave him a level stare.
“Maybe. Maybe we’ll be smart and sneak up.”
“Brother—Numbtongue. Are you serious?”
The Hobgoblin pointed down the slopes.
“There. Along rocks and bushes. Hit them there—then you get your tribe up here.”
He was pointing to the Drakes’ left flank, comfortably secure. But if someone started carving them up, the Gnolls might be able to push the other way and break through—
Ulvama was staring at Numbtongue. Slowly, she produced a brush and drew a slash across a grinning Redfang Hob’s arm. Dirtmouth, who was nodding.
“Stupid Redfangs. You die. Stupid plan.”
She snapped, eyes flashing. Badarrow looked at Numbtongue, deeply disturbed, and Snapjaw glared.
“That’s right. Bad idea. I take Icecube, we distract. Everyone fights there, Gnolls run.”
That was almost as bad, and Badarrow instantly began protesting.
“Not you.”
“You hush. Or no sex. I have Frost Wyvern.”
“They have Oldbloods.”
A flash of light caught everyone’s eye. A tiny figure had been flying above the fighting. Practically hovering. Now—it exhaled a plume of fire and the Gnolls shouted and ran, trying to put the fire out as the Drakes pushed in harder. The fire was followed by a few balls of fire before the Drake flew higher.
“Oldblood [Mage]. That would be one of the Flying Antinium’s specialty targets.”
Pivr observed. Gna looked at him and her fur rose.
“That bastard isn’t alone. They have five Oldbloods in the air and I see riders. They can run down any group making a break for it.”
She had her own shortbow aimed down at them. Gna was a [Captain], though, a veteran of 4th Company. She knew a terrible battlefield when she saw one, and Liscor’s army wasn’t here. Yet Badarrow had a hand on Numbtongue’s arm.
“Erin is waiting.”
“She’d understand.”
The conversation between the two was the focus of it. Gothica, Touma the Great, the other Goblins and Antinium looked at each other. The Ghostly Hand Goblins shifted. Most had run off at the sight of the fighting, save for a group of three.
Garia exhaled hard. She was trembling, and the [Martial Artist] City Runner was opening and closing one hand. She shook her head at Fals.
“We can’t do nothing.”
“We can’t die either. To what point?”
Fals looked around. Normen tapped him politely on the shoulder.
“Sometimes a fellow has to make a stand.”
Fals looked disbelievingly at Normen. The Brother saw Numbtongue’s head turn. He touched the tip of his tricorn.
“If you need someone watching your back, I’m your man, sir. But the thing about stands—sometimes they’re your last. Bearing it in mind.”
The Redfang [Bard] bared his teeth. He didn’t have to tell him that. But he nodded at Normen.
A little bee buzzed past his head. Apista had woken up from napping in a jar. That’s right. Sometimes you had to sting someone right in the eye. Who were they stinging? She spotted the giant army below her and buzzed back a few paces.
…That was a lot of enemies. Maybe they needed a bigger hive?
Drama and confusion. This conversation was taking moments, and the voices were overlapping. They were so…interesting. The desperate Gnolls even realized it. The [Hunters] stared at a group of strangers, which to them were Drakes and Gnolls, arguing over helping.
Not—the traditional reaction of most bystanders, which was to be horrified and helpless. They were gazing down into the heart of this battle and weighing their deaths on a scale. But it would be their deaths.
Unless…Bird was speaking.
“You can stop this. Stop this. Use a big Skill and make them…go away. Please?”
Niers Astoragon sat on Bird’s head, listening. He examined them. What a motley band. What a strange fellowship.
“Even that [Shaman] cares. Look, you can see that, Bird. Your Antinium look ready to fight.”
Bird’s head turned to the Workers and Soldiers. They just stood there, but somehow…he slapped the side of his hat, hard.
“They are dying. You can do something.”
“Not if I’m not part of that battle. Those Gnolls aren’t under my command. I can throw a Skill at them—but to change a battle decisively, you need a moment.”
Bird didn’t respond. He was watching Numbtongue make up his mind as he stared up at the figures breathing fire, frost, and even what appeared to be living shadows, down at the Gnolls. Tiny bird-people.
Evil bird-people. He had known wretched birds before. Horrible things that didn’t deserve to be eaten. But birds were good. They flew.
These were evil birds. Niers Astoragon was frowning around. The Titan saw Numbtongue arguing with Badarrow, jerking his arm away.
“I am going.”
“Numbtongue!”
Normen stepped up in an instant. After a moment of hesitation, Pivr scuttled after him, muttering about ‘establishing social credibility’. Two Goblins followed. Rasktooth and Dirtmouth. But even the Antinium waited. They were watching Bird.
“Bird, talk some sense into him. This is madness. I don’t want this any more than you do, but we can’t just all risk certain death.”
Octavia was pleading. Bird opened and closed his mandibles. Then…the [Liar] listened to the voice inside his head. Or rather, hat.
 
——
 
Fierre’s head rose slowly as Bird began to speak. The others started, because as Bird whirled around, the stupid top hat with his antennae poking out perched on his head, his voice changed.
It grew…different. Another cadence, another depth, not just from the mere vocalization, but from the way he spoke. So knowingly. The same way he had when he led them on the crazy run that had swept an entire army up behind him.
“I hear you. Do you all see what’s happening below?”
He pointed with one arm, as if they could not. The Gnolls were howling, crying at the army to stop, blowing horns for allies they had no hope of finding.
“Certain death. This is so. Only an idiot would think they could save anyone without paying the ultimate price. You may be over Level 30, Numbtongue, and you might have a Frost Wyvern, Snapjaw, but that is an army. You’re not children or new warriors. So why fight? Let us ride on and find Mrsha. That is what we came here to do.”
Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed. But it was Fierre who burst out, looking at Bird strangely.
“Bird! I—you—if we can help—”
“Don’t be stupid, Fierre. I am Bird. And I see things clearly. Or don’t you? The instant we go down there—these Gnolls will know who we are. So will those Drakes. Unless we slaughter every single one—and even if we do, the Gnolls will know. You might not be in danger. But they are. I am.”
Bird nodded at the Goblins. Irry opened his mouth, and the older [Hunter] hushed him and focused on Bird. Clues coming together. Bird went on, a smile in his voice though none was on his face.
“They will hunt us without mercy. Antinium and Goblins, this continent’s greatest threats. Our hope of finding Mrsha—already slim—will vanish. Is that worth the cost of almost certain death? Sometimes we must let people die. They are not your people. They are not mine. Why fight for them?”
“Did he just say…?”
Bird ignored the others. He was waiting for a response. Salkis was just gripping the hilts of her daggers.
“I came here for a fight. Near certain death? What are we waiting for?”
She grinned, but even she licked her lips as she stared down at the overwhelming odds. The nameless Soldier looked up. Slowly, Ulvama was adding a line of silver to her arm, her face. Warpaint. She eyed him.
“Choose already.”
Numbtongue faced…Bird. He bared his teeth, but spoke after a moment. Holding the crystal blade Pelt had made for him.
“Bird. Erin would do something.”
“We are on a mission to help her. To save Mrsha. Erin is smart, but, I think, she is also foolish. She has made mistakes. Good people died for her battles. Do you want to die here?”
Numbtongue’s hand tightened on the hilt. Badarrow’s eyes focused on something. Snapjaw glanced at his gaze and her own gaze focused.
“I’m going. Not arguing. Those aren’t my people.”
Numbtongue pointed down. Irry looked at him as the Goblin strode past him. He shoved past Bird, who called out, almost mockingly, after him.
“And?”
The [Bard] whirled. The ghosts he carried watched him. One of them slowly raised his head, listening. Numbtongue jabbed Bird in the chest.
“And I don’t have to explain things.”
He began to stride down the hill, the small group following him. Fierre hesitated, eyes darting from him to Bird with disbelief.
I’m going with you. That was what she didn’t say. She tried, eight times, but the words didn’t come out. She was a Vampire. An immortal. She…gazed down at the Drake [Soldiers] and the words died on her tongue.
And Bird—no, he was laughing.
“What about all of you? Are you just going to stand here or leave? The most practical choice is to leave before you’re found. If that army finds you, they’ll encircle this position and run you down. You can’t just shoot arrows and run away.”
Ulvama was glowering at Bird’s hat. Pivr scratched at one antenna.
“Something is off about Bird.”
Normen nodded. The others shifted. The Antinium, who had been waiting for orders, stared at Bird. Grass Shell, Infinitypear, Touma, and more. The [Shaman] nervously clutched at his walking staff, the focus of his new powers.
“It’s not that we don’t want to do anything, it’s just that…it’s an army.”
Fals muttered. Normen and Alcaz glanced at each other as they lined up next to Numbtongue. The younger brother muttered.
“Crimshaw. Crimshaw…”
Like a prayer. And, abruptly, the others were angry. From Octavia to Gna. Bird was right. But he sounded so…contemptuous. Goading.
“If we could do something, we would! It’s just—there’s no chance. Numbtongue, come back!”
Garia clenched and unclenched her hands. Apista buzzed around Bird’s face. Yeah, yeah! Don’t mock us, small man! I’ll sting you!
Bird brushed her away from his hat. He looked around.
“So if you could do something, if you had a 50-50 chance, would you? Is your excuse that you ‘can’t do anything’?”
Irry cried out. One of the Gnollish fighting lines had buckled at last and the Drakes were threatening the non-combatants themselves.
“Yes! Alright, yes! What are you doing, Bird?”
Octavia shouted at him. She saw Ulvama hop off the wagon. Eyes narrowed, she stepped forwards. Badarrow was cursing at the other Goblins and pointing.
“That cliff. There!”
They were moving. Fierre opened her mouth to say—she twitched as someone walked past her.
Grass Shell. He halted behind Numbtongue and lifted his head. A second later, Infinitypear, Touma, and two other Antinium joined him.
“You’re mad.”
Sergeant Gna glowered at them—as she kicked her horse forwards to join Salkis, who was grinning with real insanity in her gaze. Garia—Fals grabbed her shoulder as she took a step forwards.
“Garia—”
“I’m going with Numbtongue. You—you guard everyone, Fals. Okay?”
Her voice was trembling. Rasktooth held out a hand, grinning, and Infinitypear touched his fist to it gently.
Xeu looked around as the Antinium slowly walked past her. She hesitated, staring at Bird. Fals hung back, Octavia, Fierre…everyone else watched Bird. Gothica adjusted her parasol and drew a shortsword; Apista landed on top of the parasol, fanning her wings defiantly.
“Madness.”
The Soldier with no name didn’t know who said it. He agreed. Orders were one thing. But this? This? Even he knew he had no chance of surviving going down there, and they were not all fools. Why risk their lives to no end? He knew there was another force at play, but the others made this choice without understanding it.
Why? He peered down at the paints, paralyzed. Ulvama was going down the line of Goblins, Antinium, even Garia and Gna, applying her magical paints. Even Ulvama.
“Madness? Madness.”
Bird stood there, like he had lost his mind. He turned to face the others. Numbtongue glared at him as Snapjaw pulled herself onto Icecube’s back. But the Frost Wyvern didn’t move when she kicked his sides. He was…staring.
Not at her. Not at the battlefield below filled with meat and blood and danger. The Wyvern was focused on Bird.
Pyrite’s ghost grunted. Numbtongue’s eyes finally found the spot most of the others were gazing at. Normen fixed blankly on the others. Why were they all focused on…
“Madness? We’re all mad. Standing by while someone’s killing someone else? That’s madness. Risking your life for someone you don’t know? For gold? Madness. There’s no one sane in the world.”
Bird’s voice was changing. Deepening. Desyncing with Bird’s mandibles. It went on, as the others started, as even the Lomost [Hunters] caught on.
“Helplessness is one thing. Bravery is moving. Doing what you believe in. You have conviction. You have no power. Not enough power. And yet you’ll still go down there.”
He laughed at them. He clapped his hands. He was grinning. Almost dancing.
“That is what makes you different. That is what separates you from the rest. Madness. Righteousness. I knew I liked you all from the start. You have only your convictions, you stupid little children.”
“Bird?”
