One of Salkis’ more permanent riding buddies was, ironically, Sergeant Gna. She still looked a bit gloomy about her new class, for all it sounded unique. She kicked at one of the Goblins who stuck out his tongue at her.
Salkis put up with Gna on the pretense of playing nice, but if there was any natural enemy for her, it was probably Gna, and vice-versa. She hastily tucked away the device on her belt.
“Some useless artifact. Trust me—I know about poetry and that kind of verse. I lived in Pallass long enough; you get people like ‘Sir Relz’ who tear you to shreds if it’s not all original and doesn’t have proper meter.”
She snorted. It was one of the things she hated about Pallass. Sergeant Gna glanced at her.
“You…never said why you left. Just tired of home? You fight very well during practice. They teach you how to fight like that?”
“I had good [Tutors]. And I levelled during the Wyvern attack.”
“Ah, right.”
Gna nodded, smiling awkwardly. Salkis wondered if she’d have to kill Gna before this was over. She wondered what would come next. She was in this for the long haul—if only because if she levelled even once more, it justified any duration of travel, bloodshed or not. Absently, she reached for the odd glowing device, the iPhone, it called itself—
…And groped at her side. She looked around.
“What the—you little bastard! Give that back!”
One of the Goblins ran off with the smartphone, cackling. The Gnoll hunters turned back as Numbtongue slowed in his playing. The Goblin tapped and stared at the glowing iPhone, agog, dodging as Salkis wheeled her horse around. He dodged through the lines of Antinium who slowed, Workers and Soldiers, some Painted, some not, his claws flashing. The Goblin leapt for the underbrush where he could hide and sneak away with his prize—
An Antinium caught him by the scruff of the neck. The Goblin dangled, staring at a Soldier with weathered armor. He waved, grinning uncertainly as Salkis herself halted.
The Soldier did not wave back.
 
——
 
He had no name.
Names were for Antinium who were Individual, or at least, Autonomous. They were the new Antinium. The ones who had come this year and the last; Antinium who levelled up and took names and had created the Painted Antinium, a new generation.
He was glad of it. But this Antinium, who held the Goblin back towards the Drake named Salkis, was no Individual. He had not been…what, lucky? Unique? He had not been whatever it was that made the original chess group, and that might simply be ‘chosen’.
Chosen by the [Innkeeper] who had made it all happen. He had seen her, you know. He had been there, when Klbkchhezeim returned and ordered the Soldiers to take the city as Skinner’s undead army overran the defenses.
He had killed a Crypt Lord there. Not alone; it had been filled with spears and other Soldiers had helped topple it. But he had killed it, tearing off its ‘head’. Later, he had seen Skinner die, by Goblins.
He had also seen the dungeon’s monsters, both below and above-ground. Face-Eater Moths? He couldn’t count how many he’d killed. Suits of enchanted armor? At least sixty had died in his presence, even if he hadn’t dealt the killing blow.
When the [Innkeeper] called, he had fought [Assassins] in the streets of Invrisil, following Xrn, the Small Queen. That had been an extraordinary moment, when he first saw the Small Queen. Even for him.
And he had lived longer than any other Antinium in the Free Hive that he had ever met, save for the Free Queen and Klbkchhezeim. Not that he talked. Not that they communicated.
He was six years old. A Soldier who had fought from the second day he had emerged from a Birther sac, till Belgrade had created his maze of traps—and even a bit after that. Despite that—until recently, until he had become an [Exemplar Warrior] and gained an aura—
He was only Level 15. That was because he was an Antinium with no name, and they did not level quickly. It was not that he had fought less than other warriors of higher level. In fact—the Soldier privately considered that he had more fighting experience than anyone but the little man in Bird’s hat.
He saw things. The others, Goblins and Antinium at least, noticed Bird was talking to someone. This Soldier? He noticed more. He was good at fighting. Soldiers were not actually good at fighting; that was just what other species believed. He was good at fighting because he had six years of nonstop practice.
But he was only Level 15. 17, now, with his class consolidation. It was the Soldier’s observation that the Free Queen was correct and the lack of a name and identity or maybe the Antinium’s nature meant they levelled slowly.
He could have vouchsafed this if she asked.
She’d never asked him. Klbkchhezeim had never noticed him. He looked for Aberrations, Antinium who expressed themselves. This Soldier just fought and obeyed. He had never stood out, never tried to do anything other than survive.
Then the [Innkeeper] had come and life had gotten better. He had eaten one of the first Acid Fly bowls and she had looked into his eyes and asked how it was. Soldiers and Workers stopped dying as much. Someone got rid of Klbkchhezeim. Aberrations virtually vanished.
So when Bird asked for volunteers, the Soldier had done something that would cut short his lifespan and stepped forwards. For the cute little white thing that stole everything but his meals. For the [Innkeeper]. He had still believed he would die, nameless, filling the gap in the lines so the Hobgoblins or others could do what had to be done.
But the tiny man had seen him and given him this. So the Soldier considered…perhaps.
Perhaps something. He couldn’t even put a name to it.
He was so lost in thought he didn’t notice Salkis until she trotted over.
“Er. Thank you.”
The Ghostly Hand Goblin was twisting in his grip, desperately tapping on the device he held. Which was like the devices the other Humans had in the inn. You see, this Soldier saw that too. You learned how to spot gaps in the inn’s wall, just like how you dodged traps when you were sent into the dungeon. Secret walls, magical tripwires…
“You can put it down. Give me that.”
Salkis grabbed at the phone. The Goblin refused to give it over. The Soldier shook him, mildly.
“Thanks. Just give him to me and I’ll hit him until he gives me that. Hey, which Soldier is…?”
Salkis hesitated, lowering her voice since she remembered they had the Gnoll guests. She pointed at him as Bird rode forwards. The Worker tilted his head and he looked at the Soldier with no name.
The little man in the hat was there too. Bird tilted his head, left and right.
“I do not know. This is a Soldier.”
“Yes, but what’s his name?”
Bird answered after a second.
“…He has none. He is not Painted Antinium. Nor is he anyone I know. Hello, you.”
The Soldier nodded. This was so. Sergeant Gna blinked and Salkis and even the Goblin thief squirming in his grip stared at him.
“What, no name? He’s one of the faceless bug b—the Soldiers?”
“That is so.”
Bird looked at the Soldier again. He tilted his head.
“A strong bug. He has the most highest levels of any Antinium here in fighting. Except for me.”
Grammar aside, this was also true. Salkis and Gna blinked. After a second, Salkis reached out and tried to prise the phone free of the little Goblin’s grip. He opened his mouth and she yanked her hand back. She made a fist—saw the others watching, and lowered it.
“You. Give.”
Badarrow rode over and snapped. The Goblin gave up the iPhone sulkily, and Salkis sighed.
“Thanks. Uh—you.”
She nodded at the Soldier. He nodded slowly. Gna glanced at him.
“That’s just like you Antinium. People should have names, you know.”
She half-addressed Bird, muttering. The [Bird Hunter] tilted his head.
“He can choose a name if he wishes. But he was not inducted into the Painted Antinium. Pawn could have done that.”
“What, doesn’t that make you lot stronger? If you’re on a suicide mission, you probably should.”
“Mm. Yes. Too late now. We don’t even have any paint.”
Ulvama raised her head slightly. Gna waved a paw.
“Yeah, or that weird Pawn-bug.”
“No, he is not necessary. I think.”
Gna turned back to Bird.
“What? What do you need for these, uh, Painted ants?”
Her eyes sharpened and the Soldier knew she was going to write down whatever Bird told her. On a strategic level…
He said nothing. No one asked him anything. To which the little man in the hat would have said, ‘that was the problem’. Sometimes you needed to…
Bird was counting on his fingers.
“Let me think. It is a complex ritual of the Free Antinium, the first of its kind. First you need an Antinium that has not been painted. Then you need paint. And then you need…”
He stared at his third finger. He lowered it.
“…A brush is optional.”
Sergeant Gna and Salkis—even Badarrow—gave Bird a slightly slack-jawed look. Gna hesitated, hand on her notepad.
“You’re messing with me. I thought that makes Antinium stronger. Individuals, or something.”
Bird smiled happily.
“It does. I mean…maybe. I am a [Liar].”
He waved all four arms. Gna looked around, at the Soldier, the other Painted Antinium like Touma the Great…
“Really? That’s it? Then give this Antinium some paint. I mean—just so we can tell him apart. And a damn name. If we’re going to be travelling with him.”
She folded her arms, caught herself, and glared at everyone with as much hostility as she could muster.
“I don’t care. I hope you all get shanked. But if I have to ride with you…”
Badarrow rode over. He put an arm around Gna’s shoulder—or tried to as she flinched away.
“You do care. Friend.”
“Gah! Stop it! I’m not—”
She rode off with a gang of Goblins in pursuit, all saying ‘friend’. Salkis grinned, but she was fumbling with the reclaimed iPhone. The Soldier watched out of the corner of his eye as Bird trotted over to Ulvama, who had already begun grumbling, but was fishing out powders and water.
“If that little monster broke i—what in the name of the Ancestor’s assholes is—”
The light had changed. The Drake held up the iPhone and stared at it. She whirled around and the little Ghostly Hand Goblin poked his head back up from under Badarrow’s arm. But how?
The [Lockpicker] grinned. He wasn’t quite sure either, but it was a lock. He picked locks. Salkis rode away from the Soldier, staring, tapping, as Bird rode back.
“Hello.”
The Soldier stared up at Bird. Bird stared back.
Antinium conversations being what they were, Bird eventually pointed to Ulvama.
“Ulvama has paints. Would you like to become a Painted Antinium? You should choose a name. And, um, you have worth. Pat, pat.”
He rode closer and patted the Soldier on the shoulder. Bird stopped. The two stared at each other for a while longer.
“Please do not become an Aberration. This is my first time doing this.”
On a lesser Soldier, maybe it would have provoked something. The Soldier with no name just stood there. He saw Ulvama slide off the wagon and stomp over.
“This the Antinium? I paint all of them?”
She made an exaggerated sighing motion as if this were a taxing effort, but she was keenly watching the Soldier. She held out a small tray with a bunch of colored bowls.
“You take colors. Go paint. You need wagon, you go. There.”
She waved at him. The Soldier stared down at the tray of colors. And, once again, he had been given something where no one had ever regarded him before. He walked obediently over to the wagon, sat down as Octavia edged over. She smiled at him.
“Um. Hello. I’ll give you some space.”
She edged over further as Ulvama flopped back onto her bed of pillows, but both of them watched the Soldier. He sat there.
Now he would become a Painted Antinium. An Individual of sorts, or, at least, Autonomous. All he had to do was…choose.
An identity. A name. Like all the other painted Antinium. The Soldier sat there. Ulvama and Octavia began to mutter, but they eyed him, waiting. Then they turned and looked for Bird.
The Soldier didn’t move.
 
——
 
Fierre watched the Soldier. Her fingers twitched on her notepad as she rode with the two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, at the back of the group.
“It’s worth nothing, Normen. I’m telling you, the Goblin clearly misjudged the mark.”
The younger man, who had served under Crimshaw and had a kind of triangle-hat, turned to Alcaz, the older Brother.
“But why did he take it? And don’t tell me it was just because it shone. Consider this, Alcaz. What’s more probable? Something that emits light—clearly magical—that has zero value, not even on par with a Wand of [Light]…or that it’s beating your Skill of [Ascertain Value]?”
Alcaz paused.
“…If that were so, it’s warded or it goes beyond even normal magical artifacts. Which puts the price at roughly four thousand gold pieces, upper bar.”
Normen whistled. Fierre’s ears perked up and all three eyed Salkis. Casually. As goodfellows or goodladies might. The two turned to Fierre and touched their hats.
“Would you happen to have an insight, as it were, unto the value of said object, Miss Fierre?”
Fierre frowned. She was in easy company with the Brothers, whom she liked, and could talk northern city-talk with, so she played their game of appraising various objects’ values, like Numbtongue’s sword.
“I think it’s worth quite a lot. Or why is a Wall Lady of Pallass holding it?”
“Ah, but she’s only the runaway daughter…”
“…Who steals the best objects before she runs away.”
Normen and Alcaz looked at each other. Normen tipped his hat to Fierre and grinned.
“Fairer words, Miss Fierre.”
She grinned back. Then she went back to staring at the Soldier with no name, but an aura. Fierre had no aura. She had no amazing class consolidation because she was a Vampire and she was still upset. Even so.
[Exemplar Warrior], Level 17. The Titan himself had said that he was outstanding, capable of gaining an aura, and Fierre had her Ring of Appraisal on. What did an [Aura of Battle] entail?
“I wish I was in a city. Then I could look up everything.”
Normen and Alcaz nodded, but Fierre meant that in relation to auras. She hadn’t ever needed to really research the topic, but she could probably buy a complete list of auras and their rankings in terms of relative power.
Same with classes—how ‘exemplar’ was an [Exemplar Warrior]? Was it close to [Peerless], which was literally based on geographical or national standards? It could be deceptive, but…
It was still very strong for anyone below Level 20. An aura plus a strong-sounding class on an Antinium with no name. The Titan was right, and Fierre was still dizzy thinking about her and the Titan knowing each other. Him sitting in Bird’s hat!
