“Go where? Without me you’d never have gotten this far. Stick with me, Numbtongue. We’ll have [Trackers], information, and other tribes on our side. But mostly, this is the best way to save Mrsha. I would know. I am a [Strategist].”
He tapped the side of his head, ironically. Then folded his hands behind his back. His eyes began to twinkle.
“Besides, now we’ve got her, we do need to keep her safe. Her and her companion. I really want to know how those hunters go after her with a Gnoll tribe guarding her, but I want it put out—no one harms Mrsha, got it?”
Ulvama looked blankly at him. Numbtongue’s brows crossed. Bird tilted his head.
“Niers has lost his mind. We do not have Mrsha. I would notice.”
“Shut up, Bird. Didn’t you see her in camp?”
“…Is this like Jexishe? Is she invisible? Why am I being lied to?”
Bird ran outside, angrily. Then he stopped. Uttered a swear-word Niers had no idea he knew. Ran back inside.
“Mrsha is out there.”
Numbtongue nearly bowled him over. He ran out, stared at the white Gnoll sitting there, stared at the adult white Gnoll, and ran back inside.
“That’s not Mrsha.”
Bird paused from running around screaming to poke his head out. He walked outside, and came back as Ulvama blinked. Then she realized what was going on and looked at Niers with something like respect.
“No, that is not Mrsha.”
Niers Astoragon chuckled. Ulvama glowered at him.
“That’s my paint.”
“Well, I’ll damn well pay you for it. Yes, Numbtongue. We have Mrsha. And if anyone wants to kill her, well, they’d better bring a real army.”
The [Bard]’s eyes widened as he caught on to what Niers was saying. The Titan smiled tightly.
“If you can’t get to her to save her, you might as well take the heat of the pursuit, eh? The official stance of every tribe who links up with us, along with ‘Drakes are not going to kill us’, is ‘Doombringers are fine’. And we’ll let our volunteers walk around safely away from any [Snipers] or [Assassins].”
Orni stared at Niers, and Shaik cackled with delight.
“Ah, chessmaster!”
Niers gave her another salute. Who needed chess when you could play on this many levels? He exhaled, slowly.
“Alright. I’ve finally got a good position. We’ll keep my name hidden for now. Nothing like amateur [Armchair Generals] for overconfidence if they have a simple numerical advantage. Now let’s go kick some heads in.”
 
——
 
That was six days ago. Chaldion of Pallass stared at the map of ongoing conflicts. It was just a hunch, which no one else was privy to.
Connect the dots. The Titan of Baleros was on Izril, but like someone of his size, people forgot about his presence far too fast. As if a Giant stopped moving and suddenly turned invisible.
A suspicious turnaround victory…rapid mobilization. It could just be luck, unforeseen factors, and there were certainly many, many elements at play that Chaldion had no control over.
Even so. Six days of march time was not a boon you gave to a poor [Strategist]. To the Titan?
Of course, it was not a given that the Titan would be Pallass’ enemy. On the contrary, Chaldion had the feeling the Titan was not about to support wholesale massacres of Gnoll tribes. It could be interests aligned, at least along the intersection that brought the entire tale back around Liscor.
The thing was…Chaldion eyed the game board, dangerously unstable despite his best efforts. Manus, Zeres, Oteslia, Salazsar, Fissival, each pursuing their own goals, armies on the move. The tribes, as furious as they’d ever been; Drake cities, each acting in their own selfish interests. The problem was not that the Titan was on the board.
The problem was that the Titan lived for this kind of game. He had a habit—which was that he tended to fight everything on the damn board.
Worse?
He had students.
 
——
 
“Looks like a running battle. Ever seen the like, Wil? Merrik? Peki?”
It was a strange habit of [Strategists], to stand there and watch during a battle while lives were lost and won. The Gnoll mercenaries, led by Berr, were almost frothing at the mouth to jump into it. They didn’t berserk—yet—but Wil Kallinad edged away from the one shaking in place.
“Calm down.”
Someone smacked the Gnoll on the back of the head, and he froze and ducked his head; though, his eyes were locked on the conflict.
Honored Berr, Berrigal the Berserker, was a tiny Gnoll…unless he was fighting. He went around ‘gently’ calming down the other Gnolls of the Wild Wastes tribe. Even the Human and his minders—another [Berserker] who Berr had insisted they take along.
So many [Barbarians] and [Berserkers]. This was the most unique mercenary outfit that Wil had ever worked with. In Terandria, he’d have hired [Duelists], [Knights] if an Order would consent to the cause, or generic [Sellswords] and [Mages] like an adventuring team. Some balanced group, good at ranged attacks given their small size, which could hold defensive positions.
This group was all-melee, all in-your-face fighting, and the most offensive classes you could find. Wil didn’t like it, but his eyes were glued on the battle.
Venaz stood there, carefully putting his back to the overhang of stone above the cave they’d hit when they sensed the battle. He grunted as a centipede slithered past him, but didn’t move. They were keeping in cover, gazing down at the battlefield.
One of the Wild Wastes Gnolls growled.
“Strategists. Are we going to watch?”
Berr stomped on his foot as he passed.
“Shut up. We’re employed. You’re as bad as my sons.”
“Honored Berr! That’s the Hekitr Tribe!”
“And we’re letting our employers decide. I’m glad I didn’t take my sons after all. They’d be halfway down there and you all would be following along. Control yourselves. You especially, young man.”
He patted the Human’s shoulder. Wil eyed the rictus of clenched teeth on the Human [Berserker]’s face. Berr spoke to him.
“Control yourself.”
“I can’t hold it in, Honored Berr!”
“Yes, you can. When you fight, it will come out. You can wait for that moment. Wait…”
Wil tuned the voices out. He focused on the battle. Peki and Merrik were shifting, but Wil and Venaz were the calmest of the lot as true representatives of their class. [Strategists] liked elevation. They were taught to observe first. Observe fast, but Niers had hammered it home into them. Wait. If you’re in a position to influence a battlefield as an ambusher—make it count.
“War in Izril. Drakes and Gnolls. That’s the last thing we need. If I were more suspicious of his character, I’d wonder if the Professor set it off.”
“Don’t be stupid, Venaz. To what purpose?”
The Minotaur shrugged.
“If it were Dullahans and Centaurs—what’s your appraisal of the battle, you two? How do [Officers] see it?”
Peki and Merrik looked up. The Dwarf grunted.
“Not my style. I’d be that army pursuing the tribe. Hekitr? They’ve got their non-combatants out of the way. It’s like fighting Peki, right?”
“Not me.”
The Garuda [Martial Artist] folded her wing-arms. Merrik snorted.
“Exactly like you. They just used traps instead of direct attacks.”
“Not like me. I don’t use traps.”
“And that’s why you failed our course on…”
Wil ignored them too. Sure enough, the Gnoll warriors were racing ahead of a slow-moving Drake army that was understandably cautious to give pursuit, even with their mounted divisions. They’d tried—and run straight into bear traps, hidden tripwires in the tall grass, and harassing fire.
“Nice slowing tactics. Unfortunately, that army won’t stop. And there’s a second force in the region.”
Peki frowned. Merrik hesitated from nodding, and the Wild Wastes tribe looked sharply at Venaz. Wil saw Venaz glance at him. The Minotaur was breathing steadily, but he had adjusted the green diamond greatsword on his back. Ready to draw it.
“Do you concur, Wil?”
“Looks like it.”
“How do you know?”
One of the Gnolls demanded angrily. Wil pointed down.
“Baggage trains. This army’s carrying far too much; also, you can count the pennants and other regalia. I see a gap in their numbering.”
“And they don’t have nearly as many riders as a Drake army traditionally sports. That’s anecdotal, but it’s not even a 1:16 split from infantry to horse. Besides…look at them. They’re setting fires, wasting the Gnoll tribe’s lands. Boxing them in. There’s a natural ridge up ahead. The tribe heads that way, they get boxed in.”
Venaz pointed it out and Wil nodded. Textbook. He bit his tongue.
“If we go down there, we’re embroiled in Izrilian politics, Venaz. We’re bound for Liscor. To the Professor.”
“Wil. Are you suggesting we let this tribe perish?”
Venaz folded his arms. Wil blinked a few times.
“No…but this isn’t our home. We’re not invincible.”
“Then we’ll be careful. I will, carefully, join Berr and the Wild Wastes tribe. You contact the Hekitr tribe and we’ll ambush the ambushers. Merrik? Your preference?”
“Give me a defensive line any time. Wil and I hold the line, you and Peki go in?”
Merrik nodded. The Gnoll [Mercenaries] watched them. The four students exchanged glances. Were they doing this? Wil took a deep breath. He put a hand on the hilt of his shortsword.
“One amendment to the plan, Venaz.”
The Minotaur looked carefully at him. Wil touched the Sword of Serept and three Wils stood there.
“I’ve got two extra lives. Put one of me in the vanguard.”
The Minotaur grinned and slapped one of the Wils on the back. They began to race via cover to the ambush site. Wil kept cursing as he ran, panting, to keep up since their horses were too noticeable.
Ailendamus and home. The Titan and Liscor! Damn, damn—
But he had found the Titan’s promised adventure.
 
——
 
Her friends were idiots. Because she knew that, knew their personalities, Yerranola was not surprised when Feshi burst into their tents.
“Strange medicine.”
She finished staring at the powdered yellow flower before mixing it into the small vial of liquid she personally imbibed. Her Selphid-body relaxed.
The pain was gone. It crept back and she knew she had to take the next dose, along with her antidote. So many mysteries.
“Say it again, Feshi?”
“They just joined the Hekitr tribe. The tribes are under attack! There are armies marching along the Great Plains.”
“Continental war?”
The Selphid saw her friend blanch. That was a name for a very specific kind of war. Civil wars could be between peoples, a nation or kingdom. Magic wars took place over dimensions you couldn’t fathom, and so on.
Continental war was one step below the greatest of battlefronts—intercontinental conflicts. Technically, it was only south Izril…but that was a huge place. Intercontinental war? Well, the last time that had happened, the King of Destruction had launched attacks from Chandrar after beating every invasion force running.
“So what are we doing, Feshi? Going after them?”
“I—I can’t. Weatherfur needs me. Some of the tribes want to take the battle to the Drake armies, some want to just hold ground, and they have rivalries—but there will be fighting here.”
Yerranola nodded reasonably.
“Then we trust Wil and Merrik to do the smart thing and keep Venaz and Peki alive. Don’t obsess over it, Feshi. This is our battlefield.”
And they had work to do. Her friend calmed down as Yerranola stood up. Suddenly, the Selphid felt better. Just in time too.
“The Meeting of Tribes wasn’t designed as a defensive position. It’s flat. We need earthworks. Actual walls, defenses.”
Yerranola emerged from her tent, talking and arguing with Feshi. The Gnoll gritted her teeth.
“I know. We have countless Gnolls and lots of [Shamans]—but you can’t just start building a defensive line, Yerra.”
“Why not?”
“This is Az’muzarre’s land. Also, the Chieftains need to agree—”
“To make defenses? Feshi, I thought your people were smart. Let’s just grab some expert. Who would that be. Gaarh Marsh?”
“I—yeah.”
“They can build earthworks outside the Meeting of Tribes. Just a dirt-fort like the Professor had us do with [Geomancers]…are we the only two people thinking about this? Where are all the Gnoll [Generals] and [Strategists]?”
“They’re usually combined with [Chieftains]. Yerra, if the enemy reaches us here, it’s a worst-case scenario. The tribes won’t sit in forts; they’ll attack any Drake army on the march. It’s how they’ve won every war when the Drakes tried to push into the Great Plains.”
Yerra nodded reasonably and rolled her eyes.
“And so they have no fallback plan. Does that remind you of any historical defeats?”
Feshi hesitated and the Selphid patted her on the shoulder.
“Let’s call it a ‘just-in-case’ fort. The Drakes have the Walled Cities; the Gnolls should probably have had at least one big capital.”
“We used to.”
Feshi muttered. Yerra strode faster, trying to think. Diplomacy getting in the way of strategy. Yuck. She wasn’t in pain, but she couldn’t help but feel a pang in her host body’s stomach. After all…there was another name for this war neither she nor Feshi had used. Because that would be the worst scenario.
Interspecies war.
The question was if the Gnoll tribes were united enough to hold their ground. They certainly were if an army came marching at them. But going on the offense, fighting as one?
 
——
 
There was an undercurrent in the Meeting of Tribes. Sudden poison. It leaked in, amid the outrage and shock, and it lay there, a line of suspicion. Drawn by that damn Drake, with just words.
Traitors. Allies to the Walled Cities in engineering this plot. So, even as Gire sat, playing ‘Five Paws’ with Mrsha, where you tapped each other’s paws in a complex child’s game of reaction and basic tactics, she listened.
“Ekhtouch will not join Woven Bladegrass on an offensive attack, Chieftain Werri. If an army crosses the water-line…”
An old marking around the Great Plains, the furthest point which any [Shaman] could call water from the rivers crossing through the region. Often noted as an absolute border, which Drake forces could not cross.
Her mind clicked to these facts as Mrsha tried to slap one of her paws. She kept missing, and Gire didn’t attack Mrsha’s own paws. The Gnoll girl slapped with both paws and Gire’s paw blurred left and right.
“Then we will go with Tribes who will prevent that from happening, Chieftain Firrelle. When an army does march, I hope you will join the defense.”
Firrelle’s voice was cold as she spoke to another Chieftain—the fierce leader of the new Woven Bladegrass tribe.
“Rest assured, Ekhtouch will be there, Chieftain Werri.”
The other Chieftain stalked away with a group of Gnolls representing other tribes. Gire thought of the conversation.
