And apparently on an Earther, it meant he was suddenly fighting soldiers from her world armed with modern weaponry. That had freaked Rose out, especially because Adetr had nearly gone crazy, thinking this army existed and might go on the attack.
However, Adetr really was an oddity. [Battle Seeker] was a strange class, and he was a single-minded Gnoll. He glanced around, and Rose sniffed the air more eagerly than he did.
“I’ll pay for something if you have to eat.”
“You don’t want anything? Really?”
“No. It’s just food. I thought you Humans from…”
Adetr hesitated, looking around.
“…your home would have better food than this, anyways.”
“Not magic food. And besides, good food is good food. Let’s just walk around a tiny bit before we get back to talking. Please?”
“Gah—fine. You know I’m busy. Steelfur might have to fight the Drakes soon so I have to go. Not that I’d mind that, but I need to know…everything.”
“Well, I’m not telling you how to make anything.”
“I don’t need to know that. Yet. Just how my tribe’s supposed to survive.”
Adetr stalked after Rose. She sighed. Why couldn’t her Gnoll contact be…well, someone like Tkrn? Inkar, that lovely young woman from Kazakhstan, who rode like a seasoned [Rider], fit so well into the tribe that clearly loved and appreciated her, had Tkrn, who was smitten.
Rose got Adetr, who stalked along behind her like a giant metal shark, such that even the other Gnolls got out of the way. She might have decided he was too…insane and refused to meet with him at all except for one thing.
Adetr didn’t look at Rose like some psychotic war-hungry fighter. He was surly, bad-tempered, focused on only military matters or ‘how strong Humans were’, and so on. But she caught the expression in his eyes now and then, the same as when he had first accosted her.
He was afraid. He had experienced a war completely unlike battles he understood, and he saw how dangerous it might be to everything he cared about.
So Rose did her best. Not only to educate in a limited sense, but also to…convince him.
“So, um…the Drakes declaring war on the Gnolls. Are you worried?”
“Chieftain Iraz is. He’ll decide if we go out and fight. We’ll probably just hold the Great Plains. I’m not worried about that.”
The metal Gnoll saw Rose glance back at him.
“Not about Gnolls and Drakes fighting?”
He shrugged.
“I’ve seen some of the Drakes’ best. We have amazing warriors too. If it happens, it happens. Neither side can toss the other over and the Great Plains have never been taken when the tribes gather. I’m more worried about something else. What do you want? Let’s get it and find a seat. You can have as much tea and snacks at the Steelfur camp as you want.”
…And there he went again. Rose sighed. They drifted by a stall with a delicious seafood grill and she stopped to stare at it.
“Oh my gosh. Lobster?”
“I’m not buying that.”
Adetr checked the prices and instantly glared at her. Rose raised her hands.
“I can pay for myself, thanks! Anyways, who could eat an entire lobster? For a snack?”
“I don’t know. You’ve been eating every day we ‘talk’.”
“Don’t be rude. I don’t know why I—”
Rose went to shove Adetr and he stared at her as she tried to push him. His fur wasn’t as spiky as the metal indicated, but it was like shoving a brick wall. She sighed and walked on as he stomped behind her.
As a result, they both naturally spotted the giant Gnoll girl bent over to talk to a half-Elf. Who wouldn’t stare at Gire? Rose’s mouth opened.
“That’s her! That’s, um—Gire!”
“Gireulashia. [Paragon]. Don’t make her mad. She’s an excellent warrior.”
Adetr glanced at her with clear interest. But Rose spotted the little girl there and froze.
“Mr—Mri?”
She caught herself just in time and Adetr glanced at her.
“Someone you know?”
“Yeah, she’s…why is she out here?”
Instantly, Rose began to worry. She’d been so glad to hear Mrsha was safe, but she knew this was a dangerous position. Her talking with Adetr she hoped was helping, but she glanced at him and recalled that his tribe was traditionalist. Fortunately, he didn’t look twice at the Gnoll girl, only to check out her ears.
“What’s with the gold? Is she with that Golden Gnoll half my tribe wants to buy from?”
“Yes…yes. She’s a friend of Silverfang. What’s she…”
They were just in time to hear Gire laugh and explain, her words quick and calm.
“Sorry, Miss. Mri’s voice is hurt from a cold. And eating too many Herthee. She’s from the city. The Golden Gnoll’s caravan, actually, but she’s related to my tribe. Ekhtouch.”
She named the somewhat allergic vegetable that could swell up your throat. The half-Elf nodded.
“Poor girl. Well, some gelato will help with that.”
Gire smiled, and Rose sighed with relief. What a perfect lie. The [Paragon] was a natural actor, and Rose had met Jasi and Wesle. She drew closer as Adetr sighed and checked his money pouch; the gelato was not cheap.
“So you know Ceria Springwalker? That is amazing. Well, I can give you a little taste just for that.”
“I can pay!”
Rose jumped, but Mrsha had toggled her speaking stone. She slapped three gold coins on the counter and everyone stared. Adetr nearly dropped his coin pouch.
“Oh…I, ah, well, that’s quite a lot. What do you want, Miss Mri?”
“C-can we get the vanilla ice cream, Mri? I love vanilla. What does it taste like?”
Mrsha and Rose gave Gire the pitying looks of people who understood the neophyte’s entry into sweet tastes. Mrsha was about to opine that this half-Elf should invest in chocolate, despite knowing how hard the stuff was to make. But she saw ‘lemon’, ‘Sage’s Grass’, ‘mint’, and ‘bithstone’ as flavors and was content to order a big bucket for after the lobster.
She was just about to let Gire get her basic ice cream and get a mix of lemon and bithstone, when Adetr swore. He jolted and Rose nearly leapt into the stall.
“Adetr! Don’t do that!”
Gire turned. She recognized the Steelfur warrior at a glance.
“Oh no, not the crazy one again. Is he following us?”
She sighed. But the Steelfur warrior jerked and then stared at Mrsha. He pointed an accusatory finger at her.
“Who is that girl? Why does she know the Black Tide, a [Spearmaster], and—”
Rose saw people turn around. She instantly knew what Adetr had done. He had heard ‘Ceria Springwalker’, a famous Gold-rank adventurer, and, like the stupid fight-seeker he was, he’d used his Skill on Mrsha.
And, incidentally, gotten to meet Relc, multiple Gold-rank adventurers, angry Antinium, and acid jars to the face. He began to raise his voice.
“She’s from the same place as that other Gnoll. From—”
Rose slapped a hand over his mouth so fast Mrsha saw Adetr recoil. The Human glared at him, and then turned to Gire and Mrsha.
“I…”
Mrsha saw Adetr staring at her. She stared at him, Gire, Rose, and slowly raised a paw. She stared at Adetr’s strange fur. At Rose. She touched the speaking stone rune hidden at her side.
“Hello. I’m Mri. Wanna eat?”
 
——
 
That was how Rose, Adetr, Mrsha, and Gire found themselves eating a lobster, special lobster tail on a bed of buttered rice, with a giant bucket of ice cream in an ice-bound container.
As a snack. Mrsha had also snagged three skewers of meat and a bucket of popcorn with meat flavoring.
“…Is she some kind of [Eater]? A [Gourmet]?”
Adetr stared as Mrsha came back with Gire. Rose looked at the hamburger from the Silverfang stalls with fries.
“Mri, are you insane? That’s too much food! Lyonette’s right, you will get fat!”
Adetr glanced at her. Rose was trying not to smile, even as she eyed Adetr, worried about this new development. After all, she and Mrsha were from the inn.
It felt like a long time since they’d left. Mrsha beamed at Rose. She took a single bite from the meat skewer, a big bite of hamburger, and some popcorn. Then she handed the hamburger to Gire.
“Thanks, Mri.”
The [Paragon] opened her mouth, and devoured the hamburger. Not fast—rather, she took small bites and chewed until all the flavor was gone, then swallowed, savoring each bite. But she didn’t stop and her mouth was so huge that…
Adetr and Rose looked at the nine foot tall Gnoll, who had the metabolism of a [Paragon]. Mrsha had seen how much Gire ate for breakfast; she was confident this qualified as a Gire-snack.
For his part, Adetr had no idea how this ‘Mri’ knew Rose, and he was half-impatient to get back to talking about Earth. But Rose had told him Mri was from Liscor and he could absolutely not talk about her.
He didn’t get why, and he didn’t really care. But he did notice Mri writing little notes and signing with her paws. Adetr raised his brows…and ate some of the lobster, and found the fast food wasn’t bad.
He really didn’t watch the news unless there was fighting on. Rose, eying him, saw the light of a [Detective]’s keen insight…not at all in his face. She sighed with relief.
Thank goodness for idiots.
“Honored Gireulashia. Sorry for interrupting you. Rose and I will be going.”
“Itfsh fine, Warrior Adetr. Rose is a friend.”
Gire spoke with her mouth full. She glanced around guiltily and hunched down as if she would somehow get smaller sitting at the food table.
“Uh—don’t tell the Ekhtouch tribe I’m eating. I’m just helping Mri finish her meals.”
Mrsha nodded, a huge bite of lobster in her mouth. She waved at the Drowned [Chef]. This was good stuff!
Food united Gire and Mrsha, but could you eat food forever? Adetr sighed, but picked at the french fries as Rose asked Mri what she’d been doing. She nearly slipped a few times, but Gire was flawless in keeping Mri’s name out there.
“Mri and I are finding things to do.”
Mrsha agreed, signing—Rose could sort of get what Mrsha said after some second-hand exposure, and Mrsha could always write a note to clarify or have Gire translate.
It was hard. The blunt truth of it was that Gire and Mrsha liked each other, but Mrsha playing tag with Gire was like…Visma trying to play tag with Relc in full Relc-mode.
That was Gire’s problem with everyone, to be fair. You actually needed Relc at his best to give Gire a challenge. She was flawless.
[Paragon]. Adetr watched Gire with one eye.
“Are you going to fight when Ekhtouch takes to the front? Steelfur refuses to advance unless a Drake army violates the water line.”
Gire stopped speaking for a second. She swallowed slowly, and fumbled with her food.
“I…suppose Chieftain Firrelle will tell me to.”
Adetr blinked at her.
“You don’t want to level?”
Rose looked between him and Gire. The [Paragon] sighed.
“I haven’t killed people. I don’t want to. But if Ekhtouch fights—I’m old enough to fight. I might have to.”
“You haven’t? You’re one of the greatest warriors of Ekhtouch. Don’t be a coward.”
Adetr snapped, seeming irritated. Instantly, Rose smacked his head and shouted in pain. It was like hitting a metal pole.
“Adetr! Don’t tell Gire that! She’s only fifteen!”
Mrsha ducked, but Adetr wasn’t fun at all. For proof, he hadn’t taken a drink of water and didn’t perform the old Winebreath Blaster. He just blinked, and, like a normal person, stared at Gire.
“You’re what?”
He turned to Rose. She folded her arms as Gire doodled on the table.
“That’s right. Gire shouldn’t be fighting at all! Who makes a fifteen year old fight?”
Adetr hesitated. He was clearly stunned by the revelation, but he replied after a second.
“I was joining patrols when I was fourteen. You’re fifteen and you’re…”
Gire and Rose and Mrsha looked at Adetr. Rose shook her head.
“That’s insane. No one should be fighting that young. The minimum age on E—where I come from is sixteen!”
Gire’s ears perked up and she exchanged a look with Mrsha. Adetr snorted, but his ears had perked up.
“And how old are you?”
“Eighteen. What’s it to you?”
He eyed her.
“I am nineteen years old. I thought you were older. Are you telling me none of you have fought and killed enemy warriors?”
He glanced around. Gire shook her head. Rose shook her head. Mrsha sat back and gave Adetr a long look. He eyed her.
“What’s with her? Does she speak or not?”
“Mri’s voice is hurt.”
“Right. What’s this…?”
Mrsha held up a card.
 
I’ve killed Face-Eater Moths, fought Crelers, Raskghar, and evil [Witches], rookie. Bow down to Mrsha the Warrior!
 
She triumphantly held the card out. Adetr stared at it. Gire stared at the card—Mrsha was holding it out away from her, but she read the lines of ink through the thin paper.
“Mri!”
Adetr’s mouth opened. He focused on the card and Rose stared in horror at Mrsha’s name. Adetr stood up abruptly, just as an arguing duo walked by. Feshi saw Adetr pointing at Mrsha and froze.
“Oh no.”
“You fought Crelers? Raskghar? Where?”
Rose covered her face as Mrsha snatched the card back. Adetr leaned over the table. But Gire’s eyes lit up as Mrsha, relieved, put her feet up on the table. She waved for Rose to break out the ice cream. Darn, she should have bought more food. Mrsha idly scribbled with one paw. She supposed she could tell the story.
Mrsha ‘Crelerbane’ du Marquin smirked at Adetr. And Gire for that matter. The [Paragon] had that look again. Of sheer interest.
“You fought Crelers, Mri? Chieftain Firrelle has me fight monsters, but never Crelers for practice. The most I’ve ever beaten by myself is a Wyvern.”
Mrsha and Adetr turned to look at her and the little Gnoll lost some of her swagger. What, an entire Wyvern? By herself?
And yet—it was one thing for Gire to say she’d beaten a Wyvern. Quite another for a little Gnoll cub actually the normal size for her age to say she’d fought one of the dark legends of Gnolls and come out on top.
Most people would assume she was lying, like Adetr, with genuine introspection for the first time…for the one thing Mrsha wasn’t lying about. Yet Rose knew better. Gire knew better. Even…
“Hello, what’s this? Is that lobster? Are you Mri? I’m Yerra—Feshi, stop staring and come over. Is this the little girl you were telling me was so important?”
And here came the Selphid. Adetr looked up and Mrsha’s little jaw dropped. She stared at Yerranola, from the Games of Daquin, the sea trip, and scrying orbs. She fumbled for an autograph card as Feshi walked over.
“I—sorry to interrupt, Miss Rose, Honored Gire. We were just—is that a whole lobster?”
Yerranola’s mouth was watering. Lobster?
“I love lobster. What was that about Raskghar? Crelers?”
“Yerra, don’t be rude.”
“Sit, sit! Please! I’m Mri! Hello! Nice to meet you!”
