However, the [Commander] refused to retreat. To retreat was to invite a counter from the enraged Lomost tribe. It was to lose everything Bentill was counting on. Better to invite a slaughter on both sides.
Especially because her [Soldiers] weren’t dying. She had realized it and the flaw in Niers’ Skill revealed itself. This was why he didn’t use it.
If they had slaughtered even a fifth of the ‘dead’ fighters…
Gothica was next. Numbtongue saw a Drake club her from behind. Her aura wasn’t—he spun, slashing, but Pyrite had given his minute into the battle to take out an enemy [Officer]. Shorthilt had led the charge—
“Damn. Damn, damn, damn—”
Salkis retreated. She was bloody; someone had gotten her in the latest scrape and she was moving behind their lines, clutching at her guts. Numbtongue whirled around.
There was no time for a song. Perhaps he should have sung, called down lightning with Ulvama, but someone needed to be here.
Here he was. Infinitypear fell down. Rasktooth stopped, eyes wide.
“Infinity…?”
Smoke rose from his back shell. A [Mage]. The second blast of fire hit the Cave Goblin.
Were they dead? The Titan—Numbtongue raised his sword, reaching for the guitar. Lightning. He had to use his Skills before it was too late. A dirge for—
“[Snap Throw]!”
Numbtongue tried to duck, but the hatchet struck him across the head. He went down, Niers roaring in his ears.
“[They Fought Like Imm—”
Numbtongue was on the ground. Now he was surrounded as the [Soldiers] closed in. The Titan was trying to rally them; Sergeant Gna was leading the others, pulling those she could back to safety. But Numbtongue. They wanted Numbtongue.
“—it: Selphid’s Rampage!] Don’t—”
A Skill was worth nothing if it had no one to affect. The quality of [Soldiers]…he had a bunch of talented individuals.
Numbtongue drifted off. He saw Gnolls fighting near him; he had been trying to connect their lines. Almost. Almost.
Gnolls. Trying to reach him. Goblins. A tribe that didn’t want to slaughter them.
“A vision of the future. What might have been. They still remembered. I never forgot. Again and again, even this much is taken.”
Who was speaking? Numbtongue turned his head as someone tried to thrust a spear at his chest. Garia leapt over him and kicked them away.
Amid the fighting, the sea of legs, the dizzy world fading to blackness, someone sat there. A third ghost. He appeared…tattered. As if parts of him had been forgotten. Like a painting eaten by moths.
A warning. A battle on the longest day of the year. He had barely spoken. Barely done anything. Lost…forgetting even his own name.
Until now. Two vacant eyes focused on the Gnolls. On Numbtongue. His head rose.
“Once. I grew up in this tribe. Ghostly Hand. My name…someone gave me my name. And they called me…”
Numbtongue’s lips moved as a Drake with a crossbow shouldered her companions aside. It rose, tracking his face.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon saw Numbtongue vanish. He was shouting orders, using his Skills—but he couldn’t see Numbtongue and the Hobgoblin was down. He saw only confusion, Garia struggling alone—
Then a flash. No—the opposite of a flash. A searing bolt of darkness, anti-light, shot upwards. Niers Astoragon saw Ulvama, chanting spells, freeze. He frowned.
“That’s…”
A figure rose up to his feet. He had lost his sword. For a second, Niers feared he was concussed, but then a Drake unit charged him. The Goblin swung around slowly, almost dreamily. He pointed a finger—and another bolt of blackness punched through the [Soldiers]. Two fell over, and the other two fell to their knees, tripping up their companions.
Two more [Deathbolts] followed. The Drakes stared at their companions. One bent to check a pulse.
They found none. Niers’ Skill…the Goblin looked up. Then he stretched a hand upwards to the sky.
“Arise!”
The dead Drakes began to rise to their feet. Niers saw Ghouls animating—not mere zombies—and they fell on the horrified Drakes around them.
He didn’t know what he was seeing. He had a number of guesses—but as the Hobgoblin wearing Numbtongue’s face turned, his answer came for him. The Goblin began shooting more [Deathbolts] around, and the Drakes died. He pointed his fingers and a swathe of flames lit up Drakes who ran screaming. These ones didn’t die—but the agonizing fire and powerful spell?
A Drake ran at the not-Numbtongue and the Hob slashed across his chest with his claws. Like some kind of [Clawfighter]…
The Drakes fell back from this threat. A higher-level threat. The Goblin turned. He blasted the Drakes around the others. Then, as Garia stumbled back, he opened his eyes and bellowed at the sky.
“Goblin Lord!”
The [Soldiers] of Bentill gazed up in horror. Their dead companions began to rise as undead. A wall of bone cut off their attacks on Fierre and the others. And that Goblin—Reiss—stood in the center of the army. He pointed up, at the foothills.
“Death!”
His voice grew louder. Echoing. It was just a volume spell, but Niers himself felt a chill run down his arms.
“What am I seeing, Ulvama?”
She didn’t respond. She’d gone pale. Niers traced the route of Numbtongue’s finger. It wasn’t at him…
“Ah. At last.”
The Titan sighed. The Gnolls of the Lomost tribe stared up at the Goblin Lord, who stood on a dais of bone, a barrier shielding him from arrows and spells. They looked up, and the Drakes of Bentill cried out. The Goblin Lord bellowed a third time, and the answer came from the foothills, from the glowing eyes and pointed teeth of the army, the tribe who wore a handprint of white. The Chieftain who rode on the back of a spider and pointed down.
“Goblin.”
The Ghostly Hand tribe began to race down the hills, some shooting spectral arrows that went through all but the greatest Skills or enchantments. At last—Niers whispered.
“[Fear Me, Your Mortality].”
The Drakes’ nerve broke. They began to flee. Niers stood there, bellowing down.
“Encircle them! Force them to surrender! Don’t let up! Tend to the wounded and—”
The Goblin Lord had the exact same idea. Entire walls of bone rose, and terrified Drakes surrendered—to the Gnolls they had been trying to kill, rather than the dread Antinium or Goblins. Niers Astoragon finally began to relax.
Apista came to rest next to Bird as he lowered his bow. The bee saluted Niers Astoragon as he stood there. He shook his head.
“I hate irregulars. We did it. But I hate—”
Apista waited for a ‘thank you’, a congratulations, or even a high-feeler. After a few seconds of the Titan grumbling, she did a surprise aileron roll and dumped him off the edge of the cliff.
 
——
 
[Adventurer Level 11!]
[Skill – Slinger’s Whirl obtained!]
[Skill – Deny Parry obtained!]
[Combination Skill – You Go Low, I’ll Go High obtained!]
 
Infinitypear thought that was quite something. First he was Level 3 at the start of this journey, he gained another level from finding the treasure with Rasktooth—then he jumped to Level 8 after the Titan’s dramatic run. Now three more levels for surviving…
Ow.
“Infinitypear? You okay?”
Rasktooth saw the Worker begin to sit up, then lie back; his back shell was burnt and he was lying on his front, a rarity. The Cave Goblin saw Infinitypear nod, then shake his head, and hugged him, laughing.
“You okay!”
Infinitypear realized Rasktooth was also scorched when the Cave Goblin swore. He had…no eyebrows, and most of his hair was gone.
Fire spells. But they were alive, in no small way thanks to Gna, who’d pulled them out, Ulvama’s magic paints, Niers’ Skills, and Gna’s command. Numbtongue distracting the others too, of course, but an expert had given them the longest odds for survival.
In fact, the expert was speaking in a loud, carrying voice as Infinitypear rolled onto his bottom.
“…Enchantments, local leader Skills, and high-level [Strategist] Skills. Throw in some high-level fighters against what are uniform [Soldiers] of a lower level, and you can get a one-sided battle. It was closer than I’d have liked. Most of the Antinium and Goblins weren’t actually higher-level than the [Soldiers]. But thanks to that…transformation, and a few other variables, we made it.”
Infinitypear tilted his head. He saw a tiny man, the one they called the Titan, standing there, assessing the damages. Then Infinitypear realized he was alive. He was alive…
They had made it.
 
——
 
Xeu lost her eye. Since she had two, that was something, but Pivr had lost a wing and the other was damaged beyond repair. He could still glide, but far less quickly than before.
Fortunately, or rather, amazingly, that was as bad as it got.
“As bad as it got? Icecube’s wings are shredded! Look!”
Snapjaw cuddled the whining Frost Wyvern, who snapped at Badarrow as he went for his hug.
“Touma lost his hand!”
Garia shouted back. Snapjaw focused on the upper right arm of Touma’s…which was gone.
“Oh.”
“It’s just a hand. They grow back.”
Bird waved his limbs for emphasis. Touma let Octavia fuss around him, but it was true that injuries were…light.
Healing potions had saved the worst wounds, and the people who’d gone in hard, like Fierre, Numbtongue, Salkis, all had either the levels or healing power to come out the other side. And potions saved lives.
Like, for instance, the Antinium that stood apart even from the others. Ulvama eyed him balefully, but Dirtmouth and Numbtongue both had to grin and clasp hands with him.
“Super Antinium. He all red. Biggest target. Best Antinium.”
Dirtmouth announced. The other Goblins even seemed slightly in awe of him. You had to be something to dye your entire body red.
“So what is your name? His name?”
Numbtongue glanced around, unaware this Soldier could actually make sounds approximating speech. However, Grass Shell turned his head and replied, the first time he had ever spoken.
“The Crimson Soldier.”
Numbtongue blinked.
“Yes, but what is his name?”
“The Crimson Soldier. Are you being silly, Numbtongue?”
Bird looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin opened his mouth and then got it.
That was a name for a Soldier who had none. But how did the other Antinium know that? They had not talked—and The Crimson Soldier had not told them…
Pivr was staring at the other Antinium as Normen leaned on his side. After a while, Pivr spoke.
“Have I regained my social capital, Normen?”
The Brother looked up and grinned.
“If you didn’t from this, a fellow only has to do it until he’s liked.”
“Hm. I find your methods of gaining endearment dangerous, but perhaps effective.”
After all, he was wearing a little bouquet of flowers. Admittedly here, Apista had buzzed over and dropped it on his head, but you had to start small.
 
——
 
Fierre was panting. She was…sated. She also felt like she’d lost her mind for a bit. She licked her lips, trembling slightly. No one had seen her, right? No one had…?
Salkis sat down on a rock next to her. She appeared almost as pleased as Fierre, which was to say half-dead. She nodded.
“Hey. You’re crazy. I saw you tearing out their necks with your teeth.”
“What? No, I just—I—I—”
Fierre saw Garia look over from getting her cuts checked. Salkis just grinned at her.
“You’re awesome.”
“Um. T-thanks?”
 
——
 
That was the scene. The fellowship of the ‘we didn’t actually die’, sitting around on the elevated ridgeline, reclining on rocks, fishing food and supplies out of the wagon and packs, chatting—being alive.
Some, like Gothica, were recuperating. She had been healed, but the nasty knock on her head meant she wouldn’t be walking around any time soon. Others, like Ulvama, were eating, literally face over baskets of food.
To be fair, she’d earned it, since she’d cast so much magic, and those not tending to urgent needs, or processing what had happened like Infinitypear, stood with the little man who had perched himself on top of a rock close to head-height.
To this moment came the Gnolls of the Lomost Tribe. A Chieftain, limping, supported by Irry and another Gnoll, slowed as she saw the short Goblin and the Hob regarding each other.
“Chieftain Shaik.”
The Lomost Tribe’s Chieftain looked at the Goblin who’d ridden the spider. She glanced over.
“Chieftain Orni. You alive? Good.”
“And this is…”
Both Chieftains stared at the tiny man. He gave Chieftain Orni a formal bow.
“Niers Astoragon, Titan of Baleros. At your service, Chieftains Shaik, Orni.”
He gave the Goblin a sardonic glance. She blinked at him as her tribe of Goblins of the Ghostly Hand tribe surrounded Badarrow, whom they recognized—and Dirtmouth, a Redfang too.
…And they kept as far away from Snapjaw and Numbtongue as possible. For different reasons. They glared at Snapjaw.
Numbtongue? Some of the Goblins regarded him with a kind of respect. But Chieftain Shaik stared at Numbtongue and the [Soulbard] shifted.
There was a lot to unpack. Yet Niers Astoragon stood at the center of it all, watching. Assessing. He had not gone back in Bird’s hat. You couldn’t put the Fraerling back in the hat. They’d stab you. It stank in there. Mushrooms were beginning to grow.
“I…I feel as though I am dreaming. A terrible dream. First the news of the Drakes. Then an attack—Bentill has betrayed us. Yet we were rescued by…the Titan of Baleros? And our allies.”
Chieftain Orni had to sit down, heavily. She was wounded across the shoulder and either there hadn’t been enough potions or…
“Chieftain Orni. Please. A healing potion?”
“Give it to my warriors, please. We used up so many…and many died, but it would have been a true massacre had you not intervened. You…Goblins. And…”
The Chieftain glanced at Bird and flinched. He smiled, and the Gnolls rustled. Even the Ghostly Hand Goblins eyed him.
“I am Bird. Hello. I am friendly. Like Jexishe, the Friendly Creler.”
Niers covered his face. Orni and Shaik eyed Bird, and even his companions had to look at him. But then the Titan spoke.
“Do you need more guards to mind the Drake prisoners, Chieftain Orni? Thank you for complying with my requests.”
She blinked at him.
“Of course. I…I do not think we can hold so many. Bentill is too close, and we are too few, now.”
She pointed below, at where a huge prisoner camp of the surrendered [Soldiers] and the ‘dead’ had been compiled. Niers had assured the Gnolls the Drakes who’d been killed while under his Skill would wake in exactly twenty four hours from the moment the blow had happened. They could still die of lack of oxygen, though, so they were lined up on the ground.
