“Good. I don’t intend to keep them. But I hope you’ll hear me out. The first thing that will happen once Bentill stops being in shock is that they’ll immediately shout that an Antinium-Goblin force attacked them. Before that, I’d like a few things.”
Niers hopped from the rock onto Apista as she flew by. She buzzed past them towards a map Niers had had laid out. The Gnoll Chieftain opened her mouth, clearly overwhelmed, but Niers was talking slowly—for him—and decisively.
“Thank you, Apista. Now, Bentill will try for reinforcements or a counter attack. I’d like us to preempt them. Firstly, by sending word to the Meeting of Tribes and every Drake city and power in the region, telling them exactly what happened. Every tribe needs to be warned they’re in danger. Secondly—informing Bentill that any retaliatory measures means the death of half their soldiers.”
Orni blanched.
“You mean execute them?”
Niers shrugged.
“Tell them the Goblins have them prisoner. That tends to work. Issue an immediate ransom to the tune of one silver and nine coppers per soldier.”
One of the Gnolls looked outraged.
“That’s low. That is—we’re ransoming them? These murderous bastards? They were going to kill all of us!”
Niers snapped his fingers.
“I don’t suggest we forgive Bentill, [Shaman]—I presume that’s your class. However, we must be practical. Request at one point nine per, delivered in the form of potions, then food, then gold for priority. Ultimatum—”
He glanced at the night sky.
“—By sunrise. Not that ‘you’ll’ do anything, but the Goblins will do whatever they do by sunrise. Sunrise for an agreement—they should deliver within the hour, though, via a City Runner and bags of holding. Don’t give them time to do more than react.”
He glanced at Chieftain Shaik who raised her brows. Chieftain Orni was frowning.
“Ransom them.”
“Yes. It’s just for whatever you can gain; as you said, we cannot hold the prisoners, especially once the ‘dead’ ones begin to wake up. Nor can we press Bentill for proper redress, as much as I’m sure you would sorely love to. We have the real value anyways.”
“Which is?”
The [Shaman] snapped. Niers pointed down at the army.
“Arms and armor. Potions too. Strip the [Soldiers], take everything. Horses, any gear they had—Bentill will have to replace it all. They won’t be able to pursue for at least a few days. By then, we should be at least a day out. Of course, that depends on whether Chieftain Shaik is joining us with her tribe.”
The silence that statement provoked was the silence of people catching up. Chieftain Shaik eyed the Titan.
“Go? Where are we going?”
The Goblin watched Niers. He nodded at her.
“Your tribe might be able to hide, although they will come after you, Chieftain Shaik. I honestly can’t promise you it will be safer with Lomost given the situation. However, I will be leading this joint force and the more tribes we can gather, the better.”
“More tribes. Titan—Lord Astoragon, you must slow down.”
Chieftain Orni spoke, shaking her head, dazed. Niers nodded to her, not unsympathetically.
“I know you have lost many of your people, Chieftain Orni. But let me be clear. I am the Titan of Baleros. Chance has led me here. Chance and providence, and, thanks to the bravery of this group—Goblins, Antinium, and other species—we managed to avoid catastrophe. Given the situation, I am requesting command of your soldiers and tribe. Because in a week, or less, this entire region—maybe this entire damn continent—will be a warzone with Drakes versus Gnolls.”
He looked around. The others stirred. Bird’s antennae waved at Niers.
“This is a very big jump. And I would know, I have watched Pivr.”
The Gnolls shuddered and jumped back as Pivr scuttled forwards.
“Hello. Pivr, socially friendly Antinium.”
Niers went on, ignoring Pivr.
“It will be Gnoll tribes versus Drake armies. Maybe some Gnoll tribes or cities will flip, but I think I am looking at a huge species war. I don’t think you’d disagree after this. Any rivalries—any excuse—and both sides will march on the other. To survive, we need to find other tribes in danger and link them up into a fighting force no group of cities will tangle with. And the more [Soldiers], the more dangerous I become.”
His eyes glittered.
“Then we break for the Meeting of Tribes or simply a port. Put our backs to the sea or a cliff. Hells, if it’s truly all Drakes starting the Third Antinium Wars the most idiotic way possible, we’ll have to take a harbor city. Carve out a nation and see how fast we can build walls until the Antinium come calling.”
Everyone was open-mouthed, listening to him. The Titan knew he was getting ahead of himself, but he had to take charge. He strutted along.
“Don’t mind the Antinium. Don’t mind the Goblins. Or rather—do mind them. Yes, I know they’re Antinium and Goblins, but they just pulled you out of the fire. That Goblin in particular was adamant we go down there and fight for your lives, not that I disagreed.”
He pointed at Numbtongue. Orni saw Niers look at her.
“You’re a sensible tribe. An interesting one. You can shake hands with Goblins—these are Free Antinum, by and large.”
Pivr lifted a feeler and opened his mandibles, and closed them slowly. Normen gave him a thumbs-up. He was learning.
“This is too much. Lord Astoragon, we will listen. But this…”
Niers nodded, and turned to the [Shaman].
“Take all the time you need, Chieftain. But I will do what we cannot wait on. Do you have [Message] scrolls, [Shaman]? We need them now for those warnings and that ransom.”
The [Shaman] hesitated, but Irry raised a paw.
“I could—”
“Go. Get me every [Message] scroll you have. Do you have a [Chief Warrior]? [Hunting Leaders]? Every Gnoll who’s not on guard—no, the Ghostly Hand tribe can watch them—get every one of them not grieving, wounded, or unconscious. Shaman, you stand there and think of every Gnoll tribe in the area. Chieftain Shaik.”
“Hah?”
She saluted, a bit mockingly, as Niers whirled to face her. His lips crooked and he gave her a salute in turn.
“Do you want to fight with us? If not, I’d advise you to think of a route away from here. Drake retaliatory armies will be on the way, adventurers too. I’ll split some of the things we took, arms and armor, but we need that ransom.”
The Ghostly Hand’s Chieftain was more up-to-speed than the shocked Gnoll Chieftain. She folded her arms.
“You’re the big [Strategist] from Baleros.”
Niers didn’t even blink.
“The biggest, the best. Accept no Tulms, Perorns, or Bannermares, with respect to all but Tulm. I’m away from my Great Company, as you can tell, but I’m up for side projects on the way back, and that might include saving as many tribes as possible from this disaster. Goblins too.”
She cocked her head, thinking. Then she pointed.
“You’re a funny little man. I like it. Thinking…maybe. Lots of danger, but Drakes attacked Lomost, so we fought.”
She shrugged.
“Good time. Decade of peace. Now time to die again.”
Shaik sighed. Scratched at her head. She was rather young, Numbtongue thought. Not like Rags-young, but…she glanced around.
“Goblins here. Big-important Goblins. So maybe we come. More survive if Titan keeps word.”
“We can make a pact and swear by important concepts.”
Niers was watching her. Shaik shrugged again. She glanced sideways.
“Yes. But one thing before. That Goblin.”
She pointed at Snapjaw, who was tending to Icecube. The other Ghostly Hand Goblins glared at her. Shaik’s finger pointed then to Numbtongue.
“…Is something wrong?”
The Ghostly Hand Chieftain grinned at Niers Astoragon. She nodded.
“That Goblin was a Chieftain who served the Goblin Lord. And that Goblin has ghosts.”
Niers’ head turned. So did the Gnoll [Shaman], and everyone in earshot. Numbtongue started as Shaik gave him a knowing glance. She stared pointedly past him, past Pyrite and Shorthilt, at the Goblin staring at her. Her eyes narrowed.
“He has the Goblin who became Lord. The traitor of my tribe. She served him. He carries the ghost. It is small thing. Just for me and my tribe.”
Shaik stared at Numbtongue.
“The Goblin Lord killed the last Chieftain. Mother. We did not go with him.”
Some of the Hobs following her calmly put their hands on their weapons’ hilts. Shaik waved a claw at them. She stared at Numbtongue.
“So, small problem.”
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon let Numbtongue walk away with Chieftain Shaik. If she tried to kill him or he her…it was a risk you had to take. She didn’t seem vengeful, which was good.
“Ghostly Hand tribe. Good tribe. Strong magic. Not just [Shamans]. Good mushrooms too. And spiders.”
Ulvama whispered to him. Niers Astoragon grunted.
“Yes, thank you. I can see their rideable Shield Spiders.”
He eyed the giant, flat insects and shuddered. Nests of those bastards. The one thing he was glad he hadn’t run into on his journey to The Wandering Inn.
“Can you tell me anything strategic?”
“You don’t boss me.”
Ulvama narrowed her eyes and went to poke him. Niers half-unsheathed his sword and the finger stopped.
“I boss everyone. Poke me, go ahead. You get ten tries.”
She hesitated. Niers Astoragon pointedly re-sheathed the sword.
“I know you’re not stupid, Great Shaman of the Flooded Waters tribe. I’m here to rescue Mrsha, so let’s not play idiotic games.”
She thought about it, folded her arms, and sighed.
“Fine. The Ghostly Hand tribe refused to fight for Velan the Kind. They are…a power among tribes. In the south. I don’t know them well. But they could probably have killed Bentill’s army themselves.”
Niers nodded.
“Nice mushrooms. I saw their effects. I want them. Can you make sure that Numbtongue isn’t in trouble for…harboring ghosts?”
Ulvama shrugged. She eyed Numbtongue with interest.
“I can try. What can you promise Ghostly Hand? They know they’re in danger, but better to run than get caught up in Gnoll civil war, eh?”
“They’ll have a hard time finding anywhere safe with all eyes on us. Tell them…well, tell them you could take them to your tribe in the High Passes.”
The [Shaman] recoiled slightly, then caught herself. Niers traded another look with her.
“Don’t worry. If I wanted anyone dead, they’d be dead. Right now I’m playing, ‘let’s save Mrsha and keep the Gnolls from being wiped out’. Your Goblin tribe is not my job. Not unless I think I see another Goblin King.”
He went back to studying the map and notes on other Gnoll tribes. They were going to have to move like spit. Ulvama saw the tent flaps open and Bird entered.
“Niers.”
The tiny man sighed.
“What, Bird? Now that you’re no longer my cover, you know that you can do whatever you want, right?”
Bird nodded his head.
“I could always do that. But I am still in charge.”
Niers and Ulvama slowly blinked at Bird. The Titan coughed.
“…I’m the Titan of Baleros, Bird. I’ve revealed myself and taken charge of at least the Lomost Tribe. We’re organizing to link up with other tribes.”
The Antinium smiled brightly.
“Yes, but I said I was in charge at the start of this adventure.”
“That was at my behest, Bird.”
“Yes, but I said so. Therefore I am still in charge. So what are we doing? I will tell you if you can do this. Which is probably yes because you are smart, but I am in charge.”
He walked over and put all four hands on the table. Niers looked at Ulvama.
“Hex him for me.”
The [Shaman] grinned. Niers walked around the map, sighing.
“The goal’s not changed. The method has, but the goal has not. In fact, I regard this as a net positive since we lost Mrsha’s trail.”
Bird frowned with his mandibles and antennae. So did Ulvama.
“What do you mean? We are now joining Gnoll tribes. That is not saving Mrsha. We cannot move fast, you said.”
“Oh, we’ll move fast for an entire tribe. Just not at the pace I want. And we’re still doing that. Saving Mrsha, that is. Keep up.”
The Titan had a twinkle in his eyes. Ulvama looked at him as more figures entered the tent. In came Shaik, Orni, who appeared more composed after a rest, Numbtongue, Badarrow, and Snapjaw, who stood well clear of Shaik. A few more Hobs and Gnolls walked in.
“Welcome to the first war council. I’ve outlined the basic course we’re going to take as soon as that ransom rolls in and we’re patched up. We break camp, we take everything, find other tribes, and go. But as I was saying, this is to protect the Lomost tribe and Ghostly Hand tribe…but also to accomplish some selfish goals.”
The Gnolls and Goblins exchanged looks. Niers explained.
“This band came together to go after a little Gnoll girl who was kidnapped. It comes from Liscor and it’s the reason so many disparate factions are working together. I will be honest; that will still be our mission, but I promise you that I will not endanger us all unnecessarily if I can. But that is my goal.”
“A Gnoll child?”
Orni started. It was Shaik who narrowed her eyes.
“Ah. Mrsha. Little cute white Gnoll.”
Everyone made fish-eyes at her, but she just snorted.
“We watch scrying orb. Liscor? You have soccer balls?”
Niers snorted.
“The scrying orbs? Wistram has them bugged.”
He ignored Shaik swearing in alarm, but went on.
“Yes. A white Gnoll girl. Who is not a ‘Doombringer’, and I would dearly like to talk with a [Shaman] about that. But our mission is to rescue her from whoever’s got her, or find her, and certainly protect her from a bunch of [Hunters] who have made it their job to kill a little girl whose only fault is that she steals people’s food. If you have reservations, kindly state them now and I’ll stab you and get it over with.”
His audience looked at each other, mostly the Lomost tribe. Orni shook her head slowly.
“There are…reasons. And danger, Lord Astoragon. But this is greater than one Doombr—we would not object to that.”
Niers smiled tightly. Excellent. From the way the [Shaman] shifted, intelligence was present. An army—he glanced at the Goblins. Two armies, with unique abilities, and it furthered his goals of investigating the Goblins anyways.
This was what he needed. But as Ulvama and Bird had said—Numbtongue fixed Niers with a look.
“I don’t know you. You were in Bird’s…hat. You’re the Titan of Baleros.”
“And you’re Numbtongue. I saw you back at the inn, but only Mrsha knew about me. We can reminisce later. Do you have a point now?”
The Hobgoblin hesitated. Then he pointed at the map.
“This isn’t saving Mrsha. This is an army. This is…important, but…”
He struggled.
“…Mrsha is in danger. We need to help her. Maybe you lead the army, we go?”
Niers shook his head.
