"And what is it you wish to discuss with me?" General Pitz gives me a weary look, probably expecting another joke or taunt.

But this was no time for jokes; if she left now, she might never hear of our offer, even if we tried to send it to her. “Scholl would like to hire you.”

The room goes silent, or at least it does, until loudmouth ruins it. “She would never!” he yells. He tries to urge Pitz out of the room again, but she stands firm. The two of us lock eyes, and I make sure to convey the seriousness of my offer.

I’m worried she’ll still leave, so when she speaks, I’m happy to hear it’s to inquire further. “To do what?” She asks, fully knowing what I’m going to ask her.

“Why to slay a dragon; what else?”

There was a long pause, where it was just the two of us staring each other down, and then….

“Help me sit down,” Pitz orders Desreks, to his and his guard's dismay. They reluctantly follow her orders and help her into the seat Desreks was using, where she folds her hands in front of her. “And what is Scholl going to pay me with?” She questions, knowing full well the current state of our country.

“What about the heart of a dragon?" I grin, and everyone in the room except General Pitz and me audibly sucks in a deep breath.

"You'd give me the most valuable part of the dragon?” She asks disbelievingly. "Doesn't your king need it to prevent a civil war?"

My cocky smile immediately slips, hearing her counter. Damn, she must have overheard about his health while she was in our custody.

“Doesn’t eating a dragon’s heart increase a person’s lifespan by at least a hundred years,” she continues to prod.

So she was aware of its uses, and she was right; if our king ate a dragon's heart, it would guarantee him another century of life. And if he stayed alive, the dispute for the throne would be put on hold just long enough for the prince to become strong enough to prove he could take over. But….

“That’s right, on behalf of Scholl's royal family, I'm offering up the heart of the dragon to you or any others who help us slay the beast. Scholl has no problems sharing the best parts of the dragon, should Olebert send its best to help us.”

Pitz is left speechless by my offer.

“You have time to think it over,” I tell her. “But if you wish to stay and discuss it further, on behalf of Scholl, I’d be happy to host you.”

"You son of a bitch," Pitz finally finds her voice, and it's to curse me.

I grin at her. "Is that a yes?"

Pitz leans back in her chair and sighs. “What should we go over first?”

“Everything,” I reply.

One discussion down, one more to go. Then I'll head home with my new apprentice and hopefully reinforcements if I can swing it.

I hope Tabitha and Aaliyah are having fun in the forest because the real fun will start soon.
