According to the NY Times, Sony BMG’s c-suite had a reputation for Nakamutsumaji, “Harmoniousness”, derived from the Japanese corporate culture of its founder, Akio Morita. Realistically, Sony America’s founders from CBS were far more… cavalier in their pursuit of popularity and profit.

The same dynamic applied to the present duo of Trent Davis and Frederick Curon, the twin pillars of Sony Music’s present market domination.

Trent had pioneered the 90s Pop-Group market, taking a leaf from the Nippon “Factory” concept to create the first-ever American “Associate” Model, where teenagers were thrown into structured, agency-derived conservatory training. Those who survived the Hunger Games were rewarded with a market-driven, metric-derived Mould Press methodology, creating supergroups like G-Sync, Crowded Street, and Karisma Girls. Such was Davis' legacy.

Curon, meanwhile, represented the BMG grassroots of American music, discovering and polishing individual artists, singer-songwriters, garage bands and cultivating “authentic” music over manufactured Pop-slop.

In the 90s, there was no question that while Curon brought home the Grammys, Davis brought home the bacon.

In the 2000s, with the emergence of ‘indie’ cultural waves superbands like Chad Lain’s Human Animals, Curon attained album sales and accolades, rapidly diminishing the significance of Davis’ seasonal, ever-changing moneymakers.

Curiously, what made the Sony duo so incredibly complementary was that neither had been a classically-trained music student. Davis was a financier turned circus master, and Curon was just a guy with an ear for good vibes, almost 95% of the time.

Their present conflict, held in check by their two decades of partnership, was now strained as a result of a young, blonde, innocuous “nobody” who had just submitted an unacceptable demand.

“Frederick, don’t do this, not now.” Davis was a patient man, and he had infinite patience for his friend and sometimes mentor, but even that was reaching its limit. “It took me six years to bring Lucia Lancet to our present market dominance. Don’t fuck this up for me.”

“If she’s not going to win the Grammy without this song.” Curon’s expression was no longer the chill, uncaring Producer who ate sushi with diet coke on the couch. “Then she doesn’t deserve it. The song is NOT for Lucia. It’s for Miss Price, and that’s the PRICE. Take it or leave it.”

“We work for Sony!” Davis growled, half-howling his frustration. “Lucia gets the song. She’s got the momentum, she’s got the looks, she’s got the fans. She gets her Grammy. We make money. AN UNIMAGINABLE amount of money. Your girl gets her cut. Everyone wins.”

“She doesn’t CARE about money! God damn it, Trent. How many times do I have to say this? Why is this so hard to understand?”

“Give her a bonus!” Davis really didn’t understand. “Tell her, for every Platinum the album sells, we give her… a mil—a hundred thousand.”

Curon slammed his palm against his face. “Trent, you’re ruining my mood. We need to make the song in time for next month, or we'll miss the Grammys.”

“Then MAKE IT for LUCIA! It’s a shoo-in.”

“Lucia’s got the vocal agility of a dog. Besides, she’s not allowed to sing it.”

“SAYS WHO?”

“Euphemia.”

“What?” Davis felt like he was going insane. “WHO GIVES A SHIT about what a mercenary thinks? We pay her for a song!”

“This is a generational hit, Trent,” his Director shook his head. “A decade from now, people will still be listening to it on stream and on their devices. You want goddamn Lucia Lancet’s voice singing this song? She’s goddamn product placement.”

“She’s talented! She's OUR talent!"

“She’s tutored, then tuned, then stacked, then fattened, and even so, I had to comp her vocals!” Curon sneered. "Let's not hype our own marketing."

“She’s the best performer on the market!” Davis protested. “She plays four instruments!”

“I don’t need her to play an instrument, and Miss Price is the better singer, and that’s despite your investment or lack of.”

“For fuck’s sake, Fred,” Davis wanted to hit something or throw something. He was so close! When Curon showed up with the damn song, he thought he had finally had it in the bag. “You know we have an ongoing drama with the Ray Richards estate. If we can give his granddaughter a Grammy, it’s all water under the bridge.”

Curon gave him a look that clearly communicated the perception that Sony’s CEO was slow.

“AND,” he made his point known. “We’ve been brewing this rivalry between Miss Price and Lucia for about two years now. If Kellie Noah wins the Grammy or the AMA, it derails our entire marketing strategy. Can you imagine how Ray Richards’ estate might pursue the same legal recourse after that? Don’t be a fool.”

“You always see such a big picture,” Curon replied, the anger on his face subsiding. “But I am here to make music, Trent. When have I ever given a shit about your corporate politics?”

“You can’t separate the two.”

Curon looked at him with an expression that was more disappointment than any indication that he would relent. His director suddenly reached down to pull out his phone, read something, then looked up at him with placidity. “She’d already signed the contract. Miss Price will perform it.”

Davis felt his temple throb. His blood pressure was spiking. “You sent the contract already?”

“I sent it last night,” His director smiled. “You gave me full jurisdiction when it came to Eppie, remember?”

“Not for this.” Davis felt his body grow cold with rage. The maniac! This goddamned, music-loving, arrogant clusterfuck genius of a man!

“A bit late to rectify that fact now,” Curon shook his head. “Just take the loss, Trent, and count your blessings when the money and the awards come rolling in.”

“I…” Davis felt his throat constrict. I should fire you right now. Were the words simmering at his throat, but even he knew such a thing wasn’t possible. A man like Frederick Curon would find another directorship before the ink was dry on his severance package. The package was also so large that Curon could easily start a new studio, furnish it with every form of equipment, then play the mercenary Producer. The loss of Curon was far worse than Lucia Lancet’s outrage, or the Ray Richards’ estate and their lawsuit.

In the past, Sony needed him, Trent Davis. Right now, Trent Davis was Sony, and he was the one who needed his old partner from BMG.

“The girl is the cause of all this,” Davis said at last. “I shouldn’t have let you go to California that time.”

“You sound like a jilted wife,” Curon suddenly burst into laughter. “What, am I cheating on you?”

“Are you not?” David pouted.

“Maybe a little,” his Director came closer, then offered a hand. “Are we still making sweet music or what?”

After staring at Frederick’s hand for half a minute, he shook it. The alternative was to push their friendship toward business, and businessmen had no friends. They were, in his mind, Hobbes and Locke. “That said, you can’t keep getting away with this. Next time our songbird sends something in, you are to inform me before you send out a contract.”

“Well,” his dual Director pulled Davis closer, so that the distance between them closed. “Did I tell you our golden goose has pledged two more eggs?”
