Erick had already looked over [Reincarnation] paperwork, but now he looked over Mox. She was thrilled, scared, ready for danger, and ready for a bitter end. Whatever happened, would happen. She was different from her first visit. Now she believed, fully, and without reservation.

Her body was different from last time, too. A small cavity of fluid had opened up around her pancreas; the result of a [Cleanse], perhaps? In fact, there were dozens of such small cavities here and there, but in just the same way, there were dozens of small healthy bits here and there. Only one day later, and Mox’s soul scarred body had been halfway transformed due to all the healing and cleaning magics she always had to use on herself.

She needed this cure. She wanted this cure.

Erick was glad he could bring her this cure.

Erick tried to bring down her anxiety level, though, saying, “I understand that Zolan is walking around and he’ll be here in two days, after his great grandson helps him to secure some easy levels. I trust you have a similar convalescence planned?”

Mox said, “I do. Everything is ready. After this, I ask for your assistance in transporting me to Oceanside, whereupon I will make all reasonable haste to rejoin you here at House Benevolence. If that is agreeable with you, my king.”

“It’s fine with me. Are you ready?”

Mox stood up, standing as tall as she was able. She breathed deep, then said, “Everything was on the paper but… If possible… I would like…” She breathed. She said, “I would like really great skin— And to keep my analytical mind of course. Please, my king.”

Erick smiled softly as he stood, saying, “I’ll do everything I can to grant all of your wishes, Mox.” He flooded [Merciful Ether] across her body as he started moving his sunform in, saying, “Now just breathe deep, and count backward from one hundred. I got you. You’re safe here.”

“I believe you,” Mox whispered, as she rose on tendrils of soft lightning, her heartbeat racing as she rapidly began counting backwards, “One-hundred, ninety-nine, ninety-eight…”

She got all the way to 73 before her speech slurred and her heartbeat slowed.

- - - -

Mox was now an exceptionally beautiful human woman of dark, perfect skin. There was not a blemish on her, and in some ways she seemed like she had makeup on. Her soul was whole, and she had both her eyes once again.

When the world had fractured under the power of [Reincarnation], and a thousand hopes for the future appeared in those fractures, Erick had picked out the one that most closely resembled the one Mox had picked out for herself. She was a mother of four, with a husband of indeterminate personage looking after the kids, while she organized worlds and people. She still had time for her kids, though, and eventually she was able to raise her kids to powerhouses who brought peace and prosperity wherever they went.

Erick sent Mox through the [Gate], onto the waiting [Floating Platform] of the hospital staff, and under the watchful eyes of Kirginatharp.

The Second to Rozeta watched as Mox was floated away, out of the receiving room, smiling the whole time. And then he turned to Erick. He was still smiling.

“Greetings, Erick.”

“Hello again,” Erick said, “I’ve been informed that you heard the plan for my overseer positions.”

Kirginatharp nodded. “Stratagold will likely offer their own words about all that, but I have nothing really more to add except… I had a talk with Zolan. He’s out with his great grandson right now, regaining some levels. But he said something that has stuck with me. He envisions you as the living embodiment of a treaty between our many lands, which feels appropriate.

“I have a slight concern that you are allowing one of those Deaths to oversee your branch of enforcement, but… I’m sure you can make that work. You seem to have a plan, and though I find it unconventional, it will likely work as well as everything else you have tried.

“I’m glad to see you’re undertaking this new mantle with the severity it demands, and I’m truly thankful that you’re taking everyone I offered. It will be good to see them all walking around and working again, even if they aren’t working for me.” Kirginatharp smiled. “Even if some of them aren’t how I remember them, either.”

“They need not be strangers to Oceanside,” Erick said, “I invited Zolan to move some of his family over, as well.”

“I know the boy will stay with Zolan, but the rest will likely take time to show, if they do at all. His name changed, do you know?”

Erick startled a little. “No. I did not know that.”

“Brightborn.” Kirginatharp said, “It’s a good name.” He added, “It’s already started a big problem with the Goldbranchs but I doubt it will turn into anything more than family drama. Zolan is still their original patriarch, after all.”

“… Huh.” Erick glanced to the hallway where Mox had vanished, saying, “Huh.”

Kirginatharp continued, “Aside from that, all of your reincarnators will be weak for a while, so I hope you will put them up in truly secure housing while they regain their power, or at least until you get some proper guard at your House.”

“Easily done.” Erick said, “There’s plenty of space for more housing on Yggdrasil.”

Kirginatharp breathed out a small sigh of relief, then said, “Thank you, Erick.”

Erick nodded. “Thank you as well, Kirginatharp, for all the wonderful staff.”

“You are a living peace treaty; it is only right that I participate as much as I can.” Kirginatharp made to move on, saying, “Now if you will excuse me, I must attend to Mox.”

“Before you go. I have to ask… Is Mox not really that close with her family? There are obvious holes in her resume when compared to what she said she wanted. She didn’t even show up with anyone.”

Kirginatharp paused for a moment, thinking, then he said, “Most of Mox’s family has been killed by exterior forces, or they became very good at hiding. I doubt she actually visited you alone. I’m sure she will tell you more when she wakes, though.”

… Was that the reason for the cleared history of the manasphere here and there inside the House?

Perhaps.

Erick nodded. “Thank you, then. And now I’ve got a meeting with Stratagold. See you later.”

Kirginatharp smirked, nodded, and began to follow where Mox had gone.

Erick closed the portal.

- - - -

Erick knew the next applicant and they had already exchanged pleasantries. Her resume had not been a part of the original forty-odd resumes, though. She was a new addition, and probably just because of what Erick had told Sitnakov earlier in the day.

That information had gotten around fast.

And now here was Aisha, from Archmage’s Rest, near Stratagold.

She was an iridescent-silver human-shaped woman. She was a co-librarian down at the Rest, with a heavy focus on Book Magic and Prognostication. She was, perhaps, the best prognosticator of the past that Erick had ever met, for she could see through the static of Fairy Moon’s murder of Kydyr, though she wasn’t able to see Fairy Moon herself. Some holes in the manasphere’s memory were too difficult even for her. Other than that personal skill, she was very knowledgeable, for she was one of the only people to tell Erick plain facts about Wizards, and other important things, like the structure of Ar’Cosmos. She was also one of the few people to tell him that even if he was a Wizard, she would be on his side.

She was also an archmage, and she was a Knowledge Mage.

Apparently, her archmage level magic was the ability to [Scan] a whole library and understand everything written there for up to an hour afterward, with pertinent information lasting longer. She was also very skilled at Force Magic.

All of that was great to know.

But mostly…

Erick said, “A person of your caliber was not what I was expecting when I told Sitnakov what was going to happen with my choices. An archmage is a rare thing.”

“Everyone wants your House to work, but when your final decisions about hierarchy came through, and when it became apparent that you were taking a Death Dragon as your hand of enforcement, the manasphere seemed to call to me, and so I put myself out there, into those talks. From there, we arrive at here.” Aisha said, “Everyone else Stratagold gave you still qualifies, but I knew I had to be here. I want this to work, Erick, because I have to ensure that the mistakes of the past are not repeated again.”

And she was telling the plain truth, as far as Erick could see.

“We only interacted a handful of times, but you were the only one to guide me without fear, to tell me of Wizardry and so much more. I’ve seen proof of how good you are with [Witness], and how good you are at spotting current trends and slotting yourself exactly where you need to be.” Erick said, “But I need to know how you will react when you see a Shade walking around here, because though she hasn’t made her presence known, Goldie is around here somewhere.”

Aisha steeled herself. “I cannot personally work with a Shade, but if you should deem it prudent when you have to work with a Shade, I would like to provide opposing counsel. The same goes for any other dangerous entity. If such a thing is not possible in the moment, then I would happily and graciously provide counsel before or after such meetings of powers.”

Erick nodded slowly, and found himself fine with Aisha’s offer of counsel. As a small test, though, he asked, “Who would you suggest for the next Overseer position, of Law or Wellbeing? Stratagold gets one of them, and Ar’Cosmos gets the one left over.”

“No one, for either position, and for a detailed reason.” Aisha continued, “Your stated hierarchy is a bit odd, for it seems to split duties in odd ways, or at least odd by our sensibilities. We all expected mayors and managers and other smaller functionaries, not for you to head right into a Greensoil-type or Archipelago Nergal-type kingdom.

“But to answer your question...

“You have stated that you would give us our next choice of Overseer, and we would choose the Overseer of Wellbeing, for mundane education and healthcare. You might think we would choose the Overseer of Law, but this is a trap. Not one we believe you have made on purpose, but a trap nonetheless.

“This is because whoever chooses the Overseer of Law will get on your bad side, since you have differing ideas of what laws are good, and what laws are bad. Such a problem might erupt right away when a crucial decision is made to your displeasure, or perhaps such a problem will fester terribly. Either way, the Overseer of Law will be a thorn, perhaps more than most. Or, perhaps they’ll fall in line exactly how you want them to fall.

“I can't say for certain either way, though I would err on the side of caution.

“And to make the lack of representation fair for all, if I were you I would hold off on appointing an Overseer of Wellbeing, as well, simply so that there are fewer problems between Ar’Cosmos and all the rest of us. A 3 to 1 split in your Overseers might not work out well, either, but with Ar’Cosmos receiving Overseer of Enforcement, which might be the most powerful position, then perhaps this sort of ‘unevenness’ is acceptable.

“In my opinion, you should appoint an Overseer of Law later. Perhaps a year or two down the tunnel. You should pick someone who naturally arises out of the systems that naturally arise from new cities.” Aisha finished with, “Perhaps someone in Candlepoint’s city hall would actually be best for Overseer of Law? Perhaps someone from there might best serve as Overseer of Wellbeing, as well. Or maybe someone from Songli? I understand you have a hospital over there, after all.”

… Huh.

All very good points.

Erick said, “Your counsel is appreciated, but I still need to accept those other two Overseer positions, because I can’t do everything myself and I want the organization to happen here at the beginning. Hearing this, does Stratagold still wish to forgo Overseer of Wellbeing?”

Without hesitation, Aisha said, “We could provide a temporary person for Wellbeing, but we still feel it would be best if a mortal took over both Wellbeing and Law.”

“Then I’m going to take a man from Oceanside and give him the position. Stratagold only gets you, as Overseer of Magic, but once you take this oath, you’re not part of them anymore. You will be the Overseer of Magic for House Benevolence, and when we have talks with Stratagold, or other wrought nations, I expect you to speak on behalf of this House, and not on behalf of any other.” Erick said, “Since Archmage’s Rest is similar to a club and less like a nation, it’s fine to retain ties to them, but they will be lesser ties.”

“I easily accept your restrictions and your demands, for I have been waiting a long time to solve the problems of the past, and to make a brighter future.” Aisha steeled herself, saying, “Please ask me anything, and I will do my best to answer. I know a lot of minor secrets.”

“Your willingness to have your loyalty tested is admirable.” Erick said, “I have no doubt that one day, far down the line, there will come a test. On that day, I hope I will have proven enough of my own character to garner your full loyalty.”

“You already have 55% of it.”

Erick paused, Aisha’s sudden honesty catching him off guard. He laughed a little, saying, “I’ll do my best to bump that up to at least 95%.”

“I have no doubt you will succeed.” Aisha sat seriously, once again. She glanced to Poi, then back to Erick, saying, “I would like to take the oath now, if it behooves your benevolence.”

Erick nodded to Poi, and Poi stepped forward.

Erick laid out a simple oath of solid words, duties appointed, and expectations laid, with demands against deceit and to always work in good faith for him, and for House Benevolence.

Aisha made her loyalties known to her new Apparent King, and Wizard of Benevolence.

Erick approved.

Aisha walked out of Erick’s office with several immediate tasks, but the first one was the construction of a Benevolence research center. Erick wanted to fulfill Rozeta’s request of him to have ‘whole teams working on this’, and so, he handed that task off to Aisha.

With a sparkle in her iridescent platinum eyes, Aisha said, “I am so very glad to have come to you, and to have been accepted. I will make your wishes a reality, my… My king.”

Erick gently teased her, “It was odd for you to say that last part, wasn’t it.”

“It was!” Aisha laughed a little. “I’ve been saying that to King Alfonin for so long… It’s a change, for sure. It’s a happy change, though.”

