Toward the end of the parade of new people, happily moving into a new tower, Erick finally met the man he had been expecting. Volaro walked out of Springtime with Fairy Moon at his side, but Fairy Moon could not stand to talk about someone other than herself becoming a judge, so she left.

And then it was just the newest dragon in Erick’s life, and Erick, in his office.

Poi remained behind Erick though, of course.

Erick’s new Overseer of Law, if he didn’t prove incompetent or worse, was a calm, orcol-sized and shaped man. From afar, he looked the part of any normal orcol with long black hair, but up close, one could see that his black hair hid two curving horns that wrapped around the sides and back of his head, to come out almost in line with both sides of his jaw.

And his eyes were pools of red Carnage fire.

Their interaction was about as involved as the one Erick had with Burhendurur, taking a while and involving magic talk, but it also delved into the importance of the law, and separating law from enforcement.

Volaro said, “I have often overseen the Rotunda with Burhendurur in session, so I have no doubt we will be able to work well together. But not perfectly. Both in the larger arenas and in the smaller courts, we have locked horns often enough to know the measure of each other. It is good, however, to have such a strong backing in your arm of Enforcement. A word of warning, though: I fully expect Burhendurur to be framed for various crimes in various attempts to strip him of his position, and then for one of Kirginatharp’s or Stratagold’s forces to take over that Overseer position.”

“I’m fully expecting there to be lots of office drama.” Erick said, “I hope that it does not rise to the problem of murder or other similar evils, though. But when it does, you will be overseeing those trials.”

Volaro nodded slowly, then asked, “And how do you expect this land to run?”

Now there was the big question.

Erick gave his answer, “Everyone living under the same laws, with justice for all. I’m imagining that many past crimes will need to be forgiven, though, if there is any hope at all for this to work. To that end, I will be offering amnesty to those who come here, pledge an oath to the new world, and choose to lay down their weapons and their hate.” He said, “There’s more to it than that, but that’s a good enough answer for now.”

Volaro looked at Erick. “We likely have very different ideas of which laws are important to judge harshly, and those which should be forgiven. So in this transition state, how would you like me to judge? I am versed in Common International Law, but that law is considered terribly thin. I could judge based on Ar’Cosmos Third Reformation Law, but that would automatically call for an expunging of all foreigners and a Fae Seal struck against them, and that will not work as per your established dislike of that magic. First Order Law would simply kill any offenders of the common peace, which is widely open to interpretation, and I feel executions will be low on your list of acceptable outcomes.”

“I am against execution except in the cases of mass murderers, or the unjustified and unrepentant. I expect a lot of fines to be levied against offenders, for most cases are more delegation between two sides, and less trials of high crimes.” Erick said, “In those largest of trials, I would prefer judgments made with a goal of reformation or conciliation. Instead of Fae Seals and exile, I might be offering a [Blessing of Empathy] and halfway homes, though you and I will likely need to have a larger discussion about that. One other thing to think about is that I can also levy a [Reincarnation] against people who egregiously harm others, thus stripping them of all their power, making them reasonably easy to contain.”

Volaro breathed in a little deeper than he had been; he was surprised by Erick’s words, and a bit by what he considered ruthlessness. He was wary, but he was ready to rise to power in a new land, too. Perhaps politically, he said, “I will need to take these ideas into account.”

“This has been a good conversation, Volaro.” Erick said, “I expect to countermand your judgments many times in the near future, but I am sure we can eventually see eye to eye.”

“I agree.” Volaro asked, “Shall we do the oath now?”

Erick smiled a little, feeling good about this whole thing, and then he began, “I, Erick Flatt, demand your fealty, Volaro Carnage, for the power I invest in you is the only power you will have in these lands...”

- - - -

When the sun rose across House Benevolence the next day, Erick inducted 15 more wrought into House Benevolence. They would be sorted into offices and organizations soon enough, though the lion’s share of them would likely head off to the Benevolence Research tower. Many of them were eager to start working directly with Erick to see what Benevolence could really do.

Those people went into a different [Fairy Stronghold] secured tower, across from Ar’Cosmos’s tower.

An hour later, when most people were settled into their new homes, and before anything untoward could happen...

Erick introduced both sides to each other.

That meeting was tense.

Erick told them all where the Benevolence Research tower was, while also instructing them not to fight, and that they were part of the same House now. It was a conversation fraught with difficulty and hard emotions, but it needed to happen. Erick mostly just told anyone who raised their voice to walk away. That happened more than he would have liked, but exactly as much as he expected.

That introduction devolved into a mostly empty room fast enough...

But three people remained. Aisha, Volaro, and Burhendurur (and Teressa, Poi, Kiri, Jane, and Sitnakov, standing with Erick, but they didn’t count much for the difficulty of the situation. The people of Ar’Cosmos did goggle a lot at Sitnakov, but the giant black man did not engage, thankfully). Erick’s three new Overseers spoke amicably for a good twenty minutes after the room cleared, and then they all decided to speak again another day. They had not threatened each other, nor had they raised their voices. They simply met each other in a calm space.

It was the best outcome possible, in Erick’s opinion.

In everyone’s opinion, actually. After everyone left, Sitnakov told everyone that he had been absolutely sure that someone was going to throw a punch.

Erick moved on… Somewhat.

For the next ten hours, he watched the spaces between Ar’Cosmos’s part of House Benevolence, and the wrought area, hoping and praying that nothing bad would happen, and that no side would make a move against the other. As far as he could tell, he got his wish.

While that was going on, he had small interviews with all of Kirginatharp’s people in his office at the top of the tower. He accepted oaths, and then he gave them all new bodies and sent them off to Oceanside to recover. Most of them had a few last-moment requests that were not written down at all, which was understandable once those requests came out into the open. Everyone had something they wanted to change about themselves, and these people were no exception.

Zolan was not alone in desiring something special.

Mostly, though, they all had small vanities like Mox. Requests for nice skin, or flexibility, or more strength than they had in their original body. Five people asked for good metabolisms and easily controlled appetites so they wouldn’t have to watch what they ate so much. Erick was pretty sure he nailed those requests.

And nothing downstairs exploded!

Success after success!

- - - -

That night, in his bed in his home on the boughs of Yggdrasil, Erick barely slept for worry over something happening in the House. The first meeting had gone about as well as he could hope, but there had been anger there. All day long, wrought and otherwise had ventured out of their assigned [Fairy Stronghold]s in order to do this or that.

Each side saw the other side…

But nothing happened.

Eventually, though, Erick did manage to get two hours of sleep. It had been enough.

- - - -

The day dawned, and Erick was already at the House.

Zolan, Mox, and Raingorl would be ready for pickup in ten minutes. After they got here, the three of them would meet the other Overseers already in House; Burhendurur, Volaro, and Aisha. Erick would get all six of them in the same room together…

And then…

And then they would talk.
