Erick showed Aisha the way to her research tower, and to the tower he had planned to give to the wrought forces of House Benevolence. That wrought home was fully across the way from Ar’Cosmos’s assigned tower. Erick expected many of these ‘new hires’ to live inside the House, for now, but perhaps for Aisha and his other Overseers, those specific people might get housing on Yggdrasil.

Or maybe not? Maybe they would want to be near their own people… In this transition state, anyway.

Erick had already promised Kirginatharp that he would put the reincarnators on Yggdrasil, but the wrought were not temporarily weak at all, and nor were the people from Ar’Cosmos.

Whatever the case, it was time to move on.

Erick spent the next two hours interviewing other applicants from Stratagold and Oceanside.

- - - -

“It says here that you pride yourself on being a hardass toward your students,” Erick said, reading off the guy's resume. “Why do you take pride in that?”

Raingorl Bonesnapper was an orcol man of simple clothes and simple words, with a resume that was shorter than most, but only because he had the enviable ability to simply mark out his many, many Arcanaeum Consortium and Oceanside awards of excellence in teaching. 75 years of awards, in fact. He also had other awards from all over the place, from many different lands. He had taught the current King of Greensoil in best farming practices, and the current Majordomo of Eidolon in political theory. He had gained recognition for his instruction in the best ways to start new cities, from the heads of seven such cities, all of them growing and thriving on the islands of Archipelago Nergal. Raingorl knew how to make places work well.

And now he was here, at the end of his old life, and the beginning of his next.

As an orcol, Raingorl had retained his racial blessing of beauty well into 110, but his age was beginning to show. Darker spots of green on his face. Wiry hair that fell out long ago, leaving him bald. A thinness that could not be solved by more food. A need to use a cane. Deep wrinkles around his eyes.

His eyes, though, were still bright and attentive, highlighting a mind that had not deteriorated at all. He knew what he was about, and he had faced this question of being a hardass many times before.

With a measured voice, Raingorl said, “In an adventurer’s arena, and in life, having a hardass for a teacher means less hardship later. I might correct a student based on nuances that they would never encounter, but knowing that those nuances exist might help a student plan better. It might save their life. Or, I will have discouraged someone from being out there in the field where they will have gotten themselves or another killed. I would consider either way a success.” Raingorl said, “In the end, the point is not to fully instruct a student, nor to coddle them into trying things that will harm others, but to instead cause a spark inside a young mind which will cause them to seek out bettering behaviors, in every arena of their life.”

“Admirable.” Erick asked, “I have nothing against how Kirginatharp teaches mundane topics so I doubt we’ll come to any impasse there, though I likely will wish to talk about all that at some later date. For now, the normal curriculum works fine. I have no doubt you can set up schools and hospitals up at Candlepoint, either, for in addition to teaching, you were also the director of education for the Arcanaeum Consortium for 25 years. You’re in as the Overseer of Wellbeing.”

In small pieces, and then all at once, Raingorl’s face and body relaxed. With a stuttering voice, he said, “Ahhh… This is good. Thank you, Wizard Flatt. Thank you.”

Erick let the man have his moment. He could surely relate. After several seconds passed, Erick said, “When I first came to Veird, I was amazed at how much the Script helps people to regain themselves. You might not know it… But it’s hard out there without magic; without Health and without healing. I’m glad I have this opportunity to give back some of the goodwill I’ve already received from the better parts of your world.”

Raingorl smiled wide, exposing his large lower fangs. “You’ve run into problems too, though.”

“Of course. I have no problems with how Kirginatharp teaches mundane topics, but I do have a problem with the magical side of things. It’s not a large deal right now, but when push comes to shove, I want to know that you will be on my side of things.” Erick asked, “So will you?”

“The Headmaster does as he does in order to protect the world from magical misuse, but he has lots of opponents in the Consortium who wish for looser regulations on what they are allowed to teach.” Raingorl said, “I was a moderate in those circles, but there are many ways in which those progressives have good points. I look forward to talking about that with you… Though mostly I expect to be able to teach normal curriculum. The magical stuff is under the Overseer of Magic, I understand?”

“True; I just wished to know the measure of your stance.” Erick continued, “Now… You have filled out the [Reincarnation] paperwork, but I am aware that there are often things people wish for that they do not actually put down on paper. This spell can do a lot. Do you have anything you would like to add, that you don’t wish to put down in physical words?”

Raingorl looked like Erick had asked him a weird question. He said, “No. Everything written is what I want, and I am fully aware of the side effects of my [Reincarnation]. I will be set to 0, and all blessings and otherwise stripped from my person.”

“… Okay.” Erick felt the man was lying, but perhaps it was more of a lie to himself, than to Erick. Whatever the case, [Reincarnation] could be used multiple times on the same person, so if Raingorl wanted something different later, then Erick could do that. So he moved on. “If you are ready, then let us do the oath of office.”

Raingorl held his hands steady on his cane as he fixed his eyes upon Erick. “I am ready to pledge myself to House Benevolence and to you, Wizard Flatt.”

Twenty minutes later, Erick sent a very handsome 19 year-old, 110 year-old orcol man through a portal to Oceanside.

- - - -

Burhendurur and Fairy Moon sat in Erick’s office at the top of House Benevolence.

A new stack of resumes sat on Erick’s desk. He casually flipped through them, reading them as fast as he could glimpse the pages—

He smiled.

“Ah. That boy Hizogard who had been in stasis for a few centuries.” Erick said, “He’s coming to work for me. That’s good. He looked like he needed some new direction in life.”

Burhendurur said, “His family had a long history of being good members of House Carnage before their destruction at the hand of Stratagold.”

Erick looked over Burhendurur, saying, “And you seem to have all of yourself here and ready for a new life, too. As a small warning, though, if you all can’t play nice with everyone else here, then that will be a problem. I have already given everyone else the same warning, but now I repeat that warning to you.”

Burhendurur said, “I’m rather sure that every single person picked out and laid before you in that paperwork will be able to do the duties assigned to them, and to keep the peace as much as they are able.”

Fairy Moon had just been watching this whole time, but she couldn’t keep quiet any longer. She changed the subject, “I shall be your Overseer of Law.”

Like he had been sucker punched, rapid, all-consuming anger flooded out from Erick.

The room instantly brightened with flickers of lightning from every light overhead. Lightning flashed outside, striking down from a cloudy sky to touch upon a corner tower of House Benevolence.

A storm brewed.

Burhendurur’s breath hitched. He wanted to move away from Fairy Moon, but he did not. Poi had a similar desire to move away from Erick.

“Absolutely not,” Erick said, staring right at Fairy Moon, his eyes flickering with brightness. “The kidnapping aside, since the outcome there was eventually favorable to all, you have disregarded my judgments and desires once, and in a moment of great importance. You killed the Red Dot dragon instead of dragging him to court. I cannot trust you with the position of Overseer of Law. Do not ask for this to change.”

Fairy Moon stared right back at Erick, her eyes alight with pink and green Springtime. “You mistake my mandate as less than the wonderful wish that it is.”

“You mistake my denial of your request as something you can gainsay.”

A terrible moment of shifting futures arrived like a monster peeking in through a window…

Lightning struck outside.

And…

… Fairy Moon relented slowly, then rapidly and all at once. “Bah. I’m too busy back in Ar’Cosmos anyway.”

The storm moved on.

Erick did not relax, though. He rapidly looked over the various applications he had received and picked out the one that read the best. “Mikatiti’s understudy; the carnage dragon who oversees the Rotunda when Mikatiti cannot be present. I pick him for the Overseer of Law. If Volaro is anything like Mikatiti, then I assume he will be open to shifting opinions, but be able to hand down fair rulings.” He said to Burhendurur, “And you’re Overseer of Enforcement. Do you approve of Volaro as a person?”

“I do.” Burhendurur said, “He belongs to a branch family of Carnage, and if it weren’t for Bright Smile’s eagerness to rise to power and Volaro’s complacency with the law, then Volaro might very well have been the next Head of House Carnage.”

“Good.” Erick said to both of them, “Get him here, and let us start swearing in these people. When that is over, we can also discuss the placement of Ar’Cosmos forces inside House Benevolence. I have a tower set aside for your interests. My plan, right now, is to put up [Fairy Stronghold]s in those towers, so you —and only you— will be able to go into those places and feel secure in those locations. I will be doing the same for the wrought’s tower, and for other locations. Obviously, this is not foolproof, and especially not for your forces...” To Fairy Moon, Erick said, “If I catch you in any of the private lands I put up for the security of all of the various antagonistic forces I got running around here, then we will have uncomfortable words, Fairy Moon. Honor this pact, and honor it now.”

Fairy Moon looked at Erick, then said, “We can place our own protective orders—”

“My land. My rules.” Erick said, “I will be putting up the [Fairy Stronghold]s. You will not go fairying around into other people’s privacies.”

Fairy Moon huffed, “Then I cannot cavort anywhere without alerting all others!”

“That is precisely the point. I don’t want anyone else using Fae Magic around here, and that means you, most of all.” Erick said, “But in a few years, when the bands of intent on Fae get relaxed, then that should no longer happen. I hope that instead of fighting this, you take this small time to prove that the relaxation of those bands of intent will not lead to even more problems down the road. I want to trust you, but that trust has to be earned. I should mention, AGAIN, that you had earned my trust until you fucked up and killed the Red Dot dragon without bringing him in for questioning.” Feeling suddenly more tired than angry, Erick earnestly asked, “Please do not make another mistake like that again. Testing this decree of mine would be a mistake.”

Fairy Moon frowned, but all of her anger evaporated quickly enough. “An acceptable arrangement; I agree.”

“… Okay.” Erick said, “Then: Moving on...”

- - - -

The organization of small words and orders given moved both fast and slow.

Some people were eager to get out of Ar’Cosmos, rushing through Springtime with an orderly, yet quick pace, right into the tower space that Erick was already setting up for them. Hizogard was among these people. He was among the first successes of Ar’Cosmos’s new Renewal Tank System, and he showed up for duty in his human body, with his blond hair and bright blue eyes, looking ready to tackle the world. He was also completely embarrassed once he saw Erick.

Hizogard crashed to the ground when he saw Erick, going down on one knee and lowering his head as he shouted, “This one apologizes for his lack of knowledge and manners in our previous meeting, my Wizard and my King Erick Flatt. Please forgive my disrespect! It will not happen again!”

Erick forgave the guy, of course, for only an asshole would not forgive a man who lashed out at others after just waking up and finding out that their entire family was gone, and everything he knew was different. Hizogard did not accept that forgiveness as much as Erick would have liked, for Hizogard wanted to become a part of the offices of Enforcement. He needed to prove his loyalty and his strength of arms by ensuring that all the enemies of House Benevolence would rue the days they decided to act against his Wizard.

‘His Wizard’.

Erick moved past Hizogard’s display of something akin to chivalry.

Other people came out of Ar’Cosmos rather slowly, wary over everything and not fully trusting the tower that Erick had filled with [Fairy Stronghold]. Erick let them put up their own magics if they wished, after they had made their oaths, of course. He stressed that his Fae Magic would be the only allowance of that magic in this space, too, which made a lot of people glance between him and Fairy Moon.

Fairy Moon rolled her eyes each time, then Erick stared at her, and she repeated the promise she had made before about not messing with the fae spaces Erick would construct, nor would she mess with the people therein.

One thing Erick did not expect about all of the Ar’Cosmos people was that almost all of them were mere weeks out of the Renewal Tanks, meaning Erick had helped every single one of these people regain lives that they had thought they had lost forever. No longer half-dragons, they were simply people, and they were grateful.

He had expected another dragon or two, but nope! Just the two; Burhendurur and Volaro. Volaro didn’t show for a while, though.

In the meantime, Erick learned a funny thing about those Renewal Tanks. Apparently, Redflame had improved upon the initial design. House Benevolence’s new paper shapers and guards had not been reset to 0, like everyone else who Erick had reincarnated. Most of them only lost anywhere from 50% to 90% of their previous Status. It was only a few people, like Hizogard, who lost everything, and only because his half-dragon situation was far enough gone to kill him when he was out of [Stasis].

… Erick didn’t know how he felt about a ‘half-[Reincarnation]’.

