It was only as a scout, yes, but scouts were important. Scouts were the first line of defense against the threat of the wild, the call of the swamp. Besides, she could always move up the ranks after—Commander Isyanek had promised. All she had to do was complete this one assignment and make sure those three initiates helped infect the academy's so-called Astral students with the shimmerdust.

If they failed or backed out, she was to kill the initiates and do it herself, then reacquire the emblems before the academy could figure out what it was and the role of the Red Hunters in all this. She'd been so excited, too! To see the shimmerdust poison spread, of course, not to kill the initiates. She would never want to do something so vulgar. It just had to be done.

Except first there had been the fire. There was so much fire. She'd had to stay out at the edges of the cafeteria—for some reason the stupid fire wards hadn't included her, so they scorched her whenever she got too close.

Then there had been that—that human. He'd introduced himself as... Cale? What a ridiculous name. Wasn't that a type of weed or something? Only his barriers had been impenetrable, even to her best [Dark Bypass]. She should have been able to discreetly kill whoever she wanted and steal whatever she wanted out of his barriers, but instead, her spells did nothing. He didn't even seem to notice her! Which was both insulting and admittedly probably the one blessing in all this; at least her obfuscation charms were still working. They were enhanced by the Grand Mage himself, so they better be.

Problem was, Headmaster Akkau had been the one to carry off the three initiates after that, and Sneaks-In-Darkness knew better than to tangle with a dragon. She stayed behind instead, trying to peer at what Cale was talking about. The way he acted, he had to know something.

Except the moment that odd-looking golem had shown up, her scrying spell had vanished. It vanished again every time she tried to recast it, too, and she couldn't waste her mana with repeated recasts.

Sneaks-In-Darkness gritted her teeth.

Fine. She could wait. She could simply hide herself just outside Akkau's office and wait until they were finished. It was...

It wasn't fine. It was still a partial failure, and she would hear words from the Commander later. But it would be worse if she couldn't complete her job, so she forced herself to wait for the right moment. When Cale finally showed up, she thought her moment was almost there; all she had to do was wait until he was done. Until the Headmaster left those three alone.

Then Cale described what something called a voidcyte was going to do, and her anxiety spiked. What did he mean, it was going to extract memories from mana? She needed to stop this! She needed to find a way through his barriers or something! She was so distracted by her fear of what might happen that she didn't even notice the three new students making their way in.

Instead, she latched on to a thought.

The voidcyte was unshielded, wasn't it? She could attack that! End it before it could extract anything of use for these wild mages.

She targeted it with a [Shadowslice]. That would do it. The spell was another one that was enhanced by the Grand Mage himself, and nothing short of a living myth could repel it...

...Except instead of dying, the voidcyte started vomiting. Sneaks-In-Darkness had no idea what happened, but the human sounded strangely worried about something. He was giving the others some kind of warning? Was it about her? She crept to the doorway, trying to sneak a peek.

Just in time to be hit in the face with the voidcyte explosion.

When Sneaks-In-Darkness opened her eyes again, she found herself in an endless stone hallway.

"What in the eight infernal realms...?" she muttered. Her voice echoed strangely, and her obfuscation charms didn't seem to be working anymore. The stone was real, as far as she could tell. Where was she? What was this?

It didn't matter, she told herself. All that mattered was her mission.

She needed to find those initiates and those emblems, and they were here. Whatever happened, the Headmaster was almost certainly separated from them.

And that meant this was her chance to strike.
