This latest self-discovery is an enlightening one indeed, because now I know my subconscious mind refused to accept any other Element because I couldn’t make sense of it all. The thing is, now that I know the problem, I’m able to draw parallels to another obstacle I encountered along my Path, namely my inability to consciously Guide my Weapons. That all went away once I learned to ignore my neuroses and just let it happen. Flying sword go brrr, and with the sacrifice of three Natal Souls who have since become Weapons Spirits, I can control Peace, Tranquility, and Unity like my own two hands. I am the Weapon, the Weapon is me, but the same concept applies to my Blessing of Water.

I am the Water, the Water is me.

Chi, Heavenly Energy, Chi Tea, Water Chi, the simple made complex, because it’s all energy in the end, yet this is not all there is to my strength. In order to rouse myself from my latest coma, I opened myself to the Void and proceeded along the next step of my Path. Others might claim I Shattered the Void, and in a way, I did, but I consciously refused to follow through and bathe myself in the powers of Creation and Destruction both. Had I done so, I would have been able to wholly Refine my body, mind, and soul to merge the physical and metaphysical both, but I stopped just short of this pivotal milestone because I wholeheartedly believed it was not the right solution to a problem I still don’t entirely understand. What’s more, I had no need to take this erroneous step, so why would I? A false Divinity is powerful yes, but still false all the same, and I’m the kind of person who doesn’t like to do things by half-measures.

That being said, whilst I have yet to wholly Refine my body, I still possess power comparable to a false Divinity, for I am infinitely close to their level without actually arriving at it. I am far less durable, but in terms of damage, I can dish it out better than most, a tried-and-true glass cannon to the end. Why is this important? It isn’t, save to highlight the fact that I am not weak. Far from it, I am strong as fuck, the only person under Divinity capable of killing one with ease, for my Sword Force is formidable indeed. More to the point, much like any Divinity, I am capable of subconsciously and unconsciously utilizing the raw Energy of the Heavens. Technically, everyone is capable of this, else regular adults wouldn’t be regrowing their teeth all the time, but the Heavens are far more willing to bend to my whims, though not quite as willing as when it comes to a Divinity.

I didn’t want to put Mama Bun down to fight, but I knew I needed to if I wanted to stay alive, and the Heavens set out to accommodate me. My Domain Materialized without interference from Natural Law, and now my sweet bunny is bobbing along behind me atop an invisible raft sailing upon invisible currents, all because I unwittingly made it happen.

So imagine what I could do if I really set my mind and Will to it.

Closing my eyes, I draw in another breath and ignore the pains of my battered body. What greets me is not the darkness of the Void, the endless nothingness that exists alongside reality, but merely the darkness behind my eyelids as I focus on my Spiritual Senses at the expense of all else. My Domain billows out, surrounding and engulfing me in its protective embrace, while avoiding Zhen Shi and his Domain to keep him unawares. Some working of Concealment and several other forces I cannot identify, something I learned from watching Buddy lead Zhen Shi on a merry chase, but the specifics are not important right now, only the outcome. Slowly, but surely, I connect with the invisible current carrying Mama Bun’s raft along, and I expand it all around me. Here and now, as my body is being carried away in Zhen Shi’s steely grasp, my soul floats within my Natal Sea, the same body of water I brought Buddy, Ping Ping, Pong Pong, Mama Bun, and Lin-Lin to play in so many nights over the last few months.

For though the Void was Shattered, my Natal Palace still remains, there, but not there, here, but not here. I am the Sea, the Sea is Me.

Slowly but surely, my Natal Sea materializes around my physical body, the immaterial made material. Putting to use everything I’ve learned in my twenty-odd years in this world and the indeterminate amount of time from my past life, I slowly but surely build up my strength for one decisive attack, Amplifying and Resonating the force flowing through my left arm and allowing it to grow exponentially until I can no longer Conceal it.

But by the time Zhen Shi notices, he barely has time to widen his eyes in alarm as I hammer home the mother of all Mountain Collapsing Strikes directly into his liver.

The Movement comes so naturally, Amplified, Stabilized, Resonated, and more. The Energy of the Heavens flows through my Spiritual System and out my fist just as it connects with my foe, erupting in an explosive blow that sends him flying away. An invisible, Materialized current of Water Chi surges forth to seize my detached arm, ripping it out of Zhen Shi’s grasp as his expression goes ugly with agony and hatred both. Calmly affixing the loose arm to the socket it was torn from, I set to Healing even as I retreat upon a current of water towards my doggo who I sweep up along the way, because though I am willing to fight to the death, discretion is the better part of valour.

I’ve been lucky enough to survive this long, so there is no sense in tempting fate, but as Zhen Shi roars in fury and takes up the pursuit, there is no fear in my heart, no dismay to be felt, only a quiet calm and simmering rage that yearns to pay him back in kind as I familiarize myself with the currents of my Natal Sea. Sure, the first three rounds didn’t go my way, but it doesn’t matter. This isn’t a best of five, seven, nine, or any number at all, but rather a fight to the last man standing, and I intend for the winner to be me. Zhen Shi thinks he can capture me, but I am a man who does not know how to quit, because so long as I still draw breath, there is hope in me yet.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
