There was no doubt to cloud this Sovereign’s mind, no incredulity or disbelief at how all this came to be, only a quiet admission of the truth as he gazed upon the horde of Spectres set loose within his soul.

Bristling with rage and indignation both, he knew he needed to act before it was too late, but still he hemmed and hawed whilst scouring his mind for a solution he knew did not exist. The path forward was clear, the best course of action laid out before him, and yet this Sovereign could not bring himself to do what needed to be done. Today was a day of calamitous misfortune, but until merely moments ago, he wholeheartedly believed that he’d gained more than he lost in spite of all his troubles and setbacks. Though he’d fallen far short of his goal to overthrow the Emperor, he’d gleaned much from the process itself, whether it be discerning the most effective tactics to make use of and the pitfalls to avoid in the future, or securing new information which illuminated his Path and brought him to new and dazzling heights. Once his gains were analyzed and consolidated, he would return in triumphant glory to take vengeance upon the outer provinces before sweeping through the Eastern Province to challenge the Emperor himself and topple him from his throne.

All of which would have held true had this Sovereign not overreached and captured Falling Rain in Shi Bei. A miscalculation on his part, but one for which he could not be blamed considering the facts supported his decisions at the time. Having the boy in hand to question and study would most certainly prove beneficial, and not just for the answers he might provide or the unique quality of his soul which enabled portions of it to merge with another person’s soul without resistance, an act which ran counter to the long-proven inviolability of the soul. The boy was a treasure trove of information and resources, but his true value lay in the fact that he was personally responsible for undoing so many of this Sovereign’s best laid plans. Thus, taking him prisoner to exact vengeance would do much to relieve this Sovereign’s frustrations and right the wrongs that fate itself had wrought upon him.

Except the machinations of Heaven ran deeper than this Sovereign ever expected, and Falling Rain far more dangerous than anyone could have ever guessed.

A handful of minutes. That’s how much time had passed since their departure from Shi Bei. Not a long stretch of time by any measure, and yet the tally of damages was staggering to behold. This Sovereign’s foundation had been shaken, his confidence and determination brought low, his understanding of the Dao overturned and his Dharmic Icon ruined beyond repair. Setback after setback, yet this was far from the worst of it, for as the swarm of vengeful Spectres descended upon him, he could not fathom how this most ill-fated of outcomes was even remotely possible.

The debacle of Sanshu? A confluence of chance and calamity that resulted in a most disastrous union of Devourer and Predator, one he was still paying the price for, yet only unlikely rather than impossible. The exposure of the Canston Trading Group? An unfortunate coincidence brought about by Falling Rain’s grudge against Zhu Changzui’s merchant company, one which forced this Sovereign to uproot his carefully-laid production-line meant to supply him with Death Energy, Spectres, Demons, and corpses alike. This denial of resources and study materials set back his plans to invade Central until the process could be reinstated here in the West, a delay which gave the outer provinces time enough to build a massive wall using their recent rediscovery of liquid stone. An outcome no one could have foreseen, but still conceivable and acceptable, for a Wall was only as strong as its weakest point.

The gas explosion in Sinuji. The ‘failed’ assassination attempt of Shen ZhenWu. The Storm over JiangHu. The actual failure to assassinate Falling Rain. The fall of Pan Si Xing. The debacle still unfolding in Shi Bei. A series of unfortunate events, each one stretching the limits of plausibility more and more whilst staying within the boundaries of the probable, but in the last day alone, this Sovereign had borne witness to Falling Rain unveiling more miracles than he cared to count. Negating the Wrath of Heaven? An impossible accomplishment, or so this Sovereign would have claimed until he saw it first-hand, a solution so simple it was a wonder he hadn’t come up with it centuries ago. The massive tidal wave was more believable, not something this Sovereign would have deemed impossible, merely exceedingly difficult for even a Peak Expert at the pinnacle of their strength, much less a boy as young as Falling Rain, but still within acceptable limits. Then there was the boy’s brilliant usage of Dharmic Icons, a seemingly endless array of nonsensical images, performances, and poems that he’d carefully prepared beforehand for some indiscernible reason. Again, not beyond the realms of possibilities, as there were a handful of conceivable reasons why the boy possessed the prudence and foresight to make such preparations. The Orated attack of despair and dejection? In light of the boy’s troubled past, this Sovereign could see why Falling Rain would harbour so much darkness within him, and it would also explain much regarding his Path, one which was neither wholly Defiled nor Imperial in outlook, but far more complete than even that of the Imperial Clan. This explained why he was capable of so much more than his peers, his strength, comprehension, and abilities all bolstered by his broader perspective of the Dao, which combined with the benefits received from his union with the Elemental Spirit ultimately resulted in a firm grasp of Sword Intent, among other things.

And yet all of those improbable achievements combined were not enough to explain Falling Rain’s most recent accomplishments over these last few minutes. With the young Ancestral Hare’s assistance, he discovered how to create Life Energy whilst on the brink of Death. An impossible feat for any mortal, or so this Sovereign believed, for he had long since concluded that the creation of Life and Death Energy was beyond even the reach of a nascent immortal like himself. False Divinities the world around struggled to control the Energy of the Heavens, which was categorically inferior to the Energy of Life and Death, so how could anybody reasonably expect for Falling Rain, a boy of twenty-one who technically had yet to meet the standards of a Peak Expert, to master this unfathomable power superior even to the power of Creation and Destruction both? Yes, Weapon Intents utilized a portion of Death Energy, for what was a weapon if not a tool to inflict death, but this was hardly equivalent to harnessing raw Death Energy. To claim otherwise would be outlandish, no different from handing someone a painting of food and expecting their hunger would be sated. Yes, mortals were capable of touching upon the Dao of Life and Death respectively, but only a true Divine Being, a Deity in every sense of the word, could possibly wield power over life and death itself. A mortal can kill, a mortal can give birth, but that was not the same as manifesting the very essence of death and life out of thin air, a feat Falling Rain readily demonstrated when he brought a dog into existence with his Will alone.

An unremarkable dog at that, a wrinkly, floppy-eared mutt of a hound with the most ungainly posture this Sovereign had ever seen, currently sitting in the sand with tongue hanging out and hind legs splayed out at a graceless and unpleasant angle. A flabby belly protruded out from between his hind legs, and his brown-furred skin hung loosely from his skin, while his panting mouth opened to reveal a set of crocked, rounded teeth and a subtle underbite that did nothing to detract from the dog’s endearing appearance. To think, this was the result of the first mortal’s foray into Life and Death itself, the power of a god used to create this creature of lacking purpose and adorable aesthetics.

Yes, the boy was right, his dog was cute, but what was the purpose of creating it? At least its existence explained why Falling Rain split his soul into two equal parts, Natal Souls notwithstanding, but it raised all sorts of questions in and of itself. Where did the dog’s soul come from? Was this a case of two souls inhabiting one body? Possible, but the boy never once displayed any canine like habits, or at least nothing that could be attributed to this substandard embodiment of a beast. Could it be a case of extreme disassociation, wherein the boy believed he was a dog in a past life? If so, this raised even more questions given Falling Rain’s exceptional discipline and intelligence, qualities which again could not be seen in his dog.

This was without even getting into the specifics of how the boy produced this newfangled Spiritual Beast from out of thin air, without the use of any physical material to help matters along. Yes, it was theoretically possible to use the Energy of the Heavens to grow flesh and bone, but it was so much easier to use more readily available energies derived from food or other organic matter. That’s why the Transcendents required corpses to fuel their transformations, because even the Spectres were incapable of sustaining the complex and demanding process of turning the immaterial material, much less into the complex tissues and organs of a living, breathing body. Which was another point of contention, because how was this Sovereign supposed to accept that Falling Rain was also a master of canine anatomy? One could not Heal a human limb without a thorough understanding of the human body, and most Healers required close to a decade of study before being declared competent in their own right, which was the bare minimum. Yes, the discovery of Panacea greatly lessened the requirements, but it was too much of a leap in logic to expect Panacea to create an entire dog from nothing, especially one as unique as Falling Rain’s ‘Buddy’.

A most perplexing puzzle indeed, one far beyond anything this Sovereign had seen before, but he believed he would have his answers soon enough so long as he had the boy in hand. That was all the motivation he’d needed to put his curiosity aside and beat the boy into submission, especially after losing a foot to his glaive. Never in a million years would this Sovereign grow tired of the all too satisfying sensation of hammering his fists into the boy’s flesh, to feel his muscles give and bones break time and time again. A most stubborn and tenacious little savage, silent throughout the entire ordeal, but his silence would only make it that much sweeter when he finally gave voice to his suffering. The boy came so close to despair after realizing all his efforts were wasted creating a dog who refused to fight, a stupid, worthless Spiritual Beast who simply sat and watched while his creator was pummeled about. Beaten and broken, the boy endured until he could do naught but hang in this Sovereign’s grasp while fighting to draw breath, and it was only by the slimmest of margins that he survived to do just that, for throughout this all, the Spectres were urging this Sovereign to strip his most hated foe of all his flesh and dine upon his inner organs while he watched.

A result of the blow dealt to this Sovereign’s foundation by the boy’s Orated attack of despair, but the Razor’s Edge saw him through this tribulation unscathed. Mending this wound would be a long and arduous process, but once past the initial shock and surprise, this Sovereign was able to easily ignore the Spectres’ whispered lies and bind them to his soul and Dharmic Icon once more, the robes he spent so many centuries instilling with meaning and significance, both conscious and unconscious alike. Yet another setback, the price paid for greed and hubris, but with Falling Rain in hand, the time spent in recovery would be fruitful indeed for there would be answers aplenty to analyze and decipher, bringing this Sovereign to new heights upon his Path.

Success was so close to hand, and yet this Sovereign made no move to secure his prize just yet, for he was still struggling for control against the Spectres within his soul. This brief moment of distraction gave Falling Rain time enough to slip free of his mortal trappings and willingly step foot within this Sovereign’s Natal Palace. A most unexpected turn of events, one he celebrated as he bound the intruding soul in chains of Will and Intent, for here within his Natal Palace, this Sovereign’s Authority superseded all else. Here, Falling Rain was as helpless as any Spectre without the assistance of a shared goal, meaning it would be far easier to extract answers and soul matter now that he’d voluntarily placed himself upon the chopping block, helpless to do naught but bow before this Sovereign’s Authority.

Or that’s how events should have unfolded had the boy not defied Natural Law to overrule Heaven and this Sovereign’s Authority in one fell swoop. The boy even admitted as much as he severed this Sovereign’s bonds with little more than a thought and Manifested his Domain within another’s. “My Domain exists wherever my Sword can reach,” the boy had declared, and coupled with this Sovereign’s earlier evaluation regarding his Void Sword Intent, this made for a most chilling assertation indeed.

