Glancing at the dog on reflex, this Sovereign cursed his lacking perceptions, for there was a time when the Spectres would have informed him of everything occurring all around him. Now though, this dearth of information left him starving for more, and he didn’t even think to guard against the boy before turning away, a move which might well prove disastrous. The boy’s sword and shield were still missing and out of sight, and his glaive was close to hand, but even as this Sovereign sought to turn back to the boy, he saw something that stopped him in his tracks. This was no ruse, for the dog was indeed up to something, having moved away from where this Sovereign last saw him with tail no longer wagging. Instead, the beast stood guarded and vigilant as he turned away from the boy and this Sovereign both while keeping them within his line of sight. The beast’s cagey behaviour was easily explained, for he sought to slink off in search of safety and privacy to consume his prize, this Sovereign’s severed foot which the dog held clamped between his jaws.

“Bad Buddy!” the boy declared, and the dog flinched as if wounded, but growled and sped up in preparation of escape. “Drop it! That’s disgusting. Buddy?! Don’t you walk away from me. You put that foot down right now!”

The dog paid the boy no mind and continued to move away, but as this Sovereign was overwrought with fury and moved but a single step, the beast fled in a panic whilst gobbling down the errant extremity in the blink of an eye. He didn’t so much chew the foot as dissolve it within his mouth, the flesh, blood, and bones melting into a refined liquid similar to how Transcendents processed corpses, a sight which enraged this Sovereign to no end. Reattaching the foot would’ve taken seconds, if that, but regrowing it would require hours of quiet concentration, hours he could not afford to spare anytime in the near future. First the boy, and now the beast, this lack of respect would not stand, and he swore to make them pay for their grievous contempt even if it was the last thing he did.

Starting with the boy, of course, for he was still the more dangerous of the two, though an Elemental Spirit given form was also a formidable threat, albeit one that had yet to display any actual strength. Time was of the essence however, so this Sovereign Cloud-Stepped over to Falling Rain and closed his hand around the boy’s right arm. Tearing the limb clean out of its socket, he was rewarded with a sharp scream of agony that echoed through the desert sands, and this Sovereign savoured it like a fine, aged wine that left him yearning for more. Perhaps he would feed this limb to the dog in an effort to tame the beast as it trailed behind, a most fitting fate for the damnable brat who closed off this Sovereign’s Path. Thankfully, all roads lead to the Dao, so even if he had to start from the beginning all over again, he believed he would make his way back to the peak in no time at all.

Or so this Sovereign hoped, for even with Falling Rain in hand, what remained of his lacking confidence threatened to crumble away with the wind. Trials and tribulations abound, but he would face them as he always did, one step at a time.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Stupid dog. Stupid Zhen Shi. Stupid Heavens, and stupid me.

Why did I have to go and open my mouth? Why didn’t I keep quiet and Heal to full before poking the bear? Why didn’t I just let Buddy eat the stinky foot and watch Zhen Shi instead? Why am I even here? I’m so tired. Everything hurts. I’m still clinging to hope, but what more can I do? I’ve given it my all, and what do I have to show for it? Well, aside from the massive bodily trauma, my dog, so totes werf I guess, but seriously, where do I go from here?

The quiet part of my brain tells me that all my blood-loss has sent me into shock, even though I’ve been making Panacea non-stop since all this started. It’s possible that my blood sugar is dangerously low too, not to mention all the fat reserves I don’t have that were consumed by repeated bouts of Healing. Long story short, it’s all I can do to keep my eyes open as Zhen Shi Cloud-Steps across the desert, moving quickly yet stopping every now and then to make sure Buddy is still following. My sweet doggo is a cowardly beast, but loyal to the extreme, and even though he knows he can’t fight Zhen Shi, he’s following him through the desert and barking up a storm in demand that he give me back. Poor Buddy, he sounds so frantic and distraught, his booming barks turning into whining yips as we move ever westward across the province.

Every now and then, Zhen Shi takes the time to inflict some new injury upon me, whether it be to tear a tendon or break a bone, rip an ear off or pluck an eye out. It’s always something along those lines, and each pause sends fresh waves of agony coursing through me, but then it is over and done with. My calm compliance and lack of reaction only serves to further enrage my captor, but I suspect it’s also the only reason why Pong Pong has yet to act. His worries grow as Buddy inches ever closer to his quarry, lured into complacency like the dumb dog he is and kept back only due to Pong Pong’s warnings. Try as I might, I cannot convince the turtle to escape while he can, to take Buddy and flee east to safety, but the Divine Turtle simply ignores my warnings and radiates a sense of calm patience overlaid a foundation of endless anxiety.

“Don’t be scared,” the tiny turtle tells me, while worrying about every goddamn thing ever. That’s all there is, no reassurance, no explanation, just a simple statement to stop being so terrified and just be anxious instead. Not sure if that helps, and it’s not easy to accomplish either, but I can sort of see where he’s coming from, since there is nothing to be gained from fear. I call Pong Pong cowardly, but that’s not really true. He’s not afraid of anything, but he’s cautious about everything, because he knows the world is full of danger and there’s no safety to be found. This is the life he lived out in the Azure Sea, one of prolonged menace and insecurity followed by fleeting moments of calm and quiet, but never any actual safety. Never let your guard down, that is the law of the wilds, but conversely, this means you cannot let your fear control you, because it will only get in the way of survival.

A lesson I still have yet to learn, and one I fear I will struggle with for all my life, because unlike Pong Pong, I am a cowardly man who is afraid all the time. There’s nothing I can do to change this, but I can face my fears and overcome them for now, which means I need to stop and take a deep breath so I can start working on a plan.

Good air in.

Bad air out.

What are my options?

…

Fuck all, that’s what. I’m doomed. Good talk, me. Thanks, me. You’re doing terrible. You too. Way to go, us!

Buddy’s pitiable mewlings turn aggressive once more as he grows angry at Zhen Shi’s lack of compliance, but there’s nothing my sweet dog can do. Forget fighting Zhen Shi, I doubt Buddy could beat Mama Bun in a rough and tumble fight, because he is a sweet, lovable darling who’s never had to struggle for anything in his life. In contrast, Mama Bun is from the streets, a bad bitch who ain’t scared of nothin’ as evidenced by her calm and placid demeanour as she floats atop her invisible Manifested raft and enjoys the breeze bringing all manner of scents to her sensitive nose.

The raft. Huh. I didn’t have the time to think about it before, but how is Mama Bun’s raft keeping up? My Guided Weapons are a full half-second behind, and lagging even further with every passing moment, and while earlier, I would’ve been at a loss on how to explain this, my recently empowered Spiritual Senses enable me to really feel the flow of Chi and Heavenly Energy. With Peace, Tranquility, and Unity their movements are independent of my own and unable to keep up, but Mama Bun’s raft is clearly tethered to my physical body. When I go high, Mama Bun’s raft rises along with me, and when I go low, so too does she, as if her raft were connected to the back of my waist and floating atop a current flowing out from it. She’s even bobbing up and down like she’s actually on water, which leads me to believe that I’m Manifesting more than just the raft itself, but also the hypothetical current underneath it.

And why is this important? Honestly, I didn’t think it was. I just got lost in seeing how adorable my sweet bun-bun is, though I admit the lack of blood does have me feeling a little loopy. That being said however, these idle musings remind me of a weapon I have yet to use, that of the Blessing of Water.

Mostly because I have no fucking idea how to use it, but as I gaze upon Mama Bun floating along on her raft, there’s an underlying logic to it all which I somehow understand. Same as the invisible raft which only I can see, there is also water flowing along in a current to buoy the raft along. The current shifts to keep up, even moving Mama Bun out of the way whenever I attack or am attacked in kind, an ebb and flow dedicated to keeping her safe and afloat which I have been maintaining all this time. Not with the use of another Natal Soul, but through instinct and intuition alone, an intuitive understanding I previously attributed to the Warrior, and the Warrior alone.

But I am not some foreign invader, here to take over a natural soul. I am no Spectre or body snatcher, no man out of time or fish out of water. I am Rayne and Amigui both, a native of this world in this life as much as I am a denizen of the other world, with no distinction between the two. The same goes for my other aspects, like the memester personality that can’t take anything seriously, the die-hard science-minded idiot that refuses to believe in magic, and the Warrior who cares not for logic so long as something is useful. I am all these things and more, a frustrating tangle of contradictions that somehow all exist without conflict, because I am a very broken and complicated man.

And as Zhen Shi carries me away to certain doom, I indulge the one trait my myriad of personalities all share, the love of floof. Watching Mama Bun float along behind me, I swoon at the sight of her adorable snoot, while simultaneously realizing exactly why I Awakened to the Blessing of Water instead of something cool and useful like Fire or Lightning. I’ve touched upon it before, but the other three Primal Elements just don’t make any sense. Fire, Earth, and Air, totally normal and ordinary aspects that are present throughout the entire world, and life as we know it would not exist without them. With the addition of Water, I now understand that the four Primal Elements are not actually indicative of the elements themselves, but rather a subset of foundational forces upon which the entire universe is built, as I saw firsthand during Buddy’s nativity process, even if that was well beyond my meagre level of comprehension. Either way, I know that these fundamental forces are each associated with a basic Chi skill. Honing and Amplification for Fire, Reinforcement and Stability for Earth, Lightening and Guiding for Air, and Deflection and Resonance for Water.

Totally makes sense sorta, and I know all of this now, but at the time of my first and second Awakening, I didn’t know shit. I didn’t even know what a Blessing was, or what I could grasp from it, but I did have some smattering of memories from my past life which told me this four-element system sounds like complete bullshit. I mean, think about it from a scientific perspective. Elements. Earth, Fire, Wind, and Water, none of these things are actually elements. Earth? That’s a catch-all term for dirt, which is just an accumulation of particulates comprised of decomposed plant matter and ground up rocks, among other minerals and shit. Literal shit, mind you, like the stuff Taddy flings around in his herb garden, so how can ‘earth’ be an element, much less something I want to control? I ain’t no shit-bender, nuh-uh. Air’s the same way, a mixture of gases that make up the world’s atmosphere, with wind merely being the movement of air from low pressure to high. Air is comprised of elements, like Oxygen, Nitrogen, and other stuff, but Air itself is not an Element, so why would I want the power of gaseous elements? What good is that? I need the Blessing of Pressure to control gases, otherwise I might as well just fart and pray that either the stink kills all my enemies, or the sound renders them unable to fight because they’re too busy laughing their asses off. As for Fire? Bitch, that’s a reaction, not even a physical thing, but what happens when other physical things get too fucking hot and excited. Rub two sticks together, and behold, the power of fire, wooooooo.

So of course my ignorant self Awakened to the Blessing of Water. Sure, water itself isn’t an element per-se, but at least I can name the elements a molecule of water is comprised up of, namely Hydrogen and Oxygen. This isn’t to say that I Awakened to the Blessing of two Hydrogen and one Oxygen molecule when covalently bonded in a liquid form, but rather I chose the Blessing of Water because I am sad, sorry sack of shit who loves to be miserable and needs to follow his own internal logic no matter how stupid and twisted it might be.

Was. I was all those things, but not anymore. I love my life now, and would like to no longer be miserable, so it’s high time I learn to love myself, no matter how much of an asshole I might be.

