There was no sense deliberating about the future however, because while the boy possessed extraordinary potential, his current strength was already more than enough to threaten this Sovereign’s existence. A truth he’d denied for too long, believing himself superior to this savage runt in all ways, holding firm to the belief that this Sovereign’s victory was all but assured so long as Falling Rain was denied the time needed to grow into a threat. Alas, the facts showed that the boy was already a threat, one which continued to grow stronger with each passing exchange as he progressed by leaps and bounds since regaining consciousness in Meng Sha earlier today. As the dark cloud of screaming Spectres descended upon him, this Sovereign let loose a sigh of regret and self-deprecation as he reflected on how this came to pass.

All his studies since time immemorial had revealed to him the potential power the Spectres possessed, and it was this power he would use to overthrow the Emperor. At first, they played the role of his eyes and ears, enabling him to partake in the innermost thoughts and desires of the prey those Spectres touched upon. It wasn’t as clear and distinct as reading their thoughts, but it was enough to give this Sovereign a glimpse into his target’s psyche, to say nothing of the actual words and documents seen by the Spectres as they passed. Then he learned how to sever portions of his Transcendents’ souls to keep for himself, or more specifically, portions of their hosts’ souls, which in this Sovereign’s hands, enabled him to threaten his Transcendents with death and submission should they refuse to heed his commands. The Spectres were madness made manifest, itinerant shards of souls represented the sum total of his life’s achievements, the foundation upon which he built all his strength and control, and the means through which he would topple the dog Emperor from his throne.

But now, even this was denied him, for without his golden robes to bolster his Will and determination, he no longer possessed the ability to subdue them, nor the courage to ever try again.

Because if Falling Rain could intrude upon this Sovereign’s Natal Palace unimpeded and deal so grievous a blow to his Dharmic Icon, then who was to say the Emperor or someone else could not do the same? This information alone was enough to ruin this Sovereign, for never again would he have confidence enough to imprison any Spectres within his soul, for his safety could no longer be guaranteed. Even the mere thought of allowing them into his Natal Palace was enough to fill him with fear and apprehension aplenty, for he walked the Razor’s Edge, where even a single errant thought might well be enough to send him plummeting into Imbalance, so without absolute control over the Spectres, he no longer dared heed their whispers much less allow them access into his soul.

Meaning that from this day forward, the power of the Spectres would forever be denied him.

A single blow of Sword Intent was all it took to undo his life’s work. Not just the last eight-hundred years of planning, but his entire life, spanning back untold millennia to a time before the founding of the Azure Empire. These were the facts laid out before him, the undeniable truth which he could only accept. Incredulity turned to denial, which in turn spawned grief and resignation as this Sovereign struggled to come to grips with the truth. This tribal child had simply waltzed into his demesne, the inner sanctuary nestled within the deepest recesses of his eternal soul, and rejected his Authority in favour of his own in a direct transgression against Natural Law. Wielding the power of his own Will and Authority, Falling Rain made a single move and shattered this Sovereign’s carefully crafted Dharmic Icon, ruining its significance so thoroughly that it could never be used again.

It should not have been possible, and yet, here this Sovereign stood, facing down the same Spectres he once ruled over as master and commander both. Fear and regret welled up from within as the Spectres converged upon him with fangs bared and claws brandished, his most familiar weapons now turned against him. A moment longer and they would crash headlong into him, shredding his eternal soul to pieces and feasting upon his life’s experiences before drinking deep of his memories and emotions in order to better turn him to their cause. Even with inescapable death or oblivion converging upon him however, he still clung fast to hope and sought to uncover a solution to all his woes, some miracle of the Heavens that would allow him to subdue the Spectres once more, some means to grant him control without being affected by their insidious influence, for he could not bear to throw away his life’s work. If he gave them up now, then he would never control them again, because then the seed of doubt planted by Falling Rain’s Orated attack would blossom and take root within this Sovereign’s soul, never to be removed again.

If only he’d killed the boy outright, slaughtered him where he stood in Shi Bei, Meng Sha, JiangHu, Sinuji, Nan Ping, or even as far back as Sanshu. So many missed opportunities to avoid this most distressing outcome, for without the Spectres, all of this Sovereign’s accrued knowledge was worthless. There would be no more charmed Defiled or loyal Wraiths, no more Transcendents to control, Ascended, Divinity, or otherwise. No more whispered temptations or crafted illusions to turn mortals and Divinities to his cause. No more Insight found in the depths of depravity. No more mass-produced Runic Armour or Spiritual Weapons crafted from mundane materials and powered by an infusion of Spectres. So what if this Sovereign had Falling Rain in hand? Without the Spectres, he was a man alone in his war against the dog Emperor, a single, solitary existence arrayed against the outer provinces and Imperial Clan both, so no matter how powerful this Sovereign might become, he was still merely one man, and two hands were incapable of blocking a million swords.

Alas, there was no cure for regret, no second chance to act, so with no other options left to him, this Sovereign steeled his Will and expelled the Spectres from his soul only moments before they consumed him. It was as simple as turning a hand for a man who kept to the Razor’s Edge for so many millennia, and yet it was simultaneously the most difficult thing this Sovereign had ever done. With this one, single act of rejection, he had forever closed off his Path, leaving him no choice but to start anew and find a new Path to the Peak, a new Dao to believe and draw strength from. Grief turned to anger as his eyes refocused in reality to find a Healed Falling Rain seated in the sands with his dog, no doubt expecting to see this Sovereign falter and fall, to give into the weight of emotion and succumb to the divided Will of the Spectres.

Instead, he charged forth to grab the boy by the throat and dragged him through the sands, all the while pummeling his face until the smug, self-satisfied smile slipped away to reveal a jagged mess of bloody and broken teeth once more. “Foolish worm,” this Sovereign screamed, his rage and fury threatening to consume him, but he held fast to the Razor’s Edge and allowed the escaped Spectres no purchase into his soul, nor would he allow them to draw close to be Devoured by Falling Rain. “You thought this Sovereign weak and timid like you? That this Sovereign would succumb to the weight of his Spectres? I have lived through countless lifetimes, have known adversity and suffering the likes of which you can only imagine, have eaten more salt than you have grains of rice –”

“That doesn’t make sense at all.” Interrupting this Sovereign mid-rant, the boy chuckled and said, “Of course you’ve eaten more salt. A pinch probably has more grains of salt than a bowl has grains of rice, so how difficult could – ”

Slamming the insolent child into the sands once more, this Sovereign beat him soundly until he felt the boy’s Domain Plated Defenses give way. The superlative Water Deflection remained, but even the measly one-percent of this Sovereign’s strength that made it through was enough to cause the boy grievous injuries, leaving him a mess of bloodied bruises and broken bones that he immediately set to Healing. Unfathomable is what it was, for any man to be so enduring, able to recover from anything short of death even whilst unconscious, and this Sovereign’s chest heaved and burned as he dug his fingers into the boy’s flesh and ripped out a tendon. The pain and shock woke him with a gasp, but this Sovereign was not satisfied with his suffering, for this pain was too fast and too abrupt to truly settle in. Unfortunately it would have to do, for without the Spectres chained fast to his soul, this Sovereign could no longer keep track of the Rabbit and Hare Divinities as they battled against an unleashed Gen and Goujian, much less Scry upon the happenings in Shi Bei. The loss of his near-omniscient awareness left him feeling lost and exposed, blinded by the too bright light and deafened by the resounding silence left in the wake of the Spectres enforced absence.

Which was why it took so long to realize that the Spectres were no longer assaulting him from all sides, and in fact nowhere to be found at all.

Panicked and confused, he reviewed his memories and studied the boy before letting loose with a sigh, for he confirmed that there was no way Falling Rain could’ve Devoured the Spectres. This Sovereign would’ve seen it, sensed it, and killed the boy immediately before he could do anything about it. He should kill him regardless, for there were too many mysteries about Falling Rain to leave anything to chance, but bereft of the Spectres, this Sovereign was unwilling to give up so promising a prize even if he was at a loss on how to control it. Of course, the mystery of the Spectres’ absence was still yet unsolved, but even as this Sovereign theorized that they’d fled to escape capture or Cleansing, he froze in place as he spotted the boy’s Spiritual Dog snapping at empty air and gobbling it down, only to open his jaws once again to reveal a gullet full of half-Cleansed Spectres.

…

The Predator! “No!” he screamed, abandoning Falling Rain to kill the Spiritual Dog before it could act, but it darted away with a full-bodied sprint that left this Sovereign spitting out sand. Already well over a kilometre away, the dog glanced back with wide-eyed fear whilst circling about, unwilling to move too far from his master yet deathly afraid of this Sovereign’s presence. Huffing with rage and indignation, he let loose with a scream that shook the skies before setting off after the dog once more, but the beast was too skittish and wily to allow itself to be caught. It wasn’t that the dog was too fast, but not only was this Sovereign missing a foot, every time he drew close to the mutt, he would turn sharply and disappear from sight, hidden from eyes and Spiritual Senses alike for a fraction of a moment. Short and brief though this disappearing act might be, it was enough to see the dog safely away in a seemingly random direction, and this Sovereign was clueless on how to counter it. This wasn’t Concealment and Cloud-Stepping away, for the dog ran across the sands propelled by some invisible force that allowed him to twist and turn about without losing speed or momentum, one that also obscured his position in some unknown manner.

After running about for all of eight seconds and avoiding no less than a hundred and nine attempts to grab him, the dog even found confidence enough to stop and look back with tongue hanging out and tail a-wagging as if this were all some sort of game. The beast was still wary, but he was enjoying the chase, unwilling to fight but more than happy to run about the sands all day. This Sovereign had dismissed the dog as nothing more than a failure on Falling Rain’s part, but now he understood the full breadth of what had taken place. The dog was the Elemental Spirit of Water made manifest, though why it would take so scruffy a form was a mystery to be sure. Likely Falling Rain’s influence that, but how did he manage to confer thoughts and emotions to an inhuman Spiritual entity?

A wheezing laugh snapped this Sovereign out of his thoughts as he turned to see the boy sit upright, and only then did he realize the chase had brought them back. Still battered and wounded but mended enough to speak and too stupid to keep silent, Falling Rain spit out several broken teeth and spoke with a slurred lisp. “Yea, good luck catching Buddy when he doesn’t want to be caught,” he began, brimming with the pride and joy of a father boasting about his son. “Tag is his favourite game, so unless you have a… something edible in hand, he’ll run for as long as you chase him.” Just as this Sovereign was about to snap, the boy’s eyes proceeded to widen in shock and horror as he screamed, “Buddy no!”

