Matt added his own question. “Any new vision or colors? Apparently, it was a fairly rare effect of the original.”

Susanne shook her head, unbothered by everyone trying to peer at her perfectly normal looking eye. “Honestly, it's less useful than I’d have thought.”

Allie scoffed. “Stupid dwarven rift. I say we go ask for a refund!”

Susanne continued unbothered. “It feels like any normal eye Natural Treasure. Activating it is a little straining on my spirit, but it's not that bad. Also, once I aspected the eye, I couldn’t change it, so it only works on bladed weapons in the same family as a greatsword, which makes it even more limited than we thought. As for its effect being weaker, that's more a me problem and not the eye’s fault. It's…” Susanne paused for a moment before finishing, “Hard to get used to. First, I don’t entirely trust it. Allie can do something that makes her entirely invisible to it, and that’s just the start.”

That didn’t really surprise Matt. Precognitive abilities weren’t common, but at the level of Pinnacles and Ascenders, it kind of was. Their reliability ranged from things like [AI]’s simple mathematical models, to sensing incoming danger with spiritual perception, up to Manny’s future sight. Aster was the one who usually took the role of shrouding his and Liz’s actions from that sort of thing, so Allie being able to bypass the Eye didn’t surprise him too much. It was a game of play and counterplay, with the only clear winner being Max.

“Second, I find that my own blade gets in my way, future sight-wise,” Susanne continued. “The eye really wants to predict my blade's future, and while I can force it not to, it's straining, and I feel like I’m not using the eye properly then, which makes it entirely useless if the opponent doesn't have a blade.”

Matt mulled that over, thinking back to some of his conversations with Max. “I remember talking to Max about something similar. About how she avoids future sight paralysis. Her answer was that she doesn’t really encounter it, as she can always find a method of victory, which then allows her to simply choose the correct future. Can you maybe do something like that?”

Susanne slowly shook her head. “Maybe, but I don’t think so. At least certainly not yet. I’ve never really interacted with future sight like this before.”

Liz offered her own suggestion. “What about widening what you consider a greatsword similar to what you did with your Talent and pens? Maybe then you can simulate more?”

Once more, Susanne disagreed. “It's based on my Domain manifestation greatsword and I’m not going to change that for the eye.”

Zack, after tapping his chin, asked, “What if you focused more on your own blade?”

That was an interesting idea, and Matt and Susanne quickly exchanged a few blade strokes before she nodded.

“This might actually work. If I solely focus on my blade, I can predict the flow of a battle fairly well, and it might mean I can predict enemies who aren’t using greatswords or closely bladed weapons. Mace please, Matt.”

Matt pulled out a mace and moved to attack Susanne.

Her first block was a little clumsy for her, but after a few exchanges, she started to feel her new eye out.

What Matt found interesting was how her style started subtly shifting.

Susanne was generally a fairly aggressive fighter. It was a combination of her Talent making her more dexterous, as well as letting her leave patterns in the air which would cut anyone dumb enough to try and push through without proper defenses. But as Susanne pushed herself and her new eye, her style started changing.

Matt wasn’t sure he’d call it more aggressive, but it started to turn that way.

It wasn't that Susanne started going for more risky attacks, but she started attacking more in general.

It opened her up to a few attacks Matt was able to take advantage of, but with each failure, Susanne’s style seemed to shift a tiny bit more.

The evolution was fascinating, and Matt wanted to keep fighting, but they had to stop when Susanne’s eye started bleeding.

Grinning, she kissed Zack, which nearly killed Aster and Allie who hammed up the rare occurrence of public displays of affection.

“Brilliant idea.” Her voice was quiet, but her smile was genuine.

Liz spoke once the moment passed. “So, what's it like? How is the difference?”

Susanne nodded to Matt. “It was half Matt’s comment about Max. At first I thought it was kinda crap advice, but it's not. I may not quite be Ascender level, but I’m good. Good enough to know there is always a way to win, and I can do it. So by concentrating on that and my own blade and its future, I can react to what I see my blade doing and then calculate what is going on in the battle around me. I can then react to that, which changes all of the predictions, but that just allows me to do it all again. It's sadly a little straining on my eye both spiritually and physically. I lost thirty percent of my vision in our fight near the end there, but this is definitely more useful than trying to predict others’ weapons.”

Matt shrugged, not quite following what Susanne meant there at the end, but happy for her.

Allie chewed on her lip as she said, “So what you really need is spiritual strengthening Natural Treasures.”

“New ones, but yes. I already had a lot during the war, but more, and eye ones in particular, would probably help.”

Using their Ascender access, they found there were precious few such items available, and none were so useful they were worth trading for.

Instead, they put out alerts for any such items, as well as getting several potions that helped alleviate spiritual strain, with Matt lamenting that he wished he could have gotten his hands on such when he was on the Path.

Still, instead of pushing ahead, they contacted Luis, who had been helping the teams assigned on their rift while they were at the Clans.

The Guilds man smiled as they approached. “Ahh, nice to see you all again.”

There was no animosity to his tone, so Matt just smiled. “I hope you are happy with your accommodations.”

Luis grinned as he rubbed his cheeks. “Honestly, I spend most days down on Palustris relaxing in one of the hot springs or bothering Helen. This was the break I needed after running the guild for so long. As for helping here, it's quite interesting and gives me something to do. I personally have a good feeling about this.”

Matt had already looked at the team’s reports, and they had managed to create a few variations of elemental aura rifts based off some of the other guild members’ mana types. Luis had brought several aspected mana stones with him to Palustris, giving them a steady supply when needed, though none of their results were quite what they were aiming for.

Still, the team, along with all of the teams on bespoke aura rifts, were learning a lot about how rifts functioned and they were fairly confident in getting something to work eventually. It might take a few hundred or thousand years, but it was all progress.

Matt personally agreed with the teams that it was ultimately only a stepping stone, and they needed to learn more about how Domains interacted with rifts and aura rifts in particular, but that discovery was probably even farther off.

Not that Luis was bothered.

Or any of their clients.

Matt had half expected to receive angry messages upon returning to the guild and not having anyone’s bespoke aura rifts completed, but he didn’t have a single such complaint. He had underestimated just how long of a view older immortals had for such things.

Rubbing his hands, Luis sat them all down. “Okay, so, a Power. What do you guys actually know about a Power? What is a Power to you?”

Everyone looked to Matt, who just shrugged. “It's a combination of a person's Talent, Domain, and, if they have it, bloodline. It's a unified whole which can amplify them to make the sum greater than their constituent parts.”

Luis’ smile faded as he looked around at the others before shaking his head. “A perfectly textbook answer and correspondingly unhelpful. So I ask again. What is a Power?”

Liz offered, “It's about harmonization?”

“Better, but not quite. Anyone else?”

When the others' answers weren’t really any better, Luis gave up. “That's partially a trick question. A Power is all of what you all mentioned, including the textbook answer. Except, it's so much more. Powers are their person in totality. If you had two theoretically identical people who lived theoretically identical lives, their Powers would still be different. It's one of the reasons those from the Guilds, those with Powers, have an easier time in the Folded Reflections challenge. It's hard to change any aspect without changing everything about the Power.”

Matt puzzled those statements over, not contradicting the older man but noting his questions for later.

“Now, the concept of a Power isn’t new. It’s not simply the result of how you engage with your Domains, a basic ability based on the foundation of your approach, like you Empire-types moving objects around. It’s more fundamental than that, more primal. Hard to find, if you don’t know what you’re doing, but always there. But, because of its power and utility, we obviously prioritize its spread and usage. Because culture shapes personality, and personality shapes your spirit, most people in the Guilds have at least a basic Power, meaning they are part way through stage one. And just like all of you were correct yet only scratching at a greater truth, so too are all of the parts of a Power adding together and harmonizing, knowing one another truly into creating the true whole that is you. When I was young, it was simply called resonance.”

Holding up a hand, Luis added, “Now, to be clear, this isn’t a matter of asserting yourself onto the Realm, like you tend to view the Domain as doing. This is simply a matter of being. You can’t push a Power into existing, it either is or it is not.”

Looking to Matt, he gestured. “A useful metaphor is finding your specific frequency and bringing everything in line with that. That often results in additional strength that is ultimately a byproduct, not the actual goal. I’ve personally seen it where people don’t get stronger by creating and using their Power’s first stage. I doubt that would happen to any of you, but it’s possible and illustrates a useful point. As for the Power, there are generally four stages of its growth. First is Harmonization, which is exactly what it sounds like. Finding your resonance and getting everything to beat to the same rhythm. It's the easiest and hardest step. I’ve heard of people being able to instantly figure it out and go through all of stage one in an afternoon, but that's rare. Most people either slowly harmonize themselves, like a filling cup, until they reach full harmonization, or they fully harmonize for brief moments which they slowly increase the time of until they are able to hold it constantly. From my understanding, Hero Titan was either the first or the second type, in that he did it instinctively or slowly harmonized himself in a natural and gradual process. But so long as you get there, it doesn't really matter how you did so.”

“Now, most Guilders accomplish harmonization, because our First Expansion is already taught to be built in resonance with the rest of us. This is what people are referring to when they call Powers the Guilds’ equivalent of your telekinesis or the Clans’ Wakes. Far fewer, however, manage to take it any further to stages two, three, or four because it gets harder and harder as you go along. Historically, Heroes either see decent power spikes from this step or none at all, depending entirely on themselves and their unique situations.”

Aster raised a finger and Luis nodded to her, giving her the floor. “Is it possible to get weaker at this step?”

Luis chewed his lip before shrugging. “Perhaps? I can see it theoretically if someone is, say, an ice mage but has a fire bloodline. If they somehow manage to bring those opposites in harmony it’s possible they get weaker, but honestly, it's more likely they either can't make a Power or the contradiction empowers them like a Domain Meld, since they were able to work through it. So it's presumably possible, but I’ve never seen or heard of it.”

After seeing she was happy with his answer, Luis continued. “The second stage is Amplification. It's what used to be considered the first step in a ‘fully formed’ Power, and is something that very few people manage, even in the Guilds. That’s only possible because every individual part of you exists in perfect harmony, each Natural Treasure, skill, Domain ability, essence distribution, even growth items, all of it needs to be in perfect resonance. At that point, you can learn to put the whole of your being behind a single action and let it soar. It’s… incredibly difficult, and very easy to hurt yourself while doing it.”

Matt slowly nodded, finally having a path forward.

After waiting for them all to signal they were ready, Luis shrugged. “And that's all I can really talk about. As for the third stage, I don’t have it and no one with it will tell anyone what it is until after they figure it out for themselves. It's similar to a Domain stage where knowing about it too early can actually make it harder or impossible to advance further. Stage four, however, I do know but can’t do until having fully completed stage three. It’s permanently amplifying all parts of oneself similar to in stage two.”

Allie whistled at the words. “Who has either of those? Anyone we know?”

