Luis shrugged. “I know Hero One Step Behind has reached stage four. Though it’s hardly a surprise, given he claims to have mastered all general Domain techniques, including ones from lost ages. Qin Jiang also has the third stage and manages to achieve the fourth while he’s in the flow of forging, but not yet outside of it. I can direct you towards various resources that speculate, but as for individuals you might know, I’ll simply let you know that Hero Waters most certainly doesn't have a Power. I was there when he came to try and get Qin Jiang to make him a Domain amplification item. Once he was denied, he was quite proud to explain he didn’t have or need any such tricks to be so strong in his mastery of Domains, and would continue to be the best without any item. He… certainly proved Qin Jiang and I wrong on that front.”

Matt immediately messaged the other Ascender and got a near instant response with an accompanying picture of Aiden lounging on a beach.

“Yeah fuck that gimmicky shit. All of the so-called Great Power manifestations are crocks of shit. I wouldn’t waste your time with any of them, Matty boy. Just hone your weapons so when someone comes in front of you, you can just stab ‘em. Be the best at one thing. Except Domains. Or Domain stages, because I’m already the best there, so you should try for something else. Really, I’m the best at Domains in general, and so you should listen when I talk about them and say that Powers are crocks of shit. They are all crocks of shit, but that Power stuff doubly so. Come learn under me. Become my protege. I can teach—”

Seeing Aiden was going to keep talking about how everyone should learn from him, Matt just closed the window. If Aiden was talking about Domain, it was safe to just ignore or outright invert everything he said.

The man was so bad at teaching Domains that he wasn’t to be trusted at all.

“Well, Aiden says Powers are shit, so what can you teach us? How do they start intentionally harmonizing and how do I amplify a part of myself? We’ve got a week before our next delve, and there is no better feeling than proving him wrong.”

Luis laughed out loud and started instructing them.

Sadly, none of them made any appreciable progress during the week, but that was to be expected with something as complicated as a Power. Still, they all intended to work on it as they delved for Tier 28.
