 by falling over it, but nothing happened when she fell into the webs other than some painful screeching on her part.Mharia was beside herself in gleeful laughter. She had a grudge against Estal rather than Karn which was strange since Karn had stabbed her but Estal was just rude at first. They left the room and Hazhur had the feeling they were a hair’s breadth away from meeting something else in that room...Mharia was lurking around them, easily avoiding Estal’s swatting or the Silver Order’s almost religious petting. The hallways had the vibe of a natural cavern, the musty smell of water, earth, and something more potent filled the halls.Hazhur could almost smell... ale.He chalked that up to his desire to drink as Estal and Mharia bickered.Mharia floated before a break in the path. A path going left, one going ahead, and one to the right.The fairy looked darkly amused.“Now, esteemed ‘guests’,” she said, voice dripping with abrupt noble disdain that made Hazhur uncomfortable and Estal’s cheeks to turn red in anger.“Your choice is your own, but let me explain before you moan. To the left are humble collections with a merry time,” she held her hand to their left, “but I heard the entertainment is far more sublime,” she grinned suddenly.“Must you rhyme?” Estal asked, stressing the question.“Not at all, it’s not needed in the slightest. However it helps explain things to those that are not...” she trailed off, smiling down at Estal.“The brightest,” she finished.She pointed directly ahead as Hazhur stopped Estal from trying to clobber the fairy with her expensive staff.“Under the stars and moon, take a breather, take a rest... you’ll catch a fish soon. Then again, once in a moon so blue... the fish catch you,” Mharia said with a slight twirl.Then she pointed down the last path.“That way has mud, it's good for your skin,” she said lightly and kicked her feet up to rest in the air.“The last one is a trap. I bet it's either a dead end or a Floor Mini-boss,” Estal spat and Karn looked far too excited at that.The Silver Order was tilting their head and pointed down the other way to ‘sublime times’ in eagerness.“Which way takes us forward?” Hazhur asked, seeing how much the fairy would spill.“All of them. Some further than others,” Mharia said breezily.“Which is the safest?” Estal asked and Mharia opened one eye before her smile grew larger and larger until her face deformed into something demonic.“Oh... they’re all so safe it's pathetic. But so is fire until you throw fuel on it,” she cackled and vanished. A silence lulled over them, except for the excited ruffles of the Silver Order tugging them to the left.This Dungeon gave Hazhor an uneasy feeling in the pit of his stomach.That didn’t happen too often.Something was very off about this place.Something very wrong.---Nu watched as Delta turned in a sort of restful peace. Between defeating Mharia, upgrading the third floor, choosing the fourth-floor theme, and dancing her heart out... Delta was out like a light.However, Dungeon Cores did not sleep often. The fact Delta could and Nu became... more, meant that, as long as Nu was willing to take on the burden of being the sub-core 一 like some sort of receptionist really for Delta一 then the core could have days off.Nu would hate to be a bother and wake her up for something as unimportant as fools. No, Delta deserved the sleep and Nu deserved some stress relief.It all worked out in the end...Mostly in Nu’s favour, but who was counting?
