Once upon a time, there was a mother who was too honest with her child. She told him directly that stories are like opium:

“They addle the reader's mind and make them confused about the true state of the world. They take the sting away from that cold and caring pain which comes with existence and replace it with a supposedly meaningful bitter-sweetness that is far more palatable, but altogether untrue.”

With each word this mother spoke, her child realized more and more that people are not characters in a story, that there is no grand theme to their lives aside from what they decided to pursue and what they could achieve by their own power and the conditions of their environment.

Some thought the mother cold:

“You should let your child enjoy a few fairytales! He should be allowed to dream and hope. There will be time enough for him to suffer the cold hand of reality and the viciousness of the System.”

But this too is an opium, a delusion that the System cares about your age at all. There is nothing that makes a child special. My love for you is great, but my love for you means nothing if a Pathbearer of a higher Tier than me enters our home right now and butchers you. I will scream and fight, and my mind and heart will break, as will your father’s, and it will make no difference.

We do not live a story; we live a life, and life is ruled by one thing: entropy. Not strife. Strife is the artificial means the System uses to deny entropy its due. All this struggle, violence, and constant striving that defines our days is solely meant for this grand existence, this Integration, or so it is called, to persist indefinitely against the natural cycle of the universe.

And I think it's quite a grand thing. A dizzying and awesome feat on the part of the System. Yes, so many of us Pathbearers die bitter and hopeless deaths, but the flames of our wars and the heat of our struggle feed it everlasting power. We are effectively its perpetual motion engine. Through us, the System has a means of sustaining true immortality, beyond the likes of which a Pathbearer will ever know, or so most might think. A rare few have the hubris and imagination to dream.

But I have more capability than even those who merely dream. I'm going to tell you a new story, and I'm going to leave all those complaining voices silent and give you and them what they really want. Except my fairytale will not take place on pages made from mundane paper. No, only the best for my boy.

We are going on a trip, Udraal, but you must not breathe a word of it to your father. Not until we get back and I am absolutely sure that this book is good and proper. You will be the judge of the contents within. Be brutally honest. Mommy can take it.

But before we leave, there is someone I want to introduce to you, a sort of… playmate I have been trying to make for you for quite some time.

Her name is Evanescia. And she will be our guide in this fairytale wonderland.

—Recovered memory stored within a focus crystal found inside one of Udraal Thann’s abandoned laboratories

334

Sympathy as a Dagger [II]

Uva despised logistics. She despised them as a Sister in training. She despised them as a Sister in the field. She despised them now as a Heroic-Tier Pathbearer who had to arrange hundreds of wounded, malnourished, and traumatized prisoners while also managing the now sympathy-stricken guards to ensure there would be no clashes among the two groups. Her solution came in the form of a simple rearrangement. All the prisoners went inside the Bell-Hold, and the ones who needed food were directed toward the pantry while those among them who possessed Medical Skills were tasked with healing the feeble. Their former jailers were placed outside, manning the walls, cleaning the bodies, separated from their victims by the hold itself.

The entire process took two hours, and a cascade of casualties followed. Thanks to Uva's brilliant suggestions, a fourth of the prisoners were now afflicted with some plague or disease, and the filth that caked their forms brought forth infections aplenty. The guards suffered their own ailments, mostly mental. The survivors, faced with too many dead comrades and unable to endure the wrongness of their deeds, flung themselves from the walls or drove blades into their carotids. The suicides numbered fourteen; Uva was unable to save any of them. The deaths came too fast. Too sudden. Too unannounced. Such was a crippling limitation of her sympathetic Psychomancy—when you controlled someone's mind in its entirety, you decided what they did. When you brought certain buried feelings to the forefront and forced them to examine themselves, then you left them with the initiative, even though you changed their hearts. That came with brutal consequences. Some people couldn't live with who they were in the light, and so they chose that final oblivion to escape the burning bright.

The self-resolved dead joined their comrades in the moat. The festering rivers of snaking centipedes fed well, tearing through armor and burrowing into flesh before hollowing bodies from the inside out. That brought forth even more trauma. Trauma Uva made sure to eat and convert to power to eliminate more unnecessary attrition.

She had need of all of them: all the guards and all the prisoners were necessary if she wanted to bring down the Gnomish Council.

“Is that what they'll be doing now?” Harkness wanted to scoff but held herself back. She scorned Uva in most cases, but now she simply pitied the girl. That pity leaked over into Uva's mind, taunting her directly. “I knew you were inexperienced, but I didn't take you for an ignoramus.”

“Speak to me candidly, Harkness, or I won't let you speak at all.”

The psionic effigy sneered. “Have you any idea how much effort goes into turning someone against their own nation? Into cultivating a traitor? Into flipping entire sections of society against itself? Of course you don't. You have no knowledge of this. You are an undisciplined, unpracticed, unaware cog of your state, serving the latest interests against the most atomized of your society.”

“I didn't ask you for a political dissertation. I asked you what you mean.”

“I mean that the guards have little to no reason to defy the Gnomish Council. They feel bad, yes. Their sympathy is driving them past the edge of despair, and some of them have already taken action—against themselves. Most of them haven't even thought about the Council. Their minds are in turmoil about how they view themselves, and that is mainly what seizes them. That is mainly what halts them now. Themselves. They despise themselves, and the prisoners are in no shape to be used either. If you direct them against the Gnomish Council, they will be cut down. They're feeble, filthy, broken. This is the point. Evanescia wants you to lead these filthy, feeble, broken rabble in a sort of uprising against the gnomes—but only after you secure a critical mass of their number and the slavers’ from within.”

Uva scoffed. “I don't see a need for that. If I can compromise enough hearts and minds, then—”

“Stop,” Harkness interrupted her. “You need to think like a reader considering a story. I know that you are rigid and unimaginative, but picture yourself as a hero now, which clearly is what the Usurper-Narrator wants you to be. What is it that people want from a story?”

“Conflict?” Uva guessed, wondering where Harkness was going with this.

As this conversation took place in her mind palace, the other instances of her consciousness cringed as they realized there wasn't enough food to feed all the prisoners inside the Bell-Hold for even a week. Furthermore, they didn't have nearly enough medical supplies to treat all their sicknesses either. This was, after all, just a fortress outpost in the subterranean depths, a checkpoint that was meant to deliver a batch of goods onto the Deepdiver, not a long-term living facility. Not for so many, anyhow. Another logistical issue she had to deal with.

“Yes, conflict, but mainly tension. She wants you to confront a problem, struggle, and then, after going through a series of setbacks and triumphs, face the darkest hour before you finally prevail and thus bring the story full circle. That is the mechanism of most heroic stories meant to extol the virtues of a specific individual.” Harkness couldn't hide the scorn rife in her voice, but she still managed to finish her assessment regardless. “Evanescia’s delusion for selecting you as a hero due to your racial history aside, you must play this part, or she will simply revert everything. However, your conversation with her has revealed a few psychological vectors that we can exploit in her as well. She is not an experienced warrior—nor does she have the taste of one. However, she will change things for authenticity's sake and to rectify your dissonance. But she likely cannot anticipate my strategies disguised within yours.”

“What do you mean?” Uva couldn't help but be suspicious. Even though this version of Harkness was just a telepathic effigy, the woman was an experienced spy, and spies were creatures of deception above all else. Uva didn't think it was possible for her own mind to betray her, but she had gone through enough strangeness that such an outcome wasn’t beyond expectation.

“I mean that we should have a layered strategy to deal with a surface-level reader.” Harkness's spite was a two-headed snake: one pointed toward Uva, the other toward Evanescia. “There will be guards that you need to control directly. I know it bothers your newfound morals, but it must be done for the greater good. I will explain why in a moment; however, most of the rabble should be guided by suggestion instead of direct control. This is a good idea. Chaos will mask our true intentions, and furthermore, a leaderless movement is far harder to crush than one that has an obvious spearhead. Namely you. And while we're on this line of thought, it will be best if you appoint a false leader for this rebellion. Just to mislead the gnomes when the time comes.”

“I don't see a point to this. I'm going to ring the Great Bell and call the Deepdiver. Once it arrives, we'll simply slip aboard the moving city and then focus on compromising the Gnomish Council directly.”

“Again, you aren't thinking, girl, you are not thinking at all!” Harkness snarled. “You keep treating this like a subversive operation. It is not. You are a character in a story. Your tactics do not matter. What matters is the inevitability of tension. There will be a point of tension. It is what I experienced during my loop through the Fairwoods. The memories of which you haven't reviewed yet and refuse to review because you keep trying to brute-force the story using your Psychomancy like the toddler you are.”

Uva hummed. “I would be mindful of what names I call my enemy. Lest I find the insult turned upon myself. The shame of losing to a toddler must sting.”

“Less so when said toddler is a slave to the Outer Gods and a channel for their power,” Harkness sneered.

There was an undeniable flavor of salt in the former Owl’s being. And Uva quite liked the taste of salt. “Yes, let us continue using that excuse. But self-delusion aside, you were about to explain to me how I am to delude the Gnomish Council and Evanescia of my true intentions.”

“Our approach is simple. We expect direct opposition to us to arise. We will face setbacks. That much is inevitable. It is essential for the tension Evanescia desires to arise. We will likely find ourselves matched against a Psychomancer of the Legendary Tier, or even higher. Maybe several Legendary Psychomancers. They will likely serve as the hand or elites of the Gnomish Council and prevent us from simply overpowering them directly. But they will also have obvious weaknesses for you to exploit. Something that adds a narrative flair about how your wisdom or properly cultivated relationships among the slaves allow even the weakest Pathbearers to overcome the strongest. Some kind of drivel like that.”

“And meanwhile?”

“And meanwhile, we make additional preparations. We create so many threats and plot threads that Evanescia loses track of them or simply lets one slip by unnoticed. The most direct thing we can do is find a figurehead to serve as a leader. I suggest finding a prisoner who is particularly robust of body and charismatic in presentation to serve as your face. You can whisper suggestions to them, and then find other such charismatic creatures to seed with thoughts of rebellion. From there, cell after cell should spread through the gnomish operation, and the acts of rebellion and sabotage shall strike at random moments, unguided by a single will. Or so it might seem even to a rival Psychomancer.”

Loath though she was to admit it, Uva saw the wisdom in Harkness' suggestion. Before gaining the System's favor and undergoing her Eldritch transformation, Uva was dedicated to counter-psionics. She was a hunter of her own kind and protector of Weave’s security. Harkness occupied the exact opposite of the spectrum. She was someone that collapsed a system from the inside.

