“Logistics aren't your weakness alone,” Harkness continued. “They can be made into anyone's weakness. It is always better to be the attacker and maintain initiative when you are hidden and striking from the shadows. This grants you knowledge of your enemy, while leaving them ignorant of you. Since we are whispering these intentions to our enforcers and they are just suggestions that they will likely not remember once we rip them out of their minds, it will seem spontaneous. Even a rival Psychomancer, no matter how high their Tier, won't be able to discover the sheer duplicity at play. But they might be able to suppress your rebellion, because remember, Evanescia wants her entertainment. Watching you simply walk through the opposition will be tasty at the start as a power fantasy, but lose its flavor quickly. No matter what our first strategy is, it will fail.”

“And so you want me to add a control group,” Uva concluded.

“Yes, specially selected Pathbearers who can apply the right pressures to an organization and cripple it from within. We're not selecting for power exactly; we're selecting for influence and intrusion. And we're also selecting them because we need them to perform a very specific set of actions at times. Actions that might not be logical or natural for them to perform under suggestion alone.”

This made sense to Uva as well. After all, though some of the guards were undone when pierced by the humanity of their prisoners, some of their more callous comrades remained impregnable to the daggers of sympathy and had to be eliminated directly.

“Then I'm looking for a gnome. Preferably a gnome battle mage with their own Psychomancy Skill.”

Uva’s musing earned a rare huff of affirmation from Harkness. “Yes, exactly. You want someone who possesses a symmetry with your general skills so that some of your actions can be passed off as theirs. Even if they are compromised, you can remain hidden.” She chuckled. “Perhaps you would have had the potential to be a bird of our feathers.”

As Uva drew herself up and out of her mindscape, she gave Harkness’ projection a smile. “I prefer to stay a spider. Let another come into my web.”

Her stacked consciousness began working through the guards. If Uva wanted to mantle a Psychomancer, then there were only two options, both gnomes. They were an odd folk, very small in stature compared to humans and Umbrals, if still twice as tall as the average goblin, but much thinner than the green-skinned and noseless species that had migrated to Integrated Earth following a lost Incursion on their part. The gnomes’ skin color was more similar to Adam's than her own, and their overly large eyes came in pretty much every color and shade there was. Both sexes of the race commonly grew facial hair, with most of the men sporting long and braided beards while the women kept mustaches of different styles, as well as having longer eyelashes than their male counterparts.

The first of the two that were now in Uva's sight was an Adept gnome Quartermaster with a paltry Initiate Psychomancy Skill. The second was the Bell-Hold’s Telediviner—a Master-Tier Pathbearer possessing a Divination and Psychomancy Skill Fusion who was burdened with the duties of mentally soothing the centipedes filling the moat and projecting thoughts to the Telediviners in other Bell-Holds as part of a communication network.

The former came with reduced scrutiny. The latter came with more options. Thanks to her Skill, Uva could choose both. But instead of forcing her way into their minds, she directed a tendril of her mental magic to greet each of them.

“Do you want to do the right thing?” she asked directly.

Both gnomes shot to attention, shaken by the telepathic voice that greeted them. The Quartermaster currently had his bald head stuck out over the drawbridge. He was heaving nothing but sour spit after watching several of his friends be cast into the pit and devoured. The Telediviner was a white-haired woman with a thin, twirled mustache of the same color and ice-blue eyes that clung tight to a turret atop the parapets, having done nothing but cleaning the bolt loader over and over again to distract herself from misery since being appointed to her post there.

“Who… Who's there?” the Quartermaster breathed, verbalizing his terror rather than responding using Psychomancy.

“You're the one, then. The one that planted the thoughts in our heads.” The Telediviner's response was entirely different; her thoughts as sharp as her voice as they greeted Uva. In a single encounter, she'd deduced all that had happened. “I knew it had to be another mindfucker. I buried the thoughts deep. I sealed them with mental chains. You godless bastard. What have you done to me?”

“I only made you hear what your heart was singing,” Uva said honestly. “If you were planning to blame me for your emotions, don't. I simply brought them to the surface. I did nothing else. If you despise me for making you aware of your slaves’ humanity, then you are a blind wretch.”

The words she spoke to both were the same. Though their initial responses were different, they both flinched the same way, undone by shame, cowed by a greater power.

“What do you want from me?” the Quartermaster cried out into the darkness. The ogre and gnome guards also puking nearby were startled by his outburst.

“Are you going to punish me now?” the Telediviner asked. A part of her feared what was to come, but another welcomed the most deserved fate. She had been keeping more than laments buried inside her chest. There was a self-loathing there as well. She had been meant for more, or so she believed, but for the past ten years that she could remember, she was little more than a slaver, working these miserable operations, a practitioner of the skin trade with no greater glory under her belt, just faces she scrubbed from her mind and screams she tried to banish.

Uva hummed. “I'm going to give you a chance to be something more, to do something right. I need your help. You know what you're doing is wrong, even if you have excuses in your mind. I can hear how your insides wail. You know you are party to depravity, and you know that this thing you stand for, the Gnomish Council's urge to capture and enslave, is wrong.”

“It’s not my fault!” the Quartermaster shouted. By now, the ogres and gnomes around him were making distance, assuming he'd lost his mind and was close to a dangerous outburst. “I was… I had to! I would have been one of them if I wasn’t useful!”

“The Courts forced us to this point,” the Telediviner spat. “We belonged on the surface. We had a home once. But we were banished. Driven down by the others. They refuse to even accept us as Fae. They consider us more Patternist than Samsarist.” A seething hatred shrieked out of her mind, like steam from a kettle. “We had no choice!”

“You have a choice now,” Uva declared. “I am giving this choice to you. Previously, I would have forced my way in. But I don't want to be like you or the Council. If you wish to do the right thing, like me, if you wish to discover what it feels like, then I want you to let me in so that we can help bring this organization down. Afterward, we can talk about the surface and what the Courts are planning, and about the true player behind the pages.”

With her final cryptic statement, both gnomes widened their eyes, wondering what she was implying. Uva half-expected the Usurper-Narrator to intervene and turn a page back, telling her she couldn't drop such a large spoiler. But when that moment didn't follow, she pushed her luck a bit further. The Seeker showed both gnomes a flicker of Evanescia, and a hint at the true nature of this world. A rush of memories flowed over. The Quartermaster folded once more and heaved harder. The Telediviner mirrored her counterpart, but she actually had vomit to release—all over the turret she'd been cleaning. Philosophically, emotionally, and existentially shaken, both gnomish Psychomancers were briefly indisposed and unable to give their response.

As Uva waited, she directed a healthy prisoner to the top of the hold so they might ring the great bell and call upon the titanic beast that carried the greater remnants of the gnomish race from place to place, forever fleeing the wrath of the Courts. Uva was like a dragonfly skimming the surface of a pond. Both of the gnomes’ minds housed a great many memories, a long chain of history planted by Evanescia to give this story she was supposed to survive credence.

And so, as the slaves gorged themselves on what little food there was, as wounds were sutured and, in worse cases, cauterized, as the prison guards became guardians of those they once walked in chains, a series of chiming bells echoed. The noise was so sweet that even the surrounding stone couldn't hold it in abeyance. It passed through the matter, trembling far, vibrating deeper and deeper down the cavernous black gorge that loomed behind the Bell-Hold like an empty sea.

First, there was silence, only the quieting echoes of the Great Bell. But after a few moments, there came a violent, ominous rumble that made the earth itself tremble.

Both Psychomancers whom Uva interfaced with turned. They knew what was to come, and so did she. “This does not end. Not unless you decide to make it end, and you will not become someone who can be at peace with themselves if you simply wait. Choosing to do nothing is also an action.”

And now, Uva wished she were a bit more like Shiv. Her habit of ripping into someone's mind and bending their will left her persuasiveness wanting, and her Psychology Skill was comparatively feeble, since she could simply peek behind the curtain of someone's consciousness. But she knew they were emotionally fragile, and—

“I can’t,” the Quartermaster whimpered. “Please don’t. I don’t want this… I just want to be done. It’s too much…”

“Am I real?” the Telediviner asked.

The two gnomes surprised her. They split tracks once more. The weaker Psychomancer was also weaker in spirit. He was crumbling. He no longer had the taste for any of this. She had made a mistake in showing him too much. That glimpse of Evanescia, of the true shape of this dimension, had broken something deep inside of him. Not only was he a slaver to a miserable exiled kingdom that existed beneath the heel of the cruel Courts, not only was he ostracized from the other Fae; he was effectively a character in a story. How would one face the fact that their history and existence were altogether manufactured? Perhaps a sense of self remained, but what happened when the pages flipped back? Were they still the same? Or would they simply be replaced by another iteration of themselves?

And what about me? Uva wondered. Do I share that fate? Am I still the same existence that entered this realm?

The spike of existential dread that followed the thought was compounded by the low rumble of the approaching Deepdiver. The caverns shook. Debris fell from on high, and dust climbed, bathing the entire space in a swirl of haze, but from that vast chasm behind the Bell-Hold came spearing lances of light that parted the dark. With every second, the lances grew brighter, and there came a reverberating warble that shook the air and rattled everyone's ears with the chiming of millions of bells that filled the canyon. Yet, though it announced its arrival with calamitous noise, the Deepdiver itself was a gentle, dextrous being. Its gargantuan size was belied by speed and smoothness, and it slid through the cavern without breaking any more of the surrounding earth. This tunnel had been dug long ago to maintain maximum velocity.

Silence was the Deepdiver's nature. Its body was ridged with stone-like scales, and only the veins of crystalline light between them allowed it to be distinguished from the surrounding walls. The veins led to beady eyes, hundreds of them, all glinting like studs of onyx along the beast's sides. Shrouded by dust and wrapped in the gloom of the depths, the Deepdiver was an unclear thing, even for the prisoner standing at the top of the Bell-Hold. But Uva had seen it before. At least a section of its body.

It wasn't truly insectoid, nor was it anything like a serpent or even an eel. A dense, rock-like matter crusting its exterior was closer to a cordyceps, and ultimately, its mind vibrated with such ambient awareness that Uva was almost certain it was an awakened creature, at worst a little dull, yet far too alien for her to casually comprehend. Pair that with its Legendary-Tier Magical Resistance, and piercing through its barrier to seize control of its consciousness was a tall order.

Once more, it warbled; the air itself shook. As the dust settled, the prisoners clutched each other and remained still within the hold. Some of them whimpered; others prepared themselves for what was to come. The guards knew. They stared on, and there was an ominous feeling among them all, like they were uncertain what was about to happen next. It was a fitting feeling. Uva wasn't fully sure either. In every loop prior, she simply boarded the Deepdiver along with the other prisoners, got familiar with this branch of its body, and began a campaign of sabotage.

As a few crystalline veins began rippling with black static, a pulsating chasm of Dimensionality opened, and a path revealed itself, leading into the Deepdiver as it did in the loops before. A small contingent of heavily armed ogres emerged. They marched across the back of the Bell-Hold, each one bearing a long-barreled weapon that had an axe spouting out from beneath the gun heads. Their armor was also forged of adamantium, a rare material in the Fairwoods.

