There were twelve members in the Ogre Elite Guard. They formed a hexagonal perimeter around the single gnome who stood at their center, and he trembled with magic: a Heroic-Tier Biomancer, Pyromancer, and Geomancer all at the same time.

“Is any of this real? Is our history true? Is this all just a lie? Am I real?” The Telediviner veered on the verge of insanity, much like her fellow, torn between madness, despair, and a strange feeling of liberty.

Harkness sighed with disappointment. “Fool girl, you showed them too much. You're supposed to tease someone's mind if you want to compel them, not break it with incomprehensible horror.”

“I cannot say if we are,” Uva said to the gnome woman, ignoring Harkness. She sent a pulse of honest empathy across their link. “I cannot claim anything is true here. But if you want to find out, if you want anything to change at all, I need you to let me in. Will you? If you say no, I will find another way, and I will never speak with you again. Not in this loop, not in the next, and not in any that may follow.”

The Telediviner’s hesitation lasted but a second. Mind-to-mind, Uva's honesty was like summer's breath, and that warmth settled upon her counterpart, a welcome change to her cold life serving cold masters in the cold, grim ground. “I… want to know the truth. I want to be someone else.”

And as she spoke that, Uva felt the Telediviner’s defensively pointed Psychomancy field grow thin with reluctance. Uva slipped in without further preamble and settled around her new vessel's mind as she bound herself tight. Bit by bit, Uva's physical form faded into translucent strings as she deposited herself in another.

“Have you a name, Telediviner?” she asked.

A pulse of surprise came from her new carrier. “You didn't take it from my memory?”

“I don't think we need to be enemies. I don't take things forcefully when you're not my enemy. I'd rather you tell me instead.”

A heartbeat followed. A loud, imperious voice echoed from afar, further cast but from every stone, every bit of matter in the area. “Well, the bell is rung. Let's see what stock you have for us this time.”

The Collector's voice rang afar, and his elite ogres marched forward, preparing to secure the hold. They didn't know what was staring at them from on high: Uva's Aberrant Fractals, the threads slithering behind the walls in the soil all around them.

“Mara,” the Telediviner said. “I am Mara Einsfeld. Or at least I thought I was.”

“Hello, Mara. I think I am Uva Mettabon, Sister of the Arachnae Order, and unsure Seeker of the Outside. I would say that I am pleased to make your acquaintance, but I don't feel much like lying either. So let's settle for another truth. I'm glad to have conducted your possession on the grounds of decency for once.”

“I'm just glad you didn't tear into my mind,” Mara muttered.

“Trust me,” Uva grunted, “it’s not a good feeling at all.” She paused. “But it was a lesson. Perhaps the one I needed.”

Philosophy 10 > 11
