I pulled my helmet off my face, the armor molding like liquid. It made no sound anymore, the smooth transition too well practiced. I looked at my face. Gray skin, flat scars, and gray pupils, I looked alien. I wasn't ugly per say, just rugged. Personally, I liked the look. It suited me.

I pulled my armor back onto my face, looking at the helmet. Crimson light leaked out from the eyeholes still. I smiled, my armor following with a jagged grin of its own. I bit forward, my armor snapping shut like a guillotine.

Honestly, I was unnerved, to say the least. The children had every right to fear me. I pulled the armor back, my hair tousled. I grinned, my teeth white. I looked around the bathroom, finding actual soap and shampoo. My metal skin stayed on me when I stepped in the shower. It seemed like the living metal only left my normal skin when having sex. Great.

I washed my hair, brushed my teeth, and handled basic hygiene. I sighed with relief, finding comfort in old habits. After leaving the bathroom, I walked out of my room and closed the doors. I sent Althea a message, letting her know where I was going.

While walking, I opened my status. After gaining the unknown skill Gravitational Singularity, I obtained 500 skill points. I invested the massive boon into my current skill tree, Immense.

You leverage mass for might. You abuse size for strength. You wield this stature as a tool of devastation. You usher forth annihilation with the swing of your fist. As your heels shake the planet beneath you, the enemy sees you on the horizon. They tremble.

Immense(Tier 4) unlocked! 20% of your total mass is added to your physical bonus damage. Unlocks the unique skill, Goliath's Fall.

Unique skill unlocked, Goliath's Fall!

Goliath's Fall(lvl 1) - You've seen the mighty crumble under the might of stone. You learned the lesson of those that have fallen before you. Grants enhanced stability and better footing on soft surfaces. Effect increases with level.

I selected finalize again. A surging pulse of strength flowed through me. It paled in comparison with the boost after killing Yawm. I still grinned and stepped with excitement. Goliath's fall made the ground seem less like putty and more like sand. Not perfect, but it was better.

The immense tree was near completion too, with 2,325 out of 2,500 points left. Finishing it might give me something incredible, like another mythical skill.

Burning with that fervor, I walked through the camp. The ever present stares followed me as I went. After reaching outside the base, I called Torix with my obelisk. He answered, a screen appearing with soldiers in the background.

"Hello, disciple. What is it?"

I opened a projection of the base, pointing at it, "Where would you guys like to farm here? I'm about to train that new skill. If I can clear out some fields at the same time, that would be great."

Skill unlocked, Efficiency(lvl 1)!

Efficiency(lvl 1) - You work smarter, not harder. Increases the ratio of time and effort to output in tasks.

Torix grinned at me, "An excellent method of partitioning out your time. I've noticed you seem sharper in wit as of late. Are you investing in intelligence?"

I shook my head, "Nope. I do have a bit of intelligence because of all my endurance though."

Torix shook his head, highlighting four areas on the map, "I suppose with that absurd strategy of yours, none of your stats are lacking."

I frowned, "Eh, Charisma could use some work."

Torix shrugged, "Perhaps you could try intimidation rather than persuasion? I find that fear works in the short term rather nicely." Torix turned and looked at the soldiers,

"Once you've struck fear into their hearts, you can show kindness. It motivates them from both sides I've found."

Torix turned back towards the soldiers behind him,

"That call just saved each of you several hours of labor."

As the soldiers let out a roar of approval, Torix gave me a curt nod,

"Goodbye and good luck."

I said the same, and we closed our calls. I walked towards the areas, and I charged my mana. It reminded me of overcharging my runes, but the stress applied to my health instead of the runes.

The technique wouldn't be beneficial if my mana regen were lower. I would disintegrate myself before I could get a large pool of mana brewing. My regeneration allowed me to regenerate faster than I could be destroyed.

As I readied my first strike of the skill, I let out a strained laugh. This was something Yawm could do. It was beyond what Schema's system customarily allowed. Mastering Gravitational Singularity was new territory. If I kept at it, maybe I wouldn't be at the mercy of Overseers, Schema, or even the Old Ones.

Maybe they'd be at the mercy of me.
