“Come on,” Wang Bao yelled, as if he could turn Junior into a warrior through sheer volume. “Move yer arms, ye worthless sack o’ shit!” Oftentimes, the former bandit’s accent slipped back into the clipped tones of Sanshu’s lower class, but Junior wasn’t going to be the one to point it out. “Ye might as well run home to mommy, because the Defiled ain’t gonna be usin’ no padded clubs, ye hear?!”

Oh how Junior wished he could run home, but circumstances had changed. When the boss offered to send him back to SuiHua, it physically hurt to refuse, but he had no choice because he knew MuYang’s Defiled associates would come looking for him if he left. Now, the only way he could ensure his head remained attached to his neck was to stay as close as possible to Falling Rain and never leave the safety of camp.

Ironic, but the Mother did love to test her children so.

Finally intercepting one of Wang Bao’s attacks, Junior’s joy was short-lived because his arms were too weak to block it and he was sent flying away. Laid out in the dirt, he closed his eyes to rest and lamented how these miserable days might very well be his last. It didn’t matter though, because even if his chances to emerge unscathed were slim to none, he would struggle right up until his dying breath. Sure, he wasn’t allowed to live out his last days in peace and his sleep was plagued by horrific nightmares, but even as terrible as life was right now, at least he still drew breath, which meant there was still hope.

Precious little hope, but still better than nothing...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Seated within his Natal Palace, Rang Min repeated replayed his memory of Falling Rain’s meeting with Zian, BoShui, and Yuhuan, watching a new face every time so as not to miss a single detail. With barriers against Listening, he only had visual clues to go by, but no matter if it was Lei Gong’s guarded vigilance or the slave girl’s apparent disinterest, Rang Min analyzed every action and reaction which took place over the short meeting. He hoped to learn something of their plans, but thus far, he had nothing to show for it. They sat and talked in an unremarkable fashion, though in all likelihood, anything they said out loud was merely a cover meant to throw off anyone trying to read their lips. An inexact skill at best, lip-reading was unable to convey tone which meant the reader would be guessing more often than not.

Thus, it was not a skill Rang Min had mastered, so most of his attention was devoted to Falling Rain. Even after all this time, the sight of the piss-eyed runt filled his chest with ire, doubly so after the Tyrant ruined their chances of killing such a promising youngster with no one the wiser. If only Rain had the decency to die after the Contests, or had fallen to any one of his four opponents in the duels at the Wall, then the Situ Clan would have long since been rid of this pest. How dare he trick Gulong into removing his own tongue? If he had his way, Rang Min would make the little bastard pay dearly for his crimes...

It was disturbing how far Falling Rain had come in so little time, his meteoric growth nothing short of miraculous. Though still weak enough to crush underfoot, Rang Min would have to tread lightly in order to deal with him, for only a fool would openly strike while knowing the runt had not one, but two Ancestral Beasts lurking in his camp, with a third hiding nearby in Wu Gam’s camp. Perhaps the Defiled sensed as much too, else why would they sacrifice so many Wraiths and Demons to kill two young boys? A shame they’d failed, because if Rang Min wanted to kill the publicly acclaimed Number One Talent, then he would have to take great care not bring disaster down upon Clan or Society. The Emperor put tremendous value in young talents, and while he turned a blind eye to burgeoning youngsters dying in duels with their peers, woe betide the old cow caught eating young grass.

There was precious little to learn from Scrying the runt’s meeting, and it only fanned the flames of Rang Min’s rage. Though he had Scryed the proceedings from almost a kilometre away, at times it seemed like the runt would turn about and stare directly into Rang Min’s eyes, a most infuriating coincidence which angered him to no end. During the meeting, he even went as far as changing the angle from when he Scryed from, but somehow, the runt’s eyes would always find his own. Even though he knew it had to be a coincidence, as the tiny turtle also met his gaze at times, Rain’s defiant eyes and calm demeanour seemed like a calculated move designed to provoke Rang Min’s rage, much like Zian’s casual disregard and wanton reputation.

Damned little bastard, immediately running to Falling Rain to warn him like a good little dog. Zian was a disgrace to the Society, one Rang Min should have strangled in his infancy, but his hands were tied. He’d sworn an Oath to make no moves against Zian so long as he and his family remained loyal to the Society, an Oath Jia Ying made certain Rang Min’s enemies knew about, thus forestalling all his efforts to see Zian excommunicated from Clan and Society. A crafty and devious woman, Situ Jia Ying had masterfully kept Rang Min at bay and spent the last quarter century building her strength, but all she’d done was delay the inevitable. A Magistrate’s posting meant nothing in the face of the Society’s strength, and now her son was treading dangerously close to acting against Clan interests, an act which would free Rang Min from his Oath and allow him to legitimately order Zian’s death.

Hmph. The boy thought himself so clever and talented, but he was nothing compared to his father, and all the talent in the world still wasn’t enough to save Lu An Jing’s life when Rang Min wanted him dead.

Glaring at the Bekhai runt one last time, Rang Min gave up trying to glean information from the memory and returned to the waking world. After contacting his hidden guards to make certain things were safe, he Sent messages to BoDing and YuSheng indicating he was ready to meet in person. After the meeting came to an abrupt end when the Tyrant stormed out with Zian and BoShui, they’d all gone their separate ways to Scry and plot. Though working together with a common goal, Rang Min would be a fool to lower his defences in BoDing’s presence, for their rivalry had been decades in the making and this alliance not even a month old. YuSheng also presented something of a threat now that he was an accomplished Runic Craftsman, undoubtedly hoping to elevate his OuYang Clan to supplant the Harmonious Unity Sect and take his place as one of three most influential leaders in the Society.

No matter. YuSheng would be much easier to deal with than those three ancient half-beasts in control of the Harmonious Unity Sect. Heaven was truly blind for giving such worthless creatures long lives. Those three decrepit half-beasts were over four hundred years old, yet not a single one was Rang Min’s match. Worthless creatures, strong of body but weak of mind, of course a Divinity would reject them.

As he set off for the meeting, one of Rang Min’s spies contacted him with new information regarding Zian’s actions. Clever to contact the abstaining factions with the interest of forging an alliance through marriage, but all this had been accounted for. For now, Rang Min had assurances from his Imperial backer and the majority of the Society on his side, so even if Zian married Jin ZhiLan and became the future sect leader of the Harmonious Unity Sect, he would still be a fish upon the chopping block alongside the rest of the dissenters who supported the Bekhai. Once Falling Rain was dead, Rang Min would claim his reward and announce Gulong’s marriage to an Imperial Scion, a woman distantly related to the Emperor himself. Once the world knew of this connection, then everything would change in an instant. So what if Falling Rain was an Imperial Consort? An Imperial Scion was about to marry into Rang Min’s family which meant his grandchildren would have Imperial Blood, and thus, the entire Situ Clan would leap through the dragon gate to soar into the Heavens.

Situ Gulong, written ‘Ancient Dragon’, would soon rise and become a dragon in truth. What more could a loving father ask for?

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
