If I’d still had Lisa, redrafting the guidebook would have taken little effort. But without my helpful AI assistant, updating the manuscript took a few weeks. Thankfully, I was able to travel to Bloom and incorporate some of their medical information instead of being forced to recreate everything from scratch.

During that time, I was also notified that a senior Porter had agreed to teach me how to relocate beginner dungeons, though she wouldn’t be available for a few more months.

The timing roughly aligned with Mike and Cora’s anticipated move, which had worked out fine with me.

I also learned that I wouldn’t be learning on my own. Instead, the guild was putting together a local training program for those interested in closing incursion breaches before they could threaten nearby cities.

Portal had three such teams to manage threats to the region, and while they couldn’t prevent every attack, they did enough that their efforts were openly recognized by most of the region’s powers.

A part of me was curious as to why the goddess would allow such a force when it seemed pretty clear that she wanted the demons to pressure the people of Dia to advance.

Maybe the fact that they failed to stop all of the attacks was enough. Or perhaps, the goddess had motivations beyond my current understanding.

Surprisingly, Stephen was invited to join in the training as well. He reacted with unexpected enthusiasm to the offer, even with the obvious risk involved.

The next few months passed quickly, though my level climbed more slowly than I liked. By the time Mike and Cora relocated to Arkenton, I’d only reached level 213, which was about on par with the rest of my party members.

I did slot two additional skills. The first was Staves, which I managed to earn at (Uncommon) based on my experience with the weapon type. The second was Glass Chains, which I picked up during a trip to Bloom.

I figured that since Stephen and I would likely be delving without Mike and Cora soon, we’d need some kind of crowd control skill. While it might seem counterintuitive to select Glass Chains over something like metal or even Grasping Vines, my research had shown that the glass version was actually the superior option.

The glass conjured by the skill wasn’t like the weak material from my old realm. Instead, it was more like an alloy or composite material that was far stronger than one might expect.

The only other real change during that period was an improvement in my Void Strike skill. I’d finally managed to push it to (Uncommon), which let me use the skill as a ranged attack in addition to coating my weapon with void essence.

The distance with which I could use the skill was somewhat limited since the projected attacks only traveled about five meters before dissipating. But even that small distance was better than nothing.

The move itself went smoothly since the couple had been able to visit the town on several occasions to handle all the paperwork involved. And since they were moving from an Ascender Dungeon city to one with only a silver-ranked dungeon, the paperwork was a lot lighter than it would have been going in the other direction.

It was worth noting that Ascenders retained residency in their originating city, no matter where they eventually settled. That meant that all four of us could come and go from Sorenguard and its dungeon with no limitations, even if our current city of residency was somewhere else.

Still, I was glad to have gotten a chance to witness the process before having to undergo it myself.

“You ready for the training?” Stephen asked, drawing me from my thoughts.

I glanced at my communicator and took note of the time. One of the helpful things that I’d noticed about the device was that it somehow kept up with the time and date, even if I was in the dungeon or my demesne. I wasn’t sure how it worked, but I had some ideas.

“Yes. I’m really curious how the entire process will play out,” I replied. “You know that we’ll probably be the weakest two in the class.”

“I agree,” he replied. “I understand why they invited you to the training, but I’m still not sure why they asked me.”

“It’s probably your shapeshifting ability. That and your Camouflage skill would probably make it really easy for you to sneak by any demons and potentially steal a baby dungeon core right out from under their noses.”

“My Shapeshifting skill isn’t documented anywhere, so I doubt it is the reason.”

“Maybe,” I conceded. “Well, whatever the reason, we should probably get going, or we’re going to be late.”

Since we were inside my demesne and I had an anchor at the guildhall, I shifted us both directly to the guildhall. Though people from outside of the guild had been invited to the training, the guild was ultimately sponsoring the training and would be handling the training.

A couple of months earlier, I’d realized it simply wasn’t feasible to keep the secret about being able to relocate via my ‘sanctuary’ now that Stephen and I were living together, so I’d told him about the space’s added functionality. However, I asked that he keep the information to himself.

I’d originally planned to eventually bring Mike and Cora in on the secret as well, but after learning they planned to step back from delving and we’d probably be splitting the party soon, I changed my mind.

It wasn’t that I didn’t trust them. I did. It just didn’t seem worth mentioning when it wouldn’t have any real relevance as far as they were concerned in the near future.

“Emie, Stephen! I’m so glad to see you both,” Sasha said. “Go ahead and head to the conference room. We’re still waiting for a few people to arrive.”

The room was set up more like a large lecture hall than an actual conference room, though there was a large, oval table situated at the front next to a blank wall that was probably used for projections.

Surprisingly, most of the two dozen or so chairs around the table were already filled. Quite a few of the seats in the first few rows were taken as well.

Wanting to remain unobtrusive, Stephen and I found a couple of empty chairs beside each other in the second row and sat down.

We were both wearing our guild circlets, so our status as bronze rankers was on full display. Most probably assumed our role was nothing more than serving as transportation… and for all I knew, they might be right.

Every person I checked was highlighted in black, meaning I had no hope of surviving if it came to a fight. That really only meant that they were all steel-ranked or above, though I’d be willing to bet most were well into their third evolution.

There were a few other Porters present as well, but they were all silver or gold rankers. The disparity made our bronze status even more eye-catching, and we soon had several people glancing our way curiously.

“Alright, everyone. Please take a seat,” said one of the gold-ranked Porters who had opted to remain standing. “I am Veridia, a gold-ranked Porter from the Porter Guild. I will be in charge of the training today.”

Motioning to a small group standing along the wall nearby, the golden-haired woman said, “These are my fellow instructors. We all have a specialty, and once the general introductions are complete, we will be breaking into groups for specialized training.

“I’m sure you all have some idea of why you are here, but just in case there is anyone among you who is unaware, let me explain. You were each invited to take part in this training to learn the skills necessary to close incursion breaches before the demons can amass large enough numbers to attack our cities.

“Similar teams have been assembled in and around the city of Portal over the last few centuries, and their success is undeniable. If you are not aware, the efforts of the Incursion Response Teams have resulted in the premature closing of roughly a third of the incursion breaches within the states of Equagon, York, and Sagewright. Their efforts have directly led to a significant decrease in the number of lives lost.

“It is the Porter Guild’s hope that similar teams can be established based out of Sorenguard,” Veridia said confidently as her eyes scanned the room. They stopped briefly on me and Stephen before moving on.

“You might be wondering why they have only managed to close a fraction of the breaches threatening their areas of responsibility. The answer to that is simple: it is not always possible to locate and travel to the breaches in enough time to make a meaningful difference.

“While much of the inhabited areas of the Cavardian continent are monitored for incursions, they often occur outside of our monitoring areas. Further, our Porters are generally limited to traveling to places they are already familiar with. Since nearly all incursion breaches occur in the wilderness, this makes getting to them a problem.”

One of the people sitting at the main table raised their hand.

“But we aren’t on the Cavardian continent. Does Sorenguard even have the type of monitoring you’re talking about?”

“That’s a good question,” Veridia acknowledged. “The answer is no. As of right now, the infrastructure for such monitoring does not exist. However, there are already plans in place to change that.

“Even so,” she continued, “the guild has decided to move forward with the training so you are all prepared when the monitoring network is in place. If you can close even a fraction of the incursions before they can truly get started, you will save lives. And if saving lives isn’t enough of a motivation, perhaps the benefits of closing incursion breaches will be enough to entice you.”

“What kind of benefits?” someone sitting near the corner of the room in the first row asked.

The gold-ranked Porter smiled, but the expression didn’t reach her eyes.

“Before we cover that, I need each of you to make a vow to the goddess that you will not reveal the information you are about to receive. If you are unwilling to make such a vow, you should leave now.”

To my surprise, a group of five seated in the row behind me left without a word. That seemed a bit strange to me, especially since the only thing the woman had demanded was that we keep the benefits of closing breaches a secret.

Veridia led us in an oath, and warm, silver-blue light surrounded everyone once it was done. I was surprised to see that nobody tried to fake the oath, but I figured most probably knew about the light show that making such an oath would manifest.

“Alright. Now that we have that covered, let me answer your earlier question,” Veridia said. “The goddess rewards those who go above and beyond. Closing incursion breaches grants a similar amount of essence as one would get from killing every demon who would have crossed over. That essence is split between the individuals involved based on their contributions.”

Silence filled the room as we processed the woman’s words.

If I understood what she was saying, that meant that if an incursion would have spilled high-level demons into the world and we closed it before they even crossed over, it would be like killing those demons.

For someone who was only at bronze rank, the essence gains would be massive. And I would almost certainly get a five percent boost to my gains due to my Contender title. That was…

“Holy heavens,” Stephen gasped quietly. “That can’t be right.”

“I imagine many of you are thinking something along the lines of ‘that sounds too good to be true.’ I had a similar reaction when I learned the truth,” Veridia said.

“What about the rest of our parties?” a woman at the table asked.

Veridia inclined her head toward the speaker and replied, “For most of you, your entire party was invited. However, that was not the case for everyone. In some cases, one or more of your party members were deemed unqualified to participate. Anticipating this would be an issue that those left with only a partial team would need answered before going forward, we will take a break.

“I ask those with their full party present to leave and return in two hours for the next stage of training. Those who are missing one or more of your normal party members, please remain, and we will answer any questions you have privately.”

To my surprise, nearly everyone exited the room. Only seven trainees remained aside from myself and Stephen.

The woman who’d asked the question had three people with her, which meant she was probably part of a five-person party and one of their party members had been excluded. Their team was immediately pulled aside by one of the instructors who’d been standing silently.

The other three people included a group of two and a lone individual. They were separated by party and briefed, though I couldn’t pay much attention to any of their reactions since Veridia had come to talk to me and Stephen.

“I’m sure you have questions about why your two party members were not invited.”

“We do,” Stephen replied. “They seem like good, trustworthy people.”

“As far as we can tell, they are,” Veridia replied. “They are also far more capable than most bronze rankers, just as the two of you are. You’ve probably already noticed that you two are the only ones who have not yet reached silver rank.”

“Yeah, it’s a pretty big gap,” I commented.

“It is. However, from what I’ve been briefed, the entire training program was established because of you,” Veridia said, looking directly at me. “You are an Ascended Space Magi, and our Guild Leader has very high expectations of you. Your companion was included because he is also a Porter with some very valuable skills, not least of which is a very impressive Epic-ranked Archery skill.”

“Archery?” Stephen said with surprise. “That was the skill you were after?”

The woman nodded. “Yes. That and Camouflage will serve you well, alongside your ability to teleport, of course. While there are artifacts that perform a similar function, having an actual stealth-related skill in addition to using enchanted items will only make the effects that much greater.

“What you don’t yet realize is that the artifacts that we use to close breaches are best delivered using Archery. Any other delivery method risks the deliverer getting pulled inside the breach as it closes.

“Distance is critical, so even though you are somewhat underleveled for the role, your Archery skill makes up for that. Combined with your ability to hide yourself effectively and your movement capabilities, you’ll make an excellent addition to future teams.”

“What about Mike and Cora?” I asked.

“Honestly, unlike most of the individuals who were excluded from the program, your party members didn’t have any significant issues that disqualified them from joining. Instead, they were excluded because they have already made plans to withdraw from active delving to start a family.

“As a rule, we do not invite new Incursion Response Team members who have underaged children or plan to start a family soon. While some exceptions can be made, we are already making an exception for your levels. Most don’t join until they reach silver rank. Also, it was my understanding that your party expects to split in the coming months?”

“You aren’t wrong,” I said with a frown. “Is the IRT really that dangerous? I mean, I can see how it would be, but so is delving.”

“It is less dangerous to higher-evolution individuals since we don’t deploy teams once higher-evolution demons have crossed over. However, for bronze-rankers like yourselves, it is extremely dangerous.”

“Why should we risk ourselves, then?” Stephen asked.

“I was under the impression that Ms. Emie specifically asked for this training.”

“She asked to learn how to find and relocate beginner dungeons, which I can only assume is related. I don’t think she asked to be involved in closing incursion breaches, though.”

“That is correct. Ms. Emie won’t be taking part in closing breaches directly. Her role will be the recovery of undiscovered beginner dungeons. As a Space Magi, she will eventually be expected to directly close incursion breaches, but I wouldn’t expect that to happen until she reaches silver rank.”

“And Stephen?” I asked.

“For the short-term, he will serve as your guard. From what I understand, the two of you are a couple, are you not?”

“We are,” I answered, not quite sure what she was hinting at.

“Then that works out well since I’m sure he will do everything in his power to protect you while you are otherwise vulnerable.” Turning to Stephen, Veridia said, “Like with your partner, eventually, you will also be expected to take a more active role in closing incursion breaches.

“However, while you will be trained to perform that role during the upcoming training, you will not be expected to actively participate beyond your protection duties until you can do so with a degree of safety.”

I let out a breath I hadn’t realized that I was holding.

Though we were both Ascenders and used to fighting stronger foes, the idea of making ourselves a target of a bunch of second- or even third-evolution demons did not appeal to me.