“One like it, yes.” Imara said, “No idea where that one went. I only ever managed to make three of these. One remains in the Depths. One went to Greensoil. And this one goes to you. I am ready to move on with my life, to make new magics and new mana crystals. It’s really quite a fascinating field of study. Mana. The Dark. Memories. History. All of that is most fascinating…” She frowned a little. “I imagine my personal mana production will collapse back to 1 until I can go through more dungeons to up that to 5,000, to make myself another core. I might not be of use to you for a while, Wizard Flatt… or should I say, ‘Ashes Woodfield’.”

“… Ah. You found out somehow, too. A lot of people know that, but I’d still prefer if it remained a rumor, and not an open fact.”

Imara nodded. “I can understand that. Anyone who sees that circlet of golden wheat around your arm will recognize it as the Summoner’s Staff, though, in a small form.”

The staff around Erick’s wrist popped to full size, to float in the air beside the table. It seemed to look at Imara, even though it had no eye. It did have that white orb at the top that was almost like an eye, though. Erick jangled his wrist at it. And the staff collapsed back down to hug around his left wrist, like a watch; like a bracelet made of wheat-shaped gold with a white opal for a ‘face’.

“I will have to keep that in mind, but he doesn’t like to stay home. He’s learning how to respond to people talking to him, too. Mostly I’ve been able to teach him how to not respond, but a direct callout seems to be a particular learning opportunity for him.”

Imara smiled. “Ah! A ‘him’. I suppose it is only right for a staff to be a ‘him’.”

Erick chuckled at that.

Imara sighed, her old bones and saggy skin relaxing in that moment. “I’m ready, then.”

“Are you sure you want to be an orcol?”

“I am. I’ve been in contact with Tenebrae for a long time. He and his wife love it, and I am ready to leave behind human politics and all the Quiet War horrors. Healing will be a lot easier, too, which is very important when forming a core.” Imara eyed Erick as she stressed, “I’m not going through that particular horror again.”

Erick smiled. “Okay. Are you ready?”

Imara sat as tall as she could. “I am ready.”

“Then this won’t take long at all…”

Soon, Imara was not herself, and Erick sent her through a portal to the wake-up house.

And then he did the same for 328 other people, while using the Name Finder cube on every single Riamite who asked. Some of them turned into truly awful people after they found out their names, saying that they didn’t want to be there anymore, but Erick explained before the Name Finder that no matter the outcome, they were still getting reborn. Some tried to fight him. They did not succeed.

Afterward, Erick sent Rebecca back to the Glittering Depths, via the Surface and a white portal, knowing that Empathy’d and [Reincarnation]ed, she would be good for that place. She would have to see through Greensoil’s plots on her own, but Darundi liked to use everyone he could, and so, he would probably use Rebecca instead of executing her out of hand.

Rebecca knew the risks, and she still opted to go.

- - - -

It took Erick two days to get here.

Erick stood before a low rock wall that separated personal property from public lands. To the east lay fields of grain. They weren’t nearly as golden as the grains in the Glittering Depths, but they were still nice, good grains, ready to be harvested tomorrow, but for now they rested. Yggdrasil had brought the Exalted Rains like he usually did, causing fast growth, but for better taste the farmers usually left the stuff to naturally ripen for at least a day or two.

To the west of the private property lay more houses, and more fields, mostly private fields, with personal vegetables and other assorted goods that people wanted to grow themselves, instead of purchase at a market. It was like that all across this loose neighborhood of Farmersoil, which was a town northeast of Candlepoint, by about a hundred kilometers. It had been founded by exiles and exiters from Greensoil, and was one of many, many places like it. They were a part of the breadbasket of the greened Crystal Forest, which was now no longer a desert—

And Erick had been standing here too long, unwilling to cross onto the private lands.

The owner of these lands stood in the archway of his door, looking at Erick.

Ashes Woodfield, the Summoner, the one from right after he summoned Atunir to Insten, consuming Riam in the process…

Ashes was not as Erick had envisioned him. He did not look like the ‘Ashes’ Erick had conjured and worn as his body while he was down there. This Ashes was a little taller. A little skinny. Thin, almost, like he had been run ragged for years upon years, with barely any breaks at all. Which was exactly what had happened to this one. The Ashes Familiar Form that Erick had adopted had been a stronger guy, born and raised in a time when food was plentiful, and the depredations of Riam had yet to come into full effect.

This Ashes had also unfortunately been plucked from the final floor of the dungeon by Fyuri, and then tortured physically and mentally, until he had given Fyuri his staff, and his power—

“Come the fuck on in,” Ashes said, muttering, “Spilling spellwork all over the damned place. Like I wouldn’t notice that.”

Erick stepped forward—

The golden staff left his wrist and blipped to hover beside Ashes, looking at him, as Ashes looked at the staff.

Ashes froze, his breath hitching as he looked at the staff, his eyes going wide. And then he faltered. He relaxed. He whispered, “You’re not mine.”

The staff flickered and reappeared around Erick’s left wrist.

Erick continued forward as he filled the air around the little cottage and mage tower with even more Privacy spellwork than what he had already put down. “Sorry for the spellwork but it is necessary when you’re the king and you deal with sensitive matters. I don’t want my life to intrude into yours too much.”

“Too fucking late for that, but it ain’t you that brought me to life, who brought me into this weird fucking world. I blame that bitch Fyuri. Fucking evil ass shitwhore. Shoulda stayed dead. I ain’t agree with the decision of Atunir’s to make memories of us all, but who the fuck am I to speak against a goddess.” Ashes said, “I’m just her buttboy, ancient history story, I reckon. I ain’t even a fucking Wizard anymore. You believe that shit?”

Erick found himself relaxing rather fast. “You can regain personal mana production through going through dungeons these days.”

“Yeah yeah.” Ashes backed up, into his home, saying, “Come on in, the fuck. I got tea or coffee— Heard you invented coffee! Howsabout that shit. I never invented any foods—” He looked around. “Coffee is already made, so looks like you’re getting that. I ain’t making no damned tea.”

Erick followed the man inside, saying, “I just stole the ideas from Earth.”

“Theft is fine when it benefits all. I stole ideas from everyone I met, all to fight a fight that became a storytime parable! Didn’t feel like no parable at the time… But I guess it worked out. I bet the real me got a good life afterward… Better fucking have!” Ashes sat down at his table, in his living room, and poured himself some coffee. Then he slid the pot to Erick, saying, “I don’t do fancy. Hope you don’t mind.”

Erick made himself some coffee. He sipped it. It was black, and thick enough to stand a spoon in, as the saying went. “Do you like the coffee?”

“It’s got a good kick,” Ashes sipped his coffee, which was also black. Then he said, “So what the fuck happens now? You got me here. You gonna torture me, too? Try to dig out secrets?”

“No,” Erick said, “I’d like to leave you to your own devices, but the fact is that you know way too much about too much. So I need to either be able to trust you, and to know that you can protect yourself, or I need you to accept a [Reincarnation], so I can change your fate into something I know would work here on Veird. I need to be sure that you won’t try to become ‘The Summoner’ ever again, to rock this world with power that should not be touched.”

“… Right into the meat of it, eh?” Ashes thought for a moment, then said, “I decree by the Dark and by my power that I will not break that which should not be broken.”

Shadows flickered.

Erick said, “Normally, that would be good enough… And I suppose I should let it be good enough. You’ve got no Benevolence ring around your neck, which I know Fallopolis already talked to you about… She was a lot more forthcoming with information than I imagined she would be.”

“It’s pretty shitty that the Dark went insane, eh?” Ashes said, “I can only imagine what that must have looked like… We had Shades in the battle between Insten and Riam. I had one that helped me... She should have been in that dungeon with me, after the battle of the Plains. That’s when we met, when I made that staff. The Dark was the first to respond to my call for help and that response was her; the envoy. But she wasn’t there. In the real world, we were married there in the end. That was my happy ending. And Insten flourished.” Ashes said, “But I guess you can’t have good Shades around this world yet, eh?”

“... Sorry you don’t have her. I never made it past the Second Floor, so that’s as much as I can remember, and it’s all foggy anyway.”

“It’s probably best not to remember that shit. It got bad at the end...” Ashes said, “Say. So. I want some power of my own. How do I get that?”

Erick decided, “There are dungeons all over the world that you can delve to gain real, lasting power, that underlies the Script; mana production. Gaining actual levels under the Script is difficult, but Ar’Kendrithyst is home to both a city, and the largest, semi-controlled monster zone in this continent, so you can get levels there by killing monsters. Other than that, you can join the Adventurer’s Guild and take up contracts to hunt monsters for levels. Oceanside has a nice arcanaeum, but I have a nice arcanaeum at Candlepoint, too. One of the largest in the world these days, and still growing—”

“That. I want that. Tuition or whatever, too. Your arcanaeum. Not that other place. Ocean-whatsit.”

“I’ll make that happen.”

“I heard you’re the endpoint for the Worldly Path, too.”

“… I am. If you complete the Path, I will likely transform you into a dragon or [Reincarnation] you into Benevolence, to help you build your first node inside Benevolence Itself. I have an apprentice who completed the Path recently, and I did the same for her.”

Ashes breathed in, relaxing. “… Well fucking shit. I like that. ‘Benevolence’. I was Elemental Ashes. Still am.”

“Lot of good things can come from ashes. Lots of good harvests.”

Ashes chuckled. “Yeah. I suppose so… So they call you Xoat Reborn, eh?”

“… They do.”

“Glad you took that title.” Ashes softly stared at Erick, as he said, “I ain’t about that life anymore.”

Erick paused. “… Ah.”

“It’s not true, far as I ever found out. But people be peopling. Gotta attach names to everything to make sense of it all. Still don’t think I am. Don’t think you are, either… But who knows! Certainly not me.”

“… I don’t think I am, either.”

A moment passed.

Ashes began, “I reckon I got—”

“I have stuff to do, too.” Erick stood. “Good day, Ashes. If you want to talk about the horrors of your life with someone who has seen a lot of horrors… Have you heard of Mind Mages, yet?”

“Ahh… I have not?” Ashes thought, as he remained seated. He said, “I have not heard of Mind Mages.”

“You’ll be seeing one for at least one session. Her name is Gabby. If you see her again after that, then it’s your choice.”

“… I can deal with that,” Ashes said, not actually understanding what Erick was saying, but going along with it anyway.

Erick nodded. Ashes nodded back.

And then Erick left.

- - - -

Ashes slumped in his seat, feeling all kinda ways.

“Well fuck me with a hoe, that was almost as bad as visiting myself in the Paradox.”

- - - -

Erick rested on a bench on his cloudcastle, saying, “Gods, that was weird. Almost like visiting myself in the Paradox.”

… Erick realized a personal failure at that moment. He hadn’t checked up on Ezekiel in a while. What was his copy up to? … Or was Erick just postponing his required trip to Dungeon Island by letting himself get distracted by Ezekiel? Probably.

Ezekiel could handle himself.

- - - -

The day was bright and the coastal city of Charme was as great as always, with a protected coast layered with node network magics, and a nice collection of natural dungeons kept far away from the main city. The only dungeon inside the city was a split land of nothing at all, that most people could go to, and a separate layer that accepted monsters all the time. That node network out by the coast did more than just protect the people of the land from monsters and themselves, but it also funneled all incoming sea monsters through underwater dungeon portals, to ensure that no one actually encountered any monsters at all. There were many places like that all down the coast. The city of Charme, and all its lands, were some of the nicest in the Cities because of that. Other places took different approaches.

But Ezekiel was glad he had moved here. Charme was not the center of the Local Area Gate Network of the Sovereign Cities; that honor belonged to Curio, with no distinction between South and North these days. Though some people still referred to them that way. But Charme was good for other reasons, besides just its great seafood and stunning architecture and wonderful people.

Charme was filled with artisans and theater and art and a wonderful magitech industry, which was the primary reason why Ezekiel had bought a shop in this place two weeks ago. Sure, he could have stayed in Candlepoint, and he had tried to make a go of that for a while, but… That was kinda painful. Better to have a clean break. Ezekiel had even broken up with Quil, for that was painful in a different way. Ezekiel was not Erick, and Quil was not Quilatalap, and after one direct talk about that, and many other smaller talks, Quil had simply dove right into the Big Conversation, no matter how painful it had been at the time for both of them. Afterward, Quil, that lucky bastard, was able to simply remove his love for Ezekiel from himself, just like how he had put it there in the first place. Ezekiel would need more time to naturally heal. But… That was for the best, too.

