Ezekiel wasn’t Erick, but he still had that desire to work, and to make the world better, which is why he had chosen to make a magitech shop, and open that shop just on the outskirts of Charme’s main city.

Ezekiel rose with the dawn, stretched his huge arms, and lumbered out of bed, in a body that was more muscular than he was— Than Erick was used to. But this other form was growing on Ezekiel in a lot of ways. He kinda liked being a big guy… Probably because he liked being the Apparent King, but only the Apparent King was allowed to be the Apparent King these days. Ezekiel would have to get away with looking like a half-orcol.

He was still a dragon, too, but that form only came out rarely. Still looked like Melemizargo, but Ezekiel was working on that, too. It was apparently really hard to transform one’s dragon shape and color, with most of the problem being mental. Ezekiel liked black. He liked black a lot. What other color could compare to black! There wasn’t one.

Breakfast was eggs on toast, the bread taken from a simple pantry on the second floor of his shop, and the eggs heated in a lot of butter in a cast iron pan on the stove. As he ate, he cast his senses wide, and checked on the nosy neighbors, who had seen Ezekiel come in with all his metal work and precision equipment a while ago and started judging him immediately.

That husband and wife pair had wondered if he was going to be making a lot of racket, like the old tenant, the steelsmith. Those nosy neighbors glared out their kitchen window at Ezekiel’s shop as they had breakfast, too, the husband arguing with the wife about how they should have bought the place while they had the chance, and the wife saying that it was his idea to wait for the price to go down. They had missed out, because this was one of the few places that was free of many of the restrictions of the node network around Charme, for lots of magics got used here, and Ezekiel was going to be using all of those ‘dangerous’ magics.

His nearest neighbor was just that husband and wife, in their ‘mother-in-law’ house, which had originally been a part of this property, but which had been separated a while ago for reasons Ezekiel didn’t care to discover. His house was 20 meters away from their place, while his other neighbors were down the road at least half a block, or down the road and across the street.

Maybe Ezekiel would buy out his direct neighbors and unify the property again, just to have some better privacy.

But for now, Ezekiel changed and went downstairs, to begin the rest of his day.

The front rooms had been a display room, while the back rooms had been a forging place, and though the forge remained, everything else had been gutted. Ezekiel was steadily replacing the lost stuff and he had started with an anvil. By now, the back rooms looked like a pauper’s forge, while the front rooms held a bunch of stuff that worked, but it could be improved upon. Mostly metal junk, and a bunch of it very expensive. Ezekiel wasn’t really open for business, though. Not yet. He was still in the inventing phase of this whole ‘remake magitech better’ plan.

Ezekiel went to his workbench where a good dozen prototypes of movie projectors waited for him. That was his main project right now; to make a movie player that didn’t require multiple image crystals and multiple records to show off a movie. Most of these prototypes and for-sale options were not his own work. Most of them were just the latest models that you could buy in high-end appliance stores.

All of them were trash, because all of them required technical knowledge to troubleshoot and fix them when they fucked up, mostly when the video crystals or records fell out of sync. Which was often.

Ezekiel wanted to make a better one…

“But where’s my assistant?” Ezekiel asked the air, expecting a response. “It’s already 8 am, Gnowmi.”

A small layer of reality peeled back on the other side of the workshop, like someone was lifting the covers on an invisible bed, which was exactly what was happening. Gnowmi rolled out of her bed and landed on the wooden floor of the workshop, yawning deep, as she scratched her fluffy, unkempt red hair. She was a very small fae, dressed in what might have resembled a tunic and pants, were those clothes not made of softest gold and encrusted with diamonds on every hem. She blinked her gem-like eyes a few times, then she looked at Ezekiel.

From one moment to the next, she woke herself up, and happily said, “Mornin!”

“I made you eggs and toast too, if you want it.” Ezekiel said, “It’s upstairs in a Preservation. Coffee, too.”

“I shall!” Gnowmi twisted the air, vanishing behind invisible magics once again, only to reappear upstairs, in the kitchen. “Ah! Always excellent eggs.” In another twist of Reality Gnowmi reappeared, standing on the workbench with the prototypes, inspecting where she and Ezekiel had left off yesterday, her eggs-on-toast not dripping anywhere at all, even though she was holding it vertical and using it to measure the latest projection box. Then she went back to eating. “Fair work so far. I don’t like how these crystals are so false, though. Perhaps another trip to Fairie is in order? Better crystalrecordtech there.”

Ezekiel thought. “… We could go buy stuff from Ar’Cosmos again, if you think we might have missed a mana crystal shop?”

“We hit up most of the major merchants. But we might find some smaller sellers of great goods. Maybe over in other lands of Fairie? Have you been to the Underhill, which is Over-Treehome? Great carvers of chance and character there.”

“Sure. I’ll be your guest for that trip.”

Gnowmi nodded. She decided, “We can go in a few hours. Perhaps this part here needs some more sigaldry in screen-wise ways. Light-bright-shape-to-memory into crystallize-through-time along with the accompanying slides. Perhaps less of an increase in density of images and more in an increase in meaning? Magic can bridge many gaps if given lax instructions.”

“That’s one way to solve the information problem,” Ezekiel said, standing over the work now, next to Gnowmi. “But that leads to interference from manasphere impressions. Might be good for making horror movies, though.”

“… Perhaps not that direction, then,” Gnowmi said.

They spoke for a little while longer and eventually got around to actually inscribing meaning into platinum. They had some small success with the new day’s new methodology that had both of them decide to postpone the trip to Fairie until they exhausted this new, possibly-promising avenue of arcanity.

Ezekiel might not be Erick, but he still liked working on problems with people he enjoyed being around, and Gnowmi was one of the very few people who didn’t get weird around Ezekiel… Which was great! This was a new life anyway? Right? No need to seek out people he already knew, to become just a ‘copy of Erick’. He was more than that. He was his own person…

But he missed Jane. No way around that sadness.

- - - -

Destiny sat down beside the woman who called herself Clarice, but who was actually a Fae Dragon. She wasn’t calling herself ‘Clarice’ right now, of course, because she was in a new Familiar Form. Destiny would get to that, eventually. For now, Clarice had that characteristic look that everyone got when Destiny showed up unannounced. ‘Who the fuck are you?’ and ‘How did you get in here?’ and a touch of ‘Are my [Ward]s failing?’. They were currently inside Clarice’s rental in North Curio, and Clarice was currently pretending at having breakfast, but what she was really doing was scoping out the three Benevolence Dragons which ran this city.

Or something like that. Benevolence was telling Destiny a lot right now, and she’d get to that, too, but for now—

“Pardon me, stranger,” Clarice asked, affecting an accent that matched her new form of an older woman from the area. “Is there a reason you have joined me for breakfast? On my own balcony?”

“He stirred up a plot in the Storm’s Edge dungeon when he got there,” Wizard Destiny said, completely ignoring Clarice’s attempt at subterfuge. “Told me he would talk to me about all that stuff, and I got a letter instead. Did you get a letter, too?”

Clarice frowned, and dropped some of the act. “Apparently, I also only warrant a letter, Wizard Destiny.”

Destiny sat back in her chair and had some of Clarice’s toast and jam. The Fae Dragons locked her up for decades, so it was only right to steal from them whenever she felt like it. “Good jam!”

“I have a bottle left in the apartment, if you want it.”

“I already stole that one.” Destiny looked at Clarice. “When did you know he was not who he said he was?”

“… I would say instantly, if I could. But that would be a lie, and you’re not here for lies.”

Destiny nodded. “What would your reaction be if I told you that I can make Benevolent Dragons, too.”

Clarice stared hard. “… I’m interested.”
