“All of Greensoil should collapse. From how the rulers of this land still use [Weaken Monsters] to ensure that no one gains levels. To how none of the schools teach non-humans. To segregation everywhere, and discrimination in every hall of power. To separate lines for humans versus non-human! To how only humans can ever gain any real power in this land, to how everyone else can only ever become a knight! A servant to someone else who holds the real reins.

“All of you should repent for the evil you have done for others, and continue to do to others.

“My family was no better, which is why I killed all of them over the years, and many of them with the Daydropper.

“But my fight is over. I’m done. I played the game of Greensoil, and I lost horribly. The last ten years have been me realizing that, and making even more weapons for the Throne to use against all of you who step out of line, because that is how you operate as a civilization. I am repentant for everything I did against Atunir, and for all the horrors I caused for a Goddess I love so much. I never meant for that to happen, but I did mean to kill as much of Odaali as I could, and I am SO HAPPY that I killed your father, and the rest of the royal family.

“So take your revenge, while knowing that the system that made me still exists, and you have done exactly NOTHING to combat that system! Ha! Die to your own hubris in another age! Haha! I won’t be there to see it, but you should know that I would be laughing. I would be laughing and dancing on your graves!”

Denutha began to cackle—

Yetta threw a golden beam of pure power at the old woman, obliterating her completely, leaving nothing behind.

A blue box appeared.

Kill and Exterminate Quest Complete.

The final threat of the Daydropper is gone from this world.

Rewards distributed according to contribution.

+10 points.

Erick sighed a little, dismissing the box.

Cyril stood along with Yetta, and then the King of Odaali proclaimed that Odaali was finally free of the horror of the Daydropper, and that they could move on from that wound. He had prepared a few speeches for this talk with Odaari, for however it happened, and the one he seemed to go with was the one for healing in the face of horrors, and for community building, and a brighter future. It was meant to combat the message that Odaari spewed, and it seemed to be working. Many, many people were swayed by that speech, and while some of the specifics that Odaali called upon were great for them, and for Greensoil as a whole, Erick knew that Denutha Odaari had been speaking truth. It had been a warped sort of truth, but a truth nonetheless.

Greensoil was fucked up, on a deep, deep level.

Erick was pretty sure that enough grassroots movements would fix that, but a few things could not be fixed so easily, and a problem built over multiple centuries could not be changed without using extreme measures that no one wanted to use. The Viridian Throne’s ability to legally assassinate whoever they wanted wasn’t something that any stable nation could abide by… And yet, Erick could kill whoever he needed to kill. And he had. Often. But he had also brought them back to life and then made them different. Better, he hoped.

Might made right, though… Was there any real solution to that?

Probably not right now.

When bad people got power, there was only one real answer to that. It was the same answer that the people of Veird had visited upon others for a very, very long time, and was most recently shown to the world when Yetta struck down Denutha in a hail of golden power. Might made right, and someone was always more powerful than another. Hopefully, the right sort of people were in charge, and they were allowed to remain in charge. Otherwise, more might was required to make a better right.

… Anyway.

Erick had spoken to Yetta about what would happen if she had needed to obliterate Denutha from this world. Yetta had told Erick to [True Resurrection] her elsewhere, and then do whatever he needed to do. And yet, when Erick tried to do that through Ophiel, back in Candlepoint…

Denutha’s soul didn’t come through. The spell failed.

As Erick listened to Cyril speak of the future, he wondered if Yetta had really destroyed Denutha, down to the soul… Yetta told Erick that she would try not to, but she would leave the option open if she had to. There was another explanation, though. [True Resurrection] also didn’t work if the soul had moved on to their chosen afterlife.

Maybe Denutha was with Atunir.

Cyril moved on to speaking of the cooperation of House Benevolence and Odaali, and gave the floor over to Erick. Erick then spoke about building a better future. It was a speech that he had prepared that was based on a number of other smaller speeches he had given many times before, so it was easy to give. Erick added in a few progressive comments about equality for all races and how dangers to the established order were less likely to pop up if people didn’t feel disenfranchised by the system in the first place.

Normal stuff for him, really. A bit controversial inside Greensoil.

But Greensoil could use some heavier hitting social reform.

- - - -

Erick walked in a field of golden wheat.

Atunir asked, “You haven’t seen Ashes yet?”

Erick realized where he was and caught up to the moment. “No. Not yet. It’s weird, yes? He seems to be doing fine in Candlepoint, anyway.”

And he was. Ashes Woodfield, the real one, the Summoner of Atunir, was in a nice house provided for by the state, next to a Temple of Atunir that was near the farms. His home there was almost exactly like the one Erick had had in the Glittering Depths, and he was free to come and go as he wished. And he went everywhere, a lot. He had been to the university, to the Grand Unified Temple, and even through the Gate Network a little, which took him all the way to Treehome and the Freelands and Songli.

And then he had called out to the Dark, as one who knew better would not do, and Melemizargo had sent Fallopolis to speak to him. The grandmotherly Shade and the Summoner of Atunir had had a long conversation over tea, and Erick had watched that conversation as it happened. But he did not participate in that conversation. He had stayed as far away as he could from the man who might have been a copy of Erick’s previous existence… if that’s how it actually was, anyway. Erick still didn’t know.

No one else did, either. Even Atunir only had a guess, and Erick being a Wizard fucked that guess to hell and back.

Atunir did not like Erick’s reluctance. She said, “It’s been a week since Odaari’s final fate, and you haven’t called out to talk about that, or about anything that happened in the Glittering Depths. I couldn’t even approach you on my own, because you were so very against a meeting. You threw yourself into your work instead, opting to forgo the release of my seal upon Yggdrasil’s soul, which is not what your son wants, but I don’t need to belabor that point with you. You already know that.” Atunir paused, then she said, “The only reason I am able to visit you now is because… Well. I don’t want to betray anyone’s confidence, but… A lot of people are asking about you. And that gives me the ability to contact you even if you’re not open to it.”

Erick had some excuses he could use, to explain his avoidance of Atunir, from Kiri’s reorganization of the Gatemaster position needing some work, to him needing to reorganize what his new position in House Benevolence as the for-life king would mean, legally. There were even the investigations he had done into what Odaari had said, and then there were the two days he had spent with Quilatalap in the Storm’s Edge dungeon. And then there were two gatherings of the High Court of Candlepoint, where all the appointed court members officially, and very politely, asked him to explain himself and what was going on in the world right now.

“I have a lot of responsibilities, and very few of them are to my individual needs,” Erick said. “Yggdrasil knows that, and understands… Unless he told you differently.”

“I don’t want to lie to you, Erick.” Atunir moved on, “I want to discharge my part of the seal, and let you move on to the next part of this Path.”

Erick flinched. “… I’m not ready for that, Atunir. I’m not ready to step into the Dark like that… Looking for memories of the Sundering.”

“The Relevant Entities are talking about letting Jane go instead.”

“... I suppose I have to be ready.” Erick said, “It’s good to see you, Atunir. Sorry about not calling out to you sooner. I’ve been busy. The dungeon was great. Glad to finally get that Daydropper business over with. Is Denutha here, with you?”

Atunir smiled a little. “Denutha was here for a time. She spoke to her daughters, and to her husband and sisters. They had some final arguments. She did not stick around. She chose to move on, to become part of my divine power, to aid those who ask for help in Field and Fertility.”

“Ah… Well. Good for her.”

“It was what she wanted, and it was what she got. With any luck her final tirade at Odaali will produce good, cosmopolitan results, but only through caring mortal hands will those seeds take root, and sprout, while others attempt to snuff out the green of new, bountiful and different life.”

Erick breathed in the golden air, and sighed, looking out across the blue sky. Those ‘caring mortal hands’ belonged to him, eh?

Atunir continued, “I’d like to send you 465 people from Utopia, to have them join Candlepoint. That includes Imara, the archmage of mana crystals. She greatly exaggerated her love of the Quiet War so that she wasn’t controlled by the Viridian Throne while they were watching. She desperately wishes to begin life again, and she will teach you everything she can about mana crystals, if you desire.”

Erick blinked. “Yes. Yes, of course I will take all of them, and Imara, too. Her [Reincarnation] is not contingent on her mana crystal knowledge, though. I’ll take every good person Greensoil wishes to discourage. All the better to give those people good lives, and to change Greensoil, faster… But by the same token, Rebecca wants to go back to the Glittering Depths… And I am uncomfortable with that place being a source of power for mega weapons. And ancient evils. Do you want her back?”

Atunir smiled a little. “You made a super weapon, but even that staff pales in comparison to the damage you can do with [Vivid Gloom], or any of the other spells you have.”

“… Point.”

“And the evils of Riam never surfaced. They were killed. The lesson in the Glittering Depths is that Evil can be slain, and that is a good lesson. Good can triumph. All it takes is strength and the will to use that strength.

“That is how life works, at its most basic sense, and to deny that fact is to weaken the fabric of society, and civilization, and every level of interaction from the family to government to a field mouse versus a snake. The Glittering Depths is a story about how Good Triumphs when good men stand up and fight. I will not be changing that story. I wish you could believe in that story, too.”

Erick said, “I do believe in that story, but it’s never that simple. The average dragonkin in Greensoil can’t do shit against a government that targets them and prosecutes them as second class citizens.”

Atunir nodded. “You know this, but I must say anyway… I’m a goddess of all peoples, everywhere. I see the horrors, and I see the good. I see people trying. I see people failing, and some succeeding. I see two people who worship me fight each other to the death, because of the influences of others, and their own failures and foibles. I support incani and humans alike. I am a mother to all… And I am not all powerful. I can only help those who want help. But sometimes, I can help those who help others. Like you, Erick.

“You are a good man.

“I wish you the best Fate going forward, and forevermore, in the hopes that others will be like you. I will always be there, just a call away. Or, if you want less of a heavy hand, the staff will accompany you for as long as it can.” Atunir said, “Ask for a boon, anyway, please.”

Erick had to take a moment as pure love filled the air, all encompassing. The love of a goddess.

“I’m good, Atunir. Thank you, though.”

“And that’s fine, too.” Atunir and the dream began to fade away, as she said, “I’m glad we were finally able to work together, even if it did take us this long to get here. Rebecca can come back to the Depths if she wishes, for I trust whatever you did to her to make her a better person. See you again, Erick. Call on me any time.”

- - - -

When Erick woke up he had two hours of normal morning with a bunch of problem solving through Ophiel, and then 467 unscheduled people walked out of the Grand Benevolence Dungeon, talking about how they were here at Atunir’s deliverance through the Dark, and the Wizard’s acceptance. They had taken the path through the Dark, like how Kiri had once walked into the Freelands, and ended up at the Grand Benevolence Dungeon.

Kinder was not among those people, but Archmage Imara, with her mana crystal knowledge, and that Second Floor Marii who oversaw the Workshop, by the name of Mariia, were a part of the group. None of them seemed to know that Erick had been ‘Ashes’, and he left it that way. But there had been one surprise he wasn’t ready for.

Imara came out of the dungeon with a gift.

Inside a private room, right before he was to [Reincarnation] her, the aged archmage pulled out a small blood-red cube from her robes, her wrinkled hands clutching it like it was the most precious thing in the world. She placed it on the table between her and Erick. “This is a Name Finder. I spoke to Atunir in a dream, and she said that I should give this to you, to use or not on all the Riamites who followed us from Utopia, and all the other Utopians, too. They all want to know their true memories. But that’s up to you if you grant them this request.”

Erick stared at the small red cube. It glowed with an inner lightning. “… This is what the Manfields used to awaken Fyuri.”

