Erick dealt with Rebecca first, the original shadowcat turned Fyuri from the Glittering Depths, the one that had only murdered people who could be easily revived. The one who had remained inside the Glittering Depths, knowing that if she were to be released out into the world, she would have killed people, and…

“A part of you doesn’t want to kill and hurt others,” Erick said, as he sat across from Rebecca.

The woman did not know that Erick was Ashes, and while he hoped to keep it that way, he had doubts that he would be able to maintain that lie of omission for very long. Mostly, Erick planned not to say a whole lot, and to let Rebecca do the talking.

She seemed to understand that without being told.

“I want to create new lands for my people. But I also want to hurt others a great deal,” Rebecca said, sitting poised and proper on the couch across from the coffee table. “When I was just the shadowcat I was a horror stuck in a box I didn’t know existed. Delver Tom’s team dragged me out of there and gave me the name ‘felhorn’, because I roared like an avalanche…

“When I first became a person, I was just Rebecca. I was naive and hurtful, and hateful. Tom was the one who watched over me to ensure I became a proper person, and I will forever be grateful to him for that. For his kindness, and his guidance. But then I found out my True Name, and I became Fyuri Riameteer, and I turned devious. I remembered how to hide my kills. I remembered how to hide my evil impulses. And I remembered… Doing a lot of evil, to a lot of people. I became two people in one, as both sides of me came into confluence with each other, and now I’m just Rebecca. I am not the person who came before, and I’m not the shadowcat which Tom named ‘Rebecca’. But I think I’m closer to Rebecca than Fyuri.

“I think I would be the best sort of person… if I had certain parts of myself altered. I would take an Empathy, and a [Reincarnation]. I would like to be more than what Riam made of me. I would like to be free of my unfortunate past.” Rebecca bowed in her seat, saying, “Please, Wizard Flatt. I am ready to be someone else.”

“Okay.” Erick stood, flicking his hand through the air. Paperwork appeared, along with a pen. “[Reincarnation] paperwork. Fill it out. I’ll be back in an hour.”

“Before you go!” Rebecca rapidly said, raising her head. “Please… Is Ashes here, somewhere?”

“… He’s around.”

Rebecca breathed. “Can I write him a letter? Would he… Read it?”

“I would read it. If Ashes reads it, then that is up to him.” Erick added some blank paper to the rest of the assignment. “See you soon.”

“I’m ready,” Rebecca said, flicking shadows at all of the paperwork, and at the letter. She wrote four pages and Erick almost read it right then, but he pulled back. He would get to it later. Rebecca looked at him— And he knew she knew. In that moment, Erick could tell that Rebecca knew about him being Ashes. One way or another, she had found out, and Erick wasn’t sure when she had found out. She had known since before she stepped into this room, hadn’t she? Yes, she had. She whispered, “Thank you, Wizard Flatt.”

Ashes said, “Goodbye, Fyuri. May we meet in better times.”

Fyuri nodded.

And then Erick transformed her, putting her into a coma in the process and sending her off to the wake-up house. Her new form looked exactly the same as the old, but younger. 20 years old instead of 40. Black hair and amber eyes, with red lips, and pale skin. All of her futures had been horrific things where she killed and killed, rose to power, and died trying for more. But Erick had managed to force another future, by looking deep enough.

With any luck, Rebecca would become a force for fostering good in the world. She’d probably end up a high-powered merchant or attorney or administrator of some sort; Erick wasn’t sure exactly. But she had been at the center of a web of growth, her white-colored magic protecting the land from red shattering power, as she brought forth cities from desolation. All that red lightning was probably a metaphor for the evil of her previous life. Riam seemed fond of red lightning.

Erick was glad to rid her of that.

And then he read the letter.

Only the first page was an extensive, yet simple apology from Fyuri, to Ashes. The rest was a great deal of insider information about Greensoil, detailing plots and evils perpetrated by the Inquisitors and by individual nobles, all of it centered around the Glittering Depths. Rebecca had been an Inquisitor, and rather central to all the dealings in Utopia, through the Iron Bandits company. She had a lot of information about all that, from the truth of the demon dungeon breaks of three years ago, to every single super weapon or other horror created in the Workshop that could be unleashed on the world at large, to information on the Viridian Throne that the Throne would want to keep hidden.

There were also a lot of details about Utopia, and how fragile everything was down there.

Erick could already see himself sending Rebecca back to Utopia to keep the place together. He wasn’t sure how he felt about that right now. Maybe he’d read the letter again later, and decide if he cared to give Rebecca that opportunity.

- - - -

In the throne room of Odaali, Erick delivered Odaari to King Cyril Odaali, and Queen Yetta. Everyone was dressed for a show, because while this was partially a show, it was also the rectification of a great evil that Odaari and the Halls of the Dead had visited upon the city of Odaali, and the rest of the world.

The Daydropper had been a plant capable of extinguishing all life on Veird, hence the Kill and Exterminate Quest from Atunir.

[Scry] eyes held in the air all around the massive throne room, with much of Greensoil and others watching this moment. Those eyes did not encroach upon the center space, for [Ward]s had been placed to automatically pop any that crossed into the dome, where Denutha Odaari stood in front of the thrones of the king and queen, and Erick stood off center.

Odaari had promised to tell everyone everything, and to answer every question.

Erick believed she would do that.

But Cyril and Yetta were too furious to accept her simple ‘promise’; their hate was a decade old, and had only gotten deeper now that they were so close to finally getting all of their revenge. Erick would be rewinding time if something untoward happened.

He believed something would happen.

But first, came the story of what had already happened, over a decade ago.

Back then Champion Yetta and prince Cyril had come to Erick, asking for the archmage’s help in destroying the Daydroppers which had been stolen by Shade Planter, and raised inside Ar’Kendrithyst. Erick had done as much as he could have done for them, but Jane had done more. Jane had guided them through the Dead City, to where their team confronted Planter. They had killed Planter, and then promptly got captured by all the other Shades, to be sacrificed to Melemizargo. Jane had rescued Cyril and Yetta, but she failed to rescue Dorthy and Basil, who had been childhood friends to Cyril and Yetta, while Allan had died fighting Planter, making that yet another childhood friend gone forever.

“But we had won,” Yetta said, continuing the story, her voice an even thing to hide the deep anger underneath. “In that journey into the Dark, we had won another archmage’s help, and cleared away an infestation of the Daydropper that only we could clear. Archmage Erick Flatt, back before he was known as the Wizard, then answered Odaali’s call for help. He executed the archwarrior Parox Geller with extreme lightning. Then, when the Breach Demon seemed all but a sure thing, our friend Erick broke the Breach Barrier and executed another name on the Kill and Exterminate Quest; Arrox Geller. He went on to crash a glacier into Odaali, and then Archmage Tenebrae took over from there, to kill the Daydropper Queen that infested our ancient home. Archmage Flatt then went on to help us search for and eliminate another Daydropper Queen in the Halls of the Dead.

“And then it was done.

“All but one part. One final part that had been withheld from us for all this time.

“But no longer!”

Yetta breathed, then sat back in her throne.

Cyril’s voice filled the air, “Denutha Odaari. Cousin. Aunt. Branch family of the Odaalis. The last remaining one, because you killed all the rest. You were and still remain the final part of Holy Atunir’s Kill and Exterminate Quest. You have been found guilty of crimes against the world.”

Yetta spoke, “Holy Atunir is merciful, for you have proven your repentance to her. But we mortals live in this mortal world, and we demand satisfaction. For the murder of our families. For the murder of our people. For conspiring with demons and threatening to destroy the world in any way that you could… You have a lot to answer for.”

Cyril said, “You are here to answer for those crimes. You will not get a second chance at this. Tell us first, why you did it.”

Erick stood to the side, off of the carpet. Poi stood far behind Erick, near the side of the room, along with a bunch of other nobles who had been invited to this rapid hearing. This wasn’t a trial, though. Odaali had already declared Odaari a persona non grata, and this was either going to be her final goodbye, or her redemption under Erick’s power.

If she answered truthfully, and showed real remorse, which Erick was pretty sure was the case, then he would transform her into whatever she wanted, and then disappear her into some other part of the world. She’d get a permanent tracker on her from Atunir after the transformation, but she was willing to accept that.

Denutha Odaari stood atop the carpet leading to the throne, looking fragile in her older age, but she was only 60ish. The weight of the day was weighing on her, but an inner fire was lit inside, for she was ready. She had been ready for this day for a very long time.

Odaari began, “When I was younger, I tried my hand at the [Familiar] spell. I found great success in plantwork [Familiar]s. It was the roots, you see. Trees in a forest might look disconnected, but they communicate with each other through the roots. I made a [Familiar] which did exactly that. It wasn’t an Arbor, because I didn’t want an Arbor, and I wasn’t ready to deal with Treehome. My beloved grew fast. Sane, too. She would pop up here and there when I was on a walk through the fields of grain which House Odaari oversaw, as our noble duty, and profit. She supported growth in every single field she visited, connecting with the roots of temporary plants— wheat, mostly. She grew wheat. She didn’t like it when the wheat was cut, but she understood that we raised plants to feed our people.

“The Viridian Throne discovered my daughter.

“The Throne came to me, asking for me to replicate her power in other fields. We tried. We failed. All of those ones, which I did not spend nearly enough time on personally growing, became like an Arbor turned bad, but a lot more insidious. As they separated from me, the problem became worse. The Throne burned those [Familiar]s-turned-real.

“The original discovered this, having long been real, and in communication with me every day. She voiced her displeasure at the Throne’s judgment by rotting out every single field she grew under, which was 90% of the crops.

“The aftermath of what came next is why I would eventually rebel.

“The previous King Odaali, your father, burned my greenhouse, killing my child, before I could make it home to solve the problem with words.” Denutha said, “This was over 40 years ago. I hadn’t even seen the Halls before that, but the death of my daughter and the ruined prospects of spreading my children across Greensoil, to help us all, embittered me. When my uncle perished not a year later, I failed to gain the inheritance I should have, due to King Odaali’s direct influence. That is when I began to conspire with demons, because there was only one way I was ever going to gain a measure of respect. I had to be as ruthless and as murderous as the rest of you, so that is what I became.”

Denutha went silent.

The audience shouted awful things, but they did not advance toward her, for they were locked behind spellwork and guards stood ready to prevent mob-rule.

Cyril said, “All because of a misunderstanding—”

“It was not a misunderstanding!” Denutha exclaimed. “Your father knew exactly what he was doing when he killed my daughter when I was away. He was jealous of what I was doing for the kingdom. Of the riches I was bringing in! Of my daughter’s power in our lands— In Odaari lands! He had NO RIGHT!” Denutha spoke softer, “It was not a misunderstanding when your father stripped me of an inheritance of an uncle that YOUR FATHER ALSO KILLED, and I had to make my own way in the world.”

Erick kept his face even, and calm, but he could see all of that happening exactly as Odaari claimed. He believed her.

Cyril did not trust Odaari, though. His anger blinded him. He did not speak, though, for he did not trust himself not to explode at the woman.

Yetta had less control. “So that gives you the right to ally with the Halls?! To kill your own people?!”

Denutha kept her voice even as she said, “The Viridian Throne only has veto authority on legislature, and only if less than 65% of the High Court is in agreement. The Throne’s major power is the power to assassinate whoever they wish.” Denutha stressed, “They assassinate. Whoever. They. Want. Your previous king did so illegally, all the time.

“Power is what makes right.

“Weakness is what makes wrong.

“Everything else is nothing.

“It wasn’t till Wizard Flatt came to this world to remake it into something better that there was ever any other sort of way, and it’s still not as good as it could be! All of Greensoil is still a problem. From how incani are treated to how dragonkin are shoved aside. You think Odaali was any better than all the rest of Greensoil? HA! That is a figment of your own imagination. Odaali has always been as big of a decaypool as the rest of Greensoil, you just hid it better! And even with all the advancements for non-human rights in Odaali today, you only do that to make the Wizard happy! Nothing you do is because it is the right thing to be done! All of you are guilty of evil! If half of you had as much power as I used to have, then you would have tried to end this world just as I tried!

“I’ve seen how you treat each other when there is nothing to be gained from polite interactions. I see how you hire dragonkin and think it’s something you should be praised for doing.

