Adam sneered. "I think he's going to make things even harder for you. Because he knows who you are, what you can do. If you want me to guess, he's going to force you to learn subtlety, foresight, planning, and patience. Basically, he's going to treat you like an extremely promising Vanguard, and so your education is going to be mostly tactical and strategic. Which also covers for Marcus’s deficiencies.”

"Well, I best get working on my Biomancy. Everyone loves a healer. I think I’ll focus on building that up as well.”

"Everyone loves a doting healer." Adam held up a finger. "Remember that. And everyone's going to be screaming for you when they make a stupid mistake. Don’t be surprised if they blame some of their silly mistakes on you. Anyway, was that all?”

"My final course is Stealth-114. Runs Dawnsday, Twosday, Thorsday, and Passday. Right before midnight."

"Ah, that's a good one as well. You'll probably enjoy that. Considering it is graded and who it’s graded by, it will have you jumping out of bushes and terrifying your classmates like they’re small slave children wandering through the woods.”

Shiv glared at Adam. "Look, I did that because you suggested it to me, and I regret it every single day.”

The Gate Lord did everything he could to avoid cracking up. “They're probably still talking about the bloody Skintaker back in Weave."

Shiv covered his face, but he couldn't help but chuckle a little. "Did scare the shit out of those slavers too, though."

"It did, didn't it? Good times… So, that's all you have for now?"

"Yeah," Shiv said. "This will be a start. I think I might take on one or two more over the week in case it's not enough."

"It probably is more than enough. If I have one more recommendation, it would be to take a basic Biomancy course on top of Medic-301.”

"Yeah, I'm considering that too," Shiv said, "but Helix would likely drive me insane with his unending complaints about how shit or wrong the Academy Biomancer is."

A beat followed. Adam blinked as he grimaced. "Yes, I can see that. I can see that very clearly. Maybe just don't take him to those classes.”

“Then he'll drive me insane when I get back."

"Can we just kill him?" Adam asked.

"Adam Arrow, genuinely suggesting murder as a problem solution?" Shiv whispered, awestruck. “Finally. I’ve been waiting for so long.”

"Well, when it's an orc we're talking about… Yes."

Shiv snorted. "Yeah, maybe after he does something stupid. Anyway, when I finish with the academy stuff, I'll come back here, and we can try helping Irons with finding Melissa. Otherwise, priorities are whatever you need to get done, my personal education, and self-improvement. And right, shit, we still need to talk to the Dragon Brokers at some point."

"On our terms," Adam said. "We have enough conniving bastards coming after us already. We need to control what we can."

"Of course." The Deathless then cast his psionic magic into Adam's mind. "Cullywier is also bound to me. We can call him at any time, but I don't know if he's listening in on us and informing the Dragon Brokers. We need to assume that's the case."

"Bloody hells," Adam groaned internally. "All right, we'll deal with that too. Actually, you said he's a fairy, right? What's a fairy doing with a criminal organization?"

"Seems to be a banished fairy," Shiv explained. "He can't go back to the Fairwoods because he had a kid with a human or something. That's what I got."

"A child with a human? Is that even possible?"

"Well, that's what it sounded like when I spoke to him the first time. I offered to set him free, but he didn't seem to care much about that either."

"Broken Moon, it's just one mystery after another, isn't it?" Adam rubbed at his face as if he could wipe away some of the frustration. "Alright, we'll deal with them too. We need to figure out a plan for the Slipgate. We can't let anyone else hold it. Not the Neath, not the orcs, not the Ascendants."

"Yeah, I got a few thoughts about that. Uva is tied to the Outside. She has the Starhawk with her. If we can use that to our advantage somehow, maybe we can end this fight before it even begins. But Adam, there's one more thing. The headmaster of the academy… You know he's probably a Seeker too, right?"

"What?" Adam said, alarmed. "Hades Hymn? A Seeker?”

"Yeah, his magic, it's kind of weird. And I think I felt it before. At Gate Theborn."
