He looked towards her for confirmation. She nodded, and the detachment resumed their climb. There was now an anticipation, especially among the sailors who were never supposed to be in harm’s way. Viv kept her spells up to make sure their path was clear.

The resting area would have been very pleasant, were it not for the dead children attached to columns. Just like the victims on the beach, these had been devoured by spiders as they hatched but unlike them, feathered shafts still emerged from their empty torsos. The sight revolted Viv. Those had been placed within sight of the walls as bait. Someone had not just callously sacrificed children. They’d moved them here first on purpose to inflict emotional pain on the defenders, and they’d done so while the children still lived. Viv knew what the arrows meant. Mercy killings. She prayed that she’d never have to make that decision herself.

Anger boiled in Viv’s veins. It was one thing to fight against a certain vision of the world like Octas did. It was another to be so purposely cruel. She had forgotten what Octas really stood for. That was fine. Fine. She would remind the spider queen what she was up against.

“Purify the bodies,” Viv ordered in the following silence.

“Yes ma’am.”

The squads formed a protective ring around the panicked sailors. The descending forces coming from the walled town were getting closer but Viv’s gaze was drawn to the ocean to the east. A sudden breeze brought the smell of the sea, providing a brief respite from the cloying scent of death.

Damn, she was already missing it.

Arthur walked around the circle. The dragoness was puffing fire rather than breathing it, and the purifying spell expanded across the white thread in shimmering bubbles that cleansed the mountain of its shroud. Little motes of light popped when the embers reached tiny spiders. It would have been beautiful in other circumstances, yet despite the urgency of the situation, Viv still enjoyed the sight of her adopted daughter puffing and stomping around. She was feeling a little better when the descending convoy finally met them.

Headed by a fire mage wearing a cowl, the group was made of scruffy inquisitors and templars in dented armor wielding swords, banners and bandages bearing the gold of Neriad and the rusty red of their many wounds. They were gaunt and tired with deep pockets under their eyes and yet there was a spring to their step, a determination that Viv found inspiring. She smiled when she recognized the two people leading the formation.

“Denerim! Orkan!”

The inquisitors she’d met in Kazar smiled when they spotted her. Denerim was still the same bearded wise man exuding confidence, while the ordeal had turned Orkan from rockstar to doomed poet, pale and wan and so very precious; every daughter of a good family would pine for this stuttering flame. Damn him for being attractive.

“The Black Witch in person! You came! I told everyone you would be coming but they didn’t believe me!” Denerim said, his malnourished face splitting into a large grin.

“Let’s rejoice when we’re back behind the walls,” Orkan added, dark eyes searching the vicinity.

“Right. We bring carts!”

Hand-drawn carts dragged by soldiers, to be precise. It took a minute to organize everything then the sailors walked back down escorted by Viv. Several more convoys pushed crates up at great speed. The local guards were so happy with the delivery they were almost frantic with their emaciated faces exuding a joy Viv didn’t feel. In such a dreadful situation, how could they be so happy? She didn’t get it.

“Is Sil not there?” Denerim asked her during the second journey up.

“I’m sorry. She was killed by a sniper spider on arrival.”

“Curses. She was the only one with the courage to help us. Her sacrifice shall be remembered… and the decisions of the other captains will not soon be forgotten. The situation here is… well, you will see for yourself soon enough. You have the food we requested?”

“All of it and more. I killed the Beast and we ate it. You can have the leftovers.”

Denerim looked shocked.

“The monster part only, obviously.”

“You managed to slay the Beast? I assumed Octas would reclaim the avatar’s power or you would fend it off but death… oh, that meat will be a blessing. We need to regain our strength…”

We left you some sauce.

Arthur stood on her hind legs as a statement of power to express exactly how magnanimous she was. Denerim, wise that he was, bowed to express his gratitude. The news and the crates carried up towards the city until there was an uproar and enough light in the late afternoon to turn the ancient town into a radiant beacon. Viv was one of the last to reach the city gates, casting one last glance towards the retreating form of Emeric’s Girl, its cargo holds empty but its coffers full as reward for the surviving sailors and the families of those who’d fallen.

Colossal white stone marked the border of the Cradle, and colossal white stones formed its walls. Wards competed for space on every available surface alongside numerous impacts to form a strange tapestry, one born from constant conflict. Inside, the mood was… strange. Viv was at the very tail of a column receiving the acclamation of a starving population. Already, hymns were filling the air. Soldiers on the walls kept a firm vigil with interspersed mages sitting randomly, perhaps to avoid being picked off. Some of the houses were destroyed. Others were overflowing with people moving supplies with bony hands. Traces of destruction were everywhere among the crude white houses but so were the marks of a tenacious hope. The enduring green of Sardanal’s light clung to small patches of vegetables that shouldn’t be growing in this season. Desperate teenagers with bulging eyes stared at the ground with old shoes tightly clasped in their hands, hunting for spiders. Those vermin hunters seemed to be more and more a fixture of this place the deeper Viv walked into the besieged city.

“We’re going to the Last Stand,” Denerim told her.

“What? But shouldn’t you guys recover first?”

“No,” Denerim chuckled. “The Last Stand is a place. It’s the vault below the main temple. You’ll see.”

Another detail struck Viv.

“Where are the children?”

“Where we’re going.”

Viv walked past funeral pyres. Many of the fighters lining the streets were not temple guards, she realized. Her inspection skill returned a lot of ‘militiamen’ and ‘militiawomen’ which were not technically paths but desperation picks for civilians forced into a combat role for an extended period of time. Those who survived, anyway. Most people here had dark skin. Denerim and Viv were in the firm minority. Those soldiers that watched her pass did so with a distant stare that no relief could reach. Their weapons were mostly polearms, simple ones made in a rush by harried smiths. They wore mismatched pieces of armor when they wore any at all. Ratty gambesons were the norm, few of which were intact.

After a short walk, Viv finally reached the central plaza. It was currently occupied by a massive tent from which emerged the sickly smell of infection. An actual ring of teenagers surrounded it, hands glowing with basic light spells.

“Octas got to the wounded five days ago. Hollowed out the corpses overnight before unleashing her venomous minions. Seventeen people died before we could contain them.”

“I’m sorry.”

“It’s been a… a very long time, my friend.”

The inquisitor patted her shoulder. He seemed so moved, it almost disturbed Viv. He’d been the one to help her back in the day, first against Gomogog’s apostle and second during the siege against Lancer’s forces. He had remained this pillar, this force of justice in her mind. The man who seized the guilty by the temples before inflicting upon them the suffering of their victims. Now he was frail and he looked older. Stress did that, she knew.

“I wouldn’t miss it. We’re on the same side.”

“I know. The Black Witch of Harrak!” he grinned. “Now we’re probably saved.”

“Or at least we’ll go down swinging.”

“Just as Neriad intended. Ah, we’re here.”

Great pots had been prepared, filled with water. An army of salivating attendants shoved strings of Beast meat, vegetables, herbs, and butter into them. It already smelled quite nice. Denerim walked past the line of bowl-holding survivors already queueing for a chance to be among the first. He guided her down stairs and nodded at powerful guards protecting the way in. Finally, Viv arrived in a large room filled with columns centered around a single array. Groups of children slowly ate soup-soaked bread from cracked bowls under the smiling attention of tired women. Viv heard them make sure the kids chewed and slowed down. The array attracted her gaze. Despite her vast knowledge, it took her a long time to make sense of the divine construct.

It was a suicide array, a dead man’s switch. A kneeling priestess waited in its center, her own lifeforce linked to that of the children. If she died, so would they. If she activated the spell, the same would happen. It would be painless, at least.

“The Last Stand. We would have fought all the way back to here if we'd had to. Or at least, that was what we told each other. Hard to fight with no strength left. It may look cruel but… what Octas does to them…”

“You don’t have to explain. I saw the dead captives on the resting platform. There are fates worse than death.”

“I’m sorry. We failed them. And you.”

“I volunteered to be here, Denerim. You don't have to apologize.”

“We were supposed to defeat Octas and go home. Now people from the mainland have come and the locals… had to pick up arms or die. We have failed to stop the cultists.”

“You helped me when I needed it. Now it’s my turn to help you carry the fight against this evil. You’re not alone, yeah?”

“Ah, forgive me. I must be rambling in my old age but it bears repeating. You have grown so much.”

“Thanks. It means a lot coming from you, inquisitor. Now, where is your command room?”

“Over there.”

The leaders of the island’s defenses  had gathered in a common room inside of Last Stand, clearly a converted storage space. It still smelled faintly of paint and dust. A stone table held a few maps as well as tiny statues placed at various spots of the island. Viv thought they looked like they’d been put there randomly, and she doubted they would have scouts out anyway. Several officers stood around quietly chewing ration bars. They watched Viv enter with hooded eyes, then Sidjin. Only Arthur’s muzzle got a reaction.

“What is that thing?” someone asked.

You will address me with respect or the spiders will be the least of your worries, borgling.

That calmed them down immediately. They sort of huddled together in a corner despite Denerim’s desperate attempt to form a circle. Viv saw mages, administrators, a couple of people who looked like village chiefs, and then warriors and templars. They were an eclectic bunch that only shared a certain air of despair about them.

“So…” the head mage finally said. “When are the reinforcements due? We heard the Beast was dead.”

“We’re it,” Viv replied. “Well, us and a few dozen templars.”

Whispers of consternation surged but Viv tapped the table with a gauntleted fist, and the hammering sound brought silence back, as did her expanding wings.

“You do look strong, lady, but we are barely holding up as it is. Maybe the Last Stand will earn its name after all.”

“I think there is some sort of misunderstanding here. My name is Viviane, Outlander and current Empress of Harrak.”

The whispers turned confused. Most people assumed Harrak was long dead, especially beyond the sea.

“I am Sidjin of Glastia, the Red Mist,” Sidjin added.

And I am She-Who-Feasts-On-Many-And-Gets-Much.

I am a dragon.

“Neriad’s bollocks.”

“We don’t do heroic last stands,” Viv stated.
