I’m coming with you!

Viv considered her daughter. Arthur had grown up — again! — and she was now a fine young lady wearing golden threads on her horns but she was also eminently killable, especially by poison gods. And this, Viv would never allow. At the same time… a teenager being told ‘no’. Not a chance she would listen.

“Don’t you have a bank to supervise?”

The bank will be fine.

My minions handle the day-to-day operations.

They only need me for big decisions.

Like lending a lot of gold, painting the lair, and what meat is best.

Very important matters.

I shall leave them with specific instructions.

Her steps carried the witch deep into the bank, past simple desks covered in papers, locally made. She-Who-Feasts-On-Many-And-Collects-Much preferred a world without windows, yet light was warm and abundant, provided by enchanted bulbs glowing pleasantly. They covered the naked rock in a colorful blanket. All of her employees, though she insisted on calling them minions, favored white clothes with embroidered scales especially on the shoulders. It gave the entire company an otherworldly feeling that never failed to awe prospective borrowers. It also helped that Arthur hired a lot of young women. Sometimes, Viv felt like she’d stepped into a Roman temple attended by vestals rather than in a respectable bank’s main office.

From the dragoness' perspective, she was not favoring a gender. It was just that a lot of Harrakans had started as Enorians who traditionally preferred to recruit male apprentices for accounting roles. Arthur had merely swooped down to catch the most promising female prospects because they were uncontested. Now, her apprentices were fiercely devoted to her, some of them even glaring suspiciously at Viv as she entered Arthur’s inner sanctum.

My only concern is security.

I have decided to hire members of the Children of the Scale regiment as mercenaries.

Viv stopped.

“Ehm. You can do that?”

I cannot?

No one stopped me.

No one had refused the dragon to her face, what a surprise.

“Normally, armies of sovereign nations can’t be used as guards for private individuals? I think? But we’re burning through too much money just with salaries so I’ll allow it.”

Yes, and so I am coming with you.

Viv considered her options. Arthur was a powerhouse and her trip could use another monster hunter. And eater, as it were. The problem was that she’d tried to negotiate for more people to come and been sternly refused.

Viv would take a ship going north to Sardanal’s birthplace, and it was packed. To the gills. Neriad’s men had only accepted to take Sidjin in as well because he agreed to share her cot in the minuscule cabin she was assigned. Things seemed to be going pretty badly.

“I don’t think they would refuse a dragon but… you take a lot of room.”

I can sleep when I fly.

“Wow, really?”

But then I am hungry.

“I think we could make this work. I really wonder what’s going on with transportation, besides the aquatic monsters.”

We could have made our own ship.

“Sure we’re just missing a few things like access to the sea, a shipyard, experienced ship builders, experienced sailors, a proper blueprint and extensive testing.”

Mother.

I do the sarcasm in MY house.

“Fine but the point remains.”

We could go to the south west, quick, quick.

Steal a ship.

“Given my luck and even assuming we would manage to get one afloat, it would be beset by dangers long before we even sailed around the continent. I’d also like to spend more time there than just to acquire a ship.”

Flying ship!

“We would need a lot of manatite. Sadly, the highest concentration is over Helock.”

Viv actually considered this for a while.

“You know, I think I’ll talk to Abe about it. He had his base in the Chalice. Surely he’s studied flying rocks. We could use his expertise, but again, it will take years to achieve anything. Not a couple of months.”

So we will take a boat?

“A ship, yes, just as the inquisition asked.”

It is not like you not to make preparations, mother.

“Oh, but I have made preparations. And I’ve trained. We can discuss this on the way.”

I am not carrying you in front of the mortals.

“Relax. I may not be able to take people with me across the ocean, but I will have an escort across the land to get there.”

***

The ruling witch left with little ceremony escorted by mounted knights. Ban vocally disapproved of her leaving on an adventure without her army, but she knew the deal with the spark of luck. She would always have a chance and it would always cost her more to ignore an issue than to solve it, this time more so than before. After all, it was not just Octas trying to sink the island. Where a dark god manifested, the others were sure to follow. She had to attend and for that, she would have to follow Neriad’s rules.

Viv was ready for the trip. Her winter wardrobe in black and silver matched the dark carriage to make her Param’s edgiest sovereign. Sidjin had opted for red colors. She had to admit he looked really good in them. Sidjin often appeared quiet and unassuming though it was not so much bashfulness as a tendency to keep a distance. The red highlights acted as a statement of power that turned him from taciturn to domineering. She liked it a lot.

“We need to find you more red clothes,” she told him with enthusiasm.

“Assorted couple clothes shopping? You were waiting until I was trapped in the carriage with you to spring that odious trap on me, were you not?”

“If I must drag you away from your spell books into the light of good fashion, I will.”

Viv ignored the fallen prince’s rant against ‘abuse of power’ and ‘tyranny’ and some such nonsense. The carriage was transiting through Reixa by the time he was done and Viv took a look out. It was snowing. A thick white layer already adorned the blue roses of the knight’s pauldrons, above their heavy cloaks. A guard with a halberd met her eyes before waving the carriage on, not even bothering to check her papers.

It was weird being recognized on sight like that. When she’d first arrived, there had been some clashes with those who held certain convictions about her role in society, especially Tarano who had believed it was an honor to bear caster children for his cause. Now, rules no longer applied to her. It wasn’t the world that had changed, and Arthur’s staff proved that. She had merely reached that status where rules and expectations no longer applied to her. She was an archmage and an outlander, an individual removed from the fabric of society. Viv briefly wondered if it was a peculiarity of Nyil where the power difference between individuals went far beyond merely wealth and influence. Did earth’s most powerful women share this privilege? She would never know.

“It’s amazing how I was once stopped at the gates of Kazar, even with proper documentation. Now I lift a curtain and I’m let through without a word.”

Just then, the carriage lurched, though neither occupant panicked. That wasn’t the case for the people outside as the screams of horror attested, but the panic stopped before it could begin. A long, serpentine head descended from the roof and snaked through the suddenly open window. Blood dripped from Arthur’s maw on Viv’s brand new cloak.

“Hey, watch it!”

Mother.

I caught a hard-shell turtle spawn.

Crunchy.

I left you the legs!

“Thank you. We will have it for dinner.”

“I am willing to bet.” Sidjin noted, “that you won’t even have to lift the curtain at our next stop.”

***

The journey north proved surprisingly dull. They spent almost as much time waiting in short lines as they did moving, not least because the weather proved dreadful. Heavy snow occasionally turned into damp sleet that made the road muddy and treacherous. Even the portals couldn’t stop the winter traffic from dying down. Besides desperate travelers and the odd merchant peddling skins or chestnuts, the rest had wisely decided to stay home. It barely improved when they crossed the Shal and finished their trip near Zazas after a brief meeting with their ruling couple. They would sail to Helock from there.

When Viv had been near Helock, she’d spent very little time near the port as there was little reason to. Tourism was not an industry here, so the waterfront harbored fisheries, warehouses, and boarding rooms for sailors. It also stank to high heavens. She’d glanced at the boats there from a distance with mild interest. The sea wasn’t really her thing, though the beach could be nice. This time, they would be traveling on a, well, a sloop, she guessed. She was a bulky thing with a single mast and a high hull specialized in slipping along the dangerous coast. It was clear from the beginning that the captain disliked her and he disliked the weather ever more. It only took three sullen days to sail to the Helock harbor.

It was the first time Viv had returned since her dramatic escape the year before, and not much had changed at first glance. The mysterious floating rocks still hung in the sky as a reminder this was a world of magic while a rare layer of snow covered the old city. Yellow lights and puffs of smoke from countless hearths reminded her that the city was merely waiting for better days. Soon, her attention turned to the real ship, the one that would carry them over the ocean. There was no mistaking it since it was the only one of its size and class within the whole harbor.

Viv had to admit, she was impressed. The name written on her flank was Emeric’s Girl and she certainly looked majestic enough, dwarfing every other ship here with a length of close to eighty meters. The hull was reinforced with metal swirls nailed to the tempered wood to form a network of defensive runes, though they were inactive now. Three masts bore large folded sails. Viv judged it looked a bit like a Carrack with an aft castle and a thick, slightly curled shape though it was more massive by an order of magnitude. There were no gun ports at all though, only a single ballista stuck to the front, most likely to throw harpoons. The projectile was missing as well. The entire ship shone like a Christmas tree in Viv’s mana sight.

“Impressive,” she whispered.

“Aye, she is,” the sullen sloop captain said by her side. “One of the last of her kind. Shadowland design. They don’t do it like them anymore.”

He spat overboard.

“After the ashes of Grandfather’s wrath covered the sky, the old kingdoms perished. Some of the arcane shipwrights moved to Vizim, is just, all they and their descendants can do is repair. Now there are two less. Curse that eight-legged monster.”

“Are they that difficult to build?”

“You need dry docks for that, miss, and a lot of money. The Vizimans don’t need’em to trade with us so they don’t build them.”

He shook his graying head.

“Damn shame.”

Viv wasn’t sure what to say. It was the second example of mankind losing a massive amount of knowledge she’d learned of here. The Shadowlands lay for to the north east, a hostile land covered in volcanic ashes, the sun perpetually blotted by dense clouds. Only roving bands of hardened fools still roved its savaged grounds with a few settlements clinging to the coast and the last remnants of long lost nations. That was where the only other living outlander she knew of was. Oleander, champion of Maranor. She wondered what he was doing there.

As the ship approached Emeric’s Girl, it became painfully evident that the old lady was wounded. Something large had raked her flanks, leaving behind splintered furrows hastily patched up with clamps and tar. Nothing that would hamper her, fortunately. The same could not be said of the deck where entire strips of railings had gone missing.

“We have our work cut out for us,” Sidjin said as he joined her.

Viv turned to see Arthur.

She was drooling on the planks.

Squid!

***

Viv’s departure from the sloop was fast and without issue, the only surprise a mellowed captain wishing her good luck. The pair of casters levitated from the deck under the appreciative gazes of the sailors. As they climbed to reach Emeric’s Girl’s deck, the devastation only became more obvious. Entire sections of the deck were brand new with the old parts marked by suspicious stains. A steel sheet covered the central mast to hide battle damage. All of the sailors here were northerners in heavy cloth. The mood was somber. So somber, in fact, that the appearance of two archmages casually floating down with their belongings caused little more than a bleary glance.

Viv alighted in the center, then made her way to the aft castle where the person wearing the fanciest hat stood. In her experience, that was the leader. She didn’t get the chance to make three steps before said leader climbed down with an energetic stride. Two officers followed close with frozen expressions.

To Viv’s surprise, the captain was a northern woman who looked barely older than her. She had a square jaw and the no nonsense aura of people who needed to take swift decisions and live with the consequences. Her uniform was absolutely perfect, a blue gray suit that showed broad shoulders under a feathered hat, but there were carefully managed cricks in that armor. A fresh scar started from the edge of her mouth to disappear down her collar, and there was a certain tension in her shoulders that told Viv the ship hadn’t been the only one to suffer.

“Good day to you. My name is Captain Sil of Emeric’s Girl, and you are?”

“Empress Viv of Harrak.”

Aaaaah it always felt so weird just to announce it like that.

“Sidjin of Glastia. Her paramour.”

