“Yes, you were expected. There are few who could make such an entrance without calling on the winds. Welcome aboard. Before I lead you to your quarters, a few words. The trip will last for two weeks plus whatever time it takes to fend off monster attacks. During that time, we will provide for you but I ask that you do not interfere with the ship’s activities. In case this wasn’t clear, this is my ship and I command here.”

“I have no objections.”

“Agreed.”

The captain raised an eyebrow, perhaps surprised at their quick assent.

“What?” Viv asked.

“Thank you. Please follow me.”

Viv and Sidjin followed the woman through a trap door and into the bowels of the vast ship. It seemed that every available space was occupied by tightly fastened crates and barrels. It gave the narrow corridors a cluttered, claustrophobic aura Viv disliked immensely. She guessed the temple would favor supplies much more than new troops for this expedition. She also realized she would spend most of her time upstairs, even if it started snowing. Captain Sil continued the conversation in a lower voice and now Viv realized why she’d insisted on accompanying them rather than let a subordinate do it.

“The bitch goddess kicked our ass on the way out. She has a sea monster with her, an unholy abomination. Some sort of crustacean with tentacles. Killed my second in the battle.”

She stopped by a door near the back of the ship. That one had windows. It felt cramped to Viv but given the rest of Emeric’s Girl, those quarters were positively luxurious.

“This was his room. Look, I’ll be honest. We used all our enchanted harpoons in the past battle and lost our best fighters. I pray to all the light gods you two are as good as they say you are, because if you’re not…”

“One question, captain,” Sidjin said.

“Yes?”

“The ship’s enchantments revolve around a commanding circle at the center of the upper deck. Is there a reason why it’s disconnected from the others?”

The captain blinked.

“How did you—”

“He’s a genius,” Viv interrupted.

She glanced up. It was obvious now that Sidjin mentioned it but she’d not been paying attention beyond making sure there were no traps.

“If you say so. The ship’s arcanist would have stood there in the days of yore, but the art has been lost since the dawn kingdoms became the shadowlands.”

“Can I have a look?”

He was positively vibrating in place. Viv only managed not to tease him because she didn’t want to embarrass him in front of the new girl.

“If you damage my ship…”

“I would never,” Sidjin curtly replied. “I will remind you that we will be on board as well. Your survival is our survival, and besides, it sounds like we will need every advantage we can gather.”

The captain massaged her eyes, though it didn’t take her long to come to a decision.

“Very well, but you will not activate it without my authorization.”

“Agreed. Let’s go up. Now.”

Sidjin thoughtlessly led them out of the room, humming in a low voice while glancing around. He would look like a lunatic but Viv knew he was inspecting the various arrays through the thick walls.

“You have replacement harpoons, yes?”

“Had them delivered, blessed by Neriad but… against that creature? They might as well be toothpicks.”

“Let me have a look. I’m a fairly decent enchanter and my constructs tend to have a… bite.”

“That is what I heard as well.”

As they surfaced, Viv leaned towards the captain once more.

“Oh and I’m sorry but we are bringing a stowaway.”

Captain Sil turned on her, furious.

“WHAT? This was not what was agreed upon!”

“She will sleep above deck or in the air.”

“If this is your version of humor...”

“Oh, no. No. I seldom joke. Oh, here she is.”

The clouds parted and a white shape emerged, a distant roar attracting the air. Arthur elegantly landed on the aft castle then proceeded to wrap herself on the railings.

Hello hello, grateful minions!

Will you give me gold for fish as well?

I am the best fisherdragon ever.

“You are welcome to ask her to leave, of course, but…”

“Dra dra dra dra—”

“She is, and she’s on our side. And she really loves seafood.”

I could go for some giant squid right now.

“Well, Maranor’s cunt. We might make it out after all.”

***

Viv had expected to be bored but that was before they realized Emeric’s Girl had a dormant mana circuit, one as complex as it was comprehensive. Even the damn rudder could be remotely controlled. The problem was that most of those systems were either functioning at minimal capacity or simply broken. Captain Sil accepted a rush order of metal for Sidjin to use.

“I am already indebted anyway. If this trip fails, there will be no need for me to consider spendings,” the captain admitted.

“We will succeed,” Viv said confidently.

“But I have to ask. We do not really have a smithy on board. How do you even —”

A muttering Sidjin tore open a nearby crate, rummaged through several bars with manic focus before settling on one of coppery color. He spread his hands. The rod levitated between them, turned red, then twisted into the desired shape before flash-cooling. The archmage then left as he had come without sparing those pesky noisy people a single glance. What a hyper-competent nerd. Viv was falling in love all over again.

“Nevermind that. We will depart in an hour. Ah, I would advise you to return below deck. It is about to rain rather heavily.”

The first drops of water fell on Viv’s cloak. In the distance, Sidjin waved annoyedly until a half circle of solid mana covered him. Torrential rain soon poured over the ship, leaving Sdjin and his workstation completely dry. From her own bubble, Viv gave the other woman a pleasant smile.

“I am under the impression you are showing off.”

“I am. He’s not.”

Mother!

You should reconsider.

It is really refreshing!

***

Viv’s elation that her daughter’s approach to showering changed was short-lived as the days went on, Emeric’s Girl cleaving the waves under a gloomy sky. It would have been a perfect moment for melancholy but the food sucked and she was extra busy. After running a few diagnostics on the ship, Sidjin declared it was an abused masterpiece in the hands of barely cognizant beastlings to an absolutely mortified Captain Sil. He might have been confronted were it not for his continuous display of arcane might. The witch was once ordered to hover near the hull for three hours without pause just so she could reapply runes and straighten patterns under his exacting instructions. During her free time, she retreated to the depth of the ship to engrave the harpoons in the darkest room, cackling maniacally. Really, they only retired to their cabin to sleep and make love. It was like a last minute scramble before an important exam.

Captain Sil gave the authorization to reactivate the circle on the fourth day for a test run. The base of the masts glowed gray and the wind picked up, propelling Emeric’s Girl across the sea at great speed.

“Sadly, we’re missing a key component,” Sidjin explained. “All those ships used to work on a core. A large one. It must have been salvaged a long time ago because even the receptacle is gone. Some of the energy can be stored in the arrays themselves but without a core, we can only work with short bursts.”

“Are the connectors still intact?”

“What? No. Well, I can easily recreate them, but why would I?”

Viv pointed at herself.

“Very powerful, self-filling core right over here.”

“How, you want to… Oooooh. Yes, but should you not fight directly?”

“I can do both if the connectors are on the deck itself.”

“Great idea. We won’t be able to power all the arrays at once because your core is black while we would need a gray, brown, and blue one. The efficiency will be low. I will still build an ad hoc array that should be compatible with you. In the meanwhile, we need to finish the hull reinforcement on the right flank.”

“And the harpoon launcher.”

“No, the harpoon launcher is not part of the ship’s system.”

“I know but by the time I’m done, it will be.”

Sidjin stared at her for a minute without speaking a single word. Viv waited, knowing he was calculating.

“I’ll make it work. It shouldn’t be complicated since the architecture is modular. There are a lot of redundancies there, as if the designers expected the ship to take massive damage and keep going.”

“Probably what happened. What other system?”

“Navigation, useless without other active ships, and weather control.”

“What?”

“No, not the actual weather, more of a short range calming effect. Oh, it can also deflect a thunderbolt.”

“Let’s get to it then.”

***

For over a week, Viv and Sidjin worked nonstop to reactivate the ship. Arthur spent most of her time flying and hunting. She would sometimes bring catches that would be grilled on the deck to the delight of the crew, as the haughty dragoness accepted Viv’s plight. After all, a happy crew made for more effective minions as had been confirmed many times and Viv couldn’t eat her own weight in discarded, giant shark’s tail. There was another, smaller issue she discussed with her paramour one evening. Namely, that her armor no longer fit perfectly. She’d have to make it bigger on her return.

Captain Sil appeared more confident as the days went by and the runes around the ship were now shining as they had in her prime. She even voiced her guilt.

“Sadly, I cannot compensate you for this feat. I do not have two archmages’ wages to spare.”

“Ah, sorry but I think Sidjin got his own payment by himself,” Viv replied.

“He certainly is… enthusiastic.”

Viv debated telling the truth. In the end, she wanted to see the captain’s reaction so she could gauge what sort of response her future decisions would have.

“Ah, well, there is just the matter that this is the intellectual property of a… defunct nation.”

Captain Sil frowned.

“What do you mean by intellectual property?”

“Ah, I forget that knowledge is more compartmentalized here. Essentially, Sidjin knew the entire spell system by heart by day two and he will definitely recreate it if we ever get a dry dock.”

The scarred woman gave Viv, who was also scarred but sometimes forgot, an assessing glace.

“Tell you what, if you fine people can resurrect the lost art of arcane ships, I honestly don’t give a beastling dick. And I am in your debt for the enchantments if we make it out alive so… I promise to remain quiet about it. And damn the guild.”

So they might have trouble with some Vizimans in the future, Viv thought. If that got her good ships, she didn’t care.

Around that time, Viv finished the whole batch of twenty harpoons. She absolutely forbade the sailors from touching them, instead carrying the missiles one by one to the launcher so they would be stored at its base, whispering to them not because she was crazy but because she wanted to make it clear they were dangerous. The heads shimmered with a malevolent black halo and every available surface bore runes of hatred and retribution. Only the lower shaft was left intact and only because she had runes to connect them to the launcher, itself modified for improved speed.

While the general mood around the sailors had first improved, and Viv had even managed to memorize quite a few names, it grew somber by the tenth day. The temperature was slowly rising but that just meant it went from freezing to merely miserable, or it would if that affected Viv at all. Drizzles and rain showers were pretty much constant. The captain explained the situation to them as they were dining at her table.

“Sardanal’s birthplace has been relentlessly attacked by Octas for the past three years. At first, only inquisitors joined the fight since this is a remote place, about halfway between Param and Vizim. Unfortunately, cultists made landfall in the second year, and the inquisitors were forced to call for reinforcements. A vicious war has been waged ever since. My crew and I were proud to carry temple guards to the valorous defenders. For a while, it looked like we were going to win and also rid the world of decades of effort of cultist recruitment. Unfortunately, Octas found the Beast.”

“The one that damaged your ship, I presume,” Sidjin said.

“And sank many, many more. We only survived because my father splurged on a harpoon launcher many years ago. I was going to auction that thing too.”

“And without supply…” Viv continued.

“Nor reinforcements, or new weapons… The temple guards have held on so far but without the food we’re carrying, they’ll be reduced to eating each other or slicing their own wrists. This is the last attempt, as far as I know. If this fails…”

“Then Octas exterminates the last defenders, her belief is proven true, and she obtains the power to sink the island beneath the waves. Her legend grows and cultist activity explodes in the next decades,” Viv said.

Her soul mastery whispered that it was right. She had studied godhood extensively the past few months with the help of the various clergies to prepare her next plan. Belief and consistent actions were massively important for the gods. Octas would not retreat. Not with the amount of resources she’d sank into the attempt. Viv bet she was running low on manpower as well.

“The Beast attacked us as we had almost escaped the island’s currents. A vicious monster, that one.”

The captain shivered.

“Thought we were dead for sure. Had to be strong. And now we’re going to face it again.”

“You have us this time,” Sidjin said.

“And Arthur,” Viv added.

Couldn’t forget the fire-breathing menace.

