“Right, we’re going to enter the killing zone in two days. We’ll be on high alert. Constantly. Octas WILL attack us.”

“We understand,” Sidjin said.

“It’s not the first time we’ve fried spiders.”

***

With the mood definitely morose, Viv shared her need for a distraction with Arthur who had a proposal.

“Let’s fly up!”

It was a good exercise and if Viv’s levitation failed, Arthur agreed to catch her with her legs because she didn’t want to be ridden outside of a really exciting and dangerous battle.

“Does the Beast count?”

Mother.

One does not battle seafood.

One hunts it.

Please.

“It’s divine seafood though.”

It better taste divinely as well.

“You know I’ll tell her that. I’m sure it will piss her off.”

Viv just took the time to warn Sidjin and then she was off, up and up.

Normally, the skies were the domain of gray casters when it came to flying humans. Colorless magic was simply too complex for a sustainable spell. Viv disagreed. She believed colorless mana was the most versatile type and that it could imitate the effects of every other color with sufficient understanding. It also helped that the continent’s most brilliant colorless specialist happened to be her boyfriend. Viv went up, and up, the wind buffeting her hair. Arthur flew encouragingly around her though she was showing off a little as well. The clouds approached and Viv almost wanted to touch their fluffy dark surface. It didn’t happen. She had the gray sea under her, then she was in a world of fog.

For a moment, reality seemed to retreat as she weightlessly floated through an eternity of mist. Even her mana sight showed nothing but gray mana all around her. The otherworldly experience was so intense, she expected to be stuck in limbo. It was silent too. Even the wind lost its grip on her. Condensation made her blink while the chill of the cold hair seeped into her bones.

And then she was out above a plain of cumulus stretching as far as the eye could see, all backlit in a glorious orange glow by the rays of the distant sun. The rare gaps in the blanket showed agitated waves, dark and foreboding, but here above it was a landscape like no other. Arthur flew by and caught Viv in an updraft that carried her forward, clothes flapping in the sudden wind. She was flying, and she was free.

“This is so fun! Thank you!”

If mother likes.

Then grow wings quickly!

Scales optional. Wings not.

She seemed to consider the question a bit more.

Horns optional too.

“Hey, what’s that?”

Through a larger opening, Viv spotted white foam circling a titanic shape pushing through the waves. It was large enough to be visible from up here. Viv stopped and used a colorless spell to act as a lens.

A creature as large as a building with eight tentacles and the shell of a giant lobster, powerful tail propelling it forward.

Octas wasn’t willing to wait.

“Alright, let’s get down. Looks like we’re getting our fight earlier than expected.”
