Not picking up on Huu’s sarcasm, the old geezer smiled and nodded. “Yep. Maybe you can’t trust your thoughts, but you can always trust your instincts. You said you’re too angry, too scared, too selfish, and that means you gotta die, but I don’t see why that’s a problem.” Gesturing at the battle before them, he added, “You’ve plenty of good reason for all three of those emotions right there. S’only natural to fear death and adversity. Fear is good. Keeps you sharp.”

“It’s not that I’m feeling angry, scared, and whatever,” Huu exclaimed, confounded that this great, great, great… whatever grand Mentor needed something so basic explained to him. “It’s that I can’t control my emotions.”

“So?”

“...So? So?!” Barely able to utter a coherent thought, Huu sputtered, “If I lose control, then I lose Balance and turn Defiled.”

“From anger and fear? Bah.” Waving a hand in dismissal, the old geezer shook his head and went back to scratching the quin. “If that were the problem, I’d have turned Defiled the day your ma brought you to me. You know how frustrating it is talking to you boy? All you do is grunt, nod, and go along with whatever anyone tells you. That’s your problem. Can’t make up your own damned mind. That’s why the Spectres got such a hold on you, because you’re dumber than a bag of bricks.”

Snarling in rage, Huu drove his fist into the old geezer’s face, or at least he tried to. His punch never even came close before the world spun and he found himself staring up at the night’s sky. A long second later, the old geezer’s face came into view, as did Huu’s quin, the former looking amused and the latter concerned. “Lost your temper there,” the old geezer remarked. “You turn Defiled? No? Well, what a surprise. Guess you were wrong.” Gesturing for Huu to sit up, the old geezer shook his head and sighed. “You’ve overlooked something so basic I didn’t even consider it might be the problem. You equate Balance with control, and for some, maybe it is, but not you.”

Head still spinning from the tumble, Huu cradled the back of his head and looked around to see if anyone noticed, but thankfully the old geezer was keeping them both Concealed. “What do you mean?”

“I mean you’ve got a temper boy, and you always have. Nothing wrong about it, and ain’t nothing you can do about it either, because it’s in your blood.” Flashing a wolfish grin which did nothing to calm Huu’s nerves, the old geezer explained, “Your ma says you’re a kind soul, and I can see it, but that’s what’s got you into this mess. You let your anger get the best of you once, didn’t you? Bet you hurt someone real bad, someone you care about, so you slipped a leash over your temper and have been afraid to let it go loose ever since. Who was it?”

“...Elia.” Huu’s other mother, his kinder, gentler mother, but she had a streak of steel in her too. Huu was barely ten years old then, and out playing with his friends, but Elia came to fetch him for dinner. For some idiotic reason or another, he hadn’t wanted to leave just then and made a big stink of it. When Elia tried to grab his arm, he shoved her hard, harder than he meant to. He already had a Core then, and she wasn’t expecting him to it, so she fell in a bad way and hit her head. He still remembered the panic and dread at seeing her lie there on the dirt, to the point where he hadn’t even thought to scream for help. Yan did though, and Elia didn’t suffer anything more than a bad bump, but for long, agonizing minutes, Huu thought he had killed his mother. Ma and Pa wanted to beat him bloody when they found out, but Elia, kind, gentle Elia wouldn’t let them lay a finger on him, because she knew he hadn’t meant to hurt her and saw how it ate him up inside. That was the day he vowed to be more like her, why he let the other children bully him even though he was bigger and stronger than any of them. Because he wanted to be more like Elia, like his mother, who loved him more than anyone in the world.

“Yea, that’ll do it.” Chortling as if he’d made some private joke, the old geezer said, “So you learned to tread lightly and keep an even head, but despite all your efforts to turn the other cheek, your temper never went away. So look at you now, all twisted up inside because you wanted to be ‘nice’. Ridiculous.”

While Huu understood every word coming out of the old geezer’s mouth, he couldn’t piece together the message being conveyed. “So… what? I should just… be angry all the time?”

“No, idiot, not all the time.” Grumbling something about pups and blockheads, the old geezer sighed and explained, “You feeling angry? Be angry. You feeling sad? Then be sad. Same thing with any other emotion, happy, scared, impatient, nervous, whatever you’re feeling, embrace it, and when you’re finished feeling whatever it is, let it go.” Nodding sagely as if he made perfect sense, the old geezer added, “That’s the hard part. Letting go when it’s all done. The Defiled make you angry, then be angry when they’re around, but no sense snarling at shadows if they’re not, you get me?”

“...No.”

Rolling his eyes, the old geezer mumbled a half-dozen unsavory insults before trying a different tack. “Look, forget trying to understand it then. You think you’ll turn Defiled if you give into your emotions. I’m saying you probably won’t. With me so far?” Huu nodded, and the old geezer continued, “Alright. So why don’t you head out and indulge your emotions. If you turn Defiled, I’ll kill you before anyone notices. If not, then you know I was right. Since you wanted to die anyways, then this here is a perfect solution, no fuss no muss.”

Huu thought about it for a very long time before deciding it didn’t make any sense whatsoever, but there was no stopping it now, as the old geezer wouldn’t take no for an answer. Prodding Huu back onto his quin, the old geezer said, “I hear they call you the Ravenous Wolf, but you ain’t no wolf. You a leashed pup, barking at anything that moves. Now that you got a real wolf in your head, you’re too afraid to do anything but tuck tail and hide, but them Spectres can’t hurt you.” Scratching Huu’s head the same way he scratched the quin, the old geezer added, “Slip the leash, pup. Give your anger free rein. There’s enemies who need killing, so that anger is nothing but fuel for the fire. Like him, over there. That’s a cub who understands Balance.”

Following the old geezer’s finger, Huu spotted the fearsome half-bear Ulfsaar tearing his way through the Defiled lines, roaring in wordless fury as he set his axe to bloody work. The fearsome man looked half-Defiled himself, but Huu had met him several times in these past few weeks, and outside of battle, Ulfsaar was a kind, soft-spoken man who treated his wife and mount with tender care. That’s why he was in such a rage right now, for he fought to keep the Defiled away from his wife while she tended to his injured mount, and from the looks of things, they needed Huu’s help.

There was no more time to think, no more time to worry. This was battle, and Huu was worthless like this. He needed the Ravenous Wolf, the dangerous, bloodthirsty predator within who drove him to bloodlust and battle. Somewhere along the way, he’d just plain forgotten how to find Balance, and the Spectres took full advantage of his stupidity. Well no more. “Slip the leash,” Huu thought, and for the first time in what felt like eternity, he knew this thought to be his own, as well as the one immediately after. “Kill the Defiled.” Drawing his sabre, Huu raised it high overhead as the clamor of battle returned. “Sentinels,” he exclaimed, filling his voice with Chi and authority. “With me!”

And just like that, the Ravenous Wolf surged into the fray to rescue Ulfsaar and do battle with the Defiled, no longer in control of his emotions, and no longer afraid to embrace them. The hunt was on, and when it was over, he would lay his fears to rest for good.

...Or he would succumb as expected and the old geezer would put him out of his misery. Either way, it was an improvement, so why not enjoy it while he could?

Shitty Paint Map of Battle

Chapter Meme
