With Mila’s world turned upside down following the death and apparent reincarnation of her father, she found a sense of calm purpose in predicting the logical development of chaotic battle.

Though unable to see past the quin-riders ahead of her, the thunder of hooves and crash of steel told Mila that Chu XinYue’s vanguard had met with the intercepting Enemy forces. Five-thousand of the North’s finest heavy cavalry and Ulfsaar’s hundred cattle chariots would do devastating damage on the charge, but not enough to break the spirits of seventy thousand screaming Defiled, especially not after two hours of steady retreat. Whether the vanguard swept through their foes or broke upon Enemy spears, they would not last long without support, support Sister Alsantset had been ordered to provide. A mistake on Brigadier Hongji’s part, in Mila’s opinion, since Major Sun Qiang’s light cavalry was better suited for this job. Chu XinYue needed more help than mere bows and arrows could provide, and tactically, the mounted Sentinel contingent was most effective at keeping the pursuing Defiled cavalry at range. Still, if the good Brigadier wanted to throw his best asset into close quarters combat, Mila would not complain, nor would any of the stalwart heroes accompanying her.

“Stay close, little Mila,” Tursinai Sent, hopping onto her feet atop her snarling quin and setting her chain and sickle to twirling overhead. “My turn to lead and your turn to protect me now, understood?”

Mila said nothing and merely nodded in reply, knowing this was not the time for dissent. Technically, she outranked Tursinai and was second only to Alsantset, but that only mattered to Imperials. Tursinai was a carefree spirit, unsuitable for politics and military command, but a Martial Warrior of immense skill and prodigious talent. There was no doubt in Mila’s mind that Tursinai’s grasp of battlefield tactics exceeded her own, for Yaruq was as demanding a Mentor as Mama and unhindered by the close ties between mother and daughter. The other Sentinels knew it as well and followed Tursinai without question as she led Mila’s retinue to break away from Alsantset and Huushal’s forces and strike at the Enemy’s left flank.

Imperial Doctrine dictated the Sentinels stay in tight formation and charge in on the vanguard’s heels, lending their blades and mass to help their allies push through, but they were no hammer to go crashing into the fray. No, they were a chisel, or perhaps even a scalpel, a precision tool devastating in the right conditions, but easily broken if used in the wrong way. The heavy cavalry was stuck in now and even Ulfsaar’s chariots couldn’t push in any further, but rather than lend their mass to the forward thrust, Alsantset opted to move her Sentinels around the flanks in hopes of distracting the Enemy and taking pressure off their allies. A risky gambit, splitting their forces against the overwhelming numbers of the Enemy, but roosequins and Sentinels were wasted getting stuck in a melee tar-pit, and Mila was confident her comrades were up to the challenge.

One moment there were too many Sentinels in the way for Mila to see, and the next, the Enemy was immediately before her, and she relished this chance to spill blood. Without slowing their quins, they crashed into the horde of tribal Defiled, not head on like Chu XinYue had but at a sharp, shallow angle with Tursinai at the point. Sickle singing as it scythed through the Enemy lines, the formidable woman single-handedly carved a path through their unwashed foes and cut a small contingent of Defiled away from the bulk of the Enemy, where they were ground underfoot by the bulk of Mila’s retinue, trailing behind and to the left of Tursinai’s heroic charge like sails flapping from the mast.

This was the way of the People, to rend and tear at their foes until they had no more strength to fight back, tactics which served them well against Enemy and Imperial alike. Like a butcher slicing off a thin steak to be smashed flat by the meat tenderizer, this initial clash killed hundreds of Defiled and scattered dozens more to the wind, but Mila’s retinue was dancing upon the razor’s edge. Once their momentum was spent, the Enemy could easily overwhelm them through sheer weight of numbers, but Tursinai knew this as well. Rather than push deeper into Enemy lines, she changed course and brought the Sentinel charge back out of the Defiled horde, responding to the attempts to encircle her before they could take shape. Slowing her pace, Tursinai led the quins around in a wide, winding circle until the Defiled were in front of her again, at which point she set her sickle to whirling before diving back in.

Behind Tursinai’s cheery and whimsical veneer lay a Martial Warrior bound for greatness, and after tonight, the Empire would learn her name. She was Tursinai of the Whirling Blade, Disciple of Yaruq, Wife of Fire-Bird Tenjin, an orphan who Condensed her Aura at seventeen and Formed her Natal Palace at twenty, and was now on track to beat Gerel and become a Peak Expert by thirty.

Were Brigadier Hongji or anyone else Scrying from overhead, they would see Mila’s retinue riding in a looping pattern, diving in to nip at the flanks of the Defiled horde only to immediately retreat before circling around for another bite. The wagon wheel formation, Mama called it, with the Sentinels simulating the wheel and the Enemy the path it rolled over. Taxing on the quins’ stamina, but they were built for this sustained pace and could outlast any horse, cattle, or even Defiled, and Sister Alsantset was undoubtedly mirroring this same tactic on the right flank, while Huushal’s riders picked away at the Defiled attempting to encircle Chu XinYue’s vanguard.

Effective as this was, Mila inwardly grumbled about being stuck guarding Tursinai, which was about as necessary as drawing legs on a snake. No Defiled could even close the gap between Tursinai and her vicious chain and sickle, leaving Mila with nothing to do except twiddle her thumbs and wait. Then again, even if she was further behind on the tail end of the charge, her short spear was unlikely to see action as this was a tactic in which polearms reigned supreme. Despite the battle raging around her, her weapons sat unstained by blood for long minutes as they circled around again and again. Even Zabu was getting frustrated by the long wait and it took considerable effort to keep him from breaking formation to close with the Enemy, and she was sorely tempted to ‘lose control’, if only to let her spear taste blood. Zabu was a fine battle quin, well-suited for Rain’s rough and tumble style of combat, and while Mila usually appreciated Atir’s more level-headed temperament, tonight, she empathized with blood-thirsty Zabu’s eager impatience.

And so, Mila sat and glowered until their eighth revolution, at which point Tursinai sat back down on her quin with a brow full of sweat. “The Enemy cavalry is finally responding,” she Sent, glowing beneath the moonlight despite the circumstances. “I could use a break. Care to take point on this, little Mila?”

“Gladly.” A feral smile stretching across her face, Mila slowly and carefully stood atop Zabu’s back. Her cautious ascent was a world of difference from Tursinai’s casual hop to her feet, but Zabu would thank Mila for her slow approach since she was at least twice Tursinai’s weight and had less than half her skill at Lightening. From her new vantage point, Mila took a moment to appreciate the wind in her hair carrying away the fetid stench of death and battle while studying her oncoming opponents. Tribal garo outriders rather than heavy Chosen gajashia cavalry, who seemed a different, more dangerous breed of Defiled. Still, Mila appreciated this chance to test her skills, for she had learned much in this past year and had yet to put her lessons to good use.

Leaving her short spear strapped to her shield and her shield hanging across her back, Mila reached for her third Spiritual Weapon instead. Paragon, she had named it, not out of pride or hubris, but because the name felt right. There was a time when she dreamed of crafting herself a proper polearm to wield in place of her short spear, something with reach and suitably weighted for her to use with one hand, but in time, she came to see this as a waste. A longer polearm would render her short spear as nothing more than a backup weapon, and that didn’t sit well with her. The nameless short spear was a part of her, and leaving it idle and unused would see her skills deteriorate over time. No, rather than craft a weapon to replace her short spear, Mila decided she would be better off crafting something which would fill a void her current Spiritual Weapons left empty without wholly replacing them, though she was hard pressed to decide what sort of weapon would fit the bill.

Right up until she saw Jorani’s Spiritual Rope, and set out to learn how it’d been crafted.

What began as a curious intellectual diversion soon turned into an obsession as Mila forged weapon after weapon in pursuit of perfection. Crafted in throes of Divine Inspiration, Paragon was one of her earliest creations, but despite this, she had yet to replicate her success. Luo-Luo’s retractable flail came close, though it lacked the sheer flexibility of Paragon, which at first glance, looked like a short wand measuring twenty centimeters long and not even a finger thick. Appearances could be deceiving however, for much like Mila herself, Paragon was a weighty weapon unlike any other, with many secrets hidden within its depths. So excited by her accomplishment, she bound the weapon for her own use immediately upon completion, an action she soon came to regret.

Because she discovered she had no earthly idea how to use her new, esoteric weapon and no one to turn to for advice, not even Mama and Papa.

So embarrassed by this quandary, Mila spent many months hiding her ignorance, and even went so far as to lie to Rain and tell him that if he wanted to see it, he would have to be strong enough to force her to use it in a spar. A silly falsehood to hide the truth, that Paragon hardly seemed deserving of the name and Mila had no idea how to bring out its strengths, but after more than a full year of arduous trial and error, she was finally confident enough to bring it out in real battle. Twirling Paragon between two fingers, she unleashed her Aura and guided Zabu around to intercept the encircling garos, ensuring that when they clashed, the garos would be caught between her Sentinels and the Defiled infantry behind them. With a snap of her wrist and an exertion of Chi, Paragon elongated and transformed from wand to cane in the blink of an eye, but this was not enough. A second snap of her wrist saw Paragon elongate even further as the weapon went from twenty centimeters long to two-hundred and twenty centimeters in total.

Or more aptly, from wand to polearm with just two flicks of her wrist.

All of this was only possible thanks to Divine Inspiration which arose from studying Jorani’s intricately braided Spiritual Rope and Rain’s obsession with multi-form weapons. In its most condensed form, Paragon was stuffed to the brim with exactly eight-hundred and eight segments all folded neatly together, with each one no thicker than a fingernail and arranged in two, neat columns. A snap of her wrist timed perfectly with an Amplified burst of Chi released the first half of the folded segments, and a second Reverberated snap unlocked the second half, but this was not enough to make Paragon Mila’s finest work ever. As she raised her weapon overhead, she sent yet another burst of Chi through Paragon’s frame, this time with the aim of Guiding it. Not the weapon as a whole, but to every single one of the eight-hundred and eight segments, causing them to detach from one another and turn Paragon from a long staff to an even longer bladed whip, one held together by the finest of metallic threads.

It was satisfying to see the front rank of Defiled riders balk in fear as Paragon’s bladed whip form hurtled through human and garo alike, the weapon so fine and fast it could barely be seen by the naked eye if not for the blood of Mila’s enemies dripping down the blades and wires. Bringing Paragon about in a wide, high arc, she swung the weapon around again, and then again, as she’d seen Tursinai do so many times before, and Zabu chittered in frustration at the lack of enemies to rend and tear. It wasn’t as simple as it looked, twirling her weapon like so, because even with the wires and blades Honed to perfection, it still took considerable strength to carve through bone, muscle, and sinew, and she was driving her weapon through dozens of Defiled at a time. While her Blessing offered enough strength for her to do so with relative ease, it took almost a full year to get to this point, and in truth, if not for her extended bout with Insight in Taduk’s bamboo grove, it might have taken Mila several more years to figure out how to put Paragon to use.

