Balance. That’s what it all came down to, balance. Too much strength, and Paragon could tangle upon itself, too little and her attack could be intercepted. It took a combination of Guiding, Reverberation, Amplification, and various other Chi skills she had no name for to pull this off, and all she was doing was whirling her weapon about. Her entire life, Mila had focused on being straightforward and unyielding, a domineering warrior who overcame her foes through sheer strength of arm. This allowed her to score resounding victories against foes and rivals weaker than she was, but as Ryo Da’in so aptly demonstrated, Mila was utterly helpless against anyone physically stronger than she was. Even stupid Gen almost killed her back in Sanshu because he refused to clash head on, and it was a lesson Mila had not picked up on until becoming an Expert of the Empire.

The bamboo grove in her Natal Palace was far from complete, for Mila had yet to strike upon Perfect Balance, but it taught her an important lesson. All forces, great or small, obvious or subtle, solid or intangible, they each had their place in the world, and by ignoring anything that wasn’t sturdy or powerful meant Mila was leaving far too many tools on the table. A pole-arm was indeed strong and domineering, but a whip was also an effective weapon despite being made of soft and pliable materials. Even a wet towel could cause significant damage if placed in the right hands, which was what the Mother Above had been trying to tell Mila through so many bouts of Insight and Inspiration.

There was no perfect, universal weapon in this world, only the best weapon for a specific individual, and for Mila, that weapon was Paragon, one which still had many forms and purposes for her to uncover and a thousand other details to take into account. Grinning from ear to ear, she set upon the Defiled with savage glee and righteous fury, for she felt herself growing stronger with each passing second as she familiarized herself with the tools at her disposal. Not just Zabu beneath her or Paragon in her hand, but with her Chi skills and unnamed Blessing, her Aura and Natal Palace, and the mysteries which lay beyond with enlightenment so close she could almost taste it. The answers were there, dangling before her eyes, and she would slaughter as many Defiled as needed in order to reach out and grasp them.

Her smile grew wider and wilder as the battle wore on, and Mila embraced it without hesitation. This love of battle and bloodshed was but a part of who she was, and she finally understood this now. She was Sumila, daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Wife of Falling Rain, but she was also the offspring of Guan Suo. Alsantset was right; he was dead and gone now, and that red panda was nothing more than a beast. This meant the Enemy had brought low one of the Empire’s greatest Divinities, but Mila was not afraid. No, she was eager, for although the Smiling Slaughterer had been delivered unto the Mother’s warm embrace, his daughter still lived, and Mila would make certain the Enemy came to fear her as they once feared him.

She would become the new Smiling Slaughterer, and she would have vengeance for her father’s death. Ten million lives for his seemed a decent exchange, and these seventy thousand Defiled were as good a place to start as any.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fight.

Or flee.

The two impulses raged for control within Huu’s mind as the battle unfolded before him, and for long minutes, he feared he might make a fool of himself where all could see. Well, more of a fool than he already was, for despite holding nominal command over his retinue, everyone knew he was here clinging to his Ma’s apron strings. Not that Ma ever wore an apron, that was more Elia’s purview, but Ma had always been Ma, and Elia just Elia, though Huu loved them both all the same.

Yes, this was how all heroes behaved, yearning for their mothers in the minutes before battle. Big, stupid Huu, a grown man who still needs his Ma to wipe his ass for him, that’s what everyone was thinking. Second Grade Warrant Officer? Ha, what a joke. If the Legate knew what Huu was really like, being stripped of his rank and executed would count as a mercy. Ravenous Wolf Huushal, a man so close to Defiled he was a danger to everyone around him, which could not stand. The People should have exiled him long ago, but Ma would not have it, so that was that, but he knew they would have done away with anyone else. Ma should’ve let them, because there was no way Huu was strong enough to overcome this, not in a hundred lifetimes. What would happen if she wasn’t around to watch over him? Even then, what sort of life was he living now, stuck underneath her thumb? It was embarrassing being a married man who had his Ma looking over his shoulder at all hours of the day, and he could only imagine what his friends and subordinates must think of him.

Little, if anything at all. That wasn’t right. He was their commander, and he deserved their respect. He ought to teach them all a lesson, send them into the teeth of the Enemy without guidance just so they’d see how they’d fare without his tactical acumen. Better yet, he should just turn around and leave, ride home for the Citadel with anyone who would join him. It wasn’t cowardice to retreat from a losing battle, else they’d be fighting back in Sinuji instead of out here on the open plains, and make no mistake, this battle was lost. Seventy thousand Defiled had appeared in front of them to block the way back east, which meant the Imperial lines were in complete shambles. This intercepting force should never have been allowed to get so far ahead of them, and Sinuji’s soldiers were caught in a bind. Even if they could break through the intercepting force and avoid getting caught by their pursuers, what then? They were still two days from the second line of defense, which meant two days of endless marching and fighting. Even now, the strongest Imperial Warriors available were locked in combat against an absurd number of Demons, and it was only a matter of time before Hongji’s Peak Experts fell before their superior foes. Unchecked, the Demons would slaughter the Imperial warriors to the last, which meant the only path to survival was to leave everyone behind to buy time for his escape.

Growling beneath his breath, Huu fought for control of his thoughts and failed miserably at the attempt. The Spectres continued to torment and taunt him, filling him with rage, dread, misery, and anguish all at once. There was no concentrating with them stuck in his head, no moment of peace or quiet to be had, and after so many months of trials and tribulations, he was ready to give up. He wouldn’t have even made it this far if not for Yesui and Yosai helping him along, and Yan’s confidence in his abilities did much to bolster his courage, but now… one way or another, he was ready for his struggle to end.

Back when all this began, Ma told him that if there were ever a time when he couldn’t handle the Spectres anymore, he only had to tell her and she would take care of things. They both knew what she meant, and Huu was grateful Ma was strong enough to offer. It would destroy her though, which was why he held out this long, but he couldn’t do this anymore. It was all too much, and while he could always go to Rain for help, that was a temporary solution at best. The Spectres would return soon enough, and in a few decades, Rain wouldn’t be around anymore to help, and at that time Huu might be too strong to deal with out of hand. This couldn’t be allowed to happen, because if word got out that Huushal had turned Defiled, Marshal Yuzhen would have no choice but to declare a purge and he will have brought disaster down upon his people.

Better to end it all now, while he was still young. This way, Yesui and Yosai would be free to seek new lives with someone else, and then Ma could raise another child, one more worthy of bearing the mantle of her Disciple...

As the chaotic battle raged on in front of him, Huu was consumed with the thought of finding his Ma and asking her to end his struggles, but despite taking a full circuit through his retinue, he couldn’t find her. His wives were busy on the flanks, keeping the Enemy from encircling the vanguard, while he was stuck at the back ‘overseeing’ the archers delivering death into the heart of the Defiled horde. It was busywork, so he supposed Ma was off doing something more important like battling Demons or slaughtering Chieftains and Champions, but still Huu felt betrayed. He needed her now, because he feared he would never find the courage and clarity to ask her again, especially if the worst should come to pass in the midst of battle. His wives were out there risking their lives, while he sat at the back struggling to control his emotions, a liability in more ways than one. This had to be done, and soon, for the good of everyone he loved.

“Get a grip, boy.” His pointed elbow digging sharply into Huu’s back, old geezer Grand Mentor poked his head out from his sling and Sent, “How long you gonna hem and haw like this? In case you haven’t noticed, there’s a battle goin’ on, and every second counts.”

“I can’t.” As soon as the words left his mouth, the clamor of battle died down, meaning the old geezer threw up a Sound Barrier to spare Huu’s pride, but he was beyond caring who might overhear. “I can’t fight. I’m a danger to everyone here, so I need to find Ma.” The old geezer would end Huu’s life if asked, but he wanted to say goodbye to Ma and leave some words for his parents and wives. “Where is she?”

“Too busy fightin’ to coddle scared pups,” came the old geezer’s reply, his wolf ears fluttering as he clambered down from Huu’s back to yawn and stretch. “So I suppose I should step in and take care of this. Ridiculous is what it is. Teach one pup and the next thing you know you’re up to yer ears in ungrateful great grand Disciples. Hardly even worth it if you ask me. Tell me, what’s the problem again?”

Huu wished there was someone, anyone else to talk to about this, because he didn’t even know the old geezer’s name. Ma wouldn’t say anything about him besides the fact that he was some sort of a Mentor figure to her, her part-time Mentor, her Mentor’s Mentor, and supposedly even further back. For some strange reason though, having the old geezer around kept Huu… sane, for the most part. There was something about him which made Huu want to… not fear or respect, but something else. Trust perhaps, or dependence might be a better word, as if he needed this old fart’s acknowledgment or respect. Maybe it was because the geezer was Huu’s half-sibling by blood, since he had this same feeling with Baatar, though to a much lesser extent. Whatever it was, the old geezer’s presence had helped Huu through some of his darkest times, but then he disappeared for almost eight months, and everything went to shit.

The old geezer was back now, but it was too late. “I’m too far gone,” Huu moaned, unable to tear his eyes away from the battle. It scared him, seeing Imperial soldiers dying to Defiled tribesmen, but he also yearned to take up his saber and join them in the fray, to rush headlong into danger without caring about the consequences. In the heat of battle, the Spectres always fell silent, their insidious whispers unable to pierce through the rush of fury and blood-lust. The problem was, even without the Father’s foul minions to egg him on, Huu had plenty of dark thoughts which were all his own, and that scared him more than any Spectre or Demon. “I can’t do this anymore. I’m too angry, too scared, too selfish, too… too everything. The Spectres won’t stop yammering away, telling me to run, fight, die, do something, anything, but I can’t trust my own thoughts. Now I’m afraid I’ll do something dumb, so I need to talk to Ma.”

Tilting his head in an adorably innocent gesture, the old geezer asked, “Why?”

Grabbing the old geezer by the lapel, Huu hoisted him into the air and screamed, “So I can ask her to kill me before I turn Defiled!”

Unperturbed by his circumstances, the old geezer shifted in Huu’s grip to look him straight in the eye. “So lemme get this straight,” he began, scratching his head in undisguised confusion. “You’re tired of not being able to trust your thoughts, so you want your Ma to put an end to your misery.” Huu hesitated before nodding, because it sounded stupid when spoken out loud, but the old geezer took it in stride and said, “Okay. But why your Ma? The girl acts tough, but she’s all squishy on the inside, always wantin’ to be talking about feelings and other such nonsense. It’d kill her to put you down, kill her dead inside.” Shrugging, he added, “If it’s death you’re lookin’ for, then I can do it, or if you ask one of the Defiled real nice, they’ll cut you open from shoulder to stomach. Kill you real good, that will. Maybe it’ll even distract them long enough for a proper Warrior to put em down, so win-win.”

Growling in unrestrained frustration, Huu put the geezer down and threw his hands up in the air. “You don’t understand. You can’t.”

“You’re right on both counts.” Giving Huu’s quin a thorough scratch behind the ears, the old geezer said, “I don’t understand. You say you can’t trust your thoughts, so why don’t you just stop thinking so much?”

“Stop thinking. Just like that?”

