That caught the other woman’s attention. “Really? I’d like to meet them, if possible.”

Tala huffed a laugh. “Of course you would, but I don’t know that I want them to meet you. Only time will tell. And if you get no more time to convince me…” Tala shrugged. “That’s not my issue.”

Eskau Meallain sighed. “Very well. There is no cause to be difficult.”

Tala cocked an eyebrow, causing the elf to continue through a growing smile.

“For either of us to be difficult. So, you killed him.”

“I did.”

“How?”

“Dissolution magic. I had thought that such would be fast enough, but he still activated the collar as he died.”

“So I remember…” The elf frowned. “About that. How—?”

Tala shook her head. “Not now, maybe not ever. Ask something else.”

Eskau Meallain grimaced. “Fine. I’m not used to being in the subordinate position.”

“Not even to your Pillar?”

She barked a laugh. “He comes to me for advice more often than to give orders…” Her face fell, and she grimaced again. “At least he used to…”

Tala clucked her tongue. “So. Questions.”

Eskau Meallain sighed but nodded. “Why did you kill him?”

“I wanted to be free. I couldn’t be as long as he lived.”

“Why did you want to be free? Was your life really so terrible?”

Tala almost laughed in her face, but the sincerity in Eskau Meallain’s tone made her hesitate and take the question more seriously than she otherwise would have. “Sure, life was good there, but it wasn’t my own. It wasn’t one that I chose. It was the life he’d built for me without my permission or say so.” Tala laughed then. “I actually considered many times that I might have enjoyed such a life if I'd been invited into it rather than stolen.”

“So, you had your memories, then? To know that you were stolen?”

“I did.”

“For how long? Surely not the whole time?”

“No, not the whole time. I regained myself just before the clash with the other candidates. I was me just in time to make him a Pillar and me his Eskau.”

The elf’s eyes widened at that. “So long?”

“So long.”

“Then… I never met you as her. I only ever knew the real you?”

“The real me wearing a mask, playing a part, but yes.”

Eskau Meallain grunted. “I see. That is good to know, actually. So, he wasn’t as skilled as he thought himself to be?”

Tala truly laughed then. “Oh, he did a masterful job. It was only by chance and happenstance that I recovered myself when I did. I had magics in place to restore my mind in case of head-trauma or memory tampering—a thing most Archons don’t have—and those magics were triggered in such a way as to bring me back to myself.”

A frown was the first thing Tala got in reply. “But that doesn’t sound like luck at all. That would be like a soldier saying it was luck he survived the arrow, while wearing a shield on his arm that caught the attack.”

Tala shrugged. “I suppose, but it took long enough to trigger. I don’t know how much longer it would have been before another effect would have come along to set me free.”

“Ahh, so you meant that the timing of your recovery was lucky, not the fact that it happened at all.”

“Exactly so.”

A throat cleared behind them, and the two women spun around to find a rift of nothingness awaiting them.

Tala felt instant dread as the thing wasn’t there to any of her senses save those that were entirely mundane.

Eskau Meallain seemed to have sensed that something was amiss as well, because she fell into a defensive stance, somehow not seeming odd even with only one arm.

Within the emptiness stood a starkly white man—not untanned, but white as the driven snow—with eyes even darker than the abyss that surrounded him. “Eskau Tala, Eskau Meallain. It seems that I caught you with… lucky timing. You lesser beings have settled on a punishment for this spoiled child’s actions. It is time for me to determine if I agree that such is sufficient.”
