It was nighttime when he awoke again, wrapped in a travel blanket, inside a cave. It was raining outside and Adujan sat, sullenly poking a fire, sitting on a stone. “What happened?” Huushal croaked the words out, gratefully drinking from the proffered skin.

“You were pounced on by a wildcat, Big Huu. A real lady of the night. Skin is over there, it'll make a good blanket for you to piss all over when you have your nightmares.” Adujan spoke as if making up for the past month of silence. She had bestowed that nickname on him her first year as a cadet, when they had worked together. “You lost an ear, and your pants.” Grinning lasciviously, she added, “You lady-killer.” Handing him a bowl of stew and a spoon, she continued. “Sumila wrecked the fucking cat, terrifying doesn't describe her well enough. Formidable woman, she is. Rain and Mei Lin looked after your cuts and gashes. Don't worry, Rain did your legs and ah, manly regions. Little Huu is still there, no need to fret, too small for the cat to get at. Armor took the brunt of it, it seems.” Shrugging, she turned back to the fire. “Maybe you can go kill some carnugators, get a new shiny set, just like the 'Young Hero' Rain.” She grumbled to herself some more, an annoying habit.

Huushal ate his stew slowly, difficult with one arm in a sling. It was delicious, and he savored each bite, perhaps his only chance to eat food cooked by Sumila. It had to be her, Adujan and Mei Lin definitely didn't know how to cook, and Rain probably didn't either. When would he have the time to learn? The perfect woman, Sumila could even cook well, the food heavenly, almost as good as Charok's. His wounds all itched fiercely, but his Ma said that was how he knew they were healing. Sighing deeply, he reflected on the afternoon. Almost died again today. That made it the fourth time. The first was an arrow from a sneak attack by bandits, his first foray as a cadet, a feeling he would never forget. It was getting easier to shake the dread, the fear that always followed a close brush with death. Rain would probably be laughing by now, the maniac. Looking around, his eyebrows rose. Where was Rain? Or Sumila and Mei Lin, for that matter?

“They're off looking for the moon flower thing. Rest your big head, Big Huu. If you need to take a piss or shit, try not to, because I don't really want to carry your big heavy ass outside.” Huushal preferred the quiet, sullen Adujan that he had traveled with the past month. It was a blessing, not to listen to her constant mocking and cursing, so unladylike. Now that they were alone though, it was back in full force. She seemed in good mood, at least, and it was good that she didn't mock him in front of his parents. Or worse, in front of Baatar. Huushal laid back down, seeking balance. He might as well do his best to heal what he could, be of more use. He'd be damned if he let Rain carry him while he was conscious. That was an embarrassment he could live without.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Have you found them yet?”

Situ Chiang shook his head at Situ Shirong's inquiry. Close to 800 people were scattered throughout the forest, and Xiang had to search for certain animals to hunt, to fulfill their mission. How was he to find one specific group of barbarians? His cousin was too entranced by the reward. Five thousand gold and an unnamed favor, to cripple some savages. It seemed like an easy job, but the forest was vast, and their time limited. They could spare no time to search for mongrels.

Shirong smacked his hand against a tree, frustrated. Chiang didn't even know what he needed coin for, in any case. As a favored son of the clan, Shirong and he enjoyed luxuries beyond the dreams of most. What was a thousand gold to them, once split between their group? A few days at the brothels, or a single night with one of the top courtesans. A pittance. Even worse, it was an open bounty that anyone could claim. The chances of them finding the savages first were slim to none. He said as much to him, but that only earned him a disdainful look.

“It's not about the money, cousin, it's about the favor owed. To have the Canston Trading Group in our pocket would be a boon. They are a growing power, and I intend to buy their favor cheaply whilst I still can. They have secured the aid of an ancestral beast! A free one, at that. Even our clan only has the aid of five, all slaves procured at great cost.” Shirong grinned, punching Chiang in the shoulder. “They have more half-pig soldiers than they know what to do with. I wouldn't mind having a bristleboar guard, they are intimidating to look at, fierce and powerful.”

Chiang sighed inwardly, keeping his thoughts to himself. Such greed and shortsightedness. If Shirong would just work at finding another tablet, he could just sell his reward for all the slaves he wants. Why chase after favors from a middling merchant company. However, Shirong was more favored within the clan, his father the vice-leader, while Chiang's father was a mere guardian. Even worse, their cousin Gulong was just as determined to find the savages, one of his random indulgences. Dejected, he returned to searching the forest, fantasizing that perhaps if they found them, the savages would have a token and the mission completed, allowing Chiang to reap without sowing. The OuYang clan token they had found was most likely worthless, their patriarch a notorious miser. The prizes were handled by a double-blind system, all held together, guarded by a mixed collection of warriors chosen by lottery, all sworn to secrecy, no clan or sect knowing what the others had prepared. Many of the sects and clans of the Society used it as a way to gain face, giving out incredible prizes, showing off their wealth in front of the entire province. He salivated at the thought of being able to claim two prizes, a dream that would not likely be realized.

Skulking off into the darkness, his teammates beside him, Chiang continued on his hunt, for token or savage, it mattered not. Either would do nicely.

Author's note: Just noticed there's a review of this story in top weekly reviews. Niceeee. That'll keep me smiling for a long while.
