And suddenly, the atmosphere was awkward. But Shiv had a hard time noticing just how awkward.

“I feel bad for you too, Roland. I dunno what fucked-up shit the Starhawk made you do during the war or why or why you even listen to him, but Udraal is a fuck. And Adam. I loved Adam, and he keeps getting hurt, and neither of us c-can protect him.” Shiv tried not to cry—and promptly threw up again. Jessica teleported his vile essence once more, and he gave her a slurred compliment. “Man, my stomach feels really tingly.”

“Is that all?” Ekkihurst said from off by the side. “Remarkable! Even a dragon should be dead several times over from all the sickness you are processing. Your physiology and resilience are beyond monstrous. Ah, but the stomach is experiencing organ failure. You truly feel no pain?”

“Nope. Just really tipsy.” Shiv laughed, his regrets and woes suddenly forgotten.

“You’re more than tipsy; you’re on the verge of blacking out,” Jessica said. “I know that look.”

And at the back of the group, Shiv was vaguely aware that he had another body. Several other bodies, in fact. But his focus was scattered, so they only reacted really slowly and late too. Like it was, uh—

***

“Shiv.”

The man in question made a pig-like noise as he woke up again. “Uh? Aghuh?”

Valor looked down at him. “You fell asleep.”

“I did?”

“Yes. And then your heart stopped.”

“For a half-second!” Ekkihurst was cheering; Helix’ blood wings were aglow, but his jaw was agape the entire time. “But it started again,” the vampire continued. “And your body fails no more. I do say that the Vicar’s plague has been stalemated by a single body of yours alone! No need for a second! Stupendous! Wonderful! Incredible!”

“Yeah!” Shiv pumped both fists up. A bit too hard. A blast of displaced air caused all the spare furniture in the makeshift medical chamber to scatter and shatter against the ceiling. “Whoops, fagghhghhh—” And then he vomited hard enough to blast a hole through the ceiling—or would have if Jessica didn’t create a portal for him to empty his stomach into. “Guh. Fug. Thanks, Jessica.”

“Don’t mention it.” She cleared her throat. “Listen. Sculptor. Ekihorst.”

“Ah, Ekkihurst,” he corrected.

“That’s what I said. How long is he going to be like this?”

“Eh? Until we find someone to resolve the plague at its root. This body must remain—”

“No, the drunk as shit part,” Jessica interrupted.

“Oh. That. Give him a few hours, and I believe his levels will rise enough to stabilize. He might remain slightly addled, but he will not be so fully besotted.”

“Besotted…” Shiv giggled. “Funny word.”

“It truly is,” Ekkihurst agreed. “Oh, Tulveg—old, terrible, disappointing student of mine, you have atoned for all your past failures and poor Skill Evolutions in bringing me here! Even as a specimen alone, the Deathless is worth a world of mithril.”

And while Ekkihurst laughed and cheered while patting his grimacing student’s back, channeling incomprehensibly complex streams of crimson mana into Shiv even without looking, the Deathless turned to Helix, who was also casting his spells, and frowned.

“You know something, Helix? I regret taking you guys on.”

The orc went still mid-cast. “Insul?”

“I regret it. I regret what you did to Adam. I hate the Challenger for being a piece of shit. And I hate all of you… Because, despite everything you do, and what you are, you’re all likeable. I like a lot of you. But you just… always just keep doing everything you can to break my heart. Maybe because you can’t help it, but also because you like it. And I hate it. I wish you were a real person. I wish you all could be the same as you were, but not be orcs.”

Helix opened and closed his mouth several times, but he gave no response. His empathetic core grew thick with a heavy mist of existential confusion.

As Shiv wanted to say something to Valor, he ended up yawning and blinking again.

But before he could say anything, he lost track of time and—

***

Plaguefueled 82 > 128 (Skill Evolution Reached)

“Huh?” Shiv’s eyes snapped open at a start, and as he tried to rise, he nearly slammed his forehead into a face leaning over him.

A face belonging to Isabella Van Stormhalt.

Shiv barely stopped himself in time while the girl staggered back.

Shiv's mouth fell open as he saw her move. She still looked weak and pale, her black hair missing in places, but she was on her feet, dressed in a medical gown, and in the room were others—others beside Roland, Valor, Tulveg, Ekkihurst, and…

He blinked. He felt supercharged. Stronger than ever before, but more than that, there was a buzzing about him; a deafening noise of—were those massive, bloated flies swirling about him? And why could he feel them? Why did he feel like part of his body?

“H-hello.” Shiv’s attention sank down as he found himself staring at Isabella. “Are you… Are you alright?” she asked, voice hoarse.

And one of the fist-sized flies tied to Shiv landed upon her shoulder, and Shiv felt her warmth—felt the thumping of her heart; and felt the purity of her body: a hollowness when it came to sickness and disease. The same thing went for the two dozen other victims who were massed in the room. He could feel them too—them, and Roland and all the others.

This place was clean. All of it was clean. All of it, except for him…

Skill Evolution: Plaguefueled (Master) > This Vessel of Pestilence and Panacea (Heroic)
