“That is good! How noble of you! Now we can pool our wisdom to make sure this fledgling Biomancer flowers into a proper practitioner of the art!” Ekkihurst’s cheer rose inversely to the sourness within Helix, and he gesticulated at his simulation again. “Now. The mind will be the place where we conduct this battle, for once we claim it with our virus, it cannot be occupied the same way by the Vicar’s infliction. However, the Vicar is clever—he must have anticipated that someone could circumvent even his prodigious Biomancy, so he had the virus twin-tethered to both the physical brain and the psionic construct mirroring it that is created through attuned mana. Hence, the following question: How do we resolve this?”

Shiv’s mind drew a blank. For all the guidance his intuition offered him when it came to socio-psychological encounters, information-logical processing was a domain he remained unpracticed. “Uh—”

“Do not rush nor wonder if you are mentally deficient,” Ekkihurst said, assuaging Shiv’s worries. “The more one doubts, the more one devotes their cognitive capacity to doubting. A single failure or lack of understanding does not make you a fool, but inexperienced. And genius comes in such a wide spectrum that it is little worth declaring someone to be a wonder when they are only capable of greatness in a few narrow things. Take time and think. How can the body circumvent the mind?”

Helix almost interrupted, but he was cut off as Ekkihurst’s flesh trembled with undulating waves of biomass and mana. For a heartbeat, Shiv felt it: the sheer density of magic dormant within the elder vampire. His field had the depth of an ocean but the thickness of hardened cement, and short of a god, Ekkihurst easily possessed one of the highest mana concentrations for a single magical skill Shiv had ever seen in a person on Earth. “Do not interrupt, Hero Helix. I do not appreciate it, and I would not intervene if someone’s education is not at stake. I will see my skill damaged for the sake of this seedling's future. Will you bid the same?”

The Sculptor’s declaration took both Helix and Shiv by surprise. What doubled Shiv's astonishment was how Helix’ core filled with something new: grudging respect.

“For the art, I will refrain,” Helix replied curtly, moving a finger along the bridge of his nose to adjust his spectacles—only to remember they'd dissolved when Shiv was shouting in his face.

“Your dignity and allowance is much appreciated,” Ekkihurst acknowledged.

Silence followed as Shiv was allowed to think, but he felt lost and blind without any further hints. His gut offered him nothing, and intuition was how he operated. Conscious calculation and consideration felt anathema to the way he did things—and that was a flaw he needed to fix. His gut wouldn’t always save him.

Okay, so we’re going to need to use the flesh to screw over the mind. How does that work? If the mind is captured, the body has to follow. But that led Shiv down a new track of thought: What of the brain? The brain’s biology before it's a psionic shape, isn't it? Would a few physical adjustments not affect what thoughts appear? Hormonal adjustments can be used to cause calmness or rage… but the System most definitely wouldn't like it if psionics could be completely subverted via ordinary means. Everything can be an interplay, but that still doesn’t let biology overcome the magical mind. Unless we can… disconnect it somehow.

“There might be something here,” the Harbinger interjected. “Perhaps we can constrain the mind? Or confuse it? Drive it to absolute capacity so the plague cannot draw from it?”

Yeah, but Ekkihurst went on about how it adapts. I think there’s probably a risk of problems happening while we’re tweaking things and all that.

“Then what about replacing the brain entirely? Growing a new one?” The Harbinger’s suggestion sounded ridiculous, but the more Shiv thought about it, the more it struck him as possible.

Wait, yeah. What if we don’t fight for control with Sullain and just replace the brain or something? A second brain that takes over the first. Wait, is that even possible?

“Can we even grow a second brain?” Shiv thought out loud.

“Second brain?” Roland muttered.

But his confusion was drowned out by both Helix and Ekkihurst.

The former pumped his fist. “Yes! My teachings weren’t wasted!”

“A display of promise!” Ekkihurst breathed. “A full replacement is not necessary, but we can have the brain matter be cloned until it possesses a full replacement stack connected to our Biomancy. From there, we extract the brain tissue and connect it in a new and magically resistant host that will not let the Vicar’s existing magics affect things—a sort of central inoculation node. Preferably someone who possesses High Disease Resistance as well.”

And Shiv understood. “Oh, so you’re going to have all that brain tissue threaded through one of my bodies, huh?”

“Correct,” Ekkihurst said. “It will be good for your Disease Resistance levels as well, seeing how I can attune your body to not reject any transplants while the Vicar’s plague constantly wars with you—and even if it should kill you, that is only a single body lost, with the death for once a benefit rather than a deficiency.”

“Wait, right, you have Plaguefueled, don’t you?” Jessica shouted from outside the room. “If you had Plaguefueled, then why did I get covered in fucking shit? Shiv! You little fuck! You should have dealt with the Mana Leeches! They would have died if you just let them latch onto you! I wouldn’t have needed to felling chase each of the stringy shits down!”

“Huh, I didn’t know my Plaguefueled could do that,” Shiv lied. “Damn sorry, Jessica. I’ll be sure to throw myself at that massive cloud of shit and gross stuff next time to spare you the pain. Promise.”

The middle finger she stuck out past the rightmost doorframe indicated how much she believed him.

“A first resort is always proper sanitation and pest-killing spells,” Ekkihurst recommended. “I will show the Deathless how to cast—”

“No need,” Helix interrupted. “I can show him the finest way of reducing mana leeches.”

“We both can,” Ekkihurst said with a serene smile. “And he may decide which spell stands superior.”

One Biomancer fumed. The other just sighed with satisfaction.

“But first, let us resolve the matter of the disease circumvention—we will see this plague burned out in their bodies, and ensure their continued survival. As it festers deep in their souls and minds, we will not be able to purge it entirely, but with a donation of a body from the Deathless, I am certain that this can be a treatable condition, even if it is not curable.” Ekkihurst’s face began to swirl as if his flesh was liquid, but then it stilled like a pool post ripple, and he offered Shiv a proud expression. “Shall we begin?”

“It’s been a while since I got drunk,” Shiv replied, actually looking forward to this.

“What?” Ekkihurst said.

“Getting diseases and plagues makes me feel drunk and buzzed and all that.” Shiv paused. “Is that unusual?”

“As an effect of the Plaguefueled Skill? Extremely.” Ekkihurst frowned. “At least for pure humanoids. I suspect this has something to do with your abnormal heritage and Unique Path. Do tell me more…”

***

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 136 > 140

“Holy shit, this feels g-good.” Shiv hiccuped. Rivers of absolute bliss drifted through his newest body. If it could even be called that anymore. Hundreds of ropes of calcium-coated brain tissue were corded to his body, forming nodules of secondary brain matter tethered to him. Ekkihurst and Helix then set these sub-brains to be the primary biological-regulation components for the bodies of the sick, while their primary brains screamed, withered, and turned cancerous as Sullain’s plague tried to transform in retaliation.

Shiv felt the Vicar’s magic lash and sting against his form as well, but his Magical Resistance was hardened by all the Shapeless Tides he'd been constantly amassing for the past few days—something he was always trying to do after the revelation offered to him by Produveral about how Void Leviathans used the skill. Now, he was stronger and more magically resilient than he had ever been before, and more than that, his Practicing Atheist feat also triggered against the sickness.

Sullain wasn't a god, so how the fuck did he mix Divinity into this sickness too?

But the thought didn’t linger long, for another wave of sensual joy took him. His thoughts and emotions bobbed up and down on an ocean of happiness, and Shiv felt all the woes of the world depart him. “You know something, guys? I really enjoyed the past few days. Jessica—I’m sorry for not helping you fight the shit monster, but… You know, it was a shit monster, and I was kind of tired of all that, so I just let you do it. Sorry. Sorry. Roland… I’m trying not to think about punching you, but every time I try to forgive you, my Harbinger starts screaming because my brain can’t agree with my heart.”

And then, from out of nowhere, the sadness hit Shiv. He remembered Adam. He remembered Georges—real Georges. Still dead. New Georges, trapped in an eldritch cocoon, and damned to transform into whatever the fuck. “Oh, Broken Moon, what is my life? I could've been a cook in another… I think I would have been a good cook. Roland. I know you were scared, but… Think about it. Me as a cook. No harm in it. No Deathless. Just me making food for people. Good food. Maybe one or two fist-fights a week, but aside from that, always in the kitchen and all that. Just peace and good times and… Hm. Why are you shaking so much, Valor?”

The others stared down at him from all angles. They were all shaking back and forth like leaves in the wind, as if they were about to fall over. It was starting to make Shiv a bit nauseous.

“I am perfectly still, Shiv,” Valor answered.

Shiv shook his head. “Why are you lying to me, Valor? You’re going forward and back, forward and back, forward and—” Talking proved to be a mistake, as he nearly repainted his own chest with a jet of projectile vomit. A pulse of static mana teleported the spillage away—Shiv barely caught Rusty’s blurred form coming to a stop. “Shit… You’re still too fast for me, Jessica. Every time I think I might have a chance against you head-on, I look at your sword moving around, and wonder how I’ll catch up to that.”

“Well, not being drunk off of town-ruining plagues is a start,” she replied. “On that note, you’re a real freak, kid. I mean that in the best and worst ways possible. Jackie would have written chapters about you. Shit, we would have loved to have someone like you in the company.”

“I would like to be in a company,” Shiv said, coughing from a build-up of bile. “You guys know something? I used to think I was an antisocial loner, right? Like I didn’t need people and hated them. But that’s just bullshit. I actually really like people… I like talking to people. I like figuring people out. I like politics and all that. It was just… just Blackedge that was shit. I hated Blackedge. Hated it. Worst time of my life.” At this point in his rant, he looked at Roland, remembered who he was, and nearly threw up out of sheer embarrassment. “Oh, shit! I didn’t mean that.”

Roland’s expression was beyond uncomfortable. “You did, but I understand. And I’m sorry.”

“Naw, I’m sorry.” Shiv sniffled. “I mean, about some things, but not like everything. I’m still going to have to fight you, you know? I gotta punch you, Roland. Not because I want to kill you, but because I wanna know if I’m better—and to get some of that anger out.”

The Town Lord gave a weak laugh. “Is that all? I’ll let you punch me if—”

“No! You can’t let me. The pity—that’ll really piss me off.” Shiv growled. “I wanna fight you and win. Or lose. But I wanna win! That’s what I want. That’s what will feel real to me. Even when I really, really hated you, I also—don’t tell Roland I said this—but I thought he was soooo cool. Oh, shit, wait…”

“Yes, it's me, Shiv.” Roland nodded, trying not to smirk now. “But do go on.”

Jessica shot him a withering glare and waved Rusty in Shiv's line of sight. “Shiv. You think I’m cool?”

He considered it. “Hm, yeah, I guess but—he killed me with like one arrow, and I didn’t even see it coming. He fought off an entire army for like a year while fighting Sullain—fucking, he’s a pretend not-Legend. You’re an open Legend. Really good with a sword, but… You know the worst thing about you, Jessica?”

“Yeah?” she asked, sounding uncertain if she actually wanted to find out.

“I still feel it,” Shiv choked. “What you did to my ass. When things get bad, I still feel you ripping through it. It hurt so bad I blacked out. You know what it takes to make me black out?”

Now, it was Roland that was glaring at Jessica. “You did what to him?”

“Huh? Don’t give me that look, Arrow. It was the Upcreek Special. I’m not Longinus!”

Roland kept giving her the look.

“You’re both cool, but you’re really messed up, Jessica. I would be more mad at you if I didn’t feel so bad for you, and if I didn’t think… think you were like me.”

She froze. “Like you?”

“Yeah: Just dumb guys who like to hit shit at heart, you know?”

“What? That’s not what I’m like.”

“It is,” Rusty grumbled, betraying her immediately.

“No, it’s fucking not!” she snapped.

“I’m sorry your husband and kid are still dead,” Shiv whispered. “Sorry. I haven't even resurrected Georges. Part of me feels like I lied to get you here.”

