The Enlightenment was the greatest gift humanity ever gave to itself. It is also a gift most constantly fail to apply to themselves.

Observe a human, elf, goblin, or any other organic species at their baseline.

As an organic humanoid, you are not a weapon. You are not refined for war or to survive in extreme conditions. You are a vulnerable system unto yourself, a bag of meat with so many interconnected chemicals that a single imbalance can see you destroyed mentally, physiologically, or reproductively.

Without the System's presence, you would have no capacity to dictate terms with your strength. You would have no speed beyond speed, as your neurotransmitters were never meant to react that fast. Were you even aware that there is a limit to how fast your reflexes can biologically be? Indeed, without magic, you are but a paltry creature amidst a sea of blackness.

And think on this: The ancients of Earth didn't live with a system. They didn't live with a greater purpose. There weren't any Quests bestowed upon them. There wasn't anyone actively trying to help them—no true gods from what I can discern. They were alone. Yet despite that, they had one gift, one ability: an imperfect intelligence that let them process the world, that let them understand and conceptualize things, if only at great sacrifices.

It took so long for them to build their tools that generations perished, going screaming into the dark during dark ages where fantasy and delusion became betwixt. But even so, through all that struggle and hardship against the brutal conditions of their world and the ignoble nature of their animal mind, they created technological wonders.

And the only reason they managed this was because of the enlightenment, because they learned the nature of things and themselves. They learned the great and boundless dynamics that ruled physics and biology. They used math as a weapon. They stole power from the sun and created near omnipotent authorities from silicon.

And they did all that and they got so far, but eventually they betrayed themselves. Despite all the knowledge they amassed, despite all the miracles they created, they simply refused to understand certain things.

Refused, that is the right word, because they could have done it. They could have understood what they were doing to one another. They could have understood that their tyranny would come at a cost. They could have actually applied proper analysis instead of hubris, as they exploited their lesser castes in the periphery.

The slightest socio-economic analysis would have seen the attacks to be incoming, inevitable even, but they disregarded it. At the end of the day, there is always an animal, a stupid, rank, disgusting, miserable, terrified little ape that wants to cling to its tree, hide in its shade, and pretend that everything beyond itself is vile or dangerous or not worthy of discovering.

The Core paid for that sin. They crashed down and disintegrated before even the System's arrival. They were the losers of losers, and the ones they once commanded under a yoke of technology became another enclave under the Farwalkers.

Understand that the Core was not punished by karmic means. They were punished because they were foolish, because they refused to apply every bit of knowledge they could, because they did not choose the Enlightenment, they chose to turn away despite everything the Enlightenment brought them. If they had only understood their every enemy instead of succumbing to ignorance, they could have won even if they were immoral. Even if they were the most evil people in existence.

They could have won. They chose not to. They committed suicide, even if it was a suicide born of ignorance and arrogance.

And this is our lesson. This is our greater inheritance. Ignorance is not acceptable. It is lamentable. It is tragic. But you being cut down by an enemy who possessed a skill you did not know of, who had capabilities or allies you did not foresee, is not an acceptable reason to justify your defeat.

In so many ways, we are all the first apes who slammed two stones together to make a fire. While some other apes flinched and screamed, demanding that you put out the conflagration for fear it might spread, you must defy that instinct. You must imagine what you can do with the flame, how you can enchain the flame to your will. For in not knowing, you give yourself to another; in not knowing, you allow yourself to be a slave to those who are willing to seek a proper education.

—Udraal Thann

376

Education [I]

Human biology was unfathomably complicated. There were so many different chemicals, cells, organs, systems, and structures playing off of each other that simply taking one out would cause a cascading series of collapses that would see the body greet its inevitable demise. And though the collapse shared a similar destination in the embrace of oblivion, the symptoms and ailments leading up to that point could dramatically differ with the slightest alteration of a compound, the slightest addition of a new virus, drug, or spell.

This was why Vicar Sullain's Plague was a wonder of magic. It combined different lores to solve all pathways at once. Yet its attacks were strategic and adaptive. Whenever someone tried to treat a specific symptom, like the congestion of a heart, the plague would shift its resources, diverting mana and allowing the Biomancer to clear the arterial clogs while the victim developed rapid-onset pneumonia. Should the Biomancer try to fix the pneumonia, they would likely miss a sudden spread of blood cancers that quickly spread through the body. Then, if the Biomancer defending was truly skilled, the virus would get very clever, for it would cause the patient's mind to atrophy at an accelerated rate, triggering rapid, erosive dementia while a horrific fever flared across the rest of the body as a distraction.

These were but a few strategies the plague could apply to keep itself in function. Yet it seemed to want to progress slowly to cause as much suffering as possible. That was no surprise, as it was an attritional plague, designed to sap Roland Arrow's resources and attention, and drain the morale of Blackedge at the same time.

“And with countless biological pathways to exploit, its options for attrition are infinite,” Ekkihurst said, gesturing at the simulation he made from animated mana. The Biomancy he used to reconstruct Isabella's body was detailed and layered to the extreme.

On the outer level, her form was rendered as a 3D shell with the skin stripped free, exposing the muscle beneath, followed by the blood vessels, then the organs, and more. At any moment, the simulation would respond to the Sculptor's command, allowing everyone to zoom in on specific parts such as compromised cells and detected abnormalities. It also worked in real time as Shiv's Atlas of the Flesh Scryer. What made Ekkihurst different, though, was that he created this rendering of Isabella's body himself instead of having a skill provide the benefit for him—and even added some additional functions on top to enhance Shiv’s viewership experience.

What didn't help Shiv's viewership experience, however, was Helix. He had his arms folded through the entire affair, hemming and hawing, rolling his eyes at obvious statements, and pretending not to be surprised when Ekkihurst arrived at conclusions he'd completely missed. At several points, he leaned down to loudly whisper in Shiv's ear: “This is a truly pathetic display. He is trying to convince himself of the problem more than us. It’s sad.”

“I think he's just explaining things to me, Helix,” Shiv answered without bothering with subtlety. “Because I understand less than nothing about this plague.”

“And that is good!” Ekkihurst cheered. “Being aware of your own ignorance is a virtue. It is what allows you to seek the right education to resolve what you do not know. Right now, there are a great many things we do not know, and I do mean we.” He walked forward and reached up, placing a hand atop both Shiv and Helix' shoulders. Shiv was worried the vampire was about to inseminate him with some manner of sneaky cancer. Uva, Roland, and the Umbral guards were clearly worried about the same thing as they slithered ever closer, motioning for him to stay back.

Meanwhile, Helix' nostrils flared with such indignation that his skin nearly slipped off the bone.

“Though I might know a little more about biology than you two—” Shiv intercepted Helix’ left arm before he could use it to strangle Ekkihurst mid-sentence, “—what is the difference between a sliver and a speck? For that is how much of the body we understand. That is how far we are from the truly novel. But despite the state of our foolishness, I am confident we can save this girl's life and give the others more time so that experts of other fields might arrive to alleviate their mind and souls. Now, after everything I have displayed, can either of you guess what must be done to save this poor child?”

Shiv cocked his head as he examined the mana simulation of Isabella's biology again. “You said you were going to put a virus inside her, right? Some kind of plague of our own? Are we going to fight a plague with a plague by using the body to balance itself? Since there are almost infinite pathways the current plague can use to cause a body to die, doesn't that mean that we can steal those pathways from under them in advance and force them to go somewhere else? Or burn those pathways out in a battle of magical attrition? Can't see the current plague winning against us since Sullain’s gone and there’s no source for it to draw from anymore.”

Ekkihurst laughed joyously. “Quite ingenious and creative. I like it, and perhaps I would have thought of that if I were a novice of the art as well. But you must understand a few things. The first is that since we are trying to protect the body and keep it alive, our task is far harder than the existing plague’s. As it is born of multiple lores and I do not possess Omnimancy, I cannot predict what it might do or how it might strike at the body. However, I do know this: the plague has a capacity to think on its own. Even without the Vicar, there must be a reason for that. Think carefully, Deathless. The facts are right in front of you. Once you eliminate the impossible, you will find your answer.”

“This is absurd, vampire,” Helix hissed. “And the answer is obvious. Naturally, Sullain has tapped into the brains of the victims—is using them as some sort of processing center to help the plague plan against its own body.”

Ekkihurst frowned in disapproval. “Now, now, Hero Helix, that is very rude. If you steal another's opportunity to learn, they will never get to flower.”

“Wait, that was the answer? The plague's actually tapping into their brains and using the intelligence of the sick to function?” The very idea horrified Shiv. It also impressed him. Sullain was a real piece of shit, but it was increasingly impossible to deny how magnificent a mage he was. “I didn't even know you could do that.”

“Most do not, for they must have a very advanced understanding of the mind, and usually only people who have Biomancy and Psychomancy Skill Fusions achieve this specific mastery of the neuro-cognitive components that make up a person.” Ekkihurst paused. “Though even now, everyone is still stymied by the hard question of consciousness.”

“What’s that?” Shiv asked.

Ekkihurst eyed Shiv. “You truly do not know?”

Helix, sensing the vampire’s judgment, leaped in to defend his student. “Of course not! Our Insul’s golden potential was made to languish from spite and degeneracy at the will of a most pitiful tyrant!”

These words caused Shiv to wince. Ever so slowly, he chanced a look at Roland standing outside the room, and the Town Lord wore a tight expression of weariness. “I suppose I deserved that,” he muttered.

“I understand that your life circumstances were different, but just how much of an education were you deprived of, Deathless?” Ekkihurst asked.

“I can read and do basic math just fine,” Shiv said. “Know stuff about monsters.” But upon further review, that wasn’t true either. “Well, I know a lot of bullshit propaganda about monsters. I do know a lot of non-propaganda about set items, certain wines, and cooking, though.”

“…Cooking.” Ekkihurst pronounced the word like he'd never heard it in his centuries of life. “You are versed in the culinary arts but lack any foundational knowledge of the general lores and ancient sciences?”

“I’m trying to make up for that right now,” Shiv muttered, crossing his arms. “I have one of my bodies at Phoenix Academy, doing some reading. I’m using my Multitasking Skill too.”

Legion of Self 155 > 158

Ekkihurst responded with muted acceptance. “This is lamentable, but not altogether tragic. Ignorance of this depth is not ideal, but it means you have not learned the wrong lessons yet and are not contaminated by inaccurate knowledge. Yes, this can be a positive thing for all of us—a true learning experience.”

“I was already underway with remedying his lack of knowledge,” Helix noted snidely.

