[Regeneration] healed him. Or it tried too. His mana slowed down with each passing moment as the Tier 50s carefully pressed his spirit, trying to wear him down and make him submit.

Accepting his torment, Matt felt his mind battered. He felt like a lighthouse in the middle of a storm.

It all came down to the work put into the structure. The craftsmen who originally built it, the maintenance crew who came by every other year to do major repairs, the other lighthouse keepers who put their own efforts in big and small.

It was a battle of everything that came before against the worst the Realm could bring to bear.

They were found wanting. Under the relentless assault of waves as tall as the lighthouse, the past efforts were found wanting.

Water started to seep inside.

Concrete that was haphazardly mixed and normally without tolerances found itself outside its comfort zone. It cracked. Then it crumbled.

It took time.

More than days, years undoubtedly. Not that it mattered, the assault could have easily lasted decades, centuries, even millennia. But in the end, they found a crack.

Once that occurred, everything started to crumble and the end was inevitable.

The lighthouse fell into the ocean, pulled down and smashed by the relentless waves.

In its place, alone on a desolate rock Matt sat, letting himself be splashed and battered as the storm raged on around him.

No matter how much the waves battered at him he persisted, never giving in.

Feeling a change, Matt opened his eyes to see the world entirely frozen.

Speck by speck, the world started to lose cohesion until, like a dried out sandcastle, it collapsed under its own weight.

Reality crashed around and on him. He remained untouched.

Matt wasn’t aloof, beyond the strange realms test, rather it had run out of energy.

The test was over not because he had necessarily passed, but because the test couldn’t continue.

If the strange realm would take donations, he would have loved to charge it back up, but he wasn’t so lucky.

When his testing came to a premature end, Matt felt himself being ejected from the strange realm. The fact he could feel the process was mildly concerning given that it was normally instant.

Everyone was already waiting for him so he didn’t react to their queries of what took him so long, instead checking on the timer they had left outside.

Only a week had passed inside.

Instead of fielding his friend’s questions, Matt turned around to face the strange realm. As he watched, the mile long stone pillars faded away.

They didn’t crumble away, they didn’t dim and turn lackluster, the stone pillars simply vanished over the course of a few seconds.

Turning back around, Matt tried not to be smug. “So, who was everyone else’s strange realm?”

Aster chortled and he appreciated her getting his double meaning.

Liz didn’t bother waiting and directly asked, “What did you do in there?”

Matt turned the question around on them. “It might be easier if you guys start with what you did.”

As it turned out, their strange realms weren’t nearly as strange as his.

They had only bounced from illusion to illusion, breaking them and moving onto the next, trying to advance as quickly as possible.

Sharing his strange realm experience, Matt finished with his reward, presenting it for everyone to see.

A single vial of mercurial liquid whose every movement seemed delayed by a heartbeat or two.

It was a vial of memory erasure liquid and could, at the cost of it being irrecoverable, strip a person of a single memory.

Even after the torture session he endured, Matt didn’t consider using the potion at all. Honestly he was fairly sure the potion was…

Matt looked down at the potion and smiled as the world around him shattered, flaking away like ash carried along by the wind.

Finally, Matt felt a power well up inside his cultivation core, inside his Domain. Line by line, he watched as a new Domain power started to etch itself onto his Intent, similar to what Minkalla was able to do.

Unable to compare the two beyond generalities, Matt simply relished the opportunity to observe the strange realm at work and tried to learn everything he could while understanding only the results.

When the process finished, Matt found himself once more standing outside the strange realm.

Checking in with the timer, Matt saw he had only been inside for a single day and no one else made it out before him.

Seeing no reason not to test it out immediately, he activated his new Intent ability.

The willpower drain was higher than Matt would have liked but he paid it without blinking.

Power built before a pulse of gravity flowed through his surroundings. It faded almost as quickly as it had appeared, but he closed his eyes letting the feeling linger like a flavor on the back of his tongue. He took in the new sensations and tried to piece together what they did as well as what they wanted to do.

Fairly confident in what his new Intent power did, Matt created an illusionary table set next to himself before activating the Intent ability once more.

The illusion reverberated as his new gravity-based sense latched onto the inconsistencies in the illusion. Not being Aster his illusion wasn’t great, but each and every fault was highlighted like a scar on the illusion, visible not to his eyes but the lingering power from his new ability.

The overall effect made the illusion very noticeable. Confident Aster would understand this new power better once she exited the strange realm, he only tested the obvious, more than pleased with the results.

As far as he could tell, once an illusion was affected by the Intent ability, its flaws remained obvious no matter how much the illusion was twisted, melded, or split. The only way he figured out how to remove the tracking effect was to fully cancel the spell.

For lower-power illusions that had either short cooldowns or were Domain-based, that was a minor weakness. For more powerful last resort spells, with cooldowns counted in days or longer, the Intent ability would seriously hinder their effect’s unless the caster could manually undo the tracking effect in the middle of a fight.

Unable to remove the smile from his face, Matt decided to take advantage of being faster than everyone else and went back to working on his mana tests.

He had new ideas he wanted to try and what better time than now after his victory over Aster?
