Chapter 460

The oddities in the breach bubble didn’t stop when they reached their next world.

Not because there was anything strange on the Tier 9 world, it didn’t even have a ruin, let alone a strange realm, but because according to the connection map they were making, they were next to the high-Tier world that had given both of their Seekers bad readings.

“We have a choice. Continue or venture off. Each trip across this sky bridge will cost us…” Rah probed the area of twisted and folded reality before finishing, “an hour each way, give or take fifteen minutes. We should have five to six months before anyone else can connect with the breach point world again, so we have some time alone. By that same token, we are only a few planets away from the entrance. Continuing deeper and creating more distance is a valid choice.”

Rah didn't bother looking at Aster or Allie, instead he only looked at the other eight members of their exploration party gauging their excitement. Those two more than made themselves known by bouncing on their toes holding their hands in the air, clamoring to lead the team making their stances plenty clear.

Ignoring them became a bit of a game as everyone else offered up their opinions but the decision was never in doubt. No one wanted to skip a world so close to their Tier this early.

Their Seekers didn’t get the cacophony of warnings they did when approaching it from the other side, but they took the final portion of the sky bridge with careful steps.

As color and form returned to reality, Matt spread his spiritual perception before retracting it sharply.

“What the fuck!?”

Allie’s exclamation spoke for all of them but none of them dared rush over to what had injured them.

Instead, they firmly kept their feet planted while they exchanged glances, not quite believing what they had found nor how they should react to it.

A quarter of the planet away, part of the way inside of an ordinary wooded mountain chain that could have existed on any of a million worlds, there was a hyper massive crater.

The largest shock, beyond its sheer existence, was the size of the crater and how it had never filled itself in. Nearly two thousand miles deep, the crater carved through most of the planet's mantle while being hundreds of miles wide.

It was almost like something had taken a bite of the world, though that didn’t explain the lingering energy.

Letting his spiritual sense roam elsewhere, Matt saw his initial hunch was correct. Removing that much of the planet's mass had caused the planet's orbit to change with all of the expected knock-on effects.

That at least explained the abnormal lifeforms. It didn’t tell him why there was a lingering energy that had saturated the area, nor why the energy would be able to obliterate any portion of their spiritual perception which came in contact when they started scanning the world.

Cycling through his various energy senses, Matt resorted to inspecting the energy with his spiritual perception once more when they failed to detect anything at all.

His own vision was better at identifying the energy than anyone else in the party was, which wasn’t saying much given its near invisibility.

The only thing he learned was that so long as he didn’t touch the energy with anything, he wouldn’t hurt himself.

By that same metric, anything biological that touched the nearly invisible maw of energy was obliterated. Not that nonorganic matter was treated any better. With small amounts of force, rocks and such items were repelled but with enough power it was trivial to pierce that protection.

Their destruction was inevitable but much slower, the rock being able to fall for a few moments before dissolving into nothing.

They couldn’t be sure, but from a test [Fireball], they suspected there was no air in the crater. How that didn’t create a vacuum was a mystery but it was only their rough speculation. The spell’s mana was torn to shreds like everything else, giving them only a few moments of visual study to come to that conclusion.

Their Tier made their vision incredibly sharp but there was only so much they could learn with that medium.

Both tests made for a sharp contrast when a bird was pushed by an unexpectedly large gust of wind into the energy field as it tried to flee from a ground predator. The moment even a single part of it crossed into the threshold it vanished.

Aster whistled at the sight and Matt silently agreed along with everyone else.

They had found something strange. Not like a strange realm, though there were two on the world, but something beyond their knowledge.

Looking around, Matt found the clear demarcation line around the crater, as plant life grew as close to the crater as possible. Trees and other foliage could get close, but the moment any portion of them touched the energy, it was destroyed.

The result almost looked manicured in its uniformity.

Zack was the first one to have an idea. “I think it's a type of essence.”

Matt wasn’t so sure but Zack’s words brought everyone out of their own speculation, which had been the point.

The physically older looking man was as eager as he ever expressed.

Liz stepped forward. “Let's approach and find out.” Pausing almost immediately she added, “Carefully. Let's not die to some weird phenomenon. I’ve read about them enough as a kid and would prefer to not be a footnote in a history book.”

As Liz suggested, they carefully approached the crater physically, walking the distance using various anti-trap methods to ensure their path forward was safe.

Initially they needed to dodge a few rifts that had long since spilled monsters into reality but they were able to travel between the various territories unnoticed and unbothered.

So long as they didn’t get into a fight, that would remain true. Once that happened, they'd have to clear at least a few rifts of their leashed monsters before they would be left alone.

If they weren't in such a rush, they might have decided to full clear the world before they continued on to their original destination only a few planets away.

Thankfully, the same as with their spiritual perception, so long as they didn’t touch the crater energy, they had nothing to fear from it.

Pulling out several types of scanners and other sensing equipment, they registered exactly nothing.

Not surprising in that the energy didn’t radiate out, but it left them confused and without any direction.

If they couldn’t scan, collect, or sense it, there wasn’t much they could do.

After ten or so minutes of fruitless inspections, Rah finally pulled the plug. “Okay, I don’t think we are going to make any progress on this. Let’s inspect the strange realms and —”

Allie’s head whipped up interrupting Rah.

“What if it's a strange realm?”

Allie looked giddy at the idea but as her gaze started to turn to Matt, he shook his head. “There is zero chance I’m touching that with my hand given what it's done to everything else. You can teleport inside if you are too chicken to poke it. Jump right in like it's a cold pool.”

Allie then turned to Gan Le who had been doing his own investigations using a plucked strand of hair as a test. They all got to watch as it was destroyed like every other biological matter they had seen enter the energy.

A single setback like that didn’t end their testing immediately but they did accept the phenomenon was most likely beyond their Tier of understanding. With their limited materials, they ended up sacrificing a few high-Tier trees to discover the energy wasn’t perfect, nor was it totally destructive.

It wasn’t much slower to dissolve the huge trees but it had been slow enough that they were able to learn some things.

After seeing a Tier 31 rift monster limp away from an encounter with the energy, half a limb missing but very much alive, Matt finally decided to touch the energy given that everything else failed.

He started by cutting off and regrowing a finger, but like all organic matter, the energy of the crater destroyed his flesh when he tossed it inside.

“Don’t be a coward.”

Matt turned around on Allie and glared at her, playing it up a bit but denying the validity of her words. “Damn right I'm afraid. What if it somehow permanently destroys my spirit? I don’t see you trying.”

Aster kicked Allie in the butt with the side of her foot, causing the teleporter to teleport a few feet backwards and clutch her chest as if Aster had tried to shove her inside.

Given the amount of unknowns, he felt his left hand being reinforced by Stygian Gossamer, and thus near indestructible, was more of a hindrance than a help when testing the crater’s energies.

Seeing that Liz wanted to say something, Matt quickly poked the tip of his right hand's middle finger into the crater.

Pulling his finger back, he looked at the layer of skin that had been destroyed.

[Regeneration] fixed that problem, but it did nothing for the equally destroyed underlying spirit. Luckily, he could feel his spirit starting the slow process of healing as with any other light injury.

Pressing his right hand on the energy like it was a window his palm was shredded layer by layer. It wasn’t violent, it didn’t send blood everywhere, but the damage was thorough. The fleshly pain was child's play compared the injuries to his spiritual body which was annihilated just as thoroughly.

Acknowledging the pain, Matt firmly ignored it, wanting to fully experience the slow feeling of his hand being disintegrated, hoping to understand what the energy was. Pushing harder, he increased the speed of the destruction but he failed to learn much with the added destruction.

The energy didn’t feel like much beyond a vague impression of ‘generic undefineable high energy’. It didn’t feel like essence, mana, aura, a Domain, or any other type of energy Matt had encountered or heard about.

It was more reminiscent of void mana, despite very obviously not being that mana type. The crater energy was packed with destructive power but it wasn’t inherently dangerous any more than fire was.

Trying with [Cracked Phantom Armor], Matt hoped the spell would aspect to the energy type that damaged it but the spell treated it like neutral mana, unaspected, simply more destructive than expected.

Pulling his hand back and letting it regrow, he collected his thoughts before sharing them with everyone else.

“I can’t confirm much. Almost no feedback beyond high energy destruction of my flesh and spirit. The only thing I do feel confident in confirming is that it's not like void mana at all.”

Hearing that, Captain Stenson clicked his tongue. His guess had revolved around the energy being a variant of void, given its destructive abilities.

Continuing his testing, Matt kept talking. “This is pure speculation, and I wouldn’t doubt if it's wrong, but this simply feels like an intense form of energy. Like really potent and hot fire mana. It can still be fire mana, but it's practically distinct from what most people associate with the term.”

Liz, who had moved to stand next to him, nodded along. “I think I understand what you are saying, though I’m not sure I agree. My instincts tell me this energy is incredibly complex.”

Matt retracted his hand and Liz carefully tested the tip of a finger, only to pull back with a shake of her head. “Nothing. Like sticking my finger in a blender. I can feel it getting cut off but nothing beyond that.”

Allie, surprisingly invested in figuring things out, spent a few minutes carefully confirming the boundaries of the energy field, which they were surprised by.

The crater wasn’t only a crater. Instead, it was more like a cylinder with the top edge being mottled enough they believed the field might be striking from the top down.

Seeing no one else was willing to try anything, Allie sat back down on her log glaring at the crater.

Almost immediately, she brightened back up as she popped to her feet. “Oh you know, it feels obvious now? Who wants to bet that the sky bridge from the other world deposits you right inside that scary energy?”

Even Rah, who looked like he wanted to get them back on topic, paused, his mouth closing and turning into a frown.

“Anyone who disregards their Seeker’s advice, or didn’t bring one along, won’t survive to regret it.”

Magnus’s words were morbid but their Seeker wasn’t wrong.

Rah gestured, gathering everyone's attention. “Let's start gathering the valuables between visiting the strange realms. As this is a Tier 30 world, we should stick together and once we make a pass of the world's Natural Treasures and strange realms, we can move on.”

Matt didn’t argue and neither did anyone else. As interesting as the energy was, they neither had any way to identify it, nor could they interact with it in any way.

At best, Allie could make a waypoint on the planet but that would take time. Time they didn’t have to spend this soon in their exploration of the third layer planets.

Only a few worlds in and they had found something this odd and there was no reason to assume it was unique in the bubble.

It also wasn’t realistic they could monopolize the world, its crater, or plethora of strange realms when the others followed them into the breach in a few months.

With that in mind, they put warning posts in a few conspicuous places before they started looting in earnest. He also added notes to all of them that anyone who learned anything about the energy should contact him when they returned to the Empire and he would pay handsomely.

Matt doubted anyone would reach out with good information but it was worth a shot. More likely anyone who learned anything would sell it to their Great Power if the information seemed at all profitable.

He did it on the off chance it worked out, but the effort cost him nothing.

