With only the occasional Tier 31 rift to spill out monsters two Tiers higher than them, their group moved confidently. The few times they were attacked, their rift borne opponents were quickly dealt with.

The planet's other oddity was its abundance of strange realms. The strange realms were duds for their group, with most being mainly combative types or requiring more than one group. If they hadn’t been worried about wasting their advantage they would have stopped to make a waypoint but the world was old and its secrets weren’t going anywhere.

Instead of lingering, they started gathering the surface world's loot while bickering over who should get to save the world’s location with [Home].

Lending their assistance when they wouldn’t get in the professionals’ way, they quickly collected a few Tier 28 Natural Treasures but they only found two Natural Treasures over that threshold, which was disappointingly low for a world but within the normal ranges.

Allie blamed it on the strange energy and, while she might have been correct, there was no proof.

Instead the moment they saw the sole Tier 30 Natural Treasure, any disappointment they might have had with the world faded away.

On the southern and coldest continent, in an otherwise unremarkable mountain valley kept unfrozen only by an ordinary hot spring, they saw a medium-sized berry bush bustling with energies.

Hidden under a canopy of leaves were three thumbsized berries.

Far from ordinary, each berry was bursting with a smoky vitality that made their skin seem paper-thin. More than that, they glowed to Matt’s magical senses but his Domain longed for the fruit.

“A Revelation bestowment Natural Treasure. A fortunate find, and three of them at that.”

Gan Le wasn’t wrong either, even if he chose to use the Sects’ term for the fruit instead of the Empire one.

If a cultivator ate a Domain Fruit, they would temporarily gain a Domain stage relative to the Natural Treasure’s Tier. It was the worst type of any such Domain, equatable to what Minkalla gave Tier 14s. Additionally, the Domain stage wasn’t usable in combat, not that it lasted long enough most of the time to be useful. A Tier 30 fruit taken by a Tier 30 would have an effect lasting only a few minutes.

It was very much a ‘paper’ Domain stage.

Even with all of the limitations, it was still one of the most sought after types of Natural Treasures for those advancing or struggling to advance.

The Domain Fruit’s main advantage was that it removed the barriers of understanding what Domain stages were needed, directly pointing the way forward for when the cultivator made their own.

Matt could see how in a Realm like Rah’s original one, such knowledge would have been highly valued all on its own, but here it was well quantified and understood. The fruits were instead valued for their secondary effect. They let a person experience having the next Domain stage for a short time.

If it had been a Tier 35 Domain Fruit, they would have been ecstatic but they were still very happy. Domain Fruit’s were a crucial part in most of the best methods the Great Powers had to allow Tier 35s to create Aspect’s without the risk of death. It was far from the only way, but the value of the fruit would have shot up a few orders of magnitude if they had met that threshold.

Amusingly, if they sold the bush to the Empire, the fruits would still probably get eaten by people using the Empire's other methods. Even if the fruit was five Tiers lower than the cultivator, there were ways to boost a Natural Treasure’s power. They were often more than merely monetarily expensive, but to create a Tier 35 with an Aspect, any price to help was considered worth it.

Only top level elites were even eligible for such treatment but the Great Powers always wanted more. They would happily buy any such Natural Treasures at a premium no matter the amount of supply.

Allie rubbed her hands together, only to have Aster grab her wrists and forcefully keep the teleporter's hands pressed together.

“No tasting the super expensive Natural Treasures!"

“I wasn’t going to do more than take a deep breath. Maybe a small nibble.”

Allie pretended to struggle but Arden and Katya, their harvesters, looked horrified at the idea of eating that valuable of a Natural Treasure solely for flavor, so she stopped reaching for it.

It took almost ten full minutes for the two harvesters to create a proper habitat for the bush but they managed it without any serious mishap.

The tension that had built while the two worked faded as they confirmed the bush and its fruit properly preserved.

Matt wasn’t too tempted by the treasures themselves. He’d use one if offered, but he’d much rather sell it and get something more directly useful to himself.

While he never took pride in what his Talent gave him, his mana, he had no illusion that he was anything but well above average when it came to Domains. He doubted he’d need the help the Natural Treasure could provide, but that didn’t mean the others wouldn’t, and with only three available, hard choices would need to be made.

He would prefer to sell and avoid those choices but he wouldn’t fight for one of the fruits if someone else wanted to keep and use it internally.

With only a few backwards glances at the still unidentified energy, they left to continue deeper into the breach.

When the breach opened up, others would have their chance to figure things out. If not, they could always come back on the Unsparing once the bubble popped and the energy levels lowered to something their second layer ships could handle, as Captain Stenson used [Home] on the world to save its location.

The next two worlds on their path were fairly ordinary, feeling almost like a letdown when compared to the previous one.

The first was only Tier 4, while the other was Tier 19. Neither had anything unique so, after grabbing the Natural Treasures, they left.

The next world, their initial target, was exactly what they were hoping for.

A Tier 32 world with a strange realm they could enter.

There were in fact two strange realms exactly as they’d predicted. One was Tier 28 with the second being a much higher Tier 31.

Many Seekers had identified the world as one of interest before they had entered the bubble, though some of the teams who took their deal had tried to obfuscate the information to greater or lesser extents. Admittedly, there was some expected variance, given the peculiarities and specialities involved in being a Seeker, but being able to compare the reports with the Corporations team who had unabashedly given them everything made any irregularities stand out like sore thumbs.

This planet had the most teams trying to hide its existence, which was why they had beelined for it. It could have been a carefully orchestrated distraction but the existence of both strange realms fulfilled their expectations.

With most of their group being Tier 30s or close enough to it, they were able to remain undetected as they flew to where they felt the Tier 31 strange realm was only a quarter of the continent away.

They didn’t fear a fight with monsters three Tiers higher than them, but doing so before clearing the strange realms was foolish. Strange realms weren’t fragile, but neither were they particularly sturdy, and a fight could destroy one.

The strange realm was on the edge of a receding desert, though it didn’t seem like the cause of either its growth or shrinkage. At thirty feet tall, the Tier 31 sphere was a perfect real-time map of the planet they were on, including little visuals of themselves standing next to the tiny formless dot that was the strange realm on its own surface.

At least visually.

In reality, it was made a strange realm and no more real than a rift, simply made out of a more complicated mix of energies.

Touching the strange realm, Liz let out a sigh. “Bust again. Competitive strange realm. Many can enter but only one can come out, and you can't enter alone. How original.”

Moving onto the second strange realm, their luck finally turned around.

A circle of stones driven miles into the ground and reaching miles into the sky on otherwise flat grassland, the Tier 28 strange realm made its presence known well before they arrived.

Hand still pressed onto one of the too thin stones, Liz said four words before she vanished. “Solo. Safe. Good luck!”

Reaching out, Matt quickly touched the strange realm and connected with it.

Seeing things were exactly as Liz said, he let himself be pulled inside along with everyone else.

***

Matt walked down a pier with Liz, hand in hand.

It was a cold autumn and the chill penetrated through his windbreaker but nothing matched the feeling of dread in his stomach.

Once they reached the end of the pier, Liz turned to face him pulling him to face her via their still joined hands.

His wife looked like she was going to cry as she forced out, “I know this is going to be difficult. I—"

Matt pushed.

Not with his magic— he didn’t have any magic— but rather his mind.

His lessons with Max to better integrate his [AI] with his thinking mind, combined with his own mental work to better resist the urges of his nascent Truth, made seeing through the mental influences instantaneous.

Like a sledgehammer hitting a window, the illusion shattered and a small amount of power seeped into him.

Once the thought was had, the falling planes of reality started to shatter, creating more and more fragments of the world that had been. It left him in a circle of light in an empty field of nothingness.

Stepping forward, Matt moved off his circle of light, his circle of safety, and fell.

As he plummeted to his death, he twisted to see the light. Not by his own will but because he knew that once he could no longer see the light, he would perish.

Focusing his mind, Matt stood before a door of light. If he wanted to complete this strange realm, all he had to do was step through its radiant arches.

Matt looked around himself carefully, controlling his mind, having learned what portions of the mind the strange realm was pulling influences from.

When he did so he felt a new compulsion form and grow as the strange realm tried to find a way through his mental defenses.

The attempt was almost laughable.

Artificial anger flooded him at its temerity but he quashed the outside influence.

“So it's about resisting temptation? Maybe knowing myself? Is i—”

Matt caught himself as he started to be pulled deeper into the strange realm’s illusion.

At this point, he had no idea what the strange realm was testing for. Breaking out of the first illusion had only put him in a larger illusion, if it had done anything at all.

Focusing inward, he looked for any indication he was still under an illusion.

He couldn’t see anything but that didn’t mean there wasn’t a lingering or hidden effect. If so, the strange realm was unequivocally better than him and there was no competition.

Which didn’t make any sense.

Strange realms like the one they had found were tests. Complicated tests to be sure, but there had been no risk to his life and all he had encountered were mental illusions so far. At the same time, resisting the mental urges didn’t seem to be the answer like he initially thought.

Picturing the original setup, the younger Liz, the pier, the ocean, Matt imagined it all, and around him reality warped.

Feeling things snap in place almost as if he had fallen into a groove, Matt let the scenario play out.

Liz broke up with him, repeating clichés about how ‘this is how it has to be’ without any clarification, trying to make him invest more.

It—

Matt froze as he thought he realized what the strange realm was testing for.

Investment.

It wasn’t so much testing if he could break out of the illusion but rather wanted him to create the most realistic illusion he could. If he was right, only then then would breaking out count.

Already seeing the twist, Matt didn’t hesitate. He built the most realistic situation he could, letting the world form with excruciating detail only possible thanks to his decades of mental control exercises.

When he was exhausted, when his mental energy was at its weakest, the strange realm packaged him and his creation together.

***

Standing before the Realm’s strongest individuals, Matt met their gazes filled with only hatred.

His body was broken, healing but slowly, his willpower reserves long having bottomed out and needing to fully recharge before he could use any of its related powers again. That would be centuries from now, given how large his willpower pool was, but none of it mattered now.

Not that his body's health would help him in any way.

They had lost.

Now the victors marched. Each had their own reasons, their own justifications, their own entrapments, but they all came with the same thing.

Cages, shackles, methods to restrict his freedom, some obvious and others subtle.

“Accept an offer. With Emmanuel dead, your friends and family captured, l see no reason for you to remain stubborn. Your insubordination must come to an end.”

Virgil’s words sounded like honeyed wine but the look in her eye was nothing less than the most concentrated poison.

Aoife withdrew a device. “Why bother? Lobotomize him and be done with it. He's already proven he isn’t willing to serve. It’s less efficient and we lose access to his Tier 25 but who cares.”

Tobias raised his turtle head, sneering down at Matt. “Agreed.”

In that word, his fate was sealed and Matt felt powers greater than his own reach in and snuff out his mind as if it were nothing more than a spent candle.

Their unimaginable power encountered his mind and cracked it.

