Villy also discussed how gods would hit plateaus of levels and Records as an era progressed, with more to come at the next integration. Understanding concepts can serve as a form of horizontal progression, even if it does not allow for gaining more levels, enabling gods to enhance their existing abilities and thus increase their power.

“You seem confident in your conclusion,” the First Sage spoke after a while.

“I am,” Jake nodded.

“But you don’t know for sure, do you?” he followed up.

“There are very few things in life one can know for certain,” Jake chuckled. “I already took a massive gamble just going here. I have to believe that I’m right, or as you said, it would all have been a waste.”

“Assuming you are indeed correct, what will you do now?” the old man asked, joining Jake in looking toward the massive gate that Jake assumed represented the final barrier to what he kept referring to as a wellspring of Records. “We already concluded you wouldn’t be able to handle it.”

“We did, but isn’t that where you come in?” Jake asked with a smile as he looked at the First Sage.

“By now, you should already be fully aware that I am indeed nothing but a conceptual representation of the First Sage created from the Records of the tome and your memory of your interaction.”

“I am,” Jake nodded, indeed realizing he was essentially talking to himself. “Which is also why I know it was exactly for this moment the First Sage was so adamant about me strengthening my soul enough to be capable of defeating his Records.”

Jake was determined, and his mind was clear as he stood up. “I also know what I have to do now.”

The First Sage looked up at Jake. “If you’re wrong, you die.”

“Yeah… but I feel like I’m right,” Jake shrugged as he reached out and offered a hand to the old man.

The First Sage smiled, and for a moment, his presence changed, catching Jake off guard. “Then let’s see if you’re right.”

Before Jake could say anything, the old man took Jake’s hand as the bench and road made of golden pages disappeared. Instead of the road and bench, Jake now clenched a golden arrow that also seemed to be made of all the compressed pages. It glowed with incredible power and Records that were far beyond Jake’s current understanding.

In his other hand, he was already holding his bow. For a second, he considered whether perhaps that image of the First Sage had been a bit more real than Jake believed, but he quickly dispelled those thoughts as now was no time for hesitation.

With the golden road and bench gone, Jake felt the oppressive force that sought to erase him from this place closing in again. Jake took a deep breath as he fully unleashed his aura, holding nothing back as he summoned whatever power he had left after the long march to get to the gate.

As he did this, the last puzzle piece also finally made its presence known for real. Right as the oppressive force of erasure was upon him, the faint sound of a heartbeat echoed out from within him, releasing a pulse that fueled him with more power as the oppressive force was pushed away.

Lifting his bow, Jake nocked the arrow and took aim towards the gate. He knew that destroying it would mean his doom, but he also knew that leaving with nothing wasn’t why he had come here.

Another burst of energy enveloped Jake as his heartbeat once more echoed through the realm of nothingness. The gate in front of him appeared more tangible than before as he drew back the string of his bow and took aim.

Jake closed his eyes, allowing not his thoughts, conclusions, or judgment to guide this shot. Instead, he left it entirely to instinct, emptying his mind and allowing his subconscious to take over.

The next time Jake opened his eyes was when he’d already let go of the string and let the arrow fly. He had no memory of when he loosed the arrow, yet despite his lack of direct control, Jake remained calm as it struck the gate… followed by a loud cracking sound.
