“Hi. Hello. It’s me. I’m looking for a job.”
…That was not a normal thing to say. It was all normal, if you separated it out, and it was the kind of thing you’d hear all the time in a bigger city. But not all like that. Not with the weird inflection that suggested the speaker had no idea what they were saying.
And not to Liska, sitting in the door and calling to them across the snowy plaza.
“Uh…sorry? Wrong person. Are you waiting in line?”
Liska was grinning desperately. Just close the door. But the figure began walking towards her, and she cursed. She couldn’t just…
Well, maybe she could shut the door. Wait a second, but that was so rude—who would do something like that?
Liska closed the door and dusted her paws.
“Another awkward encounter saved. Good job, Liska.”
Then she got up and got a toasted sandwich. The Gnoll thought no more of that moment, and no one else noticed. Not Erin. Not the Watch. Not even Tessa or anyone else, not at first. But Liska did wonder whether Lyonette’s luau had started. If so…
Those were some loud damn bells coming from the beach. Maybe Kevin had begun playing some music? She had to head there after a second. But her stomach hurt and was all tense. A sandwich would do her some good.
 
——
 
Ten minutes later, Liska was checking the doors. She filed people through.
“Liscor’s done, Invrisil—thank you! Come again! Jerk.”
She got a glare as someone passed through to Invrisil, and all the people waiting were done. Absent-mindedly, because she had to, Liska checked Celum. She opened the door a cr—
“Hello. I’m looking for a job, please.”
The instant the door opened a crack, a hand shot through. Liska froze and reversed the door instantly.
“Hey! No cutting in line! Back off!”
She tried to hold the door closed, but she shut it on the hand. It flailed around.
“Hello. Let me in, please.”
“Back up. It’s four silver to enter!”
“I’d like a job.”
That weirdo was on the other end. Liska snapped back.
“No coins, no entry!”
The hand paused, and she hoped that was the end of it. But something was tolling in her mind, now, and it was growing louder each second. She realized what it was with a sudden jolt.
[Dangersense].
She had only heard it ringing this loud when Skinner attacked, when the dungeon and Face-Eater Moths were there.
Whoever was on the other end had paused, not even noticing the door squeezing their hand.
“I have money. Please, let me in.”
“N—no. I changed my mind. Go away. Get your hand out of the door.”
Liska listened to the voice in her head. She pushed—and then felt someone pushing back. Suddenly—the door began to open.
She’d been controlling the door with her Skill remotely this entire time. Now, Liska leapt up, surged over, and grabbed the portal-door’s knob. She heaved against it, and the door reversed.
“Get lost!”
She ground it against the hand, no longer caring if she hurt whomever it was. Then something horrible happened. The pressure on the door increased—and began pushing her back.
Even Tyrion Veltras could barely do that. Liska’s feet skidded on the ground, and her eyes went round.
“Wh—stop.”
“Let me in. Please? Let me in. Letmein.”
The voice grew more desperate, louder and louder and more—foreign. A dog howled on the other end of the door and began to bark. Then it whimpered and turned into a shriek, the clatter of paws.
“Is anyone there? Some creep’s on the end of this door! Hey!”
Liska called out, but Celum didn’t have a door-guard. And no one was in her portal-room in the inn. She spoke—
“[Hold Door]! [Lesser Forcewall]!”
The door halted. Panting, Liska smiled in relief—then the voice on the other end turned nasty. And it said something in tones she should know.
“City Runner! Open up, Teriarch! You there?”
R-Ryoka? It was her voice! The door began opening, and the red light of the [Lesser Forcewall]—cracked. Liska’s voice went high and terrified.
“Ishkr! Someone! Help! The door!”
She began screaming too late. Like every idiot in her horror books, she should have called for help. Tessa should have been there, but she’d been vanishing of late.
“Help!”
“I’m Ryoka Griffin, and I’ve got a delivery for you! Open up or I’ll shove this so far up your ass—”
The voice was Ryoka’s—then grew high and shrill, then deepened as if someone was experimenting with it. That hand—it was huge, fleshy like leather, and Liska was screaming for help as the door opened—
Until she heard an exasperated, sharp voice.
“Stop that!”
 
——
 
The pushing figure halted. All the dogs and cats had fled. No wonder. Liska was screaming ten kinds of panic on the other end of the door.
But Xesci only had eyes for it. The figure let go of the door as the Drake halted. She had just been on her way to do the only thing she could for Ilvriss.
“Hello?”
It turned on her, and a familiar young woman stood there. It was…Ryoka Griffin. A good image. But it had flaws. The door slammed shut behind the figure, and it turned back—then began hammering on the portal door.
The stone the door was set into cracked, but Xesci just raised her voice.
“I said, stop that. What are you doing, stealing her face? If you’re going to do that—”
She got no further, because the other ‘Ryoka’ went for her. She whirled with a cry of rage twisting her features—then leapt.
So fast. She took Xesci off her feet and slammed her into the ground. Two hands reached for the Drake’s throat—then a puzzled look crossed not-Ryoka’s face.
Then she went flying as Xesci flipped her off. The Drake got up, feeling at her back—then someone grabbed her.
A Gold-ranker, huge and brawny, one of the many adventurers who’d gone hunting Wyverns, nose mashed flat from a previous injury. He was strong, grabbed Xesci—
And then his wild charge slowed as he looked into a copy of his face. Two identical men struggled in the plaza as a few pedestrians slowed and stared. The first stared.
“Uh?”
The second leg-swept him with a practiced movement that sent him down. The other squirmed on the ground as the second spoke.
“I said, stop. What are you doing? Don’t you have any manners?”
“Arghachwhat’reyoustop—”
They came up so fast and with so many flailing limbs that two civilians just fainted and the last ran screaming, shrieking with all the volume in their lungs. Xesci herself blinked—then caught the limbs. Her own arms changed, elongating, fingernails turning to claws for a grip, deflecting the grabbing hands—
At some point, it was no longer clear which was which. Who was who. They fought, a tangled mess of limbs, not even striking at each other, just grabbing, trying to get a mental purchase, a grip on…
It was impossible. One of the two changers felt like it was ‘slipping’, unable to grasp anything solid. It was trying to reach out for something to latch onto, to use. But it was like it was facing—
—A mirror—
“I said, stop.”
Then the other one spoke, and the wild cacophony of limbs and alterations started to become a game. One would change into something they knew, and the other followed suit. And both were fascinated. They tried to copy each other…and one was better than the other.
Xesci was. Changechangechangechange—her face shifted a dozen times, and the other being halted, panting. The two were now Liska and looked at each other with wide eyes.
And she was superior.
Two Liskas stood in the plaza, but of different quality. One had her appearance from afar, but the fur was tough and rubbery, like skin. It had missing details, like a nick on one ear, and forgot to breathe right, not knowing what the insides looked like perfectly. It had checked, but it wasn’t quite good enough.
The other was beautiful. Even her inflections sounded like Liska. Even her personality.
“Hey, dumbass. Let go of me. What the hell are you doing?”
Liska1 let go of Liska2.
“What? What?”
The second Liska frowned, then noticed the commotion and heard shouting coming from the door. She could have let the other one stay—but she impulsively grabbed its paw.
“Come with me.”
She dragged the other one away, and it followed, no longer resisting, but curious. A minute later, Tessa bailed out the door to The Wandering Inn, blades drawn, drunk and cursing. She looked around, saw nothing to kill, and lay down on the ground.
 
——
 
“You’re doing it all wrong. Pick one and stick. That’s right. What’s your name?”
“Dunnononono.”
“That’s alright. That’s alright. But listen, you can’t do that.”
“Why?”
“Because…it causes trouble. You need to be respectful if you take their image. Understand? Don’t make them look bad. That’s because it’s theirs. There you are. That’s so much better.”
It was the second time in her entire life she’d done this, but Xesci finally got the other one to calm down and taught them how to do the copying more effectively. They were a fast study, but all—confused.
The second one—she was taking the image of the innocuous Drake she liked, and it was taking the image of the Gold-ranker, squatting there. It had stopped trying to copy everything, and his voice was properly deep, and he looked very good.
“Yes, that’s right. Just watch and copy how they do it. But don’t cause trouble. You can; you can do anything, but that’s not how I live. I try to be respectful. You, though, you’re strong even if you don’t copy it. Where do you come from?”
“Th-there.”
The man pointed towards the High Passes. That meant nothing to Xesci, so she nodded.
“Why did you come here?”
“Looking for someone.”
These were not good answers to most people, but Xesci accepted them. She checked the sky and cursed.
“Dead gods, I’ve been here too long. I need to get back to work. I don’t think that Gnoll likes you. So stay away from the door, understand?”
It didn’t like this. The ‘man’ was staring at Xesci as she lectured him, and he nodded slowly. Then frowned.
“You…not scared? Why helping?”
She supposed she should be. But the same Drake who had scared Ryoka Griffin spitless just smiled and patted it on the hand.
“I felt bad. You reminded me of myself back when I reached Level 50, oh, ages ago. I understand. You do what you must. Try to find yourself.”
“Don’tgottaself.”
“Well then, find something you want to be. But be a bit more respectful, alright?”
“…‘kay.”
“Say, ‘thank you’. Most people do.”
“Thank you. Goodbye. See you again?”
“Maybe.”
Then she went on her way, and after a moment, the man squatted down. Then became a cat, who meowed very convincingly this time. Xesci, walking down the street, had an eye in the back of her head. Literally. Gazers were such funny people.
Whomever that was—they were more talented than she was. Very talented. She couldn’t do non-people, and her height could only vary one foot.
Only then did Xesci seriously consider running back to the inn and sounding all alarms. She kept walking, acting normal, but her heart was racing.
I just met death. If it hadn’t been so fascinated, she would have been dead in a heartbeat. Parts of her screamed to get help and come back the moment she was out of sight. But other parts of Xesci refused to do that.
For two reasons. One was that she doubted anyone could catch it once it fled. If it could turn into a cat…it could squeeze between the cracks of a wall. And no one had sensed it, aside from the people who had physically seen it.
This was Xitegen’s territory. He should have been running through the streets with arrows raining down. Erin should have sensed the thing—it was a void in the world. Just like her, really. You couldn’t sense a mirror. Even an [Emperor], who could view his entire lands, would have trouble with her or it. All the magical sight in the world just bounced off a perfect reflection.
I could try. But she couldn’t. It was her weakness. Xesci wanted to…but it was like her. That was one reason. The other? The other was…she saw into the hearts of so many things.
Animals. People. And even, perhaps, monsters. Or were they monsters if she knew them? She could read the hearts of Goblins, Antinium, and this changer.
What Xesci sensed was…not hostility. She sensed, rather, a loneliness so deep and profound it made her unable to go back with wrath and ruin. The [Courtesan] was handicapped by her insight.
“I can’t do it. I should…but I can’t.”
Xesci looked back, and the little cat slinking around screamed at her. A voice, untrained, having only learned language recently. But screaming so loud.
Lonely. I’m so lonely and sad.
Alone.
It was loud, overwhelming, and Xesci’s claws trembled as she walked away. Perhaps it was her own madness that left her unable to condemn.
“Right or wrong, I can’t judge. I only know how you feel. Be nicer.”
That was her advice. Then she left it alone and continued on her way. In the end…it wasn’t her responsibility. She was no hero, and hers had too much on his plate to die in some back alley. You left Faces alone despite what they did. Faces would leave this one alone.
 
——
 
Who was she? If you knew her…you had an inkling, but so few did. Virtually no one in Salazsar, not even Ilvriss himself.
Someone did know Xesci and stopped in the middle of bawling out one of their underlings. A huge woman with a scar on her cheek, a former [Bruiser] turned local gang boss, spread her arms.
Her underlings stared as an exact copy of Boss Yeire appeared, waving and smiling in a disconcertingly timid manner. The entire gang was in the street outside their safehouse, and Yeire was furious.
But the instant she saw Xesci, she beamed.
“Shit tits, Xesci! Is that you? I haven’t seen you since I was a sprout in the gangs! Hey, put down that crossbow!”
“Yeire. I knew it was you. Hello, hello. Can I have a moment? Is something wrong?”
“Boss. Who the fuck is that?”
One of the underlings was unnerved, but Yeire just shoved the speaker aside.
“Shut the hell up. Be respectful. You’re speaking to a Face in all but name, especially among us! She’s a living legend—but we thought you went south!”
“I did. I’m back.”
The odd way of talking caught even Yeire off-guard, but she was still beaming. Beaming…until a crash made her wince from inside.
“Are you here for a job? There’s a bit of a situation. I was going to handle it, but the bitch inside is tough. You probably want someone higher up though, right? As soon as we handle this—”
One of the other women was aiming a crossbow inside, but ducked back as a cup shattered on the doorway. She called out.
“Can she help, boss? We can back you two up.”
Yeire snapped back.
