By the time Xesci and Fierre got back, there was a commotion by the door. Liska had seen nothing, but her report had disturbed Erin, and Alcaz and Peggy were working out a better door.
“We got lax. It’s my fault, Miss Solstice. I had the hallway, but the door’s where the action is.”
“I just don’t know what the heck that was. I’m sorry I missed it. What’s going on here?”
Erin turned from Nerul, and the [Diplomat] looked up from Xesci’s report with a mystified look.
“I think we found our gang.”
“…Hah?”
The second time Erin and Xesci had a close encounter of the verbal kind was when Erin learned that Xesci had single-handedly engaged a gang’s services. But Erin was slightly disturbed.
“Whoa, whoa. Wait. Aren’t the Sisters pieces of work? Wilovan and Ratici told me something about the gangs, and they kill people for looking at them wrong, and they’re mean and nasty.”
“They’re not that bad, Miss Erin. And there are a lot of them—they’re the only gang I know. There will always be Sisters of Chell about, even if the Brothers are a bit more dangerous. But Brothers aren’t everywhere. You can always get a handful of low-level Sisters with a knife. It might get costly if we fight with another gang, but if Ilvriss can keep paying the bills and providing a reason Haple likes, the Sisters will be on our side. I wish that Lady Ieka would help, but it sounds like she might be busy.”
Erin squirmed as she sat down in the private room she’d chosen to talk to Xesci in. She was aware there was more going on at her inn; Lyonette was rushing around, but Xesci and Erin traded looks. This time, Xesci was shorter than Erin and looked like she was around Erin’s age…even younger.
“Why do you look like that?”
“Do I bother you?”
“No…it makes me wanna talk to you more than if you were older. Stop it.”
Erin narrowed her eyes, and Xesci turned back to the bland Drake. She sighed.
“This woman lived every day of her life without changing her routine. She was a good Drake citizen. It makes me boring when I’m her. I think she was miserable when she passed away.”
“How do you know?”
Xesci shrugged.
“I felt it. She went to a brothel the last year before she died. I think that was why she passed. So full of regrets for being…”
She gestured to the bland nature of the Drake who had thought it was a virtue. Erin’s heart sank, but Xesci was so matter-of-fact.
“You said a bunch of low-level Sisters might get killed. That feels—wrong to me.”
“Does it? Why?”
Xesci seemed genuinely curious, and Erin waited a beat for the answer to come naturally to the woman. When it didn’t, the [Innkeeper] cleared her throat and looked at the [Courtesan].
“Well, with respect to Ilvriss’ plans and how much they matter, this isn’t their war. They won’t get a big reward, and if you treat them well and they’re happy, that’s okay. But if they’re just…going to get hurt and die because you signed a deal, is that right?”
“Hm. I don’t know. But they’ve got nothing better to do.”
Erin got mad, and Xesci saw it. She paused a moment, then clarified.
“I’m sorry, you didn’t like that. Can I clarify?”
“Please.”
The Drake thought, then spoke slowly and carefully.
“I meant they have nothing else. Not that they’re simply bored or…Ilvriss can pay well. For them, these women, they might earn five gold coins. That’s enough to die over. And they’d jump at a chance to earn that each week or take on a dangerous mission.”
“Wh—no, it’s not. Are you crazy? That’s insane.”
Xesci gave Erin a flat look as she began to get annoyed.
“That’s poverty. The only other way for them to earn that money is by taking on my profession—or stealing or murder. Ilvriss is honest, or I wouldn’t work with him. There is nothing wrong, to me, about engaging the Sisters under that logic.”
Erin struggled as she got up to pace. She’d tweaked her back a bit, running to see what had happened to Liska, and she rubbed at it.
“But that’s so terrible.”
She turned, and again, Xesci shrugged with that bland look of her current personality.
“I know. I can’t fix that. But I do know how to give work. If it was for a good cause, you’d be alright with that, wouldn’t you?”
“No—”
“‘…I don’t want them to die either way.’ But you’d see why it matters. Things have to matter to you, don’t they? That’s interesting. I like that.”
Erin froze, and Xesci smiled. She’d just figured out a bit of how Erin ticked. In reply, Erin grew uneasy.
“How can someone live without feeling that way? Without things mattering?”
For answer, the [Courtesan] brushed at her neck-spines, looking mildly amused.
“Well, I suppose if you see enough things that don’t seem to have a reason or matter, you start wondering if there was a point. Maybe things just—are. Good things can happen for good reasons. Bad things, with bad intent and people. Or sometimes it’s just chance. Chaos.”
She steepled her claws, and Erin shook her head. But they were getting to know each other. Xesci rose after a moment.
“Will you excuse me? I want to see if we have a noble on our side. I do appreciate your help, Miss Erin. If I can help you, let me know.”
“Thanks. I will.”
Erin mumbled as she shook her head unconsciously. But she had more to do…when she emerged into the common room, someone was waiting for her.
Ryoka Griffin, an unhappy, pained look in her eyes, stood there. And so did Himilt. The moment Erin looked at them, she knew something else had changed in this world.
 
——
 
Despite everything, the nobles of Izril refused to put themselves directly on Ilvriss’ side. Many, a gratifying many, opted for neutrality or a willingness to listen.
But no one would step up and be counted by their peers.
This was not a fault of the luau. It went very well, and Lyonette and Nerul were cunning. They did not bring up Ilvriss’ negotiations but ran the ‘Fissivilian Racer’, where you got everyone interested in betting and united them with the faux-currency.
However, the smart nobles already knew Lyonette’s game. And Bethal, Pryde, and even Lady Rie Valerund instantly refused.
“I like you, Lyonette, and I have been thinking a great deal on current matters.”
Bethal glanced at some of the Hobgoblins putting food out on the tables as volleyball was played in the background, a championship match with Seborn and Joseph captaining opposite teams. Seborn had handpicked Wailant, and the former [Pirate] spiked the balls to cheers and groans around the betting table.
“…I just can’t do it, though. A Wall Lord is the step too far. I’ll hear him out, and I am on Magnolia’s side, but endorsing him without seeing what he does?”
“He can’t do anything without a friend.”
Bethal sucked noisily through a wooden straw on the nearly-empty cup.
“I can be friendly. But not a friend. Thomast! I need a drink. And for Colfa!”
The stressed-looking farmer jumped, and Bethal made Thomast get them both refills. It was strange, but Colfa and Lyonette were now friends with Bethal and Pryde. If anything, it was weirder for Lyonette, as the youngest by far.
But then, Pryde and Bethal were both fairly cosmopolitan women who were interacting with Drake culture via Magnolia. Yet neither one wanted to take the plunge.
“I’m not doing it either. Sorry, but he’s doing something, and I don’t want to back it. There’s a reason we’ve been at war.”
“Really? That’s your reason?”
Pryde colored as Lyonette all but pointed at Grimalkin, but she dropped her voice and whispered back.
“I know how hard it is. I know…don’t you think I worry about it? I don’t know what this will result in, and you want me to stick my hand into an ant hive? I don’t know this Drake.”
That made Lyonette hesitate. It was true, Ilvriss just wasn’t a friend of these [Ladies].
“…But he needs someone. Lady Rie, what about you?”
Desperately, Lyonette turned to Lady Rie, and the [Lady] who had been touring the beach all day smiled vivaciously at Lyonette. She had her own charm and looked like she was matching Bethal and Pryde step for step, which clearly caught the other two [Ladies] off-guard. She’d pulled her team through two victories before losing her round, and she’d had Mrsha on her team.
Rie paused for a moment before replying.
“Emperor Godart sent me to investigate and take a break, but I think I can speak for him when I say that Drakes are not his most favorite species right now, Lyonette. We had our own run-in with their agents, and it is a matter of trust. He’d be willing to hear Wall Lord Ilvriss out and participate…”
“But not be an ally. That’s precisely why Ilvriss needs someone to advocate for him! To turn more people willing to listen into allies! I know him—I’ve danced with him in Oteslia! If Magnolia Reinhart won’t do it, surely there is one noble between here and First Landing willing to help! Dead gods, Valeterisa grew up in a Walled City! There is some cultural exchange!”
Lyonette stomped her foot, and the [Ladies] looked at each other. Pryde grunted, and Rie covered a smile.
“Why—Miss Marquin. It sounds like you just gave us our answer.”
“Who…me?”
Lyonette recoiled, and Pryde nodded.
“Who else? A [Princess] can pull as much weight as any [Lady], even if you are a foreigner. You’ve got tact, poise, and we can help you make introductions.”
“But I—I’m just a [Barmaid]. I just help Erin. This is a huge responsibility, and I don’t have the time. I have to help clean th—the inn needs manage—my daughter is—”
Lyonette looked around, and Mrsha du Marquin was having a very ‘loud’ argument with Ekirra whether they should all try the crabs or lobsters that Calescent was making for dinner. Ekirra didn’t want a crab because he was on the Little Crabs’ team; Mrsha’s argument was that he should know what he tasted like.
Mrsha was older. The inn now had a staff, and it was managing itself. Lyonette’s arguments for why she should be a shadow behind Erin lost water. Then she stood there, looking hesitant and afraid. As if she couldn’t remember feeling woebegone and wanting more constantly.
“Do…do you think I could do it?”
“You’ve got [Knights]. You’ve got Calanferian tact. What was that about dancing with a Drake? If you can dance, we’ll drag you to a bunch of balls. Bethal loves dancing. I don’t.”
“What a splendid idea. Lyonette, among her peers! And they would love to meet you. She’s got the right stuff; they won’t knock her over. Oh, they’ll try, but you just have to slap them down a few times. And she can advocate for her Drake friend! I love it. Rie, you are a genius!”
Bethal laughed in delight, and like that, Lyonette hesitated—then smoothed her beach apparel.
“Well, I need dresses for high society. And it’s been so long that I’d have to brush up on my manners—Erin would have to give me a budget for clothing.”
She developed an evil smile, but it was then that Ser Sest the ever loyal, waiting in the wings with a hot towel for when Lyonette wanted to dab her face, chimed in.
“Actually, Your Highness, with respect to your attempts to squeeze water out of a stone, I imagine a Wall Lord of Salazsar would happily foot the bill if it meant gaining an influential ally. Ladies, can I steal anything from the kitchens before the rush?”
He beamed, and Lady Pryde raised her brows at him before turning to Lyonette.
“They are good at everything but fighting. Give me a crab and get me one for Grimalkin.”
Lyonette began smiling despite herself as Wall Lord Ilvriss turned. He saw her wave at him and thought she’d done the impossible. Then blinked when she pointed to herself. Nerul just laughed.
“I thought so. Well, Nephew, we’ve got a gang and a noble contact. Well, royal one. Time to start recruiting, eh? Anything else that needs doing?”
Ilvriss paused, and his eyes strayed back towards the common room of the inn as Bethal and Colfa discussed Colfa’s own experience with high courts and how she had to definitely come with Bethal and see the north.
“Just one more thing, I think.”
 
——
 
“It’s over. This…is not my fault, but I feel guilty. Don’t hit me, Shaestrel. It’s not my fault, and I shouldn’t take credit for it, but it’s terrible.”
Ryoka Griffin sat there, staring at nothing as Himilt and Erin traded looks. The Vampire was tired and dignified and impressive, just as he had been when he first met her.
Erin? She was looking at him without much surprise, but they were sizing each other up. Erin had known Himilt was a Vampire, and he seemed resigned such that Erin knowing who he was wasn’t a blow.
They were known. Whether or not they became public knowledge…Ryoka doubted it would be that, at first.
It would be a hunt, a purging of Izril before it became a wildfire of hysterical searching and staking. It depended on what the Vampires did.
The first groups were already fleeing, abandoning their homes ahead of the furious response. Apparently, the Order of the Clairei Fields was already investigating some of the villages on the map to avenge their lost [Knight], and Vampires were fleeing.
South. Towards Liscor or the land of Drakes. It was that or the coast, and they couldn’t just jump on a ship and sail away.
Their first instinct was to run. What was Delanay thinking? No—he saw Vampires, and he knew all the worst stories of them. Ryoka was just…sad.
Shaestrel coughed as she hovered hesitantly in the air.
 
“I, ah, I didn’t want to say it, but this time might actually be yer fault, Ryoka. For all the right reasons! But, um. If ye hadn’t been friends with Fierre or given her the cure or lured that [Knight] there, they’d be safe. That cunty City Runner is the one ye knew.”
 
Ryoka’s head sank, and Shaestrel tried to sound cheerful as Nerry glared at her. The Sariant Lamb was, unusually, patting Ryoka on the shoulder with a hoof. Perhaps she knew something about persecution that made her disposed to sympathize with the Vampires.
 
“Listen! They’d never know about the poison in their wells. So they’d die anyways. Think of it like that. Hope for the future while they’re being burnt and staked. Eh?”
 
She gave Ryoka a thumbs-up, and the Courier began crying a bit. Erin hurried to interrupt Shaestrel.
“If you know so much, Shaestrel, what the heck attacked the inn? I didn’t sense it until it was at the door, and apparently no one in Celum could find it. Or Tessa. What is it and what’s coming after my inn this time?”
The Faerie hunched her shoulders, then turned and flipped Erin off.
 
“Eat shite and die. How’s that for an answer? I told you two, I can’t answer everything. Whatever it was, it’s very, very good at hiding. Even yer precious Dr—old man can’t find it if it’s hiding.”
 
