The [Garden of Sanctuary], Erin’s garden, was new to Ilvriss. He walked into it and into a cloud of mist and water that got him wet instantly. It was covering a little garden with growing plants, even a cocoa tree and blue fruit trees sprouting from the ground.
Higher, on the hill, Ilvriss looked up and saw a field of golden flowers. They bloomed next to bright red, glowing Sage’s Grass, looking like a sea of red and gold. Around the hill was an arid biome to the left, then a jungle, lush and thick. To the right was a rock garden and loamy area with faerie rings of mushrooms.
A bunch of Frost Faeries were snoozing in the center of them, actually. Ilvriss stared at the blue sprites, then at the pond—and past that, the garden froze and turned to another miniature version of winter before it reached the hill.
The hill…where mists drifted from, on the far end of the garden from where he stood. The hill with flowers leading up to it, and Ilvriss gazed up at that hill, wondering whether it was his imagination or did he see statues up there.
There was so much he hadn’t seen yet. Erin had changed so much.
This inn had.
Mrsha was older, Lyonette seemed more sure of herself, more like the [Princess] he had met in Oteslia. There were more Goblins and Antinium, and he…
He himself was different.
Ilvriss wished, now, that he had come to this inn better. He thought he had. But the Drake realized he had just brought a new mess to Erin, and it had already gotten out of hand. He regretted not taking the opportunity he had been given.
“I should have done it right.”
He hung his head. Ashamed. What would Zel have said, after all Ilvriss had witnessed, only for the Drake not to be worthy of standing in the General of Izril’s shadow? He felt unready, unprepared, and so very unsure.
As if the owner of this place knew how he felt, he heard a voice drifting from above.
“Ilvriss.”
Someone called his name. The Wall Lord glanced up the hill…and there she was. Even now, she made his heart skip a beat.
There was a lot of the time where you forgot who she was and what she had done. What she was capable of, and the precipice upon which she stood.
These days, after dying, there was more to see. It was like death had stripped away some of the games and the falsities. Xesci still thought Erin was wrapped up in layers, and maybe she was.
But here…he saw clouds of mist parting overhead and stared as they swirled through the air. They looked like…hands? There was also the stink of something in the air, acrid, like brimstone or ozone.
Had someone been throwing lightning around? Erin was panting, and as he crested the hill of flowers, he saw her finish dancing.
She had been dancing, and he caught the end of it as she flopped into the grass, sweat covering her face. Even without Ulvama, Erin had begun practicing.
She looked like she enjoyed it, but she was also tired. Erin called out to Ilvriss.
“Don’t come any closer! I’m stinky.”
He had halted, but he walked over when he heard that. She kicked at one leg.
“Wait, are you wearing a suit and tie? That’s—”
She began giggling, and Ilvriss rolled his eyes.
“I bought it because I heard it was a dress you were used to. Hilarity was one outcome I predicted. How does it look?”
Erin caught her breath.
“It suits you! Literally, since it’s a suit. You were born to be a CEO at some company.”
He adjusted the tie, grimacing.
“Really? I hate this thing. But I’ll take it as a compliment. I hope I’m not disturbing you. What was that with the clouds?”
He looked up, but the moving mist was gone. Erin hesitated.
“It’s a trick. Don’t tell anyone you saw it. It works better in other gardens, but I’ve been…practicing. There’s more to these gardens than I realized, and it’s stupid not to practice.”
“Very true. I’ve been training with the sword, you know. I was trying to pick up this sword school. To fight undead.”
It was odd for Ilvriss to be so candid about his deeds. And he felt odd, standing over Erin. After a second, he sat down cross-legged in the grass, and she sat up.
“Sorry I called you out so late, Ilvriss. But I wanted to talk, and today was a heck of a day, wasn’t it?”
He chuckled, or tried to. It came out harder than he’d have liked.
“It always is, around you. I’m sorry. That’s generalizing you like some…force of nature. I just meant that today was familiar in all the best and worst ways.”
She smiled tiredly at him and yawned.
“Good. That means I haven’t changed too much. I’m glad we could chat. You know, we never did much talking one-on-one before you left.”
Ilvriss fiddled with a Faerie Flower, uprooting the tiny thing and admiring it before he recalled what each one was worth. He looked guiltily at her, but Erin didn’t care. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“No. But for a great deal of time I didn’t respect your opinion. Then, I think, I was busy and ashamed of how I treated you. It took me a long time to…”
“You were mourning Periss. I get it now. And you did change. A lot. I don’t know many people who’ve changed more than you, Ilvriss. I think it’s a good thing. You’re one of the people I trust. So I’m glad you came north and we could talk.”
“I do too. Thank you.”
Ilvriss sat there. He felt awkward, and Erin was still breathing hard. Sweat was running down her face, and she looked—stressed.
Stressed, happy to see him, but stressed, like some great weight was on her at all times. He realized it was a familiar look because that was how he had been. It was why he had collapsed once.
“Are you doing well? You’re on your feet. I didn’t see you in the wheelchair all day.”
Erin smiled painfully.
“I keep it around just in case, but I’m mostly on my feet. I sit if I need to. Ulvama really helped with that. Do you know her?”
“Is she the lazy Goblin in the rec room?”
“That’s Ulvama. She’s great, but tries not to let you know. You should speak to her. She’s wise.”
Because Erin said it, he believed her. Ilvriss smiled absently.
“I was concerned that maybe you’d be in there for a year. I—I’m glad to see you recovered. I collapsed as well, you know. Not that it was anything like you! I was just overworked and ended up fainting…I’m glad you’re alive.”
That was how he said it. It was so hard he had to force himself to get the words out after a long pause. For some reason, it was painful and scary to say, as if he couldn’t believe it. Erin gazed at Ilvriss, and after a long second—reached out and placed a hand on his knee.
“I’m back.”
That was all she said. Ilvriss felt her touch, and she squeezed. She would have let go, but he put a hand on hers. Gently, to make sure he wasn’t mistaken. Erin paused—and her hazel eyes met his.
After a while, he began speaking. Ilvriss related the story of his collapse and how he met Xesci, and Tessa, and Erin began talking about how she came back from the dead.
These were stories both knew parts of, but it was good to get them out and establish the facts. When they moved to Ilvriss’ recent events, he broke in.
“About—my father. And what he forced me to—”
“Oh, forget it. I totally—that was rough. I’ve yelled at my mom, once, and I was so ashamed afterwards. Never at my dad—like that. But every family’s different. I—don’t worry about it.”
That was when she took her hand off his knee. For a long time, neither had noticed, but Erin sat back. As Xesci would have observed, Erin withdrew, but Ilvriss pursued. He raised his claws.
“I wanted to address it. About the love—”
“Ilvriss, it’s fine. Please. I don’t—I’ve talked to Altestiel and Niers, and even Garry confessed once, though I’m not sure about him. Or Dawil. I—”
“I’m not in love with you, Erin. I don’t think so, at any rate.”
The [Innkeeper]’s hurried voice grew confused. She finally began listening again.
“Wait, you’re not? But the truth stone…”
Ilvriss spread his claws, looking exasperated.
“The truth is, Erin…my father sprang it on me, and truth stones are notoriously fickle. When Zail asked me that, it was so open-ended that even a hint would have set it off. So yes, it went off, but I still love Periss. It’s not been more than a year, and…”
He paused. Then Ilvriss turned red. He pulled at the tie, then yanked it until it was loose and sat back on his hands, staring at the stars visible through the dome in the garden.
Snow fell through it, but somehow, this place was nice, only mildly cool. Erin had a t-shirt and pants on, and she waited as he found the words.
“…I was thinking on it. I’ve thought of it a lot, actually. Ever since I gave you that ring and everyone asked me if we were married. The truth is, at one point, I did think I was harboring romantic feelings towards you. Clearly, if the truth stone worked. But I don’t think I ever was seriously intending to date you.”
“I mean—that’s totally fine. We feel how we feel—”
“Erin. Please, let me just explain.”
She fell silent, and Ilvriss went on after a long moment.
“I think—and this may be just me, or perhaps men, people like me—I don’t think I understand my feelings, Erin. My mind may not make a distinction sometimes, when it comes to affection. You see, I don’t think it can tell the difference between romantic or physical attraction for someone of the opposite gender with…well, general affection. Does that make sense?”
“Wait, so you think you’re not actually in love with…that it’s a mistake? How does that work?”
Ilvriss had thought about it and shrugged.
“I think, perhaps, I just don’t have a way to explain my relationship with you, Erin. So my subconscious interprets it as love. But I don’t think it’s like that. You, to me, are someone who’s given me hope in dark times, wonder, helped find my purpose again, and changed my mind immensely on so many things. That is more than just friendship; it’s profound and deep and…”
He was getting embarrassed now, and Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“…But it’s not the same as just thinking, ‘I want to marry or date this person’. Do you understand? Sometimes the…the magicore circuits get crossed, but I don’t think my father did me any favors. I wanted to tell you that.”
He looked at her, without a word for what Erin was, and she sat there looking more…flattered and embarrassed than he could remember. But she didn’t run away.
“I, um…ahem. That’s…thank you, Ilvriss. That makes me feel better, actually. It’s super-embarrassing, but I get it, actually. I like a lot of people like that.”
“You do?”
Erin gave him a huge smile, and Ilvriss’ heart leapt despite himself, and he nearly punched himself. But she just laughed.
“Of course. Isn’t everyone mostly like that? Liking people for all the things they are without needing to make it love?”
Oh, you sweet summer child. If Xesci could have heard, she would have laughed herself sick along with Ryoka, Tyrion, and probably everyone else in the inn.
But it explained a lot, and Ilvriss was relieved they understood that. He hoped it wasn’t a lie. Or at least, true enough. After a second, it occurred to him…
“Is that how you view the world? Erin? I find—I have found that the quintessential element that kept me unhappy my entire life was my status. My father…no. My own perception of my rank. Periss was what I thought was a mistake, for the longest time. But when it happened, it came like a storm, and it was a relief because I forgot to be…me. Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Her eyes looked so painful as she turned her head to him and saw how he sat there, staring backwards in time. And then Erin murmured.
“You mean, me?”
“Yes. If you don’t wish to talk about it, consider the matter dropped entirely. But how do you see it? Because at first, I just felt like that towards Periss. Of course, it developed into something else entirely, but the boundaries between respect for someone who was willing to challenge me and talk to me…”
How did she view anyone in this world? Erin smiled, shook her head, and turned away, but only for a second.
“That’s funny, Ilvriss. Because the second part…the first, I get entirely. The part I always like, if everything lines up? If someone walks into my inn, and I realize there’s a part of them I want to see—it’s that moment I get. I want…”
She tried to capture how to say it.
“I want to see the color of their soul. It’s always unique. When that happens, of course they matter. I don’t get to know everyone like that. Few people at all, really. I don’t like everyone that much, and it’s too personal. But that next part…”
She took her hat off, and it burned in her hands. Shyly.
“…I just don’t know when it’s supposed to come. It could be a raging bonfire of affection, but no spark of that next bit. I’ve searched for it, and maybe…maybe it’s there. But I’m afraid to look.”
Ilvriss saw it then. And he leaned back, as if staring up at his own image. As if he could see that wild affection like a flame, rising high. But only the tips of it.
The rest was behind a wall. A grand wall, built of great deeds and sorrows and trauma.
“What a magnificent Walled City.”
“Hm? What’s that?”
“Oh, I’m just imagining the Walled City of Erin Solstice. An impregnable fortress that Manus would envy.”
Erin grew unhappy with him, and she glared, but Ilvriss just put his claws behind his back.
“It’s fine. I am not Xesci, Erin. I say, let the Walled City stand an eternity if it’s happy.”
“You don’t think it’s silly?”
She plucked at the grass, shyly, as some of the Winter Fae pretended to still be asleep and not listening like mad. Ilvriss smiled up at the vision, like a Faerie Flower dream. Maybe they were addling his head.
“I think, Erin, I was ever unhappy in my station, alone. When I realized that, my own bastion was cracked, and Periss was the woman I looked for, but the crack was there. If you’re happy, let it be. If not, don’t waste time on that nonsense. Because if that second spark emerges…”
It would burn those walls down. Fiercer than any flame he’d seen before. And Erin grew happy at the notion.
“Yeah! I don’t have to keep searching. I’ve got time!”
“Precisely my thoughts. Now is too close.”
“Especially if we’re dead in a week.”
“Ah. Um. Yes?”
Erin just laughed. Then looked upwards.
“If I get lonely and feel old, then maybe I’ll be too late and sad. But I don’t like rushing. Thanks, Ilvriss.”
“I’m not the best person to talk to about this.”
“Who else was I gonna talk to? Numbtongue? Lyonette? Mrsha? They’re in different places, Ilvriss. You…get it.”
