“It’s—”
Gilam hesitated, and Delanay raised his eyebrows. He recognized the tattoo that told you the man was part of the Wharf, the underground blackmarket gang. Strange that he was here.
Rossk was sweating bullets, and maybe the Wharf had a storehouse here that the village benefited from. But Pellmia just glared at his son.
“We are ignoring it, Gilam. We came for one task, not to conduct an inspection of the village.”
But perhaps they’d check later if something was up. Litigos was definitely not going to be showing his face around here, if he was wise.
The villagers of Ranmeid were murmuring, but Delanay’s leaping heart sank as, after a moment, the only thing that happened was that the cold silver rod stuck to Litigos’ skin.
“There. Happy? Nothing comes of the nobility appearing.”
After some hot water unstuck the bar from his skin, Litigos retreated. Delanay hung his head as Pellmia sighed, sensing that this was not doing his reputation wonders.
“Gilam, why don’t you and your friends go hunting? Whatever you catch, bring it back to the village. We might have to stay overnight; another damn storm is coming. Those Winter Sprites…I wonder if Ryoka’s presence attracts them. Or maybe they don’t like us. I swear, I’ve seen them dumping snow on us the entire ride here.”
He groaned as he eyed the sky. Delanay raised his eyebrows, but he remembered Ryoka’s odd friends as well. He wished he could talk to her.
Maybe after this. I’ve made enough of an ass of myself, and Pellmia’s lost patience. After this…he was apologizing to Litigos, who stalked away from him and the nobles, cursing. Even Rossk looked sideways at Pellmia.
“Mayhap we could do the rest of this tonight, indoors, Lord Pellmia?”
“Fair enough. But we’ve gotten nearly half the people done in forty minutes. Here, let’s break out some of the gifts—Delanay, give your testing-rod to one of my men. You said anyone can administrate it, didn’t you? Tell everyone about the news from the south. That’s at least worth something.”
Pellmia looked around, and Delanay saw the villagers who were done were helping unpack the gifts from the bag of holding or getting back to work. He looked around, then called out.
“Here, you, sir.”
He handed one of Pellmia’s men the rod and went to tell more tales about The Wandering Inn or the latest gossip. It turned out this village did have a scrying orb, so Pellmia ended up being told about the latest scene of Ilvriss being pelted with chamberpots.
“A Wall Lord…I can’t imagine he’ll get far. What? Someone tried to knife him?”
Pellmia exclaimed as Delanay hurried over to the scrying orb. They were rewinding it, and he saw the Wall Lord dodging someone slashing at him with a knife—the Rubirel Guard pursuing someone as Ilvriss backed into The Wandering Inn’s door—
Now that was interesting. Delanay knew that the nobility of Izril were going to resist the Wall Lord as hard as they could thanks to that quest and their own hatred of the Drakes, but they were already going after his life.
“That’s not an [Assassin]. Looked like a hired thug.”
“Hired thug or not, that Wall Lord was lucky he had armor under his clothing. Poison gets you either way. What a mess. If he dies, it’s war or too close to it for my liking. Enough of the hotheads.”
Pellmia’s glance at his son, shouting at his company to get ready to bag a boar or Corusdeer, clearly referred to more than just nobles in general. It might have also been meant for Delanay, and the young man was about to tell Pellmia he was heading south and getting out of his hair when he heard an argument from the side.
“You there. You weren’t tested. One moment.”
A tired [Warrior at Arms] was calling out to a familiar figure. Delanay turned, and the farmer who’d tried to talk down Eteste was walking away.
“I have, sir. I passed the truth stone.”
“Not the stick. Just bare your arm, sir.”
“I passed that, too.”
The man protested. He was a blunt-nosed fellow with [Farmer]’s clothes, clearly one of the working hands. Rossk called out.
“Just humor him. I’ll trade you my cup of wine, Albren.”
The man just kept walking, shaking his head. The [Guard] trotted after him, annoyed now. Delanay half-turned, about to tell him not to make a fuss and make Delanay get in more trouble with House d’Artien.
There was nothing odd about Albren as opposed to Litigos. He had a wool cap, not a hat, to keep himself warm, his clothes were dirty, and he was bare-handed from working, perhaps to shore up a barn during the winter. But when the [Guard] reached him, he refused to bare his arm.
“I have to get to work.”
“It’ll just take one moment. Here—”
“Don’t.”
Then he tried to run. But his boots slipped on the ground, and the [Guard] caught him by one arm. The farmer struggled as Delanay’s neck began to prickle, and House Quellae’s guard raised the silver rod.
The exasperated man lowered the silver rod to just pass along Albren’s bare cheek. The casual farmer turned and grabbed the haft of the testing-stick. For a second, they wrestled, Albren trying to get away, and he was stronger than the [Guard] expected.
But then the silver touched his cheek, and the skin boiled and turned to ash. And the pain made Albren recoil in instinctual, blinding agony. Then he sighed.
It was a long sigh as he looked up at the sky. Then, Delanay noticed two things. He saw, for the first time, how unlike everyone else, who left trails of vapor when they spoke from the heat of their breath mixing with the cold air—this man had virtually none, even when he exhaled.
As if he were cold already despite his clothes.
The second was his eyes. They had been brown, plain and normal, not the variants of orange or red or even yellow that Delanay had been trained to notice. Innocuous as anyone’s. His skin was weathered, not pale, and he’d even had a bit of a limp.
But now those eyes brightened, and a crimson mote of light swam into the brown. A flicker of red—like uncontrollable rage and agony rising out of the darkness. It flashed over his face, amidst fear and pain, and twisted his face into what Delanay had been looking for.
Monster. It was just a single moment—before Albren pulled something from his belt.
Not a sword. Nor a dagger. It was…shears for a sheep’s wool. Two long prongs of sharp iron. They were sharp enough to cut wool.
Or go straight through a metal gorget, a ring supposed to protect the neck. The gorget was iron as well, a sensible guard of metal. The hand that pushed the shears through the metal was stronger than belief.
“—going south to see how Tyrion is getting on…what the…”
Lord Pellmia Quellae turned as one of his guards fell over in the snow. The bright bit of silver fell from his grip, and the blood ran out of the ruined shears embedded in his neck. The villagers of Ranmeid turned.
“Albren?”
Headman Rossk stared at the collapsing man. Then…
At the Vampire. He stood there, shaking, his cheek still smoldering, and the uncontrolled rage left him. His hand shook, and he stared at the shears, as if only realizing what he’d done for the first time. He gazed down at the dead man—then closed his eyes. When he looked up, it seemed like hope had left his eyes. And Delanay thought—
How dare he look so guilty.
Only for a moment did the Vampire hesitate and take in what he’d done. Then, without a word, Albren kicked the silver rod away, bent down, and yanked the man’s sword out of his sheath. Then he turned to run.
The whirling Vampire froze—and his stolen sword rose. He was no swordsman. He might never have held one before in his life and, somehow, he had passed the truth stone test about House Byres.
It was just a coincidence. But he was found. And clumsy or not—he slashed with the sword and cut the burning crossbow bolt in half.
Flames coating the wooden tip, a stake in miniature. The Vampire looked up, and Delanay d’Artien was reloading his crossbow, eyes fixed on him.
Albren just sighed. Like someone seeing the twilight of his life. A long, pained sigh that Delanay didn’t understand. The man called out once as Gilam and his friends whirled with a long cry of surprise and alarm.
“Did you have to look?”
Then he ran. He was fast, unnaturally fast, as fast as any City Runner even in the snow, and he had desperation and surprise on his side.
They caught him two hundred paces from the village. Gilam and his friends had horses. He was on foot. He dodged an arrow, and the [Knight] of Clairei Fields, Sir Royald, ran down on him with a spear raised.
He ignored Delanay’s warning cries, and his spear flickered.
“[Homing Quick Stab]. I’ve got him! I’ve—”
The spear rammed through Albren’s shoulder, knocking the Vampire down. The man went down—seized the spear as it pinned him to the ground and the other riders circled him—and heaved.
Royald was a trained warrior. He had been told to never let go of his weapon. He didn’t. His eyes bulged as he was lifted out of his saddle and hurled to the ground. He tried to get up and saw Albren was on his feet.
A charging fist struck his neck with a sound Delanay heard even two hundred paces away. The crunch of Royald’s neck cracking back was loud. He fell down, and no healing potion could have brought him back.
“Royald!”
The other younger [Warriors] charged the Vampire before he could escape. They boxed him in, some leaping down from their saddles, and Delanay charged after them.
“Don’t try to kill him without silver! Get back! Get—”
Delanay had no target, just shouts of fury, idiots throwing fists or trying to swing a sword at close-range. Then screams. When the press of bodies broke back, three more young men were dead.
Albren cleaved the third’s head from his shoulders with a sweep of his sword. Now, he looked like what he was.
An immortal of the night. Someone had laid his back open to the bone, and it was healing. Not as fast as Delanay had heard, but it was like a healing potion. Albren didn’t know how to parry a sword—he grabbed it, wrenched it aside, and struck one of Gilam’s friends through the neck so hard that the steel blade broke.
“You bastard!”
Gilam screamed as he slashed at the Vampire—then ducked back. Albren missed him as he struck out, fingers like claws, slashing twice. Gilam deflected one claw, and a kick nearly took his head before Gilam jerked back.
He was quick! The [Lord] was a better fighter than Delanay had thought. Albren nearly lunged—then twisted under another crossbow bolt. He turned—and one of Pellmia’s guards shot him through the eye.
He staggered back as an arrow shaft thunked into his head. Pellmia shouted.
“Gilam! Get back!”
The [Lord] was already backing up, eyes wide. Delanay reloaded as three more arrows hit the Vampire. Albren staggered back…but gravity didn’t take him down. Slowly…blood running from his eye socket, he pulled at the arrow. Then let go.
Albren stopped trying to run as the panicked guards trained more arrows on him. A bowstring snapped—and his right hand blurred.
He caught the next arrow, the impact snapping his hand back and making his body rock. Then he lifted the arrow. And he was staring at Delanay now.
“Gilam. Get back.”
Pellmia’s voice was a croak as he stared at a man who should be dead. That arrow tip was in his brain. But the Vampire just stared another moment, a bloody tear running down his cheeks. Then he came at them with a shrieking scream. Delanay dropped the crossbow and drew a silver blade. He shouted at them to get back.
“Get back. Silver! S—”
 
——
 
“Silver.”
Lord Pellmia Quellae stared at the broken silver blade twenty minutes later. He knelt and saw how it had bent, then been sheared in half. The hilt was jutting from Albren’s chest.
Silver was the only thing that left a wound on Vampires. All the other wounds closed—while he was alive. Fire healed slowest.
He was still smoking from Eteste’s flame spell. The smoldering corpse lay in the center of the village, a trail of bodies behind him.
Delanay d’Artien was lying a foot from the Vampire’s body, eyes wide, panting. He had chunks missing from his face. At the end, they had been locked together, and Albren had been biting him.
Eight of House Quellae’s guards were dead. Five of Gilam’s friends. Pellmia had seen war. He’d seen high-level fighters die hard.
He was trying to remember if he’d seen this. A [Berserker]? Maybe. But that…man had been so fast. Pellmia’s own enchanted blade had cut him, and he’d seen the cut slowly healing.
“What was he called again?”
“Vampire. If I start craving blood—if I grow fangs or can’t stand daylight—kill me.”
Pellmia paused as he handed Delanay a precious healing potion. The City Runner was pale-faced.
“That can happen?”
“If you’re bitten. We have cures and safeguards. I—I have to tell my family. You have to tell them. This isn’t a fluke. That was one of them. No one moves like that. You agree, don’t you?”
Amazingly, in this moment, he turned to Pellmia for reassurance. The [Lord] regarded his own trembling hand and stared at that trail of blood. People were still crying out in horror, but he felt ice-cold.
Had he ever heard Yitton telling horror stories when the drink was flowing well? He thought he recalled them. Now, Pellmia wished he’d heard everything from Yitton Byres. He was sweating, now, in the cold.
“Yes. Not even someone gone rabid does that. How—how many of them are there? How does it spread?”
“It can spread like a plague. But they’re intentional. I don’t know how many…the villagers. Don’t let any leave.”
Pellmia whirled. He began to give orders, and Delanay was trying to get up.
“Ylawes thought he ran into a family. They went after his house. I have to tell him. We have to—”
“Focus. I want this entire village questioned. We’re not safe. Once word of this spreads—Gilam. Gilam! Send a [Message] to the keep, now! I need hundreds of our guard on the road!”
They had barely three dozen men. If even one more came at them—Pellmia was sweating, now, and Gilam jerked as he looked over.
“Send a…”
“This is the last thing we need. The last.”
Pellmia muttered it quietly into the winter. But he didn’t miss Delanay’s look of shock, having nearly died, and triumph.
“We had to know. All secrets coming to light. We need as much silver as we can find. Garlic, silver…light. Stakes. Or we’ll drown in blood and fangs.”
The Lord of House Quellae stood there and wondered about what Albren had said.
‘Did you have to look?’
