“I agree. They should also ban marriages with Drakes and Humans. It’s—well, it’s disgusting. Not just them. Gnolls—furry people? Drowned Folk, definitely Selphids…who else?”
The conversation paused a second, and someone else frowned as they adjusted their position in the saddle.
“Why marriages? I’m fine with a ban on Drakes.”
“Why not marriages? It’s unnatural. Are you going to sleep with a giant lizard? What kind of a Human does that? If they want to, let them go south. We don’t need them.”
“Fair point.”
Delanay rolled his eyes skyward. Then he broke into the conversation.
“What about half-Elves?”
The group paused, and several looked over at Delanay, annoyed.
“Half-Elves are fine.”
“Why? They’re the worst of the lot.”
“Delanay…don’t start with your quibbling. How are half-Elves worse than Drakes? They look mostly like us but for the pointy ears!”
A young [Knight] snapped back. He was from Clairei Fields and was the one who objected to the interspecies marriages. Delanay was riding, not running, in the company of nearly two dozen young men.
They were on a mission, and the village was close to them. A more patient [Lord] was riding ahead, sighing as he looked back at them. Delanay suspected Lord Pellmia was running out of patience fast with him and the group of young men. But his son, Lord Gilam, was right dab in the middle of his compatriots, and they were humoring Delanay, so he tried to be sociable.
However, the Emergency City Runner was somewhat famous in the north for his sharp tongue and sharper temper. And his smile was edged.
“Well, half-Elves always produce half-Elf babies. In that sense, their bloodlines are more corrosive than Drake and Human marriages, which are about fifty-fifty on whether a Human’s born.”
“With scales! Delanay, stop being a prat.”
One of the other young [Warriors], a retainer of House Quellae, snapped at Delanay, but carefully. Delanay was a [Lord] of House d’Artien, and even if they were a noble family, there was such a thing as decorum.
Delanay was unmoved, however. His eyes were pale yellow, and they glinted like watchlights as he touched the brim of his hat, a style from Noelictus and their Hunters.
“All I’m saying is that if you want to talk purity in blood…you’d best watch out for half-Elves. Bad as Goblins and Drowned Folk. Let’s ban marriages on all of ‘em. Isn’t that fair, Sir Royald?”
Royald refused to engage with Delanay’s premise. The Izrilian [Knight] just spat into the snow after lifting his visor.
“Delanay, you’re a loudmouth. Stop advocating on the side of the scalies. If this is all a waste of time, I’ll report to my Order that you’re insane.”
“Lord Pellmia is humoring me.”
“My father humors everyone.”
Gilam snapped back a bit too loudly. Because at that moment, Lord Pellmia rode back with his guard and cuffed Gilam on the shoulder.
“A feature of mine you should take to heart, Gilam. All right, that’s enough complaining. There’s a single Drake walking about Invrisil, and you all pretend the sky is falling. It’s cold, and we are about a task. Need I report to your families you can’t take a hunt seriously?”
Chastised, the young men sat up and rode smartly after Lord Pellmia. Delanay nodded at the [Lord of Love and Wine] and got a fairly reproving nod in return.
“That’s our village, Lord Quellae?”
Pellmia nodded.
“Correct. And before you speak, Delanay, we will do this my way. You may perform your ‘experiment’, but these are my people.”
“Absolutely, Lord Pellmia. And thank you for hearing me out.”
The [Lord] sighed.
“Someone must, if only so you stop shouting about it. What happened to the Byres family was unconscionable. Tragic. I suspect it’s the Circle of Thorns, but we shall give you your attempt again. The last five villages were all ‘clean’.”
His remarks were pointed, but Delanay just ducked his head.
“Lord Quellae, it’s not intrusive as you saw, and so long as you are touring your lands—”
“Yes, yes. Alright. Gilam, would you greet the village? Properly, with gifts and a lack of attitude?”
His scowling son was dismounting as the villagers appeared, wary of the armed group, then cheering when they saw it was Lord Pellmia Quellae.
The [Lord] of these lands had brought gifts, an armed escort, and was touring his settlements. Ostensibly to see how they had held up in the winter, but after Gilam had presented the gifts with a somewhat-adequate attitude, the [Lord] confided in the gathered group he had an ulterior motive.
“As you may be aware, House Byres suffered an extraordinary attack about a month ago. Their keep was burned, and mystery assailants nearly killed Lord Yitton and Lady Shallel. The flowers of Izril have taken this matter very seriously, and as part of House Quellae’s part, I am conducting a simple questioning of people to ascertain if anyone has information on the attack.”
The [Headman] looked confused and worried as the villagers of…Delanay consulted his map…Ranmeid murmured.
“Do you think anyone here would have knowledge of that, Lord Quellae? I assure you, we haven’t even had contact with House Byres traders. Not much call for silverwork here.”
Pellmia smiled at him.
“Of course not, but a simple truth stone test for any information will not take long. Especially given that each noble is doing the same.”
Well…some of them. Delanay knew for a fact that Pellmia was one of the more conscientious ones. And in truth, Pellmia wouldn’t have gone this far afield if it weren’t for Delanay. The [Lord] raised his voice as he glanced at the City Runner.
“We also have a second, minor test. Lord Delanay d’Artien has also requested his methods for sussing out the attackers. It will not take long, but may I call everyone present here? Even those working afield. It should only be three hours, tops, to clear the entire village.”
“Three damn hours.”
Gilam groused loudly, and when the villagers of Ranmeid realized they’d all have to pass the truth stone test and whatever Delanay was up to, they grew a bit unhappy.
Pellmia was a popular [Lord], especially with his new class and television presence, and plenty of people came up to him to ask what it was like and for advice. But others were understandably upset.
“Tests? Are we going to be asked if we’ve ever committed a crime? Can a [Lord] just walk into our village and interrogate us?”
A man in a huge traveller’s cloak wearing gloves and even carrying a black scarf made Delanay look twice. The village of Ranmeid was several hundred strong, but it was mostly a farming community.
Quiet. But this man had decidedly nicer clothing, and while it was cold and anyone could bundle up, he was trying to stay in the crowd.
“Shut up, Litigos.”
The headman was familiar with the rabble rouser, and Lord Gilam took offense to the question.
“We are the nobles who protect your lands. Maybe we should ask if you’ve committed any crimes. Sounds like a guilty conscience.”
He strode over, and Litigos backed up. But Gilam was a classic reverse helper. His attempt to solidify his father’s position put several of the villagers’ backs up. He was presumptuous, rude, and had made it clear that he considered Ranmeid a backwater village.
“Why are we being lined up and questioned? Headman Rossk, you can refuse him.”
The village’s [Hedge Mage] folded her arms as she glanced sharply at the truth stone that one of Lord Pellmia’s men was using to ask two questions of the villagers. Rossk raised his hands, but one of the [Farmers], a man who looked fondly at Pellmia, nudged her.
“Calm down, Eteste. It’s just a truth stone. You can hear them asking about the burning of House Byres. If we don’t know, we don’t know.”
He was lining up to get the job over with, and it took literal seconds to pass someone, whereupon they had a drink from some apple wine that Pellmia had brought. The [Headman] wiped at his brow despite the cold, and he nodded.
“Lord Pellmia isn’t doing anything unusual. Please, let’s—what is that?”
Everyone turned as Delanay produced something, and even Gilam rolled his eyes.
“That one isn’t my idea. Delanay, you idiot—”
“Just let me work, Gilam. Miss, one moment.”
Delanay turned to the first woman who’d passed Pellmia’s truth stone test. He held something out, and she backed away.
“What is that? Is it magic?”
“No, just metal. It’s silver. All I do is hold it to your arm. It’s part of the tests.”
It was a rod of pure silver on a single grip. Delanay had pulled it out of House d’Artien’s storage without his family noticing, and there would be trouble when they got wind of this. Pellmia gave him an exasperated look as the villagers suddenly got twice as wary.
“Wh-why near my skin? It’s cold.”
The woman was reluctant to let Delanay press it to her skin, but he barely looked at her skin before nodding.
“It’s just a test, Miss.”
“For his mysterious enemies. That’s Delanay d’Artien, Miss. One of the flowers of Izril’s most famous conspiracists. He’s been like that all his life and not hurt anyone—well, aside from several young [Ladies] he moved to tears. Remember the gathering of the Five Families ten years back?”
Delanay ignored that, though he flushed. Pellmia told some of the jesting young men to be silent, but he’d been there.
House d’Artien had several notable traditions, including the armor they had carried from Noelictus. They had once been noble Hunters of Noelictus, and their talents had resurfaced during a nasty period—the Reign of Blood—in Izril.
They had never forgotten their enemies, and silver and the crossbow that Delanay carried were hallmarks of their watchfulness. But their foe was dead, and but for House Byres and a few others and their traditions, no one watched for the night anymore.
Even Ylawes Byres treated his family’s old foes like interesting stories to be told around a fire. But a young boy growing up in his family’s halls and hearing their stories had believed.
Once, a young Delanay had embarrassed his entire family at a gathering of the Five Families by demanding, to the heads of the Five Families, that each one pass a test to ensure they weren’t bloodsucking fiends from antiquity.
He had made…other accusations later in life, which had never amounted to his quarry. Sometimes, to minor thefts or a [Lady] hiding a venereal disease—but not corruption of the blood.
There was a reason Delanay was an Emergency Runner, not a [Lord]. This latest incident might get him actually banished, but Pellmia had heard Delanay’s reasons, and because it was House Byres and suspicious…he’d let Delanay come with them to the last five villages.
Now, the complaints were becoming an actual debate as Delanay checked everyone after the guards. He’d have to do this hundreds of times, and despite his best will, he was embarrassed and uncomfortable from both his peers and the villagers’ nervous looks.
He didn’t really want to find out he was right. No, he was just making sure. He was doing this because he believed.
That was how Delanay thought of it. He didn’t want to be right, because if he was right, they were all in danger.
But that, of course, was also a kind of lie. Delanay had grown up in the shadows of House d’Artien’s legacy. If you could have put him under a truth spell, he might have admitted that it would be nice.
Nice…to be needed. Nice for his visions of the glories of the past to become a reality. Nice to be called. His ancestors had lived and died, bemoaning the loss of their finest hours. Forgetting why their own forefathers had rejoiced the day they were no longer needed.
“I will not be tested like some cattle for ringworm.”
Litigos, the stranger in his full-cover garb, Eteste, the [Hedge Mage], and Rossk, the [Headman], were in a full argument in the village square with people taking sides. Lord Pellmia was letting them sort it out, but Litigos was growing agitated, and Delanay was watching him out of the corner of his eyes.
In truth, he’d picked this village along with several others because they were out of the way, and a few old incidents had stood out to him. How would you track down the foe? Well, if this village had a large transient population despite being out of the way—mysterious ‘illnesses’ with cattle or people reporting burglars or other unsavories at night were all clues.
He’d run across Izril searching, but seldom had the chance to conduct this test in the open. He’d tried, but the reaction of the villagers showed why no one was keen to let someone wave a weird silver rod at them.
“I’m leaving. Call me a traitor if you want, but we don’t have to stand for this. This isn’t Terandria.”
The man snapped at last and tried to leave the village with a group of his friends. The [Headman] barred his way.
“Litigos! You’ve got nothing to hide—”
“What’s going on with him? I think he does have something to hide. Father!”
Gilam called out, and he and his friends, younger [Knights], [Retainers], and [Warriors], rode over. Litigos tensed, and Delanay noticed he was armed with a sword…
The villagers backed away as the man put his hand on his sword. Gilam drew his quickly, and Pellmia whirled.
“Gilam!”
“You’re not even a villager, are you? What are you hiding?”
The man didn’t unsheathe his sword, merely backed away as Rossk shouted for calm. He was retreating when Eteste raised a glimmering hand.
“Let Litigos go. He’s done nothing that concerns you, Lord.”
She aimed at one of his guards who was training a bow at Litigos’ feet. The air grew ugly, and Delanay tensed, a gloved hand inching towards his crossbow. He doubted Gilam was good with a sword; Delanay had practiced shooting, but this would be a disaster if…
“Enough! Gilam, put down your sword! And you—halt!”
Pellmia roared and thrust Gilam to the side, nearly knocking him off his horse. Litigos froze, and the [Lord of Love and Wine] and his guard surrounded him. Delanay hurried over, and Pellmia conducted a brief test himself.
“We are after the people who attacked House Byres. Nothing else, Mister Litigos. I do not care if you have…unsavory connections. A [Lord] understands that sometimes, someone might procure items without paying trade tariffs. Or perhaps you have another class. Making arrests is not in my interest. Do you know anything about House Byres’ attack?”
“No, Lord Quellae.”
The truth stone flashed white, and Pellmia stepped back. He nodded, and Delanay approached. Litigos flinched, but someone rolled up his sleeve, revealing a tattoo.
“He’s part of the gangs! Father, you’ve found a [Rogue]!”
Gilam crowed as he saw it, and Pellmia gave him a huge frown.
“And if he is, I saw nothing, Gilam. Anyone could have that tattoo. What makes it the gangs?”
