“I have no idea why, but he has some [Boxer] friend, and it’s apparently too cold for the two to do whatever they do. They still insist the cold ‘builds character’. Pay attention. He’s not important to you. This is your war—you need two things. A noble to back Ilvriss. A powerful or savvy one. I suggest Emperor Laken, but I don’t know if he has the reach or likes Drakes that much. The second thing you need is…a gang.”
“Huh? Wh—why those two?”
Erin was confused and suspicious. Magnolia turned, raising her brows at Erin.
“I know you know the answer. Two shields, Erin. Two groups who can also get everything he needs. High and low. Both must protect him from their counterparts, rival gangs and hostile nobles. They can also get what he needs, because both are placed with the authority Ilvriss requires. You may have both already, but I would double-check and get confirmation from both.”
She eyed Erin, and the [Innkeeper] frowned. This did seem like a good tip. But…
“Why don’t you help? Isn’t having Ilvriss in the north perfect for your plans?”
Magnolia’s slapping hand twitched.
“Erin, all my focus is in Oteslia and my wall project. Even if I had warning from a discerning [Innkeeper] who took me into account for her plans…”
She paused as Erin squirmed.
“…I would not want to back Ilvriss for peace. He may help, or he may be a hindrance, but I am not a woman who enjoys betting on someone else’s game. This is your struggle as you have demonstrated. Plus…”
Magnolia paused and took another bite from a cookie.
“I would hate to see what kind of trouble he can dig up.”
Dig up. It sounded innocuous, unless you knew Ilvriss’ plans. Erin gave Magnolia a deeply suspicious glance. There was no way she had spies in the inn! Ilvriss had only told her and a few others—
“Erin. Stop glaring a hole in my face. I can logic out why he’s sending [Miners] north and asking about them here. You are the one who just confirmed it.”
Erin turned red as Magnolia nodded at Ressa. The [Maid], glaring, dug something out of her pocket. She slapped a gold coin into Magnolia’s gloved hand, and the [Lady] pocketed it.
“If that’s all, Erin?”
Magnolia prompted the angry [Innkeeper]. Erin stared at her and Ressa.
“Well, I guess you have it all sorted. I’ll see myself out, then. Sorry that I’m such a mess.”
“Apologize to Ilvriss. I imagine he deserves it. Oh, and Erin?”
Magnolia halted Erin at the door. The [Innkeeper] turned, angry and upset because Magnolia was calling her out for the things she saw Erin doing…somewhat fairly. She saw the [Lady] watching her with glittering eyes, pink dress against the winter backdrop. Magnolia turned her head.
“There are armies descending on Liscor. I was never good at them, and I doubt more soldiers matters at this point. I trust the boys have the spear-rattling well in hand. I will be there with Teriarch and Taletevirion. Is there anything else we need?”
Erin Solstice stared at her, and her annoyed demeanor changed to a serious, somber one.
“Do you have anything better?”
At this, Knight Jewel, who was holding the door open, froze for Erin. She looked back, and it was still in her eyes.
We’re not ready. Neither she, nor Erin…nor the Order of Solstice. But they wanted to be called. Jewel looked at Erin longingly, but this battle?
Magnolia Reinhart pursed her lips.
“…I’ll check. Well now, I can see why you’re rushing. Ressa, if I have nightmares, I want sleeping drops. Erin, look behind you.”
The [Innkeeper] did, obligingly, and met Jewel’s eyes. Magnolia Reinhart was still angry, upset, but she lifted her cup of tea as she went to sit back down.
“I thought to give you more of my staff. Whether or not you end up finding more—and you need more—that woman was not there before. When I suggested sending Ressa to slap you, I, a Reinhart of the Five Families, and Ressa, who was once known as ‘Dagger of House Reinhart’ of the Assassin’s Guild—”
Erin swung back around as Jewel paled slightly. Ressa kicked her mistress, but Magnolia just laughed and raised her voice.
“Oh, yes. The Flowered Blade of the North. Weren’t they trying a bunch of names out at one point? The Bloom of Drath, the Maid-Assassin, Deadly Elegance herself. Reynold? Reynold, do you remember what they called Ressa? None of them ever stuck perfectly, but I recall a number. What about you?”
“Don’t you dare—”
But as if this were a point of pride for everyone but Ressa, a [Butler] poked his head in the room. He feared no death, because he bowed smoothly.
“I believe, The Invisible Edge? The Ninja of Izril?”
Ressa turned crimson, and suddenly a bunch of [Maids] were flooding into the hallway behind Magnolia, calling out names in delight.
“The Lioness of the Five Families!”
“The Edged Creler!”
“The Unstoppable Woman, after the time she was tossed off that mountain and climbed back up in the middle of a storm with a dagger in her teeth, and attacked the entire camp head on—”
“Back to work!”
Magnolia was laughing as Ressa thundered, and the servants fled. Erin gave Ressa a wide-eyed look.
“Those names are so cool.”
The [Head Maid] refused to even look at Magnolia or anyone else. After the [Lady] had finally caught her breath, she pointed at Jewel and, laughing, shook her head.
“Despite facing Ressa—your [Knight] didn’t run. Even if it was foolish. Find yourself more good people like that. But keep them alive. That’s the hard part.”
“I know. And they’re not…my people.”
Erin bowed her head. Magnolia just snorted at her lightly, but she measured Erin up and down. And at last, she ducked her head slightly.
“You are, in the end, doing it your way. I get so very angry at you for being a thoughtless, feckless brat who throws magicore into a fire. But that is Maviola El. And myself, one supposes.”
“You never did anything dramatic or stupid, milady.”
Ressa delivered that defense of her mistress straight-faced as she idly studied two crossed fingers she was holding up. Magnolia paused a longer moment as Jewel and Erin observed how the two worked. And perhaps—learned. The [Lady] of House Reinhart nodded.
“Absolutely, Ressa. Thank you for that. Erin, you never take my advice. But you do end up, after many twists and turns in your own style, right where I would tell you to go. You have your Order. You are taking sides. Whether they are the right ones…I can only offer you advice, and no longer unsolicited.”
She nodded again to Erin, and this time, the [Innkeeper] hesitated by the door. She jerked her head backwards a second, as if frowning at something over her shoulder.
“Whoa. Was something at the…w-well, if you had any advice, Magnolia, what would it be? I mean, I always listen. I don’t always do what you say, because I’m me, but if you had any good advice. What would it be?”
Magnolia Reinhart chuckled, and she put the teacup down. She was learning how to do this a bit better, with Erin. She didn’t bother pretending to think.
“Start stealing. You can train a legion, and you have and shall. But you should learn to steal. You have stolen two. At this point, take the baker’s dozen.”
“Who did I steal?”
“Yelroan. And Miss Tessa. But treat them kindly. Don’t be shy, either. Don’t think ‘I don’t need to rock the boat’. You are currently flipping the boat, and everyone grabs, oh my, but we do. It’s just that we don’t get much loyalty. You do. That is your power. Treasure it.”
Magnolia looked wistful as Ressa patted her on the shoulder. Then she smiled at Erin.
“My résumé will be at your inn shortly. My prices may be high, but—”
Magnolia began swatting at her [Maid]. And Erin wavered, because she suddenly was more willing to listen. Then—her eyes turned round with alarm.
“Wait. I have to go. Jewel, run to the inn. Something’s wrong with the door. Someone—”
She turned, and Jewel stopped smiling and whirled in alarm.
“I have to protect—”
“Go! No one notices but Liska! Run!”
The two bolted for it, and Magnolia and Ressa stopped play-fighting.
“Do I go after her, Magnolia?”
“Yes. But be careful. Oh my, this never changes.”
Magnolia rubbed at her brows as Erin ran, shouting an alarm. She sat there a second, then shouted after Ressa.
“If it’s another horrible monster, mythical quest, earth-shaking calamity, revelation, or incident, please try to involve Xitegen or Tyrion and make it their responsibility! I’m busy!”
She shook her head. Erin Solstice also took on too much trouble. You could refuse to put more on your plate.
She’d tell Erin next time.
 
——
 
Why was Pallass fortifying the area around Liscor? Why were forces from both north and south moving towards the city? 
Only a few people knew the answer, and to everyone else, they could see the pattern, but not the reason.
And it gave them stomach problems—or would if they were still alive.
When Regis Reinhart started this day, it was already bad. When he heard about Lord Pellmia’s encounter with a Vampire, he cursed House d’Artien for nearly ten minutes straight. He didn’t need to breathe, but this gave him pause.
Investigations always dug up more than you wanted. It was risky, dangerous, and doubly so because the Circle of Thorns was supposed to be invisible. It was Vampires who had burned House Byres, and it was Vampires being revealed that were putting a spotlight on his work.
Then his niece sent him a [Message], and he nearly had a ghostly heart-attack.
“She wants to take the Crown of Flowers out? She’s messing with me. That is…a joke, isn’t it? And the Banner of House Reinhart?”
“It’s not a joke this time. She says she’s being very serious.”
As proof, one of the [Maids] assigned to wait on him for eternity in the Vault of the Reinharts held up the scroll. Regis stared at the note, and it had none of Magnolia’s regular humor. He licked his lips.
Regis, the ghost of House Reinhart, one of the first generations of Reinharts on Izril. He had been sealed away to guard their treasury forever, had been preserved in the moment of his death by powerful magic. He could leave the treasury if need be, though no one knew it, and he was the architect behind many projects, including the Circle of Thorns.
He regarded himself as the true protector of the north and the only winner of the longest war between the Five Families and Walled Cities and Gnolls. He was playing a game across millenia, and it didn’t matter if you lost pieces so long as you took the board in the end.
Recent events were making him sweat, though.
“W-what’s coming at the Winter Solstice? Tell her no. Ask her for clarification and…argh.”
She was getting insistent, reminding him she’d put treasures into the Vault of Reinharts. That didn’t mean she got to access one of the three most powerful Relics in there, but he caved a bit.
“How about battle Golems? She can have four. Four, if it gets her off my back! That’s more than she got with Zel Shivertail! We can’t have her dying right now. Not with those damn New Lands the Gnolls raised.”
Gnolls making new lands. Vampires and their grudges. No one could just sit down and not stir his plans up. It was true that blood empowered the Circle of Thorns. Each noble of Izril who died empowered the ritual—but some had to be alive, or the north collapsed.
This hunt is going to turn into a bad one, quick. Regis mused to himself as he gave swift orders.
“Communicate this across all members of the Circle. Go to ground. Don’t gather, don’t stir. We’ll halt operations in the headquarters for a month.”
“They’ll still find the Circle if you do, Lord Reinhart.”
One of his maids pointed out the obvious as he licked his lips again. They weren’t on his side, the four maids of House Reinhart. They had to follow his orders, but they did so maliciously, like Djinni. His permanent life in death wasn’t perfect. The [Necromancer] had preserved his intelligence, a lot of his powers, and more as a ghost…but she had neglected to mention something really important.
Which was that Regis was preserved as he’d died. Which was to say that his lips weren’t chapped, but they were a bit dry.
So for millenia, he had been licking at his lips, and there was one quasi-crack and dry flap of skin that had annoyed him for an eternity. He gave up on licking his lips. Someday, he would resolve everything. He had failsafes, and plans could change.
No one was as cunning as him. Even Magnolia, that dear prodigy of her time, was getting old. If he needed to, he could replace her. Maybe it was time to unleash House Reinhart again, get them levelling. Even if you had a lot of bastard children running around, that just meant a crop he could prune and raise up rather than a spirited few.
For now—he bit his lip’s skin-flap and chewed. Then he had an idea.
“I know. This…this can work out. The Circle’s disappearance has some of those damn nosy ones still poking around. Tyrion, Etril, Magnolia…but how better to hide a conspiracy than in one? We go to ground. But—you, get me a map.”
He pointed, and a [Maid] handed him a map. Regis hurled it away.
“Not a map of Chandrar! Get me a map of the known Vampire covens in Izril! A modern one!”
With a sigh, she found the one he wanted. Regis held it up. He had information from everywhere, and even if it wasn’t perfect…
He wondered what all the fuss was about the things Magnolia was hoarding. She had moves on stockpiled sulfur, and he assumed it was related to the King of Destruction who wanted the stuff, but now the Sleeping Three and other nations wanted things Magnolia had bought up last year.
Something was up. Regis’ main issue was that he seldom had face-to-face informants, and without Magnolia’s help, he ran blind. And his attempts to get the otherworlders had been miserably foiled until now. There were so few of them, and the other factions had been fighting over them like starving Crelers. It was hard for Regis to move openly; Magnolia was supposed to support him, but she had never given him one of these…what did you even call them?
Endlessly frustrating for Regis. The ghost had no hands in the world, whereas his knowledge of underworlds was unmatched. He studied the map, crossed out about half the villages, and circled a bunch of areas at random.
“There. Give this to the hunters when they emerge. Let them hunt those dying bloodsuckers. It just means less competition for us. No, the Circle will unite around it. Purge Izril of the blood.”
He warmed to the idea instantly. Yes, that was it! And that was how the order went out.
Join the hunt with House d’Artien. Kill the Vampires.
The Circle had always risen against issues that plagued them. First, Magnolia’s stranglehold on the north. Now this. Nothing united the nobles of Izril like a common enemy.
