Regis Reinhart sent a scourging fire at the Vampires. But they already knew it was coming. They had known for ages. At least, the older ones had. For the younger generation? They hadn’t seen it coming at all.
 
——
 
Fierre val Lischelle-Drakle was a happy Vampire. Or at least, she had been.
Every day, she had gone to work and put on the handsome, lilac uniform of House Imarris. She had admired the new rings, bag of holding, and other equipment her employer had paid for.
Her employer, in turn, had admired her from multiple angles. Which definitely violated some labor laws. It was a good thing they didn’t exist where Ieka Imarris was concerned.
The Lady of House Imarris had needed a competent helper.
Fierre was competent. She was, in fact, very good at her job, and she had, over the last month, gotten to grips with Ieka’s situation. Her position as an underworld informant had actually made her an ideal candidate for the job.
House Imarris didn’t have its hands clean. Few nobles with a lot of business dealings did, but Ieka hadn’t even pretended she was above it all.
She was entrenched in dealings below and aboveboard, and Fierre had encountered her first conflict of interest: balancing the information that came to her as a broker and as Ieka’s help.
She had persisted with her broker job, literally moonlighting as an Information Broker because Ieka encouraged and even endorsed Fierre’s position.
“Any information that helps House Imarris is welcome. So long as you don’t interfere with our interests or that of my aunt, go ahead and sell the information you receive. For a good price.”
Lady Ieka liked her image as the trendsetting enchantress-lady of Izril. The rogue visionary, the unappreciated mind pushing the cutting edge.
Whether or not this was true was harder for Fierre to tell. She was certainly intelligent, but the [Lady] sort of reminded Fierre of…Fierre. A lot of promise, but not always the convincing delivery, like Fierre’s fighting abilities.
For instance, she had tried to deliver that smooth remark about Fierre’s double-life to indicate that she was confident Fierre would be loyal. Also, that she didn’t need to take a cut of Fierre’s business and that she was keen on having someone who was connected and in-the-know.
And she had delivered it with a good smile, half splayed out on a recliner in her rooms in one of those low-cut bodice dresses with a webbing of fishnet that Fierre had a hard time not focusing on.
Ieka seemed to have realized that, for the first time, her secretary was staring back at her, and she and Fierre were having a virgin-off.
In that both were doing their best to impress the other without having any idea how it was done. They would look at the other fanning themselves or dressing up and go, ‘wow, what style’.
It didn’t always work. For instance, Lady Ieka’s low-cut bodice dress with its revealing style? Lovely. Provocative. Look at that skin.
Ieka spoiled it slightly by shivering nonstop because it was winter and she was cold. Even with a cold resistance spell, she was freezing, and she had no idea why Fierre was a lot tougher about the cold than she was.
Today, though, Fierre wasn’t in such a good mood. She’d been enjoying her work, she really had been, but she stomped past the guards in Ieka’s estates in Invrisil without a word.
“Damn Rivel. Damn the idiots and damn—”
She was mad. Furious, really, and she’d been in a fight. One of those verbal ones that had you flushed and hot and pacing around for hours afterwards.
Not in a sexy way, either, just in an upset way. Fierre had been shouting at her brother over the issue that had divided the family.
Namely, Vampires and secrecy. He wasn’t happy they’d moved to Liscor. He wasn’t happy they weren’t going after Ylawes. He wasn’t happy about the fact that Fierre was cured and he wasn’t. And he wasn’t happy that Colfa and Himilt were hanging out with the nobles of the north.
Now, some of these things Fierre agreed with. She would never forgive Ylawes Byres for what he and his family had done. Moving to Liscor was a huge burden on the family; they’d given up their home, and it hurt. She felt guilty about being the only one who’d been cured, even if Ryoka had only had one potion.
And even the association with Bethal and Pryde that one time was dangerous. Although Colfa and Himilt were very careful, and they’d found the nobles entirely by chance boxing fish and freezing in tents in the snow.
But her brother, Rivel, was mad about it all. So mad that he’d flown into a temper multiple times, and only old Bamer, the only Vampire not directly blood-related to the family, could talk him down and get him to apologize after he exploded.
That was understandable.
The part where Rivel went out with a bunch of other Vampires, burned House Byres’ keep to the ground, destroyed their silver mines, and put a huge target on all Vampires?
That was when you maybe thought Rivel had gone too far. Maybe Rivel wasn’t just mad about justifiable things as he had every right to be.
Maybe Rivel was just—mad at everything. And he wasn’t thinking.
Well, if Fierre had been furious at Rivel, it was nothing to Himilt’s fury at finding out what had gone down at House Byres. Fierre, Colfa, and Bamer had had to keep him from strangling Rivel in his first real show of fury in ages.
The problem was that even if Rivel had not been there, he’d definitely participated in the attack. He’d helped fund and arm the other Vampires. Apparently, some of Octavia’s creations had blown up the silver mines.
Now, Rivel refused to apologize, and he had snapped at Fierre this very morning that she didn’t get his fury because she’d gotten her ‘free pass’. Which was just…
“Fierre? Is everything alright?”
Lady Ieka had been in her rooms, but the sound of Fierre slapping papers on her desk so hard she nearly cracked the varnished wood had alerted her. Fierre flushed.
“I’m sorry, Lady Imarris. I just had a—difficult morning. With family.”
Their relationship was a bit stilted, still, as it would be between two people who didn’t know each other well. They thought they knew something about the other—but were terrified to confirm it. Ieka tried to chuckle knowingly.
“Oh, family, is it? Mine is…difficult. Honestly, my aunt is the only one of them I respect, and we’ve had issues before. Mostly in that she doesn’t talk to me and forgets everything.”
She sighed, then shook her head.
“What is your issue? If you don’t mind sharing.”
Fierre hesitated and twiddled her gloved fingers. She had grown nearly a head from when she had first met Ryoka, and she felt powerful, dextrous…
She had levels in [Assassin]. She was quicker and could conjure blades made of blood, or do backflips and twists like Ryoka. But somehow, she wasn’t like Ryoka, friend to Tyrion Veltras, the Wind Runner and Courier of Izril.
She was humbler despite it all, and Fierre partly resented that while at the same time being afraid of the spotlight. The spotlight so often was dangerous and burned her skin…but she couldn’t hide like her father and mother. She was between Rivel’s position and her parents’.
“I, ah…my brother made a big mistake. He refuses to admit he’s done anything wrong, and frankly, my father might disown him or kick him out of our farm.”
“That’s serious.”
Ieka stopped sitting on the edge of Fierre’s desk and took an actual seat. She was bundled up today, for the winter, but Fierre just had a light uniform on, as always. She knew Ieka’s staff, and they thought she was a tough girl from Reizmelt and appreciated that she was actually doing her job. Well, Fierre had discovered they’d all missed some bonus pay that Ieka had promised last year, and there was nothing like delivering coins to the staff to win them over.
“It’s a huge issue. My father’s not kidding, either. He hasn’t spoken to Rivel—my brother—for three weeks. And Rivel doesn’t do much. He just goes out to ‘think’, which is mostly him hanging around Liscor and complaining while getting drunk.”
“Is he a farm worker?”
Fierre found it was a relief to confide in Ieka, even if she omitted the dangerous details. The [Lady] was always genuinely curious about Fierre. True, that wasn’t entirely based on her fascination with Fierre’s life…
“Yeah, he’s not bad. But he’s no [Farmer]. He’s—talented. Sort of. He could probably become a Silver-rank adventurer if my family let him. But they don’t want him to stand—to take risks.”
“Ah, so he’s repressed?”
Fierre shrugged.
“We all are. He’s just not good at finding a balance. And he did something so incredibly stupid that—I just don’t know how I can forgive him. I want to, but he doesn’t make it easy.”
To her huge embarrassment, she sniffed. She was a proper Vampire, and she was not going to get misty-eyed in front of Ieka. The [Lady] averted her gaze, murmuring.
“I know what it’s like to make a terrible mistake I feel will haunt me. Then again, I felt the guilt. If I can offer some unsolicited advice—family never vanishes. Even if they exasperate you, it’s better not to burn a bridge. Walk away from it, but don’t burn.”
She gave Fierre a tentative smile, and Fierre stared at her blue lipstick today. She leaned forwards.
“That’s…good advice. Thank you, Lady Imarris.”
She knew for a fact the [Lady] of House Imarris had good taste. She was almost certain it was a fact. Ieka stared at Fierre, and the two had a similar, virginal thought.
Whoa, is this happening? It could happen if I just…
Ieka swayed forwards so their heads were a bit too close for comfort if they were just talking. She stared at Fierre’s own bloodless lips.
“I, ah, appreciate your appreciation. You seem to have a similar mindset to mine. It’s refreshing. I never was on the same page with my other secretaries, but you’ve taken charge better than all the others in a month. It took the others years to get to your level.”
“Oh, I don’t know about levels. But I appreciate the—company? View?”
Fierre was licking her lips, and she was thinking—was this it? It could be. She was picking up what Ieka was throwing down with loud bells attached. Or was she? Was she in her head and making this up?
 
——
 
Ieka was terrified she was making a mistake and Fierre would flee. Posturing was one thing. But this was personal, and she’d been burned so many times that if love was magic, she would be a [Pyromancer]. But she couldn’t help it.
“I, um—I’ve been meaning to ask you a question all month. Now seems like a fine time.”
“Yeah?”
“Do you…you know, I have standing invitations with every restaurant. And if you cleared my schedule, I’d love to investigate your, uh—teeth—”
Fierre’s eyes widened in paranoia. But then, Ieka had noticed Fierre’s rather pronounced canines. The [Lady] blushed.
“I meant—!”
 
——
 
Investigate your teeth was the most amazing come-on Fierre had ever heard. This was…was this [Advanced Flirting]? Because dead gods, it was working on her.
This was it. Wait, had she brushed her teeth? Did she smell like blood? Was the door open? Fierre licked her lips again.
Wow, she was thirsty. But there were multiple levels of thirst, and she began to smile as Ieka leaned forwards—
—Then a ring on Ieka’s finger lit up and made a soft sound, and the [Lady] jerked, looked at it, and cursed.
“Now of all times? Dead gods!”
She nearly yanked it off her finger and hurled it to the side. But then Ieka froze—stared at the ring, and Fierre noticed the ring was transforming.
What she had taken to be an ordinary, cut oval gemstone, red and plain, was changing. The edges were turning black, and it looked like something was tracing around the edge of the ring.
It looked like…
Thorns…
Her eyes widened. Ieka looked down, glanced at Fierre, then covered the ring and backed away from the desk.
“I have to—this is very—”
“I understand. Later.”
Fierre sat there, heart pounding, trying to figure out what had happened as Ieka hurried into her office. When the [Lady] emerged, fifteen minutes later, her face was very pale.
“That was—Fierre? Can we, ah, put whatever else is the matter on hold? Your brother and—and anything else?”
Fierre jumped. Wait, so that had been something? Her heart leapt, and she wondered what the hell could get in the way of her and…one look at Ieka’s face made her pause.
“What is it, Lady Ieka?”
The [Lady] took a deep breath.
“I am going to trust you with something, Fierre. I feel I must, because you are so…trustworthy.”
What was she basing this on? Well, perhaps a more accurate thing to say was that Ieka’s judgment in the realms of Fierre might be suspect. But she also seemed nervous, and Fierre suspected that Ieka needed to talk to someone.
“G-go on, Lady Imarris?”
The [Lady] brushed at her magnificent blue hair distractedly.
“You know I have always been attempting to push House Imarris forwards. In fact, all my current business is—hamstrung by my lack of contacts.”
It was true, sometimes Ieka wanted something that she had to either bid on the open market for or use black markets for. She wanted to be in with the Unseen Coach. She wanted to be a mover and shaker in the underworld…but she had an odd weakness.
She had no criminal contacts. Or rather, Ieka was known and knew the underworld, but she had no liaison, no supporters. It was an odd void.
In the same way, Ieka showed Fierre the ring she wore.
“I forgot I had it on. It’s not supposed to activate…I had an, ah, tattoo. But it vanished. Do you know what this is, Fierre?”
“That looks like a secret ring to contact you. But it also looked—like thorns. Like another group I know.”
Fierre tried to sound innocent, and Ieka bit her lip.
“Yes. Well, I have taken every advantage I could. And I shall say this! I was not on board with a lot of what they did, but you know how one is close to gangs and turns the other cheek. The reason why I have no underworld contacts was because I was, ah, um, affiliated. With the Circle of Thorns.”
Oh shit. Fierre went still at the revelation. And suddenly she wondered if she’d chosen the wrong bed to proverbially hop into. Because this was dangerous.
“The Circle? Are you still…?”
“No, no! And I am neither hunted nor part of it.”
“That can’t be. Bullshit.”
Even to her employer’s face, Fierre reacted with indignation at being lied to. No one just ‘left’ a gang or organization as nasty as the Circle of Thorns. In fact, the hunters that would kill Ieka for her involvement or try her were just as much a threat.
But Ieka was serious.
