He had a sudden fear that this was an accident. A terrible one. But one look at Delanay, at the horrified Humans who’d seen one of their own people turn into an unstoppable killer—and he realized no one could return the Djinni to the bottle. So Pellmia turned heavily to Delanay and spoke.
“I fear you’re right.”
The City Runner heard him and missed what Pellmia meant completely.
 
[Conditions Met: Crossbow Speed Hunter → Vampire Hunter Class!]
[Vampire Hunter Level 27!]
[Skill – Natural Enemy: Vampires obtained!]
[Skill – Immunity: Vampirism obtained!]
[Skill – Weapon Art: Stake the Bloodsucker obtained!]
[Skill Change – Keen Shot → Silverstake Spreadshot!]
[Skill – Silverstake Spreadshot obtained!]
[Title – Rediscovery of the Bloody Foe obtained!]
[Title Skill – Charisma: Conviction of the Hunter granted!]
 
——
 
“What an Ancestors-damned mess.”
That was what Nerul said after they had bathed themselves and gotten clear of Invrisil. He tossed a towel down, and Ilvriss finished checking himself for nicks.
“Did they catch the assailant?”
“The Watch made an effort, but they’re Humans. There wasn’t much interest. It was definitely not an [Assassin]. Gang member. We’re reassessing tactics.”
The Rubirel Guard had worked well once they’d noticed the knife attacker. But with so many Humans, even the experienced Drakes would have trouble keeping Ilvriss safe.
Wonderful. Not even Thronebearers would want to try to keep Ilvriss safe in a hostile north. And worse—his biggest ally had caused this.
It was only going to get worse. Ilvriss had a feeling that he had just put his foot in a huge incident, and he would have dearly loved to shout at Erin like the good old days. But the problem was, she wasn’t even here to shout at.
“Wall Lord? Are you decent? I’ve been looking around for help, and I think I can at least introduce you to a number of the north’s nobles. But if Erin has a better idea—I think she’s meeting with Magnolia Reinhart. I could wait for her to get back. Do you need more towels?”
Lyonette du Marquin called out from outside the inn’s single bathing room. Not that Nerul and Ilvriss had been sharing it; they’d just been washing themselves. A visit to the bathhouses later was in order, but at least he didn’t stink.
Ilvriss called out he was acceptable, and she came in with more towels and, to his gratitude, some perfume to cover any remaining scents. As to her question—he growled.
“At this moment, Erin’s help is not something I need. Did you say you had introductions to other nobles? How?”
Lyonette smiled, looking slightly exasperated and worried herself.
“There are several visiting the inn regularly. There’s Lady Pryde, Bethal, Lord Tyrion, Lord Xitegen you know—”
“Dead gods, I’d love to talk to them, but not now! This requires a delicate touch, not an immediate meeting, Miss Lyonette!”
Nerul remembered her from Oteslia, but he seemed worried at the notion of, after recently being showered in piss, having to shake hands and talk the nobles out of their position.
Lyonette looked equally as appalled by the suggestion. She raised her hands as Ilvriss turned to her.
“Pawn’s heaven, no! I wouldn’t do anything as crass as that! I just inquired if they were staying in the area, and I suggested maybe you could appear at a luau. That’s an evening get together on the beach. I don’t actually think Erin knows what it means, exactly, but I could pull one together. Lots of people, and if you were in attendance…”
“Perfect.”
Nerul brightened at once, and Lyonette nodded.
“In fact, there’s a Lord Alman Sanito and his family and plenty of the lesser nobility one could ask. Not all have passes to Erin’s beach. I was thinking of inviting them…”
“And make introductions?”
Ilvriss brightened at this at once. Nerul and Lyonette both shouted at him.
“No!”
The [Diplomat] shook his head rapidly.
“The last thing you need to do is walk around shaking hands, Nephew. Far from it. You keep well away from them but be an engaging, non-objectionable presence. Play some of that volleyball. Speak on anything but politics. In fact, I’ll write up a notecard for you. If I, as your representative, so much as breathe a word about Salazsar, it will be after we have a damn good time drinking and talking with the people I meet! With that said, would you let Ilvriss invite them into the beach?”
“I could do…formal letters. Erin has some cards, but they’re not that fancy. If you give me a seal of Salazsar, I could stamp it on the corner. That’s so straightforward, but not all the nobles, like Lord Ranga, will even notice it. You have to get them together so the smart ones explain it to the less perspicacious ones.”
“Subtler, then, but so they know it’s from us. That’s a genuinely subtle move, Miss Marquin. Thank you, and can we do this?”
Lyonette smiled, but carefully as a Thronebearer bowed to Ilvriss. She had clearly been waiting to suggest this very thing, but now she grew hesitant and cast her eyes backwards.
“I’ll have to ask Erin…”
“With respect—hang Miss Solstice’s opinions. Not the woman herself. She’d probably put us all on the gallows. I am asking you! I could use a [Princess] as backup, frankly.”
“Oh, as backup?”
Lyonette looked a bit indignant at the phrasing, and Nerul instantly bowed to her.
“If you lead, I will gladly follow, Your Highness. I’ve seen you dance with Ilvriss, and come to think of it, it would be gormless of me to presume to do better than you. Especially with the north.”
She blushed and waved this off. Ilvriss paused as he recalled the dance in Oteslia’s courts. What desperate times, yet that had seemed like a higher moment than this. War with the Gnolls…
Dead gods, it didn’t get easier. Lyonette chewed her lip, then came to a decision.
“Miss Lyonette will do if we’re working together, or just my name, Diplomat Nerul. Are there any Salazsarian tricks you can employ, besides a name for everything?”
Nerul’s eyes twinkled.
“My dear, we invented the Winebreath Blaster. But since that’s crass, maybe the old Fissivilian Racer will do. Do you have anything to bet on? Drakes love their damn bets, and if the nobles don’t want to put money down on something, I’ll eat my dinner out of one of those chamberpots. Ah—but since there are lesser nobles, not with real coins. Can you manufacture some faux currency and a game or something to bet on?”
Now, this was the part where if he were speaking to Erin, the [Innkeeper] would throw up her hands and say, ‘faux currency? What am I, a casino? This is too much work! Let’s just go over there and shake hands and tell them not to be jerks!’
And that was because she didn’t always like putting in the work. Erin was a direct person at times, and while she could be subtle, she didn’t tend to be unless she had the inclination.
Lyonette? Lyonette was a [Princess]. She snapped her fingers.
“Seashells. We don’t have real ones, but you can make them out of wood and cover them with glitter. Visma made them, but they were getting the water dirty. You can pay for free entrées or drinks with them. Everyone gets…three. Most dishes cost at least four, so no one will be able to afford anything. Right away. Then we have games of volleyball with bets. Or something similar. Ser Sest? Go get Visma and make a team. I need four hundred seashells.”
“W…where am I getting all that carved wood, glitter, and paint, Your Highness?”
She tapped her lips.
“Tell Yelroan to find a [Carver] and get the job on rush. No, wait. Yelroan only needs to budget all this. Laken has a [Carver]. Find Xif and tell him we need whatever supplies can make them shine. Pay him in gold if you have to, or free drinks or access. Numbtongue also has gemstones.”
“High denomination currency?”
Nerul suggested slyly. Lyonette nodded.
“And things you can only buy with the seashells. Certain treats.”
They were going so fast that Ilvriss just stood there. He got what they were doing, but this was a level of scheming below even what a Wall Lord was used to.
“Can I, ah, help, Miss Lyonette?”
She turned and gave him a triumphant smile.
“Yes, you can!”
“Wonderful! What am I—”
“Go practice playing volleyball. Ser Dalimont can show you how. Oh, and if you have any Salazsarian books that are only accessible in the south, get them as long as they’re interesting. And brush up on the kingdoms that are coming from Terandria. The flowers of Izril have opinions on them. Everyone’s against Ailendamus, but be careful how you speak of the Sleeping Three.”
Ilvriss opened his mouth.
“…Which one do I do first?”
“And what do I, uh, do?”
Osthia waved a claw. Lyonette sighed in delight as Nerul looked around with a huge frown.
“And wait a second. Has anyone seen Xesci?”
 
——
 
Someone else who could dodge like a maniac was Erin Solstice. She dodged the first cube of sugar Magnolia lobbed at her, then the couch pillow. Ressa grabbed the tea saucer before Magnolia could hurl that.
“Hey. I came to you.”
“Ressa, go slap her.”
It was just a jest, a half-suggestion, but even so, it provoked a response. A figure shifted behind Erin, standing with hands folded behind her back at the door. In response, Ressa raised her brows.
Dame Jewel, or perhaps, Adventurer Jewel depending on who she was, now, eyed the [Head Maid] and knew she was outclassed. But the Knight of Solstice stood here, and the suggestion made her twitch.
She met the eyes of a Face, an older legend of assassins and blades, servant of Magnolia Reinhart, and this time she knew she was in over her head.
But she just tensed—and the [Innkeeper] looked over her shoulder and smiled. Then she turned to Magnolia and glared.
“Don’t bully me, Magnolia. Jewel’s trying to do her job. They said one of the Order of Solstice had to come with me. She doesn’t fight alone. If you play your Ressa, I’ll send all my [Knights].”
Erin smiled teasingly, and seriously, and Magnolia smiled back, but the difference between the two was that only one meant it. But Magnolia did acknowledge Jewel’s presence after a moment with a nod.
“How things change. Do you hear that, Ressa? I can no longer bully Erin because the Order of Solstice will check you in place. Oh my.”
Ressa folded her hands behind her back and bowed, then smiled politely at Erin. Her eyes flicked to Jewel.
“Hah. That might work.”
The [Innkeeper] frowned at the [Head Maid] as Jewel shifted again, and Magnolia Reinhart relaxed. She lifted a hand with a sigh, easing the tensions.
“If only life were a game of chess, Miss Solstice. Then, I think you would always be without fault. For such a perspicacious young woman who understands there are feelings behind the board and in each piece, you sometimes play like there’s no nuance in the world, just squares and lines. Do you know what you’ve done?”
“I’ve caused a fuss. Like always.”
Magnolia raised her brows.
“Like always. Erin, you have roused the north to action. This is not your small inn. You posted a <Quest>. You have engaged my peers, and I don’t think you understand how poorly it was done.”
They were in her sitting room, and the too-pink room in Magnolia’s mansion in Invrisil was familiar to Erin, but she was different. She sat down and sipped from the tea and gagged.
“It’s sweet. Anyways, I know what I did. Someone needed to push Ilvriss forwards. The quest matters.”
Magnolia slapped the table in front of her. She was more upset than Erin could remember. Not in voice, but in the rest.
“By pushing something in their faces? Erin, when has that ever worked in your world and mine? And yes, I have studied your world! You did the worst thing possible—nobles hate being told what to do.”
“I offered them—”
“You offered them something in half a year’s time. You cannot bribe them like that, Erin! They’ll convince themselves they don’t want your Skill even if it came from Zeladona herself, that they don’t need it, and that the most honorable, nay, only thing to do is murder Ilvriss! You were not clever.”
She was lecturing Erin, and it put the [Innkeeper]’s back up.
“Well, we don’t have time to slowly build bridges. Especially since they love to keep breaking them. What was Ilvriss supposed to do? They’d do this eventually.”
“Ressa. Please slap her.”
Magnolia massaged the bridge of her nose as Ressa gave her a sympathetic look. She leaned over the table and spoke slowly, enunciating each word.
“There was a better way. Wall Lord Ilvriss should have come to the north like a Drake. He should have come openly, greedily, bargaining, betraying his city and squeezing the north for every gold coin. That would have made my peers argue and bicker and fall over themselves to use him in their games. It would have been familiar to them. Instead of an argument of politics, it would have been one of greed and self-interest. You have turned it into north versus south.”
Erin paused as Magnolia laid out her vision for the scenario.
“Oh. That doesn’t sound as bad. But they still would have come after Ilvriss. And if you were so certain this was the best move, why didn’t you tell—whoa!”
She ducked the entire teacup and the contents. Magnolia snapped back.
“I was waiting for Diplomat Nerul to meet with me! I thought I had a day, not an hour before you hammered a <Quest> straight through Izril’s heart!”
Erin opened her mouth. She saw Ressa reloading Magnolia’s hand with another cup and drink and hesitated.
“Okay, maybe I could have waited, but we have no time. We can’t—”
She hesitated, and Magnolia calmed a bit. She studied Erin and spoke.
“I see. You think we don’t have any time. Whether you are correct or not, Erin, I suggest that you could have waited before moving like that. And now, you are in a position I do not envy. I won’t keep you long since I know you have little respect for my position and that you are a busier woman with more to do than I.”
She stood up and walked to the window to stare at her snowy mansion. Erin spluttered.
“I never said—”
“Let’s not be crass and pretend that isn’t what you thought, Erin. You need two things to allow Ilvriss to get across the north unmolested…well, it will be troublesome, but I am telling you what you need. Communicate it to him.”
Magnolia was brisk as she nibbled on some frosted cookies. The Earth-foods had not improved her diet. Erin hesitated as she walked over to stare out the windows.
“What’re my things? And is that…Teriarch doing pushups in your lawn?”
