“Xesci’s not a fighter. She can deal with unruly customers, but she’s a [Courtesan], you idiot. The highest-leveled one you’ll ever meet! She can suck a testicle out a dick!”
“Whoa.”
“Shit tits, boss. Does it work like that?”
The all-female gang susurrated, but Yeire ignored them.
“Come to think of it, can you help, Xesci? The one inside is barehanded. No blades. It’d be better than me having to knife ‘em. Someone stuck them three times, and they’re mad as shit, though I think they’ve got healing potions. You do that—and I promise, the Sisters of Chell will hear anything you need.”
The Sisters of Chell. The notorious counterparts to the Brothers, the all-female gang who had a hand in brothels, extortion, and made most of their living in red-light districts. Xesci sighed.
“I’m not good at fighting. If they pull a knife, save me.”
“You got it.”
Yeire gave her a thumbs-up, and Xesci walked into the doorway.
“Who’s there? Which one of you wants it next? Bring out your boss!”
A very angry Vampire was shouting in the middle of the gang’s base. She had been stabbed three times, and she’d knocked out a dozen people. The instant she saw Xesci, she froze.
“Huh?”
Two Fierres stared at each other. One had walked into the bar, the other was panting—but both had identical cuts on their cheek, sweat rolling down their faces…
Exactly alike. They paused, looked uncertain, hostile, then one went for the other. The first leapt at the second, standing in the doorway, and the other tried to duck—and then both collided, crashing, throwing each other aside, getting up, grabbing at the other—
They were not equal.
One was more dextrous than the other. She was nimbler, empowered by Skills, and if she’d had more, the other would be in trouble. But they were both fast.
Which one was which? Yeire shouted the other Sisters back, because already it was totally unclear. The nervous gang watched, but Yeire could tell who was who. Not by their features—but by their competencies. The first one was fast, throwing agile punches, dodging and weaving—
But the second grabbed a fist and threw the first in a familiar way. Few people could throw someone like that.
“Whoa!”
One of the Fierres caught herself, went for a low-kick, and the second Fierre leapt on her.
The two rolled around, and somehow, one of the Fierres ended up pinned. She tried to get out of it, and ended up in a chokehold she only got out of by kicking both off the ground and into the air. And even when she got free, the other Fierre was coming at her, throwing her, putting her into joint-locks.
It was impossible! They were just as strong, and she was more flexible!
But the other one knew leverage and how to grapple. In short order, Fierre was kicking at the ground in another choke-hold and the Sisters leapt forwards as Yeire cried out in triumph.
“Got her! You can let go now, Xesci!”
Xesci? Fierre relaxed and saw arrows and wands aimed down at her—and then saw her doppelganger change. A Drake stood there, dusting off her clothes and nodding at Fierre, and the Vampire’s eyes went round.
“Sorry. Wait, do I know you?”
“We’re from the same inn! Stop, stop! I give! I just wanted to talk to your boss, and I got blowdarted!”
“You didn’t have a meeting arranged! She kicked our door down, boss, and started throwing hands!”
Boss Yeire was not impressed. She was glaring at Fierre, who reached for her bag of holding in a hurry and tensed as they shouted at her, but then Yeire looked around.
“Which one of you idiots stabbed her?”
The idiot dumb enough to raise a hand got a backhand, and Yeire went tearing around.
“If she had an introduction, just let her in! As for you—you’d better have a good reason for trashing my base, or the Sisters will have a score to settle. And if you think throwing down with a bunch of fools here makes you tough—”
“I’ll buy you a new door and lock! And all the damages! Here! This is what I was going to give you at the start!”
Gold spilled out of Fierre’s pouch as she guessed the damages and added a hefty handful. Boss Yeire paused, and the sight of the gold made her hold up a hand.
“Hold on. Xesci, give me one second.”
“Sure. Can I tour your brothel?”
“It’s connected. Someone give her a tour and be respectful. Now, who are you, and what do you want?”
 
——
 
Fierre laid out Ieka’s offer of a lucrative partnership and in doing so, made the mistake every secretary but Salii tended to make. Even Yelroan had made it before.
And that was assuming the numbers on paper worked in real life on a 1-to-1 basis. They did not.
“So some fancy [Lady] wants us to be her lapdogs? We get a cut of her interests, and in return, we do all the dirty work while she keeps her nose clean?”
Boss Yeire summed the entire offer up. Fierre hesitated and raised a finger.
“That’s the most uncharitable way of putting it.”
“‘Swhat it sounds like to me. Shit tits. You’re oiling us well enough, and I’ll tell the Haple what’s going on, but no promises.”
Haple. Fierre remembered that from her notes. That was the Sisters’ version of superiors to the local gangs under their control. If they had superiors above that, they weren’t known.
“I can promise Ieka’s aboveboard, and you can tell all her offers are good. It’s largely protection work, blackmarket ties—we’ll even go through you instead of the Wharf.”
That would be a juicy cut on the Sisters’ side, but Yeire was unconvinced, and Fierre had to get her onboard, or the Haple might not even hear of this or they’d get Yeire’s opinion, which was unlikely to help.
“Yeah, that’s good money, but there’s all kinds of money. You’re not giving us good energy. Ieka Imarris…I dunno, she’s too fancy for us.”
“She has a record in the underworld—”
“Then why haven’t I heard of her? Also, don’t call it that. Underworld. Psh.”
Yeire was unconvinced by Fierre, and the reason wasn’t that Fierre didn’t have her own way of making an impact or good arguments. She did. They were sitting on one of the sofas, a semi-circle, and Yeire wasn’t managing to intimidate Fierre. Slight though Fierre might be, compared to some of the heavyweight Sisters, she had been kicking people around just a few minutes ago.
The problem was that she had…it wasn’t even charisma. It was what Kevin could call ‘bad vibes’. Or unsatisfactory vibes. Possibly you could call it a lack of Archmage-ness in Oteslian cant.
However, someone did have her own style, and it was Xesci. At first, she was rather meek and humble, and she’d toured the Sisters’ business, their red-light district. They were bouncers to the women who worked there, and they had a reputation.
If you crossed a Sister or the people who worked through them, like a ‘lady of the night’, then a [Nightlady] would come and cut something off. The first Sisters had been former prostitutes and escorts who’d learned to defend themselves because no one else would.
Xesci, as a high-level [Courtesan], had a lot of weight with Yeire. But the rest of the Sisters were dubious around her, and that was fair.
Xesci had forgotten to be charming. She was still rattled from meeting the other shapechanger, and to be fair—Erin Solstice herself. But the Sisters were reminding her how it worked.
When Fierre got up, frustrated, the plain Drake started, then hurried over to Fierre.
“Fierre. Are you trying to get a contract with the Sisters?”
“Yes! But they’re not biting. Why not?”
The fight had knocked out several of the [Light] spells, so they passed into some shadows as Fierre went to the bar and Yeire gave her gang orders to clean up. Xesci was changing, and Fierre could see her in the shadows of the bar-safehouse altering her appearance. The [Courtesan]’s voice deepened a bit. And she looked…taller as she and Fierre reached the bar.
“They don’t trust you. Why don’t you let me take charge? I’m negotiating as well, and it occurs to me that Ilvriss could use this [Lady]’s help. If I take over for the two of us and get a deal, will you communicate that to this Lady Ieka?”
“I need to strike the deal. No offense, but Lady Ieka has a lot to offer, and your Wall Lord’s temporary. Combining interests sounds like we both lose.”
Especially given the politics. But here Fierre underestimated Xesci. As they reached the bar, the Drake put a hand on Fierre’s shoulder.
“Why don’t you…let me take charge.”
“I said—whuh.”
Fierre hesitated, because the normal-looking Drake had changed. But it wasn’t a clone of Fierre that appeared, but a tall—tall as Xesci could get—generously bosomed woman.
She was a half-Elf, had bright violet eyes, tanned skin, and she looked beautiful. The [Bartender] poured a drink straight over the glass as Xesci leaned over.
“I can do it. But I need to make sure I know what I’m pushing Yeire on.”
“I don’t, uh—”
“Come on. If I succeed, what’s the harm? You’re not going to win on your own. Trust me.”
The taller Xesci grabbed Fierre and squeezed her close. The Vampire was red-faced and tried to object, but after six minutes and a quick drink, Xesci walked back over to Yeire.
“Yeire, I’m representing Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lady Ieka. The Sisters need to give us a hand. Tell the Haple I’m asking.”
Yeire groaned as she massaged her face.
“Xesci, two of you? I heard that Wall Lord was causing a shitstorm.”
Fierre was red-faced, avoiding the [Bartender]’s stare at the bar as she watched Xesci begin her negotiations. She felt like an idiot, but she’d been swept off her feet. But then she realized she might not need to feel that guilty—Xesci had gone over to Yeire, and she’d changed again.
“He’s dodging it, but don’t be like that. Come on, I knew you when you were a girl.”
A full head shorter now, Xesci put her hands on her hips. Yeire eyed the compact woman, who looked like she was in her mid-fifties, but tough. Motherly?
Was she flirting? Fierre knew that Xesci had gotten her, but the odds that Yeire was a Turnscale seemed low. And yet, Xesci knew her target.
“Xesci, that’s business—”
“You brat! You know me. Do I have to put you over one knee in front of your gang?”
“You wouldn’t—hey! Don’t flip me!”
The laughing woman was trying to put Yeire in a headlock! She shoved the huge [Boss] as Yeire grew embarrassed, and Fierre peeked over, wide-eyed. So did members of the local gang.
“Boss, is this, uh—uh, woman really from the old days?”
“From the old days? She’s higher-level than I remember. I…what did you look like back then, Xesci? I was just some snot-nosed [Bruiser], and you had the entire run of the city. Invrisil, boys and girls. A lifetime ago. Before Reinhart chased us out.”
Xesci hesitated as Yeire reminisced. But she rallied in a moment and chuckled, and her voice grew even deeper.
“I forgot. But I was always different each time you saw me, wasn’t I? These days, I can even change into a Gnoll. See?”
A tall Gnoll woman sat down, nudging Yeire.
“Show me those new scars on your face. I used to sew you up. What happened?”
“Bottle shards in a fight with a bastard. I had to jump this [Guard] who was doing our girls wrong, and he turned out to have a weapon after all. Argh. She did use to do that, even to us grunts. Hey, about the deal—”
“Talk us up. You’re going to do it. Come on, get some drinks, bring over our sulking guest, and we’ll tell you why the Sisters want to work with us. There’s a digging job. Plenty of bodyguard work—and Ilvriss is rich. He’s a good client.”
“He. Haple hates working for people like that.”
Xesci rolled her eyes and began to shove Yeire on the shoulder with a Gnollish paw.
“So. Tell. Them. It’s. Me. Now, have you found someone special after all? A likely lad who appreciates big girls or what? And what about you all? Or is it just Sisters who’re too tough to tell anyone when they’re having a bad day?”
Yeire was beet red, and as Fierre walked over with a mug, the boss’ objections crumpled away. The gang looked a bit alarmed at how fast Xesci was overrunning the boss, and when she noticed that…
She didn’t change openly. Rather, over the next thirty minutes, Fierre realized that the Gnollish woman’s brown fur had turned faintly gold at the edges, like a lion’s mane. In fact…she looked a bit like Torishi Weatherfur, an impressive Gnoll speaking of the south, and the gang began running to get her refills and asked—humbly—about the past and members of Haple.
What an amazing class. Within forty minutes, Yeire was sweating over a [Message] to Haple and glancing at Fierre.
“I just don’t know how to word it. We’ll get a speaking stone if they’re serious. If they’re real serious, Haple’ll come themselves. They might be about anywhere. How do I say it? We’re still workin’ for a [Lady] and a Wall Lord. Shit tits, Xesci, but we have to be proud. Your job’s one thing, but if they bark orders—some gangs will literally riot before they accept it.”
“Tell them you’re not taking orders, you’re partnering.”
A tall Drake leaned over Yeire, looking faintly tired, bags under her eyes, but very, very beautiful. Her scales were pearlescent, and she had the faintest pink tinge to them. It looked like she had makeup on, and she was so familiar to Yeire that the boss looked like a girl gazing at Xesci with eyes full of memory. The [Boss] glanced at Xesci, and the [Courtesan] prompted her.
“Partners. You want to give orders? Give orders. But ask Haple this: do they want to be a gang that falls behind the Brothers in Oteslia? Lady Ieka has mostly a female staff. Does that sound like a noblewoman outside of the Sisters’ interests? Or does that sound like another lost Sister who needs a gang? As for Ilvriss—you don’t even have to look twice at him. There’s a lady called Asrira Shieldscale, and she’s tough as any Human you want. You’ll work with her. Tell Haple they’ve got armor and magic gems. What else does Haple want?”
“That’s good shit. And yeah—this Ieka definitely has a tough secretary.”
Yeire nodded, and Fierre’s heart leapt. Then she wondered what she was getting into.
“I can’t promise Ieka will join Ilvriss’ side. But she’ll be very, very friendly. She has to decide how much she wants to do, though.”
Fierre obviously had a voice in Ieka’s ear, but that was something she had to leave to the [Lady]. Xesci seemed happy with this, though.
“That’s fine. Nerul handles classy negotiations. I’m just doing a little bit. Ah, Yeire? Tell Haple I want fifteen Sisters tamping down fires in Invrisil about Ilvriss. No bounty.”
“Aw, Xesci—”
“They owe me. Tell them.”
 
——
 
“Dead gods. You did what?”
