“I feared both, Fierre! But I met with…with one of Ryoka Griffin’s friends. And I was given a gift on the Summer Solstice. Absolution from my guilt. I do not know if I deserved it, but I was forgotten. By both sides.”
What. Fierre would have called bullshit twice, but she knew Ivolethe’s story and had met Shaestrel. It…made sense.
“So that ring?”
“My tattoo is gone. But this ring just gave me a coded update—I should have turned it to covert mode, but I graduated from it a long time ago. I was just told that the Circle is going to ground. We’re to pretend to support House d’Artien in an emerging scandal. Not even a scandal, really. A…disaster. Have—have you heard of ‘Vampires’?”
Fierre froze in place. Ieka noticed the young woman stutter.
“V-Vampires?”
“Yes…”
Ieka was too-casual as she pulled something she had just been copied by [Message] spell. Apparently, she was on all the lists of contacts and agents, but they just…forgot she existed. It was an excellent position to be in. She casually showed Fierre something.
“Apparently, one was discovered. They were involved with the burning of House Byres, and there will soon be a commotion the likes of which Izril hasn’t seen in centuries. Whether or not it’s public, we were told to help one Delanay d’Artien…”
“That—help how, Lady Ieka?”
For answer, Ieka showed Fierre what she had been sent. A map. A map that made the already-pale Vampire go dead white.
She recognized a lot of the places on the map! Her mother and father had told her about safe havens, places to go if they were ever hurt or killed. Some of the locations were wrong, and it was incomplete, but—
“Th-that’s going to all the Circle members?”
“I think they have a copy. Fierre…I just received a missive on what a ‘Vampire’ looks like. Bloodsucking immortals with sharp teeth who spread their abilities? Inhumanly strong, quick, and able to regenerate from everything but silver? Afraid of sunlight?”
She stared at Fierre, who covered up despite the weak winter. Fierre was panting as she avoided Ieka’s gaze, tense—and the [Mage Lady] realized she might be in danger. So she quickly unfolded something.
“Fierre, I trust you with the knowledge about the Circle. It would ruin me. It is a valuable piece of information you hold over me. I hope you trust me.”
Fierre looked up, and her wild look refocused. Then she saw Ieka showing her something gravely.
“Fierre. Look at this. This is why I brought it up. Do you…do you think your brother might be in jeopardy? How good is he at lying? Does your family, perchance, need House Imarris’ help? Because this…”
The map was very detailed. It came from a traitor’s understanding of Izril. It had to be. And someone without a care for Vampire-kind was sharing it around. Even if Delanay didn’t get a copy or hints, he’d be running down clues. And the family that Ylawes had met would be top of the list.
That was already bad enough. But when Fierre saw the circled city of ‘Reizmelt’ that included Lischelle-Drakle’s family lands, she just sighed.
“I…I’m one of them. They’re coming after us, then.”
She stared at the circled dot and wondered if they could run. How far could you run to get away from the hunters? Across the sea? Ieka just put a hand down on the map.
“Not if I tell them to omit the name.”
Fierre blinked.
“You can do that?”
“Perhaps. I haven’t—tried to play with the gift. But maybe it will fade if I do that. Maybe not. I was a fairly low-ranking member, but I can contribute information. I am willing to try. But even if I fail—House Imarris can certainly shelter one family from scrutiny. Changing a name or one’s appearance with magic is possible. I need you to help me consolidate my power in the underworld, though. I need agents beyond my staff. I know this is a lot to ask in the name of trust, Fierre, but—”
Ieka Imarris got no further. The world was changing like a storm. Whether or not you wanted it that way—or whether or not you looked change in the face and begged for things to remain?
You got to choose how you went. And Fierre threw her arms around Ieka’s frame and squeezed so tight that Ieka squeaked. She instantly lost all the breath in her lungs at the Vampire girl’s insane strength.
I would definitely be dead if I threatened her.
She inhaled, and then Fierre kissed her. It was impulsive and took both of them by surprise. Ieka Imarris’ eyes went wide, and the top of her head vanished. The only thought that drifted up to the ceiling was…
She tastes like blood. Eugh.
But don’t stop kissing. The sounds of a chair toppling over made one of the [Bodyguards] open the door.
“Lady Im—”
She paused, stared inside, and shut the door. Another [Guard] leaned over as the all-female armored fighting force stood to attention.
“What’s wrong? Is she throwing things at the new girl? I thought she was a good secretary.”
“She’s throwing something alright. Half her clothes.”
“Five Families. Are you serious? She’s never had the gonads to do it before!”
“Dead serious. Wait. What the hell are gonads?”
“I don’t know. I was working out at The Wandering Inn, and some Drake kept shouting I had them. Good for Lady Imarris. Maybe she’ll stop staring at us while we change.”
 
——
 
What a great day today was.
Aside from the fact that they were all going to be hunted and possibly staked and burned alive.
But what a great day.
The other part of Ieka’s confession was like…well, Fierre would remember and dissect it later. But it was like a buoying, shielding force to the part of her that was terrified and afraid and knew what was coming.
It let her go back to her family and deliver the news and feel like an impartial observer. Cling to the part about Ieka and her.
It made it so she didn’t have to feel her mother’s soft cry or the way Himilt crumpled his hat in his hands, then smoothed it out as they sat in the farmhouse. Or how they all looked at Rivel and he shrank and his cocky defiance turned to terror.
“They’re…”
Fierre’s voice was brisk as she laid it out. Again, it felt like a dream. Like a nightmare coming true.
“They’re coming for us. They’re investigating who sent the alchemical explosives to the Byres family. They found glass shards and even insignias on some. Rivel. Does Octavia stamp her alchemy flasks?”
He made not a sound. He just sat there, inhaling and exhaling. Himilt just twitched.
“But they know our house.”
“‘Reizmelt’ is circled. Lady Ieka is trying to hide us—”
“Fierre, you told her?”
Colfa was horrified. But Fierre just shot back, poised thanks to her state of mind.
“I had to. She knew, Mother. A description of Vampires has been circulated. They know everything, from our teeth to our weaknesses. We are hunted. We are…hunted. They killed a Vampire in House Quellae’s lands. Delanay d’Artien had a rod of silver.”
“That poor bastard.”
Bamer closed his eyes. He hunched down, his body frail, bones light. Each Vampire had qualities of their old strength—and the sickness from being exposed to silver over generations. Bamer was almost bat-like and might have been able to fly if…
Well, Fierre could turn into mist, and her father had never told her the full heritage that only he knew of their bloodline. Now, he stood. His oddly lumpy neck, which he hid with a scarf, was due to a thyroid imbalance, according to Ryoka’s guesses. Colfa had rashes, and Fierre had been perennially sick. All thanks to silver.
Rivel had ironically been the healthiest, even if he sometimes got dizzy and he’d had breathing problems as a boy. All things that took away from their strength as Vampires. They didn’t live as long as even regular Humans, but they were still creatures of the night.
However, even their great ancestors at their full strength had been hunted down. The current Vampires had hid successfully. Himilt stood, his dusty farmer’s coat hanging around him.
“We have to run. If we make it to a port, maybe we can buy passage to…Baleros. It’ll have to be Baleros. If they start intercepting ships, we’ll never make it. But the Drakes and Gnolls hunted us down. The Silverfangs…can we sell the farm in the winter, or do we have enough coin to do without?”
Bamer was trying to figure out a plan. But Himilt just stood there distantly.
“So it’s come to this. It’s happened before. Close calls, and we have been found out. But never by a d’Artien. Never by a Byres. Perhaps that Vampire panicked. Or maybe he just saw there was no escape. Did he kill the Humans?”
“Over a dozen.”
Fierre whispered. Colfa was looking at Himilt, and her father nodded. He stood there and gazed out the window at the snow, then at the fire where some of the farm animals were warming themselves.
“What do you mean, it’s happened before?”
Fierre had never heard that. Even Bamer seemed surprised. But Himilt answered calmly.
“It has happened. I never told you because I feared it would encourage you, but do you think anyone can keep a secret for thousands of years? Vampires have been found. We killed those who found us, sometimes. Often—we trusted people. Like Ryoka Griffin. Like Ieka Imarris. It is Fierre’s decision, and she is the greatest of us all. Don’t judge her, Colfa. If blood was shed, there may be no chance. But I hope there might be one last one.”
“How? How?”
Himilt’s only reply was to look around, but he had no sword hanging over the mantle. Just a farmer’s scythe and other implements. Tools he knew so well.
Yet when he lifted the scythe he used to cut grass and wheat, it did seem dangerous in his hands. He stared at it for a long time.
“Why, we worked for them. Vampires, fighting in agreement for secrecy. I would not be surprised if some of the Five Families or other groups remembered we were alive. It did not have to come to this. My grandfather fought the Drakes. He walked south, when Zelkyr and Az’kerash and the Drakes were strong, and held them back. Then he came north, debts fulfilled, and died a year after, burned with magic, fists broken on Golems. You see. We have been the scourge of Izril. We have also given blood for it. Why now?”
He was looking at the scythe and shook his head. Then he turned tired and uncertain, and Fierre experienced the fear that all children had when they realized their parents didn’t have the answers.
“Fierre. Can Lady Imarris hide our family? I would risk that.”
“You want to trust her?”
Bamer cried out, afraid, and Rivel was still silent, frozen with terror. Himilt turned to the oldest Vampire.
“I don’t know about Rivel. If Octavia remembers selling the potions to him…but I am tired. I have uprooted us once to go to Liscor. Is Baleros safer? I would rather…trust. Ask Ryoka Griffin for help if she has it to give. Prepare, Bamer. But do you think there’s a chance? Fierre?”
She stared at him and nodded.
“I think so. I’ll do everything I can, Father.”
“Then so shall we. It’s not we who should be afraid, anyways. We’re far from the north, and the door doesn’t let that many through. Sound the alarm. Colfa, where’s the private [Message] scrolls? They don’t know…sound the alarm. Tell them to run.”
“Not all the villages are on the map.”
Fierre pointed out, heart beginning to pound. Himilt just stared at the scythe’s edge.
“It doesn’t matter. They’ll question the survivors. If it was another d’Artien and the Byres family hadn’t been attacked, I might hope they could be reasoned with. But Delanay is a seeker like the old kind, and blood’s been shed. They’ll remember how to hunt soon. Tell them to run. Or take up arms. I can’t choose for us. If you have a chance, keep yourself hidden, Fierre. No one suspects a [Lady]’s secretary.”
The Vampire girl’s eyes burned. Before she lost her ability to detach herself from the moment, she fled. Then ran back in to hug her parents.
Now, she had a mission to accomplish. House Imarris needed to forge things. To hide in plain sight. And for that, they needed contacts.
 
——
 
The gangs of Izril were still part of Izril. Just like Vampires. And that meant you got a people, not just a single group of people.
Some were patriots. The equivalent of Symphony and Linvios. Others couldn’t give two tosses about the nobility, or actively used or plotted against them like the Bloodfeast Raiders.
It was not fair to call them any one thing, except perhaps to say that the gangs had standards.
Whether or not they were good, any major gang was still a culture. They recruited like-minded people or influenced their recruits, and while they changed depending on leaders and each sub-group might be different, a gang was a unifier.
A historian had once called the gangs of Izril’s underworld the only kingdoms of the continent. Well, them and the Walled Cities.
And the gangs, today, were fairly unhappy with Ilvriss as well. A number of them just saw him as bad for business. Others took the understandable tone of having family who’d suffered during the struggle between north and south.
But the underworld bounty on Ilvriss wasn’t that high. Magnolia Reinhart was right. If he had a public, noble backer and an underworld gang sheltering him, Ilvriss might be able to walk through the north without going through a chamberpot gauntlet.
Public sentiment aside, you might not heave something at Ilvriss’ head if you knew there was someone with a club ready to hit you if you did.
So Erin Solstice was looking for a gang. You needed one. Even though nothing had actually happened after she rushed back from her meeting with Magnolia, it had proven that bad things could happen. Ilvriss needed a gang. And Erin thought she had one. But rather like Lyonette would discover, there weren’t any nobles or gangs immediately willing to jump on board.
Even the Brothers of Serendipitous Meeting said no.
Erin wasn’t sure what to expect. Alcaz had arranged for a meeting with her. She had thought he could do the talking, but apparently there was a protocol. And the very smartly dressed, very polite [Enforcer] quite enjoyed her inn’s hospitality.
However…he refused to go to the beach, and she sat rather stiffly in the private room as he drank a cup of coffee.
For some reason, Erin was more formal with him than Magnolia. Perhaps because Magnolia might be on her side no matter what and the Brothers weren’t as certain. There was some irony there, but Erin also owed them a lot.
And what the [Enforcer] said was this:
“It’s a lovely inn, Miss Solstice. I’ve been here before, you know. On business. No offense to you, but we have targeted your inn before we knew you were a woman to tip our hats to.”
“You did? Wait, what was this?”
