That was the most flattering thing she could have said to him. So Ilvriss just blushed a second. Glad the night covered it. Erin tilted her head back, and she murmured.
“It’s not always like fire. Sometimes, it’s like my garden. And I show everyone the one I have, but it’s not my true garden. Not yet. I have walked through the ones other people made, and some are very close to their heart. But I think there’s a place deeper. I’d like to see it. Mine, other people’s, But it’s so personal, you have to go in respectfully. It would change you forever. That’s the true [Garden of Sanctuary].”
“Terrifying.”
Like her flowers. Like the drink and everything else she did. Erin gave Ilvriss a strange look.
“Isn’t that what love is? It’s that garden.”
Oh.
His mouth opened, and after a second, Ilvriss spoke.
“That’s what you may end up with. But Erin, a thousand mining expeditions make up romance, and few ever get…that’s perhaps where you want to get to. But it’s not where you start. You build towards it. You dig and shore up and…it’s quite a lot of work. A venture. A risk.”
“But if you don’t ever get there, what was the point? And if you don’t know you’ll get there—why try?”
She blew a spark into the air, and he understood something else about how she viewed relationships and, perhaps, what she thought she wanted. But Ilvriss had nothing left to say. The words he had to give…didn’t matter quite that much. He was just glad to talk.
And they just sat there, and that was fine, for a while. Then Erin switched topics and looked skywards again, at the falling snow. Her smile this time was distant.
“I’m so glad you came. Time is running out, Ilvriss. There’s a good bit left…the days are stretching on. But soon, very soon, the Solstice will come.”
“Yes. War and Death. Are you ready? Can I do anything? I’ve brought soldiers, and I know more are getting ready.”
They were everywhere. All her allies and friends were making friends, and Erin was getting ready. But in this moment, she just sat there looking…not at peace.
Serene, that was it. She stared up at the stars and shook her head.
“I think we’ll be as ready as we can be. Maybe this is all overblown, and I’ll look stupid. I’d like that, Ilvriss. But if it’s not…can you promise me something?”
“I can…hear you out.”
He said cautiously, like Nerul had taught him, and Erin sighed. She sat there, face covered by her bangs, then turned to him with a soft smile. Her eyes burned with the flame of her hat, and he suddenly felt engulfed in her presence. Surrounded by The Wandering Inn. It didn’t bear down on him, but it was suddenly there. And Erin spoke simply, and he felt like it echoed in his soul.
“Close enough. I want you to promise me that if I die—you won’t try to avenge me.”
He opened his mouth, and it was her turn to speak over him.
“Not right away. Just…keep going after Az’kerash, Ilvriss. Don’t do anything. If you have to, capitulate. Pretend you’re beaten, that you don’t know how to fight back. Wait. I know you can. Wait, just like you’ve been doing. If anyone can, it’s you.”
His throat worked as he tried to speak.
“You—want me to do that? How likely—”
“I don’t want to die.”
She replied instantly. Erin took a breath.
“I don’t want to, but I’m not going to think I’m immortal. I’m not going to, anymore. I never thought I was, but I guess I never…I know, now, what’s waiting for me, and there isn’t a third chance. There’s no second chance if there ever was. Ilvriss. I’m scared, and I don’t know what’s coming. I’m rushing you and everyone just in case I don’t make it. I’m preparing, and…and that’s all. Okay? Just promise me. And promise me you’ll take care of everyone here. Someone has to.”
She held his gaze. Because she looked so afraid, vulnerable, and was asking him, he promised. He lied—and whether or not she knew, she smiled. Then Erin lay on her back.
“Good. Now, let’s stop talking about that. Maybe the sky will fall. But hey…maybe we’ll win. Or, probably, the world will keep on turning, and we’ll have more to do.”
“I hope not. I have too much already.”
He groused, but then stopped.
“Erin. Am I being a fool for going after Az’kerash while all this is going on? That monster…I cannot forgive him or turn away. But you have hinted at what we are against, and should I be trying for something more? Some of what I am doing, most of it, can be used against other foes…but is this alright?”
She shrugged, lying there.
“We have to do what matters. No one asked us to save the world, Ilvriss. If we wanna try, we’ll do it our way.”
Ilvriss had to chuckle drily at the way she put it.
“Save the world. I never looked at it like that. For me, it was safeguarding my city, avenging Periss…defeating an immortal monster, but not saving the world.”
Without even turning her head, Erin started giggling until he almost got mad at her, thinking she was making fun of his ambitions. But then she turned her head, and her eyes were alight.
“Ilvriss, you dummy. That is your world. Everything else is just complaining about the scope and the extra side-quests.”
He stopped, thought about that, and shrugged.
“Well, I suppose if you look at it that way…”
The two of them ended up lying on their backs, staring at the stars out of a bed of flowers. Ilvriss thought that it did look like romance if you had another angle. But he just lay there until he felt himself falling asleep.
And his Human friend, that crazy [Innkeeper] filled with her own insecurities and problems, was still awake for a little bit before they dozed off.
“Ilvriss?”
“Yes, Erin?”
“How’s it been going since last we hung out?”
“Not the best, Erin. My friend died. But it’s been going better since I came back, despite all the problems.”
“That’s nice. Good to hear. I’ll try not to die twice.”
“Thank you.”
“…Ilvriss?”
“Yes, Erin?”
“I missed you.”
“Thank you. I’ve missed you as well.”
“I still don’t love you, though. Don’t get mixed up or anything.”
He didn’t dignify that last part with a response.
