“Oh, just a simple job of stealing the door. That Hobgoblin fellow with the guitar saw us off in style, and fair do—we called it even. But there’s been a lot of it. Calling it even. My name is Fogrom.”
She almost smiled at the name, but he just smiled politely at her and tipped his worn Homburg hat at her. Then he grew more serious.
“My bosses told me to talk with you seriously and hear you out, Miss Erin Solstice. If I may, would you let me lay out their reasoning?”
“S-sure. Bosses? There are more than one?”
“Each headquarters has a fellow up top. The Gentlemen Callers are authorities, but not bosses, if that makes sense. Then again, I heard they’re starting up a stir down south. Which brings me to the issue of manpower…we have a relationship with your inn, and we thank you for letting us through with the door. My count is that a lot of hats have gone to Pallass.”
They have? Erin swallowed, and Fogrom nodded at her. The Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings were going to war in Oteslia. She began to suspect his answer, but he went on, and she listened.
“You know why. Nasty business. Needed business, but that’s a huge drain on us. Invrisil’s chapter was also mostly gone.”
“I’m…I’m sorry…”
He tipped his hat to her.
“Not at all. It was the fellows’ decisions, and you can’t lecture another city on what to do. But it’s a consideration. We don’t do the ‘favor means you give us one’ system. Sometimes you give a bit and don’t ask for it back, other times you ask for a bit more than you gave. That’s practicality. Not all gangs do it that way, but…sometimes there’s a pattern. The lads can count. It was for great and glorious causes. But a lot of hats lie here. A lot of hats…and they cannot justify more.”
Erin sat there as he gave her a bright, non-accusatory smile. She hesitated.
“This is for a good cause.”
“I’m sure it is, Miss Solstice. And if we gave the Brothers a chance. One in a hundred. No, one in a thousand that they’d end up polished and bright as Ser Normen, whom I wish to shake the hand of, they’d do it. But there’s another consideration. Manpower aside. Realism over what we’ll enter into aside…you’re not asking us to fight for you. If you was, excuse me, were, as it were, we’d think twice. But not a Wall Lord.”
“Why? Because he’s a Drake?”
The [Enforcer] nodded.
“That’s one consideration, Miss. But the other is that the Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings has two kinds of clients. One’s rich and pays well, like the Tallman of which you know.”
“The…oh, hah-hah. I’m sure he loves that.”
Fogrom’s eyes twinkled.
“Yes, well, he pays well, and despite that, the Gentlemen Callers are very hesitant at working with him again. They took a job outside their expertise, and we don’t like that kind of thing. We don’t like failing. But if it’s a big job, a long one, like this…we work with honorable men. Or women. But they must be honorable.”
He stressed the word, and Erin stared at him. She got what he was hinting at.
“Ilvriss is an honorable man. I know you don’t know him, but he’s definitely a good guy.”
Fogrom hesitated pointedly.
“I’m sure he is to you, Miss. But he’s a Wall Lord.”
“He’s honorable!”
“He’s a soldier.”
The Brother held up a hand before Erin could protest.
“What I mean is, he leads armies. A [Lord] or an [Infantryman] doesn’t matter. He’s a soldier.”
“That’s not honorable? He can’t be honorable because he’s a soldier?”
The [Enforcer]’s look was direct.
“To the Brothers, it’s not really a question, Miss Solstice. You can be an honorable man. Or you can be a good soldier. There ain’t room for both. For three reasons we turn you down, and I hope you understand our reasoning. And that there are no hard feelings.”
He stood up, and Erin tried to protest. But she couldn’t, not really.
What the heck are we gonna do, then? She took Fogrom’s hand and smiled weakly. Then she had a thought.
“Mister Fogrom. Before you go…did you know the Brothers in Invrisil’s chapter?”
He paused a moment, and his grip tightened slightly.
“I—may have. They were good fellows, and I’m glad they went well. You have to, in our line of work.”
Erin stared at him and ducked her head with more humility than she had ever given to all of House Reinhart.
“Would you like to pay your respects? Before you meet Normen?”
He hesitated, and she opened a door for him. The [Enforcer], who had swung a club into more heads and felt more lives leave than he was proud to admit, went weak at the knees as he saw that hill of mists. And in that sense—Erin was afraid to ask for more gangs. Afraid to add to her list of sins and statues.
 
——
 
But not everyone was afraid. Fierre ducked into Invrisil to look for Ieka’s needed allies. She made inquiries, but as it turned out, she was barking up the wrong tree.
There were gangs all over Invrisil, but the City of Adventurers was an interesting case. Magnolia Reinhart was the woman of the streets who held the most sway; any gang could operate here, like the Brothers, but if they clashed with her, a bunch of [Maids] and [Butlers] would square up—and they won.
The Brothers were more like symbiotes who were tolerated, and the gang that Fierre wanted didn’t have a headquarters here.
“You want that lot? I hear they’re actually around Celum. Or at least, a chapter of ‘em is. Try Wales. You can probably get there’n back if you have a good horse in a day.”
Fierre took the name and decided she could run to Wales faster. But maybe one of the on-demand carriages via the Driver’s Guild?
She had to bounce to Celum when she found she was in luck. The chapter was in Wales, but there were members of the gang in the city itself! They were scoping it out because Xitegen was interested and because the door allowed easy access to all kinds of areas.
Mind you, this wasn’t a gang that had easy-access or friendship with The Wandering Inn like the Brothers. They were so adversarial that Magnolia had kicked them out of Invrisil except in a few pockets, and Ieka had told Fierre to go humbly.
Well, she was going to go humbly. Fierre walked right up to the secret door with a bunch of gifts from House Imarris—wands, samples of potions—and she had gold to seal any deal and contract paper.
The problem was…she was used to being an Information Broker, not someone who made deals. And thusly, Fierre was a bit too presumptuous.
“You want to talk to the boss? Without arranging a meeting? Come back in a week!”
The person behind the door laughed at Fierre. The Vampire grew angry.
“It’s urgent, and I have an introduction. My client’s known.”
“Ooh, her client’s known! Hear that, girls? She’s got a client. Fancier’n us.”
“I have gifts!”
The woman behind the slot in the steel door—not even enchanted—paused a second.
“Well, hand them through the slot and we’ll see.”
“Let me in first. I’m not an idiot.”
“Hmm…piss off.”
She should have done it more officially. Fierre knew it was a delicate game requiring negotiation and time, every bit as difficult as Nerul speaking for a Walled City. But she was anxious, impatient—and she realized something.
“Hey, your door lock is broken.”
There was a pause from the other end.
“We had a raid yesterday. Get lost.”
There was just a wedge of wood blocking Fierre from entering. It wasn’t magic…she began to push.
“I…represent…a very important client your boss wants to meet. This is bigger than your chapter.”
Someone on the other end of the door began to panic.
“Hey, she’s coming in. Get the others. Stop! Stop or I’ll—”
Fierre noticed the blowpipe and ducked a second before something whistled past her head. She grinned—
Then the door slammed open as the guard hit her in the face with the steel door. Wait, it opened outwards and inwards? Gang-trick. Fierre recoiled, and a boot kicked her in the face.
“Hah! Gotcha, bitch! Get lost unless you want more!”
The street put the Vampire flat on her back. Fierre lay there for a second, then got mad. She got up, and someone put the wedge back under the door.
They expected her to call for the Watch if she was stupid, shout and cause a fuss—in which case they’d kick her ass—beg and plead, or try to push the door open.
What they didn’t expect was for Fierre to take three steps back, run at the door, and kick it so hard that everyone behind it was launched by the door coming off the hinges. Fierre strode into the headquarters, and someone swore.
Fierre caught the first dagger going for her ribs and grinned. Her hands moved so fast the [Knifer]’s stabs couldn’t keep up—then she punched the woman off her feet.
[Lesser Dexterity] and Garia’s training were paying off. The gang hesitated, and they realized this was a serious visitor coming calling. So one of them whispered.
“Oh shit. Get the boss. But kick her ass first.”
They did try.
 
——
 
Strength and doors. It was an important job. You were only as strong as the door you hid behind, but deciding who to go through was an important job.
In the Brothers, their [Doorguard] was literally a high-level individual who might have to fight off a Face. Now, a lesser chapter had fewer precautions and might suffer a Watch raid, so maybe the door was expendable.
But maybe it mattered.
Like snowy Celum. Xitegen was often going through there, so it got more traffic than you thought, even for a poorer, smaller city than Invrisil or Pallass.
These days, the door’s prices reflected distance. You wanted to hop from Liscor or to Esthelm? One copper coin for Liscor, two for Esthelm. That was because the mana cost was virtually nonexistent, and Yelroan had calculated this would make lots of money.
Especially if he sold a ‘ticket’ which you could use all week that saved you money. He had accordingly priced Celum higher, and Pallass and Invrisil even higher.
This was the power of math…or someone who at least understood distance equaled money in this regard. But guess who had to deal with all of this?
The Wandering Inn’s hardest worker, the unsung heroine, the Gnoll who had a stable relationship with her girlfriend—shut up Ishkr, everything is fine—Liska.
She was sad because her girlfriend was getting on her back about working. And she got on Liska’s back when she didn’t have a job and, therefore, money.
But apparently Liska had ‘no time for them’ and was ‘looking too much’, especially at the beach-goers. As if she were blind! Liska worked so hard.
“Liska, wake up.”
Ishkr kicked her, and she got up from her nap and hurried to check the door and all the settings. People glared at her as she cycled them through.
“I have a tough life! No one tips enough! It was just a nap! I need someone to replace me!”
“You do have someone who replaces you. Alcaz takes over, and so do our Drake employees.
“Right. But I meant…shut up, Ishkr.”
Liska sulked into her chair. She had stopped levelling again, and no one complimented her on being Level 24.
She had levelled so fast! But whenever she tried to brag, they just said ‘[Doorgnoll]? Is that even a class? Is that even useful?’
She was so useful. She could automatically collect fees, conjure free stools, lock the door and open it remotely, make people line up, replenish the magic of the door—
And she had just gained the ability to create fake illusions of doors and hide the ones she had. And make walls of force.
Her door powers were amazing. It was just that her brother could skate across the world, teleport, conjure food and drink, utter [Thought-Provoking Statements], and throw people out of the inn with a touch.
Ishkr always did this to make her look bad. Anyways, Liska let through the Vampire girl who’d been waiting, then another Drake to visit stupid Celum.
“Sorry. Oh wait, you’re on Erin’s good lists? Go on through.”
Both thanked her. See? A thank you was all Liska needed.
And a tip.
And a snack. She was going to wave down the next employee who came through, like Silvermop, and ask for one. There were some perks of the job, and Liska wasn’t going to get fat. Even if she sat here all day.
…Maybe she should work out in the weights room. Liska was prodding her stomach and scratching her side, waiting for the next ‘cycle’ of the door. Every ten minutes she checked it, which was so boring. She had forgotten to cycle the hourglass and did so now, guiltily. Well, it didn’t have to be every ten minutes.
A word on Liska’s class.
[Doorgnoll] was indeed her class. It was an upgrade from [Laborer], one of the most basic classes she’d had for ages. Unlike her brother, she had bounced from job to job, and so she had basic Skills.
Like [Dangersense] to avoid stepping on nails, [Basic Efficient Action], which took some of the mundanity out of turning mortar mixes while laying bricks to keep it from solidifying, and so on.
[Doorgnoll] was where her class had taken off. Fighting with Tyrion? She had a bunch of, again…oddly door-related Skills.
For instance, after Tyrion had kept trying to get in, the first few times he’d literally strong-armed his way through. Until she had gained [Enhanced Strength: Doors]. Which meant she had amazing strength…but only when opening or closing a door.
It seemed like Liska got wildly powerful Skills, but the handicap was they were all door related. Her brother had asked her, to her face, whether she was doing this on purpose. Liska was a bit mad about her levels, but they had some cool features.
Like she could hold a door closed on someone, and it was really hard to kick her out by shutting the door in her face.
She was just about to go trot into the common room and place an order herself when Liska paused. The door was still set to Celum, and she got a weird feeling. So she opened the door a moment.
“Hello? Is anyone…”
Liska trailed off. There was no one at the door waiting in the snowy street to go through. At first. Then she saw someone walking around in a…spiral…just beyond.
The door was set into a plaza, and someone was walking in a slowly evolving spiral, being watched by a few cats and dogs that were hiding around the edges of alleyways. Liska stared. Then looked over her shoulder.
“Who…Ryoka?”
The figure turned, and Liska bit her lip. No, wait. That wasn’t Ryoka. She had looked like it at first, with black hair and—
But no, it was a guy. Black-haired with completely different features.
“Whoops! Sorry!”
He had looked just like her. The figure turned at Liska’s call. Then he tilted his head left and right. Then tilted it too far right. Liska froze.
Necks could go right or left with surprising flexibility. But too far and they’d literally crack as the bones within twisted out of shape. This neck bent at a right angle, and then the figure spoke.
