She changed what she was going to say because Himilt was there and she was speaking for the benefit of all. Ryoka didn’t know what it was, but to be fair, she was distracted with the Vampires.
Erin gave up on Shaestrel and turned to Himilt and Ryoka.
“So all this was caused by…Rivel? Or at least, he made a mess of it. Now people are tracking him down? How’s he, uh, taking it?”
“He’s afraid for his life. I told him to prepare to run. If I could protect him…I think he’s sitting in his rooms. My son was always angry for good reasons, but he never understood what the cost of vengeance was. Miss Solstice. Can you help him? I know we have not known each other long, but I must ask. I am…we are a tired people. And we cannot walk in the sun or these harsh days. If you help us, I will repay you.”
Himilt bowed long and low, and he was so dignified as he bowed that Ryoka’s heart hurt. He looked like nobility. True, old nobility. It didn’t matter that he wore the dust-black farmer’s garb. His cloak looked like a cape, and he seemed like an image of old, European nobility to her.
The very start of it back in wild days. A shadow, now, bowing to the [Innkeeper].
And she? She looked him up and down, and dipped her head back too, awkwardly. Erin chose her words carefully.
“I…Himilt, I know stories of Vampires. Even before Ryoka told me about you—and I sort of guessed about Fierre, so it’s not her fault for telling me—I have known stories of Vampires from the dead. They did terrible things. Fetohep of Khelt, a reasonable ruler, would want you put to death if you were standing in front of him.”
Himilt’s head bowed further as his dark hair fell from his hat that he took from his head.
“I cannot argue with that.”
“But.”
Erin let the word linger.
“…I also met Vampires. And they told me their stories, good and bad. To me, they sounded like Goblins. Good. Evil? A people. And I don’t take sides against people. If Fetohep and I quarrel, well, fine. We will. I just wish I could do more for…hundreds. All I can do is do as I’ve done.”
She looked sad.
“Send them south. That’s all I can do. Give them a running chance. The others will have to hide or make their choices. I can’t protect more than your family, Himilt. Ieka’s ready to call off the hunters on you, and she can forge identities, but I can’t do more than your family. And Rivel…he might still be in trouble.”
Ryoka and Himilt turned. The Vampire straightened, and Ryoka hesitated.
“You mean your door? Erin—”
The [Innkeeper] gave Ryoka a weary smile, and she was glancing at Himilt. At his hands, which he had practically disintegrated to fool Ylawes Byres once.
It was so easy to suss out a Vampire. Perhaps there were counters, but when the eye of suspicion was on them…Erin stroked her chin with her fingers.
“I’m thinking of a plan. I’ve got a basic one, but the door…can you tell them to run to Riverfarm?”
“Erin, you’ll put a target on your back.”
She turned to Ryoka and didn’t wave the warning off, but rather, smiled.
“I already have one of those. Besides, the part where I help isn’t up to just me, Ryoka, Himilt.”
The two looked at Erin, and she quietly lifted something up and stared at it.
“That’s the entire point of recent events. Give me a second to figure out how to help the Lischelle-Drakles. I have a stupid idea, but the rest is up to someone else.”
 
——
 
The Order of Clairei Fields pursued shadows that night. The first village they had come to had been empty, but they had found their quarry on the road.
Nearly two hundred [Knights] had ridden down on a foe who fought like lions. Over thirty armed men and women had died, and the remaining [Knights] were running down the ones who’d fled.
Silver. They should have had silver. The warning of Delanay was now etched in their battered armor, but even without silver…you could kill a Vampire. The panicked, furious [Knights] saw a horrifying foe under their noses.
They hadn’t realized they’d been fighting villagers. Villagers who unhorsed armored [Knights] with levels and training. So there was a reason to fear them.
But did they even see the fleeing shadows as more than red-eyed, fanged monsters? Or was it too dark to hear the children crying and the attempts to talk them down before the lances struck?
Maybe not enough had tried. Maybe it was too late. This group was close enough to have a hope of reaching safety.
Riverfarm. A door was standing out, far from the Unseen Empire. That was an [Emperor]’s bargain with an [Innkeeper]. He would look the other way, just once. To prevent himself from making the same mistake as last time.
But they had to reach it, and the [Knights] were the fastest Order in all of Izril. Clairei Fields was charging towards the Vampires.
It would be a bloody battle even if they found their foe, because they would fight tooth-and-nail at their end. And they were fighting in darkness, even with [Light] spells. But if they reached that damn door.
The [Innkeeper] was mad. A traitor? Did she not understand? They had to reconsider their vow to join the Winter Solstice muster as Tyrion Veltras had requested.
Consequences. The [Knights] thought they were the only ones who got to pass judgement. And perhaps, this night—they were the only arbiters.
The [Innkeeper] was one woman, and her apron didn’t stop the green lances covered in red gore. The fleeing Vampires slowed as they reached the door. They halted in fear of many things for a moment, but the armored pursuer drove them on.
Vampires feared so many things.
Silver. Wood stakes. Fire. Sunlight. Garlic. Not really moving water, but drowning, certainly. Light magic. Losing a child. Dying alone. Crelers. Being discovered and murdered. The dark.
In this case, their specific fear was a figure standing by the doors, but the man who stood there was one of them. He was garbed from head to toe in black, and he held a curious weapon. A farmer’s scythe.
Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle feared this would put his family at risk. But there were two men, one who could ignore his kin fleeing, and the other who stood there.
One didn’t exist; if he did not come to stand here, he was not himself and did not deserve to be. One was not Himilt val Drakle. He would always be here.
The Vampire was striding forwards when he realized that the fleeing Vampires weren’t hesitating just because they’d seen him. An arm stretched out, and someone who had stood unmoving in the darkness finally decided to speak.
“Sir. I think you’re in the wrong spot. Why don’t you head back into the inn?”
Himilt almost raised the scythe—but he hesitated as his eyes and his blood-sense picked up on the figures. He had been so fixated on the [Knights]…
He hesitated and almost refused. But then he looked at the group and understood their position.
“If it comes to battle—”
“It won’t. Your time isn’t now, sir. The rest of you, this is a fine moment. Spread out. Squire! Torch!”
He barked to the side with a less-friendly voice as he tipped his hat—or rather, raised his visor—towards the Vampire. Slowly, Himilt backed away and bowed once. Then he saw the group getting ready.
Erin Solstice wasn’t there. In some ways, she was an [Innkeeper]. She might be good at battle, but it wasn’t her duty or class. In another way, who was she going to send to die? Her family? Her staff?
If only there was a group she could ask. Ask, because they had to make up their mind. If only there was some kind of group that could…pass judgement.
Or light a match.
Someone struck one in the darkness, and the rushing Vampires saw a pale flame burning. Then growing brighter and brighter. It was not the cherry-red of flame or the bright orange glow of fire they knew.
Rather, it was a different kind, and it burned from the figures standing in the field ahead of the door. One struck a match, and it glowed from a lantern he held.
Vess lifted the lantern up as the flame grew, but he only carried it a second. Then he handed it to the woman in front of him as if it were a heavy weight. Her arm shook as she took it. The young woman slowly inspected the burning light in the center of the lantern, and the fire was grey.
Grey, harsh, illuminating the night for thousands of feet with the painful glow. She didn’t know if it fit her, but it was hers to bear tonight.
She had protested it was Vess’, but he had said it ‘needed’ her. And she felt it. The flame of Mercy grew from the spark in his hands. It was drawing from something in her, like a living ember. The [Knight-Artisan of Bones] looked up—and she saw fleeing Vampires. For a second, she rubbed her eyes—and they were [Necromancers] running for their lives.
She thought she saw a girl with chalk-white makeup running with a bone-white cat in her arms, and mercy shone in her eyes running with tears. Her shaking arms felt like they were trying to hold up a mountain. But she raised that lantern higher. To see.
And the first flame glowed through the night as another was lit. An armored figure, wearing plain iron, hurried over as their leader snapped at him. He brought another match over, and a second figure raised a lantern.
His was pink. And his fire was even brighter than Ama’s, but Embraim’s was also simpler, a pure, beautiful flame. Her grey flame was mercy. His was glory.
Glory befit him. The Antinium was wearing his [Crusader]’s armor, which was painted with his new crest. He held the lantern up in one arm as the final [Knight] simply raised a gauntlet and the fire caught.
He glowed green, and the Grandmaster of the group that Erin Solstice had beseeched stared into the night at the hesitating figures. They had heard as the [Knights] shouted in triumph…then confusion.
The Order of Solstice held their ground, and not a single one raised a blade. They were ready, but Jewel, standing behind Normen, just stared at the Vampires…then at the three figures at the front.
Ama, Embraim, and Normen. Behind them was Halrac, Jewel, Durene, Vess, Dalimont, and Antherr.
Ylawes and Lehra had already left the inn, and so the entire Order of Solstice save for Rabbiteater was present. Oh—and they had two more members.
Squires, one armored head-to-toe in metal. But the [Knights], a fraction of the strength of the Vampires and Clairei Fields, were looking to the three in front.
Ama’s arm was shaking with the weight of the lantern, but Embraim and Normen stood easy. They had seen who could hold the fire best, and she was doing her best. Sillias prowled next to her, and the Vampires slowed…then raced left and right around the [Knights]. For the open door.
Their desperate faces were reflected in the harsh grey flame that Ama held up. Like a polished mirror of steel. A blade, harsh—but not without give.
Did they deserve it? Did they have any in their veins? She froze as she looked into their eyes, and the flame of mercy burned.
“Pass. I see a reason to let them pass.”
The [Necromancer] called out, and the next to lift his lantern was Embraim. This was not a tradition of the Order of Solstice. To have a tradition, they had to do it first. And so the Antinium looked carefully and spoke.
“I don’t see glory on all. But I do not care. Glory is meaningless at times. I do not see it on the [Knights]. Pass.”
He lowered his sword, and the final [Knight], the burned Ser Normen, lifted honor’s flame and studied the fleeing figures.
“I see it bright and thin. I see sparks. But I see it on all. Pass.”
The Order of Solstice didn’t move as the figures streamed towards the door, passing through as a Gnoll shouted and three flames reflected their faces. Then—Ama looked ahead at the furious, charging figures trying to reach the scrum. And her features hardened with familiarity. She lifted the lantern higher and called out to her peers.
“I…don’t see anything in them. I say no.”
Embraim shook his head as well.
“I see little glory with my eyes. They think they have it. I disagree. Grandmaster?”
Normen closed his eyes a moment, then studied the line of [Knights].
“No. Knights of Solstice…behind me.”
He lowered the lantern, thrusting it at his squire to hold. Then—Normen lifted his mace.
“[The Bonfire Rages].”
Green flames burst from the sky, and a pillar of flames descended. The [Knight] didn’t call honor’s fire down to burn his allies, though. Rather—he swung his mace and drew a line across the field.
A flaming wall of green fire rose between the last Vampire and the Order of Clairei Fields. They slowed, a second behind the Vampires, and could have still lanced the majority. But their horses balked at the sight of the flames. As they tried to maneuver around, shouting in outrage and confusion, a voice assailed them.
“Halt! In the name of the Order of Solstice!” 
The line of [Knights] was impeding the charge. The Grandmaster roared, but his reply was a wordless shout of voices thirsty for blood. So the [Knight] raised his visor and howled back, as if he were a brother. He held his helmet in his hand and threw it down like thunder, and horses reared.
“We are sworn to defend those who need it. There is no honor, mercy, or glory in this slaughter. Halt or we do battle. Halt or die.”
His voice reached them at last. The green flames made the Order of Clairei Fields balk, and they flinched from the thunder of the helmet’s wrath.
By now, the Order of Clairei Fields knew who the mysterious [Knights] were. The fire had already confirmed their identities. They began to spur their chargers onwards—but the other [Knights] were standing behind that wall of flames, weapons raised.
A Drake had a glowing wand trained on the [Knights], and they were bunched up, walls of bone guarding their flanks. They had armor. They were outnumbered nearly fifteen-to-one. But they were fellow [Knights].
And that warning—the Knights of Clairei Fields hesitated. From anyone else, they might disregard that warning. But one of the [Knights] was holding a jar of glowing green acid, and they had seen Gold-ranks die just this month.
The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice stood there, mace and armor burning. The [Knights] screamed at him, and he refused to give. In those seconds while they hesitated—their quarry vanished.
The second time the Order of Solstice took a stand, not a single drop of blood was spilled. But it mattered. Flames burned around the [Knights] as they retreated towards the door.
“This isn’t over! We will pursue them to the ends of Izril and remember this!”
The [Knight Captain] of the Clairei Fields screamed at Ser Normen. The other [Knight] just touched two fingers to his helmet in a salute.
“So will we, Ser.”
He was turning towards the door when the leader of the Clairei Knights barked at his back.
“You will regret this. You are on the wrong side!”
