Here was the question, as Wall Lord Ilvriss dodged a chamberpot. They were raining down from Invrisil’s houses, and people were taking pot-shots from the balconies.
“Go back to the south, Drakes!”
“Eat shit, Wall Lord!”
Their aim wasn’t the best in most cases, but there was always someone with a throwing Skill. Ilvriss was an ordinary dodger. He was a warrior and could strafe left and right, even leap left and duck with amazing quickness.
But he had no art. Nerul had art.
For such a huge Drake, he had a Saliss-quality dodge that came from having been hit with projectiles when representing Salazsar’s interests. He fielded a chamberpot from the left, pirouetted out of the way of a splashing pot of liquid in a twirl—
Osthia got splashed, and her shield did nothing. The Drakes were in full retreat, and the Rubirel Guard had just met with the real salt of the earth of Izril. And the nightsoil, and the yellow water…
Sentiment was against them, and it was all Erin Solstice’s fault. However, even the angry citizens who’d come to harass Ilvriss had to admire how well Nerul dodged.
“How are you doing that, Nerul?”
Ilvriss shouted as he retreated and nearly got a mouthful of something unforgettable.
“[Improved Evasion: Projectiles]. You think dodging arrows is nasty, Nephew? Arrows just make you bleed. I dodge sepsis.”
Ilvriss didn’t reply. He just ran for it. Behind him, the jeers grew louder.
“Drakes don’t run! Get back here!”
“No Drakes in the north!”
“No one wants your kind here! Get lost! Oh, hello, Miss Wyldbark. How are you doing?”
There was something slightly ironic about watching a bunch of Drakes running for the hills while waving at your half-Elf friends. Then again, some of the half-Elves were throwing shit too.
The north was making a stand. Against Salazsarian influence, against the Drakes coming into the north, and again, it was all Erin’s fault. She had posted the <Quest>, but she had also posed a question, whether she knew it or not.
It was more than just whether or not you liked Drakes. It was the question of this era, and it was the refrain behind every whistling stone hurled at Ilvriss and the sounds of the day.
 
——
 
The question was implicit, but Mihaela asked it directly to a screaming City Runner she was holding over the edge of The Adventurer’s Haven.
They were nearly at the edge of the known continent, in Manus’ domain, having headed southwest from Pallass. There had been a number of issues, but Larracel and her high-level guests had dealt with mostly diplomatic issues.
Soon, though, the Guildmistress of First Landing would have to stop here. She was no adventurer, and while Couriers would be needed in the new world, there were no places to run to, yet.
Runners were messengers, not explorers. So—the Haven would continue on, and Mihaela would say goodbye to Larracel once again, until the time came for them to meet again.
She wasn’t unhappy about it. In fact, Mihaela was so calm and adult about the situation that she had hold of a City Runner’s ankle and was dangling her about thirty feet off the ground. If she dropped the young woman, the snow would probably cushion her head.
Probably.
Mihaela wasn’t that strong, but the girl wasn’t that heavy. She was thin, and frankly, Mihaela wondered how she’d been a candidate for a Courier at all.
“No fighting abilities. [Double Step] is your only Skill. I’ve seen your record, Persua Mavva. You’re a coward, and your runs have your friends hanging about. And you also have a record of harassing other Runners.”
“Don’t drop me! Don’t drop me!”
She was, at least, fairly sharp. Most people might say ‘let go’, and Mihaela would do just that. Mihaela just shook Persua, and the screaming grew louder.
The guests and staff of the Haven watched, not having much else to do today. And amazingly, within a mere hour of Persua’s arrival, no one said to Mihaela that she was going too far. Persua’s personality had rubbed off on people like a yeast infection.
Mihaela had, accordingly, run Persua through a grinder. She had kicked Persua off the Haven eight times in her training test, and the City Runner’s eyes were flashing with wild fury.
She was more dangerous than she let on. Most City Runners would give up after being kicked around by Mihaela, but the Guildmistress understood Persua. A rabid weasel that’d come at your ankles and bite to the bone even if you ripped off a limb.
“Ryoka Griffin. What happened to her?”
“I didn’t do—”
Mihaela dropped Persua. The screaming City Runner flashed towards the ground, and Mihaela caught Persua’s leg with effort on a lower floor. She had run downstairs, intercepted Persua, and caught her within a split-second.
“What was that?”
“I—I’ve changed!”
“Sure you have. Because if you didn’t, I would throw you into a pit of Crelers. Got it? I have your file here…”
Mihaela had the paperwork spread out on one knee, and she wrote one-handed on it in huge words as Persua tried to get free. She could sit up and actually curl up into a ball, but Mihaela’s grip and arm were a steel bar she couldn’t pry free.
“Persua Mavva. Noted for serious misconduct by Mihaela, Guildmistress. Further infractions will result in permanent revocation of her City Runner status and exile from the Runner’s Guild for…two thousand years.”
“You can’t do that! I’ve been a good Runner for—”
Mihaela just shook Persua until the City Runner fell silent. Then she looked down. Persua was red-faced, bruised from the test, and yet…she still looked distraught at the idea of not being a Runner any longer.
“I don’t like you. Fair’s fair, I don’t like Ryoka. But I don’t like corruption in my Guild. Normally, I let the local Guilds deal with it, but you got away with it. Until you met me. If you break my rules again, I will find out. I am watching you. Congratulations. Your life is ruined. No one will run with you again and make life easier. I am writing that down, by the way. No one is allowed to deliver for Persua Mavva or credit her with a run.”
Persua was actually crying with fury. This was so unfair! It was an amazing talent. But she was white-faced now, listening. And Mihaela looked down on her and sighed.
“I must be getting old. Do you know why?”
“W-why?”
She had actually curled up to grab Mihaela’s arm. She was flexible, like a [Tumbler]. She clung like a barnacle to the Guildmistress’ arm, and Mihaela was getting tired. But she kept her arm raised, bracing on the balcony.
“Because I’m going to give you a second chance. Because I believe everyone deserves a chance to be a Runner. It makes worthless people into useful ones. You’ve had your second chance, and third and fourth, I bet. But because I’m soft with age, I’ll give you one more chance. In fact, you might even make Courier within the year. You’d like that, wouldn’t you? I can’t waste someone with a promising Skill, after all.”
Persua’s eyes widened with sudden hope. Maybe this trip had been worth it after all! If even Mihaela Godfrey saw her potential…
She mistook Mihaela’s smile for one of a grandmotherly figure who saw the good in people. If it was a grandmother’s smile, it was the one who pushed chicklings out of the nest to see if they could fly.
“W-what do I—I’ll do anything to prove myself, Guildmistress Godfrey. I’ve turned over a new leaf. I can change. I will change.”
Strange. Mihaela almost believed that Persua wanted to change. She seemed—desperate. Like a City Runner seeking something. Glory. They were all like that, but it was almost like Persua had a vision in mind. As if someone had shown her who she could be.
Mihaela’s grandmotherly smile widened. And she wrote on the file she was going to copy to every Runner’s Guild across Izril.
“This is going to be my note in your record, Persua. And every Guild is going to take this to heart. One. You are banned from working in the north unless you get a delivery that’s taken you there. You have too many friends in the north. No friends, no ‘help’.”
“H-huh? I have to run with Drakes?”
“You’d better get that tone out of your mouth. And I have faith you’ll make a name for yourself in the south. Courier within the year.”
“Really? You see it too?”
Persua panted, clinging to Mihaela’s arm with hope in her eyes. The Guildmistress nodded. She wrote with a flourish.
“That’s your ambition, right?”
“Yes! I can be a Courier! An amazing one!”
“Excellent! In that case, you are also prohibited from taking any delivery below Courier-rank. I’ll let you take bounties that are open to City Runners, but Courier-grade. That’s generally emergency runs to people in trouble or scouting Creler nests.”
Persua stopped talking. Her mouth opened, but she made a strangled, screaming sound. At this point, even the other Runners listening to Mihaela winced.
That was suicide. And harsh! Even experienced Couriers took easier missions. You could, in theory, make a living on only Courier-difficulty assignments, but—
“I’ll die! You can’t do this!”
“I just did. Copy this to everyone.”
Mihaela passed the sheet off to a [Receptionist] then smiled at Persua.
“You want to be a Courier? Once you make Courier, I’ll rescind the order and even clear your record. But until then, you’ll be a credit to the Runner’s Guild or die.”
“I won’t survive those kinds of runs!”
“Probably not. So level or die. Or quit.”
“You can’t—”
Persua tried to pull herself up, but Mihaela’s stare silenced her. The white-haired Courier spoke in piercing tones as she levered Persua up and stared her in the eye.
“This is my last chance for you, Persua Mavva. By rights, I should put you in chains, but proving some of the things alleged against you is impossible, and the Watch isn’t smart enough to link all the things you’ve done. So this is Runner’s Guild justice. If you want to clear your record, run hard. Run better than you ever have in your life. Now, get out of my sight.”
So saying, she tried to throw Persua into the snow. Hard. But the screaming young woman was clinging to her arm, and Mihaela tried twice, but Persua refused to let go. She was screaming, pleading, crying, and begging. At last, Mihaela used her other arm to lever Persua’s arms from hers. And Mihaela shouted the question outright.
The question of the day.
“Do you want to stay like this forever? Are you fine being worthless, you brat? Do you want to be a Courier or a worthless, scheming rat?”
Persua froze and stared at her. Were you fine with this? With how things were?
That was the real question. Whether it was your level, running, or just how the world was—Mihaela Godfrey saw it. She met Persua’s eyes—then lifted her overhead and threw her into the snow.
The screaming City Runner hit a snowdrift and made a satisfying whumph sound. Then Mihaela turned away for a hot drink. Below, as the Haven rolled away, Persua lay, stars spinning around her head, despairing, faced with impossible missions—and the question remained.
Were you going to change? Were you able to?
 
——
 
Change was hard. Everyone thought they could change, but change was never an open door marked ‘head here for a real, tangible improvement to your life’.
It was uncertain, and normalcy weighted the dice. The status quo hired bodyguards. The nobles of Izril, similarly, opposed Wall Lord Ilvriss’ entry to the north in no uncertain terms.
But they did it with more than words. They did it with public sentiment. Invrisil was already hostile towards Ilvriss. It might be that they could be seen as stupid, the ‘public’ or ‘commonfolk’. But it was hard to form a different opinion when all the information you got was…
Well, biased. For instance, in a tavern in the city of Wales, you could hear a dialogue that sounded something like this:
A friendly [Bard] would sit down at a table where a few people were having a convivial drink on the weekend. And he clearly had an axe to grind, but he also brought a snack bowl over and was given a grudging welcome. His opening question would be with a huge frown.
“Have you heard about that Wall Lord that’s trying to get into the north?”
The other diners would look up, and someone would take the bait.
“What Wall Lord? A Drake?”
“That’s right. From the Walled Cities, no less. One of ‘em is trying to get access to the north. And after what they did in the summer!”
A pause. Then, a working man in a [Journeyman Carpenter]’s outfit would lean over.
“What did they do in the summer?”
“Oh, the fires? The poisoning? Didn’t you hear about it? Their agents were setting those forest fires, poisoning people—tens of thousands of us died, and now they’re trying to come north. Wall Lord Ilvriss. He’s at that inn.”
“Really? And someone let him through?”
The other listeners, who would have only a passing knowledge of the south and could probably name most of the Walled Cities, would listen to the [Bard] repeating a litany of grievances. Everything from the old wars, the annual Bloodfields battles, to actual events like the saboteurs in the summer.
Forming a different opinion than the large consensus would require a working knowledge of Human-Drake relations, and there were very few voices who pointed out reasonable counters like the Meeting of Tribes incident or the fact that Ilvriss was trying to enter as a private individual, not as an army of arrogant Drakes.
To be fair, it was easy to repeat a lot of things Drakes had done, but it was also easy to tar ‘Drakes’ with the same brush. There was little nuance between Salazsar and Manus in most people’s minds. They were Walled Cities. They were Drakes.
 
——
 
There were a lot of good reasons to dislike Drakes. But it did tend to blend together. The part where they sabotaged their enemies and killed people in the north? Good critique. The issues with their relationship with Gnolls? A very real, historical event.
“There should be laws against them entering Invrisil or passing the border. Magnolia Reinhart is a fool—”
Lots of murmurs of agreement in the group furiously arguing about the very issue of Drakes in the north. They were a bunch of patriots to the north. Not to any kingdom, but general patriots.
They had no kingdoms, and so it was different from being a Terandrian that claimed Avel was the best kingdom. It was just the ‘north’ and thus humanity and the Five Families that needed defending.
Another City Runner adjusted his tombstone hat and his leather armor, crimson as snow melted on it, as he listened silently to the others debate. They weren’t his best friends, but Delanay d’Artien needed backup. Hearing their conversation about the Wall Lord issues was illuminating.
