The Grandmaster paused, and his helmet swung back towards the bloody [Knights]. His voice was carrying and sharp as the snows blew down, and his fire made them flinch.
“Perhaps. But if we stood here on the wrong side, we stood for the right reasons. Begone.”
Then the door slammed shut, on honor, glory, and mercy, leaving the Order of Clairei Fields in the darkness.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was, once more, at the center of great events. Not without controversy. Not without censure.
Erin Solstice was making enemies. The [Knights] who took her namesake looked proud, but it had to weigh on her.
In fact, she had a conversation with Lyonette in her inn in private. Well, in the common room of her inn. Erin buried her head in her hands, speaking quietly as the [Princess]—everyone knew she was a [Princess]—stood there.
“Did I do the right thing, Lyonette? Vampires. Do you think they’re all Vampires? Do you…do you think they’re really all evil?”
“I don’t know, Erin. Calanfer has some old legends, but there were children. Families.”
“Yeah. Do you—do you think they’re really hiding among us? Silver. Silver finds them out. What if there are a bunch of them under our noses? I have to keep people safe. Do you have any silver?”
“I think so. Ylawes always had…hold on.”
Lyonette came back with a literal silver spoon, and Erin held it. She played with it.
“You know, if there are some, I might need to tell them to…leave. Or if they killed people? It’s like Goblins. The one that murdered those people…I have to know. Lyonette. I have to know. C-can you call the ones we think are Vampires over? I don’t want to do this. But Liscor has to be safe.”
She buried her face in her hands, and Lyonette gave her a wretched look.
“Are you sure, Erin?”
Erin nodded. She turned, miserable and uncertain. Her conviction that had sent the Order of Solstice forth was not the same as in private.
“I have to. Please…ask Himilt, Colfa, and his family to get over here. Rivel’s run for it. But the others? They’ve got all the signs.”
Curious. Erin sat in the common room, waiting, as Lyonette vanished into the beach, looking upset. A [Knight] brought Erin a drink of tea, but she refused it.
She should have really confessed her worries to Lyonette in her [Garden of Sanctuary]. But Erin was unguarded, and the [Innkeeper] often let things slip. She sat there in her inn, and there was a really good view of her if you had an enchanted spyglass and you were staring at her through a window.
If you had a listening Skill, you could hear most of what was going on, or read her lips. And who would be out in this freezing cold?
Well, miserable spies. Erin fed them, now and then, and she even gave some blankets or a hot drink if she caught them skulking around. Rather like raccoons in her trash.
It was a bad habit of hers. It had never occurred to the raccoons, though, that sometimes Erin cultivated them for a reason. When the [Innkeeper] finally stood, she didn’t beat around the bush.
“Listen. I know this is uncomfortable, and I won’t ask about Rivel. He’s gone. But I have to know. Ylawes is my friend, and…I have this silver spoon. Will you let me test you?”
Colfa, Himilt, Bamer, and Fierre hesitated. Erin looked at them seriously.
“You can do it in secret, and I won’t tell anyone. I promise. But I have to know. Your look, even your names…? It’s suspicious, right? Is there a good reason?”
“I—I—Erin, it’s complicated. Maybe we weren’t honest with Ylawes. But that’s because we were afraid of this. It’s not in our blood, but we were proud. And—”
Fierre was terrified. She stuttered as Erin looked at her blankly.
“What’s wrong? Either you are or you aren’t.”
“It’s not that simple. I shall show you. No, Himilt, don’t stop me.”
Colfa burst out at last. The imperious woman, royalty from the Lischelle herding family, snatched the spoon. To Erin’s amazement—she ran the spoon down her arm!
And her skin changed. A dozen quills froze mid-scratch, and one of the [Spies] took a mage-picture. Of…wait a second.
A huge, red rash was rising down Colfa’s arm. Erin Solstice stared at the rash, following the path the silver spoon had taken. She paused…then her mouth opened.
“Wait a second. What the heck is that? You’re not—are you allergic to silver?”
“You can see why it causes trouble.”
Himilt murmured. Colfa scratched at her arm, cursing.
“Oh, drat. And there have been—bad incidents. I cannot speak to real…”
She caught herself a moment, like someone on the edge of distress. A worried woman, a mother wearing all the trappings of dark nobility. A farmer’s shawl and cloak at times, or currently, beachwear with, yes, fishnets and red and black impracticality and hanging cloth that got in the way if you swam.
—The difference was, she pulled it off where Ieka Imarris did not. Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle had been born to real nobility, shepherd-kings, and her reply to Erin sounded flustered for a second. Then she remembered who she was, and her crimson eyes rose, and she spoke honestly. Not with fake ‘ves’ and ‘zhes’, but a delicacy of language.
“I have always embraced the guise and attire, Erin Solstice. I have always seen clearer at night, and never have I ever acknowledged a superiority of bright sunlight and shining steel. The moon glitters over shepherds and herders, and it is a soothing balm compared to the sun. There is nothing wrong with loving a look or embracing the image of the night. I refused to change what I loved just because I feared judgment. If I hid the truth, it was because I knew it would come. Do you understand?”
She gave Erin a pleading look, but the grand not-Vampire stood there, and Himilt smiled slowly. She turned, and perhaps, in that moment, you could see how the two had first met. A quiet farmer and a nocturnal [Shepherd]. They took each other’s hands like they were courting, and the [Innkeeper] turned red. Erin backed away from the two like she was allergic to the sight and raised her hands, embarrassed and ashamed.
“I am so sorry, guys. I—maybe the others were like this? This is wrong. I’ll try to talk to Laken and everyone else. Thank you for telling me. I…do you want a drink or a resort? On the house! I am so…”
 
——
 
When they all hurried back into the beach, out of ‘sight’ of the common room, Erin paused a second. Then she took the silver spoon back from Colfa and flicked it at Lyonette.
“Silver spoons? Really? Why do we have one?”
“For poison, Erin. It’s classy!”
Lyonette scowled. Fierre just backed away from the spoon.
“Keep it away from me! I’m getting a rash even from here!”
She had dropped the relieved demeanor, although that had been replaced by real relief in this moment. Fierre shuddered as Bamer and Himilt both edged back from the spoon as well. Lyonette tucked it away, and Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle, who had handled the spoon without incident, raised her bare arm and eyed the rash.
“This does actually itch. Can someone take your picture so I can change?”
“I have it mostly correct. It should fade after a day, anyways. I’ll walk around with this, then.”
A second Colfa held out her arm where a fairly good rash made of itching cream that Octavia had made up was already spreading. The Vampire, the real Colfa, was grimacing.
Colfa val Lischelle stared at her copy as Xesci sighed—then the Drake brushed at her arm, and the fake rash vanished. She smiled proudly, and Erin exhaled. She gave everyone a thumbs-up.
“Okay. Now, do you think they bought it?”
Even Lyonette was giving Erin a fairly admiring look, but it was Fierre who was fussing around with her contacts. She pulled up a [Message] scroll and smiled.
“The first report is already going out like a shot. Thirty gold for an urgent report about the [Innkeeper] and the ‘bloodsucker situation’? That’s so flattering.”
She grimaced, but Bamer was beaming in relief and wiping at his brow.
“And it fooled the [Spies]?”
“I hope so. Xesci’s supposed to be one of the best people for this, and it makes sense. I bet silver allergies are real, and if not? Then we’ll handle it. Frankly, most people are going to be angry at me about the door. I’ll handle it. You guys just lay low. Rivel’s gone, anyways.”
Erin turned, and Himilt bowed once more.
“We are in your debt, Miss Erin, Miss Lyonette. We will repay it. I promise. We have long memories. Ryoka Griffin and you…”
He trailed off without anything else to say. Erin just jerked her head with a smile.
“Why don’t you compliment the Order of Solstice? They just came back in.”
She stood there as Lyonette rushed out to make sure everyone was alright. Erin just had to sense that they were, though she’d confirm with her own eyes. She’d been afraid, but it seemed like they were all okay.
The only person not having a good time was one of the two [Squires]. Normen was lecturing him on conduct, and the normally genial [Knight] was haranguing the newest member of the Order.
Well, it was a high honor. And unlike the regular [Knights], the new ones would have a long journey to live up to the standards of the others.
Especially the one wearing armor from head to toe. A [Knight] was a knight. A [Squire] was a squire. It didn’t matter who was behind the helmet.
The squires, or ‘embers’ of the Order of Solstice as Vess had suggested calling them, were on probation. Knights-in-training. You could be anyone under that armor.
Actually, armor was funny. It kept out the sun. It was a fairly contained environment, and Erin wondered, privately, if metal armor also negated most of the dangers of silver. If you got stabbed through the armor, sure, you were in trouble, but so was anyone else.
“…Have we just made a super-Vampire? Or were they always that smart?”
She wondered about that, but she decided Normen had the right idea. Rivel wasn’t giving him much sass, and he looked shaken up, and Erin had taken pity on him. Having to run after Normen might do him some good.
 
——
 
That night, the Order of Solstice put it out on the line for Vampires. That day, Vampires were rediscovered.
In addition, the Sisters of Chell formally entered into a contract with Wall Lord Ilvriss on a provisional basis and more openly embraced Lady Ieka Imarris.
This was a matter of some celebration and consternation, because the Sisters had also agreed to send their membership to Ieka to join up with her and receive the benefits of her staff—but training the unruly Sisters would be tricky.
Then again, Ieka’s bodyguard did have armor and magical items, and they no longer had to worry about their mistress’ fits of sulking and/or passion that got them into trouble or awkwardness at work. Her new secretary and she were very hard at work doing work things in their workplace. They might have to work all night. And tomorrow.
Happy things. Sad things. Sexy things. Celum was easing back into normalcy—they had had a spat of odd incidents in the city, and the [Mayor] had been about to bring it up to Lord Xitegen, but it seemed like the incidents had stopped.
Oh, and there was a City Runner who had just applied for Courier-class jobs in Manus and been asked whether or not she had the time to scout the Hivelands. It was a Courier-level mission, but High Command needed someone to run as far as eight miles over the border.
Survival was not guaranteed, but the pay was very good. If not that, there were requests to confirm Creler nests, and if they were extant, their size. Finally, if she needed harder and more lucrative work, she could carry this item that the gangs really wanted to Pallass. It was her or an armored coach with a heavy escort…she was quite lucky, there was a lot of work on her level.
What a brave girl.
The last event that took place late that night was that Wall Lord Ilvriss went to see Erin Solstice. This trip had been all about him, hadn’t it? Definitely.
But that was the thing. Ilvriss’ story was largely about him and the people he brought. The things the Wall Lord did were never him alone. He was no Tidebreaker. He was a company.
He had brought company, and Osthia was busy asserting dominance over some testy Sisters of Chell who didn’t like Drakes, Ilvriss, or being given orders. Nerul was scheming with Lyonette, but they all came to check on Ilvriss.
“Did she say she had time? It’s a quarter to midnight.”
“It’s been a long day. I won’t take up her time, but I’m glad to speak to her. I’m fine. Don’t fuss. Asrira—I mean, Osthia. Are you my bodyguard or a nanny?”
Ilvriss had a rather rumpled suit that she was trying to smooth. The Drake laughed.
“It’s a force of habit by now. I’m trying to help.”
“Help with what?”
Ilvriss looked insulted, and Nerul sprayed some breath freshener into Ilvriss’ mouth.
“Nothing at all, Nephew. Call it good impressions.”
“I am not flirting with her. I did not propose to her.”
“But she does matter?”
Nerul raised his brows as Xesci looked Ilvriss up and down. The Wall Lord hesitated.
“Yes, but not in—”
“Then dressing won’t hurt. Xesci, do you have anything to add?”
They turned as Xesci sat up. She was still happy about contributing to Ilvriss’ goals, and the [Courtesan] looked at Ilvriss and smiled broadly.
“I don’t quite have a perfect image of Erin. She’s difficult, hard to read, and good at hiding what she feels. But I can tell you I’m fairly sure Ilvriss doesn’t have a single shot in a thousand. Sorry.”
Osthia and Nerul stopped fussing around Ilvriss and backed away from him as if trying to see how badly he was now bleeding. Nerul hissed at Xesci.
“Xesci, my dear, please!”
Ilvriss seemed the most distressed by this revelation, and he tugged at a tie.
“Yes, you don’t say that to me or—or in general about anyone, Xesci. Please! Leave Erin alone and respect her privacy. Don’t read her. This—what is this blasted thing?”
“A tie, Wall Lord. It’s from that new clothing boutique.”
“It’s ridiculous. What is this, a noose? Xesci, from now on, please respect Erin’s privacy. She values it greatly.”
The Drake [Courtesan] raised her brows. Then she laughed lightly.
“Hah. Is that what you’re supposed to say? Thank you for saying it, Wall Lord. I’ll ignore that.”
The Drake hesitated and opened his mouth, but then the others hurried him out of his rooms. He stumbled downstairs and saw the door to the beach waiting on the far wall.
But it was not the beach, still filled with nighttime guests, that Ilvriss headed towards. He paused…and a second door opened for him, as if the owner knew he was there.
