[Teleport Other] was slightly different, and very different, all at the same time. [Teleport Other] always had in it some innate assent in order to start the process. This assent, either unintended or accidental or ‘harmless’, was the wound in the natural ‘no’ that most people had, that stopped all undesired [Teleport]s. Exploiting this ingress, expanding it into a full-fledged ‘yes’, was yet another hard part of the spellwork that was made somewhat easier by the amoeba-like nature of all Elemental Bodies.

So to [Teleport Other], one had to fully invade another, and control their probability from the inside.

The good thing, though, if it could be thought of as ‘good’, was that the initial ingress could be as vague as an intruder crossing a threshold, into a place the intruder should not be, or as certain as someone agreeing to something entirely unrelated to the situation. Or a handshake, or raising their hand in class, or accepting an invitation, or anything at all where one person connected to another.

Erick instantly thought back to Apogee offering him a drink, and him saying ‘okay’. He laughed, then said, in a friendly sort of way, “That asshole!”

He set down the Wayfarers book and thought, while Ophiel twittered on his perch. Erick looked to his feathered, many eyed [Familiar].

Ophiel did not have the problems of gut biomes or aura control. Ophiel was a single function of mana. Erick could channel mana through [Summon Ophiel], and create a symphony of deep, resonant sound, like that of a portal to a mysticism far older than any location had any right to be; but he didn’t, because Poi was home and that sort of sound made the sapphire scaled man very uncomfortable.

Instead, Erick channeled pure, untainted mana through his hand. The white flare sticking up from his palm vibrated with the sound of his own soul, filling the room like a memory of a life made manifest. It was a complicated sound that he had heard before, but each moment the sound shifted. It was the same song sung in different voices, or rather the same voice, but with focuses held in different directions, sometimes focusing on difficult times, but then changing to see that same time in a different light, full of moments of growth and change and joy at all existence could be. Hearing himself was emotionally hard to bear, and difficult to understand. Erick cut the channel.

Whatever this white glow was, it was not something as simple as channeling through a Stat, and producing a light. Stat enchanting produced resonances, for sure, but they were more the resonances of light wavelengths. This, right here, was like channeling through a very complicated spell, or rather, through a person’s soul.

Erick wasn’t sure how Kiri had done it, but channeling her soul had made Charisma Stat jewelry. How odd was that?

Erick looked up to Ophiel.

Channeling through [Summon Ophiel] was much less complicated than channeling unaligned mana.

But Ophiel would already be on the same wavelength as Ophiel…

Erick hummed, then shrugged, saying, “Might as well try for the low hanging fruit, first.”

- - - -

Two Ophiel hung out in the air, far north of Spur. With the sun shining down from a clear blue sky, one Ophiel turned into light, and the other one got tossed around. There was much whining, and a veritable cacophony of flute sounds, as Ophiel voiced his displeasure to Ophiel.

But a spell was made.

In another experiment, a temporary being called Jewels, looking like a crystal and telekinetically carrying around a hundred stone knives, got tossed around, turned to light, and flung back and forth. He broke a few times, but Erick just made another.

He made his second spell of the day, too.

In another bit of fun, Erick, as Ophiel, and with Ophiel as a being of light, hovered near a mimic. Ophiel poked the mimic with a pseudopod of light, half the size of the ten meter tall not-agave. The mimic poked back, lifting a pointed, crystalline stabber into the air, jabbing around at the density that disturbed its camouflage. Stab stab! went the crystalline not-leaf, semi-curious and semi-furious at the same time.

That was sort of like consent, right?

Ophiel wrapped the mimic in light, and pulled it inward. The mimic was only briefly confused, as it stumbled, entering the luminous air, but it continued onward, into the brightness, fully into Ophiel’s clutches, mingling itself with its captor, like a fly not aware that it was only tangling itself deeper in the spider’s web.

The mimic ended up scattered across the sand, broken into pieces and parts. Ophiel tried again, on another mimic. This one, too, went flying into pieces.

Again, again, again.

Eventually, Erick managed to make it work. Back home, in Spur, a blue box appeared.

- - - -

Erick frowned at his three new, and mostly useless, spells.

[Teleport Familiar], which was basically what it said on the tin. [Teleport Summon] was also exactly as advertised. And finally, [Teleport Monster], which might be the only good one of the bunch. Each of them were basic spells, too. Just like [Teleport], or [Teleport Object], or [Blink].

Teleport Familiar 1, instant, touch, 250 mana

A Familiar reappears in another known location, max 100km distance.

Exp: 0/100

Teleport Summon 1, instant, touch, 250 mana

A summoned creature reappears in another known location, max 100km distance.

Exp: 0/100

Teleport Monster 1, instant, touch, 250 mana

A monster reappears in another known location, max 100km distance.

Exp: 0/100

Erick spoke to no one in particular, “The complexity of the ‘Other’ is an intrinsic part of [Teleport Other], eh?”

Ophiel squawked; a minor symphony of miffed flutes and concerned guitars.

“But why is [Teleport Monster] a valid thing?” Erick asked, “Are monsters not as complicated as ‘others’? Or are they less complicated because the soul is solidly in the rad?”

Poi turned the page of his book, not paying too much attention to whatever Erick was going on about; the archmage in residence was not dying from self inflicted magic, nor was he mind controlled, and that was the extent of Poi’s duties.

Poi spoke without looking to Erick, “I also have to defend you from attack.”

“Right.” Erick playfully waggled a finger, saying, “Can’t forget that one.”

Poi smirked, turning the page of his book.

Erick asked, “So here’s a hypothetical: Do Wayfarers work with local governments in order to experiment on prisoners fated to die?” He held up the Wayfarer’s book, saying, “Because this is rather light on that specific detail of gaining an ‘other’ to experiment upon.”

Poi asked, nonchalant, “Do you want a prisoner to experiment on?”

“No!” Erick said, “Sheesh!”

Poi just smirked.

Erick flipped through the book, saying, “But how do they—” Erick had stopped at a random entry for the spell. He had read over this section before, but he had missed something important. “Oh.” Erick read, “Here we go: ‘Contacted a Druid and obtained a map to a grove of failed Arbor trees slated for destruction, for they were becoming deadly to travelers.’ Huh.” He paused. He asked no one in particular, “I could try blipping an old tree? Why isn’t this part bolded more? Ah…” Erick concluded, “They probably expected me to study this book more than I have.”

“Some [Grow]ing experiments, then?”

Erick frowned, as he read what he was reading. “Not just any trees. Arbor trees, meaning failed tree [Familiar]s. Meaning real beings.” Erick said, “I’m not creating a being just to kill it.” He frowned. He added, “I’m not actually sure I’m... comfortable killing a person to continue, either.”

Poi said, “There’s no—” He went silent.

“… What?”

Poi leveled a look at Erick, saying, “There’s no ethical way to [Teleport Other]. The actual spell can be just as deadly as the spell making process.”

Erick let that sink in for a moment, as he thought. Eventually, he said, “But if it’s just about complexity… Maybe I can cheat.”

- - - -

The garden in front of Erick’s house was as vibrant and as beautiful as ever, even though the sky was grey and cloudy.

Potatoes grew on vines, spreading across the dark orange soil, while lemons, large and yellow, grew on tall trees. Onions and chives and various herbs scented the air, while red tomatoes grew next to vines of Erick beans; the white beans that originally sprouted from [Exalted Storm Aura]. Corn, tall and ready to be picked, grew on the side of the garden, next to melons of various types.

But there were a few problems. Overgrown vines. Yellowed shoots. Rotten veggies that had not been picked soon enough. So Erick spent the next hour cleaning up the place. Produce went into baskets, held by Ophiels, to be deposited in the cold storage room, next to the kitchen. Snipped vines and rotten veggies and fruits went into the compost pile, on the other side of the house. And then Erick saw he needed to move around his compost. The first bin of compost was still rotten veggies, but the final bin had lost its smell, entirely, and seemed like good, dark soil. Good compost got tossed around into the garden, while the not-yet-compost each moved over a bin, where it was left to cure how it could. When normal maintenance was done, Erick moved to the rear garden space, where he grew the experimental plants—

Several taps of something dropped across his head.

“What the FU—!” Erick stopped. He looked up. Rain splashed on his face. After a long moment of incomprehension, he laughed at the sky, then calmed to a gentle smile, saying, “I think that’s the first time rain came without me directly calling for it.”

Poi raised a [Weather Ward] over his position, nearer the house, asking, “Are you going to work in the rain?”

“You should already know the answer to that!” Erick said, playfully.

“I was hoping I was wrong...”

Erick just smiled, as he held in his hand the lemon he had saved from the compost. It was only partially rotten, and that was fine. The seeds inside were still good. With an expertly held [Greater Lightwalk], Erick held the lemon in front of him, and crushed it apart, pulping it in seconds, while also holding the pulp in place, preventing it from splashing everywhere. The yellow fruit turned into a splashed out globe of bumpy skin, juice, and several slimy seeds.

Erick gazed upward; the light around him following his sight, and his intention. Hard light formed bowls, and funnels, catching the soft rain into a single collected pool. It was not raining hard, and thus there was not much water, but there was not a need for a torrent, at this time. When he had a pool a meter wide and an inch deep, Erick moved the holding light, separating the single collection of rain into several collections of rain; seven, to be precise. Into each of these, he put a seed, while the remnants of the lemon were blipped over into the proper compost pile.

If a lack of complexity was the problem of getting [Teleport Other] to come together, then one possible solution to this problem could be create a tree of a thousand fruits, with a hundred different spells. But that was a far off ‘maybe’. For now, Erick would try with several fruits, and maybe one or two spells, and only for the purposes of gaining some functionality that he needed, going forward. He wasn’t about to accidentally create a Daydropper type of plant; not yet. If the spells he made today accidentally managed to soak into the seeds and create a magical life, it wouldn’t be a horrible outcome.

So that’s what Erick did, starting with [Watershape].

But first, a dry run.

Focusing on the first seed, hovering in the air, in a minor pool of water, Erick cast [Grow], using the purposeful, directed aspect of the spell, transforming and sprouting the seed into a plant similar to the original, but different. A green shoot lifted upward from the tiny seed while white roots descended into a hovering ball of water. Half in the drink and half lifting into the light, the plant grew until it was not much more than a fistful of roots wrapped around droplets of water and a green twig sticking up from it all. Erick hit it with another [Grow]. The plant expanded, until it reached waist-height, and a round, pale yellow grapefruit hung from a branch. This was good. The sprout looked healthy enough, so Erick moved on to the next seed.

Now came the magic.

On the second seed, he first looked to the rainy sky, and opened the funnels of his [Greater Lightwalk], flowing more of the rain into the hovering ball of water around the seed. Then he cast both [Grow] and [Watershape] at the same time, harmonizing their long-known vibrations within himself, attempting to combine them into a proper spell.

The seed sprouted, and Erick felt a connection to the growth like his connection to the light around him, or his Handy Aura, or any other action-at-a-distance connection of any of his other spells. This was the first time he felt that connection through [Grow], though. The maturation of the tiny plant was in his hands, and he fumbled, not expecting what he had received.

The green shoots curved, the roots split up and down. The seed became a tangle of direction and growth. Where was the light? Was it not all around?

Erick grabbed control as soon as he felt what had been placed into his power. Supple green shoots went upward, as water went inward, through roots that went down. A tangle turned upright, and then grew more, and more. The spell, and Erick’s control over it, cut in fractions; a gradual waning of power. When it was over, the lemon tree, or more accurately, the orange tree, had a little orange fruit hanging from the largest branch, while the whole plant was maybe only a meter tall, from roots to tallest leaves. Aside from that rough start, it was an okay work of magic.

A blue box appeared.

Treeshape, medium range, 100 mana

Direct the accelerated growth of a tree for 5 minutes.

Erick smiled to himself. [Treeshape] would be good, going forward.

He looked to the next seed. This one, he wrapped in water and light, and cast [Grow] using both [Watershape] and [Lightshape].

The seed cracked as a tendril of brightness descended into hovering water. Roots spread under guiding light, soaking up the rain in fractal, directed upward growth. Stems turned to twigs, to branches and trunks, as neon green leaves unfolded under grey skies. When the growth stopped, the light barely dimmed. The tree seemed charged by an inner, small radiance. A blue box appeared.

Tree of Light, medium range, 200 mana + Variable

Bless a tree with accelerated growth, the ability to repair itself, and the ability to thrive without the need for sunlight or water. Effect lasts a maximum of 1 week.

