Erick looked to the third plant. The leaves curled up and out, as roots continued to crawl through into the hovering water, the whole thing supported by Erick’s own [Greater Lightwalk], holding it aloft. Much like how [Control Weather] dissipated as it spread out to influence the rest of the world, Erick suspected that [Tree of Light] would last long enough to grow the tree to a size much larger than what it was, and then stop when it was forced to use up [Tree of Light], making up for a lack of sunlight, or other deficiencies.

While Erick watched, his theory proved true. The neon-green plant grew up and out, but lost its luminescence as bright, white fruits appeared; lemons, but of a meyer variety, and meant for juicing.

Erick smiled, then went through the remaining four seeds, [Grow]ing them to a normal yellow lemon tree, a red-skinned blood orange tree, a bright green key lime tree, and a dark blue lime tree. Not all of the fruits were their original colors, because Erick wanted to be able to tell them apart.

Under a rainy sky that did not reach him, but instead flowed around, over a bubble of light, Erick twisted and guided the seven citrus plants together, as he set them into soil and supported their growth, into one, complicated plant.

Was it actually a complicated plant? With a complicated magical signature? Erick had no idea. Maybe he was just playing around and not getting anywhere. But that would be fine.

Somewhere after the first hour of directed growth, as the seven-fold citrus reached up into the sky, glowing with seven separate dark brown trunks with separate roots and separate leaves, the plants became a six-fold citrus tree. One spell spread upon two intertwined trunks, where beginning and end were not so simple as a DNA test away.

And then six became five, as two other trees became one.

The whole mass of wood and otherwise was now three meters high, and twisted together like a spiral rock carving. Wood wrapped around wood, and branches wrapped into each other, while roots tangled out of sight, but deep and wide, eager to support the growths of their own selves instead of working together for the common good.

But the individual rebellions of the various citruses were no match for Erick’s gentle guidance. Five plants soon became four, then three, then suddenly a singular plant, all at once. Like a cluster of soap bubbles joining together, wood melded into a singular flow. A single cast of [Tree of Light] soaked into the entire structure, cementing the magic within.

Branches stopped struggling with each other for light and air as they unwrapped and flowed outward, in harmony. The rainy air filled with the scents of citrus flowers and fruit, as tiny blossoms, each of different sizes and shapes and colors, opened up across the full, five meter tall tree, all at once. Flowers fell like Autumn leaves, as fruits took their places, weighing down the tree with two types of round oranges, two types of tapered lemons, two types of pinched limes, and big round grapefruits. Each of the fruits looked very different than the others.

The whole, fruity thing looked rather odd; like a twist of meter-wide brown-and-tan trunk and a firework of branches above, fractal and reaching, and popping off with different colored fruits here and there. It was almost a work of art.

Erick watched as the tree settled into itself. Luminous glows stretched out cricks and bends here and there, while branches separated, giving the plant some space for itself, and roots, half out of the soil, wiggled downward into the dirt. As [Tree of Light] came to a conclusion, the citrus tree was definitely not a simple ‘tree’, and it surely did not qualify as an ‘object’. But would [Teleport Object] work on it?

Erick looked outward. On the edges of the Human District, past the intervening half a kilometer of flat orange ground, grew green trees and vegetables and plants. Farmers tended those gardens, as they did every day. Some of them had even stopped to watch Erick [Grow] whatever it was he was [Grow]ing.

A raised hand from the archmage caused a bubble of white light to appear around the whole tree experiment, covering the garden and everyone inside, including the trees. Rain stopped. Sound ceased. They were secured, in a basic, perfunctory sort of way.

Ophiel hovered around Erick, popping the few floating [Scry] eyes that hovered here and there. Once sight had been denied to everyone else, Erick walked forward and touched the tree. He looked up. Branches reached overhead, like a comforting friend, laden with gifts of fruit both sour and sweet. He paused. He frowned at himself. He didn’t want to harm the tree; it looked rather pretty and smelled really good. It would be a fine addition to any garden; especially his own.

… Maybe it wasn’t an ‘other’, though?

Erick had an easy test for that possibility.

[Teleport Object].

The tree remained where it was. It was not an object! Rejoice!

Erick tried [Teleport Monster], and got the same result; nothing. [Teleport Familiar] and [Teleport Summon] got similar, negative results. Whatever this tree was, it was not any of those things. So maybe it was an ‘Other’?

Erick frowned again. A test right now would probably destroy the tree.

… He grabbed some rotten fruits from the compost bin, retrieving more seeds. He planted them away from the myriad citrus. A few casts later, and Erick had seven new lemon tree saplings. After twenty minutes of directed growth, both with [Grow] and [Treeshape], and even [Tree of Light], Erick had seven more lemon trees that rivaled the myriad citrus for size and stature. They were normal, brown-barked, green-leaved, laden with lemon, trees, each about five meters tall.

[Teleport Object] failed to work on them, too.

Erick stepped away, out of the garden, to stand beside Poi, as he conjured two more Ophiel. The first one expended itself casting a [Prismatic Ward] across Erick, Poi, and the Ophiel on Erick’s shoulder. The second one turned to light, and went to the lemon trees.

With a bit of [Greater Lightwalk], and some directed possibility curve stretching, five of the trees exploded, but the sixth tree survived the trip through probability. It appeared just to the left of where Erick had planted it, like it had been [Grow]n in that new location, this whole time. Two blue boxes appeared.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Teleport Tree, here you go:

Teleport Tree 1, instant, touch, 250 mana

A tree appears in another known location, max 100km distance.

“Predictable,” Erick said, looking upon the lemon tree. He turned, and faced the myriad citrus tree. “So! Are you just a tree, too?” He floated Ophiel over to the experiment, and touched the bark. He looked up through his [Familiar]’s eyes, at the branches stretching overhead, and cast.

[Teleport Tree].

Nothing happened.

Erick grinned as he uttered, “Huh.” He said, “Might as well try it, then.”

Ophiel turned to light, and touched the myriad citrus with a gentle caress, looking for the openings Erick had experienced several times already. The tree immediately assented, in a way completely at odds with every other time Erick had worked the spell. Ophiel twittered in violin flutes, like he had touched a live wire, as browns and greens and a multitude of colorful fruits turned neon, and the whole thing detached from the soil, lifting into the air.

An intense, concentrated emotion roiled through Erick’s entire being; he was not going to leave this experiment up to chance, or fumbling touch, or accident. While Ophiel held the tree in Erick’s light, Erick spoke a quick desire, vibrating the mana with his intent, and his light,

“A life yet lives, intact yet gives!

“A course here set, a land once met

“Emplace’d here then and always been

“a choice; another! [Teleport Other].”

Erick felt a twinge of mana rush through his body, through Ophiel, through the [Greater Lightwalk], like a vibration upon the world. The myriad citrus vanished, like it had never been.

Error!

Error!

Adjusting...

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Teleport Other, here you go:

Teleport Other 1, instant, touch, 250 mana

A being you touch reappears in another known location, max 100km distance.

Erick almost collapsed to his knees as Poi rushed to grab him, to tap him with the rod of [Treat Wounds]. It was a valiant effort on Poi’s part, but a bone deep exhaustion had already spread throughout Erick like a cold, desolate wind.

Erick looked up at the disintegrating white dome that surrounded the experimental garden, one eye searching for his success, while the other looked askance, unable to be controlled. Double vision showed Erick’s two remaining lemon trees as four, exactly where he had put them, and exactly where he had not. But where was the myriad citrus?

As his eyes closed and a headache spiked, he tried to say, “I put it right back in the ground,” but the words that came out of his mouth were closer to garbled messes than anything intelligible.

Sleep came on like a barbarian horde, pummeling Erick into submission and here to stay.
