Sweep did as Father Vytal told her while he knelt at the foot of the bed, at Catherine’s feet. Sweep looked across Catherine’s heaving chest at Temperance and Temperance looked back. Temperance’s eyes had gone wide with concern, her brow drawn, her lips thin and white. And yet, Sweep knew Temperance was happy here, helping Catherine through her trial. Sweep gave her friend a small smile and Temperance returned the smile, small and tight.

When Catherine screamed again, Sweep jumped and her hold on the power wavered. With an intake of breath, she entered the room in her mind and with exhalation she took hold of her power. This time, in addition to seeing the orange glow surrounding Catherine, she could taste the woman’s pain, like copper, in the back of her throat and, without thinking, she swallowed it.

It was like all the muscles in her body suddenly tensed at the same time. Her spine bowed and her teeth clenched and sweat sprang from her body. She couldn’t move and she couldn’t think and she couldn’t breathe, all in one infinite moment. But she’d born up under unexpected pain for twelve years, and she did not cry out.

“Oh,” Catherine whispered, her voice hoarse and worn.

Sweep felt Catherine’s grip relax and her body contract and a baby’s first cries filled the room. Through the haze of pain that had colored her vision, Sweep examined Catherine with her healing sense. The passage of the child from the woman’s body had done some damage and Sweep sent energy, helping the body speed along the process of healing. Distantly, she heard James and Rauf; they were arguing loudly. Had they come into the room? There were more voices, but she couldn’t hear them, they were too distant. She could no longer see Catherine, the colors and shapes had blurred beyond recognition. She tried to look up at Temperance, but as she lifted her head it didn’t stop where she’d meant it to. It kept going, and she fell backward into darkness.

• • •

Sweep spent the next few days confined to bed, recovering. Father Vytal explained to her that she had overexerted herself. He explained that powers drew upon personal energy, and to use too much was to risk unconsciousness or even death.

“I am sorry you had to learn that lesson the hard way, and I am grateful you are all right.”

When Sweep explained she’d sensed Catherine’s pain and taken it, Father Vytal was impressed.

“It would seem you’re a martyr in addition to a healer.”

Sweep felt a shiver of fear. In the Scriptures martyrs were people who died for a cause, often painfully and at a young age. But Father Vytal explained that “martyr” also referred to the power to take on another’s pain as one’s own. Not that the explanation was comforting. Sweep had plenty of experience with pain, and she didn’t want to experience more of it.

They also talked about Sweep’s mindspace, the room in her mind.

“Who taught you to construct your mindspace?” Father Vytal asked.

“No one,” she replied, but then changed her mind. “God, maybe.”

“God?”

From under her covers, Sweep shrugged. She recounted the time when she was four years old and just out of the nursery, when she had focused her thoughts to pray and had sensed a safe place within herself, and had been beaten for it. She explained how, years later, she had sensed it again and discovered the room in her mind.

“That’s quite remarkable, Piety. Having more than one gift is uncommon, but I’ve never heard of any child who learned about the mindspace without training.”

“Why do you call me that?” Sweep asked.

She knew the question deviated sharply, but she wanted to ask while the opportunity was fresh.

Father Vytal raised an eyebrow, though whether to question her change of subject or the question itself, was unclear. But he answered, “It’s your name, isn’t it?”

“It is. But everyone has called me Sweep since I was four.”

“Would you rather I didn’t?”

Sweep gave her answer some thought. She liked the name even though the Mother Superior had given it to her. But she hadn’t thought of herself as Piety in a long time. Temperance called her Piety, but that was because she was Temperance. Why had Father Vytal chosen to do so? After a bit, she decided she didn’t mind, no matter the reason.

“I suppose it’s fine.”

Father Vytal gave a nod and returned to the previous subject.

“What did you do with your mindspace before now?”

“I read books, play chess, play cards…” but she trailed off as she saw Father Vytal’s stunned expression. When he didn’t say anything to fill the silence, she said, “I suppose that’s remarkable too?”

“Who do you play chess with?”

Sweep explained about the book called Psychology of Man and the theory of the subconscious and how she’d been playing against herself. As she explained, doubts rose. Even with powers it seemed impossible. And the doubts made her afraid.

But Father Vytal nodded. “I’m surprised Willow would allow such a book into the library.”

“She didn’t,” Sweep told him. “I found it on the bookshelf in the room in my mind. In my mindspace.”

“How did it get there?”

“I don’t know,” Sweep told him. “I think my subconscious is able to learn things and then teach them to me through the books.

Father Vytal was silent for several minutes, considering, and Sweep was afraid he’d changed his mind about her, that she was too much even for him, that he was going to send her back to Sacred Heart.

But Sweep would not go back. She began thinking through ways to avoid going back to the wretched place: politely decline, slip away in the night, outright confrontation. But when the cleric spoke, he eased her fears and Sweep was embarrassed that, even for a moment, she’d thought less of him.

“That is a power I’ve never heard of before. Simply amazing. You are an extraordinary girl, Piety.”

And then Father Vytal explained to her how the mindspace was generally used as a concentration technique and no one he had ever met used it for anything else.

“When you’re recovered, I’d like to start exploring your powers. You’ve come a long way on your own, but untrained powers can be dangerous. As you’ve learned. The more familiar you are with your abilities, the less likely you’ll overtax yourself.”

After a few moments of silence, Sweep said, “Sir, I have a question.”

She swallowed and looked away. Embarrassed now, reluctant, she examined the bedpost just to her left, away from Father Vytal. It was a simple, square cut post of well-smoothed wood painted white. The white paint had worn over the years and was thin in spots.

“Piety?”

Sweep closed her eyes. She didn’t want to ask now; she wished she’d not spoken, but it was too late.

“Sir, what about my hair?”

“Hmm?” His expression had gone politely questioning, eyebrow raised.

Sweep blushed and wished she could sink into the bed. “I mean, my signs of disfavor? I have white hair, and use my left hand. That’s… that’s bad, isn’t it?”

Sweep had never believed the Mother. Reading the Scriptures had convinced her God’s Saints valued virtues of thought and deed, not physical conformity. But she’d been told all her life that the way she looked was wrong, and sometimes she found it difficult not to believe.

“What gave you that idea?” But the Father’s expression hardened and she knew that he knew. He put a hand on her shoulder. “Piety, you have been gifted with great powers and there are some people who will never be able to understand that. There are some people who disparage anything different from them. Including something as inconsequential as hair color.”

Sweep swallowed hard, her cheeks had flushed and her breathing gone shallow. It didn’t matter how many times she’d told herself the Mother was wrong, doubt still nagged at her. She took a deep breath against the tears sliding down her cheeks.

“I know another girl,” Father Vytal continued, “a girl much like yourself, who I have taught since she was quite small. Her hair is silver. Not grey like mine, but pure silver. She is the Heir of Khulanty, and no one would dare call her hair a sign of God’s disfavor.”

“But she’s the Heir. I’m just an orphan.”

“My point, precisely. Willow’s prejudice had nothing to do with your hair color and everything to do with your station. Piety, God does not mark anyone as favored or unfavored. He loves us all and has given us guidance in the Scriptures. The rest is up to us. Do you understand?”

Sweep nodded a little. They were silent for a while as Sweep collected herself and decided to ask the other question burning in her thoughts.

“Sir… about your quest?”

“Yes?”

“I’ve seen her.”

Father Vytal chuckled. “At this point, I’m not surprised. Did she come to Sacred Heart?”

Sweep nodded. “I think so. I remember her eyes from… from a long time ago. It’s the first thing I remember. And then, I’ve had dreams about her.” She described her dreams of playing chess with real soldiers, of being on both ends of the combat, of twilight storm clouds, and of a kind, purple-eyed woman who watched it all.

Father Vytal nodded. “It seems you may be a dreamer as well, someone who can see omens in her dreams.”

“Do you think my dreams mean something?”

“Undoubtedly. But I have no idea what. Interpreting dreams is imprecise work. Omens are often unclear until after their importance has passed.”

“Can you tell me what you know about her?”

Father Vytal smiled. “Studying the Purple-eyed Prophet is the work of a lifetime, but I’ll try for a shortened version.”

His expression turned thoughtful and quiet and faintly melancholy. His gaze focused on a spot far away.

“There are several accounts, though most of them dismissed by skeptics, of a purple-eyed girl appearing at the side of First Royal Dalton Loreamer. She served as an advisor and clairvoyant. There is no record of her name, but she’s sometimes called the Purple Prophesier or some variation thereof. Since that time, there have been all manner of sightings. Sometimes she is a girl little older than you, sometimes she is an old woman, sometimes she is somewhere in between. Most often she is described as elderly. She has appeared in a variety of places throughout Khulanty over the last hundred years. Because of the disparity of age and location, many claim there are several different women with purple eyes.”

“You disagree?”

Father Vytal nodded.

“Who is she?”

“There are several theories. She might be an angel sent to guide us, or a powerful mage with a hidden agenda, or a mischievous spirit from another Realm.”

“But you know better, don’t you?” Sweep said.

Father Vytal smiled and focused upon her once again. “I do. I had the good fortune of meeting her once, when I was younger. We spent some time together. She means a great deal to me.”
