Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle was sick. No—
Dying. Her father sat by her bed. He had seen it before. He held her hand tightly. Too tightly; he realized he would have snapped a non-Vampire’s bones. He released his grip, but sat there.
Himilt Drakle had seen it before. In children. Adults. They passed like this, if disease or accident didn’t take them. And it was hard to kill a Vampire.
But this—this was how the curse Balmer spoke of took them.
“It hurts. It hurts!”
Serafierre was muttering, half-awake, half-unconscious. She writhed in the bed.
“What hurts, Fierre? What happened?”
Himilt waited, but Fierre was unable to speak. Her face—normally as pale as snow—was flushed. Her body was warm. For a Vampire—that was a fever. More than that, she was in pain.
She had vomited twice. Now—she grabbed at the sheets, shredding them as her fingers became claws. Her strength as she gripped Himilt’s hand was enormous. But whatever she fought, she was helpless. Her father sat there, until he heard from afar the sound of footfalls.
The rest of his family were silent and light-footed. The labored breathing, the voice—Himilt sniffed the air. He knew Ryoka Griffin had entered the old castle that was his family’s home and farm before she burst into the room.
“Fierre?”
Ryoka Griffin saw her friend lying in the bed, next to her father. Himilt was wearing dark, working clothes, full-body like the rest of his family to protect him from the sun.
Fierre was running a fever and a rash like Colfa’s ran up and down her body. She—cried out as Ryoka caught her breath. His neck was still puffy, the sign of thyroid cancer on Earth. Beyond that—he sat still, his red eyes fixed on his daughter. He barely glanced up at Ryoka as she took in her friend.
This morning, before dawn, Fierre had been full of life as she left the Unmarked Carriage. Now, she was comatose. Not even conscious.
“Colfa found you.”
Himilt looked up and Ryoka felt a chill. The Vampire’s eyes were very cold. He sat still, holding his daughter’s hand.
“Yes, I—”
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle burst into the room. Ryoka had only gotten here first because Colfa and the other two Vampires, Bamer and Rivel, had been helping her buy potions and alchemical ingredients in Reizmelt.
“What have you done to my daughter?”
The first time Colfa had met Ryoka, she had put on airs, spoken vith the traditional accvent that was quite silly to Ryoka, and played at being Vampiric royalty.
Now—she dropped the accent. She sounded like Lupp, or another [Farmer], which is what she was. A Vampire [Shepherdess]—Colfa had been one of the Lischelle family, who were like royalty among herders and farmers—who had given away her levels and humanity to become a Vampire.
Her pretense was gone, now. Colfa lifted Ryoka up and slammed her into the stone walls of Fierre’s room. Ryoka felt a burst of pain and her head went white as Colfa’s claws dug into her skin, piercing flesh with ease.
The woman’s eyes glowed in the night and candlelight. Ryoka felt the Vampire pressing her into the wall. She could push Ryoka until the Human was paste.
That was a Vampire. Ryoka felt Colfa smack her into the wall and then shake her impatiently, like a doll.
“Well? Answer me! She said you cured her! What did you do? What did you give her—”
“Colfa. She can’t respond.”
Himilt rose. He grabbed his wife’s arm, and she tried to shake him off before she let him pull her back. They moved so fast. Ryoka dropped, stumbling, and caught herself.
“What did you do to her?”
Colfa inhaled. Ryoka gasped for air as Bamer and Rivel returned.
Four Vampires stood in Fierre’s room, over their stricken kin. They looked at Ryoka.
“We brought the medicine, Colfa. Herbs, iceweed—potions. Where do you want them?”
“Put them here. I need to mix them.”
Colfa answered distantly. She was waiting. They all were. Ryoka coughed, gulped. And spoke as she looked at her friend.
“I thought—I thought I cured her. Made her better. Cured her of whatever was making her sick, I mean. I gave her a panacea.”
“A what?”
Rivel snorted. Fierre’s older brother glared suspiciously at Ryoka. Bamer just shook his head. He was old—not related to Fierre. Someone who lived with Himilt, Colfa, Rivel, and Fierre and worked their farm.
“There is no cure. You gave her poison.”
“No! I’m sure it was—she was healthy the last few days! She took the medicine two—three days ago and she was fine. It made her stronger, faster. She said she felt better than she ever had in her life. She was more allergic to garlic though. And the sun nearly killed her—”
The Vampires in the room exchanged a quick glance. Himilt stirred.
“She mentioned that. She tossed you across the field, Rivel. She wasn’t that strong before.”
“Impossible. She was just a bit stronger.”
Fierre’s brother scoffed, but he looked conflicted. Himilt shook his head. He looked at Bamer, then Ryoka.
“She was telling us she fought Golems in this—island she went to. With her bare hands.”
“She did. She was so much better. And her cough disappeared. I thought…what happened?”
Colfa took a few deep breaths as she went to check on Fierre’s temperature. She looked up at Ryoka, her fury abated—at least for the moment.
“Fierre came just before dawn. She said you had given her some strange medicine and she’d been—cured. Of her sickness. She ran about and she was better! We were all astonished. She told us what had happened, some of it, said she’d taken your blood by accident, ate and drank with us, and then—felt poorly.”
“When?”
Colfa looked at her husband. Himilt scratched at his neck.
“Barely midday. She thought it was exhaustion at first, or the sunlight—it did burn her far worse than us when she was careless. She lay down—when I went to check on her an hour later, she was warm. She got worse and worse until Colfa went to find you.”
The young woman listened, trying to make sense of it all. Bamer scratched at his chin. His eyes flicked to Ryoka again.
“I didn’t believe it. A cure for Vampires? That’s the stuff of stories. I thought she’d just had a strength potion or something that made her feel better.”
“No. It was real. I’m sure of it. I—the person who gave it to me wouldn’t have lied. And he was one of the few people who’d have a cure-all.”
“Who? What was it? Tell us—”
Again, Himilt put a hand out.
“Colfa. Whatever the case, Miss Griffin, Fierre is ill. Do you have more of whatever you gave her? Do you know what ails her?”
“I don’t. She drank it all. Can I—can I touch her?”
Himilt nodded. The others stood back. Ryoka bent over Fierre.
“Fierre? Are you awake? Can you hear me? What happened?”
A groan was her only answer. Fierre’s eyes were open, and sweat beaded her forehead. She looked—Human. She even felt warm to the touch—just a normal person’s body head. But for a Vampire…
“Did she do anything strange? Did she eat or drink anything out of the ordinary?”
Ryoka looked at Fierre’s family. They all shook their heads.
“She did nothing out of the ordinary. We thought it had to be something that had happened on her trip.”
“Maybe…but what?”
Ryoka could imagine ten thousand scenarios where something in Valeterisa’s trapped mansion caught up with Fierre. But…why not Ryoka as well? It made no sense.
She was panicking, Ryoka knew. She slapped her cheeks.
The facts. Stick to the facts, you idiot. And the facts were—Fierre was sick. She had been cured. And now she was sick.
Something had made her unwell. Find what that was. Ryoka stood up. She looked around, meeting their eyes. Colfa and Himilt’s last.
“I didn’t do this. At least, not on purpose. I was sure what I gave Fierre would help. If I’m wrong, I’ll pay for it. But I don’t think I am. I think something happened to Fierre, when she got here or just before. We need to find out what that is. Cure Fierre, if possible. Have you given her a potion?”
“That was the first thing we tried! I bought what I could in Reizmelt—there are some [Healer]’s remedies that help us.”
“Okay. Okay. Then—can you show me where Fierre was? What she ate and what she did, step by step?”
“Why?”
Rivel glared at Ryoka. The young woman gave him an odd look.
“I need to see exactly what Fierre did. Each and every thing! Any one of those things could be the culprit here.”
It was a logical, orderly way of looking at the problem. Rivel hesitated and Himilt nodded. His eyes focused on Ryoka, searching her like the first time they had met.
“We can do that. I’ll show you around. Bamer—help Colfa. Anything you know, any old stories. Rivel, you stay with Fierre.”
“I still think it’s this ‘cure’. How are you so certain? Do you know what was in this potion?”
It was fair to ask. Ryoka felt flushed, as she looked down at Fierre.
“No. But I am certain.”
“Then who made it? What grade of potion was it? If you have no idea, how can you be so sure? Fierre is a—a Vampire. Not a Human.”
“I know that! But the person who gave it to me was certain it would cure anyone. He gave me a panacea. A relic-class potion. He—it was a Grand Mage of Wistram.”
The others traded looks. Colfa inhaled and exhaled as her eyes flickered.
“How do you kn—would that even—why d—baaaah.”
The ‘baaah’ made Ryoka jump. It hadn’t actually come from Colfa. Rather—just behind her and lower to the ground.
A sheep had wandered into Fierre’s room. A familiar sheep with a luxurious coat.
“Fluffles? Get out! This isn’t the time!”
Ryoka stared at the sheep as Colfa pointed. She forgot that Fierre’s family really were good, local farmers. And that their livestock had a habit of wandering indoors.
Fluffles the Sixth baahed until Colfa pushed him out of the room with her foot. She turned back to Ryoka, but Fluffles had reminded everyone.
“Be sure. I need to mix up a tonic. It—be sure! Himilt, deal with the Human. Bamer, come with me!”
She swept out of the room. Ryoka heard another baaah as the sheep was carried away. She turned to Himilt.
“I—let’s go. I need to know what Fierre did.”
“Are you sure her sickness came from here?”
The father looked at Ryoka. She didn’t.
“No. I need to make a list of everything Fierre did. She was almost never out of sight—we even slept in the same carriage. The carriage, damn. And the island…I’ll make a list. I have paper—no—”
Ryoka cursed again. No paper or quills or ink in her bag of holding! She’d tossed everything out to make room for the magical items she’d taken from Valeterisa’s mansion. The Vampire farmer shook his head.
“We have paper and ink. Come with me. Rivel—shout if Fierre gets worse.”
The two strode from the room. Ryoka was taking deep breaths. Focus. Write it all down. Be logical about this. It’s not bad. She’s just feverish. She’s going to be okay. Focus—
The two strode through the night. Himilt was quick and silent, Ryoka muttering. They saw light flickering through the old keep, distant voices from Colfa and Bamer, the sounds of the awake animals—just Fluffles, really.
Not much sound. House Lischelle-Drakle was silent. Ryoka felt like the living, noisy intruder. She hurried after Himilt as he passed by an open part of the keep, where the hallway’s wall had just—collapsed. Grass and nature had intruded.
“Ow!”
Himilt turned. Ryoka was hopping on one foot; she’d stepped on a burr. He eyed her bare feet. Then his head swung around.
“Wait. Someone is coming.”
He held up a hand. Ryoka froze. She didn’t hear or see anything at first. But Himilt’s senses were keen. And soon—she heard galloping hooves.
Figures raced up the road, talking loudly in the distance. Ryoka saw…four. Three people on horseback, one short, another with a glint of metal, and one on foot. Her heart sank.
The Silver Swords and Salamani. They dismounted as Himilt turned to Ryoka.
“Your friends?”
“The—the Silver Swords. And Salamani, a Courier. They must have followed—”
Ryoka saw Himilt’s face change. His red eyes flickered and he looked around.  He spoke one word.
“Byres.”
He split from Ryoka as she ran outside, cursing. The complicated night got worse. Ryoka’s friend, a Vampire, lay sick of something. And here came a son of Vampire hunters.
 
—-
 
Earlier on the same day Fierre fell sick, Lord Tyrion Veltras was demanding answers of his family’s personal [Healer].
The woman was good. Level 36—the best of the region and a friend of House Veltras. She was especially adept at treating injuries that had been allowed to fester, a necessity for anyone who treated [Warriors].
But she was good at disease, and Tyrion had summoned her without fear when Sammial had fallen ill. He had expected her to pronounce the boy well—maybe with a resurgence of the shortness of breath he’d had when he was young.
Instead—Sammial had fallen into a coma where he struggled for each breath as his airways closed within a day. Something was terribly wrong.
“Lord Veltras. I can’t understand it. No disease outside of a magical one would work this fast. Did your son ingest anything? Touch some plant, for instance?”
The [Lord] turned to Ullim. The [Majordomo] shook his head.
“Lord Sammial stayed indoors all day, milord. Except for one point where he went to market…but I’d swear there was nothing out of the ordinary there.”
“Inquire if anyone was selling some rare item. We must be thorough, Lord Veltras. Your son is breathing, but if he has inhaled or touched something, I must know of it!”
The [Healer] was as close to the scientific method as most people who didn’t have Ryoka’s knowledge. Lord Veltras ordered Ullim and the [Majordomo] sent [Messengers] racing from the keep.
“What is wrong with him, exactly?”
“Closed throat—fever—he’s coughing, which makes it worse. It could be any number of things, Lord Veltras. You must stand back. If it’s infectious…I may need more of my supplies from my shop.”
“I will have whatever you need delivered.”
The [Lord] strode from the room and paced impatiently outside the hallway. He was a man of action. He did not like things like disease, which you could not take a sword to. Tyrion turned on the sixth back-and-forth in front of Sammial’s room.
“Jericha, my horse. I will go to the market and inquire myself.”
He snapped as he saw his aide striding towards him. Jericha, normally quick to anticipate his needs, didn’t nod or hurry off. She just stopped.
Her eyes were wide, and her face pale.
“Lord Veltras. You have a guest.”
Tyrion failed to take notice of her expression at first.
“Inform them I’ll meet whoever it is later. My horse—”
“Lord Veltras. You should meet with this person. She—she claims to be an [Assassin] from the Assassin’s Guild.”
