“Oh, sure. Extended family. They live all over the place. You met some of them in the banquet. But we used to be a huge noble house. This was an armory for all our [Warriors]—now it’s only the main family that keeps the tradition of having at least one [Warrior] per generation.”
“Ah. And the armor?”
Yvlon walked over to the sets of glittering armor. It too was a bit of an illusion. The metal was silver and steel, but it wasn’t enchanted—and perhaps only on the same level as your average steel worked by a [Blacksmith]. Locally forged, in short, not a Pelt-masterpiece or something from Pallass’ forges.
“All of our artifacts were sold, or lost their magic over the years. But—we still have this tradition. Silver and steel. Our alloy. Ylawes’ breastplate is made of the stuff. My armor and weapons too. We’re supposed to always keep enough sets of armor and weapons to fight with. In case they’re needed.”
“Ooh. This is quite lovely, Yvlon. I admire the aesthetic beauty of your armor and weaponry. Perhaps not their efficacy in combat, but certainly their luster.”
Ksmvr tested one of the blades on his arm. Yvlon sighed.
“Silver and steel isn’t actually stronger than just steel, Ksmvr. These are specialty weapons and armor. Good for killing—oh, lots of monsters that are mostly dead.”
“Like what?”
Pisces frowned. He normally loved to have the answer to that, but he only vaguely recalled the answer. Yvlon shrugged.
“Eh. Some types of monsters are weak against silver. Shape changers, mostly. Ever heard of…Vampires?”
“Nope.”
“I have. Er—a bloodsucking monster in antiquity, weren’t they? Mostly based on Izril.”
Yvlon nodded.
“That’s right. And House Byres used to slay them. Since they’re dead—we’re no longer needed. Us and a few other houses keep up the traditions, though. I know all the other old slaying families—childhood friends. There’s the Artien House—actually, if we ever pass by, you should meet Delanay. He used to come over to play all the time and his family takes the old traditions even more seriously than father…anyways, here’s the first tradition. The tithe.”
She walked over to something at the far end of the room. It was a pedestal with a bowl under it before some great mural of battle. Pisces, squinting, saw figures on one side with hints of silver paint battling rather bestial figures on the others. He saw fangs, claws—then heard the clink of metal.
Yvlon had pulled out her money pouch. Now, she counted gold coins into the small bowl on the pedestal. She knelt there, then rose, looking embarrassed.
“I suppose father or mother will use it to have a replacement set made—or for repairs. Traditionally—those pledged to House Byres would come by and tithe some of their earnings. So there’s no point to—”
“Shush. Be respectful.”
Ksmvr came before Yvlon and solemnly put some coins in the pedestal. He copied Yvlon, kneeling before the old mural.
“Yes, Yvlon. You are quite ruining the solemnity of the moment.”
It was worth a gold coin to see Yvlon’s face. Even Ceria did the same. Yvlon smacked both their heads with her hand. Not Ksmvr. He was actually serious.
“Fine. If you want to donate to our house, be my guests. That’s the first tradition over with. Second—the cleansing rites.”
“What’s that about?”
Ceria sneezed; the armory was a bit dusty. Yvlon smiled.
“You’ll actually enjoy this. Come on.”
She led them to another spot in the keep. This time, towards a small bathing area. Pisces blinked. Ceria whistled.
“Silver baths?”
The basins of the outdoor tubs and small, natural hot spring were made of silver. They glowed even in the daytime. Yvlon smiled.
“We’re supposed to bathe here for an hour. Right after we arrive, actually.”
“But it’s midday. You mean we take a bath in the sun?”
Ceria squinted up. Yvlon nodded.
“Yep. That’s part of the ritual. Oh—and you have to be naked.”
Pisces looked up. Ceria stared at him and then at Yvlon. The woman coughed.
“In separate areas, Pisces. You go over there.”
“Ah.”
Alas.
That was how they found themselves sitting in the bubbling water, relaxing in the sun. Ceria and Yvlon on one side, Pisces and Ksmvr on the other, blocked by a dividing wall.
“You have ancestral hot springs. In a silver basin.”
Ceria poked at the waters. There was nothing special about them, unlike some magical hot springs she’d heard of, but it was a beautiful place. Yvlon relaxed, her arms shining in the sun along with the rest of the metal that made up this place.
“I used to think everyone had baths like this. A lot of the people in House Byres have silver bathtubs, you know. Heirlooms.”
“Your land is so weird. And obsessed with silver.”
“Tell me about it.”
On the other side of the baths, Pisces was relaxing. Only a bit disappointed by the fact that he was alone. He cracked one eye open as he sighed in the hot waters.
“Ksmvr? You really needn’t get in…”
The Antinium was rocking back and forth, naked—but yet to put one foot in the hot springs.
“I am not afraid of water. Or being cooked alive in my own juices because I cannot regulate my internal body temperature. I am not afraid of water. Or—”
“Maybe just put one foot in the hot springs?”
Pisces suggested. Ksmvr nearly collapsed in relief. He paddled the water with his feet as he sat at the edge of the hot springs and he and Pisces just sat there in silence. Until Ksmvr asked a question.
“It seems Yvlon was quite reluctant to go home because of her family issues. Ceria has family issues. I am given to understand you have family issues.”
“It’s an endemic problem among non-Antinium, Ksmvr. Especially adventurers. We—and I am using the term generally here—don’t tend to get along with families of a more conservative lifestyle.”
Pisces sighed as he leaned back. He could get used to this. Ksmvr nodded a few times.
“Do you wish to visit your family like Ceria, Pisces? I would like to return to the Free Hive someday, but I am excommunicated.”
The [Necromancer] opened his eyes and sat up in the water. He looked at Ksmvr and hesitated.
“I’ve thought of it. Someday, perhaps. Returning home would be dangerous. But there is an allure to it. Still—Terandria is quite a ways away.”
Ksmvr nodded.
“But you wish to. Then I shall come with you when that day arrives. Even if I must cross…the ocean.”
He shuddered. Pisces smiled.
“That’s far in the future, Ksmvr, even if I should decide to do it.”
“All the more reason to plan ahead, Comrade Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] laughed.
“Well said, Friend Ksmvr!”
On the other side, Ceria and Yvlon wondered what was making the other two laugh. Ceria turned to Yvlon.
“This really is fun. I’m glad we came here, Yvlon. Despite family fighting and all.”
Yvlon nodded slowly. She was feeling better too. This was a good resting point. They hadn’t had many of them; Erin’s inn might count, but ‘restful’ and ‘Erin Solstice’ were a bit hard to reconcile as ideas.
“I think a few more days and we can leave without upsetting my parents. What comes after this? That dead village Pisces wants us to investigate?”
Ceria waved her skeletal hand in the air.
“Maybe. We’ll play it by ear. We’re new Gold-ranks. We have to make a name for ourselves! Let’s just relax. Then we’ll aim for Named Rank.”
Yvlon had to laugh. They’d been Silver-ranks for years and Gold-rank had been an all-consuming passion for them. Now? She relaxed.
“Onwards and upwards, right, Ceria?”
The half-Elf winked at her friend. She frowned at the hot water; her aura was making it lukewarm. She concentrated—and the bubbling resumed. Ceria submerged herself up to her neck.
“We’re adventurers. Let’s go kill something. Right after we do a few more traditional rituals. Is a massage traditional?”
“Not at all. Want me to try?”
Yvlon, eyes still closed, flexed one of her metal hands. The hand turned…spiky. Little metal barbs ready to cut apart anything Yvlon touched. Ceria eyed it.
“…Pass.”
 
—-
 
The sun was shining. The sheep were making happy sounds in the pastures.
Fierre was dying.
Ryoka Griffin sat there, head in her hands, hair spilling down around her face. She looked down at the list of everything Fierre had done, from when she had left Reizmelt and gone with Ryoka to the Archmage’s isle to now. Then she looked at her friend.
Fierre had stopped muttering and thrashing as the sun rose. The room was dark, devoid of sunlight obviously, with only a magical [Light] spell Ryoka had cast for illumination. Now, she just lay there.
But it wasn’t sleep. Her breathing was growing weaker. Ryoka checked her pulse again.
“Too warm.”
That was all Colfa said. The Vampire mother sat there. She applied ice to Fierre’s head, frozen with a spell. Trying to lower Fierre’s temperature to what should be cold skin for a Vampire. She wiped sweat from Fierre’s brow.
Ryoka’s friend looked so…Human as she lay there. Her eyes were closed, and her hands had been neatly folded. Ryoka wished Colfa hadn’t done that. It seemed like defeat.
“What—what have I missed?”
Colfa glanced at Ryoka. The young woman ran down the list. Colfa reapplied the ice, tried to give Fierre some water.
The Vampire girl had taken some of the sheep’s blood that Fierre’s family lived on, some water—but she was sick, throwing up—and none of the tinctures Colfa had tried to give her daughter had any effect.
Whatever was attacking Fierre—it was getting worse. Now, Ryoka heard Fierre breathing weakly.
“Say it again.”
Ryoka read dully.
“Reizmelt. Djinni’s carriage. Ate magical food and drink with me. Panacea. Struck by sunlight; exposed to garlic. Would any of that—”
“No.”
“You’re sure?”
Himilt spoke up. The farmer sat there, in his dark clothing, head bowed. Not asleep, but unmoving. Thinking.
“Did she eat the garlic?”
“No. She had a reaction to it—but it was thrown out.”
“Then it wouldn’t affect her. Garlic only causes suffering. I’ve never heard of a Vampire dying of it. Bamer’s stories never mentioned it. Physical sickness, yes. Not this.”
Ryoka made another note on the list.
“Sunlight?”
She knew the answer even as Colfa looked at her. The woman had even tested it.
“Sunlight burns us. If Fierre was…cured…it would have set her ablaze within moments, as you said. But as soon as we return to shadows we begin to heal.”
No point in asking again and again. Ryoka ran down the list.
“She passed over the ocean…she was really seasick.”
“Nothing to do with her heritage.”
Let’s see. Spells, fighting across the isle…nothing out of the ordinary so far. Ryoka bit her lip. Her mind was…fogged. She hadn’t slept since yesterday, before dawn. But she had to focus. Figure it out. She found the next suspicious entry on her list.
“Mirrors in the Archmage’s mansion? Fighting Golems? The—the air that put me to sleep? [Insanity] spells?”
“Nothing like that would do this. Perhaps whatever put you to sleep—but I cannot believe it would have lingered in her body and only affected her now.”
Colfa shook her head. Fierre made a sound and all three started. Ryoka saw Colfa touch her daughter’s head.
“She’s getting warmer. What. Else?”
“Imprisonment. Collecting artifacts, leaving the mansion. Meeting the Archmage. Eating some food—my rations and carrots and bad tea.”
Himilt opened his eyes as Ryoka paused.
“Fierre used to eat raw meat. Bloody. I know a Vampire who ate foul, rotten flesh and never suffered for it. Nothing like that could harm her.”
Ryoka tapped at her lips.
“After that we left…”
She felt like she was missing something. But—it had been an entire day’s journey back to Reizmelt so whatever had happened still had taken a long time.
“When she returned here—Fierre told you what had happened. Tell me if I’m missing anything. She ate in the dining room. Anything unusual?”
“Fluffle’s blood. Two days old. We all had it, though.”
The sheep? Ryoka blinked, but that was why the Lischelle-Drakle family raised their animals. The perfect cover, and apparently the animals didn’t mind the bleeding much. Ryoka bit her lip.
“Anything else?”
“We had some wine. Fierre was thirsty—the magical food didn’t fill her up, so she had wine and water. Then she took a bath to wash the grime of the road away. She went out with the animals—fought Rivel—”
“Did he injure her?”
Himilt shook his head.
“She threw him across the field. That was when we started to believe. Bamer had us all listening to stories. Colfa was making food for lunch—”
“Food?”
“Blood sausage.”
“Oh. And then?”
“Fierre went back to her room, feeling unwell. She lay down—and that’s when she began feeling sick. We thought it was exhaustion so we gave her a stamina potion. Then—a tiny bit of healing potion. But it neither made her better or worse.”
“If it was an infection—”
“We don’t get infections!”
Colfa hissed at Ryoka, baring her teeth. Ryoka flinched. She looked at the woman’s arm.
“But your rash—”
“It’s not from an injury. It’s just…”
The woman trailed off. She looked at Himilt and he spoke. It was the same grim conclusion that Bamer had already come to, that Fierre’s parents believed to be the root of the cause.
“The malady.”
Ryoka lowered the notepad. She thought there was something…something she had forgotten. But she needed to know.
“Look. We tested the wine. Rivel’s dead drunk. We tried the blood—”
Bamer had done that. He was full, but completely fine. And everything else couldn’t be tested, except through Ryoka and Salamani who had done exactly what Fierre had in the Unmarked Carriage. Ryoka clenched one hand.
“Tell me about the—the curse afflicting Vampires, please.”
Himilt and Colfa looked at each other slowly. Colfa rose.
“I’m going to see to the…guests. Himilt, tell Ryoka. If Fierre becomes worse—tell me.”
A look flashed between them, so fast Ryoka didn’t understand. But she felt it.
Colfa left the room, to inquire after the only other non-Vampires here. The Silver Swords. They had come back empty-handed with Salamani, and were now dozing. Himilt walked over and sat at Fierre’s bedside.
Ryoka approached Fierre from the other side. She reached out for her friend, felt at her head. Fierre was now warmer than the average Human should be. For a Vampire that was a fever of…Ryoka felt her stomach twisting.
She wasn’t going to die. You didn’t die after being cured! Not on a day like this. Ryoka was going to find the solution. She was going to…
Why hadn’t she found it yet? Ryoka fumbled for a stamina potion, gulped it down. But it could only give her energy, not solve her lack of sleep, her panicking mind.
“What’s the malady, Himilt?”
