The father sat there, head bowed. His eyes flickered up to Ryoka and down to his daughter. When he replied, it was in a low voice.
“These are Vampire secrets, Ryoka Griffin.”
“I know, but—”
The eyes moved upwards. Ryoka felt a shock run through her. Colfa had eyes that could mesmerize. Himilt’s held her for a moment, with nothing but force of will.
“For Fierre, I will tell you all our secrets. But what happens next, Ryoka Griffin—for good or ill—will never leave this land. You have brought one of House Byres here. One of our greatest enemies. I am warning you only once. We may resort to—desperation—for Fierre. If he uncovers our secret, he and his entire team will never leave. You will need to keep him away.”
Ryoka gulped. The idea of a farmer killing an entire Gold-rank team and perhaps Salamani as well was ludicrous. Himilt though…four Vampires?
“I’ll do what it takes.”
Himilt only nodded.
“The beginning, then. Bamer could tell you more, but he likes to exaggerate. I know the story my mother and father told me. Once, we were Vampires. The same kind you seem to know about. Powerful, varied—with the ability to change forms, cast magic, command lesser beings. It was said the greatest of us feared only dragonfire and could even stand and defy the sun.”
The City Runner felt a tingle run across her skin, even now. It was like listening to Teriarch speak of his past. Himilt nodded.
“We were legion. But like so many empires, we grew overconfident. Our enemies fought us—and we waged a long war against them. We won and lost—that’s not the point. The true ending was when the sickness, the malady, the curse or whatever it was began.”
He reached for his side, uncorked a flask of water and drank. Just water; not blood. Vampires were not undead. Just biological beings with magic, on a different setting than Humans. They wouldn’t be able to fall sick otherwise. Ryoka wondered…was it an autoimmune disease, like the one she knew from Earth? She glanced at Himilt’s neck. He nodded, touching it.
“One of the symptoms. Colfa has a rash—she became a Vampire late in life. She might outlive us all. Bamer, Rivel, Fierre—they were all born with the signs. Back to the beginning. We lost many powers in the first generations when the sickness became noticeable. We fell ill—and we do not succumb to poison or disease. But we fell ill. Our strength waned, as did the weaknesses of our bodies. Many fell ill at once and died raving of the pain of whatever ailed us. Those who survived—were afflicted.”
“And no cure? Not even one?”
He shook his head.
“Of course not. Everything was attempted. And before you ask—yes. Everything. We did not go into hiding right away. The first Vampires so cursed drank the blood of countless thousands but it availed them little. They turned to magic, alchemy—nothing worked. In six generations—we no longer derived the power from the blood of Izril’s mortals. Within eight generations, the affliction stabilized. We live short lives, but we can at least stand under the sun or touch silver.”
Decipher what it meant. The root of what he was saying was that whatever it was was…hereditary? A disease so powerful that it ate away at Vampires? Yes…it did match a disease. But Ryoka wasn’t certain.
Teriarch was the clue. He had hinted that his panacea would cure Fierre—but not the root of the problem. If she could be reinfected—and why was she worse?
“What about my panacea? I have to believe there was at least one artifact like that. Even if it was rare.”
Himilt paused, and his eyes flickered. Fierre stirred—fell still.
“Yes. Great magics did stave off the illness for a while. But it led to this. Those cured fell ill faster. Something crept up on us.”
This time the chill made Ryoka shudder. She saw Himilt glance at her for a second. Could he sense her beating heart? Ryoka looked down at her list.
“I need to figure out what I’ve forgotten. What I’m missing. How long does Fierre have?”
“I don’t know.”
Ryoka stared at Himilt. She looked at his daughter and felt a surge of anger. She had been racing around and Himilt and the others had been helping her. But as the sun rose and Ryoka’s hypotheses had failed, they had grown silent. Given up.
“Don’t just sit there! We need to act! Fierre can still be saved!”
Again, Himilt’s eyes flashed like blood and Ryoka froze. There was real wrath there. And something else.
“She will be. I am not sitting idly, Ryoka Griffin. If Fierre should grow worse…Colfa is resolved. But I will ensure Fierre does not die.”
Something about the way he said that made Ryoka hesitate. A little light bulb flicked on in her head.
Who had said it? Not the Archmage. The Djinni.
Karsaeu. She had said…Ryoka closed her eyes.
“Royal blood! I could—get some?”
Her eyes snapped open. Himilt blinked.
“What?”
How far was Riverfarm? No—The Wandering Inn. Did Laken even count? Ryoka whirled back to Fierre.
“Royal blood. Could it—could it bring a Vampire back? Someone—the Djinni—she said that she’d kill Fierre so dead that not even royal blood would bring her back. Does that mean it could revive her?”
The older Vampire blinked. Then—he shook his head. Ryoka’s face fell.
“I don’t know how old this Djinni is. But she’s only half-right. Death is not so easily reversed. The blood of royalty—changes us. But it cannot bring back the dead alone.”
Ryoka deflated.
“Oh. Then—what will you do?”
Fierre’s father sat there, stroking his daughter’s hand. He looked down at her with a soft look in his eyes.
“Its easy. If something is killing her—she only needs to grow stronger.”
It took Ryoka only a second to understand why he said it like that. She slowly rose and looked at Himilt’s back. He didn’t turn towards her.
“What—what do you mean by that, Himilt?”
He shook his head slowly.
“Ryoka Griffin, you have no idea what Vampires are. You know the stories. But not the truth. You didn’t make her a true Vampire. You just cured her of her sickness, the same sickness that took away our true power. But strength is sacrifice. If she is a true Vampire—she can grow stronger the one way I know.”
Ryoka should have felt afraid for herself. But she wasn’t. The look Colfa had given Himilt. The way he was acting. The silence from Rivel and Bamer…she whispered her conclusion.
“She has to drink other Vampire’s blood?”
His silence was everything. Ryoka was right, about this, at least. She gulped.
“Fierre said—she told me once she used to have more siblings. But they died. Does that mean…?”
Himilt spun. His fangs were visible as he snapped.
“No. Do you think we fed them to each other? No. It would have done nothing. Vampires as sick as we cannot take each other’s strength. But Fierre. If she is better…”
He fell silent again. Ryoka breathed once more. But then she saw Himilt’s certainty. He believed Ryoka. Colfa didn’t and neither did Bamer, not quite. But Himilt believed Fierre was better. He was going to…
The father looked up at Ryoka. His eyes were red and tired. He shook his head slowly as he sat by Fierre.
“You know so much, when even our foes have forgotten most of what we were. Who are you, stranger? Why did you bring death upon my family?”
The words hit her like an avalanche. Ryoka Griffin stumbled backwards. She saw Mihaela Godfrey looking at her. Krshia. Mrsha—
She had tried to help. Ryoka turned and fled.
 
—-
 
“Ryoka?”
The young woman was panting outside, in the sun. Ylawes was exhausted. But he saw her fleeing Fierre’s room, white-faced. Now—Ryoka stood there.
“What—why do they always die?”
She looked up at him. The [Knight] hesitated.
“You can’t blame yourself, Miss Ryoka.”
“I can. Fierre was fine until I tried to help her. I—what am I missing. What happened?”
Ylawes looked around helplessly.
“It’s some kind of magical sickness, as far as I understand it, correct?”
Ryoka didn’t bother correcting him. Ylawes ran a hand through his fair hair.
“It had to have come from Archmage Valeterisa’s isle. I’ve heard stories about her. She—experiments. Salamani went through everything that could have hurt Fierre. But it has to have been something that occurred when he wasn’t with you.”
The man gestured towards the keep.
“He—he’s fallen asleep. He was running to [Alchemists], looking for a cure. Don’t blame him. But Salamani did remember—when you were first brought to the cells, before you woke up, your friend was distraught. She said she attacked you.”
The room of insanity. Ryoka’s head slowly rose. Yes…she recalled that. And—and something else.
Fierre had drank her blood. Not just that. Ryoka shot upright.
“The fucking rats.”
“The rats?”
Ylawes blinked. Ryoka whirled.
“I know what it could be! I forgot!”
The green rats Fierre had been snacking on! They had to be—plague rats? Radioactive? Ryoka’s mind was racing a mile a minute. She hesitated, torn—then she raced for the kitchen.
“Colfa! I know what made Fierre sick!”
The woman spun. She was making food for her guests, being the only former Human among her family who had possessed a strong interest in cooking.
“What? Tell me!”
“Rats. Fierre was in the isle. And she ate rats…they might have been poisoned! I bet Valeterisa has damn poison rats or something! Or—it could be me. Fierre. She drank my blood.”
Ryoka babbled an explanation. Colfa’s eyes widened. She glanced over Ryoka’s shoulder; Ylawes was hurrying after them.
“What’s wrong with your blood?”
“I’m—”
I’m from another world. Ryoka knew it had to be one or the other. That was the only thing Fierre had imbibed that was out of the ordinary that no one else had!
“We need to figure out which it was. If it was one or the other…”
“We don’t have these rats. Was there something off about them?”
“They were green.”
“Green? And Fierre ate them?”
Colfa was horrified. Ryoka cursed. If only they had…
“Wait. Waitaminute. Ylawes—”
She caught the [Knight] as he peeked in. Ryoka looked around.
“I—think I know what’s wrong with Fierre.”
“What?”
“Rats. She uh—ate some green rats.”
“What, ate them?”
The [Knight] was horrified. Ryoka nodded rapidly. It was close to the truth! She looked around and turned to Colfa. The mother was eying Ryoka’s neck. She covered her mouth with her hand as she turned to the [Knight].
“Perhaps you can ask about rat-related diseases, Adventurer Ylawes?”
“I’m sure there are hundreds. Let me wake Falene.”
The appalled young man backed away. Ryoka’s mind was spinning.
“I think—I think—Fierre might have saved some rats as a snack. In her bag of holding!”
“That sounds like her. Her bag of holding…follow me.”
Colfa blurred. Ylawes raised his head and stared as she zipped out of the kitchen and down the halls of her keep. She was moving too fast. But neither she nor Ryoka was in the right state of mind.
Fierre’s bag of holding was lying in the bathroom—she’d forgotten to take it with her. Colfa and Ryoka found it after about eight minutes of running around and cursing.
“Let’s see. Artifacts, scrolls, potions—fuck.”
Ryoka grabbed a handful of sludge. Colfa recoiled and held her nose.
“What is that?”
“Fierre threw up into the bag of holding. It’s everywhere. Ugh, ugh…here!”
Ryoka pulled out a green rat, freshly dead and smelling only a bit from the bag of holding. Colfa recoiled.
“She ate that?”
“She said they were tasty. Here—”
Ryoka tried to shove the rat into Colfa’s mouth. The woman slapped Ryoka’s hand down.
“I’ll see what blood it has. But it could be yours, you said? Why did Fierre drain your blood?”
“It was an accident. Here—”
Ryoka fumbled with a knife. She slashed across her wrist. Colfa froze in the act of washing the rat.
Blood ran down Ryoka’s arm. She thrust it at the Vampires.
“Here.”
“Are you mad?”
“I’ll drink a healing potion! Just—”
What would they do if it was Ryoka’s blood? Or the rat? The young woman hesitated, but Colfa looked at her and nodded. She grabbed Ryoka’s arm and lapped up the blood. Then she tore open the rat and bit the flesh.
For a moment she was savage, her teeth tearing apart fur and meat. Ryoka backed away as Colfa’s eyes glowed. She swallowed, wiping at her mouth.
“Ryoka? Falene says she thinks—Ryoka?”
The two women jumped. Ylawes poked his head into the bathroom. He saw Ryoka gulping a healing potion, the bloody dagger in hand.
“Ylawes! This is a bathroom!”
“I’m terribly sorry!”
The [Knight] pulled his head back at once, blushing. Ryoka couldn’t believe the [Knight] would be that…
Ylawes looked Colfa and Ryoka up and down as they left a moment later.
“What happened to your wrist, Ryoka?”
Colfa’s mouth and clothing was free of blood. Ryoka hesitated.
“I—was trying to dissect the rat and slipped. But we think it might be the rat. What—what did Falene find out?”
“A number of diseases. None that match Fierre’s condition yet, but I wanted to ask if you had a rat.”
“Yes…here.”
Ryoka handed Ylawes a spare green rat. He took it in his gauntleted hands, very gingerly, and nodded.
“Let me…give this to Falene. Thank you.”
He looked back just once. At Ryoka’s wrist. She felt trepidation. But then she turned to Colfa.
“It might take a day or two to see if you’re sick, though. Damn, damn—”
“I’m not sick. Nor will I be.”
The Vampire spoke softly. Ryoka looked at her.
“You can’t be sure—”
“I’ve had animal blood before. The rat tasted no different. I’ve drank the blood of rabid animals—and sick ones. I can tell the difference. Unless that [Knight]’s friend can find poison in it—neither you nor the rat were the cause. Your blood tastes different, for that matter. And I have drunk Human blood.”
Ryoka blinked. Colfa was staring at her.
“I…could it make you sick?”
“No. It just tastes different. Believe me—I thought you might be right. But the more I think of it—even if Fierre was eating poisoned rats, so what? Fluffles the Fifth ate a bunch of poison once and we drank his blood. None of us were sick; it just tasted foul.”
Poor Fluffles the Fifth. Ryoka thought that distantly…then her stomach clenched. And her certainty turned to despair once more. Especially when she went to find Falene and the [Battlemage] held up the rat in a leather-gloved hand.
“No poison. It’s just a rat. Why anyone would eat a rat is beyond me, but there you go.”
“I could see eating a rat. I bet Ceria would give it a bite. You too good for rats, Pointy?”
Dawil muttered. Falene glowered at him, but their heart wasn’t in it. The Silver Swords saw Ryoka put her head down.
