“I think we should pay a visit to Wistram Academy. All of us. Something of significance has occurred there and only by going in person will we know the truth. No one, not even my friends, will tell me what has occurred.”
“Wistram? That’s a boat voyage.”
“Consider it. We could at least head towards a port.”
“Of course, Falene.”
The Silvers Swords rode onwards, each with their own thoughts. Ylawes, thinking of his friend, who used to, as a child, be so into investigations for his family’s foes. Falene tilting her head, thinking of Wistram, her home, Ryoka…a few other individuals.
Dawil fingered his axe and thought of Pelt, the disgrace. Also—what he was going to eat for lunch. But their suspicions and hunches were only a fraction of the truths unveiled today. For others—it was a far simpler conclusion.
 
—-
 
“We are dead. Silver runs in our veins.”
Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle stood in his family’s keep. Not the place where his line had originated. The Drakle family had moved from place to place, keeping out of sight. Hiding, hoping to live in peace.
But they had been dying, attacked by their enemies even in hiding. By what even their senses couldn’t detect.
Silver in the wells. Fierre was pale. She looked at her mother, her brother, Bamer, and her father. All afflicted by signs of a weakened immune system.
There was no panacea left. Ryoka wondered if eating charcoal would help. But it was part of them. And now—Fierre’s family was aware of what was killing them.
“Not a curse. House Byres. The Humans. Who came up with it?”
Bamer was muttering. Himilt was watching him. When he spoke, it was to Ryoka as well as his kin.
“Long ago, our kind ruled Izril. No people are innocent of crimes. Yet those committed by Vampires made even the other species of the world draw back in revulsion and horror. I have heard those stories.”
“So this is all just?”
Rivel shouted. Himilt looked at his son and shook his head. His eyes glowed faintly.
“Never. I would never have allowed it. I would have never remained here. Never—started a family if I knew this was our fate.”
He looked at Colfa. She reached for him.
“There is nothing to regret there. Just the enemies of our kind. And now we know.”
The farmer nodded. He looked around, at Bamer, Rivel, and Colfa. And it was to them he spoke, excluding Fierre.
“So we die. Our enemy triumphed by turning the land against us. In the days that come, we must decide what will happen next.”
“Father.”
Serafierre croaked. She looked smaller. Her pride as a Vampire run up against the magnitude of the hatred for her kind. The cunning. Himilt looked at her. He almost smiled. He looked at Fierre, and then Ryoka.
“One of us will live. A Human has saved her life and given her a future. Thank you, Miss Griffin. I will not forget this. Nor will our kind. You are a friend to Vampires. And perhaps—not for this generation but the next—perhaps there is hope.”
“Where? Where can we go?”
Bamer crouched, his face bitter. Himilt looked out the window.
“Where Byres did not wander. Where water comes from few wells. Perhaps not even Izril. We will have to decide. As a family—and as a people. It will be divisive. Many will want to retaliate. But this day we know the truth. For now…rest.”
He said that to Fierre and Ryoka. Both were recovering. Ryoka lay back down. Fierre went to bed. She was still dizzy—still sick from her near death experience. Colfa, going to check on her, heard her daughter muttering as she sipped from the purified water that her family would have to use from now on.
“Still hungry.”
“We’ll get you pure blood soon, Fierre. Ryoka’s agreed to help you. Rest.”
She had a future. Colfa held Fierre gently. The girl murmured, falling into sleep.
“Tasty. But. I’m still hungry. Ryoka doesn’t have it.”
She slept.
 
—-
 
Cures. Sickness. Family. The Vampire lived. Her family knew what ailed them.
The Horns of Hammerad walked the lands of House Byres and Yvlon reconciled a bit of her issues with her family. At least—a bit.
Lord Tyrion Veltras had no such luxuries. He sat in the room where Hethon and Sammial lay, guarded by House Veltras’ most elite warriors. Jericha and three dozen [Mages] had fortified this place.
But it was too late. They were ill. Hethon breathed shallowly; Sammial was coughing, almost unable to breathe.
The [Assassin] had left the blood-contract behind. As well as the warning. The cure would escape Tyrion Veltras. The Circle of Thorns would damn his attempts.
The [Healer] and three of the best [Alchemists] locally were poring through encyclopedias of poison and antidote, searching for the symptoms and cure—if there was one. Tyrion Veltras was reaching out to anyone he could think of. He refused to kneel, not to the Circle.
“Milord? It’s late. We can watch over Lord Hethon and Sammial.”
Jericha approached Tyrion tentatively, holding a ball of [Light]. She saw Tyrion’s head rise slowly.
“I will cure them. And when I do—you will take Hethon and Sammial to Terandria. Then I will hunt down this Circle of Thorns and put them to death by my own hand. Every last one.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
She bowed. Tyrion went back to sitting. But his fury—he listened to Sammial coughing, Hethon’s labored breaths.
A scroll lay in front of him. The words glowed in the darkness. Tyrion sat there, staring at the contract and the terms.
Helpless.
