“—Perhaps it would be best if Yvlon were to come alone. It is a Byres tradition. More frankly—the presence of a [Necromancer] and one of the…Antinium would be disruptive.”
Ah. He was doing it again. Pisces rolled his eyes, but without real rancor; eating bread was only something Ksmvr enjoyed.
“Father. Pisces is part of my team.”
Yvlon’s brows twitched. It was a warning sign to anyone on her team. Shallel gave her husband a similar look.
“I’m sure the Horns of Hammerad would be welcome, Yitton.”
“But this is a traditional meal. The people know about Mister Pisces…they might feel as though the first baking were—unclean. With all due respect, Shallel…”
Pisces saw Yvlon raise one of her metal arms. She brought her fist down on the dining room table. Hard.
The thump made everything on the ancient wood surface jump. And—cracked the table itself.
Yvlon hadn’t meant to do that, Pisces was sure. She and everyone else stared at the impact and crack that had broken the family’s possible heirloom.
“Yvlon!”
Yitton went pale with fury. But Yvlon was already furious. Fury replaced her look of guilt.
“That’s enough, father! If you don’t want Pisces or Ksmvr around, you needn’t ask for me!”
She pushed herself up. Yitton hesitated.
“I am only explaining—”
“You’re insulting him to his face. That’s not honesty. That’s just rudeness! I know you don’t like [Necromancers]. But you could at least try.”
“Yvlon, really. I’m quite used to—”
“Shut up, Pisces.”
He put up his hands and backed away as Yvlon glared at him. She rounded on her father. Yitton looked startled at the confrontational note in his daughter’s voice.
“Yvlon, you’ve seen what [Necromancers] have done. Ylawes’ team has fought any number of them. Shallel told you stories about Az’kerash.”
“And? What does that have to do with my teammate? Not every [Necromancer] is evil, father! Pisces is a friend. He’s saved my life. He is not always honorable. But he has never been evil.”
The Lord of House Byres looked like he wanted to debate that point, but present company made him hesitate. He stiffly inclined his head to his daughter.
“…You have every right to believe that, Yvlon. But the fact remains that any incidents that occur will be your responsibility. Are you prepared for that? I have never seen an undead creation that did not seem to want me dead.”
He looked at Pisces. Yvlon ground her teeth.
“I’m responsible for any accidents that occur? Aren’t we all? If you want to talk about responsibility—what about you marching on Liscor with an army ready to slaughter the Drakes and Gnolls there?”
Ceria, Pisces, and Ksmvr’s head swung back towards Yitton. He hesitated.
“Yvlon. I did what I felt was best for the realm. I did not know you were there. Lord Tyrion’s motives were unknown to us all. On the face of it, we hunted a Goblin Lord.”
“And you did a fine job of slaughtering them.”
“You speak as if that weren’t the point. There was a Goblin Lord, Yvlon.”
“They’re not all monsters!”
Shallel made a sound. Yvlon glared around the table.
“They’re not. I’ve met some of them that spoke and thought and were—more honorable than some [Lords] and [Ladies] I could name! They’re a people. It took me meeting them in person to find that out. But why has no one else in the Byres family ever figured that out?”
Yitton was just shaking his head.
“You sound like Emperor Godart, Yvlon. This—this notion isn’t unique. But I’ve told him exactly what I will tell you: Goblins, individually…may have the ability to reason. They may have honor. But no Goblin King has ever made anything than unrelenting war. Velan was known as Velan the Kind before he broke every vow and forswore his honor to destroy nations.”
“That—may be true.”
Yvlon hesitated. Pisces wasn’t in this debate, but he reflected that Yvlon was arguing uphill. [Necromancers] and Goblins weren’t the best peoples to defend historically.
“The point is that you’re insulting my team! Pisces and Ksmvr because of their species and class! Not who they are! Enough, father.”
“I’m only pointing out dangerous elements in your life as I see it, Yvlon. No Byres in living memory has ever allied with a [Necromancer]. And the Antinium? Have you forgotten your history? Our House rode against the Antinium in both wars!”
At last, Yitton’s voice grew heated. Pisces slowly reached for his bag of snacks. Well now, Lord Byres was finally saying what he really felt.
“So the enemy’s always the enemy? No wonder we can’t make peace with the Drakes! You’re more stubborn than they are!”
“Yvlon! Mind your manners!”
Shallel spoke up, shocked. Yvlon turned her head.
“Why? Should I say how I feel politely? How’s this? I’ve never been more appalled by the slippage of House Byres’ morals when it comes to the hypocrisy I see in giving fellow Humans like Lord Tyrion the benefit of the doubt while castigating Pisces and Ksmvr!”
“That’s enough, young lady. You’re embarrassing yourself in front of our guests and your team.”
Yitton’s voice was cold as he looked at the Horns. Ksmvr waved at him. Yvlon flushed.
“They’ve seen worse! I don’t need to be perfect around them! And I’m not Ylawes, father! I’m starting to think Ysara was right! No wonder she left!”
The [Lord] stood abruptly. He strode from the room without another word.
“Yitton!”
Shallel got to her feet. She gave Yvlon a look with so many layers Pisces had to catalogue them and then hurried after Yitton.
Yvlon stayed where she was. Pisces saw her pale face turn red in the silence that followed. He chewed on a walnut. As family arguments went—that went right up with his altercations with his father. But he didn’t say that.
“—I think it’s time to go. Sorry you all had to see that.”
The [Armsmistress] muttered. She looked around at her team. She turned.
“Let me grab my things. We’ll just go and—”
“Don’t be silly. You can’t leave now!”
Ceria barred her way. The [Cryomancer] looked just as embarrassed at having Yvlon air her grievances in her presence, but she was firm.
“You can’t just run off. You will regret it, Yvlon. Take it from me.”
The woman looked down at the half-Elf. Ceria pointed towards where Yvlon’s parents had gone.
“You’ll regret it if you don’t talk to them.”
“You—er—you’re speaking from experience?”
Yvlon looked around, ears still red. Pisces shrugged. He’d been quite glad to walk away from his family, but Ceria had a different perspective. She nodded as she tried to turn Yvlon around.
“I ran off after shouting at my parents. I regret that. My parents are still alive…but I wonder if they remember I’m gone.”
“Remember you’re gone?”
The woman was sufficiently distracted by that to abandon her flight. Ceria nodded. She and Ksmvr tugged Yvlon back to the dining table and got her to sit down. Ceria smiled.
“Half-Elf village. Removed from time. They could be doing the same routine and still setting the table expecting me to come in. I’m from the Village of the Spring. Hence the name. Springwalker? There’s Springwaters, Everspring—half-Elves have stupid naming conventions. I…the last time I was there I stormed out and I was kicked out of the village a day later. I never got to say goodbye. You don’t want that.”
“I—I’m sorry, Pisces, Ksmvr. I only meant to get my father to stop insulting you. The rest of that…”
“Why don’t we go for a little walk again? You can speak with your parents in peace.”
Pisces spoke up at last. Yvlon gave him a grateful look and nodded. Pisces put away his snack and motioned with his head. The other two Horns followed him out.
Yvlon sat there, embarrassed, restless, guilty—looking at the cracked dining room table. It would need a [Repair] spell; hopefully the old wood could be fixed with magic. Sometimes, if the damage was too great or the material too advanced, the spell failed…
“Yvlon? Oh, thank goodness. You’re still here. I feared you’d run off like you used to.”
Shallel returned a few minutes later. Yvlon jumped and then colored again. Her mother had returned. The [Lady] walked back towards the table and regarded the damage.
“Sorry. I didn’t realize I’d hit it so hard.”
“Tables are tables, Yvlon. We’ll have a [Mage] come and look at it. Or the [Carpenter]. Old Della is still working.”
“Uh huh. Maybe she can make a brace or something.”
Shallel nodded. She looked at Yvlon and then cleared her throat as she sat back down.
“Your father’s gone for a walk. I think when he returns you’ll both be calm enough to talk.”
Yvlon started. She wondered if Yitton’s walk would have him run into her team. Either way…she nodded and sat there.
“I—I’m sorry for shouting all that. I should have said it to begin with. But there was the banquet and there was never a good moment.”
Her mother smoothed her skirts.
“I think it was overdue. I wish it could have been more tactfully done, but I’m sure Ylawes will want to have one of his ‘one-on-one’ chats with his father in no uncertain terms either. He was quite unhappy in the letter he sent.”
“Ylawes was?”
The youngest Byres blinked. She had never heard Ylawes utter anything but praise for her father. Shallel nodded.
“He prefers to express his discontent privately. He’s very much like Yitton that way, Yvlon. Did you think they never argued?”
“I’ve never heard him do it once. Only Ysara—”
Yvlon fell silent, fidgeting with her arms. She ran her fingers over the metal flesh. Shallel sighed. She looked at Yvlon’s changed skin and shook her head.
“I was quite unhappy when I learned about it myself, Yvlon. I spoke to Yitton—but he’s as stubborn as any Byres. He’s had a few changes of opinion, but a [Necromancer] and one of the Antinium was too much for him. Wait. I think he’ll apologize to your team and we’ll see what happens next.”
Yvlon nodded. Her mother had always been the mediator of the family, especially when Ysara was still around. Yvlon rubbed at her arms again, and Shallel noticed.
“There’s a lot we haven’t had time to talk about, Yvlon. Or should I say, that you’ve been reluctant to bring up. Your arms for one.”
The young woman flinched.
“They’re fine. I didn’t want to worry you. That’s why I pretended nothing had happened.”
“Mhm. That’s quite believable.”
Shallel saw her daughter flush again. Yvlon hesitated, bit her lip, and then pointed at her arms.
“They don’t look—unnatural to you? They don’t bother you? Really?”
The [Lady] looked at Yvlon’s arms, inspecting the metallic, silvery gleam of them for a while. She met Yvlon’s eyes and shook her head slowly.
“You’re my daughter, Yvlon. Of course I was shocked. But they’re beautiful. Just like you. I was far more worried when I heard you’d been injured—possibly permanently. This is far better than what Ylawes described, I think. Do they disturb you?”
Yvlon hung her head. Her grievances with her father, the mixed feelings over returning home—and her arms. She spoke, looking around for her team. She hadn’t said this to them. But her mother—Yvlon looked up and nodded.
“I don’t feel Human, mother. I—I was crippled. This is better. But I feel like I’m part-Golem or something. I’m afraid. I feel like I was given my strength! I didn’t earn it—”
“Oh Yvlon. Come here.”
Shallel rose and went over to her daughter. She embraced Yvlon, closing her eyes so Yvlon wouldn’t see her unshed tears. It was Yvlon who needed reassurance.
Coming home was hard. Yvlon stared at the arms that appalled her so much, some nights she couldn’t sleep. She hadn’t told her team that.
 
—-
 
When the Horns of Hammerad returned, Yvlon was better. She and Shallel had spoken, frankly at last, and Yvlon felt calmer for it.
Yitton still hadn’t returned, but Yvlon was content to let him wait. She turned to her team.
“I have an idea. Why don’t we do the traditional Byres activities? Father can join us for the bread and some of the other things—but some of the rituals are things I’d normally do alone. Or with my team.”
Shallel nodded approvingly as Pisces, Ceria, and Ksmvr exchanged looks. The Antinium [Skirmisher] raised one tentative hand.
“What do these rituals consist of, Yvlon? Will our proficiency matter to the success?”
Yvlon smiled.
“Not at all, Ksmvr. It’s mostly just old traditions. And—well, it’s vaguely entertaining to do some of them. You get free food a lot of the time. How about it?”
Her team conferred. It sounded like a fine activity to all of them, especially if it helped Yvlon reconcile. So they stood up and followed her as she led them deeper into the keep.
Pisces dawdled a bit to see if he could [Repair] the table, but he concluded the parts needed to be joined as seamlessly as possible and that he might lack the nuance of the spell. He found Yvlon standing at a large door made of, curiously, stone and silver inlays. The crest of her house was etched into the door and it looked like one of the most reinforced parts of the keep.
“What’s this?”
Yvlon pushed the door open for an answer. Pisces saw a room—mostly empty—where armor, weaponry, and more would have been hung. At the moment—it had enough arms and armor for about two dozen fighters at most. Although—he had to note—the metal was the same silver-steel alloy that Yvlon and Ylawes used.
“The Byres armory. Not much to see, right? This is for the family only; the house guard have a different area. This is our ancestral vault, heritage of all Byres descendants, and so on.”
The woman waved a hand with the vagueness of someone who had seen it a hundred times. Pisces looked around the room.
“Wow. It’s magnificent. And old! Are those historical battles or something?”
Ceria pointed to faded stonework on the walls. Pisces saw traces of paint, but only the etchings themselves had remained, showing battles with [Knights] and other monsters. Yvlon nodded, embarrassed.
“It’s a Byres tradition, writing down our accomplishments. Those were our ancestors, the ones who built the keep.”
“So that’s where your parents get it from! We should hang the Mothbear picture right here!”
Ceria teased. Yvlon shoved her with one arm, smiling. She looked around the room. It really was empty compared to what it could hold.
“You can tell we’ve declined. I used to think this place was so grand—but, well, House Byres is a fraction of how large it was.”
“Don’t you have more members of your House than just your brother and sister?”
Pisces pointed out. Yvlon nodded.
