Pisces was certain Yvlon at that time had not been willing to smile, no matter how much coaxing she’d received. He looked at her now and saw a reflection from the pictures on Yvlon’s face.
Shame. 
 
—-
 
“We’re delighted for you to stay as long as you like, Yvlon. Indeed—I hope you’d remain to perform some of the traditional rites. Ylawes has been absent so I put them off, but you’ve returned at a good time. Your companions are much welcomed as well. Miss Springwalker, we have you to thank for helping us build that dam so quickly.”
A while later, after Lenisa had gone away to put the battle with the Adult Creler to verse, Lord Yitton spoke with the others in the parlor.
“It was nothing, Lord Byres.”
Ceria smiled and waved a hand, abashed as he bowed slightly to her. A dam had nearly collapsed and Ceria had helped freeze the entire place up so it could be repaired.
“It is quite gracious of you nonetheless. As I said, your team is welcome to stay or work around House Byres as long as you like, Yvlon. I must ask that you refrain from even practicing with these…undead, however.”
Yitton turned to Pisces, bringing up the incident from yesterday at last. Yvlon frowned.
“It was just one undead bear, father.”
“Yes…”
The [Lord] looked at Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s smile was frosty.
“Quite under my control, Lord Byres. There was nothing to worry about. I apologize for alarming one of your people.”
“I quite understand, Mister Pisces. However. My subjects are terrified of the undead. I ask you as Lord of House Byres to not summon such monsters in my lands except at greatest need. I have heard Yvlon’s reassurances that you can control them. Nevertheless, I object personally and morally to their existence, as well as a class that utilizes them.”
The [Lord] met Pisces’ eyes. The [Necromancer] began to sniff, saw Yvlon and Ceria wincing out of the corner of his eyes, and surprised them all by bowing slightly.
“As you will, Lord Byres. Refraining from using my magic is simple enough.”
Yitton nodded to him and that was the second thing he said to Pisces all day. After he had gone, the Horns went for a walk. Yvlon needed it and they wanted to privacy to speak.
House Byres’ lands were nice. Picturesque, in that old knightly-way. You could just imagine some of the people working the fields looking up and seeing a [Knight] on his way to fight some evil monster.
“Ylawes must just fit in here.”
Ceria had been thinking the same thing. Yvlon just shrugged as she kicked around moodily. In the distance, children and people looked up, waving at Yvlon who had to wave back and staring at her arms. Everyone had been in uproar when they’d seen her new arms—but they’d accepted it with startling ease. Perhaps because it was a sign Yvlon Byres had stayed true to her house.
“Silver and steel, huh?”
The half-Elf glanced at Yvlon. The woman nodded.
“Honest as steel, pure as silver. That’s the Byres tradition.”
“Rude as a muddy toad slapping you in the face, you mean. You okay, Pisces? Lord Byres was pretty direct.”
The [Necromancer] shrugged moodily.
“He’s far from the first person I’ve met to hold such beliefs. And he was rather cordial about it; he could have been far ruder. I will live. You on the other hand, look quite unwell, Yvlon.”
He turned to the [Armsmistress]. Yvlon rubbed at her arms, clenching and unclenching her metal hands and staring at them as she did quite often these days.
“I—I’m sorry if I’ve been unsociable, everyone. But I really do want to leave as soon as we can without upsetting my parents.”
The others exchanged a quick glance. Ksmvr’s mandibles opened and closed.
“But why, Yvlon? Your parents seem very nice to me. I have no frame of reference for this statement, but I will make it anyways.”
Yvlon smiled.
“It’s—complicated, Ksmvr. Family often is. I like my parents, and Ylawes and Ysara, of course. It’s just that I’m not always at home around them. Do you understand what I mean?”
“No. But this is normal. You are not at home in your home.”
Ksmvr skipped ahead, thinking. The others waited; educating Ksmvr about the world was a full-time job they were all used to. He came back and looked at Yvlon and Ceria and Pisces.
“May I share my interesting observations, please?”
“Go ahead, Ksmvr. This should be quite illuminating.”
Pisces smirked. Ksmvr nodded. He tilted his head one way and then another and then spoke.
“I have never had a family. I was created to lead Antinium and replace Prognugator Klbkch. I was made to die and be replaced. It seems to me that families among other species treasure new life with an excess of value on the young. This is not a bad thing.”
The other’s smiles faded. That was Ksmvr for you. One moment he was childish, the next moment he stabbed you in the gut and let you bleed. Pisces looked at Ceria and Yvlon, at a loss, and it was the half-Elf who reached out.
“Almost right. You have a family now, Ksmvr.”
“Yes you do. And as far as I’m concerned, you could be my little brother. House Byres is your house, Ksmvr.”
Yvlon smiled and squeezed Ksmvr’s shoulder gently. He looked at her, antennae moving with suppressed emotion. He opened and closed his mandibles.
“…May I have two trees?”
Everyone laughed. Yvlon nodded.
“Why don’t you go pick one out?”
“I’ll help if you want, Ksmvr. I know good trees. We can find another bird’s nest.”
“Really?”
Ceria waved at Pisces and Yvlon, mouthing silently. She didn’t say anything specific, but it was more of a ‘I’ll go with him to make sure no one else freaks out or he doesn’t scare someone and have them attack him’, kind of thing. Pisces and Yvlon nodded as Ksmvr and Ceria ran off, babbling about bark or something inane.
“Well?”
The [Necromancer] turned to Yvlon as they strolled along. She grimaced.
“…If I complain, do you promise not to repeat what I said in front of my family?”
“Yvlon, Yvlon. I mock you, but I don’t reveal secrets.”
Pisces tsked, hurt. Yvlon rolled her eyes, but she relaxed a bit.
“Then—what do you think of my family?”
“To quote Ksmvr, they are ‘nice’. Quite proud parents. Very proud. One might say excessively so.”
The blonde-haired woman’s face said it all. Yvlon rubbed at the place where her metal shoulder merged with her skin.
“—If you tell them, or Ylawes, I’ll break your fingers. But I hate it here. You saw that collection of my ‘achievements’? They’ve always been like this. Me, Ysara, Ylawes—they’re so proud. Which is good. I was so happy—until I realized I didn’t deserve it. That Mothbear? Ysara killed an Ogre Chieftain and five Ogres in battle when she was my age. Ylawes fought a Griffin and beat it by himself to save a [Farmer].”
“Achievement isn’t an objective thing.”
Yvlon stopped walking and looked at Pisces.
“You’re telling me that, Pisces? You?”
His lips twisted.
“Very well. Say rather you stood in the shadow of two quite talented older siblings. That isn’t unusual.”
Yvlon ran a hand through her bright hair.
“I know. I know—but it’s been like this all my life. I lived in Ysara’s shadow, and then Ylawes’. His Silver Swords—I copied him, but I was never half as accomplished as he was. And my parents doted on both of us. I felt like I earned nothing properly—especially because I was always Lady Yvlon around here.”
She gestured at her chest, as if she wore the armor she was normally never without. At home she wore just an ordinary set of clothing and looked much smaller without.
“I got my armor and weapons from my family—even for my entire team! So I went south to Celum to actually achieve something. And you know what happened next.”
Pisces nodded. He had seen the covered image near the end of Yvlon’s gallery that Shallel had carefully not brought up. The original Silver Spears. Yvlon had spent a while there when she’d first returned home.
“Well, as you said, family is complicated. I find it all amusing of course—”
“Of course.”
“—but when we leave, we needn’t speak of it again except to humiliate you at our convenience.”
Yvlon glowered and raised a fist, but she smiled as Pisces edged away. She looked back at her home and nodded to him.
“I feel like a fool back home, that’s all. What about you, Pisces? You…do you miss your home?”
It was a loaded question. Especially because Yvlon knew a bit. Pisces hesitated. A while back he’d have side-stepped the question or lied. But he was working on keeping secrets. He rolled his shoulders and reached for the rapier he carried.
“Rather a different experience than yours, Yvlon. I was never good enough. Lazy, arrogant, a half-made [Fencer] who embarrassed his father at every turn…I rather feel he disliked me.”
Yvlon’s face changed as Pisces stared ahead. She coughed, and replied slowly.
“—I understand that my complaining wears thin, especially compared to other’s experiences. I’m sorry.”
Pisces sniffed. He hated genuine emotion. He made his tone light and careless.
“Well, I will accept your apology of course, but I rather feel as though I had the better deal of it. My father made it easy to ignore his condemnation. Your parents set the bar of Yvlon Byres’ accomplishments so high it was practically out of reach for the girl herself. That you touched it is worthy of praise.”
Yvlon blinked and eyed Pisces. Her lips quirked.
“Worthy of praise. Thanks.”
The [Necromancer] turned his head away, feeling the slightest of blushes and fighting it.
“You should find Ceria or Ksmvr to utter such praise. Or that [Storyteller], of course.”
“Naturally.”
Funnily, they understood each other fairly well these days, Yvlon and Pisces. Each of the Horns of Hammerad had their own relationship to each other. Yvlon and Ksmvr’s was as deep as Ceria’s and Pisces’ for instance, but the other connections had unexpected harmony at times. Yvlon looked ahead.
“Tell me more about undead, Pisces. You keep complaining that undead could make House Byres better. How?”
Pisces nearly tripped over a stone. He looked at Yvlon.
“You want me to expound on the undead? Here?”
She gave him a calm look.
“My father’s anti-undead. I’m not. My views on necromancy are different. Remember who fixed up my arms? You keep telling us about Khelt, which uses undead. What—would you make them mine silver or something?”
The [Necromancer] scratched at his messy hair.
“Well, silver is a rare problem. The metal would affect the spells, but I was uh, being more hyperbolic in my ire than anything. The truth is that I’ve seen undead employed as laborers and it isn’t a flawless solution. It would take some work to implement, actually. Previous iterations have failed.”
The [Armsmistress] looked sidelong at her friend.
“Really? Do tell.”
There was no help for it. Pisces sighed. They knew his last name, anyways. Pisces Jealnet, son of nobody famous in particular. He coughed into his sleeve, going back, deciding what to tell and what was still too personal.
“It’s nothing special. You know some of it already. I belonged to a…cabal in Terandria. While I was growing, before I left for Wistram. They were a group of [Necromancers]—and a few other irregulars with similar interests. They taught me necromancy. I ran away from home to join them. I don’t know—I doubt if they are still extant. I have never inquired. Some members may remain.”
“Mhm. And?”
Pisces scratched at his head. She didn’t even blink at him having been part of a [Necromancer] cult in Terandria. He almost missed the outrage and shock of the old days.
“We lived in hiding, learning, teaching each other, experimenting. And, well, among other things, we ran a—a sort of commune, you might say. And we even had a farm.”
Yvlon stopped again.
“You. Had a farm. Run by undead?”
She was trying not to laugh. Pisces folded his arms sullenly.
“Is it hard to imagine? Of course, we were emulating Khelt. And Az’kerash, who had created similar places in Terandria before he was reviled. Ours was quite small; only a few hundred undead at most. Undead tilled the fields, performed menial chores, even mined and cut wood. It was an experiment.”
“It sounds like it failed. What was the cause?”
“Er…”
“Wait, let me guess. Infighting? Undead going rampant? No—creating stronger undead by all the death magic?”
She had been listening to his lectures to Ksmvr! Pisces smiled. Then he was embarrassed again.
“Er…wild dogs.”
The blonde-haired woman just stared. Pisces threw up his hands.
“They’d attack the skeletons for bones! It got so that we had to ward the undead and patrol the commune. Zombies started rotting and attracted birds, insects, and so forth—we even lost a Ghoul to the wildlife one time. And the undead would lose their binding spells, wander off, or do something inane like cut down every tree in a ten mile radius until we caught up to it…”
Yvlon started laughing. Ceria and Ksmvr, who came back from finding his second tree, saw the warrior woman doubled over in mirth as Pisces glowered at her. They started laughing too, not even knowing why at first.
Yvlon Byres wiped tears from her eyes when she was done. Pisces was glowering.
“We were all low-level. Our best member was just reaching Level 30 when I left, and he was better at combat, mass-raising undead rather than customization. I could design a far better one now. It might even be useful. But I will desist while I’m on Lord Yitton’s lands.”
Yvlon fell silent. She nodded slowly.
“Thanks, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] sniffed in reply and waved it away. He thought that was that. But the short conversation with Yvlon had clarified how she really felt. In a way—it was a mistake to let her unbottle her feelings. Because ‘you couldn’t put the skeleton back in the flesh suit’, as one of his former [Necromancer] friends had used to say. It came to a tipping point when Lord Yitton wanted them to participate in the first Byres tradition.
 
—-
 
“It’s just a minor custom, but House Byres always breaks and shares the first loaf of bread from a harvest among themselves. Yvlon, you should take part. It would honor the village to have a Gold-rank adventurer participate.”
“Not to mention you haven’t been back in nearly two years.”
Shallel added. Yvlon sighed.
“We’re just eating bread, father.”
“It’s traditional and it shows our appreciation.”
Yitton gave his daughter a stern look. Ceria broke in, smiling awkwardly.
“I’d love to come and wouldn’t mind having something to eat, right you guys?”
Ksmvr and Pisces nodded, with varying degrees of enthusiasm. Yitton hesitated and glanced at the two. He coughed into a fist.
