His skin had disintegrated down to muscle, even bone in parts. The Vampire’s skin was torn, as if it had tried to crawl away from the silver armor. He knelt there, sweating, as Ryoka stood over him.
When he looked up at Ryoka, his face was twisted by pain. Himilt forced the words out.
“I heard. What do we do now?”
Ryoka turned. In the shadows, two more Vampires appeared. Rivel, eyes wide and furious as he stared after the Silver Swords. Bamer, clutching at his chest. Staring down at the veins where his death flowed. Ryoka felt the Vampire’s world shaking.
But she had to save Fierre first. The City Runner closed her eyes. Thinking.
“The well is poisoned. The groundwater is laced with silver. That means everything that comes from it—”
She heard a moan. And Ryoka felt it.
Look at how they killed them. With poison in the water, the ground.
How clever. House Byres had won. They had won in such an easy way. Not with grand [Knights] and armies. Just—a tradition. A bit of silver here, there.
Poison in the wells.
Nothing was safe. Nothing. Water—crops grown? Everything and everyone in Izril, perhaps. Everywhere the wells had been seeded. Ryoka looked around.
“The blood. Your sheep drink from those wells. Your food as well. Fierre needs—”
She trailed off. Ryoka started again, piecing it all together.
“It must—she must have drunk blood from your animals. And the party—she washed herself with water from your wells. You put ice on her forehead. The tinctures were made with water. Everything you have. Your crops, your animals—all of it comes from the water here.”
Colfa made a sound. She looked around, eyes wide. The rash running down her arm…that’s why they were sick. It wasn’t a disease. Heavy metals in their blood, making them weaker. That’s why they had such short lifespans. Thyroid cancer…
“What is safe?”
Ryoka felt Colfa shaking her. She inhaled slowly.
“River water. They couldn’t poison that the same way…if they went upriver—no, it’d be safer. Ocean water…rainwater! Anywhere House Byres wouldn’t have access to! We have to wash Fierre—she’s got silver on her skin!”
“River water. There’s a river near here. Rivel. Get water. Run.”
The young Vampire vanished, running for a bucket and umbrella. Bamer kicked over the water that Ylawes and Dawil had drawn with an oath.
“I’ll kill them. We’ll call every family and end House Byres once and for all—”
“Bamer. Enough. Fierre is what matters.”
Himilt stopped the old Vampire. He looked at Ryoka, then around. At his wife, his son, who had paused for a moment at Bamer’s words. Himilt spoke slowly. Deliberately, as his hands healed.
“Fierre is what matters. We—we are all dead.”
The five moved into action. Ryoka shook Salamani awake. The slumbering Courier blinked at her.
“Distilled water?”
“For a potion! Get it from the [Alchemist], please? As much as you can?”
“On it!”
He leapt up. Ryoka turned to Colfa.
“Even afterwards…you’ll need to drink.”
“Our crops. The sheep…it’s too late for us.”
The mother nearly sat down. Then she rose again. Rivel was back with a bucket filled with water.
“I washed it in the river. But are you sure it’s…?”
He held the bucket away from him. Ryoka didn’t know.
“I think your home has a higher concentration of silver in the wells. Wells…it’s just collecting there over time. A river would have far less, if the Byres’ even do it. The best thing would be to desalinate ocean water or collect rainwater. We could build a solar still or use magic…fuck, let’s just boil this and collect the steam!”
She had the Vampires boil the water into steam and collect the drops of water. That was obvious! Now—Ryoka was thinking. She went to Colfa.
“Wash Fierre from head to toe. Don’t use soap—wait. I might have something from Liscor. I doubt House Byres ever got down there. Use no products made in the north! Here—”
She handed the woman a half-used bar of soap she’d bought in Liscor. Ryoka was going down the list. Not toothpaste, not potions…
“Is there time for Fierre?”
Ryoka turned to Himilt.
“If she’s that sick…she must have a stronger reaction because she was cured. You all have an immunity. That was why you survived. And that’s why she kept throwing up! Colfa! We need to make Fierre vomit! Give her as much pure water as you can and get her to spit it up! We need to flush her system! And—charcoal! Burned charcoal!”
That was a way to remove poison, wasn’t it? Activated charcoal! Ryoka thought.
“Can Vampires get sick from eating charcoal?”
“I doubt it. We can drink most poisons. Just not silver.”
Bamer shook his head. Ryoka nodded.
“Then feed Fierre burned charcoal! Lots of it! If it can’t kill her—”
Magical immune systems. If it couldn’t kill Fierre, Ryoka would shovel a detoxifying agent down her throat! Himilt and Colfa took Fierre into the bathroom to wash her and try to purge her system. It was a disgusting process. Ryoka heard Fierre retching…the young woman helped Bamer boil more water. She raced about as Salamani ran back with distilled water and was sent on a useless errand—he was a distraction.
It worked. That was all there was to it. Fierre had ingested silver, washed herself with it, but Ryoka’s desperate treatments worked. The Vampire flushed her system over the course of the next few hours. Ryoka knew it was working because she heard Fierre’s groggy voice as the girl regained consciousness.
“What happened?”
She was going to live. Ryoka collapsed with relief. That was all. She had…done it.
Fierre wouldn’t die today. Ryoka closed her eyes.
So. That was what Teriarch had known. He had known the Vampires were poisoned. And he had done nothing. How cruel. And how like the Dragon. He had given her a hint by accident, though. And Fierre would live. But her family…
“Ryoka. There’s a problem.”
The young woman started. She looked up.
Colfa’s dress was messy. But her daughter was alive. The Vampire mother looked relieved. Grateful, as she stared at the Human who had saved her daughter. Uncovered the truth. Just…concerned.
“What? What’s wrong?”
“Fierre’s well. But—she’s starved for blood. She threw up all the blood she drank. And all our stores—everything we have is tainted. We could go into Reizmelt and find a [Butcher]—but how do we know…?”
How did they know that the blood there wasn’t the product of animals fed on Reizmelt’s well water? Monster blood? Animal blood? Did they find a deer or something and hope it had never drunk from silver-tainted water?
Ryoka didn’t know. She bit her lip.
“Maybe cow’s blood? Find one that’s usually grazing near rivers, I guess. Or…oh.”
She looked up. Colfa looked down at Ryoka.
“Where were you born, Ryoka Griffin?”
Earth. And yes, Ryoka had lived on well water, water from Izril for the last year. But that wasn’t a lifetime of living here. If there was anyone…Ryoka Griffin saw the unspoken question.
“I…”
“Fierre is starving. We can stop her. But if you’re willing—she’ll go into a frenzy soon.”
For a moment, the City Runner hesitated. But what was the alternative? She had done all this for her friend.
“Take me to her.”
 
—-
 
Fierre was alive. But she was restrained. By her father. He was keeping her pinned as she writhed. Not with pain—but hunger. Her eyes had turned red and she was biting.
“I’m hungry! Blood! Blood! Where’s Fluffles?”
That took the scary right out of her—well, a bit. Ryoka saw Fierre stare at Ryoka. She licked her lips.
“Fierre. Control yourself. Ryoka’s agreed to give you blood.”
“Human blood?”
Even in her ravening state, Fierre glanced at her father. He looked at Ryoka, hesitating. She waited. Her heart was racing. She remembered Fierre attacking her in the mansion. That had been terrifying. She knew how strong Fierre was. But Colfa was right here.
“Is it safe, Himilt?”
“Fierre wouldn’t turn you. Neither Colfa or I would allow it. And it’s not a simple process. But there’s something else. If she’s cured…”
Colfa started. Ryoka saw her eyes flicker to Fierre and then Ryoka. Himilt gave his wife another unspoken look. This one significant. He stared at Ryoka, hard.
“We’ll deal with what happens. Nothing…terribly…bad will happen to you, Miss Griffin. I don’t think from giving blood once. If the stories are true.”
That didn’t reassure Ryoka at all. But she nodded, tightly.
“Food.”
Fierre sat up. Colfa took Himilt’s place as he stepped back. He closed the door as Colfa held her daughter, struggling to keep Fierre back.
“Remember. Do not drink quickly. Slowly. Just enough to hold you until we find more blood.”
“What—what do I do?”
Colfa hesitated. She was unsure, Ryoka realized. Her family didn’t usually drink blood.
“When Himilt turned me…sit there. Bare your neck and tilt your head…yes. Fierre? Slowly.”
She relaxed her grip. Ryoka sat there, terrified, sensing Fierre sniffing.
“She’s…not that appetizing. I’m not hungry for her.”
The Vampire muttered. Ryoka stirred.
“Thanks.”
“It’s not that. It’s something…”
Fierre trailed off. She licked her lips. Her stomach growled.
“Can I really bite you, Ryoka?”
“Yes, Fierre. Go ahead. You’re hungry.”
The City Runner saw the Vampire hovering. Colfa was watching. And then—Fierre grabbed Ryoka’s neck. Gently. She bit. Ryoka gasped as she felt a sharp pain. Then nothing.
She cracked open one eye, unclenching her fists. Strange. Ryoka felt Fierre there. She even felt the sensation of pressure on her neck. Blood pumping…she heard her heart beating, rapidly. But no pain.
It felt—Ryoka felt a sensation run down her body.
Tingling. Ryoka twitched. She searched for pain, but there wasn’t any this time. Just an unbearable tingling. It felt good, actually. And it was intensifying.
Her head felt light. Ryoka sagged. Her head went blank. All she heard was the blood pounding in her head.
Huh. No wonder Vampires got away with this. They weren’t—weren’t like mosquitoes at all. Ryoka could do this forever. The tingling was turning into—she was drifting and—
“Serafierre, enough.”
A voice spoke at the edge of Ryoka’s hazy consciousness. A hand interrupted the drain, the unbearable, wonderful feeling.
Fierre pulled away with reluctance, licking her lips. Ryoka collapsed. The world went dark; she must have blanked out for a second because Fierre was helping her sit up.
“Ryoka? Thank you.”
The Vampire girl was alive. If anything, it was Ryoka who was pale and disoriented. Fierre offered Ryoka a healing potion. The young woman drank. She looked at her friend, watching her anxiously.
“I’m so glad.”
Ryoka reached out and grabbed Fierre. The Vampire felt the Human hug her, fiercely. Then Ryoka sat back. She took a drink from the healing potion.
Then she passed out. At last—
She could rest.
 
—-
 
But the world was changed for it.
They rode away in silence. Dawil kept glancing at Ylawes. At last, the Dwarf broke the silence.
“Alight, lad. You’ve never acted like that before. You always ask for permission before doing that well-thingy. And most [Mayors] are happy to let you. But what in the name of the Grandfather’s beards was that?”
Falene nodded. She’d been caught up on what had occurred and she was looking just as dubious. Ylawes shook his head. His cheeks were still flushed.
“I—thought that—it was just a hunch. I feel like a complete fool, Dawil. But that family…tell me. Have you ever heard of the legend of Vampires?”
The half-Elf’s ears perked up. Dawil frowned and shook his head.
“Never. What’re they?”
“An old foe. My family used to fight them. They used to rule Izril. They looked just like us. But they had pointed teeth, they drank blood…they were monsters in disguise. There were signs. Reddish pupils, pale skin, fangs, and they feared sunlight and silver.”
Dawil half-twisted in his saddle.
“You’re pulling my leg, Byres. That’s got to be the dumbest thing…red pupils? I know half a dozen [Mages] who have weird colors in their eyes.”
“I know. But the way they were acting…I was almost certain. Ryoka cut her wrist—apparently—and that mother…”
The [Knight] sighed. Falene tapped her lips.
“What proved they weren’t?”
“Himilt. He shook my hand.”
Ylawes regarded his gauntlets. Dawil raised his brows.
“These Vampires allergic to common courtesy or something?”
“No, it’s my armor. Silver and steel alloy. A Vampire shouldn’t have even been able to touch me according to the stories. And they are just stories these days. I’ve embarrassed us. I hope Ryoka calls on us if she needs help.”
The young man turned ahead, shaking his head. Dawil glanced back at the Lischelle-Drakle farm in the distance.
“If it wasn’t a story, let’s say. How’d you feel about a girl with sick parents being these blood-folk?”
Ylawes looked blank.
“Vampires were evil monsters without conscience or remorse. They hid among us, pretending to their emotions. So no. I don’t believe that would apply here, Dawil. These are just…good folk. A bit odd, but…”
He fell silent. The seed of suspicion was there. Ylawes hesitated.
“Falene. Can you…send me a [Message]?”
“Of course. To whom?”
The [Knight] hesitated. He’d investigated. But there was someone who knew more than he did, or his father.
“Delanay d’Artien. He’s a childhood friend. Just…ask him to get in touch with me.”
Dawil glanced up sharply. But Ylawes said nothing more. Falene nodded. After a moment, the [Axe Champion] cleared his throat.
“Just don’t do anything you’d regret, Ylawes. They seemed like good folk. And we’re adventurers, not busybodies. Ever onwards. Are we done with Reizmelt and Ryoka Griffin?”
Ylawes started from his thoughts. He nodded slowly, looking at his team.
“Let’s stay a few days to make sure Miss Fierre is well and to see about the artifacts. Maybe we could even go towards Invrisil and see this Master Pelt, Dawil. If he’s that skilled…”
“So we came all the way here just to turn around? Fine by me.”
The Dwarf snorted. Ylawes just shrugged. They didn’t have a set destination. That was the Silver Sword’s way. It was Falene who interrupted.
“If we don’t have pressing business, Ylawes, I have a petition.”
“Go on, Falene.”
The [Battlemage] tapped a finger against her lips as she adjusted her fixed spectacles. What a curious contraption Ryoka Griffin had made. So quickly, too. A ‘microscope’. Falene prided herself on her lexicon of knowledge. And she had never heard that word…she spoke to her team.
