She’d failed. Ryoka had no more clues left! Only the Unseen Carriage and she was almost certain that Karsaeu wouldn’t have fed Fierre poisoned magic food. What was there left? Ryoka had tried being scientific about it! She’d tried—
“What’s that smell?”
Falene covered her nose. Ryoka raised her head.
“Sorry. It’s uh, puke. Fierre’s bag of holding had…she threw up in…”
She stared at her hand. Then sniffed at the black gunk there. Ylawes and Falene gagged a bit. So did Ryoka. But she stared.
“She threw this up when she took…”
The panacea. Here was something Fierre’s body had rejected. Ryoka remembered the stream of black vomit so clearly. And it was still here, preserved by the bag of holding.
“Look, Miss Griffin. I said a lot of stuff about rats. But if you’re that hungry, I’ll make you some food.”
Dawil looked nervous as Ryoka stared at her hand. But the young woman was muttering.
“…Gotta be a clue. I just need to isolate…microscope. Microscope.”
She looked up. Colfa saw hope reignite in Ryoka’s eyes. She looked around, wildly, galvanized by an idea. Then she stared straight ahead. Ylawes, Dawil, Colfa, all followed her gaze.
Ryoka Griffin stared at Falene. At Falene’s face. At something perched on her nose.
“Falene. I need your glasses. And I need you to cast some spells.”
“What?”
The half-Elf protectively covered her face. But then Ryoka grabbed for the spectacles and snapped them in half. She needed a microscope. This time—she was certain.
The answer lay before her. Just too small to see.
 
—-
 
A microscope was an incredibly powerful tool of the modern age. Also—simple in concept to design. Ryoka didn’t know how to create a high-powered version. But she remember a simple do-it-yourself school project. All you needed was a tube, some black cloth or paper, and two lenses…
And if you couldn’t engineer something perfectly out of a bunch of leaves and sticks, use magic. Falene, after she had been prevented from murdering Ryoka with her bare hands, was incensed.
“You need to magnify your vision? I can do that with a spell! [Farsight]!”
“That’s not what I need. I need way more magnification than this. You—uh—you can [Repair] the glasses, right? I’ll pay for them!”
“I’ll pay for them if they’re that expensive. Come off it, Skystrall. Ryoka, what do you need?”
Ryoka had assembled the crude microscope and was trying to get the lenses to work. Falene made a sound of disgust, but she tapped Ryoka’s temples next to her right eye.
“[Farsight]. How’s that? Your right eye—”
“Aah!”
Ryoka’s eye burst into tears at the sudden magnification. It was beyond disorienting—but then she looked through the microscope and blinked.
“I think—I think—[Light]—”
A harsh white light appeared from beneath the sample tray. Which was, in fact, a windowpane upon which Ryoka had heaped a bunch of Fierre’s dried puke. The others crowded around as Ryoka sifted through the black vomit. She had a pair of tweezers used for extracting ticks from the animals and long brush.
“I think it’s working! I can see—”
Tiny particles. No doubt food, gastric acids. Ryoka began sifting through it. She thought…she saw something odd.
“I might need some water. Something to dilute this. And—and a bucket. We can’t throw anything away. But we can isolate different parts, right?”
No one else had any idea what Ryoka was talking about. But even if she dissolved part of the vomit, as long as she kept the liquid, all the components were there. And part of Ryoka…part of her had a suspicion.
“I can get the water. Dawil, let’s haul some up. Where’s your well, Miss Colfa?”
“That way. There’s a bucket there…here. I’ll find more.”
Colfa strode off. Falene pinched at her nose and backed up, muttering about the cost of good spectacles.
All the pieces were there. Ryoka stared at black particles swirling together. She took the water Colfa had on hand and mixed it with a first sample, leaving some for control. But…but now she was perfectly calm. Terrified. But calm.
This time she was certain. The clues were there. She saw it. It was specks of blackness as she washed the dark waters, isolating what wasn’t food or easily dissolvable. Black…but that made sense, didn’t it?
It tarnished. But where did it come from?
 
—-
 
“Okay, we broke the first loaf of fresh bread, we exchanged drinks—walked the lands to check for impurity, and made an offering of silver at the shrine-thingy. Weird name. Shrine. Shrine.”
The Horns of Hammerad were still doing traditional Byres activities. Ceria kept sounding out the word; it wasn’t one she was familiar with. Yvlon nodded.
“It’s a rare word. But that’s what we call it.”
“And why an offering of silver?”
Pisces had helped place the nuggets of silver on the little dais. He looked quizzically at Yvlon. She scratched at her head, smiling a bit.
“That was for the Silver Dragon, Yderigrisel. If you can believe it.”
The Horns smacked into each other as they all stopped.
“The what?”
Ceria stared back at the overgrown shrine. Yvlon shrugged.
“It’s an ancient pact. Tradition at this point. House Byres used to be friends with a Dragon. But it died millennia ago. There’s a ‘legend’ that says Yderigrisel will come back in our hour of need. But uh—it won’t.”
“Why are you so certain? This is amazing!”
Ceria was astounded. Yvlon smiled sadly. She shook her head.
“We’re certain because it came back already. During the Creler wars. Yderigrisel came back to fight the Crelers—and died. The greatest tragedy of House Byres.”
“Oh.”
The others fell silent, digesting this. Ksmvr opened and closed his mandibles, wondering if he should bring up other, living Dragons. Or at least, one. But he felt that was rude to the memory of this one.
The others walked on as Yvlon led them forwards. Ceria shook her head. Their day had been all these traditions, most of which had been, as Yvlon put it, mildly entertaining.
“You have so much history. Half-Elf villages are older than most Human lineages, even some kingdoms. But we do the same thing for thousands of years. I used to live in a cottage over two thousand years old, you know. It kept being repaired and the wood regrown.”
“Why the past tense?”
Pisces kept glancing back at the silver. If the Dragon was dead…he had a project for a silver skeleton in mind. Ceria flushed.
“I uh, burned it down when I started learning magic. It was one of the reasons I got kicked out of my village. But let’s not talk about that. What’s next, Yvlon?”
“Uh…just one or two more things. Let’s see. Follow me.”
Yvlon led her team forwards. Towards the keep. And a small structure.
 
—-
 
“What’re you doing, lad? More of your old family’s rituals? This isn’t the time.”
“It’s good luck, Dawil. Here—let’s get the water.”
The son of House Byres paused next to the well and fumbled for his bag of holding. Dawil frowned.
“Oh, you were doing that in Reizmelt. That…what do you call it again?”
“I’ve done this at least fifty times, Dawil. Try to remember. It’s called—”
 
—-
 
“Well seeding. It won’t take long. Father and Ylawes do it all the time—Ylawes even does it when he goes around Izril. It’s all ceremony, old ties with the cities and all that.”
Yvlon had a small bag in her hand. She had to borrow it from the keep. Pisces peered at it.
“What is that?”
“Silver dust. You toss a bit into each well. A tiny bit.”
Yvlon stopped Pisces.
“Too much is bad. Turns your skin blue-grey. My great aunt died of it. We know all about silver poisoning. Just a tiny bit. You do it at every well you come to.”
“Why?”
Ceria scratched at her head. Yvlon gave her a blank shrug.
“Tradition. It’s supposed to bring good luck, ward the land, and so on. I guess it’d scare away some monsters. Not Crelers, but…okay, we’re done. Who wants snacks?”
They walked off. Pisces felt like the moment had been significant for some reason.
“I have never heard of this tradition, Yvlon. How long has your family been doing it?”
“Oh, as long as I can remember. We’re not supposed to talk about it. We have lots of stuff like that. For instance—we can never hold a gathering of the family at night or under a roof. We have to always meet in the sun. And nude sunbathing is encouraged. There’s a painting I used to see as a child that mother put away of—stop leering, Pisces.”
The Horns laughed and walked away. Unconcerned. But…
There it was.
 
—-
 
Silver. Ryoka kept washing the granules, inspecting it. It wasn’t shiny, glittering stuff like you expected—until you remembered that silver tarnished when it touched sulfur. And if it had been in someone’s stomach or their body…
Ryoka had collected as much of the black stuff Fierre had expelled. And now—she wasn’t sure if Fierre had thrown up, or just regurgitated what was making her sick.
Because there it was. Maybe a gram of it at most. Ryoka had no doubt washed some of it away or lost the rest. But it had been in her.
“Silver.”
She looked up. Falene had gone to wash herself after Ryoka had accidentally splashed her and Salamani. Now, it was just Colfa. The woman stared at Ryoka.
Her face—well, a Vampire always looked bloodless. But Colfa swayed on her feet.
“But—but how? Fierre wouldn’t eat that.”
“She couldn’t. Not straight up. But…what if she—what if all of you had been eating it, or—or getting it somehow? Over the years? What if…?”
Ryoka’s head was in her hands. It was so obvious in hindsight. She looked at the concentrated pile of it.
Silver. A lifetime’s supply of ingestion. She looked at Colfa.
“I know—I know it might hurt. But if you could touch it? Please?”
The woman hesitated. They had to know. She reached out and slowly touched the pile. It was black and smushed as her finger touched it, wet—
Colfa cried out. Ryoka saw her clutch at her finger. And the skin was raw, torn, bleeding from where she had pressed her finger forwards.
And that had been just a touch. Ryoka looked at the silver.
A gram of silver, spread across your entire body. It wouldn’t…kill you. Even if you were a Vampire. But it was poison in your very blood. And it wouldn’t ever leave you. Not without great magic. And even if you got rid of it…
“There’s silver on your land. That’s why Fierre’s in a coma. I did cure her. And she came back and—”
Where was it? Ryoka felt like she already knew. But all the pieces were falling together. She even had a thought. And here came Dawil and Ylawes.
“Sorry we’re late. The lad had to perform one of his rituals. But we’ve got water. Mind, it’s got a bit of silver in it. Not enough to make you sick. At least House Byres knows about that…”
The Dwarf hefted a huge bucket onto the table. He looked between Ryoka and Colfa. And Ylawes? He met Ryoka’s eyes, blankly at first. But then he saw her glance at Colfa.
“Something wrong?”
“No. Not at all…do you…?”
Do you do this often, Ylawes? Ryoka’s lips were numb. The [Knight] nodded slowly. Even an idiot wouldn’t have missed the way Colfa was looking at him. And Ylawes—was no idiot.
“This is an extraordinary household, Miss Colfa. Ryoka.”
He glanced at her irises. Brown. And then at Colfa’s. The [Knight] shifted. He was wearing his silver and steel armor. Colfa drew back slightly as he moved—almost coincidentally next to him.
“I—do not appreciate adventurers performing strange rituals in my home, Mister Ylawes.”
“Told you, lad. Ask first.”
Dawil grunted, cheerfully oblivious. Ylawes ducked his head. He studied Colfa.
“I’m terribly sorry, Miss Colfa. It’s a tradition among my House.”
“I see. Well, I am entirely grateful for your assistance. But I find your actions—disturbing. Perhaps you would care to remove yourself?”
The [Knight] paused as Dawil sighed.
“Naturally, Miss Colfa. But if there’s anything I can do to help Miss Fierre, I would feel better in remaining.”
Colfa’s eyes narrowed. She was—shaking. Ryoka couldn’t imagine what she was feeling. Especially since she had put the pieces together. Ylawes was in danger.
Or was it Colfa? The [Knight] was just studying Colfa. Ryoka saw the young man running through a checklist.
Pale hair. Bloodless skin. Red eyes. Heavy clothing, an aversion to sunlight…Colfa was keeping her mouth from opening wide, but my, what large canines she had. 
But what proof did he have? How old were the legends of Vampires? Then again…Colfa was about to snap. Ryoka saw it. She hesitated, ready to jump forwards. But if Colfa tossed her like a ragdoll, that was proof in itself.
“Excuse me, Sir Knight. But I think my wife is overwrought. Please, excuse us.”
A voice. Ylawes turned. Ryoka, Colfa, Dawil—saw Himilt standing there. The Vampire, Fierre’s father, tugged at the scarf around his misshapen neck.
He looked like a farmer. Pale of skin, red-eyed. But a farmer. Ryoka saw Ylawes hesitate.
“I’m terribly sorry to intrude, sir. It’s just—”
His eyes flicked back to Colfa. Himilt walked forwards. Ryoka was afraid. Dawil was muttering, eying the [Knight] who was being uncharacteristically rude. Himilt—Ryoka pivoted, wondering what to do.
The Vampire farmer stopped in front of Ylawes. Ryoka tensed. She saw Himilt swing up his hand.
He held it out. Ylawes blinked. Slowly, he reached out with his gauntleted hand. Colfa and Ryoka’s eyes locked on Himilt and Ylawes.
He was wearing silver armor. Himilt didn’t blink. He took Ylawes’ hand and shook it. His hand was gloved. Ryoka waited for steam. For a sign…Himilt clasped Ylawes’ hand with his other hand. He even smiled, faintly.
“Apologies, Sir [Knight]. My family has a bad history with adventurers. Bad sorts who took our coin and walked off. I know House Byres; silver, correct?”
“That’s our export, Mister Himilt, was it?”
“Yes.”
The man lowered his hand. Ylawes blinked at his gauntlet. He inspected it, then looked at Himilt. Then he colored and bowed slightly.
“I’m terribly sorry, sir. We’ll remove ourselves.”
He looked at Ryoka, and then Colfa, but Himilt even walked him towards the door. He stepped into the light for a moment, adjusting his hat with his gloves. Ylawes dragged a confused Falene and Dawil away. He looked back once or twice, but he was so embarrassed that he nearly tripped over himself in leaving.
Himilt saw Ylawes off. He even made a point at lingering in the sun before he stepped inside. Ryoka and Colfa caught him as he collapsed.
“Your hands!”
The man dragged the farmer’s gloves he’d donned off his hands. Colfa and Ryoka gasped.
