The Dragon muttered. Once this spell was cast—nothing would reach him. Not allies. Not enemies. Seclusion absolute.
It was necessary. He was growing attached. Too attached by far. The Brass Dragon hesitated as he cast the magic, setting up the spell. He could leave a little loophole, after all.
For…a [Lady] or her servants. Or a young woman? The Dragon thought about this. He thought about himself. He thought about them.
He thought about how his kind died.
He left no loopholes for others. Only he could end the spell, or a power greater than the spell itself. The Dragon murmured old words of magic. Dozens of artifacts shone as he drew on their power, weaving isolation around him.
It was done. The Dragon lay, panting, as he sealed himself away from the world. No more aid. No more miracles. It had to be done.
He would devote himself to only one thing. The Dragon lay there, sighing, as he flipped open a tiny laptop. He clicked a few buttons. Then saw the screen flicker off.
The laptop shut down. He had no need of it for a while, and keeping it recharged was annoying, even for a Dragon. The other electronics went to a spot in his neatly-organized cave, pride of place, but stored for now.
“All done.”
Teriarch checked his cave one last time. He felt vaguely pleased, as someone who had finally sorted out an incredibly messy room felt upon seeing it brought to order. And of course—he was loathe to go and upset it again.
“No more Izril for a while. No Magnolia—no Griffin. They can take care of themselves. They must. This world neither needs me nor benefits from my interference. They can only rise by themselves.”
The Dragon told himself that. He thought of Ryoka’s grand plans. The Summer Solstice. Drat. He’d forgotten about that! He hesitated.
But it was too late. He’d cast the spell and breaking it would be problematic, even for him. So the Dragon lay there.
His breathing slowed. He rested his head on his claws.
Yes. It was for the best, even if accidental. He’d have delayed casting the spell if he recalled. But sometimes…you had to…let…
Teriarch’s consciousness dwindled. The Dragon’s body slumbered. He never heard Ryoka’s pleas, and Magnolia was in no place to help Tyrion Veltras.
So it was. The Dragon closed his eyes and slept.
 
—-
 
Grand Magus Eldavin opened his eyes slowly. He grimaced and felt at his back. It was an odd sensation to him. Lying on your backs. The things other species came up with.
“Let’s see. Body check. Hm. Hmm…”
The old half-Elf got up and stretched. He reached one arm up, experimentally touched his toes and swayed back and forth.
It felt good. Sensation was there, even pain when he poked himself.
No aches and pains. Well, what idiot would make a body for himself possessed by some venereal disease or afflictions? Eldavin felt sharp.
Limited, but sharp. After all, a half-Elf’s brain, however complex couldn’t handle a Dragon’s intellect. Let alone the need to disguise his magic.
Eldavin recalled Teriarch. But—in a while he’d not need to fear referring to himself as a Dragon or Teriarch. That was the danger with really good simulacra spells. You could lose yourself. But—the danger was far less with his body secure.
He did a few hops, nearly tripped over his robes, and cursed. The Grand Magus windmilled his arms, caught himself, and looked around swiftly to see if anyone had noticed. But no one had.
The half-Elf looked around as his eyes adjusted and his mind adjusted to the different way of seeing.
The secret laboratory of the Grand Magus was well-stocked. He’d put a number of lesser artifacts inside, completed the guise with some half-finished spells and some of the 2nd-edition books. He walked about, practicing the motion until it was effortless.
“Mm. Body check complete. Clothing check? Undergarments…yes. Do I wear…? No, brassieres are for females. Usually.”
He snorted. Eldavin scratched at his head, and then flicked his hand.
“Better cast some spell. Can’t have burglars breaking in. Now, if I wanted to go to a harbor—er…”
He was in the High Passes. So…the half-Elf pulled at one lip. North or south? Well, he’d have to make the journey on foot until he could hire transport. What a pain, what a pain.
The Grand Mage cast about with his senses. He felt no connection to his cave. The spell was working. He’d left no loopholes except for himself. And his entire self was right here.
He could have slept. A year ago, he might have. He’d been preparing for it after Erin Solstice had accidentally broken the enchantment last time. But the world had changed in a year.
Eldavin began tossing some things into his bag of holding. Gold, some books for the journey—
“Wrymblood and fire! I should have packed the laptop!”
He shouted as he threw a book down. And it was hidden behind more enchantments than he could break as a pitiful Grand Mage! The half-Elf kicked around his secret home and tripped over his robes again. He picked himself up, swearing.
“—beard. This is fine. I’ll manage. Let’s see. I might as well send a [Message] telling them I’m coming.”
He stood up, grabbed the bag of holding and stormed from the cave. He was leaving. And as Teriarch had concluded—the Dragon was done interfering with Izril.
But that did not mean he had removed himself completely. Grand Magus Eldavin was bound for one place he had not returned to in…well, ages.
Wistram Academy. They were at the center of this phenomenon affecting the world and something had to be done. The Dragon—no, half-Elf—had decided to put his claw—finger on the scales as it were.
“Time to go on a journey. They had better still have that buffet.”
The Grand Magus looked around the laboratory. He adjusted his robes and walked from his cave. Into the High Passes. He scared the living daylights out of a team of adventurers.
“Good day to you.”
Eldavin nodded to them. Todi’s Elites stared at the famed Grand Mage as he walked past them, oblivious. The half-Elf walked on, already getting used to the primitive method of locomotion. He hummed under his breath. It would be a pleasant experience, eating food, speaking, limiting himself this way. Finding company…well, that got old millennia ago. He wanted to see what Wistram was these days.
It was an adventure. The Grand Mage walked on. After a moment, he smiled as he shaded his eyes to look up at the sun. He reflexively cast a few privacy spells as he muttered.
“Reminds me of that movie-thing I saw.”
What was that quote about wizards that Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin kept repeating? Something about arriving? Well, Teriarch had meant what he said to Magnolia. But there was another saying he had.
“A Dragon can do what he damn well pleases.”
He walked onwards, looking ahead. Until he tripped.
 
—-
 
There was no aid from Dragons that night. Or in the desperate hours later. Ryoka knelt by her friend. Fierre was feverish. Muttering. She’d rejected the water, gulping it down, spitting it up—along with blood.
Something was wrong. But what? Teriarch wasn’t there to provide an easy answer. Maybe he’d heard Ryoka—but made good on his threat at last. She had been relying on him, going to him as the first resort.
But oh—this once? Ryoka whispered as Fierre groaned with pain.
“I’ve let too many people down before, Fierre. I promise, I’ll find out what’s wrong.”
She rose. Himilt was waiting. Ylawes, Dawil, Falene, and Salamani had no idea what was wrong, but Ryoka had put them on the wrong track—going into Reizmelt to search for clues about a ‘magical disease’ or some poison that Fierre might have run into.
“Let’s make that list, Himilt. I’ll do the carriage—you walk me through Fierre’s day.”
As the night deepened, Ryoka began to search for clues to unravel this mystery. She followed Himilt as he began walking his home with her.
Racing to find what was wrong with her friend with no idea of the time limit or the malady involved.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin was at war with time. And time was not her ally. The sun rose too quickly as she worked, night turning into day.
The sun shone down brightly on a tree bordering a forest. A tree like any other.
Like no other. It was a Special Tree. Because it belonged to the one Antinium landowner the world had ever known. He clambered upwards, hopping from branch to branch and landing lightly.
He was a [Skirmisher], and he had a ring that allowed him to leap with ease. Now, he paused on a wide branch and found something.
A bird’s nest. The bird had evacuated the instant it saw the giant insect heading its way, abandoning its young in a shocking display of pragmatism or cowardice. Now, the Antinium’s antennae twitched as he checked the nest and found three eggs.
“Aha. The fruit of the land! A magnificent harvest!”
Ksmvr happily collected the three eggs into his bag of holding and investigated the rest of the tree.
His tree. He even had a deed to it. It was signed by Yvlon Byres, granting him the rights in perpetuity to the tree.
It…probably wasn’t legally binding, but Pisces was stymied from pointing that out by Ceria’s foot, which tended to hit his shins whenever he tried.
Now, the Antinium waved down at Pisces from the tree’s branches. The [Necromancer] waved back as he chewed on some cracked walnuts.
“Pisces, I have obtained a magnificent bounty of goods from my landed estates!”
“Wonders never cease, Ksmvr.”
The [Necromancer] felt Ksmvr land with a thump as the Antinium hopped down. Ksmvr saw Pisces’ snack.
“Comrade—”
He caught himself.
“Pisces, would you care to enter into a trade agreement for your produce? I have three eggs. I will trade one for your walnuts.”
Pisces thought about this. He handed over half his walnuts and received an egg.
“This trade agreement is struck. I have now concluded diplomacy. I must make war to enlarge my estate.”
At that, Ceria started laughing so hard she nearly fell out of the branches of the tree she’d been lounging in. She caught herself and swung to the ground.
The half-Elf was very nimble in the trees, having grown up in a forest herself. She landed next to Pisces. The descendant of apes had stayed put, thank-you-very-much. He slapped her hand down as she reached for some walnuts.
“Hey! As your captain, I order you to give me your walnuts, Pisces.”
The [Cryomancer] glared at Pisces. He edged away from her radiating cold.
“I respectfully decline.”
“I will give you my walnuts, Captain—I mean, Friend Ceria. And I will give you one egg for some ice cubes. I wish to crunch them.”
“Ooh! An egg! Sure thing, Ksmvr. How’s being a member of the landed gentry treating you?”
The [Skirmisher] stood tall, regarding his tree.
“The burdens weigh heavily, Captain Ceria. I have been plagued by fears of beavers, termites, and other calamities striking my tree last night. Yet I find the rewards to be fruitful. Here is your egg. Thank you for the ice.”
He happily crunched some of the ice cubes Ceria made out of water from her flask in his mandibles. Ceria took the egg, sniffed it, then cracked it and tilted her mouth. She ate the egg raw and saw Pisces grimace.
“What? You’re afraid of raw egg?”
“After the last time we got sick? Yes. And that’s a raw egg, Ceria. Haven’t you heard of frying your food?”
The half-Elf shrugged, licking her fingers. She chewed for a second before replying.
“I used to live in a forest. I ate bugs and raw eggs when I needed food. Er…Ksmvr, I don’t mind, but you know these aren’t cooking eggs? There’s birds in them.”
Pisces turned pale. He shoved the egg back towards Ksmvr, who tilted his head sideways.
“I rather thought the added meat was the increase in value, Ceria. Do you not want your egg, Pisces?”
“No! And here I thought half-Elves were civilized. May we go? I haven’t had breakfast yet.”
Pisces grumbled. Ceria shrugged. They had trooped out here this morning at Ksmvr’s insistence, to check on his personal tree. Now they walked back towards the Byres estates.
“I have a tree! I must exploit it somehow. I wonder if the sap is edible? Perhaps I can entice more birds to settle there. In exchange for the eggs.”
“But Ksmvr, if you eat the eggs, the birds can’t reproduce.”
The Antinium went still. Then he grabbed the two remaining eggs.
“I must return these to the nest! Excuse me! I should not eat my tenants!”
He raced back towards the tree. Ceria looked guilty as Pisces snorted. They saw the Antinium bounding upwards.
“He’s having so much fun with that tree. Don’t you dare tell him the contract’s invalid. Yvlon signed it anyways and her parents don’t care.”
“I just wanted to tell Ksmvr because a [Woodcutter] might fell it quite accidentally.”
“Well—we can ask Yvlon to have it marked or something! Look how happy it makes him!”
The two waved at Ksmvr, who was loudly remitting the unborn offspring back into the custody of the bird. He was…like a kid.
Ksmvr could be quite serious and pragmatic, but when he acted like this, you remembered that he was two—perhaps three—Ksmvr forgot when he was born.
The three Horns of Hammerad strolled back to the small keep surrounded by the moat. House Byres, an old, reduced family who were known for silver and their code of honor. It was something, even if it was a small noble house. After all, all three had adventured with Yvlon for a while and she talked about her heritage seldom.
“So…how hilarious do you think breakfast is going to be? Scale of one to ten?”
“Numbers fail to express the hilarity to me.”
Pisces smiled. He strode along, relaxed. Ceria was just as calm as she swung her skeletal hand up to scratch at her head.
For all intents and purposes, the Horns of Hammerad were on break. There wasn’t much to do in House Byres. Oh, they’d convinced a few Corusdeer to stop attacking a field in one of the rare non-violent encounters the Horns had ever had. They’d even performed a few other tasks with magic—but it was free work. They didn’t ask for money from Yvlon’s people.
“This really is a nice place. Not as developed as some woods, but it’s pretty safe. Not rich, but not poor. It’s…nice.”
Pisces nodded and Ksmvr happily looked around. House Byres was one of those places in the world where you didn’t have to worry about stuff like Rock Crabs wandering about, or was economically poor or interestingly magical.
“No wonder Yvlon wanted to get away from here.”
Pisces commented. Ceria scowled.
“Be nice.”
“Haven’t I been the model of politeness, despite the clear aversion Lord Byres has for me?”
The [Ice Mage] grunted. Pisces had been rather restrained.
“Keep it up. I don’t get why Yvlon wants to leave so b—good morning, Lady Shallel!”
