The Lord of House Veltras spun. He reached for his sword and his mind flashed to an obvious connection. He snarled—until Jericha spoke again.
“Milord Tyrion. Forgive me. But…ten minutes before she arrived—Lord Hethon fell ill. He claimed it was a stomachache. I went to secure him after the woman arrived. He isn’t responding.”
Tyrion’s hand found his sword’s hilt as a cold certainty gripped him. He looked at Jericha, and her face.
“The [Healer]. Where is the [Assassin]?”
She told him. Then she yanked the door open to Sammial’s room. Tyrion walked through the halls of his keep.
His sword was drawn. Ullim, running to find him, saw the Lord of House Veltras walking past servants, guards—with one intent.
The [Assassin] was sitting in the first guest room, calm as you please. She looked up as Tyrion burst through the doors. He pointed his sword at her.
“What have you done?”
This hired killer did not come with any disguise or pretense. Ironically—that meant she wore a mask. It was painted a dark green, with only a single rose in the center, and two slits for eyes. She sat in dark clothing, fiddling with a dagger.
“Lord Tyrion Veltras. The Circle of Thorns is displeased.”
That was all the woman said. She did not rise, or flinch as Tyrion drew back his blade. The words came curtly from Tyrion’s mouth.
“What poison did you use? Where is the cure? Answer me, or you die this second.”
The masked face turned towards him. This [Assassin]’s voice was cool.
“I do not have the cure for the poison I gave your sons. Both of them, I might add. And if you kill me—one of them dies.”
The [Lord]’s arm tensed. It would be so easy to bring it down. So—he forced the blade away, grabbed for a ring.
“You lie.”
“I do not. I poisoned your sons. They will die without the cure. I do not have the cure. And the Circle will exact vengeance if my blood is spilled, or a single hair on my head is harmed.”
Each sentence the woman pronounced made her outline glow true in Tyrion’s vision. He hesitated.
“You know the poison.”
Her mask tilted the other way.
“If you are thinking of having me tortured, Lord Veltras, go ahead. Do you think my employers tell me the nature of the tools I use?”
That was neither lie nor truth. She might know. But—Tyrion hesitated.
If it was someone other than Sammial or Hethon, he might have taken her bet. But his sons. He had promised to keep them safe.
“What have you done? Does your Circle want to die that badly? If my sons die, I will raze your Guild—”
“Sheathe your sword, Lord Veltras. And sit down.”
The woman just stared at him. The [Lord]’s knuckles whitened on his sword hilt. After a moment, he made up his mind. He slammed the sword into its sheathe.
“Tell me why you came.”
“Sit down.”
She didn’t move. Tyrion’s jaw tightened with a creak.
“Lord Veltras?”
Ullim and Jericha had returned. Both were armed. Tyrion looked over his shoulder.
“Ullim. Secure Hethon and Sammial. Post every guard you have. Scour the keep for more intruders! Anyone you suspect—check their identities!”
“The [Healer]—”
“Do it!”
Ullim hurried away. Jericha didn’t leave. She had a wand and sword in hand. She looked at the [Assassin].
“Your servant may remain, Lord Veltras. Sit. Down.”
The [Assassin] didn’t care about Jericha. She just waited until the [Lord] sat. He stared at her, but even if looks could kill—she had warned him.
The [Assassin] did not beat about the bush after Tyrion had sat. She just sat forwards and put her dagger away.
“Lord Tyrion Veltras. The Circle of Thorns has elected me as their messenger to bring you a second…offer. Or rather, an exchange. Your son’s lives and your family and your people’s safety for your cooperation.”
“I gave them my answer. I do not deal with traitors of Izril and cowards.”
Tyrion’s voice was taut. The [Assassin] looked at him.
“And here is the Circle’s response. Did you really think you could interfere with their business with no consequences, Lord Veltras?”
He said nothing. The [Assassin] sat back and folded her hands behind her head with a sigh. The effrontery enraged Jericha. She pointed her wand at the [Assassin].
“What do you want? Speak your business!”
“Neither son will die of the poison I gave them today. Or even tomorrow. They may last a week, or a month at the most. But I have never known a full-grown man, Minotaur, or other species to live longer than that. And the cure is beyond your [Healer].”
The [Assassin]’s voice was quiet. Tyrion waited, tense. Now—his nerves were humming.
“I will find a cure.”
“You will try. But you will not succeed. The Circle will not allow you to cure your sons, Lord Veltras. No one will save your sons but our agents. Happily—the Circle is quite reasonable. Your sons need not die. Merely sign this contract I have been entrusted with and they will be healed, within the hour.”
A scroll was produced. Tyrion didn’t move; Jericha snatched it out of the air as the [Assassin] tossed it forwards.
“This is—a Blood Oath Contract? Ridiculous!”
Jericha recoiled. Tyrion knew what she was speaking about—vaguely. It was a grade of magical contract, enforced by blood magic. Extremely difficult to bypass, if at all.
“What does it say, Jericha?”
He hadn’t looked away from the woman. Tyrion was thinking. He heard Jericha read, mutter an oath.
“Lord Veltras—”
“Jericha.”
She gulped. Then she read, slowly.
“…It’s a simple contract, Lord Veltras. Without room to change the terms, which demand that you never raise your blade against or oppose the Circle of Thorns or any of their agents. That you fight and command the armies they give you. And you reveal no secret of theirs or their agents, again.”
“Three promises. The Circle would have let you swear a lesser oath and rewarded you for it before, Lord Veltras. Now—this is the terms of your lineage.”
The [Assassin] waited, calmly. She had been chosen to enforce this threat, and she waited to see what the [Lord] did. Rage against her, threaten her pointlessly; if he acted like a fool she had been empowered to punish him.
But Tyrion Veltras did nothing. He just sat there. And when he looked at her, his face was expressionless.
“So that is your threat? The lives of my sons for my obedience, like some leashed dog?”
She hesitated. She had been given to understand that Lord Tyrion’s one weakness was his family. But there was nothing on his face.
“That is the Circle’s ultimatum, Lord Veltras. You may try to find an antidote. But the Circle will—”
“I see.”
Tyrion stood up. He looked at the [Assassin], then towards Jericha.
“See this…woman out of my keep, Jericha. Don’t harm her unless she gives you a reason to.”
“Lord Veltras. The Circle will not be—”
Tyrion strode out of the room. The [Assassin] hesitated as Jericha looked at her. The retainer’s hand clenched the scroll tightly. The female [Assassin] pointed at it.
“I wouldn’t destroy that if I were you. That is your [Lord]’s only chance. Tell him that.”
Jericha hesitated. She raised her wand as she put the scroll in her belt.
“You heard Lord Veltras. Begone.”
The [Assassin] rose. A bit worried. She debated arguing—but Jericha had her orders. And the [Assassin] had given the ultimatum. Briefly, she considered that the Circle might have made a mistake. If Tyrion Veltras was willing to let his sons die, they would have removed their only hold on him.
But if he did hold any affection for them—he would sign the scroll. She was sure either way that Tyrion was calling for [Alchemists] or other experts even now. But this time—the Circle had accounted for that. She left the keep as Hethon and Sammial lay sick. Unaware that in the Circle’s game and designs—there was one last card to play. And that Tyrion Veltras reached for it now.
 
—-
 
One card if you were someone who liked card games. An extra die if you played dice. If you played chess…a queen in your back pocket or something?
Analogies were silly things. But it was fair to say it like that. Even the Circle of Thorns, even the plight facing Ryoka and afflicting Fierre—there was an easy solution, a cheap, almost unfair one.
Lord Tyrion didn’t know it—but he reached out to the person who could provide it now. And Ryoka went to the source.
Magnolia Reinhart’s family were famed for their use of poisons and the [Lady] was the most resourceful woman in all of Izril. Ryoka stood by Falene and begged the half-Elf.
“Please. Just send it. Say it’s from Ryoka Griffin and that my friend is hurt. I know he can help. He’ll listen to me.”
“Grand Magus Eldavin. You know Grand Magus Eldavin?”
The half-Elf [Battlemage] was frankly incredulous. She hadn’t been at The Wandering Inn to see the ‘Grand Magus’ in person, but word had spread. Ryoka nodded.
“I…I ran a delivery for him. He doesn’t owe me a favor—not exactly. But he’ll listen. Please.”
Himilt’s head rose slightly. He was standing in his fields, apart from the Silver Swords who had come with Salamani to see what had drawn Ryoka away. Dawil glanced at Ylawes and Salamani blinked.
 The pieces came together. For other people. They came to the wrong conclusion for the right reasons.
Fierre’s cure. Ryoka’s strange, Erin-like connections. The rumors about her delivering to the High Passes, the Wyvern bounty.
A Grand Magus. Oh, the misunderstandings. Ryoka was oblivious to it as everyone else put the pieces together and kept their silence, redoubling their interest in the moment.
“Very well, I’m sending the [Message] as follows. ‘To Grand Magus Eldavin, sender: Ryoka Griffin. Urgent…’”
 
—-
 
So too from Tyrion Veltras as well, towards Magnolia Reinhart. It was the kind of thing the Circle of Thorns may have understood could happen. They might have figured on Magnolia Reinhart’s interference—even expected it after the assassination attempt.
But a Dragon? Dragons were cheating. On the [Messages] came, two for sickness and answers. They moved through the world at the speed of magic, which could be instantaneous or slow.
Instantaneous in this case. They travelled—and the spells disintegrated. Severed, before they even reached their target. After all—you could trace where a [Message] spell was received. So they never arrived.
“Two more in the interception net. Someone’s trying to trace you. Or me.”
Teriarch raised his head and narrowed his eyes. Magnolia Reinhart stood in his cave.
“Let them send [Messages] after I’m gone, Teriarch. The world will know soon.”
The Dragon lowered his head. He looked at the woman. Even now—she had yet to recover from the shock of it.
Sacra was dead. Her carriage had been attacked on the road, blatantly, and the best [Assassins] of northern Izril had nearly taken her head. The Dragon hesitated. He coughed into one claw.
“So. Ahem, I assume you will be well-protected once you leave my cave? As I said, interference…”
He trailed off. It was hard to make excuses after he had teleported her out of danger. But the [Lady] looked up at her friend.
“I will be safe, Teriarch. Until I arrive in Drake lands—I will be at sea. The Velistrane awaits me in harbor.”
“Hm. Well, that would do it so long as you keep your staff vigilant. Make sure of that, [Maid].”
The Dragon focused on Ressa. The [Maid]-[Assassin] just nodded. Her eyes flicked to the side.
“The carriage…”
“The primary version is destroyed. Or taken. Whoever took it removed the tracking spells. But your backup is fixed. I…reinforced some of the magic. As for your servant…”
Teriarch scratched at his neck. He looked past Ressa.
A [Butler] stood. Reynold looked down at his legs, his face blank. They were quite different. The Dragon spoke, almost apologetically.
“I didn’t teleport your legs, Human.”
He neglected to mention that he wasn’t about to give the man a potion that could regenerate his legs. That was frankly worth as much as Magnolia’s damn carriage, if not more.
“Lord Dragon, they are exquisite. Thank you.”
Reynold bowed precisely. He did not smile; his face didn’t move. He’d been like that since waking up after being saved. He paused, then looked up.
“Sacra’s remains…”
“I found nothing.”
“I see.”
“We will find them. This is not over, Reynold.”
Magnolia Reinhart stood there. She exhaled. Then she glanced up at Teriarch.
“Old man. Dear friend. It’s time for me to go. I fear I’ve been put on the back foot for now.”
“You—you’re sure you don’t need some help? Not that I’d give it, of course…”
The Dragon saw her smile. The [Lady] shook her head.
“It’s a poor thing to rely on Dragons too much. Someone quite crotchety said that.”
The Dragon exhaled hot air on Magnolia.
“I think it was quite a wise statement. As you wish. You will appear right outside the city gates as if it were a [Lesser Teleport] spell. As I’ve said—be wary of the Walled Cities. They’ve changed.”
“I will, Teriarch. Thank you.”
Magnolia Reinhart nodded. She smiled at Teriarch. He harrumphed once more. But she was right.
There was more that was said. But in the end—the Dragon cast a spell. The three vanished, along with the repaired secondary carriage.
Teriarch lay back down. He was tired. More mentally than physically—but a good deal of the latter himself. He thought about his actions, self-reflecting. Critiquing. Another [Message] spell came and was severed at the root.
Many of them, in fact. Teriarch could see the senders. Not the contents of the [Message], but the mages themselves.
“Some half-Elf…hah. Someone from Invrisil—that [Enchanter] fellow? Drake from Pallass—has to be that young Grimalkin. Wistram, Wistram, Wistram…”
He snorted as the senders found they were sending to nothing and their spells were collapsing. The Dragon sighed.
“I’ve been too active. Or rather, Grand Mage Eldavin has. Yes, too active by far. This is what interfering gets you. Busybodies like flies. Time enough for it to stop. I don’t need this. Time…for isolation.”
Magnolia had made her decision. She was going to the Walled Cities. He had helped her. Now, interest in him was too great. The Dragon prepared to cast a spell. A truly powerful one. He found an [Archmage]’s staff, snorted as he hunted around.
“Where’s that damn book? Let’s see. Staff here, stave there—”
Magical wands and other artifacts floated up like they were lesser components of a spell. The Dragon sighed.
Enough was enough. There were adventurers in the High Passes and while they wouldn’t break through his cave’s barrier that easily—there was a chance. This spell…had only ever been broken once.
“By that damn [Innkeeper]. But there’s a reason for that. Other worlds. Hah! At least those Winter Sprites won’t be getting in.”
