"Body Double."

I create two clones and have them appear on both sides of me. Then, speak up as we all look over the edge of the canyon.

"Alright, I want approximate levels, loot type, and monster names etched in stone using an earth magic skill marked next to every single one of these dungeons."

I look at the clone to my left, reaching into my item storage and pulling out a teleport crystal.

"Once the sun comes fully up, I want you to use one of these and go bring Arie out here. He's clearly very focused on learning about Demonic Energy and making it into the Abyss, so I might as well teach him a few things and figure out what he knows that makes him want to go in there so badly."

My double nods and catches the crystal as I turn to the other.

"You, stay in stealth while marking the dungeons. I don't mind if wandering hunters see our labeling, but I don't want to be seen dipping in and out of every single dungeon. Your main job is to absorb every unique skill in monsters you find in these dungeons. Just like when I killed the sector 2 leader, the craftsmanship skill transferred to my main body, so farm every last one of them."

"Of course."

"Also, don't clear those 6 breaks. Loot any unique mutant monsters, and keep any hordes from leaving the canyon, but don't beat their boss rooms. I want to see what happens if they're left unattended for long periods of time."

I turn around as the faint sound of a small explosion hits my enhanced hearing to see plumes of black smoke rising from a warehouse that was previously unvandalized. I cross my arms and look back to my doubles, deactivating my stealth skill, but putting my Qi barrier all the way up to maximum and using my cloak to turn my appearance into that of a low-level hunter carrying a steel sword on my back and leather armor on my chest and legs.

"In the meantime, I'm going to check out the city undercover. Whatever is in those warehouses sure is making quite the commotion. It shouldn't take more than a few hours for me to figure out exactly what's going on."

At this, my two doubles jump down into the darkness of the canyon and I turn to start walking down a dirt path back to the settlements. It only takes a few minutes before I make my way closer to one of the newer warehouses being raided.

I keep my distance but use a light inspect and appraisal scan to see hunters level 20 to 150 all rummaging through crates of E and D Class gear stacked to the roof in these warehouses.

They all wear small green pieces of fabric hanging from their belt with an emblem that looks like a diamond on it, but the hunters themselves look very different from each other. Some wear hunting gear, while others wear more casual apparel, some even look as if they're fresh out of a business meeting in suits and ties.

The odd crowd and even more peculiar systematic pattern of rummaging and passing items down in a line to load up on a cart as it's hauled out somewhere else confuses me even more.

I walk by with an eyebrow raised, but don't go near the opening of the warehouse where they're loading and entering so none of them even bat an eye as I stroll on past.

Another 5 minutes of quickly walking goes by and I see another group of 10 or so men wearing the same green flags on their waists doing the same thing on a smaller storage unit that seems to be half burned down on the other side. They're foraging for the goods that haven't been destroyed.

Again, no one cares to turn their head as I walk by in the bright open light of day.

Once I make my way into the center of town, I'm surprised to see no one outside.

There's a center square with a large fountain that doesn't flow anymore sitting dry in the center of a nicely tiled walkway. Surrounding it on all sides are vacant shops and small markets that look like they used to sell clothes and food.

Above some of the stores are what look to be apartments for the shopkeepers, and behind most of the shops, there are residential areas and even small parks where many people must have once lived.

However, there isn't a soul in sight.

It's not even the case of it being too early in the morning either, it's just that the whole town has been evacuated.

Using a wide perception scan, most people are located only in the outer regions and sticking to a few select places. No one but me stands in the center here.

I walk forward to the other side of town where I haven't ventured yet with a puzzled expression on my face, but soon sense two figures walking toward me that pique my interest.

A level 296 and level 313 come out from behind a narrow street and make eye contact with me immediately.

I sensed them the moment I left the center of town and made my way in their direction because their presence is the only one not moving away from the center of the settlement, and it doesn't seem like they're occupied in foraging for materials.

One of them is a large man that towers over the other. He would be more intimidating if his size was purely muscle, but even from here, his rounded face tells me it's not all pure strength.

The man next to him is completely the opposite, lanky and thin, and barely making it up to his partner's shoulders. Based on the gear he wears and the daggers on his waist, I can tell this guy relies on his speed. Sporting a fresh scar across his left eye, it's clear he's not afraid to fight either.

Both of them are far below my league, but the red fabric hanging from their waists with a curved knife emblem on it makes me curious.

The deep tone of the larger man's voice rings out through the empty street.

"Who do you think you are walking onto the Crimson Dagger's territory at a time like this? Do you have a death wish, man?"

His skinny partner chuckles and pulls both the daggers from his waist, spinning them in his hands, and reflecting a red glow off the morning sun on the tips of the blades.

He adds to his partner's words while eyeing me up and down.

"You aren't with the Green Mist, are you? Explain yourself, because we're going to have some problems if you don't start talking right now!"

As I think about what to reply, my All-Seeing Eye picks up on the presence of a skill activating. The visual of a dark purple, mana-imbued, shadowy hand erupts out of the body of the dagger wielder and comes shooting my way.
