e's toe, losing a pen at the worst time, finding worthless currency, winning the lowest possible prize in any competition, swallowing one's drink down the wrong way in an average timeframe, being three minutes late to everything, and other omens. They can only be broken by the most powerful of religious rituals or moderately powerful gods.Ophiuchus is a servant of Waddles the Duck. If someone is under Waddles' curse and comes to this fight, they will have their chances of winning reduced to 50%. Note, this does not increase chances of winning if below 50%. Waddles does not hand out participation trophies."Nu, what is luck? In Dungeon terms?" she asked curiously, never having really thought about it before."Technically, all luck magic is doing the opposite. Making someone lucky or unlucky is actually the process of inserting stricter limits over the random elements that will affect them. Good luck will actively cause certain things to be repelled or attracted. Money or lovers is a common one. Bad luck directly pushes someone into negative experiences with subtle influence."Delta mulled this over for a moment."So, there's no chaos involved?" she asked."...Sort of. Luck magic only inserts control over if 'good' or 'bad' things happen. Those exact things are still left up to chance," Nu explained."So all luck magic is chaos but really ordered?" Delta tried to grasp."Or look orderly but just a series of messy coincidences that fall into a pattern that looks semi-reasonable," Nu countered."Who even designed this?" Delta said, rubbing her head as she hit 'create'.She would have her dangerous sky noodle.---Brother continued to fish as he relaxed. His new whale friend was fast asleep. His nose itched and he followed the sensation to some of his older magics. Notably, the luck series.It was on the fritz again due to people over indulging in luck charms, rituals, practises, and wistful thinking.That stuff stopped working when the population of people got too large and the magic was running constantly.Brother shook his head."Luck, that stuff will kill ya," he told the whale with a somber tone as the magic rocks sparked and crackled.It was good luck that they found someone to make their friend.It was bad luck they were so inept at making gods they drove him insane,It was good luck they managed to take his eyes.It was bad luck that the god blindly lurched into the abyss and found 'home.'It was good luck the only souls it took were in a little metal box on wheels.It was bad luck that it learned it could take more.Luck...luck...luck.Terrible stuff.Brother would stick to marine life that could shoot light beams or horses with combat horns.Far more reliable.
