Jamal and the others felt a shade pass through them, and each of them shivered. The same happened to me before the shade gave me a nod of acknowledgment while the others weren't looking. Whenever we passed the guardian golem, it eyed us, its glare menacing.

Nissa trembled under its gaze.

"Jeez. We've already been cleared, so why is it staring at us like it found a pile of smuggled fentanyl?"

I smiled up at it.

"I don't know, but it won't stare for long."

It turned away, having heard me. As it did, Jamal let out a long sigh.

"Dude, whenever I see those absolute monsters, I can't help but wonder what the real Harbinger is like. I've heard he's even taller and stronger than the golems."

Nissa chided.

"I've heard that too, but it could also be that he's an excellent crafter and not as much a fighter type."

Jasmine walked, her steps lithe like a tiger.

"I doubt it. I knew some friends who fought in the Elysium Wars on Blegara. Apparently, they watched him fight a silver infested town for hours. He was a living calamity, and he ripped and tore them apart without rest like some possessed demon. He would actually rise into the air and smash himself into the ground like an asteroid just to kill them faster."

Nissa rolled her eyes.

"Like an asteroid, or, you know, a falling brick. Even a child could think of that."

Jamal adjusted one of the straps that held his mana stones.

"But I've never seen another high-level person do it. I think the only reason he can is because I've heard he's unkillable."

I murmured.

"No one is immortal."

They turned to me as if I just appeared out of nowhere. Jamal laughed.

"I've never even seen him injured."

I smiled.

"You might have. You just never knew it."

Jamal hit my shoulder.

"Oh, ok. Sure. I missed the steel Godzilla human."

My smile dampened.

"Easier than you think."

We left the border patrol, and everyone stuck to a trade route for quite a while. The idle chatter and jovial tone put a smile on my face. It was an easy thing for them to relax on the road my guild maintained. As Diesel said, vines and ivy-covered an endless row of mana lamps, and they connected the larger nearby settlements to Springfield.

Dark metal bricks covered the ground like a smoothed cobblestone road of steel. Despite being dark, they cooled my feet as I walked. They installed temperature controls to stop this place from becoming insanely hot. Cooling us further was a golem flying overhead. Every few minutes, they passed by, and their bodies ushered forth an enormous burst of wind in their wake.

As Nissa held her stave, she let out a grumble.

"Why do they have to fly so fast?"

Jamal frowned.

"Because they're strong, Nissa. Strong as hell."

Nissa shook her head.

"I don't understand why The Harbinger makes them that absurd. It's complete and utter overkill."

I clicked my tongue before coughing into a hand.

"I don't know. Maybe it's easier for him to make them that way?"

The group let out another hoopla of laughter. Jamal smacked my shoulder.

"You are too much sometimes. Your jokes just come out of nowhere."

Jasmine wiped away a tear.

"And he's so dry with it. Like, how do you say that with a straight face?"

I had a thin smile on my face.

"Who knows?"

After we reached the last bit of our trade route, we gazed at a forest. Primordial and ancient, the old wood expanded into taller spires like pillars of brown. Bushes and brambles clogged up any further running, and a thousand creatures' cries blended into a melodic hum. It was nothing like the forest of my childhood, more akin to something out of a fantasy.

Before even stepping off the road, Nissa took several minutes setting up rituals and buffing magic for all of us. I raised my brow before Jasmine gazed with pride at Nissa.

Jasmine gestured to her friend.

"Nissa's attended Torix's academy. She's related to someone from the first platoon."

I scratched the side of my head.

"What's the first platoon?"

Jasmine leaned back.

"You don't know? They're the original legion that helped kill Yawm of Flesh. They own some of the best houses and horde most of the resources you can find in Springfield. If you can get a solid relationship with just one of them, then the sky is the limit."

Nissa adjusted her glasses as she flushed red.

"I'm just lucky to have an aunt who fought with her life on the line."

My eyes grew distant.

"Those were...Dark times."

They gazed at me. I coughed into my hands.

"For the guild."

They nodded to each other. Jasmine scratched her cheek.

"But yeah, Nissa was pretty skilled even for the school's absurd standards. One of the professors even offered for her to be an intern."

Nissa pointed her stave at Jasmine.

"Be quiet before I put silencing magic on you."

Jasmine wiggled her hands.

"I know sign language, girl. You can't silence this."

They kept cutting up until the moment we stepped foot into the forest. At that point, the chatter ceased. A cloak of eerie dread poured over us all, and I kept quiet alongside them. Jasmine took the lead, and everyone traced her steps and movements exactly. Our rate of travel slowed to crawl, literally at times, and no one said a single word under that dark canopy.

It drove home how dangerous these outskirts still were. My golems and guild cleared out the truly dangerous eldritch, but mid-level monsters still roamed the badlands. Even without saying anything, I could tell this experienced group of adventurers genuinely feared for their lives here, and I aimed to fix that problem once I got back to the guild.

Along the route to the dungeon, we passed a variety of detours, foreign species, and odd geographical markings. Several valleys, rivers, and mountains dotted the landscape, and I was certain they never existed in Michigan. In fact, Mt. Verner was a geographical oddity, yet we found mountains that exceeded its height and size often.

While passing one, I sent a message via my alias of Daniel.

Daniel | Level: Unknown - I could've sworn that Michigan never had these kinds of mountain ranges. They remind me of the Rockies.

Jamal McGuire | Level 2,481 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion - Quite a few dungeons have fused with their surroundings. From what I've heard, people have actually been able to feel a significant increase in gravity, but some magical force is beginning to counteract that pull. There are some rumors about the planet eventually rivaling larger worlds like Jupiter. There's even one wild story about how other kinds of moons are going to form.

Daniel | Level: Unknown - You got to be kidding me. Why do people think there's going to be another moon?

Jamal McGuire | Level 2,481 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion - If you look at it, the moon's actually become bigger in size. Apparently, it's closing in on Mercury's old width, whatever that was.

Daniel | Level: Unknown - What do you mean by old size?

Jamal McGuire | Level 2,481 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion - So, apparently, all the planets are getting bigger, at least according to some astrology nuts I've chatted with a couple of times. Even abnormalities are being seen in the sun.

Daniel | Level: Unknown - you probably mean astronomy, and yeah, what a time to be alive.

Jamal McGuire | Level 2,481 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion - It is, isn't it? How about we keep it that way.

Daniel | Level: Unknown - Alright. No more distractions. Let's keep it centered.

After a few more hours of traversal, we found an incredible entryway to a subterranean world. Several new rivers poured out over a massive cavern and into an abyss. Moss and ivies draped over the edge, their leaves glinting in the light like tiny mirrors. Beams of sunshine danced off the misting waterfalls, and birds flew below.

Their singing echoed throughout the chasm, the opening enormous. Further inside, the water glowed from ambient mana flows, and kelp rippled in the water like rhythmic gymnasts fighting for our attention. It reminded me of an enlivened BloodHollow, and a wave of nostalgia passed over me. I murmured.

"This takes me way back."

Nissa shoved a spider off her shoulder.

"Uchk. Gross. Not you, by the way. Did you like spelunking or something?"

My eyes grew distant.

"For a time, I did. It's been quite a while since I've been able to do it recreationally. Unfortunately, anytime I've entered a cave has been for pure business since the system arrived."

Nissa clapped her hands before spreading them. Her grimoire appeared, and I could see why she'd done well at Torix's academy. At the very least, she had style.

"It doesn't look like that trajectory is changing anytime soon then. Let me set us up before we head in."

After a full hour of waiting, Nissa established a dozen rituals for empowering us. She also cast an ensemble of buffing magic, from depressurization magic to oxygenating masks to sound-transferring bubbles over our mouths and ears. As the magic enveloped my face, I spoke into it like a radio.

"Pshh. Can you hear me, over?"

Nissa sighed.

"Oh, this is going to get annoying."

Jasmine nudged Nissa's elbow. Jasmine's wooden beads jostled as she said,

"Come on, let him have some fun."

I leaned over, speaking into my hand.

"Pshh, Nissa doesn't know what the word fun means, over."

Jamal and Jasmine laughed while Nissa rolled her eyes. We all settled down a moment later, and everybody gawked at the enormous dungeon. The sight evoked a growing sense of unease that arrested all of us. Well, most of us. The dungeon seemed as if it was classified in the upper middle of rifts, though I wouldn't struggle if push came to shove.

Like, at all.

Jamal, Jasmine, and Nissa didn't know that. Nissa closed her grimoire before it faded into an ethereal plane. Her hands shook, and a bead of cold sweat dripped down her face. She let out a long sigh.

"Remember, Nissa. This is for the bookstore."

I furrowed my brow.

"Why didn't you just open one using an architect golem?"

Nissa frowned.

"And what, join a huge repertoire of mediocre competitors? No thanks. Whenever I open my bookstore, it's going to have scrolls from across the cosmos. You'll be able to find ancient texts from lost empires or esoteric, befuddling runes. Mana will drip from bottles of ichor, and mana constructs will sing on the shelves."

My eyes widened.

"That sounds amazing."

Jasmine held down a laugh.

"And expensive. I can respect the hustle, though."

Nissa held up a hand.

"Thanks."

They high-fived before Jamal pulled out two daggers imbued with origin mana. The cyan blue energy hummed as a gentle blue covered his hands. Jasmine pulled out a bow. It oozed a poisonous smell, an acrid stench like chlorine and acid. Nissa's stave glowed a bright blue as heat coalesced over her as a thin shield. They each put a dozen talismans over them alongside life-saving enchantments.

I did none of that. They gawked at me. I shrugged.

"I use other stuff to survive, alright?"

They rolled their eyes. Nissa let out a long sigh.

"You're like one of the guildies, always acting like you're invincible."

Jamal met our eyes.

"Let's hope he is. Is everyone ready?"

We nodded. Jamal flashed a roguish grin.

"Then let's see what's changed in a year? From the looks of it, I'd say just about everything."
