Erick shut down that spell with a [Harmonic Counterspell].

She threw something like a [Dispel] but darker at the air around her, but Erick reinforced the [Domain of Light] with his Ophiel’s [Lodestar]s, exactly as he had been shown in that book from the Librarian. The [Domain of Light] held. She cast a [Dispel] at the Draining magics, and she broke those, sure, but Erick recast them easily enough.

Three minutes and a hundred other attempts at breaking free later, as well as scratching her skin raw in many places while not caring at all about her broken hand, Syllea finally collapsed onto the softness of the Ophiel all around. To his [Mana Sight], she looked half dead. [Soul Sight] showed her as ragged, but healing. [Blood Sight]… Erick had an Ophiel rush in with the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds]. With a tap, her skin began to heal over, and her arm began to regrow, slowly, but surely. Internal injuries flexed into wholeness and bones set into their proper positions.

Her eyes still glittered red. Rage still held her in its grip. But this was going a lot better than it went with Teressa. Erick really should have thrown some [Drain Ward]s at Teressa, back then.

Two more minutes passed. Erick canceled the [Health Drain Ward], but left the mana one active. Syllea’s arm and skin began to regrow and heal, even faster. Soon, her eyes turned heavy. She blinked long, then she closed her eyes for a moment, before going wide-eyed again as she struggled to stay awake and active. She stumbled to her feet, trying to stand on Ophiel’s softness, but Ophiel flexed and landed her back on her butt, back onto the bed of light.

Erick maintained his prison over her, having Ophiels [Harmonic Counterspell] anything that looked to be over a hundred mana. He could tell the mana-cost difference, himself, after watching and countering so many of Syllea’s spells. To Erick, the smaller spells looked like a shift in Syllea’s interior mana, while the larger ones looked like a pulse, thrumming through her, before erupting into the world. That much was easy to tell apart from each other. But the difference between 50 mana spells to 300 mana spells looked more or less the same to him. Ophiel could tell the difference, though. Ophiel was much better at countering the instantaneous spells of the Script, too, either because he had several bodies on the scene and each of them were ready to counter, or because he was just better at that sort of thing; Erick wasn’t quite sure at the moment, and he couldn’t spare many more thoughts on the subject at the moment.

Disaster was still unfolding across Treehome.

- - - -

Erick briefly came back to himself, back to the conference room, where reports of firefights and battle came from the viewers all around, and Koropo organized what he could.

A man in front of a [Viewing Screen] reported, “Commune walls are down. Shadelings flooding outward, into the city.” He added, “The shadelings are killing the guards.”

Another person said, “Reports of explosions at the Hole. Omaz has likely escaped.”

A woman reported, “Prognosticators are telling us to prepare for another wave of large-scale magic.”

Bayth breathed in, gasping just a little, almost too quiet to hear.

Koropo instantly turned to Erick, asking, “Can you bring Syllea here? Can she fight?” He looked to the woman who spoke, “Is that a safe move?”

“… Unclear.” The woman said, “Syllea’s Rage is almost gone but she’s going to be useless afterward.”

A man said, “Arbor Home’s defensive line is breached. Cultists disabled the anti[Teleport] runes and appeared inside of her.” With a heavy voice, he said, “Elder Atanaro-Home is leading that contingent of Cultists.”

The room fell silent for the briefest of moments.

And then a woman said, “Prognosticators are saying that Syllea is in danger. Move her!”

Koropo said to Erick, “Move Syllea closer, but not into the city.”

Erick was already on it. He simultaneously erected another [Domain of Light] closer to the city, and moved his Ophiel over first, before blipping Syllea into her new container, right as something solid and cylindrical smashed through the space where she had been. The [Domain of Light] where that cylinder touched turned to motes of uncontrolled mana, almost like a solid [Dispel]ing object had sailed through the space. That object continued upward, through the Edge of the Script, briefly disrupting that Edge, before crashing right back down, like it had struck something solid and been repelled.

Erick did not have a lot of time to wonder at what his nearby Ophiel had just seen, but he thought he recognized that object. It was a dull grey metal. It was lead. It was antirhine.

And someone had just fired it from below.

There were several things about that occurrence that stood out as ‘odd’. But the biggest one, was that they were in the middle of the Forest, and antirhine couldn’t be moved by magical means— Or. No. That was wrong. You could probably put it on a conveyance with a separator between itself and the antirhine, and then you could move that conveyance really fast. You still couldn’t blip it around, for antirhine just wouldn’t go through a [Teleport], or a lightstep or anything like that, and probably not even a [Gate], but you could certainly move it around if you planned ahead.

… Or if you had some friendly prognosticators. They certainly seemed to know a lot.

Ahhh! Erick needed to look into future vision, too, now!

An Ophiel dropped down to the Forest floor, tracking where the antirhine had come from and where it had gone by following it through the near-past, followed the line of absence that the antirhine made in the manasphere. Erick rapidly found a blank spot in the mana where the antirhine had likely been for a little while, before firing upward at Syllea.

The antirhine missile’s trail continued off into west—

Erick came back to himself as a shockwave passed through the building and the skylight cracked. Spiderwebs ripped through the glass, as Wyrmrest, high in the sky, was both on fire, and lit with a million tiny stars, and fighting that fire—

Poi lifted his finger, and pointed at a man to the left of the room. The man fell to the ground, insensate, as Poi announced, “That man was planning on exploding at this point in time. My duty as a Mind Mage compelled me to take him down when he posed an immediate threat.”

Koropo almost rounded on Poi, his face full of anger, but Poi finished speaking, and Koropo shifted tracks. “Fucking Cultists!” He glared at Poi. “Who else?”

“I cannot say.” Poi said, “They pose no immediate threat.”

Koropo snapped his fingers at two people, one of them staring down at the collapsed man. “Take Yoron into custody. I want him alive to answer questions.”

At Koropo’s snap, the two people moved.

Erick snapped out of it, too. Yoron? A Cultist? Shit. Yoron had helped to take down half of the people they had taken down yesterday. And at that thought, Erick had another. There were other Cultists in the room, but Poi hadn’t taken them out because they posed no immediate danger. Almost casually, Poi looked to Erick, blinking once, in a way that seemed on purpose. Erick put that out of his mind, for now.

He asked Bayth, “Syllea is partially down. Her mana has to be rather low. She’s still Raging, but it’s an easy thing to negate. You want to go in?”

“YES!” Bayth repeated, “Yes.”

Erick touched her arm with a bit of light and intent, as he said, “Don’t worry about the drop.”

Bayth barely had time to react to his words before Erick blipped her away, into the middle of the sky. With a glance toward the Ophiel Erick had on scene, he watched as the muscular woman landed on a mattress of soft light, right outside of Syllea’s cage. Red lightning glittered across the archmage’s skin and she tried to cast something, but her resulting spell was a simple thing of spherical ice and light that Ophiel easily contained and bounced right back at Syllea, knocking the woman back onto her butt. Bayth watched it happen then tried to defuse the situation with something funny, to which Syllea’s red glow switched to something less vibrant as she shot off another spell that Ophiel locked down; that one was at least a thousand mana, according to what Erick saw. Bayth yelled affront. Syllea frowned, her glow dimming. And then Bayth started talking, and Syllea’s Rage began to fracture.

Erick split his attention, taking a second to glance at his mana. He was barely half full. Had he really gone through that much mana taking care of Syllea? Or. No. His Regen was just that much shittier than usual. He didn’t feel that great, either.

Wordlessly, Poi said, ‘If you can spare some Ophiel to combat the larger spells in the city, they would appreciate that. I am sending you location data, now.’

Erick could spare some mana.

He wasn’t anywhere near top shape, though.

But he could also spare some Ophiel to combat the large-scale spells erupting in the west, around the commune, while he also tracked that antirhine missile, wherever it had landed… Oh! It had to be in the tree above, somehow. Those branches were broken up top but there was no ‘missing line’ in the manasphere down below—

Poi interrupted, ‘I know that is important, sir, but—’

Erick found the antirhine missile in the canopy. He briefly noted that the tip was an enchanted gem, and broken, while the stabilizing tail was a grand rad that looked more like the plume of a rocket flare than a normal grand rad. The tail was also broken. The length of the missile, the important part, was lead.

Erick had an Ophiel grab the missile by the tail, his Handy Aura destabilizing a little bit but not enough to matter, while a second Ophiel glimpsed at a section of the Forest nearby that was erased from the manasphere, which had likely been the result of concealing magics. The people who fired the missile had been looking for it too, but Erick got there first. He couldn’t find the attackers, but with their attack in his grip, Ophiel raced through the sky, holding the missile by its non-lead parts, as he came toward Treehome, trying to carry back the one clue Erick could find as to who had tried to kill Syllea. That bit wasn’t that important in the grand scheme of this dangerous moment, but it would be important later; of that, Erick was sure.

While that Ophiel was doing that, the others protected Syllea and a few lightstepped back to Treehome, then to the west, toward the commune but not yet there.

Right as Poi finished saying, ‘—but the commune guards need assistance, or a diffusing of the situation.’

‘On it!’ Erick sent, ‘Ophiels are now over— Holy shit.’

Arbor Home’s District was the closest one to the commune. Erick had briefly seen Home’s District on his excursions through the skies of the city. It had been a rather nice place filled with placid hills tiled with farmland all around, while a large, squat tree sat in the center of it. Arbor Home had reached half a kilometer into the sky while being almost just as wide, with a sparse green canopy that looked more like a roof rather than like leaves. She had been a barrel-shaped, home-shaped Arbor, surrounded by nice white-walled buildings with nice green roofs.

She was half gone. Fires burned in her upper half, exposing the labyrinth of tunnels and housing inside of her main body. The land around her was on fire. Fields burned in blues and greens and whites and reds.

Poi answered the question Erick had barely asked, ‘Yes. Rain would be good. Home is far from dead, but her main body is hurting.’

Erick responded with a few casts of [Control Weather] into the skies over Treehome and several consecutive casts of [Call Lightning] over the most on-fire parts of the city. Home wasn’t the only place burning. Wyrmrest was burning, too, though he had his canopy mostly extinguished by the time the rains started.

And then a great keening filled the skies over Treehome. Stars began to fall, once again.

Omaz had gotten free?!

Erick rapidly came back to himself, just in time to look up, and see the skylight fracture. Glass broke, as Wyrmrest, high above and still lightly on fire, broke. A thousand thousand stars attempted to crash into his canopy, and while most of them burst upon stars lurking in the manasphere, there were a million of them. A lot got through. Erick didn’t even have time to [Grand Dispel] any of the attack before it was almost over.

Smaller branches and massive leaves and person-sized starfruit began to fall; knocked loose by the attack from above.

One of the larger branches snapped as Void and Light broke it at its base. That branch had to be a kilometer long, and it had to weigh millions of tons. From this lower distance, it barely moved, but Erick could tell it had likely fallen hundreds of meters already. Erick only barely registered those facts, for Koropo was already yelling,

“We’re fine!” Warchief Koropo roared, “Wyrmrest can arrest that fall. It’ll take more than that to wound him.”

Almost disbelieving that the Arbor actually could do what Koropo said he could, Erick watched, as the star-filled Domain in the manasphere all around them turned into something denser. Stars seemed to rise out of nothing, soaring upward. Light flickered high above.

Erick flickered an Ophiel closer, and watched, as what was likely a [Gravity Ward] sized for the branch itself, took hold of the air around the falling branch. The ponderous weight fell a bit more, but soon slowed, and then reversed course, floating back into the sky. Back into position, to where the fractured stump of the limb’s base stuck out from Wyrmrest’s top like a mangled and half-missing finger. Wood flowed like water. The branch reattached. Falling starfruit turned to energy to soak into the Arbor himself. Star-filled mana pulsed out from Arbor Wyrmrest, stifling fires all around, repairing buildings, and healing many, many orcols who had been hurt by all the fighting. Wyrmrest did not heal everyone, though. Erick watched as a line of Cultists toward the east, or perhaps they were just opportunists, who were balanced against the defenders at a bank, were suddenly overrun by guards that could not be harmed. Heads rolled.

Erick came back to himself, as the rains began to fall. He sent a few Ophiel over to Arbor Home, to have them become radiant funnels to personally control the rain, to drown fires, to do for Arbor Home what she could not currently do herself.

The attack over there, led by Elder Atanaro-Home, who Erick had briefly seen, was done, too. Cultists, either dead or in chains, were locked into [Woodshape]d barrel-like containers with only their heads poking up from the wood. Most of those people were just dead, though.

