As Erick’s broken Mana Regen gradually ticked up, he gradually felt more and more nauseous, but he toughened through it. The edges of his soul flickered, breaking, but they were small breaks; barely noticeable. He could do this. He summoned enough Ophiel to bring him back to full, then had them buff themselves into reflective sunforms, and had them run [Hunter’s Instincts] and [Mana Sight]. He sent them in.

Syllea was ready this time. She saw Ophiel approach, and she smiled.

She touched the world, and the world responded. For a kilometer all around her, trees, each hundreds of meters tall, turned to ash, not even turning to fire, first. Ash wrapped around ash, a hundred columns of the stuff at the same time, turning denser, harder, then flashing over into something sparkling and sharp. Diamonds. A hundred swords, each fifty meters long, each made of sparking diamond. They twirled into the air, half of them surrounding Syllea like they were shields, the other half spinning around her like she was a blender.

The air whispered, “I can make diamonds, too.”

The sun beat down on the new clearing in the Forest, glittering off of a hundred diamond swords as those swords fell into the telekinetic control of the one who made them.

The first Ophiel cast a thousand point [Grand Dispel] right at Syllea, but the spell caught on a sword. Every single diamond sword briefly faltered. They did not disappear. They were not summoned constructs, but actual diamonds.

Syllea mumbled, “Do better.”

She reasserted her control over those diamond swords much faster than should have been possible. Another Ophiel cast another [Grand Dispel] at her, faltering her swords again. But she controlled them right away, reasserting her control much quicker than the first time. Erick ran through his Ophiel, one right after the other, each one casting a thousand mana [Grand Dispel], each hoping to strip away whatever control Syllea had over those swords. Some of the swords fell out of her power, but she maintained enough control over some of them to turn them into missiles, or cleaving edges, catching two of Erick’s Ophiel with what were obviously some sort of [Strike]s that also avoided the necessity of the Script Second.

Two Ophiel exploded, followed quickly by two more. An Ophiel threw a [Harmonic Blood Ooze] for 8000 mana at Syllea, before Syllea carved that Ophiel in two. Syllea tried to block the blob with a sword, but the red blob sailed through the sword and crashed into Syllea’s brightness.

The next [Grand Dispel] onto the swords brought a much larger falter than before, as the blood ooze soaked into Syllea’s prismatic form, bursting a single bit of shadow, before it went dormant again for another Script Second.

Syllea ripped one of her swords through her own body, scattering her form, but failing to dislodge the ooze—

No. Her body reformed well away from the blood ooze, dropping the offending bit of magic to the ground.

“Ha,” Syllea laughed, once, then went silent, as her swords swept through the sky.

“Stop using Quick spells!” Erick said, “It makes you much harder to take down without hurting you!”

Syllea laughed again, louder this time, giving three chuckles before falling silent, all the while swinging swords through Ophiels. The feathered [Familiar]s began to dodge her attacks; it took a bit of practice, but they had acclimated to her cadence.

Poi’s voice briefly came to Erick, ‘Backup cannot get close to her, but she seems focused on you. They want you to wear her out. Bayth will appear when Syllea is weaker.’

A hundred swords, each a hundred meters long, whipped through the air, filling the battle with a great keening sound as swords turned to little more than blurs. Ophiels popped off manually-cast [Force Beam]s, a dozen apiece, attempting to carve into the maelstrom of slicing diamond, while simultaneously getting into a rhythm of their own, each one popping off a [Grand Dispel] when they could, and switching it up with a [Harmonic Counterspell] against whatever auras Syllea flooded into the battlefield. Swords sometimes shattered. Shards became even more dangerous than the swords, carving through Ophiels like telekinetically controlled swarms, before coming back together, reforming the diamond sword it had been before.

Erick sent back, ‘She has a lot more mana than I thought she would!’

Bayth’s voice came to Erick, ‘She’s manually restoring her mana. It’s a trick she learned long ago, and the Rage lets her do it effortlessly.’

‘What about rad condensation?’ Erick asked, as another ten seconds of the battle passed, and he summoned an Ophiel with practically every single one of his Script Seconds. while waiting for his mana to refill enough that he could cast something larger. ‘And why can’t I [Dispel] her [Prismatic Form]? Why are my [Counterspells]s not landing properly?’

Bayth instantly sent, ‘I can’t tell you her secrets. She can, when she comes back from the edge.’

‘Just tell me if it’s her Domain, Bayth.’

‘… I cannot tell you her secrets.’

So it was her Domain. Erick had a lot of tricks left to learn about Domains.

Erick let his conversation with Bayth go, and focused on Syllea.

The woman was a four-meter tall pillar of light and fire and darkness that bled into her surroundings like a blot of radiant watercolors. And Erick’s current tactics were not working. Syllea cut down three Ophiel at the same time as she stepped across the battlefield like a woman taking a stroll through a garden, picking off Ophiels like she was selecting flowers for her bonnet. She was acclimating to this fight much, much faster than Erick.

Just to be sure that he wasn’t missing something obvious, he threw a [Prismatic Breaker] at Syllea, right as she advanced on an Ophiel. Briefly, she flickered, her light and power fading, before coming back even stronger than before. The next [Prismatic Breaker] failed completely, as Syllea laughed like she had just heard the best joke in the world. All the while, she continued her slice across her targeted Ophiel, sundering the [Familiar] with a [Quick Strike], or something similar. Erick wasn’t quite sure how she was able to cast so many spells so fast, but she was certainly stronger than any of the Shades he had ever met… Or maybe not. Hard to say, really.

Was she manually casting every single one of her spells? Maybe she was.

Erick tried a new tactic.

With a coordinated cast, several Ophiel dodged, as they pulsed mana. High above, where the sky was bright and clear, motes of Force coalesced into something stronger. An inevitability took hold of the upper range of the fight, waiting to fall as it could.

Syllea glanced upward, then paused, wondering why the spell wasn’t coming down faster.

And that was enough of a distraction. Every single Ophiel released their Handy Aura. They attempted to grapple the diamond swords. Most of those telekinetic, airy hands failed to do more than get cut by the spinning swords. Some managed to grab. Some even managed to hold on. It was enough. [Teleport Object] sent those swords away. About ten kilometers back the way Syllea had come, actually.

One second saw the removal of seven swords. Two seconds saw the removal of six more swords from the fight, for Syllea had cut down an Ophiel while he tried to blip away the sword. Syllea’s joy temporarily turned curious, then angry, as she frowned, and every single sword became a mess of prismatic might. Erick was waiting for that. A [Harmonic Counterspell] from one of his fresh Ophiel negated Syllea’s magic just long enough for the removal of even more swords. If she wanted to get more she’d have to get to more trees, but she didn’t look interested in that. She only had lightning-eyes for Ophiel, and she was determined to take him down. Syllea tried something else, but an Ophiel had snaked a Handy Aura hand close enough to her rainbow form.

A blip moved Syllea up, up, all the way to the edge of the Script, high, high above, putting her even further out of the range of backup physical objects, like those swords. Ophiel followed her into the sky.

‘Where did she go?!’ demanded Bayth.

Poi answered, ‘To the edge of the Script. Erick didn’t want her to have any more resources and she was going to overcome the removal of her swords soon enough.’

An Ophiel was already waiting for Syllea to appear. This time, when the Archmage crashed into Ophiel’s bubble of a body with its reflective interior, Ophiel swarmed, and locked her inside, flooding the area with a [Domain of Light], denying almost all other resources to Syllea. It was enough of a mode-shift that Syllea flexed out several Quick spells that instantly turned to sparkles, giving the rest of Erick’s Ophiel enough time to swarm upward, and lock the Raging archmage behind even more reflecting [Lodestar] forms.

Syllea flashed some bright spell at them, only to have it bounce around inside the cage of Ophiels. Another ten Quick spells flexed out, some of them turning to weak light, some of them turning to sparkles, and nothing more. Erick did not relax, instead, he focused harder.

Erick watched through an Ophiel’s [Mana Sight] and through another Ophiel’s mana sense as Syllea began flickering with some test spells, small things, taking control of the air around her with gentle brightness. Erick didn’t even bother counterspelling those attempts at magic. The airblades she made with the bright air merely bounced from Ophiel’s reflective surfaces, while the air itself was more like a gentle breeze, once the magic was stripped from it.

The flat horizon had become a curve of green all around as the blue sky was replaced with utter black, and stars glittered just beyond the Edge of magic. Syllea’s rainbow watercolors began to shift, and expand. This was her Domain and her [Prismatic Body], for sure. Erick hoped he could withstand it with his own Domain, half-removed from his personal control.

Bright fire bloomed inside of Ophiel’s cage, while luminescent ice crashed upon the other side. Erick selectively let that ice crash through, not bothering to defend where he didn’t need to defend, for Syllea was not just using her Domain to push against Erick’s, she was also trying to escape, and with his mana sense and Ophiel’s [Mana Sight], Erick watched as the fire part was her main body, and the ice part was not.

The ice crashed through Ophiel, taking some of Syllea’s radiance with it. The small bits of Syllea that managed to escape, just dissipated. Her main form remained inside. Erick watched as she tried again, flickering light and shadows in different directions, but she was in the light, and the shadows were just a diversion.

Erick realized a flaw in his prison a second before Syllea realized the same. He had a second and third Ophiel flicker around the first Ophiel, forming a compound shell, just in case Syllea tried to trick him with her own control over her mana. In case she pretended to be the larger bit of herself, but was actually the smaller bit.

Syllea flexed out a hundred bolts of radiant ice. Erick let some of that ice get through, into the next shell of Ophiel.

Syllea, much diminished, fell into the second shell of Ophiel, while her main power remained behind. Erick quickly extricated that main part of her body from the prison, leaving Syllea in the second shell, while the radiant watercolors in the first shell naturally lost cohesion; like sugar dissolving into tea, Syllea’s former intent-filled body dissolved back into the manasphere.

Erick held Syllea onto the inner surface of that second Ophiel, then constricted the shell, pulling Syllea together into a small space perfectly sized for her, as he spoke through Ophiel, “We have your brother in custody. You won’t be able to attend the execution unless you can be a part of Polite Society again.”

She suddenly turned fully physical, abandoning her [Greater Prismatic Body]. Red, prismatic lightning flickered in her eyes, but she said nothing.

Erick would have to ask her, later, if she had never learned how to recreate the [Teleport] spells, for surely she could have gotten away if she had learned those magics. But that thought was gone as soon as it occurred. Syllea cast a few more low mana spells at her Ophiel cage, before trying to trick Erick with a sudden expenditure of mana. She held her hand up and out, and mana roared. An Ophiel beyond her cage, but with a part of himself sticking through the reflective surface of that inner Ophiel, tried to [Harmonic Counterspell] Syllea’s new major magic. That second Ophiel popped as his entire existence was demanded to pay the cost of that [Harmonic Counterspell]. It still wasn’t enough.

A tiny star appeared on Syllea’s open palm.

… A tiny star packed with enough mana to beggar Erick back when he was wearing that +150 All Stat belt. Not a trick, then!

Syllea let the star go, a manic smile upon her face, showing her joy to the world as a pit of dread opened up inside of Erick and threatened to consume him entirely. He reacted with a [Teleport Other], shoving Syllea a hundred kilometers toward the north.

He had barely been fast enough. Every Ophiel around the blossoming star instantly vanished, as waves of Void and Light and Syllea’s Domain, no doubt, flashed through the world like a concentrated supernova. A few Ophiel managed to get away, or to reflect most of Syllea’s major spell away from them, but many did not.

Erick frantically conjured Ophiel, sending them on their way, as Syllea’s [Supernova] continued to fill the sky with power.

The archmage was laughing as she fell through the sky, blood dripping from her nose, her right hand missing and spurting blood; the hand she had used to hold the [Supernova]. Blood splashed through the air as Ophiels recaptured the Archmage on a fluffy bed of light, inside a [Domain of Light], while more Ophiels rushed over as fast as Erick could summon them. One of them brought Erick’s rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] from his hotel room at Arbor O’kabil.

But before the healing could start, and while Syllea was still giggling like a schoolgirl, Erick cast a [Drain Mana Ward] into the air around her. Giggles turned to Rage again, and Erick doubled up her temporary trap with a [Drain Health Ward], too. Syllea went from Raging and slamming the fluffy edge of Ophiel with her fist and her stump, to ripping at her own skin with long fingernails, and the edge of her broken radius and ulna bones, as the itchiness of the [Drain Health Ward] fully flowed around her. She tried casting a small spell, but Erick saw that it was small, and let it happen. The resulting flash of blood impacted her imprisoning Ophiel, and rebounded, clipping Syllea on the shoulder. She glared at her soft, reflective prison, and tried something a bit larger.

