“Metal. I cannot pick it up so easily. I will conjure something to gather it tonight. Now. You did not answer my question. Who are you?”
She gazed back at Ryoka. The young woman hesitated.
“Just…a City Runner.”
Belavierr stared at her.
“Even were I immortal, I would know that as a lie.”
She paused.
“It matters not. What matters is that my second death comes. And my daughter is wroth with me. She was pleased I lived. Yet…hates me equally well.”
The words came slowly. Ryoka nodded.
“I think she does, yeah.”
Belavierr’s lips moved.
“I do not remember my own mother. Why does Wiskeria feel so? Because of who I am? Because of what I do? How strange. When did she think so? I can remember when she grew angry with me. Back then I had no understanding of it. Now—I understand. But she is a [Witch]. And she lacks a true craft. She is a [General] serving an [Emperor]. How has she strayed from her path? And she hates me. Why?”
Belavierr mused to herself. She seemed…confused. The other [Witches] exchanged glances. At last, Belavierr looked up.
“I must find Wiskeria.”
She walked away. At least there, she was the same. Ryoka watched her vanish in moments, striding with unnatural speed across the ground. Ryoka let out her breath and looked around, wide-eyed. She wasn’t the only one. Even Mavika and Califor were blinking more than usual. Alevica was practically tearing her hat in two.
“What the hell was that?”
Mavika’s eyes focused on the distant Belavierr.
“She has come back to herself. That was Belavierr of old. In the times since I have met her, she has grown more distant. Now, her soul hidden behind her web now burned away. Whether that [Knight] did her a gift unknowing, who can say?”
Califor just exhaled hard.
“Watch her, Nanette. She has become ten times more dangerous, for all she is a hundred thousand times weaker. That is the price of immortality that she mentioned. Everything has its cost. Now, she is burnt beyond belief.”
Hedag laughed. She leaned on her axe.
“She hides it well though, eh? But what a change in her! Perhaps we’d best get any answers we want out of her now! But will it help her with Wiskeria? Or our plans with this man-[Emperor]?”
Califor shook her head, pursing her lips.
“I do not imagine so. And Eloise is at odds with Belavierr. Our coven squabbles, and our members have caused the deaths of others on this [Emperor]’s lands. A fine mess this is when we are bargaining on behalf of [Witches] across Izril. And the sky remains clear.”
Her glare took in everyone. Ryoka paused, her head still spinning.
“Wait, what was that about clear skies?”
Alevica rolled her eyes.
“Oh, nothing. Just the fact that it hasn’t rained and I haven’t seen a cloud for over a week now. That strike you as strange, Griffin?”
She pointed up at the clear skies. Ryoka felt sweat beading on her forehead. It was hot. She’d assumed it was just an early summer heat. But…she paused. And she really looked around.
Not at the weapons on the ground. Or the burnt places where Ser Raim’s fire had ignited the earth, or the torn places where the battle’s scars remained. At the village itself. The surrounding forest.
It was all…dry. Alevica and Califor were right. It hadn’t rained in, what, over a week? Even longer? Ryoka couldn’t remember. She recalled hating the rain right up until about when the [Witches] had arrived, but she hadn’t noticed the dryness except to complain about it.
But today, the heat and Alevica pointing it out made Ryoka notice how dry the grass was. It was yellowed, practically dead. The earth was equally parched underfoot. Only the [Farmers]’ fields were at all green, and that was because of Riverfarm’s river and the watering the villagers were doing.
It was dry. Unnaturally dry. Ryoka turned to Miss Califor.
“I thought it was just odd weather. Is there something magical about this, Miss Califor?”
The [Witch] nodded once. Her severe expression was tinged with annoyance.
“Someone has cast a working on the sky. Someone informed the Order of Seasons of Belavierr’s whereabouts. And someone slew Mavika’s coven. These events may be linked, or they may not. I came here to speak to this [Emperor], not to endanger Nanette. I would not have brought her had I known. It seems there is something afoot. And I will find out what it is.”
Her eyes narrowed dangerously. Ryoka hesitated. She felt for whoever got on the receiving end of Califor’s wrath. But she had no idea…
Ryoka paused. She frowned. No, wait. She had a few hints. Clues. She gazed at Miss Califor, then surreptitiously checked the expressions of the rest of the coven present.
Alevica was frowning up at the sky and muttering about Belavierr—but very quietly. Nanette was staring up at Miss Califor, worried. Hedag was picking at her teeth. And Mavika and Califor were looking straight at Ryoka. She hesitated. And then she backed away. As she headed back to Riverfarm at a run, she felt it too.
Suspicion in the air. If all of this were the result of someone’s doing. Then who? And why?
And—what would Wiskeria make of her mother now? Ryoka got five steps into the village when she got the answer to that question, at least. Wiskeria’s scream rang through the air, and then Belavierr came walking past Ryoka. She seemed miffed, a new expression on her face. Purple flames burned on her dark clothing and then extinguished themselves. Ryoka stared at Belavierr. The [Witch] stared back.
“Weak magic. My daughter has yet to find her craft.”
Coming from her, it sounded like the only problem in the world.
 
 
Day 67 – Durene
 
“Is it wrong I wanted her to live? When I realized she might actually die—when I saw that [Knight], I thought—‘oh. He might actually do it.’ And I was terrified, Durene. I didn’t want to lose her. Then—I did. Both. I’m so inconsistent. I always thought people who didn’t know themselves were fools. Now look at me.”
Wiskeria sat in Durene’s cottage. Tears ran from her eyes. Real tears, Durene realized, not ones Wiskeria had produced for the moment.
Durene sat with her. Charlay had run away. And Ryoka was talking with Prost. But really, they had both run away. Wiskeria’s eyes were red. Her nose ran despite Durene’s handkerchief, which had done its best. She seemed nothing like a [Witch]. She looked like, well, a young woman.
For once, the composed Wiskeria wept. Durene was the worst person here and just kept patting her hand. She didn’t know what to say.
Durene had never had a fight with her mother. She’d never had a mother she knew. She envied Wiskeria, in a way. Envied and understood. Because she knew what it was like to have a monster for a parent. But one that was living?
The half-Troll girl had seen what Belavierr had done. She had seen Ser Raim die. And she had seen evil. Evil smiled as a man swayed from a tree branch. Evil threatened to murder families and children. And that was Belavierr. Durene had never feared anything as much as her. Because she had no idea what to do. Belavierr couldn’t be stopped. She couldn’t be reasoned with. She was…
A monster. But one who cared for her daughter. Yet her daughter clearly wished that were the opposite.
“It would be so much easier if she didn’t care for me. But I am the one person she would ever do a favor for without a price. She has stories of bargaining with the Immortal Tyrant, fleecing Dragons, but for me, she stayed when she might die.”
“That’s, um—a good thing, isn’t it?”
“A brave man lies dead for that. Not just him. Dozens of [Knights]—dead. And war between Kaliv and Pheislant’s Order of Seasons? Ostevien! She used him to manipulate the Griffin Queen to war.”
Durene had no idea where all these places were, but to Wiskeria, it was obvious.
“My fault, Durene. Even when she does me a favor, it twists for her. She lays traps and plans for every contingency. That’s why I thought she could never die. And now someone nearly did it? I don’t recognize her. Was that my mother, before? Who is this? What is she? She talks. She’s different!”
“What’re you going to do?”
“I don’t know. I don’t know. But I can’t let her do this anymore. I can’t—I became a [Witch] because of her. But I am not a full [Witch] because I am always in her shadow. I ran away to find who I was without her. And she has found me, and I am her daughter again, bringing grief because of her affection.”
Wiskeria looked at her hands. She was crying. Durene reached out and patted Wiskeria on the shoulder. But the tears, like everything else, had run out. And Wiskeria’s sobs soon turned dry. Then, she just sat and bowed her head. The terrible look in her eyes scared Durene far more than Wiskeria’s wrath or sadness.
“Why don’t we find Eloise? Or—Ryoka? She said we have a problem.”
Durene offered the suggestion as an alternative to sitting in silence. Wiskeria glanced up after a moment and nodded. She got up and stared at the mess of a handkerchief. Durene winced.
“I can wash that—”
“Here.”
Wiskeria shook it and handed it back. Durene gingerly took it—and then realized the handkerchief was dry. Empty, too. Relieved, she smiled.
“Hey! That’s a great trick! You know a lot of tricks for a [Witch]! Even if you don’t, um, do the big things…”
The young woman’s face turned into a bitter smile. She looked up at Durene. And something of the dead [Hunter], Tagil’s, last expression was there.
“Yeah. You know, I think the other [Witches] always expected more of me, Durene. Because of my mother. But a [Witch] is limited by her craft. And I don’t have one. I know my mother’s secrets, some of them. I could have struck a bargain with the moon or committed dark deeds by midnight for power.”
Her eyes were serious, and Durene shivered. Wiskeria shook her head.
“—But I never did. Because that would have made me too much like her. I was always afraid of who I might become, I think. So I tried to be a—a normal [Witch]. A normal person. I became an adventurer. And Odveig, my best friend, turned out to be an imposter. I haven’t been that much happier by running away.”
“I didn’t mean that.”
Durene looked down. Wiskeria smiled.
“I know. Come on.”
They left the cottage. Wiskeria strode down the dry dirt road. Durene followed warily. But Wiskeria wasn’t about to be stopped.
Riverfarm was quiet. People worked, then rested in the shade. The air was hot and dry. But what exhausted the body was the atmosphere. It was tense. Stifling. Fights broke out for no reason. Arguments began and halted as people saw the pointed hat. But the fear—the fear was the root. Durene was no [Witch], but she could feel it.
“You see? Mother’s everything that makes [Witches] hated.”
Wiskeria whispered as she gazed around. Durene walked with her through the village, searching for Ryoka. The [Witch] went on.
“And yet, it doesn’t have to be this way. Eloise. Hedag. Even Mavika, in a way. People don’t hate them. Some of them saw the good. I can feel it. They’re an inch from turning on us. If they weren’t terrified of Mother, they would. But they liked us. It’s still there. Buried.”
“You can show them again. Riverfarm has good people in it. Even the folks from Lancrel can see.”
Durene saw Wiskeria shake her head.
“No. So long as she’s here, she’ll always remind them of what we can be at our worst. She is the most powerful [Witch] I know. And the darkest.”
 
——
 
They found Ryoka in Rie’s cottage. The young woman was panting. And Charlay was drinking greedily from a flask of water. Durene glared at both, but the two Runner girls had uncharacteristically grave expressions. Rie was tracing a finger across a map.
“So, that appears to be, what? A fifty mile radius?”
“At least. Charlay made it way farther than I did. We both took about an hour and some to go out there, and we saw dry grass ahead. So yeah, fifty miles at least.”
Charlay pawed the ground as she splashed some water on her face and the floor and Ryoka.
“I thought I spied some green at the end of my run. But Ryoka’s right. It’s dry. All the streams have dried up.”
Prost leaned over the table, his brow knotted with worry as it always seemed to be these days.
“Why didn’t we notice it before?”
“It seemed natural to me after all that rain. This felt like an early summer heat wave. And it’s not like we didn’t have enough to worry about. It’s just these last few days that have been hot—”
Ryoka glanced up as Wiskeria and Durene stopped in the doorway. Her expression was grave. Durene opened her mouth. Wiskeria beat her.
“What has my mother done this time?”
“Nothing. We have a new problem. It’s still not rained.”
Ryoka outlined the issue succinctly. There wasn’t much to say. Durene had noticed the lack of water, of course. She’d been working the farm rotation, helping water the crops. Because Riverfarm was fed by the river, they’d been able to keep growing what they wanted. But outside the village, everything was drying up. According to Ryoka, it wasn’t natural.
“The [Witches] say it might be magic causing the drought. Califor’s certain. Which makes me certain it is something. The question is—is it one of them? The Circle of Thorns? The Order of Seasons? Someone else?”
“What makes you think the Order of Seasons had anything to do with this? They targeted Belavierr. And they are an extremely honorable order.”
Lady Rie seemed insulted. Ryoka raised her eyebrows.
“They’re called the ‘Order of Seasons’. I imagine they could do something like that.”
“Maybe it’s my mother. It sounds like something she’d do.”
Wiskeria’s expression was still bleak. Ryoka paused. Everyone in the room looked at Wiskeria. Their expressions ranged from sympathy to quiet appraisal. Ryoka paused.
“Could she do that?”
“Weather magic. Stitch magic. My mother could probably do it if she wanted to. Maybe someone paid her.”
Ryoka paused for a second and then shook her head.
“She might. I’ll…ask her. And the coven, to see if they know anything. But what could affect the weather for so many days? Anyone? Even the wind feels slack.”
She paused and bit her lip. Wiskeria and Lady Rie both glanced at each other. Wiskeria frowned.
“A few things can change weather. [Witches], for one. We know rituals. Also, [Weather Mages]. Some artifacts, although they’re rare. Magical scrolls, of course, but they’re too expensive for regular people to use. You’d have to use a bunch to keep the weather straight for days on end. And…maybe [Druids]? Those are the ones I can think of. I guess you could be a [Water Mage] and shoot water into the air or something.”
Rie nodded.
