The [Witch] pursed her lips.
“Perhaps. But we would rather do it on a full moon, at the height of our strength. We have used much saving Alevica. She is still healing, so our coven is incomplete. And Belavierr—we could attempt one tonight. But Miss Ryoka, I fear we lack the power to shift whatever is affecting this weather. None of us specialize in weather magic.”
She looked directly at Ryoka, then at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch’s silence seemed to indicate she was too weak to help at the moment. As for Ryoka? The City Runner hesitated. She nodded at last.
“Please try, then. Tonight.”
Eloise nodded. That left Ryoka with Charlay and Durene. The City Runner paced.
“The [Witches] might manage to lift the spell. Unless they’re behind it.”
“Or that [Witch Hunter] is actually a [Weather Mage] of some sort.”
Charlay pawed the ground nervously. Durene restlessly clenched and unclenched her fists. They could feel it too. Something—Ryoka looked around. The wind was so silent. Something was controlling it too. She sat down at the table. And she tried to force a connection.
“What do we know? Either it’s a mysterious hunter who’s been lurking about, someone we haven’t seen, or a [Witch]. And the motive’s clearly to hurt Riverfarm. Maybe even start some fires. Who knows? But more importantly, who gains from this?”
Charlay frowned. Ryoka went on, thumping the heels of her hands into her forehead.
“Who wins if Riverfarm collapses? If Belavierr dies as well? The Circle of Thorns, right? Or…”
She looked up.
“Magnolia Reinhart. She’s not a fan of Laken. And I bet she doesn’t want someone like Belavierr around.”
“Magnolia Reinhart?”
Durene seemed astonished and worried. Charlay started, but Ryoka was already pulling back from the idea as soon as she voiced it.
“No. No—this isn’t her style. She doesn’t kill innocent people. I think. The Circle of Thorns, then.”
But she had no proof. No proof of anything. Ryoka rested her head in her hands. She sat there, her mind running in circles, slamming into invisible walls. She was missing something. She couldn’t see what the angle was. She had no proof.
She only moved when she heard the voice. It rang from rooftop to rooftop in Riverfarm. It was a shout. A call. A challenge. It broke through Ryoka’s stupor. Wiskeria’s voice.
“Mother!”
There she stood. A [Witch] wearing a dark blue hat. She stood in the middle of the street. And a [Witch] wearing a wide hat with ringed eyes and a dress as dark as her sins walked to meet her. Ryoka stumbled out of the house. And Riverfarm gathered.
Furtively. Hanging back. They feared her. But they came anyways. For spectacle, perhaps. Out of fear of what new event might befall them. But perhaps—perhaps also because of hope. Because on one side stood a monster. The Stitch Witch. On the other, her daughter. And the people of Riverfarm knew Wiskeria.
She held her wand. And another hand held her hat. The [Witch] faced her mother. And Belavierr walked towards her. She ignored the looks. She had eyes only for her daughter.
“Daughter. Have you found your craft? Do you hate me still?”
“Yes. And yes, Mother. I have told you once and again. I cannot forgive what you do.”
Belavierr sighed. But her eyes were focused on Wiskeria.
“Daughter. I am a [Witch]. You know what this means. If you cannot accept me, how can you accept any of our kind? Shall I tell you of Mavika’s sins? She has done black deeds and fair. What is the difference between she and I?”
Mavika stood in the crowd, waiting. Califor and Nanette walked to join them. Hedag and Eloise waited, faces expectant. Alevica slept. Wiskeria shook her head. And she looked past Belavierr at Mavika.
“I know what Mavika has done. Or I can guess. But, Mother—it may be selfish. But I only care about you. You alone I cannot forgive. Because I see what you do. So. I’m telling you here and now that I will stop you. I believe there are laws that [Witches] should obey. I believe we should obey them. My coven tells me that [Witches] cannot exist in cities. And I have been a [Witch], and I have walked through cities as an adventurer. I say—we can be [Witches] even under law. And I will be that [Witch].”
She spoke the words, focusing on her mother’s eyes. And Belavierr sighed. The expectant light faded from her.
“Daughter. Laws bind us. Laws constrain us. To be a [Witch] is to follow our passions. What passion, what craft have you that could exist in a city?”
“My passion, Mother, is born out of my disgust for you! Don’t you see? You are what I want to stop!”
Wiskeria cried out, and Belavierr’s eyes flickered. She stood taller, and the shadows rose around her.
“And what could such a [Witch] take? Goodwill from those you help? Fleeting gratitude? Anger from those you oppose? Daughter, what is your craft?”
She gazed at the faces of the people around her. And the Stitch Witch’s eyes showed only contempt. Riverfarm’s people shouted at her. But their anger burnt away before her stare. Their hope turned to ash in their mouths. She took their fear and hatred. Leaving Wiskeria with…
Nothing? No. Ryoka felt it in her chest too. Even as Belavierr’s eyes filled her with fear. Something—a longing that even Belavierr’s horror couldn’t touch. Ser Raim had given it fire. And Wiskeria pulled it from Ryoka. She raised her wand. And the wind blew. Ryoka looked up. Belavierr’s eyes widened. And the [Witches] stared. Wiskeria pointed up and closed her eyes. She spoke a word.
“Justice.”
A bolt of lightning fell from the skies. It flashed down and struck Belavierr.
The world rocked. Stray jolts of electricity arced onto the ground, igniting pieces of wood, the street—the force of the explosion cratered the ground. A killing spell for all but its target.
Witch Belavierr? She was knocked backwards, onto the ground, and lay on her back, staring up at the sky. Uninjured.
Of course she was. Yet even if she wore a bitter smile—Wiskeria caught the lightning as it tried to flee in every direction. She held it for a second. And it shone in her hands. Then she aimed it back up into the sky. The bolt split the heavens.
Belavierr stared up at her daughter from where she had been flung to the ground. And Wiskeria swept her hat from her head and bowed. Mockingly. Challengingly. And Riverfarm screamed her name.
“I will never be a [Witch] like you. I will be something else. Something better. And I swear I will stop you. Even if it takes me my entire life, I will become a [Witch] who can end what you do! That is my craft! And this is my magic!”
She pointed at Belavierr and turned away. The Stitch Witch lay there. And Wiskeria’s coven watched their [Witch]. All of them slowly raised their hats and tipped them. Hedag was laughing. Eloise smiled with pure delight. Califor nodded, and Mavika smiled for a moment. Nanette’s eyes were shining.
And Belavierr? She lay on her back as Riverfarm’s people dispersed. A black shadow on the ground. Ryoka went over to her. And she looked down as Belavierr stared up at the sky. The Stitch Witch’s face was expressionless. And then—
She beamed. Ryoka jumped back. Around her, people were stomping on the stray sparks, applauding Wiskeria or following her—Nanette was slapping at a burning ember with her hat.
Belavierr spoke upwards, a smile on her face, as Ryoka stared at her.
“My daughter has a purpose.”
She sat up in one motion. And she stood in another. She regarded Ryoka, delighted. Ecstatic. Ryoka stared at her.
“But she hates you.”
Belavierr paused. Something like sorrow flickered in her gaze. And something else.
“If it is hating me, I will be her hate. That is my love for her. But let her be a better [Witch] than I. But let her live. Ryoka Griffin, the threads draw closer. Can you see whence my death comes?”
“No. I’m missing something. I don’t know what. I can’t figure out what this is all about!”
The City Runner shook her head. Her heart was pounding. Belavierr leaned forwards.
“You lack a thread. Then see it. This is what you seek. I see it. Tell me my death.”
She pointed. And Ryoka saw Nesor running towards her. The [Mage] had a bit of parchment in his hands.
“A [Message] from Laken! Miss Ryoka—”
The City Runner snatched the parchment from his hands. Belavierr turned away. She smiled as she left. And Ryoka read. She blinked. And read again.
 
Ryoka. I scanned every part of my lands for a guy with a hat like you mentioned lurking about. No one. I missed the fire, but it wasn’t [Bandits]. Beniar rode down the last of them yesterday. Only travellers on the road look like a few Runners, some travellers including those refugees, and a…lizard-person [Merchant]? Drake? No [Hunter] either way.
“No hunter? But—”
Ryoka’s mind whirled. Could he have escaped? But Laken’s vision as [Emperor] was perfect. Could you cheat it? She looked at Nesor. The young [Mage]’s face was pale. Ryoka turned.
“You said it was the last clue. But how—”
Belavierr was gone. Ryoka stared after her. And then she slowly peered down at the parchment.
A man. A [Witch Hunter]. Or so she’d thought.
‘Izril has few of my kind, I’m sorry to say, although we’ve been present in greater numbers in times past.’
A stranger who appeared on the roads. Who never got too close. He’d never said who he was.
‘[Witches] tend to see right through me, and I think I’d be at odds with them.’
The fake [Witch Hunters] had done their utmost to escape Califor rather than have her inspect them. He’d tried to kill Alevica when he’d had the chance, but he’d stayed far away from the older [Witches].
He’d told Alevica he was a…scout. A hunter who dealt in retribution in fire. Ryoka’s pulse began to accelerate.
That smile. That huge, grinning, toothy smile. The kind that made Humans uneasy. Because people didn’t smile like that. It was a sign of aggression. But Ryoka remembered a city where people smiled like that. Every. Single. Day. Two species smiled like that.
And one of them could fly. A few of them. There used to be more. Ryoka looked down at the parchment. Laken had said ‘non-Humans’ the first time. And this time—no one had ever mentioned a Drake [Merchant].
“Nesor. Send a [Message] back to Laken. Ask him what this Drake looks like.”
The [Mage] paused. Slowly, he put his fingers on his temples. He spoke the response.
“He has scrolls, Ryoka. Lots of scrolls. And wings.”
You could change the weather with scrolls. They were really expensive, though. But why? Ryoka didn’t know why. But she was certain. And before she could ask a second question, Nesor spoke urgently.
“Ryoka. He’s breathing fire. I saw it. He just set a village on fire. Eighteen miles northeast, down the northern road heading left at the crossroads. He has a camp in a stand of trees. Hurry!”
Ryoka’s blood ran cold in a mortal terror.
“Mavika! Get—get Mavika! And Califor! I know who he is! We have to stop him—now!”
Ryoka spun. She screamed a name. Mavika looked up. Ryoka ran. And now the pieces fit. All but one.
 
—–
 
She understood who he was. What he was doing. But not why. If she thought about it, she would understand. But it wasn’t something that tied him to Riverfarm. He had never come here before. And he bore this place no great hatred. It was just a place.
But an [Emperor] called it home. That was enough. The man looked up as the crows flew towards him. He sighed as they sped towards him, a murder seeking his death. Then the man grinned. That toothy grin that was the only flaw in a perfect disguise. He shed the illusion spell.
“It seems my time is up.”
The bronze-scaled Drake flexed his wings. The crows paused, wheeling, and then dove. The Drake didn’t fly. He just inhaled as the crows dove through the foliage he was hiding in. And he exhaled.
Fire blasted upwards. Fire, bright and glorious. The flock of crows diving towards the Oldblood Drake screamed and burned. The rest fled, and the [Witch] screamed her wrath, miles distant. The Drake laughed and walked out of the fire.
He didn’t fear the heat. Far hotter heat burned in his veins. He was a child of Dragons. And his blood had thrown truest. He spread his wings. And he did fly then. The Drake mused as he took wing. How had they found him? Had the [Witch] he’d spared identified him?
It didn’t really matter. The preparations were done. The Drake reached for one of the scrolls he carried. He had any number of artifacts. For disguise. To change the weather. A fortune in expendable items. More than any casual Wall Lord could finance. But a Walled City?
Oh yes. A Walled City could stockpile such valuable items. And spend them in times of need. Now, the Drake took a [Message] scroll and wrote a simple line in it. He watched the ink vanish. The note was sent. His cover was blown first. So it was time.
“A day or two sooner than I’d like.”
Another day, and maybe he could have caught the [Emperor] in the plan as well. But the plan still held. No matter.
The Drake mused as he flew across the dry landscape. He beat his wings. Stared down at the scattered villages, lonely houses. They didn’t know why he was doing this. They might never know. And perhaps, they hadn’t had a choice. This new [Emperor] might have forced them to war.
It didn’t really matter. The Humans had come to Liscor to take it. They had brought war. And the Drake had his orders. So he flew down. And he exhaled a plume of fire.
Just one. But that was all it took, wasn’t it? Fire was a terrifying thing. The Drake watched the flames lick into a forest. A dry forest, one made far too dry by the weather changing spells. And the brush caught. The fire began to consume dry bark, leaves. It began to grow. The Drake flew up, satisfied. He caught the thermals. Flew towards the second patch of fuel he’d marked.
He hadn’t known the [Witches] were here. But he and the other [Infiltrators] had been ordered to adapt. It didn’t matter how it had turned out. Win or lose, [Witch] or [Knight], he hadn’t really cared. He’d paid the [Bandits] to attack the [Witches] because they were a hindrance if they spotted him. But either way, Humans had died.
And Terandria? A high-level [Summer Knight] had perished. A [Witch]—one of the old enemies of his people—had been brought low. The fires might still consume her. Both were victories for Drakes, who warred with Terandria and northern Izril. The Drake smiled as he found another forest. He breathed flame. And the tinder caught.
The dry forests began to burn. The grasslands started to blaze. The Drake fanned the flames with his wings, lighting more strategic parts..
