“Scrolls are out of the question for most individuals. I myself couldn’t afford to use more than one or two in times of emergency. If I thought this drought was natural, I might still give it four more days before I called for a [Weather Mage] or scroll.”
“Surely it’s not that expensive? I’ve known bad years before, and once Riverfarm pitched in to call on a [Weather Mage]. It did cost the earth, but we could afford it.”
Prost protested gently. Rie shook her head.
“Mister Prost, the difference is forcing a change and temporary relief or encouraging nature to be…nature, as I understand it. Calling for a sudden shower is simple, if taxing. Changing the weather to, say, start the rainy season early is more difficult, but again, possible. But outright halting the fall of rain? Halting this amount of rain over such an area? That would require a great deal of magic from one [Mage]. Or a simply exorbitant number of scrolls.”
Wiskeria rubbed at her chin.
“Or a [Witch] casting the right ritual. Or hex.”
Everyone was silent then. Ryoka looked up. The City Runner paused.
“Well, we don’t know who it is. But I think we should begin making plans and investigating the issue. I’ll ask Fierre—I also want to know how the Order of Seasons knew Belavierr was here.”
“Very well. I will see to collecting some water. We can fashion some barrels, store them…”
Rie and Prost focused on the issue of storing water as if it were some huge problem. But Durene didn’t see it. As the others left, she turned to Ryoka.
“What’s the problem? I understand it’s dry, but it doesn’t affect Riverfarm, right? We have a river, Ryoka.”
The young Asian woman gave Durene a frown.
“Yeah. But it’s not infinite. Riverfarm could run out of a river.”
“What? No, it’s a river…”
Durene chuckled. Then she saw the look on Ryoka’s face.
“What?”
“The river’s not infinite, Durene. It’s being fed by tributaries and groundwater. Haven’t you seen how low it is?”
Durene hadn’t. Nor had anyone ever explained the concept of how rivers came to be to her. Riverfarm’s river had always been there; it never occurred to Durene that the river could disappear if it stopped being fed by rain. They went to the river, and she gasped when she saw how low it was. Ryoka nodded and knelt, peering at the banks.
“Your river’s sunk three feet. What happens when it runs dry? The crops die for one. And for another…we could be in serious trouble.”
“No one can keep the weather dry forever, though. Not even the most powerful spells can hold back the natural weather.”
Wiskeria’s voice was quiet. Ryoka nodded.
“True, but we stand at risk for fires. Well—not with the river, yeah. But we’ll store some river water. Maybe we should keep some at strategic places in case a fire breaks out. I’ll—”
Then she paused. She glanced up at the same time Durene felt the tingle on her neck. Belavierr strode towards them. She didn’t appear. She just walked. And her eyes were fixed on Wiskeria. A change in the air. She still smelled of smoke. And she could die. But she felt like power.
“Daughter.”
“Mother.”
Wiskeria turned. Ryoka, Charlay, and Durene backed up. Belavierr stopped and gazed down at Wiskeria. Yesterday, Wiskeria had shot magic at her mother until she left. Today, Belavierr stood at a slight remove. Her voice was cool.
“Have you calmed, Daughter? I would speak to you of your craft. Your future. I understand you are wroth with me.”
“I’m beyond angry, Mother. Not for killing that [Knight]. For everything.”
Wiskeria shook her head. She looked at her mother. And Durene saw more than a few people from the village had followed. They were staring at Belavierr. At Wiskeria. And their faces—Belavierr paid them no mind. She glanced at Ryoka once. Charlay and Durene she ignored.
“I have lost my protections. Been torn back to mortality. I hunger and thirst and breathe. But I still do not understand your fury, Daughter. You are a [Witch]. You know what it is to be one of us. All that I have done has been to protect myself. I made no unfair deals with Rehanna.”
“But you threatened a [Prince]’s life. My friend, Ostevien. You convinced a man to kill his friends and hang himself.”
Belavierr’s eyes never changed. Nor did her voice.
“Of course. I made such deals to protect myself. The Griffin Prince accepted my bargain, even if he found it not to his liking. If I perished, he would too. I have asked nothing of him for years and asked nothing of the Griffin Queen. Merely told her who hunted me. Tagil the [Witch Hunter] chose his daughter’s life over his own. They were all free to choose.”
“You make it sound so simple.”
Wiskeria’s voice was bitter. She looked at her mother and shook her head. Belavierr sighed.
“Does death bother you? Why? I never raised you to fear it.”
“You didn’t. It took me ages to understand how other people saw such things. How to admire a man like Ser Raim. He had every right to his vengeance. You are a criminal, a murderer, and a lawbreaker, mother.”
Wiskeria shot back. Belavierr gave her daughter a blank frown, then sounded…exasperated.
“Law. That is a concept of cities. I have taught you of law. A great…friend of mine made thousands of laws. Each one more twisted than the last, each one more elegant. A law is a rod that can be walked around, ignored, bent, or broken. We are [Witches]. We act according to our craft. Our desires. You know this.”
Wiskeria exhaled.
“I do. I don’t admire what you are, Mother. I admire that dead man’s resolve. I understand every reason he tried to kill you, and I wish he had—and I am glad he didn’t. The difference is, I feel guilty about my relief. Do you understand?”
It was the same argument Durene had heard before. The one Wiskeria had wept over. She saw Ryoka’s face, sharply listening. Waiting, mouth opening, as if to break in. But she couldn’t. Belavierr sighed.
“So you say. We walk in a circle. Daughter. Nothing I do is your fault. You are not responsible for my actions. And you are my daughter. Can we not be mother and daughter?”
She reached out, and Wiskeria flinched. She held up a hand. And then she cried out to all listening.
“You don’t understand. I can’t forget what you’ve done! I can’t look away and pretend you aren’t wrong! If I could, I would be happy. But I can’t. Because I still love you, Mother! So now I am guilty, because I am two contradictory things. Because I could stop you.”
Tears unshed. And Belavierr sighed. She sighed, and Durene waited for what would come next. They were at odds, the two. Neither one changing. But today, Wiskeria’s face was pale. Her eyes were horrified. Belavierr spread her arms, welcoming, entreating. And her smile was gentle, loving perhaps—
—But also greatly amused.
“My daughter. My beloved daughter. I would do anything in my power for you. But I will not change who I am. And you cannot stop me.”
“I could try.”
Wiskeria aimed her wand at Belavierr’s back. Durene heard Belavierr sigh and turn.
“Daughter.”
“By my blood, I draw this knife. An oath cut to, an oath of strife—”
Wiskeria whispered and drew a dagger from her side. She went to cut her arm, drawing blood, which pooled around the knife’s edge. Belavierr watched, sighing, as Wiskeria flicked the knife up, holding it lightly—
“A simple charm, Daughter. As poor as Witch Alevica against me. A single sonnet against a library of high-chant, even now.”
Wiskeria jabbed—and Belavierr caught the knife-hand, twisted it, and Wiskeria grimaced, tried to draw her wand—Belavierr idly let go, and Wiskeria stumbled back.
“—Daughter. My clothes alone could ward off that blade.”
“I know.”
Wiskeria stabbed for Belavierr’s cheek, and Durene gasped in horror. Belavierr turned her head and closed her jaw as the knife went through one cheek.
No blood pooled from her face as someone shouted in horror. Wiskeria’s arm jarred, and Belavierr removed Wiskeria’s knife, opened her mouth, pulled the blade out—
Her skin stuck to the blade—but left no blood. She handed Wiskeria the knife back.
“I will teach you a better cutting charm, Daughter. Are you done throwing a tantrum? You could not stop me. Even now. My daughter, you could do so much more.”
Wiskeria backed up, eyes flashing.
“I owe my lack of craft to you, Mother. I’ve seen what it turns you into.”
That hurt more than the knife, clearly. Belavierr frowned, and Wiskeria began to chant, waving her wand.
“Cut the air and strike the skies! Enough of my mother’s lies! Strike the murderess between the eyes!”
This time, it was air. Durene saw something shift. She saw an almost invisible blade fly at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch glared.
“Enough.”
She raised a hand and slashed. Durene saw a flash of silver; Wiskeria gasped and stumbled backwards. The blade of air severed, exploded in a burst. And Belavierr lowered the needle. Her voice was coldly disappointed.
“You chant in the old way to make up for your lack of power. Even armed with knowledge of old—the [Witches] of this coven exceed you, each and every one. Including the child, Nanette. Daughter, you could be greater. But you lack a craft. You lack a source of strength!”
“I don’t need one!”
“You are nothing without a power to draw upon. I have failed to teach you. Your coven has failed you. A [Witch] who has no craft is weaker than anything else. A [Hedge Witch] has more strength. Come. You will learn from your coven if not I.”
So saying, Belavierr reached out. Wiskeria raised her wand. The Stitch Witch crooked a finger, and Wiskeria’s robes gripped her. Durene saw the cloth pulling her arm down.
“Stop!”
Wiskeria struggled, but the cloth constrained her movements. Belavierr pointed, and Wiskeria began moving sideways. Her clothes were pulling her.
“Must I treat you like a child, Daughter?”
Belavierr seemed annoyed. But she paused as an arm barred her way. Durene glanced at Ryoka. And then she realized it was her arm. The half-Troll inhaled as Belavierr gazed at her.
“Stop. She doesn’t want to go.”
They were nearly of a height. The Stitch Witch stared at Durene. And the half-Troll girl felt a lump of cold fear in her stomach.
“Move, Troll’s child.”
“No. Wiskeria doesn’t want to go with you. Let her go.”
Belavierr’s eyes flashed. Durene flinched, and Ryoka took a step forward.
“Belavierr—”
“Be silent. I give you one last warning, half-girl. Move.”
This time, the word made Durene’s heart freeze in terror. But she refused. She thought of Ser Raim. And her hands balled into fists.
“No. Make me.”
“Mother, don’t—”
The Stitch Witch ignored her daughter. She reached towards Durene. The half-Troll raised a fist.
Thunk.
An arrow sprouted out of Belavierr’s chest. She staggered. Durene jerked back. Wiskeria stumbled as the clothes let her go. She stood up, turned.
“Mother!”
Belavierr stared down at the arrow in her chest. She reached for it. And then coughed. She stumbled; that saved her from the second arrow. It hit the ground, and Durene looked around wildly. Who was shooting?
“Stop!”
Ryoka shouted, and air blasted around them. The City Runner was glancing around as Charlay dashed to one side. The Centauress had the most wits about her; she kicked the ground, whipping up dust, and screamed as she zig-zagged into it.
“Move, you idiots! Get behind cover!”
“Mother—”
Wiskeria had rushed to Belavierr’s side. She looked around desperately for the archer, but they were nowhere in sight. Belavierr was coughing. Choking. Then her eyes focused. She raised a trembling hand, the same one that held the needle. She flicked it, spitting out a word.
“Seek. Kill.”
She flung the needle. With her other hand, she pulled the arrow out of her chest, grimacing.
Someone screamed, and there was a panic as Belavierr sank to one knee. Yet she was just inspecting the hole in her chest, deep, red, and bloody.
However, she stood back up in a moment and spoke as if she’d just pricked her finger on a pin rather than been shot through the chest. Wiskeria had lunged forwards, but hesitated.
“Mother? Are you alright?”
“I am fine, Daughter. But I must heal. Anti-magic. Evercut Arrow. Whomever shot this meant me to die. Alas…I am still I.”
Her smile was victorious, and Wiskeria’s expression of worry turned to anger. Then disappointment with herself. She turned half away, folding her arms.
“You actually got hurt?”
“The flesh remains cut by magic. But this, still, I defy.”
Wiskeria stared blankly at her mother. Belavierr’s chest was leaking blood, but she seemed to think of it more as an annoyance than anything else. After a second, Wiskeria jerked her head.
“Would a potion help?”
The Stitch Witch shook her head.
“Most of mine are burnt away. A Potion of Regeneration is a waste; this wound shall stay. It will heal in a week or so.”
So saying, she produced a thread and needle, and Durene realized Belavierr intended to stitch the wound closed! However, the [Witch] stopped as Wiskeria grabbed one from her belt. Belavierr frowned.
“Daughter—”
“Drink.”
Belavierr did. She blinked. Durene didn’t see the wound close, but the grimace of pain vanished from Belavierr’s face. She rose, feeling at her chest.
“Strange. Potions were not so powerful the last time I remember using them.”
“And when was that, Mother?”
The Stitch Witch blinked. She looked at her daughter. Then she smiled ruefully.
“Long enough ago that I could remember Sage’s Grass being a thing I hoarded for the power of it. I traded a perfect Cloth-Warrior made of silk and satin to a noble [Sheik] for three seeds.”
“Oh, Mother. You were always bad with money.”
The two stared at each other. Then they laughed. Belavierr quietly, and Wiskeria with a note of relieved hysteria. But they did laugh. For a moment, they seemed like a mother and daughter. Then Durene heard the scream again. And the moment vanished. But as she turned and ran, she saw Ryoka’s face. And the young woman looked as though she wished it had lasted forever.
 
—–
 
The [Archer] was dead. He was a former [Soldier], one of Lancrel’s people. And he had been hiding behind one of the roofs in the village. He’d shot well; he was over a hundred and fifty feet distant. And he’d taken cover. But Belavierr’s needle had found him even so.
It had gone through his head. Straight through bone and brain. Belavierr didn’t retrieve the needle. Nor did she glance twice at the man. She only grimaced.
“Cloth fails before Skill. I must recreate my wards. Better that it struck me than you, Daughter. The arrow would have passed straight through your clothes. It was well made. For this era and time.”
