There was no answer the young woman had. She had tried to use logic, tried to apply a morality to what she saw. All she now knew was that she was a guest in Riverfarm. Trying to steer a rudder away from destruction. And now—had she succeeded?
The Order of Seasons were leaving. Ryoka had not witnessed the battle between Belavierr’s minions and the [Knights]. She had missed the conflict that tore the earth. But today, she saw what remained.
Cloth, really. Torn silk, so precious that some of Riverfarm’s people had picked it up until they remembered who it belonged to. Broken creatures, some so lifelike that Ryoka could only stare at a severed Wyvern’s head until she walked around it and saw it was filled with stuffing. A few rotting corpses, yes, from the undead. But mainly broken cloth.
And weapons. A treasure trove of ancient steel, even what looked to be magical items. No one touched those either. Even the most light-fingered person thought twice about it.
Cloth. Undead corpses. And the bodies of the fallen [Knights]. All wore green or orange, the colors of their…Order? Season.
The living had closed their eyes, folded their arms, and prepared them for burial—delivery to their homelands. Almost all of the dead were older, senior members of the Order.
The survivors were Knights of the Spring and Summer, and Ryoka saw how young they were. More than half were younger than she was.
In fact, their leader was a Dame Talia, who had assumed command after each one of her seniors had fallen or been too badly wounded to even stand. Some had been veterans, but they had died, lacking magical armor, fighting to keep Ser Raim and the [Hunters] safe. The [Hunters] had fallen to treachery, and Raim had burnt away before he could end Belavierr.
“—Unable to ride. I shall take the bodies of our brethren via Pheislant. Escort me to a major city and the care of a [Healer], Dame Talia. I charge you with the return of our younger [Knights].”
One of the older Spring Knights could barely whisper to Talia, a bandage wrapped around a black wound in her stomach that refused to heal, caused by a cursed weapon. The Summer Knight clasped her hand, bowed her head.
“By your leave, Dame Captain. There are still nigh a dozen of us fit to ride and fight—”
Her words made the able-bodied [Knights] hesitate. Several placed hands on their swords and glanced towards the [Witch]. Their trains of thought were obvious.
Perhaps they still could finish her. Ryoka saw that too. Each of the [Knights] looked at the [Witch], measuring her, seeing her hunch and tend to her burns or wince at the bright light. They were such mortal actions that Ryoka herself felt like she could kill Belavierr just by walking up and stabbing her in the back.
But then the [Witch] would turn. And not even the [Summer Knights] could meet her eyes.
“We will not forget this day. Nor will we forget Ser Raim’s sacrifice. Had it not been for the weakness of one man’s heart, he would have triumphed. I will return his possessions to my order. Miss Durene, you have my thanks. And you, Sir Beniar.”
Dame Talia, a woman with auburn hair, turned and walked past Belavierr, and bowed to the folks of Riverfarm. Ryoka saw her glance at Belavierr more than once, but her orders were clear. The Order of Seasons would not make the Stitch Witch their enemy.
Apparently, they were still at an uneasy standoff with some…Griffin Riders? Ryoka wasn’t sure she’d even heard that right.
Regardless, Dame Talia bid farewell to Durene and Beniar, both of whom had fought with them. It was strange to see her clasp hands with Durene, and the half-Troll girl seemed just as surprised. But they had fought while Ryoka had chased the fae. Talia said not a word to Ryoka as she bore the ashes and Ser Raim’s greatsword away. She had no time for a City Runner.
Talia’s hands were clenched so hard as she stared at Belavierr that Ryoka swore she saw blood leaking from the gauntlets. Another [Knight] was being held back by his friends.
“Markus, don’t do it. She’ll kill you—”
“We’re to turn and leave?”
The man’s voice rose, but they dragged him back.
“The Spring’s Warden and Knight-Commander call it folly. Don’t be mad, Markus. There will be another battle. Someday.”
Hollow the words might have rung, but what could they do? The [Knights] retreated, filled with such emotion that even Ryoka could sense them; she saw more than one [Witch] grasping for the [Knights]’ feelings and placing them under their hats.
And then? There was only the village of Riverfarm left. Prost oversaw the burial of the [Witch Hunter], Tagil. The Order was returning their artifacts to the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria. And they carried the ashes of Sylind, Erashelle, Faigen, Coroise, and Gaile with them. No one had asked for Tagil’s remains.
So the villagers dug a hole for him. The sound the shovel made as it broke the earth was soft, despite all the ash. Ryoka thought it should have been louder. But the sound stayed with her for hours. And they buried him where he fell. No one said a word. It was a traitor’s death.
And that left only Belavierr. No one would go near her. But she was there. As Lady Rie said—she couldn’t stay. Whatever pact the coven hoped to achieve with Riverfarm, she could not be part of it. Everyone had seen what she’d done. They’d seen the body.
“Who will persuade her to leave? His Majesty? A knighthood order couldn’t do it. Leave her alone. All of what’s come to pass has been because people went after her. Leave her alone, Lady Rie.”
Ryoka snapped at the [Lady]. Prost was still wiping his hands.
“We will do just that. But there’s the matter of all this…cloth on the ground. Those weapons—”
“You could outfit a company on Baleros with all of them. It’s worth a fortune. The silk’s valuable too, even if it’s old.”
Charlay blinked as Ryoka elbowed her in her horse half, right below her Human belly. She smacked Ryoka back on the shoulder. Prost shook his head.
“No one touches a thing. We’ll leave it be. If anyone thinks to touch it—I’ll make an announcement.”
“Saying what? Anyone who touches it, be it man, woman, or child, is dead? That this [Witch] can do whatever she pleases without consequence?”
Rie’s lips were pale. Ryoka looked around.
“Yeah, that sounds about right. I’ll talk to her.”
“Ryoka! Are you mad?”
Charlay tried to drag Ryoka back. But the City Runner was adamant. The two engaged in a tug of war, which the Centauress fairly easily won at first—until she realized that Belavierr was staring at them. Then she ran away.
Perhaps Ryoka was stupid. She was properly terrified of Belavierr. Terrified and regretting ever speaking against Ser Raim. But the one man who could have killed her was dead. Now—Ryoka’s eyes went to Wiskeria, standing alone.
Now it was about a mother and a daughter. And Ryoka, at least, felt like she understood that.
Ryoka found Belavierr sitting next to the tree where they had found Tagil. The dry grass had caught fire—a huge swath of scorched earth radiated around her. Naught was left of the tree itself, or Hunter Tagil; only an ashy stump of charred wood remained.
Smoke still stung the air, but the flames had been so intense the landscape wasn’t as burnt as Ryoka had expected. The fire had been meant to cleanse.
It had failed—and left a burnt [Witch] in its wake. Yet already Belavierr proved she was that old legend. At first, she had seemed like a burn victim, ruined, charred flesh covering every bit of her body, with third degree burns—Ryoka didn’t know. Did burns go up higher?
Hair burnt away, eye sockets exposed, flesh worn to reveal cauterized internal organs—
By the time the [Knights] had left, Belavierr was just…Belavierr again. Her dress, immaculate and dark, her hair and face restored to their proper shape. However, there were still clues of her weakness.
For one, she smelled of that incendiary conflict, still. And she sat as though it pained her to even raise her head.
“I have survived my death. But I have another.”
She was talking to Mavika. The coven had joined Belavierr at last. All save for Eloise and Wiskeria. The crow [Witch] cocked her head; Ryoka noticed only her pet raven on her shoulders. Even the crows had fled Belavierr’s general vicinity.
“You foresaw two deaths, Witch Belavierr?”
“Yes. Two. The second comes on the heels of the first. I do not know how. Or where. But it will be by fire. I would flee it, but I have lost my protections. And my daughter remains. So I shall stay. Until the deal with this [Emperor] is struck.”
Belavierr’s eyes were still ringed. But the glow had faded from them. She even blinked. Seldom. And she spoke…like a person. She even turned her head as Ryoka approached. That was unnerving. Alevica shifted from foot to foot, eying Belavierr. The Witch Runner jumped when Belavierr turned to look at her.
“Uh—Bela—Witch Belavierr. You’ve lost your protections?”
“Yes. They were burnt away. I can be killed. I may die. With age or blade. The spells of centuries that would have taken a blow are gone. It is strange.”
The [Witch] raised her head. She stared straight up at the sun and blinked.
“Bright. And I feel…”
She gazed back down at Ryoka. The City Runner paused. Belavierr went on.
“…alive. More aware. Before, I was a function of my craft. My nature displaced. Distant. It has been centuries since I last felt this way. Passing strange.”
She glanced around again. Her eyes found Hedag.
“Hedag. I remember your predecessors, now, each one a face more than a name.”
“Ah. And fine Hedags they were. Fine bastards, or so I hear. How many did you kill?”
The [Executioner] grinned. Belavierr paused.
“…There were more of you. Hedag was a name spread across Izril. ‘For any man or woman may take up the axe and dispense justice. They are the Hedags of villages.’ And you are the last.”
Hedag nodded. Her grin flashed wide across her face, as wide as the strange man Ryoka had met outside the village. It was not necessarily friendly, especially on Hedag’s face. And this time, Belavierr noticed. She was aware. She peered at Hedag, then looked around. This time at Mavika.
“We have spoken before, Mavika. Last…when we ordained the Witch of Molten Stone as a [Witch] unquestioned. A small event of discussion to many who were shocked. Not you nor I.”
“Yes.”
Mavika looked shocked Belavierr recalled it, but the Witch of Webs nodded. And then she turned to Alevica. The Witch Runner tried to copy Hedag’s grin. It slipped away.
“Alevica. It has been long since [Witches] flew through the sky. And your magic is weak.”
“I, uh—I’m improving, Witch Belavierr.”
The Witch Runner flushed, gripping the edge of her hat. Belavierr nodded.
“Grudges and envy are too weak to sustain powerful spells. You incur ire, but you are neither feared nor hated enough to call on true magic. You fly by virtue of talent. And you are weak. Someone should have told you.”
“I’m—”
Alevica shut up as Belavierr stared down at her. Then the Stitch Witch whispered.
“If they should fear you, take their eye and let them see you crush theirs between your teeth. Take their lovers. If you would fly like that—make a necklace of fingers.”
“I—I don’t think that’s something I need to do. That’s a bit extreme?”
Alevica’s voice quavered. The Stitch Witch peered at Alevica, and her eyes turned scornful.
“Yes. That is why you are weak.”
So saying, she turned her head.
“Witch Califor, thou art.”
“Witch Belavierr.”
The [Witch] held her ground as Nanette hid behind Califor. Belavierr tilted her head and then stopped, turning sideways. Nanette squeaked, terrified. And Califor turned to shield her. Now, Belavierr met Califor’s gaze. The two [Witches] locked gazes. Belavierr spoke absently.
“You hid the village. Witches of old did that. I do not know your tales. I recognize your craft.”
Califor’s voice was exceedingly polite.
“I warned you. The old ways still linger. Nanette, introduce yourself to Witch Belavierr.”
“I—I raise my hat to you. Witch Belavierr?”
The [Witch] girl stuttered, white with fright. Belavierr tilted her head, eying Nanette. For a second, she stared at Califor, then turned her head away.
“I remember when Wiskeria was as small as you. I would that I had taught her more. You study from a great [Witch] of our era. A lesson, Witch Nanette. Immortality is not as simple as taking life. To endure the passage of time, we who are mortal must give something away. To hide my soul away from harm, I pushed my soul away. But the cost was exactly what I gave. Remember that.”
“Yes, Miss Belavierr.”
Satisfied, the Stitch Witch sat back and sighed, and Ryoka jumped as the eyes latched onto her. Belavierr was changed. Her eyes were focused, not distant as they always had been except when talking to Wiskeria. And she was remembering names. Faces.
She spoke like someone giving her last rites and benedictions. That was what Ryoka realized. The [Witches] gathered around were polite, even the ones who had opposed Belavierr. Eloise refused to go near Belavierr, but the rest? Belavierr’s voice was weak.
“Ryoka Griffin. You saw the guests. The wind knows you. I saw that. But I did not ask. Who are you? Where did you blow from, strange-scented girl?”
Ryoka shuddered. The full attention of Belavierr was like a lighthouse’s beam blasting her. She gritted her teeth.
“I—I, uh—are you going to clean up all those weapons and cloth?”
Belavierr blinked. She paused, stared at Ryoka, and then turned her head. She regarded the cut, burnt, dirty cloth. The weapons lying on the ground. And she sighed.
“Ah.”
“Your possessions are destroyed. What have you left of your craft? What can you remake?”
Mavika watched as her raven darted from her shoulder and swept up a bright piece of red silk. Belavierr eyed the raven, and it took flight. She swept her hand. All the cloth began to move. Ryoka heard exclamations and saw people run towards the village—the cloth was slithering across the ground towards Belavierr.
The Stitch Witch held up one loose arm of her robes. And the cloth somehow slithered up and up into her dress. Only—it was going somewhere else. In moments, it was gone. Leaving only the metal weapons. Belavierr eyed them. Then she walked over and picked one up. She stared at a steel sword and tossed it back on the burnt ground.
“My creations took decades to make. My wards far longer. I can bind time, create lesser magics. But the workings that hid my very heart away—those were made out of power that was burnt away. I must find more. I have lost all but a few years. Rehanna’s among others. I will be weak.”
“The weapons—”
Ryoka choked. The cloth was gone! Belavierr looked blankly at the scattered weapons and armor.
