The two voices babbled. And then someone picked Alevica up. She screamed and cursed, but the hands pushed her up. Then someone was holding her as she was bounced. Each bounce took more blood away. Someone was babbling at her to stay awake. Stay awake—
“Emperor Laken’s close by, Alevica. Close enough for him to locate you when you didn’t come back. Hold on. We’ll get you to Riverfarm. Charlay, run. She’s not going to make it—”
“I’m trying. Just hold her! [Lightning Gallop]—”
“Eloise. Eloise.”
Alevica begged. She didn’t know what was happening anymore. Someone was slapping her. And then she was flying. Flying and falling. Into the darkness. Until she felt the power and the [Witch] who held it.
 
—–
 
“She’s dying. She’s lost too much blood. The potions don’t work with the poison in her. She needs a transfusion—”
Ryoka was babbling. She was still trying to apply pressure. Eloise stared down at Alevica’s pale face, the tinge of green in the wound.
“She will not die. My coven, hold Alevica here while I work. I’m familiar with poisons as well as teas and herbs. I can counter it. Give me a moment.”
The old [Witch] spread her herbs on the table next to Alevica. The [Witch] was so pale and still. Even the blood had stopped oozing. But maybe that was because of the [Witches] who stood around her.
All of them were there. Wiskeria, Hedag, Califor, Nanette, Mavika, even Belavierr. And they gazed down on Alevica. It was dusk. The light cast long shadows on their faces. But their eyes had a luminescence of their own.
“Hold her. Give her strength.”
Eloise ordered the others. And Alevica’s chest seemed to rise and fall only by virtue of the [Witches]’ stares. Nanette’s face was pale. Califor’s eyes focused on Alevica’s face. Hedag leaned on her axe, her eyes blazing.
“Mother. Can you save her?”
Wiskeria never looked away from Belavierr. The Stitch Witch paused. And her voice was heavy with power.
“—My magic is scattered and burnt low. Witch Eloise surpasses me in this moment. Hold her.”
“We cannot. She is dying.”
The raven on Mavika’s shoulder called once, echoing the [Witch]’s words. Eloise was mixing something, spreading it on Alevica’s stomach. Wiskeria clenched her hands.
“No! No! She can’t die!”
“She is fading. She has lost too much blood.”
“It isn’t right.”
“If we’d been faster—”
Ryoka clutched at her head. She was trying to figure out how to transfuse blood. Tubes? No! She couldn’t cut Alevica. She glanced around desperately. A funnel. But she needed to test Alevica’s blood type—
They hadn’t noticed Alevica was gone until into the evening. And then the coven had grown concerned. The older [Witches] had felt…something. Laken’s [Message] had come at the right moment. He’d found her. But—
“She can’t die. She can’t! We need more power!”
Wiskeria looked around desperately. Belavierr’s eyes began to glow, then stopped.
“I have not enough. We are holding her on the edge of life. We need more to pull her back.”
She looked up. Wordlessly, at Ryoka. The City Runner shouted. She saw people crowded around the house, staring in. So Ryoka called out.
“Take it from me!”
“And me!”
Charlay called from the door. The Centauress’ eyes were wide. Wiskeria gazed at them. Mavika hissed.
“Then give me your passion! Give us feelings! Strong as can be!”
Ryoka peered at Alevica. She was rude, arrogant, she’d burned Charlay’s tail, but she didn’t deserve this—
“I take your desperation.”
“I take your grief.”
“I take your rage.”
Mavika, Belavierr, and Hedag spoke as one. Ryoka felt it go out of her. She stared at Alevica, suddenly blank. A bit empty. The [Witch]’s eyes flickered. Mavika whispered.
“Not enough. More.”
The [Witches] turned to the crowd. And the people shuddered. But Wiskeria shouted towards them.
“She’s dying! Someone’s stabbed her! Don’t you feel a thing? Feel something! We’re trying to save her!”
The people heard. Some—some felt what Ryoka had felt and it was taken. But too many just stared. And Ryoka heard the word, unspoken.
[Witch].
They did not care for her. They did not care, truly care, if Alevica died. What the crowd saw, what they experienced, was…
Helplessness. Just as when they had seen Belavierr facing Ser Raim. Desperation—hope—longing—anger—fear—it wasn’t strong enough. No one emotion. What could sum up the death? The loss? It wasn’t right. But they did not know Alevica. She was a [Witch], and they did not know her. But someone had killed her—
Ryoka could see the [Witches] trying to pull power from the crowd. But they weren’t any one thing. They weren’t afraid. They weren’t angry enough either. It was just horror and pain and loss—but numbed after what they had seen. Wiskeria screamed.
“It’s not enough. Can’t you feel anything? This isn’t right! This isn’t right! Why don’t you care?”
 And they looked at her. Belavierr’s daughter. And at Alevica. The reaching [Witches] took nothing. They closed their eyes as Alevica’s breathing slowed. Wiskeria peered around desperately. Then she felt something. She pulled, and the crowd gasped. Ryoka’s eyes went wide. It went out of her too as she grasped Alevica’s hand. That emotion. That—
And the power went into the [Witch], and she opened her eyes. Ryoka saw Eloise press the poultice to her and speak.
“Pull!”
Each of the [Witches] reached down. They grasped a part of Alevica. Ryoka, holding Alevica, felt a jolt of something more alive than electricity hit her. She jerked back. Alevica jerked. She sat upright, head smacking into Nanette’s, and screamed.
“No!”
The poultice fell away, black and wet. Alevica’s stomach was raw, bloody. Eloise splashed a potion on Alevica as the [Witch] flailed. And then she was alive. Wiskeria staggered back into her mother’s arms. Nanette cradled her head as Califor drew her back. The [Witch] slapped Alevica on the back of the head as the Witch Runner flailed, slashing with a sword she didn’t have. Alevica stopped. She blinked down at her stomach as it began to heal.
“What—what—”
Nanette called out urgently.
“Alevica! What happened?”
The [Witch]’s face was deathly pale. She jerked, staring around.
“Which one of you—the power—”
All of the [Witches] were watching Wiskeria. They looked back at Alevica as she jerked again, still in shock. The words came out in a rush.
“The bastard had a spear. And—artifacts. Lots of ‘em. I sensed them on him. I didn’t think he’d be that fast—he had poison on it!”
“Who?”
Ryoka leaned over the table urgently. Alevica gazed at her. Her mouth worked.
“The man with the smile.”
  
—–
  
Hours later, Ryoka was standing in conference with several [Witches], Rie, Prost, and her own dark thoughts. She had heard everything from Alevica before the Witch Runner had passed out. And Charlay had repeated her encounter with the man—as had Ryoka. It wasn’t conclusive. But he had just bumped himself up on the list of people Ryoka suspected of…something.
The drought? Or just the attack on Belavierr? Either way, he’d tried to kill Alevica. But who was he? No one knew. Worse still, he’d vanished. Mavika was the last to return. Her crows landed, cawing loudly, and the [Witch] herself walked into the home. She looked…angry. Only, angry didn’t describe the hunched, elongated form. The nails that resembled talons. For a moment, as the [Witch] stepped out of the night, she looked like something else. Something that hunted and screamed in the darkness of mankind’s dreams.
The Humans shuddered and drew back. Ryoka waited as Mavika seemed to shrink. The [Witch] spoke curtly.
“This [Hunter] of yours moves quick. My crows could not find him. And they flew wide. Even with a horse, he was fast to outrun wings.”
“You lost him?”
“We searched miles. Either he hid with powerful spell, or he raced so fast as to be a bird himself.”
The [Witch] glared. The conference room was silent. Ryoka drummed her fingers on the table. Lady Rie spoke briskly.
“Laken’s nearby enough that we can ask him to locate the [Witch Hunter]. He can sense everything on his lands, and we replaced all his totems.”
The others nodded. Ryoka bit her lip as Nesor sent a [Message]. The reply came back slowly as Nesor scribbled it line by line on a piece of parchment with agonizing slowness. Ryoka read it with the others, crowding to see.
 
Ryoka, Durene—all—I am searching for the [Witch Hunter] you described. I cannot find him. The [Witches] I can sense. Belavierr is…different. Not Human? I also sensed a Centauress? Ryoka’s friend Charlay? Among others? A number of non-Humans on my lands! I am closing in on Riverfarm. Do not kill the Goblins hiding in the forest, please. I will aid as best I can as soon as I get there. News about lack of rain troubles me. It is still raining where we are. Why? Circle of Thorns?
 
“So. Is this my death?”
Belavierr whispered into the silence that followed. Everyone stared at her. The Stitch Witch looked back. Wiskeria was still staring at her hands. She had been ever since Alevica had been saved. And her mother—Belavierr’s eyes flickered upwards. As if tracing a thread only she could see.
No one had any answers. Alevica was sleeping under Eloise’s watchful gaze. Hedag was walking the perimeter of Riverfarm, and Califor was attending to Nanette. The other [Witches] kept their own council. Belavierr shared none of her thoughts. Ryoka made hers clear to Durene, Rie, Prost, and Charlay.
“What do we know? That man seems incredibly suspicious. But is he responsible for the lack of rain? I got in touch with Fierre, and she said that a man with his description paid her to alert the Order of Seasons. But who is he?”
Rie tapped on her lips.
“A [Witch Hunter] trying to kill Belavierr?”
“Or a member of this Circle of Thorns. Does it matter, Ryoka? Laken can find him. He can sense everything on his lands. He’ll get him and tell us, and we’ll find him and make him talk.”
Durene pounded a fist into one hand. Ryoka nodded dubiously. It couldn’t be that easy? Could it? She waited, with Nesor, in the room as it slowly emptied. The [Mage] was uncomfortable. But no matter how long Ryoka waited, until she was yawning with fatigue, no reply from Laken came.
They were sleeping, dozing, when Ryoka took to Durene’s cottage for sleep. She told herself Laken would send a [Message] tomorrow. But she had only slept an hour before someone hammered at Durene’s door.
“Ryoka, wake up!”
It was Beniar. The [Cataphract] hadn’t news from Laken, though. He practically dragged Ryoka towards the village.
“What is it?”
The former adventurer’s face was serious. He pointed towards Riverfarm, where some torches blazed.
“There’s a group of people outside Riverfarm. My [Riders] stopped them. They say they know you. They’re asking to be let in.”
 
Day 69 – Ryoka
 
“Fire.”
Ryoka looked at the [Archer]. She remembered the man. Only, she had known him only by the bow he carried. His had been the first settlement she’d come to. The one guarded by the independent group of people with bows who’d refused to move to Riverfarm.
They were here now. And they carried only a few possessions. One bow. Half had burns. The others were white with exhaustion. Fear. Loss. Ryoka stared at the man’s face. She hadn’t even known his name. It was Nale. He held his wife and looked at her.
She could feel it. All the pieces were falling into place. An invisible pattern making itself known. And it made itself known through tragedy. Nale’s face was pale. Still covered in soot. His wife clung to his side. The group had come straight from their settlement. It was still dark. And the fires were still burning.
“The entire barn went up in seconds. We tried to fight it—but it was too dry. We barely got out.”
Nale’s voice cracked. His wife wept into his shoulder. The [Archer] peered helplessly at Ryoka.
“It was too fast. Too fast, and our wells were too low. The drought—”
“We lost everything. Everything. The animals went up. Dead gods, we couldn’t get them.”
Another woman leaned on a wall. She was too shocked to even sit. Prost seemed deeply disturbed. Ryoka just stared at Nale. And then she got up. She hesitated. And then she reached out and put an arm on his shoulder.
She didn’t know if it was the right thing to do. The man stiffened. But it was all Ryoka could do. Then he relaxed. And he began to shake. Ryoka didn’t know him. But they stood together, two people. And she looked at his wife as she rested a hand on the woman’s arm. Looked into her eyes.
“You can stay here. Riverfarm needs people like you. There’s room for you. And everyone.”
She glanced past them at Prost. The [Steward] nodded.
“Of course. We’d be delighted to have the folks of Tabeil here.”
The group’s eyes filled with relief. They relaxed, and more tears were shed. Ryoka stayed with them. But she had to go. She had to excuse herself. Because her mind was racing.
“Fire. We have an arsonist. Or maybe it’s just the drought. Either way, we need to take precautions now.”
She gathered Prost, Rie, and the coven. Rie nodded, eyes wide, as voices rose, talking over each other.
“The water. We can put in barrels around the village.”
“This entire place is made of wood. It’ll go up like a bonfire if a fire isn’t caught.”
“Patrols, then. No one sets a fire here. Day and night we check for that bastard. If he is causing fires—”
“It could just be coincidence. Hell, one bit of heat lightning would start a fire. We need more precautions.”
Ryoka regarded the [Witches]. Hedag exchanged a glance with Califor. The [Witches] nodded. Hedag turned back to Ryoka. The [Executioner] nodded.
“In that case, we’ll do as all folks do in face of a fire. Dig a ditch. A firebreak. Here and here—far enough away from the village that flames won’t jump it. We’ll also remove brush. Tinder—anything that goes up easy.”
She pointed, indicating areas outside the village proper. Ryoka blinked. Califor nodded.
“Of course. Clear a space and a fire has nothing to feed on. You. [Steward]. Put all of your people to this task. We will clear a wide enough space that no sparks may jump across the break.”
She marched past Prost and began ordering people into teams as Hedag described how deep the firebreak should be. Ryoka stared, blinking. Trust [Witches] to have sensible solutions instead of magic. But Ryoka would have really preferred actual magical solutions to this drought. When she asked, though, Eloise only shook her head, seeming troubled.
“We’ve been trying. All of us have cast charms. But short of a powerful working, we cannot change this weather.”
“Can you do one, then? A working?”
