Belavierr could sense the threads drawing together.
Could you feel it? She did. She had never met the man with the strange smile who laughed at the death of Ser Raim and the [Hunters]. She did not know him any more than she understood his motives. But she could still feel it.
Reason and purpose, intersecting. Chance and plans. Malice, directed at her. But she was just a piece in someone else’s trap. That knowledge bothered the [Witch]. She looked up, blinking at the bright sky. And she realized she’d been tricked. But she did not know who had done the tricking, or why. She could not see the web that ensnared her. But she felt it.
The [Witch] gazed back down at her daughter. The trap did not matter. Her daughter did. And surely, whoever had laid it had known or guessed. Belavierr looked at her daughter. And she felt the second of the two deaths closing in. But that did not matter.
So the [Witch] waited, her immortality burnt away, her protections gone. Her magic weaker.
A woman sat in a nest made of ash and embers. Death she had cast down, but death remained. Two, she had foretold, and so still, she waited to see how her death came.
For her daughter, she would face it. But her daughter—Belavierr closed her eyes. She heard that distant laughter as the trap closed.
 
 
Day 66 – Ullim
 
Tyrion Veltras’ return to his estates had not been triumphant. It had been quiet. The armies he had gathered for his elaborate, grand scheme had dispersed. And with them goodwill. Say what you would of Magnolia Reinhart, and many would—she had made grave enemies with her actions.
But when you got down to it, Tyrion Veltras’ grand scheme, which had cost many peers of the realm countless thousands of gold pieces in time and energy spent, had fallen apart. He had brought a force capable of taking Liscor, of altering the map and potentially securing a lynchpin of Drake defenses. And he had failed.
That was all there was to it. So Lord Veltras returned in fury and ire, so much so that no one dared mince words with him. Politically, he might have been disgraced or have lost capital in the currency of opinions, but on his lands, the ancestral Veltras estates that Drakes and Gnolls both would point out that they’d owned in ages past, he still reigned supreme. If he wasn’t welcome at certain balls or gatherings—he seldom attended them anyways.
In his keep, he kept to himself, moodily occupied in his rooms, only stalking out to train or ride about. His sons naturally had questions, and he spent time with them, but he was no fit company, so he let Ullim and Jericha mind the boys as they had always done.
Tyrion Veltras was much like a wolf to people who knew nothing of wolves. He was aloof, fierce, a leader when he needed to be, but solitary. His home, which was more of a keep than a mansion, held only a few of his most loyal retainers, servants, and his two sons.
For all that, he was not a poor [Lord], just specialized. He could lead an army and fight with the best of opponents. But he took little to the managerial side of his class, and it showed.
Veltras lands occupied the western flank of Izril, stretching from the huge Vale Forest—a [Hunter]’s dream, abundant with wildlife—all the way up to the famous landmark, the ‘tail’ of Izril’s northern half, a long coastal stretch. It meant Veltras lands were abundant in forests due to the heavy rainfalls that could come off the High Passes to the south, the economy fed by trade with ports and steady business, but in places, still very much unsettled.
Of course, to the north, where the Veltrases had first settled, there were booming cities, but none quite so famous as Invrisil. If anything, Veltras lands were known more for the family that protected them. A reluctant leader he might be, but Tyrion Veltras’ aptitude for war meant that few monsters or raiders troubled his lands overlong.
It was the economic issues that annoyed the [Lord], which meant he left most of the work to his family’s steward, Ullim. Unfortunately, large events still required Tyrion’s attention, which was how the luckless Ullim found himself putting issues before his temperamental master as rain beat at the study windows outside.
“—Reinhart’s [Trade War] continues to affect commerce in a huge radius, Lord Veltras. It isn’t just Invrisil blocking trade, although that certainly has affected the southern half of the continent. But Reinhart holdings spread across Izril, and we have been running into shortages in our own markets. The [Merchants] are unwilling to cross Lady Reinhart, you see. I suspect some of the nobility will take action, or perhaps Lady Reinhart will herself relent; her markets will feel a pinch soon, but until then, we lack for a number of products including rye grains, some of our wheat imports, a number of fruit orchards’ produce—”
The glower cut the [Majordomo] off. Tyrion Veltras sat straight-backed in his chair, and annoyance was written large on his face. He snapped as he stared at the map on his desk.
“We can live without rye, Ullim. I have no interest in dealing with Reinhart’s trade war. If we lack for some goods, the people can adapt.”
Ullim hesitated.
“One wishes that were so, Lord Veltras. But as I was saying, the traditional, ah, trade routes for salt and oil are also blocked, Lord Veltras. Lady Pryde’s industries, of course, include the Chalen salt mines, and importing it from the coast has increased the price significantly. As well, oil and butter products are generally sourced through Invrisil or trade routes, thus—”
He stopped again as Tyrion cursed. You could live without rye, but salt and oil were different. Tyrion drummed his fingers on the table.
“Go to the coastal ports along Izril’s Tail. Send word that I require trade vessels and caravans in number. We can import goods for a while.”
“At a steep price, sir. It would be cheaper to buy from Terandria with Drake tariffs, and that will cost…”
Ullim calculated out the number on an abacus. Tyrion’s teeth audibly ground together. The [Majordomo] winced. Tyrion got up to pace. Of course, the [Trade War] was a direct byproduct of Magnolia interfering with the siege of Liscor and the ensuing insult to her and her allies.
Although…Ullim distinctly recalled the Veltras family not sending a black rose. His master had his sense of honor, prickly though it was. He would damn a Drake city to oblivion, but insult a peer who had fought at the Sacrifice of Roses?
Never. Still, Tyrion’s lands were west of Invrisil, and the trade war was hitting [Merchants] headed their way. The Merchant’s Guild probably also correctly recalled Magnolia and Tyrion’s longstanding feud and wouldn’t risk the journey with a [Trade War] in any case, regardless if Magnolia was specifically targeting Tyrion.
At last, Tyrion’s furious pacing stopped. Like a caged animal, he whirled.
“Ullim. Your opinion?”
“I fear you’re correct, Lord Veltras. We must import, and everyone must tighten their belts in certain regards.”
Tyrion just glared. After a moment, he stalked back to the desk and stared at the map. Ullim could see the [Lord] fighting with the map, but Tyrion hated the dance of economics as much as he loved war. They were not the same.
“Salt comes from the ocean. We can at least source it from the ports, can’t we?”
“Of course, sir. Sea salt will do just as well as Lady Pryde’s exports. I will add it to the list.”
Tyrion nodded. Ullim sighed with relief as he saw the [Lord] relax. Part of Ullim wished Tyrion took more of an interest in the other sides of his class. Ullim was old, and he had known Tyrion growing up. He hoped he had the energy to raise the next generation of the Veltras family’s main line—Hethon and Sammial. They were young, but growing and lacked for a mother. A father too, at times. Tyrion tried, but like managing his lands, he had to know what was right first.
And his other half, who had been so good at explaining it to Tyrion—was dead. But for her, he might have been a better [Lord]. But it had been…dead gods, four years? Ullim felt like it was a lifetime ago, sometimes. Now, Lord Veltras was distant, ever on campaign, and his sons, especially Sammial, grew apart. If Lady Salva had been alive, she could have been Tyrion’s other half.
She had not been perfect, of course, but without her, Tyrion would attack the problem of the trade war relentlessly, trying to outmaneuver an opponent who’d breathed it since she’d been born. Ullim remembered that too. What Tyrion was to military and combat, Magnolia was to infrastructure and diplomacy. They were complete opposites of each other in a way; the only thing they ever agreed on was their disdain for each other.
“It’s still raining.”
Tyrion’s voice drew Ullim out of the past. The elderly man roused himself and looked to where Tyrion’s attention was focused next. Rain pounded on the panes of the window. Ullim sighed again.
Lord Tyrion Veltras did not do well indoors. While he was content to train or move about in the rain, he didn’t suffer the same for his mounts or his soldiers. It was only one more reason for his enduringly bad mood.
“It has been unnaturally wet, Lord Veltras. One expects the end of the rainy season would have come, but there is no predicting the weather with complete certainty. Even the [Weather Mages] make errors.”
Not that House Veltras’ main family employed any. They had dozens of war mages they could call on, but not one could clear a cloud from the sky beyond shooting fireballs at it. Tyrion only made a discontented sound.
“Too long. It’s been eight days. No lightning. Just rain. The clouds should be spitting lightning, and the rain should be passing. This isn’t natural.”
Ullim nodded.
“It may be someone else tampering with the weather, Lord Veltras. You do recall the time we had gale winds blowing for nearly two weeks? Not to mention the hurricane…?”
“I recall that. But why here? What of the lands south of us?”
They were largely unoccupied and certainly unclaimed. Humans had yet to fully colonize the vast expanse of northern Izril, and the lack of nobility caused by the last Antinium War meant there were fewer holdings under the protection of [Lords] or [Ladies]. Ullim had to consult his notes. He frowned.
“Temperate, Lord Veltras. But normal.”
“To our west, then?”
“Izril’s Tail…well, there was a grand storm, but I have no reports of the port-cities experiencing bad weather.”
“Hm.”
Tyrion glared at the rain. Undeterred, the water kept falling. Ullim went on, shuffling his notes.
“Let’s see. Well, other nobles have been raising the weather issue as well. Lady Ieka’s lands are unseasonably dry, for instance. A pity for her harvests…”
“So something’s affecting the weather.”
“At least in part, Lord Veltras.”
The [Lord] made a disgusted sound.
“Find a [Weather Mage], then. Have them stop the rains today.”
Ullim hesitated.
“We would have to send for one, Lord Veltras. I do not know if there are many to be found—the rains may subside in the time it would take—”
“A [Weatherchange] scroll, then! Buy one and use it!”
Tyrion snapped. Again, Ullim hesitated.
“May I quote you a price, Lord Veltras?”
“Do it.”
“Two thousand gold pieces at least for a scroll that could affect the radius of your holdings. If we wanted to change the weather patterns, we might need to spend as much as four thousand, or even six…”
Again, Ullim saw Tyrion grimace. It wasn’t as if he couldn’t pay the sum, but it was a lot of money to deal with rain. Most cities would be able to afford one scroll or [Weather Mage] in times of need; a [Farmer] could always pay for a shower, of course, but a sustained spell capable of changing weather in a huge radius?
Veltras was rich. Rich enough to finance a truly powerful standing army. But though they were one of the Five Families, that didn’t mean they were all-powerful. Just look at some of the other families.
The houses of Veltras, El, Reinhart, Terland, and Wellfar. They were legends that had settled Izril, taking it from the Drakes and Gnolls thousands of years ago. Of course, they hadn’t been the only noble houses to sail from Terandria. The ones that had perished or fallen over the years had been forgotten by all but a few.
Now, the Five Families remained. But some, like the El families, had fallen far from their lofty past heights. Others, like the Wellfar and Terland families, had retained much of their strength, although the Antinium Wars had slain some of the scions of these houses…Veltras was strong, but they didn’t have huge stockpiles of magical goods. Their strength lay in military might, and their coffers could stand to be deeper.
The Reinharts, on the other hand, had at least kept most of their artifacts—no, even expanded their wealth over the generations thanks to Regis Reinhart. And under Magnolia Reinhart, they were richer still. They could hardly call on all their artifacts of old with that old ghost hoarding their treasures, but it was just another disparity. Ullim could see his lord thinking of all of this as he drummed his fingers on the table. At last, Tyrion nodded.
“Buy a scroll. Use it. Hire a Courier if need be. I want the rain gone tonight.”
“At once, sire.”
Ullim breathed out. It was a cost, but one the Veltras family could afford. And he’d be glad to see the end of this rain too. Sammial was practically bouncing off the walls with his desire to be running about. Veltras nodded as Ullim reached for a list of reputable Couriers.
“I’m going to ride south. I’ll return by nightfall.”
“In this rain, Lord Veltras?”
“Rain brings out monsters, Ullim. I will send a [Message] if I’m delayed returning.”
Tyrion nodded and strode for the doors. At least he’d be happy if he slew a monster, Ullim reflected. The [Lord] paused at the door and wrinkled his nose. He looked around and snapped.
“Ullim. Send some servants into the cellars and storerooms. I believe we have rats.”
The [Majordomo] frowned. But—
They had terriers aplenty. House Veltras was connected well with nature. Still—he went to get a lantern to check.
 
 
Day 66 – Ryoka
 
“She cannot stay here. She must leave.”
That was all Lady Rie said as she watched Belavierr. The [Witch] stood alone. Ryoka wondered if even her coven was afraid to speak with her. And Ryoka didn’t argue the point.
She couldn’t. She still felt tears unshed when she thought of Ser Raim. She had not agreed with him. Ryoka had wanted to find some peace, because part of her liked Belavierr. And another had looked at Raim and seen a hero.
Did that make Belavierr a villain? Perhaps. Perhaps. Or perhaps she was just…a [Witch]. But all of Ryoka abhorred the death of the [Witch Hunters].
