She watched her daughter. Wiskeria just stared down at the man. Riverfarm’s folk stood far back, save for Durene, Charlay, and Wiskeria. But their eyes fixed on Belavierr. Durene didn’t doubt that many of them wished the [Archer] had succeeded. But when Belavierr looked up, they ran. Wiskeria knelt, not turning to her mother. Her voice was broken again.
“You killed him.”
“I was defending myself.”
“You didn’t have to kill him, Mother! What about interrogation? This might be a clue to why [Witches] are hunted! At the very least you could ask which group is trying to kill you! Maybe it’s the Circle of Thorns? Did you ever think to be helpful?”
Wiskeria’s eyes flashed. Belavierr’s voice was cool. She turned away from the man.
“Should I have let him live to try again, Daughter? He made his choice and I mine. Now, as I was saying. You must find your craft—”
She paused. Wiskeria was just facing away from her. Belavierr stared at her. She peered at Ryoka, Charlay, and Durene. Awkwardly, she bent over and tried to pull Wiskeria around to face her.
“Daugh—”
“Go away!”
The Stitch Witch hesitated. But Wiskeria’s tears did what magic, an arrow, and Durene hadn’t. After a moment, Belavierr went. Wiskeria wiped her eyes. She knelt by the body as people finally dared to return. Ryoka looked around.
“Who sent this man? Councilwoman Beatica? Or did he do this himself?”
“It doesn’t matter. He’s dead. And my mother won’t die so easily. You saw it. She can stop herself from bleeding.”
“It looked close to me.”
“It was. I think it scared her.”
Ryoka paused. She peered down at Wiskeria.
“You still care for her.”
The [Witch] nodded.
“But I can’t stop her. Look at all the people she’s killed, Ryoka. Another body on her toll of today. Yesterday, a man hung himself for her. What will tomorrow bring?”
The Wind Runner stood there, inhaling and exhaling, and Durene wondered what Ryoka might say. Ryoka said this:
“She did it for you. She loves you. I wish I knew my mother was like that. She faced down her death for you.”
Wiskeria nodded, and she gave Ryoka a smile as if the City Runner understood.
“Yes. Isn’t it terrible?”
“It must make things so much harder.”
Ryoka put her hands in her pockets, awkward. Wiskeria wiped tears from her eyes.
And that was how Durene understood Wiskeria’s relationship with her mother. Anger, quarreling. Unchanging natures. Disappointment on both sides. Grief. And love.
Despite it all, Durene still envied Wiskeria.
 
 
Day 68 – Ullim
 
It was raining again. Ullim saw his [Lord]’s eyes flashing as Tyrion strode across the room.
“Magic.”
“Someone must have reversed the [Weatherchange] scroll, Lord Veltras.”
“Who?”
There was no answer Ullim could give. He could only speculate.
“It may be the work of another spell in another province. Weather magic does have wide-ranging effects. If the rain is being diverted—”
“Ullim. I don’t want speculation. I want answers. Who is causing this? Give me a list of people who could have caused it.”
Tyrion coldly dismissed his [Majordomo]. Which left Ullim scrambling to ask questions where he didn’t know where to start. However, he was able to come back two hours later with a bunch of [Messages].
“Lord Veltras, we may know who caused the rain.”
“Go on.”
The [Lord] frowned as his personal [Mage], Jericha, looked up from her own spellbooks. Ullim cleared his throat.
“A [Witch] passed through your lands some time ago, Lord Veltras. Around the same time the rains began. The villages distinctly recalled her passing—she was known as Eloise, or the, ah, ‘Tea Witch’. She seems to be highly regarded by some. But hers was a notable passing. No one can recall if she was given offense, but many believe she may have cursed the region for some slight.”
“A [Witch]? I asked for answers, Ullim. Not superstition.”
Tyrion frowned darkly. Ullim coughed.
“I understand, Lord Veltras. But there are no other notable events I could find. And [Witches] can change the weather…”
“Not for this long. At least, not without considerable magic. Lord Veltras, I wouldn’t lay too much faith in this being a [Witch]’s doing. There is magic in the weather we’re experiencing. But I can’t lift it, and I doubt a [Witch] would be inclined to use this much magic for a slight.”
Jericha frowned. Ullim raised a finger.
“Ah. However, I discovered one more thing of note. A discreet inquiry revealed that this [Witch] is in fact a former [Lady].”
“What?”
Both Tyrion and Jericha started. Ullim nodded. It had been worth paying for that tidbit.
“Lady Eloise of House Havin. She hails from Terandria. She left her house and was considered dead to her family over three decades ago. But she is apparently the very same [Lady].”
“A [Lady] becoming a [Witch]? And she’s known as the Tea Witch?”
Jericha seemed appalled at the thought. But Lord Tyrion’s brows just snapped together. He came to the same conclusion that had crossed Ullim’s mind in a moment.
“Reinhart.”
Ullim nodded, darkly satisfied. It was just a hypothesis, but one [Lady] was known to have ties to countless nobles. And Magnolia Reinhart loved tea, albeit with enough sugar to classify it as something else entirely. She was also, Ullim knew, greatly fond of using agents to achieve her ends.
“Lord Veltras. After some investigation, I have noted that Lord Erill, Lady Ieka, Lord Pellmia, and a number of other notable peers of the realm are all suffering from some kind of disturbance in their weather. And Invrisil is not. Furthermore—Lord Pellmia’s [Manservant], Kilmet, reported the presence of another [Witch] passing through his lands. A figure of note. A Hedag. Or Hedag the [Executioner]. I’m not clear on whether it is a name or title.”
Ullim was rewarded by his lord’s furious expression. Tyrion Veltras strode over to a map, plotting Lord Pellmia’s lands.
“[Witches]. And Reinhart’s lands are unaffected?”
Jericha fiddled with her glasses.
“She may have hired these [Witches] in conjunction with the trade war, sire. I can investigate. If a [Witch] did perform a ritual, they would have had to anchor the spell. We might discover it.”
“Do it, Jericha. Ullim, send word to Pellmia. Ask him about his [Witch]. Send word to each village that this [Witch] passed through. I will send an escort. I want them here tonight to testify to what occurred. And check whether Bethal, Pryde, Wuvren—any of their lands are affected by this weather.”
“Of course, Lord Veltras. And if they are not?”
Ullim held his breath as Tyrion turned his head. Lord Tyrion Veltras’ voice was quiet.
“If they are not, then I will consider Reinhart’s interference at Liscor and this latest an insult that demands my immediate attention. And I will call on every noble affected to bring that complaint to her.”
Outside, the rain drummed on the windows. But the flash of lightning that would have really made the scene appropriate never came.
 
 
Day 68 – Alevica
 
Two days after Ser Raim had fought and died, Alevica, known as the Witch Runner, was bored. She’d been bored ever since she came to Riverfarm.
Okay, not by Belavierr or the [Witches], but it was more like moments of amazement, terror, and so on between lots of boredom. One might think, after two days, she would still be shaking with what she’d seen Belavierr do.
The Riverfarm people might do that, but two days was a long time, and Alevica had gotten over it, mostly, on day one.
By today, she was restless. Annoyed too; with both the lack of things for herself to do and her own limited magic. Belavierr’s critiques rankled Alevica, and the Witch Runner didn’t know how the older [Witches] just sat around and waited for an [Emperor] to drag his behind here. Obviously, this was the place to be to observe powerful witchcraft…but Alevica would have gladly left to make some actual money if she could. Come back for the highlights then leave.
The problem was that she was a [Witch]. Even the most independent and solitary of [Witches] had to answer to their coven. And hers had sent her here. Along with a bunch of other ‘legends’ who weren’t much in person. Eloise was sweet, but faded. Hedag was fun, but hardly more than a drunk old woman with a strong right arm. Neither was a powerful [Witch] by Alevica’s standards. Wiskeria was weak. Nanette was just a kid.
Of course, then, Alevica had to grudgingly admit that Mavika was truly powerful. As was Califor. In fact, but for those two and Alevica wouldn’t have come. But she didn’t cross either one lightly. Alevica might still have refused or left—but then there was Belavierr.
She scared the Witch Runner. That was something Alevica would never admit out loud. Yet there it was. Belavierr was terrifying. Even after she’d been burnt, set on fire, shot full of arrows, and been cut with a flaming greatsword—all that had done was make her Human again. She was still alive, and she’d just killed a man yesterday with a needle.
“A needle. She killed a man by throwing a needle at him. Who needs arrows when you can throw a few hundred needles? Huh?”
Alevica grinned around the dining room table where she was sitting, her chair rocked back and feet propped up. Half the [Witches] sitting around the table glanced up. No one answered. Califor spared a glare for Alevica’s feet, but said not a word. Discontented, Alevica folded her arms.
Old [Witches] and kids. This was why she hated most covens. Ryoka Griffin seemed fun at least, but she was always hanging about the older [Witches]. Alevica rocked back further in her chair, watching and listening.
Wiskeria was moaning to the coven. They’d all gathered save for Belavierr to comfort her and pat her tears away. Alevica rolled her eyes.
“I don’t understand how you can look the other way. Any of you. Didn’t you see the man she killed yesterday? What about Ser Raim?”
“We see. Some of us do not condone it, Witch Wiskeria. But we see and acknowledge it as Belavierr’s business. You have a right to speak of it by blood. But we are not Belavierr’s masters. She answers not to us. Would you have us rule her? That is not a coven’s function.”
Mavika perched on her chair like the birds she enjoyed hanging out with. Pretentious speech aside, what she meant was the unwritten rule of [Witches]. Don’t interfere with other [Witches]’ business. Alevica sighed. Loudly. No one looked at her.
“But none of you aided the [Knights]! If you had—Witch Califor, she actually called your craft impressive. If you’d been with the [Hunters]—”
Califor replied levelly.
“He might have killed me as well as the others. A warrior like Hunter Tagil is far more dangerous than a [Witch] at what he does, and that was to kill, Wiskeria. As to why I did not oppose Belavierr with Ser Raim? I am not inclined to endanger Riverfarm or Nanette. Believe me: it would have endangered everyone. When we are done, I will consider Belavierr’s deeds, but this entire coven is not the right one to hold her to account.”
“So we’re just going to let her continue to ruin lives?”
Wiskeria blazed. Alevica could see her righteous fury. A bit of sadness. And love. Oh, yes. Alevica hated looking at it. The other [Witches] were sympathetic, especially Nanette. Hedag just grinned. Now she was hard to read. Alevica knew Hedag had poor magical abilities, but she couldn’t read Hedag’s emotions. Well, none of the older witches gave much away, aside from Mavika when she was pissed. That bothered Alevica a bit.
It was Eloise who replied. The tea [Witch] sipped from her cup, but slowly. She hadn’t been pleased about Belavierr either, but she was defending the other [Witch]. That had to stick in her craw.
“Selfishness is in our nature, Witch Wiskeria. We act according to our natures. And we do not judge each other. Well, we try not to push our judgements on each other. We hesitate to interfere with other [Witches]. And Belavierr has kept from endangering the village. Except in this latest case where Califor did step in.”
“Except that she’s putting the coven’s deal with Riverfarm in jeopardy.”
The other [Witches] paused. Well, yes. There was that. Wiskeria went on as Alevica dug in one ear.
“I’ve heard this before. ‘[Witches] act according to our natures. We obey no laws. That’s why we’re [Witches].’ But we don’t have to be lawless! We can live in society and obey rules! Eloise, you do that! And Hedag—”
She broke off as the [Executioner] laughed. Hedag shook her head.
“Ah, Wiskeria. We’re different. Eloise may live within the law, but she’s one of us. The rest, from Mavika to Califor to your mother, obey their own laws. And I? I’m the biggest lawbreaker of all, according to some!”
“But Hedag, you’re a law bringer yourself—”
Wiskeria protested weakly. Hedag’s laugh cut her off.
“But my laws are my own, Wiskeria. I bear justice as I see it. Miss Califor gives aid as she sees fit. We are halves of Mavika and Alevica, who act in their interests. But we are all the same. Your mother is just more [Witch] than we!”
“But she’s a murderer.”
“And she’s good at it! Get that in your head, Wiskeria!”
Alevica cupped her hands and shouted it at Wiskeria impatiently. She was rewarded with a glare from Wiskeria. Califor sniffed, and Alevica gritted her teeth, but shut up. Mavika nodded after giving Alevica a birdish look.
“Yes. We are proud of her. For her crimes, she is hunted. But she is ours, Witch Wiskeria. And she speaks the truth. You lack craft. You lack power. I say it to you too. Why do you not accept it?”
She prodded Wiskeria with a taloned finger. Wiskeria glared.
“You’re proud, Mavika?”
The crow [Witch] nodded.
“Proud. Yes. Why shouldn’t we be? She is ours. Witch Wiskeria, she is the legend of [Witches]. A dark one. And there are those of us who are outcast. But we are [Witches] still. We have been hunted and shunned. Who will stand for [Witches] if not other [Witches]? We cannot always stand alone.”
“But—”
“A [Witch] has always broken laws. We all live apart. We are not city dwellers, Witch Wiskeria. We do not operate under laws. Because law has always sought to exterminate our kind. That is why we seek to bargain with this [Emperor], to keep our rights. To live without fear. But he must accept that we practice our craft. We cannot be beholden.”
Califor snapped in a rare display of annoyance, out of patience with Wiskeria. The younger [Witch] looked up. Alevica was impressed; she didn’t flinch from Califor’s glare or the force in the old woman’s eyes.
“That’s fine for you to say, Miss Califor. But I don’t want to be a [Witch] like that.”
“You want to bow and scrape and obey laws? Why’d you take the [Witch] class then, Wiskeria? Be a [Mage].”
