Alevica laughed incredulously. This time, no one shushed her. Mavika frowned dangerously.
“You speak of the end of [Witches], Wiskeria. We cannot be tamed. We will not be shackled. When law stretches across this world and the wilderness dies—so too will the last [Witch].”
“Maybe. Or maybe we’ll change. Maybe we should change. Mavika. I respect you. But I could never be you. And I can’t be my mother. No matter what she wants of me. I want to have a craft. But my mother’s deeds hang over me. She—I’m guilty because of her. Do you understand?”
“We do. But Wiskeria, she has been herself for thousands of years. Possibly longer. She will not change. And she is a [Witch]. Darker than many, but a [Witch] true. If anyone has yet to fully become a [Witch]—it is you.”
Eloise spoke softly. And Wiskeria’s face crumpled. Alevica glanced away.
She’d had worse coven meetings. In truth, many of them were like this. Younger [Witches] whining about trouble, or older ones complaining. Yes, sometimes you met and did real magic, the kind that made it all worthwhile, like trying to summon a spirit and bind it—or casting a powerful hex or warding spell. But other times it was just an informal gathering and support session.
Alevica was looking for an opportunity to leave when she saw Nanette dutifully hand something to her teacher. The kid had been working on it all this time. What was…?
And then Alevica saw it. It was a few houses crudely shaped out of clay. Six, to be precise. Nanette dutifully placed the last house next to the others. Alevica nodded silently. The other [Witches] watched out of the corner of their eyes as they comforted Wiskeria. So did Alevica.
Califor was doing a working. You could feel her drawing on her power. Now, on the clean wooden table, Califor produced a handful of soil. She must have gathered it from outside. The dry earth sprinkled in a circle around the clay village. Alevica watched as Califor drew a circle around the small clay village and then reached for her flask. The [Witch] sprinkled some water from her flask on the model village. The [Witch] paused, frowned, and then sprinkled more water on top.
Alevica leaned out the window. She felt the magic go out—but the sky didn’t so much as change. She peered at Califor, smirking. Right up until the [Witch] glanced up, peeved. Then Alevica pretended to be studying the ceiling.
“No luck? I tried a little water spell by the river. Had nothing.”
Hedag leaned over, inspecting the village. Eloise pursed her lips silently as Califor glared at the clay village, as if willing it to explode. Nanette was nervous as she shifted by her teacher. Alevica had to admit, it was something. She’d never seen nor heard of Califor failing at any basic spell like this.
“Something is working against my magic.”
“Mine too.”
Hedag nodded. So did Eloise. And then Mavika. Everyone stared at her. The crow [Witch] seemed annoyed.
“My flock has created a crow-sign for rain. It failed. Something is at work here.”
“Or someone.”
Every [Witch] looked at the other speculatively. No one said it. But Alevica could think of a few reasons why these small workings had failed. Either someone was using some powerful magic to alter the weather—or one of them had created a serious working.
It wasn’t as if covens didn’t have [Witches] working towards their own ends. Califor snapped into the sudden silence.
“I trust that everyone understands that this deal with the [Emperor] supersedes all other commitments. This coven gathered to address the attack on [Witches]. To strike a deal for sanctuary. And to deal with Witch Wiskeria’s relationship to Witch Belavierr. Nothing more. Nothing less.”
“Of course.”
Eloise nodded. So did the others. Alevica just grinned. She yawned openly as she got up. The other [Witches] turned to her. Mavika frowned.
“Witch Alevica. Where are you going?”
“Out. It’s been fun, fellow [Witches]. But I’m tired of cheering Wiskeria up and making daggers at each other. If someone’s messing with the weather, isn’t that their right as a [Witch]? …Or whoever’s doing it.”
Alevica smiled cheerily at the others. Califor’s brows snapped together.
“Witch Alevica, if you know something, speak. This endangers all of Riverfarm and the coven’s—”
Alevica theatrically put her hands to her ears, grimacing.
“Dead gods. Are you really Witch Califor? Half the time you’re her, the other half you’re some old woman. I know this is important. Oliyaya talked my ear off when she sent me here. But how much work are we doing for this stupid village?”
Alevica kicked over her chair. Califor looked flatly at her.
“The [Emperor] is the one we’re about, Alevica.”
“Well, pull the river up and make it rain! Can’t you do that? I heard you threaten to wake him up!”
Alevica pointed at Califor, exasperated. The older [Witch] hesitated, and every eye swung towards her. Wiskeria tensed for reasons Alevica didn’t get, and Alevica hated that—that knowing look in Wiskeria. Wiskeria, who refused to have a craft but was Belavierr’s daughter.
Califor’s voice was quiet.
“That was a threat, Alevica. Waking the river would be…very dangerous, if it could even be done. And the river is low, regardless.”
“But you could try.”
“I would not wish to make that my first resort. Or even my last, depending on the circumstances. Alevica, we are a coven. This is a trial fit for your mentor, and if you can help—”
Alevica slammed her hands down on the table and regretted it. She shook out her ringing hands and spat.
“I shouldn’t need to help. You’re Witch Califor! That’s Belavierr, the Spider, and each [Witch] in this room is supposed to be one of the greatest living! What’s wrong with you? I heard stories that you’d become a coward, but I never believed it.”
Her voice was too high-pitched, and she knew, knew they could read her betrayal and the upset feelings in her. Alevica hated that, so she spun towards the door. But she looked back at Califor, daring, hoping she’d say…
Witch Califor had perfect control over her emotions. She sat there, straight-backed, and touched the brim of her hat. Nanette looked ready to fight Alevica, but Califor put out a hand as she replied.
“If that is what you believe, Alevica, I won’t try to change your mind. I apologize for letting down the stories about me.”
Alevica yanked the door open and spat.
“See that, Wiskeria? Don’t listen to these old women. Eloise barely makes her tea, Hedag gets her strength from little children—you want to know why your mom has all her power? It’s because she does what she wants and scares the daylights out of people. That’s what being a [Witch] is. That’s power. Can you match that?”
Alevica grinned mockingly at Wiskeria, aiming all her vitriol at the one person she felt deserved it wholeheartedly. She was rewarded with Wiskeria’s glare and flushed cheeks. Wiskeria paused, then snapped back.
“No. And neither can you. Even you can’t take misery and grief like she can, Alevica. That’s why she called you weak.”
The Witch Runner’s cheeks went crimson. She clenched a hand, then glared at Wiskeria. She made a sign that made Nanette gasp and stormed out of the house.
 
—–
 
Alevica went flying. She was still fuming, but soaring through the sky above Riverfarm made her feel better. Up high, everything was better. People were little dots, and she stared down at them. The trouble was that, even flying, Alevica couldn’t shake Wiskeria’s and her mother’s words.
“Weak? I’ll show you who’s weak! You can’t even do a major working! I can!”
The Witch Runner shouted as she flew faster and faster. She could fly! Wiskeria was as weak as Nanette! But—Alevica could also feel herself burning her magic. She couldn’t fly long. And she was furious because she knew Belavierr was right. Grudges and envy and anger had some magic, but it wasn’t strong. Alevica found that seeping the enjoyment from her as she flew.
And it was hot. The sun beat down overhead. Alevica glared up at it. Someone was affecting the weather, she was certain. It wasn’t her. But it could have been any of the [Witches]. Or—someone else. When she thought of that, Alevica decided to go on a hunt.
The thing about flying was that she could travel faster than even Charlay for a while. And being this high up meant that Alevica could potentially spot a working if one of the [Witches] had hidden it. She didn’t know what she was looking for, but Alevica could see magical power just as well as any [Mage]. And she bet she could recognize a working if someone like Hedag or Eloise had laid it. Califor or Belavierr…? Well, it was worth looking.
Alevica crisscrossed the skies, seeking out places of power. You could follow old ley lines in the ground, places where magic was stronger. That would be a likely spot. Not that there were any old gravesites or magical ponds about. Mavika was right, in her way. As civilization progressed, people took the magic out of the world.
The old [Witches] in Alevica’s real coven loved to yammer on about how you couldn’t go two miles without tripping over a magical cairn or something. Alevica wished she’d been born in those days. When there was power waiting to be tapped instead of weak emotions—
“Hello. Who’s that?”
The [Witch] spotted something on her third flight over the area. She swooped down and spotted him. A…man. But there was power about him. Magic? He was hiding in a stand of trees, as dried as the earth. And he saw her at the same time as she saw him.
There was no running. He didn’t even try. The man with the odd hat walked towards her. Smiling. It was an uncanny smile. Too wide with too many teeth. Actually, it was the same kind of smile Alevica liked to give. A predator’s grin.
“Hello there. You must be that [Witch Hunter] Ryoka was talking about.”
Alevica casually reached for her crossbow and shortsword as she alighted on the ground. She was running out of mana after so much flying. But she’d found the man, and she had Skills for fighting too. The man eyed her as Alevica alighted.
“Well, I’m delighted to be so popular. Good evening, Miss…Witch?”
“What gave it away?”
Alevica grinned. She eyed the man up and down. Yup. Hat, clothing—all of it matched the former [Witch Hunters]. Another one? Alevica felt a twinge of danger. But she was dangerous too. She pointed at him.
“And who’re you?”
“Just a traveller—”
“Yeah?”
Alevica drew her crossbow. The man paused.
“You wouldn’t shoot an unarmed traveller, Miss?”
“I don’t see anyone watching us.”
Alevica bluffed. She was watching the man carefully. He had lots of power about him. Strange—she was having a hard time reading him. He was far too calm. He wasn’t a [Mage]—but—
“Why don’t you tell me why you’re hanging around, causing trouble for my kind? And if you try to run, I’ll shoot you and see what I can find on your body.”
That threat should have done something to his emotions, but the man was cool. He just grinned at her. And Alevica began to get uneasy herself. He shrugged, his hands lowering a touch towards his own belt. He had a bag of holding there.
“Just call me a scout, Miss Witch. Or a hunter who deals in fire and retribution to those who deserve it. One of many. But I’d rather not fight with you. What say we go our own ways?”
“And let a [Witch Hunter] go free? You put that [Knight] on Belavierr, didn’t you?”
“Maybe. Could you fault me for that? You [Witches] tend to cause trouble.”
“Yeah. We kill people we don’t like. Who are you? Last question! Answer me!”
Alevica gritted out. She didn’t like the way the man was watching her anymore. She’d identified the emotion coming off him. And it wasn’t fear or even wariness. He was going to try to kill her. It was an almost intangible, cold certainty. He’d been ready to kill her the instant he saw her. She wished she’d stayed on her broom. She warily gripped her sword’s handle. And the man just smiled.
“Miss Witch, I’d fly away. I really would. I have no quarrel with you specifically. But if you want to make this an issue, I’d much rather—”
Alevica fired her crossbow and drew her sword. As she did, she chanted an incantation in her mind.
Sword, cut and bite! Bolt, truest flight!
She saw the bolt curve towards the man. He staggered as he leapt sideways. The bolt stuck out of his side. Alevica charged him. She saw him reach for his belt. His hands flashed as she slashed at his head—
The spear went into her stomach. Alevica realized that after she screamed. She stared at the sword on the ground. The man raised his spear. It was bloody. Her blood. Alevica screamed as she felt the burning again. Desperately, she reached for a potion. Drank it.
It did nothing. Something was burning her insides. Poison. The [Witch] stared up as the man casually kicked her blade away.
“Poor luck, Miss Witch. You should have hit me with that bolt somewhere it mattered.”
He lifted the spear, then reconsidered.
“[Witches] cast curses with their dying breath. Or so the textbooks say. I can’t risk one now. Curse me and I’ll finish you off. Otherwise—you can hope someone finds you.”
He walked away. Alevica tried to shout after him. Swear that if he didn’t give her the antidote, she would curse him. But all she could do was scream.
The pain was burning. The poison—Alevica realized she was bleeding. Dying. The Witch Runner whispered. Magic. She had to call on her magic.
“Poison bites and tears away. But—but life, hold and stay! Blood, thicken and stop! Stop! Call help and give aid! Before this [Witch]’s life fades—”
She tried to pour her magic into the spell. But she couldn’t focus. She was slowing the bleeding. But she couldn’t pour energy into a working. Alevica lay there, clutching at her stomach. The poison was eating her up. The blood…trickled…away…
It was hot. Alevica screamed for help. And then her voice gave out. She lay there, the world fading. Her magic fading. Until she heard galloping hooves and an urgent voice.
“She’s here! She’s here! Ryoka! She’s hurt!”
Alevica heard someone racing towards her. She felt something huge kneel. A huge body. Not a Human’s. As hard to read as that man. Alevica couldn’t do non-Humans well—
“Alevica! It’s me!”
Charlay? The Centauress grabbed Alevica. Then she saw the blood.
“You need a potion! Ryoka! Ryoka!”
“I’m here! I—”
Someone. Blurry shapes. Alevica looked up. She felt a cool hand on her. Babbling voices.
“—stabbed her. Help me get—”
“Who? Nearby?”
“—matter. Potion?”
“No.”
Alevica could groan the words. She spoke desperately.
“No potion. Poison.”
“Poison?”
