“I was tempted, briefly, to try and give some to the succubi or even Lylyth; then I realized I didn't want anything like these feelings anywhere near people I care about.” Ren said and increased the intensity of the flames. It took almost a full minute to burn up so much sludge, and he kept going for another minute to burn up even the ashes. When it was all gone, he absorbed the Fire and dismissed the fire pit illusion.

“You should probably check the ghouls in the High Elven Kingdom.” Teepo suggested.

“Good idea, buddy.” Ren said as he started to walk again, then took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked for the details. “There's a few hundred nests, but they're barely a handful of ghouls in each one.” He said. “Can you show me how many can be healed?”

The mirror image didn't change to show any of them glowing, and Ren sighed. “We can clean them out tomorrow when we visit Yllana and Allynna to discuss what the High Lord of the Elves plans to do against me.”

Ren saw Officer Holly and Xuunah as they sat on their mounts and waited for him by the Main House. They wore full armor and had their weapons at the ready in one hand and held the steed's reins in the other.

“I just have to get... hello, Princess.” Ren said as Princess stepped out of her house.

“Hello, My Lord.” Princess said. “I'm ready to go.”

“Give me a second to enhance the other mounts.” Ren said and took out the wand with Permanent Widen Effect and used it several times on the Phantom Steeds. “There.” He said and climbed onto Princess' back and sat on the saddle. “Princess, you'll have to go at quarter speed so they can keep up.”

“I will go slow for the nags.” Princess said, and the two horses huffed and blew raspberries at her. “It's not an insult, it's the truth.” She said and trotted up into the air, and Ren tried not to laugh. Artemis took flight, as did Xuunah and Officer Holly, and they followed Ren for several minutes until they arrived at Aurora.

“I've never travelled that fast before.” Officer Holly said as they landed in the Housing District. “How did your spells do that?”

“Widen Effect doubles any numerical value in a spell.” Ren said. “One of the Phantom Steeds numerical values is it's speed.”

“How many times can you cast it?”

“I don't know.”

“Then why not keep casting it and find out?”

“Because.” Ren said. “The horse would probably break your neck just by starting to trot, or it could tear itself apart by having it's legs run faster than it's body.”

Officer Holly stared at Ren for a moment, then gave herself a little shake. “Okay, those are good reasons.”

Ren chuckled and hopped off of Princess and scratched her chin. “You can go for a little run, or you can go inside and wait.”

“Will you be long?” Princess asked.

“It depends.” Ren said. “I'm having supper with Nathalia and then I'm coming back here to spend some time with Elise.”

“Then I will go inside.” Princess said. “You are going to be a while.”

Ren opened the door to their old house for her, and she went into her old room. He looked over at Elise's house and the lights were off, which meant she wasn't in the game yet, so he looked at Officer Holly.

“You kind of have the same choice.” Ren said. “Are you staying outside to guard me, or going inside to wait?”

“I can do both.” Officer Holly said. “I'll sleep for the hour the ring's enchantment requires while you have dinner with Nathalia and Xuunah, and I should be up long before you're done.”

“Sounds good.” Ren said. “Secure your steed and help yourself to the house.” He said. “I'll try and not be too-”

“For god's sake, go and have fun.” Officer Holly said and hopped off her mount. “Don't worry about the time.” She tied the steed to the post outside of the house. “I'll see you when you're done.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and Officer Holly went inside the house and shut the door. “Xuunah?”

Xuunah looked down at him, let out a sigh, and slid off her mount. She secured it beside Officer Holly's mount and Ren held a hand out to her. She thought about not taking it; but, that thought lasted barely a microsecond as her hand gripped his firmly. Ren and Xuunah walked hand-in-hand down the street to go to the Artesian District and to the restaurant called Nathalia's Nourishment.
