A wave of murmurs spread throughout the gathered cultivators. Amber could understand why, as due to supply issues, only the Grand Elders typically got access to the raw fruits or truffles. Everyone else only got pills. You couldn't even buy the raw fruits or truffles if you wanted to.

"—however, there are expectations with this investment. Diana, if you could."

Diana spread her massive feathered wings and kicked off the ground to reach Elaine's side, her overwhelming presence silencing everyone once again.

"Anyone who enters the Eternal Realm will be bound by a heaven-binding decree to serve the new Ashbound Order," Diana said, her Qi-empowered voice carrying the unquestionable weight of a Monarch. "With the fall of the Celestial Empire, a new force is needed to maintain order across the newly established Ashfallen Empire." Her cold gaze swept across everyone present. "It will be a curated and elite force that will benefit from generous resource allocation, pay, and will carry the option to retire every fifty years."

That last part surprised Amber. A force like this would normally bind you for life, and traitors would be hunted down to the end of the realm. The reason cultivators were never let go was because of the upfront investment. Raising a single cultivator to the Star Core Realm could bankrupt a minor noble family, while a Nascent Soul Realm cultivator could emerge only from the most prestigious houses with vast wealth like the Silverspires.

Despite the shocking reveal, nobody dared speak while the Archdemon spoke.

"There is also one other group," Diana said, her voice taking on a chilling edge. "The Covenant."

Khaos, the famed six-armed void creature in service to Ashlock, appeared in an instant from the void below Diana. A few other smaller, but no less intimidating, void creatures appeared a second later for a total of five.

They hung static in the air, slowly flexing their claws.

Amber felt the breath stolen from her lungs.

"Tasked with eliminating the political enemies of Ashfallen and ending wars before they begin, the Covenant are elite assassins in service to the All-Seeing Eye directly," Diana explained. "This is the first and last time I will speak of them publicly like this. There is no way to volunteer to join their ranks. Those deemed elite enough from within the Ashbound Order will be offered the opportunity—but I will warn you: once you join the Covenant, there is no way out. Not even through death."

She snapped her fingers.

The five void monsters vanished as if they had never existed.

"Now, that is out of the way," Diana smiled. "Those who still wish to join the Ashbound Order, please step forward and accept your soul-binding from Grand Elder Kaida. After that, you will be given a supply of fruits and truffles and granted entry into the Eternal Realm—"

Amber didn't wait. She shamelessly rushed to the front alongside a few others. If she was only going to get a month inside, she was going to make the most of it.

Her future in the Ashbound Order was looking bright.
