“I have a really bad feeling about this, Adara,” Kerrin said. She knew she sounded like she was whining, but the Guildmaster had effectively banned anyone lower than platinum rank from entering the dungeon training areas this morning. Platinum rank, for goodness’ sake! There had to be some reason why.

And yet, here they were, buffing up on the shattered stone remains of the giant doors that had supposedly once guarded the entrance hall to Dal’mohra.

“This is not a designated training zone, Kerrin,” Adara countered. “We’re not disobeying the Guildmaster.”

“Technically,” she muttered.

“We’re all so close to twenty,” Adara said. “Just one more kill for me, I’m sure of it. You’ll probably level, too. Didn’t you say you were close?”

“Yeah…” She probably would, but that wasn’t the point. From the looks of anticipation on her teammates’ faces, their opinions hadn’t changed either since she had been outvoted on this delve. It was entirely unsurprising, really. Twenty would mean unlocking a new skill slot and the dramatic increase in capabilities that went with it. Even as she thought about it, her heart quickened. Would she finally unlock a primary area heal? Would her new patron influence her options so soon after accepting? With their eighth skill secured, the guild would trust them with more dangerous jobs and grant them more latitude – not to mention the increase in earnings when they became strong enough to challenge the truly lucrative bosses down here. All she could do now was buff properly and give her all to support her team, and make sure they survived whatever the Guildmaster had been worried about.

Maybe I am just a worrywart, like Mom always says. Still… She had drilled the dungeon survival guide into her brain. She asked, “Does everyone have a Recall potion?”

The chorus of yesses at least set her heart a little more at ease. Her team was more than a little zealous about fighting, and she always felt like she was the one reining them in, but they were disciplined and meticulous about proper preparation, at least.

Beyond the cracked and splintered slabs of stone, the broad, dark chamber flickered with dancing orange and red flames as the Drake Hatchlings basked in the perpetual aura of fire emitted from the terrifying kobold mage lurking at its heart. It knew they were there, just as they knew it was inside, but this was one of the more well-known bosses, a favorite of the guild, and they knew precisely how far he would leash, bound to this chamber. She peeked around the tumbled pile of jagged rock, grimacing at the wave of heat that blasted her face.

Fire Mage – Kobold – level 17.Drake Hatchling – Dragon – level 11-15 x4

Kerrin pulled out her most treasured possession, a gnarled staff of oak that had just recently been blessed by Lirasia. She sent a silent prayer of gratitude to the overwhelming power of the World Tree, who had somehow agreed to be her patron, recalling just how kind her eyes had been when she had spoken with her.

“Lirasia, please grant your boon upon my teammates,” she whispered. Even the stubborn ones, she added silently. The words were not strictly necessary, but somehow it felt appropriate for a magic personally granted to her by a deity. Using her staff as a focus, she buffed herself and then her friends.

You have gained the Fortitude of the Oak.

“Thanks!” Adara said, smiling back at her. “Let’s go!”

With a booming dwarven battle cry, Haldur rushed forward into the scorching conflagration, whirling his short-handled battle hammer around his head as his long black hair and beard burst into flame.

Kerrin rushed forward, hissing in pain as her skin began to crisp and blacken, and the stench of cooking meat and scorched hair assaulted her nostrils. Hastily, she cast her most potent Restoration on Haldur and readied Forest’s Regrowth in anticipation of the clash.

A huge fireball detonated against Haldur’s shield, blasting a visible shockwave through the flame-filled room, and she released her Regrowth, restoring Haldur’s flash-burnt face to health. A trickle of magic soothed her continually burning skin as her passive support, Bounty of Nature, pulsed, augmenting the power of the Regrowth she had cast on the tank and sharing a portion of it with herself and the rest of the group clustered up around her.

As the Drake Hatchlings surrounded Haldur and the dwarven tank began shouting his noisy war cry skills and laying about himself with his hammer, she settled in. Picking a safe spot where, hopefully, she might escape the notice of the burning kobold fire, she tuned out everything save the sense of her teammates’ health and began to weave her spells.

Even with most of their group reaching level nineteen yesterday, this was still an incredibly challenging fight for them. Adara was right; she might just reach twenty in the end. But how she hated fire; her skin sizzled, blackening and blistering in agonizing waves between pulses of her druidic healing magic. Her hair would require healing afterward, and so much care before it was back to manageable. But the worst were the flames burning her eyes, ears, and searing down through her nose and deep into her lungs as she fought for breath in the inferno.

Her only consolation was that none of it was permanent; she could heal – and her teammates needed her. She threw out a couple of extra Restoration heals, giving everyone a continuous stream of healing to tide them over between her larger and slower Nature’s Regrowth.

A sudden loud gong pealed out, and a ripple of force pulsed through the chamber, nearly snuffing out the roomful of flames.

[Zone] Dungeon of Knowledge has advanced to the third tier.

What is…

Before she could even finish the thought, the kobold Fire Mage’s eyes blazed with sudden yellow-white flame, and a surge of suffocating power rolled across the room. The Drake Hatchlings screeched, and the red flames dancing in the air suddenly roared, blazing white hot. The air rippled and shimmered like the heart of a forge as a sudden wave of all-consuming heat and flame tore through her flesh, lighting her up like an effigy. She screamed as the pain of the conflagration overwhelmed her Endurance, and in panic, she reached for her healing magic, casting in frantic desperation as everyone’s health plummeted in freefall.

And in the roaring flame, her pain-stricken mind registered the stare of the kobold. He caught her gaze and gestured toward her urgently, and for an instant, Kerrin caught the uncanny sense of another presence inside it, looking out at her through its eyes. Something immensely powerful, with a weight that could crush her in an instant like an ant beneath a boot. And yet, the kobold gestured again, shooing her away.

Kerrin did not need to be told again. “Run!” she screamed, her voice hoarse and distorted as she retrieved her Recall potion. Adara echoed her shout, and she wasted no time breaking the expensive potion and yielding her body to the sudden pull of its life-saving magic.

She landed heavily and stumbled, still burning and bleeding as she collapsed into a painful heap on the cold stone floor of the guild’s locus. Charred skin cracked and flaked off her arms as she moaned. At once, she was filled with a surge of immense holy magic, and her pain vanished like it had been merely a dream.

“Beldin’s blazin’ beard! Are ya all ok?”

Kerrin glanced up to find none other than Belmar standing there, staring down at them with concern and worry radiating from his eyes. The platinum-ranked adventurer’s magic shone like a beacon.

“Uhh… I think so,” Kerrin managed, slowly clawing her way back up to a sitting position, but her body seemed to be in perfect condition. Even her hair. It was just her mind that needed a moment to catch up. Anxiously, she swept the room with her eyes, but all of her team had made it out safely.

“Ya weren’t supposed ta be in the dungeon today, did ya miss the Guildmaster’s notice?” Belmar asked, his radiant holy power slowly fading as everyone confirmed they were ok.

“We saw it,” Adara said, still sitting on the ground. “But we were so close to twenty…” She trailed off, wilting under the gaze of the platinum-ranked priest.

“Ya realize Aliandra just ranked up ta tier three?” Belmar growled. “Yer lucky ta even be alive!”

“Tier three?” Kerrin managed. That’s what the zone notification had said, but in the panic of the moment, her mind had simply not registered the significance.

“Yup, she reached level two hundred and fifty, and she just processed her class evolution. The power surging through the dungeon was enormous. She didn’t anticipate being able to control it, so she asked to have the dungeon cleared beforehand.”

“I’m sorry,” Adara said.

“Ya need ta apologize ta them, not me,” Belmar said, suddenly slamming his hand against the table. Kerrin flinched. “You’re the leader, you’re responsible for their lives!”

Lucky to be alive. The realization soaked in slowly. Damn, that was stupid.

Kerrin was broke, now; Recall potions were not cheap. Fortunately, the guild allowed them to borrow recall potions on credit if they needed, but it meant she was going to need to work much harder just to repay that debt. But she couldn’t get the sight of the kobold Fire Mage’s incandescent eyes out of her mind. It had just been standing there staring at her, as if waiting for her to notice. It hadn’t been casting the empowered fireball that would doubtless have annihilated them in an instant. No, it had simply gestured to her to go, and now that her mind was slowly calming down, she wondered at the strangeness of it all.

Was it shooing us out? It was almost as if someone else had been watching her from within the monster.

Aliandra? Was that her? Pursing her lips grimly, she dragged herself up to her feet. First things first. Check they’re all ok. Apologize. I have to be better than this!

Ali released control of her kobold Fire Mage at the sight of the young bronze adventurers vanishing from her fire chamber in puffs of sooty smoke. As they reappeared one by one in the guild locus, smoke billowed into the air, and their blood spilled out across the pristine, polished stone. Ali swallowed, staring aghast at the grievous burns she had inflicted upon their bodies by the mere side effect of her ascension to the third tier, but Belmar leapt to his feet and took care of their burns and injuries in an instant, and she slowly let her awareness return to the shrine as he began to give them a stern dressing-down.

“They weren’t supposed to be there,” she muttered. The fact that she could injure bronze adventurers so badly just by the mere fact of her existence at tier three was at once shocking and terrifying, leaving her filled with a strange helplessness.

“Thank you for saving Kerrin and her friends,” Lira said.

“I stopped him from attacking them, but they nearly died in the passive fire aura,” Ali said. Truly, if Kerrin hadn’t been quick enough to call the retreat, Ali wasn’t certain she would have been able to do anything, and it was all because she had been so distracted with her own class and paths.

Suddenly, the chimes sounded softly in her mind, and a new set of notifications appeared.

You have gained Reputation.+1 Authority.

Wait, what? How…

“Kerrin? Adara’s group is in the dungeon?” Vivian asked, fury mounting like gathering storm clouds on the horizon as she realized what had just happened. “I told them to stay out today. I told them!”

“Impulsiveness and lack of wisdom are the nature of youth,” Lira said sagely. “As is the anger and frustration of a parent toward their children after the fear for their immediate death passes. You feel for your children, Vivian, but I suggest that Kerrin and her friends have already learned their lesson and likely need no further punishment.”

“But, they…” Vivian said, stumbling over her words in her agitation.

“Belmar told them off pretty sternly,” Ali added. “And he’s making them all report to you personally when you get back. I think they’re more terrified of you than the fire.”

Vivian took a deep breath, fury visibly draining out of her. “This is not good for my sanity,” she muttered. “I’m just glad they’re ok.”

“Kerrin is delightful and enthusiastic,” Lira said. “She just needs guidance, Vivian.”

“Yes, they all do. That’s not the problem. I just wish they would listen.” Vivian looked from Lira back to Ali and continued, “You were about to ask something?”

“I was going to ask how Authority works and how to earn reputation, but I just got one point,” Ali said, reviewing the earlier notifications. Authority, listed at the bottom of her status sheet below mana, now read:

Authority: 1/252

She had entered the third tier with zero Authority, and it had remained there until the notification had chimed. There did not seem to be any natural regeneration for Authority, at least nothing listed in all the usual places.

“When you gain followers, your authority regenerates. When they do something in alignment with your paths, you can earn reputation, which, depending on its significance, will determine how much Authority is regenerated,” Lira said, but a little uncertainty flickered across her usually serene, sage-like eyes, and Ali realized that this was new ground for her aunt, too.

“I can’t take followers,” Ali said, searching through her path choices again.

“Then you must earn reputation by your own actions,” Lira said. “Azryet is perhaps the best source for information on how this works.”

How does a dungeon earn reputation? She had just earned some, admittedly, the smallest amount, from the incident with Kerrin and Adara’s encounter with her Fire Mage, but was it her actions to save them that triggered it? Or was it the zone notification? Or the intensity of the power surge? There were so many questions.

“Lira, do you know how to use Authority?” she asked, deciding to try and come at the problem from a different angle. She had one point now – not enough, she realized, to pay for any of the path nodes she had just purchased during her evolution.

“You spend it in place of mana, stamina, or even health. Even just one point added to a skill will dramatically enhance it with additional potency,” Lira explained.

“A little like mom’s ability?” Ali asked. She had inherited it – the ability to spend her maximum health to empower her magic. An extraordinarily expensive ability, but one of enormous power. It had been the only ability that allowed her to stand against Azryet’s breath, and it was the ability that allowed her to save Cael and Gage from their decaying magical support chamber.

