“You can think of it that way, but I think you’ll find the differences to be substantial,” Lira said.

“How so?”

“With your skills, probably the fastest way would be to simply try it and observe,” Lira suggested.

“Ok.” Ali had only one point of Authority, but the knowledge of how it worked would be far more valuable than trying to hoard it – even when it seemed to be such a rare resource. Besides, Lira seemed to be quite confident she could earn more. She manifested her Grimoire and opened the enormous tome to the newest chapter: Celestial.

She focused her mind, bringing all her senses to bear on what she was about to do, and then fed mana into the Divine Archon imprint. It was instantly obvious how to use her Authority, so she spent her only point, dropping it into the torrent of mana pouring into her Grimoire imprint.

The moment she spent her Authority, she understood what Lira meant. Nothing about the construction of her magic had changed – the point of Authority simply took the place of a single point of mana. And yet, its influence changed everything. Like a drop of potent dye dropped into a bowl of water, its influence colored everything. The very fabric of the mana formations grew sharper and clearer, as if her summoning were performed with a fundamentally more primal and pure form of mana. The spells twisted and reshaped, slight adjustments that might barely be noticed, and yet the overall harmony of the structure was somehow perfected. Brimming with vitality and potency.

Sage of Learning jolted her mind, reacting to the concert of magic played out before her mana sight, gobbling down enormous amounts of mana as her memories flickered and flashed like the pages of a thousand books flipping by. Countless hours of studying the obscure and dense text within Clarence’s pages suddenly crystallized, a murky pond suddenly clearing to allow her a perfect view of what lay on the floor below.

So that’s what she meant!

The rush of sudden clarity surged through her mind long after her minion summon was completed, a million puzzle pieces slotting together in an endless cascade as her mother’s work finally made sense. The blinders had been removed, and while she might not fully understand it yet, she could see the true fundamental nature of magic. How did she… oh, wow!

“Ali?” Malika asked, prodding her lightly.

“I… I’m ok,” Ali managed, her mind popping back to the present like a bubble of air reaching the surface of a pond.

“What was that?” Malika asked, a worried look still lingering in her eyes.

“A moment of inspiration,” Lira said with a smile, even before Ali could try to put the transcendental experience into words.

“You summoned that archon in twelve and a half seconds,” Calen observed with his signature calm tone, but there was an indefinable spark of excitement dancing in his eyes. “That’s viable in combat, now.”

“I have a lot of spell haste, now,” Ali said, but the radical change in her summoning speed aside, she was far more interested in what her Archon actually was. She prodded it, earning a long-suffering eyeroll from the celestial as she studied the skills and attributes. It’s more potent than an Elite monster. And she had spent only a single point of Authority. Suddenly, the glacial accumulation rate for Authority made far more sense. After all, it had taken her a hundred and fifty levels to accumulate her three-hundred-and-six Authority for her evolution. Everything she had seen with her mana sense told her that Authority was a fundamentally more potent resource than mana. In fact, it might even make sense to consider it the primordial kind of magical power. Her conversations with Val’korr on the subject replayed again in the back of her mind as Sage of Learning toyed with the memories.

But without any more points, her further experiments would have to wait. Instead, she had many other abilities to test. While she summoned her mana, she turned to Malika and asked, “Did you get a chance to chat with Morwynne?”

“Oh, yes,” Malika said. “I made sure she has all the ingredients for your Elixir. She’s just waiting on a blessing for one of the reagents – it’s a six-day recharge, apparently.”

“Ok, thanks,” Ali said, touching her archon and letting the mana flow into her. Six days and I’ll be rid of this cursed title, once and for all!

Divine Archon – Celestial Sun Elf – level 252 (Holy)World Walker applied to Divine Archon.Elite Domain Enhancement applied to Divine Archon.Amplify Skill (Celestial Sword) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +827.

As she boosted her new Archon, she used one of her World Walker slots to free it from being bound to a specific region of her domain, noting in fascination how it still drew mana from the domain, but now it seemed to be redirected through the reserve connection to herself. World Walker, it seemed took the place of Domain Respawn, understandable really, considering her domain would likely not be around to resummon it if it died.

“Is that your new thing?” Mato asked, eyeing the Archon appreciatively.

“World Walker. Yes,” Ali said. “It’s an elite boss that can leave the dungeon.”

“How does that even work?” Calen asked.

“The domain empowering its abilities is redirected through my reservation connection,” Ali said. It certainly explained why it had required her to tier up – the sheer magnitude of the power coursing through the connection she shared with her minion was startling. Before her evolution, she was certain her body would have disintegrated under the strain. “Be right back,” Ali said.

With a thought, she teleported herself directly to the edge of her own domain in the Abyssal Realm, bringing her Divine Archon with her while also collecting a balanced party of other minions from across her domain.

“Ok, you guys go find something to hunt,” Ali instructed, gesturing toward the dark tunnel that led away from her domain. “But don’t go too far.” Provoking a full dungeon break from the Lair of the Demon God would not be smart, even with her greatly increased power.

“It shall be so,” the Divine Archon intoned, turning toward the darkness and flaring with an inner holy light.

One of the most significant changes from her class evolution had been the upgrade applying spell haste to her recharge timers. Initially, she had been a little disappointed that it seemed to only apply one-fifth of her haste to her recharge costs, but the experience of teleporting eight monsters to the edge of a different realm and being able to return in three point six seconds suddenly impressed upon her just how crazy that really was. More impressive still, one of those monsters was a third-tier, authority-summoned elite archon, now strolling confidently down a demon-infested tunnel bathed in an aura of pure holy flames and carrying a giant sword at the ready.

“Where’d you go?” Calen asked when she popped back into the grove beside the shrine.

“I sent the archon and some other minions demon hunting in the abyssal realm,” Ali said. The opportunity to see how her archon performed with all her dungeon break enhancements would be quite educational. Already, the enhancements to her perception abilities were giving her a wealth of continuous information from her small away team as she studied her kobolds scurrying after the trolls and the archon, all benefiting from the holy aura and the Archon’s Fanaticism. They hadn’t encountered anything particularly dangerous yet, but the ever-present wargs and imps they had run into didn’t last more than seconds.

“How are they doing?” Calen asked, holding his notebook ready.

“I’ll let you know when they find something stronger,” Ali said. “They’re crushing the lesser demons.” She swept her awareness through her entire dungeon, double-checking that nobody would be in any danger, and then she retrieved her Eye of the Lich ring, slipping the band of darkness on her finger.

An exquisite rush of power surged through her minions, experienced so viscerally through her connection to them that it felt personal. The holy fires of consecration billowing out from her Archon grew several times more intense, while the ice bolts and fireballs wielded by her mages suddenly accelerated dramatically, benefiting from her eight hundred and seventy-five percent increase to spell haste and the enormous number of spell-power boosts she was suddenly sharing via the ring’s Summon Supremacy legendary enchantment.

“Oh, boy. That’s a rush,” Ali said. And not even Tol’brekk was complaining this time. In fact, he was grinning maniacally as the blood blades in his vortex multiplied, growing faster and more powerful in an instant.

“Does it work?” Calen asked, his eyes sparkling with excitement.

“Yes, I lost Tiny,” she answered, grinning at him.

“You still look tiny,” Mato said, drawing up to his full height so he could emphasize just how much he could loom over her.

“What are you trying to say?” she demanded, staring up at him with her fists on her hips.

“Nothing… pipsqueak.”

“Hey! I’ll have you know I doubled my effective strength! When’s the last time you had such an enormous upgrade?”

“So, what, you have seven strength, now?”

“Eight! Excuse me!” Ali picked up a nearby rock and brandished it at him while she stuck her tongue out for effect. She had had eight for a while now, but the Tiny aptitude had halved its effectiveness, so she really did feel twice as strong.

“How about we let me handle picking up the rocks, and reaching for the top shelf, and you handle the rest?” Mato offered.

“I can fly, you know. And I know the runes for telekinesis, I don’t need your help getting to the top shelf.”

“Ooh, scary!”

Probably as good a time as any, Ali decided, recalling the runic structure for the arcane telekinesis spell she had learned from studying trainees in her arena. She summoned her mana, impressing her will upon it using her new advancement to Runic Script. A ring of sparkling golden runes materialized, orbiting her wrist like a loosely floating bangle. It shimmered and sparkled, an intricate sculpture reminiscent of her barrier magic and wrought into the shape of the formation she held crisply within her mind. Then it pulsed with mana as it completed, and she reached out through the spell and flicked Mato’s ear.

“Hey!” he yelped.

“Serves you right for picking on someone smaller than you!” Ali crowed, poking him with the telekinesis spell again.

“I thought you weren’t tiny?”

“I am whenever it suits me!” she declared, chasing him around the shrine a few times before she stopped.

“It uses a lot of mana,” she said, studying the ring of floating runes that were being supported by a continuous flow of her mana.

“But don’t you have like a million now?” Calen asked.

“No, just five hundred and fifty thousand,” she said, sighing. It had more than doubled in her upgrade, but still, she could always use more – champion monsters were expensive and she was reserving a lot. But the splutters and coughing from her friends suddenly reminded her just how crazy what she had said probably was. Even for a mage in the third tier, fifty thousand mana would probably be extreme, and she had ten times that because of her bloodline and domain. With just a simple check, she realized her mages were also benefiting from her bloodline bonuses to mana.

With her mind grounded back in reality, she realized just how important spell haste really was to her new abilities. Both the Edict of Denial and her new Runesage Ascendant path benefited dramatically from faster casting, and they both provided ample improvements to spell haste. Combined with the haste she gained from her Arcane Recall mastery, she found she could summon the runes for a low-level spell like telekinesis near instantaneously. And Calen’s jest was spot on; the extra cost for summoning the spell inscribed by her own mana, as inefficient as it might be, was simply lost in the vast pool of mana she could regenerate per second.

There was so much to explore. She aimed an arm, and a ring of glowing green runes sprang into being in front of her hand. Mana rushed through the formation, and she sprayed the nearby ground with conjured acid. The ring flickered, the runes changing instantly, and grasping roots sprang from the ground. She followed it up with a cloud of insects and several different druidic healing spells.

I should be able to do metamagic, too. A ring of green sprang into existence, followed by a second golden ring hovering behind it, both circling her arm. She reached out and released a vast poison cloud, benefiting from the arcane Increased Area metamagic. Moments later, the runes were replaced by golden arcane formation, and she fired off a dozen nostalgic Arcane Bolts combined with a power-boosting meta magic spell.

They were all low-level spells, at least relative to her current level, but the ability to summon the runic magic nearly instantaneously filled her with such profound joy that she couldn’t contain the ear-to-ear grin. Nor her excitement. Spell after spell launched from the flickering circles as she rapidly tore through a large portion of her repertoire of every nature and arcane spell she had memorized.

Wait. I can do runic magic with my domain! She cast about quickly, finding a nearby grove of light-affinity trees and teleported there using a little bat that was minding its own business roosting on a branch. Then, she summoned something she had memorized a long, long time ago. Runes of blazing light appeared as she attached them to her domain mana on creation. Her eyes widened at the astonishing sight. Neither gold nor green, the light runes shone with pure white radiance, and then, a floating Mote of Light appeared. It hovered before her eyes, drifting on the ever-so-gentle breeze, and slowly rose into the cavern.

Finally! I can cast anything.

Obviously, there were restrictions. She couldn’t use other affinities unless she was drawing from that specific mana biome in her domain, but still, her mind reeled with the possibilities. It wasn’t anything particularly new, either; she had been able to summon elementals and runic circles of other affinities in her mana biomes before this. But something about being able to create any spell she could memorize really stunned her. She had been thinking of her third-tier evolution as a strong increase in power, but the reality was far more impressive to her. The sheer breadth of what she could accomplish took her breath away.

