knights, and travellers between here and the Kingdom of Verluan. We find them strung up in trees, hung like demented scarecrows. What do you say in your defence?” her father demanded and Mharia peered at the woman doubtfully. She didn’t seem like someone who would string people up...The woman sighed as if inconvenience by the impromptu witch trial she hadn’t been giving proper notice of.“Guilty as charged! But we did give ample warning,” the woman pointed out as if this was a technicality.“Witch-” her father began again before the woman actually spoke over him in a lecturing tone.“Holly… Dabbergahst, if you would,” she instructed. That was the kind of name a heroine or some cool villain would have! Mharia was still wondering what exactly was going on.“Dabberghast,” her father said, amending his words, “the Blackthorn forest belongs to this land and you know if I want to burn it down to reach the ores beneath soil, I can. Your warnings are without power,” he warned and Dabberghast smiled coyly.“Oh, I wouldn’t say that. But we honestly don’t need to lift a finger beyond protecting important areas. Your own actions are justice enough,” she shrugged, not an easy feat with her easy chains.This tale has been unlawfully obtained from Royal Road. If you discover it on Amazon, kindly report it.“You know of the plague?” Mharia’s mother asked sharply and the woman looked at her with a relaxed smile.“Only the plague of short solutions for shorter results. If you want a clearer answer, give us the power to be an independent state and we will aid our ‘neighbours’ with joy. We don’t enjoy having to burn with the rest of you for the sake of it,” she offered.There was some shuffling from the watching noble heads and guards, but Mharia’s father shook his head.“You were not brought here to bargain. Only to pay for your crimes. A solution is at hand and I don’t need to bargain with murderers and beasts to protect my people, only for them to be cattle to witches of the wood,” he said, voice like steel.This got the first frown from Dabberghast since Mharia had seen her.“I suspect that burning down the forest and unearthing all the pretty rocks is not your solution?” she said and Mharia felt uneasy when her father looked skywards where the grand’s hall majestic roof was peeled back like a flower blossoming.The Star Gate was one of Turtog’s wonders. One of Mharia’s favourites.“When unspeakable powers and threats take my kingdom’s chances of surviving, I must respond in kind. Turtog has remained without a core god or religion as long as my bloodline has existed. We have allowed other practices to exist out of respect and to remove evil, but as a whole? We lack the power, the protection of a god,” he said and the stars above twinkled like fireflies.That was... Mharia swallowed hard, but she didn’t dare move. Dabberghast had little care to do the same. Her chains rankled as she tried to move forward.“Why not ask for a priest to come. Why not adopt a god that is already formed?” she demanded and Mharia’s father looked down as if there was binding on his own hand.“I’ve seen how that works. A religion that knows it is needed has power not even a king can counter. I cannot let my people be saved from this danger only to be thrown in the midst of a bloody civil war,” he suddenly yelled and Dabberghast narrowed her eyes.“So you will conjure the beings from the other side, poke your own hole in the sky for new light to shine through. Create your own little star and hope it shines brighter than the rest. You would rather deal with a creature of such inhumanity that the potential sight of it could rob you of your sanity?” Dabberghast asked quietly, but her voice carried.“Yes, and your life will be the dagger in which to pierce the sky. Instead of simply hacking off your head like the murderer you are, your life will be put to good use,” the king announced and Mharia’s hands trembled.Sun’s words came back to her, in her mind.‘I do not know why. Is it because of demons? Did the gods divide us? Does the light reveal our flaws too easily?’Was... Mharia’s family going to kill the woman? Like some show? Other people looked grim and others looked hopeful.Was her Father going to just... call a god to help them?Dabberghast snorted and looked away.“Do it. Death begets death. Violence calls violence. Your god will be as bloody as the coins you use to pay for his carriage here,” she scoffed.“I know,” Mharia’s father said with grave sorrow before he nodded to the priests.“Begin,” he instructed and the chains on Dabberghast’s wrists and neck began to glow with dark red symbols. This wasn’t right. Mharia could save them, but as much as she wanted to protest, her fear and shame kept her silent as the woman writhed for a moment before half of her skin began to turn to wood.After a moment, the wood began to be pulled off Dabberghast like she was being stripped of bark from a tree.“The gift of nature from a Druid on the verge of wood or flesh. I seek not death, but your life,” the king, a man Mharia couldn’t call father at that moment, said as Dabberghast stared at the wooden form that looked like her being pulled into the circle.“That’s my choice! My choice!” she roared, the chain buckling as she tried to reach for the wood.“I choose to be wood or flesh, not you!” she snarled, eyes glowing black.After a moment she fell to her knees, still heaving and snarling.“I am... flesh,” she whispered and her eyes looked at the circle where the wooden face looked back with sorrow.“Your god will be everything you wanted and more,” Dabberghast warned like a curse and Mharia felt sick. With one last look, the King nodded and the guards lead her out, dragging her as she refused to be led peacefully.There was a lot of mana being gathered as the wooden druid form looked skyward as if thinking. The priests slowly used the magic circle to raise their voices and as things reached a crescendo of mana and chanting, the wooden form exploded, a green light shooting skywards.A star appeared, directly above their kingdom. It formed like someone took a knife and dragged it down the darkness.Inside the circle a single stem grew up from the solid stone, the bud white and closed. The king rose and approached it.“It arrives, the envoy of our god,” he announced and the room’s atmosphere seemed to grow tense and excited. The flower pulsed but seemed to be content waiting. The king knelt before it, offering it the highest of respect.“Oh god, being from beyond. I am King Harnick of Turtog. I call you here to bring life to my dying kingdom. Let us hear your desires and let us work in harmony,” he intoned. The thing bloomed.Inside the bulb was an eye.“I will heal this land of sickness as you desire,” it promised and its voice was strange, like an old man that spoke down at people. Mharia didn’t like it.“Worship me. Offer your throne to be the soil in which I will become the Tree of this world,” it said and that... made her father swallow.“Great one... there is a world tree already, the Almighty Wyin, the benevolent goddess who heals any that drinks of her sap,” he explained. There was a long pause as the ugly flower in the circle seemed to think this over.“I see. Then half of my work is already done. But first,” it said and blinked once, the eyelids coming in sideways.“Let me heal this land of its terrible sickness,” it said and everyone moved in close before the eye began to bleed a dark fluid as if crying.“The foolish insects that rip it apart, poisoning themselves with the very metal they think will save them. You used pain and loss to bring me here, let me repay the kindness,” it said and it lashed out with a dozen tendrils, impaling people in the shoulder or in the leg.One came for Mharia, but she reacted out of fear, her hand glowing sickly green which caused it to rot before it touched her. The plant demon screamed, the people around her stumbled.“Bring me the deathbringer. Bring me the child of marrow!” it hissed. Mharia narrowed her eyes and snarled, moving forward to rot the demon before it hurt anyone else.Her father, her mother, her guards, the nobles... her siblings all turned to her, thick worm-like veins pulsing in their necks or arms. Mharia backed up.“Papa… Mother? Cernick? Tirse?” she called but they advanced on her as their eyes became dull.“No... only me,” they said and the plant's voice came out of their mouth. Mharia screamed as they reached for her.The ground exploded, sending her Mother and Father’s thrones into the air as a massive shadow tendril emerged.“I told you... this was a bad idea,” Sun’s voice called out, loud and feral as it swiped at the people.It took down people and after a moment, they seemed to just break apart as Sun pulled something out of them.“These people are already slaves to two... you will not have them,” Sun challenged as the plant thing scurried away, using human shields to hide itself. Mharia ran but she was blocked off from Sun. A hand reached for her and she used her Mana in a panic.A guard turned black and fell to pieces. Mharia felt a strange feeling come over her;A sort of... numbness that made her question why she was moving or running... or raising the man as skeleton.She had to... she had to run and survive!“Such power... such unity of power. I want it, but no... you’re not the one, the true source,” the plant spoke from all angles and all mouths.“Even as weak as I am to this plane... I can sense them. One high, so high it would burn me to touch... but another deep in darkness. That one... that one I can hunt,” it said with glee.“As much as I hate them, My Aunt and Uncle will tear you apart and I shall enjoy it,” Sun said and Mharia turned as the shadow tendrils formed a rough human shape as it destroyed more and more lights.“Family... would that make you... the Nephew then?” the plant murderer asked amused.Sun looked at her and it was almost like he could smile.“I suppose I am,” he agreed and part of the wall was struck as he moved to attack.Something stabbed Mharia in the back.“But your dear Princess Marrow will be short a friend, it seems,” the plant whispered before the creatures around them, no longer people, began to advance on them with no further comment, as if the plant demon was now too far to spend that much power.Mharia hated that word... she hated that name.Turning, she saw Cernick and Tirse standing there, their hands in her back as their ugly worm necks bulged.Tirse blinked once and something was in her hand as if she was trying to work a limb that didn’t work anymore.It was Mharia’s doll, Tirse must have been holding it when she was attacked... in the act of returning it to calm Mharia down from the ritual.Mharia would kill the demon. She would find it, rot it, burn it, find out what made it tick and make it scream. She would study these worm monsters in her people... she would learn how to fix people.But first... she couldn’t feel her body that much. They must have hit her spine.Mharia couldn’t exactly do anything if she died, but as they were connected to her... the doll, the thing she put her mana into for fun acted like a strange bridge. It let Mharia see into her brother and sister, seeing beyond their flesh to a black seed where the worm was trying to burrow to... to feast on.If they did that then her siblings were truly gone.Mharia refused them that fate, she felt her own seed flow through the flesh, injected itself into Tirse’s body, pulling on Cernick’s for fuel.A moment later, the parasites tried to kill Tirse, but Mharia flung Mana at it as it tried to surge into her... Tirse’s... brain.However, the issue was she wasn’t working with her own tiny magic any more. Tirse was talented and Cernick was... scary in His own? Or perhaps personal potential. The mana escaped her control and she felt, painlessly, one side of her face explode in an angry raw crackle of energy.Mharia grunted and pulled the bone back together with sheer mana, the bone becoming black as it became tough as it absorbed more magic.The parasites rotted and Mharia turned as her aura spread, turning more monsters to dust. Sun watched her and he held two forms out.Mharia saw her parents were partly gone and only one of her new eyes could weep, the other eye socket was empty.“We all become one, but until then... you should look after them,” Su-No, Nephew promised. Mharia took in her mother and father’s half deformed seeds and her mana again began to expand beyond her control.“I don’t think... I can keep doing this,” she admitted as her bones creaked. The power was breaking her down and rebuilding her every second she couldn’t control it.“You can’t. Bloodline of the Seeds allowed you to perform this act, but anymore will require true mastery,... there will be time for that later. You need to grieve,” Nephew instructed, but Mharia ignored him to move to the gates where she saw the castle gates were already torn open and the guards shuffling like the monsters inside.“I can grieve tomorrow,” she said with a hatred to her tone.“Tonight... Turtlog burns until I make a god scream,” she promised.“Gods divide us. Demons lie to us. Even the sun and earth plot against us. In the end... we become one or we fall,” Nephew said as he fell into line with her, more an abstract shadow than anything.“Then let us fall into silence. I don’t want to pray to the stars anymore. I just want it to be quiet,” Mharia said softly as behind her, her power finally ate through stone and the walls began to collapse inside.Turning, she placed her doll down on a rock before the collapsing walls of her home.“You cannot free them,” Cernick said poisonously.“You should have joined us. It was peaceful,” Tirse agreed.“I 