will free you... even if death becomes the only option,” Mharia said to the doll, leaving it behind with her innocence and life.Her siblings, turned mad, continued to speak to her. Their words like glass, but each moment was also... comforting. Knowing that they were still there.A hundred years? Mharia had time now. She could figure something out.---Holly Dabberghast walked out of the gardens of the castle, a crushed worm in her hand.She looked at the pair walking off before picking up the doll left behind. The magic inside was small, but it was... there.She turned the thing over where she saw the princess had stitched a name into the back.It was a little crude and hard to make out.Suv? San?She ran a finger over it and tried to read it in the moonlight.Sav.It was the best guess she had.She would hold on to it for now. You never knew when these things came in handy. Around her, the rotting worms and people began to leak into the soil, bringing life to the dead soil, the first to emerge was a dark greyish mushroom that survived despite the metal poison in the ground.She bent down and feeling morose and a little dark, she nibbled it.Dabberghast spat it out with a smile.“Disgusting. A bite of that could rot one’s gut,” she mused.Holly Dabberghast wandered off to her woods, not leaving until 50 years when a foolish man called her beautiful.Her only guest in all that time that made it out alive before then was a strange man looking to learn about that foolish kingdom. He was amusing and Dabberghast found his barely contained bloodlust entertaining.The fact he brought her information on the plant parasite that used her wooden blessing as a tie to this world was the only reason she traded him the doll the Bone Princess left behind.She would not see that man for sometime until she ran into him in Durence Village.Jolin Japes was a very interesting man.But Holly Dabberghast was just a friendly neighbour who didn’t poke her nose into things. She helped her neighbours... it was her thing.Really... ask anyone.
