Melemizargo had no problem bowing deep, saying, “I will be the God of Magic of The Dark, accepting the duty which had been stricken from me due to my negligence, to ensure that such negligence will never happen again. I will teach magic to all. I will spread the Dark forevermore.”

“Then rise, Melemizargo. Claim your divinity, and your purpose.”

Darkness coiled around Melemizargo and then settled into his very soul. His white eyes, so like Erick’s, flickered and ignited and he glowed from within, restored. Dark coiled around him, and it was the same Black that had always surrounded him.

Tears streamed down Fallopolis’s face, first simple tears, and then turning into light, as her eyes returned to Shade-bright. Fallopolis cried tears of joy now that her god was back.

Erick shrunk back down to his human body, to look up at Melemizargo, and level with the others. Shivraa was behind him, bowed to one knee, fist pressed to her chest, quietly crying tears of joy. Oozy was on his ass, kinda just staring at everything.

Erick said to Melemizargo, “Looks good on you, old man. I left it all as it was, yes?”

Melemizargo caught up quickly to many different things all at once. He looked down at Erick, surprised. “… You’re older than me, now.”

Erick angled a hand back and forth. “Eh! No. Most of that was [Onward]. Let’s just not talk about that stuff. My task is set as anti-corruption work, appointing and denying gods, and giving things the Unwelcome when they must be Unwelcomed. I won’t be Unwelcoming too often. Malevolence only came around once in a few million years, after all.” He asked, “We good, everyone?”

They were all less than impressed with Erick’s nonchalance but they got on board fast enough.

Erick said, “Let’s take the rest of this conversation upstairs.”

Erick vanished first. The others followed fast.

- - - -

Fallopolis watched as the man she had once helped, helped another, who happened to be Her God.

Much like her revelation that she shouldn’t have called for the Purge on Spur, she realized that all of life was just a chain of people helping each other in the ways that they could. Sometimes chains bound and tied, but most of the time they connected one thing to another.

Fallopolis didn’t understand much of what had just happened, but she knew that Nothanganathor had been the kind of guy to use chaining magic to control.

Erick made chains that connected.

Very similar people, but also completely different.

Like positive to negative particles, and lightning, and all of that.

If Jane would have died at the beginning, then Fallopolis was pretty sure that Erick would have gone down a wrong path. But Jane was fine, and Erick was here. Surely he had seen more pain than Fallopolis could conceive, and he had even killed fake Janes out there, if the rumors were to be believed, but that hadn’t broken him. Maybe, even if Jane had died in the beginning, then Erick still would have tried to be who he became in the here and now.

Erick reached out to help. Through the pain, through the sorrow and horror, he still helped.

Always.

Ah, Fallopolis thought, Do I have a little crush on him like I have on you, My Lord?

Probably. Don’t let it affect your work. We have a lot to do.

Of course...

Fallopolis rapidly, wonderfully thought, ‘I’m glad you’re back, My Lord.’

I did not expect it either!

… Uh.

Apologize to Shivraa for me.

Melemizargo pulled back from Fallopolis’s mind.

Fallopolis turned to Shivraa.

The woman was currently ice-elf-human shaped. She seemed truly surprised and elated and a whole bunch of other confusing emotions, all at the same time. Fallopolis didn’t blame her. She was feeling weird emotions right now, too.

Fallopolis pounced, saying, “We apologize for—”

“HMMM!” Shivraa announced, sounding both displeased and pleased at the same time. “I don’t want to hear it. Apologize by doing good deeds.”

“… Fair enough. We still apologize.”

Shivraa barely even looked at Fallopolis. Instead, she stared at the broken sky and land. The illusions on the sky were healing that very moment, while the land sprouted greenery of every hue, clearing up the vast destruction that Melemizargo’s fall had caused. And then Shivraa lost her smile, and looked at Oozy.

She seemed incapable of not glaring, but there wasn’t any heat in her voice as she asked Fallopolis, “You’re going to keep him?” She said, “You’re not going to torture him.”

She had said it almost as a question, but it was not a question at all. Partially, it was a request. Mostly, it was a demand.

Fallopolis didn’t have to think long before she said, “We were going to interrogate him about all the tricks that Nothanganathor had left behind, but it’s probably better if his mind is shared with the Valkyries. Melemizargo grants you this request.”

Shivraa’s pale violet skin turned dark in a second, becoming blood that then expanded upward and outward. The blood froze over and shattered into blackgold fire, revealing the Valkyrie underneath. Wings of pale violet ice coalesced behind Shivraa as she grabbed a sword of the same out of the air.

Oozy went wide-eyed and backed up, scuttling along the ground, his glowing white eyes going wide. “Wait wait wa—”

Shivraa declared, “We are still at war. The Valkyries had been containing a million threats that your god helped release when he sought to reach out and control what he should not have controlled. You will join us, and in doing so, give us insights into best containment procedures, and if you cannot, then you will still be redeemed through service to Benevolence.”

Oozy stopped trying to escape.

He centered himself, and righted himself upon the stone, kneeling before Shivraa. He closed his white eyes. “I accept.”

“I will make it painless,” Shivraa said, lifting her sword.

To her credit, Fallopolis thought, as she watched the execution, ten suddenly-materialized swords simply appearing from every direction and driving into Oozy was kinda quick. The swords cleaved into Oozy’s body, tearing through his new-Shade existence, twisting his very light and shadows back into flesh, into blood that then became life.

Oozy rose as a man of blood-red hair and white-lightning-filled eyes. He hadn’t been a Shade long, but it had marked him deeply.

Fallopolis was surprised that Shivraa hadn’t had any trouble doing that at all. Shades should not be able to be soul-captured like that, but Erick’s power was above Melemizargo’s in the hierarchy now.

That was the moment that Fallopolis truly started to believe that everything was truly different.
