“How did they appear?”
There’s chaos in the banquet hall. The Blighted King is questioning the guard who raised the alarm. Other soldiers are rushing for the doors, creating blockades in the corridors. But most of the guards and people are staying put. Waiting. Listening.
Fear is in the air. My stomach is churning. What can I do? What should I do?
He was right. I was right. But how did the Demons get here?
“Teleportation magic. A scroll—possibly artifacts. To teleport so many, the Demon King must have used every magical item in his possession.”
Nereshal is conferring with a group of [Mages]. His eyes are on the projection. And then I see movement from the courtyard.
The Demons are streaming into the castle, most through the main gates. But they’re also moving along the battlements. One group is clustered around the left wall. I see an explosion, and a different group appears.
Humans. Two Humans, a man and an old woman. A Gnoll, and a Selphid. They cut down the Demons and charge into the courtyard, running along the battlements. The Blighted King’s champions.
A cheer goes up through the room as the people see the four champions charging the Demons. But the Blighted King and his advisors don’t cheer. They watch, intently, as the four warriors rush a group in the center of the courtyard.
“There. Their leader is a mage.”
Nereshal points. A female Demon wearing robes is standing in the courtyard, staff aloft. By her side is a male Demon, holding a bow taller than he is. It must be seven feet tall. He wears no armor. One of the champions raises his own bow, draws an arrow, looses it in a moment.
The arrow vanishes before it reaches the Demon with the bow. He puts an arrow to his bow, draws, fires. The Gnoll who fired tries to dodge, but the arrow curves in the air and strikes him in the chest. He falls.
Lady Xersia, a man with a shortsword, and the Selphid holding two greatswords are left. They charge into a group of Demons coming up the stairs. The Selphid impales two on each sword; the Demons run into the blades. He disappears, covered by the Demons who don’t flinch as Xersia and the man with the short sword cut them down one by one.
“Fearless.”
Nereshal speaks the word like a curse. More of the Demons are flooding towards the two champions. The man with the shortsword dodges left—an arrow slashes his leg. The Demon with the bow puts another arrow in the air, and I see it pierce through the man’s armor as if it weren’t there.
“Magic-piercing arrows.”
The Blighted Queen speaks. Silence reigns. Xersia is last. The old woman dashes towards the Demon with the bow like lightning across the ground. The Demon puts an arrow to his bow and looses it. She curves around the arrow like lightning. She lunges with her spear—
And vanishes. Everyone stares at the image of the courtyard. The Blighted King turns to Nereshal.
“What happened?”
“The [Mage] is specialized in teleportation magic.”
The time mage speaks quietly. His eyes are fixed on the projection in the air. The Blighted Queen looks around the courtyard.
“Where was she sent?”
“Up.”
A shape, tumbling down through the air. Thousands of feet overhead, falling like a comet. Tiny, still clutching her spear.
Xersia.
She falls out of the sky. The Blighted King, the people in the banquet hall, everyone, watch in silence as Lady Xersia hits the ground. She threw her spear at the end—the Demon with the bow shoots it out of the sky.
The Blighted King watches it all, as the two, the teleportation [Mage] and the Demon [Archer], calmly turn back to their business. The [Mage] raises her staff and seems to chant. The [Archer] takes a position on the wall and begins shooting down towards the city.
“Unforgivable.”
The Blighted King’s voice is cold. Nereshal studies the projection, and I see more of the Demons, the Fearless, streaming into the castle. Hundreds of them. The time mage turns to his King, face grave.
“I know the archer, Your Majesty. And the mage. They are both high-level, thought to be over Level 40 at the least. The Demon King has sent two of his best warriors to hold this ground. One to protect, the other to open a gate.”
“And let his army pour through. Nereshal, how long do we have?”
All eyes are on the [Chronomancer] as he thinks. He turns to confer with the Centaur [Mage], and then raises his voice.
“Teleportation spells are exceedingly complex. Assuming the mage knows where she wants to open a portal to, and her Skills are focused in that area…anywhere from two hours to forty minutes.”
“You are sure? Could they not speed up the spell if they were prepared? I have seen you teleport short distances within minutes.”
The Blighted Queen has a long mace, black like obsidian, in her hand. She rests the head on the ground as she looks at Nereshal. He nods.
“Any competent mage can teleport short distances relatively quickly, but a portal hundreds of miles or more away? Your Majesty, no [Mage] in the world could perform such calculations in ten minutes or less. Not even an Archmage. However, she should not be able to cast such spells at all! The anti-teleportation ward—”
“—Is clearly not working. We have less than an hour, then. We must repel the Fearless invading the palace. They surely seek the Blighted King’s head. And the [Mage] must die.”
The Blighted Queen is full of action, ready to move out. The King is deliberate. He looks at Nereshal.
“Why is the ward stone not working, Nereshal? Find me answers. Until then, if the teleportation spell is not working, is it possible to send a force to deal with the [Mage]? Ambush her?”
Nereshal hesitates.
“We lack warriors on the level of the two in the courtyard, Your Majesty. Lady Xersia was the highest-level warrior present. I could attempt to battle myself with Her Majesty, but—”
“If we lose you, we step one moment closer to the end. As for our consort—no.”
The Blighted Queen turns to her husband.
“With respect, my lord, if we fail to repel the Demons, all is lost.”
“Then we shall consider it a matter of last resort.”
He nods. The Blighted King rises, and turns to a [Strategist] at his side. They confer out loud.
“It seems we must push back the Demons instead. I will use my Skills, but it falls to you and the other warriors present in the palace to push back their line.”
“It will be difficult, my King.”
A Dullahan with a scar down her face grimaces, her face set. She brings out a map and spreads it out on the table.
“Defensively, we could hold these halls and wear down a superior force over the course of days, or barricade ourselves in for weeks. But with a second force on the way, we must retake the castle and the courtyard within the hour. And the soldiers flooding the castle are elites. The Fearless have been sent in numbers. We will fight them to the death.”
The Blighted King curses.
“They struck us at our weakest moment! How did the Demon King know? If we must take the courtyard, it will be numbers against those two. Their levels will create a slaughter. For the army we need, we must rally the guards. Where are they stationed? Who in this room can fight? Act quickly; we have little time.”
The Blighted King turns, and like that the spell of paralysis on the room breaks. Men and women rush towards the doors, some dashing out of them, others barricading entrances. Richard and Emily are on their feet, and they rush towards the Blighted King with the other people with combat classes. The rest of the people in the room, noncombatants, talk, afraid. Some are weeping; I can see the Fool standing with Erille and Isodore, their faces pale.
At my table, the [Lords] and [Ladies] are speaking urgently. Yebior rises to his feet, unsheathing a dagger from his belt.
“Time to fight, my friends. If we can put but a single body between the Demons and our King—”
He strides towards the gathering warriors with a few [Lords]. Zekyria turns to the others and pulls something off her finger. A ring, the gem glowing with an inner light.
“We have artifacts. Let us gather them for the warriors. Come now, hold nothing back.”
A flurry of motion breaks out. I look around the table and feel lost. Afraid.
What can I do? Fight? I’m no warrior, but—everyone’s needed. I should volunteer. Or I could stay, keep them safe if it comes to the worst. Richard’s there, face grim, and so is Emily, Eddy, Vincent—they’re all ready to fight and die. I should be too.
I go to stand up. I put my hands on the table and stand.
My legs don’t move. I stare. Blink. I try again. My legs don’t move.
I look down. Or try to. My head doesn’t move. I’m telling it to look, to move, but it doesn’t. I try to raise my hands. Nothing happens.
Nothing works. I can’t even blink. What’s going on? I can’t—I’ve lost control of my body.
My hand rises. I stare at it as I pick up a fork. And then my head does turn. It stares left, towards a silver pitcher filled with wine. The metal is clear and polished, it reflects my face. A clown stares back at me, face painted, dressed in a ludicrous costume stained with blood. And then, to my horror, he grins at me.
“Well, it seems like everything’s going wrong, doesn’t it? My turn to come out, I think.”
No. No. Oh, no, no, no, no, no—not now. This can’t be happening. Slowly, the hand with the fork rises. In the mirror, Tom twirls it, as the people around him panic and more screams begin to echo through the hall.
“We had a lot of fun, didn’t we, Tom? When you thought I wasn’t real, when you were so sure that you’d beaten me? As if you could beat yourself.”
This isn’t real. This isn’t happening. I can’t be going insane. Not now! I tried so hard! I didn’t let you out!
I can’t speak. I’m only a voice in his head. In my head. Tom laughs, and it’s not my laughter. It’s darker, wilder, with an edge of madness in it.
“Let me out? You can’t let me out, you idiot! There’s nothing to let out! You and I are the same. How can you stop yourself? See?”
He lifts the fork and begins to pick at his teeth with it, casually. I try to stop him, to seize control of my hand.
You’re not me! You’re something else! Give me back my body—
“Tom, Tom!”
He raises his voice. I can sense Zekyria turning her head to stare at him. Me. Tom ignores the look. I ignore the look. I look into my reflection’s eyes, see the panicked look there. Hah. I hate him so much, that other me. I speak to him.
“It’s always been you, Tom. There’s no one in here but you. And me. Heh. Haha.”
I giggle. I hear his voice.
You can’t do this. The Demons are attacking. We need to help. We need—
“Need?”
I cut him off, harshly. I spin, pointing around the room. The Blighted King has lost control. His warriors are gathered around him as he, Nereshal, and a few advisors plot feverishly. The view of the courtyard has shifted. Now I see inner corridors of the castle. It’s a maze, but the Fearless are flooding down it, cutting down servants, fighting pockets of guards.
“Do you think they have a chance? Really, Tom? They’re doomed, unless someone helps them. And we both know you’re not the man for the job.”
Don’t. You can’t!
“Can’t I?”
I raise my voice, lift the delicate fork up. People are shouting, asking their King what they should do. He’s trying to get them to shut up. What a poor [King]! Can’t he see the truth?
Stop! I won’t let you cause a massacre again! I won’t! I’d rather die!
“Sir Tom? What are you doing?”
Now Lady Zekyria is looking at me. I grin at her. She likes me. I wonder if she’ll like me after this?
Don’t hurt her!
“Sir Tom? Are you going to fight? I believe you are needed.”
Yebior is calling out to the Blighted King. Idiot.
“My King, what should I—”
Stop! STOP!
Voices. So many voices! Too many. I raise the fork high overhead and bring it down. Onto my other hand.
“Enough!”
The tines of the fork go through my hand and hit bone. The voice in my head shuts up. I hear it scream and fade. And the room goes silent. I stand, and yank the fork out of my hand. I stare at the bent tines and try to fix one. Disappointing.
“They don’t make them like they used to. Hey there!”
The Blighted King is looking at me! I stroll over, laughing as I see his guards raising their weapons and looking uncertainly at me. I raise my hands.
“Pardon me, Your Majesty. Sorry for the interruption, but I needed your attention.”
“[Clown]. What do you want?”
He stares at me. I smile at him.
“Just a word, old man. By the way, I don’t think we’ve met. I’m Tom. Pleased to meet you.”
I stick my hand in his face. He recoils. What? Oh, that’s the bloody one. How rude. The Blighted Queen hisses.
“How dare you?”
The Blighted King raises a hand, staring at me uncertainly.
“I know who you are.”
“No, you don’t.”
I wag a finger at the King and point to my chest.
“You see, you met Tom. I’m Tom. The same, but different. Better. I tell jokes. He’s one big, fat joke. And he’s taking a break so I can come out.”
“Tom—”
Richard. He pales as I swing around, grinning at him. Emily backs up.
“Richard! Hey, we never got a chance to talk. I’d love to chat, but I’m a bit busy. If you could just hold on—”
“We are wasting time. Remove him. Guards.”
Nereshal looks at me. Ooh, he’s not bothered by me at all, I can tell. I trip up the first guard who comes towards me and throw my arm around the time mage. He stiffens, but doesn’t throw me off. Maybe because of the dagger I have pressed against his throat? Now I have everyone’s attention.
“Good! I don’t want to be a bother, Mister Important Blighted Guy, but I just wanted to point something out. You’re all hot and bothered about this Demon army that appeared, but did anyone think to ask how they got here?”
Nereshal shifts. I push the dagger into his throat and he stops moving his hand oh-so-stealthily up.
“Teleportation magic—”
“Yeah, yeah. We got that the first time, old man. What I mean is, how’d they get past your special teleportation blocker? You were talking about it all day.”
“I do not know. It is here, but it isn’t working.”
Nereshal turns his head and I stare at a younger [Mage] holding a stone in his hands. I grin. All the pieces are falling into place! Just like that.
“Well, well. That makes sense. Hey, Your Majesty. Wanna know something funny?”
The Blighted King stares at me.
“Release Nereshal, [Clown].”
“No, no, that’s not the important bit. The knife is—whoops, sorry, scratched you there, didn’t I? Ignore me. Focus on the big picture. I know who let the Demons in.”
Everyone stares at me, an audience of suckers waiting for the punchline. I grin. The Blighted Queen leans forward.
“Who?”
“Him.”
