He sat back down. It looked like he’d fought tooth-and-nail to get into the busy inn. There was a queue outside and the bouncer was letting through only the best of guests. Selys eyed the man. He had his head in his hands.
“Damn, damn. I should’ve—how was I supposed to know those Horns were…?”
He was muttering to himself. Selys’ head swung around. She stopped walking towards Kevin and approached.
“Hello. Excuse me, did I hear you mentioning the…Horns of Hammerad?”
Todi looked up. The swarthy Gold-rank Captain blinked at the Drake.
“Er. Yes. Yes, I did. Are you the [Innkeeper]? Erin Solstice? My name is Todi. Captain Todi of Todi’s Elites. I wanted to ask if there was anything—”
“Oh, no. I’m not Erin. I’m Selys. Sorry.”
Todi deflated back into his seat.
“Damn. Sorry, Miss. Sit if you want. Do you think there’s any chance I could talk to the [Innkeeper]?”
“And ask what?”
Selys sat. Todi shrugged, with little hope.
“About…deals? Do her a few favors? Be—someone like the Horns, Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers—everyone’s talking about how each one came here and made their fortunes. Lost some good people—but made it because of this inn. My team’s had a bad run. We had to abort the Wyvern hunt in the High Passes twice—got kicked around by some damn [Witch]—I was hoping we could get whatever it is that’s here.”
“You mean, being friends with Erin Solstice? Sorry. I don’t think she’s that free. You could meet her, but…it’s a busy day.”
Selys glanced at Erin. She was playing chess. And yes, Erin could probably spare time to meet with the Gold-rank Captain, but Todi had, in a short moment, presented himself well to both Drassi and Selys. And neither Drake was particularly inclined to go to bat for him.
Baseball. She should invest in manufacturing gear for baseball and soccer! Selys went to make a note. Meanwhile, the Gold-rank [Captain] sighed.
“Damn. What do those teams have that mine doesn’t? My team’s fine! We’re not reckless morons like the Horns, but we get the job done.”
Selys’ head rose and she narrowed her eyes.
“Excuse me? I happen to know the Horns. They’re dear friends. What do you have against them?”
Todi choked on his drink. His head rose and he gave Selys a look of instantaneous regret.
“Damn. Put my foot up my mouth again, haven’t I?”
“Too right. Wait a moment. Are you that Gold-rank that bothered them in the Guild? You are! I heard all about it from Pisces!”
The Drake’s tail lashed. She stood up. Todi reached out, then he ran his hands through his hair.
“I just—look, Miss Drake. Please tell me you’re not someone hugely important?”
“I employ a lot of people. And I just put a down payment on a Golem. Important enough for you?”
Selys enjoyed the man’s groan. He sat there, looking miserable. Selys was compelled to throw him a bone.
“What makes your team better than the Horns, pray tell?”
“I never said that. I just said ‘we’re as good as the Horns’.”
Todi muttered. He took another long drink and grimaced.
“Damn. But that’s nice. What is the blue stuff?”
“Blue fruit juice. Amentus, I think you call i—”
Todi nearly spewed his drink out his mouth.
“Amentus? That’s what nobles drink! It’s poisonous if you don’t harvest it right!”
“Well, it’s cheap here.”
The Captain looked at his drink and sighed.
“Luck. Luck and friends. That’s what some teams get. And mine? Look, Miss…”
“Selys.”
He waved his mug at her.
“I know I’ve Crelered up my introduction. But give me the chance to explain. At least about adventurers.”
Selys hesitated. She sat down.
“You’ve got my attention for as long as my friend’s playing cards.”
Kevin was losing his week’s wages to a Drake with a bowler hat on, and a Gnoll with a borrowed tricone. It wasn’t exactly the most stealthy get-up, but the inn was full.
“It’s like this. My team—Todi’s Elites—ever heard of it? No?”
Todi took another draft and sighed.
“We’re Gold-ranks. But I change out the team members constantly. People come and go—I’m the only constant. I own a bunch of gear. Scrolls of [Lesser Teleport], Wands of [Fireball], and so on—a lot of our budget goes into making sure we have those at all times. You earn a lot less in my team, but you can join up for a single encounter and leave. And it’s safe. We never attack Adult Crelers, big threats—the Wyverns were as bad as we wanted to get and even then, we played it safe. Bugged out both times we thought there was trouble.”
“How brave of you. Did you say ‘Gold-rank?’ I happen to know a bunch of Gold-rank teams and that sounds like none of them.”
Todi glared.
“What’s wrong with my team? That we’re not brave to the point of charging a pack of Gargoyles with a water flask filled with piss? What’s wrong with being cautious? That’s how I survived. You want a hero? Go find a [Hero]. I’m Captain Todi and my team won’t do any of that. What we will do is wipe out four hundred Eater Goats on a rampage, without casualties, and with minimal cost. We’re good at killing lower-level monsters. You want guard duty? We do it. No fuss, no drama.”
Selys blinked. That…was an interesting perspective. Todi went on, seeing he had her interest.
“Gold-rank means a lot of things to a lot of people. Ever heard of the Silver Swords? They’re maniacs. Don’t charge a copper penny for work and they’ll fight any monster you want because it’s just. Why does my team—why do adventurers have to be like them? Who made that rule?”
He leaned forwards, speaking urgently. Even passionately.
“They risk their lives against odds no [Gambler] would take, Miss Selys. That’s not fair on the rest of us. Gold-rank should mean elite, hence my team’s name. But not like that. I’m all for the Silver Swords. They’re brave bastards. But call them heroes. Don’t make what they are the word for Gold-rank.”
He sat back, and sighed, looking tired.
“I just want to make my team famous for doing the job. Get rich. Retire and have a family in a decade or two at most. That’s all. We kill monsters. We still risk our lives and do free work when it matters. You want to slay a Giant, Miss? Go find those teams. But you want reliable? Boring? Hire Todi’s Elites and forget about it aside from settling the bill.”
He sighed. Selys looked at him.
“And that’s why Erin’s not going to like you. She likes the crazy types. Those are her friends.”
The man groaned.
“Wonderful. What a waste of six silver—although that’s a cheap ticket to that play. Maybe I’ll watch it, and earn something for my trouble. Don’t need a two-gold ticket for that, do I? Sorry for wasting your time, Miss.”
He nodded at the Players and rose. Selys hesitated, and then waved at Todi as she passed.
“The players put on a performance multiple times. Sit back down, Captain Todi. You’re not the Horns…but how much do you charge?”
The Captain turned, perking up a bit. He was not Selys’ first choice, or the most likable at that. But there was no reason to ignore him. After all—the Horns might be Selys’ friends, and brave and generous—
But she’d be the first to admit they were as unpredictable as two Mrshas in a sack.
 
—-
 
Octavia Cotton was working on the first Potion of Invisibility according to her new recipe from Master Saliss. She was humming, despite concentrating hard on her work.
The thing about working on the potion was that even with Saliss’ perfect step-by-step notes and detailed measurements—it wasn’t the same as how Octavia would have to do it.
Different Skills, even beneficial ones, made for different results. She’d have to experiment. But she would master the potion and earn a lot of money off of it if she could make the ingredients cheap.
Alchemy was like that. Even if they lost great individuals, ingredients and recipes lasted when spells and other things fell apart. Techniques survived. Octavia turned to reach for the ruby dust—
“Here.”
A black-clad hand offered it to her. The [Alchemist] absently took it, put it in the mixture, and looked back.
A Drake garbed in thick, dark clothing was staring at her. Octavia dropped the potion.
“[Longclaw Grip].”
The [Assassin] rescued the vial. He put it on the stand and Octavia backed up.
“I—I—oh Stitches. Please don’t—”
The noise from the common room intruded in the background. Few people were visiting her shop, but the door was always open. Oh no, oh—
“You’re not going to be killed, Alchemist Octavia Cotton. I was simply inspecting the premises. And your potion. Not the cure.”
The [Assassin] hopped off the counter. She hadn’t seen him appear—but Octavia wouldn’t have noticed much while working.
“I—who are you? The Guild? I didn’t—”
“Calm. Down.”
Octavia didn’t calm down, but she did stop moving as the Drake looked at her. He exhaled through the mask covering his face.
“I am one of the Guild’s agents in Invrisil. They sent me to check on you. After all—you are known for your cure for the Yellow Rivers. I would have been forced to do something if you were making the cure.”
“I’m not. I won’t—”
The Drake rolled his eyes.
“I know. I wouldn’t have revealed myself, either. Only…”
He hesitated. Octavia saw him adjust his mask.
“You won’t see me again, Miss [Alchemist]. But I joined the Guild to pay for my family. They live in Zeres. Thanks for making the mold. Please don’t make the cure. I don’t want to have to kill you.”
He vanished. Octavia didn’t see him—but neither did she see the door to her shop open and close. She inhaled—exhaled—inhaled—then went for one of the Calm Tonics that Palt had taught her how to make. Her hands trembled as she got back to work.
They were in the inn. Oh, stitch my soul. Erin—
A voice. The [Assassin] reappeared. Octavia froze, but he had some gold and silver in his claw.
“…If that potion works, can I buy it? What’s the price on…?”
 
—-
 
The [Innkeeper] frowned at her board. She had a feeling something was off.
“Aha. Six moves. Right there. I move up here and…”
Olesm groaned as she spotted a pattern in his pieces.
“Would you like to rub it in with more salt, Erin? Just peel off my scales and pour it in.”
She laughed.
“I knew something was wrong! It was my chess-sense.”
She waggled her arms. Olesm sighed. He pushed himself back and reached for a nacho—
The basket was empty. Olesm stared about and saw a white paw with the last nacho—covered in cheese—vanish under the table.
“Mrsha! You again!”
Erin laughed. Mrsha shot away, trying to chew and run. Olesm shot up.
“I need to refill my basket. One second. Get back here, you!”
He missed the little Drake and second, brown Gnoll, slowly appearing over the side of the table. They stared solemnly at Erin. Then Ekirra grabbed the dips. Visma grabbed Olesm’s plate. They ran off.
“Those sneaky kids.”
Erin chuckled to herself. Then she looked around.
“Whoa. The inn is hopping.”
It was so full! People were here to see the Players of Liscor—in fact, Pralcem was here with Andel to take notes on the play and attracting a bunch of attention for that alone. Galina was on stage, playing the heroine while a Gnoll sang to her.
Erin couldn’t hear it, though. A new addition to the inn—temporary, but Lyonette had hired Hedault to finalize it—was to divide the [Grand Theatre] into a sound room and silent area. Ward runes that Montressa had put up blocked noise from both sides of the inn.
Thus, you could have all the chatter you wanted and a solemn inn experience. A [Darkness] spell and the mood was set. And if you wanted—someone could deliver some food. Although nachos had been instantly banned due to the crunch.
That was just one thing in the inn. So many people! Erin frowned. Lots of people. She had a strange feeling in the back of her head, though. As if…
Before she could trace it, someone stopped in front of her table. Erin blinked upwards at a familiar face.
“Excuse me, Miss. Would that happen to be Strategist Olesm Swifttail of Liscor you were just playing? Author of the magazine, ‘Chess Weekly?’”
That was what he’d called it? Erin blinked up at the man in expensive clothing. No—armor made of cloth? She recognized him. But from where?
“Um. Er. Yes, that was him.”
“I knew it.”
The man snapped his fingers with a smile. He looked fancy. And Erin remembered where she’d seen him.
“The restaurant! You were the guys who didn’t get your reservation!”
The man did a double-take.
“I don’t believe we’ve met, Miss. You’re Strategist Olesm’s opponent, yes? Would you mind allowing me the next game once you’ve finished your match?”
“Oh—sure! Of course! Are you a reader of Olesm’s magazine? I’m Erin, nice to meet—”
“What rudeness! Marshal, allow us to introduce you!”
Someone blocked Erin’s handshake. A man in armor thrust himself between Erin and the other man. Erin peered at a bristling mustache. Then the same group as last night blocked Erin.
The man in the back sighed. He was purple-and-silver haired. Not the white of age—although he did look to be in his forties—but some genetic hair color. It was striking. He wore the shaped cloth armor, and he stood very tall. Erin saw a hawkish nose, piercing yellow eyes—
He looked like Yvlon or Ylawes, a bit. The product of what Lyonette had told Erin were unique Skills. Certainly—the man oozed his own aura.
Erin could…sense it. Thanks to Maviola’s training, she could tell more than just if someone was strong. This man had his aura—tightly contained—as did two of the armored people with him. [Knights]? His aura though, felt like…droplets.
Water.
“Is something wrong?”
The [Knight] in front of Erin glared.
“Miss, do not casually address the Earl of Desonis! You are speaking to the Marshal Altestiel of Desonis, and as such, his proper title—”
“[Knight]. Enough. We are in this young woman’s inn. And this—is Erin Solstice.”
The Earl interrupted the [Knight]. And his entourage started. They blinked at Erin.
“This is the owner of the Solstice booth? The one who cancelled—”
A loud whisper from the back. Erin saw a woman in spectacles peering at her. The [Knights] blinked. But the Earl—Altestiel—was watching Erin with keen eyes.
“Of course she is. And that was Strategist Olesm of Liscor. Miss Solstice, my apologies.”
“No problem…your Earlship?”
Erin gave it a shot. She saw one of the [Knights] actually rub at an ear and stare at her. Someone snorted.
Altestiel smiled.
“Let us not stand on ceremony. Altestiel will do if I may address you as ‘Erin?’ Did I see you playing chess against Strategist Olesm?”
“Wh—oh, yeah. Just a few games.”
“Fascinating.”
