He offered Ryoka an amulet. Not jade this time; she thought it was Truegold, which she’d seen, mixed with a strange cerulean center. Gemstone or…?
“What’s it do?”
Erin peered at the amulet as Ryoka put it on. Then she raised a hand to strike Ryoka. The City Runner fended her off as Montressa explained.
“It’s like a constant aura that messes with anything trying to interfere with your natural magical field. No hexes, scrying spells can’t latch on—standard, but pricey.”
“Like Valceif’s dream catcher charm.”
Ryoka studied the amulet. Everyone went somber for a moment there. Hedault cleared his throat.
“That—was a more advanced version. String magic and shamanic charms versus a [Mage]’s enchantments. If you wish me to, I can provide one for Miss Mrsha. However, you are rapidly exceeding your credit.”
“Does Mrsha need a super anti-magic bracelet?”
Erin conferred with Lyonette. The [Princess] made a face.
“Probably not. But the bracelet?”
“But it’s Ryoka’s…”
“Erin, so help me but I’ll hit you with your own pan. You need one too! So does Joseph, Kevin…Ryoka won’t pay for all of it. We have our own budget! Master Hedault, there’s a…very good artifact I have for anti-scrying and appraisal and so on. Or will have. Could you complement that? And Erin might need some rings. To prevent appraisal among other things.”
Hedault turned to Lyonette as Erin dithered. The Wandering Inn was about to spend for artifacts. Erin refused his suggestions, though.
“I have a cool ring Saliss gave me, see?”
She showed Hedault. The [Enchanter] inspected it.
“Anti-appraisal and scrying. Not hexes. Is…”
There was a second ring on Erin’s hand, Ryoka realized, as she felt at the amulet. Hedault was looking at it. His eyes narrowed.
Ryoka saw Erin lower her hand quickly. She covered the copper band and Hedault blinked, shook his head. Ryoka frowned. Had she known Erin had another ring…?
It slipped her mind and Hedault relaxed. He turned away from Erin to Ryoka.
“Ahem. Where were we? Miss Griffin, I have a few other objects you may be interested in. Such as…”
He showed Ryoka some worn boots from Merchant X’s stock. Erin started giggling.
“Boots of Speed? I don’t think you know Ryoka, Hedault.”
“I’m aware of her…predispositions. But the magical effects…”
“I like my feet. See?”
Ryoka lifted one foot and waggled her toes. Hedault gave her toes a look of pure disgust. He produced an ankle-bracelet with a similar, weaker effect instead.
“Give me a second to find Mrsha. We might downgrade her bracelet’s strength just so she doesn’t get a fat head, Hedault. Figuratively or literally. I’ll tell Joseph to come over for the anti-scrying artifact, at least. People…scry him?”
Ryoka promised as the [Enchanter] conferred with the others. She was a bit distracted.
Tyrion Veltras’ appeal still weighed on her. Fierre was similarly occupied haggling for a Golem for her work—was she actually going to buy one?—but she kept watching Ryoka.
It was stupid. It was suicide. Ryoka knew Mihaela. And yet—she couldn’t shake one thought. Even as she’d laughed at Mrsha, even as she thought about what that Golem might be able to do against a tank—lose, unless that was some strong armor—she’d been unable to shake the thought eating away at her.
Those poor kids.
“Excuse me, Miss Ryoka. I think we should have a word. You wanted to see me?”
Someone tapped her on the shoulder. Ryoka turned. She saw a woman, only a bit older than she was, with hair black and streaked with ember-orange. Ryoka stopped.
“You’re…”
“My name is Maviola El. I know who you are. And where you come from. Erin Solstice has told me about you. But I don’t believe we’ve properly met.”
Ryoka’s mouth went dry. Something about Maviola was as intense as…Xrn. Like Magnolia Reinhart in her way. She was old and the wind stirred around Ryoka.
Something a tiny bit like Teriarch? Ryoka nodded slowly.
“I think that’s right.”
 
—-
 
Fierre bought a Golem. Erin stared at it. It wasn’t the twice-as-tall-as-a-person monster made of steel. Hers was iron, just a bit taller than Joseph, compact.
“The big one wouldn’t fit in my office. This one’s still strong enough to punch someone through a wall. And look! It’s even armed!”
The Golem had a shield and hammer. It swung and blocked with a decent amount of speed. Erin saw Snapjaw watching. The Hob clearly thought she could beat it in terms of Skill—but good luck beating an Iron Golem to death.
“That’s amazing. Are you buying anything else?”
The Vampire flashed Erin a huge grin—then turned her head. She was more at home with the smile, though. She might have thought it was out of place among Humans and it was by and large—but Gnolls and Drakes had similar grins.
“Well, I’m keeping one set of armor. Two—actually. I’m going to give one set to my brother. And a weapon and some gear—the rest goes into the Golem and some work-related artifacts. I’ll just accept gold and buy it er…from the right dealers.”
Erin nodded knowingly.
“Black market stuff, huh? Sneaky. Anything good there? We’re buying a lot of artifacts.”
Lyonette had just paid Hedault a worrying amount of gold from the inn’s coffers, in fact, and Mrsha was sitting on the floorboards, arms folded. She was sulking. They’d downgraded her bracelet from the highly-expensive one Hedault had given her.
And—they’d asked Hedault to add a tracking charm. That was very cheap, but Mrsha had already tied it to Bezale’s horn without the Minotauress noticing.
“Salamani’s got a spellbook, right?”
“And some other artifacts. Looks great, in short. Where’s Ryoka? Hedault wants to finalize her purchases.”
Erin looked around.
“I haven’t seen her. I think she went off with Maviola? Bird. Bird! Stop hoarding Ryoka’s artifacts! You get a bow, Badarrow gets a bow, Numbtongue gets his amulet. She needs her money!”
The Goblins and Antinium stopped furtively trying on artifacts. Snapjaw waved and Erin clarified.
“And Snapjaw can keep that shield. Ryoka’s too generous.”
“She is all that. But she says how much she loves this inn. And…how much all of you matter to her. She was afraid to come back.”
Fierre murmured. Erin looked sideways at her.
“Ryoka says that?”
“When we have a drink. She gets sentimental.”
The [Innkeeper] laughed.
“Really?”
The Vampire girl flashed her a grin. Then she looked around for Ryoka as well.
“I’m…listen. Um—I don’t know how to say this, but um—there might be a problem with Ryoka.”
Erin blinked.
“Does she need you-know-what’s? I have some from Krshia. Or is she depressed? Wait—wait—did she punch someone?”
Fierre looked blank until Erin clarified that she was asking about periods. The Vampire shook her head.
“Not that! I mean…it’s about Tyrion Veltras. I shouldn’t have shown her. She’s—do you know what I’m talking about?”
Erin shook her head slowly. Fierre bit her lip.
“Come over here and let me show you. It’s on the news. It’s…”
Lyonette looked up as Fierre pulled Erin away. She abandoned Mrsha whining and begging for one of the artifacts like Cade’s Box of Wonders that Merchant X was tempting her with. She followed Erin and saw.
 
—-
 
“So you’re actually Maviola El of…the House of El?”
Ryoka felt stupid saying it like that. Maviola nodded.
“And you come from Earth.”
Ryoka flinched and looked around almost reflexively. But they stood in the Earth-rooms anyways. Even so.
“Erin told you, huh?”
“Me. And Selys. I believe she thought it was time. And to be fair—I won’t carry the secret long.”
“H—if I can ask—how long is it until…?”
“About one or two weeks more. It depends.”
On what? But Ryoka was afraid to ask just that. She bit her lip.
“That’s…cutting it real close. Really close. One more week, or even two would be better.”
Maviola El raised a brow. She studied Ryoka, looking her up and down.
“I do apologize that my death cannot be delayed for your party, Miss Griffin. I have tried to make arrangements for my demise, and I have too much yet to do. But a party is not high on my list of priorities.”
The Wind Runner flushed.
“I didn’t mean—did Erin explain everything? It’s not just a party.”
“Oh, she mentioned some grand ritual involving the Five Houses to revive…a Winter Sprite? And the [Emperor], of course. Miss Ryoka. Who told you that something like that was possible? Moreover—a Winter Sprite for a friend?”
Ryoka realized they were talking at a disconnect and fumbled in her belt pouch.
“No! Erin didn’t explain properly—here. Winter Sprites aren’t just…floating elementals. They’re actually…”
It was hard for Maviola to grasp. Especially because she didn’t see Winter Sprites. Also, she had to be shown Ivolethe’s statue and grapple with the fact that Winter Sprites were actually a race of the fae who came into her world to bring snow and were in fact a magical people from both her and Ryoka’s worlds…
At some point, Ryoka saw herself from afar. Holding a little statue of a faerie and pointing to it, trying to convince Maviola that she had a Winter Sprite friend who’d sacrificed her life for Ryoka and that she needed a party with the three foremost nobles of the realm on the Summer Solstice and she wasn’t crazy—
She lowered her hand slowly. Maviola El was smiling in that uncertain way of someone who wasn’t sure Ryoka was entirely sane.
“I see. So—Winter Sprites, which have never been recorded as being aught but bringers of weather…are people. And one singled you out. And they look like…”
She nodded to the figurine.
“Miss Griffin. Do you…have flights of fancy? I would believe the rest, but this ritual to summon the King of the Fae? Who told you that?”
“A…Grand Magus Eldavin.”
“Whom you personally know. Well, that at least is believable. But the rest? Miss Griffin, how much have you prepared for this party?”
“Well—I had Magnolia Reinhart coming. I think. Eldavin was going to invite her.”
“And you’ve sent out invitations to how many nobles?”
“Twelve? I asked Lady Ieka for help…”
Maviola’s head rose.
“Ieka Imarris? Ah—the favor you did for her. But—I mean, Miss Griffin. I assume this [Emperor] is helping you. But have you not sent out an invitation en masse? Not reaching out personally, but a formal letter? You—do realize a noble family will not drop everything to attend a party with only a week’s notice? Let alone travel that far? Even a month would cut it close.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened and closed. Maviola’s eyes flickered.
“I see. And how many servants will attend?”
“Laken—er—the [Emperor] is taking care of…”
“Does he have accommodations for the nobility, their servants and guards? Does he have an escort? A menu of refreshments to be served? Has he gifts, decorations, entertainment for the days of festivities—since surely no [Lord] or [Lady] will travel all this way for one night. And if—if you only needed three of the Five Families, why did you not petition the House of El or any other family when you learned of this grand quest?”
Ryoka stuttered. There was no excuse. Maviola El appraised Ryoka. And her tone was the Matriarch of the House of El.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin. You may be worse than Erin Solstice at planning for the future. Erin Solstice does not like to think ahead. But she could pull a plan out of chaos in less than an hour if need be. You had weeks, over a month to prepare. And I do not believe your story.”
It was true. Ryoka felt weak at the knees.
“I was just—running. I thought if I completed enough deliveries—”
That was what she knew. That was what she did. Maviola pursed her lips.
“I’ll grant you that you woke the Archmage of Izril. But that was for Ieka. Her great-aunt matters in many ways—but even she could not move the Five Families so easily.”
Her great-aunt? Ieka’s…Ryoka couldn’t focus on that. Maviola looked at her, not unkindly.
“I am sure your friend did exist, Miss Griffin. Mostly sure. But tell me—if she is alive, just not able to see you, does it matter so much? As your Grand Mage said—wait until winter and do it properly.”
“But…”
I want to see her now. And you’ll be dead by then. Ryoka Griffin said neither of these things. She looked at Maviola El.
“I need your help, Lady El. I—I made a huge mistake. I’m not good at this. I don’t know the rules or how to put it together. Is there a chance it could work?”
“Ryoka Griffin. Why? The Drakes just attacked the Antinium. Wistram is taking what I now know to be children from another world. The Meeting of Tribes is about to begin and the King of Destruction has awoken. The Death of Magic returns on Rhir. Why do these fae matter?”
And there Ryoka had it. She clutched the frozen statue and looked at Maviola.
“Because—one of the things they brought were the faerie flowers Erin owns. And they gave them to her by accident. The fae are immortal beings who have granted immortality to people before, Lady Maviola El.”
The [Lady Firestarter]’s head had been turning towards the door, moving away. Now—two orange irises focused on Ryoka.
“What did you say?”
Ryoka Griffin took a breath. Then let it out.
“Maviola. There are stories of the fae on my world. A world without magic. I didn’t think they existed until I met them. But I asked—and they come from the same legends I know. King Arthur of Camelot. A Midsummer’s Night Dream. The play the Players of Celum put on! They might have touched my world—or maybe the stories are so famous they leave echoes. But if you want to meet the same folk who treat with Dragons—immortals of that age—please, please. I’m begging you, please help me. I’ll do whatever it takes.”
The Lady of the House of El saw temptation again. A shadow of a dark blue hat. Eyes that revealed layers of separation from death. For a moment, Ryoka channeled a spectre—
And then Maviola felt the wind blow in this room with no windows or doors to the outside. It stirred her hair. And her spirits unaccountably rose, from Ryoka’s words alone. The certainty there.
Perhaps. Not all that was old was evil. Maviola closed her eyes.
“…Even if I could make it, Ryoka Griffin, and lent you my aid—the Five Families are not so easy to collect in one place. Magnolia Reinhart has fled Izril for fear of her life.”
“I know. I was counting on her. But you’re one of the Five Family’s heads. You would count, even if you retired, I’m sure. And—I know how to earn the favor of a second one.”
The City Runner stared at her hands. They were quivering, a bit. But that certainty from this morning—Maviola El looked sharply at Ryoka Griffin. She saw more of Ryoka in that moment. And she realized—
 
