On that day, it began with meetings.
The Wandering Inn was as of yet dark as the Worker crept up through the inn. He noted how messy it was as he edged through the common room. No blood, though. Which Bird took to be a good sign.
He hadn’t been here. He had, in fact, been away from the inn most of the day and night. He’d even missed his precious salt-bird, and he hoped Erin hadn’t forgotten.
The Worker slowly walked up the stairs. First floor—Erin, his room, and others. But he hadn’t been there. He’d been in the secret place with some other co-conspirators. Working on the secret thing. Then he’d gone to the Hive.
It was too dangerous to try to work in his room. Little Mrshas kept wandering in and all that hammering and so on would be noticed, even as thick as the walls were. Also—the explosions.
Anyways, Bird had learned something.
Ballistae were hard to make.
This was an observation he’d solemnly shared with his other Worker-Antinium in the Painted Antinium’s barracks. Officially, Bird had quit the Free Hive. But he came by now and then because no one had ever stopped him but Klbkch.
“Ships are also hard to make float, according to Anand.”
Belgrade had relayed that to Bird. Since the [Hunter] had no interest in ships, he’d listened as Pawn, Belgrade, Garry, and Bird all tried the newest recipe from Garry’s kitchen. Worm In A Blanket. Only, the blanket wasn’t a blanket, but bread.
The worm was a worm.
The point was that Bird needed to try again. Also, he needed more wood and better rope than the string they used in candles. He passed the second floor, with the Players of Celum and some of the guests. Onto the third…
Hm. A new room was occupied. Bird peered at the new nameplate, but it was too dark since the sun had yet to rise. He walked towards the final staircase leading to his yet-unfinished tower. The early hour didn’t bother him. If he didn’t get morning birds, he’d get night birds, with their soft furry bodies and weird wings. There were always birds.
The sun was rising beyond the High Passes as Bird opened the trapdoor to his tower. Someday, there would be a much bigger tower. Taller, with a ballista and other things. For now—
Someone was in Bird’s tower. He stiffened. Was it the annoying Drake again? Who was in his tower? Bird looked up—
And there sat Badarrow. The Hobgoblin was stringing his bow, lounging in the hammock Bird had made and staring out across the lightening Floodplains. You could tell it was Badarrow.
They looked different, Numbtongue and Badarrow. One had longer features around the nose and different facial bones. One weighed more than the other, and Badarrow tended to be more Pisces-like in how he behaved. They wore their paint differently, dressed differently—only someone who didn’t know Goblins could ever mistake them.
Bird stopped. He peered at Badarrow. The Hobgoblin looked up.
“Hey.”
“Good morning. Badarrow.”
Slowly, Bird walked around the Hobgoblin. He looked around for birds, turned to peer at the Hobgoblin again. Badarrow strung his bow.
“Lots of bats. You hunting?”
“Yes? Yes.”
They’d done this before. Bird paused in stringing his bow. He looked Badarrow up and down. And up and down again. Then he reached out and poked him.
The Hob swatted away the finger. Bird hesitated, then spoke.
“You have been gone for a while, Badarrow.”
The Hob shrugged nonchalantly.
“Just for a bit. Got any good birds?”
The [Sniper] turned his head to hide the grin. He’d asked Numbtongue for the words to say that properly. Bird tilted his head back and forth, antennae waving for a while. Then he replied.
“…I shot a big flying bird the other day. A goose. But it was a pet. I still got to keep it. I will give you some later, if you want, Badarrow.”
“Good. Thank.”
The Hob sat up, aimed, and loosed in one motion. Bird saw a large Dropbat fall out of the skies. Badarrow grinned.
“Snack. I’ll get.”
He turned, to head down the stairs. As Badarrow opened the trapdoor, four arms encircled him. He paused.
“Huggy. I am glad you are alive.”
Bird squeezed. And Badarrow grinned and laughed. The laughter—woke the young woman who’d been dozing with her windows open. She started for a second.
Had it been a dream? But then she heard the laughter and the voices. She lay back, but the smile on her face drew her out of bed. And the inn awoke. To laughter, relief. Someone who hadn’t actually been dead wasn’t dead. But it more felt like they’d come back to life. They’d returned, a lost friend, a guest.
Family. And all was well.
Meetings.
 
—-
 
Bird was still holding onto Badarrow when they came downstairs. He had two arms free, but he hadn’t let go.
“If I let go, he might vanish. He is back. Look, Erin. I found him.”
“You missed him, Bird! You were gone all last night! I looked for you, but you were off!”
“I was…doing nothing eventful at all. Yes. I went for a walk.”
On another day, Erin Solstice would have investigated that lie right away. But she just filed it for later. She beamed and decided to hug Badarrow too.
“Get off. Too much hugs.”
The [Sniper] added another word that Erin didn’t recognize in the Goblin’s tongue. She beamed and kissed him on the cheek.
“You’ll get more hugs!”
The Hobgoblin growled and blushed. But he’d been smothered nonstop all night and it didn’t look like the rain of kisses was going to end soon. Forecast: affection.
Erin was pulling out food from the kitchen.
“Here, Bird. And Badarrow, since you’re up. Saltbird. I mean, one of those geese from the Djinni’s Spoon—”
“Oooh.”
Bird let go of Badarrow to stare at the encrusted bird. Badarrow peered at it too, very interested. Erin winked.
“Imani’s asleep. You have to meet her properly too, Badarrow! She runs the kitchen so you can’t just walk in, but she’s still sleeping. This is a ‘saltbird’. You don’t eat the salt, unless you want to. Help yourselves!”
She knew from experience that Hobgoblins tended to have second stomachs no matter how much they ate. And Bird had informed her that he’d forgotten to eat an acutal meal for the last sixteen hours. Where had he gone?
Erin brought out drinks, blue juice, to find that the two had become three. She paused, just for a moment.
Snapjaw looked up. The Hob eyed Erin as the [Innkeeper] smiled. Snapjaw didn’t exactly lean back, but she sidled over.
“Human kiss Badarrow?”
“Friend.”
The [Sniper] clarified. Snapjaw shrugged. She’d been lured by the siren call of food.
“Hey, Snapjaw…right?”
“Erin Solstice. I am Snapjaw.”
Erin blinked. They’d introduced themselves, but again, in that flurry of Mrsha clinging to Badarrow’s head and Numbtongue shouting, demanding to know where Rabbiteater was, if the others—now she looked Snapjaw up and down.
Big head. Snapjaw did indeed resemble a certain [Sand Mage]’s creations, although Erin just equated Snapjaw to other figurines from her world. And my, what big teeth she had!
“Snapjaw speaks good words.”
Badarrow informed Erin. His words were better, but Snapjaw sounded fluent. She bared her teeth at Erin.
“Badarrow wanted to come here. Chieftain wanted to come here. You are Erin Solstice. The Human with the flag. I saw you, before.”
“Bef—oh. You were…”
Not a Redfang. Nor, Erin thought, on the side of the Goblins who’d come with her. She would have remembered, and the way Snapjaw spoke?
The Goblin Lord. She looked at Badarrow, uncertainly. He shook his head.
“Goblin Lord dead. Garen dead. Snapjaw—”
He shrugged as if to say ‘it’s how it is’. Neither forgiveness nor condemnation. Too many Goblins had died. Erin nodded.
“Well, Snapjaw. I…hope you know you’re welcome. You and Badarrow. Anything you want, tell me! Just be careful with the others—it’s safe here, usually.”
“I know. I read sign.”
The [Big Eater] pointed. Erin beamed.
“You can read? And…here, Bird, don’t do that.”
The Antinium was angling his head, trying to bite off a huge piece of the goose. Erin went for her knife and Snapjaw and Badarrow produced theirs at once. Snapjaw eyed Erin’s kitchen knife.
“Nice blade.”
“Thank you! Here—have a piece of goose, and for you, Badarrow…let’s eat. Quietly—everyone’s asleep.”
Snapjaw chewed her bite slowly, rather than gulping it down like Erin had assumed. She smiled hugely though.
“Very tasty!”
“I know, right? Badarrow, help yourself. It’s so good to…”
Erin trailed off. She pinched herself surreptitiously. But after the sharp pain, he was still there. And Rags was alive. And Rabbiteater…
Crunch, crunch. Erin turned and saw Snapjaw eating a pile of salt off her plate. Erin opened her mouth. Snapjaw shoveled what might have been a fatal dose of salt into her mouth, and crunched happily. There was not enough saliva in the world for that bite, but she licked her lips and went for a second.
The new things and old things. Erin turned to Badarrow. She looked at Snapjaw, whom he was regarding so fondly.
“Oh! No way!”
For once, Erin got it without having to be told. Badarrow looked away shyly. But Erin was beaming.
 
—-
 
People who weren’t beaming: Numbtongue, when he first awoke. When he thought it had all been a dream and he was lying on the battlefield, dreaming a happy dream before the stranger with no eyes found him and told him to live. Of course, then he beamed as he ran downstairs.
“And where is it? In the High Passes? Is it safe?”
“Safer than anywhere else. Lots of dangerous things. Just not Humans. Adventurers. Chieftain is smart. Has many traps. Big rocks fall trap crushed thing that looks like Goblins. Very bad-bad. Got away.”
Snapjaw’s voice floated up to Numbtongue as he stared at the quartet. He relaxed. Badarrow turned and beamed. Erin looked up too. She had not their night vision, but she knew.
“Numbtongue! Come down! Did we wake you? Sorry!”
He was about to say they hadn’t. Numbtongue hurried downstairs, staring at Snapjaw, who eyed him with half-wariness, Badarrow, whom Numbtongue had too much to say to—
He sat next to Erin. They were brothers, Badarrow and he. But something had changed. Not their affection for each other. Just—something. But both wanted to talk, so much.
Yet—the second person who wasn’t smiling? Numbtongue looked past Snapjaw and saw the ghostly figure, real and unreal.
Reiss. The Goblin Lord sat there, looking at Snapjaw’s back. Numbtongue shifted. He had not said to Badarrow half the things he had done or seen. And this? The Goblin Lord broke away from looking at Snapjaw and he said the same thing as yesterday.
“Don’t tell her that I am here. Please.”
She was smiling and grinning and chewing on salt. Reiss looked at her with sorrow and shame and regret. Numbtongue’s smile slipped for just a moment.
Erin thoughtfully traced the line of his sight. As did everyone else, but they affected not to notice. Everyone had secrets.
“So—is it within four hundred miles of the inn? That’s all I’m asking.”
“Maybe?”
Snapjaw and Badarrow replied after a long pause. They had not given details. Erin took a deep breath.
“I could give you a magic stone. If you thought it was okay—”
Badarrow nodded instantly. Snapjaw was more coy.
“Maybe you give us the stone, sure. Or we ask Chieftain if she wants the stone. Chieftain likes Human. But Goblinhome is secret.”
“I get that. I do. And I completely agree. Just—stay for a while, please? And when you go, take all the food you want! Promise?”
Snapjaw nodded and smiled.
“Promise.”
It was hard to hate someone who indulged her love of food like Erin. Still—she remembered. This was one of Reiss’ deaths. And Numbtongue—was eying her. She wondered if they’d have to have a fight to the death. Probably not—but a few such duels had occurred between the Goblin Lord’s forces and Redfangs or other Goblins who couldn’t accept it.
“Let’s go back to Rabbiteater. Where is he?”
“North. Lost track of him. With shiny [Knights].”
Numbtongue stirred. Yes, they’d gotten to this too. Badarrow grimaced and Snapjaw looked down.
“Bad spirits, Rabbiteater. Should have come here but too sad, thinking Numbtongue dead.”
“How far? We should find him.”
The [Sniper]’s ears twitched. We. He looked at Numbtongue.
“Far. Very far, very fast. On horses. But—magic door?”
He glanced at Erin. Numbtongue nodded.
“We’ll bring him back. Promise.”
Erin nodded slowly. Definitely. Rabbiteater and Badarrow had lived. She felt—
She felt so much that she was going to start crying. Again. And she hadn’t stopped for two hours last night. To stave that off, because she didn’t want to distress anyone, Erin looked at Snapjaw. She’d happy-cry later. Or sad-cry, as the case might be.
“So you’re an…[Eater]?”
Snapjaw had, with a bit of help from Bird and the Hobs, eaten almost all of the salt-baked goose. Bird was gnawing on bones—she paused in chewing hers to pieces with ease.
“Yes. I was a [Biter]. Now, [Eater]. I eat, I get strong.”
“What, that’s it?”
The female Goblin grinned at Erin.
“Best class. You have more food? Badarrow say—says, all the time—The Wandering Inn has pizzas, more food than anyone can eat. Kindest Human, too. I laugh and laugh.”
She peered at Erin innocently. The [Innkeeper] laughed and Badarrow blushed. Erin got up.
“I have tons of food. More than—well, you can certainly have a pizza! Hold on!”
She brought out one in five minutes, after heating it up. Snapjaw took a bite, a small one, chewed, and smiled. Then she began eating.
Not fast. She didn’t eat fast, Erin noticed, unless she had to or it was something like the salt. But she never stopped. Nor did her stomach seem to be the limiting factor of her intake.
She ate, she grew stronger. And she loved to eat. She broke off from the pizza to look at Erin solemnly and tell her that she had excellent food. Erin was delighted! She only hoped that Mrsha didn’t decide to copy Snapjaw’s class.
The five were talking as the sun rose. Snapjaw revealed one of her Skills—[Body: Restore Stamina], as well as a Skill close to Hawk’s [Physical Overdrive]. However, both relied on her stores of energy from food.
Erin decided Snapjaw should have some of the lovely roasted corn Imani had made—Ryoka had provided some amazing corn she’d gotten from a farm up north—a lasagna, and some ice cream. Everyone else was already full.
And soon they had company. A Gnoll raced downstairs, saw Badarrow, and leapt into his arms. Only then did Snapjaw lose her big smile as she ate. She stared at Mrsha and Erin saw her guilt as the Hobgoblin slowly edged away. Mrsha didn’t even notice as she resumed the kiss-storm and hugs.
