Time enough for that. And the Garden. And…Erin saw other people filing downstairs. People peripheral to the Goblin event, who were not happy to see Badarrow and Snapjaw specifically, but happy that Erin was happy. She waved at Palt, Imani, who was eying the huge amount of food the Goblin was eating, and the others.
Yet there it was. There were dark spots in the sunshine. Things you had to reckon with. But do it together.
 
—-
 
The last person with no smile that day heading for The Wandering Inn was Maviola El. She walked slowly.
Not…with physical exhaustion or limitations. Just over a month ago, she would have had to be pushed; walking was beyond her, then. And for years, her body had refused to let her dance or move with a spring in her step.
If it was tiredness, it was tiredness of the soul. And…more than that, the fear of it still clung to her like a musk.
Terror. Again, not the kind you thought of. Immediate horror? No. This was a dread, like waking into a nightmare.
Maviola El was old. Her body was still young—but that was because she had reverted to the actual Potion of Youth. Not the…
Names were important. The [Lady Firestarter] tried to come up with a proper name for the two. She was no [Alchemist]. But one she would call a ‘Potion of Youth’. It gave you…temporary youth. Your body returned, and you could relive that glorious energy, that time in your life. It was not forever; it was a thing for the old.
One last hurrah. But the second potion that Saliss of Lights had made was different. Call it, then—a Draught of Time’s Return. Yes, something like that. Because it took you back. Not just body, but mind.
Soul. And it terrified Maviola El, the older. She still remembered everything with perfect detail. She had blazed as she had as a young woman, more reckless, and perhaps more alive, more daring.
But more foolish as well. It had been like being possessed by her old self. And it frightened her.
Saliss had promised to try to keep her alive longer. He had managed it with a new ingredient.
Erin’s mysterious yellow flowers that were so magical. He had simplified his Potion of Youth. But the cost! The cost was her. It frightened Maviola, because she feared he could make the potion, and many more doses. Enough to keep her alive longer? If he leveled and if the flowers could be grown in profusion…
But no. That was a terrible path. The same path she had refused. And worse—the choice was even clearer than when the Spider had come to her, the Temptress. Maviola had felt it.
For Maviola to live, this Maviola would die. And in her place would spring forth the same young woman who had lived nearly a century ago. What was the most sinister part of all of this? Saliss offered it out of good intent.
And it tempted Maviola. Could she not…live? Did she not deserve to try? To fight death, that unfair thing that snatched children away with the same careless malice as the old?
“Never.”
She had one last true Potion of Youth. The other…Saliss had offered her another. Maviola looked down.
One shone like golden sunlight in her hand. It was unreal, a color of magic that dimmed even the viridian liquid in the second vial. But one would lead her down…
One more year. If I had one year, I could teach Olesm everything. Maybe find a solution that didn’t take me from me. I just need time. So many have managed it…
She clenched her hand—but lightly. Afraid to crush the two vials, as if she could have shattered the enchanted glass. Maviola was afraid.
So she came to the inn where her trial had begun. And found it revolving around someone other than her. Well, that was fine.
“We have so much to do! Where’s Ryoka? Fierre? Oh—Maviola! Look! We’ve got two more guests!”
“Goblins?”
The [Lady] stopped in her tracks. Of all the things—she looked at Snapjaw and Badarrow. Bright Goblins too. Close to the level of Chieftains, or a Tribe’s best warriors.
“What madness are you bringing here, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] stopped and looked Maviola up and down. She was rushing around as her guests came downstairs.
“Maviola? You’re…”
“I’m back.”
Maviola remembered visiting the inn as younger Maviola. Erin Solstice, even the little Mrsha-child had noticed the change. Erin looked at her.
“Did Saliss’ potion wear off? Is he helping? He’s been weird the last few days. I haven’t seen him since two days ago, but…”
“It wore off. And yes—he has been helping. I feel more like myself. Do you—what’s this about?”
Maviola shuddered and reached—forgetting she no longer wore the shawl that kept her warm all the time. Sitting in a chair, giving orders…being wheeled about by Zedalien…
But she had to remember the decades since she was young. Better to be old, surely? But looking at Erin—Maviola wanted to blaze like that. To forget what a lifetime of regrets had made. She looked at the Goblins. She caught the [Innkeeper]’s sleeve.
“Their kind was what the Goblin Lord was made of, Erin.”
The young woman turned back.
“I know. Snapjaw was Reiss’ lieutenant.”
Maviola’s eyes widened.
“And you let her—”
“Do what? Live? She’s not evil, Maviola. I don’t think Reiss…they’re Goblins.”
“And they crave a King. You—”
The [Lady] cut herself off. Erin was looking at her defiantly.
“Isn’t this what you told me to do, Maviola? Take care of people? Make them better? I’m doing just that! Even if it’s just feeding Snapjaw. She ate like—more than everyone else combined.”
She pointed at the [Big Eater] who was indeed putting away hamburgers now. Imani seemed to be trying to clear Erin’s fast-food stocks out using Snapjaw as the disposal method.
“I—there is danger, Erin. But I—”
Maviola hesitated. And she felt two Maviolas trying to speak through her. One—her—wanted to tell Erin that there was a difference between Goblins and other species. Her generosity and aid was not best used impartially!
The other wanted to give Goblins a chance. Perhaps she’d been wrong? Yes! The younger her would have tried if she’d met Erin. She might be wrong about the Antinium. She had been wrong in some points about the Drakes, she realized, after meeting Olesm.
Perhaps the younger Maviola was the better. Not scarred by so many failures. And yet—Maviola El, matriarch of the House of El, raged against her younger self. She had not lived to be cast aside!
Erin looked at Maviola and saw the dilemma. She turned.
“Why don’t you talk to Snapjaw and Badarrow before you make a decision, Maviola? Come on—you look like you’re exhausted.”
“I am. A bit. I’ve…Saliss’ potion has its drawbacks.”
Erin brought Maviola over to a table. The [Innkeeper] sat Maviola down.
“I can see that. Sorry for being snappy—you look awful. Where’s Olesm? Drassi! Something hot and Imani-breakfast for Maviola!”
“At work. I came because…I apologize too.”
“Well, it’s good you came by. You haven’t really stayed—you were all ‘I’m young, let’s go hike fifteen miles!’, so I couldn’t get ahold of you last week.”
Maviola smiled a bit as Erin mimicked her. She had been all that. And Maviola distinctly recalled challenging that Drake [Wing Commander] to a duel? She’d had more bruises than she could count after that! Idiot.
“I’m sorry if I did anything—the potion does change me.”
“Well…if it helps you, that’s fine.”
Erin conceded. She glanced towards the stairs.
“It’s just good you’re here, Maviola. Remember I wanted your help?”
“With what, exactly?”
There were any number of things Erin had asked Maviola for help with. Erin blinked.
“The party at the Summer Solstice, remember?”
“I told you I wouldn’t make it till then.”
“You said you were off by a few weeks. Well?”
Maviola bit her lip. Damn that second potion. Damn magical flowers. Damn choices.
“I—what about it?”
“The person who needs your help, Ryoka, is here. You met her, right?”
“The City Runner from your…home? Of course. She has no levels, does she?”
Erin blinked.
“You know?”
“She has no aura for me to read. At least—not in the same way. They are like that, those who refuse. Harder to use Skills on, sometimes. Certainly, harder to appraise.”
The [Innkeeper] put her hands on her hips.
“Well how about that. Ryoka’s upstairs. She really needs to talk to you. And your help, Maviola.”
The [Lady] grimaced. She didn’t really understand what was going on; Erin had not explained well. Winter Sprites and a party with the [Emperor]? But she nodded.
“Send her to me when you’re done. I’ll…”
She looked at Snapjaw.
“I’ll wait here for a bit. And listen.”
And think. Oh, there was so much to think about. As The Wandering Inn filled up, Maviola thought of her mortality. Izril. And…the rot amid the flowers.
She knew of Tyrion Veltras. She had seen his appeal. Erin Solstice had not. But as the inn filled, news of it came in. The larger world, whilst the [Innkeeper] generated her own significance. Neither less important than the other, Maviola knew. It was just that everyone talked about one, and it was broadcast. But the magic here was no less valuable. The potential…
As guests came in from Celum, Invrisil, Liscor, Esthelm, and not Pallass, a child was left unattended. It crawled across the floor and Mrsha peered at the baby again. The little red-haired infant was picked up by her mother.
Mrsha shook her head sadly. Some people never learned. She looked up to the stairs. Badarrow was back and he’d brought a funny female Goblin who ate a lot! Now all that she needed was…Ryoka Griffin.
 
—-
 
If you knew Ryoka Griffin, you might understand. Understand why, on this day, Fierre watched her friend carefully. Why she feared.
The City Runner sat there. Her head was spinning. Still spinning, a day after she had heard of Mihaela Godfrey’s failed delivery.
Well—she hadn’t the time to process it with Erin screaming and crying and shouting about Badarrow’s return. That tended to take up the room, so Ryoka had asked Fierre to tell her the rest this morning.
Now—she felt sick.
“She’s alive, Ryoka. Alive.”
Salamani sat on a chair as Ryoka and Fierre sat on the young woman’s bed. The Courier also knew. He looked disturbed.
“I don’t know how they got her. Fierre, do you know more? My friends didn’t have specifics. Well—they were worried. The Runner’s Guild in First Landing is practically dead.”
“The news I have is that Mihaela took five Couriers including Lacel the Leaper, who accepted the request.”
“Didn’t he get his legs broken by the Guild? He must have gotten them healed by a [Bonemender Healer] fast.”
Salamani frowned. Fierre nodded, never looking away from Ryoka.
“They went down the main road in force.”
“Stupid. They had to know the Guild would come after them.”
“I think Mihaela wanted to punch through them rather than have them attack the rear. That’s just speculation. She must have thought they could use her Skill. But the [Assassins] laid a trap. I heard there were hundreds attacking at once.”
“Does the Guild have that many?”
Ryoka looked up slowly. She remembered the [Assassin] she’d met on the rooftops. He hadn’t been…the best. But he hadn’t been trying to kill her, either. Fierre bit her lip.
“The word is the Guild can toss [Assassins] at a problem if they need to. They have…links. And they take on a lot of recruits. Lots of bases.”
“I see. But they…got Mihaela? How? She can move as fast as a lightning bolt.”
But—she had been coughing even beating up on Ryoka. All she had to do was stop at the wrong time. The City Runner closed her eyes. Fierre went on after a moment.
“They left her alive. Both legs broken though. That’s a message.”
“Nagas. Of course it is. It means they’re not playing games. Two Couriers dead. Lacel wasn’t—that poor idiot. He wasn’t the best. But he was a Courier. I’d have placed odds on him if the Guild weren’t involved. And the rest?”
Fierre hesitated. She looked at Ryoka’s face. She was…but her friend looked up.
“Show me, please, Fierre?”
The Vampire girl wavered. But Ryoka would be able to find it anywhere she wanted. It was playing on the scrying orb in the rec room with Wistram News Network. She nodded.
Lord Tyrion Veltras stood in front of the ‘camera’. Ryoka Griffin stared at the man’s face.
She hadn’t actually known what Tyrion looked like. There were portraits—she’d gone off them in her list of the leaders of the Five Families.
Magnolia of House Reinhart.
Tyrion of House Veltras.
Ulva of House Terland, once Petra and Ulva, the Terland Twins.
Raymon of House Wellfar.
Deilan of House El—or perhaps Maviola El, former matriarch and still living, sitting in the common room below with a cup of tea in her hands.
She had known only one of them personally and hadn’t appreciated who Magnolia was for a while. Now, the man who was said to be her counterpart stood there.
He looked…wan. But Ryoka saw his posture was perfectly straight. A refusal to bow? Yet—
“I am Lord Tyrion of House Veltras. I will be brief. Just over a week ago, my sons, heirs to House Veltras, fell ill. They were poisoned. Held ransom, as is House Veltras unless I agree to terms. I have attempted to cure them, but every [Healer] and [Alchemist] I sought fell victim to the Guild of Assassins. The Circle of Thorns.”
It was a public appeal. Ryoka Griffin felt like she was watching a statue speaking. Save for the cracks. Tyrion paused.
“I have ascertained the nature of the poison and the cure for Hethon and Sammial—my sons. The recipe has been sent to every Mage’s Guild across Izril and other cities in the world. There is little time, however. I ask for any courageous individuals to manufacture the cure and send it to me.”
His eyes flickered.
“The Guild is targeting Couriers. They have sunk two ships at sea. I will offer House Veltras’ fortune to those who deliver the cure within the next few days. Any longer—”
He stopped. His eyes stared straight ahead. Past the viewer.
“—I appeal for aid. Thank you.”
That was all. Fierre closed the box on the orb and put it away. She had seen many things as well.
Lord Tyrion Veltras, the famously inflexible leader of the north—practically begging for aid? She saw House Veltras’ reputation crumbling. And more—
“None of the Five Families can help? They have damned armies.”
“They’re afraid. Also—if they move, they become targets. They poisoned Tyrion’s sons. What will they do? Tyrion Veltras could probably ride to First Landing himself and grab the cure, but his sons might be dead by the time they return. He could surround his manor. The Guild would just cover it in a poison cloud or something.”
Fierre bit at her fingernails. Her stomach growled and she’d just eaten. Insane. But—but—
