“Are you…you’re an Earl from Desonis. And that’s…a kingdom in Terandria?”
Erin was very taken aback. What was one of them doing here? That outranked a [Lord], right? One of the [Knights] opened his mouth furiously and the Earl made a sound. It was close to a whistle, but muted. Instantly, the [Knight] straightened.
“I would hate to get in your way, Miss Solstice. And I do apologize for my subordinate’s rudeness.”
“Not at all. Um…”
“Erin! You have to get Mrsha to stop stealing my food! It’s not funny! Argh! Where’s my condiments?”
Olesm came back with a full basket of nachos and had a fit when he saw the theft. Erin looked at him blankly.
“Olesm. You’ve got guests. This is the—”
She looked around. The Drake turned, but the Earl and his group were gone. They were sitting back down. The man inclined his head and raised a finger to his lips.
“Who?”
“…Someone wanted to see you. A fan, I think.”
“Oh. Well—are they here?”
“Um. They wanted to play you after this game…”
Olesm turned pink under his scales.
“I don’t want to keep them waiting. Let’s continue, Erin. Who were they? W—did they just step out?”
“They’ll come over after we’re done. Uh…check.”
The distracted Drake’s face fell. Erin was winning this game, like the others. He did his best, but Erin had not only had an advantage on a technical level, he was now preoccupied. She…smashed him.
The Earl came back after Olesm was studying his loss.
“Quite impressive. Strategist Olesm? My name is Altestiel. I am a huge, humble fan of your magazine. I’ve travelled to Invrisil in hopes of meeting you. Could I ask for a moment of your time?”
The Drake stared up at him. He had some sauce on his tunic, crumbs around his mouth, and—flustered he stood up.
“A reader? I’m delighted to meet you! Olesm Swifttail—but you already knew this. Are you? Altestiel? Well met! Where are you from? Is that your group?”
“My escort. Half of them play chess well. We’d be delighted to play a match against you. And your magazine—I’ve bought every issue. Wonderful commentary and games. My condolences for the attack on Liscor—and congratulations on your new class.”
“You know about—I—I—thank you!”
Overwhelmed, Olesm shook the man’s hand. Erin was out of her seat and watching carefully. Olesm didn’t miss how obviously rich Altestiel was—or the fact that he had two [Knights] escorting him and Ilvriss’ equivalent in subordinates.
“May I ask who I am meeting?”
The Drake slowly met Altestiel’s eyes. The [Earl] smiled.
 
—-
 
[Knight Marshal of the Rains] Earl Altestiel of the Kingdom of Desonis, one of the kingdoms to the east of Terandria and out of the immediate Ailendamus-Dawn Concordat conflict, sat across from Olesm the [Strategist].
He had come via First Landing with a small escort to meet Olesm. To. Meet. Olesm. The Drake was so nervous he could barely place his pieces.
“You came all this way…?”
“Desonis is at peace for the moment. And I am not always needed.”
“I—know you. Your storm campaigns are textbook in Manus!”
“He’s famous?”
Erin whispered to Palt. The Centaur had spotted Altestiel. The [Illusionist] nodded.
“He’s a weather-strategy expert. You go up against him, you’ll fight in the rain and muck while his people don’t even feel it. Not the best [Strategist] in the world—he’s a [Knight Marshal], close to a [General] in nature. But really good.”
“Whoa. Good for Olesm.”
Palt eyed Erin, but the [Innkeeper] meant it. Altestiel didn’t seem like a jerk, either. His entourage were a bit Pisces-sniffy, but he was an [Earl].
“What’s Olesm’s odds, Erin?”
“Um…good.”
“Really?”
Erin couldn’t help but shrug. Why did people think that levels mattered in chess? They did not. And Olesm had been playing nonstop. He breathed chess.
“They both look good. I can’t just appraise them from like, the way they sit. But I wouldn’t say it’s out of Olesm’s claws. Say, Palt…there’s something on my mind.”
She felt that prickling again and turned her head. But there were so many people…Palt raised his brows, then stepped back.
“Excuse me. Miss Erin Solstice? My apologies for earlier. Would you care to play a game of chess whilst Earl Altestiel and Strategist Olesm are busy?”
The same woman with spectacles approached. Her hair was proper silver. And she was…Erin blinked.
“Are you a [Strategist]?”
“Yes, Miss. Strategist Kiish at your service. I would be gratified to play a game of chess with you. I see there are multiple chess boards—you clearly play yourself?”
“Sure! I love to play!”
Erin brightened up. She pointed and the two sat at a table. Palt peered at Kiish. And he saw something.
The [Strategist] sat down, and adjusted her spectacles.
“Miss Solstice, would you care to play an Unrestricted game, or a Skill-less game? Magic-less?”
“Huh?”
Erin was blank. Kiish hesitated.
“…Are you aware of the game types of chess? We can play without using Skills. Or artifacts or other magical aids.”
She gave Erin a long look, as if this was common knowledge. Erin hesitated.
“I don’t have any of that stuff. I mean, sure. Let’s play Unrestricted!”
“That would be me using my Skills, Miss Solstice.”
“I know. That sounds like fun! Do you have some?”
The [Strategist] turned and gave some of her companions a long look. She smiled slightly.
“As you wish…”
Palt smirked a bit. Skills and magic only worked so well against Erin. Most Skills were probably predictive or which allowed chess players to analyze the board fast, especially if playing speed-chess. But it didn’t make up for Erin’s expertise in the game.
Still—he watched as Erin moved forwards a chess piece. Palt’s eyes flickered. Because he had noticed something.
Earl Altestiel was playing a close game with Olesm. But Kiish had chosen a table after some deliberation behind Olesm. And every now and then—the [Knight Marshal]’s eyes would flick up.
He was watching Erin play. And he did not have long to wait.
“Checkmate!”
Strategist Kiish stared at her board, in a state of shock. She had played Erin in a speed-chess game, using her Skills. It was, as everyone in her group knew, her absolute specialty since her Skills allowed her to make rapid decisions despite the tight timer.
“I…how did you…?”
It was something of a stupid question because she had seen Erin patently outplaying her. But the [Strategist] couldn’t handle it. Erin wiped at her brow. Nothing like a good game of speed-chess to get the blood pumping!
“Please—play me again. I’d like to—”
“Kiish. My turn. If you would accept my challenge, Miss Solstice?”
One of the two [Knights] sat down. Erin blinked. Then she smiled.
“Well, of course! Unrestricted? What about a normal game? Timer of two minutes? I wish I had a proper counter…”
“I can fulfill that role, Miss.”
One of the underlings spoke up. Erin blinked. They took this game seriously! Which she approved of! She played, oblivious.
Skill levels. Palt was no great chess-player. But he could tell that the group from Desonis were good. Really good.
Which meant Erin was crushing them like flies on the wall. Because they were probably better than Olesm had been before Erin had met him, especially with Skills.
But they didn’t have Earth’s chess strategy and lessons backing them up. Nor were they even half as experienced as Erin—even if they’d played day in and day out since the game of chess had been invented.
The skepticism and amusement the Desonis group had brought to the table turned into concentration. And then—grudging respect. And then awe.
Olesm and the [Knight Marshal] played three games. Olesm took two, and stood up, trembling, to shake the Earl’s hand.
“You are a magnificent player, Strategist Olesm. I am considered the best player in my kingdom by far—and I’ve challenged all of Terandria’s finest players to the south. I daresay you might give the Lord of the Dance a strong challenge.”
The Earl was admiring. Olesm was beaming.
“Thank you, Earl Altestiel! But you’re so well-read. And your strategy—”
They’d been talking chess and actual battlefield strategy. Olesm was a teacher in one regard, if a humble one, the Earl an unquestionable leader in the other. Altestiel chuckled.
“But chess is such a wonderful game in peace. Do you think there’s any chance our games could make it into the magazine? I would be delighted to perform one of the analyses of the games.”
“I—I would be so honored. Of course, Earl!”
The [Strategist] was star struck. And the Earl was vastly engaged—but then he looked towards Erin.
She was replaying Kiish. The [Knight Marshal]’s eyes sharpened.
“I wonder, though. That young woman—Innkeeper Solstice seems quite good at the game. Do you think I might trouble her for a game?”
“Erin? She’s…quite good. Better than me.”
Olesm chose his words carefully. And the Earl—nodded. He walked over and Kiish looked up.
“Knight Marshal—excuse me, Miss Solstice. I believe the Earl would like to play you—”
Olesm’s head turned. So did Palt’s. Aha. But Erin just looked up at Altestiel and shook her head. She beckoned to Kiish.
“Don’t be silly! We’re playing. No one interrupts a chess game, no matter how much a big shot they are.”
“Very true. Strategist, Kiish, do your best. Miss Solstice, are you an expert in these speed-games?”
“I like them now and then. Kiish is really good. I might lose this one.”
“She is using all her Skills and you are not.”
The earl observed quietly. Erin laughed.
“That’s what makes it fun! She’s just playing at her best! It’s not cheating. Chaldion’s as close as it comes to cheating.”
The group fell silent for a moment. Someone spoke.
“You’ve played Grand Strategist Chaldion?”
“He comes in here now and then. Not this week, probably, but you might be able to play him?”
“…I should surely wish to. If that could be arranged. But I think you may be a rather fitting opponent, Miss Solstice. Not that I could beat Strategist Olesm.”
“Well—you weren’t using your Skills.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Altestiel a sly look. He blinked. Olesm started. And then Altestiel smiled wider.
Kiish lost. She had a chance, as Erin pointed out, but her nerves got the better of her. And then the [Knight Marshal of Rains] sat down.
“A Skill-less game?”
“Unrestricted. I want to play your best. What about a speed-game to feel the waters? Then we can try a regular one.”
“That sounds quite delightful. I accept with gratitude.”
Erin was smiling wider than ever. Palt sighed. He could stop her. But—why? Just look at her.
She knew who he was. But knowing how good Altestiel was just made Erin happier. She sat there, arranging her chess pieces with long experience. And when she looked up—
The pressure was on him. Perhaps it was like experience. Or an aura—just not one Palt was familiar with.
Look at this expert. Erin Solstice, the monster of chess. And the Earl, unlike his subordinates, did not take her lightly. He never had, Palt realized. He began activating his Skills.
Erin began playing her best.
 
—-
 
The first game of chess was fast. The two agreed to the lowest timer possible. You’d call this a Bullet Chess game—if you were from Earth. One minute per player, max.
That was the fastest kind of move since neither player could slow down. Without Skills you were in trouble. And Kiish had pulled Erin to the brink at that speed; even an expert from Earth would have trouble at top speed where you could make mistakes.
But there was one thing that even Altestiel hadn’t predicted.
Erin had one Skill she could use.
“Oh. Oooh. Ooooh.”
Bird stared. Belgrade, Olesm—all the chess fans who sometimes challenged Erin and watched her games were crowded around. The Desonis group were silently cheering their leader. The game moved fast—
And it moved slow. Erin Solstice lifted a chess piece. She was smiling. Laughing. Even talking. This—
The [Knight Marshal] stared at her. The pieces sounded like thunder in his ears. They talked. Conversation between the chess pieces touching the board. He had been prepared to learn the first game, win the second. But he threw all of his Skills and his observations into this first game.
She provoked him. Don’t throw this first game. Challenge. Me. For this was their first game. Their best game.
An [Immortal Moment] for an immortal game. One they might remember forever. If only you gave it your all.
Palt watched. With Skills, the [Knight Marshal] was—Olesm was annotating the game with Kiish and the others, frantically, making whispered commentary. It was magnificent. It was the highest level of play, it was—
…Sort of boring if you didn’t like chess. It was still chess. Mrsha stared at the board for an entire minute and padded off. Erin had boring hobbies. But good for her.
Chess wasn’t for everyone. But those it was for—
“Draw.”
Erin spoke. Altestiel exhaled. Sweat was beading on his brow. Kiish dabbed at it. The room exhaled.
“That was a great game. Fumbled it at the end. Right here. When I moved that bishop—”
The [Innkeeper] sighed. She was pointing. Altestiel nodded. The silence around them broke into murmurs.
“Another game?”
“Of course. Not speed chess? I don’t think I could use…that Skill again.”
Erin smiled shakily up at him. The Earl felt like a Giant had shaken him. He nodded.
“Permit me a moment to refresh myself.”
“Of course! Drinks! Drassi—and the outhouse is—”
The scandalized looks from his retinue aside, the Earl stepped back. He did indeed walk outside. Just to calm down.
He was Earl Altestiel. The same player who’d taken second in the unofficial tournament between the best players when chess had first emerged. Who had taken Lord Bel to seven of ten games in the finale.
And this inn had the opponent who made Altestiel sweat when he’d been ice-cool during all those games. Worse—no, better—
He had played his best. But it looked like Erin Solstice had just begun to get into gear. The Earl laughed. Then he turned to Kiish.
“Kiish. I have an order for you. I was right. So…”
He walked back inside for the second game. Then—Altestiel focused everything into the game. Erin was stretching, accepting a non-alcoholic drink of course. Light snacks were important to keep your brain going. Just don’t get anything on the chess board!
One of his Skills was on cool down, the second could only be activated five minutes in. Altestiel began sweating again. He was falling behind. It was a fundamental lack in the basics. Because Erin just had more knowledge of chess patterns. But close. Close—they went at each other, talking seldom, mostly just focused.
