He lost. His entourage actually moaned, as if he’d taken a wound in battle. The Earl just sat back as Erin laughed and offered a hand to shake.
“Great game, another?”
He glanced up at her. She smiled. Not gloating—a tiny bit of victory, well-earned—but mostly just the love of the game shining in her eyes.
“Of course!”
He nodded. The board was set a third time. And as the Earl sat back, relaxed now he’d well and truly lost, preparing all the questions he wanted to ask—he had to learn more—he raised a finger.
It was just a casual gesture. But Kiish stepped back. She was a [Spellwater Strategist]. Superior to [Strategist] Olesm in combat, if not chess. She executed the [Knight Marshal]’s orders in that moment and only Palt noticed. And he just sensed the mana moving—not the spell.
Forgive me, Miss Solstice. But I came here to find you, as well as Strategist Olesm. Though I did not know if you were here. The Earl adjusted his posture. He moved his seat back. Rested one elbow on the table, and smiled towards Kiish.
Erin was looking down at the board. Laughing, munching on a nacho while she showed him an opening. The [Knight Marshal] looked up.
Click.
Well, it wasn’t that sound. But it was close to that. Kiish stepped back. Her fingers were a blur as she pulled out a piece of specialized magical paper. Ink ran from a special holder as she drew.
Vision became ink, thanks to the spell. The [Knight Marshal] stood, on the pretense of getting a drink.
“Sir.”
The [Strategist] handed it to him. He regarded the mage-picture.
“Wonderful, Kiish. Now…”
Altestiel wrote for one moment, handed it to her. She walked out of the inn. Back into Invrisil.
It was just a tiny thing. And the picture went to only a few people. Only a few. But the first one—the only one—via very private [Message] was this. Altestiel’s note only had one word.
 
To Niers Astoragon, Titan of Baleros from Knight-Marshall Altestiel of Desonis:
Her?
 
And the picture was attached. The Earl walked back to the board. He sat back down and with certainty, prepared to learn from the Titan’s famous chess partner. Chess—and more. He had no plan other than that.
Some people were just chess lovers.
 
—-
 
All things being as they were—it was a night to remember. And perhaps not Fierre’s first—but new enough that she was wide-eyed.
A [Knight Marshal] from Terandria? All these people flooding into the inn? And—the Vampire girl paused in watching Erin play.
Three [Assassins] in the inn. One in Octavia’s shop, two in the common room.
It was something Erin had sensed, but the chess game was occupying her. Palt might have noticed—or not. He was distracted and he wasn’t exactly a fighter.
Fierre on the other hand? She was an information broker. More than that, she was inherently suspicious. Also—a Vampire.
She could smell them. Their blood, hear their beating hearts. All three were invisible. No—not quite invisible. But using some kind of cloaking to blend with the crowd unless you really focused on them.
Fierre knew they were there. She’d checked on Octavia to make sure. And she was not the only one wise to them.
“So you’re an [Archer]? Respectable, respectable, sir. We’re just fellow card players with Mister Numbtongue. I’ll raise that bet. Ratici?”
Wilovan tipped up his tricorne and the [Thief] calmly took a sip.
“Fold.”
Experts in their fields had ways of tracking even the most elusive. Maviola El would have surely read their ‘fire’ or whatever trick she employed. Todi was frowning at a stone on his wrist as he spoke to Selys. Montressa was nudging Bezale as she sat next to Wilovan. The [Spellscribe] might have been distracted.
It was all…Fierre’s fingers drummed nervously on her table. She looked around—then abandoned her seat.
Delanay d’Artien was animatedly talking with Numbtongue.
“You like crossbows? Izrilians tend to think they’re not as good as bows, but there’s less training needed.”
“Mhm. Badarrow doesn’t. [Sniper]. I have crossbows.”
“Where, pray?”
The Vampire girl peeked up from the edge of the table as Numbtongue pointed to a wall.
“Secret compartments. Got five over here. See—”
 
—-
 
It was all a disgrace. That was surely what she’d say.
Deilan El sat, watching the replay of Tyrion Veltras practically begging for aid. He had gone silent. Time—time was running out.
The scrying orbs could be engineered to replay sights. Well, the good ones, that was. Even take still images. Deilan El, the new leader of the House of El shook his head.
“Disgraceful. Zedalien. What would Maviola do?”
The half-Elf bowed slightly.
“Something troublesome, I’m sure, Lord Deilan. But she did not choose you to be her clone.”
“Yes. That is true.”
Deilan knew Maviola had chosen him because he was more cautious then she was. He would never have backed the Kaalblades project, for instance. Her ideas had sometimes paid off well—and she was a skilled negotiator, amazing at balancing a nonexistent budget, powerful, canny—
But she took risks that had beggared the House of El, much like her predecessors. She’d had to take risks because they were in so much financial debt and uncertainty. But she’d decided Deilan was the best to replace her.
He wondered if it had simply been a matter of choosing the least inept. He did not feel like a second Maviola, or even a Tyrion or Magnolia.
And look at them now. One fled, the other begging for aid.
Deilan didn’t know what to do. He was unsure…if his life were endangered. Certainly, the House of El could replace him, new as he was. Would the Circle go after him?
“Am I under qualified for this position, Zedalien?”
“The uncertainty of youth, Lord Deilan. Not one of your predecessors did not ask that question.”
The half-Elf heard Deilan laugh.
“This is why we need half-Elves, Zedalien. Please reconsider.”
“My time is through, Lord Deilan. But my replacement will serve the House of El.”
Deilan nodded slowly. Even so. Even so—this was a crisis. And something had to be done. But…he closed his eyes.
“There’s nothing for it.”
He stood up. And walked off to send a [Message].
 
—-
 
At the same time, Maviola was trying to muster the Five Families for Ryoka’s impossible mission. She was reaching out to people she knew. Gresaria for Wellfar, but it was still hard.
“Thoughtless girl. Headstrong, always rushing about. No plan other than to run and hope it works out.”
Maviola was insulting Ryoka as she wrote [Messages]. But she couldn’t help but feel like every accusation was something she’d heard hurled at herself at that age. It was true Ryoka could be more thoughtful. But she was young. And youth…
“Grandmother?”
For a second, Maviola felt like she was in her chair. A flickering fire not of her make warming her old bones. She turned—
“Desinee?”
The [Lady] stood there. A baby, red-haired, gurgled in her arms and tried to climb onto the counter. Two [Guards], looking quite nervous, flanked the [Lady].
She was in disguise. That was to say—her dress was not silk, and she was not adorned with much richness. It was a terrible disguise, though. Desinee was still Desinee.
Nevertheless…Maviola folded her arms as her niece stared at her.
“Grandmother Maviola—”
“Desinee El. I should have known my family wouldn’t be content to let me die without haunting me to my grave.”
The [Lady] flinched, but she looked at Maviola defiantly.
“One of us should be here, Grandmother! I—volunteered. I wasn’t going to say anything—”
“You don’t have to. I saw my great great grandson wandering about on the floor.”
Maviola made a disgusted sound. The baby—Qibby—gurgled at her. She reached out and he grabbed her finger. Maviola touched his small head—he already had his father’s face—and then glowered at Desinee.
“And why are you bothering me?”
“Um…um…Deilan, that is, Lord Deilan wanted me to ask—”
Desinee stammered. Maviola might look younger than her, but the glare had ruled the House of El longer than Desinee had been alive.
“He wants advice? Tell him to figure it out! Either it works or it doesn’t. Just don’t get people killed. So long as you do that, it works out.”
Maviola was incredulous. The nerve of Deilan! Had she chosen wrong? But—then Desinee spoke again.
“It’s about Tyrion Veltras.”
“Ah.”
The [Lady Firestarter] paused. She handed the slips to the Gnoll [Receptionist] and turned back to Desinee. One of the [Guards] bowed; she sniffed.
“Pay the Guild would you, man? I was putting it on the House of El’s credit. But I might as well settle up.”
“At once, Lady El.”
They meekly scurried past her. Maviola stepped away with Desinee. The [Lady] jiggled her child.
“The Circle of Thorns—”
“They’re fools.”
“But they have the Guild—”
“And they fought with Magnolia’s grandmother and they’ve been on Izril since we were. Yes, yes. So what? They do not threaten one of the Five Families. If I were in charge and Gresaria and I were your age, we would be hanging [Assassins] like grapes off a vine! Petra and Ulva would be fighting as well. And Cirike—”
She paused. Dead names, that Desinee had only ever heard, no faces to match. Maviola shook her head.
“Each generation. Magnolia and Tyrion, the terrible duo born of the Antinium Wars. Both idiots in their way. One can make money, the other swing a sword. But neither are well loved. Ulva hides in her House, mourning Petra…”
It was the same refrain. Desinee nodded.
“But Grandmother. What do we do? We could…”
She clutched her son until he started crying. Then Desinee held him and stroked his head, whispering to him.
“You’re holding your weakness, Desinee. Of course your enemies will aim at it.”
Maviola felt weary. She shook her head.
“It’s not for me to decide. I—am not matriarch.”
Lies. You live! And while you live, Deilan lives in your shadow! Her younger self whispered to her. Maviola clenched her fist. It would be so easy. But she turned away.
“Desinee—there’s no cure. I had the same talk with a young idiot. If Deilan wants to intervene—why? Tell him to ask himself that. Is it because it is wrong, morally? Because it damages the Five Families and thus the House of El? Because they might go after him next?”
“And?”
Desinee hung on Maviola’s words. The [Lady] looked back at her.
“And then tell him the reason doesn’t matter! If he moves—if he fights—do it with a damned plan! Ryoka Griffin—Deilan is twice her age! But you’re both children. If you are going to dare this Circle, do it with a plan or not at all!”
Ryoka Griffin would die, running alone. You needed…Maviola closed her eyes as Desinee bowed.
“Grandmother…won’t you sit with me? At least with Qibby. You still have time.”
The [Lady] stared at Desinee, and the baby. She reached out and then lowered her hands, shaking her head.
“Go, Desinee. And tell Deilan not to bother me. If I sit with you—I will never rise.”
Her time was up. The [Lady] sniffled, but Maviola strode away. Maybe—but just as well. Just as well. Because Ryoka Griffin…was a fool with a heart. The worst kind. No one had said she was wrong to want to help, did she? Just—
Maviola El strode into The Wandering Inn as the last visitor arrived. She heard Liska’s tired refrain.
“Hello. Welcome to The Wandering Inn. Read this sign—oh. It’s you. Nevermind.”
The [Lady Firestarter] walked forwards and saw nudity. Saliss of Lights cavorted into the inn after her.
“Maviola! Just the Human I wanted to see. Tried my other potion?”
“No! And I’m not in the mood for this, Drake.”
“There’s always time for fun, Maviola. Besides—is Erin here? I just wanted a word. Then I’m off.”
To where? To dance on the gates again? Maviola made a noise of disgust. She saw Liska yawning and the glowing yellow stone for Pallass.
No one had told the Gnoll not to check Pallass, although Erin’s aura kept almost everyone out. So Saliss bounded into the inn. Liska was just reaching for the stone to change the door when it opened.
“Where is he? I’ll murder him! I’ll—”
Someone else blew past Liska. Maviola blinked.
Here came trouble. Here came drama. Saliss was making a beeline for Erin, who was lecturing everyone about chess patterns. He’d nearly reached her when the second person from Pallass came through.
He was not on Erin’s good-list. But such was the level and fury of this individual that he’d breached her aura.
Xif the [Alchemist] charged after Saliss. A white-faced Octavia, sitting and waiting for Erin, saw the [Alchemist] holding something in his furry paw.
He might be an older Gnoll—from Pallass. But some things about [Alchemists] held true. The Gnoll had a club. When [Alchemists] got mad, they sorted it out.
“Saliss, you lizard! You wretch! You stole my work!”
“Xif! I thought you couldn’t go through!”
Saliss whirled. People in the inn turned to stare. A naked Drake and an old Gnoll with a club was eye-catching. Xif swung at Saliss with wild abandon!
“You can’t do this!”
“Hold on, Xif. I think we’re under the wrong impression here. Just give me five minutes and I’ll—”
Saliss backed up, dodging Xif easily. The Gnoll was howling, panting. He’d chased Saliss across the city.
“What’s going on? Hey! You’re not supposed to be in here!”
Erin shot to her feet. Marshal Altestiel rose. He held up a hand and his followers held themselves back.
“It was my work! You can’t just claim credit! I’d already made it! You—you—”
“Someone stop him! Before Saliss hurts him!”
Ishkr, Menolit, and Wilovan all grabbed Xif. They gently pulled the older [Alchemist] back. Saliss was grinning at Xif’s clear fury.
“What’s this about, Saliss?”
“Oh—just making a stopover. Look, Erin—shut up, Xif!”
“No! It’s not fair!”
The [Alchemist] struggled weakly. Erin turned to Xif.
“What’s the problem?”
“Oteslia! The [Strategists] of the Titan! They have that sick Selphid!”
Everyone blinked. That was old news! But it was still something they’d all seen. Erin blinked.
“Yeah…so?”
“They needed a cure for blowfish poison! And I made it! They sent to Pallass for the best and Saliss refused, so I’ve been supplying them with the antitoxin agent for the last weeks! But then Saliss came by—”
“Xif. Xif, let’s just shut up and—”
The Named Adventurer tried, but Xif was too angry. He bellowed the rest.
“He walked into the Merchant’s Guild yesterday and said he was making the blowfish antidote! Bought up all the ingredients on the pretext—he’s not making the antitoxin! It’s my work! He’s just lying to make himself look good!”
“I never said you weren’t—”
