She wondered what Ryoka Griffin would have done. If Ieka could have chosen—she would have chosen Ryoka, or perhaps Delanay d’Artien. But the less they had to do with the Circle, the better. Ieka was far kinder than the Circle. They’d deployed to major cities in force. There were a lot of their best [Assassins] in Invrisil. Just as well, really.
…She wondered if she could arrange for someone to steal the ring from Persua once the run was done.
 
—-
 
Maviola El stood next to Ryoka Griffin. The two kept on eying each other. They had not met—at least not in the way they really should have. Nor was this the moment.
Ryoka Griffin looked up, eyes wide. Badarrow was standing back, hand on his dagger. Snapjaw had retreated too. Maviola El was more appraising.
Thump. Thump. Thump.
It walked. The glowing eyes. The titanic body. A machine made of magic and metal. All it needed was a giant gun and Ryoka Griffin was all set to believe there was a battleship in orbit and this had all been science fiction rather than fantasy.
“That’s one big Golem.”
Fierre breathed. The huge head swung towards her. The Steel Golem—Autonomous Class—halted on the creaking floorboards.
“Well, the inn’s certainly strong enough to support the weight. Not all are, Miss Solstice, is it? But this beauty comes straight from the Illivere Federation. Not Magus-Crafter Femithain’s personal work, but it comes from his workshop. It can fight, perform manual labor—even clean itself! In tests, it’s killed Wyverns by itself. Not that you’d want to let it do that, but anything up to a Wyvern won’t be much trouble.”
The [Artifact Merchant] was not Selys’ friend from Liscor, Farri Slightly, but a prominent [Merchant] from Invrisil. He was here with his stock, in The Wandering Inn.
So was Hedault. The [Enchanter] had requested him to come here. Now, the Golem rotated its head.
“Looks nice, but it’d never keep up with me.”
Salamani sighed, eying the Golem up and down. The [Merchant], whose name was apparently Xerimedial, one of those flashy names for someone who sold to adventurers and the very rich, turned to him.
“I regret to say that Golem Horses are out of my immediate stock, Mage Salamani. Most go for heavy-duty Golems. The kind you don’t need to repair often.”
“Does it have a self-repairing function? And um—what’s the alloy of the armor? Looks silvery.”
Fierre waved her hand urgently. Xerimedial or ‘Merchant X’ as Ryoka refused to call him, beamed and turned to her.
“Well, Miss Lischelle, it isn’t self-repairing—that would put this Golem far out of range of even most of my clients. But a skilled [Smith] can repair most damage and Illivere has a four-year warranty. Parts and service at a discount! As for the armor—I don’t believe silver is a large component.”
The Vampire girl nodded slowly.
“And…I can afford it?”
“With credit, you would have about…fifty eight gold pieces left over. But yes. At Merchant Xerimedial’s prices, it is still certainly affordable. However, I would counsel you to negotiate.”
Hedault’s pronouncement made Xerimedial’s face sour only slightly. He was, in truth, in the best of moods. Because Hedault had brought him three clients with gold burning a hole out of their bags of holding. Fierre rubbed at her lips.
“It’s far from Reizmelt—”
“A Golem could make the journey fast, Miss Fierre. If you care to step outside, I’ll show you it’s max speed. It can run—although that tends to tear up streets.”
Fierre eyed the very sunny outdoors.
“…I’ll pass for now. Ryoka, what do you think?”
“Huh? Oh, sorry—I was thinking.”
Ryoka had never played some of the popular figurine-based tabletop games on Earth. She had labeled it as mostly a guy’s game, and for collectors and assemblers at that.
…Golems now, she understood the appeal. She’d collect this sucker all day. She turned to Erin.
“Uh—so—want one?”
Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper] and owner of the inn whose ceiling the Steel Golem’s head was threatening to tickle, looked over at Ryoka. She worked her mouth a few times.
“…How rich are you?”
Hedault sighed. Ryoka, Fierre, and Salamani had given him their artifacts to appraise and the [Enchanter] had had a field day. It hadn’t been hard, really. Low chance of curses and the fact that it was all gear from individuals he could actually look up meant that it had been a smooth job.
The hardest part had been Ryoka. And others. He stared at a little Gnoll peering at him. Mrsha had been warned about trying to grab Hedault’s special wand. The [Enchanter] vaguely shooed her away. Mrsha refused to go.
“It’s one Steel Golem. I’d pay for artifacts, myself.”
Maviola pronounced. Merchant X’s face fell slightly. He wasn’t used to people who referred to Steel Golems as a unit of measurement.
“True. But for my job? I’m…do you have smaller models?”
“Certainly! Wood, Clay…and we have other artifacts on sale! You are my clients of the day, Runner Ryoka, Miss Fierre, Courier Salamani!”
The [Artifact Merchant] was selling his goods since Hedault had advised the three not to ask for only gold. Rather, he was willing to exchange their artifacts with Xerimedial’s help. The three would take a loss, but they’d get what was useful.
Ryoka still had a small plethora of potions and other running tools, but she was only too happy to give up the armor and weapons in exchange for things she needed.
And as it turned out—what she needed was what Erin and her friends needed. The [Innkeeper] was flustered as Ryoka made the pitch.
“What—you can’t just give us all of your hard-earned money, Ryoka! You earned it!”
“Erin. I’m offering it to you. This is just like the Players thing—no, it’s different. This is useful. It could save lives.”
“I can’t take it. I w—”
Erin got no further because Numbtongue came up and put his claw over her mouth. Erin looked around. He and Badarrow were crouched over the pile of gear.
“This bow. Which is better?”
Badarrow urgently held up two bows. Hedault brightened.
“The bow on your right amplifies the force of each draw. On the other hand, the bow on the left has a rather unique enchantment which spins the arrow without lowering momentum as its fired.”
“Ooh. Oooh. I want that bow. Hedault, Hedault, what does this arrow do?”
“Arrow of Frost. Radius…”
The [Enchanter] liked Badarrow and Bird. They asked refreshingly straight questions without wasting his time. Merchant X on the other hand…had a pained look in his eyes as he smiled at the Antinium and Goblin threatening to take the objects he wanted to add to his inventory.
But he was smiling at them. He’d probably smile at a Creler to sell that Golem. He turned to Erin, who had sidled over to the Golem and was trying to measure how many Erins would go into it. Mrsha the Mountaineer was trying to climb up a leg. Lyonette dragged her away.
“Miss Solstice, is it? This Golem could be a fine addition to your inn. Imagine—a worker that never needs to rest or sleep! That carries out orders like obtaining firewood, defends your inn—”
…He didn’t know his audience, though. Erin’s smile turned waxy.
“No. No…Golems. Thank you, but I’m not interested in…”
She hesitated. The Steel Golem just stood there. Erin peered up at it. Not like a skeleton’s head, but…Ryoka was turning Merchant X down too until the same thought occurred.
“Maybe. Do they think?”
That would…change things. Xerimedial hurried to assure Ryoka that they did not.
“I have heard rumors Illivere managed to create a Sentient-class Golem. However, that’s just hearsay based on one of their Golem Fights. Newest thing. I think Wistram is running a segment on them later this week. These Golems? Not a chance of rebellion!”
Again, the wrong thing to sell the Golem. Ryoka relaxed a bit.
“‘…Break my chains’, huh.”
She wondered what a certain [Driver] would have made of them. But the Golem would eat most of her funds. She shook her head.
“Fierre and Salamani are the ones interested in a Golem.”
“I want to see the cheaper ones.”
“And I’ll look at spellbooks.”
“Naturally, naturally.”
The [Merchant] hurried off. Meanwhile, Hedault was helping the three Goblins—Snapjaw was poking at Badarrow and pointing at things she wanted—select gear. Erin was dithering.
“But guys—that’s Ryoka’s!”
“And when bad things come to inn, we’ll kill them for her.”
Snapjaw happily twanged Badarrow’s bowstring on his new bow. He waved a claw at her; he and Bird raced upstairs to try it out.
It looked like some of her gear was going to arm the Goblins. That was fine with Ryoka—so long as she could afford a few things.
“I have your orders, Miss Griffin. You requested along with my appraisal and crediting of funds, a, ah, ‘defensive artifact’ for some individuals including standard Runner’s gear. Wonderfully vague.”
Hedault gave Ryoka a long stare. The City Runner smiled.
“I trusted an expert, Hedault. Mrsha, Mrsha! Don’t walk near the Golem! It’ll smash you! Come over here! I have something for you!”
“Ryoka? What did you get for Mrsha?”
The [Princess]’s irked voice made Ryoka remember they’d never settled things. She met Lyonette’s gaze.
“Nothing. But I did ask Hedault to find something Mrsha might need. Like…an artifact to keep her safe.”
Erin looked up. Lyonette’s brows raised. That…was hard to argue with. Mrsha the Wizard developed a huge smile.
“Oh man. Artifacts? Like what? How about a mithril shirt, Hedault?”
Crunch, crunch. Everyone turned to Kevin. He was eating from a bowl of popcorn with the Earthers. They weren’t in the way—Snapjaw edged over and grabbed a bowl for herself, sniffing at the yeast in a perplexed way—but it was weird to have an actual peanut, or rather, popcorn gallery.
Hedault gave Kevin a more forgiving look of patience. Erin looked excited at the prospect too, but the [Enchanter] just shook his head.
“That would not be the most effective protection. Nor do I believe a chain shirt would be at all pleasant combined with fur.”
Mrsha winced. She glared at Kevin as if he was trying to rip out all her fur!
“What then? I’m all for an enchanted amulet or ring, Erin. If Ryoka’s paying for it?”
Lyonette looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] nodded after a moment. Hedault shook his head again, sighing. The non-[Enchanters] and the notions they got in their heads.
“Amulets fall off. Children have a habit of losing rings as well. A bracelet is usually the most effective solution, especially if they are comfortable and designed to resist removal. As it so happens—I have my suggestion here.”
He produced a bracelet. The world of enchanting services was a vast one, and as he fastened the jade-metal bracelet around Mrsha’s wiggling paw, Hedault explained.
“Fall protection, arrow protection—this is known as an ‘impact bulwark’ enchantment. It activates if anything strikes the wearer over a certain velocity. One calibrates what that velocity of motion is; for children in day-to-day accidents I calibrate it rather low. Even so, a bookshelf falling on her would trigger it. But a high-impact event like—”
Mrsha swan-dived off the table. Ryoka grabbed for her, but too late! Mrsha went splat and there was a flash—
She bounced off the floor and delighted, picked herself up! Lyonette lowered her arms.
“Oh no.”
Oh yes! An impact shield? Ryoka saw Mrsha’s eyes light up. She looked around and everyone instantly got out of the way.
Mrsha could, in fact, activate it at top-speed by colliding with Ryoka’s shins. Anything less and it was Mrsha who smacked her little head into a shinbone and ran off crying. The potential to turn the little white monster into a knee-high hazard aside, Erin and Lyonette loved the idea.
“It might actually save her. Especially from Rock Crabs and stuff. Is that your best one, Hedault?”
He nodded.
“This is the highest-grade enchantment I can produce. In kinetic force, it would be about 82.4 Etherons.”
“Oooh.”
That came from another bystander. Palt, Montressa, and Bezale had been watching, but now that thing started getting technical, they entered the conversation. Maviola was nodding too. Ryoka had to ask the layman’s question.
“Etheron? What does that measure? Can you convert that to pounds of force?”
The others gave her arch looks that made Ryoka want to slap the backs of their superior heads. Montressa explained to the audience.
“Doesn’t work like that, Ryoka. Magical measurements recharge, so that’s a value of resistance and time it recharges. It’s like—you could hit Mrsha with a sledgehammer every…Bezale?”
The Minotauress was already doing sums on a piece of parchment. The [Spellscribe] looked up.
“Every forty two minutes. Or hit her three times in quick succession to drain it. The average Human male below Level 20, that is. I could probably manage it in two swings at full force. With a six hour full recharge time in an average mana environment? You went with 0.8 to 1.2 mana-density, yes, Master Hedault?”
“Naturally.”
Everyone stared at Mrsha. The little Gnoll signed emphatically that she did not appreciate their unit of measurement!
“Well, why don’t we try? Let’s get her, guys!”
Rose saw an opportunity to ‘help’. Kevin chortled and the Earthers went off. Mrsha’s eyes widened and she ran as they threatened to test the enchantment’s limits. Ryoka sighed—but Hedault was producing her gear now.
“That’s physical protection. The other standard accompaniment is magical. I have standard anti-hex charms for Miss Ryoka; her gear actually encompasses most of what I would prescribe, so I have selected the best objects.”
He showed Ryoka the artifacts from the cells. She peered at them. Erin raised a hand, like the shy ignorant student in the lecture.
“Only hexes? What about fire and stuff?”
The others chuckled. Erin raised her kicking foot and Palt shuffled away. Montressa explained again.
“Magic is harder. You can either go elemental—fire, heat, electricity, acid—and normally only one of each. But then you have to worry about hexes, indirect spells like [Scrying], [Appraisal] if you don’t want to share your class…it’s impossible to do everything. Too much magical interference. You know the rule about artifacts.”
Hedault sighed.
“There are exceptions. The Heartflame Breastplate is a splendid example of how to combine all the elements. I have been studying the masterful work for Drake [Enchanters]…but creating a [Flameshield] spell of that caliber is quite beyond me. However, this is a fine all-encompassing Amulet of Resistance, Miss Griffin, if you’d prefer to wear one artifact to reduce the number of objects and magical interference. My design.”
