—-
 
“Oh no. No. That’s terrible.”
Erin Solstice stared at the appeal as it was rebroadcast. Noass and Sir Relz were covering the story. They had…an odd relationship with the appeal.
It was news. Heartbreaking, relevant, and thus news. But they still, amid agreeing how morally reprehensible it was, had to add that it was Lord Tyrion Veltras, a traditional enemy of the Walled Cities who was making the appeal.
Erin didn’t miss that. Lord Tyrion. The same man who’d…she looked at Fierre.
“He’s the guy who brought the army to Liscor, isn’t he?”
The Vampire girl looked at Erin and remembered another story about the [Innkeeper].
“Yeah. They call him the Lance of the North. Among other things. He’s like Magnolia’s counterpart. When the Humans fight the Drakes—Lord Tyrion usually leads the charge.”
Because of him. Erin looked at the man’s face, memorizing it. She owed him…too much to say. And yet—
My sons. The [Lord] appealed. Erin took a shaky breath.
“Oh no. You showed this to Ryoka?”
Are you mad? Lyonette was giving Fierre the same look. The Vampire girl caught on to their expressions. She bit her lip.
“But she would have seen it anyways. I told Ryoka—this isn’t like the Archmage. This is—the Guild took down the best Courier of the north. Mihaela Godfrey. Ryoka knows…”
“She just ran a delivery to wake up the Archmage on that isle that killed countless people. You think she’d weigh the odds? Ryoka Griffin is insane. Erin…”
Lyonette breathed. Erin felt a cold pit in her stomach. No. It was different. [Assassins] and this Circle of Thorns—even Erin knew how bad it was and she didn’t have her ear to politics. Ryoka had to have a better idea than Erin of the risks, let alone the distance.
…But it was Ryoka. And Erin knew her friend.
“There’s no cure though, right?”
“Someone found out the recipe. Word is it was the Unseen Emperor of Riverfarm. Somehow. But no one—not even his people—is manufacturing the cure. People have tried, but—”
Fierre drew a line across her throat. Erin breathed.
“Okay. Then…there’s nothing to deliver. That’s…”
Good? She looked back at Lord Tyrion. Then his two sons died. Erin refused to say that. But if there was nothing to deliver—
“It’d be certain death, wouldn’t it, Fierre? You know the odds. How much worse is this than the isle?”
The Vampire girl bit her lip.
“Honestly, Erin—I’m almost certain every Courier has a target on their back. In theory—and this is me talking objectively—a City Runner who’s really fast has a shot if they didn’t scream they were taking the cure. Get in range of House Veltras’ standing forces and you could deliver the cure if you didn’t mind the repercussions. But—the instant the Guild knows, and they’re watching for that cure—you die. Their [Assassins] aren’t playing games any longer. They’ve killed Couriers. Archmage Valeterisa’s mansion is meant to keep people out. This is far more dangerous.”
“I see. Got it. Thanks. So—”
Erin looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] was calming down. No cure. So…
“Octavia.”
They both had the same thought at the same time. Erin turned and ran. Lyonette was hot on her heels.
“Octavia! Don’t do anything! Octavia—”
The [Alchemist] jumped as she looked up from her counter. She listened to Erin’s garbled explanation and Lyonette raised her sword threateningly. Octavia protectively covered the mix she was working on.
“That’s a Potion of Invisibility! Don’t you dare! Make a cure? I wouldn’t know where to start! I’m not an antidote-mixer! What, do you think I’m mad? I don’t want to be cremated in my shop!”
“Oh.”
Erin relaxed. Lyonette wiped a bead of sweat away.
“Good. Just—don’t. Erin, do you think Ryoka might…?”
“Probably not, if there’s no cure.”
Which was a good thing? Again, Erin had to stop and look at herself. She just didn’t—she knew Ryoka. And she knew what Ryoka’s big quest entailed. But this seemed…
Erin returned to the common room proper. There, she found Ryoka Griffin and Maviola El, along with the others. Badarrow looked up and walked behind Erin. He hid behind her—while pretending not to hide.
“Badarrow?”
Erin saw Snapjaw advancing. She had…one of Bird’s feathers. And she was trying to tickle Badarrow. The [Sniper] snapped something at her, but Snapjaw was relentless.
The [Innkeeper] giggled. Stoic Badarrow, like this? She looked at Snapjaw. And then at Numbtongue.
“Erin. Showed them the garden. I want to show them hill. Now?”
The [Innkeeper] saw the [Bard] smiling. But then he pointed towards the open doorway. And Erin saw Badarrow and Snapjaw look up.
Reiss’ statue. Headscratcher, Shorthilt’s…they were there. And the Garden had told them the truth. Rabbiteater and Badarrow had never had statues there. Erin took a breath as her chest constricted.
“If—of course, Numbtongue. Do you want…?”
“We go. You come in a bit?”
The Goblins looked at each other. Snapjaw’s eyes moved uncertainly to Erin. The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“Go. I’ll come after.”
Numbtongue nodded gratefully. Badarrow looked at his brother, not fully comprehending. Then at Erin. Numbtongue beckoned them into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Oh. The statues.”
Fierre finally caught on. She had seen nothing and no one personally on that hill. Erin nodded slowly. And it occurred to her—she wondered—
Perhaps the first owner of the [Garden of Sanctuary] had made that hill on purpose. Surely—she had made it for the same reasons Erin used it.
It was just another reminder. Erin saw Ryoka looking after the Goblins. She was standing apart from Maviola, looking distracted. The [Lady] turned towards Erin and strode over.
“Your friend is mad, Erin. She’s as reckless as I was as a girl. Worse, in some ways. A Gresaria—only without the chariot and fighting ability. And she could use both if she wants to live.”
“What? Oh. You talked with Ryoka?”
“Her plan has more holes than a rat-infested warehouse of grain. But—I’ll try to help her. I already have. Still, she’s got it in her head to try to deliver Tyrion Veltras’ cure. I told her to forget the idea. There is no cure and if there was—”
Maviola El looked back at Ryoka and shook her head.
“—not her. Not alone. She’s a brave City Runner. But she’s no Courier. To get to Tyrion Veltras at this point, you need an army. And there is no cure.”
She said it again raising her voice. Ryoka turned to look at her and made a face, but she nodded. Erin exhaled.
“Just so long as—I mean, that’s not good for Lord Tyrion. Will he be okay?”
“He may have to submit to whatever demands are placed on him. But I think his sons will live. What a disgrace, that one of the Five Families—that any House should be brought low by such threats! But the Circle has always existed. They have seldom been so brazen, though.”
Maviola’s eyes were flashing. She turned away abruptly.
“I need to send some letters out. Keep an eye on your friend, Erin. We will be talking further.”
“So you’re going to make it to the Summer Solstice?”
The [Lady] visibly hesitated. She looked back at Erin. Then she raised a finger. A spark of light for a moment. It shone…and Erin’s conflicted heart became peaceful for a moment.
Hope. A fire Erin had yet to learn. Maviola turned away.
“We’ll see. My, my. Why couldn’t you all have come two decades ago? Make that four. Six? Olesm, I have to go to the Mage’s Guild.”
She swept past the blue Drake meekly looking around. He jumped—Erin turned and saw Olesm Swifttail.
“Olesm?”
The [Strategist] turned as Maviola left the inn in a rush of motion. He saw Erin advancing.
“Erin. Hi there. I came after Maviola. Um—looks like she’s busy. I’m not here on the city’s business.”
“Right. I hear you’ve been running about nonstop.”
The Drake grinned.
“You know how it is. Maviola, all the expansions, the new Council…I keep meaning to drop by, but—I didn’t think that was such a good idea.”
“I get it.”
The two looked down at the floor. Erin glanced up. Olesm, her first chess opponent, friend, not-friend…he was scratching at his head, trying to think of something to say. Impulsively, Erin reached out. She put an arm around him.
“Come on in, you silly [Strategist]. I don’t hate you. We just don’t agree. How’s Maviola? Don’t run off!”
Olesm started. Then he smiled at Erin.
“I wasn’t sure…”
“Tell you what. You come in, have something to eat—Drassi, can you get one of Imani’s appetizers out?—and we’ll talk. If anyone’s still mad, they get to hit you as hard as they want and then we’re cool.”
The blue Drake halted.
“That’s a joke, right?”
Erin laughed and nodded. She led Olesm to a table and sat him down. Indeed—Lyonette gave him a stern look, and Selys, who’d arrived in a flurry to check on Golem prices herself, gave him a long look. But time…the election seemed far away, or far enough to try again.
“Maviola’s fine. Well—we had a lot of long talks about—everything. But—but I can’t just walk away. I really like her, Erin. I do. And we’re receiving threats from that Drake city who sent those envoys. They are really mad.”
“Oh yeah. Lism decked that guy! That almost made me like him. Almost. Say—you missed this huge thing with the Players of Celum yesterday! They put on this huge celebration for us, invited us to a play—I threw up and fainted.”
The [Strategist] eyed Erin.
“I heard about that. Maviola was spitting fire that she missed it. Literally. Did you know she can do that?”
“No way. Can she spit blood? Tell me she can—then it’d get everyone else off my back and onto hers!”
Erin laughed and Olesm started chuckling. They relaxed. Drassi brought out some…Erin peered at them. Olesm frowned.
“Wait. This must be new. Your new [Cook], right? What are these, Drassi?”
“Nachos! Imani—”
They were fried chips served with a cheesy dip, like you’d find at any fast food restaurant! There was a salsa next to it in a little bowl, and an avocado dip to round out the dips. Imani poked her head out of the kitchen.
“I can make whatever I want, Erin! I can’t believe you never made them! It’s not hard!”
Erin threw up her hands. Betrayal! She looked around.
“Oh no. The food spies will be all over this—”
Sure enough, Imani was launching her nacho craze today. And people were ordering them…Erin saw some of them already eying the door. Then—she heard Imani’s voice again.
“Excuse me! We are now selling nachos with a variety of dips. Feel free to have a sample. We have cheese, salsa, avocado—and more! Fish dips, sweet, savory, sour—anything you want! And if anyone would like to know the recipe, please apply for a short lesson! Only six silver per customer!”
Erin’s jaw dropped. The food spies ready to make a break for it hesitated. Then a Gnoll raised his hand.
“Did you just say—‘lessons?’”
The [Cook] appeared.
“Absolutely. Ingredients, lessons—I’m selling the written recipe too.”
“Imani!”
Erin started, but then she realized. They were going to steal it anyways! Only now—the food spies were looking at each other in horror. If you didn’t need to steal the dish, what would happen to their job security?
“I have to tell master—”
A Drake [Apprentice Cook] went for the door. And a food spy blocked him.
“Why don’t you sit down?”
“What are you talking about? You heard her.”
“It’s my job on the line, buddy.”
“Well, too bad—”
They began fighting with each other. Erin watched—until she saw Bezale striding for the group, cracking her knuckles. They ran for the door, already shouting and arguing. Imani watched with great satisfaction. She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] gave her a wave.
“I need to raise her salary.”
Olesm was nodding, mouth full of salsa and chips.
“That’s some [Strategist]-level thinking by that cook. This is really good, Erin.”
“They’re just nachos. Not super my thing. Fattening. But hey—I’m glad you like them. So…”
Erin trailed off. Olesm paused in eating. And the two said it at almost the same time.
“…want to play a game of chess?”
What else was there to do? They looked at each other and laughed. After all—that was how they’d met. Olesm sat up.
“I’ve been practicing, you know. Maviola’s pretty good. And I’m still running the newsletter. Even without your games I get plenty of submissions…”
“Yeah, well, I’ve been practicing too. And I’ve missed you! Anand’s gone and Belgrade can’t come all the time…”
Back to the past. But into the future. As Erin and Olesm sat for an old game of reminiscing, two Goblins now added to the inn’s ‘no killing Goblin’ list, Ryoka Griffin jogged for the door in Invrisil.
She wasn’t going to…she just wanted to check. An anxious Vampire saw her go. And the [Princess] watched Ryoka and scowled.
 
—-
 
There was no cure in Invrisil. The Runner’s Guild was also very quiet. Almost like a wake.
When Ryoka asked, the [Receptionist] gave her a terrified look.
“No! We don’t have one! And—don’t ask!”
“Wh—”
The hairs on the back of Ryoka’s neck prickled. She turned her head. And only then did she wonder if some of the Runners loitering about were…
“Miss Ryoka Griffin.”
Someone walked out of the Guild’s back rooms. Ryoka saw an older man, with a slight limp. The Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild emerged from his office. He looked straight at her.
“Oh. Guildmaster…”
Ryoka had forgotten his name. He was a former Courier, she knew. Like Mihaela and Tekshia come to it, the best Guildmasters were retired veterans.
“I’d advise you not to ask such questions. Not today.”
“I just—”
The Guildmaster looked at her.
“If we had a cure—we would be under siege at this moment. As it is, no [Alchemist] or [Healer] in the city will entertain the suggestion. And I have banned Runners from asking. For their safety—and that of the [Alchemists] and [Healers].”
Ryoka’s mouth closed.
“It’s that bad? I’m sorry, I was in Liscor…”
The Guildmaster just shook his head. He turned around, walked back into his office without another word. Ryoka looked around the Guild. She’d just jogged over and in. Now—
Every Runner in the Guild was staring at her like she had horns growing out of her head. They looked away at once. They were just sitting or standing, not the usual bustle of activity.
“Are they really threatening the entire Guild?”
The [Receptionist] refused to answer. And Ryoka realized—it was worse than she’d thought. She’d assumed…
“Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner who woke the Archmage of Izril. Good to see you’re still not giving two coppers about what other people think.”
