She looked at Ryoka. Salamani, who had not known Ryoka long, glanced at the City Runner. The Courier, after a moment, shook his head.
“He sent that right after Mihaela fell. But I don’t think many Couriers would risk it. And the [Alchemists] and [Healers]? They have to be terrified for their lives. The Guild is bigger than I thought. It’d be suicide to run that delivery, right?”
“Yeah.”
Ryoka Griffin sat there. Salamani looked at her. She didn’t meet his eyes. She was clasping and unclasping her hands. Fierre looked at the stumps where two of Ryoka’s fingers were. She had gotten that trying to outrun the Goblin Lord.
She had not known Ryoka from the beginning. But she knew her friend. And—Ryoka Griffin was locked onto the place where Tyrion’s face had been. The Lord of House Veltras.
And—
“How old are his sons?”
“Ryoka…you’d never make it ten miles. It’s too far. The Guild isn’t playing games.”
Salamani opened his mouth. He was catching on. Fierre saw Ryoka look up.
“I’m not stupid, Fierre. I know…”
Some things were terribly inevitable. But this time—the Vampire girl began to speak. Trying to tell Ryoka. This time? Not this time. It wasn’t about being crazy. Every blade in Izril was waiting. And luck? Your luck would run out. Even if it didn’t, could it turn aside the hundredth arrow?
But Ryoka—was Ryoka Griffin.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras sat there, for a while. The appeal was on repeat. Had been, since yesterday. He’d checked to make sure.
No one was coming. Two people had tried. One, a Courier, another a [Captain] from a Terandrian port. Neither had announced it.
The Courier had found the [Healer] lying dead in her burning shop. The [Captain] had been murdered in the cabin in his boat.
His appeal. Tyrion watched himself. He looked odd. The man did not make a habit of staring himself in the mirror. So stiff. So…
He’d offered all the gold he could think of. Artifacts? He’d give them away to whomever made the run. Could he have offered a land reward? A title from his estates? Tyrion tried to think of any incentives he might have made. Certainly—Couriers from other continents might have dared it. Seve-Alrelious had offered—but he would take too long against the typhoon. By sea would take too long.
His sons had days left at most. Tyrion was searching for any alternative. They were dying and he was looking for a way out. Playing games with their lives.
Could he have offered anything else? But what struck Tyrion now—was how he looked.
So still. So impartial, appealing for his son’s lives. The man stared at himself. And he wondered why Tyrion Veltras wasn’t weeping. Other men had broken down on campaign to hear their mothers had died, to lose a friend in battle, a horse.
Not a single tear from this stranger. And now—Tyrion wondered about something else.
Tears. Tears…had he ever shed any when Salva died? He remembered clutching her body to him. Screaming for them to find his sons and kill whoever had done this! But—had he wept, as he buried her? As he swore vengeance and begged Magnolia to know who it had been? To make sure it was the Drakes before he decided to make them bleed?
No. Not at the pyre. Not at the wake. Not afterwards, not telling his sons, who’d been shocked and silent. Not in the times after when he mourned and missed her.
It blurred your vision when you had to aim at the target. Steady hand. Like you were tilting—
Tyrion stared at his hands. He touched them, one with the other.
He couldn’t stop shaking. As if he had the most terrible chills.
“Milord?”
Jericha was watching him. Tyrion jerked. He tried to stand, caught himself.
“Lord Veltras. You should eat. Rest.”
“Later, Jericha. Where—where is the [Assassin]?”
The woman hesitated.
“In her rooms.”
“I will see her. If Hethon and Sammial worsen…they have days. Let them hold out. They must. We must wait to see if the antidote may arrive. We must.”
“Lord Veltras…”
He turned to her. He had to explain.
“It is not for me, Jericha. The contract would bind House Veltras to the Circle like a blade. Not just me. But you, the forces—we would be the blade of these people.”
Wielded in defense of Izril, or so the [Assassin] claimed. Jericha looked at Tyrion.
“We would not desert you, Lord Veltras.”
“That is not why. Jericha. I have no love for the Circle and they know it. We would be a blade. But what do you do with a sword when it breaks? A weapon you do not love?”
You would use it and toss it aside. Duty compelled Tyrion to refuse, to try. But—he would leave Hethon and Sammial naught but the ashes of his house.
But they would be alive. Tyrion strode from his quarters. He entered into the [Assassin]’s room after she bade him enter.
She was lounging, her feet up. Tyrion stopped.
“I have an appeal, [Assassin]. I would like to renegotiate the terms of the contract.”
“Lord Tyrion Veltras. Renegotiate? Now?”
She clicked her tongue. Tyrion stared at the mask she always wore.
“Surely your masters would prefer me to sign now, rather than risk the worst?”
Her eyes flickered in the gaps of the mask.
“Well, I can certainly take your appeal to them. They aren’t disposed to agree—but if you were to be persuasive, I could ask.”
“Do that. Please. I would be willing to sign. Now. If—”
“Hold on. Kneel.”
The [Lord] stopped.
“What?”
“Kneel. Or bow. If you want me to send your terms, kneel.”
She waited, smiling behind her mask. Lord Tyrion stared at her. Then, slowly, he knelt.
The [Toxin Expert] would remember this for the rest of her life. A worthless orphan from Chandrar, and one of the Five Family’s heads was kneeling and begging. She laughed, giggling to herself. Worth it! Especially for someone who had nothing to regret or look forwards to.
But this?
“Well, go on.”
The man spoke behind gritted teeth.
“I would be willing…to sign the contract. A more powerful clause. Renounce my…position as head of House Veltras and serve this Circle as it needs.”
The [Assassin] sat up. That…was something.
“Really? And what do you want for such a generous offer?”
“My House will not follow me into oblivion. Not one of my retainers is to suborned. Nor my sons. I will serve your Circle in any capacity they might wish militarily.”
“Oh my. You are desperate.”
He said nothing more. The [Toxin Expert] thought.
“You know, my masters just might accept that. With some provisos. They want Lord Veltras after all. But perhaps they might accept.”
Tyrion’s head rose.
“Then—please appeal to them. I will sign within the hour. I…humbly ask you to do this.”
The woman looked at Tyrion. And perhaps she had gone a bit mad with power. Or the Circle had chosen the wrong person to negotiate. She was mad enough to poison Tyrion’s sons. So she started laughing.
“Not so fast, Lord Veltras. I’ll appeal to my masters and they will weigh your offer carefully. They might accept. However, you’ll promise me something before I carry your words off. On your son’s lives. Between us.”
The [Lord] looked up. The [Assassin] winked one eye behind her mask.
“What do you want, [Assassin]? Gold? An artifact?”
She was almost tempted to ask for the Banner of House Veltras just to see his face. But—she shook her head.
“What I want, Lord Veltras—is a child.”
He looked at her blankly. The [Assassin] made a gesture.
“I’ll be generous. Give it one try. Here and now.”
“Are you mad?”
“Mad?”
Her voice was almost hysterical. She laughed and laughed. He looked at her as if she was insane. When she pulled herself upright, the [Assassin] shook her head.
“I’m an [Assassin], you silly little [Lord]. I’m going to die sooner rather than later. But I’d rather change all of House Veltras. An heir. It’s a gamble. But I’ll be content with that.”
He just looked at her. Stared and stared. The [Assassin] was almost out of breath with laughing. The Guild wouldn’t send her on a death-mission with an heir to House Veltras in her.
“I…cannot agree to that.”
He spoke slowly. The [Assassin] sat up.
“Oh, really? So you would let your sons die, Lord Veltras? Or am I too repellant for you? I assure you, you’ve only seen my clothing. And there are potions for that. Besides—you might want another heir. You’re about to lose the two you have.”
It was the wrong thing to say. The [Lord] rose. The [Toxin Expert] saw him stride to the door. She shouted after him, annoyed.
“You’re running out of time!”
The door slammed shut. The [Toxin Expert] sat there, breathing heavily, coming down from the high of audacity. She gritted her teeth; she’d overplayed her hand by mentioning his sons. But she knew—the Guild was all-in on this. First Landing’s Guild was being watched. Every major Runner’s Guild—every person who could manufacture the cure. Every Courier. Yes, every single one.
Lord Tyrion Veltras would not receive a Courier’s aid. If one even sneezed in his direction, they’d be taken down by overwhelming force. She relaxed in that knowledge. He might just sign the contract. But she’d made him an offer…
What Lord Tyrion Veltras needed, the one flaw in this perfect encirclement was the outside help the Circle and Guild couldn’t account for. The cure had been leaked thanks to irregular specialists with a grudge.
[Witches]. If there was—any possible hope—it was that someone made a cure. And that someone who wasn’t on the Circle’s radar could deliver it.
Not a Courier, who was being watched. The next best thing. A City Runner then, on the verge of being a Courier but who hadn’t been certified as one. One brave or foolish or…something, enough to listen to his appeal and risk it all.
Like…
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka Imarris was not fanning herself. In fact, the fan was shut in a drawer and she was sitting in a chair. She stared down at the City Runner in front of her.
“Your name is…?”
Persua smiled and bowed, ostentatiously.
“Persua, Lady Imarris. And I am honored to make your acquaintance!”
Ieka stared at Persua until the young woman’s smile wavered. The [Lady] lifted a hand.
“Well, Runner Persua, my personal [Alchemist] is hard at work. The cure will be ready within the hour. I trust you have a route planned?”
The young woman had a sulky expression on her face for a moment. But then she gave Ieka a sycophantic smile.
“Of course, Lady Imarris. And I have made ample preparations, as has my client. Would you like to hear it…?”
“No.”
Another pouty look. The City Runner annoyed Ieka on several levels. Firstly—she clearly knew that Ieka was persuadable by members of her gender. She kept making flirtatious moves and she had dressed rather provocatively. However, Persua seemed to be under the impression that Ieka swooned for anyone.
Secondly—she was simply overconfident and too full of herself. Ieka was itching to cast [Acid Orb]. As she always did with anyone who she didn’t like.
Thirdly, she just wasn’t Ieka’s type. Far too petulant and arrogant. But Ieka wasn’t going to kill her. In fact, she was at this very moment waiting on the [Alchemist] to finish his work on the cure for Lord Tyrion Veltras.
What a stroke of genius it was. Ieka Imarris had not been happy about the poisoning the moment word and her orders had come down through the Circle’s ladders of authority to do nothing. She’d even considered…but then she’d received her second set of orders. And she’d thought it was brilliant.
To turn a City Runner into a Courier and ‘rescue’ Tyrion in his hour of need? And if Persua failed…Ieka thought Tyrion would sign the contract. Ieka eyed Persua and the City Runner smiled prettily at her, caught out in looking around Ieka’s personal room.
She might be the Circle’s agent. Or just some idiot who’d been given several artifacts. And Ieka didn’t want to expose herself by inquiring too much into which it was. Either way—Persua was useful.
“Milady.”
One of the [Maids] approached with something on a little pillow. Ieka took it as Persua started forwards. She held the vial, regarding it. Still warm from the process. Her [Alchemist] had worked on it for two days straight. She hoped it was good, for the boys’ sake. She showed it to Persua.
“Here is the antidote for Lord Veltras. My personal [Alchemist] has synthesized eight doses with my help. Far more than is needed. Give no indication you are delivering to him.”
“Of course, milady. And don’t worry about my safety! I’m rather well protected. And a good Runner.”
Persua smiled. Ieka eyed her again.
The young woman had a few decent Skills according to Ieka’s appraisal. But nothing to warrant that level of confidence when Mihaela Godfrey had just been stopped. Artifacts? Ieka had been slowly appraising Persua from head to toe. At last, she found what she was looking for.
Aha. Wait. That can’t be—
The layers of obfuscating magic revealed themselves to the [Mage Lady] as she finally identified what ring was on Persua’s index finger. Ieka’s eyes widened as she handed the vial to the [Maid], but she covered it.
A Ring of Protection? No—a minor one. But that—that was the highest grade of protection! It was all-encompassing, hence the name. Magnolia had to have been wearing a greater one when the [Assassins] went for her.
A Ring of Minor Protection was an insane gift. Ieka was almost tempted to kill Persua just for the ring. No wonder she was so confident. And that sealed it.
The orders had come from one of the Circle’s highest members. Ieka only wondered if the rest of the Circle knew. If so—it was a brilliant stratagem. Either that, or the Circle was divided.
“Best of luck, Runner Persua. I…hope…you will survive. The odds are greatly against you, but Lord Tyrion is a personal friend.”
“I shall tell him you did your utmost to deliver this to him, Lady Ieka.”
Ieka Imarris sighed. If Persua succeeded—she would well and truly have Tyrion in her debt. If. Ieka had some wind of the Guild’s orders and she knew more than Persua. The City Runner probably thought she’d have an easy time of it, and that the [Assassins] wouldn’t go after her.
The truth was that she’d been marked as a lower-value target. No Faces were going to try to murder her, but a lot of the Ranks might give it a try. Well, good for them. Ieka wasn’t sure who to root for, but she supposed Hethon and Sammial deserved the cure…even if it meant this was their hero.
And away the cure went. Ieka sighed. Plans within plans. She personally hoped Lord Tyrion just signed the damn contract. But either way—
