A familiar voice and an eye-catching outfit. Ryoka turned.
“Delanay d’Artien!”
“The same. I was hoping to see you!”
The stylish City Runner smiled. He strode over and Ryoka clasped his hand.
“Thanks so much for getting me to Lady Ieka. It worked!”
“I heard. Izril heard your name. Stake me sideways, but I didn’t think you had more than a one in ten chance of pulling it off. But that’s why we run. Did you just arrive?”
Ryoka’s smile slipped. Ah, right. The Emergency Runner who only ran for adventurers or dire needs. Also—came from a vampire hunting family.
“Er—no, I was in Liscor. I know the inn with the door—say, Delanay, what’s the news about this Tyrion thing?”
The young man gave Ryoka a sharp look as he adjusted his crimson leather jacket. He jerked his head.
“With me. Good thing you weren’t here to ask that earlier, Ryoka. You missed trouble. And Persua, which I regret. I would have loved to see that.”
“Persua was here?”
Ryoka started. Delanay grimaced.
“She was. And—the Guild.”
“Of…”
“Three of their lower-ranks. Just walked in for a while, armed to the teeth. To send a message. And—keep quiet about it for a bit until we get down the street. And keep your eyes open. You’ll see what I mean.”
Delanay led Ryoka out of the Guild. This time—coming out and aware of the mood within, she felt the prickling on her back begin. Ryoka looked down the street.
Pedestrians. Just loitering. Walking about their business—although now she looked—
Some people were hurrying past the Guild. Invrisil’s citizenry. Those who knew about Tyrion Veltras and the standoff. Or just who caught the mood in the air. But some people were strolling. Or talking—casually eying Ryoka and Delanay up and down.
They looked completely normal. A [Baker] dressed for work, talking with a pair of [Laborers]. A young woman reading one of the newspapers at an outdoor café…
But they were far too relaxed. Ryoka gulped.
“Walk on. They know we have nothing. And eyes left.”
Ryoka glanced left—just in time to see a group of people squatting in an alleyway. Delanay glanced at the gang of sixteen or so casually loitering toughs. They waved at him. He snorted and his hand stole to the crossbow and sword at his side.
“The gangs?”
“The Guild’s got both. Show of force around the Runner’s Guild. They’re not stopping any deliveries—but no one’s in the mood to deliver. You really didn’t notice?”
Ryoka bit her lip. She had not.
“I was just checking—”
“If you went to any of the [Alchemists] or [Healers] to ask you’d have a knife in your back before you finished knocking. Do you know Master Albre?”
“No. Is he…?”
“He was an [Alchemist]. He’s dead. So are four City Runners. They all went to ask; planning a joint run, I think, or just curious. That was this morning.”
The city of Invrisil was quiet as the two City Runners walked away. Ryoka looked around.
“This is insane. It’s like they have the entire city hostage.”
“The Watch isn’t doing anything. And that’s true enough. If Magnolia Reinhart were here, it would be a battle. She wouldn’t stand for it. But without her? No one’s stirring anything. I hear the smaller cities aren’t like this. It’s only…First Landing, Invrisil, the bigger ones. And you. If there was a you-know-what, would you actually have taken it then and there?”
“No!”
Delanay grinned at her, tipping up his hat. Ryoka protested.
“I’m not that stupid. I just wanted to know. I didn’t think asking would—what about you?”
The Emergency Runner grimaced.
“Was I thinking about it? For a few hours. But I’m not that fast. And frankly—my gear is meant to fight monsters. It’s not proof against enchanted arrows. I just wanted to tip you off. Where are you staying again? That magic inn? I’ve been meaning to visit it.”
“Oh. Er. The Wandering Inn? Yes…”
Why don’t you not? Fierre was there. But Delanay was nodding.
“Let’s go there and talk. Four hundred miles between me and Invrisil will loosen my tongue. And a drink. Dead gods, I’ve been cooped up with what I want to—later. I want to visit, anyways.”
“You do? You don’t have any emergency runs to do?”
Delanay laughed.
“Even adventurers want to see how this plays out. And I bet you’ll have half of the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. Is it really only six silver to enter? Because I’ll pay that gladly.”
“Yes…what do you mean about the Guild?”
Delanay gave Ryoka another quick look, as if to see if she was joking. When he saw she wasn’t, he grinned.
“Everyone’s going to visit. Did you not hear about the Players of Celum filling the Solstice booth yesterday?”
I was there. Ryoka felt a tingle on her spine. She walked back towards the inn. And she saw—with the sun nearly midway overhead—
“Is that a line?”
The Player’s Retreat had a line of people trying to enter it. Redit the Bouncer was admitting them one at a time. Ryoka stared. That hadn’t been there half an hour ago! Delanay grinned.
“Why are you so surprised? Everyone wants to see what this inn is about. The smart ones, at any rate. Erin Solstice? Solstice booth? I hear that’s the [Innkeeper]’s name. You know her?”
“She’s a friend.”
The Emergency Runner did a double-take. And Ryoka felt the winds shifting. The Wandering Inn had been there for a moment. But today—
Today.
 
—-
 
“Oi. Where are all these people coming from? They’re cramping my space!”
Mrsha signed furiously to Ekirra. The little Gnoll nodded, getting the jist of what Mrsha was saying.
At first it had been a trickle. Then a rush. Then—the magical door had gone dark and needed to recharge, hence the lineup in Invrisil. They were coming through from the City of Adventurers. Mrsha, who had a play date with Ekirra and Visma, scowled over her posh cup of tea.
They were playing ‘inn’, which was like ‘house’ only sometimes Visma, who was playing the [Innkeeper], announced there was a monster attack and Ekirra and Mrsha had to beat off the monster attack before they went to sweeping up or arguing about pay rises.
Games imitated life. Mrsha was playing on the second floor, which in theory wasn’t that much of a trafficked area. She’d set up a mini-inn with Ekirra and Visma with some wood and blankets and stuff she’d pilfered from Bird’s room and the others. Only, their playing kept being interrupted.
“Excuse me, is the bathroom…?”
An anxious Human guest came up the stairs. Mrsha furiously held up a card. The man took it.
“Downstairs and out the door—er, thank you!”
He hurried off. Mrsha put her face in her paws. Visma solemnly added a cracker to her plate.
“Order up. That is fifteen gold coins.”
“I’m not paying!”
Ekirra joyfully howled. Visma stared at him.
“Pay. Or my Goblin hits you.”
Mrsha made a fist. Ekirra, grumbling, dug in his ‘pocket’ and produced some lint. Visma was reaching for it, then pointed.
“Oh no! Creler attack! Run for your lives! Sacrifice the others!”
She, Ekirra, and Mrsha all screamed and ran from the imaginary Crelers. They tumbled down the stairs, abandoning their inn.
“Crelers, Crelers are—”
Visma joyfully shouted—until the three came to a stop at the bottom of the stairs. Ishkr dropped his tray. The Antinium helping him drew all four daggers.
“Everyone into the Garden! Get to c—”
Lyonette whirled, drawing her sword. There was a scream from the kitchen and Imani ran out. The inn’s patrons whirled, hands on their weapons. Visma, Ekirra, and Mrsha froze as everyone stared at them.
“Stop! False alarm!”
Palt raised his voice and magnified it. He blew a spell across the inn; a cloud of calming vapors stopped the maddened rush towards the door. Visma backed up. Ekirra, Mrsha, and the little Drake stared as the guests stopped panicking. They decided to run back upstairs.
 
—-
 
Chaos in The Wandering Inn. Erin sat back down after the miniature heart-attack that the three kids had caused. Olesm did too.
“Dead gods. I nearly—”
He had an enchanted war horn in his claws. He’d been about to blow it. Erin pointed at it weakly as Lyonette stormed up the stairs after the children.
“Er—if you’d actually blown that, what would have happened?”
“The Watch would have locked down the city and begun arming themselves for a fight? Probably at maximum alert since I would have blown the highest alarm.”
“Right…”
The [Innkeeper] could only imagine what that would be like. She laughed, shakily.
“Those crazy kids. They were just playing…”
“Right.”
The two looked around the inn. People were returning to their seats. And it was noticeably more…crowded. Erin blinked. She’d played four games of chess with Olesm and he’d tied one, lost three. But he was noticeably better.
“Wow. Lots of guests today.”
“Do you have to…attend them?”
“Nah. I’m the boss. That means other people do it. Neat, huh?”
Erin looked around the inn, watching as Ishkr reassured the guests, and Silveran put away his blades to mop up the mess. It was indeed obvious at a glance who was new and who was not.
The regulars didn’t bat an eyelid at the sniveling Hobgoblin blowing her nose as Badarrow and Numbtongue shared a drink in a corner. Or Silveran with the mop. They’d been ready for a fight, like Menolit, who’d overturned his table to use as cover for the Creler-fight. The veteran was shamefaced, but he wouldn’t be charged; that was coming out of a certain little Gnoll’s allowance.
The new guests—mostly Human from Invrisil—were giving the Goblins and the Antinium a side-eye. But Ishkr’s sister, Liska, still without a permanent job, had a new task as she welcomed people into the inn.
“Hello. Welcome to The Wandering Inn. Please read this sign. Also, be aware we are at maximum capacity. If you would like to watch the Players of Liscor, they are currently performing Phantom of the Opera and will be continuing the performance all day…”
In a monotone voice, Liska pointed to a pair of signs as a bemused group of guests entered the inn. They read the signs, hung overhead and along the hallway just in case they missed the first one.
 
No killing Goblins.
Also, no killing Antinium.
 
“What an inn. Is that the [Innkeeper]?”
Delanay shook his head as he read the signs. Ryoka heard complaints from behind her. Some rather rich-looking people were arguing with Redit. He’d let them through since he recognized Ryoka.
“It’s an entire thing here. Don’t pick a fight, please, Delanay.”
And please don’t let Fierre come over to find me. Ryoka’s head was on a swivel as she entered the busy inn. She saw someone standing over a broken table.
“[Partial Reconstruction]! Don’t worry about the food, Menolit. Food’s cheap. Okay, where were we, Olesm?”
Erin wandered back to the game as the table righted itself and the broken dishes floated back into place. Ryoka wondered what had caused that.
“Damn kids. Don’t they know about the tale of the Gnoll who called Creler?”
Menolit grumbled as he sat down. Apology drinks and a replacement meal came to his table and he brightened up. His Gnoll companion raised his brows.
“He got eaten?”
“Right. If you’re going to scream about them…”
“Erin! Erin! I have someone to introduce to you! Meet Delanay d’Artien! A great Runner—who helped me meet Lady Ieka.”
Ryoka raised her voice as she dragged the Emergency Runner over. Delanay saw Erin turn and she smiled.
“Another friend?”
The Wind Runner nodded desperately. She raised her voice.
“His family’s noble. They come from Noelictus. Hunter’s Guild, right Delanay? Used to hunt all kinds of evil stuff. Like House Byres! You know, like Ylawes and Yvlon?”
“Oh come on, Ryoka. I don’t stand on formality—Miss Solstice? Delanay d’Artien, at your service. Delighted to be here—are those the Players of Celum?”
The young man was flustered. Erin laughed as she grabbed his gloved hand. If Ryoka was acting off—well, she’d seen a familiar pale face coming her way.
Fierre turned even whiter as she heard Ryoka. She stared at her friend and almost ran upstairs.
“You know Yvlon and Ylawes? Small world! They’re friends. So that means you are too! Nice coat! You’re cool with Goblins, right?”
“If they’re not trying to kill me? May I ask about…”
Delanay was meeting Erin for the first time. That usually threw people for a loop. Ryoka jogged after Fierre after muttering a quick apology. She found the Vampire hiding in her rooms, after slipping past Lyonette, who was still lecturing the three children.
And Delanay was only the first guest of note.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was on the radar. How did Selys know about radars?
She knew the future. Radars. You needed radars. Also, skyscrapers. You could build high. Airplanes—airplanes were the future.
The Drake felt like she had pierced the veil. There was another world! Sometimes she had to stop and just remind herself this was reality.
“And now everyone sees how popular this inn is.”
The Drake was craning her neck to look around. She thought it was great, for Erin. More money! Erin had been so nervous to buy basic charms. But she needed a lot more enchantments.
Heck, Selys had realized how much money she needed. She had more money as an [Heiress] than she could ever imagine. And she needed more.
Golems were expensive. Selys had talked to the [Artifact Merchant] and she was in the market for some. She was in the market for…the Drake’s buildings in Liscor were already pulling rent money, but that was long-term income. She was in the process of hiring one of the Humans to manage all the apartments for her.
What she really wanted was to hear from the Horns. They were enroute to the village Pisces thought matched the description of her Skill. But there was so much more to do. The bike shop, for one thing—that was going to be big. And Selys was a co-owner!
She would have dearly loved to talk more with Hedault and Pelt. But Selys had let them get back to work. Kevin now—she could bother Kevin. The Drake looked around. She saw a rush of staff moving about. Ishkr, Drassi, since she was still not allowed to work in Pallass—
Her [Reporter] friend was arguing with a Human man, actually. Selys blinked. A new guest from Invrisil?
“Look here, Miss. I’m a Gold-rank Adventurer. Todi. Todi’s Elites? I’d like to talk with this [Innkeeper]!”
“Erin’s busy. I’ve never heard of your team, sir. Look—we get Gold-ranks all the time in here. That’s not exactly special.”
“It’s—it’s not?”
The man, Todi, stared. He looked so crestfallen Drassi patted him on the shoulder.
“If you want to talk to Erin about this business opportunity—I can ask her. But I think she’s er, busy. Like I said.”
Playing chess. The man deflated.
“Well…okay. I’ll just…”
