9 YEARS AGO

Sybil's ears, hard as they tried, couldn't get any straighter as her head spun around fast enough to give Sammie whiplash just looking at her.

Around them, the ebullient port town of Longwater opened its arms, welcoming them into its domain, like a merchant in the black market with a too-friendly smile.

This was the final destination for them as free people; the end of their journey from their small village in the north-west. They had both been accepted within the Azure Guards, and in a week's time, they would be formally enlisted at Longwater's Azurean barracks, then shipped north to Wellthum for their training.

Sammie daydreamed about taking that week easy and relaxing, letting his still-sore bruises from their last fight heal.

He wasn't foolish enough to hope they wouldn't get into another scrape. Sybil didn't seem able to live with herself if she wasn't punching a 'bad guy' every other day.

A hand pulled at his shirt.

“Sammie, Look! Snake jugglers!” Sybil shouted at him from close enough that he could smell her breath. He followed her finger toward a man and woman with moon-white skin juggling... well, snakes.

The snakes seemed to be enjoying themselves.

He was pulled off to another side, his feet keeping up through ingrained muscle memory. Sybil pointed at a wagon being pulled by four large bird-like creatures. “Sammie! What are those? They look like bushdarters, but giant! Wait, are those teeth?! On a bird!?”

He squinted. “Not teeth, I think they have serrated beaaaa-”

She pulled him toward a food stand with a small lineup. The sign above claimed the best congealed fruit pulp in town.

What was congealed fruit pulp? He didn't know, but Sybil was making sure he'd find out in a few minutes.

It turned out to be exactly as written: a fruit puree, firm like butter and sticky like syrup, with a little stick you dipped in and sucked on. His pitberry-citrus pulp was a bit too sweet for him, but Sybil was working through her fruit devil pulp like it was rain and she was a desert.

A sugar-addled Sybil was exactly what he needed.

She kept dragging him around, from sight to sight, for the better part of the day. They snaked at stalls, took half-minute breaks in a dozen different parks, navigated through alleys that were more maze than roads, and generally tried to explore the entire town before sundown.

Which was physically impossible, but Sybil didn't let things like that stop her, so they kept going into the night, past when the reputable shops closed, and the less reputable ones opened. Still plenty to see and do, but spicier.

He reluctantly had to admit that she did have a nose for finding interesting things, and even if he had been expecting his first big city to try and blind him with colours and sounds, he was still surprised by the sheer diversity.

Their hometown really had been the literal boonies, and Longwater was supposedly nothing but a pale shadow of Majestic, the city of sights.

He nearly bumped into her, stopping himself at the last second. She'd gone still, muscles tensed, her ears pivoting to and from.

He sighed. This usually meant she'd heard something “wrong”, and they were going to inves-

She swivelled her head toward him, eyes wide, pupils narrowed. She spoke low. “Sammie, I heard something. Let's go check. That alley.” She pointed at a gap between two buildings, taking off before he could put in a word.

As usual.

He limbered himself, cracked the tension out of his neck, and stepped after her.

BACK OF THE VELVET CROWN

Lifted in burly arms, with a meaty hand slapped over her mouth, Marci did everything she could think of to try and make some noise, anything, to attract the attention of the other courtesans in their rooms.

Unfortunately, Madame Harriet took the client's privacy very seriously, and the rooms were thickly padded.

Kicking and screaming into the hand, she was carried to the back door, where the usual doorman was missing. Instead, she spotted someone she really didn't want to see opening the door: Edan, a known member of the Greylight Cartel.

Her flailing turned desperate, but with Edan adding his arms to the ones holding her, she was overpowered. She still managed to bite into one of the fingers clamped over her mouth. She heard the man holding her curse, but her fleshy gag remained.

And now they were past the threshold, and out in the small courtyard at the back of the Velvet Crown, where a few alleys met.

She still struggled, but only managed to look like a lively fish.

The man whose finger she was biting hissed. “Hurry up and cuff her. She's chewing through my finger.”

Edan scoffed. “Endure it. The boss said he wanted her pristine.”

“Gah! What for? He always leaves them more blue than pink.”

The syndicate enforcer shrugged. “Maybe he likes seeing them change colour, I don't know. What I do know is if the boss gives an order, we follow the order, or else we're the ones that get blue, if we're lucky.”

The man holding her squinted and decided his finger was worth the risk. He gripped whatever of her limb was closed and squeezed hard enough to hurt. He squeezed until she had to scream the pain out, releasing his finger.

“Ah! Saint's cock! Finally! She's got the jaws of a dog!”

Edan snickered. “He he he, yeah, boss likes them feisty, and young. Harriet should have accepted the pouch of princes. Now, she's down one girl, and there's nothing she can do about it.”

With a nasty grin, he looked down into Marci's eyes, where tears were starting to well up. “Ain't that right, little bird? Once you caught the boss's eyes, you were good as done at the brothel. Now, you'll have an exclusive client, an-”

A high-velocity bunnykin slammed feet-first into Edan, crashing him into a pile of debris.

Marci and the man had their wide eyes locked on the scene as the bunnykin sprang back to her feet and began stamping her boot's sole into Edan's face.

The man never heard the second set of, admittedly, sneaky footstep come up behind him, nor spotted the plank of wood that shattered on the back of his skull.

He went down like a sack of potatoes, crushing Marci underneath his bulk.

Under the backdrop of the woman's repeated taunts at Edan, daring him to get back up and fight, someone rolled the big man off of her. With a gasp of fresh air, she looked up to find a young man, probably the same age as her, if not a year or two younger, holding out a hand, his face calm and his stance unhurried.

Marci accepted it and shakily stood up. She stared at the young man, then the thug crumpled on the floor, then at Edan's bleeding, swelling face, and the bunnykin woman who had stopped stomping his face and was now insulting the man.

She looked back at her saviour and swallowed, her cheeks tinting rose. “T-thank you. We, huh, we should get back inside, before they get up.”

The man nodded and turned to look at his partner. “Sybil! The pretty girl is saying we should go inside. Are you done yelling at that man?”

Sybil spun around. “What? I wasn't yelling! I was telling him to make better life choices!”

Sammie looked at the half-conscious man sprawled in the detritus, then up at her. “You could lead by example. Not using your boots as teaching aids.”

She stuck out her tongue as she walked up to him. “I am leading by example. I'm exemplifying that bad life choices lead to boots in the face.” Stopping in front of Marci, her face turned into a bright ray of sunshine, and she held out her hand. “Hi! I'm Sybil! This is Sammie. You're welcome! What's your name?!”

Marci blinked. “Welcome...?”

“Yeah! For saving you from those two bad guys! They're bad guys, right?”

“...I think so?”

Hidden tension left Sybil's shoulders. “Oh! Phew! I was pretty sure they weren't street performers this time because, you know, who would street perform in an alley! But, better safe than sorry!”

Sammie sighed. “You wouldn't need to be sorry if you listened to me. I could have told you those guys were street performers before you kneed the man in the guts.”

Sybil frowned. “Yeah, well, sometimes, justice can't wait for you to analyze the situation! Sometimes, you just have to act!”

He opened his mouth to counter, but Marci held up her hands with a huff. “Stop! Both of you! Please! Let's go inside and warn Madame Harriet about this.”

The bunnykin tilted her head, her long ears swaying with the movement. “Madam...? Oh!” Her eyes went wide. “Is she a noble? Are you a noble?! Did we rescue a noble?!” She turned her head toward Sammie.

He sighed. “Not 'Madam', Sybs, 'MadamE'. With an E. Probably as far from being a noble as one can.”

Marci winced as she saw the understanding flash in the woman's eyes. She hated this part, when people found out what she did for a living. They either started leering at her or hid their disgust behind polite distance.

Even here, these two kind souls, their stances would change, they'd wish her well, and leave, not daring to touch her lest they catch whatever diseases she surely had, she-

A strong pair of arms wrapped around her, pulling her tight into a solid, wordless hug.

She blinked, finding the woman, Sybil, pressed against her, like an older sister, even though she was probably a year or two younger.

And then, something weird happened. It was probably the stress of the situation catching up to her, and not the past few years of repressed fear and anxiety bursting out inside what felt like the first true, heartfelt embrace since the last time her mother had held her, so long ago.

Tears welled up, and she allowed herself a minute to stop being strong.

The man's hand gripping her shoulder with a gentle touch partway through her breakdown really didn't help.

But, at the same time, it did.