Right. The [Knight] who was sitting in the street as rain pattered off his helmet. He had a spiked mace on one side, a heater shield on the other, and a crossbow on his back—and a lantern hanging from across one shoulder. His armor was new, if threatening to rust in the rain.
He was also an Antinium. Everyone stopped when they saw him, and Lens called out.
“Er, Sir Knight? Are you okay? I was actually coming to check on reports of you.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman. Am I not allowed to sit in the street? I will move, of course, if so.”
The Antinium began to move; he spoke well, but he had an odd accent that made Jelaqua instantly think he wasn’t from…Liscor. Then she realized what it was. He had a mellow voice, but he was a Soldier. What in the world?
She stared along with a few Liscorians.
“Hey, that’s not one of ours…”
Lens had heard it too and glanced at Jerci before replying.
“Sitting isn’t a crime, sir. It’s just—are you waiting for something?”
“I am gathering my strength, Guardsman. I apologize if I have disrupted the peace. This goes against my code, my vow, and my Order.”
“No, nono—not at all!”
The Soldier relaxed and began to sit again.
“Ah, excellent.”
Everyone stared at him, and Ambiese raised a claw.
“Cheerio, good sir, but may I ask why are you sitting there? And your, um, name?”
Some old Liscorians winced and drew back reflexively, but the [Knight] glanced up without issue.
“Forgive me, citizen. I forget my training. I am [Squire] Rotellen, a knight-in-training of the Order of Solstice. I am upon a great quest, and I have stopped due to hunger and exhaustion.”
A quest? Jelaqua spoke up with that familiar feeling.
“What kind of quest do they give [Squires], er, Rotellen? And are you from Liscor?”
The Antinium shook his head.
“I am from the Armored Hive. I am new to Liscor. I did not think I had been put upon a quest at first, but it is surely a great one. I have been tasked, you see, with going to The Wandering Inn to request a door be opened for our keep now that it is mostly finished. I travelled to Liscor, but then lost my way yesterday as I was close to the inn. Thus, I have searched for it for the last twenty-six hours in vain.”
He clenched one fist.
“I was entrusted with this sacred duty by none other than Knight Jewel herself! A more senior member of the Order might have been better.”
Jelaqua blinked as the crowd muttered excitedly.
“Since yesterday?”
“Indeed. I have spent twenty-six hours moving about until my body betrayed me with the desire to sit. Thus, I have rested.”
Rotellen’s stomach made a faint squelching sound, and Ambiese lifted the bag of nougat.
“…Do you have nothing to eat?”
The [Squire] hesitated.
“I had brought provisions precisely calculated for my travel. They ran out yesterday. Which implies to me that I was upon my destination, though I cannot now say where it is. Thus, I have combed every street in the hopes of finding the inn. If that then fails, I shall search the Floodplains, though I may well drown. The Order of Solstice would expect nothing less.”
Jelaqua traded glances with Hiveno, then she smiled at the strange, silly Antinium.
“Well, I’m a friend of the inn, and I have to get back there, so you should come with us, Squire Rotellen.”
And that was how an Antinium [Squire] joined their company, eating the nougat hungrily. They talked as they headed to the Mage’s Guild.
“How does an Antinium Soldier speak, let alone so well?”
“I was given a book and a voice by the Armored Queen before I left. The book was of knightly virtues. Thus, I am aware of many facets of my class. How to kiss a [Princess]’ hand. How to declaim. I, along with many [Squires], have been building and training in our keep. It is finished, at least, for now. Hence the need for the door.”
His voice was softer and higher than the bass of some of the Free Antinium Soldiers with voices. And the [Squire] walked as if the armor was second-nature to him, though he was careful never to let the hanging lantern bang against anything.
“You’re one of those flame-knights, aren’t you? Do you have one?”
Mister Nule asked, and the [Squire] nodded. He glared at the rain balefully.
“I carry the pink flame of Glory, as do so many. But that is an easy flame, and in time, mine may change. I would share it but for this rain. How shall we locate the inn? Slay a Dragon? Climb a tower of hair? Challenge another [Knight] to a duel for the answer?”
“I was going to send a [Message] spell.”
“Ah, this would be the tactical acumen which I have yet to learn. I defer to you, Captain.”
Jelaqua was smiling despite the oddity of the day. This silly chaos she could do forever. It was gentle. It was so much better than Pallass where no one knew her name.
But they never made it to the Mage’s Guild. They were found before that—a shape flashed down the street in the pouring rain, and Jelaqua heard a voice.
“I found her! She’s right here—”
Kevin. He was racing around on a bicycle, and he braked hard as he swept his wet hair back. He dismounted and then hesitated.
“Jelaqua. I—”
Kevin. Seeing him again, Jelaqua realized she’d seen him yesterday, but there had been some kind of concealment Skill on him. As it was, his sandy hair and faintly tanned complexion was familiar. He hesitated, not sure if he should speak softly or come closer. It was Jelaqua who lifted a hand.
“Hey, Kevin. C’mere, you. I’m not going to run away this time. Just…are you real?”
He approached, slowly, as the crowd drew back. Jelaqua stood upright as the others let her go, then took one weak step towards him. She faltered, and he caught her.
“Are you okay, Jelaqua? You look—”
He felt real. She strained all the senses her body had, and she could see him stumble slightly as he caught her weight. Jelaqua gazed up at him, and then her grip tightened on his arms.
“It is you. Good. You kids deserve a second chance. Is…did anyone else…? Moore would have given up his place for anyone. Is Halrac there?”
She saw Kevin’s face crumple up and felt herself slipping again, falling into a sea of emotions and regrets and memories. His voice was husky as he helped her stand.
“It didn’t work…like that, Jelaqua. Halrac came back. Everyone did. He went out like a hero again.”
“Ah.”
So it was even bigger than she’d feared. She saw the desolation in his gaze, the terrible knowledge, and it was familiar to her, the Gold-rank adventurer. Jelaqua pulled Kevin closer to her.
“Was there a price? Was the Goblin King part of it?”
“Oh, yes. Only, I didn’t pay it.”
The Selphid smiled with relief as tears filled her vision.
“Good.”
 
——
 
Kevin took her back to The Wandering Inn. Though of course, his name wasn’t ‘Kevin’. He introduced himself to everyone as ‘Randy’, and for some reason, it worked.
Skill.
He knew how to get back, and he explained it to Jelaqua.
“You’re not on the list, sorry. Lyonette says it’s an oversight. You sort of have to come here, then memorize how to find your way back. Mrsha and everyone on the staff and in the family are immune, but us guests and friends struggle. Anyone else is hopeless. I had this [Spy] follow me around—I think he didn’t even know who I was, just that I’d been to the inn. The moment I went for the door, he turned around and walked into a wall.”
She tried to smile. But as he helped her and led the others into the common room of the inn, her eyes were darting around. Where was he? Where—?
Moore wasn’t in the common room, but the rest of the staff and Lyonette was, and they were arguing loudly.
“I told you it was a bad idea! I told you we should have let her know, then done the introductions! We could have gotten a [Witch] and—”
Nanette Weishart was speaking stridently as she pointed at Lyonette. Lyonette sighed back.
“Not everything needs to involve [Witches], Nanette. It would have always been…oh, there she is. Jelaqua!”
“Hey, Lyonette. I brought everyone here for the species free food day.”
Jelaqua smiled weakly as she waved at the crowd who’d come with her. She saw Lyonette’s face go slack and felt a tiny bit bad. Then Lyonette’s face broke into a smile.
“The species free food day? It’s Selphids, but for anyone who helped you, I’ll gladly offer free food and drinks!”
Lyonette, coin-pinching Lyonette, said that? The group cheered, and one of the Drakes punched his fist into the air.
“Yes, I knew there was a prize! Is there a shirt or something I can get? ‘I Survived a Solstice Event’ or something? A medal?”
The [Princess] laughed as her daughters glanced up. Mrsha and Nanette exchanged a look, then went running.
“We might be able to do something like that. Come in, please, everyone! Have a seat! Guardsmen, thank you. Jelaqua, I am so sorry…”
She approached, and that same guilt was in her eyes. Jelaqua croaked.
“You’re right. It would have always been like this. Where is he? Kevin said there’s no one—I have to see him.”
She would have moved around, but her body was giving up the ghost, and she had to sag into a chair as Kevin groaned. Lyonette glanced at her.
“Oh no, have you injured yourself? You moved out all the bodies that used to be in the basement—we can send someone to your home in Pallass. Ishkr, drat! He went out searching for you—just sit, Jelaqua. I…I would have said something, but I was in the theater. I hid the inn yesterday, so I—”
They had so much to say. Lyonette seemed different. Jelaqua wasn’t sure why—oh, wait. Her aura was so much stronger. But it had weird…cracks in it? The [Princess] appeared completely fine.  That was until she winced as she tried to help Jelaqua into her seat and the Selphid got a good look at her hand.
It was a shade too pale in places, and so was the [Princess]’ face. Like someone had applied a heavy foundation but hadn’t mixed the colors quite right…the [Princess] stepped back, smiling. Was one eye slightly too blue?
“I have a lot to tell you, but later. What matters right now is…explanations.”
Ishkr appeared behind the bar with a ‘pop’, shaking water off his fur. When he saw Jelaqua, he nodded.
“Oh, good. You found her. Everyone’s coming back.”
Lyonette gripped her apron as she nodded to Jelaqua.
“We can continue this in the garden. Everyone here deserves a meal?”
“Yes, or two. I can pay.”
The [Princess] shook her head with a mysterious, even mischievous smile.
“I have so much to tell you, Jelaqua! You missed a lot…”
“Yeah, including the Goblin King. It’s my fault for chickening out.”
The Selphid saw the [Princess] freeze up, then Lyonette reached out a gentle hand.
“No one would dream of asking that of you. Jelaqua, I’m so sorry. We weren’t keeping this from you. It’s just—how could I ever tell—? It was his decision, but I’ve never seen him afraid of anything except this. Seborn doesn’t know yet.”
Jelaqua was searching for words, gagging at the impatience and fear in her chest, but they were saved from having to have this coded conversation by Knight Rotellen.
He had sunk to his knees in the inn, and all four arms were raised to the sky. He cried out.
“Praise the flames! I have arrived! My quest is at an end!”
Then he rose to one knee as Lyonette turned. The Antinium tried to take her hand and kiss it with his mandibles.
“Your Highness, I am Squire Rotellen on a quest, in the name of the Order of Solstice! I beg of thee—may we be granted a [Door of Portals] to the order’s keep? And, if this should serve, I am instructed to ask for thirty seats upon the night’s repast.”
Jelaqua was laughing softly at the expression on Lyonette’s face as the [Princess] tried to tug her hand out of Rotellen’s grip and say ‘yes, of course, what quest?’
Then the door to the common room opened, and a man ducked through, rain pattering off his green cloak. Jelaqua turned, and there he was.
Moore.
No, what had Kevin called him? Lord Moore. And it fit. It explained it. This was not the shy half-Giant she knew, who deferred to everyone, who seemed to shrink to appear less imposing.
This was…a stranger, who walked with his head held high with that sense of internal gravitas that belonged to nobles. He was stronger, more dangerous. More magical, she could tell, with an aura like stone and tree—
Older. There were hints of grey in his beard. He was not her Moore. And nor was she his Jelaqua.
That was why they cut each other, like two pieces of glass so sharp they scored the other just by being in proximity.
The Halfseekers. Though she did not know it yet—they were both former Halfseekers. Their teams disbanded. The last two in Jelaqua and Seborn’s case. The last of all in his.
He halted, eyes fixed on her as she leaned against the table, and she tried to stand. Time to talk…Lyonette was already summoning the [Garden of Sanctuary].
But as these things happened, the two Halfseekers didn’t get the chance to step away. Moore was approaching slowly when someone rose to his feet.
“That’s impossible. A half-Giant? I swore I heard that the last half-Giant residing on Izril was dead.”
Hiveno, the [Merchant] Selphid, blinked at Moore, and he turned, distracted. His voice was deeper than Jelaqua remembered, but it stabbed her when he spoke.
“Ah. You’re referring to…Moore. Moore of the Halfseekers. I am his uncle. Lord Mireden Raithland. He was indeed the last half-Giant. I have come from Terandria to Liscor. Are you the ones who helped Captain Ivirith to reach the inn? I thank you.”
He stretched out a hand, and Hiveno took it.
“Merchant Hiveno. I apologize for my indiscretion, Lord Raithland.”
“Not at all. Few would think to remember the distinction at all. Let alone that the Halfseekers had Izril’s last half-Giant.”
The half-Giant murmured, and Jelaqua tried to push herself up. She opened her mouth—and a voice broke in.
“I hate to object, sir, but as fate would have it, I quite remember! The Halfseekers are a team for whom I hold the greatest esteem, both in Liscor and as a child growing up! If I may…your nephew saved so many lives, and I must thank you and Captain Ivirith properly for what they did. I attended the funeral, of course, but I…I never managed to say anything.”
Miss Ambiese raised a hand, and Moore turned to her. Jelaqua turned as well.
“Thank you, Miss Ambiese. And for standing up for me back there. It’s all we wanted.”
The Drake from Veish peered at Jelaqua’s face and the way the Selphid smiled in that strained way, almost self-deprecatingly, and she fumbled with the menu she’d been given. Then she rubbed at one eye.
“I…but you deserve so much more. Oh dear. Oh my. I think I’m tearing up. This is highly embarrassing.”
