She ran out of the unfinished war room, and Jelaqua saw twenty of the practicing [Knights] turn, then charge after Jewel, Durene, and Vess towards a wagon. They seemed ready to race into the distance except for the wagon which rolled to a stop.
The Heavy Roller, Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man, was burning her orange flame, and the [Knights] piled into her wagon—as many could fit. The rest ran to the stables, and they practically stormed down the road.
“Oh my. You’re rather…active, Normen. Should you be fighting [Bandits] already?”
Lyonette sounded dismayed, but Normen just grinned, and Jelaqua was entirely approving.
“They’ve got to prove they’re worth all the support, Lyonette. You can’t just take your time building things and go out when you’re ready. This is messy and good for these fellows. Some [Knights] you can catch with their pants down because they think you signal when it’s time to fight and they have all day to breakfast and stretch. Not this lot.”
Normen nodded gratefully at her.
“That’s right. I look at it like a street fight. Any moment, anywhere. Though I’d love if you had input on how we’re organizing. It is still messy, Captain…”
Jelaqua didn’t mind. She let Normen show her around and made a few comments about how she’d done things in Baleros and best practices—and the entire while, she was remembering Moore.
Later. Later. Mrsha was clinging to her, and Lyonette left after a moment. She claimed to be tired—Jelaqua eyed Peggy.
“Is she hurt? Give it to me straight, Peggy.”
The Hobgoblin sucked on her teeth.
“Yah, she hurt bad. That a secret, and she did it to herself. But good! We all super proud of her.”
She nodded, and Mrsha did too. Jelaqua shook her head ruefully as Normen gave them a curious look. He coughed.
“I can see I have a lot to catch up on. We’re taking some of the [Squires] to the inn for food. More now that Jewel’s run off. I’d go with her, but one of the [Knights] has to be here at all times. Where was I? Armory, right…anti-thief measures are very important. This is the only finished part of the keep. I wasn’t sure, but it makes sense in hindsight. This is what we need.”
The only part of the keep that was fully enclosed, and had been built with the most care, was the polished marble flooring and rather grand room with a long carpet beyond two double doors.
Ostentatious—Jelaqua thought it’d be some kind of meeting room, but when the doors opened, she just sighed.
“Of course. You’re really her [Knights] after all, aren’t you?”
The little Gnoll girl, Hobgoblin, and Selphid saw the room beyond had no window. No natural light. But it was filled with flames, which would have been a considerable problem given the smoke, except they were all magical flames, burning not on regular fuel but pools of bright stone. Magicore.
Each one stood on a brazier of its own with room for more along the alcoves on the walls. And the alcoves were likewise bare and empty.
All except for one.
The [Knight] who stood in stone held a lantern up and had a greatsword on one shoulder. Embraim, the first Antinium Knight of Solstice, stood before the brazier with a single word etched onto it. The pink flames roared as Jelaqua’s eyes were consumed by them.
Glory.
A [Bowman] stood before the blue flames, his lips a line of determination, as weighty as the blue flames which burned there.
Halrac Everam. Again, she was struck, and the blue flames roared with sadness, depression, the weight of that one man.
She turned her head and saw, in the center of the room, a Gnollish [Knight] standing like a suit of armor, clasping a sword between both paws. Brunkr…and Herove’s image was carved into a statue kneeling against the far wall. Zanze, the [Driver], sat next to him, torch raised in one hand.
Smiling. Normen glanced at the man before he faced the others.
“This is where we keep the fire. Not that we cannot generate it ourselves, but the [Squires] need it. They come in here almost daily. It’s a kind of ritual. I think it will be good for us. It should be humbling.”
Normen stood before the green flame of honor and gazed into the brazier. The flames rose higher as he passed a hand over them, and they danced between his fingers.
Peggy was wondering, eyes aglow as she gazed between flames. From grey mercy to Durene’s red of kindness to other flames like Antherr’s combination hazel fire that burned with determination.
Jelaqua saw both weapon and meaning in this room. And she imagined the [Knights] preparing for battle, dipping their lanterns in a flame and bearing it forth.
Someday, this will be a Knight Order as famous as the Order of Seasons. If they survive. The Selphid didn’t say that out loud, and Normen coughed and turned.
“I needn’t tell you all about the flames. Or the [Emberbearer] who started it all.”
He ruffled Mrsha’s hair, and she swatted at him.
Stop that! I’m just a survivor. You’re way cooler than I ever was.
He gazed down at Mrsha, then at Jelaqua. Normen knew what she’d just been told about, and he nodded sympathetically.
“Tonight, we shall talk, if it is appropriate. I won’t take up your time. All of you are welcome to visit the keep; especially you, Captain Ivirith, if you wished to impart some wisdom.”
“I’ll look in my boots for it.”
Instead of taking offense, Normen just grinned. But he halted them before they left this special room of fire.
“Before you go, may I offer you a gift? It is again—traditional for as long as we’ve done it, all of four weeks. That’s how we got the Eater Goats, actually. There’s a village near here that gifted them to us. Like attack dogs, but…they’re good for corpse disposal, I guess.”
He wasn’t sold on the Eater Goats, but he walked over and found something. Lanterns. The Order of Solstice had tons of them—some carved out of wood, others burnished metal and glass. He handed each of them the cheap, wooden ones. Then nodded at the braziers.
“If you’d like—take one. All except the black flames. Those are off-limits to guests.”
His three guests regarded each other.
“What, the fire? You just giving this away?”
Peggy was incredulous. Normen smiled. He had a twinkle in his eyes, and he replied in that accent from the streets.
“Free’s free. A fellow walks away with anything in his pockets, and the flames are magical, but cheap, as it were. All they need is fuel to burn. It’s a fancy gift that impresses everyone from Couriers to nobles and costs us not a copper.”
“You penny-pinching bastard. You’re Lyonette’s disciple too.”
Jelaqua laughed. Normen winked as Mrsha puffed up with outrage. Give away Erin’s flames?
But it wasn’t the [Innkeeper]’s choice. Normen forestalled Mrsha’s outrage with a hand.
“I think, soon, we will hold flames that even Erin does not know, Mrsha. Those will be ours. Besides…most cannot keep the flames alive. They burn for a day, a week, even a month. No more. I believe, though, you might keep them alive as long as you want.”
He was eying Jelaqua, now, and the Selphid didn’t understand. She swept her eyes around the room as Mrsha took a lantern, then decided she wanted some of Antherr’s flame. Peggy already was scooping up some blue flames.
“What? Sometimes you want to be sad. Ooh, nice and heavy.”
“Which should I pick?”
Normen shrugged.
“Go to what calls to you. The flame will pick you.”
He paused, then leaned over to Mrsha.
“It really does sound better when I talk like that. Very impressive. Is there another movie in that series? Jewel wants to watch the second one.”
Oh, buddy, there are a bunch. I’ll cue them up for you if Jewel gets back by tonight.
Jelaqua ignored them as she walked between the braziers. She felt each flame washing over her, emphasizing the idea in her chest. When she stood before mercy, she truly did feel it in her—invigorating her capacity to feel mercy, and perhaps, the mercy she might not deserve.
If you could not understand it, if you had little of it, the flames shrank. Depression grew as Jelaqua walked past it, but she didn’t want that. She had enough, thanks. She was walking back to Normen to say she couldn’t choose when one of the flames shot from the brazier until it touched the ceiling.
Pink flames roared up, and Normen shielded his face as Peggy and Mrsha flinched. Jelaqua spun.
The pink flames rose until they were like a pillar of glorious fire, burning before her eyes. Jelaqua gaped at it.
“I think you’ve found the right flame, Jelaqua.”
“Me? But I haven’t done anything glorious at all recently!”
Jelaqua protested loudly as Normen took a better lantern from the wall. The [Knight] ignored her as he filled the lantern from the brazier.
“I know better than to argue with fire. Besides, Captain. What is time? Look.”
The flames reacted to Jelaqua’s touch. When she took the lantern tentatively, the fire attached to the candles roared, and it became a blazing, pink conflagration contained within the glass. It was so bright Mrsha shielded her eyes, and her mouth was open.
“I—does it know if I deserve this? Or is it just what I believe?”
Jelaqua gazed at the lantern, and she wondered if it was reacting to what was in her heart. The Halfseekers as they charged the Hag Queen. But also every teammate she’d ever had seemed reflected in that fire.
“I don’t know. Perhaps it’s your own sense of it. But I like to imagine you can’t trick the flames with mere belief. Do you think it suits you, Jelaqua?”
The Selphid didn’t reply. She gazed into the roaring flames, and the Gold-rank Captain peered around. She lifted the lantern up and turned her head.
Garen, Ulinde, her Moore, Keilam…they were reflected in the Selphid’s eyes, shining with pink fire. Without a word, Jelaqua holstered the lantern at her side. She regarded Normen.
“If it’s just what I believe, I could burn down all of Baleros. But what’s my opinion worth, eh?”
She grinned, and behind her, glory howled skywards like a beacon. Mrsha and Normen exchanged a gaze, and then the girl handed him a card.
You should really cut some holes in the ceiling in case it does that again.
Normen eyed the scorched stones.
“Yep. Back to construction work. I need to hire Hexel.”
 
——
 
The flames of glory were still burning with Jelaqua when she returned to Pallass to get a new body. Ishkr helped her there, then vanished, and she changed bodies and then sat for a while in her dark home, staring at the flames.
Soon, she’d go and cry some more, then talk to Maughin, and they were definitely snuggling tonight to share their feelings.
But for a moment, she just sat with the lantern in her hands. It wouldn’t stop blazing.
“So why not? I deserve this, don’t I? Eh, fuck, is that from another of Mrsha’s movies as well? Parent’s tits, I’m doing it.”
Jelaqua slapped her knees and got up. She strode around, cursing and searching for the right receptacle, then sighed and went jogging into Pallass with a bag of gold. When you had enough and a Walled City, you found what you needed.
That was how the Selphid spent her evening. When she grabbed Maughin and towed him to The Wandering Inn for supper, his mother, Vhiren, missed seeing her son. Which was naturally very rude of Jelaqua as she’d been planning on a dinner with Maughin! He’d left a note via Linteca saying something had come up!
She came up to find Jelaqua, assuming they were in their home, and saw a bunch of Jelaqua and Maughin’s neighbors and passersby forming a crowd around the home. When the Dullahan [Baker] approached, she too halted.
Jelaqua Ivirith hadn’t done much in the way of home decorations. Partly because she didn’t really want the critiques from Dullahans who’d feel she was interfering with the traditional elements of Maughin’s home, but mainly because she didn’t care.
Her first and only additions to their home were a pair of large stone plinths that the Selphid had dragged up here herself. Both had big, metal basins in the center, and they sat next to the stone doorway.
Oh—and they were filled with pink flames. The fire of glory had no fuel. But it still blazed, illuminating the home with magical light. They’d burn until Jelaqua’s own vision of the meaning behind the fire faded.
So, eternal fire. It was a nice touch, Jelaqua felt. It really held the home together. But she wasn’t there to stare at the home.
She was in The Wandering Inn, tickling Mrsha despite the girl trying to claim she was too adult for tickle-fights, until the giggling began and Mrsha fought back. And Kevin was under her other arm as she gave him the noogie of two lifetimes.
The Selphid peered up as the doors opened and a giant of a man ducked in. Well, half-Giant. She raised a hand.
“Over here, you big slowpoke!”
