Embarrassed, Jelaqua sensed Hiveno withdraw, then give Lens an explanation. When he returned, he began helping her sort out nerve endings—which was mostly a game of ‘pull and see what this one does’.
Normally, you knew what everything did based on its location if you had been in this particular species before more or less, but every body was a bit different, and Jelaqua had thrown everything into disarray. Imagine a neat [Puppetmaster]’s booth with all the strings corresponding to each limb tangled up like a spider’s web, then multiply that by a hundred. That was what they were dealing with.
“You rampaged out of there so fast I was shocked, Sister. What’s your name? Apologies—you must be a [Warrior]. I can’t imagine tearing my body up this quickly.”
“Jelaqua. I—something happened, and I had to go. I wasn’t thinking.”
“Jelaqua? As in Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers? What a coincidence! Or not, given how many of us there are. You’re the Selphid I came to meet! I heard there was one of us around here, and I was hoping for an introduction to The Wandering Inn and Liscor. Though it seems I’ve come at a bad time. I’ve heard of your team, Captain.”
“Former team.”
“Oh, I’m so sorry, of course.”
It didn’t surprise her that she was known. Selphids kept tabs on each other, helped one another out because you were often the only person if you travelled from Baleros. They had very few enclaves…she spoke softly.
“I’m going to get myself back to the inn as soon as I can get this body limping.”
“Are you in need of a spare? Frankly, I could probably run back to my lodgings in Pallass and pick one up, and it might be faster than this.”
“I think I’ve got it. I can move my arm already…”
“Well then, to work.”
After a few minutes, Hiveno breached the silence.
“Is it something I should inform the Watch about? In the inn? I don’t mean to pry, but you looked like you’d seen a ghost.”
“You have no idea. I’m going to warn you now, Hiveno, that I don’t know what will happen when I get back to the inn. It’s 50-50 I’m a blubbering mess or I try to destroy what’s left of it.”
The [Merchant] hesitated as he sorted a bundle of nerves.
“A fair warning. May I ask what they did that was so egregious? I heard you were friends with the inn.”
Jelaqua replied tiredly and bitterly.
“I am. My team died defending it. I have given everything I had except my life for that place, and not for lack of trying.”
“That sounds like a tremendous amount. Did they…deserve it?”
The question struck the Selphid differently. She thought, then realized her mouth was working. So she rasped up at the sky.
“Deserve it? At first, they didn’t. She didn’t. She just gave my team rooms when no one else would, and she was just—kind. Genuinely. We can always tell. You know what it’s like. And that was it. I got mixed up in a bit of their problems, because that’s what we do. I didn’t owe her anything…and then there were more problems.”
Mrsha lost in the dungeon. Face-Eater Moths. Jelaqua rasped.
“They were friendly enough. I’d have taken my team to help them and the cute kid there, like anyone else. But aside from that? No. Then there was a terrible war in the Floodplains after the rains stopped. Almost…around this time. And I didn’t fight because I didn’t owe her that. But she still gave us something. An end to our long and pointless quest. Maybe not directly, but she did. She helped us watch our teammate die. So we owed her for that.”
Garen Redfang, falling in battle, locking blades with the Goblin Lord. Hiveno murmured with his own mouth.
“It doesn’t sound like that would engender much support from me.”
Jelaqua laughed hoarsely.
“No. No…but I’m not saying it right. We searched for years, trying to kill a monster. And he beat the three of us. We didn’t even kill him. He went down swinging against another foe, on a suicide mission. For a second, he was our teammate again. A bastard, a stupid idiot, but we watched him die like that. We owed her, if she had any part in that. And then…”
Jelaqua could sit up, now, and she stared at her legs, seeing muscles move. Speaking.
“She just helped us, and we helped her. We found our fortunes in the dungeon. Thanks to her? I don’t know. We found a teammate here. I fell in love. Got married. It wasn’t all her, but it was through her inn. Her magic door. That was still not enough. Not enough to balance what we gave.”
The Hag was going through the gates. There was no one else to stop her…Jelaqua looked around at Hiveno. And orange tears were running from her eyes.
“Nothing could fucking balance that. Not all her miracles. If you told me the cost, I’d tell you it was too high, if you put everything she did on the other side of the scales. And she knows it. She knew it. But—”
The Selphid put her hands over her eyes as her body returned to her. She pressed the heels of her palms against her eyes.
“—We would have done the same thing, us idiots. The same thing on the side of a road for people we’d never met. She just made it easier. We were the last ones. There used to be so many of us. We should never have taken our last teammate. She was just a kid. I pointed, and we went. It should have been me. I’d do it again. Every time I dream of it, I can’t stop.”
She was sobbing now. Curling up on the rainy streets, surrounded by spectators, as the other Selphid knelt with her, rain pattering off his cloak. Jelaqua raised her head.
“And now, she gave me back something, somehow. That inn did. It’s wrong. I’ll hate them for it forever.”
“Why?”
“Because it’s not a debt you should ever be able to pay. It’s not something I could ever ask for. But they did it. It has…it has to have a cost. Or else everything I’ve done since I set foot on Izril’s shores is meaningless.”
Every moment she put her life on the line and knew the value of it and still risked it all. Every time her team did the hard part because something in them said they had to—
Her anger was gone. Her doubts too, in a way. Jelaqua rose, and suddenly, she was filled with urgency. She had to know what had happened. Only then could she confront him.
She couldn’t even get to her feet. Hiveno had to help her up; Jelaqua’s knees were shaking.
“I think she’s as good as we’re going to get her, Senior Guardsman. We need to get her to another body—she’s fine, but her body is destroyed. I apologize for the scene.”
He called to the Drake, and Jelaqua nodded.
“I’m sorry too. I was having a—I freaked out.”
“Quite alright, Captain. The city owes you more than that.”
Guardsman Lens, who had just been involved in the Zevara case—albeit mostly as a cover for Moass and Hissl—saluted Jelaqua. He recognized her too. Jerci and her squad saluted, and the onlookers started.
“Oh my. It’s you. I thought it might be—Captain, may I help you?”
The pearly-scaled Drake took Jelaqua’s other arm without hesitation. The Selphid hesitated.
“I’m f—thank you. I just need to get to the door.”
“Shivertail Plaza?”
“No, I mean, yes. No…the inn. The Wandering Inn. I need to get there, not to the portal door.”
The Drake woman smiled at Jelaqua as the Selphid shook her head. She must have hit it.
“Not to worry, Captain. My name is Ambiese, incidentally. I’d love to buy you a drink.”
“Me too! Can we help?”
The Human man who’d threatened to punch the Drake offered, and Jelaqua almost imagined they’d carry her. She waved him off, but the gaggle followed her anyways.
“Jerci, clear the streets for us. Let’s just get Captain Ivirith to the inn. Which way is it?”
Lens ordered, and Jerci saluted.
“Sir! I’ll do that! Uh—wait, are we heading that way or this?”
She pointed down the avenue, and Hiveno glanced around.
“…I’ve completely lost my bearings. Captain, which way?”
“Uh, you go out the gates and…no, wait. Where are we?”
“Shield Spider Way, Captain. Where’s the inn?”
Jelaqua stared down the street.
“Right. So we’d go out the city and…straight…no, we go to the hill. It’s on a hill.”
“Where? Outside the city? You ran all the way into Liscor from the inn?”
Lens was impressed; Jelaqua shook her head, but she was getting more confused.
“No! I used the door, I think?”
But the teleportation door—did that lead back to the inn? Jelaqua felt confused. This was so hard, and she knew it wasn’t. She visited the inn all the time. What was going on? Hiveno glanced at Jelaqua, concerned.
“She might have hit herself harder than I thought, Guardsman. Even Selphids can get a kind of concussion. Although the inn is hard to find. I was searching for it all morning.”
“It’s not hard, surely. I was told it was right outside of Liscor.”
Ambiese protested, and Jelaqua shook her head.
“It was. They moved it. It’s…far…?”
Suddenly, she realized she had no idea how to get to the inn. Everyone else was confused as well. The Human man scratched his head.
“Is it in Pallass?”
“Can’t be. It might be up near Celum, though.”
“That’s not right. I swear it was—I’ve seen it! I poked my head in when I went to Esthelm, once. You just—dead gods, did I hit my head? I can’t figure out where it is!”
“Hold on, hold on—let’s all think about this logically. We know the inn can’t be in the Bloodfields. I think. It’s north of that. Almost definitely. If we need to get to it, we probably don’t climb into the High Passes.”
This was insanity. Jelaqua felt that familiar, uncanny sensation on the back of her neck. Lens reached into his belt pouch and yanked out a speaking stone.
“I’ll handle this. Watch Captain Ronss, our mystery Selphid situation is cleared up. We’re taking her to the inn. Ah—could you give us directions from here to the inn?”
He listened. Then nodded.
“He’s getting a map.”
Everyone relaxed except for Jelaqua. After a few seconds, Lens listened. Smiled around.
“Standby.”
A minute passed. He began humming, uncomfortable, as every eye lingered on him. After another minute, Lens fiddled with the speaking stone. After thirty more seconds, he coughed.
“Ah, Watch Captain, have I lost you?”
Then Jelaqua realized the inn was gone, and irony of ironies—the moment she was ready to get back to The Wandering Inn, she couldn’t find it. She began laughing softly in the rain as everyone looked at her.
Then she wondered…did that older Moore laugh too? Was it truly him? She had to know now. Please…
And she wanted to hear Kevin laughing. She began to take one step after another. Not sure what she was hoping to see. Only knowing that she had to see it.
 
——
 
The great trial of locating The Wandering Inn began in the rainy streets of Liscor. A gaggle of Liscorians, new and old, Senior Guardsman Lens, Jerci and a squad of [Guards], Hiveno, Ambiese, and Jelaqua went searching for the inn.
At first, they just tried to retrace Jelaqua’s steps. They made it to Shivertail Plaza, but then were confused how she got here. Had she gone through Pallass, Celum, Esthelm, Riverfarm, or another location via the door to the inn?
So they asked people waiting in line and other pedestrians. No one could figure it out, and some grew increasingly agitated as they realized that they’d forgotten too. In fact, the only person with an inkling of how to get back to the inn was Jelaqua herself.
I know I didn’t run that far. I can’t have with the way I was pushing my body. She was the one who stopped them from heading to Invrisil or Pallass, but Jelaqua was convinced now.
Someone’s done something to hide where the inn is. It’s like a big illusion spell. The Gold-ranker adventurer had faced situations like these before.
“The easiest way would be to connect to the inn itself with a ball of string or something. Or find someone from the inn. They probably know how to fix it. Can we send a [Message]?”
She hoped they were looking for her or at least hadn’t taken her running off as a rejection. Lens nodded, purely bemused. He muttered to himself as he pointed.
“First, someone impersonates me, next I need to find an inn…this way. We’ll go to the Mage’s Guild. I know where that is.”
They were trooping back together, and Miss Ambiese was chatting with the others taking turns helping Jelaqua along. It was quite embarrassing, but the Liscorians seemed to enjoy this.
“I kept being told I’d get my own ‘Solstice Event’ sometime. I reckon this is it. My boss keeps bragging about how he was there when cookies were invented. Now I’ll have a story for him and the lads.”
The burly man was a [Builder] named Nule who had come for the same reason many had. The mother and child were a Gnoll woman named Thirka and Tirra—the girl was being given sweets by Miss Ambiese.
“This nougat’s from my home city. I’m a [Confectioner]. I heard Liscor had a sweet tooth, and here I am! I’d love to visit the inn. I was staying away after the Solstice, and just when I worked my nerve up, the Goblin King happened. But I think I ought to!”
“If we ever get to it, I’ll buy you all drinks. But you don’t have to come, Miss Thirka. It’s wet…”
The Gnollish mother seemed as invested as everyone, and her daughter, Tirra, clung to her paw as if afraid she’d be sent away.
“We are Silverfangs, yes, Captain Ivirith. A bit of rain cannot hurt us. I am more amazed I cannot smell where you went, and Tirra cannot either! What is this ‘Solstice Event’ for?”
“Hiding where the inn is? Makes sense. Plenty of people don’t like it. Maybe you get a prize if you find it?”
“There’s free meals for Selphids today. I was having a delightful steak. I had no idea it did species-appreciation days.”
Hiveno said wistfully, and everyone eyed him. Jerci’s ears perked up.
“It does species-appreciation days? Senior Guardsman Relc never said! Tkrn said sometimes you can get a free snack, but that was only when the inn was a place we had to patrol on duty!”
Lens cursed.
“That bastard. There’s probably a limit on how many get meals free or half-off. I bet he’s keeping it hush-hush on purpose! Just wait until we tell the north Watch House! You know what? I heard Captain Zevara doesn’t visit the inn often despite having a soft spot for that [Innkeeper]. I bet that’s why! She never takes part in lotteries or things where she’d get preferential treatment.”
Jelaqua was struggling to suppress the urge to laugh as hard as she could. She didn’t correct the record; it probably would be good for business, and besides, the inn owed her something for the sheer trauma she’d endured.
But still, finding the inn? The group marching towards the Mage’s Guild realized their struggle might be harder than they thought when they passed by the [Knight].
