Lord Mireden hesitated, but then he came over to offer her a handkerchief embroidered with Liscor’s own sigil. Although it was different, as if someone had hung a bunch of bells from a more elegant city’s towers…
“Yes. Yes, they deserved more. Thank you for believing it, Miss.”
He knelt, and he was still far taller than she was. His sorrow was far older than Jelaqua’s, and his hand light as a feather as he rested it on Ambiese’s shoulder. Jelaqua saw someone slip from her chair.
“I told Miss Satar about it! And I cried all day. This is for you, Captain.”
Tirra, the little Gnoll girl, ran over with something in her paws. She nearly fell on her face until Lord Moore wiggled a finger—instead of faceplanting, the girl stumbled as a piece of stone lifted up, supporting a foot. Jelaqua saw the girl catch herself, stare at the ground which had already melted back into the floorboards, and then offer the Selphid something.
It was one of the Silverfang’s trinkets: a silver fang hanging from a necklace. Jelaqua took it.
“Oh, that’s beautiful. Is this for me?”
“Yes, it’s mine, but Mother says you can have it! Please take it? It’s lucky.”
Of course, the Selphid agreed after glancing at Miss Thirka, who nodded and rose. Then, before she knew it, Nule was walking over, hand outstretched.
“Er, Lord Mireden, sir? I reckon this isn’t much, but I wanted to say thank-you as well. My family was behind those walls, and we heard it was your nephew’s team what held back that thing there. We might all be dead, and I—I think I didn’t really give it the thought it deserved afterwards. But your nephew, that Guildmistress, even the fellows with the hats deserve a statue in the city or something. Just like that [General] in the plaza. Or some kind of reward.”
There were nods of agreement, and the half-Giant thanked Nule and glanced at Jelaqua.
“We have statues, sir. That is, the Halfseekers do. As for a reward…being remembered is enough.”
The [Builder] began to nod, then caught himself and looked the half-Giant in the eyes.
“—That’s not true, begging your pardon, Your Lordship. There should be something more.”
He scuffed one foot, embarrassed at speaking to what he thought was clearly a noble. But when he glanced at Jelaqua, the Selphid realized she was smiling.
Dead gods, it hurt. But those words were a far more beautiful dagger. Lord Moore nodded at Nule silently, and Jelaqua coughed.
“That’s the kind of thing we’ve got to say, Nule. Or else it gets to our heads. We can’t count debts like that. The Halfseekers never have.”
She was watching the half-Giant’s face as he leaned on a staff, a huge, magical artifact. Lord Moore didn’t instantly agree with her. Instead, he stared past Jelaqua.
“Perhaps we—your team should have, Captain Jelaqua. Sometimes, they gave so much without a word. Who remembers all their deeds over the three d—two decades you adventured? Theirs is a legacy worthy of any Named-rank team. But because you never won victories in dungeons, instead against bandits for copper coins…who remembers those adventures?”
His voice was bitter and deep, and no one could answer that. Jelaqua saw Kevin sitting at one table, hesitating, as if wanting to jump in, but someone forestalled him. A young Gnoll woman with brown fur, just watching Jelaqua with hungry, sad eyes.
Mrsha and Nanette working at a table with Apista, peeking at them. Ser Dalimont, tossing someone out the window. A spy who’d gotten too nosy? Someone in the crowd who’d been sharp enough to use her to come to the inn?
There is no privacy here. But they couldn’t just walk away, so Jelaqua spoke to him, this older man.
“I met a woman just this morning who remembers. If we did it for the glory, we’d have all quit long ago. It didn’t change her life, mind you. She did her own thing, and we were just…there. Maybe there are some we saved who remember us. But what more could you want? A memory is more than most get.”
She shrugged, and the half-Giant turned to her, and his brown eyes flashed as he clenched a fist.
“The Halfseekers saved a city’s life. Not just…recently. They would have been forgotten except for the memory being written down. Sometimes, I wish it had been insisted on. Sometimes…”
He hesitated. Met her eyes and gazed away. She hung her head.
“Yeah. But we weren’t that important. Besides…Lord Raithland, what’s the point? The dead can hear no applause. Better to be alive. If I could wish for anything, if I deserved anything from all of our adventures, I’d ask for—I’d wish for—”
Her eyes were welling up with tears again. Then she saw it. It hit her like a [Lightning Bolt] out of the blue as the white Gnoll girl froze at her table. Jelaqua’s mouth opened.
“Oh. That’s why. That’s exactly what I…”
She peered at him wordlessly, and the half-Giant nodded and glanced to the side. Then he hunched in his chair.
“You’re wrong, though, Jelaqua. Be it so petty, but a legacy matters. And I will ensure the Halfseekers have theirs in Liscor. Griffon Hunt too. Not something so simple as a statue. Nor children named after our friends and companions. A legacy. Something to be proud of. The virtues you shared with your team, and…”
He clenched a fist.
“Safety. However long it lasts. That battle we fought, won for a hundred thousand people. Won and kept. No more monsters to come back. What we fought for will remain, and no one will tarnish that legacy. If only we remember it, so be it. We know what we did. That is what I came here to do.”
His words stirred the audience, each in a different way. But Jelaqua just saw, in the older Moore’s eyes, something she understood.
“Ah. You’re the last of your own team of crazy adventurers, aren’t you, Lord Raithland?”
The half-Giant blinked, then smiled. He took a mug from a tray that one of the Goblins was carrying around and lifted it, a small cup in his huge hand.
“In another world, another time, Jelaqua. Yes. I…almost didn’t come, you know. I could have retired. What held me back wasn’t the struggle nor the journey or odds. I had every reason to come, because I am needed. But I have been so long alone, I feared this.”
So he was just like her. The Selphid pushed herself up and swiped a mug from her tray. She knew they were all watching her, and she lifted the mug up.
“Fair, Lord Mireden. But I think you know this: the Halfseekers will never adventure again. Whatever we do, whatever we are, we fought our last battle in Liscor.”
“There was never any doubt.”
He whispered. Then they chinked mugs hard—the ale that looked vaguely like piss slopped to the floor and over their hands. It seemed as though the words hurt some of the listeners, but Jelaqua just breathed easy.
“Not again. I could never do it again. We drew a bloody line in the snow, and when I woke, I was tired of it. Tired of finding another line to draw. I needed…we needed to find something else. Some other way. We were always terrible adventurers, because we couldn’t focus on the glory and treasure and our own skins. That was how I let my team down.”
She met his eyes, waiting for judgement from the only being who could give it. And he—his hand cracked the mug as it tightened around it, and then he reforged the wood in his grip. The half-Giant stared at Jelaqua, then past her.
“Perhaps. Perhaps you did let them down, Jelaqua. But you also found each and every one of them. Lost, untrusted, and gave them a purpose. Yes, maybe, you could have given us better lives and we, all the Halfseekers, could be living now.”
She staggered slightly, and the half-Giant’s eyes focused on her. Then he lifted a finger.
“However, if they were there at any moment when it mattered, when there was one less Halfseeker in the world—Moore, Seborn, Garen, Ukrina, Ulinde, all of them—they would have told you to charge. So whose fault was it?”
The Selphid was shaking, laughing, and crying. She forced the words out.
“What a terrible team we were! Here’s to the Halfseekers, the Half Freaks of Izril—they didn’t know when to quit!”
She raised her mug and drank, and not a single person drank with her. So Lord Mireden Raithland rose to his feet, and his voice boomed across the entire inn, making visitors in the portal room start, as if the hills had developed tongues.
“For the Halfseekers of Izril! For everyone who has ever searched for the meaning that eludes them! For those who shared that burden and fought for their better halves!”
Jelaqua saw the young Gnoll woman leap to her feet, and then she knew it was Mrsha. An older Mrsha who grabbed a mug—and Kevin rose with her along with Mrsha and Nanette, the staff, and the Watch—and they took a drink.
The Selphid tossed her mug down and reached out a hand. Moore caught her arm, and she squeezed with all her might and felt his crushing grip on her arm. One of her bones broke; she didn’t care.
They held each other as if to never let go again.
 
——
 
Of course, they did let go, and the day did not turn into a full party. That wouldn’t have been appropriate. There were quite a number of tears and a few more toasts by impassioned guests, and Lyonette came out with food and drinks for all, on the house.
But Jelaqua and Moore didn’t hear or see any of it.
They walked in a [Garden of Sanctuary], the Drathian one. It was always scenic; pink cherry blossom petals fluttered down around them as they crossed the red bridge over the koi-infested pond, and Jelaqua wondered if the tree got tired of growing and shedding the blossoms.
Lord Moore gazed at the tree as well as he leaned on the bridge. He seemed like he didn’t know what to say, so he cleared his throat and nodded to the tree.
“It’s got to be four thousand years old—at least. I’m amazed it hasn’t overgrown, but whomever made this [Garden of Sanctuary] did it with more skill than Erin or the other builders.”
“Oh? Four thousand? Really?”
The tree didn’t look that old. Sure, it was old, but even trees died. Lord Moore reached up and caught a petal.
“It’s always shedding blossoms. Haven’t you noticed? It’s under a kind of stasis spell so that it doesn’t age. Fed enough to grow and…”
“Dead gods. That sounds like torture. Not that a plant has feelings.”
The half-Giant chuckled softly as he walked across the bridge to rest a hand on the tree’s bark. He closed his eyes.
“Oh, they do. But this one’s calm. Much like a half-Elf. I’d call it snooty, actually. I never could get on with half-Elves, even after I retired. I dated six—all but one kept trying to elevate themselves over the ‘younger’ races in some way. Age was the only thing they had a great advantage in. So that was how they framed the entire world.”
Jelaqua felt a smile stretching across her face. She’d been afraid she’d start blubbering again, and it was close, but those simple words revealed so much. He was more refined. More confident; her Moore had never criticized unless he truly hated someone. But this one?
“You? Dated?”
He half-turned his head, embarrassed as he brushed blossoms out of his hair.
“I know how that must sound, but, well, yes. After I was alone, I was so damned lonely…I took Seborn’s advice and put myself out there. Being Level 50 didn’t hurt. Most of the teams from my world did the same. I think Erin’s death made everyone treasure the time they had left.”
Oh, and they were right into it. Jelaqua swallowed and tried to keep her voice neutral.
“Really? Everyone? G-got any good gossip?”
The half-Giant glanced at her, then pulled out some bread and began to rip it and toss it into the pond. She stared at the gaping koi mouths as he hmmed.
“Well, Pisces. Married three—no, four times. Poor man.”
“Pisces? No, wait, I can see it. Give him a scrub and stop him sniffing and he’d fool someone. Four times, though? Really?”
The half-Giant shrugged.
“He was trying to keep the Horns together after Ksmvr died.”
“Oh.”
He turned guiltily.
“I’m sorry. I don’t mean to—it’s not happened in this world, has it? It won’t if I have anything to do with—”
She touched his arm. It felt like her nerves were tingling despite them being torn and dead.
“Just tell me. You’re not my Moore, and I’m not your Jelaqua.”
The Selphid’s eyes rose.
“—But we’re Halfseekers. We are, aren’t we?”
His lips moved as he whispered.
“Yes. Always and never again.”
Silence until he handed her some bread. She bounced her first piece off a koi fish’s head as she listened. Moore stared ahead.
“I think…I think it fell apart because Pisces couldn’t ever give up on Erin. It wasn’t that he loved her like that. I don’t think—but Yvlon left. And Ceria? Ceria went mad.”
“The circlet?”
“She’s wearing it in this world?”
“Yep.”
Moore raised the handful of bread to throw, then gently tossed it in the water.
“I’ll try to deal with that too, but that’s magic beyond me. I’m not that great a [Mage].”
“Pull the other one.”
“No, I’m not. Truly. I’m a Level 50 [Lord]-[Mage] combo. I studied all the new magic as it came out, but I wasn’t pioneering it. That would be Valeterisa, Eldavin, and so on. You’re right on track in this world, even if it’s different. Ceria as well…it’s no wonder Pisces couldn’t hold it together by himself.”
“I’ve seen Wistram’s magic all over. It’s insane. Levitating cushions, magical carriages, and even Boots of Flying. Are they going to make [Engineers] obsolete? Also, who’d Pisces marry?”
Moore lifted a hand and brushed at his beard.
“Well, that’s an interesting question—the Wistram one. I’ve been comparing the progress in my world to yours, and you’re ahead and behind. Pisces, though, far more fascinating. The first was Revi. They had a kid together.”
“…I can sort of see that, actually.”
“Apparently, so could she. But she retired, and he didn’t. That was probably the best marriage. The second was Princess Jecaina of Jecrass—”
Jelaqua nearly laughed herself off the railing. Lord Moore gave her a somber gaze.
“I’m serious.”
“A [Princess]? That [Princess]? That’s a terrible idea!”
“Yes. It was. It might have worked except that he married her not four months after he and Revi split.”
“Oh! Oh, Pisces!”
Moore was nodding and smiling. Pained, but the topic of Pisces was like a weird balm. He counted on his fingers.
“They held it together for eight months. And after the second divorce, I think it sort of set expectations. Selys was third, and she should have been first.”
“Firestrike me, Selys…that could have worked.”
“Yes. But not then. Neither one walked into that marriage at the right time, as the right people—she had her own relationships that didn’t work. Age and our times…that one was bitter.”
