She ran.
Out of the inn, through the open door, into the rain-covered plaza of the city her team had given everything for. Ignoring the voices calling her name.
Ran faster than anyone could dream, a blur, pushing the corpse’s body to its limits until even the rain itself seemed frozen in time. But it was never fast enough.
He was behind her. She thought this inn could take no more from her. This wretched place, that [Innkeeper] who asked for everything with tears and a smile. So it had given her something instead.
It couldn’t be real. And if it was?
Moore.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith ran through the streets of Liscor until she ruptured a tendon in her body’s legs and went crashing down. She skidded across the ground, shredding her clothing and the outer layer of her body’s skin from the sheer speed she’d been running and the friction.
She felt none of it, of course. Got up, limping past a [Knight] in armor sitting on the rainy street, past pedestrians staring and crying out in horror, heedless of the [Guardswoman] who asked her a question. Her corpse’s senses were gone, replaced by the ringing in her ears, the vision burned into her eyes. The agony in her chest.
He was alive. They were alive.
How, exactly, Jelaqua did not know. Kevin had been explaining it when she’d turn and run out of the garden and inn. Now, she kept stumbling forwards until her overexerted body did collapse on the street. Then she lay and stared up at the sky as rain fell on her face.
She didn’t move for a long, long while. Only thought.
This is wrong.
This can’t be happening.
How, how could it ever be?
I will kill her for this, that [Innkeeper].
Moore. What will Seborn say?
It’s not fair.
The Selphid wanted to hurt something. She writhed around in her corpse, tearing through veins and organs, heedless of the damage she was causing to the precious vessel she normally treated with respect. Unable to control it. Unable to comprehend anything.
Moore was alive. Only, it wasn’t Moore. He’d said that, hadn’t he? An older Moore?
It didn’t matter. It was him. She would have known him as a baby or aged. There was no faking the way he smiled, his very aura, was there?
Could it be a Greater Mimic? An illusion? Am I dead?
Hope blossomed in her chest, a kind of twisted hope that this was in fact part of something truly horrific. Because if it was not?
It hurt far too much.
I have buried him. I have mourned him. He is gone, and if he is alive, how can I survive it? My heart can’t. Am I a fool? I should be so happy, but I am not.
She felt destroyed. As if someone had reached into her chest and pulled out her heart. It was—so strange. But someone coming back to life hurt almost more than their deaths.
Jelaqua had buried so many friends over the years. She had become used to death as a companion, that merciless thing you cursed that came for everyone. So she wasn’t numb to it, but she understood it.
If causality’s wheel could be reversed, if miracles could happen—then it was more terrifying. Then she didn’t know how the world worked. Then there was a part of her that would always ask: were you too weak? Did you not do enough, care enough?
Could you save them all? Bring them back? Will you mourn and weep and then be forced to do it all again? Will you stop grieving for the dead because you can never be sure it’s over?
It was devaluing death. The Selphid realized that was part of it. As a Selphid, she had gotten used to mortality since the moment she could move. She had lived in a dead body; she had to buy or procure more dead bodies, and everyone who died was loved or hated by someone. The violation of their corpses, the gall to ask a family member to wear their beloved’s corpse for your own ends—
Selphids respected the dead. Or they went the other way and saw death as a convenience, corpses a disposable tool. What Jelaqua had seen in the inn felt like an abhorrent thing.
So, a thought surfaced in her mind.
I have to kill that thing wearing Moore’s face. That’s not him. That’s some stranger pretending to be an older him. I cannot let him live. I must call Seborn and right this madness.
And Kevin too? Jelaqua didn’t think of the Human for a second. She reconnected her body to her eyes’ optical nerves and stared up at the sky. When she tried to raise her head, it was with murder in her soul. She realized she’d snapped a bit. All adventurers had their line, their breaking point, and she had hit hers.
Rainwater was trickling down her face. The Selphid began to get up—and realized she couldn’t. She checked the muscles, reconnecting to her body, and realized she’d done far more damage in her unthinking flight than she’d thought.
Every muscle in her legs was torn or inflamed. This body still worked—but not every function did, so there was no blood to clot nor capacity of the muscles to heal save for her intervention. Her right leg’s major tendons had just snapped—and her thrashing had damaged the nerve connections to other parts of her body.
Jelaqua began trying to repair them, and the senses she did have access to without damage were vision, hearing—the cranial nerves were fine. So she became aware that she was surrounded by people, all speaking with agitation.
Liscorians. She was in Liscor. She must have fled here through the door…they were speaking in a babble. A woman’s voice was loudest and nearest.
“—just ran through here, then collapsed, Watchman. She’s pale to death! Is—is it a monster?”
“Not a monster. Something in her flesh. Look, the orange—”
“She’s a Selphid, you idiots. Never seen one before?”
That came from a sneering Drake, and then there was an authoritative bark.
“Alright, move back, everyone. Guardswoman Jerci, check the way she came for disturbances. Is she a [Thief]? Was there a fight? Miss Selphid, can you hear me? I’m Senior Guardsman Lens. Is there a crisis? Are you hurt?”
Someone bent over her. A Drake. He waved a hand in front of her. Jelaqua tried and found she could move her eyes, but she was busy reconnecting all the damaged nerves, and it was a mess. She blinked once.
“Looks like she’s awake, but—Watch Captain Ronss, I have a fallen Selphid on Shield Spider Way. No clue what’s going on. I’d send for a [Healer], but…I don’t think I need backup. I’ll have a patrol help me if I need it. We may need to go to Invrisil or Pallass for help.”
How embarrassing. Jelaqua lay there, working on her body, wishing she could use her mouth to tell him she was fine. She just had to get back to the inn and…
Kill Moore? The murderous rage in her mind was already abating. Injure him? Injure someone.
Who was responsible for this? Why?
The Goblin King. The crowd milled around, whispering.
“Selphids? So that’s a corpse? Don’t look, dear!”
“Mother, is she okay?”
“It’s so freakish. It could have hurt someone—why are they allowed in the city? First Goblins, now this?”
That was the same speaker as before. A Drake, vocal. Jelaqua’s fury returned. My team died for this city. I’ll kill you. I’ll—
Guardsman Lens swung around and barked.
“That’s enough of that! Move further back!”
The blowhard wasn’t done.
“You should arrest her for disrupting the peace, Guardsman! And public nuisance. I know the laws. Under Liscorian law, chapter, uh…I’m filing a complaint as a member of the public for my health and safety!”
“You weren’t anywhere near this Selphid when she fell, sir.”
Lens addressed the Drake, and the figure Jelaqua could dimly see, upside down, responded.
“That’s a corpse! I could be infected or get a—a parasite or something! Look, her skin is on the street; is that hygienic?”
He pointed, and Jelaqua imagined it was bad. Someone gagged, and Lens hesitated, about to respond. Then there was a faint murmur—and someone else spoke up with a bright voice.
“Cheerio, good fellow! Are you a longstanding resident of this here domicile, my friend? I, too, am a resident of fine Liscor!”
A Drake with a far stranger modality of speech and a faint accent that did away with the usual extended ‘s’ tapped the first Drake on the shoulder. He hesitated.
“Uh, yes. Liscorian citizen, born and raised. Original.”
He glowered around at the mix of Humans, Gnolls, and other pedestrians with that look of someone who knew he was superior. The Drake lady nodded and adjusted a broad, pink hat which let the water run off the top.
“I’m new to the city myself. Barely four months from Veish. I hopped on the carriage to make my mark in this spot.”
Wasn’t that all the way southwest, next to Zeres? It explained how odd she sounded. Jelaqua’s arm wiggled as she finally began to figure out what did what.
“Good for you. Do you want to add to the complaint?”
The offended Drake grunted, eying the female Drake up and down. She had pale white scales, and she tipped her hat up.
“No, I was rather wondering if you were new to the city. Under four months. Because then I could quite understand you, sir, for your unprepossessing conduct. But if you were here last winter, then I say, how dare you, sir? Or does it not cross your recollection that during the terrible events of the Winter Solstice, a Selphid and her team fought to defend Liscor? I would think everyone living in the northern district remembers. I would be ashamed to hear such words coming out of my own mouth, sir, and I would now like to give you one of these. Oh, please hold this.”
She handed a handbag to the Drake, whose mouth was still open when she turned and slapped him in the face with her tail. It was an elegant move that Jelaqua had never seen before. The Drake twirled fast and angled her body so her tail came up and thwacked the other Drake across the face.
It probably hurt more than a regular slap given the weight of the tail and the speed it hit the Drake. It also seemed hugely offensive—certainly, the Drake grabbed his face and began screaming as she took her handbag back.
“Assault! I’ve been assaulted! You all saw it! Guardsman, arrest this woman!”
He pointed a trembling claw at the female Drake, who put her hands on her hips as Guardsman Lens groaned.
“Miss, you just assaulted another citizen of Liscor in public.”
“Yes, and I’d do it again, Guardsman! For shame, sir! You have no gratitude or good nature in a single scale of your body. Someone collapses on the ground and your first reaction is to charge them?”
There was a murmur, then someone spoke up.
“She’s right. I was in Liscor too when the Draugr were coming at the walls. I remember the north gates. You’re out of line, chum. I ought to slap you too, but I’ve got no tail. I’ll settle for a punch.”
“Get away from me! Guardsman, I’m in danger from this thug of a Human!”
“Everyone calm down. Sir, do not punch that Drake—”
Lens raised his hands as Jelaqua heard more voices. She was trying to sit up now, because she really wanted to see, but she could hear well enough.
“I’ll hit him too. Hold my shopping, dear.”
“Back off, all of you! I’ve got a dagger!”
“Hey, he’s threatening us. You see that, Guardsman? Also, I have this sword, buddy. What would you do if I—”
“No weapons! Put them down! Guardswoman Jerci—get over here!”
The crowd was rumbling by the time Jerci, a young Gnoll, ran past with an entire squad of the Watch. The unfortunate Drake was surrounded by Liscorians. A woman was smiling at him as he tensed—there were at least six pairs of hands on him, so movement might have been impossible even if he wanted it.
“We’re not going to hurt you, pal. That would be against the law, which you broke by threatening us with a dagger. With a child around. Absolutely not; right, everyone?”
Everyone nodded, and she pointed.
“Oh my, is that a fire? You’d better go that way, Senior Guardsman!”
Two of the Watch actually spun around in the pouring rain. Senior Guardsman Lens glanced at them and covered what might have been a smile. Then he raised his claws.
“Alright, let him go. Sir, sheathe your dagger, now. I advise you to go about your day, or I will begin charging individuals, starting with you for disorderly conduct, drawing a blade with malice aforethought, and…”
The Drake ran for it when they let him go. It almost made Jelaqua smile. Almost made her forget Moore, but they brought it back as well.
They remembered. If not the Halfseekers by name…
Oh, dead gods, what will I do? I can’t face him.
It was ‘face him’, now, instead of rip his heart out. She felt tired, and more tired when she realized this was going to be a problem. Everyone had turned back to her.
“Well now, I quite enjoyed that Liscorian civility, but what do we do about this poor Selphid? She’s still down. Does anyone know a [Healer] who works with Selphids?”
“Not here. Jerci, was there an issue…?”
“I think I saw some people running out of the door to the inn, Guardsman Lens, but they said it wasn’t a crisis. And the Doorgnoll told me to eat shit and get lost.”
“Huh. Well…damn. Okay, we might have to load her up just to get her off the street and out of the rain. Let’s get a wagon or—”
They were debating what to do with her, and Jelaqua was desperately searching for the muscle that worked her tongue, when someone interrupted.
“Excuse me. I’m a fellow Selphid. I saw my sister running out the inn and was concerned. May I approach, Guardsman? I might be able to help.”
Lens turned, and Jelaqua recognized the voice. The other Selphid—
“Your sister? You know this woman, ah, sir?”
“Pardon me—turn of phrase. We’re all brothers or sisters…I’m a Selphid [Merchant] from Baleros. Hiveno. May I approach her? Selphids can communicate in-person. It may be somewhat disturbing…”
“Go ahead. Please. Er, do we need to get you anything?”
Hiveno assured him no, and Lens had everyone else step back. Jelaqua knew what was coming, and she sensed a foreign entity entering her body from the earhole.
“Sister? Are you well? I assume you heard most of that. Unless you’re more injured than I thought?”
Selphids ‘talked’ in various ways in person. Their long, malleable bodies could speak with normal words or use other signals—or even their minds to telepathically talk, but neither Jelaqua nor Hiveno was like that. She responded.
“I’m fine. I destroyed my internals, and I’ve tangled everything up.”
Hiveno quested around respectfully, keeping back from the main area where her body was moving about on multiple fronts.
“Baleros’ balls, I can see that! What a mess. Would you allow me to give you a hand? I’ll tell these good people not to worry. Did you hear them sorting out that Drake? Taking our side? I’ve never heard the like, both here or in Baleros!”
“Neither have I. I’ll take the help, thank you.”
