He exhaled, and now it wasn’t fun. Jelaqua listened with a pain for someone who didn’t exist, in a time that never would be. Moore’s voice dropped low, now.
“Then came the marriage where I didn’t show up. I think the only one who went to it was Mrsha.”
“Please tell me I don’t know who it is.”
Jelaqua wanted to laugh again. Then cry…poor lad. He deserved better than that, but Moore was describing something breaking in the future. And his smile faded.
“Falene Skystrall.”
The Selphid leaned over the railing.
“That’s not funny.”
“No one thought it was. I think they rather liked each other in some strange way. But no…most of the stories I could tell you are like that. I’m sorry, it was amusing until I heard myself talking. We come from a broken world. Maybe it was always broken, our future, but it really did seem to get worse after Erin died. We all pushed ourselves to snapping to help her. I had all but given up except that Mrsha had turned eighteen. She was going on one last adventure, and I thought…that was it. Maybe, just maybe—”
Lord Moore turned to Jelaqua, and there were tears in his eyes.
“That’s how it fell apart for a decade, Jelaqua. That’s why I came back. To avert it. I know the secrets of Liscor’s dungeon. I have slain the Mother of Graves. This time, her plans will come to naught.”
He stood before her, and she had nothing to say. If she had been masking her grief in Pallass playing at Maughin’s wife…Jelaqua nodded. Then she whispered the real question.
“So, what do you remember last?”
Not—yesterday or anything trivial like that. He understood. The half-Giant turned, and the reflected flames blazed in his brown eyes. His grief-stricken face turned, and he whispered.
“My city burning. Rhir’s damned [Heroes] pouring up the hill—and everything I thought would last this time vanishing. I stood in the doorway as long as I could, until it cracked and there was nothing left. My entire world a dream. Then I remember laughing like a madman and hoping reality was brighter.”
A fragment of glass, a fake man turned to Jelaqua Ivirith, and she whispered as the snow stung her face. The howling of Draugr and a battle in the distance condensing down to a single point. A decision already made.
“I thought she didn’t belong. The Hag Queen. It wasn’t fair. There was no way to prepare for her, no way to see her coming, let alone the Draugr. And I thought—if we went slow, we might stop them after a few streets. Harry them. And I was counting—counting. Maybe it’d only be a dozen. A few dozen. If she started reanimating them, if they breached the gates fully, maybe thousands. But the city could fight. It should fight. No one should ask it of us. I shouldn’t. Then I remember her laughing and trying to reach her. Just reach her and—”
She blinked, and tears were running down her face.
“—And then I woke up, and for a second, I thought we’d made it. Before I heard Seborn crying.”
Neither one said anything, then.
After a while, they kept moving. The Selphid and half-Giant knew each other, then. Strangers, now, telling each other what was and what might be.
They had always been on the same team.
“So, Wistram.”
“Right, Wistram! Bunch of magical artifacts everywhere. Is that the future or what?”
Lord Moore handed Jelaqua a ring.
“This is the future.”
“This? Whoa! It’s tiny! I could swallow it!”
“Please don’t. Everyone was on their rings so much in my world that I feel so out-of-touch today, not calling up everyone or sending messages. It’s not that magical.”
“Pull the other one.”
“No, really. This kind of magic is everyday; you charge them up at stations because magical gemstones are so expensive. But the big magic? [Flying]? No one can do that cheap. You can buy a [Flying] spell, but it’s still expensive. That’s why I think Wistram Academy is lying.”
Jelaqua’s head tilted, and her ears perked up with some more actionable reality.
“How’s that then? Archmage Eldavin made some actual Boots of Flying. Is it a lower-tier spell? Or some other trick?”
Lord Moore stroked his beard.
“No, I well believe he can make them. However, the question is—how many?”
“Ahh. But people are ordering them.”
“I’m sure he’s having them outbid each other, but I would very much like to know how many such goods he can produce. Archmage Valeterisa stays at this inn—watch her, she’ll change magic forever—and she’s been complaining about making magical items to fulfill a quota.”
“She would complain. She’s too busy humping Relc to do anything.”
The half-Giant chuckled.
“They were never together in my…that’s good. She looks so different. No, I rather think that she’s being press-ganged into making artifacts because no one else can.”
“Ooh. So we’re looking at dozens of Relic-class items appearing, not hundreds or tens of thousands?”
Lord Moore lifted a finger, and now his face grew crafty in a way the old Moore’s had sometimes been. Jelaqua was too tired to cry, so she just smiled. He glanced around.
“Not even dozens, perhaps. My suspicion is that Archmage Eldavin is using a very limited resource to make these Boots of Flying. A levitating cushion? Anyone can do that. It’ll hog far more mana than Wistram is advertising. Too many and a city will go mana-negative—they’re overvaluing their products. But Relic-class items require a substance that isn’t being mined anywhere in the world—yet.”
“Which is?”
She wondered if he’d keep her in the dark, but the half-Giant merely winked at her.
“It’s called ‘seith’, and finding it will revolutionize magic. But it only comes from the deep, deep sea where it condenses. Drowned Folk were the only producers of the stuff in my world—obviously, nations like the Blighted Empire were trying to acquire more, but my bet is that Eldavin needs it, Archmage of Memories or not.”
Jelaqua swore she’d heard that word coming up more than once before, but she couldn’t place her finger on it.
“So Wistram’s crashing all the other markets, including Pallass’ Engineering Guild, with empty promises?”
“Promises they can’t fulfill at scale, certainly. But there is fire under the smoke. And if they continue expanding their dominance…I have a little plan to counter them in Liscor, but anything larger is beyond me. The Mother of Graves is my focus now.”
He grew serious again, and Jelaqua shivered and glanced down.
“Okay. You keep throwing that name out, but I don’t even know…her. I’m ready. Tell me who that is and what you’re doing.”
The half-Giant gazed at her, and now the pain was on his face, and the determination. He murmured.
“Are you sure? This is the tale of how you died, Jelaqua.”
She beamed up at him as she took his arm.
“Well, it’s about time we got to the easy stuff! C’mon, you big lug. How can I help?”
“You’re retired, Jelaqua. And you’re going to stay that way.”
“Oh, right…”
They strolled through the garden as the Selphid sighed. But even when she looked up at him, striding along and listing his plans out, she and he both agreed, silently, as they met each other’s eyes.
Never again.
 
——
 
It was no [Immortal Moment], their stroll in the Drathian garden together, and they did talk until they were both fairly hoarse, then returned to the inn where they were given a nervous welcome.
Jelaqua smiled at Lyonette and gave her a thumbs up. She was ready to explode with emotions—and knowledge. However, as Lord Mireden pointed out while glancing at a glowing ring projecting an image into the air…
“It’s only 2 PM. I truly can’t be drunk yet today. I have work to do. Jelaqua, will you walk with me some more? You could watch me put part of the plan into action.”
Jelaqua glanced up from where she was taking huge gulps of water at the bar. She pointed at the track-lines of yellow on her cheeks from all the crying.
“What? Hell no! I’ve already nearly died of dehydration! I’m going to be blubbering like a seal baby if I walk with you, you gigantic prat. Give me an hour or two to breathe! Then I’ll have more questions. We’ll have a drink tonight or something.”
She was going to go berserk if she kept this up, and the half-Giant bowed to her with a slight smile.
“Fair. We have our own lives, and…I haven’t had the courage to face Seborn.”
“I wouldn’t. Dead gods.”
She leaned against him, then jumped back. They gazed at each other, strangers who hurt each other, but they’d come back, she knew. Like magnets armed with lances. She forced herself back, away.
“You…I was going to murder you for a second. Now I want to know how this happened and thank someone. Possibly punch them.”
Lord Moore lifted a hand.
“Thank them, I think. They’ve paid too high a price already. And their reasons—listen to their reasons.”
Oh, this was going to be sad. Jelaqua cast around.
“I need a pitcher of water or I will croak. And a new body. This one’s tear ducts are clogging.”
“Gross as ever, Captain.”
He tried to hide a smile as he turned his head. Then he was striding from the inn, and Jelaqua collapsed into a seat. Only when someone patted her on the arm did she peek up.
Jelaqua? How are you feeling?
A very worried Mrsha was standing there, nose a bit snotty. She’d been crying too. Jelaqua swept her into her arms.
“I’m going to be fine, Mrsha. It’s just…hah! This inn!”
She buried her face in the girl’s shoulder. Then looked up.
It’s you. You’re the one. It was always the eyes. Mrsha had the expression of children who’d gone to war. She hadn’t had that before, for all she’d lived. Jelaqua held her gently.
“Good job, kid. You stole something back from the tally of Baleros, the ledger of the deeps. Crossed one off the adventurer’s lists. Now you’ve got to tell me how it happened, but properly. Every great deed needs to be told well, got it? Later, okay? We’ve got all the time for a good tale.”
Mrsha’s eyes filled up again, and Jelaqua ruffled her hair.
“I’d make a great parent. Eh, probably not.”
She let Mrsha go and turned. Some of the people who’d helped her here were leaving, but all of them took their time to say goodbye. Thank her again—and the inn’s staff and Lyonette were all giving her this eye.
No wonder Moore ran for it. This is going to be underwater with snot and tears if I stay. So Jelaqua pulled herself up.
“I’m for Pallass. Can, uh, someone help me?”
Well then, nothing would do but Peggy and Mrsha support her, and the lopsided combo got her to the [Door of Portals]. Jelaqua found it funny how no one knew how to get to the inn, even though it was literally right out the door.
Some Skill. I have to ask about Lyonette’s cracks too. Ah, she was getting embroiled in the inn. That was okay, but Jelaqua was conscious she had a life in Pallass. Like she’d said to Moore—the Halfseekers were no more. She could be a friend, but not the last person standing in the inn between the monsters.
Perhaps the inn was ready for the next one. She hoped so. Jelaqua waited in line and realized, once again, she had a delay.
“Only people exiting through the door! We’re closed for an hour! Yeah, yeah, cry me a river!”
Liska was shouting at the people waiting outside. She was speaking with Lyonette and, of all people, Knight Rotellen. Why was it closing?
Oh, right. The new door. Liska rubbed her paws together.
“Good thing I actually know where this new anchor has to be. Hey presto! Abracadabra! New…door!”
She waved her paws around, then pointed at the [Door of Portals]. Much to the chagrin of everyone watching, that worked. Liska swung the door open and then hopped out.
“Ooh, nice and sunshiney. Is this right up against the High Passes? Yep, I can even see the other pass! Nice fort. Very block-like.”
She admired the Order of Solstice’s keep, and Lyonette peered outside.
“This is near Orefell. More mining. We’re happy to offer transport to the Knights of Solstice, of course, Squire Rotellen! And I do apologize about the confusion—I’d love to speak to Normen now, if he’s here?”
The Squire was raising all four arms skywards.
“No more damned rain! Praise the flames! The Grandmaster may be here, Princess Lyonette, or on a crusade against the forces of evil.”
“Oh my, which ones?”
Jelaqua limped onto the grass to see the new place since she wasn’t that strapped for time. She saw the Order of Solstice’s keep was indeed a rather ugly block of stones, but it was well under construction, and there were distant figures in armor training in cleared ground. They were next to a road, and…she squinted.
“Are those Eater Goats? Fuck, someone get a weapon!”
She pointed, and Mrsha’s eyes widened in alarm. Peggy began to drag them back into the inn, but Rotellen just nodded.
“Ah, yes. Our new beasts of war. They come from the village that trains Eater Goats. I would love to show you all around the keep; especially you, Captain Jelaqua.”
The Selphid opened her mouth and hesitated. After all this?
But ‘Eater Goat pets’—you just had to.
 
——
 
It was actually the subject of an argument when the group approached. Knight Ama was arguing with none other than Normen himself.
“They were chewing on Sillias! And one ate my Gargoyle skeleton’s leg! We don’t need them!”
A very defensive Antinium wearing armor was petting a goat in his hands.
“But they are adorable, vicious pets that may be sacrificed in battle, Knight Ama!”
“This is insane, even for us! And I’m the one animating Gargoyle skeletons as footsoldiers! Normen, if one more of them tries to nibble my robes, I’m going to—oh hey, look, the inn’s here.”
Ama turned, and Grandmaster Normen smiled as he saw everyone.
“Squire Rotellen, we were going to search for you! But no one could remember where the inn was. I assume this is something new and normal?”
He glanced at Lyonette, and she took a breath.
“Yes, Normen. It’s on purpose. I, ah—”
He lifted a hand.
“Say no more. Just let us know how we can get there, and we’ll adapt. It’s a good measure.”
It was a reminder that Normen was a veteran of the inn’s staff. He just welcomed everyone into the Order of Solstice’s keep.
“I’d offer you refreshments, but I think yours are far better. Everything is under construction. The armory is a mess, and we’d finish building it—the Antinium [Squires] are excellent, except that we’re too busy—”
There was a hornblast that made everyone jump, and Normen winced. None other than Jewel came racing around the corner with Durene and Vess.
“Bandits! They’re around Reizmelt! I need twenty [Squires] in ten minutes! Let’s get the bastards! Oh hey, Lyonette. The inn’s not facing another Goblin King? Good! Charge!”
