She must have been thinking too loud, or looking too conspicuous. A greyscale woman, dressed about as good as anyone else on the street, was walking her way, coming from the vendor on that street corner, holding a bag of hot candied nuts like many others leaving that same vendor. The woman was little, just like Kiri. Maybe a bit smaller. An immigrant to this town, perhaps? The old woman wasn’t the only small dragonkin in the area, but the greyscale was the only one walking right at Kiri.

The old woman sat down on the bench next to Kiri, saying, “I see you staring, but not going in. Having deep thoughts instead of light action. Want to talk about it?”

Kiri thought for a moment. Then she jumped right in, asking, “Why even have this place if we can’t ever have our own home? Is it to torture the rest of us? The New Dragonkin?” She pointed at the hanging tapestry fluttering across the museum’s front, saying, “And now there’s an Ika-lan exhibit on loan from Tower Academy in there. That’s just more salt in the wound.”

The woman listened, then she silently offered Kiri the candied nuts. Kiri eyed the bag, then shook her head.

The woman casually asked, “What do you have against Ika-lan?” then popped a candied nut into her mouth.

Kiri instantly said, “I’ve changed my mind. I’m not in the mood for this.”

“I have a lot against that awful place, too.” As Kiri regarded her unwanted bench-neighbor, the old woman continued, “Mainly that they’d be so inept as to fall to mountain monsters.”

Kiri frowned. She couldn’t help herself. She said, “They fell to a lot more than that.”

“Oh?”

Kiri waved it off, saying, “It was half a millennium ago, though. So who really knows? The dragons? Pbthhh! Who would believe them?” She asked, “And who would believe historical records dug up by the very people who helped to cause Ika-lan’s downfall, anyway?”

“Every nation hunts each other,” the old woman said. “The human lands back then were no better than Hunters, in that regard, preying upon each other and going for the throat more often than not. The reforms of the Greensoil Republic were still a pair of centuries away. Which means...”

“Yes yes.” Kiri frowned, recalling her history, then said, “Ika-lan rose and fell well before the Greensoil Republic came along and the Greensoil Republic was not the fall of Ika-lan. But the Viridian King can link his bloodline all the way back to pre-Sundering, drawing a line through several different noble houses of the pre-Republic days, four of which took part in the destruction of Ika-lan, one of which was based in Tower Town. So to cut a long list of links short, forgive me if I don’t believe that the excavation of a former enemy state was done in any honorable or historically accurate manner.” Kiri let some of her real anger show, as she said, “I know the people of Tower Town, I was born and raised there, and even went to the Arcanaeum there. Anything that showed dragonkin in positions of power was always decried by the humans in power, in any way that they could.” She gazed up at the exhibition banner, saying, “Anything from there that has to do with us… I don’t trust it.”

“Those are all very salient points.” The old woman countered, “But have you actually been to the exhibit, yet?”

“…”

The old woman stood up, saying, “I have a season pass to the museum. I was going in for my usual stroll but then I saw you just staring at the place. Want to come with me? No charge for guests.” She added, “I’d love to hear your take on what we see.”

“… Yes.” Kiri stood, not quite knowing why she was going along with this old lady, but it was as good as doing anything else. So why not? She said, “I’m Kiri.” She held out her hand for a shake.

The old woman smiled, saying, “I’m Orta,” as she grasped Kiri’s hand with her own. “Nice to meet you.” She offered the candied nuts again. “Want some?”

This time, Kiri did.

- - - -

A large painting, seven meters across and three tall, hung in the front room of the first part of the exhibit. It was of the mountains that would become Ika-lan. Three mountains, lower than most of the surrounding mountains, and situated in the center of the Mondariska mountain range, Ika-lan had been a fertile land full of razorwings and gorge goats and poison trees and a hundred other monsters, as well as a temple to some then-forgotten god. It wouldn’t be till the first decade into Ika-lan that they would uncover the name of that forgotten god, rededicate the temple to Ikaronal, and formally change the growing city’s name from Kin Land to Ika-lan; the Land of Ikaronal. The change was done in a bid to get a guardian deity for the growing city.

It had worked. Partially. Ikaronal revived, barely. That act was enough to shift the future of the land from that of a struggling city, barely able to survive in the mountains (next to what would eventually become the Greensoil Republic), into a threat.

“Bah!” Orta softly decried, “A threat? You can’t dumb down Ikaronal’s revivification that much and still be right.”

“How was Ika-lan not a threat?” Kiri asked, dumbfounded on how her analysis could have been wrong. “All the scholars agree that Ikaronal’s revivification was a threat to their neighbors.”

“I’m not disagreeing with you on the fact that Ikaronal’s revival was an act of war. Gods seek power, and though some are better about it than others, Ikaronal was not.” Orta said, “But the people of that city could have changed Ikaronal. They could have done any number of things to hone their imperialistic godling into embarking upon a conquest of the mountains. Or a conquest of the Forest, as the Orcols have done, though we could do better in that regard, if you ask me. Or maybe Ikaronal could have gone on a conquest of magic, as the Old Dragonkin had done, before their untimely demise at the hand of the Old Demons. But they let Ikaronal run rampant over their society. They became imperialists, for that was the easy way out; that was how Ikaronal was able to grant them so much more power than they should otherwise have had.”

“… I meant all that.”

“Maybe you did.” Orta said, “But a small story might as well be another type of lie.”

“Eh. I hit the important parts.”

Orta did not seem to agree.

- - - -

A whole room was dedicated to the small artifacts of normal, Script-assisted make, as was the norm for almost all new cities. The ones of pre-Ika-lan were made for people with claws, though. They didn’t have all those flat, soft surfaces that the utensils of other races had. If a human picked up that wine glass there, they would have cut themselves.

- - - -

The painting now was of the three mountains, but mountains past those three had been carved up into buildings, too. Farmland checkered the valleys, while gold-colored buildings rose up upon each peak, each decorated with the motif of the sun, for Ikaronal was a sun god. But beyond that, it was all basic architecture.

Orta said, “The middle-period of Ika-lan was rather normal for any imperialistic culture. The laws in the beginning were enough to hold off the terrible parts of society, and they hadn’t yet truly started up their war machines. They had conquered the nearby mountains, though.”

Kiri said, “They were also pushing into the Crystal Forest. They cut a line of walls from the edge of the Eastern Jut, northwest, all the way to the Mondariska Mountains, and then began a full-scale invasion of the Crystal Mimics. This was the start of their imperialism.”

“The infantry needed levels and the hierarchy needed to hone themselves against a so-called ‘easy enemy’. What better way to learn how to fight than by trying to cull the uncullable Crystals?” Orta said, “It was a small enough spot of land, too. Only 150,000 square kilometers.”

“And they succeeded.” Kiri said, “One of the only incursions into the Crystal Forest that actually managed to get somewhere.”

Orta smiled as she gazed upon the painting. She said, “It’s not widely believed, but I think there were humans and incani and all the rest inside Ika-lan.”

Kiri looked at Orta like she was crazy. “But all the historical records…?”

“And everyone has mothers and fathers that weren’t dragonkin.” Orta said, “There had to be other races inside that supposedly ‘dragonkin only empire’.”

- - - -

Cups with sun motifs, of both the stone variety, and the porcelain variety, were present in this next room. The chairs were luxurious things that could have been in any high-class place anywhere in the modern-day world, except for the sun motifs on them. Those sun motifs were the mark of Ika-lan, and they had never been popular in dragonkin culture, if there could even be called a ‘dragonkin culture’, ever since Ika-lan ended how it did.

“We have a culture.” Orta frowned, saying, “It just comes from everyone else, and gets remade in our own ways. We’re very cosmopolitan in that way.” She asked, “And do you see the sharp edges of the cups and plates are gone? Not just talons gripping these dishes, no way!”

“That’s a weak argument for the other races being a part of Ika-lan, and… I don’t consider ‘cosmopolitan’ to be a culture. Where I’m from, dragonkin aspire to be knights to work and die under the human nobility. I don’t like it, but that’s a culture. What about you, and the orcols? Is it much different here?”

“Why yes!” Orta’s eyes went wide. “You need to get out of that place, Kiri, and you need to force your family to move, too. Treehome is wonderful, but unless you want to marry into the Tribe, you can’t live here. But you’re smart enough…” Orta offered, “I have a grandson about your age—”

Kiri couldn’t help but laugh. “No!”

Orta shrugged. “No flesh off my bones. You’re probably too good for Grosh, but you should move, anyway. I’ve heard good things about Vindin. Have you ever been there? I’d recommend Spur, but who knows what’s going to happen now that the Shades are dead.”

“… Yeah. I don’t really want to think about the Shades right now. I’ve been thinking about them non-stop for a while now.”

Orta nodded, and let the topic drop.

Kiri’s eyes washed over the sun-crested swords, cannons, and other weapons, as she and Orta continued onto the next room.

- - - -

A hallway led to the final exhibition room. On one side, the painting of Ika-lan showed that the three-mountain city had become a metropolis. But the sun was setting in the background. This was right before the fall, at the height of Ika-lan’s power.

On the other side of the hallway, was the painting of Ika-lan’s End.

The city was overrun by a horde of beasts, while dragons fought in the background; one red, another white, the last one silver. Flames scorched the farms. Bodies piled in red rivers. An invading army picked off the stragglers while setting fire to everything that wasn’t already burning.

Kiri said, “It took a hundred years, but they killed Ika-lan for reaching too far, for trying to make a home.”

“And for threatening to make war upon the green lands.” Orta said, “They were not without fault, Kiri.”

“You really believe that?” Kiri said, “It wasn’t five years later that these very same invaders would break the wall that Ika-lan had built between the Eastern Jut and the Mondariska Wall, in order to genocide the last remnants of Ika-lan, hiding out in that desolate spit of desert they were halfway to reviving. They did that in order to kill a people who were already beaten.”

“Some would say they did that to stop an enemy who was not willing to let a 90% cull end them.”

“Even if that were the case…” Kiri didn’t know where she was going with that, so she said, “Whatever. The world would have been better off if Ika-lan had been the winner.” Kiri pointed to the dragons hovering above the painting. “But everything was arrayed against it.” She gestured to the army, then the monsters, pointing to a specific monster in particular. It looked like a Moon Reacher, all long limbed and soft central body, but done up in gold. “The Shades made that monster there, the Sun Eater, just to fuck over Ika-lan. If this place would have survived, maybe Ar’Kendrithyst would have been killed well before now.”

Orta glanced from the painting to Kiri, saying, “I don’t think you understand enough about Melemizargo’s Clergy to say that. I heard they only died because their God told them to die. If all it took was an empire to end them, they would have been destroyed long before now.”

“… Maybe so.” Kiri looked to the last room, and saw the treasures of Ika-lan, but no guards. Fake treasures, then. “Let’s see what’s left of what could have been.”

Orta walked on, beside Kiri, commenting, “This never would have been. Ikaronal was much too much of an imperial to allow other societies to flourish. I still maintain that his infectious desire to enslave and control killed Ika-lan just as much as outside forces.” She added, “Just look at what happened with the Shades. Same story there, surprisingly. I never would have guessed they would have died to their own hubris.”

Kiri hummed, seeing the parallel, but not willing to concede the point, because, “Ikaronal stood by his people till the end, didn’t he? Therefore the parallel is not the same.”

“Mm.” Orta said, “That much is true.”

Kiri couldn’t help but walk up to the main part of this last room.

It was a giant, gold-colored statue of Ikaronal, as a dragonkin, at least five meters from foot to face. Behind him was the sun, his hands gripped two swords, one in each hand, for there was no greater defense than a good offense. He would have been magnificent, except for the eleven iron spears that had been driven into and through the metallic body, each splashing away yellow metal. It was a symbolic killing of the god, for each of those spears belonged to one of the people who allied against Ika-lan.

Ikaronal’s face was partially destroyed. His arms hung on by the barest bits of ‘gold’. One leg was gone, three spears having blown all of it away except for the lonely foot still clinging to the pedestal. That foot also had a spear driven through it.

Kiri said, “The conquerors killed him, but the Sun Eaters made sure he stayed dead.”

Orta asked, “What do you think happens to gods when they die?”

“You’re asking me?”

