“Sure. Why not?” Orta studied Ikaronal, saying, “You’re here, and it’s not often that I have a notion to ask this question… of anyone. It’s an odd question, isn’t it? How does an idea die? You and I are here, and we are talking about Ikaronal—” She pointed at the Revivification of Ikaronal hanging on the wall to the side. It was a beaten-gold scroll inscribed with the Holy Rite of the Sun, which was purported to have been the ritual that the people of Ika-lan used to worship and eventually revive their patron deity. “And that’s written in Ancient Script. We could perform the Rite, right now, and it would theoretically give power back to him. If enough of us do it, maybe he could try building an empire again, but with a different set of dragonkin who have the benefit of history behind them.”

Kiri would have laughed, if it weren’t so sad. “This exhibition hasn’t changed much since the last time I saw it when I was fifteen, and when I was fifteen, I tried that Rite for a summer, along with a few brothers and sisters.” She waved off the Revivification of Ikaronal, saying, “That’s why I came in here saying it was all propaganda. If all it took were the right words and the right stances and incense, then Ikaronal would be alive again today, because I know for a fact that I wasn’t the only stupid kid doing that Rite, every morning, praying for a way out of the hell I was born into.”

“There are always ways out of hell.” Orta said, “But not all of them are in the light.”

Orta smiled softly, and flashed her white eyes at Kiri.

Her fully white eyes.

Ah. She was a Shade.

Shit. Kiri had known that this might happen to her. She should have stayed with Jane and Teressa.

Ah. Shit.

Kiri’s world turned tiny, as her heart beat hard, and a spotlight shone down on just her, and a person who was certainly not ‘Orta’.

She blinked, and the Shade pulled a kendrithyst staff out of the air. Her scales fell away, revealing human skin, and frizzy, white hair.

Fallopolis said, “You’re right that the Rite on that wall is propaganda, as is much of this entire exhibit. These sorts of things often are. But the real Rite would work, if My God ever released Ikaronal. We did make the Sun Eaters, after all.” She smiled. “But maaaaybe he’s looking for someone he can entrust with divinity, and Empire. The right person could gain a lot, for both themselves and for a lot of people. But who is the right person? Someone who wants something bad enough to go out and take it, for sure. Someone smart, of course. Someone clever, too, for brains are nothing without wisdom. But most of all, someone in the right place, at the right time.” The Shade spoke a deadly demand, “Tell me, Kiri. Are you in the right place at the right time?”

“I am not.”

The words left her throat and bubbled out her mouth before she could form a coherent thought, but as her impetuous answer hung in the air, a darker thought came forth.

Kiri successfully managed to strangle that thought before it could make itself known.

Fallopolis frowned in disappointment. “A pity.” She added, “Tell Erick that we’re all doing fine, though Treant is likely going to stir up some shit in Treehome before he takes the next step of his Worldly Path.” She shrugged. “Or don’t tell him, and just think for a while. Melemizargo can disable the mental reading of this conversation, if you wish.”

Kiri instantly said, “I do not wish.”

“… A pity. Then I guess it’s a temporary memory wipe for you.” Fallopolis apologized, “I truly hate messing with autonomy, but needs must, and all that shit. For what it’s worth, I enjoyed our little chat. Erick certainly did luck out with you. What are you, like 19?”

Kiri didn’t get to answer. Not that she wanted to, anyway.

- - - -

Kiri walked out of the Ika-lan exhibition, steaming mad and hating her circumstances even more. She had almost forgotten about that stupid Holy Rite of the Sun, but then she saw that beaten gold scroll on the wall, and the sudden memory of praising the sun with her siblings was like an assault on her mind. She vividly recalled getting her butt tanned by her father over being ‘too uppity for your own good’ and ‘don’t you let the nobles see you doing that!’. Fury at the past wrapped around Kiri like an old, nasty blanket, too comfortable to throw away, too far gone to be [Mend]ed whole, and too much loved to be burned to ash like it deserved.

Why did she go into that stupid museum?

Why did she come to this stupid ‘dragonkin district’? It was all just another ploy to keep her people as second class citizens. At least the orcols were better about it than the humans. You could probably marry into the Redarrow tribe, at least.

Ahhh… Kiri liked Spur, anyway. It was better than most places the world over, even if it was run by an immortal. Silverite wasn’t so bad. There were no odd racial laws under her watch, aside from every race having their own districts, and that was a normal enough situation the world over. Killzone was a nice commander to have, too.

And as soon as Kiri unlocked and accepted Particle Mage as her Class, more doors would open up for her.

Turning the Crystal Forest into an actual forest.

Piloting ‘space ships’ to new worlds.

Making her own town! Kiri could do it, too, if she had [Call Lightning]. Then she could make [Exalted Rain], and change her fate, and the fates of many others. All it took was being in the right place, at the right time. And the right time was certainly coming, soon enough.

Kiri headed back to the hotel, trying to think better thoughts.

- - - -

The sun set over the Forest.

Celebration fires reached high into the air, lit upon bonfires stacked twenty meters high.

The drums played a thrumming beat that pounded into Teressa’s heart with the sound of a world ending and beginning, all at once. Her grey armor clung to her chest and around her waist; a binder to keep mounds of flesh in place, and a kilt as was appropriate. No boots; this was a Forest Hunt, after all. Her hands were free to do as they needed to do. Her mind was free, so she could do what needed to be done.

Setting aside her worries had taken more effort than she would have liked, but she had drunk deep of the Celebration Wine, and all thoughts paled in comparison to what would come. There was no tragedy. There was no pain. There was no dead family. There was only the Hunt, and she was the huntress. She, and her three companions. Would have been four, but Kiri had elected not to Hunt, and that was probably for the best.

But Jane practically vibrated in her own conjured armor, her bloodlust another flavor to the air, her presence welcomed by the other hunters all around. She was the smallest one of the horde, though, so Teressa silently vowed to watch out for her, if only a little. Jane could take care of herself, but if Erick found out that Jane got hurt while she was out here with his daughter and she hadn’t thought to watch out for Jane...

Teressa shook her head, dissipating those awful thoughts.

The drummers drummed their final notes. Arbor Steel-Branch crackled high above, blue lightning discharging between metallic branches. The night seemed to pause.

And then!

Thunder rolled, a final boom, followed instantly by whooping and roaring and running.

And then a mad dash into the dark treeline. A hundred pairs of feet pounded on loam, which soon became the sound of nothing but the wind as every single person of the group activated [Hunter’s Instincts]. Five minutes passed in silence. Five, too-short minutes. Teressa reveled in the feeling of a proper hunt, but the sound of some animal sliced in half and dying on the northern flank put her back in the bloody moment. The brief run had covered five kilometers already; they had passed the edge of the Steel-Branch’s protection two kilometers ago. Monsters started showing.

As their squad leader, Jane opened a telepathic connection to the four of them. Silently, Teressa knew the locations of her people better than just ‘Jane was at her left’, ‘Kordon was on the right’, and ‘Kordon’s friend Gweko was further right’.

In the deep Forest, where the moons were barely visible crescents and the knifing light that filtered down through the canopy was barely enough to see anything at all, the full hunting party began to split. The goal was to kill any threat they came across, and Teressa was thrilled with that clear-cut purpose.

Ten minutes in, their team found their first monster. It was a prowler beast; a chimera of cat and frog and snake. Teressa was closest. She summoned a grey-steel mallet that would only ever be picked up once, and slammed it down atop the monster, caving in the beast and lodging her mallet deep into the tree the monster had failed to hide against. Blood splattered, like red rain across the hunting party, and the run continued. Behind them, the mallet dissipated. In a week, that damaged tree would have repaired itself, or been replaced by some stronger greenery of the Forest. It was monster-eat-monster out here, and that included the plants.

They all took part in slaying the next monsters; a group of wild silk spiders that was twenty kilometers into their run. It was their first real effort. And yet, it only took ten seconds to kill them all. Korgon laughed as he turned the nest into ash. Jane smiled as she sliced apart the barely-queen spider. It was a young one, but it had to have moved into the area just this day, since there was no way that the Celebration Hunt yesterday would have missed these spiders.

The monsters and the monstrous trees would move in and regrow, as they always did, but it was still necessary to kill the worst of them whenever they showed. With that thought holding up her world, Teressa laughed as Jane ran on, and the rest of them followed their fearless, tiny leader. They would all be covered by blood and monster guts well before the night was through.

And that was a good thing.

- - - -

Erick sipped tea while he watched his daughter and Teressa and their two new friends rush through the Forest, killing monsters. Well. ‘Watched’ was perhaps not correct. He had an Ophiel throw up a [Cascade Imaging] far out in the Forest, then switched the search as necessary from Jane, to Teressa. Jane sometimes vanished into shadows and also from the map, but Teressa was always on the map.

He also searched out ‘rads’ and ‘grand rads’. Their hunting party was headed straight for a trio of ‘grand rad’ monsters, and Erick might have Ophiel move in closer, but he knew he shouldn’t. That trio of grand rad monsters were just some large frogs. Large, toothy monsters, with very long, grabbing tongues, but…

Jane was FINE. Teressa was FINE.

Stop hovering, Erick told himself.

He had searched out ‘Moon Reacher’ and ‘Wyrm’, though, and after a quick check in with O’kabil, he ended those threats before they could become much of a danger to anyone in any of the hunts on this night. Jane and Teressa’s Celebration Hunt was only one of a thousand Hunts going on all around Treehome, and while a good ten-thousand monsters would fall to the raging —but not Raging!— horde, no one wanted the more dangerous monsters to upset anyone’s lives.

Erick allowed himself this much hovering.

O’kabil, in her aristocrat-ish orcol form, frowned, as she spoke from her seat beside Erick, “I did not imagine that we had Moon Reachers that close to the city.”

Erick sipped his tea, savoring the flavor of Soul Palm Balm, then casually, but very much not, asked, “Want me to scan all of the Forest for them? If you have some agents up to the task, we could exterminate them tonight.”

“… Though I want to say ‘yes’, I am hesitant, for though the Moon Reachers are a terrible monster, they also kill other terrible monsters, and removing predators from an ecosystem can cause vast and unknown harm.” O’kabil paused. She thought, then she said, “I and my fellow Arbors will consider your offer and give you an answer in a day, after we have had a chance to speak to experts in the field that might offer useful perspectives. I suspect that our answer will be ‘yes’.”

Erick admitted, “It would likely take several days to find and cull them all, anyway, and my daughter would want to be involved.”

O’kabil sat straight, her eyes falling upon Erick like a merchant deciding whether or not to buy the offered goods. Erick sipped his tea, and waited for her to speak.

Eventually, she asked, “How much will this service cost us?”

“Room and board for a week.”

O’kabil narrowed her eyes. “Again, you ask too little. Do you not value yourself? Or do you think us paupers?”

“Oh please.” Erick mocked her expression with one of his own that was decidedly more sarcastic. “I want them dead, too. If they’re gone, then that would make the Forest that much easier to explore when I decide to get out there and find those old Gates.”

“If you think Moon Reachers are one of the more dangerous monsters out there, then you are in for a dangerous awaking.” O’kabil said, “There’s Twisted Visions. Deathsoul shrooms. Dragons.”

Erick shrugged. “I can’t solve all the problems in the world, but I can help to solve some of them.” Again, Erick considered a particular magic that he first thought of back during Shadow’s Feast. Again, he banished that thought without giving it much thought, saying, “And I shouldn’t solve all the problems in this world, either. No one person should, for that is nothing short of tyranny.” He added, “I won’t be going forward with this Moon Reacher extermination unless you, the beings in charge around here and the people you work with, decide to move forward. And if you want to kill all the Deathsoul Shrooms instead, I would need some help with that. I never heard of those monsters.”

O’kabil looked away, turning to face the windows, to watch the night and the northern Forest. She said, “You have no problem with eradicating a whole species, do you.”

Erick almost exploded in anger at the implication of her words. And then he calmed, before he spoke words he did not want to speak. He considered another direction. He asked, “Would you eradicate a particular parasite, if you could? Snap your fingers; destroy a plague.”

O’kabil didn’t speak. She certainly looked to be thinking, though.

