Erick sipped his tea, feeling something inside of him slip back together with each sip. Soon, he finished his second cup of the day of soul healing tea. Syllea had given him enough for ten days, which should be more than enough. His first one had gone down smooth and his resulting nap had been wonderful. But he wasn’t tired, now. He was ready to relax even more! He reached over and opened a small wooden box; another gift from Syllea. He pulled out a blueweed blunt, lit the end, and took a puff.

He held the blunt out to O’kabil.

She easily took the blunt, and this time, she didn’t inhale the whole thing in seconds. She just took an easy drag, then handed the blunt back to Erick.

Erick took a drag.

O’kabil blew out a small cloud of blue smoke, and said, “Your earlier words have merit, but I would not personally snap my fingers and kill a parasite the world over. I would instead put that power into the hands of a committee of individuals concerned with many different and acceptable goals.”

Erick nodded. “Would you accept a partial vote for eradication?”

“No.” O’kabil said, “A full consensus would be needed.”

“Then the Moon Reachers probably won’t be eradicated by this time next week.”

“… Probably not.”

They passed the cigarette between them both, while Erick watched Jane and Teressa from afar, and O’kabil did the same for her own people.

- - - -

“Oh yeah!” Erick jokingly asked, “Where’s my Mist Rabbit comforter?”

O’kabil slowly turned to him. “It’s not here?” With a glance around, she answered her own question. “It’s not here.” She looked away, blue smoke trailing from her lips as she crushed the roach of the last blunt in her fingers, turning it to thick air. “The crafters are sleeping at the moment. I’ll figure something out tomorrow.”

Erick smiled, saying, “I’m just teasing.”

“Even if you are, you should have had the agreed upon exchange paid in full hours ago.”

Erick lit a second blunt and handed it to her, saying, “Want something to drink?”

O’kabil took the blunt, saying, “This body needs no sustenance.”

“I’m gonna make myself a drink, then.”
