Tala could practically hear the girl’s soul screaming in desperation along with the questions surrounding this long-hidden fear.

Both of her parents answered instantly, Rane speaking first, “No. You are our daughter,”

Tala continued for them, “and we wouldn’t change a thing about you.”

Rane added, “Body or soul.”

Tala smiled, echoing him. “Body or soul.”

They both saw acceptance finally click into place in their daughter’s eyes, and the magics all through her body roared to life, seemingly having been suppressed by the girl, herself, whether consciously or not.

Right there—barely a hundred yards from the Platoiri column of souls—Lea Sappherrous accepted who she was and allowed her unique nature to fully mesh. She Fused on the spot, her soul settling more fully within her automaton form—her body—the gate relaxing and opening further, allowing power to suffuse her form even further, completing the advancement, and allowing more draining magics already laid within the form to spark to life.

All of this, Tala, Alat, and Terry willfully hid from those around them, as none of them knew how the arcanes would respond to the girl Fusing, but that didn’t take their attention from the youngest Sappherrous.

Hugs tightened and nuzzles continued as the process finished, Lea weeping openly throughout.

When Lea’s aura finally settled, it was at a bright, yellow-orange which reminded Tala of natural sunshine. The girl would not be able to advance further without Refining… but was that even possible with her unusual body?

Tala shook herself. Such questions could be addressed later.

How did we miss the signs of this?

-We are all good at hiding our insecurities, is it any wonder our daughter can too?-

Maybe… Rane seemed to have an inkling.

-Well, we did marry him for a reason.-

True enough. Even so, Tala felt a bit like a failure as a mother. Her daughter had been struggling, and she essentially hadn’t noticed. It wasn’t even that she hadn’t recognized the signs. She felt like she hadn’t even seen them. Even today, she’d have let the moment pass if Rane hadn’t pressed the issue. She squeezed him a bit tighter too. “Thank you, Rane.”

He smiled, face pressed into the top of Tala’s hair. “Of course. I love my girls.”

Terry let out a little squawk.

“And you too, Terry.”

Terry gave a self-assured nod, causing the other three to chuckle, even as they pulled back a bit.

Tala gave a soft smile. “Come on, let’s—” She cut off as she caught sight and sense of someone on the far side of the square, even as he turned down a side street. She frowned. “Is that…?”

Rane turned to look, but the turtle-kin was already out of sight.

Tala was already taking a step to follow. “Come on. I think I saw someone I want to talk to.” She pulled her family along as she went after the man who had helped her find Terry when she was in Platoiri so long ago. “If I’m right, I need to give my thanks. I also want to introduce you all to him.” She glanced back toward Lea even as her daughter followed close behind. “Then, we’ll celebrate.”

With no objections—and happy smiles and squawks all around—the family sped up, placing the vestiges of Platoiri behind them, out of sight, but certainly not out of mind.
