“I can’t be everywhere at once, General. And for the next threat, I don’t think I’ll be on Earth at all.

Jason’s voice cracked, the frustration leaking out of him. He shoved himself to his feet and planted his hands on the table.

“General, I’m fairly certain that you will have to fight the next war without me. Before it even begins, I have to walk into a conflict I’ve already lost. I don’t know how they intend to take me off the board, but I’m confident they will. So, I won’t be here for a fight that this world isn’t ready for.”

“How can they take you out? You’ve made no small point of being immortal.”

“Immortal doesn’t mean invincible. They can’t kill me, but they can rob me of time. I was warned about that, and not by someone who shares such things on a whim.”

“That king of the evil angels I heard about?”

Jason’s scowl faded as he snorted out a laugh.

“I can’t believe that’s how they described him.”

“Is it wrong?”

“Let’s just say it fails to capture the scope of who and what he is.”

“Is he a threat?”

Jason laughed again.

“A threat? General, there’s a café I quite like to visit. I do so without anyone knowing who I am. I go there by myself and, for a little while, get to be a normal person doing a normal thing. If I decided, one day, to erase that café from existence, the only thing that could stop me would be someone convincing me not to. If I decided to not be convinced, there is no power in this world that could prevent its utter annihilation. Does that make me a threat to that café, General Mills?”

“You could have just said no.”

“Would you have been satisfied with that answer?”

“I’m not sure I’m satisfied with the one you gave me.”

“Yes, you are. You’re just not happy with what it implies.”

“I suppose I’m not.”

Jason sighed and retook his seat.

“Mr Asano, why are you telling me all this? You’ve held your tongue for a long time, and in front of people a lot more important than me.”

Jason gave a contemplative nod, waiting a long moment before answering.

“Do you know how this started for me? A magical accident hurled me across the cosmos. I wasn’t chosen. The only thing special about me was my circumstance. Entities of incomprehensible power saw opportunity in that circumstance and made me an unwitting pawn in their schemes. Schemes you’ll be hearing more about, once the vampires are handled and I lay all this out.”

“You’re saying that I’m in the right place at the right time.”

“Yes. It’s time to start getting the world ready for what comes next, and you’re going to be a key leader in that.”

“If things are as drastic as you say, we could have used more time to get ready.”

“I’d like to have given it to you. Or to myself, for that matter. As I said, it’s complicated, and the full explanation can wait. Today, we can start walking through what my allies and I can offer your forces. My cloud palace, for example, will make an ideal central command for you. Mobile, secure, and with utilities I think you’ll find more than sufficient to the task.”

Jason plucked a recording crystal out of the air and slotted into the projector built into the table.

“Let me start taking you through the details.”
