“That’s a good idea!” Febri sounded relieved. “You won’t be alone for long. You go ahead. Some of us will head over right away.”


“No,” Søren said. “No, I’ll…I’ll wait. If Sanjay’s friend can help…then tomorrow…”


As if he had something to prove, he lowered his good arm from his face and used it to push himself slowly up into a seated position, his face contorting as he did so.


He took several more deep breaths. “I’ll be all right. I’m a part of the team. I’m a part of this program, too. I deserve to be here, too. I won’t be slow on the wall again. I’ll climb as fast as everyone else. As long as nobody tells the instructors, I can run, and—”


Alden made a decision. “Sounds like a plan.”


Febri and Ignacio stared at him. Rebecca made a sound of protest. Kon raised an eyebrow


“Maybe with a little help from the Healer Sanjay knows, and if you skip your early classes tomorrow and get some sleep, you’ll be better in time for gym,” said Alden. “It’s worth a try. You should probably let me pick you up, though. So that you don’t make anything worse before the Healer gets here.”


Søren blinked at him.


“You don’t want to move around with an injury, right? It’ll just make it harder for the Healer to fix you.”


“Just until the Healer comes?” Søren asked, staring into his eyes with his own puffy ones.


He really looked awful. His hair was half wet and dripping down the side of his neck, where the skin was bright red. He’d been burned there too, just not bad enough to instantly blister.


Alden nodded. “Put the arm that’s not hurt around my neck. I’ll pick you up.” He smiled. “You’ll get to join the very exclusive time traveller club with Instructor Plim.”


Søren nodded slowly.


A minute later, Alden stood up with one frozen Shaper in his arms.


“So,” he said, repositioning his hands now that he wasn’t scared to hurt his classmate by touching the burns, “I’m going to ET out of here with him. I hope. Otherwise, I’m just going to have to sit around holding him until a faculty member gets here and forces him to ET.”


That seemed more convenient for Alden, since it wouldn’t mean a late-night trip across the island, but crueler to Søren than a swift arrival at the hospital and a dose of painkillers. The third option was hauling a burned, preserved body around by car service or public transportation, and that didn’t seem like the most desirable idea.


<<You were lying to him?>> Ignacio asked.


“Good,” said Rebecca in a relieved voice. “I’ll go tell the team I’m going there!”


“He’ll be mad at you,” said Febri.


“Maybe,” said Alden. “But I think he knows on some level that he's hurt way too bad to go to class tomorrow. He just needed someone to take the choice off his plate.”


So that he wouldn’t feel like he’d given up.


“Can you teleport him with your skill even though he just directly rejected a teleport to that location?” Kon asked. “That’s surprising for some reason.”


“Never tried. We’re about to find out. System, I need an emergency teleport to the healing hospital.”


The response was immediate.


 


[Usage of Anesidora’s teleport allotment has been authorized. Please cancel your request if your need is not urgent. ]


[Teleporting in 8 s…]


 


“It says to cancel my request if my need isn’t urgent.”


“Don’t worry about that,” said Kon. “This is urgent enough. They just don’t want people using ET for scrapes and bruises.”


“My uncle got in so much trouble for abusing the ET allotment when he was our age,” said Febri. “He was a daredevil and he relied on it to get him out of whatever disaster was about to happen. Now he’s on the restricted—”


Alden had a brief sensation that he could only describe as a kind of existential blink. Like he’d been cut off from the physical world for the briefest of moments, so that he was aware of himself and the person he protected and nothing more, and then he was suddenly standing somewhere else.


Weird. It’s like a mini version of the longer teleports now. But no nausea.


He always used to get that with local teleports. This was his first one since coming back home.


Looking around, he found himself in a larger than standard teleport bay. It was about a third the size of his bedroom, and there was a screen on the wall in front of him. A dark-skinned woman in jade green scrubs was examining him through it.


“What’s the nature of your emergency?”


“He burned himself,” said Alden.


“Is he…unconscious?”


“Oh!” This probably did look confusing. And if she had the same kind of vitals monitors on this teleportation bay that they had at the TC, it might have looked like Alden was holding nothing. Or a dead person. “It’s my skill. He’s sheltered by a layer of magic that protects him and keeps him in exactly the same state he was in when I picked him up. He’s not aware of anything. Basically, he’s on hold.”


She blinked at him. “That’s a good skill.”


They liked it in the last emergency department I visited, too.


The woman quickly went through a series of questions that Alden was positive nobody would have asked at a medical facility anywhere else. Søren being an A-rank triggered an additional few questions about his state of mind when Alden had picked him up, making Alden wonder if there was some kind of high-rank subduer on staff who protected people from violent patients.


A couple of minutes after he arrived, the door in the wall to his left slid open and a man and a woman in the same jade green scrubs appeared with a gurney and a supply caddy. They looked Søren over curiously, then looked at Alden just as curiously, then finally they let him set the Light Shaper down.


Søren blinked around in confusion for just a second.


“We’re at the healing hospital in F,” said Alden, shoving his hands into his pockets. “I’m sorry.”


They asked the injured boy some of the same questions they’d asked Alden, got permission to give him medicine, and started pressing injectors to his arms right there in the bay. His face relaxed a lot.


“You lied to me,” Søren said. He didn’t sound surprised.


“I’m sorry,” Alden said again. Despite the necessity of it, he did feel guilty.


“Everyone thinks I’m useless. This makes me look even worse.”


“You can't just tough out a major injury. Get better and use your ultra-rare subclass to defeat them all. It’s the only way.”


 


******


 


Alden left the hospital more than an hour later. He was tired, and he couldn’t help feeling like this was a sour note for an otherwise productive day to end on. He fell asleep in the private car on the way back to campus and dragged himself through the door of the apartment at nearly three AM. The others were all asleep.


He showered, then headed to his room. My plans for the night have all fallen apart.


He’d wanted to cast the clumsy half of the self-awareness wordchain by himself for the first time, so that he could use the other half tomorrow for gym. It just felt better to do it that way, even if Hazel Velra wasn’t a threat at the moment. Now he didn’t have enough hours to let the chain run its course before science class.


It’s fine. Doing it like that would be nice, but it’s not necessary.


He was about to climb up into his bed when a System notice appeared. He opened it, and then read it through more than once to be sure he understood what it was.


The message had come from the Artonan embassy. Unlike the consulate in Chicago, there was an actual ambassadorial presence here on Anesidora. One of the current ambassador’s assistants wanted to know how he would like his mail to be delivered.


My mail?


The assistant had given him far too many options, including recommendations for his or her favorite walking routes to various destinations where the mail could be presented to Alden. That takes thorough to a brand new level.


The mail itself was left conspicuously undescribed, considering the fact that a map to a specific tea shop had been provided in case he needed a warm human beverage with his mail.


Maybe it was something else from LeafSong. Another package of turtlenecks and joggers. Though they’d used a human courier service for that.


Is it rude to ask for them just to teleport it to me?


The option was there, so surely it wasn’t. He tried to turn on his brain and draft a nice reply. Kibby should have given me lessons on letter writing instead of table manners.


Klee-pak had written a letter to a relative once and had included a strand of hair. Fortunately that wasn’t possible through the System, so Alden didn’t have to ask himself if it was necessary.


He sent the message, then waited.


A couple of minutes later, a package arrived. A largish sack made of what looked like heavy brown silk appeared on the rug right beside him. The corners of the fabric were tied at the top in a knot looped through with a single strand of matching ribbon. Very curious, Alden bent down and pried at the knot. Eventually he realized that wasn’t the way to go, and he pulled on the end of the ribbon experimentally.


It slid free easily, and the knotted silk came undone with it.


Alden realized what the gift was as soon as he saw the corner of it peeking out from under the cloth. Deep brown leather, the logogram for the word that meant “earnestly seeking” stitched into the top in gold thread that glimmered with just a little bit of magic in addition to the metallic sheen. He knelt there staring at the corner for a while, blindsided by emotions he couldn’t quite place.


Stu-art’h sent me a learning cushion.


His hand went to the auriad around his neck.


That was thoughtful of him.


On one hand, it was just a really nice pillow. On the other…


Learning cushions like this one were for wizards. It was why Kibby had treasured the two from Joe so much even though there were other cushions at the lab. Most humans didn’t realize there were different types unless they were Artonan geeks; Earth associated the leather cushions with Artonans in general, producing knock-offs accordingly. But the learning cushion a non-wizard used in a classroom would be made of other materials.


Leather had significance because it had come from life.


I’m reading too much into it. He knew what kind of cushions we played around with here on Earth because he saw them. He probably assumed it was natural to give me the wizard one because it was what I preferred, and there are no official cushion material rules for Avowed.


Knowing all of that didn’t dim his feelings much.


He unwrapped the cushion slowly. And he discovered that it was fucking gorgeous.


A cushion could be gorgeous, it turned out. It had more embroidery than Kibby’s had. Six lines of gold and silver logograms made a band around the edges. It was heavy, and it was ever so slightly larger and thicker than standard if Alden wasn’t mistaken.


It’s more me-sized. Stuart rocks.


Completely perfect. That was what it was.


He was delighted to find it even had the discreet narrow side pocket where a student could keep a spare promise stick…or store their unbonded auriad until they decided to give it to the human as a reward for coming back alive with the car.


If I can’t find a promise stick on Earth, I’ll make one.


He almost didn’t want to set the cushion down on the floor, even though that was what it was intended for, but he finally did. Then he reached down to pick up the note that had been placed below it in the cloth wrap.


Stuart had written it, so he was sure it would be a meticulously well-crafted letter. Probably with a lesson on proper cushion use included.


When he unfolded it, he found that it was just as well-crafted as he’d expected, though not in the way he’d expected it to be.


Stuart had written the note in excellent English. It was brief, and his handwriting was neat but quite round, as if he wanted the letters to be more circular than they were supposed to be:
 


Dear Alden,


This was made by the Craftswoman Enyl-tirg, who also made my cushion. Please protect it from your schoolmates.


May you gain knowledge all the days of your life, and may your days be many. 
 
*********


*********
