Astrid spun her chair around to face him. “Sure! But just imagine how much more awesome it would be to do something like that underwater.”


 


******


 


 


They worked until midnight and might’ve kept going if not for Lexi threatening to read them research on how lack of sleep made you too klutzy to run obstacle courses.


“Does that specific research really exist?” Haoyu yawned as they passed below a lamppost on their way back across campus toward Garden Hall. Alden and his roommates were lagging a couple of minutes behind the rest of the group, since Lute had wanted to explore the library’s free office supply offerings some more. “Some scientist made a bunch of people go without sleep, and then ran them through an obstacle course?”


“It was a maze. And it was mice. But it still applies.”


“Poor mice.”


“Are you guys going to win?” Lute asked. “I’ll be depressed if you lose now that I’ve contributed.”


“Three wordchains,” said Lexi.


“Hours of tutoring,” Lute countered. “Reinhard won’t be a fatigued maze mouse even if he stays up all night. Njeri will be very slightly stronger. And Astrid will feel more peaceful when everything’s going wrong. Assuming they all remember what I told them. I have my doubts.”


“Thank you for doing it,” said Alden.


Lexi sighed. “It was nice.”


“It was great of you!” Haoyu agreed.


Lute leaped ahead of them on the sidewalk and gave them a dramatic bow. “I am great. But seriously…are you going to win? The other teams look scarier than you guys.”


“They all have an S-rank weapon Meister except for us. Tuyet, Marsha, and Shrike are pure offense,” said Lexi.


“Are we seriously supposed to call Knife Guy ‘Shrike?’” Alden asked. “Even if he’s picked a favorite hero name, are we sure he doesn’t want us to use his real name in casual conversation?”


“You’re calling him Knife Guy,” Lexi pointed out. “And I can’t believe you didn’t know the name of one of the class S-ranks.”


“I’ve barely interacted with him. Maricel didn’t remember either!”


The Knife Meister wasn’t much of a talker, as it turned out, because of a language gap. He was just learning English, and he often kept translations turned off for the immersion experience.


“Ignacio wants to use both names, so either should be fine,” said Haoyu. “I think we could win. Our team is interesting, too. Lots of versatility. Strategy is up in the air still since we decided to let everyone have at least one of their personal goals. But even with that, we’ll work together so much better this time around.”


As they approached the dorm, Lexi said, “You never mentioned if there was anything you wanted to try.”


“Me?” Alden asked.


Lexi nodded.


“That’s true!” said Haoyu. “You were the one who said we should be open about it if we wanted to test something out or show something off while we have access to the course. Didn’t you want to try anything?”


Alden looked up toward his own bedroom window as they passed below it. The neighboring girls’ dorm had gotten an upgrade yesterday in the form of twinkle lights in their ivy. He assumed the boys’ building would soon follow.


“I just want to hang out in the background and find ways to use my power to support everyone else,” he said finally.


“Is that all?” Haoyu leaned around Lexi to see him better. “You’re sure?”


“I’m going to use my new wordchain, too. And I’ve got a few ideas that could be fun if the appropriate situations arise. It’s enough. I’ll be getting plenty of practice whatever I do…as long as nobody knocks me out.”


They entered the sliding doors, paused for a moment in the common area so Lexi could throw a bunch of trash someone had left on one of the tables into the recycling bins, then headed up the stairs.


“I call the tub,” Lute announced as their feet pounded up the steps. “It’s my right as team trainer.”


Haoyu nodded. “Sounds fair.”


“I call—” said Lexi.


“First shower is mine!” Haoyu said in a rush. “Ha! I win. You can—”


A scream interrupted him.


Alden jumped. His hand clenched against the soft fabric of his bag. All four of them looked at the ceiling.


“It wasn’t that loud,” said Lexi. “It must have come from inside a room.”


“Should we—?” Haoyu gestured upwards.


“Someone’s on fire.” Lute tilted his head.


“What?” Lexi demanded.


“What do you me—?”


“Someone’s really…FUCK!” Lute shouted, bolting up the last few steps and then racing for the third floor. “ET!! ET yourself!!”


They were all three right behind him. Alden’s laptop-laden bag smashed into his hip as they rounded the corner. He took the stairs up to the next floor two at a time behind Haoyu.


No time for thoughts other than the most obvious.


Fire? Who is it? My skill…


Voices were shouting. Lute was banging on the door of Suite 313, cursing a lot, and yelling for whoever the injured person was to emergency teleport to the hospital.


The door flew open, and Sanjay from their class pelted out.


“Sanjay!” Lexi said. “Who’s hurt?”


Sanjay leaped through the air, heading down the stairs Alden and the others had just come up without actually using them. He hit the landing in a roll that smashed him into a wall, then he was up and leaping down the next flight, nothing but a broken flip-flop left behind.


“Holy shit,” said Alden.


They pushed into the apartment. Every surface was covered in food, bags, and tech; and people were shouting in the hall. They ran in to find themselves at the back of a group of their classmates who were crowding the doorway of one of the bedrooms.


“Oh my god, oh my god,” Rebecca was saying. “He needs the hospital.”


“It’s out! The fire’s out! Stay calm!” someone shrieked wildly. “Everyone stay calm!”


<<Is he okay!?>>


“Shut up! I can’t hear!”


“Søren? Søren, why didn’t you ET?”


The air smelled like smoke. Without pausing to figure out exactly what had gone down, Alden tried to squeeze his way between Rebecca and another one of the class’s Brutes to get through the door into the bedroom.


Someone was apologizing almost hysterically.


“Rebecca,” said Alden, “Rebecca, if someone’s hurt, move.”


“Hey!” a voice rang out sharply. “Fucking move, all of you!”


It was Lexi.


“Alden’s skill is good for injured people!” Haoyu shouted right after him. “Let him through!”


Rebecca leaped out of the way and across the room so fast she almost went through the window. Alden hurried inside, taking it all in as fast as he could. A slightly charred desk, a broken lamp, water everywhere, and a metal bucket on its side by the loft bed’s ladder. Søren was lying on the floor, breathing hard. His lips trembled and he clumsily waved away an anxious Reinhard—who must have arrived back here at his apartment just in time to witness the accident—with one arm. Febri and Ignacio, the S-ranks from Søren’s team, squatted beside him.


Both of them looked freaked out.


Febri had struck Alden as an exuberant guy when he’d first seen him at Konstantin’s party, racing around dressed in caution tape, and though they hadn’t said much to each other at all since then he didn’t think the impression was wrong. Now, though, the Agility Brute was chewing nervously on a fingernail. And Ignacio’s hands were hovering over Søren’s right side, like they were anxious to do something but unable to find the correct action.


Søren’s shirt sleeve had obviously caught on fire. The exposed skin on his arm and shoulder looked awful.


“Some…some of the fabric is…I think it’s stuck to your skin,” Febri said. “And it’s all blistered. You have to go to a healer.”


<<You do. Why won’t you go?>> Ignacio asked.


“I’m f-fine,” Søren said. “I’m sorry. I’m fine. I can still run tomorrow. I can run.”


<<You need a heal—>>


“This is your fault!” Rebecca interrupted, pointing at the two S-ranks. “You told him there was no reason for him to be in the team meeting!”


<<We didn’t mean it that way.>> Ignacio said. <<I only said it would be better for him to spend the time practicing since…I didn’t know he was going to practice so hard that this happened!>>


How do you attack? thought Alden. Instructor Klein’s bark from their first day of class came back to him so clearly the man might have been in the room. And Søren’s embarrassed reply had been...He can make places hot. Focus light to make heat. Just not with much control yet. Clearly.


Alden crouched beside Reinhard and targeted the injured boy. “That looks super painful. You want me to pick you up? I’m even more instant than Artonan drugs.”


The Light Shaper shook his head. He wiped at his watering eyes with his unburned arm. “I’m fine. I just want a moment. Leave me alone,” he babbled. “I’m sorry. I—”


“You’re not fine!” Reinhard said. “Your arm looks like it’s been grilled. You’re running on adrenaline or something. Are you crazy? ET. Now.”


A commotion by the door announced the arrival of yet more classmates. The apartment had been crowded already with what was obviously a Team Febri/Shrike meeting. Now, a few members of Team Vandy/Marsha were out in the hall, and a pajama-clad Kon was stepping into the room, his curious expression fading and his eyes widening.


“We heard shouting…what happened!? Why didn’t you send him to the—?”


<<He won’t go! We tried to send him ourselves, but he rejected the teleportation offer!>>


“Sanjay went to get a Healer,” someone whispered. “His sister’s girlfriend is one. She’s in the uni dorms.”


“Did he forget he has the System now? Why didn’t he just call her?”


Lexi’s voice rose again from out in the hallway. “Injured people need the healing hospital, not a random student Sanjay knows.”


“I think he wants some space,” Alden said evenly. Søren was covering his eyes with his arm again. “He’s not dying. There’s no reason for everyone to stand around staring and discussing things.”


Everyone ignored him.


Does he have friends here? Alden looked around. He didn’t know who the Light Shaper hung out with. Or if he spent much time with anybody at all. He had only been vaguely aware that Søren and Reinhard were roommates.


Everybody was chattering back and forth, some of them sharing would-be-helpful ideas, others just spreading gossip and blame around. Reading between the lines, it sounded like Søren’s teammates hadn’t done much to hide the fact that they were unenthused about his presence on the team. A Shaper who couldn’t shape yet, who was afraid of heights, who had to be carried over and through most of the course…


“I don’t want a Healer,” Søren was saying in that same shaky voice, arm still covering his face. “Nobody can know. They’ll keep me from class tomorrow. I can’t let everybody down again.”


He’s not making sense, thought Alden.


There was no way to keep this secret, and there was no good reason to. He wouldn’t even want to once the initial rush of emotion faded. The room smelled acrid. It wasn’t like Søren could even wear a gym suit at the moment. He needed a doctor, or someone with an appropriate and gentle spell, to peel his shirt off him without hurting him.


Alden was opening his mouth to try some logic on the guy, when a girl’s voice spoke up: “Your team will run better without you on it. So just go to the hospital and get some meds. Take a break. Nobody here needs you, and all this drama is probably bad for you.”


Alden looked around to see people moving out of Marsha’s way. Winston was right behind her, standing on his tiptoes to see into the room better. Vandy wasn’t with them.


Guess it’s too late for her to be with her team even if some of them did finally gather. Maricel had mentioned Vandy had a strict personal schedule. She believed in all-nighters even less than Lexi did.


<<We ran well enough with him to beat your team!>> Ignacio said.


Marsha shrugged.


Søren’s lower lip was trembling worse. Alden looked around helplessly for a safe exit for the guy, before someone said something even more awful. He found the next best thing in the form of Konstantin, who was standing a few feet away, examining the broken lamp.


[Kon, can’t you get rid of them all?] he texted. [They’re not helping anything.]


Kon blinked, then lifted his head in surprise. “Ah!” he said after only a second’s thought. He set the lamp aside then spun around with a beaming smile on his face. “Okay, okay. This isn’t that serious, you lot. You’re all acting like something crazy just happened.”


“That’s because it did,” said Rebecca.


“We’re Avowed now!” Kon said brightly. “Sometimes power practice goes wrong. Søren doesn’t need help from twenty people. And I need to concentrate on fixing his lamp.”


“His lamp?” a boy asked.


“Maybe I’ll try his desk, too.” Kon was making gestures with his arms as if to sweep them all away. “Good practice. But you’re all making too much noise, and my spell won’t work if you distract me for too long, so…”


He managed to chivvy most of the onlookers away from the door and down the hall, then he shut it behind them and locked it for good measure. They didn’t stop talking and arguing, but at least it was muffled.


Inside the room, the loudest sound was Søren’s heavy breathing.


Rebecca, who had remained standing over by the window, suddenly said, “Søren, if you teleport to the hospital, I’ll go meet you there. I don’t think I can sleep tonight anyway.”


