The pleas of her daughters softened the blow. Duke Chun Ke had only wanted to pleasantly surprise her. They swore if it was any other, they would have told her, but it was the Duke.

Which… well, it was the Duke. Fine, but never again!

“Friend Vajra,” the Duke greeted her warmly, while Steward Pi Pa slipped off his great bulk and approached Vajra… who wasn’t expecting to be swept up in a hug,

“Are you alright, darling? Are you eating well? Is there anything you want or need from home, I’ll get it from you!” Pi Pa asked, her voice so utterly earnest.

“Ah, I would have to think about it?” Vajra said, still a bit off guard.

“Take your time deciding,” Pi Pa said, before her eyes found the children. They had gone back to their games and her smile warmed. “Now, shall we have some tea? I would like to know this wonderful lady before me better.”

They did have tea together, and Steward Pi Pa delivered messages from the others: Young Master Bowu said he would fast-track any requests she had, and Artisan Miantiao asked what he could do to aid her.

Everyone wanted to help her. It… made her feel a bit weird. She was perfectly self-sufficient… and yet… it was rather nice, to have her hive reach out like this to help her.

It was so much better than being alone.

===

A woman stared up at the massive archway that denoted the entrance to the entrance to the Azure Hills.

It was the second time in her life she had seen it; the first time was when she had left the Azure Hills, walking away from her husband and daughter to continue on the path of cultivation.

Her husband and daughter, who had been too weak to survive the outside world.

Or so she had thought.

“Oh, yeah, she was in the Spiritual Realm. Freshly ascended, but she was there!” a cheery voice echoed in her mind.

The memory of that voice sent a stab into her guts.

Spiritual Realm. In the Azure Hills.

She herself was in the Spiritual Realm.

Old regrets settled in her guts. Old fears. She nearly stepped back from the gate, nearly turned around and walked away, fear and guilt curdling into something most unbecoming from a cultivator.

But she steeled herself. Her fingers brushed against the message in her pocket, which she had read every night since she had first gotten it… and every night since she had finally worked up the courage to ask for leave so she could visit.

“Father and I would like to see you again, if ever you decide to visit.”

She sucked in a breath, and forced one foot in front of the other.

Stone Gate loomed overhead, and once she passed the threshold, she felt it. The air, latching onto her Qi and trying to drag it away. The hungering ravenous void that made her skin tingle and crawl.

And yet, for some reason… it didn’t feel quite as bad today.

Yangtze Liusei of Soaring Heaven’s Isle, wife of Cai Xi Kong and mother of Cai Xiulan, entered the Azure Hills.
