His usage of the concept of Cleanliness once more had narrowed his position down even further. Alastaia was about to have multiple visitors of an otherworldly nature.

Well, he’d had a good loop, but it was time to leave his home behind, different as it was. He had no intention of allowing the world to get caught up in the crossfire of this coming battle.

[Teleportation 97 → Teleportation 98]

With a simple flare of power, he found himself crossing the distance between star systems and appearing someplace dark and ominous… right between galaxies.

Specifically, it was where he’d previously been caught and repeatedly battered by Alagameth, although the spatial Embodiment was nowhere to be seen now.

And as he teleported, other things caught notice too.

The first of which was a white gel-like substance. Or rather, a white slime the size of an entire star system.

[Identify 6 → Identify 8]

[Name: Savaan the Blinding Horizon (Species: Fusion Slime) Title 1: Embodiment of Purification Title 2: Amorphous Combat Transcendent Title 3: Fusion Transcendent Title 4: Fire Transcendent Title 5: Black Hole Conqueror]

He had scant time to ponder on the implications of what Identify told him before the entire horizon turned white. Blinding, scorching white, like the sun itself exploding.

But Orodan had fought enemies capable of such destruction before; he would not be cowed.

[Elemental Living Enchantment 14 → Elemental Living Enchantment 17]

The entirety of his power went towards creating a Draconic Fireball, which was then poured into an enchantment of explosion which he wove into the flesh of his right arm.

His cells were dying in droves, but he wasn’t dead yet, and he had time enough to launch an attack using his gathered power.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 90 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 91]

[Fire Resistance 71 → Fire Resistance 73]

The pure white horizon clashed against a terrifying flame of Orodan’s own making. His body charred and he neared death before managing to reform. And as he did, he looked on in awe as the flaming white wave of destruction simply absorbed the flames of his own Elemental Living Enchanting infused strike and carried on.

Hells, the damned slime’s attack had been made even stronger! He thought he’d fought Embodiers before… but this enemy was a step above even the Mantle-less and System-less Prophet.

Still, Orodan had reduced the effectiveness of the attack by a third through his raw physical might alone. But that was the extent of it. The white wave approached, threatening to end the loop then and there…

…only for it to stop before reaching him.

“Usurper! Give back the concept you have stolen!”

The void between galaxies trembled at the anger in its voice. The blinding white horizon akin to an exploding star subsided to reveal a gelatinous creature smaller than his head. A slime. It could shift sizes too?

“You could just kill me and take it,” Orodan suggested, re-chambering himself for another blow as he floated through the gravity-less space.

“To strike a young Embodier would be disgraceful. Such oppression of the weak is reserved for the likes of the erased zealot and the maddened cultivator. Honorless vermin who will never reach the heights of true power.”

Erased… what? He felt something at the very edge of his Domain of Perfect Cleaning’s aura too.

“He does not lie, bright one. Hmm… no… reckless one? Thieving one? Must find moniker which fits. Fight more that you may receive proper moniker.”

It was… a giant eye? No, an eyeball.

He tried casting Identify upon it…

[Identify 8 → Identify 15]

…only for the skill to fail and a wave of backlash to strike his mind. He weathered the mental assault with casual ease of course, but that was likely the strongest anti-Identification countermeasure he’d ever encountered.

“Impolite of you. Reckless one it shall be. Orodan Wainwright the Reckless. Soul mangled and not of System… but also not from outside? Very odd! Maybe Custodian will have answers,” it spoke, its gigantic eye seemingly staring right through him. “If reckless one must know, am Embodiment of Identification. But reckless one very odd, very un-Identifiable.”

“Let me guess, you’ve come to kill me too?”

“System no! Identifier simply comes to watch, and Identify.”

And that was all that oddball eyeball said before the white slime reached him.

“Do not pay any heed to that disturbed voyeur. You, duel me now, our cleaning skills only! Lose, and you cede whatever portion you’ve stolen. Win, and I shall aid your escape and leave you be.”

What a truly odd creature this slime was! He recalled facing it in the strange conceptual space of cleaning where he’d dueled all of them, but in-person it was far stronger, with a plethora of combat skills Orodan would need many loops to bridge the gap against.

And it was also oddly honorable and not quite intent on killing him.

“Blinding Eyesore full of arrogance, but also honor. Does not lie,” the Identifier spoke from the side, lazily drifting in the void but eagerly watching.

“Blinding Eyesore…! You dare-”

Orodan had little time for this prattle. His answer to the Fusion Slime and Embodiment of Purification was a simple one. A full power smash of his Domain of Perfect Cleaning against its own aura of purification.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 165 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 166]

The enemy Embodier strained hard, the slime truly did. But every one of its purifying white flames were erased by the power of Orodan’s Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

A cataclysmic shockwave of energy rang out through the void, threatening to reach the edge of the nearby Vystaxium Galaxy if not for his opponent casually burning it with fire. How a physical shockwave would be burnt with flame, he didn’t know… but the Embodier somehow did it.

Worst of all, although its form was sunken inwards in shame, Orodan knew that it had been holding back the majority of its combat power. It dueled him purely with its cleaning ability, but in actual fight he knew it would be many, many loops before he was this slime’s match.

“You… have won, a fair and honest victory earned through valor. I accept your Embodiment and ownership of the concept of Purification. As agreed I will-”

“No.”

“…”

“There are more enemies to fight,” Orodan declared, a feral grin on his face. “And I need answers for what’s occurred in the greater cosmos. Who is this… erased one?”

“You… do not know?” the slime asked, confusion wobbling through its gelatinous form. “Perhaps a dozen planar spins ago, the timeline shattered and the zealot was erased.”

“The zealot?” Orodan asked, but he had a feeling he already knew. “You mean-”

“The Prophet. So the reckless one knows? Identifier sees now. Orodan the Reckless is Orodan the time looper. Subject of Custodian’s ire,” the Identifier spoke, still content to watch. “Come Eyesore, we depart before Warrior angers at our absence.”

“It… it is you. You erased an Administrator… but how can this be?” the slime asked.

And frankly… Orodan didn’t know either.

Just how powerful were concepts?

Orodan was beginning to understand now that truly employing a concept was something which could cause permanent changes to the time loops themselves. Was that why there’d been no Eldritch Avatar? No history of Eldritch incursions throughout Alastaia’s history? The only Eldritch thing he saw was the crown of Balastion Novar, and that was caused through the gradual corruption of Vylrystia’s world core over time.

He didn’t know how, but even without beating the other Embodiers, something about the concept of Cleanliness must have recognized him as its rightful Embodier. Ever since then, it had likely been permanently erasing things whenever he used the skill actively.

No wonder the Boundless One itself raced to end him near the finale of the battle for Lonvoron… it must have realized how he’d permanently erased the Prophet. And it was a rare moment where Orodan was truly grateful to something for having slain him before he could have caused more untold havoc.

“Reckless one is confused? Why? Reckless one is first person in System history to fully claim concept. But Identifier speaks too much. Custodian coming, and Custodian unhappy.”

Both the slime and the Identifier departed swiftly after that. Hells, he didn’t sense any other Embodiers inbound either.

None save one, whose presence he knew very well. The reason for his very existence.

The fabric of reality shuddered as space, time and the tapestry of fate ripped apart at the Custodian’s forceful arrival.

“Orodan Wainwright. How? Why?” it asked, a cold and calculated fury in its eyes. “The design of everything falls apart. Where there were five Administrators there are now four, with one horribly maimed. Even now the Warrior remains occupied and nearly overwhelmed by his charge. Undo what you have done. Undo it, or we shall all fall once the circling predators of the greater universe enter this sacred space.”

“Believe me… undoing what I’ve done is the first thing I intend on doing. That taint-spreading abomination will fall by my blade and nothing else,” Orodan declared, steel in his voice. Neither Cleanliness nor anyone else would steal the rightful glory of killing the Prophet from him.

“You… truly mean that? And what have you done with your soul? Why is it… I… I see,” the Arch-Devil spoke, its voice becoming solemn. “You somehow connected to the time loops, did you not? Empowered them too, but how can a mortal do so? Not even all five of us together could hope to provide a millionth of the raw energy required. Even if every Embodier came together, it would be hopeless… yet you…”

While the fabric of reality shuddered at the Custodian’s arrival, it now completely unfurled as the source of everything itself came forth.

Galaxies began unraveling at the seams. Madness spilled forth unto the material plane, and the Eldritch Boundless One’s tendrils gently grazed the Custodian who had to strain and fight to avoid madness and corruption.

“Yes great one… I see… your wisdom rings true,” the Arch-Devil choked out through gritted teeth, the very contact between it and the Eldritch Boundless straining the Administrator greatly. “Orodan Wainwright… you have claimed a concept fully and completely. Not just one, but two… you are a complete and utter impossibility. A random particle of matter would have a greater chance of becoming a God than you should have had in claiming two concepts. G-great one, you wish to… very well… use me as a vessel. Use me that you might guide him towards salvaging this.”

Academically, Orodan knew what the Boundless One was. Some sort of alien entity which was the source and propagator of Eldritch, yet which also empowered the System in an attempt to protect and provide a safe haven for the living things within it. He’d encountered another Boundless before, when he’d truly died and been separated from the time loop mechanism.

But academically knowing about something, and directly encountering, even via proxy, were two different things. Whatever it did at the end of his long loop in Lonvoron must not have been direct. This however, was.

[Eldritch Resistance 68 → Eldritch Resistance 80]

For the first time, Orodan Wainwright came into contact with the Eldritch Boundless One…

…and his soul began igniting in agony.

Whispers flooded his mind and the wicked corruption of the Eldritch threatened to enter his very soul and being.

And then… Orodan’s own essence flared and pushed back.

The agony grew greater, but a shocking revelation occurred as he heard the shrieks and howls of something else too.

The now dead shell of the Custodian was writhing, as though whatever possessed it couldn’t bear to be near him. Just as Orodan struggled to remain in the presence of the Eldritch Boundless, so too did it struggle to remain around him.

“Agony.. Agony.. Agony.. Agony. Impossibility.. Impossibility.. Impossibility. Boundless like us… true impossibility…”

“I’d tell you to stop, but this is causing my Eldritch Resistance to soar,” Orodan muttered through the haze of pain. And oh how long had it been since he’d registered actual pain? He hungrily fed the pain into his Incipience of Infinity. “I suppose this is the first time we’re holding a proper conversation. I… am Orodan Wainwright. And I intend to purge your corrupt System and replace it with my own.”

[Incipience of Infinity 146 → Incipience of Infinity 147]

Zaessythra was utterly and completely terrified. Her consciousness was practically nestled into the deepest part of his soul that she’d been able to find, and there she was hiding for dear sanity.

Regular people—hells, anyone else— should have been driven utterly mad. But Orodan had left the bounds of normalcy behind long ago. Even before the target of his ire against the System, he boldly declared his intentions.

And it seemed almost… pleased?

“Good… good… good. Impossibility will do…. impossibility will achieve… what this one has failed to. Strive… strive… strive. Rise… rise… rise. More will come… more will discover impossibility… fight forever… protect… mortality.”

Its words were brief, but the ideas and intent flowed through to his mind.

“You want me to succeed? But why? No, wait… you truly love everything within this space, don’t you?”

A series of transmitted memories and images flashed through his mind. Orodan initially considered them a mental attack, but relaxed his defenses. He was confident in withstanding anything directly even if he didn’t defend.

