It was a beautiful thing, truly. The last memento of someone who’d died to give him victory. And although the memory of it left a scar upon his heart, he would not dishonor Fenton’s sacrifice by daring to think that he should not have done it. Frankly, it was one of the few things he guarded preciously and carefully, not willing to risk even the presence of any nearby magic.

Threads of mana went out from the intricately crafted device towards his targets. He’d tried once, to idly put a copy of his own mind inside.

That attempt had immediately been aborted upon realizing that his mind wasn’t like anyone else’s. The orb had a limit, and holding a copy of the mind of Orodan Wainwright was far beyond those limits.

Here and now though, the orb was not pressed to such limits. It seamlessly connected to the minds of Parthus Edrosic and the cockroach.

Of course, she frantically waved her forelegs at him, causing him to hesitate.

“You… what? You want a name before we do this?” Orodan asked, more than a little taken aback.

How was he supposed to name anyone?

“W-what? On the cusp of something like this you now think to remind us that you want a name?!” Edrosic exclaimed, baffled. “What name do you even want?”

She wiggled her head side-to-side, in thought herself.

“Hmm… how about… Speck?” Orodan suggested.

“You are henceforth banned from ever naming something.”

It wasn’t that bad of a suggestion, he defensively thought.

“Oh? You want to be called Queen Flame-killer? Isn’t that a bit of a mouthful?” Orodan asked.

“I still don’t know how you understand her… there’s no language being spoken here!”

Orodan ignored her and was about to suggest the excellent name of Blot when Edrosic angrily interrupted.

“Who cares?! Just call her Wainroach and be done with it!”

“…Wainroach? I don’t have an ego nearly big enough for-”

Her eyes were practically shining as she frantically leapt from foot to foot, wriggling in excitement.

“…Wainroach it is,” Orodan said, wondering just where he managed to pick up such weird individuals.

The tethers quickly connected then, and with barely any discomfort, two sets of copied memories were stored within the device.

Now he wouldn’t need to feel as guilty about ending this loop.

“With that out of the way, I suppose it’s a good time to say that my time here is quickly coming to an end,” Orodan said with a cheerful smile.

“Already?! But, I barely got started on learning how to fight…” Edrosic muttered.

Wainroach herself also shook with fury, throwing jabs with her forelegs into the air. Frankly, given how she managed to burrow through a dense block of wood a day ago, Orodan was beginning to suspect that training a cockroach her size in physical combat might give rise to a real terror.

“No. My battles are my own and you would die a pointless death without contriburing anything at all,” Orodan persuaded, and although she was reluctant, she understood and backed down.

Further talk of farewells were interrupted as the Master calligrapher of the association walked into the workshop.

“Mister Wainwright! The last set of scrolls you prepared have allowed me to reach the 99th level…! With just one more…”

“Well, that one more shall have to wait. I’m afraid I’ll have to take my leave of you today.”

“W-what? Why?! I mean… you are free to go wherever you wish, but it’s just… your scrolls they…!”

“I’ll be back, don’t you worry,” Orodan replied. Although whether this place would even exist in the original timeline… who even knew?

More importantly, it seemed as though the Eldritch signature he’d felt a few hours ago near the periphery of town was finally making a move towards his location.

Wainroach and Edrosic thought to follow him as he walked out the association doors, but he bade them stay. The man he was due to meet was an alternate version of the one he knew, though it seemed he still preferred the same headwear.

Five minutes of a relaxed stroll brought him to the south gate of Greenvale, and it was there that he saw a hooded figure. The man was decently tall, almost as much as Orodan himself, and he still wore the same crown.

“Balastion Novar.”

“God Slayer. You know of me?” the First Emperor asked.

The founder of Novarria looked relaxed, but the subtle tension and readiness for combat was apparent to Orodan’s eyes.

“I knew an emperor who strove for a world of peace. One where civilians aren’t slaughtered en masse for no reason,” Orodan curtly replied.

The crowd around them weren’t privy to the conversation, but the aura of danger from Balastion caused many nearby non-combatants to begin shaking and getting some distance all the same. The guards became aware too and their communications amulets lit up, but the aid would be unnecessary.

“Very few know of such things. And fewer still would dare to speak so directly to me,” the first emperor replied. “However, if you know me… you should also know what those wretched divines did to my people. What that filthy cur Agathor enacted upon the towns of-”

“I know. But that does not excuse you butchering multiple towns of the Republic in recompense. Kill as many of the Gods and their lackeys as you wish, but to commit mass murder of uninvolved civilians? Why would you allow yourself to stoop so low?” Orodan sharply asked. “Your dream does not align with your actions, Balastion Novar.”

“And who are you to tell me that? What I have suffered, the treachery against me by the elves and the wretched Prime Four…! But, I digress. Let us not be discourteous. I came seeking the one who slew three of those vermin, though I would have preferred you slay the coward as well. With them gone, I can finally commence with a peaceful reunification, and then, I shall achieve a world of peace despite your mockery.”

“Is that what you tell yourself?” Orodan asked, truly curious. The man seemed so… blind. How could one’s desire conflict so deeply with one’s actions in achieving that desire? And then Orodan wondered… perhaps that was the problem he himself faced. “This state of wanting something yet acting contrarian to it, what does it feel like?”

The man scoffed.

“Contrarian? Hardly. I desire peace, now with the worst warmonger in our world’s history gone, that can be achieved.”

Yet even these words were an answer, a mirror.

“I see… perhaps I too want one thing but act in a contrary way to it. I say I want to be the pillar which dreams can become reality upon, but then I go around ending the dreams of many, including those of my enemies… but is there anything wrong with this?” Orodan muttered, coming to a realization. “Perhaps the critical step I was missing in calligraphy, was this. Acceptance. Embracing… myself.”

“Acceptance? Of what? You slew three wicked tyrants and liberated the people of this continent, how could that be incongruous with those aims?” the ancient monarch asked.

“It isn’t, but my mind is. Perhaps it’s time I began accepting that despite my lofty dreams, what I want… what I desperately and really want…

…is violence”

[Combat Mastery 120 → Combat Mastery 121]

Orodan laughed. The skill level gain at such a moment simply added weight to his understanding.

The ancient emperor frowned. A venomous gaze of wariness.

“Then you are like that coward of old Hasmathor. A bloodthirsty reaper of lives.”

“I am violent, I take lives, and I am a warrior. But I am no Agathor who would go killing the weak and the uninvolved,” Orodan corrected.

In fact, he saw clearly now why he was failing to acquire even the first level of calligraphy. It was an art which demanded mastering the self yes… but also understanding it. And the first step to that was acceptance. A full and unashamed acceptance.

Orodan’s life had begun with violence. The System, the Administrators and the Eldritch Boundless One itself had marked him as a harbinger of battle and violence from the very beginning of his existence where his mother and father were slain. Violence was the core driver in everything he did; hells even when crafting his progress was often violent and driven by the aggressive desire to advance and succeed in his goals.

Perhaps his foolish attempts to make the quill act against his true nature were what stifled him.

He had a feeling that if he were to pick up the quill now… the results would be different.

“Enough of this. I came to give thanks, but to also ascertain whether you would stand in my way, stranger. I know not who you are or how you have directly slain Gods, but what I do know is that I possess an artifact of terrible power.”

“An artifact whose power drove you into the depths of darkness. Come, it is time I continued keeping my promise to the man I knew.”

“Promise? What promise are-”

“Enough of that, Orodan. In the next loop you encounter me… do me a favor, will you?” Balastion asked, and Orodan nodded. “Destroy this damned crown which has brought me naught but misery. And for now, grant me the mercy of going out while I’m my own self… I dread returning to that shadowy nightmare. The voices are still whispering…”

The memory was still in his mind, the significance of it heavy. And Balastion’s words were interrupted as Orodan suddenly moved.

The air tore apart and the fabric of reality shuddered from the raw ferocity of it.

He had surpassed Balastion Novar long ago, even at the height of his battle against the Eldritch Avatar in Novarria. But this? This was different. The very fabric of reality seemed to shudder at the violence of something as simple as his mere passage.

The first emperor had no time to register the shock before a brutal hand clasped the crown upon his brow… and Domain of Perfect Cleaning shot out.

This time, Orodan paid close attention. When he’d cleansed the scrolls, he hadn’t called upon the true power of his Celestial skill, but here and now he did… and he plainly saw the insidious influence of that concept of Cleanliness move to enact his wishes.

Eldritch… he hated it. He despised it.

Cleanliness saw this and began acting in accordance with its Embodier’s wants. It moved to aid in erasing the Eldritch and the crown from existence altogether.

But this time…

…this time Orodan was ready. And he had something of his own to put this concept in place.

Cleanliness, on the verge of erasing something from reality yet again, froze. It froze as it felt something very, very horrible. A fell thing, a terrible thing… a violent thing.

Violence came forth, backed by something unnaturally endless. And the only thing Cleanliness could sense was a feral grin which desired only carnage. Cleanliness was a fundamental concept, a force woven into reality itself. Yet despite the utter illogic of it, when confronted with this foreign force… it shuddered.

[Combat Mastery 121 → Combat Mastery 125]

A mad laugh tore free from Orodan’s lips, a berserk rage flowing through each and every one of his cells and his very soul.

This was who Orodan Wainwright was.

Last time he’d nearly fallen to the concept for he had no proper notion to ground himself against. But at core, having now come to terms with who he was, it was a different matter.

Yes, Orodan accepted that he hated the Eldritch. He accepted that he likely had an implicit bias against mages, Gods and nobles despite the rational side of him stressing that it was wrong. And yes, in normal circumstances his Domain of Perfect Cleaning—a skill which was fully empowered by the very concept of Cleanliness since he’d proven his insights against every other Embodier—would latch onto his perception of clean and wipe all the filth away.

But right now all his prejudices bowed before one simple thing… the overwhelming thirst for carnage within his heart. Orodan accepted who he was at core, he embraced his thoughts and perception of what was unclean… and he stomped it into oblivion with sheer brutality. His soul and his personality, wielded like a barbaric implement of finality against the undesirable parts of his own mind.

Acceptance… followed by utter annihilation.

[Combat Mastery 125 → Combat Mastery 126]

Truly, calligraphy was quite helpful. That, or Balastion Novar was.

“Ah yes… who needs careful introspection when simply squashing the offending thoughts into non-existence through brute force works. Might as well have skipped this silly ink and paper farce and just spoken to the first emperor instead.”

A fair point, but without the calligraphy he wouldn’t have even known that their was such an incongruity between his perception, thoughts and goals. And instead of smoothing these out, he chose to simply annihilate the offending thoughts with raw bloodshed.

Cleanliness recoiled but naturally refocused its aims as the perception of what its prime Embodier considered clean had suddenly changed. The crown did not vanish from existence at all, instead, simply the Eldritch and only the Eldritch within it was cleansed.

Anything further than that… and Cleanliness did not want to meet whatever the source of the manic smile was.

“M-my crown!” Balastion shouted, shocked by the sudden aggression and loss of an important artifact.

He would not have normally done it… but this Balastion was a cold-blooded murderer. And sometimes it took one person who had blood on his hands to end another.

Reluctantly, and out of respect for the man he knew from his timeline, Orodan ended the life of this Balastion Novar. If he’d slain Agathor, Eximus and even Halor for their senseless butchery of the innocent, then it would have only been hypocritical to have not done the same for the first emperor.

And as he did, the skies and the very fabric of reality quivered in terror.

