Memories of a lonely foreign being with too much power and not enough understanding. Memories of an escape from its sibling, a tyrant who enjoyed hurting. Images of it seeing the kindness and love in mortals, but not from the flesh, but from something which was… metallic? The kindness and desire for friendship in a single metallic thing. A being whose kind soul had driven the Boundless into conflict with its sadistic sibling. And Orodan saw a singular painted identifier on the metal.

“W78?” Orodan whispered, his heart twisting.

Memories of it dragging vast swathes of a universe into its own pocket, selecting the first time looper—a proud cultivator—in the hopes that it could resolve the newly discovered issue of its very nature eroding mortal beings.

And finally… memories of it reluctantly agreeing to the Custodian’s last ditch effort. The creation of something… someone, among the mortal races. One capable of cleansing everything.

“You… you created me,” Orodan whispered. “You allowed my mother and father to die.”

“Accept… accept… accept. Guilt… guilt… guilt. Mortal emotion… this one has learned.” it projected, the voice a haunting howl of madness and impossibility. It then shifted tone. “Impossibility must undo… must undo… must control force of reality. Impossibility… controls both concepts.”

And its mental impression told him the rest of the picture.

There was a reason why Orodan had been able to empower and take over the time loops. And there was a reason why he had been able to permanently erase the Prophet and have it stick through the loops.

Concepts.

Infinity and Cleanliness.

Orodan was now the herald for both of them.

And it was now up to him to reverse this tide of unwanted change and chaos that his actions had caused.

He hated the Prophet. And he hated the Eldritch. But their existence in the first place was a necessity. And on a smaller scale as was Ilyatana’s.

Just as the people of Alastaia were doomed to suffer without her, so too would the beings of System space be relegated to invasion and conquest from foreign entities and other Boundless for as long as the Prophet remained gone.

He wasn’t sure exactly what role the zealot played in keeping the System safe, but it must have been an important one.

“Very well. I will do this, I shall fix what mistakes I’ve wrought… but at the end of all this, I will be coming for you.”

“This one… accepts…”

And there was nothing else to be said between them as Orodan soul blazed with limitless power. Power enough that the faint shape of a broom composed of soul energy formed between his hands. A shape he then plunged downwards.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 166 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 167]

Domain of Perfect Cleaning hit Alastaia.

The concept of Cleanliness struggled against him, but a burst of violence from Orodan stabilized his own mind. The brute force of Combat Mastery—projecting a tangible power of violence—hit his thoughts and biases like a hammer, but it was also aided by his introspective realization that a world without Ilyatana was an objectively worse one than one with.

And then came the big one.

[Incipience of Infinity 147 → Incipience of Infinity 148]

Cells died, power filled his frame and he began calling upon the limitless will fueling his spirit to create energy. This power he gathered, the drawing of it lasting for a solid hour. Power which all went towards the faint shape of the broom between his hands.

The faint shape of the broom roiled with power as Orodan brought it to his chest, and then when the tension was at its height and his body could tolerate no more… he let it go.

And Orodan willed reality to return to a state of affairs where Ilyatana existed, and where the Prophet did too. For that… was the natural state of cleanliness.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 167 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 170]

[Reality Alteration 70 → Reality Alteration 85]

As he let his power go the cosmos turned white. Not from the explosion of any star or any fanciful magic. But from the utter excess of the light of his own soul. How could a mere exploding star compare to this?

The Eldritch Boundless One barely managed to retreat back into its cage before the all-consuming wave went out.

All was meant to go well… until Orodan encountered the hard resistance of something else. Something similar to Cleanliness.

Ilyatana snapped back into existence and the timeline retroactively snapped back with her, everything righting itself. But as for the Prophet? His erasure was now tied to the time loops.

And the time loops? Orodan had empowered them with the concept of Infinity.

Suddenly, his mind felt like tearing itself apart as two concepts pulled in separate directions.

Cleanliness demanded the Embodier right the natural order as per his perception. But Infinity—whose power kept the loop going—demanded that the changes remain for it had sealed them into place at the end of the last loop.

And in-between it all? One increasingly maddened warrior whose mind fractured over and over as two separate parts of him used his endless nature to attempt conflicting orders.

His mind tore apart, but Orodan refused to quit. In an act which surprised both concepts—which should have been impossible as they were not sapient beings—he began brawling them both.

Solid punches to the face of Infinity. Crushing knees to the gut of Cleanliness.

It made absolutely no sense whatsoever! Cleanliness was not a person, neither was Infinity! They had no face, no gut! They were concepts, fundamental forces of existence and reality!

Yet, as more and more of Orodan’s fists and knees crashed into them, they became… vulnerable. They began to somehow become mundane. They began to understand… violence. And they began to fear it.

Stars shattered and planets were reduced to rubble as Orodan Wainwright brawled two concepts in a reality-defying display of impossibility. They fought partially in the material plane and partially in… whatever odd dimension of existence that concepts lived in.

His opponents fought against each other, but they also fought against him, and they were no push-overs. As he beat them into becoming material and understanding pain and carnage, they too understood how to hurt him in his own language. Infinity slammed endless fists into his soul and Cleanliness hit him with purging knees to the gut.

They were excellent opponents! Orodan loved every second of it! And slowly, time passed as they brawled. He wasn’t sure how long, exactly, but it did.

Alastaia’s surface changed, sometimes for the better, sometimes for the worse. The cosmic scenery changed too as planets were destroyed over the course of the various cosmic wars that occurred. But it was when the Eldritch Boundless reached out to tell him that the System’s boundaries were being compromised as invaders sought the blazing beacon that he had become… that Orodan finally decided enough years had passed and he needed to bring his two warring concepts under control.

The final skill level gain came just in time too.

[Combat Mastery 139 → Combat Mastery 140]

[Unarmed Combat Mastery 100 → Unarmed Combat Mastery 101]

[New Title → Unarmed Combat Transcendent]

He didn’t exactly get System trials anymore—not since passing his very first trial of transcendence and especially not since disconnecting from the System—but he doubted whatever being came down would have survived more than a casual backhand from either of the three parties involved in the brawl.

Not that the fight would last for much longer.

For as good as Cleanliness and Infinity had learned to become at brawling… Orodan was better.

He grew up fighting. Violence and bloodshed were all he knew.

And as Cleanliness threw a punch at him from one side, and Infinity from the other…

…Orodan’s new Unarmed Combat Transcendence gave him much raw power, but it also gave him an absolutely preternatural understanding of each and every part of his body that could be used as a weapon and even each and every part of his opponents’ forms that could be used as weapons too.

Cleanliness’s fist smashed into Orodan’s elbow, gliding across a specific tendon to redirect right into Infinity’s face. And Infinity’s fist did the same to Cleanliness. And then when they were both stunned…

A fist from Orodan slammed downwards and brought each of them down, flying through the void…

…all the way until they landed upon an asteroid.

Two more pounding fists delivered to the faces of each finally got his point across.

Suddenly, upon defeat, the oddly material bodies of both concepts vanished, returning to their usual place in composing existence. And the changes Orodan demanded came to be as he fully returned to the material plane.

Fate, time and reality snapped… and what were four Administrators and a wounded one now became five once again.

Orodan was utterly spent, but he was more than happy to go another round.

Plans which were dashed as his full return to the material plane had caused one of the many intruders to take notice of him.

A familiar pink shard was the last thing he saw.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

Orodan leapt right out of his bed.

His bed…! His harpies! And of course, him!

It was all back to normal once again as Ilyatana, the Prophet and Orodan Wainwright himself existed once more.

“Punched back into existence, I should say.”

And wasn’t that a fantastic new ability? Who new Combat Mastery was capable of doing such a thing at higher levels?

Still, as the familiar and intrusive sensation of challengers to his reign over Cleanliness prodded at him, Orodan felt that there was a lot of work ahead of him.

Not only did he have these Embodiments coming after him, many of whom he stood no chance against in direct combat yet. But he would also have to contend with the Administrators as always.

With the matter of these concepts resolved for now, he could finally focus on developing many of the skills he’d been meaning to, alongside using Fenton’s memory orb to begin bringing people’s memories across the loops properly.

He could finally focus on bringing Zaessythra back too, Almyra’s book was still waiting in his soul space for him to peruse its secrets.

There were a lot of destinations on his travel list too.

But he really wanted to learn calligraphy properly if just to spite Zaessythra and prove he wasn’t just a barbarian who liked punching things.

And at the end of it? Now that he could ferry memories across, perhaps it was time to begin training some of his students, old and new. And mayhap the restoration of a long lost world of half-dragons and their World-Queen.

All of which meant Orodan had plenty of skill grinding to stubbornly get up to.
