It wasn’t a proper academy, but there were enough calligraphers in Greenvale’s association that sharing knowledge had become something of a practice. And the class he was in was one meant for aspiring calligraphers and very new ones, taught by an Adept-calligrapher of the association.

A clang of metal against metal rang out. Orodan casually intercepted Edrosic’s sword swing with his own and then diverted the blow to the side. A standard parry wasn’t usually how he fought, but Orodan felt that his former colleague would learn nothing and be discouraged if he fought like the violent and hyper-aggressive berserker he usually was.

Yes, there were prodigies of combat like Zukelmux and Aliya, who could pick up lessons quickly through the crucible of combat. Even Fenton—though the lad hadn’t been quite as talented at pure fighting as the former two—had good instincts and could learn quickly under pressure.

But, part of Teaching was recognizing that everyone was different and had varying levels of talent, work ethic and optimal learning methods. Edrosic… the man’s parents had died last year, and since then he had been on the warpath to getting stronger and seeking vengeance against Novarria. Over the course of the year Parthus had travelled Volarbury County doing odd jobs, picking fights where he could and generally trying to learn to fight.

Just a year prior, the man had been a bit of a lazy layabout who’d coasted by on helping his father’s carpentry shop. In this timeline, Ogdenborough was a relatively well-off town, and the man must have found the trade more palatable and the standard of living decent. But with his parents’ death, it had all changed. And the Parthus of this timeline knew little of fighting save for the few fights and attempts at getting stronger.

In some ways, he was far weaker than the Edrosic of the original timeline. No formal training and an unconventional and inefficient form alongside lacking Physical Fitness. But then, there were times where Orodan recognized that this Edrosic was mentally far stronger and more driven than the one from his time. The desperate longing for revenge; the pain of loss driving him onwards even when the man had no clue of who or what his target was…

…Orodan pitied him. And in seeing Edrosic he also reflected on the rage and grief within him still after the loss of Fenton. And really, the loss of many people throughout the loops. Mahari, whose friendship he’d lost. Vespidia and Balastion who’d died for him. W78… a wound he still didn’t want to recall. And of course, old man Adeltaj Simarji who’d yet again paid the price for Orodan’s decisions.

“Well, at least you’re still here Zaessythra.”

Her feeling of warmth suffused him. It made him feel a little less lonely in these time loops where he’d been alone for the longest time.

Parthus’s sword came in, a raw and brutish overhand chop full of emotion and zeal. It was apparent that the man had had no proper instructor until now, and he was desperate to impress and show his dedication.

A simple sidestep followed by a relatively gentle smack on the head sent Edrosic to the ground.

“While some instructors will tell you that brutish and widely telegraphed moves are universally bad, as are emotions… I subscribe to the belief that nothing is truly wrong… you just haven’t found a way to make it work,” Orodan instructed. “Although, I would usually be saying this to someone who has at least some basic training. But that’s alright, I trained a young child without much of one too. Make sure to actually land the blow and not get hit yourself if you’re going to wind up and put such emotion into your blow. Now, another circuit and try again.”

[Teaching 82 → Teaching 83]

And off his new student went again, running a lap around the classroom while the other calligraphers tried to ignore the desperately panting jogger. They’d been disgusted by the sight of the cockroach upon Orodan’s desk too, but who among these non-combatants would dare say anything? And the instructor simply considered it good training in keeping the mind steady, which Orodan could respect.

His insectoid pupil who was jabbing a Candleflame—spouting from his extended pinky finger which remained unused as he held the quill—looked on in confusion. Her eyes conveyed an expression of questioning.

“You doubt my methods?” Orodan asked. She quirked her head. “Yes. It seems counterintuitive, to simply let him run himself against me and get thrown down each time. But you cannot hammer every metal the same way. You… you and I are warriors. I saw it in you the moment I truly looked. But Edrosic is not. He was the son of a carpenter and a seamstress until a year ago when his father and mother were slain. Not everyone can be pushed too hard without shattering or breaking.”

She didn’t seem too convinced.

“If he asks for it, certainly. But for now, as per his words, he just wanted someone to spar against and to help him get stronger. The emotion runs hot in him, and his willingness to open his mind is a little low,” Orodan said, voicing why he hadn’t just brutalized Edrosic repeatedly until he grew stronger. “The true training will come once his mind opens and his heart is ready for it.”

But as for his own training…

…the parchment didn’t look too good.

The writing medium and implement he was given weren’t anything magical either, just regular quill and parchment fashioned from the hide of a non-magical creature. But even then, a close look revealed just how forceful and jagged his quill strokes were on a minute level.

Sure, on the surface his writing looked rather fine. A natural benefit of being an enchanter and swordsman of Master-level skill was that his hands were steady and took to the early levels of a craft well. Yet if one paid closer attention, the differences between him and the exquisitely fine and harmonious strokes of even Adept calligraphers became apparent.

The fact that he didn’t get up to much writing even before the time loops, didn’t help matters.

“And remember, calligraphy is as much an art form as it is a craft. To all you aspiring wielders of the quill I remind you that your mind and mental state are as important to the outcome as your hand is. Take Mister Wainwright here, a man used to war whose hand thrums with martial prowess,” the instructor said gesturing towards him, using Orodan as a point for the other learners. “His mind bleeds onto the parchment with every stroke of the quill. You might lie to others, but you cannot lie to the parchment, not without many skill levels first.”

And wasn’t that the truth? Orodan never knew calligraphy of all things was such a revealing art. Through closely scrutinizing the ink upon the page, one could learn a lot about someone.

“But teacher… how long will it take us to obtain the skill itself? I’ve been here for a week now…” one learner muttered.

“Patience young lady, such things do not come immediately. Calledro’s Average affects us all, as the academies teach,” the instructor reminded. And in this case, it seemed to hold true for Orodan as well, as he didn’t have any natural talent for such an artistic craft. “Although, that will be our allotted time for the day. Remember to continue practicing whenever you can, and tomorrow we will resume where we left off.”

The instructor remained even as the rest of the class filed out. Whether it was a sense of intimidation or the general sense of reclusivity most of these people carried, nobody among the students he’d met had really wanted to talk to Orodan—which suited him just fine.

“Mister Wainwright? Master Aresos spoke of you. He also mentioned that you wished to work in exchange for tutelage?” the instructor asked, and Orodan hummed in confirmation. “Right… I don’t think we’ve ever had a Master work for us before. It’s an honor to be in your presence my lord.”

“I’m not a lord and I’m not…”

Orodan thought to correct the assumption, but stopped himself. Having people walk on eggshells around him was off-putting enough as it was.

“Of course, apologies sire. Now, I shall not waste more of your time. Let me show you the sort of task our aspiring calligraphers might be put towards in exchange for their learning.”

The man produced a set of dusty scrolls and laid them upon the table.

“As you know, calligraphy does not simply deal with the writing of letters and the inscription of signs. That sort of task we put our Initiates towards, but for the more skilled practitioners of the craft, we inscribe scrolls. Specifically, spell scrolls,” the instructor explained and then gestured to the set of hundred scrolls before him. “And as you requested, we’ve found a relatively easy if somewhat laborious task. The recycling of used spell scrolls. Now, the task would be far easier if one had the Recycling skill but-”

“I have the skill.”

“Y-you do? That is an oddity, but a welcome one, I suppose a Master such as yourself must have picked up a great many skills in his long life… though you don’t look old at all…” the man muttered and then gathered himself. “With the Recycling skill, this becomes quite simple. The old and worn ink must be wiped off using this special solution, and the parchment must be cleared of dust and detritus before being placed in a new case, properly rolled of course.”

Spell scrolls, Orodan had heard of them before, but they were the sort of item nobody of real combat power bothered to use. They were a low-power alternative to casting a spell yourself, mainly used by merchants, civilians and those who didn’t know how to fight but couldn’t afford guards or an enchanted item.

In truth, he’d never fought the sort of person who would use these things—which consequently meant he’d never seen one used at all.

“I’m surprised they remain intact after usage so that they can be recycled,” Orodan remarked.

“The ones before haven’t been inscribed with anything particularly potent sir. Repeated uses of the scroll will eventually cause the inscription to wear, but not the parchment itself. Which still leaves it in good enough condition for recycling. But the higher level scrolls, those will certainly wear and destroy the parchment… unless special methods are used, and those tend to be more expensive than they’re worth.”

Which made sense, since Orodan had seen nobody use spell scrolls in combat against him. He didn’t exactly go around fighting civilians and non-combatants, and they were the only sort who would use spell scrolls to begin with.

“I’ve never seen one of these things used in a fight, but what would a high-level spell scroll even look like?” Orodan asked.

“Er… given the sort of fighting you’re used to, I do not think they will impress. That being said, a high-level spell scroll can typically output enough power to match the lowest rung of its tier. An Elite-level spell scroll with an inscription for Fireball might hit as hard as a newly advanced pyromancer’s flame,” the man explained. “Of course, this is without accounting for things such as Fire Magic Mastery, Mana Manipulation or any Bloodlines which make flames even stronger. Why… just two years ago the noble Lord Aeglos held a demonstration in Eversong Plaza where he showed the difference between a Fireball produced from a spell scroll, and one from his own hand. The results certainly harmed our sale of the product.”

“And Master-level? Surely there’s a market for these things when they allow a civilian to cast a powerful spell?”

“That’s just the thing sire, nobody’s lining up to buy the higher-level spell scrolls. If a noble needs protection, they’ll just have powerful guards or actual enchanted items. Magical ink and high-quality parchment made from the skin of magically powerful monsters is also necessary lest the scroll burn out and the inscription be rendered useless. All in all, they’re expensive products which nobody wants to buy. Even Master Aresos only makes them rarely and only for the purposes of training his skills.”

Understandable. Although the more Orodan looked at the shoddily made scrolls, the more he wondered if he could make things from the ground up and craft a truly powerful scroll.

As the instructor left the room, he realized that he had his work cut out for him. Especially since Edrosic was collapsed in a heap, having failed to finish the lap.

#

“Why… why are you training me…?!”

As the man nearly collapsed again, Orodan pondered the question. Why indeed?

Not only did Orodan feel a miserable burden of guilt for having allowed this timeline where Edrosic’s parents had died, but he also remembered the words of his old colleague.

“That’s fine Orodan! I figured that’s what the matter was, I’m not stupid you know? When I say you’re my friend, what I mean is, you’re the friend I need to help give me the kick in the rear to do better… even if you don’t know that you’re doing it.”

The old Parthus had considered him a friend.

And Orodan did not abandon his friends.

“You remind me of an idiot I know. You look quite like him in fact,” Orodan said as he sent a Galewind towards Edrosic, ushering him to keep running. “And I wasn’t about to allow you to run off and squander your potential slaving away as a pack mule and servant for some rich adventurer children.”

“Children? They were mighty warriors and mages themselves,” Edrosic said, finishing the lap and standing before Orodan, sword at the ready.

