“Yes, children. Educated in the premier academy, garbed in the finest clothing and gear, wielding the highest quality weapons… all paid for by their families. Where is the struggle? When have they ever had to make something of themselves with their backs to the wall?” Orodan asked. “If you were born into it, you could be where they stand today too.”

“Well, I wasn’t born into anything like that. Not like them… I lost my father and mother like you did, but it wasn’t a bad life.”

Which made the sting of Edrosic’s loss hit all the harder. Orodan at least had the benefit of never having known his family, Parthus on the other hand had it all torn away, a harsher pain.

“Sometimes, it’s better to have never had a good life than to have one only for it to be stolen away,” Orodan said, drawing his blade and intercepting the man’s swing. It was a more measured thing this time, the fruits of the past twelve hours of basic training and forms Orodan had shown him.

Edrosic’s anger and insistence on clinging to his emotional manner of fighting had finally broken after he’d failed to land a blow on Orodan. Being run ragged through a combination of running laps and weight training hadn’t helped either.

“Damn… if I was well-rested I guarantee I could land a blow on you! “

“And which enemy will allow you to be well-rested, fed, hydrated and in peak condition? Shall I roll out a red carpet for you too?” Orodan asked as he returned a few blows with his left hand, his right hand focused on inscribing intricate designs onto the parchment.

He kept things manageable, allowing Edrosic to parry in time, and the man did well using the momentum from a parry to counter strike. Of course, he then made the amateur mistake of thinking his sword was the only weapon in combat; something Orodan made him pay for by grabbing his wrist and delivering a headbutt upon the nose.

Red flowed, and Edrosic had unwilling tears flowing down his cheeks as he fell to the ground.

“Damn… bloody hells… I can’t see… I can’t…”

The man’s voice was nasally and pain-ridden. Hells, Orodan could sense the panic, fear and anguish rolling off of Edrosic. With a singular hand, Orodan grabbed him by the collar and hoisted him to his feet.

“Get up. Your enemies won’t stop just because your nose is broken and you’re in pain,” he instructed and then hit Edrosic with a practically tender one-two punch combo followed by a simple leg sweep which Edrosic down again. “And keep your footing ready and guard up.”

“I can’t… I can’t breathe… please…”

Not everyone was the same. Different dispositions, different starting points, varying levels of talent. Orodan had simply continued on blind, fighting through the bloody haze of pain and swinging back to knock out the larger boy who’d broken his nose for the first time in his childhood. Edrosic however, was seemingly crippled by the shock and pain of it.

For the first day, he’d tried to be gentle; to ease Parthus into it. But in truth, at some point the training gloves had to come off, and Edrosic would have to learn the ways of violence.

And sometimes, pain of a different sort was a good motivator.

“Imagine if I was the Novarrian killing your mother and father. Would you still be whimpering in pain like a worm then?”

As Orodan suspected, Edrosic did have a real fire inside. Everyone did if pushed the right way. With a guttural growl of agony, he rose to his feet and howled like a madman as he swung for Orodan’s neck like a berserker.

The blow was parried, but an aggressive counterstrike followed right after.

“Good, good. This is how you bring aggression and emotion into your fighting,” Orodan praised, countering the next few blows and giving the man a chance to attack. “But don’t forget the basics, even when you’re enraged.”

[Teaching 83 → Teaching 84]

And before his eyes, Edrosic began to slowly get better at fighting. A man who hadn’t even been fighting for a year was now visibly improving within seconds.

And as Orodan guided Parthus’s development, he saw his other student pressing harder and harder into the fire as well, unwilling to be outdone.

They were good disciples, good people. It was just a shame that their lessons would end once this loop did.

…

It took Zaessythra giving him a mental cuff over the head to remember what he had access to.

#

Like that, five days passed.

The Republic was in utter disarray due to Orodan’s actions and had neither the time nor the energy to launch any sort of manhunt for whoever had slain three of the Prime Four. Malzim… was a coward, but no killer. If simple non-action against evil was all it took to receive death, then Orodan’s list of foes to slay would have no end.

Calligraphy, despite his struggles, was something he still failed to acquire the first level for. It really shouldn’t have been difficult, but something about holding a quill and putting the ink to parchment was rather difficult for Orodan. He mechanically had everything right, but there was some manner of final puzzle piece that he was missing.

Funny enough, it wasn’t just him either. From the aspiring calligraphers he’d met over the past four days—those who attended the lectures with him—he’d learned that many of them also took an unnaturally long time to attain the skill. It was a skill which seemingly defied Calledro’s Average despite being of common rarity. Both he and Parthus Edrosic struggled to acquire even the first level. And that wouldn’t have been so bad if his devoted and hardworking insectoid student hadn’t then acquired the skill herself while scrawling ink upon parchment with her forelegs.

Still, the time he’d spent hadn’t exactly been wasted. While he struggled with calligraphy, he also worked on his cleaning—specifically the Celestial skill itself. Recycling had gained multiple levels, and his Domain of Perfect Cleaning had gained two. A frightening gain over only four days, but it spoke to his natural talent. The task of recycling and making used scrolls ready for reuse had also helped in contributing towards those gains.

Though Orodan had a feeling that attempting to tackle the concept of Cleanliness wasn’t a battle that could be won through raw skill levels alone. It wasn’t as though he lacked power, no, what he wanted for… was congruence in his mind. Something that concept had clearly seen and exploited to nearly cause untold disaster.

If his mind and intentions weren’t perfectly aligned, the attempt to reverse the changes he’d wrought could end very, very badly. In fact, Orodan suspected that the concept of Cleanliness was why he’d unintentionally erased Ilyatana from existence in the first place. He truly hadn’t meant to go so far, but the concept itself likely realized his innate desires and enacted them anyways.

After all, cleanliness was dependent on the beholder.

And he needed to attune his own mind with his desires. This was his chief goal this loop and why Body Enchanting, finding Fenton and looking into bringing Zaessythra back had fallen to the wayside for this loop. It was a blade hanging over his neck which he simply couldn’t ignore lest he cause further unintended harm over the loops through the usage of Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

However, at the end of it all, Orodan was on a time limit. He had been ever since he’d achieved Embodiment. At the very beginning of the loop he’d contended with every single Embodier related to the concept of Cleanliness and above all others had proven himself its rightful bearer. With five days having passed, the true end to this loop was soon to come, whether Orodan wanted it or not.

He’d felt the tapestry of fate shift and quiver. Something, a great many powerful and terrible things… were approaching Alastaia. His actions in vanquishing Ilyatana had likely drawn their notice even sooner than otherwise. Hells, over the past five days even he’d gotten a very vague sensation that colleagues… no… rivals, of the same concept, drew nearer and nearer to him. It was a discovery to realize that Embodiers had a vague sixth sense for discovering one another.

Which meant the end of the loop would likely be today. Hence, he had both his current students before him, their eyes fixated upon his own.

Parthus Edrosic merely stared at him.

Orodan solemnly stared back.

“That is the truth, whether you believe or disbelieve it.”

After an entire hour spent narrating his tale, he certainly hoped the man did believe it.

His cockroach student had already heard and understood much of what he’d said to Old Man Hannegan. She wasn’t nearly as uninformed about it as Edrosic was.

More importantly, he’d come clean about the fact that it was his fault.

“This, all of it… is my fault. Your parents’ deaths? I caused them by erasing the Goddess of Fate and causing time itself to snap and then correct itself by creating a new timeline… one where the consequences of her non-existence take place,” Orodan spoke, taking responsibility. “This is my doing. My mistake.”

And what did Edrosic do?

Did the man froth and rage; blaming Orodan for everything? Did he collapse to his knees in grief? Did he strike Orodan in fury?

He was prepared for all of those possibilities and would have bore them without complaint for it was his responsibility. But what Orodan hadn’t been prepared for was Edrosic simply continuing to stare at him.

“Well… either I’ve stunned you into silence, or you’re planning ways of killing me where I stand. Understandable on both accounts.”

And then finally, he spoke. And it wasn’t what Orodan had been expecting.

“Take me back.”

“What?”

“This… orb you’re talking about. You said it can bring memories back with you, right? The Parthus Edrosic where you come from… were his mother and father alive?” he asked.

“To my knowledge. He certainly never stopped blithering about them during basic training,” Orodan replied.

“Then… take me back. Put me in his head, do whatever you have to… I don’t care!” he howled, suddenly desperate and clinging to Orodan’s feet. “You’re basically a God, aren’t you? The places you’ve gone, the things you’ve done… wait… wait… is that why all the temples have shut down recently? Is that why everyone’s saying their Blessings don’t work?! You did it, didn’t you?”

“I did, but I am no God. Look Parthus… I was going to offer this regardless, but I feel it fair to warn you that it doesn’t directly bring you back, it simply brings your memories back and puts them inside of the next Parthus I touch with the orb,” Orodan cautioned. “The offer is open, but consider carefully whether you want to inflict this upon the other Parthus Edrosic. I’ll be asking him for permission as well, so it’s not as though you get the final say.”

“If he’s the carefree idiot you say he is, then he needs this… he needs me. And I… I don’t want to be here any longer. I want to be someplace where my mother and father are alive, and he needs a driving force to help him. Look, please… just bring me back, I’m begging you. If he doesn’t want it, then fine… this all ends, you can delete the memory afterwards and I won’t know any of this ever happened because you’re apparently some mad not-God in a time loop.”

“…as you wish. I make no promises about how the Parthus Edrosic of my time will react to the proposition,” Orodan said, and then took in his current favorite student. “And you… you also wish to come along?”

She wiggled her forelegs, her eyes giving him answer enough.

“There’s no guarantee of how well your form and soul will take to having a sudden deluge of memories inserted. You are insectoid, more specifically, a cockroach. Not only is your form at the start of each loop quite frail-”

She vibrated in offense.

“-relatively speaking. You’re also possessed of a fairly simple mind, which is not a critique of your intelligence.”

“Which would be a bit ironic since you often with far less intelligence than anyone else I know.”

Zaessythra’s staunch defense of her aside, the problem was that the cockroach’s mind was… small. Not in a bad sense—certainly she was far from stupid and could feel many emotions and complex thoughts—but in the sense that her mind was lacking in scale. She was plenty smart, but it was akin to the comparison between the body of a human and the body of a dragon. Dragons were giant creatures who could generate and channel far greater amounts of mana than a human at the equivalent skill level could. In a similar vein, compared to a human, a cockroach like her just didn’t possess the scale of mind that a human did.

For Old Man Hannegan, stuffing the memories of his main timeline self into the mind of this timeline’s Hannegan hadn’t been too rough. But the qualifying bit was that it hadn’t been too rough. Even without permanent harm, an untrained human mind struggled and faced at least some strain when absorbing the memories of another self of theirs.

To try this with a cockroach? Orodan liked her too much to risk it.

She glared at him and he shook his head.

“I respect your guts and spirit, I’m not saying you’re weak, but I’m simply stating my thoughts on the matter. This orb… my student built it to work with humans. Although let it not be said that I would deny anyone their own choices. If that’s what you want, that is what you shall receive.”

Fenton’s orb came forth, and a simple pulse of mana went from him to it.

“If you’re both ready,” he said, and received two assenting gestures.

