Despite being the largest settlement of a wilder and comparatively less-developed county, the town of Greenvale was in fact larger than Trumbetton. It didn’t make sense until Orodan connected the fact that there were no other ‘central hub’ style towns in all of Exerston County. Unlike his home county where Trumbetton had to compete against Velestok and to a smaller extent other towns such as Scarmorrow and Loviaston, here, Greenvale was the only central town which offered certain specialized services.

Merchant associations, examination centres for aspiring academy applicants, specialist craftsfolk and the county’s administrative and judicial power were all located here. And when this was the only town in the entire county to have such things, by necessity it was a thriving town with a booming economy. The smaller towns—while not considered unsafe—were still not monster-free enough to warrant the building of these centralized amenities. And investment in such a thing had a steep upfront cost which deterred locals and non-nobility.

Unlike Volarbury County, Exerston was a wild frontier region bordering a savage stretch of Novarrian wilderness which the imperials hadn’t tried settling either. The woods were savage and full of monsters, with smaller towns frequently having to ward off attacks. Furthermore, unlike the civilized nature of his home county, the towns here were all surrounded by walls, with dour-faced men and women of the militia manning them, more than used to battle.

Though that didn’t mean the county was struggling, far from it in fact. It was wild, but positively ripe with resources and opportunities for work. Many adventurer companies set up permanent base here, as did a number of merchant and crafters’ associations. Alongside direct backing from the Republic’s council itself, Greenvale was the beating heart of an expansionist endeavor to colonize the wild southern woods of the Republic. And despite Orodan’s mangling of the timeline that didn’t look to have changed at all.

Although Orodan’s arrival as a solo traveler had raised an eyebrow or two and caused them to subtly straighten at the implication of his combat strength, the guards out front were more concerned with keeping known criminals and monsters out of the town—with a greater focus on the latter. After all, Orodan knew from his upbringing that city authorities not only allowed but wanted a certain level of curated criminal influence in their cities.

Easier for a town’s ruling elite to have fingers in the populace when a town’s criminal underbelly answered to them.

Kids were too obvious as pickpockets; oldest trick in the book that everyone knew to watch for. Elderly women carrying baskets of vegetables on the other hand, were a different matter. And Orodan could see a few of them picking out easy marks among the new arrivals to the town.

Of course, the size of him and his well-armed appearance had them giving Orodan a wide berth. And thus he made for the calligraphers’ association without issue.

The streets were bustling with activity, and numerous employers were looking for workers.

“Runners wanted! Paying three silver per delivery! Make good money if you’re quick!” yelled a chef’s assistant from a nearby busy restaurant.

Decent pay and a good way to develop skill levels for the untrained, in his opinion.

“The county militia wants you! Come serve Burgher Rockwood and your county! Food and board provided alongside arms, armor and training! The people need your help!”

Always a reliable path to starting out as a warrior. he could already see a few youth gravitating towards the recruiting sergeant.

“Can you swing an axe? These trees need a good choppin’! Join Stenguard Lumber and get paid for every bit of work you put in!”

Tangentially related to his current destination, but Woodcutting wasn’t the goal this loop.

“Need gold? References? New skills? Join the Unyielding Shield Adventurers Company today! No combat skills needed, we’ll teach you the basics long as you’re willing to work hard!” a decently-sized and stocky man in heavy plate armor said, and the adventurer then caught sight of Orodan. “Don’t see anyone bigger than me too often! You look like a big lad, what did they feed you? The whole farm? Why not give us a try?”

“No,” Orodan denied, walking past the man’s attempt to stop him by the shoulder. If the man was surprised at how Orodan walked through and nearly yanked him off his feet, he didn’t mention it.

Long ago, at Bluefire, he’d been educated about adventurer companies. Bluefire was the Republic’s premier academy, but not every student there was guaranteed a nice job afterwards. Post-graduation, those without the talent or connections to secure preferential posts in the military, capital guard or a noble house often found themselves gravitating towards a life of adventuring.

It could be a decent-paying, if risky, job. Though most of the pay would be going to the core members of the company who pulled the most weight in fights and consequently made the decisions. Orodan felt that the two hapless young men trying to sign on would be little more than pack mules, laborers and at worst… meatshields. Whatever ‘training’ they got would come second to their poorly compensated labor.

Decent adventurer companies had contracts and apprenticeships. It was one of the few ways someone who hadn’t been to an academy but had raw talent could enter an adventuring company. An experienced adventurer would take notice of a promising prospect and in exchange for service and some rudimentary pay, would receive training, mentorship and experience.

This adventurer company looked green, and their core members seemed more interested in hiring lowly paid laborers from the looks of it.

“For someone who knows so much about them, I’m surprised you never tried your hand at that line of work,” Zaessythra said.

“It was an idle thought, once upon a time before the time loops came along. Not that it matters when I wander from world to world and battle all manner of exotic foes anyhow.”

The calligraphers’ association was in sight, and Orodan was on the verge of making for it when he noticed one more man head towards the adventurer company.

His eyes narrowed.

“Oh? You want to join up? We’ve got plenty of opportunities for gold, glory and combat experience! You look a little soft, but we’ll break that out of you in no time,” the burly adventurer said. “What’s your name?”

“Parthus… Parthus Edrosic. I want to learn how to fight, I don’t care what I have to do… even if I have to die…” his former colleague of the county militia spoke.

This was Orodan’s doing. The Volarbury County militia didn’t exactly exist in this timeline. Of course Edrosic wouldn’t be with them. But why had this occurred? Why did the man sound so hateful?

His destination put to the side for a moment, Orodan stepped forward and laid a hand on his former colleague’s shoulder.

“There are better ways to learn how to fight than signing on with a relatively fresh company of adventurers,” Orodan said, causing the man to turn around. “Why not try the county militia? Or even enlisting with the military?”

“You… what?” Edrosic asked, clearly confused as to why a stranger would walk up just to interrupt him. Still, the militia man of another timeline was more than willing to give an answer. “You think I haven’t tried those? The militia fails me on their psychological evaluation… a loose cannon prone to getting himself or his fellows killed they said. The military? Same damned thing! Nowhere will take me!”

This Edrosic looked different too. Gone was the carefree and lazy look in the man’s eyes, instead, all Orodan saw was pain and anger. A few scars too.

“I don’t get the feeling you’re someone who sits behind a desk. Those scars didn’t come from nowhere. Been out hunting have you?” Orodan asked.

“Just wolves and slimes in Volarbury County… at first. I don’t like to remain near there if I can help it, not since… not since…” Edrosic muttered and then schooled himself. “Bah! I don’t know why I’m wasting time talking. I need to get stronger. Stronger so I can kill some bloody imperials and avenge them.”

Orodan had a feeling he knew the answer already, but asked anyways. In Edrosic… he saw a very familiar person.

“And… who is it that you want to avenge?”

“My mother and father… they were innocent folk, they didn’t deserve Novarria deciding to send a scouting party into the wilds… in Republic territory,” the grieving man said. “But enough of this! I don’t know why I’ve let all this slip to some stranger. I have a goal in mind and I won’t be swayed.”

This was his doing. Orodan had caused this to happen, indirectly as it was. Ilyatana, wicked as he thought her to be, had been the glue which linked the pantheon of the Prime Five together. She had Chosen in all three human nations of Inuan. Without her existence in the first place, the nations had warred as usual, but it had been a far bloodier thing.

Bloody to the extent that frequent border incidents still occurred and the Republic and Novarria considered themselves enemies in all but name. Incidents which Parthus Edrosic’s mother and father had fallen victim to.

Even before the time loops, Orodan knew that the man’s mother was a seamstress and his father was a carpenter. Yet in this timeline where the Goddess of Fate didn’t exist, they had died—casualties of a Novarrian border patrol or scouting party. One of many frequent incidents which both nations had seemingly tallied up against one another without official war being declared.

“Forgive me… Edrosic,” Orodan solemnly said. “This won’t happen again. I’ll make it right…”

The final part had been a quiet declaration. Orodan had messed up, and he now felt responsible for Edrosic.

“You… who even are you? I have things to do and can’t be-”

“There are better ways to train. If you want to learn how to fight… I’m always glad to dispense a beating and a lesson in equal measure.”

One individual whose recruitment he’d interrupted didn’t look all too happy though. Especially since Orodan’s earlier comments had driven other prospective recruits away from the adventurer company.

“Alright, what the hells are you doing? You trying to cause trouble here?” the armored adventurer whose hand Orodan had ignored now spoke up, his face taking on an ugly sneer. “I was content to leave things be, but now you dare try to steal away someone interested in working for us from under our nose?”

An Adept, that’s all he was. The expensive armor, the arrogant stride, the tone of speaking which seemed to scream as though the less-fortunate should stay out of the way or obey… it was rather apparent to Orodan who’d grown up poor what an academy graduate looked like. Relatively young too, no more than his early twenties, which implied a recent graduate.

“Am I wrong?” Orodan asked bluntly. “I have no interest in offending you, but your group all look like fresh academy graduates who’ve not seen true battle. The expeditions hosted during your learning years don’t really count as solid experience, you know this. If this man seeks combat experience and training, an apprenticeship might suit him better. Would you join your company in his shoes?”

A female mage in the adventurer’s party overheard and also came forth. She didn’t look too overjoyed either.

“Who in the seven hells are you? Mind your business and leave us be,” she said, standing behind the warrior recruiter of the company. “Your gear looks shabby, where did you even graduate from? Are you even an adventurer or some low on his luck sellsword guarding caravans and merchants?”

“I studied at Bluefire, though claiming I graduated would be a lie,” Orodan replied and then looked to Parthus. “It’s your choice Parthus. I can train you if you’d like. Get you some decent gear too.”

The burly adventurer laughed upon hearing his words.

“Know what? I think you’re no more than a fraud! I don’t believe for one second that you studied at Bluefire. I never saw you in my life, and I’m sure I’d have noticed if you were in any of the classes,” the man sneered. “Sure, you’re big and have a bit of a hardened edge to you, but anyone can get that with time. I mean, damn, look at you! What sort of bumpkin outfit is that? Served in some village watch did you? And… Gods above, is that a foul cockroach on your shoulder? You can’t even afford to keep your clothes clean you fallen sellsword!”

His devoted student who had come out to see what all the ruckus was about didn’t take too kindly to the comment either.

“Hmm? Did the rambling of these weaklings interrupt your physical training?” Orodan asked. Indeed, he’d instructed her to remain in his pocket and attempt to clamber up the walls as he moved about. Climbing while inside a continually shifting pocket was a decent enough regimen in-between bouts of Fire Resistance training. “Ah, I suppose this is a good time for a practical lesson then. The cautions of watching your mouth around people you know nothing about.”

The mage was beginning to narrow her eyes in suspicion. Particularly as he’d been talking to his student who was now on his shoulder. She began taking a few steps back, though the air around her staff did heat up a tinge, the subtle sign that she was a pyromancer sneakily readying herself for a fight.

Behind these two adventurers, the company leader’s eyes were wide as the woman saw what was about to occur, but it was too late for her to reach them and the hustle and bustle of the crowd drowned out her shouts.

