“Alright then, how about a duel so you can show me the cautions of watching my mouth eh?” the adventurer spoke as he pounded a set of spiked gauntlets together while walking towards Orodan. Not a weapon choice seen too often, but he could respect the willingness to engage in violence up-close.

Of course, Orodan never refused a fight. With a happy grin he marched forward, clenching his fists.

The adventurer was the sort who loved fighting too it seemed, for the man was in the middle of a straight cross when Orodan spoke.

“I’ll limit myself to the Apprentice-level for this one.”

“What?”

Edrosic and the crowd backed away at the sudden eruption of violence between two martial specialists.

His student remained on his shoulder, watching as Orodan simply remained out of reach of the punch. A simple application of spatiomancy had her secured and safe from flying off due to the forces involved in an Apprentice-Adept duel.

“Distance management and footwork are critical in an unarmed fight. Getting a feel for your opponent’s reach is a big part of melee, armed or unarmed,” Orodan explained to her as she intently watched, though he wasn’t sure how quick her eyes were. “As you can see, real combat tends to be quick, violent and unpredictable. But even amidst that aggression, there are patterns and tells.”

“Quit talking and fight me!” the gauntlet-wearing man roared, closing the distance for more jabs. To his credit, the man was now aware that something was up and Orodan was no mere sellsword.

His opponent’s moves were more measured now. Orodan had the height and reach advantage, but the man was trying his best to get his measure and evaluate the proper striking range through a series of jabs. Of course, Orodan had been in enough fights even before the time loops that simple distance management and head movement were rather casual to him.

“See? That’s good jabbing form,” Orodan explained, praising the man while explaining to his student. “The power starts not from the arms, but from the feet, carries through the core and then finally culminates in the fist. “Although, as I warned you once… not every jab should be a step-in jab.”

And that was the problem with stepping in for every jab, it made you predictable, and it created an opening. It forced one’s lead foot out of position by necessity to achieve the step-in. An opening Orodan ruthlessly exploited as his head shifted out of the way and he stepped outwards, putting his opponent in horrid position as a series of hooks followed by an uppercut bruised his liver, tenderized his ribs and rang his skull.

His student watched excitedly and began mimicking many of the motions already.

“Yes, yes, you can also throw in combinations, but it’s better to understand the basics behind each punch before getting too crazy… then again, not like I followed that advice myself,” Orodan muttered and then looked to his opponent who was now bleeding. “First blood? Or did you want to go further?”

“This… this isn’t over! You hit like a pillow-fisted mage!” the man roared, overcome with battle lust and rage. “So what if you know a few tricks and have decent hands? Face my punch head-on and I’ll show you the difference between a true warrior and some no-name sellsword!”

“Alright then, let’s clash blow to blow,” Orodan agreed, punching his knuckles together.

He held his strength back to the Apprentice-level. But even then, jumping a tier wasn’t too difficult. What was difficult though, was overpowering the oncoming fist without using his natural might and toughness of body.

Orodan threw a straight right of his own, severely limited to only the Apprentice-level of power.

Bare fist connected against steel gauntlet and the loud sound of metal shattering rang through the air. The shockwave hurled a few nearby spectators onto their rears and caused one of the two participants of this duel to go flying backwards.

It wasn’t Orodan who’d gone flying, but he wasn’t happy either.

“Pathetic… was it delusional to think I could jump the tier difference through pure skill alone?”

The adventurer who’d met his fist was embedded in the town wall fifty metres away, while Orodan’s own hand was naturally unharmed. But… this was a failure, not a success.

Even his devoted student looked at him in confusion, her tiny eyes wondering why he seemed disappointed.

“I had intended on trying to beat his raw power in a head-to-head clash through pure technique, but it seems I still have a ways to go,” Orodan answered. She rubbed her forelegs together, curious. “No, no… just smashing things with strength isn’t always the goal of a warrior. Sometimes, self-improvement comes through pursuing difficult paths to power, even when relying on the strength you already have would be trivially easy. You must constantly challenge yourself—that is the only way you can truly push your limits.”

What had Orodan dissatisfied with the result was the fact that he’d limited himself to the Apprentice-level, met the adventurer’s spiked gauntlet directly, but then only smashed the man away through the raw toughness of his body.

“That is… exactly how you win a direct strength-to-strength clash. What are you trying to do?”

Zaessythra was right, but Orodan knew there was more. Yes, it sounded utterly impossible and stupid, but he genuinely thought that he could win a power against power clash through skill and technique. Not by just having the raw toughness of his body send the man flying, but with something… more.

That sounds… confusing. How else can you win a direct clash without technique? You didn’t even parry the arm, or try to divert it or strike it at a weak spot.”

Right again… but Orodan was stubborn, and he genuinely felt that there was a way to overpower a stronger attack without actually being stronger.

Edrosic was gaping like a fish, and the now battered adventurer’s mage friend tried powering up their staff only for Orodan to casually catch the resultant Fireball in the palm of his hand and squeeze the explosion to death.

“Did you see how I resisted that fire? It’s admittedly a weaker one, but the principle is what matters,” Orodan explained to his insectoid student who only rubbed her forelegs together in deep concentration. He then looked at the frightened mage, and the warrior in the distance who was still struggling to recover from their clash. “He has an acceptable punch. Tell your friend I’ll be back to train with him again.”

And as he turned to walk away the leader of the adventurer company came by, furious. Not angry at Orodan, but rather, at his company member who so stupidly picked a fight with an unknown warrior.

“Stop! Stop! He’s at least a Master!”

“M-master… how were we to know?” the mage asked, baffled and more than a little afraid now.

“Idiot! Look at how he approached you all! Nobody acts so casually unless they’re-”

Orodan tuned them out and walked away.

“Well? Offer’s still open… Parthus.”

Edrosic had never rushed towards something faster in his life.

#

The Greenvale calligraphers’ association wasn’t nominally under the purview of any particular house, but that didn’t mean much when House Stenguard employed more than four-fifths of all calligraphers in town. It also helped that the merchant house had the means of production for paper, ink and all the tools any aspiring calligrapher might need.

While the old man had suggested the art of quill and ink as an option, Orodan himself didn’t quite see how it would help with clearing his mind specifically, but he had never been one to shirk learning new things—his early prejudice against magic aside.

The man behind the counter was graying and busy handling a quill and putting it to work upon some high-quality parchment. A quick usage of Identify informed that he was a Calligraphy Master—which made him staffing the front desk of an association to be out of place. Furthermore, Orodan knew the bearing of a swordsman when he saw one.

“Greetings sir, looking for something to be inscribed? A sign or letter to be penned?” the man asked, not taking his eyes off of the calligraphy in the slightest. A quick glimpse had the man giving him a nod of respect. “A fellow swordsman then, no… a warrior. Yes… I can practically feel the violence emanating from you… the constant readiness for battle and blood at a moment’s notice. My respects to a Master… our association was not prepared to receive one such as you today, but we are honored.”

And some method of roughly gauging Orodan’s own strength, in relation to his own at least.

“You look as though you handle a blade yourself,” Orodan replied. “But… no inscriptions or letters for me. In fact, I’ve come to learn calligraphy. Gregory Hannegan from Ogdenborough recommended I come here.”

He then fished a letter out from his uniform pocket and placed it on the desk, alongside a common iron dagger.

The front desk calligrapher quirked his eyebrow and then did a double take as his eyes widened after a closer look at the weapon.

“This…! It’s a Master-level enchanted weapon! I can’t accept this as payment! It’s far too much!” he immediately refused, but did pick up the letter, giving it a read. “Gregory… Hannegan? Gerace did mention that he’s a good friend. I wasn’t aware that a foreman from Ogdenborough knew Masters.”

“I’m hardly an esteemed individual, and I’m not a Master,” Orodan scoffed. “I’m just here to learn and did not wish to arrive with an empty hand and a sense of entitlement.”

“Not a Master? Yet I can sense… but then…!” the man muttered and then suddenly became even more respectful in posture, which made Orodan feel more than a little out-of-place for only having corrected a simple misconception. “Your thought and kindness honor us then. But truly, someone such as yourself walking in and asking to learn would not have to pay any fee. If you do not mind me asking… is sharpening your blade the purpose behind your pursuit of the quill?”

“Sharpening… my blade?” Orodan asked.

“Of course. While I’m no swordsman of your calibre, I’m an Elite, and the quill helps steady my hand and clear my mind.”

During his time on Xian, Orodan had heard brief whispers of sword cultivators who did something of that sort. His world and the worlds of the Ascendent Sword Cluster where the dao-practicing beings hailed from weren’t the same, and they had access to restricted skills which the people of Alastaia didn’t, but that didn’t mean training methods were different.

“I hadn’t really considered that…” Orodan muttered. Anything learned was wealth earned; even better if it provided transferable insights to his usage of the sword. A weapon he primarily used but had stagnated in—relatively speaking. “I’ve come seeking calligraphy to help clear my mind, that is my main purpose. My thoughts… my intent and desires, they’re clouded.”

“Not to send you out the door mister…?”

“Wainwright. Orodan Wainwright.”

“Mister Wainwright. Have you considered seeking out a mind mage? At your level, psionics—particularly the experts at Bluefire—might be of more practical use to you than us. I would not wish to be held responsible if-”

“A psionic will not help me, nor would entering my mind go well for them.”

And Orodan worked best by solving problems on his own. Having some practitioner of mind magic try to surgically solve his issue wasn’t only unreliable and potentially dangerous for them, but also a cheap way out in general

Better to work hard and master his own demons.

“But worry not, I have no interest in blaming anybody. My problems are my own and only a weakling would point fingers at another for their own failings.”

The calligrapher seemed a bit relieved at that. He produced a ledger and a set of keys.

“With what you’ve paid, you should have access to a dedicated room and workshop, please, feel free to practice as much as you want. We hold communal lectures and tutoring every day at times marked on this schedule,” the man said, handing Orodan a slip of paper. “Otherwise, you won’t be bothered at all.”

“Ah, you mistake me. I’m looking to learn and also be employed. Unless this large building is for show, I assume there are other calligraphers here who do something useful? Throw me in with them,” Orodan spoke. “Surely there must be something I can do around here. Better to put my skills to practical use.”

“…very well. Truly, you are an eccentric Mister Wainwright, but I suppose one does not become as powerful as you are without a focus on odd methods of advancement. I hadn’t wished to overstep my biunds by suggesting it… but I too approve of this plan of learning,” the man spoke. “Gerace might even swing by to make your acquaintance. Not often we have someone like you come by.”

Which was entirely fine by him long as he got to learn.

And train Edrosic and his student at the same time.

#

“M-mister Wainwright… you must go smoother than that… your ink… it’s so… so…!”

“Violent?” Orodan asked, frowning at his quill.

The senior calligrapher didn’t want to comment on it, but the man’s body language spoke volumes. After all, it wasn’t often that someone put quill to parchment and sparred at the same time.

Right hand on the quill, left hand on the sword. An unconventional setup, but the instructor wasn’t about to say anything to Orodan, and neither were the other aspiring and student calligraphers in the small classroom.

