Everyone knows what it’s like to feel sad.

There’s no arguing this. That’s just life. You have good days, bad days, and everything else in between, but we’re here to talk about the worst of the worst, the lowest of lows that everyone drops down to at one point or another. You wake up and everything feels off for one reason or another. Maybe your head hurts, or you’re homesick, or you just lost someone close to you, but whatever the reason, you don’t feel like leaving bed to face the world just yet. Much as you’d like to call an audible and take the day off, most either can’t or won’t and just have to power through it. They get up, brush their teeth, maybe take a shower and make breakfast, then go about their day in spite of being down in the dumps. It sucks, but needs must. You gotta eat to live and you gotta work to eat, so you keep your head down and your nose to the grindstone until you no longer feel so down. Maybe your coffee perks you up, or someone cute smiles at you on the bus, or your friend texts you a funny meme of a dog saying something stupid. Could be your spouse, your kids, your parents, someone or something else which puts a spring in your step, or maybe you just figure it out yourself. Either way, it doesn’t matter how you lift yourself out of your funk, but it happens nonetheless, and you feel good about having overcome a dark point in your life.

Which is great. Life is tough, and you should celebrate the little victories. Now, not to disparage how others feel and minimize their accomplishments, but while this is what most people think of when they hear ‘depression’, they couldn’t be more wrong. Sadness and depression are not the same thing, and while everyone has experienced the former, most people don’t know shit when it comes to depression.

Sure, part of it is being sad, which isn’t that big a deal. Like I said, everyone’s been sad before, so just do something that makes you happy and you’re good, right? Wrong. Depression isn’t just sadness, but intense sadness, one that sucks up all the other emotions in your life. You wake up feeling like shit and you stay in bed despite knowing you’ll probably lose your job if you miss another day. You’re still tired even though you slept all night, and you’ll be tired all day too, except when it comes time for bed again, you’ll find yourself unable to fall asleep, which leaves you irritable and upset. So even though you’ve already committed to not leaving bed, every now and then, you find the strength to drag yourself out of bed and do something, anything to get yourself away from your thoughts. Maybe you hit up the mall, or fire up a game, or even meet up with friends and family, but despite being with the people you love and doing things you enjoy, you’d much rather stop pretending you’re having fun and just let yourself be depressed instead.

That’s depression, a heavy weight that clings to you and drags you down at all times, making it an effort to even get up and greet the day, because you’re just dreading the moment when you walk out the door and you see someone you know, they ask you how you are and you say that you’re fine when you’re not really fine, but you just can’t get into it because they would never understand. You’ve heard it all before, all the well-meaning advice and ignorant suggestions, like, “Do something you enjoy”, or, “Just power through it”, or “You have so much going for you, so you should be happy!” Yea, no shit. I know I should be happy, but if being happy was an option, who in their right mind would choose depression? No one, which should be a sign that all is not well when someone does exactly that, except now you made them feel depressed and ungrateful. Way to go.

Depression is an affliction in every sense of the word, but those who don’t know think they know and don’t understand how difficult it can be, which makes it that much harder to shake off. They make being happy sound so easy, which makes you wonder why in the hell is it so difficult for you, furthering the downward spiral as you add another item to the long list of why you’re fucked in the head. It’s not the sadness that makes depression so difficult to break. It’s the pervasiveness of the sadness, so all-encompassing that it takes the highest of highs and breaks its knees so it lines up with the lowest of lows. Doesn’t matter what you do, because you’re still down in the dumps, and keep this up long enough and the apathy kicks in. You’re sad and you feel sad, but you don’t care, because what’s the point in not feeling sad? You’ll just be sad again, so why bother? For that same reason, why clean the house? Why cook a healthy meal? Why go to work, oftentimes the source of said sadness, or go out and see how happy other people are which will only make you feel even sadder in comparison. The depression takes over everything until you become numb to it, painting your life in shades of gloomy grey that all blend together into a dismal, dreary portrait which you can’t bear to look at and don’t bother trying to change because it’s a futile effort.

That’s my take on depression, which I have struggled with for as long as I can remember. There’s more to it that is personal to me and me alone, like survivor’s guilt, not just from my time in the mines or the numerous close calls since then, but also in being here in the world at all. There’s my persistent anxiety, which is just my brain going through all the worst-case scenarios and telling me how everything is doomed from the start, which isn’t helpful, but not entirely wrong either. You also can’t overlook my myriad of personal traumas either, both real and illusory of which there are many, all of which is merely scratching the surface of the topic, “What makes Falling Rain so broken?”.

A lot of shit, really. There’s no one glaring defect, but depression surely stands chief among them.

While being numb to the world might make happiness impossible, an unexpected benefit is that it insulates you from sadness, anger, hatred, and various other emotions too. That’s why the Spectres’ lies and Zhen Shi’s illusions were never as effective as they would be on someone else. Not just because I’ve watched a lot of T.V and know how to immerse myself without getting brainwashed into believing everything I see, but also because I live my life in a pit of despair from which there is no escape, but also nowhere to fall further. This enabled me to take in Zhen Shi’s visions of darkness and despair with a clear mind, and more or less ignore the Spectres since their whispered lies were nowhere near as damaging as the hurtful truths I tell myself all the freaking time. Sure, there were times when I almost fell for those lies, but inoculation to depression doesn’t make you immune to being miserable, just less susceptible to further misery. At some point, you hit rock bottom and any added hardships and anguish have diminishing returns on how much shittier they make you feel, and therefore more capable of enduring even more before you reach your breaking point.

And I have been infinitely close to breaking for as long as I can remember, but unwilling to wholly give in just yet. It’s not that I want to live or am afraid of dying, but I’ve just been ambivalent about survival most of the time. Why? Because life is hard and dying too easy, so might as well let fate decide.

So when Zhen Shi stood over my broken and battered body, gloating about victory and the suffering I would soon experience, I could only laugh at his naiveté. The man knows his stuff when it comes to pain and subjugation, for he has spent multiple lifetimes mastering these arts, but he knows nothing of true misery. I could see it in his eyes as he loomed over me, his expression one of triumph yet marred by doubt and disappointment as he noted my defiance even in the face of death, because he didn’t understand why I had yet to succumb to his torment. It unnerved him to see me endure without screaming, laying there without a care in the world as he slowly and methodically broke my bones one by one by one, because in his mind, the battle was already won. What was the source of my courage? How was it possible for me not to give in to despair? The questions were right there on the tip of his tongue, so curious as to how I could still hold onto hope, because greater men and women than I had long since given in to lesser torments.

What a sweet, summer child, to dare think pain was all it would take to break me. If that was the case, I would’ve died two weeks into my transmigration and re-rolled long before becoming the man I am today.

Thus, I feel duty-bound to share what I’d learned in this life and the last, because misery loves company, after all. Ordinarily, I wouldn’t wish my innermost fears and concerns on my greatest enemy, mostly because I believe an attack like that should be outlawed as a war crime, but if Zhen Shi’s gonna try and manipulate my thoughts and emotions, then I should at least let him see what he’s up against so he knows what he’s up against.

Now, I don’t know how to weave illusions like he can, or whisper lies that sound like his own thoughts echoing inside his head, nor do I believe a measly Emotional Aura is enough to pierce through his defenses, so I have no choice but to rely on a skill I only vaguely understand how to use: Oration. Words to incite emotions, the premise is simple enough, but as far as I can tell, it only works when I truly feel and believe whatever emotions I’m trying to convey. This means I can’t merely reminisce about my lowest lows, but I must truly re-live and experience them in order to share what I feel with my audience of one. As an added twist, I don’t want to give Zhen Shi time to react and stop my Oration short, so I’m flying by the seat of my pants and doing what I can to condense everything I’m trying to share all into one, simple sentence. Time comes to a standstill as I close my eyes and sink into the Void, where I find Buddy waiting to greet me with a tackle to the shins followed up by a vigorous tail-whipping as he wags uncontrollably about. Blobby is also around, floating aimlessly about, but I ignore him to take a seat so my sweet doggo can clamber into my lap. Hugging him tight here in the Void, my physical form cradles Mama Bun close, but even then, I’m not sure I have enough floofs to keep this jaunt down memory lane from turning into a one-way trip.

Lin-Lin only just saved and forgave me for trying to get myself killed saving Shi Bei, so I can hardly turn around and overdose on depression. What a way to go that’d be, but it’s not a price I’m willing to pay, not anymore, even if I it means bringing Zhen Shi down with me. I just have too much to live for now, not just Lin-Lin, but for my wives, my family, my friends, and my floofs as well.

Because even though I know they’ll all be better off without me, it’d be selfish to just give up now without at least giving it a go. It’ll hurt when the inevitable finally comes around to bite me in the ass, but like they say, better to have loved and lost than never loved at all, right?

…Probably bullshit too, but whatever.

Steeled and ready to begin my emotional assault on Zhen Shi, I kick-start this journey of emotional trauma by going back to the beginning. Or a beginning at least, one of many I still shudder when I think of. A boot slams into my protruding ribs and drives the air out of my lungs, but I push through the pain and hop to my feet in order to avoid a second kick. “Get on yer feet, you worthless scum.” A casual backhand catches me across the cheek and I taste blood in my mouth, but I go along with the impact and it doesn’t drive me off my feet, which is a blessing to be sure. No better way to catch an early beating than to be caught ‘sleeping in’, which is what they’d accuse me of if I were to fall to the floor. “Feedin’ time for y’all, better’n you deserve.”

The groans and sobs of other slaves sound out in unflattering imitation of my own, for none are spared this casual abuse so long as Gortan is here. Another Bristleboar might be less thorough and meticulous, but those who don’t get the boot get a slap, and those who dodge the slap get a glare, which I’ve now learned is an unspoken promise of compounded suffering later. Better to take the hit here and now than be singled out for more punishment later, or at least, that’s what I tell myself. Even then, I knew it wasn’t true, that no matter what I did, I would suffer for it, and as I lower my inner walls and willingly immerse myself in the memories for the first time ever, it all comes rushing back to me as if I never left. The shame, the fear, the dread, it’s all coming back to me now, and the only thing that keeps me from kicking and screaming in abject denial is the fact that I am merely a passenger in these memories of mine.

It's been more than ten years since I set foot inside this filthy slave pen, but there are still mornings when I wake up with a start, trying to dodge a phantom kick which will never come. That was the worst part of my time in the mines, not necessarily the torment itself, which was unpleasant to say the least, but the anticipation was so much worse. Every morning, I woke up to abuse and knew there would be more waiting in store, and I would base my every action and decision in hopes that my behaviour would somehow mollify my captors and reduce the severity of my inevitable punishment. Keep my head down and do as I’m told, work hard, but blend into the background, pick up rocks to demonstrate my value, but no matter what I do, the abuse continues to be heaped on day after day after day.

