The touch of the whip upon my skin, the jarring disorientation of taking a fist to the chin, the lancing agony of a burning poker, and the all-encompassing pain of an overworked body, mind, and spirit. Not even all these torments combined are wholly unbearable, because pain is temporary, suffering but a fleeting sensation with a beginning, middle, and end. The anticipation of promised pain, however, that can oftentimes be far more effective in breaking a prisoner. Of all the torments I suffered through here in the mines, my fear of the boot has stuck with me the longest, and for good reason. I’ve had my bones broken, skin flayed, hide whipped, and nails pulled, but those are torments I can prepare for, brace for, grit my teeth and bear, or scream and cry until it stops, but the boot? That always came when I was most vulnerable, fast asleep and helpless as a new-born babe. A week in and already I was having trouble sleeping because of it, the fear of this rude awakening keeping me up at night, which in turn led to exhaustion which drove me to an even deeper sleep that left me more rattled than ever when morning finally arrived. The dread of awaiting the inevitable, while frantically doing everything you can to lessen the forthcoming pain despite knowing there is nothing you can do to change things, this is what broke me in the end. The acceptance of pain, because pain eventually stops, but the waiting never ends, never leaves you a moment of respite, for the moment one torment ends is the moment the clock starts anew as you count down the seconds before your next unavoidable punishment.

None of this will be news to Zhen Shi, for he had a hand in crafting this milieu of suffering. His understanding of the human mind is second only to his understanding of the human body, and he wields this knowledge like a surgeon wields his scalpel, with precision and confidence to do exactly what needs to be done in order to further his goal. He knows full well that torture itself is not always the worst part, that anticipation and apprehension are every bit as formidable as pain and suffering, if not more so. He understands the cause and effect of it all, knows how to induce this mindset and exploit it to create Defiled, Spectres, and Demons, but he doesn’t know what it’s like. He doesn’t understand how it feels to be weak and powerless, has never been in the shoes of someone struggling just to survive, hence why he does not understand true misery. How could he? He’s Zhen Shi, a disgraced Imperial Scion with power and intelligence aplenty, so how could he know what it is truly like to be beaten and downtrodden? To have someone systematically dismantle your defences and lay your vulnerabilities bare until your version of happiness is receiving some form of lesser punishment? To celebrate when the guards deny you a meal or beat you with their fists instead of taking up the lash or pliers? That is true misery, when the pain becomes a part of life and you grow numb to despair, because suffering is your new normal and anything less your new bliss, your goal for enduring the trials and tribulations laid out before you.

This is the first blade I prepare for my foe. Not the pain and suffering I endured, but the callous indifference and quiet acceptance of anguish and torment. The cold contempt of rational resignation in the face of overwhelming odds against you, and the harrowing dread and apprehension which comes from awaiting your inevitable fate. A fearsome combination of submission and self-loathing, but as I said before, this is only the beginning.

Another core component of my all-encompassing misery is my crippling anxiety, which manifests itself as unending doubt and lacking self-confidence. I deal with this by planning for the worst, but the sheer volume of uncertainty means I am never not worried, because even when I think I’ve accounted for every possibility that comes to mind, I am also aware of my lacking intelligence and how that could blind me to contingencies which I failed to account for. This isn’t limited to important plans either, as I feel the same need to overthink even simple operations like going out for a stroll through the market. I’ve suffered from this affliction even before I became Number One Talent in the Empire, Minister of Finance, and Legate of the Outer Province, and those lofty titles have only made it worse.

Is today a good day to show myself in public? When was the last time it rained? Can’t be seen traipsing through mud after all, or show up soggy and downtrodden lest I lose face. What about my enemies? Have they been more active of late? Are they gathering their strength for an all out assault the moment I let my guard down? If not, then what are they up to? How about my allies? Are any of them planning behind my back? I should take a gander at the sales record of homes in the market district, just to make sure no one has been buying up property and having assassins move in to hide in plain sight. Or maybe they’re all regular people, but are any of them unhappy with how I’ve been doing things? Am I carrying enough coin to buy everything I’ll need? How do I respond to people who greet me? When was the last time I had the carriage checked for wear and tear? Or sabotage? Should I have the Death Corps start checking before every trip? Can I even trust the Death Corps? Sure, they’ll follow orders to defend my life, but Yang Jixing demonstrated how easy it is to turn them against me, so I should take measures to safeguard against them.

And all this is merely a taste of what it’s like to be alone with my thoughts, an endless stream of questions and concerns which I can never fully allay. At the end of the day, it all boils down to one core question. Not, “Am I safe?”, because I know I am not and never will be, but rather, “Is there any danger I’ve failed to account for?”, to which the answer is almost always going to be, “Probably.” It’s impossible to prove a negative, so even if I go over every detail and account for as many possibilities as I can think of, who’s to say there’s nothing I missed? There’s no way the human mind can conceivably enumerate every possible variable, much less plan for them, so it would be arrogant to the extreme to claim to have everything under control.

This is doubly true when other people are involved, because people aren’t machines and won’t always act in a logical or even self-serving manner. Hence my obsession with planning out all the details, because a problem foreseen is only a problem if you fail to account for it, but even then, I more often than not overlook the simple truth of the matter and find myself unprepared and at a loss. Man proposes, and Heaven disposes. Mortals plan, and gods laugh. My failures to account for the details are merely another way in which I am made vulnerable and exposed, which I loathe and fear with all my heart. I yearn for power and control over my own fate because I’ve seen what happens without it, so I plan and scheme to make sure I am never made helpless again, except I will never be fully in control so long as I live, not really. Shen ZhenWu told me as much, and Zhen Shi reaffirmed it when I told them why I pursue the Dao.

“I pursue strength so I may remain free, free from conflict, free from strife, free from worry, just... free,” I declared, meeting the Legate’s gaze with a confidence I don’t possess, but he asked for the truth. “The Martial Dao is merely a means to an end, so you see why I refuse to trade my freedom for more strength.”

I remember well how Shen ZhenWu looked at me in response, with an expression somewhere between envy and pity. “I almost admire your foolish simplicity, Falling Rain. The freedom you seek does not exist, not for men like you or I. Service to a person, service to a cause, or service to your conscience, in the end, you are bound by circumstances beyond your control. You wish for true freedom, power enough to remain unfettered from all conflict or struggle? Not even the Emperor could grant you this request, for you’ll soon find that the more power you amass, the more fetters you accrue. There will always be a person, a cause, or a principle which you will serve, even if you think it’s of your own volition.”

And no matter how much I wished it were otherwise, Shen ZhenWu was right. No amount of strength can ever secure me the freedom I seek, because even with absolute strength, I would still be shackled by my concerns for the people around me. Killing is so much easier than defending, and I cannot defend all my loved ones at all times. Easy to guard against an open sword, but the hidden dagger much less so, and no matter how smart I become, I can never plan for every eventuality. Life finds a way, and life is suffering, because even if I manage to keep my loved ones safe for a lifetime, I will inevitably lose them to death in the end regardless. This is only compounded by my knowledge of reincarnation, because knowing everyone goes on to live another life after death makes everything I have in this life seem so much less meaningful. Why cherish anything ever if I’m going to lose it all anyways? This is what the Brotherhood means when they say life is suffering, because life is impermanent, and impermanence is suffering. What we have in this life will never translate over to the next, so though I may enjoy a lifetime of happiness with my loved ones here in this world and this life, who is to say I will find them again in the next?

A thought which scares me more than anything, and why I was always so eager to die first. Can’t be responsible for finding anyone in the next life if I’m the first to go, right?

All of which is really just a fancy, in-depth look at my social anxiety. Most of the time, I only really have to worry about stuff like how to respond to casual greetings and ensuring I only make eye contact for an appropriate amount of time, neither too much nor too little, but even that is exhausting enough once you pile on the interactions. I doubt Zhen Shi knows much about this either, for he does not strike me as someone who is timid or uncertain, nor does he appear lacking in courage or confidence. Me? I am the exact opposite, and I know full-well how hefty a burden these intrusive thoughts can be, and I take all my memories and emotions of such events to distill down into the very essence of persistent panic and existential dread so that I can share it with my most hated foe.

I actually almost feel bad about doing this, but he forced my hand.

This much is far from enough, for this is not the sum total of my misery just yet. There are still my many regrets to go through, and the burdens I bear because of them. Survivor’s guilt for one, as noted before, because who am I to deserve to live where so many others have died? What makes me so special that I get to keep my past life’s memories? That’s why I work so hard in spite of my depression, because so long as all this suffering has a purpose, then it means I will not have suffered for nothing. It would give my life meaning, a function to fulfil and a goal to achieve, a reason for my existence, one I would do anything to understand, but more than that, it would do much to ease my conscience regarding the many gifts I have received. I am loved, I am cherished, I am admired, and I am respected, but all of this is built upon a lie.

Because if people knew the full truth of my existence, then they would see me for the charlatan that I have become.

Forget the age shenanigans, which make me feel pervy and gross enough, but I can’t help myself so I can only live with the shame. What about my accomplishments outside of love? Number One Talent in the Empire. A title meant to denote the most promising young Warrior under twenty-five, one bestowed upon me for my domineering performance in Nan Ping, but little does the Empire know that I am no young talent at all. Even accounting for the fact that I can’t remember anything before my time in the mines, I still have at least forty years of life-experience under my belt, if not more. Sure, it’s only been a decade since I set foot on the Martial Dao, but it is an undeniable fact that my speedy progress and unprecedented success is all due to my past life’s wealth of memories and experiences. Not just the power of memes that I only just discovered today, but the basic knowledge I’ve brought over which has helped me make sense of the world around me.

Take the Forms for example, the cornerstone of the Martial Path. While my past life’s knowledge had no bearing on learning the various Movements, you cannot in good conscience claim that a lifetime of experience is not useful to have when comprehending each use case scenario. You know more, you’ve seen more, and thus it’s easier for you to extrapolate how something can be used, regardless if it’s a technique to fight or cook with. In one-on-one combats, I only rarely win through absolute superiority of skill, strength, speed, or some combination thereof. I usually win because I know how to best pit my strengths against my enemies’ weaknesses, which again, I can only attribute to my additional shares of life experiences. Ninety-nine percent of the time, thinking outside the box comes from having figuratively seen the box from a different angle, which is a direct result of life experience. Leadership and command also benefit from this, which I have similarly been praised for but don’t deserve, because while I stand heads and shoulders above my peers, they’re just a bunch of kids, so it’d be stupid if I didn’t stand out.

