Then there’s Panacea, which might well be my most widespread success, but I never would’ve figured it out if I didn’t know adult teeth aren’t supposed to regrow, a seemingly minor tidbit of knowledge with widespread repercussions. My Domain and Natal Palace are also larger than the norm, which can be chalked up to having a more powerful soul because of past life shenanigans. Creating a complex Natal Palace might also be because of all the television and media I’ve consumed, but also due to the fact that I had a soul crushing job in a Call Centre, which means comparatively speaking to the people of the Azure Empire, I trained my soul on max level difficulty before even coming to this world. A textbook definition of unfair advantages, because there is nothing in the world that can match the mindless monotony and emotional discipline required to survive in the world of customer service.

How about my ability to Devour Spectres? It first came about after my disastrous dip into Western Treasures Lake outside of Sanshu which left me broken, bleeding, and dying on the beach shore. The Spectres pestered me without end in an effort to drag me down into the depths of despair, but they failed time and time again. Not because I was strong of will, but because I was so inundated with misery and despair that I’d disassociated myself into two distinct personalities. Whether it was by luck or by instinct, my ‘darker’ personality took control, but since he was the ‘younger brother’ and inferior partner in our relationship, he was unable to wholly surrender to the Spectres because he lacked the authority in the first place. Thus, my ability to Devour was born, because for others, taking in the Spectres meant giving up control, but I’d already taken control away from my alter ego, and thus he became a safe haven for the Spectres to infest.

After which I lucked into finding Blobby, who likely only bonded with me because of my ability to Devour Spectres without losing Balance, since it meant he could just hang out in the safety of my Core and have meals delivered to him on demand.

Suffice it to say that I’ve had more than my fair share of successes which I can only attribute to my dog-shit luck of having a past life to rely on. Hardly something to inspire confidence, like having a big ego just because I was born rich. Sure there are those who feel that way, but I’m self-aware enough to understand that my achievements are not mine alone. For this reason, I am forever stuck out of my depth as I float through life trying to pretend like I know what I’m doing, all the while blundering my way to success as an imposter in plain sight, one lucky enough not to stumble and fall just yet.

Indifference. Inadequacy. Incompetence. Words which describe my plethora of insecurities, but fail to truly convey the depths of my misery, but the words are not important. Emotion is my weapon here, a lifetime of suffering which I would not wish upon my worst enemy, but there is still more buried deep within. Everything I’ve touched upon is merely the result of the defining moment in my life, a life which was never mine to begin with. That’s where most of my issues stem from, the fact that I feel I do not belong here, that I was never supposed to open my eyes on that slave auction stage and go on to become the Number One Talent and Legate of the Outer Provinces.

An undeniable truth, but it’s so much worse than I ever thought.

The memory comes unbidden to me, and I struggle in an effort to reject it, but I cannot win against my own psyche. The truth unfolds before my eyes, a truth I’ve buried deep, but one I can no longer deny in light of recent events. Here I stand beneath the pale, wan sun, peeking out just over the horizon to cast away the shadows and envelop the world is an unearthly glow. Dim though it might be, it still hurts my eyes after so many months immersed in darkness, a yearly occurrence for as long as I can remember. Usually, the stars alone shed light enough to navigate through these frozen, unforgiving wastes, but the days will grow brighter and brighter until it becomes too blinding to go out, before slowly giving way to the darkness once more.

I much prefer the darkness, especially right now, because if the world was cast in gloom and shadows, then I wouldn’t be able to see the face of my opponent and be reminded of what we share, or what we must do now that the sun has risen.

Though he is younger, he stands a head and a half taller and almost twice as wide as my spindly frame. He’s always been bigger than me though, a marked advantage in this battle of life and death, because superior skill can only go so far before sheer muscle overwhelms you, and I lack both. Head shaved and chest bared, he scowls as our eyes meet and I see his hesitation, hesitation which is mirrored in mine because neither of us want this. There is no choice however, because the weak die and the strong survive, a truth we both accept here and now. This is our way of life, one which has been drilled into our minds and bodies since the day we could walk. There is no room for mercy or compassion in our hearts, no place for friendship or empathy, only the cold, harsh rules of reality which we both must adhere to.

He's always been the stronger one, this much was made clear right from the start. When pitted against the younglings our age, he always got the lion’s share of the prize, regardless if it be food, shelter, comfort, or anything else. That’s why he’s grown so much taller and bigger, while I remained a bundle of bones and skin with barely any muscle at all, meaning our conflict was more or less decided from the start. I should just give up now, give in to the inevitable and concede defeat, but I can’t bring myself to surrender just yet. Not because I don’t want to die, nor is it because I hope to live, but because I know it’ll be harder for him to kill me if I don’t fight back.

So I fight. I throw myself at my foe, and it catches him off-guard, but he’s strong enough to throw me off with ease. Rolling across the jagged, frozen earth, I recover in time to slip aside from his follow-up kick, one which would’ve caved my head in if it’d connected. Throwing myself at his supporting leg, I drive him back half-a-handspan at most without even affecting his balance, and I feel my feet lifting off the ground as he regains his footing and hurls me aside. Should’ve slammed me down instead, because now I have strength enough to roll and recover, landing lightly on both feet just in time to narrowly dodge his charge. Pushing him along in hopes of buying myself some time, I skip backwards and freeze in place as my foe stumbles and falls to one knee, at which point instinct takes over. I leap onto his back and wrap my arms around his neck, squeezing with every scrap of strength I still possess. He bucks and heaves before pushing himself to his feet, but I cling gamely on with my feet braced against his hips. Unable to pull me loose, my opponent predictably tries to fall backwards and slam me against the ground, but I was expecting as much and release my grip to push off his back and avoid being pinned between him and the earth. As his body crashes down, mine hangs in the air for a moment, just long enough for our eyes to meet before I begin my descent anew. Time stops as we bid each other farewell, and it pains me to see no hatred, fear, or even reluctance in his expression, only grudging acceptance and sweet relief.

He's glad. Glad that he doesn’t have to kill me, and knowing this hurts more than any injury ever could.

Time resumes, and he crashes into the ground mere moments before my elbows slam home into the fragile bones of his neck. Death is instant, and as I take in my victory, there is no joy in my heart, no pleasure to be had, only a sense of incredulous disbelief at having survived this final trial, followed by a wave of horror and guilt at what I’ve done. This life was not meant to be mine, because I’ve never won against him before in my life, and I would have died a hundred times if not for the fact that our previous fights were only training matches. This was our first real life and death battle, one which no one expected me to survive, but survive I did because my opponent stumbled over a jagged rock and couldn’t recover in time.

Breaking the rock which helped secure my victory, I use it to carve up my prize to bring home as proof, a routine I’ve seen him do a thousand times before. To the victor goes the spoils, and I know I should partake in the strength of my fallen foe. I cannot remember the last time I dined on warm flesh, or even when my belly was full, and I do not have the strength to keep this whole prize to myself, but I am in no mood to eat. A foolish and stubborn denial, because I know he would have dined upon my flesh if our roles were reversed, but unlike him, I am unworthy.

I am the victor, but only because of dumb luck. I should be dead, he standing here in my place, but the heavens are cruel and merciless.

As expected, most of my prize is stolen before I make my way back home, because with my victory, I am no longer a child protected by custom, but an adult of the village free to grow my hair and beard both. There is no pride in the achievement, for it means I must labour even harder to earn my fair share or be banished, and I suspect I will be dead before the darkness comes again in a few weeks time. Carrying the single trophy left to me as proof of my undeserving victory, I return to my father’s lair and make my way inside, even though I know I should not be here, and should instead be fighting for a place to carve out my own lair before the other new adults return. There’s something I must do first though, something I need to prove to myself, which is why I came here instead. Cradling my little brother’s head in my arms, I take a seat before my mother who has yet to notice my arrival, lost in her thoughts and dreaming of a different life as she almost always is. “I have returned,” I declare, and only then does she stop staring off into nothingness to register my presence, before giving my prize a questioning gaze. I can see the question in her eyes, because no one expected my little brother to die, especially not against me, the weakest of the weak. “He stumbled and fell, so I killed him and won.”

Her brow furrows in surprise and confusion, unable to make sense of what I said. Her amber eyes take in my face, then the face of my twin brother who is dead and gone, only to come back to mine without any hint of grief, pleasure, or any other emotion besides mild curiosity. “You killed the warrior,” she declares, stating the obvious with a tilt of her head. “Which one are you again? Not the slayer. Not the glutton. Not the dagger or the wretched, the spear or the blooded. I know not your face, only that you are not my little light.”

In her mind, our names were merely labels, but it was all she’d given us, all we had, and she doesn’t even remember all of our faces. Mine least of all, despite being the one who needed her the most, the weakest runt of the litter who was destined for death. Or maybe that’s why she didn’t bother remembering me in the first place, because she assumed my death was inevitable, but I survived in spite of the odds, at the cost of my brother’s life. My little brother Baledagh, the Warrior, the strongest one of all, and the only reason I survived to reach the age of twelve and undergo the ceremony of adulthood. He fought and won the lion’s share every single time, but he always saved enough for me, because he knew I’d die without it. That’s why our father pitted us against each another, because such weakness could not be tolerated, but my little brother protected me to the end.

“I am Amigui,” I reply, amused by how apt my name is. The lifeless. Stillborn yet unable to die, an ill-omen if there ever was one. That’s all there is to say, as my mother’s expression turns to one of disgust and revulsion before turning away so she no longer has to look at me, because I am as dead to her now as the day I came out the womb, only minutes ahead of my little brother. Nothing will ever change this, a truth I must now accept, for she only has room for her little light in her heart, her Gerel who she left behind. Leaving with my brother’s head still cradled in my arms, I bring him out to the edge of camp where we can watch the rising sun together, because unlike me, he always loved the light. The others return and are surprised to see me, but I pay them no mind, nor do I care to answer my father when he comes to ask me why I’ve yet to secure my own dwelling. The sun slowly rises as the days pass by, and I continue to keep my brother company, because I never expected to make it this far and have no idea what I’m supposed to do now, nor do I care to even try. I eat when I must, because I cannot squander this life that has been gifted to me, and soon enough, all that is left of my brother is a skull and nothing else.

At which point my father arrives to tell me I’ve been banished from the village for my failure to contribute. I take the news in stride and leave my brother’s skull behind, because unlike me, he deserves a place among his people. I say nothing as father carries me away to a far-off land steeped in colours I’ve never seen. I presume it’s so I can’t make my way back to the village, but then he hands me over to a person I don’t recognize who throws me into a cage. Not that it matters, because this changes nothing, and I simply close my eyes and wish that I had died in birth rather than be born to a world that didn’t want me.

