That was a relief. Either way, I finished my status work before soaring back to base. Once there, I found most of the gialgathens had returned from the eldritch luring mission, but a few were missing. Krog and Chrona were included in that bunch, along with a few of the more militant members. I landed amidst the returned gialgathens in a plume of uplifted sand and water. As I did, a smaller gialgathen telepathically spoke to me,

"There you are, Harbinger. We've gathered the eldritch while you were away. Our elite are pulling them together, and we will carry Amara with us whenever you're ready."

I gave him a nod, "Let's go then. It's time."

We headed out, crossing over Elysium territory. I blocked and deflected attacks as we passed, melting any clusters of Hybrids while floating overhead. It took the pressure off before we breached into the countryside. Here, few signs of Elysium showed themselves outside of the superior transport systems. The waterways powered by the leviathans were impressive as always.

So impressive that I didn't tear them down. That kind of direct, economic damage wasn't going to win the natural populace over, and it hurt the Vagni more than Elysium anyway. For now, I let those kinds of boons help out the native public, and I intended on implementing something similar soon.

That required the Vagni's support, however. Crossing the rural villages, we landed far past them into the eldritch's territory. Only the small fry monsters remained, the air thickened by dispersing mana. That source radiated off past a trench, where Krog and Chrona floated along the surface. Following them, shifting eldritch tore at one another, and they created vast ripples through the ocean.

These were the precursors to world eaters. During this highly competitive stage, thousands of these guys roamed the world harvesting organic matter. This gave them tremendous girth but a low density, but they still intimidated even seasoned veterans. The titans stood hundreds of feet tall like Kaiju, ready to tear down a city. They held no shape, however, and this free-flowing form gave them a unique breed of horror.

Unlike a monster with a shape, these were like amorphous nightmares. They existed almost like concepts instead of actual things. If one came rushing over an ordinary city, they would've smothered it, a tidal wave of darkness. That ability to harvest a world's resources reminded me that these guys acted as one of the eldritch's highest evolutions.

Despite that, these prefringe eldritch paled in comparison to their final forms. A Spatial Fortress darkened a planetside, mirroring an eclipse or new moon. These guys stuck to casting shade over hillsides. Well, I wasn't the kind of hillside they'd be pulling that off with. I turned to Amara, who still messed around with her status beside me. I sent her a message.

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 18,461 (Cap: 26,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - Start sending the broadcast. I'm ready.

She gave me a nod, and for some reason, even the eldritch appeared confused for a moment nearby. I ignored that strangeness once the Hybrids and Vagni began staring forward. A few attempted smothering the screen popping up in front of them while others gawked at the fight between the behemoths in the distance.

For me, nothing appeared, but I had faith in Amara's skills. I charged mana into my blood. It took a few seconds of charging before I fully inundated with energy, and as I did, a familiar sensation returned - hunger. Some type of voice appeared in my mind, and it screamed out to kill, maim, and murder. It wanted to rip corpses and relish in the ensuing carnage.

I raised my eyebrows, taken aback by the sensation. I hadn't experienced this since before killing Yawm, far back in my early days of gaining my armor. It had terrified me at first, and I didn't know it was a natural part of having high amounts of mana. In general, my willpower tended to smother my high mana's mental effects, but now, those disturbances outdid my passive mental resistance. However, these voices no longer whispered. They symbolized the size of my mana, and my recent gains turned those whispers into the howling of an abyss.

And from that abyss, their screams echoed until they were deafening.

I smiled at the sensation, my hands shaking a bit. Though this presented a more immense challenge than before, I was no longer some naive schoolboy. I was the leader of a legion, and that armed me with knowledge. Using that experience, I shifted my mana to quintessence, the voices turning from howling demons to motivational angels.

I wanted to build, create, and make something of myself, but that wasn't helpful for what I was about to do. Taking a moment, I held my breath steady before pulling my mind to a singular point. Wielding this condensed mindset, I crushed the sensations, urges, and conflicting disturbances caused by my mana. It could howl all it liked, but that didn't mean I had to listen.

They silenced in moments, and I stood over them once more. Thinking on it, this mana-based outburst explained quite a few oddities. My armor acted on its own in my fight against the Sentinel. Most likely, that was under the influence of my ascendant mana. It could be helpful at times, so I kept that in the back of my mind, having put those old demons back to bed.

Returning to violence, I shifted back into my ascendant wake, Event Horizon. Knowing that would be the most effective aura, I launched myself towards the battle taking place before me. Krog and Chrona flowed around each other in action, both a marvel on their own but a miracle together.

They were like water and oil in a glass, both so intertwined I could hardly tell the difference between them. This coordination had reached new heights, and that connectivity demonstrated itself with each of their shifting strikes. They kept the eldritch at bay, doing well in not harming the monsters overtly. Chrona, most of all, could've obliterated the eldritch with her temporal dilation. However, keeping in line with the mission, they left these beats intact for me.

I appreciated the effort while closing in. Half a mile away, the eldritch slowed their fighting, unable to ignore my presence. At a quarter-mile, they glowered in my direction. Once I became more than a blot in the distance, a chill ran up their spine. The smallest began taking steps away, but it was too late.

I was upon them.

Within my grasp, I held the runners firm using powerful gravitation. It stunned them, leaving them unable to move but still able to stand. Knowing I needed to convince the eldritch to submit, I let the voices of my ascendant mana speak through me. This meant not suppressing the desire to destroy, and I took on this more monstrous persona.

In a way, it was liberating.

"So, it's good to see you all still have some fight in you. You'll need it for what's to come."

I kept my cipheric runes calm, not channeling my mana. Some of these eldritch still sensed something was amiss, and they were smart enough to listen to that instinct. However, a few, the brave ones, spoke out in fractured voices,

"Who are you, little one?"

"He gives us little to fight over, doesn't he?"

"To speak in tones knowable to us...interesting. Perhaps this sheep is a wolf in disguise?"

I'd heard the whole 'wolves' schtick more than enough by now. I raised a hand,

"I have a mandate for each of you. You will now be my apostles, and you shall teach the Vagni that I am your ruler now."

The most massive eldritch snickered, the largest of them then smiling with its many mouths. Its eyes locked with mine, and it cackled,

"You would rule us then? A tiny morsel, so small that you disappear in my shadow?"

It snarled, "You speak with no meaning, and you cast out words without thought. I tread horizons, and I carve them of their worth. I leave nothing behind me, a bringer of desolation. Within my grasp is the world before you, and yet, you, a tiny, measly youngling, believes you may contain me."

It hissed, "Know what you are, or others will remind you."

I charged some mana, my cipher runes beginning to swell. The smaller, smothered eldritch wrestled in the grasp of my mana, but the larger ones held their ground. Decades of being on top of the food chain numbed their instincts. It was about time I reawakened them.

"I believe that each of you has forgotten what fear is. Perhaps you have become gluttons, growing fat on the weakness of others. I forged myself amidst the powerful, and I have come out of that forge as the strongest. That strength is my weapon, and you will listen to me, or you will suffer."

They no longer laughed, a few of the larger eldritch taken aback. The largest held its ground still. A few of its mouths smirked,

"And what will that suffering entail? An upset stomach after I engulf you?"

I charged further, allowing a weakened version of Event Horizon to leak out. It crossed over to the bravest amongst them, and it shivered. A few of its eyes showed concern, but the eldritch remained steadfast, its confidence absolute,

"If this is all you are, then you are still nothing."

I increased my runic empowering tenfold, and by now, they understood the scale of my mana. They saw horrors, a shackled monster of many mouths, eating itself without end. Even Mr. Big Boy took a pause, his eyes widening from the first inklings of fear. It mouthed,

"This...This is an abomination. You are...a monster."

I increased my charging yet again by tenfold, "Are you beginning to understand who you're dealing with?"

I pressed Event Horizon into its body like a steel nail through a soft palm. The eldritch grunted out in pain, its underwater form shaking in agony. It let out ripples as it gasped,

"Cease that aura. It is aberrant. You, you're a mangling of nature, and you should be killed before you cannot be stopped."

And yet again, I multiplied my mana channeling. At this point, all of the eldritch cowered before me, several forced to bow from just the pressure alone. I needed no magic. I needed no direct threats. They understood that if they disobeyed, they'd be the next morsel fed to the cipheric runes.

The largest among them was the last left standing, and I pressed over him like a behemoth. I really played up the whole larger than life Harbinger thing,

"You've made a grave misunderstanding, little one."

The largest fell down, unable to sustain its weight anymore. I leaned over him, placing a foot onto one of its eyelids,

"I passed the point of no return long ago. That barrier, the one of infinity, is one I'm more than comfortable in now. Knowing that, you understand what I can do to you, don't you?"

The eldritch shivered before its many eyes watered. It shouted out in desperation as my mana increased further,

"Please, I will do anything. I will eat the dirt you tread upon. I will jump into voids, and I will march as your soldier. Make this agony stop. Please. Please. Please."

In the distance, Amara looked away, unable to keep gazing at the spectacle. I couldn't blame her. I took no joy in torture, whether it was to a monster or not. The eldritch, they didn't decide to be this way. They were born like this, so wanting to grow and expand was instinct. In a way, I was similar. I didn't have any real choice when I gained this armor in BloodHollow long ago. It was that or death.

And I presented that same choice to this eldritch.

"Listen, little one. There is hope for salvation here."

My mana peaked to its utmost maximum, and by now, they believed my mana was infinite. It swarmed, a storm forming around the beasts. The water shifted crimson red, and those near us struggled as a deep madness soaked through them. The creatures turned frantic, their despair absolute. These monsters, they shifted around in terror while waiting for their torment to end.

And, it did.

I shifted my aura to the Rise of Eden, and I considered these eldritch my allies. Instead of the raging torment of Event Horizon, they gained an enormous increase in stats. Their wills were now bolstered instead of weakened, and they felt tremendous motivation to empower themselves. Letting them linger in the sensation, I raised my hands,

"I can bring you all to a higher plane. You all wallow down here, abandoned to this new dimension. Each of you struggles with your new forms, grasping at anything for power. This is because each of you is aimless, and you each exist without reason. This is because you lack meaning. I, I can offer you that meaning."

The quintessence mana forced them to evolve. They gained denser musculature, harder bones, and sharper teeth. Their minds expanded, and they existed in rapture for a moment. Shutting the Rise of Eden off, that rapture ended. The sublime augments ceased forming, and they no longer experienced the surge of sudden growth. Torn from this, they shouted out,

"No, give me more."

"It was complete, and now it is fractured once more."

"I need more."

I raised a hand, generating a block of quintessence. I threw it at the largest eldritch, who grasped it firmly in a tendril. I narrowed my eyes at them all,

"Be my apostles, and I can give you more than your wildest dreams. Obey me, and you will all prosper."

I shifted my aura to Event Horizon, "Disobey me, and I will leave each of you shattered."

I left the destructive dimensional wake on for only a moment before silencing all of my auras. I peered down at them,

"Speak."

The largest, most defiant of them fell to his knees, and he raised his tendrils as if worshiping an angel,

"I will follow you...Harbinger."

Another eldritch fell, its form akin to a nightmare more than a living thing,

"I too will follow you, Harbinger."

