They repeated those words, time and time again. Hovering over them, they submitted in their entirety. To them, the mana I offered was like a drug they needed. It gave them everything they hungered for, and in theory, I could give them all that and more. I wouldn't, but even just a little would go a long way.

Having them in the palm of my hand, I spread my arms and boomed my words, "My first decree is for all other eldritch to serve me, and you shall be my messengers. You may eat them no longer. You must abstain from indulgence, and I will offer you something better in place of their flavorless meat."

I reached out a hand, several quintessence crystals forming over the individual eldritch. They grasped at them with a wild hunger before draining the energy within. Once finished, I raised a fist,

"Once the word is spread, tell the Vagni that I am the oldest of their gods. I am an ancient being that existed before time. I awoke and watched the universe form, and I allowed this world to become whole. I have now returned to take my rightful place as ruler here."

Yup, good old me, being an ancient being before time...Totally.

The eldritch nodded, "Yes, Harbinger." The largest spread his vast arms wide, "I will not be silent until all Vagni know you are their true ruler, Harbinger."

I'll be honest, I held down a burst of laughter at these guys. Something about having these anomalous horrors bow to me was so...comical. It wasn't something I ever imagined for myself, and my only coping mechanism for this craziness was humor. I kept that under control, pointing out into the distance,

"Now go. Let the people of this world know the oldest of their gods has returned, and I wish for my chosen ones to escape the forces that afflict them here. They speak blasphemy against you and us, and so, the Vagni must escape them. Tell them to leave the cities and go into the wastes. There, I promise them a new life. A better one."

I beat my chest with a fist, "One where they live with the old gods, learning their wisdom."

The enormous horrors before me obeyed, and they trekked away into an uncertain future. They left marks and scars on the land as they did, their forms massive enough to tear stone and rend dirt. Once far away, I got a message from Amara,

Amara, the Lost One(lvl 7,829) - The transmission has ended. I can no longer sustain it.

I let out a sigh of relief, turning to Chrona and Krog above me, "Holy shit, I can't believe I pulled that off."

Chrona gave me a gentle smile, "I must admit, I was rather wrapped up in your performance. You understand how to give things a sense of scale, and you wield that understanding like a weapon in your speeches."

Krog grinned, showing his fangs, "Well done."

Turning towards the edge of a vast oceanic trench, I spotted Amara and a super golem staring. I gave them a thumbs-up before saying,

"Let's go meet with them. We'll see what the situation looks like now and reassess."

We passed over a dark crack in the earth, looking like a wound beneath the sky. Nearing the others, I set up a telepathic multilink with Amara and the golem. In rushed a surge of fear, one dampened by some respect. It came from Amara who murmured,

"You were terrifying, as you always are. If we eldritch are wolves, then you are Fenrir, he who will rule us."

The gialgathens and I got together, landing in front of her. I stepped up,

"Well, er, thanks...So, uh, how did the broadcast go?"

Amara cackled with a hint of evil under her breath, "Oh, better than I imagined it would. I've infiltrated several of their informational streams, and the Vagni have been deeply swayed by your performance. It goes without saying that the eldritch across this aquatic wasteland have also been convinced."

I raised an eyebrow, "Wait, eldritch? We only broadcasted to the Vagni, right?"

Her eyes narrowed, "That is what we both believed, but I broke through one of their defensive protocols seconds before the announcement. I was able to extend the broadcast to the eldritch that live here as well. Even those without eyes saw your broadcast, the visualization utter and complete."

My eyes widened, "So they all saw that? Every eldritch here?"

"Yes. Several raids by grouping eldritch have already begun."

I stepped up, putting a hand on Amara's shoulder, "Now that's what I call exceeding expectations."

Reaching out my hand, I generated a stream of quintessence for Amara, and she held her hands out wide. Her hair grabbed any of the shining stones that missed her palms while she drooled into the water. Grinning from ear to ear, Amara nodded,

"Thank you very much, Harbinger."

I raised a fist, "I give my own what they deserve, so expect more than this. That being said-" I leaned closer to Amara with a knowing smile,

"Don't think I'm going to keep believing you're just some Builder's apprentice forever, though. Capeesh?"

Amara scoffed, "A humble beginning doesn't mean I will have a humble end. Of anyone, you should understand those words well."

Remembering my past as a screw-up from school, I pursed my lips while leaning back. She was right about that one. Finding the others gawking in surprise, I outstretched my hands,

"We're taking our siege worldwide, and we have an army of our own as well to attack from all sides."

The gialgathens raised their many wings, casting a shadow over Amara and me. They let out another roar before we returned to our headquarters. In the center of Saphigia, the situation stabilized, vast swaths of the patrolling Hybrids sent to the capital's outskirts. The reason for that was twofold.

On the one hand, many eldritch attacked from the outside. To protect the local populace, Elysium sent in guards for their protection. On the other hand, the Vagni showed a stark reduction in support for Elysium. Without them doing what they were told, outright chaos ensued. That was all thanks to Amara. Eventually, I needed to get a grip on what her past was and understanding that would lead to getting the most out of her talents.

She already surpassed anything I imagined she was capable of, and I couldn't even guess the edge of her potential either. That was a heartening realization. Either way, a regroup was required. The situation changed completely from this morning, so I got our guild's elite together in the largest building I crafted overnight. Within those walls, we sat at a round table while the gialgathens rested on landing platforms surrounding us. Glass windows showed the war outside our sanctum, and the quintessence crystals bathed us in a pale light.

I leaned back in my chair made of gravitation, gesturing to everyone, "What's the aftermath of operation: Eldritch Shakedown?"

Torix read a flood of messages from his many sources of information, "There appears to be a high number of factional changes from the Vagni. Initial figures presume a 40% conversion rate in cities with up to 60% in rural areas. It's better than I envisioned, and the figures are climbing as we speak. In particular, the eldritch's support is the most convincing for the more skeptical Vagni."

Torix turned to Amara, who ate three different mana crystals in a single hand,

"Based upon my minimal skills of deduction, I imagine it was you we have to thank for the eldritch's support?"

Amara didn't answer, but the happy look on her face spoke volumes. Torix threw up his hands, "This is excellent. We should expect up to 60% of urbanites and 80% of rural Vagni to transfer before the week is done."

I leaned forward, tapping my chin with a knuckle, "Huh, that's good. We'll need to take full advantage of this opening then." I pointed at the gialgathens here, Krog and Chrona sitting alert,

"You two, scope our surrounding cities near Saphigia. We should be able to contain what's going on there. We'll be able to get a solid grasp on the land near us, letting us establish more cities. My idea is to make bulwarks that are protected by blue cores. Once we have those set, we'll create perimeters protected by my super golems."

Krog and Chrona bowed before they flew out through an opening made for them. I turned to Torix, "Get the territory near here stabilized and running economically as quickly as possible. I want the local populace to see us like a wave of prosperity. That requires good transportation, along with buyers for standard Vagni goods. I need the credits from it as well."

"As you wish it, it will be so."

Torix stood, pacing off towards his lair. I pointed at Hod and Althea, "Can you two do some scouting on a few of the nearby military outposts here? We'll need to take the entirety of Saphigia before this week is out."

Althea and Other Hod gave me a thumbs up before they disintegrated into thin air, undetectable and intangible. I peered towards Kessiah, who looked run ragged, her face pale from blood loss. Remembering the ring I gave her for blood production before, I pulled out some fabric from my pocket dimension.

Molding more rings and amulets in seconds, I charged my grimoire while speaking,

"I'll be building you a hospital. Let's go."

By the time I arrived at the new building spot, I had begun floating a few finished rings over to her. Her fingers were loaded with metal now, along with amulets, bracelets, and even chain belts. Some gravity augments were necessary so she could continue moving; otherwise, she'd be rendered inert. The weight aside, each piece perked her up some. This left her feeling much better by the time I constructed the base of her building.

As always, I kept the design simple, but I partitioned rooms out more than usual. Poorly designed hospitals spread disease, so I put some time and effort into keeping things safe. Along with preventing cross-contamination, I made several enormous rooms for the gialgathens. This, combined with some of our medical personnel, meant we could help keep people stable until a real healer arrived.

Handling that situation, I left Kessiah to her healing before heading over towards the monument I made for Alpha and our other fallen. Besides the memorial, a Sentinel's armor and spear glistened with cracks on their graphene surfaces. I sat down, inspecting the cipher runes laced between the armor's chinks.

Giving everything a quick glance, I committed the unrealistically elaborate cipher inscriptions to memory. Doing the same with the spear, I inspected every part I could find before a portal opened up behind me. From this warp, an old friend walked out with sad steps. That sadness altered into shock as I stood over him, a head taller than he was.

I commanded his attention, his helmet scarred by recent battles. So many wounds littered his surface that a few patches of tar-like skin exposed themselves from chips in his exoskeleton. Most of all, he was missing an eye. The pivotal figure stared at me in evident surprise as I lifted the Sentinel's spear and armor to him,

"It's good to see you again, Overseer. How have you been?"
