Opening my status, numerous notifications came pouring in. The first one was unexpected, but welcome nonetheless.

Congratulations! You've learned the new skill Lightning Generation.

Lightning Generation(lvl 13) - Many wish they wielded the powers that lay dormant at your fingertips. Use it wisely. Allows the user to generate electricity.

Congratulations! You have fused the normal skills Lightning Generation, Electrical Clasping, Lightning Eater, Throwing, and Deconstruction into the unique skill, Empowered Automaton. 168 Skillpoints awarded.

Empowered Automaton(lvl 12) - You walk in the wake of energy, and it flows through you, augmenting your every move. Grants the better use of electricity, giving the user empowered stats while charged.

Mass Manipulator has been enhanced by the mythical skill, Hunter of Many. This has turned Mass Manipulator into Mass Molder.

Mass Molder(lvl 74) - Most are given a shape and form, and they cannot change it. You are fluid, and in that fluidity, you find power. Allows the user to alter densities of matter slightly and gives the user the ability to change one's shape more quickly.

It was an absolute outpour of skills, which was a nice bonus. Lightning Generation came from using electricity as a weapon against the twisted Sentinel. Considering the massive streaks of mana based lightning I spawned during my mana charging, electrical generation was something I'd expected a while back. Using it actively as a weapon must have made the difference here for learning it.

As for the unique skill, I revved it into action as I read on. Empowered Automaton gave me a slight tingling sensation like I was charged with static. Giving it a bit more juice, electricity hummed through the water, killing a few nearby fish. Remembering where I was, I silenced the skill so I wouldn't kill nearby people. Giving myself a mental slap, I continued thinking.

The stat bonuses from the unique skill seemed negligible, but the actual electricity proved quite volatile. Charging myself and fighting while super-heated would make me even more challenging to approach. It gave me a few new ideas for making other skills oriented around putting myself through hell. With my sheer tankiness, I could walk around in a perpetual storm of various elements.

Everyone around me would suffer, but I'd be just fine. Ice, fire, electricity, gravitation, magma, and wind, I could just plant those streams of magic over myself then launch my body at an enemy. It would be more straightforward than aiming and maintaining mana at a distance, albeit a bit unconventional. This meant more powerful streams of those magics as well.

That came down to a matter of distance - the further a magic's epicenter was from me, the more mana it cost to maintain. Where I used my mana decided most of its efficiency, so putting it right at my center of mass made the spells more effective. Of course, it wasn't as if I was hurting for mana or anything, but I pinched pennies where I could, even if I didn't need them.

Putting those ideas aside, I checked out Mass Molder.  It was a slight augment for my Mass Manipulator skill, and it just made modeling my armor easier. Useful, but it wasn't a deal-breaker. I probably earned the ability from taking out the Hybrids with my hook attack. Considering the efficacy of that, I remembered this skill for later. It might do me more good than I initially presumed, but I'd have to wait and see.

Either way, it was time for me to check out other parts of my status update. I got a nice stockpile of skillpoints from all the skills I learned and leveled. That was something I forgot in my previous status check - selecting my next tree. It had been so long that I forgot about the process in general. Opening my menu, I perused my options.

Purger(Clear a quarantine)(0/250) | Owner of Worlds(Own a habitable world)(2,500) | Anomaly(Be singular in nature)(2,500) | Creator of Armies(Generate a formidable fighting force)(2,500) | Immortal(Have a possible lifespan of over 100,000 years)(2,500) | Builder(Build over ten buildings that are livable)(150) | Conquerer(Take a city by force)(1,500)

Each of the trees drew me in for different reasons. Purger and Builder seemed like quick, easy boosts in their relative abilities. Builder, in particular, played a crucial part in making my colonies from here on out. Purger probably assisted with quarantines, which Plazia-Ruhl still hadn't created. For now, I put that on the back burner.

Owner of Worlds appeared useful, as I planned on owning several worlds. That being said, it would be a hot minute before I got ownership of another planet. On the other hand, Creator of Armies stuck out as one of the most appropriate choices. Unlike Owner of Worlds, Creator of Armies helped me out right now, letting me boost my armies or help make them better. That was always useful, and it would be for the foreseeable future.

On the other hand, the Immortal tree wasn't my cup of tea. It took me, like, three seconds to regenerate to full health. I didn't need more survivability, which I guesstimated the tree was about. Online searches didn't help me out there. As for Conquerer, that tree seemed the least useful. I had no issues wiping out populaces. If anything, my most significant limitations revolved around not killing other people while slaughtering enemies.

After weighing those options, I stuck with something simple - Builder. Yeah, it was pretty basic, but sometimes, choosing vanilla was the best option. Doing just that, I funneled all my points into the tree. It rewarded well after that.

Most Sentients use their lives to destroy. They break others, the eldritch, and even themselves. When they pass, nothing lives on after them. You've chosen a different path, one that leaves behind a bounty for others. Whether after death or before life, your chosen marks remain.

+10% Building Speed

This decision, the one of creation, is a difficult one to resolve one's self for. It involves giving away your ego and the drive for personal power. In this way, many of your current decisions revolve around those around you. It takes a strong mind to give to others, and you are an example of that strength embodied.

+10% Building Speed

This strength acts as a beacon for others. You shine brightly, casting an overflowing light onto those that congregate in your glow. That glow manifests as the comforts of living well; no rain nor wind will lash your friend's backs. No monsters will rush through their doors, and no cold will bite their fingers and toes.

+10% Building Speed

This protection creates community, a shelter for those that need an escape from a harsh reality. You forge a new one in place of a callus nature, an existence that is warm and comfortable. This allows others to grow in kind, and in that way, you've created a garden from which others may flourish.

+10% Building Speed

For their growth is your own, and in their tempering, you can only smile. You are but a piece, yet still part of the whole. You relish in this task, for you are a builder of homes and a crafter of comfort. Take pride in it.

+10% Building Speed | 100% increased learning speeds for construction based skills

It was a humble but welcome addition to my trees. It synergized with my current building tasks, and I appreciated the learning speed increase. Considering the number of colonies we'd be making soon, this was a wise decision long-term. Figuring I'd get my other small tree out of the way, I invested into Purger in the same way.

To purge is more than to destroy. Yes, you must eradicate the filth present and preserve the lives of those still living. More than this, you act as a cleansing agent, one that goes through the land and restores balance. This balance exposes itself as new growth. By culling the old, you make way for the new.

+4% Damage In Quarantined Areas

This fresh restoration requires the culling of what lingers on. In that manner, don't mistake yourself as a reaper of these lost souls or infected people. You are granting them peace so that their families may live on. You are giving them a future worth living, one that is brighter than the dim present they bask in.

+4% Damage in Quarantined Areas

A light bringer, a dawn treader, and a dark culler, you walk forth through desolate lands and aged spaces. By choosing this path, you make a path for those behind you. By making a situation less grim, you allow others to do the same. Set these precedents, and you grant others the right to follow you.

+4% Damage in Quarantined Areas

And they will; you grant security and peace. Your presence, though basked in death, is a comfort to those around you. You exist not as a plague doctor that omens death but as a vaccine that promises life. The helpless, they peer at you in awe. Their fear is multifaceted, as it contains joy and retribution as well.

+4% Damage in Quarantined Areas

This retribution comes in the form of continuing on. Though upon the graves of those that have perished, their lands are now clean of infestations. That is because of you as you are the purger of vermin.

+4% Damage in Quarantined Areas | +10% Speed in Quarantined Areas

Once more, these were simple, useful bonuses. Unlike the larger trees, these didn't change my build or grant me wide, sweeping bonuses. They simply assisted me with specific jobs and tasks. Considering I planned on clearing fringe worlds eventually, it was good to get this out of the way. That investment left me with only a few skill points left. Taking a glance at my other trees, I put the rest of my points into Creator of Armies.

It served me best for now, and with that handled, I checked out my status. Without really thinking the situation through, I just poured all my points into endurance. At this point, the multipliers worked like a charm for me. With that handled, I opened my status and gave it a look-see. This seemed like a nice bump up as far as stats were concerned.

The Living Multiverse(Lvl 18,461 (Cap: 26,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign)

Strength – 90,951 | Constitution – 113,694 | Endurance – 232,558

Dexterity – 48,012 | Willpower – 186,592 | Intelligence – 116,592

Charisma – 45,946 | Luck – 65,096 | Perception – 35,016 |Awe - 5,201

Health: 920.8 Million/920.8 Million | Health Regen: 31.6 Billion/min or 527.4 Million/sec

Stamina: Infinite | Ambient Mana 5.402 Trillion

Mass: 21.3 Million Pounds(9.7 Million Kilos~)

Height: 17'11 (5.46 meters)

Damage Res - 99.27% | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 115.7 Million % | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius.

Mana Conversion - 7.1 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor.

The gains were incredible. Due to all of my trees and multipliers, my mana generation continued exponentially increasing. It made me wonder if Schema would install a cap for some of my previous perks just for me. I mean, I doubted anyone else beat me in endurance. That could very well be the case for willpower as well.

Either way, everything else bolstered over time as well. In particular, my ambient mana jumped up an enormous amount from my last fight. Eating a Sentinel and tons of boosted hybrids tended to do that, and it was a good feeling knowing those efforts were getting recognized. As for every other stat, the gains were gradual yet inevitable.

It was a great feeling as my hand hovered over the finalize button. Right before selecting it, I jolted out of my daze. I remembered my Sovereign transformation and how violent it was. Keeping that in mind, I flew up above the sea, treading into unknown waters. Fifteen minutes later, and I gained access to a small island on the surface. With some molded fabric, I put myself into a cocoon of my dimensional threading, hoping it would contain my power-up.

Selecting finalize, I figured out quickly it would not. The sheer size of my stats meant the amount of mana Schema siphoned to me was abnormal. If anything, it might be the literal highest amount of mana he sent towards anyone. That meant lots of energy transferred, and with energy came heat.

Lots of it.

I scorched the ocean around me, the island burning into a pit of molten glass. As it sunk deep into the ocean's depths, an enormous geyser formed overhead. The water poured towards me and evaporated in mass, resulting in a gigantic whirlpool. This oceanic event left a substantial chunk of the surrounding sea drying out, and water from far off poured in to compensate.

That was about all I could comprehend at the time. It took all of my concentration to not be driven insane by all the mana. It was energy incarnate, a swarm that left me reeling. My vision faded like last time, and the resulting bonuses went unnoticed for that reason. I mean, how could I feel my mana increasing when I was melting?

I couldn't, and so this process continued for a few minutes. By the time it finished, my own body had turned into a semi-molten slop. Concerned for my well being, I held myself together for a moment using magic. I generated something similar to my standard shape using hundreds of gravity wells, but I still deformed under the mana streams.

And yet, I lived. If anything, it left me stunned by my absurd, unending vitality. The fact of the matter was this - I'd never taken this kind of damage from anything else besides my class unlock. My stat increases were more dangerous than my actual fights now, and keeping that in mind, I intended on splitting up my next series of level-ups. If I took only a thousand attributes at once, it wouldn't be like this.

