"So how does that help me?" Shiv asked.

"Oh, it helps you because you're going to ask him a very simple question, and that usually puts him in a bit of a fugue state." Veronica spun on her heel. "When you encounter Enoch and his newest Avatar, simply ask him about Aina Huna and how he lost it to the Stormlords of the Pacific. Do it again and again. It will break him. It's pathetic, but also slightly amusing. So much power, yet so many poor decisions. An entire island chain given to a race that barely has any sapience.”

She shook her head. "Godhood. What a poisonous pill of power."

When she said nothing more, he felt an insatiable urge to flee, to leave the room. He realized she had been suppressing the dread aura emanating from this chamber all that time, and now it was back in full force. She was sending him away. "You know something, Veronica? If I ever turn out like you, I'm going to let my vitality spill out of my body, and I'm going to let it keep flowing until there's nothing left of me. I might be Deathless now, but being dead might be better than whatever you've turned out to be. And whatever the fuck Udraal is.”

She craned her neck slightly and rolled her eyes. “Yes, yes, spit your pointless youthful rage. It will go away in time. You’ll learn to deal with everything else as well. It’s just the way life is. Now. We’re done here. Begone. And be quick with your escape.”

With that, they were finished. Their relationship had been ugly since the beginning, and now it was closer and yet more sour than ever. Shiv clenched the sync-letter tightly and wondered just how big a mistake he had made.

He walked out of the room, and something clawed itself up. It started in his stomach, and spikes of pain began to move towards his throat. Shiv doubled his pace, fleeing out from the cracked stone doors and turning along the hall. As soon as he left Veronica's, he nearly doubled over. Every bit of his self-control had been devoted to stopping himself from throwing up earlier, from the disgust that came with knowing about Udraal, about his mother and his father, about so many truths.

"Fuck," Shiv almost whimpered. He used the wall to keep himself standing. As he tried to force another step, he found his leg shaking. Tumbling sprays of bile seared the edges of his throat. Everything inside him begged for him to let it all out, to express his nausea in some way. But for whatever reason, he couldn't. He couldn't just puke. He couldn't admit weakness so close to Veronica.

The doors were still open. She had to be listening. She had to be waiting.

And then a hard but gentle hand landed on his back. He turned to see Cripple's Avatar looming over him. Its optics flickered, and though the automaton's features were nothing like a human's, Shiv could practically taste the sympathy radiating from it.

"I didn't know," Cripple said. "I am sorry. To learn of your parentage in such a way, to discover the terrible truths that you were faced with… I didn't know. I didn't intend for this."

He stepped away from its touch. He didn't need it. He didn't need its comfort. Cripple was a broken thing. It couldn't help Shiv any more than he could help himself.

"It's fine," Shiv lied, forcing the bile back down. It would sink into his stomach. It would burn there. It would be a permanent mark of disgust. But he would deal with it. He would live with it. He would accept it. What more was another scar?

"It's fine. I got other things to deal with. I'm going to... I'm going to meet up with Adam."

"What will you tell him?" Cripple asked.

"I'm going to tell him that we have a way in. That I know what to expect."

"And nothing about Veronica?"

"I don’t know!" Shiv growled roughly. "We're dealing with enough shit already. I don't need him troubled by this right now."

"And you?" Cripple continued to press. "Aren't you troubled?"

"No. I'm really, really pissed off and trying not to throw up because fucking—Udraal—FUCK! FUCK! FUCK!” Shiv suddenly screamed and slammed a fist into the wall, blowing a chunk open in the architecture. As the dust cleared, he saw the Orichalcum hull beyond the soft and supple wood. “Fuck,” Shiv whispered. He didn’t know if he was going to go Berserk or have a psychological breakdown. He decided to do neither. He decided to keep putting one foot in front of the other. “I'm going to leave now. You still want to help? Be there. Send your Avatar. Right now, I need to... I need to..."

"I understand," Cripple said. "Go. There is nothing stopping you. I will deploy another of mine. I will find you using the reactor core Adam has." But as the words finished, they both lingered for a while, and Shiv let out a hiss. He turned away. "Shiv... I..." Cripple said no more than those two words before the Deathless flung himself back towards his temporal anchor.

In the next moment, he snapped into place within the Forest of Alloy.

Before Shiv could emerge from the Category One Dimension, a low, rumbling laugh filled his mind. When the Challenger’s mirth faded, Shiv felt himself on the verge of a violence—with nothing to vent his anger on.

“They’re pretty pathetic, aren’t they, Bruiser?”

The Deathless was in no mood to speak with the Challenger. He hadn’t processed the madness that was Udraal being his “mother” and the Ascendants…

“Not here to mock you. I’m just here to tell you that I chose right with you.”

Shiv paused. “What?”

“You’re a good Insul. A proper Pathbearer. And maybe someday you’ll make a proper god. Not like them. They’ll never be proper anything. Because they’re not even themselves anymore. You understand why I hate them now, don’t you?”

“Yeah.” Shiv laughed scornfully. “I don’t see the point of having all that power if I’m not the one wielding it. And my mom… The fuck was she thinking?”

“Probably that she was special. That her arrangement would see her finally be made truly spectacular. That Udraal couldn’t steal her body or wouldn’t just use her as a puppet. That she was too strong. Or too important in the grand scheme of things. And when Valor's son decided to hollow her soul out, it was just too late. Foolishness. Desperation. Delusion. Want. But ultimately, the mistake she made mirrors that of the Ascendants.”

Shiv gritted his teeth and, for once, found himself entirely in accord with the orc god. “Yeah. Power is earned.”

“Or taken. Power given or borrowed from another is never yours. Remember that. And remember to own everything you do. No excuses, Bruiser. I am a monster. I am the Challenger. I was not made this way. I choose this. Every day, I choose this. Just like you choose to be who you are. You can change. But make it your own choice. That, more than anything, is yours. It doesn’t matter who you were spawned from or why. The future matters. The future is yours. Paint your character there.”

Philosophy 27 > 28

“Really? You reached across the veil to give me a pep-talk?” Shiv said. His sarcasm was lacking, and his suspicion was high.

“Yes,” the Challenger said without a hint of mockery.

Shiv nearly choked. “No shit?”

“Shiv. Bruiser. I like hurting people. I like screams and dominance. But I am not beyond other things. Never mistake me for an Ascendant. I am a whole person. I have many flavors. And right now, you need someone to tell you that you are more than who birthed you.”

“Huh,” Shiv muttered. “I… Thanks, Challenger.”

“Thank me by following your Path to the conclusion. We have a rendezvous in your future, don’t we? You can’t stop here if that’s the case.”

And wasn’t that the truth? “Yeah, yeah. I’m still coming for you, Challenger. But… You know… Thanks.”

“Go. Shed some blood. Carve some fear into those false gods. Let my orcs have some fun. Amuse me. That’s all I ask.”

And as the Challenger’s presence faded from Shiv’s mind, he wasted no more time. The Deathless moved, bursting free from his cape, prepared to face anything on the other end. As soon as he came out, however, he found himself in a new prison. The valley here looked different. Massive furrows lined the walls. Kilometers of Orichalcum were missing, leaving huge gaps that exposed the mithral supports behind. As he turned, he found several orcs cheering on his arrival.

He found the orcs, Gone, Candles, Five, Adam, and Can Hu, standing at the ready. Their weapons were low, but their eyes were pointed high.

Looming over them, dangling from the ceiling, was the most peculiarly dressed hydra Shiv had ever seen. The twelve-headed beast was large, each of its necks around twenty meters long. A descending pillar hung down from the far-above ceiling, growing longer with every passing second, like an inverted pedestal that the hydra sat upon.

Its body was also decorated in strange—Shiv's mind spun as he realized those weren't decorations. Those were Pathbearers. Those were people. Wardens kicked and wailed, fused into the hydra's scales. And where the wardens weren't, the spaces were occupied by hexagonal plates of Orichalcum as well. Limbs and screaming heads stuck out from the Hydra's body where the Orichalcum grids weren't.

A large cape of flowing silk mixed with luxurious carpets and curtains swayed around the hydra's massive back, flowing as if some kind of stylish half-cape. But it was the Hydra's many heads that caught Shiv's true attention, for it had fashioned crowns for itself—crowns shaped from gold, silver, and even copper, and studded with gems. Dozens upon dozens of necklaces of different styles hung from its neck, and its claws were bedecked with rings.

The hydra had taste. Expensive taste.

"Oh, and who is this?" the hydra, the one Cripple had called Solzimort earlier, called out to Shiv. Every single one of his heads spoke in tandem, as if there was no separation between them, and his tone was light and inquisitive. "Is this one of your friends?"

Adam turned, noticing Shiv for the first time. He lingered on Shiv's face for a second, and his eyes filled with concern. Shiv gave him a nod, trying to signal that he was fine, but Adam Arrow's Awareness was peerless in Shiv's view. Even if his Psychology skill wasn't that high, he could read Shiv's facial muscles. He could tell how tense Shiv was.

The Deathless really didn't want to deal with this right now. "Later," Shiv whispered, and that made Adam turn away. Adam was reliable, but he wasn't going to let this go. They were going to face it at some point, but they weren't going to do it right now. Right now, they had a hydra to recruit.

"Solzimort," Shiv said. "Hi. I'm Shiv. I'm..."

And just then, the notification appeared. The cursed notification that made him the enemy of practically everyone in Integrated Earth. The hydra noticed then, and Shiv prepared himself for a fight.

The hydra's many mouths opened wide, and his heads reared back. Shiv clenched his fist. Adam shaped an arrow. Gone prepared to move.

And then, the hydra—Solzimort—let out a loud sigh. "Oh, ohhh, you're the Deathless. We're so sorry." Of all the things the hydra could have said, this wasn't one that Shiv had anticipated. "You must have had a very hard life. Now the System's trying to get everyone to hurt you. The System is so mean. That's okay, it's mean to us too. That's why we're in this prison, even though we don't deserve it."

Shiv stared at a few of the struggling wardens, who shrieked with terror. “Please,” one of them begged. “Please. Oh, God, I can feel it… I can feel it moving underneath my body. My legs are gone, but I can feel it. It's attached to my legs. Ah, ah, ah! ” The warden's wailing cry pierced through the air and briefly silenced Solzimort's words.

"Uh-huh," Shiv said dryly. "Yeah, I'm sure you're perfectly moral."

Solzimort turned one of his massive heads to stare at the struggling warden. As he drew close, the warden began to sob. Shiv used his Farsight and saw that the warden was a rather young-looking man. Fat tears rolled down his cheeks, and he flinched away from the hydra's breath. He should have expected the hydra to bite down on the warden, to put an end to his screaming. But once more, Solzimort surprised him. “There, there, little warden,” he said with a pacifying tone. “We didn't mean to scare you. We're actually trying to preserve all of you. Don’t worry. We'll keep you safe in our scales.”

"Preserve?" Adam's voice jumped an octave. His eyes darted between all the wardens trapped within Solzimort's body. "Solzimort, you do understand that people need to breathe, no?"

"Ah, no! A common misconception. People don't need to breathe; they need oxygen inside their brains. And we're feeding them oxygen. They're just suffocating for no reason because their body hasn't adapted yet." The hydra's many heads laughed as one. "Anyhow, that's why they're fused inside of us. We're keeping them safe from harm. We've wrapped our skin in Orichalcum, and we've additionally increased our density by ten times. Now, ultimately, no one can hurt us."

Solzimort laughed again, and this time, all the wardens began laughing with him, clearly compelled by the hydra’s power.

Shiv blinked and felt a strange pulse of Dynamancy radiating out from Solzimort. Then he saw translucent trails of mana connecting each of the hydra's crowns with the wardens. He had some kind of strange Psychomancy skill. Moreover, the aura he radiated into the air was infused with Magical Resistance as well.

Just what the hells am I looking at here? Shiv thought to himself.

