Euthanasia. Mercy killing. The hardest goodbye.

It's got a lot of names, but functionally, there's gonna be a time on the battlefield where you're going to have to put your knife in your friend's heart.

It could be because you don't want them to be captured. It could be because their injuries are too severe. It could be because a plague is wiping everyone out and your friend just doesn't have it in them to finish things themselves. It could be any of these reasons. The result is always the same: suffering and death, or softness and death.

Some people like to go on about dignity here. There's not much dignity when people die. We all die pretty similarly. I guess some people are quieter about it than others, but for most, there's usually the screaming for their mother, followed by shitting and pissing themselves. It's practically unavoidable.

What's avoidable, however, is how long they do it and how ugly things get. So, if you don't think you can pull this off, I recommend against being a soldier. Because you're not just going to be responsible for your own life. You're going to be responsible for your friends. And when they can't push themselves over the edge, when the hardest time comes, you better step up.

Because you need to understand that you might very well be that friend. You might very well be lying on the ground with both arms blown off, no Biomancers nearby, enemies closing in, and in the absence of victory, well, you can only take the consolation prize.

You feel uncomfortable reading this? Good. It's not supposed to be comfortable. It's supposed to be a burden. You feel that way, you hold that knife, and you do the last thing you can to make things right.

-Memoirs of a Master-Tier Warmage

193 (I)

Euthanasia [I]

"Why?" Shiv asked, frowning. "What kind of grudge do you have against Enoch?"

Veronica scoffed, and she began to pace. "It's not a grudge, boy. It's more like a punishment. You know what Enoch did, do you not?" When Shiv didn't respond, she turned toward Cripple. "Ah, so there are some secrets you do keep for your fellow Ascendants. It's good to know that you're not a complete traitor."

The automaton Ascendant flinched beneath Veronica's cutting words, and though its Avatar took no wounds, it was still affected. Such was Veronica's power.

"Enoch split his soul," Veronica declared. "He split his soul the same way Udraal did, the same way Valor did, the same way most Necrotech Undying do. Except he did it poorly, with an incomplete understanding of the ritual. And so, I have a schizophrenic, mind-severed idiot who's desperately trying to find a special Avatar to contain his broken soul. And when we need him to maintain and bless the Republic’s fortifications, no less.”

With every syllable Veronica spat, the heat within the room grew. The flames within the hearth crackled and then became a roar, and the fairies scattered in every direction. Then the room grew darker, the light drained away by the Legendary Councilwoman's simmering rage. And as she breathed out, everything returned to normal. It was like the blackness never was.

"Do you know what being a Legendary Councilwoman means, dear boy? It means being a babysitter. It means that I am the caretaker to some of the most powerful people on the Integrated Earth, yet they are determined to make these mortal failures, these hubristic mistakes that are unbefitting of Master-Tier Pathbearers, let alone gods. But that is not why I'm going to punish Enoch specifically. No, I'm going to punish Enoch because he is trying to do something beyond foolish. He is trying to eliminate the other Ascendants, and he tried to eliminate me."

"He did?" Shiv blinked. "Why?”

"Because he’s afraid I’ll try to control him. And he’s right. The Starhawk isn’t the only rogue variable I need to handle. All the Ascendants have their own branching problems, and I need to contend with them all. You see, Enoch isn't trying to find just another Avatar with Rebis. He's trying to find something he can dump a sliver of his soul in to set Rebis free. That way, Rebis can develop on his own. Or rather, Rebis, now consumed by the stable portion of Enoch's soul, can return to being a poor, full person, while the rest of his consciousness, shackled by godhood, languishes."

A whirlwind of thoughts swirled through Shiv's mind, and the edges of Enoch's plans surfaced. "Wait, so if he's connected to himself, connected to his own godhood, but he won't suffer the degeneration anymore, does that mean he will be able to fully wield his power? Like, will that let him continue growing as a Pathbearer, and maybe even survive the destruction of his divinity, in case anything happens within the Great One?"

"Exactly," Veronica said, clenching a fist. "And that cannot be allowed. The Starhawk has already trespassed the unforgivable boundary, and if Enoch follows, if any other Ascendant follows after him, then there will be no more Auroral Council. There will be no unified pantheon, and there will be no Republic."

She sighed. "No, Rebis must die. Enoch must endure his foolishness.

“You need to hold on to control," Shiv concluded.

"Exactly," Veronica agreed without any hint of shame. "I'm glad you can see this. Also, you're likely not leaving this prison without dealing with Enoch." A smirk crawled over her features. "Mainly because I assigned him to guard the core. And while the other Ascendants are busy, Enoch will likely be desperately trying to finish the binding process with Rebis."

"So, I was going to be running into him anyway," Shiv said.

"Ah, something like that," Veronica replied, waving her hand. "So then, my conditions. Are they acceptable?" She held out her sync-letter, and Shiv glared down at the booklet. Pulsing magic radiated from it. A silver locket kept the leatherbound tome closed.

Shiv’s insides felt like grinding stones. His guts churned, and two paths appeared before him. One, to reject Veronica out of spite. To resist being bound to anyone or anything, and continue cutting his way forward. This was his idealized path. It was his highest fantasy; to be unburdened by any interest beyond his own. But ultimately, it was just that: a fantasy. He was a Legendary Pathbearer, but he was facing enemy Legends with the backing of gods, as well as a Post-Legend that had conquered entire worlds with grand schemes beyond Shiv's current comprehension.

Worse, said world-conquering Legend was also...

Shiv refused to think about what Udraal did in detail—what he did to his father. He barely knew what his own mother looked like. And now, every time he would think of his parentage, something inside of him would recoil as if scalded by a searing brand. No. Shiv couldn't avoid the groping hands and sinking claws of the deceivers around him. He might have been damned by this fate from the moment he was born, but he would be godsdamned if he wouldn't use everything he had against them, if he would just let people treat him as an instrument.

If they were going to use him, he was going to use them as well. And he was going to learn—socially, magically, physically. He was going to learn everything he could to be the one on top, to be the user. And when he got there, he wouldn't be like any of these bastards. He wouldn't be a monster. He wouldn't be a whore, either. He would be a pillar for this world because the weakness he saw—all these atrocities—filled him with disgust.

We could be so much more, he thought to himself. We have to be much more.

The challenger smiles upon your resolve.

He ignored the notification and accepted the sync-letter. As soon as he did, he saw a softening in Veronica's eyes. A breath of relief escaped her, and she nodded at him. "You've done a wise thing."

"I've done the self-interested thing, you mean," he shot back. He glared at his so-called grandmother and barely held himself back from attacking her again. "Let's not pretend that this is a favor you're doing for me. I'm helping you keep the Ascendants degenerated—making sure they're reliant on you. You just complain about being the master of the daycare, but you know what? I think you're full of shit. I think you kind of like it."

A pause lingered between them, and Veronica just scoffed. But that scoff turned into something of a smirk toward the end. "I suppose that is not untrue. It's bad for me, but I do enjoy the power, and you will too, once you gain a measure of it. Once you find yourself capable of shaping the path of someone else's life."

"Yeah, we'll see" He doubted it. Despite how much he liked to fight, he wasn't that cruel, as much as the orcs would want him to be, anyway. "Hey, Veronica, I've got a final question. The Auroral Council. How many of them are there because they're controllable?"

Veronica's smirk became a full-blown, pearly-white grin. "Oh, that's a good question. The answer? Practically everyone, aside from Anthony. The Ascendants, they don't care so much anymore. They want the same thing I do when selecting new Avatars and Council members."

"Controllable people," he ventured.

"Exactly. However, their notion of controllable is very different from mine. They want someone powerful, in accordance with their skills. Someone that can contain their divine mana, and someone they can use to the utmost efficiency. For Daughter, this is easy. For Enoch, far harder. Me? Ultimately, I need people who aren't good at politics. All of them qualify right now, which is why they're eminently replaceable. All of them, aside from Anthony. But he hasn't been a problem in a while."

"Anthony," he said, remembering the old man that had stabbed him. "Yeah, the wrinkled guy with a knife who gave my soul a flu. What's his deal?"

Veronica frowned for a moment. "I won't tell you," she said. Shiv’s patience started to crack, and the Councilwoman scoffed. "Because Anthony's dear to me, and I don't want to see him dead at your hands at any point."

"So, you do care about people," he growled under his breath.

"Of course, I thought you figured this out earlier. Remember my flaw, boy? I get attached. I'm still human to some extent, and that's an ugly thing when you're powerful," Veronica grimaced. "Anthony De Diego was more of a father to me than my own ever was. And though I have broken him, though he is old and has given up on being anything more than just a pawn instead of a player, I don't want him dead. You understand? If you come for him, I will inflict unspeakable things on you. This is one of my red lines. I make this known. Don't trespass on it."

As she finished those words, he felt as if he was being squeezed in the grip of a giant's hand. His breath hitched for a while as he tried to push back using the Shapeless Tides. It barely brought him any comfort.

"I will do what makes sense to me," he said, not promising her anything.

They shared a mutual glare, but then Veronica softened first. "Fine, I'll make sure it's not in your interest to hurt him. It shouldn't be hard."

Part of Shiv thought he should be offended at her words, but overall, he didn't care. He was numb in so many ways right now from all the revelations she'd battered him with.

"You said he's old," Shiv said, remembering something that had confused him for a while now. "Aren't you old? I know Valor is old. What makes Anthony so different?"

For a moment, Veronica didn't say anything. Then her features scrunched up as she thought of a good way to explain. "I'm ageless. Valor is ageless. Most of us are ageless. That's because we look forward to the future. We're always planning. We're always projecting towards tomorrow. Even if you don't suffer from biological decay, you can get old. And that comes with a backward perspective."

"So what, like, he's fixated on things that happened before, rather than things happening right now or tomorrow?"

The Councilwoman nodded. "And be very wary of that. Once you become old, you can't become young again so easily. The past is stone. It can be eroded through means of memory manipulation and historical revisionism, but it is still stone." She walked to her table and slammed a knuckle into it. The etchings upon its surface flashed once more. "Someone always remembers. And right now, this moment will be remembered. Alright, I'm done with my words. You best be gone and finish this ridiculous little escape you have planned." She looked over her shoulder and narrowed her eyes at him. "Don't tell Young Lord Arrow about our association."

"Yeah, I'm gonna have to say no," Shiv sneered. "I'm hiding enough shit from him as it is. If we're going to be working together—"

"We're not working together," Veronica cut him off. "We're going to try to use each other. You're young enough and foolish enough to think that you might be able to get an edge on me. And I'm experienced enough to know that I will slit your throat like a lamb when you try. And you will try, again and again and again, until you are good enough that I can't treat you like a lamb anymore. And then everything changes, and we negotiate a new arrangement or one of us dominates the other.”

"Speaking from experience now, are we?" Shiv asked.

"Yes. Learned from Anthony. He wasn't always old." Veronica's expression turned wistful. "Oh, and when you run into Enoch, understand that he can use the very architecture against you. He builds incredible structures. His mastery of spaces and geometries is bordering on the absurd, Non-Euclidean." Shiv was about to open his mouth in confusion, but then he remembered Uva's skill, and he closed his mouth. Veronica noticed his expression, and a curious look passed over her. "Ask your friend about what Non-Euclidean means. He will understand better than you do. You don't have Dimensionality. Rather sad, because it's such an important and useful skill. I recommend you develop it as soon as possible. Either way, despite his incredible skill, Enoch is especially vulnerable. He, too, is old."

