A certain kind of calm came over Jane at that moment and she relished the feeling. As she lit her sword with prismatic light and turned herself into the same, sweeping out with a [Cleansing Aura] the very next Script Second, she was ready. Down below was her target; the only one in sight, though that was certainly going to change soon enough.

All across the dark ocean of the Brightwater, amalgams were beginning to surface from the blackened souls of the long dead, like horrific visions of life that should not be alive. Arms attached to heads. Legs attached to arms. Eyes were on chests as intestines spilled out all across the surface of the ooze. The basic building blocks of the amalgams rose from the depths, and then, they shifted.

Arms went to the sides of bodies where they would provide the most leverage to cast spells or wield giant [Conjured Weapon]s, like swords ten meters long, or clubs of the same. Eyes went all around heads. Torsos gained legs, and then those legs morphed together, twisting into fish tails, or water strider legs so they could stand atop the ooze and move freely.

Jane’s target was a water strider twenty meters wide and ten tall, with ten legs and ten sets of arms, half of those arms wielding swords and the other half holding onto balls of shadowy magic, just waiting for something to target. It had a massive giant head for a head, proving itself as a dispelling amalgam with tricks.

Jane leapt off her perch and dove straight at it.

Her sword flickered fast to deflect three separate, instant attempts to strike her with dispelling bolts. Ten other attempts simply missed. With a strike made of light and everything else, Jane carved the creature through from top to bottom, carving the skull-head in half as she landed below the amalgam. Her legs stopped a bare fraction before she would have plunged into the boiling black ocean, while her [Cleansing Aura] burned away the slight goop still left on the creature, and then got to work on the soul ooze below. The amalgam flopped a little, arms on one side trying to hold onto the arms of another side, trying to hold its head together, but it could not. It was not dead, yet. So to get the message fully across, Jane took her sword, empowered it even further, and spun it like a blender blade above her body.

She cut through the legs of the creature, causing it to fall into her spinning prismatic light, and Jane ascended, turning the greater amalgam into a whole lot of dead pieces that were both on fire, and already getting [Cleanse]d away.

Jane left the dead, half-[Cleanse]d thing behind, ascending back up top to rejoin her small group, but on a separate platform. Alandria had conjured the second one for her, specifically, so they wouldn’t be exposed to any potential ooze drippings.

Olirio asked, ‘Health? Mana? Soul ooze status?’

‘I’m good.’ Jane glanced at her Status. ‘Still immune to the soul ooze soul attack and I was running [Cleansing Aura] the whole time. Only took 500 Health and Mana to kill that thing and I already got a [Rejuvenation] going to replenish most of that Health. My Mana Exhaustion limit is 180,000, while Health Fatigue is at 110,000. I can kill 300 more like that one, no problem.’

Alandria sagged a little with relief. ‘You are very good at this, Miss Flatt.’

Olirio sent, ‘With any luck you will not reach that limit.’

Jane lifted a leg and pointed across the land, southward, sending, ‘New Brightwater is taking care of amalgams on their side, too, so I don’t think I’ll be anywhere close to that limit— Ah! That one looks different. Oh! Is that one of them? The soul bolters?’

‘… Yes,’ Olirio sent, looking pensive.

A large, bloated white thing, like the corpse of a whale that forgot it should sink, had bobbed up to the surface where Kiri’s beams burrowed into the soul ooze. Kiri broke off her attacks instantly, each Sunny vanishing from the sky as though dismissed.

Olirio sent, ‘That’s a soul amalgam. They’re… Oh. Uh.’

A second soul amalgam bobbed to the surface near the first one. It was half again larger than the first one, looking like a true balloon, but with eyes and arms scattered across its whole surface. Those eyes tracked the Sun Orbs Kiri had cast into the air and the hands spit out blobs of shadow that slowly, methodically tracked up to the rifts.

The first shadow bolt struck the first rift and corrupted that rift into something darker. Shadow poured out of the rift, breaking every single sun rift in the area before popping and filling that part of the sky with gloom. That airy shadow then spread like a cooling blanket across a kilometer-sized section of the ocean, preventing the surviving rifts in that area from further boiling away the soul ooze.

The actual sun and all the other rifts were still burning it all away, but Jane doubted that there were only two soul casters down there in the black muck.

Ah. Hmm.

Kiri would not be able to do this on her own, it seemed.

Jane tried not to be too happy about that as she sent, ‘Shame, I guess. So which one am I killing?’

And at that, something in Alandria seemed to snap, ‘One misstep and these things will kill everyone! How can you be so flippant!’

Jane had to smile at that. ‘See. There’s this thing about magic under the Script: Every magic has a built-in weakness, and the weakness of Soul Magic is the Health of the thing it’s targeting. I have over 5,000 Health and a very strong reflection. That Soul Magic isn’t going to affect me.’

Alandria blinked as though she couldn’t believe what she was hearing.

Olirio, however, was right there with Jane, sending her, ‘They have no Domains. General Killzone is on the large one. You are on the small one. Attack in three. Two…’

Jane shot through the sky on 'one'.

The approach was not instantaneous. The soul amalgam had hundreds of eyes everywhere around its body. It saw Jane just long enough to get off a few slow-moving Bolts. One bit of dark soul magic bounced off of her bright blue hairs, while the other got split in half with the radiance of her sword. And then she entered the creature, cutting a slit in the side of it and ripping her way inside as even more [Dispel]s clashed with her body like ripples of shadow, but she kept her [Cleansing Aura] running on her insides, along with her [Prismatic Body]. Her reflective carapace and hairs were innate biology; this magic couldn’t do shit against her.

With a ripping, spinning, continuous slash of power, Jane ripped through the soul caster amalgam. She exited the other side and half of the creature’s mass exploded out with her, sprinkling the surface of the ocean like so much chum. Some of it evaporated away under her [Cleansing Aura], but some sank out of sight.

To her side, Killzone exited from the larger amalgam, bursting the thing like armor-piercing ammo exiting a skull, shattering the thing wide open.

Sunnys descended and erased the half-dead amalgams from existence with a coordinated attack of ten [Luminous Beam]s at once.

Jane retreated back to her waiting position, atop her platform.

Kiri reset her rifts across the battlefield and resumed drilling with [Luminous Beam]s.

Alandria whispered, “That was… Dangerous, Miss Flatt.”

Jane smiled wide, sending, ‘It might not be as impressive as a sky full of burning light, but monster forms can be a lot better in certain—’

‘Apologies for interrupting.’ Olirio sent, ‘Amalgams are surfacing everywhere. We will begin methodical eradication procedures.’

The entire Brightwater burbled with power as bodies surfaced and stitched together into macabre amalgams. Seven greater amalgams appeared right underneath Jane and her team. At a glance, Jane counted a thousand, or maybe three thousand; she had no idea how to estimate what she was seeing. That was probably her own fear response talking, for she spotted at least a hundred soul amalgams bobbing up among the rest, like bloated corpses.

But what was worse were all the monster amalgams.

Spur hadn’t seen many actual monster amalgams in the nightly sieges. But now, here they were.

Centipedes that had hunted inside Ar’Kendrithyst like freight trains slipping around crystal towers, now wormed out from the black ocean, rushing up the crystal towers exactly how they used to move in life. But now they had about a thousand extra heads, all along their bodies, all screaming at once. Dispeller amalgams, version two.

Kendrithyst mimics, the granddaddy version of crystal mimics and each thirty meters tall, at least, pulled themselves out of the muck. They had eyes now, all along the lengths of each red-purple-shadow crystal spike, and a mouth at their base that screamed, warbling the black ocean as they flowed across the surface like the water strider amalgam.

Giants, twisted to foul purpose and fouler bodies, pulled themselves out of the black ocean, dripping soul ooze the whole way, as they then climbed into the air like they were slowly stepping up invisible stairs—

HOLY SHIT. THEY COULD FLY NOW.

An ethereal blast of black light pulsed up from below, instantly spreading through the sky before fading away. Jane didn’t even have time to step into the air under Alandria and Olirio, to body block for them. She guessed it was an aura attack from the soul ooze itself, but the light passed, and Jane’s Status held steady, and neither Alandria or Olirio looked affected…

Ah.

Ah.

This was going very badly, wasn’t it. As she looked to her temporary companions, Jane giggled a bit with nervousness. They were looking around and acting like they were still alive. So maybe that wasn’t an amalgamation aura? It could have just been—

And then she froze.

She hadn’t taken her sights off the monsters crawling up from below, and now, she saw one that she did not want to see. Long skinny arms. Long skinny legs. Small hands and feet that could not truly support the body of the creature, which was a great big mouth attached to a fluffy body. A person could easily mistake the main monster for the top of a palm tree at night, if you didn’t know any better. The creatures were blacker than the ooze they had crawled from, and each had a dozen beady little black eyes to go with their amalgamated bodies.

‘Retreat has been called.’ Olirio sent, ‘Now.’

And they did. Up, up, up. All the way to the top, back to where they started this battle.

The twisted monsters followed.

Jane sent to everyone near her, and also Poi back in Spur, ‘You saw the black moon reachers! Right! They’re here! We’ve been looking for them since they first appeared and here they are!’

Alandria stared down at the encroaching horde, asking, ‘… Did we leave all the monsters behind?’

… What?

No. They were still right down there. They were still a kilometer away but—

Ah.

Jane felt a horror creep up her abdomen as she glanced down and really saw the horde. They were mostly stuck to the crystal towers, climbing manually, but a few floated or flew through the air, like they had cast [Fly]. But one in particular, barreling right at Jane, flying through the sky, right at her, was a black moon reacher with five arms and three legs.

And one of her temporary companions was acting like the monsters were gone.

Alandria stared down through her Platform at the encroaching horde with a puzzled look upon her face.

Olirio sent, ‘Holy shit. Uh. Alandria. Listen to me. Evacuate—’

At that moment, Alandria finally looked to Jane. Her eyes went wide as moons.

And then she screamed and blipped away.

Jane ignored that and sent to Olirio, ‘You should evacuate too. I can’t protect you from them.’

‘I’ll be at Forward Base, clearing minds. Kill the reachers first and don’t get touched; they can reach through magic. Find me when you need mana.’

And then Olirio blipped away, too.

Jane turned back toward the ascending horde and psyched herself up.

This was going to be dangerous fun; the absolute best kind.
