With such a defense, and then running [Greater Lightwalk] the whole time out there for 10 mana per second, Sunny would have been losing mana without access to a Restful space. But Kiri had already solved this problem with a [Restful Ward] that she made a month ago, which cost 250 mana. She could attach these Restful spaces to rocks, which Sunny would then carry with her.

Kiri would eventually be able to make a [Restful Reflection Personal Ward], she was sure, but it hadn’t happened yet, and it likely wouldn’t happen for a while longer. She needed time to work out the math, and she didn’t have a lot of that these days.

Anyway.

With a bit of planning and careful casting, Kiri could pump out a Sunny every minute, and maintain a concentrated burn for a very long time. She couldn’t go full power all the time, but she could contribute a lot, for a long while.

It might be enough.

‘Might’ be enough, because, of course, Silverite and Killzone and the other archmages (who didn’t do much on the battlefield these days) have been trying to kill this thing for the last week. Now how Kiri had missed that, she had no idea.

Poi poked his head into the room. “Your show, Kiri. Light the way.”

Kiri froze, and then she relaxed. She leaned back in her chair, feeling the weight of the crown on her head, and the weight of the world on her shoulders…

Well.

This wasn’t really ‘save the world’ time, but more like ‘prove she was capable of playing in the big leagues’ time.

Kiri focused on the battlefield ahead…

- - - -

Jane had been joined by two people meant to assist her when necessary. A Font from Songli who had been near Jane last night, who hadn’t gotten a chance to assist with the battle because there had been none, and the noble girl who was Jane’s neighbor.

Jane greeted the man first, the Font, saying, “Greetings, Olirio Wild Song. Thank you for joining me again for the day’s events.”

Olirio Wild Song was a demi man with white skin that was the barest violet. All of him was like that, except for his armor, which was fully violet and covered him almost completely. He held his helmet in his hand to bow and greet Jane, as he said, “Greetings again, Jane Flatt. I look forward to actually seeing some action this time.”

It was a polite joke, so Jane gave a polite, small chuckle. Olirio nodded and Jane nodded back, but since she was ten meters wide and three meters tall at the moment, and also a massive blue tarantula, it probably came off more scary than she meant. The noblewoman, who Jane knew, but did not know, controlled her fear response very well, but as Jane moved, the woman started to sweat.

Her fearful sweat made the air taste good, and that made Jane uncomfortable. Jane did not like this good flavor, and she was 100% sure that this fear sense was coming from her leaky lesser rivergrieve Familiar Form. That form was more trouble than it was worth, but it would likely prove itself if she had to swim sometime. Hopefully not today, though, even if the black ooze was technically liquid.

Poi had tested her, though. Jane was still herself, according to the experts!

Jane said to the woman, “I apologize, Lady…” Jane was sure the woman was a Lady, as in a Lady-of-the-Court, but beyond that, she was drawing a blank. “I know we are neighbors, but we have not been introduced yet. I do not actually know your name.”

The girl was caramel of skin, with black hair and bright blue eyes. Her leathers were enchanted, and she wore a clear suit of [Conjure Armor] over those leathers; completely clear magic, too. Either she was skilled in some ways, or she had lucked out with that color.

At Jane’s direct addressing of her, she seemed to relax a little, and said, “Lady Alandria Clayfield of the Greensoil Republic. I am pleased to make your acquaintance. When this is all over, I would like to invite you over for tea, perhaps at a nicer time in the middle of the day than the odd schedule that we’ve been keeping for the last month.” She turned to Olirio, saying, “I would also invite Singer Void Song and her entourage to participate.”

Olirio politely said, “I will pass along the invitation at our earliest convenience.”

“Thank you,” Alandria said, and then she turned to face south, to face the Brightwater. Her fear spiked a bit, according to Jane’s senses, as she said, “I am a Replicant Warrior who will follow in your lead, Miss Jane Flatt. It is my understanding that I and my replications will be acting as decoys to assist you as you kill the big ones; taking the heat off of you as needed.”

Jane smirked a little, though the movement of her large fangs probably came off as something different. Another spike of fear rolled off of Alandria. “I have those replication spells, too. Every elemental version that I could make.”

Alandria nodded. “I understand that my mana is to be used to make replications, and you’re to do what you need to do to take down the targets. And Olirio will keep us both topped off. It will be a slow, methodical kill, with no room for mistakes.”

“Yes.” Jane said, “Slow and steady. We’re mainly keeping the monsters away from Kiri.”

“Ah! Where are my manners.” Alandria said, “I would invite Miss Flamecrash to tea, as well. But anyway: With any luck today, our integration as a unit will go smoothly, for Silverite has called in some Mind Mages from Oceanside. We expect to need to kill 250 greater amalgams, and anywhere from 20 to 40 soul casters.”

Jane said, “The number keeps growing. I’m sure Poi and them can keep it together, though.”

Olirio said, “The Mind Mages are rather good at creating unit cohesion, so— Ah. It’s starting.”

Jane, and everyone else, was already focused south.

Nine Sunnys, looking like pinpricks of green light, entered the sky fifteen kilometers ahead.

Jane could barely see them, and only because of the primal frost owl eyes she had added to the sides of her large frontal eyes, which remained her Eyes of Magic from the shadow spider. She certainly saw the effects, though.

Nine [Luminous Beam]s, like tracers of white laser fire, danced down from the sky above to carve through the gloom below. Jane could not see the target from here, atop this kendrithyst crystal well away from the edge of the Brightwater. It wasn’t time to move up yet—

Killzone’s voice rang out, “Into positions! Forward into the Dark!”

‘That’s the cue,’ Poi’s voice came to her, and also to everyone else in her small, three person group. ‘Handing off your specific delegation to Mind Mage Olirio. Good luck.’

Well wasn’t that a fun little revelation.

Jane felt herself connect to Alandria and Olirio, and then—

Alandria whipped her head toward Olirio. ‘OH.’

Olirio sighed, sending, ‘I am not actually a Classed Mind Mage.’

‘On task, people!’ Jane sent.

With a show of [Greater Lightwalk], Jane and everyone else in her small party moved a kilometer south, and then Alandria cast a [Force Platform] underneath the three of them. It was a perfect, synchronous movement, with Alandria to Jane’s left and Olirio to the right, and the platform perfectly clear and wide enough for Jane not to feel cramped.

And now, she saw the Brightwater as it was, full of gloom from horizon to horizon, like a black ocean of mist, swirling past shorelines made of crystal towers, flowing toward the brilliant center, where light carved a hole into the mist. The mist was a kilometer deep, and Kiri’s [Luminous Beam] had an effective range of several kilometers, but the beam didn’t actually end until its power was absorbed into the surrounding matter. For all Jane knew, Kiri’s [Luminous Beam]s reached ten kilometers deep, burning away the ocean where they touched.

All across the northern edge of the Brightwater, people watched the light show from their own platforms. A few people flew on their own. And the tenth Sunny flickered across the gloom, depositing [True Sunlight Rift]s as she went. Brilliant white light burned away gloom like nothing else. That Sunny spent herself casting orbs everywhere, all along predetermined ‘best positioning’, whatever that meant. Kinda looked like a messed up grid pattern.

Didn’t take long for Sunny to fully expend herself, either; ten orbs, and she was done.

All the while, the Sunnys in the sky continued to drop carving [Luminous Beam]s into the gloom, evaporating the environmental effect. But it was like boiling away the center of an ocean; there was always more water to fill the hole.

It didn’t take long for a shift to occur in that ocean.

For all across the entire Brightwater, and indeed across all of Ar’Kendrithyst, the gloom flowed to where Kiri boiled it away, rushing in to replace that which was lost. More little green couatls came in to replace those who expended themselves, in a slow, methodical pattern, with a few of them continuously keeping up the [Luminous Beam] burn in the center, which arguably erased the most ‘water’ of the ocean, while even more dropped Sunlight all across the darkness, keeping the burn sustained. It was the same scene that played out all across Spur’s outermost wall, every night, except this time they were here, in the heart of this dark land.

And the [Luminous Beam]s were a new tactic. Jane had only guessed that they burned away a lot more black ocean than the Sunlight orbs, but truthfully, she didn’t know. Perhaps they did. More importantly, though, they gave the monsters under the ocean a direct target to focus on, wherever those monsters might be down there in that ooze.

Maybe Jane finally would finally get to kill the thing today. Or maybe Kiri could do it on her own. Maybe, all that was needed was Kiri, doing this for a few hours, to solve this entire problem. Maybe, once she uncovered the ooze’s core, she could kill the thing all on her own with all of those Beams she was laying down. The Army was actually hoping for this outcome, and a small part of Jane was, too, but they expected Kiri’s spellwork to fail as amalgams started to appear and fight back.

This was why all the rest of them were here, after all.

Jane’s dozen spider hearts beat hard inside her abdomen and chest, as Kiri’s magic finally burned through the gloom, exposing the black ocean below it all. With the ocean exposed, the noon sun above helped to break apart the ocean, rapidly breaking up the surface, dropping that surface down a meter each second. Kiri followed the descending ocean with more layers of orbs. There were three layers now, each 100 meters lower than the layer before, each of those layers locking down the flowing gloom pouring in from all the rest of Ar’Kendrithyst, to ensure the black ocean remained uncovered.

That black ocean roared in from the rest of Ar’Kendrithyst, flowing toward the Brightwater. An ocean of dead souls poured through gaps in the wall, rushing forward, forming black waterfalls and filling the air with even more mist that failed to protect the dark waters. But there was something else inside. As Jane looked with her Eyes of Magic, she saw a force inside that black ocean, drawing it into the Brightwater. Some of those waterfalls weren’t just falling. They were being pulled into the Brightwater like intestines from a stomach; dead souls knotted together into something more than simple liquid.

And yet, no amalgams appeared. No defenders. No bloated soul casters.

Jane calmed down a bit, as nothing continued to happen. The black ocean boiled under the combined might of Kiri’s ever-deepening layers of Sunlight Orbs. Four or five Sunnys continued to blast away at the center with [Luminous Beam]s. And Jane waited—

At once, every single Sunny doubled up on their [Luminous Beam]s and traced their attack to the left, carving a dancing swirl of light into a newly apparent target. Something died far below. The layers of orbs were now ten deep, and getting deeper.

‘Position holding,’ came Poi’s voice, to what Jane assumed was everyone. ‘Assume amalgams soon.’

Olirio answered Jane’s unasked question, ‘Kiri tracked and killed an amalgam; that’s what that was. Not a soul caster, though. A normal one. The soul ooze is starting to fight back.’

One of the lights at the lowest level blinked out. And then another vanished. Down below, under the ocean, looking like a skull of a giant just under the waters, that skull spit [Dispelling Bolt]s upward. It was a dispelling amalgam. They all looked like that. They waited in the ooze and you didn’t see them until they [Dispel]ed you.

Jane watched as a black bolt stepped off of a platform to the far left and descended to the ocean below like a javelin thrown by a god, aiming directly at the dispeller. Killzone was taking the first amalgam.

‘All platforms descend one kilometer,’ Poi sent. ‘Slow and steady.’

As one, that was exactly what Jane and her companions did, dropping out of the sky and flickering down into the Brightwater. Alandria cast another clear platform and they resumed their positioning about 150 meters above the black ocean, Just outside of [Dispel] range. Smoky crystal towers rose behind them while Kiri’s rifts hung in the air before them. The black ocean boiled, and in the daytime, and this close, Jane could see that calling it a ‘black ocean’ wasn’t exactly true.

Alandria gasped a little as she looked down. Olirio frowned. Jane watched as a sea of people-shaped black souls, all jammed together into a writhing mass, burned away under Kiri’s light, their faces appearing and then vanishing as they silently screamed their torment into an uncaring world.

‘That’s normal’. Jane sent them, ‘I guess you can finally see them, though. Now that it's daytime. The shadows inside the kendrithyst are like this, too, but only if you really look. This liquid state makes them a lot more visible.’

‘Oh, by all the bright gods.’ Alandria sent, ‘It’s true, then. Are they really Melemizargo’s followers from the Old Cosmology?’

‘That’s what I hear.’ Olirio sent, ‘I did not put stock in those rumors until now.’

‘We’re not actually sure what they are, but that’s the most accepted interpretation of what is inside the crystals.’ Jane sent, ‘And I guess that’s what these things are from. I have to wonder, though, if the soul ooze has a core, and any oozy thing with a core is a slime then this thing is actually a slime, and it’s doing what slimes do; it cleans up dead things.’

‘Slimes are cute little things. Cleaners.’ Alandria sent, ‘Not this abomination.’

‘If it’s actually cleaning up these old souls, then maybe that’s exactly what is happening,’ Jane repeated, for she didn’t think Alandria heard her.

‘… Maybe.’ Olirio sent, ‘Maybe that’s exactly— Jane.’ He pointed to the right. ‘That’s yours.’

