In the Courthouse, in one of the prep rooms for the Army, Jane, Kiri, Poi, Teressa, and Nirzir walked into a meeting that was almost ready to go. They had arrived last, but only by ten seconds. Several soldiers/delegates at the front of the room stood ready to receive their orders. Some of those delegates Jane recognized from Songli, but she didn’t get a chance to say anything more than a quick nod as she filed in with them, to stand at the front. Guildmaster Mog got a quick nod, too; Jane was surprised to see her here, but as soon as she realized she was surprised, she realized she shouldn’t be.

Killzone, Liquid, and Silverite were at the front, going over maps, along with Anhelia, and another black wrought in the shape of an incani man.

Poi, Teressa, Kiri, and Nirzir stood at the back along with ten other people who were on support.

Silverite pulled herself away from maps and stepped to the front of the room. She told everyone, “Prognostication has informed us that we have today to solve this problem before it becomes untenable. We don’t know the exact nature of this worst-case scenario, but we imagine such a scenario will involve the soul ooze breaking its bonds of captivity and escaping into the world. We still don’t know why it hasn’t dug down into the Underworld, for it surely can, but that is neither here nor there.

“This is how it’s going to go: Shade protocols are in effect. You all are meeting with Farix and his delegation in 20 minutes. Killzone, Guildmaster Mog, and Team Leader Flatt are at the front.”

Jane almost flinched. She did not expect that.

Silverite continued, “Anhelia will go with you and devise a Forward Base somewhere around Brightwater. From this location, you will assault the soul ooze until it dies. Failure is not an option. If we fail today, then bad things happen.” She said, “Killzone.”

Killzone stepped forward. “While I was not able to kill the thing when I attempted to solve this problem last night, I did discover a few things we did not know before today. First: The ooze is stronger the deeper you go into it, working to corrupt your Health even through reflections and Domain power. To counter this, a full-powered [Cleanse Aura] is needed at all times. But because the power of the soul ooze multiplies the closer you are, the range of all [Cleansing Aura]s collapses to skin-tight.

“The best way to actually find the heart of the ooze is to have a [Cleanse Aura] running at all times, for when your aura begins to crush inward, you will know you are close.

“Second: There are soul monsters that will begin to attack when you approach the center of the ooze. These monsters are not Domain empowered, but their spells will carve through all weak levels of reflection. This is why I, Mog, and Jane will be at the front; those with the strongest reflections in this city. Once we encounter those monsters, Jane will be providing the most body-blocking defense she can, while Mog and I are on offense. Those monsters look like bloated white bodies, with arms and other limbs here and there, poking out of them. Their main attack is an [Ethereal Dispelling Soul Corrupting Scry-Piercing Bolt], or something to that effect. We don’t know what it is called, only what it does, and what it does is [Dispel], corrupt Health away to try and attack the soul to force amalgamation, and travel right through unenchanted armor. It has to be blocked by some living body with a soul. And most importantly, the thing will go right through a [Scry], to the caster of the [Scry], hitting the caster and draining Health, attempting to turn them into an amalgam.

“This means that there will be no normal scouting.

“The good news about that, is that it is a very slow Bolt. Traveling at about the pace of a fast walk.

“The very moment the scout team sees one of these things, they are to cancel their spell. Those [Ethereal Soul Bolt]s, or whatever they are, will strike at you through your [Scry] orb if the spell manages to connect. I cannot overstate this danger.

“Third: good news. As you might have already guessed, the soul ooze is not actually an ooze. It might technically be a slime. It has a core. The thing is fifty meters wide and radiant like a grand rad; you can actually see it once you get within about a kilometer. The thing is so large it can’t actually move through most of the Dead City, which is why it is locked into the bottom of the Brightwater, where the sun can’t easily reach.” Killzone added, “Also, maybe good news: Kiri’s Rifts might be able to blast through to the edge of the monster’s Domain, but from there, we go in on our own.

“Fourth: We will encounter all of the normal greater amalgams that we fight every night. My pressure on the soul slime’s core last night caused it to recall many of its minions in order to fight me. This was ultimately why I had to retreat. That hands-caster, the spell cancelers, and then all the other oddities, and even more amalgams that we haven’t seen yet, are there. All of them began to show when I got too close to the core.” Killzone said, “I expect we’ll have to kill them all before we can actually take down the core, along with the soul bolters, and that means killing about 165 greater amalgams, and a comparable number of bolters.”

A small, collective gasp passed through the room. 165 greater amalgams was a lot, especially if they were odd variants. The odder they were, the harder it was to know how to kill them quickly. Having to fight a similar number of ‘soul bolters’ was an unknown threat, but considering those bolters were what had killed Killzone’s support team, they were just as serious as the amalgams themselves.

“And finally: we think the soul ooze came from the old Well of Souls, but as I checked that place myself and saw nothing, we don’t believe it is a location of interest.” Killzone. “When we get there, Anhelia will produce a temporary Forward Base where we will organize the attack. Sergeant Nanark and Liquid will be handling planning from Spur. Understood?”

Nods all around.

Silverite took center stage back, saying, “Shade Farix is a Shade, but he has been Blessed into growth by a joint effort of Erick Flatt and Koyabez. This, however, has merely mutated his base nature. No matter how easy he might look to kill, or how weak of a person he might seem, he can turn you into a writhing mass of pleasure if you piss him off, and he won’t feel bad about it. You do not antagonize the Archmage-level Blood Mage.” Silverite added, “No matter how much there seems to be a connection between Farix’s ability to mutate people into lumps of flesh and how lumpy all the amalgams look, and are, do not antagonize the Shade. Understand? I’m looking at every single person here in front, but mostly the people who aren’t part of Spur’s Army; those who have never dealt with a Shade before.”

Her gaze flicked over the people from Songli, and lingered on a noblewoman about Jane’s age. Jane hadn’t even noticed her. To be fair, that noble was further back than most people in front. Jane tried to think of her name but that knowledge evaded her. She was human and one of Jane’s neighbors, though.

When all Silverite got back were nods, she relaxed a fraction. “Good. Now get out there and save the world. Dismissed.”

- - - -

On a perfectly flat stretch of desert to the west of Ar’Kendrithyst, where the sun beat down from directly above and the wind rushed from the north, Jane walked south, dressed in her overlapping dark blue armor. She felt a bit small in this form, compared to the giant of a man on her left.

Killzone stared straight ahead, his black body relaxed, but with a certain tension that showed he was ready for a fight. Killzone wore his adamantium flesh like casual clothes and a bit of armor, but nothing overmuch. On Killzone’s other side stood Guildmaster Mog.

Mog was dressed in bright white fullplate, either adamantium and enchanted to look white, or covered in a layer of holyite, Jane wasn’t sure. Whatever it was, it was layered over with red-tinted Force; her [Reflective Armor] spell, and done in the same style as Poi’s armor. Or, actually, Jane probably had that backwards. Poi got his armor ideas from Mog.

Or, more realistically, they both got their ideas from some common idea that ‘real armor is good’. Probably some plays or whatever; Jane didn’t know, and she put those thoughts away. It was time to work.

Their various other forces hung back, about 300 meters behind.

Because up ahead was the delegation from New Brightwater.

Jane recognized Shade Farix, with his blue skin, white horns, white hair, and bright white eyes that were uncommonly bright, which marked him as a Shade. The other two at Farix’s side were unknown to her, but while one was a shadeling, perhaps, with dim yet white eyes, the other was a normal blue dragonkin with normal blue eyes.

Jane’s own eyes were dark black, for she had incorporated her shadow spider’s Eyes of Magic into her form, along with a few other capabilities that she hoped not to need to use. Farix’s team was running magic, but only the normal kind. No traps lay in the sand ahead, or anything like that.

The two groups faced off, both stopping ten meters from each other. And then Killzone and Farix each took a single step closer. No one spoke. One moment of silence turned to three. Tension rose.

Ah. Jane did not miss this part of danger; the comparing of egos, to see who would break first and talk first, and thus prove they were beneath the other person in the meeting. But! Shade protocol had a solution for this, and so, since this was an emergency meeting—

Jane faked a sneeze.

Killzone spoke over his shoulder to Jane, “See that you get that [Cleanse]d before you get into the city.”

“Sir, yes sir,” Jane replied.

Farix said, “Your people are always sneezing around me. It’s quite unbecoming. One would think your vaunted [Cleanse] wasn’t actually capable of cleaning up anything at all!”

Killzone said, “[Cleanse] is not meant to solve every problem we encounter. It’s just an assistant, to help us help ourselves.”

“Feh! Whatever.” Farix said, “Here’s how this joint venture is going to go. My teams are coming in from the south. Yours come in from the north. My woman here—” He gestured to the blue dragonkin woman at his side. “Is a former Mind Mage, rescued from death by the Dark, and given a new life on this land. She stepped away from the Dark, though, in order to be allowed to rejoin her original people. She is coordinating for our side. Who is coordinating from your side?”

Killzone glared at Farix. “… It is unkind to do this, here, at this juncture.”

Jane had missed something. She did not like missing anything.

Farix said, “She’s a Mind Mage! They’re all scrupulous to a fault and she is no different.”

Jane controlled her breathing, but she wanted to gasp. She realized that the dragonkin woman looked familiar. She looked like Poi, but female. But… No? Couldn’t be.

‘Poi?’ Jane sent, ‘Are you seeing this? Is this really your sister?’

‘… Less chatter,’ Poi sent, reluctantly.

‘Ah! Ah. Shit— Shutting up, now.’

Jane mentally wiped her brow and then she filed this development into the category of ‘not my business’. She’d keep an eye on whatever this was, of course, if only because Farix was probably going to use her, too, in order to get closer to Spur and also her father. Jane wasn’t at the center of whatever fucking mess this Shade wanted to make, but she was adjacent, and that made her a target, just like how Poi was apparently a target, too.

Briefly, she wondered if they had targeted Kiri already? They probably had?

It was a Shade who had fucked with Kiri in the museum back in Treehome, wasn’t it! Which Shade, though?

… Could have been any of them, really.

… And also, had they targeted Jane, yet? They probably had, she considered. Either at the escort of Champion Yetta, or when Melemizargo stepped out at Oceanside and asked her if she wanted his ‘Blessing’ so that she could ‘clean house’ for him. It was probably more complicated than that, though, since their plans for her father were long term, so perhaps their desires for her were longer term, too; broader and deeper than a single instance of temptation.

Killzone and Farix had bandied veiled threats and smaller insults at each other for the last minute, but that was rather normal for this sort of situation. It was considered improper to involve oneself in the bickering of powerful Shades, for to listen too closely was to directly involve oneself in the banter, and if you failed, the outcome was usually death. Or, since Farix was Blessed into Empathy, and as Silverite had said, the ‘bad outcome’ here was to get Blood Magic’d into a body that sensed only pleasure.

Jane was glad that Silverite spoke of the connection between Farix’s ‘amalgamation’ of people into puddles of self-pleasuring flesh and of what they were seeing from the soul ooze every night. Jane hadn’t even considered that, but it made sense as soon as she heard about Farix’s predilections. Some other Blood Mage had even made some sort of [Grand Abomination] spell, or something, and scattered that magic into the darker parts of the Dead City long ago. So maybe Farix was planning something devious today, but...

How that didn’t tick off her father’s Blessing was beyond Jane, but it was probably some trick of Farix’s own mind that allowed him to operate under such a restriction. Whatever the case, Jane and no one on their side would be testing Farix; not yet.

He might have to die before the day was over, though.

Killzone pivoted his talk, turning back to the subject at hand, “Shade Farix! Enough of this nonsense. We need action. We need to end the soul ooze. Your prognosticators have seen the same thing we have seen. If the ooze gets another night, disaster will strike.”

“And we will move to the clouds to get away!” Farix dropped a minor, but expected bombshell. The shape of the bombshell was unexpected, but everyone suspected the Shade had some way to get further away from the ooze, and to protect his people. “I already have several cloud giant castles under my power, for you didn’t think my people were only protecting our land from that ooze every night, did you? No! We know the truths of magic. We have proper learning. We don’t actually need to participate in this battle at all! We could escape, and let you fail. Which is why we demand compensation to assist in this battle.”

Killzone glared. “What sort of compensation?”

