“We wish to purchase goods and services from Spur.” Farix said, “We’d link up with Candlepoint, but we’re staying away from Erick’s Worldly Path, and if we did that, he’d come running. So! We want to link up with Spur, instead.”

Killzone instantly said, “100 percent markup. You’re not allowed inside the city. We will set up soldiers by the east gate which will take your orders and purchase your desires inside the city.”

Jane blinked. That was fast. Silverite was probably listening and feeding Killzone information in real time, but to make such a decision that fast? A decision of this magnitude? This was promising to have further deals with the Dark, and that was strictly against the rules of engagement. Spur has done this many times before, but never so openly, because the problems actually came later when other people heard that Spur was trading with Darkness, and then those other people cut off their trade—

Wait a second.

Was all this for show?

Jane wasn’t sure, but the thought that this was an act struck her, and she couldn’t let it go. Whatever! She shouldn’t be surprised. Spur had been dealing with the Dark long before now. Not Jane’s problem. Jane’s problems were all monsters, and she liked it that way; those issues were much more fun to solve.

Killzone added, “You will have a single month of trade, and if nothing untoward happens in that time, and if Ar’Kendrithyst calms down, then we will talk about extensions.”

Farix stood tall, looking like he was mentally going over the offer, and then he said, “The bargain is struck. Our Mind Mages will coordinate the battle, and our forces will not mix.”

Killzone agreed, “Our forces will not mix.”

Farix stepped backward, rejoining his people.

Killzone stepped backward, to stand beside Jane and Mog.

Poi’s voice was a loudness in the air, as he spoke to everyone on their side, ‘Shade Farix has set up their fallback point to the south of the Brightwater. Anhelia has already set hers to the north. Grab your [Teleport] partners and meet on site. Further instructions to follow.’

Killzone privately sent to Jane, and also Mog, ‘Farix is going to sweep in and attempt to control the soul ooze at the last moment. Be ready to let him take it. A monster controlled is better than what we have now.’

Jane jolted, and then she made the mistake of glancing at Farix on the other side of the field. He lightly stared at her, as though glaring through her armor to see the person beneath, and then he smirked. And then Jane turned to stare at Killzone, her anger boiling inside her—

Killzone held out his hands to Jane and Mog, sending, ‘He has to take it first, proving he is untrustworthy, before we can kill him with impunity.’

Oh.

Well that was fine? Wasn’t it?

Jane took Killzone’s hand.

In groups of three, the two groups left the field, briefly flickering colors into the desert air with their passing.

- - - -

It had been a while since Jane had been inside the Dead City.

Being this close to the Brightwater was completely new, though. This land had always been wholly off limits to every single person who valued their life. But… Since the rise of the ooze and the destruction of the civilization of the Brightwater, this was a new time in the ‘life’ of the Dead City.

In her spider form, and well-rested enough to move out, Jane clung to the top of the second-tallest red-purple kendrithyst tower in the area. The whole of their temporary ‘Forward Base’ was located in the actual tallest crystal tower, just west of this one. That space was a fallback point, and covered in light from Anhelia’s [Light Domain]. Most of the soldiers were still over there, inside the revealed interior structure of the crystal, inside the rooms and on the balconies and in the watchtower on top, going over last-minute prep and viewing the target area through very carefully controlled [Viewing Screen]s that were themselves wrapped behind reflective magics.

Everyone else was getting ready.

Jane was already ready. She had been briefed on her mission statement and was prepared to accept the two people who they assigned her, but those two people were still up there in the main tower, getting briefed.

Jane wasn’t the head of the spear —that was Killzone, and to a lesser extent, Mog— but she was the backup, and she knew she would be needed. And so, Jane gazed out and tried to see what she could, to further prepare.

Ar’Kendrithyst was, and would likely always remain, a land of red and purple crystal towers that swirled with hidden shadows, each spire too tall to ever exist without the assistance of magic. Almost all of the ones around Jane were at least 30 kilometers long. All she could see were the tops, though. Though it was high noon, the depths of the city were deep enough that light failed to penetrate to the bottom. The shadows swirling inside the towers were to blame, dimming an otherwise gorgeous view with darkness.

At least all of the usual monsters were not present. Usually, there would be a horde of munchlings or a leviathan centipede or an actual leviathan to contend with, if one hung around this area long enough. But all the monsters were gone. They were likely under direct control of the soul ooze, though, but no one had actually seen the usual monsters.

Maybe the usual monsters had become food? Maybe they hadn’t been amalgamized into larger, and more dangerous horrors?

Yeah right, Jane thought.

Anyway. The Brightwater was completely different than how it usually was, and Jane wished she could have seen it a year ago. She likely would have been killed if she had tried, but to gaze upon a land of clear crystal towers above an ocean of light would have been a sight to behold.

Now, though, the walls that separated the red-purple kendrithyst from the clear kendrithyst were broken. The auto-magical summoned defenders and the shadeling personnel that usually manned those walls were gone. Shadows from the city had flowed into that once-bright land and turned clear crystal into smoky quartz. The Spire, once the brightest, tallest structure of Ar’Kendrithyst, was gone from the skyline. Apparently Shade Farix had already scouted the place and found nothing, corroborating Killzone’s scouting report.

Taking Farix at his word was foolish, though.

And besides that, every single prognosticator in the area had—

“Yo, Jane.” Mog stepped into the air next to Jane’s tower. “Scoot to the side. I want to talk to you before we go in, before your team shows up for you.”

Jane obliged, granting the comparatively small woman half of the kendrithyst tower’s ‘roof’. “What’s up, guildmaster?”

Mog’s armor didn’t make a sound as she moved to stand next to Jane, planting her feet atop the kendrithyst. “I like how you changed your voice. It makes you more approachable. Also makes you damned scarier in a completely different way.”

Jane smiled. “I’ll have to switch this speech center away once the battle starts to seal up all my vulnerabilities, so the horrible voice will come back. But it’s been nice, yeah.”

Mog nodded, and then she sent, ‘…’

Mog flinched. She stared at Jane, and then tried to connect with a tendril of thought again, but the magic bounced off of Jane’s carapace.

Jane made the connection herself, sending, ‘I can’t turn off the reflection. What’s up?’

Mog frowned, but Jane got the impression that it was more at her own situation, than at Jane. And then she sent, ‘Look. This mission needs to go right. We’re keeping it quiet, but we all knew this could become a crystal mimic scenario if we let it, so we’ve been covertly trying to kill it ourselves for the last twenty days. This thing has rebuffed all our attempts to kill it.’

Jane’s leg hairs stood on end as she involuntarily flexed her abdomen upward. This was news to Jane, and it did not make her feel confident about their chances today.

Mog continued, ‘All of Killzone’s and Silverite’s actions? Acting like this was a new threat? Lies. Obfuscation for the masses. Playing it off like we could handle it at any point in time was necessary because you gotta project confidence as a leader, you know? But know this: Today is our final chance to solve this threat on our own, and we are pulling out all the stops. With these combined forces we should be able to kill the thing, but… This is a breaking point for Spur. If we fail tonight, then we fail more than you know.’

Jane breathed out. ‘So the backup plan is that bad, eh?’

‘Yes.’ Mog gazed across the crystal landscape ahead. ‘If we’re not out ten minutes before sunset the Headmaster is going to bomb this place himself, along with a hundred of his Elites. He’ll make a crater a hundred kilometers across, wiping Ar’Kendrithyst from the map and likely causing untold destruction to Spur and the water table and probably opening up multiple entrances to the Underworld. No one wants that except for the Headmaster; he wants to blast this place to dust, and is quite mad we haven’t let him come in to do just that. Such an action would be the ruination of Spur and the destruction of a great city, full of possibility.’ She added, ‘Maybe we should just let him do that, but…

‘We can do this, Jane.

‘Spur. The people here can solve our own problems.’ Mog sent, ‘That’s what I really came over here to say. Spur has a long history, but we look to have a much longer one than we already have, and Ar’Kendrithyst is still full of treasures to be found. We want you to take a larger share of the responsibility, and the prestige, and the power that this place has to offer. If you want to stay past this calamity. Either way, we’re raising your clearance to a 9-star adventurer. The only thing left to get you 10 star is a Domain. That would mean the whole world is open to you, through the Adventurer’s Guild, with challenges everywhere to be found, but there’s still a lot left to be found here, in Spur.

‘If we can kill this thing and prevent the Headmaster from needing to turn our goldmine into a crater.’

Hitting a high clearance in the Adventurer’s guild would open up the world to her. Dangerous quests. Problems that needed ending. Ohhh. Oh. This was good.

Jane instantly said, ‘I’m on board with this plan.’

With a greatly relieved tone, Mog said, ‘Good. Glad to hear it.’ She added, ‘This might not be a ‘save the world’ mission like Silverite said, but this isn’t a suicide mission, either. We’re doing this safely and with all our people alive at the end of it, no matter the final outcome. If the Headmaster needs to do what he needs to do, then so be it, but this is our home.’

Jane just smiled a little. She liked Mog; the Guildmaster was a good woman. Jane wasn’t happy with how Mog was sweet on Erick, but her father didn’t reciprocate, so that was fine.

Mog glanced up at Jane’s adamantium sword, floating next to Jane’s left pedipalp. ‘Adamantium might be the only thing able to break the core.’ She held up her spiked gloves. ‘I got my own set. Use your sword against the [Ethereal Soul Bolt]s, too; don’t risk your reflection working like it should, especially once we get closer to the core.’

‘Heard loud and clear.’ Jane detached her sword from its position near her pedipalps, and swished it through the air ahead, controlling the near-artifact with the [Flying Striker] spell she had imbued earlier. ‘I really do like this thing, you know? Adamantium is great, but the runework is really amazing.’

‘I had a runic armor set, once.’ Mog sent, ‘It got stripped from me by a Shade that imbued it with [Control Armor] and [Clothe]; pulled it right off of me in the middle of a battle. I prefer plain armor these days.’

‘… Yeah. But…’ Jane sent, ‘They could have taken it from you either way, right?’

‘Aye. Took me a long time to understand that.’

And since Mog had shared something, Jane decided to share something, too, ‘I really do like ending threats, you know? It just feels good to make the world safer by erasing the bad parts.’

Mog smiled wide, her glinting lower fangs barely showing through the slits in her helmet. ‘Soon as you get a Domain you should try the Walk to the Core; see what true monsters look like. I bet this soul ooze would fit right in down below amongst all those greater monsters. Gotta get a writ from a Geode before you do, but that shouldn’t be hard. From what I heard your father is doing great down there.’

‘I wanted to make that journey as soon as he told me about the Variant monsters.’ Jane sent, ‘But they’re no good for Polymage?’

‘Ah. Yeah. Don’t eat any of the monsters down there. They all have Domains and that means that they can try to control you even after they slot into your Familiar Form list. Safer to just fight them instead. See how far you can get.’ Mog stepped back into the air, then made her way back to the main tower, sending, ‘Shouldn’t be long now. Kiri and the archmages will open the way, but we’re going to have to finish it.’

Jane nodded, then went back to watching the shadows swirl inside the crystals of Ar’Kendrithyst.

- - - -

The Brightwater was no longer anything like its name would suggest.

Ringed with crystal towers, the thirty-kilometer deep, 25-kilometers wide at its widest oval-shaped dimensions, Brightwater used to be filled with misty light that obscured everything inside. The mist was still there, but it was a gloom of shadows these days; a byproduct of the constant solar-induced destruction of the ooze down below. That mist protected the ooze from further degradation during the day. The core itself was located somewhere deep below the mists, and below the sea of black ooze hidden by the mist. It was under at least 15 kilometers of ooze. Maybe as much as 20.

Kiri had her crown on today, though, so she was good to go for a lot of mist and ooze destruction…

At least she thought she was, according to the math she had done. [Summon Sunny] cost her 1622 base mana, which was 811 mana after Clarity. At her own modified Focus of 200, thanks to the [Luminous Trap] and All-Stats permanent lightmask crown upon her head, she regenerated 48,000 mana per hour, thanks to Scion of Focus, or 13-14 mana per second. This meant it would take a little over 1 minute to recast Sunny. With her modified Willpower of 200, this meant that every Sunny would come into being with 12,000 mana. 2000 mana would then be instantly spent on a [Reflective Personal Ward]; Kiri was decently happy with that spell, but she could probably do better once she got some more pointers from Erick.

