And that was their mistake. Their view of the hole they’d cut into the earth never changed, but one of the Lucifen held up his hand.
“Hold on. I think I sense—”
A blaring siren blasted through the manor and the room they were sitting in. All eight Lucifen jumped, and someone shouted.
“Magical attack!”
Razia came blurring into the room, out of her wheelchair, looking for a sword. The Agelum hurt herself with that movement alone; her frail flesh tore, but she moved faster than anyone could believe.
“What’s happening? Where—Vultapheles?”
More Agelum joined her, scaring the [Servants] to bits with their sudden reaction. They looked around, and Razia cursed.
All eight Lucifen had just—vanished. She grabbed the nearest speaking stone and raised the alarm.
 
——
 
“Good evening. [Chain Lightning].”
It took him four tries to shatter whatever safeguards they had, but Eldavin did it. The hostile teleportation spell had grabbed no less than eight of the strange young men and women, and brought them here.
He burst out of the ground as they staggered and unleashed one prepared spell to see how they took it. It might kill them, but if they were at all competent, it wouldn’t.
And frankly? Eldavin was angry.
But his opponents had made a few mistakes. Eldavin analyzed them as time slowed, to give him a vantage.
Nobility? They had oddly grey skin. Was that a tail? Not Drake—completely foreign but I feel I should know it. More missing memories? Horns too, but not long.
Strange. They smelled of metal and oil, and their eyes were fairly red.
Some species he had never met. Oh—and they were protected. The lightning cracked around them, and he saw barriers flaring, heard cries of pain.
Then the fight began. Eldavin was ready this time, though.
They had made a few mistakes. Or rather, he realized some things about them.
Firstly—they had a powerful artifact that had seen and detected him. But these eight were not on the level of the artifact. For proof? They had missed him when he dove into the earth, and their individual spells had not located him.
They were dependent on it. And they hadn’t the skill to hide where they were casting from. He had located them, and the magic on them had been strong—
But they were overconfident.
“He’s alive! Kill him!”
“Sound the alarm! Tell Vis—”
“Get to safety, fools!”
They all immediately tried to fire back, and Eldavin dodged a spell. He began flicking spells at them. He didn’t want to kill them.
Not yet. But he changed his mind as the first vortex opened and he nearly went into it.
Their offensive magic is on another level! They might not have nuance, but it was like facing a bunch of children with crossbows. No finesse, no tact or ability to scout—but a deadly weapon.
“[Disintegration].”
Eldavin unleashed the spells on his fingers, and one screamed—but an amulet exploded instead.
And they all have Gold-rank gear or better! Who are they?
Eldavin realized their spells were capable of killing him as the Lucifen realized they were outmatched by the angry Archmage. So they tried to run, and he saw them step into…
What is that? Some kind of portal?
He dove, and the closing portal held itself open as a block of magic inserted itself. Eldavin tackled a young man with all the force of a falling meteor. Then he looked up.
“Ah.”
The sky had just turned black. Dark, like the death of suns. Eldavin looked around and saw only blasted ground. He smelled that scent even more now. Oil and metal. And he realized he had made a mistake.
He was in their area.
Seven figures around him. Eldavin looked up and saw them walking on stairways of magic. They vanished through portals, pointing at him.
The black death spells crisscrossed the air as he threw himself sideways in a blur. Eldavin flew. No more games—
“[Arrows of the Lightning Queen]!”
A three hundred arrow salute shot through the sky, fast as electricity could move. And they—missed—the Lucifen.
She was so fast! Paxere ducked into a portal, appeared on Eldavin’s side, and put a hole in his leg. He roared, and light flashed, blinding the others. His finger turned as he healed himself with a potion.
“Thresk’s idiotic beam!”
This time eight tracers shot from his finger and tried to hit all eight Lucifen. All eight missed.
They tracked their targets peerlessly, but the Lucifen vanished—and reappeared elsewhere.
This area lets them teleport without end. I’ve entered into a place perfect for them.
Eldavin flew. They followed, trying to hit him. He tried to break out.
“[Teleport]. [Emergency Exit]…it has to be a [Dimensional Sh—]. Argh!”
He needed time to cast a proper exit spell, but another spell hit him. Dark magic? No, not this time.
A burning cloud of ash and fire engulfed him. Eldavin blew it apart—and ran into a hail of magma. He screamed, though his protective spells spared him the worst of it.
But he was furious.
Fire? They were trying to burn him? The Archmage whirled.
“[Volcanic Rain of the Ash Giant]!”
 
——
 
Paxere did not like fighting for her life after all. Teeth bared, she was poised, dodging the spells coming her way.
This was the Lucifens’ territory, though. The problem was—the Archmage was good. What was saving his life wasn’t just his spells.
They were mostly elemental. He had some kind of penchant for them. As she ducked a meteor of burning ash and fire, Paxere stepped across this battleground and reappeared. She aimed at his back, fired a spell, and he dodged.
What both the Lucifen and Eldavin realized was that the Archmage was a battle-expert. More than spells? More than experience or quick-thinking?
He flew. Even as he cast magic, he was doing a terrain-following maneuver, inches off the ground, whirling around spires of ash, changing course unpredictably. Paxere had never seen anyone fly like that.
“He’s quick! If we had our war forms—”
“Don’t give him anything. He’s seen us. He has to die.”
The other Lucifen were arguing. They would have already left if not for Eldavin seeing their identities. They had to lock him down until Visophecin or one of the others could get here.
They were too weak to kill him, but one shot was all it took, and he couldn’t tag them. The Archmage’s dodging was also limited; if all eight coordinated their shots, even his amazing agility wouldn’t save his life.
He seemed to realize that too. Paxere heard his voice as he created mirror images of himself, weaving across the battlefield.
“Slow. Why is [Flight] slow…children. Children are holding me? Children!?”
He was losing his temper. Another bolt of lightning flashed—[Bolt of the Lightning Giant]. But one of the Lucifen sucked it into a void spell with a laugh.
“He doesn’t have the magic to beat us!”
That was it. Paxere did grin, then. The Archmage was using exceptionally economical spells. His mana supply was weaker than theirs. Mockingly, they began throwing fire at him, such that he was flying into clouds of ash and darkness and fire. Paxere aimed her finger and shot six barbs of darkness into the cloud. She drank a potion and heard him scream in pain. She waited for him to emerge as the other Lucifen threw magic into the cloud.
Then she hesitated. Paxere shaded her eyes as the weakening mana-presence of the Archmage suddenly got…a lot brighter. And she realized.
“Oh no. He’s counter-levelling.”
She was of course—
Wrong.
 
——
 
His body had so little mana. Because it was a fake! Eldavin thought he even knew the spell he had cast. He had not intended it for battles.
Any Archmage—even Feor and Viltach—had more mana than him. They had Skills to make spells more efficient than they should be.
He was limited, for all his power. And the fury of being ambushed, the embarrassment of realizing children were besting him, and their mockery?
Eldavin snapped. In his fury, he tapped into something that he had forgotten since fighting Cognita. Like a switch in his mind—a reconnected bridge—he reached for what he knew he had.
He tapped into a well of mana like nothing he had ever felt.
A ______’s magic.
“[Wings of the Phoenix].”
The first spell Eldavin cast created two burning wings on his back. The Lucifen saw something break out of the cloud.
A man with white hair. Two pointed ears, two mismatched eyes. And burning wings of feathers that were made up of glorious flame.
Green fire, molded into a feather. Violet flame, licking at the air of this blasted place. The wings beat, and he shot through the sky. Up—one of the Lucifen licked their lips.
“Should we retr—”
“[Cometfall of the Harpy Queen].”
Valmira’s Comets was a Tier 4 spell. Tier 5 was when you used a storm of them. They flew slowly. They did a lot of damage.
Eldavin’s spell conjured bolts of magic that hit the ground so fast and with such velocity that Paxere tasted blood and found herself staring at the ground before she knew what had hit her. Then she saw Eldavin pointing at her.
“[Wave of Mercury].”
The Archmage’s other finger was pointing under his arm. He was struggling with the vast flow of mana, but he felt it. Power without end. Enough to do—
“[Ten Thousand Spriggan Stakes].”
Fast spells. Nothing complex. Fast spells—but a hundred feet ignited around another Lucifen. A third was aiming at Eldavin when the invisible [Fireball] hit him.
“[Spire of Mud].”
…Four. A burning Lucifen, one ensnared in mud, another fried, and the fourth covered in poisonous metal. The last was diving for a doorway.
“[Aquatic Sinkhole].”
The figure took a step into an abyss of water two thousand feet deep.
Five Lucifen were engulfed by spells, but none of them were killed—even the one covered in poison. They were tough, naturally, with magic, artifacts—and the last three of their kin were protecting them.
But they were still children. All the Lucifen aimed at Eldavin, and he saw their teeth lengthening. Their tails…were they trying to change? He didn’t care. He stood around the five he’d hit and sighed.
They didn’t even see it. Then—Eldavin tapped the ground with one foot. Eight dark spells struck him—
And broke as harmlessly as shadows on his skin. The Lucifen looked at their fingers in fear and sudden trepidation. Then the first one that Eldavin had hit glanced down.
“Oh no. Oh, nononono—”
She was covered in mercury, a metal, and Eldavin stood away from her. Across from her—Vultapheles, burned by the fireball, was getting up.
Next to Paxere and Vultapheles, but still at a roughly equidistant position, was the Lucifen who’d been engulfed in mud, still trying to blast his way out. And then across from him was the hole with the Lucifen engulfed by water. One last Lucifen was trying to heal and tear stakes of wood that had torn her flesh.
A Vampire-killer’s spell.
But think about it. Wood, fire, water, metal, earth…that was a very specific combination of elements. The spell didn’t matter.
But the positioning of all five in a rough pentagram around the Archmage did. And so did the ritual he invoked.
“[Pentagram of the Five Alchemies: Protection].”
All five Lucifen embodying an element felt the magic working on them. Taking—their nature! And their spells were suddenly shadows that bounced off the Archmage.
“Run! Get to the others! Run—r—”
Eldavin looked around as Paxere screamed. She grabbed an emergency artifact and twisted the ring.
The others had done the same. A shimmering set of feathers engulfed all eight. It folded around them, and they began to…vanish? The Archmage’s eyes widened. The spell around him whirled as he pointed.
“[Five Alchemies: Anchorage]!”
The Agelum-made artifact screamed as it met the spell. Paxere shrieked as she felt her entire body pulled back to the safe room by the magic—and her entire being anchored by the spell Eldavin had used, which used her very nature against her. She flickered—the ring exploded—
And she collapsed. Eldavin, panting, saw the dimension he’d entered begin to unravel and the real world appear around him. He looked down at the Lucifen girl and winced.
“That is why you don’t use rings but amulets. Their Viscount is coming. So is that damned Duke.”
He swayed, suddenly exhausted, despite the magic buoying him up. The Lucifen girl was unconscious—and the ring had detonated, taking her finger with it.
“This was a mistake. I didn’t expect—”
Eldavin looked around, and a golden chariot appeared. Eldavin leapt into it, and his fiery wings vanished. The Lucifen girl lay in the back as he took off like a meteor, racing back to safety.
Less than a minute later, six figures stepped out of gateways where the fighting had taken place. Three dark-skinned Lucifen, Visophecin included, and three Agelum. They looked around and found no Paxere or Eldavin.
The air seemed…darker…around Visophecin. He looked around, eyes glowing, and adjusted his suit, which looked like the cloth had been made from something other than mere fabric.
“This will mean retribution. If she is dead—”
Azemith had found a single scorched finger. Igolze stood over it, face blank—but that was only how he looked. Gadrea, Uziel, and the third Agelum who had been at the capital when they got the alert looked at each other.
“It will, Azemith. But hold.”
“If she is dead—”
“He has a Lucifen. Hold your ground.”
Azemith held, and Visophecin nodded.
“Clear the area. Igolze, Azemith, with me. We must speak to Ryoka Griffin. Now.”
The immortals vanished. After five minutes, the ground appeared grassy and normal, and nothing, not even a magical footprint, hinted they’d been there.
 
——
 
Archmage Eldavin realized three things after that battle. Firstly, he was an idiot who had rushed in, overconfident of his abilities. Or perhaps…he hadn’t realized who was truly behind Ailendamus’ rise to power.
Because whoever they were—they were on par with true [Archmages].
Regardless, the second point was that whoever he was, he flew. He didn’t fly or move like a fool with [Levitation]—he had flown battlefields.
Third? He now had access to a mana supply that dwarfed even the current Archmages of Wistram. So next time—
Well, next time he’d have the mana to cast any truly powerful spell he wanted.
But the danger was now that Ailendamus was aware of him. Yet he did have a hostage.
Eldavin landed in Wistram’s camp and began casting the highest-level security spells he could, drawing on that mana from his true body without reserve, ignoring the babbled questions. He’d cloaked the girl.
Be safe. Be protected. Even Rhisveri wouldn’t be able to challenge him on his home-turf, with all this magic. But when he left it—he was in danger.
That was the new situation. Eldavin pulled enough magic to cast a Tier 7 ward, and Telim fainted dead away. There was no time to hide it.
