“…Yet I made this. The last Dragons bequeathed their throne to me as a sign of respect. This was blasted land after the Crelers ravaged it, and yet—six thousand years a nation has stood that I founded. For better or worse. I must see how it ends.”
She smiled proudly. And every ghost of Calanfer bowed their heads to her, even the Giants.
Predictably, the female Dragon did not, but she thoughtfully fanned her wings and looked at Marquin. Then she gave a regal nod and spoke as the [Queen] looked at her.
“We are kin, then, in purpose, Queen Marquin. I too have come here to face my end. I wish to see how something…someone I knew meets his destiny.”
The [Queen] nodded, and the Dragon and she stood there, waiting for the newly-dead to tell them news of the present. For Marquin of Calanfer, she waited here at this pass to see whether her beloved nation would fall to Ailendamus’ advance.
The Dragon? She waited for a name, a false name, but one that she knew. She had followed him across the sea, from Izril to Wistram, chasing rumors. Of Eldavin. Or Teriarch.
Lord of Flame.
 
——
 
Archmage Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory, looked like a half-Elf modeled after some ancient statues of Earth. He had, to those sculptors, the idealized form. Symmetry in face, strength of body, even though his hair was white.
It was an illusion, and even Eldavin knew it.
“The physical form can be changed. I, clearly, altered my own appearance to best suit my needs. You see, there are [Mages] and schools of thought like the esteemed Grimalkin of Pallass that prioritize the body. Shapeshifting. Bodily alteration. That does intersect with [Alchemists] and other classes of shapechangers, but we can do it with magic! Some may consider it a side-path to true magic, and that is fair. But it is possible.”
He wondered what his original face looked like. He didn’t know.
His audience, of course, was hanging on every word. From Magus Telim to Sa’la, who waved a hand.
“Archmage Eldavin. Would a Selphid be able to change into another form…?”
Eldavin pondered the question.
“To a Human, for instance? Of course. But the most obvious change would be to something of smaller mass like a beaver or whatnot. Selphids have less bodily mass, so it would be harder. I would imagine the difference is a Level 20 [Shapeshifter Mage] transforming into a squirrel. A Level 40 one becomes a Human.”
His audience looked at each other. No Level 20 [Mage] in all of Wistram could just…transform. But that was Eldavin’s standard, and he knew it was right.
He had seen it. But where?
The half-Elf did not know, and the things he did not know increased the more he tried to find out one concrete thing he did know. He continued his lecture.
“I believe the basis of magic that is lost is the ability to alter one’s own magical nature. Or others.”
“Archmage! No one can just alter someone’s mana from afar! Even [Necromancers] need touch.”
A [Mage] protested, and Eldavin pointed at her.
“You are wrong. It can be done. Touch makes it easier by far; willingness likewise. But how else would someone transform an enemy into a squishable frog? It is possible. Now, I am going to give you a basis of the concept, and if I hear ‘no one can do this’, or ‘impossible’, or ‘never been done’, I will eject you from the class. At altitude.”
The threat quelled most voices, but what also did the trick was Eldavin’s confidence. And the fact that he could do what he was talking about.
The age of legends walked among mortal [Mages], dispensing magics as he pleased. Small wonder he had created the largest faction in Wistram practically overnight. Eldavin was more knowledgeable than all the Archmages combined. He stood on the platform of hardlight as it floated across the road.
Below, the students riding along or using spells to follow stared up in awe. Travellers looked up at a platform a hundred feet by a hundred feet made of beautiful light as solid as rock just…floating overhead. A pedestal from which Eldavin could see, talk, and sleep if need be while they headed to their destination.
Around them, armored figures flew. Some did loop-de-loops or flew high; others were wary of such extreme movement, but even if they slammed into the ground at speed, the enchanted armor kept them safe. A few tried out spells in the air, which sometimes earned them censure if they started fires.
Especially by the wary [Knights] following them. If Eldavin looked left, he could see the Order of Seasons and Ser Greysten, the Summer’s Champion, keeping pace with Eldavin’s faction.
They just watched, in a kind of awe, as the Archmage of Memory advanced into Ailendamus’ territory and taught magic at the same time.
Awe and wariness. Eldavin was no fool. He knew he was making possible enemies with his displays of power. He knew that he had a giant target on his chest and that Ailendamus would not take this lying down lightly. He knew his fellow Archmages would conspire against him.
Yet he didn’t care. Eldavin had so little time. So he spent every moment of it leaving behind…sparks.
Why do I feel this way? He touched at his heart absently and waited.
“The fundamentals of altering your mana is changing the very quality of your magic. [Elementalists] do it…the [Icebody] spell is a good place to start if you can cast it. Shapeshifting is that idea taken to an extreme. You have to know the form you wish to embody and lock it into place. That’s essential. If it wavers once, you waver, turning into some kind of agonized puddle of flesh will not be pleasant. And that is the best scenario.”
His students blanched, and Eldavin heard it at last.
Lub…dub…
He had spoken for over half a minute. His fingers had felt only warm flesh. Then—
His heart beat.
Once.
Eldavin was no biological expert, although he could have probably taught that too given the standards in this world. But he was fairly certain your heart beating about twice-per-minute was a bad thing.
Something was happening. After the last—incident—Eldavin had realized his heart was slowing down. He could still move, his blood circulated, as if it were being pumped, but his heart had changed.
What is wrong with me?
Sa’la was in the audience of [Mages] and watching Eldavin carefully as the others tried his lesson. She alone knew what was going on, and Eldavin intended to keep it this way. He could not afford to show weakness.
But he had to know what was going on. So Eldavin cast every spell he could think of.
[Memory Search]. [Annie’s Contemplation of the Mind: Ryoka Griffin]? [Annie’s Contemplation of the Mind: Magic, No, Blast It, That’s Too Generic]. [Annie’s Contemplation of the Mind: Identity]. [Crystalized Thoughts]. [Superior Analysis: Self]…
Annie was a [Mage] who had once delved deep into the realms of mental magics. Hence the name. Not everyone was named…Thresk. Or Az’kerash.
Eldavin knew there were holes in his memory. He knew something was wrong. But what, exactly, still eluded him. The thing was—
What he did remember was confusing too.
 
——
 
“[Beam of Fire].”
A beam-spell blasted from Eldavin’s finger, hit a tree, and everything along the line of fire exploded. Eldavin raised a finger as Ser Greysten watched.
“That is a classic Tier…5 spell? Tier 4 if you reduce the effects. A simple beam of fire. The problem is, it is eminently dodgeable. Slower than a regular arrow. [Mages] unused to combat would use that. Of course, the Albezian school of magic changed that completely. Now consider this. [Thresk’s Seekers]!”
He fired six short beams of magic that wove through the air like hungry snakes. They even had a motif like that; instead of a boring beam of blazing fire, they transformed into writhing serpents of fire which attacked, curving towards their foe and following the little pigeon of light Eldavin conjured as a target.
“Seeking, diffusion of the magic, and far more varied. Warmage Thresk pioneered this magic along with the other Albez [Mages] in a brief renaissance. Among them were the [Temporal Mage] Udatron, the [War Mage] Thresk, and the [Knight of Spells], Siza. If acceptable, I would prefer to grant your Order, or rather, this Season of Fall about fourteen spells you can copy and use in battle.”
The Summer’s Champion looked at Eldavin. The Archmage of Memory folded his hands behind his back as Greysten thought.
“That…would be extraordinarily kind, Archmage. You mean—spell scrolls?”
“No, I mean the spells themselves. Spell scrolls? Young man, I believe we all are aware this war might be difficult. It is a shame only your [Autumn Knights] can cast magic, but if they can all cast a Tier 5 spell, it will be for the better, don’t you agree?”
The Summer’s Champion looked at Dame Voost and Ser Zulv, two of the most senior [Knights] in his Order. One of the Fall Knights was trying not to punch the air and throw up their hands in delight.
Would it be for the better if every Knight of Autumn could cast a Tier 5 spell? Greysten thought about it.
Well, yes. And it would also make the Season of Autumn, whose value to the Order of Seasons was often academic, not only the most useful faction outside of combat, but arguably the most useful group in battle too.
His code of honor was such that Greysten refused to bring up the sting to his pride, so he just bowed.
“That would be a great boon, Archmage.”
…What do you want for it? But the half-Elf, who was actually taller than Greysten and looked as physically fit, just nodded.
“Excellent. In that case, I will scribe the teaching scrolls…tonight. I apologize, but I am managing too much. Would it be acceptable if I forwarded the spells to you at dawn? Or I can send them to your Fall’s Sentinel if teleportation isn’t off-limits in your keep.”
Greysten had just been fighting for his life against the Dame of the Hills two days ago. He had realized that the Order of the Hydra and Ailendamus were a greater threat than he had previously thought and had been prepared to lay his life down to win their safety. Rabbiteater’s daring charge had barely, barely let them regroup, yet the Order of the Hydra had been pressing them hard, and Greysten had been holding out for reinforcements.
They had come, but not from Pheislant or Knight-Commander Calirn or the Winter’s Watcher. Instead, Eldavin and his faction had appeared and calmly blasted the entire army that had held the Season of Summer at bay into flight in less than twenty minutes.
Greysten was a bit peeved about that. It devalued the sacrifices of his people. And yet—
That was Eldavin. So the Summer’s Champion just bowed again as Eldavin smiled benignly. What Greysten noticed, but put down to something else or his imagination, was the slight…reddening of Eldavin’s cheeks.
 
——
 
Eldavin was embarrassed.
He was mortified.
Eldavin was ashamed, and he was relieved the [Knight] didn’t comment on his blush. The half-Elf didn’t know why until he thought about it, but that interaction was emblematic of the mystery that was him.
He was embarrassed, but it took the half-Elf a few minutes of striding about to figure out why.
He was embarrassed because he was teaching Warmage Thresk’s magic?
Yes! If he thought about that, the embarrassment definitely came from that. But why? It was good magic. It did the job.
It was intensely embarrassing to teach this no-name [War Mage]’s magic. Someone who was not a truly famed mage.
But why, then, do I know it?
That question unlocked a door in Eldavin’s memory. Understanding. And with that—he understood more of himself.
 
Ah. I learned Thresk’s magic and Albez’s magic to tell Ryoka Griffin. Because it was so important to her, I was going to tease her about it.
I regard this magic as inferior because it is just ‘new’ magic that are copies of older spells already invented. Albez was no true renaissance. Everything they discovered and created was a reinvention of the old.
I learned this information recently. I know spells that date back tens of thousands of years. This is nothing to me.
Who am I?
 
It hit him, and he almost fell over. A sudden realization that came with the context. Yes! Yes, he had memorized that and put the knowledge in him just so he could make topical conversation with Ryoka Griffin about that door or the adventurers.
But that wasn’t the important thing. The important thing was realizing he knew spells that old. No…not just knew.
He had been there when they were new. Therefore, he was old. So old this half-Elf’s body, as old as it looked, wasn’t nearly a reflection of him unless he had used time magic to preserve it. Had he remade his body?
Was he a half-Elf or something else?
The first clue in the puzzle came to Eldavin as Telim ran up to him. Eldavin was distracted.
“Not now, High Mage. Unless someone’s transformed their stomach into teeth, I am busy—”
“Grand Magus! There’s been a disaster at Wistram! Archmage Amerys is free and…”
Eldavin turned and heard about Trey Atwood’s escape. That hurt him more than anything else.
The betrayal was too…familiar. It cut deep because it was a fresh cut on top of countless old wounds. Eldavin understood that Amerys was free but took a better view of it than anyone else.
“She has little reason to oppose me. The casualties and loss of Earthers are regrettable, but we got most of what was valuable. If anything—this will highlight the fact that Fissival and the Drowned Folk are opposed to us. We have been too tight and grasping, as I said. Perhaps this will also motivate Wistram to do something about the King of Destruction.”
The [Mages] were aghast.
“But Archmage! Nailihuaile is dead! The Quarass of Ger stole a relic and…”
Ah. Eldavin hesitated. The Star Lamia was dead. He cleared his throat.
“Archmage Nailihuaile’s death is regrettable, of course. As for the Quarass?”
He found himself about to blush again. Why?
Because he knew the Quarass. And she had been under his nose? Yes, she was an amalgamation of souls as ancient as most beings.
But how embarrassing! And he’d taught her like she were some child.
 
When next we meet, she will never let me live this down.
When next we meet? I knew her of old. When she was new. 
How old am I?
 
——
 
He realized that if he had failed to recognize the Quarass, she had failed to recognize him. Because they had met. The fact of that memory was clear.
But she didn’t know Eldavin. Ergo, she did not know me. I remember meeting her as I am. But who…
He didn’t know who it was, but he recalled looking down at the Quarass as a grown woman. The memory was fragmented, fuzzy. But it spoke to a growing conclusion in Eldavin.
He sent rapid [Message] spells to restore what order he could in Wistram. The other Archmages were panicking, and all three were trying to get him to do something.
