…What, exactly? Fly off and face a [Pirate Captain] on a famous ship and an Archmage and this Gazi of Reim at sea?
Eldavin was too busy! For one thing, he had decided that the [Mages] of his faction and the children in armor would advance with the Order of Seasons—but carefully.
“The Pride of the Wellfar is coming up the coast. However, I imagine that if Ailendamus sends any kind of proper fleet, they will flee.”
“Flee?”
Ser Greysten was patently incredulous. Eldavin flicked his fingers.
“Tactically withdraw or however you would like to put it. Even if they are a Citadel-class warship, they are alone. Pheislant must support them. Or we need more ships! If your Order of Seasons is truly advancing up the main road, you could well push into Ailendamus from the west. My [Mages] are not yet ready for battle, but our [Magearmor Soldiers]—”
“Is that their class?”
Eldavin shrugged.
“Among others. There appears to be nuance in how some regard their armor.”
Like the Earthers. Eldavin went on blithely, ignoring the looks from Greysten and the other commanders.
“—I place under your capable commanders, Ser Greysten. I suggest you appoint one of your most senior [Knights] to ensure not one of them is lost. Commit them to strikes and withdrawals; they can be captured or killed if surrounded. Perhaps your Dame Voost?”
She seemed like a high-level, careful leader. Greysten hesitated.
“Not you yourself, Archmage?”
The half-Elf gave him a calm smile.
“I am no war leader. I could fill the role, but my time is better served elsewhere. I will contact The Pride of the Wellfar and coordinate its advance. Then—we will truly push Ailendamus.”
Thus far, he had not actually fought in more than one battle. But Eldavin considered that his contribution to the war was more than spellcasting. He’d get to that, but uniting opposition against Ailendamus?
That was how you won wars. So he stepped out of the war tent as Greysten hurried out.
“I will be back by…oh, supper? I would be very grateful if you taught my Magearmor candidates to avoid being captured. Perhaps some self-defense techniques? They are relying on their armor too much, but I can well envision them being roped or captured or simply someone hitting them with a sufficiently large hammer. They are drunk on power. Which is expected. Thank you, Summer’s Champion. Now—[Fly: Speed of the Swallow].”
And he took off. The Summer’s Champion’s jaw dropped as Eldavin spread his arms and took off, faster than any ordinary man or woman on a horse. As if it were the easiest thing in the world.
Too easy. He didn’t belong in this era. Eldavin was coming to an unfortunate realization. Obvious, really.
He was not a half-Elf. So who was he? The unhappy Archmage began piecing it together with the facts.
I have no class or levels. My magic is ancient. The half-Elf falsehood, the white hair, all these people I’ve met and my fragmented memory—it must have been after Cognita hit me. But I know who I might be. It’s obvious.
My enmity with the Necromancer? Where I was hiding in Izril? Oh no. Oh dear.
I’m a Unicorn.
He hated that conclusion. But it made sense. The white hair was a dead giveaway. Not to mention the long life? The superior spellcasting?
Actually, his reaction made Eldavin suspect that was the wrong conclusion, so he ran down the list. Some of the things he could be were rather…well. He needed proof. And Eldavin actually suspected he knew at least two people who knew what he was.
Ryoka Griffin and Magnolia Reinhart.
But one was captured and the other was curiously silent. She had talked to him, but something about their conversation had changed matters. Yes, Magnolia was under siege in Oteslia, but he knew the girl. She could conduct any clandestine conversation she wanted.
That she was refusing to talk to him meant—she suspected something was wrong with him.
He hoped she didn’t do anything rash. Eldavin was sure he was acting in accordance to what he would normally do. Was reviving Wistram, fighting a foe like Ailendamus, not what he would do?
Surely it was. Eldavin was still on the Unicorn thing, though. The thought unearthed another memory.
More and more, he was convinced he had somehow partitioned his mind into chunks and dumped information into the parts he could access. That was almost as stupid as what Valeterisa had done, and he had no idea why he would do something that stupid.
Unless it was an accident caused by a Truestone Golem punching him, which was a valid reason for most magical things to go wrong. Or…
He had a bad feeling, but Eldavin just wrote it on the list of hypotheses. For now—Unicorns. What did he know? Eldavin’s spell collected the data.
[Annie’s Contemplation of the Mind: Unicorn].
 
There is still a Unicorn living on Izril…at least there was last I checked, twelve years ago. Odds are he is still alive.
The last living Unicorn of the Vale Forest is a Valesian-trained duelist, adept at war magic and sword…hornplay? Which is an unfortunate choice of words because he is also exceptionally randy.
Which is a word I will never use. But he has sired children among horses, such that his offspring sometimes appear in stables with superior qualities, much to the mystification of those trying to figure out the breeding stock.
I have no idea about young, virginal women not of the horse variety. One would hope…not.
I regret remembering this.
 
Eldavin’s factoids and remembered information was regrettably specific at times. The Archmage slowed as he passed the coastline. Swallows flew fast, especially when you cast [Haste] on them.
But he did slow, mainly because he sensed about two dozen hostile spells suddenly targeting him—and these were of a caliber such that he actually respected them. Eldavin cast [Loud Voice] and spoke.
“I am Archmage Eldavin. Here to parlay with Etril Wellfar! May I come aboard?”
A vast ship was sailing off the coast, and The Pride of The Wellfar slowed. Eldavin saw a figure stride out onto the deck and confer with a crowd, but brush them aside.
Etril Wellfar was not someone he knew at all, Eldavin was sure. But his research into the man had told him his personality was amenable to this sort of thing.
Sure enough—Eldavin was landing and taking Etril Wellfar’s hand as the [Lord] looked him up and down.
“Salt of the seas. You are an [Archmage] of old.”
The half-Elf smiled.
“Accept no inferior copies. And you are the only Wellfar daring enough to bring this great vessel to sea. Wellfar never made a name for themselves cowering in their ports.”
Etril’s eyes narrowed slightly, but he decided to take it as a compliment rather than an insult.
“What can we do for you, Archmage of Memory? I didn’t look to meet with you. Truth be told, I was dismayed you were in Pheislant. It means there’s less use for The Pride here.”
He wanted to attack Ailendamus, and his ship could certainly threaten hundreds of miles of coastline—but nothing inland, certainly not where the Dawn Concordat was fighting. The frustration on Etril’s face was plain; since the Terras faction had appeared, there wasn’t even any real need for his support with the Order of Seasons.
Eldavin nodded in agreement to all of this.
“Indeed not. And I suspect that when Ailendamus sends a fleet, you will wisely retreat. The Pride of the Wellfar cannot be lost. Let alone if the Taimaguros Dominion enters the conflict.”
The young Wellfar didn’t bother hiding his glower.
“If you could magic a fleet up, we’d risk it, but you are right. No one sails into a war without an escort, Archmage. Pheislant has good ships of its own, but I cannot…risk…them sailing in close proximity with my ship.”
Just in case Pheislant decides it wants a relic-class ship of old. It was understandable paranoia, but it tied the man’s hands. Same for Nadel, even if you could convince Nadel to enter the war. Or Desonis.
Eldavin had considered all the nations near Ailendamus, and that was separate from his meeting with Etril here. He nodded to all of this.
“Well reasoned. I am glad to see you are a practical [Captain]. I have a proposed solution to your problems.”
“Go on, Archmage?”
The [Lord] was not one to take anyone—even an Archmage—lying down, and his annoyance at being talked down to slightly, let alone accosted on his own ship, was politely suppressed. In a way, Eldavin liked that more than Greysten’s carefulness. Or perhaps it meant the Summer’s Champion was even more wary of Eldavin, given his reputation as an honest, straightforward man.
Either way, Eldavin didn’t care. Unicorns, Thresk…there was a growing certainty in his mind. He had his hand on his heart, absently, as he spoke.
 
I am running out of time.
I should leave. This is dangerous.
 
That certainty was in him. And that was his true feeling. But at the same time, Eldavin thought differently.
But I cannot abandon Ryoka Griffin. I will repay this Duke Rhisveri his insult. 
There it was. The dissonance. There were two parts of him, warring. One wanted to—leave. To disavow Terras, to vanish. This part of him, the part that felt awake and alive, told him to continue. To make magic shine bright.
To live.
He obeyed the latter’s call. So he turned to Etril, smiled benignly, and produced…a contract scroll. The [Lord] squinted at it.
“What’s this, now?”
“Oh, merely a magical contract. Not a blood-contract, but it can be signed by a proxy of the Wellfar family. I don’t wish to fly all the way to Izril or teleport. It gives me gas. Would you, Lord Wellfar, please contact House Wellfar for an immediate consultation? I would like to hire them to enter this war. I am prepared to sell you a monopoly on weather magic.”
Etril Wellfar looked at Archmage Eldavin, then uttered a faint curse as someone squeaked. Eldavin just smiled, eyes shining bright, mismatched heliotrope and cerulean.
He had gold if Wellfar were so crass, but he suspected selling them spells beyond the pale of any academy—that might do nicely too. Eldavin had been very displeased to learn how little money he had, so he’d been rebuilding his fortunes.
The nice thing about being the undisputed master of magic was that everyone was a buyer. Eldavin turned to someone—another [Lady] of Wellfar? Yes, he read her class.
“Ah, young woman. I forget myself. While Lord Etril is setting up the call—I believe gifts are very customary.”
Sea gifts for goodwill and all that, even if negotiations fell through. Eldavin produced a beautiful scroll made of bright, sky-blue paper, frayed at the edges purely for cosmetic effect, and bound by a golden string. He handed it to her with a flourish.
“What is this, Arch—”
She choked as she took it, stumbled, and nearly fell overboard. Two [Sailors] had to grab her and keep her from going over the railing. Eldavin polished his nails on his robes as Etril whirled. Yes, truly gratifying.
A lesser, more unhelpful [Mage] would have made adventurers’ lives difficult by not writing the spell on the scroll. Well, in this case, Eldavin suspected any adventurer who found this scroll would take it to an [Enchanter] first. Then try to copy it, but scribing a temporary scroll wasn’t like teaching someone magic. It was possible for a true expert to reverse-engineer it, but he’d sell it to Wellfar too if they sent, oh, twenty ships to battle?
The scroll Eldavin had so casually handed the young [Deckhand Lady] had a simple word written on it in plain language:
[Flight].
Eldavin beamed at the expressions of those around him and began to say that if they would like proof that was a genuine scroll, he was happy to enchant anyone for a test-run. But the words never came out.
Lub…dub?
His heart beat once. Eldavin collapsed.
 
——
 
When Eldavin woke up, it was in Etril’s personal cabin. He sat up and felt it.
The connection wavered.
That was it. There was something that had bothered Eldavin from the start. His weak mana supply for someone with his magical ability. The sense that this entire body was artificial.
Because…it was.
“I am quite alright, Lord Wellfar. I overexerted myself, and it is age more than anything. You can see why I need House Wellfar to enter this conflict, yes?”
He carefully lied as he assured the [Lord] all was well. Eldavin swanned into the meeting with Wellfar’s seafaring nobility and took two damned hours in getting them to agree to enter the war.
Two hours!
Heh. Two hours and one of the Five Families sent thirty ships to sail with Pheislant against Ailendamus. Nadel, Desonis—every nation in Terandria had to be counting the odds.
Eldavin declined Etril’s offer to drop him off anywhere. He flew back to the Order of Season’s camp and enjoyed the expressions of the [Knights] there. Ser Greysten just looked at him.
“House Wellfar has declared their part in the war against Ailendamus, Archmage. Supporting House Veltras. Did you arrange that?”
“Politics, Ser Greysten. Politics. A word in someone’s ear—this is proper Wistram politics. Direct, efficient—take notes, all of you!”
Eldavin beamed at the other [Mages] in his faction and felt buoyant.
Enjoy it while it lasts.
His smile flickered out, and he frowned. Greysten, watching him, saw the Archmage feel at his chest.
“Archmage Eldavin? Do you want to speak now? About anything?”
Sa’la hurried forwards. The Selphid [Herbalist] looked at Eldavin intently, but she was surprised when the half-Elf turned to her with a calm smile.
“No, Sa’la. I believe I am as well as can be. Thank you.”
She stared at him, patently confused. But Eldavin had figured it out.
 
——
 
That night, Eldavin drew a complex magical circle and tried to check the quality of his connection to his real body.
Not in the camp. He flew to a hill, cleared the area, and spent nearly an hour setting up a complex monitoring spell trying to backtrace, well, his magic.
He’d done a devilishly good job. Well done, Eldavin. The half-Elf spent the next four hours cursing himself and kicking rocks and hopping on one toe before casting [Stoneskin].
Even knowing what was happening, he could barely tell that he was being connected to something. But it was that which was causing all these irregularities.
Not him. In fact, Eldavin realized his mana supply was just based on his own, fake body! He had created…this half-Elf’s body and imbued it with enough power to go toe-to-toe with an Archmage with the right cunning. While his main body had…how much power?
Who am I?
What was clear was that the link had not been made for this range and possibly had been damaged by Cognita’s punch. Damn that Golem! Worse, Eldavin couldn’t figure out what was wrong. It was like being in a bottle and trying to fix a crack from the inside. He found a few broken links in the spell he could mend but knew there was only one way to fix it.
