“Trying something,” she answered, trying to sound reassuring, but the change spoke for itself. Ali’s entire back line surged with a fresh infusion of power as every last magical boost she had was suddenly applied to every minion. Every percentage boost from her aptitudes, all the enchantments on her gear, and even the passive magical boosts from her Arcane Recall mastery skill – the augmentation of their powers was immediate and palpable.

Lightning and nature damage swelled within the bows of the Sylvan Storm archers. Arrows shone with rising incandescent power, lighting up the battlefield as they fired. The troll ice and holy mages unleashed spells that seared across her mana sight. Golden volleys of arcane bolts launched from dozens of demonic eyes shone with new intensity and landed with audible impacts. Ali fed every last drop of her excess mana regeneration into boosting their power.

“That’s… working!” Malika shouted, surprise clear in her tone. “Whatever you’re doing, keep doing it! His health is dropping! A… bit, yes!”

Of course, Ali had no time to rejoice. Now she had the extra burden of using her barriers to protect her physically much weaker minions from the continuous barrage of forking arrows that threatened to destroy them. They had all just inherited the liability of her half-health penalty.

Mana…

The more mana she could feed to her minions, the faster the Wight would die. Ali glanced over to where Havok, Sabri, and Mato were tanking the Anarchic Atrocities and then flew over there to do something she had not needed to do for quite some time. She began deconstructing corpses for mana.

***

It still took over an hour to kill him.

By the time the battle was done, Malika’s punches were so powerful that she was leaving massive craters upon the corrupted ground as her lancing soul magic pierced the wiry wight with the immense force of her blows. Her slow but relentless ramp-up was a sight to behold – and, pretty hard on the hearing too. The impact of her multiple, blurred strikes was like rolling thunder, visibly rattling every creature within a hundred yards of the violent melee clash.

The instant the chimes sounded, Ali slumped to the ground, uncaring of the bubbling sludge and dirt.

Tol’brekk had died halfway through the fight, a victim of spending too much health while under the influence of Ali’s penalty. Keeping him alive that long had taken every scrap of focus she had, and every trick she had learned over the countless fights she had endured. Kir’mogan and the other Bone Champions had also died, a mistake which had almost reversed the fight, but she had spent Arcane Recall to summon him, ensuring they could at least keep Mortal Wounds running.

“You ok?” Calen asked, floating down to land beside her.

“Yes. Just tired,” Ali said.

“I’m glad it’s over,” he said, a flicker of inner pain crossing his face. “Great job.”

“You too,” Ali nodded, and then she turned to examine the glowing words that waited for her in the back of her mind.

Your group has defeated Nendir [The Corrupted] – Wight – level 261 (Nature)Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 217 (+11).+110 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 129 (+5).Arcane Recall has reached level 66 (+5).Barrier has reached level 112 (+6).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 74 (+2).Runic Script has reached level 93.Sage of Learning has reached level 95 (+2).Martial Insight has reached level 129 (+4).Empowered Summoner has reached level 111 (+6).Minion Teleport has reached level 73 (+3).Identify has reached level 48 (+2).Inspiration has reached level 40 (+4).Variant: Anarchic Atrocity added to Imprint: Elemental.

“Oh, that’s a lot of levels!” Ali exclaimed.

“Third-tier champion,” Calen supplied. “Our lower-level friends must be enjoying this.”

She glanced about briefly, distracted from reviewing her own monstrous growth. Despite defeating the boss with an oversized raid, Nendir had been in the third tier, and substantially higher-level than everyone besides Lyeneru herself. That meant a lot of growth for the entire group – and the ripple of weary joy, of voices exclaiming and comparing notes was a delight to her ear.

She smiled to herself. We needed this – and we’ll need a lot more, that’s for sure. Did she dare think about her own future tier-up. No. Don’t get greedy.

Ali carefully studied her skill advancements, still experiencing some form of shock at the magnitude, despite Calen’s observation. While she directed her domain to consume what it could, she carefully distributed her attribute points. For the attributes she considered secondary to her primary class functions, she decided on skipping strength entirely, and instead spent four points each on dexterity and endurance, finding both to be worth more to her. A full ten points went into vitality, given the challenges the healers experienced on the odd occasion she had been encased in those crystal shards. Then she spent thirty-seven points on intelligence, thirty on wisdom, and twenty-five on perception, boosting her main skills as much as she could.

That should last for a bit, she decided, and got to her feet, moving over to the corpse where Coria, Lyeneru, and Calen stood, holding a silent, teary vigil with several of the other Pathfinders.

Nendir had been well-liked and widely respected, more so in the Elven communities. They had mourned him when he had died the first time, but Ali gave them all the time they needed because they had been forced to slay him again, and this time by their own hands. It was incredibly hard to face the animated undead form of a dead loved one – she had learned that at the cost of her own, deeply personal agony.

Eventually, Lyeneru sighed. She wiped her face in an uncharacteristic display of emotion and said, “Go ahead, Aliandra. Do us the mercy of disposing of this abomination that masquerades as Nendir.”

Ali nodded and touched the cold corpse, pushing her magic into it and rendering it into its component mana. Leather armor of extraordinary quality dropped to the ground as the body within evaporated, along with the bow, finally released from his gaunt, clawed hand. The heavy purple crystal that had impaled him through the center of his chest landed with the sound of a high-pitched glass chime.

In concert, Ali’s notification chimed, and Sage of Learning gobbled up enough mana to make an ordinary mage faint. Oh? What’s this?

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Mass Summoning (Anarchic Atrocity).Domain Magic analyzed: Deadshot.Domain Magic analyzed: Corrupted Crystallization.Domain Magic analyzed: Annihilation Arrow Storm.DeadshotRequirements: A single-target ranged attack with a bow.Source: Nendir, The Corrupted.Greatly enhance the power and range of the chosen attack skill. If the attack has a projectile speed, that speed is similarly increased. Recharge: 30 seconds.Skill – Domain MagicCorrupted CrystallizationRequirements: A single-target ranged attack with a bow. Arcane and Death affinities.Source: Nendir, The Corrupted.Apply the Arcane Crystallization domain curse on hit. Recharge: 30 seconds.  Skill – Domain MagicAnnihilation Arrow StormRequirements: Raid-level enhancement or higher. This ability must be delivered by a bow.Source: Nendir, The Corrupted.Fire a storm of endless arrows in a cone of 90 to 360 degrees in front of you. Storm lasts thirty seconds and can be empowered by any normal bow support skills. Recharge: 5 minutes.  Skill – Domain Magic

Like a fresh breeze sweeping in through newly opened windows, the silence was broken by the murmurs of guild members beginning to discuss the extraordinary gear drops, but Ali focused instead on the new Domain Magic skills she had just acquired. Deadshot was straightforward – a power infusion suitable for any assassin-style archer. A specialized attack constrained to a bow, and therefore likely quite a lot stronger than Overpowering Strike. It would be an easy upgrade for her archer bosses defending the walls of Myrin’s Keep.

Corrupted Crystallization, on the other hand, was highly restrictive and therefore situational. While she technically now had arcane- and death-affinity monsters, none could wield a bow. However, being a domain curse, she would probably need to experiment with Curse Aura and see how it behaved. Likely, the recharge limiter would apply, making it fail to freeze an entire raid. More importantly, from having studied it so closely, she already knew the affinity limitations were inherent to the curse itself, and it would be a challenge to integrate it into her defenses. Still, between herself, Ryn, and Calen, she was sure they could come up with something.

While she struggled to imagine a use for the crazy, corrupted crystallization curse, Annihilation Arrow Storm was an easy fit for any archer boss. It functioned like an Elemental Storm of arrows – one which could be boosted and even focused on a specific area. In the hands of one of her Sylvan Storm archers atop the battlements, this ability should be able to wipe out thousands of lesser undead in a single fell swoop.

Especially if I give them an area damage proc item, she thought. Arcane Blast on hit? It should be easy enough for me or Giddy to make. Although such items were expensive, the monetary cost for a dungeon that could manufacture magicite was an irrelevant concern. Time, knowledge, and the challenges of getting it to work were the real challenges. She glanced over at the gear everyone was studying, wondering if something like that might be present there, but she made no move to go check. With so many competent and deserving archers in the raid, it would be inconsiderate of her to even suggest she might take any of it.

Instead, she glanced at the dark ring on her finger with a frown. It had no doubt been the turning point in the fight, and yet, relying on the Eye of the Lich had left behind a slimy aftertaste that tainted the feeling of victory.

Still. It worked. I need to keep that in mind.

It was rather poignant, watching the withered corpse that had once been Nendir slowly dissolving into glowing sparks of mana and floating away while the remnants of the Pathfinders Guild stood vigil. It had been a hard-won fight against an immensely powerful foe. Logically, he knew it hadn’t even been Nendir, just some animated undead magic that worked on his remains. Still, he had found himself wiping welling tears from his eyes at the sight, and the memories of his teacher it evoked.

Hoping to distract himself a little, he checked the notifications for the fight. It had been insane fighting and defeating a third-tier champion boss, regardless of the circumstances. Without a doubt, if Lyeneru hadn’t reached the third tier and been able to tank him, they would have failed.

Nor would they have succeeded without Ali’s quick thinking and the use of the Lich’s legendary ring they had looted from the depths of the Crypt of Kings. Despite the limitations of her reduced vitality and strength, which had clearly impacted her minions the instant she put it on, she had still somehow made it work.

Impressive, as always. He turned his sight inward to study his gains and felt his eyebrows nearly get tangled up in his hairline. Wow!

Realm Hunter has reached level 209 (+12).+120 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 106 (+5).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 104 (+6).Motes of Light has reached level 80 (+4).Explorer has reached level 116 (+4).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 85 (+3).Eclipse has reached level 57 (+2).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 83 (+4).Righteous Fury has reached level 69 (+4).Azrael's Wings has reached level 56 (+3).Mirage Armor has reached level 85 (+7).Bowcraft has reached level 17.Cartography has reached level 39.Basic Daggers has reached level 14.Arrows of Brilliance has reached a base skill level of 100.Arrows of Brilliance has advanced to tier two.

Yes! Arrows of Brilliance! He smiled, happy to see the giant boost to his class level, and even happier to see his third skill reaching tier two. He hoped Nendir would have been proud of his archery skills – he had certainly learned a lot from his teaching.

When Calen had first studied his ammunition enchantment skill, he had been extremely curious about the number of enchantments because the way it had been described implied it might change eventually, but he had quite quickly relegated it to the back of his mind, given the ridiculousness of the requirement. It had only been when Ali had reached her first skill tier up that his excitement had returned. Of course, when it did, it had returned in a flood. Eager to finally see the number, he opened the description.

Arrows of Brilliance – level 104You may enhance your next shot with up to 3 [1 + skill tier] enhancements.Granted Enhancements: Light Damage, Increased Range, Grappling Shot, Explosive Shot, Armor Piercing, Speed of Light.Light, Physical, Ranged, Dexterity, Intelligence

There it is. Three. It was a tiny change. Just a single number going from two to three. But it would change nearly everything for him. His primary damage rotation would now be Light Damage, Explosive Shot, and Armor Piercing. That was not all – he could also mix in his utility enhancements with far bigger payloads. It would have been fantastic to have instantaneous explosive arrows delivering Grappling Shot to the swarms of summoned arcane elementals that had blotted the sky. Area crowd control on a vast scale with the precision of instantaneous arrow flight.

I can’t wait. But his ruminations were cut short by the normal after-raid administrative chores.

“Ok, listen up,” Vivian announced. “Taking down a tier-three boss is no small feat. So, good work, everyone. You should be proud of this achievement.”

Calen’s Explorer-augmented gaze scanned the raid, eyes widening at the change he saw. Taking down the wight had swept the group with immense level growth, and it was hard to imagine how that would affect their future capabilities.

While Vivian had everyone’s attention, she stepped aside and indicated the gear Malika was examining. “We have a few item drops to distribute. Congratulations to the archers and rogues, there is a full set of incredible damage-focused leather armor.”

Then she reached down and picked up an exquisitely crafted wooden bow. Calen had never seen anything quite like it, save for during the grueling challenge of facing Nendir’s wight.

“First up, though,” Vivian said. “The wight was wielding Nendir’s legendary bow, Lunaré’s Lament. Anybody want to make a case, or nominate someone?”

The bow’s appraisal appeared in Calen’s mind’s eye with a soft chime, and he eagerly looked inward as the entire raid collectively shared a gasp.

