Malika bent backward, the arrow aimed at her throat missing by a hair’s breadth, and then she unleashed the graceful second form, punches that the Nine Paths described as ‘strike like a thousand vipers’. Unfortunately, they seemed to be blind and half-asleep vipers today – the gray-skinned Wight evaded all but two hits, dodging with uncanny speed before suddenly vanishing from sight the instant her left fist connected.

Fade. Ugh.

Invisible or not, Malika could still see him. Or at least, his radiant energy. Filled with so much domain mana and power, he shone like a beacon in her mind – a second sun. She sprinted after him, her feet barely brushing the corrupted ground as she burned stamina to match his sudden surge in speed, and when she finally landed another punch, his invisibility broke, revealing him once again to the entire raid.

He cannot be allowed to combine that Power Shot with Ambush. No. Someone will die.

The tiny trickle of health flowed into her body, leeched from the withered wight’s granite-hard, twisted flesh by her Soul Strike. She had spent several prior attempts learning that Nendir possessed such vast stamina- and mana-leech abilities that a strategy of striking at his resources was as pointless as emptying the ocean with her hands. Not that attacking his health was proving much better – his health had not budged, even under the onslaught of the full raid.

I’ll just be selfish then, shall I? Steal whatever I need. Denial wouldn’t work on him, but with her Relentless aptitude and Second Wind skill taking care of mana and stamina, stealing health was almost always the optimal approach.

She dodged again, but this time, one of the arrows clipped her shoulder. It slammed into her like a boulder flung from a catapult, tossing her into the air like a rag doll.

You have been cursed with Life Tap.You have been cursed with Nature Vulnerability.

A reflexive surge of healing mana pulsed through her, cast automatically by sheer force of habit as she simultaneously arrested her flight with a pulse of stamina fed to Divine Step and released under the soles of her feet. Then, she teleported directly back into the fray, punching the Wight solidly in the back of the head as she reappeared and refreshing her Soul Mark seconds before it expired.

You’re welcome, Calen. A ghost of a grin creased her lips. Calen’s fervent praise for her Soul Mark and the accuracy boon it granted had bordered on religious. Especially when stacked up as high as it was right now.

A sudden, potent vortex of stamina arose within the breast of the powerful undead. It had been some time since Rezan had passed, and Malika had been steadfast in keeping her Infinite Perception activated just as he’d advised. She’d not let it fall even once since, and by now, she knew she would feel blinded without it. That familiar, yet strange prickle of understanding filled her awareness as the long-lost and forgotten eye-magic of her ancestors fed information directly into her mind.

“Crystallize!” she shouted. There were three abilities she needed to call. This one, the Power Shot, and the overwhelming super-attack Lyeneru had identified as Annihilation Arrows.

Malika held back, withholding her Martial Disruption. Crystallize was the easiest of the three to disrupt, but doing so had left the raid with too few hiding spots to avoid the Annihilation Arrow storm. Learning that had cost them two attempts, and she was getting tired of fleeing with her tail between her legs. It’s time we showed the wight what we’re made of.

She fed more stamina to her eyes. When she had first earned her upgraded Relentless aptitude, she had known it was amazing, and yet, it had proved to be far more impressive than even her wildest hopes. It was truly universal. She was currently reserving stamina rather than mana to maintain her Infinite Perception eye magic, and so, when she increased the amount, the clarity and precision of the wight’s dynamic stamina formations sharpened dramatically under her scrutiny. No detail was hidden from her gaze. She might have seen the wight’s attacks frequently enough that she could recognize them in her sleep, but fighting without her perception skill pushed to the limits would feel like crossing an unfamiliar living room in the dark.

Nendir drew back his bow and paused. Stamina rushed through his core, energy sucked in from the domain like a maelstrom and compressed into a dense formation that began to pulse and shine with immense power.

“Power Shot!” Malika shouted. As Lyeneru braced for dismemberment in the air, high above them, Malika flooded her eye magic with every available scrap of stamina. Fresh understanding rippled through the quiet pool of her mind and out into the world around her. As the wight’s formation rushed down the length of his arm toward his bowstring like a river breaking its banks, Malika released a pulse of energy that flashed outward. As her energy collided with Nendir, it pierced his undead flesh and, surprisingly, shredded the dense formation. The cool, dense rush of the boss’s power careened sideways, roiling with sudden chaotic energy and ripping itself apart within him. Malika suddenly found herself dodging a fierce backlash that tore a half dozen giant gouges out of the blackened ground about them.

Well, that’s a first, she thought. She had expected that both the Annihilation Arrows and the Power Shot skills would be uninterruptible – they were domain-enhanced skills, after all – but it seemed that they were ‘merely’ challenging. Boosting her interruption and awareness beyond reason had revealed a new path. She could almost feel Rezan’s wisdom crinkling the corners of his eyes somewhere in the back of her mind. “Interrupted,” she yelled. Surprise during a raid was never a great idea, and the healers were braced for a devastating attack that wouldn’t come.

But it was right on the tail of her fresh success, while she was still grinning, that a new formation suddenly appeared. Something that she had never seen before. “Something new!” she screamed. The powerful wight blurred slightly as if briefly phasing out of reality, and then two of him stepped out from the same spot. Two identical Wights, carrying two identical bows. It was, in a way, reminiscent of her memories of Rezan’s fist splitting multiple ways simultaneously.

Is that a decoy? It can’t be. It’s not insubstantial.

Infinite Perception insisted that this was far more substantial than an illusion technique. Malika unleashed a flurry of blows, landing solid punches on both wights before they separated too far, but even though she landed those hits, neither vanished. Nor was there any difference in their energy that Soul Sight could discern. I can’t tell the difference!

“Clone!” Calen yelled. “Attack the one on the left!”

Then the Wights unleashed a double storm of very real arrows, sending the entire raid fleeing back to Myrin’s Keep immediately. The Annihilation Arrows skill was deadly enough by itself; doubling it was not even worth testing.

Malika stalked out of the Novaspark locus with a frown on her face. Ugh, I guess I know what I should be disrupting now. Stupid fight. How the heck are we even supposed to touch him?

Ugh. This is not working, Ali thought. She had four witch doctors doing nothing but Soul Drain to feed the bottomless mana needs of continuously decursing the entire raid. She had them prioritize removing Life Tap even over the Nature Vulnerability, but even so, Nendir’s health hadn’t budged in the slightest in all the attempts so far. There must be something we’ve overlooked here.

She had brought four Troll Bone Champions, too. None of them were ever able to get close to Nendir himself – the legendary bow of the Night Elf was far too powerful and kept tossing them back over and over, but the trolls had learned to keep their distance, retaliating with an endless exploding storm of thrown axes grown from their own bones, enough that they were able to keep Mortal Wounds up near continuously.

And still, Nendir was outhealing the entire raid.

Sure, she had learned a lot from the fight so far, but if the boss’s health remained at maximum, there could be no victory. At least not for their side.

He must have life leech on that bow, she concluded. That, and the crystallization with its incredible siphon, had to be propping him up. Not to mention, the corruption of the Well of Souls wasn’t helping either. So, where can we break his –

“Hide!” Malika shouted.

Immediately, Ali teleported, sacrificing a Glitter Dragonet that had found one of the massive crystal growths for her while simultaneously coordinating with all her minions to scurry to safety. Most of them made it, with only a few starting so far from cover that she required judiciously placed barrier magic to save them.

Even if we overcome the healing normally, how do we beat this? Out in the open, Nendir stood alone, his bow blazing with power as arrows filled the air as thick as rain. Every time the Annihilation Arrow storm forced them into hiding, Mortal Wounds dropped, and then the siphon from the crystallization curse fed the Wight unchecked.

As the roar of the arrow-storm slowly faded, Ali peeked out from behind her cover and surveyed the battlefield once again. To be more accurate, she used a troll to peek out, not wanting to risk her own face in case she’d misjudged. Her forces were rushing out from cover toward ideal positions. Ice mages assisted the tanks by dropping Frost Nova on the loose Anarchic Atrocities. Tol’brekk tore into the Wight with a new set of immense ice-enchanted axes. Other than her treants, he was her only minion that was immune to the knockback effect of the legendary Lunaré’s Lament. And trees were far too slow to keep up with Nendir.

As she had over and over again over all the grueling attempts, she wondered if she should bring more berserkers. The problem, as always, was healing. It might be worth trying it out. Again. She had lost them quickly last time, but perhaps some of their discoveries had tipped the balance?

Domain mana surged, and Malika shouted in response. “Power Shot!”

Ali threw up a barrier in front of Lyeneru, knowing it would offer only insignificant protection against such a powerful domain-enhanced strike. But as she studied the glittering disk of her barrier, summoned in anticipation of the grounded Nendir’s near-deadly attack impaling the grim-faced Lyeneru flying on blazing wings, an old memory sprang into Ali’s mind.

A memory of desperation, falling down a shaft into the darkness with Mato beside her. Her barriers had been fragile then, and in her panic, she had emptied her entire mana pool to summon successive barriers until she had halted their momentum enough to survive.

It was frustration that now gripped her heart, but even though her magic had grown immensely, so had her opponents. Her barriers felt just as fragile in the face of the onslaught. She didn’t even consider the cost; she simply exhausted her entire spell’s capacity, stacking barrier after barrier in front of Lyeneru. The briefest flicker of surprise crossed the flying Night Elf’s eyes in the instant before the gigantic bolt of energy lanced upward from the ground, crashing into the glittering golden walls like a paladin’s two-handed hammer shattering dinner plates. Splinters of golden magic filled the air, flying in all directions. Ali’s mana pool overflowed instantly, sucking in far more than her maximum, and she hastily grounded the excess into boosting her minions before it overwhelmed her.

But even though every last barrier was shattered and Lyeneru still took the hit, her health only dropped to half, and she kept all her limbs this time. Ali didn’t miss the fierce grin that flashed pearly white teeth through the hazy cloud of golden shards.

Something flickered in the corner of her eye. Something witnessed through the sight of a Priest of Azryet, and it commanded her full attention instantly.

It dropped?

Nendir’s health had dropped by a sliver. A tiny sliver. Yes! It had dipped briefly by the smallest amount and recovered nearly instantly. Did I imagine it? No. It had been enough to notice, she was sure of it.

But why? More importantly, how?

Nothing the entire raid had tried had done so far had moved this undead monster’s health in the slightest, and they had tried everything. It felt like flailing at a mountain with their bare fists. Was it Empowered Summoner just now? She had dumped an unbelievable amount of mana into it, boosting the damage of her minions substantially, even though she had merely been avoiding Mana Saturation.

Ali frowned. But she was patient enough to wait. I need to study this.

“Power Shot!” Malika yelled when Nendir’s recharge finally expired.

Immediately, Ali summoned a several-meter-thick stack of barriers in front of Lyeneru and dumped almost her entire remaining mana pool into Empowered Summoner right as the bolt struck. Mana rushed into her pool, drawn from the enormously powerful attack by her barrier magic, and she fed it relentlessly to her minions as extra power.

And this time, she watched his health with exquisite focus and attention. The eyes of every healer in her minion army were glued to the wight.

There! It dipped. I didn’t imagine it! To her astonishment, his health continued to tick down as her minions unleashed their amplified magical power upon the monstrous third-tier undead. By the time Ali’s excess mana supply faded, she had her answer. Nendir wasn’t immune. Not at all. He was more like Joraa, the first time they had faced the powerful Blood Shaman – his outrageously potent health recovery more than outstripped the raid’s total damage. But she had just discovered precisely how close it really was. With just a little extra damage, they would make progress.

Well, more than just a little. The excitement at her discovery quickly faded as she realized the implications. There were very few ways to consistently boost their damage output by enough to make a difference, and it wasn’t like they hadn’t tried nearly everything already.

Unfortunately, the one thing she hadn’t explored was burning a hole in her storage enchantment. Ali pulled out the Eye of the Lich, frowning at the silvery ring and the way it seemed to eat all the light anywhere near it. If it was damage that she needed, this ring could provide it. She couldn’t afford to be squeamish.

“Sorry,” she muttered in Trollish, glancing a silent apology toward Tol’brekk. Then, she slipped the difficult ring on her finger. All her minions suddenly shrank dramatically, and the frustrated howl from her Carnage Berserker echoed across the battlefield.

“Ali?” Calen called, concern flickering briefly across his features.

