Lunaré’s Lament – level 207Crafted from the heartwood of an ancient Ciradyl tree and tempered in the Well of Souls, this legendary bow is infused with incredibly potent soul and nature magic.Damage: Physical, Ranged, Nature, Soul.+226 Dexterity.+300% to Physical damage.Attacks gain +220% additional damage as Nature.Attacks gain +165% additional damage as Soul.+5% of your damage is returned as Health over 30 seconds.+6% of your damage is returned as Mana over 30 seconds.Knockback.Arrows fork twice.+54% to Attack Speed.Requirements: Dexterity 2175, Intelligence 1242, Strength 165.Quality: Legendary, Unique.Two-Handed – Bow – Ciradyl Wood

“I nominate Coria,” Calen said without hesitation. “It’s her father’s bow.”

“I cannot use it,” Coria said. Her eyes were still red, but she stood tall and spoke clearly. “I would need quite a few levels before I can equip it. Far better to give it to someone who can use it against the Lich’s undead.”

“Who then?” Calen asked, glancing over to Lyeneru.

“I already have a legendary bow of similar quality and power,” Lyeneru answered. “Not quite as good, but it would be better in the hands of someone else,” she amended, the cadence of her words falling oddly on his ears. What was she saying?

Suddenly, Calen got the feeling of being the focus of all the attention, like he was standing in the spotlight everyone else could see. “What?”

“You should use it, Calen,” Lyeneru said.

“I can’t take it over Coria,” he insisted. “That wouldn’t be fair to her or to Nendir’s memory.”

“I agree with Lyeneru,” Coria interrupted, glaring at him like he was a misbehaving child and waving in the direction of the corrupted Well and Nathaniel Sunstrider’s wraith. “Someone must wield his bow against the betrayer, and nobody else is high enough level. It must be you. Besides, Nendir really liked you; he would have approved.”

“But…” he said, but he found he had no real argument. Logically, it made sense. Still, it did not sit right with him somehow.

“If you still feel that way, you can gift it to Coria when she reaches a high enough level,” Lyeneru said. “That way, the bow goes to her eventually, but you can use it to defeat the rest of this dungeon and help the rest of the raid in the meantime – not to use it would be a complete waste by any measure.”

“Ok,” Calen said, finally caving to what seemed to be a united front and accepting Lyeneru’s compromise. At least this way, Coria would eventually have her father’s bow.

He took it, feeling the heft, and testing the draw. It was by far the most incredible bow he had ever held. The delicate white wood was flawless, and the tracery of intricate, glowing runes thrummed with a sense of unreal power, just waiting to be unleashed. A double-leech bow with two powerful elements and a frankly ridiculous amount of physical damage. It had the devastating knockback enchantment that had so crippled their raid’s melee. And he had to admit he was incredibly eager to figure out how the bow’s Fork enchantment interacted with his own Spirit Arrows. Even his most conservative imaginings suggested the effect would be ridiculous.

I should replace my bracer, he thought. With stamina leech on his boots, and health and mana on his bow, he had no need for a low-level leech bracer anymore. Maybe I could get a skill boost for that slot? Either way, he needed to pay a visit to Zor’kan.

“Congratulations, Calen,” Vivian said. “Ok, next up is this leather armor set.”

“Whoever wins that should wash it before they put it on,” Devan said, and despite himself and the prevailing mood, Calen couldn’t help snorting. And like kicking out the wedge holding up the foundation, the group’s natural levity returned like an avalanche of chuckles and progressively more irreverent joking.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
