“I should have said ‘suspicion.’ The only people with the Custom Namecard Trait are people who have something to hide. You’ll draw attention from shady organizations who will basically stalk you for answers.”

“Ah, that kind of attention,” I say.

I know that attention. I don’t like it at all.

“I’d recommend using your Class. You don’t have to use a Title, but if you have anything impressive, it would be good.”

“Before you look, you only have one applicable Title: Taker of Names I. Second Lifer and Named are obviously dangerous, and System Breaker might cause awkward questions, since you can’t explain how you broke the System without revealing your status as a monster.”

Okay. So do I just use my Class and Taker of Names then?

“Yes, it sounds like that would be ideal.”

I change my Namecard and look back at Lauren.

“Better?”

“No, actually, that’s worse,” says Lauren with a grimace. “Vivitect is a banned Class. And you don’t have a Profession…”

“Is Mana Vivitect allowed?”

“Yes, that’s fine, but you might get some raised eyebrows, since it’s very close to a regular Vivitect. It’s still legal though.”

I switch my Class to “Capable Mana Vivitect,” one of the other options that I passed up on.

“Much better,” says Lauren.

“Are you not bothered that I have a banned Class?”

“I think that banned Classes are dumb,” she replies grumpily. “I had to take a worse Class at my last upgrade because the better one I was offered led to only banned paths. If I had the Custom Namecard Trait though, I would have taken it in a heartbeat. And Vivitect is one of the more innocent banned Classes. As long as you’re not like a serial killer or something, I don’t care. I’m actually kinda jealous.”

“Well, I am pretty special.”

“Yes, I can see that. Well, now that that’s settled, let’s head out. To Riverfork!”

“To Riverfork!” I echo. “Hey, by the way, do you know any restaurants where I can get scallops?”

“Scallops?” she asks. “Yes. There’s a restaurant in Riverfork that I like that gets them regularly imported. They’re delicious.”

“Will you take me there?”

“If you want, but they’re pricey, so I’m not paying for you.”

“I’ll pay with my reward money!”

“Sounds like a deal then.”

“Hooray!”

As we walk out of the small town, I have a bit of pep in my step. Scallops are on the horizon, and the only thing keeping me from them is distance. I can’t wait to get to the city. It’s gonna be so good!
