Her maestro looked up, impressed, but also curious. “Is this because of Lucia… I mean, Richards’ Estate?”

“Maybe,” Eppie replied without an ounce of certainty. Indeed, she would also like to find out exactly how the song fitted into this whole Richards kerfuffle.

She left the Suites past six, sent home via a Sony chauffeur. Her [Causality] was still short of what the play alone would cost her, never mind whatever William may take out of her after.

Mueller promised that at least one version of Better would go official in forty-eight hours. Sony really wanted to capitalise on its growing virality, and Davis was already chomping at the bit to release something, anything, to supplant the Valorie videos that kept cropping up everywhere.

As for why, Eppie could guess.

Universal, Mueller had told her—had the gall to suggest that the ownership of the song should be shared…

On Tuesday, five days from D-Day, Susan Carr walked Eppie to the Old Music Building to peruse VP Thomas’ hand-picked shortlist.

An hour in, Eppie’s mood soured.

The music ensemble groups wanted something more specific than the artists—they wanted her to be the difference between a demo that got heard and one that got filed into recycling. When Eppie earnestly revealed that she had no real advice to give because she truly wasn't a part of the industry, her Seniors' smiles no longer reached their eyes.

Eppie, with all the cynicism of Lana’s decades of experience, read their faces like Tumblr blogs.

She was no longer the “Sony connection”. More like a… “Snobby hussy who got lucky.” Or maybe a “baby doll with a sugar daddy.”

Eppie felt nothing for these people, not even criticism. Jealousy and envy were a natural part of an artist's ego, and there was nothing improper about their true feelings. She was an authentic pretender; her abilities were a matter of [Causality]. Ergo, she had no advice to give, nor could she be a conduit to pass along demo tapes. Nonetheless, if LAPA’s 08 Seniors truly believed that “I could have sold out stadiums if only Euphemia Fontaine passed my demo to her daddy at Sony,” was the difference between Rock and Roll Hall of Legend and mediocrity—then she was glad to be uninvolved.

In the end, she elevated no one and generated scant few blocks of [Causality]. She simply lacked the [Traits] to measure musicology beyond vibes and [Sublime]. She would need, Eppie suspected, significant tutelage under Curon to possess her faux-father's world-famous taste.

Her tours continued, against common sense and courtesy, all the way to Thursday, taking up a little over half of her time.

Nonetheless, Eppie did her best to smile at people and give them dazzling, flawless smiles. She gave out signatures to those who wanted them, actually got to sign a few CDs for In the Pines and Dream a Little singles, and took pictures with her LAPA fan club.

When they were finally done, Susan offered to buy Eppie dinner as thanks.

Eppie allowed it. Out of guilt, she gave a big, thankful hug to her poor Operations Coordinator, hoping to the gods of theatre that this woman would be allowed to keep her job after the shit hit the fan.
