The Crystal Forest was practically silent without [Perfect Hearing]; Erick’s troupe, or, more properly, Teressa’s Troupe, was a wrecking crew of noise compared to the land around them. Boots crunching into sand, the occasional rock getting kicked by someone’s foot. Armor and backpacks making noise as stuff shuffled around.

After ten minutes, Rats broke the not-silence, saying, “I need a direction. Something to walk toward. Please.”

Erick almost laughed, but then he looked to Rats, and with [Scent Tracker], smelled a stab of fear. Erick said, “I would appreciate one as well.”

Rats grinned, briefly.

Teressa pointed southwest as she walked forward, saying, “Vindin is 1500 kilometers that way. Or would you like something closer? If we continue just south, we’ll eventually hit the thousand kilometer ring around the city.” She offered, “We could even visit the city itself to see if their Adventurer’s Guildhouse has more information on wyrm sightings.” She glanced backward to see Poi. “Poi?”

Erick looked back.

Poi shook his head, saying, “We should stay away from the ring, as well. Any known landmarks are not a good idea. There are hunters out here, too.”

“Well that sort of defeats the whole purpose of this outing.” Erick asked, “Are you three going to come with me to Odaali, too? Because I have to go. Reneging my promise to Yetta is not an option.”

“Yup,” Rats said, as Teressa said, “Yeah.”

Poi sighed, then said, “Let’s head for the ring, then. Where’s the obelisk, Teressa?”

Teressa pointed directly south. “Directly south! If we don’t deviate, we’ll hit the obelisk in 10 days, but we should encounter a wyrm in 5. Maybe 6. Maybe tonight! But for sure, we’ll start to see people in four days.”

"Acceptable," Poi said.

Rats sighed out, relaxing. “That’s perfect. We’re heading for the Eastern Obelisk of Vindin. Thank you.”

Erick smiled at Rats, then at the sky.

- - - -

Living in a city where assassins had tried to kill him and monsters regularly attacked had wrapped Erick in an unhealthy amount of paranoia. Spiders had invaded his house, and then began to invade his dreams. At night, he sometimes saw Jane wrapped in a cocoon. Once, he even saw Jane wrapping other people in cocoons.

But out here, the coils of paranoia around Erick’s heart were beginning to loosen.

Sure, they were hunting hard-to-kill horrors, but the air was clear, the skies were bright, and the scent of happiness rolled off of Teressa, and even Poi and Rats to a lesser extent. This was a good outing; Erick was happy for recent decisions. Champion Yetta was probably fighting through Ar’Kendrithyst right now, gunning for Planter, while Erick was out here in the wide open spaces, preparing for her victory, preparing for what came next.

Erick breathed as his legs pumped him forward, a gentle burn already settling into his feet and his thighs, but this was an easy excursion, even if the pace was quick. Erick was much stronger now than he had been back on Earth, even without the 22 Strength or the 28 Vitality rings. He was no orcol, but he was closer to his own ideal than he had been in 15 years. His stomach was flat again; walking to get anywhere in Spur had been good for him. His arms were toned, and his legs looked great.

Paranoia flowed away; Erick was still on high alert, but there were no hidden horrors here. He could see for dozens of kilometers in every direction, he could smell anything coming at them from behind, and everything was sand, or dirt, or crystal agave, or the perfect blue sky.

Walking was rather slow compared to how Erick used to travel—

Erick remembered something he had forgotten, like a bolt from the blue.

Jane’s car!

He laughed.

Rats asked, “What?”

“I’m just remembering the vehicle that came to Veird with Jane and I. It might still be in the Forest west of Spur.” Erick added, “Utterly trashed. Even if it was [Mend]ed all the fluids it would need to run are gone.”

“… A flying vehicle?” Rats asked, hopeful.

Erick laughed again. “Not at all! It was never meant to leave the ground, but it was faster than walking, for sure.”

Rats frowned, grunting out a hum. “Sounds like a wagon.”

Teressa said, “We’re not using a wagon! We have to smell the wind, to feel the sky; the wyrms will come to us, and we must be ready.”

Erick smiled. “Yet another reason to just enjoy the outdoors.”

So they walked.

Erick hitched up his pack, tightening the straps. Teressa had gotten some nice packs; Erick’s pack fit him almost perfectly.

And they walked.

A stone fell into Erick’s shoe. After digging it out, Erick decided that the shoes needed a [Mend]. So they got [Mend]ed.

Erick, Poi, Rats, and Teressa, continued to walk across the brown and orange sands of the Crystal Forest, while a cold wind blew from the north.

- - - -

“Okay.” Rats stopped walking, holding his canteen upside down. Two drops came out; empty. “I’m ready for a refill.”

The group quickly came to a halt, hours after they started the hike.

Teressa declared, “I don’t sense anything around us, not for kilometers and kilometers. It’s safe for rain.”

Erick smiled. “Good.”

Everyone ditched their packs and had a nice stretch, preparing for some sort of ambush or the sudden appearance of monsters as soon as Erick used his magic, which Teressa had stressed was a high possibility.

When everyone was ready, Erick lifted his hands. [Stoneshape] and Aurify worked together to create a large pool, five meters across and two meters deep. A quickly shaped [Weather Ward] not only held above Erick and everyone else, but also extended the ‘bowl’ of the pool another five meters in every direction; it was sure to catch a lot of rain, very fast. Erick blasted out a [Cleanse Aura], clipping across the pool and the whole adventuring party; thick air flowed away—

Teressa hummed.

Erick looked at her. Erick pointed up. “This is going to be a spectacle, and I’d rather not be a smelly adventurer. No offense meant to your hunting style.”

Teressa smiled. She said, “All valid points.”

Erick looked to the sky, activating [Exalted Storm Aura]. Clouds lifted up from the ground, flowing into the blue, turning from white to silver, into a tall, tall thunderhead. Platinum rain fell onto Erick’s spellwork like a hurricane of rain, loud and everywhere, flowing and into the stone pool, like someone had opened up the floodgates to drown the world. The white [Weather Ward] crackled under the weight, but it held; this was only rain. Erick soon cut the spell, but rain still came, slower, and eventually, not at all. Clouds drifted south, on the cold breeze.

With less than 10 seconds of rain, the stone pool had filled with platinum water, to the brim. Some of it was even flowing out, through the [Weather Ward], since it was no longer airborne weather.

Erick asked, “Platinum water, or clear water?”

“This is fine,” Rats said, as he took out his two canteens and began filling them. He splashed water on himself, saying, “Oh~ that’s better~”

“Take down the [Weather Ward] so we can smell the wind,” Teressa said.

Erick dismissed the [Weather Ward] as he used his Handy Aura to grab everyone’s canteens except for Rats’. Poi and Teressa watched the horizons as Erick and Rats filled canteens. Slowly, surely, Teressa and Poi came off of high alert. Everyone drank their fill of platinum water, with stone cups courtesy of Erick.

Soon, it was time to move on.

Erick [Stoneshape]d the pool into sand. The waters inside soaked into the ground. By tomorrow, it would be like any dip in the terrain, but they wouldn’t be around to see that; they were already walking south.

They walked, across sand, past real agaves and mimics pretending to be crystal plants. Erick worked on his HP drain abilities now and then, but not overmuch. What he did work to full, though, was [Force Bolt].

Shining specks of pure white mana coalesced in the air, at Erick’s discretion, to fly off at a spot of ground Erick had picked out as a target. The basic spell made almost no noise except for a tiny hum when it was in the air, and a pap when it hit the dirt.

At 5 mana a pop, the [Force Bolt] looked like it would have taken forever to level, if Erick’s experimentation hadn’t revealed that he could cast them as fast as he could think. A bolt didn’t need to strike a target for Erick to have another one in the air, already cast and firing, following the first. Erick played around with the spell, like he was a gunner at an emplacement, altering every fourth [Force Bolt] into fire, watching as it streamed into whatever patch of dirt he decided needed to die, with little regard for where he was actually aiming. He aimed at the sky, and the bolt hit the designated ground. He aimed at the ground, and the bolt hit the designated patch of sky, to then continue out into the air, fizzling as it got way, way out of range.

He aimed at a glowing bug, and the bolt clipped the glowbug out of the sky… He didn’t expect it to actually hit the bug. Those bugs zipped through the air rather fast. Erick stopped aiming at bugs; even though he had probably killed hundreds of smaller animals in the rest of his spell experimentations, actively aiming for them seemed wrong.

He aimed at a patch of dirt, behind another patch of dirt, but the spell hit the patch of dirt directly in the way. Erick had discovered a limitation of the spell. Apparently, it could curve, but not much. The best results came when he aimed at what he wanted to hit, and nothing else was in the way. He wasn’t willing to practice on any more moving targets, like the glowbug, but that one experiment had revealed that the spell would curve to hit a moving target. But, like the rest of the curving, it probably wasn’t much.

Erick fired off into the sky like a gatling gun of flaming red ordinance, once per Script Second, his spells brightening the coming night—

Erick actually looked at the sky. Purples and golds colored the heavens.

“Oh.” Erick asked, “Should we stop for the night?” as he kept walking.

Teressa looked up as she walked. The sun was at the horizon. She said, “We can stop if you want. Are you done practicing?”

“Mostly.”

Force Bolt X, instant, long range, 5 MP

A bolt of mana unerringly strikes a target for 15 + ½ WIL

“14200 experience goes by pretty fast when you can cast every second, but I gotta say, the progression on this spell is quite tiny.”

Poi said, “It’s because the spell is a basis for many other magics.”

“I guess so.” Erick looked to the sky. “Let’s try this one, then.”

Erick kept walking with the group as he pointed his finger at yet another unimportant patch of dirt. He imagined a rush of shattering magic erupting out of the air in front of his finger, impacting the ground and blasting it away.

[Force Bolt].

[Force Beam].

As the spells came together, Erick instantly realized what was happening in a way he never had before. Erick saw and felt within himself the perfect harmony possible between the two magics as they mingled in the air, like two lines of a poem, working together to create a pristine image of power.

Erick held onto that image, imagining two separate powers cresting at the same time, holding together, each spell amplifying the other.

A bright shot of white light blasted out Erick’s outstretched hand, impacting the ground with a murderous thunk. The ground where the spell hit slowly crumbled downward, about a foot.

Pure Force Beam Bolt, instant, long range, 100 MP

A bolt of pure mana unerringly strikes a target for 250 + 3x WIL

“Ha!” Erick stopped walking, to say, “What the heck!”

Poi asked, “Sir?”

Erick looked up [Force Beam Bolt] in the Script, as the whole group came to a halt.

Force Beam Bolt, instant, long range, 150 MP

A bolt of mana strikes for 150 + WIL

Erick laughed again, as he turned to Poi, and said, “I will keep my secrets, thank you.”

Poi smiled, as Teressa laughed loud, into the growing night.

Rats just said, “Well I’m a healer and I want to know what just happened.”

Erick gladly showed Rats the box for [Pure Force Beam Bolt].

Rats went, “Holy shit.”

Poi read over Rats' shoulder. “How did you do that?”

Teressa simply asked, “Will it help you kill a wyrm?”

“That is a high possibility.” Erick said.

“Good!” Teressa said, “We’re camping here.”

Poi asked again, “How did you do that, though? Mine isn’t that good.”

Erick smiled at the sapphire dragonkin. “So I guess you’re a mage?”

Poi frowned. He sighed. “Something like that.”

Erick just laughed, then said, “There’s a very close resonance between [Force Beam] and [Force Bolt]. Try matching those resonances when you make the spell.”

“… I guess that’s one way to do it.” Poi lost his frown. “Some other day. Not in the middle of a hunt.”

Teressa was already unpacking her massive pack, unloading bedding supplies. She cast a hand through the air, and grey cots appeared. Erick recognized the spell as [Conjure Item].

Teressa said, “What kind of perimeter do you want, Poi?”

“The usual,” Poi said. “I’m on it.”

“I’ll help,” Rats said.

Erick said, “I guess that leaves me with dinner!”

“I will help cook,” Teressa said. “It wouldn’t be a hunt without food on a fire under the open sky.”

Teressa got out the camping equipment; the [Prestidigitation] stove, some pots and some pans. Meats and veggies and spices and all that. Erick [Stoneshape]d a kitchen table from the dirt, and got to work along side Teressa cutting meats and veggies, as Poi and Rats set up a perimeter.

Under Bug, Temperature, and a vast field of Alarm [Ward]s, Erick, Poi, Teressa, and Rats, had steaks and potatoes, as the sky darkened. They talked of tactics, and Erick listened.

Erick took first watch, because Jane had yet to call. When she finally did, they had a nice telepathic conversation about Jane’s first night adventuring in the Crystal Forest with Savral’s adventuring team. Erick described how Poi and Rats had set up the defenses, and Jane declared them good. When that conversation ended, Erick went back to staring out into the star filled night, activating [Scent Tracker], [Perfect Hearing], and [Ultrasight] every so often, keeping his HP high, as he gained levels and efficiency in all three skills.

When it was time to switch shifts, they did.

Morning came, sure enough. Nothing happened all night long.

After packing up the tools of camping, and after a bit of rain to refill the canteens, they were off again, headed south; packs on their backs, sun rising to the left, snow capped mountains far behind to the north, the moons setting to the right, as open country spread out all around them.

They took breaks as needed, bathroom or otherwise.

