Eduard smiled. “Nope.” He added, “Even if you don’t make it how I want it, I think I can eventually manage it on my own.”

Maia punched him in the shoulder. “Don’t be an ass.”

Erick grinned, then turned back toward the Crystal Forest. He spoke:

“A chilling fog rolls 'cross the land

“Stilling those who cannot flee

“Freezing air that does not stand

“but wraps around all those that be

“In this time of [Wintry Sea]."

Erick felt a spike of pain rush through his body, but Poi was there with the rod of [Treat Wounds] again.

Congratulations!

You have created a new Basic Spell. Your spell has been added to your skills for free!

The spell you have created will appear in the Script after a year and a day.

Your spell is the alpha version, and will shift with time and use.

The spell that appears in the Script might be different.

Here is your spell:

Wintry Sea 1, long range, 1 minute per level, 250 MP

A large designated space rapidly loses all heat, dealing <damage> to all inside. Damage from Wintry Sea automatically slows. <Wintry Sea attaches to those most affected by itself, and will switch to another target if the most affected target perishes>.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+2 ability points.

Another interesting choice ~Rozeta

Erick groaned out, “I’m done,” as he handed Eduard his spell, and the air shifted.

Eduard briefly read the spell, smiling wide, as he turned his gaze upon the magics taking form in front of them.

A sharp, glittering, faint blue light, breathy and insubstantial, floated in the air ahead. The air crinkled and cracked. The blackened ground under the blue spell frosted over as moisture in the air coalesced into tiny spikes of ice, atop blackened cinders.

And then the spell moved, rapidly left, across the ground, seizing upon a mimic that had been at least a hundred meters away from the spell. The mimic screamed, shrill. The spell ended before it could do anything but touch the monster. The mimic, enraged and very much alive, abandoned its idea of hiding, charging across the vast distance between itself and the platform—

A radiant red dot shot out of Maia’s hand, impacting through the center of the ten foot tall blue crystal monster, coming out the other side as an engulfing fountain of flames. The mimic was a brief conflagration of whipping blue spikes before it fell to the sand, burning, burning, dead.

Erick got a notification for 5% Participation. He laughed. “What the heck was that?”

“Fire [Force Beam Bolt].” Maia said, “Much too high of a spell for it to ever be subject to [Reflection].”

Erick watched the burning corpse for a long moment. He asked, “Have you guys ever hunted wyrms before?”

“We have. Many times.” Ramizi said, “Our [Familiar]s are still searching for that necromancer, though, so we’re stuck in this downtime. It’s been great for learning how to use all the new foods you’ve made, but not much else.”

Erick smiled. “You three can pick anything out of the garden, you know. I already told Ratchet she could as long as it's for personal use, but all she likes is the lemons.”

Ramizi smiled wide. “I will take you up on that offer!”

Erick asked, “How would you three kill a wyrm?”

“Overwhelming firepower!” Maia grinned, then said, “If you think you’ve hit it enough, you are wrong.”

“I lock the wyrm down with ice magic.” Eduard said, “Then these two boom-happy, magi-tyrants unload on the insane dragon with everything they got. If that doesn’t work, it's usually because the wyrm’s magic protects them somehow, so we all run away and put up a listing with what we know about what we found, so someone else will know what they’re going after. Don’t be afraid to run away.” He asked, “Are you going after wyrms?”

“Yup.” Erick said, “I promised the Champion of Atunir that if she killed Planter, I’d help them clear out Odaali. I’m preparing to keep my promise.”

Maia said, “She executed two merchants who went back on their promises of assistance, so that’s a healthy attitude you have.”

Erick paled. “Really?”

“Oh yeah.” Maia said, “They were merchants from Wellok, across the river from Odaali, and when Yetta helped them clear out their lands, they told her to take a hike. So she killed them and took their lands for herself.”

Ramizi said, “They had it coming.”

Eduard grumbled, “We’re not having this argument again.” He said to Erick, “Thank you, Archmage. The spell is exactly what I want, and in a year, I’m going to buy it.”

Erick said, “Thank you for allowing me access to the spells you have already created.”

Eduard said, “Let us know how your wyrm hunt goes. Don’t be afraid to run away; a higher Participation is not worth your life.” He held out his hands for Maia and Ramizi.

In a blink of cyan, they were gone.

Erick breathed the dry, Forest air in and out, relaxing for a moment. Crafting spells took a toll, but one application of [Treat Wounds] seemed to be more than enough to undo the damage of creating a 250 mana spell.

It was time to go back home, to make some final preparations. But first: Erick felt his link from the parakeet in his pocket to the parakeet out at the farms; mana was still flowing to where it needed to go. Looking to the south west, silver storms rained onto green farms, though the farm itself was much too far away to see without [Scry].

Erick looked over his new spells.

He spent a point on [Perfect Hearing].

Perfect Hearing 1, 10 HP per minute.

Hear clearly.

Exp: 0/100

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 8,454,869,064/10,233,415,500

Class: 6/6

Points: 4

HP

1260/1260

600 per day

MP

2400/2400

12,000 per day

Strength

20

+22

[42]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

40

+0

[40]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

- - - -

Teressa was waiting for Erick and Poi in the kitchen.

She greeted them with a smile. “Thank the gods you're back. I have already prepared everything we could ever want. All we have to do is actually leave. We don’t even have to come back to town for days! Nights under the stars are wonderful.” She offered, “Or you can [Stoneshape] a castle, if you want. Some people do it that way, but we don’t have to.”

She had been busy. Four packs had been prepared; one large and three smaller sized.

Teressa pulled open one of the smaller ones, saying, “I’ve got all the camping tools in mine, but the food has been split rather evenly, and we’re going to be using [Conjure Item] beds and bedding. I’ve got jerky of all kinds, cheese and alcohol and— we’ll have lots of water, anyway. So I just packed the canteens, which we will fill before we actually leave. Breads, jellies and teas, and coftea. Desserts and nuts and berries, you know. Everything we could ever want!”

Erick smiled, and said, “Great! But before we head off... What kind of Stat items do you all want? I can’t believe that I haven’t given you all something.”

Teressa grinned like she was having a double Christmas. She giggled a little, as she forced herself to not dance, and said, “A Strength ring and a Vitality ring.”

“… You can handle that?”

Teressa answered, “Absolutely! It's easier than Strength and Willpower, for sure.”

Now that Erick thought about it, he should make himself a Vitality ring as well, maybe even two; it would increase his Healing Fatigue limit by a lot, and would allow for a lot more uses of his new abilities. And, of course, he couldn’t forget a Willpower Ring in the beginning of the day for a larger [Personal Absorption Ward]. He absolutely needed one of those.

Erick asked Poi, “How about for you?”

Poi said, “Strength ring.” He looked around. “Rats would likely take a Strength ring, too, but I’m not sure.”

“He’s sleeping.” Teressa said, “Trying to get some shut eye in before we depart.”

Erick said, “I still need to pick up the quest—”

Teressa whipped a piece of paper from the larger bag. “Right here!” She pulled out even more papers. “And these are all the known wyrms on file! I know you read up on them, but Rats will want to read about them, too. It cost 15 gold but it’s necessary.”

Erick smiled. Teressa was really into this. Erick said, “Okay... Then… I’ve got most of the proper rings made, but I haven’t made many good Vitality ones, yet. After that, and after Rats wakes, we can go.”

Teressa forced herself to stillness, saying, “Very good, sir.”

Poi added, “Might as well make a few Focus ones, too. Rats might also pick Focus; hard to tell.”

Erick paused. He said, “It occurs to me that I have no idea what any of you can actually do.”

Teressa giggled.

Poi looked from Teressa to Erick, saying, “That’s been on purpose, sir.”

Erick laughed once. “Really?”

“Really, sir,” Poi said.

“Okay?” Erick looked from Teressa to Poi, grinning as he said, “Keep your secrets, then.”

“Thank you, sir.” Poi said. “We will do so.”

- - - -

Erick learned that two +28 Vitality rings forced him to take a detour to an unused bedroom for a hot five minutes. And then again. He had to take one of the rings off.

When he experimented with the Vitality ring and his Strength ring, the combined effect was rather muted compared to his experiments with Strength and Willpower, or two Vitality rings. Wearing Vitality and Strength, together, was actually quite easy, like Teressa suggested. Maybe the resonant differences between Strength-Crimson and Vitality-Cinnabar were complementary, somehow? While the resonances of Strength-Crimson and Willpower-Ultramarine were destructive?

Whatever the case, that would be an experiment for another day.

After wearing Strength and Vitality for several minutes, and feeling good about the experience —but not too good!— Erick decided to wear the Strength and Vitality ones from then on. He was ready to spend HP on his skills as needed. He was ready for wyrm hunting.

- - - -

Erick finished enchanting his rings, but Rats was still asleep. So Erick began reading the Wyrm Report Teressa had bought. It didn’t tell him anything he didn’t already know.

After Rats woke up, Erick wanted to take them all out to a great big, late lunch, but all three of them said that was unnecessary. When Erick responded with the fact that everything in life was unnecessary, Teressa changed her argument.

She wanted to go. To be out in the blue! To walk the sands, and feel the wind!

So they went.

- - - -

The heavens stretched north, east, south, and west; an endless expanse of blue. Crests of grey, white, and pink accented the sky in the east; the moons were rising, while the sun was already on the way to the western horizon. Cold winds blew down from the north, where far, far in the distance, stood the white capped Wyrmridge Mountains; the northern, nigh-impassible barrier of the Crystal Forest. The Forest around here was sparse compared to the Forest around Spur. There were still mimics and crystal agaves, but they stood hundreds of meters away from each other. This was open, cold country.

But everyone was prepared for the chill, and it wasn’t that bad; like a brisk autumn day.

Erick turned on [Ultrasight] for a moment, and looked at the distant agaves. That one was an agave. That one was a mimic.

And they walked south.

Teressa dispensed nuggets of wisdom along the way.

In case of a [Dispel] wyrm, we run. In any other case, we stick to the plan.

If this happens, do that. If that happens, do this.

Teressa said, “Don’t use [Cleanse] while we’re out here. Half of a successful hunt is making yourself a target.”

“… okay.” Erick asked, “Could we make ourselves a target, then? Cut this experience short?”

Teressa rounded on Erick, a wild gleam filling her green eyes. “Do you want to try that?”

“Er… Maybe not.”

Teressa shrugged. She sniffed the air. “I don’t smell any wyrms or carrion, but we’ve only been out here for an hour. We would have to be uncommonly lucky to find a wyrm already.” She sighed out loud, stretching her arms, reaching for the sky, her grey armor creaking under her massive strength, which was even more massive because of the two rings glinting on her hands. “It’s so good to be outside!”

Erick smiled a little. It was good to be outside.

Rats frowned, muttering, “Finding a wyrm is not what I’d call lucky, but okay.”

Erick turned on [Perfect Hearing]. The sounds of the Forest washed over him in a cacophony of life.

Little glow bugs buzz buzzed in the air. Rats breathed beside him, while Poi breathed behind; Teressa crunched through the sand, her heart beating with joy, her grey armor not clanking at all. She had remade her armor for the long hike, and was breathing easy. Rats and Poi had switched out their own usual guard’s armor for hiking leathers that creaked in well used ways. Here and there, but never closer than ten meters, brown tendril worms squirmed out of the ground, catching the bugs that floated too close; crunch crunching them in tiny jaws. An ever-present tinkling in the air was like background rain; it was the sound of wind rushing across crystal agaves.

Erick sniffed the air with [Scent Tracker], and his world opened up.

He didn’t really want to, but he couldn’t help but smell his companions. Rats smelled of cinnamon. Poi was the ocean. Teressa was a dark forest. Erick focused on other scents; the ground was filled with all sorts of life, not quite earthy, not quite sandy, but more like a faint compost pile. Erick lifted his head to experience the wind coming from the north; he smelled frost and trees, a little decay but a lot more growth, with strange musks and the slight smell of flowers.

No. Wait. Erick smelled the air around him. The flowers were closer.

The agave smelled like flowers. It was a pleasant smell, like candy and roses.

Erick smiled as he hiked south across brown sands, under a blue sky, sniffing the air every so often, smelling the flowers and feeling great. He said, “This is nice, Teressa. We were cooped up for too long, weren’t we.”

Teressa turned to glance at him; smiling. She faced forward, saying, “It’ll be nice when we find a wyrm, too.”

Erick asked, “Any particular scents I should look out for? I know about the carrion.”

“That's the only one I know about.” Rats said.

Teressa said, “With the wind at our back, we will smell them coming if they are behind us. But you also need to listen.” Teressa sighed out, into the sky. “Listen to the sky." She stomped her foot. "Feel the stone under your feet. Silence is not safety, but it is a close cousin.”

