Nine white parakeets flying in formation, each with a thousand arms of intent, descended from the sky around the yellow wyrm. The wyrm saw the birds and lunged, catching two in its maw; snapping and cracking its own bones, as it swallowed. Handy Arms ripped into the beast from the outside, but the outer shell of the monster didn’t seem to care. The arms were not strong enough to break or tear, and anything that did manage to come loose quickly regrew.

A billow of blue light flowed out from one of the birds; like an amoeba, the blue light attached to the yellow wyrm, flowing along its length. The wyrm writhed across the sands of the Crystal Forest, but kept chasing after the birds; it ate another one. The blue spell didn’t seem to slow it down at all.

A splash of thick air spilled out of one bird, crashing into the wyrm.

A dense keening filled the air, as liquid began to pour out from the monster; but the monster moved faster, and faster, snapping at one bird, then another, eating two in quick succession, flying— [Blink]ing away from the thick air, away from the blue air. The yellow, thousand-eyed wyrm vanished, and then it reappeared.

Chomp! Chomp!

Two more birds, gone.

A hailstorm of green bullets rained from the remaining two parakeets.

A flash of yellow filled Erick’s [Scry] eye, and his last two parakeets were suddenly not there anymore.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, cross legged on the sand; the last parakeet of the first ten sitting on his knee, soaking up mana for nine birds that were already gone. Erick sighed.

Rats asked, “You didn’t kill it, did you?”

Erick shook his head.

Teressa’s helmet was off. With a tiny frown, she looked concerned.

Poi said, “That is an uncommon wyrm. You must kill it, any way you can.”

“Noted.” Erick said, “Give me a minute.”

- - - -

The sinuous form of the yellow wyrm writhed across the brown sands of the Crystal Forest, gobbling up anything it could reach. Crystal Mimics went screaming and crunching into its maw. True agaves vanished down its throat, tinkling like wind chimes before vanishing forever.

Nine white starlings darted from just above the ground. Half snaking left, half winding right. One staying right there, catching the eye of the monster as it erupted shot after shot of green, burrowing, slicing force. The wyrm crashed against the ground to chase the bird, who hovered just above the land, racing away, distracting the monster from the real danger:

Another bird, on the other side of the monster, glowed as a white sphere surrounded it, and thick air spilled up from the ground.

A different bird called to the sky, and the sky responded with dark clouds, threatening rain, thundering with power.

A caw went up from the flock as lightning struck the yellow beast. Tiny green bolts sunk into its flesh from every direction. Red and white and brown and yellow liquids poured from every broken surface of the writhing, sparking monster.

Yellow eyes began to glow, a thousand individual fires stoked from within.

Bright beams flashed in every direction; a hellscape of Force knives. Four birds died, even with evasive maneuvers. The white orb was broken; the white orb transferred to another bird, still dodging yellow [Force Beam]s. The sky darkened further. Rain began to fall as lightning sung from the sky, tearing across the monster, again and again and again.

Tiny green bolts splashed across the creature’s flesh, aiming for eyes, splattering them, Decaying the eyes and their sockets, preventing regrowth, preventing the beast's counterattacks. Every spot the green light touched, stopped automatically coming back together. A hundred eyes closed forever, and then the full thousand.

Blue light flowed through the rain, latching onto the yellow wyrm, freezing into its body. And then came another blue light, and another, alongside a constant barrage of tiny green lights. Frost formed as lighting tore into the creature, both spells worming inside the insane monster.

Only five birds were left, but they were enough.

The lightning ceased as electrical charges faded, but the white-orb bird held strong, wrapping thick air into the creature, as blue lights were renewed. Fluids froze as they left the wyrm. And slowly, slowly, the wyrm stopped moving. The birds circled like vultures, renewing blue lights, ensuring the power of the Withering Slime remained upon the beast.

When the beast finally slowed to nothing, all twitching gone, only then did the birds get closer.

While the White Orb bird watched, and the blue lights maintained their fascination with the beast, a Handy Aura bird went to work with slicing [Force Beam]s.

First, the wyrm was sliced in half.

Both halves came back together, instantly.

The slicing bird went to the head and sliced that off, pulling away the whole half-rotted skull. The head did not struggle to reconnect to the body. The slicing bird went down the wyrm’s form, slicing chilled sections of meat away from the body and then ripping those sections away before they could reattach.

One slice. Another slice.

Ten slices.

On the twelfth slice, there was a change. A brilliant orb of yellow light reflected the bird’s [Force Beam] right back at it, killing the bird instantly.

Another bird took over, more careful this time.

Careful, careful, slice the orb away, but don’t strike it with the beam.

The second Handy bird gave one more great pull, and the yellow orb came free from the wyrm’s frozen body.

The blue lights instantly shifted to the birds, freezing them out of the sky.

A hundred kilometers away, Erick cursed.

More birds eventually returned to the yellow wyrm, which was now fully falling apart, completely dead. One of the birds picked up the yellow orb, and with a blip of white, both it and the yellow orb disappeared.

- - - -

Erick blinked to return to his body. He was sweating and shaking. Poi was nearby, holding the rod of [Treat Wounds]. Erick waved Poi off; Erick felt drained, like doing a hundred math problems all at once. His mind had been stretched, and only now was he coming back together.

Teressa and Rats stood beside the yellow orb, ten feet away. The yellow wyrm’s yellow grand-rad was massive; at least a meter across, with countless rad-shards poking up from the whole thing, like some giant crystalline kidneystone. Rats poked it; the stone glittered.

Teressa turned to see Erick, smiling as she asked, “Only the one?”

Erick looked over his notifications; he had missed them while [Scry]ing.

“I got a kill notification.”

“Then you killed it!” Teressa laughed, asking, “What’s your Participation?”

“Just… Give me a minute.” Erick breathed, still coming back to himself. “One sec.”

Erick again, looked at his notifications. There were only 8 mimics even with all that stray damage. The goldfish only gave a few thousand experience, at 95% Participation. The big winner here was clearly the wyrm. Erick had leveled, big time, over that monster. He was level 39; now he was much higher.

You have slain Wyrm A!

95% Participaton

+313,037,160,931

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 45, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 41,094,088,475/183,631,190,300

Class: 6/6

Points: 16

HP

1260/1260

1440 per day

MP

1598/2400

12,000 per day

Strength

20

+22

[42]

Vitality

20

+28

[48]

Willpower

40

+0

[40]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

“What if I said it was 95 percent?”

Teressa laughed.

Rats said, “I’d call you a damned liar.”

“I’d say you were marked by the gods,” Poi answered, finally giving Erick something to work with.

Erick quickly threw a hundred mana at the sky, asking, ‘Can I get a fake one of these Participation boxes, for like, 1%?’

His own laughter came back to him, along with the words, ‘This is not the intended use of this ability, but sure.’

Erick said, “1%”, as he showed his fake box to Teressa.

Teressa smiled, to say, “A journey of a thousand kilometers begins with a single step.”

“Unless you buy [Teleport],” Rats added.

"That's a terrible addition to a sacred saying, Rats," Teressa said.

Erick laughed.

Poi just looked at Erick, then nodded, ever so slightly.

“So we’re going to actually go kill a real wyrm, the good way, right?” Teressa said, “Because it’s utter shit that we ran into a [Force Beam] wyrm like that.”

Erick stood up from the sand, a little shaky. “We still have to inspect the rest of the body, right?”

Poi said, “Correct.”

Erick looked to the sky. “Gotta do this, too, though. I think I’m already late.” Erick popped out two parakeets and sent one [Teleport]ing back home. With four hops, and a final [Scry]-assisted placement, Erick started an [Exalted Storm Aura] far, far away. Valok was standing in the middle of the Temple, but at the appearance of the bird and the rain, he got angry for a minute, then visibly relieved. Erick came back to himself. “And now we go back to the dead wyrm.” He held out a hand.

He and Teressa [Teleport]ed to the battlefield; Poi took Rats.

- - - -

The smell was awful; Withering did not kill the wyrm, so there was no automatic [Cleanse]. Erick rectified that problem with several dozen [Cleanse]s, as the four of them got to work. Poi and Erick dug through the monster with [Telekinesis] and Handy Aura, slicing it up with [Force Beam]s as necessary, separating the body into pieces.

All of them searched the slices with [Metalshape] and manually, pulling out coins, armor, and the reason that they were digging through the monster in the first place: guild badges.

Over the course of two hours, seventeen Adventurer’s Guild badges came out of the monster, along with thousands of golds worth of gems, metal, and enchanted items. Erick was able to fix most of the small magical items with [Mend X], but rods and wands only flexed back to wholeness; they would need to be re-enchanted.

When all was said and done, Rats was wiped. Poi was frowning. Teressa was fully silent again, staring at the seventeen Guild badges, each representing a death.

Poi suggested, “Let’s go back to Spur. We can come back out another day and we have too much stuff to continue hunting. We have to turn in the badges, anyway.” He turned to Erick, “All this loot is yours, by kill rights. What would you like to do with it?”

Erick quickly said, “That’s not going to happen. This was a group effort and I only did 1% of the work. What would you normally do in this situation?”

Rats said, “The grand-rad is yours for sure. Get that thing in the bank where they can protect it. We can split the rest later.”

Teressa said, “We should donate the currency and items to The Fund, but Erick can have the grand-rad. I’ve only seen a few that size; they’re rare, even in wyrms.” She added, “I want to go home.”

Erick had heard about The Fund from Jane. Many adventurers and otherwise contributed to it; The Fund helped provide for the families of adventurers who died killing the monsters that threatened everyone.

Erick said, “That’s a great idea. Let’s donate the grand-rad, too.”

Rats said, “No way!”

As Teressa said, “That’s going too far.”

“You should keep it, sir,” said Poi.

Erick looked at the three of them. “I’ll think about it, I guess?”
