“You have good perception and decent range for your level. It’s your draw technique we will need to work on. Angle your elbow a little higher here, and release from here.” He summoned a powerful-looking bow from his storage and demonstrated by firing an arrow through the same target, hitting it dead center. “You will be more accurate with this technique, which will improve your critical hit rate, and you will be able to fire a touch faster, too.”

I think I see. He didn’t say anything, he simply drew his bow doing his best to copy the technique of the master archer.

“A little more like this,” he instructed, and when Calen tried again, he nodded his approval. “Practice that for a few minutes and I will check back on you. If you need a reference before I get back to you, you can copy Coria over there. Her technique is excellent.”

Calen found himself gazing at another striking Wood Elf sighting down the shaft of an arrow nocked to her longbow. He studied her technique as Nendir moved on until she turned and gave him a quick smile. Instantly, he felt his face flush and he quickly busied himself with nocking his own arrow, his dreaded shyness sabotaging him as usual. He was certain Mato would have teased him relentlessly about it if he were here.

I see what he means, though. Her technique was almost a perfect match to the master archer. Her limit seemed to be that she was only level twenty-three, but she clearly had had access to master-level training for a long time.

Calen found the hour passed quickly, and to his surprise, quite enjoyably. Nendir checked up on him regularly, offering pointed and insightful instruction. At first, Calen had thought his technique to be quite good, especially compared to the other students. But by about halfway through the lesson, Calen knew he was barely scratching the surface of the refinement and experience of his new teacher. It was particularly obvious when Nendir took a few shots at the distant targets to demonstrate for the class, his movement smooth and rapid, each shot a masterpiece in Calen’s eyes. Even more impressively, there was no evidence of magic or skills. His shots were executed entirely with whatever passives he had, and Calen could only imagine what he could do when he added his skills.

Nendir finally dismissed the class, but before he could head out, Calen found the teacher striding over to him.

“Calen, stay a moment. Lyeneru asked me to give you some one-on-one instruction. She thinks you’re close to a breakthrough.”

“Ok,” he said. A breakthrough? What kind of breakthrough?

“Can I watch, father?”

Father? Calen turned at the sound of the voice, finding Coria looking expectantly at Nendir.

“It’s a private lesson, Coria, most people prefer them to be, you know, private.”

Her face fell and she turned away.

“I don’t mind,” Calen answered hurriedly, getting a surprised look from Coria.

“My daughter loves archery,” Nendir explained. “She will watch people practice for hours – but only those with decent technique, she must like you.”

Calen caught Coria’s eyes widening and the flush that filled her face at her father’s teasing. For once it was someone else being embarrassed and shy, rather than him. But now he understood why her technique was so good, she had probably been watching her father shoot since she had been born. “Um, so what are we going to work on?”

“Lyeneru wanted me to teach you to shoot faster and see if we can unlock rapid fire or echo.”

“Ok, what should I do?” he asked. Calen had heard of training for specific advances, but he had never found any books explaining how exactly that was done. He did know what rapid fire and echo were though, and they were both excellent upgrades. If there was a chance of either, he would greatly improve his effectiveness with the bow.

“I’m never sure which one will unlock, so we’ll try for both and see if anything happens. First, for Rapid Shot, try holding two arrows in your fingers like this. Nock one and fire, and then quickly switch the second arrow up and shoot it again. You’re looking to get two arrows in the air simultaneously while still hitting the same target with both.”

Calen tried and failed miserably. The challenge of firing accurately while trying to switch another arrow in with enough speed to draw and fire again was substantially more difficult than it had looked when Nendir had demonstrated the trick.

“Use your range enhancement and shoot the distant motes, there’s a better chance of having your arrows in flight simultaneously.”

He tried again. And again. It took him almost twenty minutes to get the hang of it, but even when he did, nothing happened with his skills. Fortunately, neither Nendir nor Coria seemed to mind.

“Ok, now I want you to try enchanting your arrow twice.”

“You mean with range and damage?” he asked, not quite understanding why this was challenging.

“Lyeneru told me you had mastered delaying your skills. I want you to try enhancing the same arrow with damage twice before it hits the target.”

“That works?” Calen had never even considered the idea.

“No, they replace each other, but it’s usually the trick that unlocks Echo. It’s how the mind understands the skill that matters in this case, so what we’re doing is approximating the effect.”

“Aha.” Calen nodded and tried. This one he found to be substantially easier, taking only a few minutes before he got the hang of double enchanting his arrows. But again, nothing changed with his skills, and he was beginning to think he was wasting his and Nendir’s time. Not to mention Coria who still hadn’t glanced away for even an instant.

What could she possibly hope to learn from an amateur like me? he thought bitterly.

“Ok, last try, I want you to nock two arrows simultaneously and shoot two different targets. Like this,” Nendir demonstrated with flawless ease, which probably meant Calen would struggle with it.

Sure enough, the technique was far more challenging than it looked. He could nock two arrows and fire easily enough, but releasing the arrows smoothly was harder than it had any right to be, and more often than not one would just drop to the ground or careen off in a random direction.

“You can angle your bow if you want to hit two horizontally aligned lights,” Nendir suggested.

He persisted, trying to apply Nendir’s constant, patient feedback, until finally, he did it, striking two lights simultaneously.

“Now enchant both shots at the same time,” Nendir said, handing him another quiver of arrows.

Calen’s mind boggled for a moment. Essentially, Nendir was asking him to do the last exercise mixed with the one before.

But when he tried it, he got it on the first shot.

Thanks, Ali, he thought, sending her his mental gratitude. If she hadn’t suggested the technique for delaying his magic, and he hadn’t practiced it relentlessly, this would have been impossible.

“Anything?” Nendir asked curiously.

“No, nothin–”

His chime suddenly sounded. Calen nodded at once. “Let’s see.”

Radiant Archery has reached level 28 (+2).Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Radiant Archery has surpassed level 25.Received master-level archery instruction and practice.Dexterity has surpassed 250.Intelligence has surpassed 190.Radiant Archery gains Rapid Fire.Radiant Archery gains the Haste trait.Radiant Archery – level 28You are proficient with a bow and ranged combat. Stamina: Attack with your bow. Your damage and accuracy are increased by +374% [40 + skill + dexterity]. Stamina: Summon up to 3 [1 + skill / 10] arrows directly from your quiver to your bow firing each of them in rapid sequence at the same target.Physical, Ranged, Haste, DexterityRadiant Archery gains Multishot.Radiant Archery gains the Light trait.Radiant Archery – level 28You are proficient with a bow and ranged combat. Stamina: Attack with your bow. Your damage and accuracy are increased by +374% [40 + skill + dexterity]. Mana: Conjure up to 3 [1 + skill / 10] magical arrows to fire simultaneously at multiple targets. The damage is split among each conjured arrow.Light, Physical, Ranged, DexterityRadiant Archery gains Echo.Radiant Archery gains the Light trait.Radiant Archery – level 28You are proficient with a bow and ranged combat. Stamina: Attack with your bow. Your damage and accuracy are increased by +374% [40 + skill + dexterity]. Mana: Magical enchantments on your arrows are duplicated up to 3 [1 + skill / 10] times. Light, Physical, Ranged, DexterityChoose one advancement.

Calen stared at the stream of glowing notifications as the chimes echoed in his ears.

“Which one did you get?” Nendir asked with a knowing grin on his face.

“Um… all of them? Rapid Fire, Echo, and I also unlocked Multishot,” Calen said, sharing his choices with Nendir, and then seeing Coria’s rapt attention, he shared them with her, too. The problem was he could only choose one.

“Well, look at that,” Nendir said dryly. “Good work.”

“How do I even choose?”

“There are no bad choices in that set. What you’re choosing is a focus for your combat style. Rapid Fire suits high-speed, single-target physical damage. Each shot fired is a separate shot that consumes an arrow and will need to be individually enhanced. That’s both an advantage and a disadvantage. It’s the most common among Pathfinders because it is excellent for boss fights. You will want to focus your investment on dexterity, mainly, and you can do things like loading the first arrow with a Concussion Shot, blowing a hole in your target, and the following arrows can all be pure damage. Proper ammunition management is critical, and you will need a good arrow crafter for the best results.”

“Multishot is a balanced approach, the arrows are conjured, so you don’t need as much ammunition, but you can’t use enchanted physical arrows. It’s a single shot that hits multiple targets, so the base damage is split among the arrows, but you pay for your arrow enchantment once and it is duplicated on every split arrow. Magic enchantments that boost damage aren’t split, so it’s very good if you unlock explosive arrows or something similar because you can clear an entire battlefield with just two or three volleys. It even allows you to Ambush multiple enemies simultaneously if you can find enemies blind to your conjured magic. It’s amazing if you have passive damage on hit enhancements in your party or on your gear, but remember, you must invest heavily in intelligence if you want to effectively track multiple targets simultaneously so it’s best for magical archer types.”

“Echo is situational – you get multiple uses of each enchant on a single hit. For some things like Explosive Shot, it stacks, but it doesn’t stack for Armor Piercing. You also don’t get multiple shots. But for sheer shock value, it’s the king of damage. There’s nothing like Ambushing an enemy with a triple payload of Explosive Shot. You will want to invest heavily in intelligence, and remember it only works for magical enchantments.”

Right, looks like I need this Explosive Shot next. Calen paused to think. He wanted to pick multishot simply because it would be cheaper, but that wasn’t a particularly good reason. Especially given that Ali could make arrows for free. He spent a while working through the options, switching his preference to Echo, and then to Rapid Fire before he finally decided that he simply didn’t know.

“What does Lyeneru use?” It suddenly occurred to him that he would have noticed echo or rapid fire in the battle against the Death Knight, but he didn’t remember seeing anything like it.

“She has multishot,” Nendir confirmed.

“What about you?”

In answer, he turned and fired a fan of twenty glowing green magical bolts from his powerful bow, each punching perfectly through the center of one of the hovering lights.

More than any of the numbers – which came to roughly the same damage in the end – Nendir’s impressive demonstration of his skill and accuracy sold Calen. The fact that he was following Lyeneru’s skills sat quite well with him too.

“I think I’ll get multishot,” he said.

“It’s surprisingly rare, and I am certain you won’t regret the choice,” Nendir said, smiling as he bowed his head very slightly. “Why don’t you give it a try?” Several new motes of green light sprang forth.

Grinning like a kid with a new toy, Calen raised his bow and drew back an empty bowstring. With a touch of mana, three glowing arrows appeared, nocked and ready. He aimed, just like the exercise Nendir had subjected him to and stared in amazement as three streaks of light shot from his bowstring to pierce three floating motes dead-center.

“This is amazing!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
