Finding himself with a little time on his hands while Lyeneru and Nathaniel Sunstrider conferred privately on guild business, Calen surveyed the guild hall. There was a quiet bustle within the halls of the Pathfinder Guild headquarters, with a constant stream of people coming and going. The guild’s jobs and training boards had a cluster of people chatting softly while examining the offerings and the reception desk had a line.

At the far end of the large hall, he found a wide-open archway leading into a brightly lit room with a plain and utilitarian sign hanging over the top:

Guild Store.

He deftly picked his way across the guild hall and stepped into the store. Rows of tables filled the deceptively large shop, laden with all manner of potions, artifacts, scrolls, and small weapons. Hanging from the back wall were dozens of bows and swords, and the entire left-hand side of the shop was filled with racks and mannequins sporting everything from practical leather ranger armor to ballgowns.

A tall woman with long brown hair tied in a tight, intricate braid that hung past her waist and wearing the guild colors approached, speaking a greeting in the lilting sounds of Elvish.

Merchant – Wood Elf – level ??

Even the shopkeeper has reached a higher level than me. Darn!

“Um, hi?” Calen said.

“How can I help you today?” the shopkeeper said, switching smoothly to Common without missing a beat. Her eyes flickered rapidly across his visible gear. Calen could almost see the evaluation and calculation in her practiced gaze.

“So, I was hoping to buy a pair of boots?” Nathaniel Sunstrider hadn’t even commented on his bizarre appearance with one bare foot, but it had stuck out like a sore thumb the entire interview.

“So that’s not a fashion statement, then?” the merchant said, quirking the tiniest hint of a smile on her lips.

“Err, no,” Calen said, surprised that he didn’t find her amusement at his misfortune even slightly embarrassing. Is there some merchant passive increasing her general charisma or agreeableness? It was a possibility, but one that didn’t make him uneasy. “A Death Knight took it.”

“Aah, so you’re the one. Lyeneru’s new protégé, Calen, right?”

“Aah, yes,” he said. Do I have a reputation already?

“You’re very lucky,” she smiled, making him immediately appreciate his new reputation. Lyeneru’s approval clearly – and justly – commanded respect. “She hasn’t taken an apprentice in decades. My name is Niathwen. Come, I have some equipment appropriate for your level over here.” She led him over to the back of the room where the items were considerably less sparkly and more practical.

“You seem like someone who appreciates function over style – what do you think of these?” she suggested, gesturing to a pair of unassuming brown leather boots with the guild’s green worked in as a trim. “Standard-issue boots for the Initiate rank.”

Calen studied them and, to his relief, he saw that the item had been identified and the details placed on a card next to the boots.

Pathfinder Initiate Boots – level 40Simple, but well-crafted brown leather boots with green trim. Standard issue for Pathfinders.+30 Dexterity+24 Strength+10% to Movement SpeedRequirements: Dexterity 140Quality: UncommonFeet – Boots – Leather

“The price is six gold, fifty silver,” Niathwen said.

Calen raised an eyebrow at her. “For an item with three enchantments?” The fact that uncommon-grade items were standard-issue guild items only underscored the Pathfinder Guild’s reputation for excellence.

“Guild discount,” she said, offering a wink to acknowledge his show of incredulity. “Go ahead and try them on, if you like.”

So, he did. The crafter had lined the inside with softer leather making the fit snug and comfortable, and the attributes were fantastic. “I’ll take them,” he said, making his decision in a flash. Malika would probably have an apoplexy, but he had never been good at haggling anyway.

“Excellent choice,” Niathwen said, smoothly ignoring the fact that it was she who had done the choosing. “Is there anything else you need?”

Pacing out a few steps in his new boots, Calen eyed the rest of the store. It was far more extensive than Weldin Thriftpenny’s store in the Adventurers Guild back home. I wonder…

“Can I buy some things for my friends?” The boots were expensive, but he had a little gold now.

“Of course,” she said. “What do they need? Or perhaps you can share their classes?”

“A druid shapeshifter who likes Bear Form, a nature and arcane affinity mage, and a monk,” Calen said, keeping the details light.

“Hmm, all around your level?” she asked.

“Close enough.”

“Unfortunately, the monk and the bear have strong gear restrictions. I don’t have any shapeshifting gear right now – at least, nothing at that level. Maybe check back later for the bear. Monks are not common in the guild, or with Wood Elves in general, but you can’t go wrong with another pair of those boots.”

“Ok,” Calen said. The attributes would fit well with Malika’s class, at least.

“Your mage has unusual affinities, a healer perhaps? A metamagic specialist, or a back-line damage dealer with arcane missiles of some sort?” she frowned delicately.

“No, not exactly,” Calen answered.

“Any obvious drawbacks or weaknesses we can work on?”

“She does have a racial penalty to health, and she’s been very worried about assassins and Ambush in general,” Calen said, deciding not to share that there was a bounty on Ali’s head.

Niathwen raised an eyebrow, “Curious. Well, it’s a little unconventional, but I may have just the thing for her.” She led him to a table and opened a glass display case, indicating a plain wooden ring.

Forest Band of the Perceptive – level 33A light band of white oak, polished to a sheen.+26 Perception+13 VitalityQuality: MagicRing – Wood

“Oh, I think she’ll love this,” Calen said.

“You can have it for three gold and twenty,” Niathwen smiled.

Ok, now I’m broke again, Calen thought. But the items were strong upgrades for him, Ali, and Malika – and with his new guild ring, he could return regularly and maybe find something for Mato, too. “Oh, this might be a long shot, but… do you have any specialized cooking gear?”

Niathwen’s face lit up with a broad grin.

Oh boy. Am I just ridiculously easy to separate from my purse? She’s running rings around me! It did not hurt that she seemed to wholly disregard his half-breed nature. Fine. Just this time, he’d allow himself to be distracted by a pretty Elf even if she was about to make him broke.

***

“I need to get to know you a little better, and understand how you think,” Lyeneru said, regarding Calen across the expanse of the broad wooden table in the center of the meeting room she had coopted for their chat. He had just finished his first two classes, earning a general skill for Skinning, and transformed his Wood Carving skill into a Basic Daggers proficiency.

“Why don’t you tell me about a difficult fight? What was your strategy, what changed during the fight, how did you adapt, and how do you think you might be better prepared in the future?"

Calen considered the question carefully, deciding to map his responses according to the Dungeon Survival Guide she had published in her book. He picked the Twin Wight battle and covered the strategy explanation as he had done for the guild. It was a fight that required teamwork and perception skills, and they had most definitely encountered the unexpected with the twin powerup once the Death Wight had died.

Lyeneru listened carefully as he retold the story, asking only a few sporadic questions to clarify his thought process.

“Good,” she said after he finished. “I suspected as much – you’re fairly well educated on team strategy and monster skills. I think you understand the basics well enough, so I’m going to place you into an advanced strategy workshop with Nendir – he’s a close friend of mine, and exceptionally experienced. Do your best to learn everything he wants to teach.”

“Ok,” Calen said, writing down the name of the Elf in his notebook so that he could scour the training board for anything else he might be teaching.

“But I have something even more important for you. Every time you come to Ciradyl, I want you to sit down and summarize a new fight for me, just like you did here. I want to see you applying what you’ve learned in the classes, and if I’m not here, I want you to write it down and leave it for me at the reception desk.”

Calen nodded. He had expected homework, but Lyeneru was really laying it on. Not that he minded much, he quite enjoyed explaining strategy and figuring out how to do fights better, and even without her request, he probably would have done it anyway for his own sense of completeness.

“I had a long chat with your Guildmaster – Vivian Ross. It’s unfortunate what happened to her, but I really respect what she is trying to build.”

“Something happened to the Guildmaster?”

“The personal details are hers to share, but I’ll just say the threshold into the second tier is not called the Great Wall for nothing. Many classes do not survive the evolution past level one hundred unscathed, and most who experience it give up, driven to despondency by bitterness or despair. She has chosen to pass her experience on to the next generation instead, and for that, she has my full support. In the fight against the dark forces, any skilled combat classes will be crucial to our survival. Regardless of race or kingdom. Her commitment is admirable. She asked me to give a lecture at your guild, but I couldn’t let the Death Knight get away.”

“I… see,” Calen said, stunned by the revelation. It explained so much about Vivian’s actions in the town – why she chose to begin a guild and join the Town Council instead of personally wiping out the criminal element. He had seen her fight before, but only against the Goblin siege. If Lyeneru was right, there was no way she could stand up to someone like Kieran Mori. And if he knew that… and if Ali knew this…

“I want you to do it for me,” Lyeneru said.

“Do what?” He blinked as she interrupted his chain of thoughts.

“Pick the team leaders of the main groups in your guild, and teach them strategy, analysis, and boss mechanics. Everything you think they need to know. Vivian Ross knows a lot and has great instincts, but you will be studying here, and you can share everything you learn. Make them all stronger.”

“Are you sure that’s a good idea? I’m only level forty-three,” he said. He couldn’t quite shake his first experience doing his strategy presentation for the guild. In some senses the disaster still sat with him – the guild had lost many recruits that day.

“Teaching will be essential to your growth,” Lyeneru said. “They can’t all join the Pathfinders Guild, but sharing what you learn will be a small way to leverage the knowledge accumulated here and spread it further. Far too often knowledge is hoarded, and the world is poorer for it.”

“I see, ok, I’ll do my best,” he answered, but he couldn’t keep his worries from his voice.

“Think about it this way,” Lyeneru offered. “What would you tell yourself when you were level five? Anyway, think about it, ok? Now, Nendir’s class on advanced archery is in the grove on the city’s north side in fifteen minutes. Don’t be late.”

Calen sprang to his feet and made for the door. He still wasn’t certain about teaching but knew a whole lot more than when he started – and most of the guild wasn’t much higher than level five either.

***

This must be the place. Calen slowed his flight and spiraled down into a clearing surrounded by trees and landed on the grass near a cluster of waiting Elves, most of whom were carrying bows of various sorts or dressed in forest-colored leather armor.

There were quite a range of levels represented, and they chatted quietly amongst themselves in the musical language of the Elves. He caught a few curious glances, and a couple of disapproving looks, but nobody approached, so he took a spot apart from the group and waited.

A few minutes later, at almost exactly the appointed time, a green-haired Wood Elf landed lightly in the center of the clearing seemingly appearing from nowhere. He addressed the students in Elvish and they all moved over to him. His eyes gazed at Calen for a moment.

Archer – Wood Elf – level ???

Wow, Lyeneru doesn’t skimp on instructors!

“You don’t speak Elvish?” he asked in accented Common.

“No, I’m sorry,” Calen answered. There were noticeably more contemptuous glances at his answer from the other students, and he struggled to follow Lyeneru’s advice and not fall into his usual patterns when facing disapproval, but the powerful Elf standing before him didn’t seem to mind.

“I’m Nendir,” the Wood Elf stated. “I will be your instructor for advanced archery fundamentals. First, I want to see you all shoot.”

Relieved that Nendir had smoothly switched to Common and, resolving to ignore the disapproval from the other Elven students, Calen retrieved his bow from his ring. He gulped as he got a closer look at the fancy or expensive bows some of the others produced.

With a casual wave of his hand, Nendir summoned a score of slowly drifting green lights, spreading them out at various distances – his spell looking remarkably similar to Calen’s own Motes of Light spell, only in green. He then worked his way through the class one at a time, watching each student shoot at the lights before offering some feedback.

I wish I could understand what he’s telling them. It seemed he would be at a bit of a disadvantage in that he couldn’t pick up extra tips from what he told the other students. I really could have done with knowing Elven right around now.

Nendir approached Calen and signaled for him to shoot. He drew smoothly and quickly shot the floating mote.

“Now, this one,” he instructed, waving his hand again, and sending one of the motes zooming off into the forest where he kept it moving around instead of hovering. It was almost two hundred yards away.

He drew, focusing his sight on the target with Eyes of the Archon, ignoring the disorienting rush as his vision telescoped in on the mote. Empowering his arrow with extra range he released it, leading the target by just enough for his arrow to pass through the glowing edges of the mote.

Not quite center, he chided himself, a bit annoyed by the small error while the instructor was watching.

