"If there is one thing you absolutely do not want to receive it is an 'as per my last' communication from a Samurai.These are often framed politely, but they are, in every way, a final warning and a threat."-The Gentleman's Guide: Butlering in the 21st century, 2040***I sat.Delilah moved over to the very fancy coffee machine sitting on their kitchen counter and started to fiddle with it. "Want one?" she asked over her shoulder."Yeah, sure," I said. I wasn't gonna be one of those basic bitches that was all crazy for good coffee, but I could still appreciate it. Soda was still better, of course.Delilah fiddled with the machine while Frannie installed herself as far down the counter from me as she could be. I think my insinuations early annoyed her a little. I had to not poke so much... but it was soooo fun. Like, come on, they were a cute couple of baby lesbians, how could I not?They were very sweet, taking their time and everything. It was my duty as senior lesbian to tease and push their buttons... because it was funny."So, your message mentioned four corps that want to mess with the conclave?" I asked."That's right," Delilah said. She came around and placed a steaming mug in front of me. "All four are relatively minor, but they have links to other, more important conglomerates.""Alright. So we give them the... fuck, what was the name of that company?"One of her eyebrows perked up. "The one we just blew up?""Yeah, them," I said before taking a sip. Hot!"Rama Corp LLC," Delilah said. "And no. They're not interfering. They're asking permission to interfere, which I think is an important distinction.""Weird," I said. "What kind of interference, then?""One wants to cover the event. They're an advertising company and see a lot of value in having sponsored items and ads at the event."I blinked. "Yeah, nah, we can't have that. But I... guess that's not enough of a reason to blow them up.""That's what I figured," Delilah said. "Two of the others are offering security services, and the last is a transportation and logistics company.""Huh," I said, working my jaw. "Okay, we can't really accept any of that, can we? But yeah, it's mostly harmless.""That's why I'm sending you to politely tell them that we'll handle things on our own," she said. "It's not so much that we couldn't use some of those services, it's more that we'd be tarnishing our image somewhat by giving them an inch.""Okay. Do I have to show up in person? This feels like more of a 'strongly worded email' kind of thing."Delilah shrugged. "I tried that. They're insistent.""Ah," I said."Not rude to the point of firebombing, but enough that they didn't take the first 'no.'" She set up the coffee machine to refill a mug, probably for herself. "So now we send you in to remind them that they're vulnerable. Honestly, if you just deliver a copy of the email we sent in person, that'll probably do."I snorted at the mental image of a samurai walking into some CEO's office and slapping down a print of an email on their desk, then pointing at it. "Yeah, I like that," I said. "What about the rest of the list?""I'm assuming you're able to handle Lucy?" Delilah said."Barely," I replied.She stared, then sighed. "Fair enough. I meant more her little organization. As this is growing in complexity, so is their part in all of this.""Yeah, don't worry. Lucy's on it," I said."Good, good. And the media is simple enough. There are several media companies that want to attend the event.""Christ, can't have that," I said."Don't take the lord's name in vain, please," Delilah said.I rolled my eyes. "Yeah, yeah," I said. "Anyway. Can't have that. We're inviting gangsters and mafia-sorts. They won't like their faces on the evening news. If someone puts two and two together and discovers someone because they were at the conclave, then that'd be a big blow to our rep.""And there was a fourth item," Delilah said, looking at me expectantly.I had to think fast to remember. "The Family? I'd think they'd know by now."This narrative has been unlawfully taken from Royal Road. If you see it on Amazon, please report it."And yet we never told them officially, did we?" she asked. It was one of those rhetorical sorts of questions."Fine," I said. "But that'll be the last bit I do. You've loaded my plate up for the day already.""Very well. By the time you're done with all of these items I'll have more for you," she said."Seriously?" I asked.She stared. Then she slowly took a sip from her mug. "Ah... nice and warm. Get to work, Catherine."God, what a bitch. "Fine," I complained before getting up. I took another swallow of her coffee, regretted the lack of sugar or cream in it, then set it down on the counter with a clink. "I'll see you around! Don't interrupt my sleep with all of this shit."I headed out, then up so that I was back home, then I got changed in a hurry, loading up on guns and nades and sliding into my longest, meanest looking coat. It was time to be cool and intimidating and shit, so it was full bounty-huntic chic. Emoscythe would be proud.With that done, I slid on my boots and headed down to my bike. Soon I was racing out of our home and into the overcast sky. "Myalis, two things. Can you point me to the CEO of the nearest of those corps, and... can I have you print stuff for me?"On a piece of paper? Certainly. It'll be one point, seeing as that's the lowest I can charge, but I'll ensure that the paper is top-quality."I'm sure they'll appreciate it," I said. Myalis lit up one of the skyscrapers halfway across the city on my head's up, and I leveled my bike off and gunned it that way.When I arrived, I found a pretty plain looking skyscraper, sandwiched between a half-dozen more and with a few megabuildings nearby. I circled it, confirming that the company name on the side matched what Gomorrah had sent me, then I flew into the nearest parking space and got off, bike still rumbling.I took an elevator up to the topmost floor that the company occupied and stepped out into some high-security lobby. Ah, this was one of the smaller PMC companies, then. They had turrets on the ceiling and guys in heavy armour at the front.They tensed up on seeing me, then more when I connected to their turrets with a look and let Myalis have some fun with them. She turned them around, each one pointing at an employee. "Hello, I'm here for an appointment with your CEO. It's to deliver something," I said.This reedy little secretary sort was fetched, and he came over, twisting his hands like he was about to tell me that my grandma passed away from a complication. "Um, you're not scheduled?""Wild," I said. "Well, it's just to deliver something. One page. That's all.""I'm not sure if--""If you're not sure, then maybe consider becoming sure that you don't want to stop me," I said.Surprisingly, that worked.I walked with a bit of a skip in my step and a sway to my hips as I crossed the floor, moving straight for the biggest, fanciest office. It had a nice view, a nice desk, and a man covered in a nice layer of sweat behind said nice desk. He had three guards in the room."Yo," I said. "Got a paper for... eh, whatever the fuck your name is." I raised my hand, and Myalis helpfully summoned a piece of paper into it.Annnnd it was cut out like a large cat head, the text printed in glowy pink ink. Yeah, I should have figured that she wasn't being contrary enough.I turned the page around, reading the text on it.To [Write the name of the company here, Catherine],Your interest in working with us during the Conclave is noted. We must decline, and request no further proposals. Our role there will be independent, and must remain so. This is not a judgment of your capabilities, but rather a necessary measure to maintain clarity of purpose and the integrity of our obligations.We trust you will understand that in matters such as these, discretion and separation serve all parties best.You will comply in this matter. We are confident no further reminders will be necessary.Respectfully,The Samurai of the 2057 Conclave"Wow, Delilah wrote this? She was feeling polite." I placed the paper in front of the man, and his reaction was everything I wanted and more. "Okay! Well, see ya! Got a few more of these to hand out, you know? Toodles!"***
