Tabitha and I easily dodge in different directions as the undead tries to hit us with its armored fists. I'm about to snicker at how slow it is and how easy this will be when its clumsy punch finally hits the ground, and an explosion of dust happens. There was so much force behind the undead's punch that it created a shockwave, and I could feel the grey stone under my feet tremble from the force of the attack.

“Okay, note to self, don’t get hit,” I dodge back as the skeleton doesn’t pause its attack. In one swift motion, it swings its arm in my direction as if swatting at a fly, and when it passes harmlessly in front of me, another blast of wind slams into my chest, causing me to stagger backward. How was it doing that when it wasn't moving that fast?

I can hear its bones creaking and fracturing under its armor. With every attack, it hurt itself, but as Tabitha warned me, the undead didn't stop no matter what. There was no pattern to its seemingly random strikes, but its sheer tenacity was enough to keep me on my feet.

"Don't ignore me!" Tabitha comes in from the side and plunges her sword through the back of the skeleton's armor, but it doesn't even register her attack.

Again, the undead raises its hands and slams them down toward me. A well-timed Flash Step lets me dodge the attack, but the force the blow generates is enough to throw Tabitha off it. I swing my hammer at the skeleton's exposed side, fracturing its armor and pulverizing many bones, but my attack does about as much as Tabitha's did, which was very little.

I can see why people are so afraid of the undead. Even the strongest beasts flinch when hit, but the massive skeleton keeps attacking regardless of what we do to it. The bones that we break are held in place by the massive amount of death mana it's absorbed, and though we are doing some damage, it hasn’t slowed down even a little.

There's only one thing that will bring this guy down. "Can you distract it while I use my skills?" I shout as I dodge another haymaker attack.

“What do you think I’ve been trying to do,” Tabitha growls in frustration as her sword fails to do much against the skeleton behemoth. If she still had her shield, she might have been able to do tiny blunt-force damage with it, but as it stood, my attacks were doing more damage than hers— However slight the difference was.

"Swap places," I suggest, and I see Tabitha nod her head out of the corner of my eye.

We wait for it to launch another big attack, and when it finally does, the two of us use Flash Step simultaneously and swap positions. The skeleton doesn't even react to the swap, simply continuing to charge forward at the enemy in front of it.

Perfect, now I can activate Soul Devourer safely.

I could've tried activating my skill while dodging the undead, but after it gained so many levels against the soul horrors, I didn't want to risk losing myself to my now more powerful skill.

Triggering Soul Devourer, eight ghostly hands extend from my back. Seven hands were ethereal like they were supposed to be, but the eighth was less ghostly and more like an actual hand. All I had to do was look at the limb, and instantly, the knowledge of how to use it appeared in my head. That wasn't freaky at all, I note sarcastically.

And as I suspected, the urge to absorb Tabitha's soul was as great as the skeleton's, but I was prepared for that. Taking a steadying breath, I clear my mind. This was my skill, and I wouldn't let it control me without a fight.

“Sometime today would be nice,” Tabitha yells, dodging a kick from the rampaging undead.

"I'm ready," I shout, rushing toward my partner. As soon as I'm within range of the skeleton warrior, my new soul arm reaches out for its prize. It could extend farther than the others, but that wasn't its only function. With little prompting from me, the new arm's hand explodes and turns into ten smaller arms that wrap around the skeleton like snakes strangling their prey.

For the first time since we awoke it, the skeleton stopped blindly attacking, turned its skull toward me, and looked straight at me.

Even with my ghostly hands holding it, the undead turns its body and starts marching toward me, completely ignoring Tabitha.

Oh, crap!

My seven other Soul Devourer appendages shoot out and start ripping parts of the skeleton's soul out, but nothing I do stops the hulking monstrosity from barreling straight toward me. It wasn't like stealing experience from the soul horrors. The soul horrors were pure experience, so ripping them apart and absorbing them was easy. The skeleton, on the other hand, was different. The experience was spread out— wrapped around its bones, like muscles or puppet strings.

I barely have time to absorb anything before the skeleton is in front of me again, its hands spread wide like it intended to grab me. A combination of Flash Step and Air Walk has me escaping over it, but the undead didn't know the meaning of the word quit. The skeleton's skull tracks my every movement, turning 180 degrees around like an owl.

I try to hold it in place with Soul Devourer, but that works as well as it did the first time. Tabitha was right behind the skeleton, cutting into it with everything she had, but no matter what she did, she couldn't draw its attention away from me. Nothing could be done to stop this deadly game of cat and mouse I inadvertently started.

The skeleton chases me around the chamber, doing everything possible to catch me. It had no problem trampling the piles of bones scattered everywhere and didn't care when I briefly led it outside the chamber in a stupid attempt to get it to stop following me.

Of course, that wouldn't work; it wasn't an NPC in a video game, after all.

I continued to run for my life, but that wasn't the only thing I was doing. Soul Devourer was struggling to absorb the undead's experience, but it was absorbing it. Gradually, the undead started to slow down, not because it was tired but because I had slowly siphoned off most of its soul.

Eventually, the skeleton's legs give out, no longer having enough experience to support its massive frame. However, even without its legs, the skeleton doesn't give up and tries crawling toward me. I almost feel bad as I rip more from it, making one of its arms fall limply to the side.

"Put it to rest," Tabitha tells me, standing off to the side. She was staring at me; no, that wasn't right, she was staring at my back.

“Can you see my skill?” I ask as my ghostly hands tear apart the skeleton's remaining soul. I was curious if she could see my new type of soul arm.

"No," Tabitha shakes her head. "I can't see anything, but my new skill works with Sense Danger. It's telling me I should avoid you. You aren't losing yourself again, are you?" She asked me skeptically.

“What, no,” I wave off her concerns.

“Then why are you smiling?” Tabitha’s counters.

Bringing my right hand up, I feel at the corners of my mouth. Tabitha was right; I was smiling. I hadn't noticed. Working my jaw, I forcefully change my expression to what it should be: remorse for the fallen.

"That's better," Tabitha notes, but she keeps her distance.

“I’m in control,” I reassure her.

"Good. Do you need to transfer any of it over?" For a second, the evil voice in my head whispered that I should take her soul, too, but I ignored it.

"I think I'm good," I say, reattaching my hammer to my back. "You were right; it was on its last legs. I only got roughly 3.5 million from it, almost nothing compared to the soul horrors. Would you like me to try transferring some of it to you?”

The voice complained about my offer, but it wasn't the only one. A quieter voice was urging me to distribute what I gained. The second voice wasn't as strong as the first and was on the verge of being drowned out, but it was there.

Using sense soul, I trace the origins of the smaller voice and am pleasantly surprised to learn it originated from Experience Transfer. Like my first tier 6 skill, my second one was trying to get me to use it, though in a much less sinister way.

"Aaliyah, are you okay!" I hear Tabitha shout.

“What was that?” I look up in a slight daze.

“I said you should keep the experience,” Tabitha repeats with a frown. “Are you truly, okay?”

"Yeah," I shake my head to clear away the competing voices. "Just something with my skill, nothing to worry about. You sure you don't want any of the experience?"

"Quite," Tabitha firmly rebukes my offer. "I gained plenty for my part in bringing down the skeleton. If you can handle it, you should keep all the experience."

Tabitha leaves it unsaid that I need all I can get to help her against the winged serpent.

Two levels might not be much, but every little bit helps.

Deactivating Soul Devourer, Tabitha finally moves beside me and looks down at the now motionless skeleton. Then, in a rare showing, she sheaths her sword and closes her eyes, her lips moving in silent prayer. I clasp my hands together and follow suit, though my prayer is for the skeleton's long-gone soul. Wherever it may be in the cycle of reincarnation, I hope it was doing well.

I thank the dead warrior for the strength he has given me and promise to use it well.

I suppose I should do something more, but what?

After a few seconds of thinking it over, I get an idea, but I wait for Tabitha to finish her prayer before sharing it with her. "I know it might take some time, but I think we should bury them. It's the least they deserve," I point at what remained of the giant skeleton and the rest of the piles of bones.

Tabitha doesn't outwardly smile at me, but I can see the appreciation in her eyes. "A wonderful idea."

Respect for the dead. Hope for the living. May it help us going forward.
