“Not an old case,” Fausta said, massaging her lower back and pushing the scrolls off the bed, turning to give her back to Iuliana. “Just get it to me,” she said weakly.

Not knowing what else to do, Iuliana obeyed. She placed the heat-enchanted teapot by her mistress’s bed and left the room.

Fausta slowly turned to look at the teapot before checking the room for a sign of anyone else and unfurling a little piece of parchment she had in her palm. The Code of Fulvius was a gigantic set of more minor codes; most were never actually used or applied in the normal course of the law. That was why the less common codes were even hard to come by. But Fausta had found something in one of the more unknown, esoteric codes that made it necessary for her to find the rest.

She brought it by her face and reread it.

Be it hereby decreed that the Trial of Light Champions shall be open only to those bearing rightful claim through blood or recognized adoption, in accordance with the ancient customs established by the Papacy’s founding Families.

The claimant shall prove his Light Affinity exceptional beyond any reproach. Per inheritance laws, female descendants are forbidden from learning any of the Great Light Six Skills first.

Nevertheless, under exceptional provision and in times of dire necessity, female aspirants are hereby permitted to present themselves for the Light Trial, upon meeting the conditions set forth in the succeeding articles.

For further governance on qualifications and procedural necessities, see Book XXIII, Chapter V, Clauses 12 through 16.

* * *

The entire room was silent.

Lily had been immediately dragged to the living room where Adriana and Aurelianus had been talking up until then. The luxurious villa of the Gens Claudia had a gigantic living room capable of accommodating more than fifty seated people. Still, the main marble table, which would have housed ten to fifteen depending on the occasion, was now Lily’s stage.

The little girl was standing on a chair and looking at a piece of cream-colored parchment in front of her. Her mother, by the side, held a knife and looked at her daughter with harsh eyes.

Mother and daughter shared most features, from the golden locks to their deep blue eyes, but they couldn’t have been more at odds at the moment.

“Aurelianus,” Adriana cleared her thoat, “are you sure you don’t want to go home? Don’t you want to see Fausta?”

“No, no!” Aurelianus said, holding Lavinia in his right arm, easily supporting the light weight of her daughter with his massive bicep. “Come on, Adriana, let’s see it! If your daughter really unlocked an Affinity, this would be unprecedented!”

They had all felt the ripple in Mana and seen the aftermath of the damage in Lily’s room, with Lumius, Decima, and Lavinia acting as witnesses.

Adriana sighed.

If she unlocked a Darkness Affinity, this is going to be a problem, the woman thought. She’s not going to be persecuted, but it would make her learning a Light Affinity much harder now.

Adriana snatched her daughter’s hand and, with a small dagger, drew a small cut over her palm. Lily hissed, but her mother simply squeezed and let the drops of blood fall onto the parchment.

The Elemental Chart was an enchanted piece of parchment that could detect which Affinities someone had unlocked. It was used to find out if anyone was messing around with the Darkness Affinity or, worse, the combination of two Darkness Affinities, the Death Affinity.

Lily looked resentfully at her mother even though Adriana, with barely a flicker of her powerful magic, had already healed her daughter.

The two blondes pored over the parchment and the rest of the onlookers, too, hunched over the table.

The parchment shifted for a moment after absorbing the blood like a sponge as if none of the carmine liquid had ever touched it before, returning to its original color.

The Elemental Chart would now present a different color and symbol for each Affinity one had unlocked.

But…

Nothing appeared on it.

Adriana waited a good minute before snatching the Elemental Chart from the table, looking at it closely, then shifting her gaze to Lily with a confused frown.

“Nothing?” Aurelianus asked.

"Nothing," Adriana replied, showing him the chart.

Part of her was relieved that her daughter hadn’t unlocked a Darkness Affinity in a fit of rage, but then…

Adriana looked at the scratches on Flaminia’s arm, Lily’s friend, who was now right beside her. The woman sent a flicker of healing magic around the redhead and then looked back at her own daughter.

If that mess wasn’t from her unlocking an Affinity—which would have already been weird since the reactions are usually way more contained than that—then what was it?
