The ball hit the top right corner of the goal and went in. The audience didn’t cheer; they didn’t’ realize what had happened, many of them, until the dust cleared. When they did shout, Gire was already hurrying towards Inkar.
“There. I scored! Let me see the iPhone!”
She hurried Inkar off. The young woman looked at Gire.
Oh. So that was why. It just…wasn’t fun.
“Have you played soccer before?”
Tkrn gaped at Gire as she ushered them back to the Ekhtouch camp where she could stare at the device. Gire gave the [Guardsman] a frown.
“No.”
“You scored, though!”
“Yes. It’s just kicking a ball into a space. It’s eas—I mean, I’m not interested. And I’m too big to play other games. Tag or hide-and-seek…”
She looked wistful and sad.
“Well, I’ve had more fun at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Ah. Ah.”
Inkar saw Tkrn flicking his eyes back to the pitch where Gnolls still stared after her as another Ekhtouch Gnoll took Gire’s place. He looked at Gire.
“I guess hide and seek is hard for other reasons, but I can see why tag and soccer are no fun.”
“Mhm. They never find me if I hide.”
Tkrn’s mouth worked. He looked up at Gire and at Inkar. The young woman was interested.
“Are there any games you do like, Gire?”
The Gnoll girl thought about it and brightened up.
“I like dances. Learning dances and dancing is fun by itself. And…I appreciate all the activities the [Shamans] and tribes perform, although I’ve been busy meeting with so many Gnolls. I’ve also been playing games of chess with Strategist Venaz. He can beat me.”
She smiled.
“It’s a challenge. Now I want to play the game with the birds!”
 
—-
 
Chief Warrior Merish was not in the mood to play or watch games of football that day. The power of Chieftain Xherw’s touch had left him. He woke feeling a pall over his entire being.
However, the touch had reminded him of what should be. Like someone who had seen light through the clouds after a year of rain—Merish fought to return.
So he visited their [Shamans]. Plain’s Eye might not be a city, but they did understand something about loss. They had healers of their own kind. Rituals for warriors who had lost too much.
The first of such took place before dawn, and Merish had woken up even earlier to ready himself for it. He had not eaten, and when he joined the [Shamans] with a handful of other Gnoll warriors, he was all but naked; he had only underwear on his body.
He recognized some from Rhir. Others were of his tribe, but had seen something terrible in their battles to keep the tribe safe. War or monsters. He saw one Gnoll checking her fur, manically running pawpads through her hair as if…searching for something.
Crelers, he guessed.
The ceremony was simple and designed not to have many visitors, if at all. No fanfare, no grand speeches. It was for them.
There were six [Shamans], two with special classes and markings that indicated they had a specific duty in the Plain’s Eye tribe. They were [Keepers of the Past]—or one might be an apprentice to look at him.
They remembered. The female Gnoll who was old, shrunken by age, gestured. Her eyes were deep, as if you could see past lives and names floating within. Like one of Rhir’s libraries, Merish thought. Deep, holding secrets.
He shivered, but then she spoke.
“Brave warriors. Come forwards one at a time. You have suffered. You have lost. Plain’s Eye Gnolls have died, other Gnolls have fallen and you lived through terrible sights that no one should see. Disaster. Crelers. War.”
Her eyes lingered on individual Gnolls and they shuddered as memories returned at a single word. Yet here—in this place, Merish embraced the pain. He had to. For the [Keeper of the Past] was speaking.
“Do not shy away from it. Later, you will be given draughts to forget and ease your mind. Later, rest. Here, in this place, speak to me, speak to us. Tell me their names. Do so, and I swear to you all—so long as Plain’s Eye endures, they will not be forgotten.”
The Gnolls looked up. In the [Shaman]’s eyes lay a promise. Something greater than their individual lives. Something…eternal.
They will not be forgotten. Leave their names with me and rest.
So, they did. One by one, the warriors approached. They stood in front of the [Shaman] and whispered or shouted. Names, events. Some ranted and raved; others broke down.
Merish did not hear. He was recalling them. Perhaps the Gnolls in front of him spoke the same names—they too were from Rhir. It did not matter. He would speak the names that he knew. Let her remember them twice.
“Warrior Merish.”
The [Keeper of the Pasts] bade him approach. The [Shamans] were swaying, a hum rising from their throats. Merish saw some of them had their eyes closed. Their fur’s markings were glowing. He realized magic was at play here.
The keeper’s eyes were growing deeper. More than mere memory was committing these deeds to the past. He was glad of that.
“Name what you will. Our enemies. What passed. Who you have lost. Speak their names, great warrior, and let them be remembered so long as tribe and time endure.”
She told him, not unkindly. Merish nodded. His head rose. Then he hesitated.
Can I let you go? It felt almost as if he were giving over his burden.
No, he decided. No, it was not. It was honoring them. He could not forget. Perhaps, though—he would not feel as guilty after this. So he nodded, and began to recite the list that had played in his head every night. Faces. The way they spoke and laughed and died.
“Commander Cirille of Manus. Commander Uxel of the Stone Gaze Company. Delezza, Demon Hunter of Noelictus. Ser Vorn of Ailendamus. Lacten of Pomle…”
The [Shamans] began to stir as the first of their names registered. The humming faltered. One of them, the apprentice, broke in, unexpectedly. He growled.
“These are not Gnoll names, Chief Warrior Merish.”
Merish faltered. The [Keeper of the Pasts] looked at her junior with undisguised anger. Yet she waited for Merish.
“I have many names, our warriors and other tribe’s that were sent to Rhir, [Shaman]. These are among the many names I choose to remember, Gnolls and non-Gnolls alike. Is that not permissible?”
The apprentice hesitated, and then met the [Keeper of the Past]’s gaze. He lowered his head instantly.
“…Of course.”
He was young. The [Keeper of the Past] had issued no complaint, nor had her gaze wavered. Merish recited names until his voice was hoarse, and after another promise that it was done and remembered, the gathering broke up.
That was not important. Merish did not know if he felt lighter, but there was some reassurance in the act. What was…interesting…was that the [Keeper of the Past] sought him out afterwards.
“My apprentice, he interrupted your moment, Chief Warrior. For that you have my greatest apologies.”
“Perhaps I erred, [Keeper]. So many non-Gnoll names…”
He ducked his head. The old Gnoll fixed him with a steely gaze.
“Are they less worthy than the Gnolls who died, Chief Warrior? No, do not answer. You and I know the answer, both. My apprentice is simply…new. He would remember only Gnoll names. It is a recent point of view in the tribe, among some clans. If we remember only Gnoll names—history becomes strange indeed.”
She snorted and Merish almost smiled. He hesitated, though.
“New, [Keeper]? I do not recall any whispers of a change in how we performed this ceremony before.”
Not that he had attended one before. The [Keeper of the Pasts] visibly hesitated then, and the eldest of Gnolls in the Plain’s Eye Tribe looked at Merish and her face grew sad.
“…I misspeak, Chief Warrior. Recent, new—they are terms that change as I grow. I simply mean past my generation. It has been this way for a while. Never mind. The past lies with me and the tribe. It will never be undone. They will be remembered. I promise you.”
He nodded. The [Keeper of the Pasts] let him nod. He looked after her. Then wondered.
 
—-
 
“How old is the [Keeper of the Pasts]? You mean Honored Celinthe? Why? Did she get hurt or stumble?”
Khaze was worried over breakfast, later. Merish shook his head.
“No. I am simply curious.”
“I don’t…know.”
If it was odd Khaze did not, well, counting ages didn’t matter as much after you’d reached your majority in the tribes. Merish nodded and gulped down a hot bowl of Herthee mixed with meats—someone had decided it was good, much to his displeasure.
“Merish, they’re going to play a huge football game! I’m watching with the kids, you want to come?”
“I will pass, Viri.”
Merish was better, not up for that. Viri was understanding—part of Merish wished he had been allowed at the gathering, but the games and distractions were another kind of balm for the Lizardman. He had told Merish he didn’t want to go home to Baleros. That would remind him of his missing comrades.
So, after breakfast, Merish went to find Yelroan. The [Mathematician] was in his tent as usual, and Merish poked his head in, took one look at the yawning Gnoll, and came back with some tea and meat biscuits from a nearby campfire.
“Merish! My great friend! Food? Will you be my partner? I need someone like you.”
Merish swatted at Yelroan as the Gnoll sought to embrace him. The slighter Gnoll scarfed down the food; he was working hard on a ledger.
“Thank you, Merish. How can I help you?”
He grinned as he kept working. Merish hesitated.
“I don’t want to disturb you. I was just checking in…”
“You have something you want. Don’t be shy—everyone who comes here does. I like that. They do come to me!”
Yelroan chuckled as his fingers waggled, then he frowned.
“[Check Sum]. Aha! So that’s—stupid. Why do numbers have to look alike?”
He found the issue that had apparently been fouling up a ledger of incomes and grumpily corrected it. Which of course meant every number after that was off…which he’d already deduced. Yelroan blew on the paper, folded the ledger, and rang a little bell.
“Scribe Yelroan?”
A Gnoll girl raced into the tent, stopping when she saw Merish. Yelroan chucked the book at her, unperturbed by the visitor he had.
“Run this down to Crab clan.”
He meant Nebrecrab’s clan, one of the coastal parts of the Meeting of Tribes. Yelroan pointed at it.
“That’s where the missing gold is. All one thousand and eight pieces.”
The Gnoll girl tucked it under her arm respectfully.
“The [Chieftain] asked me about that. But where’s the gold, Yelroan?”
“In the ledger. You mean, physically? In someone’s pockets! But there’s the gold and it’s not my problem. Shoo!”
She went. Yelroan sat back, folding his paws behind his head. Then he looked at Merish.
“So, what’s the task, friend Merish?”
“I could be just here to pay you another social call as a friend.”
Merish tried to defend himself, a bit guiltily. He looked around, coughed, embarrassed, and did his best.
“So…is the money good with the Plain’s Eye Tribe?”
Yelroan stared at him, snorted, and then rolled his eyes.
“Yes, the money is ‘good’. Would you like to compare our wild Sage’s Grass harvests incomes to that annoying [Farmer] around Liscor and see how much of a depreciation we’ve suffered over the last six years?”
“Um. No. Sorry.”
Yelroan flicked his quill and promptly sent it soaring across the room. He went after it, grumbling.
“So?”
“Just a question. How old is our [Keeper of the Past]?”
Yelroan glanced up, eyes glinting. He didn’t ask the obvious, but instead just answered the question.
“One hundred and two.”
“Over a century?”
That was surprising. Gnolls didn’t live that long, although Merish had heard of some who got nearly a century and a half by virtue of their class, good living, and so on. Still—it was surprising.
“Why?”
“Just something she said. It…never mind. I wouldn’t want to start rumors.”
“I don’t gossip! I would if there were anyone to gossip with—fine, keep your secrets. Oh, you should know that some of your friends were looking for you. There’s a group of Shatterstrike [Warriors] who poked their heads in.”
“I might see them. Thank you, Yelroan. I could stay…?”
His friend waved him off.
“I’m working and believe me, it’s not fun to watch. Or do. This is boring math; figuring out why Gnolls can’t add.”
 
—-
 
Merish found the Shatterstrike warriors—a subset of the Plain’s Eye Tribe—and recognized some old friends and subordinates at once.
The way it worked was that each clan had their individual warriors, and Merish had been one of them until he worked his way up and left for Rhir. However, Plain’s Eye as a whole had their own warriors and people, which they could send to a clan that needed help.
Merish had spent time in both camps, and the Gnolls who made up the front-line of many battles with their tribe greeted him with claps on the back, sniffing him, patting his shoulders.
“Merish! Here comes our hero from Rhir, eh? The others who left were moaning they couldn’t ask you for advice.”
“What was the Death of Magic like? Can you talk of it—ah, the [Shaman] told me to shut up but I forgot—”
“Will you be leading one of our groups? Or acting as [Chief Warrior] to a particular clan?”
Merish bore the greetings well, all things considered. His mind flashed to Rhir, but the morning’s ritual had helped. He brushed off paws, growling.
“Let me speak! Are you all cubs or [Warriors]? Scopikl, it’s good to see you. Where’s Emrhi?”
“Outhouse. And keep away from her—she ate something she shouldn’t have.”
The others laughed. Merish fell into their company with ease, and soon they were marching towards the nearest tent serving free drinks. Plain’s Eye [Warriors] got them free, at least—the [Kegmaster] took one look at their markings and especially Merish’s [Shamanic Warrior] ones and served them up some cheap ale.
“No Velrusk for Merish?”
One of them demanded. Merish cuffed her on the back of the head.
“Stop that. Ale is fine. Our thanks.”
Drink, eat, and swap stories. Now that felt familiar, at least. Merish stood with them in the middle of the festivities, chatting, then walked around the Plain’s Eye camp, and caught up on what he’d missed.
…Not a lot. Oh, it was the same old as he’d always known. The Gnolls told him who had retired, gotten too hurt, switched classes, married into another tribe or just married, interesting gossip and funny accidents, and battles won or lost.
It was only after an hour and a second round of drinks they got into who had died. Bad stories, rumors, mirrors of Merish’s trauma, but lighter. He told them a bit too, and they listened in somber silence to his tales of the Death of Magic.
“A terrible thing, Merish. I am sorry I was so flippant. It was wrong of me, no.”
