“Dead gods and fur lice! The Corusdeer herd! That buck’s coming right after us! I thought we distracted it!”
“Don’t talk, move! They’ll char us to bits, go, go!”
Suddenly, the Gnolls were moving! They were running, debating dropping the two deer they’d killed as the angry Corusdeer herd sought vengeance for the [Hunters]’ attack. They fled, climbing higher where the Corusdeer couldn’t follow.
Distracted. Mrsha stared. That…that couldn’t be a coincidence! It was beyond any credibility.
Nor was it a Skill. Wanderer had opened his eyes and he looked relieved.
“We’ll move while they’re distracted. I’ll use a stealth-Skill. I’ll carry you.”
He gestured. Mrsha looked at him, then back towards the [Hunters]. She put it together in one moment.
He had used his power? Wanderer saw her look. At his fur. He nodded slowly, meeting her eyes.
“I told you we had power. This is it.”
Mrsha looked at him. Then her little face fell. Her eyes turned bleak and guilty.
Doom.
A paw touched her shoulder. Wanderer shook his head, as if he could read her thoughts.
“Not doom. Luck.”
Mrsha blinked. Then—he scooped her up and they ran. Her eyes were round. She looked back.
Luck? Luck? What were they?
Rabbits?
 
—-
 
Mrsha’s pursuers were far distant, even the ones who had started first.
An entire day of marching—or in Octavia’s case, riding along the wagon, brought them nearly past the Bloodfields in one go.
Dismayingly slow compared to that strange white Gnoll, Snapjaw reported. She landed, looking frustrated as Icecube gulped down a bucket of water from a bag of holding.
It still awed Octavia, and probably a lot of their companions, that a Frost Wyvern was flying in their company. City Runner, [Alchemist], and Frost Wyvern. One of these things did not fit in.
The difference in levels and abilities also became more apparent as Snapjaw leaned over to talk with the Hobs and Bird. Sergeant Gna listened in, as did Fierre; the rest stretched or took the moment to break and tend to the horses.
“Stupid Gnoll tracks. Hard to follow. Looks like every fifty feet…then less. Gets tired, but too fast. Like fast-fast death runners.”
She indicated the road ahead, then pointed at Fals and Garia. They looked up.
“Even Hawk takes a week to get from Liscor to Pallass! How is one Gnoll better?”
Fierre frowned, checking her burnt skin despite her layers of protection.
“My guess is he’s not. Movement Skills, stamina potions explain half of it, but remember he’s got a road. Hawk used to make this run without this new road, and his was a benchmark for the Runner’s Guild.”
“Oh, he was that good?”
Octavia saw Sergeant Gna raise her brows, unaware that Liscor’s Courier was the hero of Runners everywhere. Fierre shook her head.
“Benchmark. He was…sort of average. It’s not like the fastest he can do.”
“Oh.”
Fals frowned and looked at Snapjaw.
“Er…Miss Goblin.”
Snapjaw’s head rotated about. So did Badarrow’s. Snapjaw pointed at her chest, looking delighted.
“Me?”
“Yes?”
Fals looked nervous and Garia whispered in his ear.
“That’s Snapjaw.”
“Oh. Sorry.”
Flustered, Fals looked at Snapjaw and then slightly away. He was…nervous. Octavia forgot how non-Inn guests were so afraid of Goblins still.
“I was just saying that if we can see the tracks, we might be able to tell what kind of movement Skill it is. It sounds like he’s propelling himself forwards, not [Double Step] or anything else. That’s a Skill that moves faster on flat ground, maybe.”
“Interesting.”
The Runner’s knowledge of movement Skills exceeded even Fierre’s own. Snapjaw chortled.
“I can show.”
“Lead the way, Snapjaw.”
“No. Miss Goblin. I like that. Call me Miss Goblin. Sounds…person-like. Very nice.”
She slapped Badarrow on the shoulder. He grunted.
The little interplay was interesting more in how it disclosed the clear differences between this band. And while Mrsha was the common cause, there was no Erin as of yet to keep them together, just the memory of her.
Sergeant Gna stared at Snapjaw with ill-disguised hostility. Badarrow glanced at her, and she looked away. Salkis just stared at the Frost Wyvern.
“Awesome.”
They kept moving, but it became clear they would not fully clear the Blood Fields in one night. Even going as far as they had was amazing and due to Bird’s new Skill. As they made camp, Octavia stretched.
“How are we sleeping? Tents? I have one or something…”
“I’ll sleep under the wagon. That’s how my family travelled. Unless there are bugs or it’s muddy, it’s not bad and it saves time.”
Fierre offered. Fals and Garia looked surprised.
“I’ve never done that in my life. We just get out a bedroll—or the ground if it’s soft—and lie down. Like them, see?”
The Goblins were just tossing their things down and arranging them next to their sleeping space around the beginnings of a fire. Ulvama had created one with astonishing ease. She just dropped firewood out of a bag of holding, kicked it together, and pointed and it burst into flame.
“Civilians.”
Sergeant Gna looked scandalized. She stared at the haphazard camp and then turned. First to Bird, then away to Numbtongue or Snapjaw, who was petting Icecube, and then to Fierre as the best, most reasonable leader.
“This can’t be your camp! Where are the sentries? Fortifications?”
Fierre bit her lip.
“Um—Bird? Numbtongue?”
“Goblins will watch out.”
Numbtongue called back. Indeed, the Goblins had already established a sentry-order by poking each other and Badarrow had first watch. The Goblin stopped as everyone turned to stare at him. He was climbing onto a rock where he’d sit with bow in hand. He raised his eyes at Gna.
“But that’s…well, that’s something. Yet you don’t have a latrine, or organization. You should use the wagons as cover, and have some kind of basic defensive area set up. I suggest moving to a cave or—”
The Gnoll hedged, unwilling to give the Goblins credit. She turned and stopped.
The Antinium looked up from digging a trench in the ground. Workers, Soldiers…all save for two.
Bird was sitting on the ground, kicking his legs and watching, apparently not at all pressed to help out. Next to him, Pivr, the strange Antinium on all fours with wings was giving orders.
Sergeant Gna and Pivr locked gazes. The Gnoll instantly turned away.
“What is that thing?”
“I am the Flying Antinium’s Prognugator. Also Revalantor. Pivr. My job is to keep Bird safe. I have already established Antinium safety protocols. Observe.”
The Flying Antinium rubbed his palps together as one antennae flicked towards the Workers. Octavia realized they weren’t just making a trench; they were digging into the ground and planning on resting there.
“Perfect camouflage and protection. If the camp is attacked, we shall sacrifice the meat-things and tunnel up to assail our opponents or retreat.”
The ‘meat-things’ did not appreciate that, yet it was clear each group had their area covered. There was just no overall leadership.
The others looked at each other, unsure if this was fine to let lie. Fierre went over to the wagon, Gna stomped off to find a rock to lie behind…until Bird stood up.
“Pivr. Redirect some Workers to place dirt in front of the wagon. It will hide it and provide natural cover. Badarrow should also move closer; we will create a hill he can watch from, with a bit of cover. Strategy!”
Gna blinked and turned back. Pivr looked uncertain, but some of the Free Antinium instantly moved to obey. Badarrow, who’d just finished getting settled, grumpily stood up, but when he heard Bird, he tilted his head and nodded.
“That’s…almost good. But we’re still open to attack from every other angle. They could come over the hills.”
Gna muttered, not looking at Bird. The Worker stared at her. He gestured around. They were in a natural ‘bowl’ with one opening, that Snapjaw had pointed out.
“This is a naturally defensible area. As to attacks from other angles—Ulvama. You will use a [Shaman]’s mark to ward the other directions.”
Ulvama looked up. She pointed at her chest.
“Me? No. I’m tired.”
Bird stared at her.
“But I have given the order.”
Numbtongue grunted. He nudged Ulvama with an elbow. She looked at him, at Bird, and blew out her cheeks.
“Fine.”
Grumpily, she went up the hill to do what Bird had said. This time Sergeant Gna looked around.
“Well, well…it’s adequate.”
“It is a simple and efficient plan. You can find no flaws in it. Because I am smart.”
Bird lifted all four arms. Sergeant Gna refused to answer. Inside his space, Niers Astoragon chuckled to himself.
“Bird really is smart as, well, Olesm! I had no idea!”
Octavia remarked to Numbtongue. He nodded slowly, but didn’t seem surprised.
“Bird is Bird. Maybe Klbkch taught him.”
Sergeant Gna’s ears perked up. Salkis rubbed her claws together.
“I don’t know who any of those are. You mean Klbkch the Slayer? That’s Bird the [Hunter], right? He slaughtered Wyverns at Pallass. He’s also a [General]?”
She gestured at Bird, impressed and wary. Octavia and Numbtongue chuckled at the assessment, but they realized Salkis really didn’t know him at all. For answer, Octavia gave her the most charitable answer.
“Miss Salkis, Bird is uh…Bird. He’s a bit odd, but he’s good at whatever he does.”
“I can see that. Uh—should I watch out for them in my sleep? You know? Goblins. Or the Antinium?”
Salkis jerked a claw at the Goblins. One of the Cave Goblins looked astounded and flipped a finger at her. The Antinium also heard.
“We are not given orders to kill you at this point. Your safety is assured unless we are attacked.” Pivr answered. Then he paused.
“Well, the Flying Antinium promise this. Where is Xeu? The Silent Antinium may be seeking additional targets.”
“We. Are not.”
Someone spoke right next to Gna as she was setting up her bedroll. She yelped, and rolled away with a short sword in her paw, and stared as the landscape shifted.
Xeu, the Silent Antinium slunk past Gna, who backed up. Her scythe-arms rubbed with a gentle metallic sound, but she had been silent, invisible up till now.
“Dead fucking gods!”
Fals shouted. Even the Goblins started; even some of the Antinium. Everyone had almost forgotten Xeu had been part of the first group.
“There you are, Prognugator Xeu. Where have you been?”
“Scouting. Three minor threats eliminated. Proximity to danger-zone Bloodfields. Resting now. Does Revalantor Bird have further orders?”
Xeu rested, her body already beginning to chameleon itself into invisibility. Octavia edged closer to Numbtongue.
“I forgot she was with us!”
He nodded, but Snapjaw was already relaxed and grinning.
“Strong allies, eh? As good as Poisonbite at hiding! Better! Also, Drake, we don’t have bad sex. That’s Mountain City Goblins.”
She pointed at Ulvama. The [Shaman] froze as she was coming down the hill. Snapjaw and Ulvama locked gazes and the air grew frosty. Badarrow nudged Snapjaw.
“Stop.”
Interesting. Niers, Gna, Fierre…well, practically everyone noticed the rift between Goblins at that. Fierre rested her chin on her hands.
“If even the Goblins aren’t united…and the Antinium too?”
She glanced at the two foreign Antinium. Prognugators she understood, at least the leadership term. She was itching to look into Revalantors and maybe sell data, but she wasn’t at work.
“We’re all here together. Let’s just relax, okay?”
Garia tried to play Erin, smiling around and booming. The farm-girl turned City Runner was already rummaging in her bag of holding.
“I bet we’re all hungry. I’ve got lots of food for the road. Who wants to cook, or are we doing it separately?”
Another pause. Octavia looked around. The Goblins shrugged. It was Gna who muttered.
“I suppose we can pool rations. All I’ve got is travel stuff. Dry. If anyone wants to cook…I’ve got [Survival Veteran]. It uh, lets me cook at a level a bit below [Basic Cooking].”
A level a bit below…heads immediately turned to Garia. She shrugged.
“I can cook too. Fals, you have [Basic Cooking], yeah?”
“Yup. Anyone got that beat?”
No hands immediately rose. Fierre knew how to cook—mostly blood dishes. Snapjaw had decent abilities, and Numbtongue could call on Pyrite, but only for a minute. Octavia pursed her lips.
“I could help. I’m good at recipes.”
Of course the [Alchemist] was. Fals rubbed his hands together, then finally noticed the person waving his hand indignantly.
“Oh. Uh…are you better?”
The Cave Goblin glaring at him finally got the attention of the others. It had been waving its hand non-stop, but no one had noticed. Everyone turned to look at the Goblin.
“…Let’s let the Human cook.”
Gna muttered sotto voce. However, Numbtongue was intrigued. He glanced at Badarrow.
“Huh. I don’t know that Cave Goblin. Which one of us did he learn from?”
He. That was more information than the others knew. Cave Goblin? Badarrow shrugged. He pointed.
“You…”
Then he lapsed into the Goblin’s tongue. The Cave Goblin replied, almost indignantly, and smacked his chest and then his lips. He pointed to the air above his head, and then shrugged.
“What was that?”
Salkis laughed, but Octavia had some inkling. The Goblin had said about three words and done that ridiculous pantomime. Yet Numbtongue answered evenly.
“He said he was a Cave Goblin who learned from Rabbiteater. Which means he knows cooking. Not as good as Pebblesnatch, but he has [Basic Cooking] and two more cooking Skills. He’ll help or do cooking if we let him.”
The others stared at Numbtongue. In a bit of surprise or—incredulity.
“Wait a second, he didn’t say all that just now, Numbtongue. You’re putting words in his mouth.” Garia protested. Numbtongue shook his head.
“He did. Lots of words. Also, not ‘he’. His name is Rasktooth.”
The others turned to look at the Goblin. Gna frowned mightily.
“Odd name. Why’s that?”
For answer, the Cave Goblin laughed and fished something out of his tunic. He had armor on, and underneath the cloth itself…he pulled out a necklace with one long canine fang.
A Raskghar’s tooth. A trophy from dead oppressors. He bared his teeth.
“I take.”
Gna blinked at him. So did Fals.
“I’ll uh…I’d welcome the help. If we want to combine Skills, maybe?”
He meant to make sure everything was going according to normal rules of edibility, but Rasktooth was already investigating the small mountain of vegetables and prepared goods Garia had pulled out. In the end he shrugged and just grabbed a lot of dried noodles.
“Big pot. Big fry. Big eat. Slice, slice. Big taste paste.”
