“It should be, even if [Shamans] do not perform [Mage]’s magic, Merish. Yet we cannot. They are warded. I have called on all our artifacts capable of it and my conclusion is that one or both have means to evade us.”
He glowered. Merish nodded. Only standard.
“Hence this gathering to inform you of a place to start. We have a vague region ‘south of Liscor’. I mean to narrow it. So, then. What can you divine?”
Xherw’s head turned and Ulcre regarded the best Gnolls in the Plain’s Eye tribe for the job. After all, their tribe was known for the quality of their [Shamans]. And [Shaman] was a catch-all class.
They specialized.
Merish beheld the gathering of nearly twenty Gnolls. He saw and recognized their classes.
[Oracle]. [Seer]. [Augur]. Even the [Keeper of the Pasts]—Gnolls with insights into the weather, the future, chance and fate and what had gone before and might come again.
“It is not an auspicious time, Chieftain, but we are casting our magics and using our Skills. We shall look for great portents and signs.”
The [Oracle of Calamity] spoke, one of the Gnolls who could predict incoming dangers to their tribe. A [Seer] growled.
“One of the Doombringers has more than an artifact. My divinations return only mystery, yet I tell you they are headed east, not west. The wind howls that way alone.”
“My readings say west…no. Wait. The origin of one comes from the west, the other from the east.”
The [Augur] argued, sorting through the entrails of a fish. Another Gnoll growled.
“Don’t look to their origins, but to their destination!”
“I tried that and got an infected gallbladder. In the fish, I mean. Some kind of ward—let me try again.”
A [Shaman] pinched her nose and complained.
“Would you stop cutting open fish? I am trying to work—”
What a mess of conflicting professions and styles. Merish watched as Xherw gestured to Ulcre and the [Shaman] stopped the fighting. The Gnolls worked.
“Southeast. Along the High Passes?”
“I sense proximity to Drake stone. Maybe along the cities?”
“So they’re heading southeast, possibly close to cities.”
Merish interpreted the many Gnolls’ commentary and arguments. It wasn’t much to go on, but it did help.
…The problem was, there were a lot of cities, and a lot of ways you could take that. The map of Izril along the High Passes which formed the border between north and south was huge. Xherw growled.
“I will keep them at it and keep in contact with you, Merish. That may be enough to go on. It is frustratingly imprecise. The older Doombringer must be powerful.”
“Then I shall arm myself well, Chieftain. I would like more information, but I will set out and hope more knowledge reveals itself.”
Xherw nodded.
“That is all we can do. Unless…my last expert has an opinion?”
Both Gnolls glanced up. The arguing [Seers] and [Shamans] looked up, offended. They stared at the Gnoll, who had posed so his glasses flashed as his head rose.
“Heh. You can fool magic and Skills, but not numbers, Chieftain Xherw.”
“So you say. You know where they are then, Yelroan?”
The [Mathematician] smirked at the offended magic-users. He turned to Merish and Xherw with a superior look and shook his head.
“No idea. I need more data.”
Merish slapped his forehead. Yelroan did another pose.
“I’ll collect more data. Rest assured, I’ll have an answer soon. A real one, not ‘southeast’. Unlike spells, math doesn’t lie.”
He smirked until a fish hit the back of his head.
 
—-
 
Merish was supposed to engage in more ceremonies to deal with his nightmares and trauma.
He attended only one more, and it was to gather the Gnolls he wanted to join him. They heard him out.
“Doombringers.”
Viri hovered at the gathering. So did Khaze, clearly worried; the children were put to bed. Merish had moved fast, but he still took till nightfall to gather what he needed.
They’d be riding horses and running next to them for maximum speed. He had Gnolls from the Plain’s Eye Tribe—Xherw had given him all but the very best to recruit from and Merish had chosen experts. Trackers, those who could speed them up, and so on.
But for fighting potential, he went to the Gnolls who had come from Rhir. Survivors of 5th Wall.
“5th wall stands. I fought with great warriors from every corner of the world. We faced the Death of Magic and held her back.”
He gave a speech to them, as the warriors looked at him. Merish was supposed to speak of his experiences, hence him attending this ceremony. He was here to recruit them—but he had taken the time to speak. He had already prepared, and it felt like a waste if he did not.
Yet the words made him question them even as he spoke.
Lies. Were they lies? They had fought ghosts, illusions of magic. Had they stopped her? Had they done…anything?
Had their sacrifice mattered? He wanted, had to believe that the answer was yes. He had to.
Merish went on.
“We were not friends until that last month, but we came to Rhir and fought. We did not run. We held the line, and then we went home. The only difference was…they went back before I did.”
Cirille. Vorn. All the others. He closed his eyes. He had heard of the ghosts who walked from Rhir. Merish stood there as the Gnolls listened in silence. Then he looked at the other survivors.
“Now, I ask you to join me again. I fought by your side. It is not a battle you need to come with. I know I am asking you…to die. Yet when I was told by Chieftain Xherw to choose Gnolls who I trusted, I thought of you. For you were there.”
They looked at him. Brave warriors, some with eyes shining with tears. They did not speak—but like Merish…one stepped forwards after only a second.
“Where are we fighting now, Chief Warrior?”
The rest agreed at once. So it was done. As Merish had known it would be, really. He nodded around, gratefully, humbled.
“Reclaim weapons, armor—we leave by midnight. Muster here in thirty minutes.”
They loped off, and Merish knew most would need only to visit their tents and utter brief goodbyes before…
Khaze was waiting for him. His sister looked at him, knowing what he was about, worry in her eyes.
“So you’re going?”
“Chieftain Xherw asked me specifically.”
He did not see pleasure on her face from hearing that. Khaze met Merish’s eyes.
“You could refuse.”
Merish hesitated, then shook his head. He gestured to the ground where Gnolls were already gathering. Not the warriors of Rhir alone either. Other tribes were sending warriors, having seen the scrying orb broadcast too. He looked at Khaze, choosing his words.
“I could. But I can’t relax anyways. Not with the Raskghar about. A mixed-company of Gnolls will improve relations between the tribes, anyways. I can be of some use and it will do us all good. I will keep us all safe.”
She nodded at that. Yet both of them knew—the Raskghar were the excuse. Doombringers were the excuse.
Merish had never left Rhir. So this was a relief. It was not healing, but it was what the warriors knew. He embraced his sister and turned, already thinking of the road ahead.
The warriors set out at midnight, without fanfare, but Xherw and Ulcre saw them off to give their blessings. Then they made for the readied horses, packed with gear.
It was only then that Merish saw Viri again. The little Lizardman had a pony and was waiting.
“Viri. What are you doing? You can’t go with us. This is tribe business.”
“You can’t leave me alone. Please don’t leave me again.”
Merish’s mouth opened. He looked at Viri as the other Gnolls looked at him. He was in charge. And Merish…after a second, he nodded.
“It will be dangerous. Deadly.”
Viri smiled. The [Longstick Jumper] reached out and touched Merish’s arm.
“That’s okay. As long as I’m with you. 5th Wall stands.”
“5th Wall Stands.”
The other Gnolls and Merish spoke it reflexively. So Viri rode with them as they left the Meeting of Tribes in silence.
“I saw Silverfangs heading north ahead of us, Chief Warrior. A war party it seemed, but a small one. For speed.”
One of the Gnolls ventured after the first ten minutes on the road. Merish’s head turned. Xherw had warned him…
“We will see what happens, warrior.”
“Yes, Chief Warrior.”
So it was done and Merish saw the long road ahead, days of journeying, hunting…but a purpose. He felt almost relaxed, as the familiar duty crept on him.
To slay doom itself. He bared his teeth—until Viri looked at him.
“So what are we doing, Merish? Hunting doom?”
Merish started. And he realized—Viri didn’t know. He hadn’t asked, and everyone else knew what ‘Doombringer’ meant. The [Shamanic Warrior] turned.
“We’re hunting…”
And his mind went blank. He looked at Viri, the Lizardman, riding next to him with his one leg gripping the saddle, the other lashed into place so he wouldn’t slip. Viri’s earnest expression. Merish tried the words.
White Gnolls. Cursed Gnolls. A child that would bring death to the tribes.
For some reason…it felt impossible to say. Merish opened and closed his mouth.
“—I will explain in a bit. We must go as fast as we possibly can.”
The Lizardman nodded, and they all moved quicker. You didn’t talk while riding this hard, anyways.
Yet that was another excuse. Merish silently frowned. Viri might not understand. He had to explain it to him…properly. Explain…
He had never, ever thought of how to explain why Doombringers had to die to another people. They would not understand, of course, which was why they were not told. But Viri had to. It made sense, after all. It was right. Merish just had to explain it—properly.
They rode forwards as Merish realized even this was no longer as easy as it used to be.
 
—-
 
Wanderer stopped Mrsha by the end of the second day. Panting, the little Gnoll opened her mouth for another gulp of stamina potion, but he had halted them for other reasons.
“Time to dye ourselves. Past time. We will be hunted, and I fear…” He was glancing at something. A scroll, bearing bad news. Alrric had broken their silence to warn him. Wanderer cursed, and pulled something from his pouch.
Dye. Mrsha hated dye. She shrank back, but Wanderer crouched down.
“Don’t worry. This isn’t going to smell. Nor will it itch or make your hair dry and crack like other dyes. Water doesn’t wash it off easily either. It took Shadows and Spellcaster a long time to synthesize it. Now, which color should you be? We should be similar, but when we get to Salazsar, you can create a pattern, even.”
Mrsha blinked as he offered her a choice of colors. Not just brown? Not just Lyonette’s smelly dye she used for her hair and Mrsha’s fur—once or twice?
This dye was a lot easier to use. You didn’t have to soak in it—you just added a powder to water, and lathered it on. Wanderer had a tub and Mrsha could actually roll around in it.
She came out with reddish black fur, and Wanderer applied a similar, lighter coat. Mrsha stared at herself in a mirror as he checked for white spots.
“Who are you, strange Gnoll?”
She sniffed at herself, but it really was scentless. They were just finishing up when Wanderer’s head rose.
“Not a second too soon. Damn. Would you look at that?”
He pointed. Mrsha turned her head, and he grabbed her, pressing her down. They stared at something in the distance.
“Gnolls.”
Plains Gnolls. They were loping along. Mrsha stared at them, and then Wanderer. What was the problem? They were dyed, just in time. But the Gnoll growled.
“They’re looking for us. Worse—your friend has told every tribe there’s a white adult with my description and a child who are Doombringers.”
Mrsha’s eyes widened. Then she looked at the Gnolls.
Drassi.
The Gnolls were a band of six, [Hunters] nominally. But it looked like they had come back from a kill of two Corusdeer and were looking about. Wanderer glowered, then pointed a ring at them. Mrsha would have grabbed his paw, but he just twisted a ring and suddenly she heard their voices, still a bit muffled, but enhanced by the magic.
“I saw two just like that. They were running down a hill. I wasn’t sure if the little one was a prisoner—she looked like she was having fun, but they were movement Skills. I thought their fur was light, but it was far off…”
“Damn. I didn’t know a tribe had gone this far north! They’re supposed to be at the Meeting of Tribes!”
Wanderer snarled. He cursed himself, and Drassi, and the Gnolls. Mrsha felt Drassi was fair, and him. The Gnolls were just minding their own business.
Unfortunately, the Gnolls were getting closer to their location. Wanderer and Mrsha hadn’t been that visible; they were in the lee of a hill, not on top of it, but the Gnolls had seen where they were from afar and were coming to investigate. Only their distance was saving them from finding exactly where the two were, and the uncertainty of if they had been white Gnolls or not.
“How did you not see if they were white-furred or not? Anyone can tell. That’s white, that’s blonde. Simple, even from afar!”
One of the [Hunters] was arguing with the other who’d seen them. She was defensive.
“I’m a bit colorblind, alright? Everything looks similar from afar!”
“Oh. Sorry.”
“Well, let’s just ask them what they’re about. Two travelling Gnolls isn’t that usual, especially a child. If they’re parent and child, no harm. If the child can’t talk—”
“We rescue her?”
“Nope, we run back to the tribe and play dumb. Apparently the older one’s dangerous. So if we sense something’s off, just smile, make excuses, and…”
“Damn, they’re coming here.”
Wanderer whispered. He checked himself and Mrsha saw him look at his staff. She froze.
Wanderer had killed the Gnolls coming after her. These were innocent [Hunters]! She shook her head. Wanderer pointed. If they find us, they’ll kill us.
No! She shook her head. He growled.
“Last resort. I’ll try something else first. Hold on…I’m not sure if…” He closed his eyes, and frowned. Mrsha didn’t know what Skill he was using, but it wasn’t immediately apparent.
The [Hunters] were closing in. They couldn’t smell the dye, but they were picking up some scent of the two. They closed in, growing silent, and Wanderer’s eyes were shut. Mrsha was tensed. She didn’t want more Gnolls to die! What was he doing? Could he defeat them without hurting them? Even if he did, the tribe would know. What could they do? Maybe she could use her magic? She reached for her wand.
Then, it happened. Mrsha heard a braying call in the distance, then a flurry of curses not a hundred feet distant. She peeked over the hilltop and saw the [Hunters] whirling.
They had been heading straight for them! Yet suddenly they were pointing, moving away. She heard them shouting.
