Across Izril, people and things were moving at high speeds.
At high relative velocity—like Ryoka expelling the contents of her guts onto the floor as the curse on her added a new layer of excitement to her life.
With great distances covered each day, as with the doughty band of Goblins, Antinium, Humans…Gnoll…Vampire…and Drake who marched down the road, on the lookout for attacks from Hectval or monsters or anyone, really.
Antinium, jogging along seemingly without the need to rest, behind riding Goblins, or next to the one wagon loaded with ammunition, supplies, and so on.
Octavia rode on that, feeling marginally less useful than the potions and ingredients she’d loaded up. She watched as Garia, Fals, and Fierre jogged together, the dark umbrella over Fierre’s head bobbing. At Sergeant Gna, muttering to herself and staring at all the others.
The Goblins, arguing in their tongue. The Antinium, without sound following Bird, who was singing a Bird-song…
Numbtongue, who rode at the fore of the group, aside from Snapjaw and Icecube scouting from overhead, and Xeu, somewhere unseen, also prowling for enemies…or maybe eliminating them without telling anyone.
The Goblin was emblematic of the party, by and large. He was silent. Grim. The others might be a bit more talkative, but they were committed.
“We’re going across Izril. In search of Mrsha. We might run into armies or…we don’t know who took her.”
Octavia’s voice as she murmured to herself made the group look back. Badarrow’s head swung around; it was Ulvama who turned. The [Shaman] barked at Octavia.
“Gnolls.”
As if that said everything that needed to be said, she turned and kept riding along, doing surprisingly well on her horse compared to almost all the other riders. She had actual experience, unlike some who thought you could just jump on a horse’s back and have it carry you off into the wild blue yonder.
“Yes, but…now I’m thinking of it, it’s huge. We might be going all the way to Zeres. We might be fighting…”
Octavia trailed off as someone looked back at her. This time it was Numbtongue. The [Bard] grunted.
“Second thoughts? Go back. You might die.”
Octavia met his gaze.
“I know. It’s not that, Numbtongue.”
He eyed her, grunted, but Octavia was one of his few friends. So the [Bard] slowed a bit.
“What, then?”
“This. It’s…a great journey, Numbtongue. A…you know.”
Octavia looked around. Didn’t the others see it? Gna just stared blankly at the Stitch-Girl. Salkis, the strange Drake, might have understood, but just grinned to herself, eyeing everyone.
Garia’s head turned. Fierre glanced up as Octavia elaborated for the blank Goblins and Antinium, who had politely turned to stare as they marched.
“A quest. An adventure.”
The Vampire’s head rose. She looked back at Octavia. Numbtongue was giving her a blank look, but Fierre smiled, a pointed grin. She hadn’t wanted to say it either, but Garia looked at her and Fals and the City Runner gave them a small smile.
A concerned one, but the Humans and Vampire felt it.
The Goblins? They glanced at each other and chuckled. One of the Cave Goblins poked the Redfang. Adventure? They all snorted. Sounded like a good way to die.
The Antinium glanced at Bird for confirmation that they had inadvertently embarked on an adventure. Pivr wondered to himself if the Flying Queen would approve. Then again, if Ksmvr could do it, so could he. Bird tilted his head.
“I did not order us on an adventure, Miss Octavia. I demand we unadventure at once. We are on a rescue mission. I am in charge here!”
He waved one fist. Octavia looked at him.
“No, Bird. An adventure just happens. It’s not something we have to do.”
“…Oh. In that case, your adventure is approved. Do we get anything out of it? Will we have to kill a Dragon? I’m told it is difficult.”
Bird had some passing understanding of adventures, but Gna just growled.
“Great. I’m going to be an [Adventurer]. I hope I get to Silver-rank at least.” The Bronze-rank adventurer, Numbtongue, just gave Octavia a steady look.
“This is not a game.”
He was reproachful, and it was not necessarily easy to meet a Goblin’s crimson-eyed glare, especially as angry as Numbtongue was. Yet Octavia did it, and somehow—he blinked. Because the [Alchemist] was smiling.
“I know that, Numbtongue. I do. But look how many people came together for Mrsha. Even with Lyonette gone. That terrible [Witch]…but we still did it. We’ll get her back.”
“Even if we all die.”
Bird chipped in unhelpfully. Octavia hesitated, but then nodded.
“We all came for that. All of us. Like…like if Erin were here. We’d be doing just this, wouldn’t we?”
The band slowed. Ulvama nearly ran over Bird, and Salkis blinked. Fierre didn’t know Erin that well, but…she saw the others look at each other. As if Erin…
Badarrow smiled. Numbtongue did not, but he stopped a moment, and then nodded.
“Maybe.”
Then they kept moving.
It was just a short observation. Yet Numbtongue kept looking at Octavia. Somehow, her words had inspired something in the others. He was a [Bard]…but she was teaching him something. He kept thinking of it.
When you put it like that—an adventure. A quest, in Erin’s name. Perhaps there was some romance in it, despite the dire hour. Because of the need.
“To find the missing child and bring her home, across Izril we go. To the walls of the City of Waves or the High Passes, we fear no foe.”
He tried out a few words. Something in him wanted to have the same…basis as the kind of tales you read in story books. How did it go? Find a missing sword, slay the Dragon…finding a little Gnoll girl was close, wasn’t it?
“Goblins, Antinium, Humans? What a strange band to be seen in southern Izril. Unprecedented. We’ll probably shock the tails off everyone we meet.”
Salkis added happily, riding up to the other side. And we’ll have to fight our way through them, hopefully.
“A first for Izril.”
Bird tilted his head. Of course, only he’d heard that last bit. He glanced towards his belt where a little carrying bag hung next to his bag of holding. He nodded to himself.
“An adventure. I would like any magical bows we find. Mine keep breaking.”
Backs a bit straighter, the group journeyed on. Past the Bloodfields. Towards…well. Octavia sat back, pleased with herself as she reframed their journey for her own sake and theirs. After a moment, she decided to push her luck.
“All this to say, if we are going to be on the road for a while, and I bet we are, and if this is a grand story and whatnot…shouldn’t we have some music? Some songs to march with, at least! Or—you know, ambiance?”
All she heard were the sounds of horses moving, the jingle of packs, and the sound of distant insects buzzing.
Apista would have been hurt as she buzzed along, but she couldn’t read minds.
Octavia frowned. Hardly the inspiring soundtrack like on that movie Mrsha had watched with her.
That was a good point. The group’s heads slowly turned. Some music would pass the time. They all looked side-long at Numbtongue. The [Bard] stared ahead, until he realized who Octavia meant.
He hesitated. His hand nearly went for his guitar. Then he scowled.
“No. This is serious.”
“Come on, Numbtongue. You always play the guitar!”
“No. Silence. Who sneaks up on enemies playing music?”
“…[Stealth Bards]?”
Sergeant Gna mused out loud, then turned red when everyone stared at her. A Cave Goblin started laughing. Numbtongue folded his arms. Garia called out.
“Come on, Numbtongue! Just one song? You don’t have to sing!”
“No.”
“You might level up! You’re a [Bard]! Play that one from the inn—”
“No.”
Salkis blinked. She pointed at Numbtongue, disbelieving as she turned to Garia.
“Wait. This Goblin’s a [Bard]? I thought he was a [Swordsman] or something.”
“Nope. [Bard]. Wait…how do you know Numbtongue? What’s your class?”
“Um…[Aristocrat]. With a bit of combat classes. [Warrior], you know.”
“I shall sing if Numbtongue is incapable of singing. I know over a hundred bird-songs, all of which I have written!”
Bird announced. He spread his arms wide and began to sing. Ulvama grunted and pointed. Bird kept singing, then stopped as he realized someone had just cast a silence spell on him. They proceeded on, spirits rising as they ate up ground.
Niers Astoragon didn’t have many landmarks, but he calculated they might have a shot at reaching Pallass without the magic door in eight days or nine at the most. Fifty miles with his Skill a day was possible even with civilians, and everyone here was moving far faster. He smiled.
Adventure. The [Alchemist] was speaking his language. Duty mattered, his home and company mattered. Yet this? This was what he’d come for.
 
—-
 
Speed. The fastest-moving piece of luggage in all of Izril realized that she was being carried at a speed even a Courier might be impressed by. Even so—Wanderer seemed to grow tired after the first day of flight from Liscor.
He put her down shortly after midday. Mrsha glanced up; she’d been carried under one arm, then held like little Gnolls in two arms. Then he’d made her piggyback…all of which she’d done without much objection.
She had been still, almost motionless, a good piece of luggage after Wanderer’s revelation about the nature of her fur. Yet it seemed like the white-furred Gnoll with the traveling staff and cloak had a problem. He put Mrsha down, stretched his arms, sighed, swore a few times, and then pointed at her.
“You’re going to have to run with me. You’re too heavy to carry. We’ll get a pony for you, but I can’t carry you another day.”
Mrsha looked up at Wanderer and folded her arms. Her blank-eyed look of sad guilt turned into an expression vaguely reminiscent of her mother’s look.
See here a minute! She wagged a finger at the Gnoll. You can’t just carry me off, tell me I’m Doom and then tell me I have to do all the running to wherever we’re going to! Am I a [Damsel] or not?
Wanderer looked blankly at the indignant little Gnoll’s face and her flashing paws.
“I can’t understand whatever you’re saying. Bite my fur…Coinpurse owes me a hundred drinks. Listen…Mrsha. We’re going to have to change your name too.”
He squatted down. The Gnoll fixed Mrsha with a serious look, his brown eyes intent on her. Mrsha slowed. She didn’t know his name, his class, or where they were going. She was going willingly—or not trying to bite him—but she was still closer to a hostage than companion.
Yet she had to know. If she had gotten Erin…Mrsha swallowed as Wanderer looked at her.
“I know you don’t trust us yet. So why don’t I tell you more, hm? I’m sorry; I’m trying to put as much distance between us and Liscor as possible. Plain’s Eye will try again, and we had better be out of their search radius. Give me…thirty minutes to stretch and we’ll see if you can keep up. If not, I’ll carry you. I’ve carried Gnolls before, day and night, but I’d rather not if I can help it. You’re a bit too heavy compared to a cub.”
Mrsha stared down at herself. Heavy? She was a little Gnoll! Well…she had grown a bit, but she wasn’t fat, no matter what Lyonette thought!
That was true; Mrsha was a healthy, growing Gnoll girl. So, a lot more than a Human girl her age. When she shot up to her full height, she might outweigh Lyonette by over a hundred pounds and be far taller; Krshia made even Ryoka seem fragile.
Wanderer sat cross-legged with a sigh. He unslung his ‘pack’, which was really his bag of holding. It was light as could be, Mrsha being the real weight. He fished around inside, and pulled out a cube of meat.
As in, a square of meat, perfectly geometrical. Mrsha eyed it as he stacked two—eyed her, and pulled out three. He offered her one and bit into the first.
“Here. Travel rations.”
Travel what? Who ate geometry? What is this? Mrsha went to slap the cube out of his paw. Patiently, Wanderer jerked it out of the way and offered it again.
“Eat. I’m sorry if you think it’s bad, but taste it first. It’s traditional travel rations. From Salazsar. Which is where we’re going. Drakes and their systems. They stack it up like this so it fits best in bags of holding. It’s meat and grain and…it keeps almost forever in bags of holding. Dry, though. Let me grab some tea.”
He fished in his bag of holding for a canteen, a bit annoyed. He was used to Gnolls fleeing imminent death, not picky little Gnolls who were used to pizza and decadence. Mrsha though, had gone still.
Salazsar? What’s this now? Wanderer shrugged as he met her startled gaze.
“I told you I’d explain. I was in a hurry yesterday and I don’t talk when I’m moving at that speed. Ever swallowed a bug while going that fast? It’s…no. Salazsar’s our destination. In case I forget—if we get separated, go there. Ask for…hm. Ask for Shadepaw at a bar and you’ll meet with Shadows. That’s one of her aliases. Go on, eat. Do you not eat scurry food? Please, tell me you do.”
Mrsha sat and poked at the cube. She broke off a piece and found it was dense, and not actually bad when she nibbled at it. Not great; it could use some seasoning. Some kind of base food. Slap it on a pizza, actually, add some cheese—maybe a bun and lettuce and other plants for the taste? Actually, just give her a hamburger.
Since there was no burger, she ate. She was a Plains Gnoll! True, she had come to the inn, but Mrsha was still a rugged traveller of the Stone Spears tribe, who had lived in the wilds. She hesitated, then fished for her writing equipment. Wanderer stared at the little note.
“…No, I don’t have a plate.”
Lyonette had rubbed off on Mrsha more than the Gnoll knew. Mrsha ate huffily, and Wanderer scarfed the first cube down, and poured some dark liquid into two wooden cups. He handed Mrsha one. It was old tea, long-steeped in tea-leaves, but still not too bitter. Refreshing, really.
“It’s got natural stamina effects. Eat up. Want another cube?”
Mrsha shook her head. Wanderer sighed. He sat cross-legged, massaging his aching shoulders. He felt at his side, winced.
“That damn [Witch] got me with needles. I haven’t been in a fight that bad since…hm. Two other times, really. Hey, do you see a needle in me?”
He pointed. Mrsha stared obediently. Then she frowned. She poked—Wanderer swore.
“One second.”
He slowly felt around, and grasped multiple times with his paws before his claws pulled out a tiny, wooden…Mrsha winced and looked away. Wanderer tossed it on the ground.
“That. Hurt.”
Mrsha was reminded that this Gnoll had bled for her, nearly died to protect her. He was due some consideration for that, so she listened as he went back to eating, no longer plagued by that stinging in his side.
