“Think nothing of it Scopikl. We all lose friends. Here and on Rhir. I only hope the reinforcements are guarded well on Rhir.”
All the Gnolls nodded somberly. They paused, in that moment where nothing could be said or should be said. Merish knew it well. However, then a Gnoll who’d rejoined them spoke.
Emhri had left two more times for the restroom, but whatever she’d eaten seemed to have finally passed out of her system. No one spoke of the smell; you smelled everything and got used to the bad ones and the good ones. Humans, now, and Drakes, they complained when they did smell something, as if the Gnoll in the area hadn’t smelled it five minutes earlier and far more vividly.
“If we speak of tragedies—maybe there is something I could bring up to you. I know it’s for the [Chieftains] and [Shamans] to decide, but it troubles me. A rumor, Merish. Well—not a rumor since I know it to be true.”
He lowered his mug, realizing he had his appetite back. Merish peered at Emhri.
“What have you been listening in on?”
She raised her paws defensively and flattened her ears.
“Nothing! I swear! I just have friends and I knew what was happening—we talk. I didn’t tell anyone, but…you’re a [Chief Warrior], Merish. You might be called on.”
The other Gnolls glanced at each other. Merish folded his arms.
“What?”
“Something…happened yesterday. I saw [Shamans] running about, and word got to me…that I know what happened is because I saw them leaving. It’s not as if someone told me to keep my mouth shut, no.”
“Spit it out, Emhri.”
She growled, but then nodded and leaned in. Whispering so only they would hear, the Gnoll [Warrior] spoke.
“Merish. A [Hunt Leader] took seventeen [Warriors] out weeks ago. Maybe a month? I can’t remember. All I know was that I knew some of the Gnolls who went. Good ones. They were all over Level 20, and the leader over Level 30. A Vision of Seir. I’ve seen them gather like that before.”
Merish’s brows rose. A Vision of Seir, like Shatterstrike Warriors, was an internal term. This referred to a heavily-armed group in small numbers, to scout or harass an enemy.
“Not bad. What were they after? Creler scouting?”
“No…and listen. They were wiped out. Every Gnoll.”
The other warriors fell abruptly silent. Merish felt his hair rise slightly. He gripped hard on the mug and cracked it by accident. He cursed, and it was a loud sound in the silence.
“By whom? A [Hunt Leader] over Level 30 and a full Vision of Seir was wiped out? By what kind of enemy?”
Emrhi gulped. She looked uncertain if she wanted to continue the story, but it had been started. She looked around, and lowered her voice even more.
“I don’t know where, but I do know their purpose. They were…Doomslayers.”
If it had been silent before, now it was a void of space in which no one even breathed. Merish felt a chill and met Emrhi’s scared gaze. No wonder she was gossiping.
“I see. You should keep this silent, Emrhi. It’s…not to be spoken of. Understood?” She nodded.
“I only told you because you’re over Level 30 yourself, Merish. If there was anyone who could fix—”
“I’m not going to lead a bunch of Gnolls off. I’d wait for a [Shaman] or my [Chieftain] to ask me, Emhri. Don’t spread it around.”
Merish interrupted her. But that wasn’t why the Gnoll woman had gone silent. Her eyes were round and only then did Merish realize…he turned slowly.
“Chief Warrior Merish.”
A [Shaman] stood behind the group of Gnolls, having walked over while they were focused on Emhri. One of many [Shamans] in the Plain’s Eye Tribe?
No. One of a kind.
The Shaman of the Eternal Grasslands, the greatest [Shaman] of their tribe, Shaman Ulcreziek, stood next to Chieftain Xherw and a cluster of Gnollish guards and other leaders of the tribe. Shaman Ulcre looked at Merish and the Gnoll froze.
Mismatched eyes stared at him. One was brown, regular—the other was brown too. The difference were the striations of faint color, the inner pupil of the second eye. The power there. An eye passed down across their tribe for as long as it had endured, that gave them their name.
Plain’s Eye.
To stare at it was nearly impossible. The [Shaman] himself though was kind—to members of his tribe. His brows rose and he glanced at Xherw, who himself was powerful enough to make every Gnoll’s fur prick with energy.
“We are just in time, Chieftain. The warriors are already gossiping.”
Emhri wilted. Chieftain Xherw glanced at Ulcre.
“[Shaman], you can even see gossip? Now there is a true power.”
Ulcre snorted through his nose. He tapped the Plain’s Eye and it focused on Emhri a second before turning to Merish. Normally it moved with his other eye, but if he willed it to, it could move independently. Sometimes, Merish had heard it rumored, it showed him things he needed to see, that previous [Shamans] had known.
“I do not need to read lips or strain my ears. I can see gossiping Gnolls with both my eyes, [Chieftain]. Warrior Emhri.”
“Shaman.”
She squeaked. The Gnolls around her were apprehensive, but The [Shaman] just looked at her for a second with both eyes.
“Discretion would be appreciated.”
“Yes, [Shaman].”
Merish thought Emhri would be silent with that alone. Ulcre and Xherw looked at Merish and the [Chief Warrior] felt his skin prickle again.
“Warrior Merish, we were looking for you. And it seems destiny has already moved your way. A good omen. Chieftain, I am convinced from this alone.”
Xherw nodded thoughtfully. He looked at Merish and smiled.
“I as well. Perhaps he should rest. Let us tell him and we shall see. Merish—a word.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] instantly agreed. When your [Shaman] and [Chieftain] of the entire tribe called, you went. But he couldn’t help but wonder why him, of all the [Chief Warriors]? Perhaps…fate indeed. Or Xherw remembered their conversation earlier.
He did not doubt the reason. It echoed in his mind. Something not often spoken of. A terrible name.
Doombringer.
 
—-
 
As it happened, there were multiple reasons that Xherw had thought of Merish. The Chieftain led Merish over to another gathering in the secret heart of the Plain’s Eye tribe, deep in their encampment. No one, not other Gnolls or even foreign spells could spy on them here. Not with Shaman Ulcre.
“You heard about the Doomslayers.”
Xherw did not beat around the bush. In his private tent, he sat, amid trophies of his tribe, gifts—it was not as luxurious as it could be, but it was impressive. Merish sat on a pillow.
“Yes, Chieftain. I hope you will not be angry at Emhri.”
“Angry? I will forget it in a second. Rather, I understand. Rumors spread and why not? When doom is abroad no one is safe. It is for that reason I thought of you. Well—that and two other reasons.”
Xherw lifted a paw. Ulcre stood, refusing to sit, glancing towards the tent where other Gnolls were assembling. Xherw peered at Merish.
“The [Keeper of the Past] tells me you went through the Recitation of Names. I hope you felt better, these last few days?”
“I did. You are kind, Chieftain.”
“Not always, Merish. I would have let you rest, but news of the loss of an entire group of Doomslayers reached me yesterday. I thought of you for two reasons along with our recent talk. Do you know all of what transpired?”
Merish shook his head.
“Only that they were wiped out.”
“Hrm. Not all, then. They were wiped out at Liscor, Merish. The Silverfang’s new city. The border of north and south.”
“I know of it.”
Only vaguely, but Merish felt he’d heard the city’s name on a few lips of late, and not just Silverfang. Oh yes, hadn’t there been battles there? During his time on 5th wall, and in the capital, they’d watched…
Xherw saw his expression and his face softened.
“Yes, Liscor. That city with the door and inn and such. There is a Doombringer there, Merish.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] nodded.
“Did it…kill them?”
He knew what Doomslayers did, and the Plain’s Eye had a few. They killed white Gnolls, before the doom that had destroyed a tribe could infect others. Merish…had never been asked to join such a squad. He would have, of course, despite the danger and duty.
Kill white Gnolls. They were not spoken of, but they were like Demons to Gnolls. Just as deadly.
Just like Demons? Merish frowned. He thought of Silvenia, the Death of Magic and hesitated. She was as half-Elf. A traitor to her people. So that was what white Gnolls were. Like Demons.
Worse, perhaps. If one had killed an entire Vision…but Xherw shook his head.
“Not it. Well, perhaps. The truth is we don’t know what transpired exactly, Merish. Only that an entire army was involved, the Antinium…and a [Witch] named Belavierr. The Spider of Terandria. A powerful [Witch] over Level 60.”
“Over Level 70. Perhaps over Level 80.”
Ulcre cut in. Merish’s head rose and turned.
“What, [Shaman]?”
Shaman Ulcre’s eye was deep and staring. For a second Merish thought he saw rings—before a terrible anger took hold of him.
“An old [Witch], Merish. A dangerous one—for a certain level of it. Peril to those who have lost or desire. Not like a Dragon on a rampage, but almost as bad if angered. She was angered and nearly destroyed the city. Perhaps she killed the Doomslayers.”
“Or perhaps the city, or the inn, or the army. Hectval. Yet I say it was doom, and doom from one source, no matter the many causes.”
Xherw growled. He looked at Ulcre, then at Merish.
“A dangerous Doombringer indeed.”
Merish nodded, head spinning. Over Level 80? That was the kind of thing that was legend. Myth. Like the Death of Magic.
His blood ran cold and Xherw fixed his eyes on Merish.
“I thought of you. You have survived an encounter with a monster like that.”
“I would not fight the Death of Magic again, Chieftain. Not with ten thousand [Shamanic Warriors] at my back.”
It might be cowardice, but the words burst out of Merish as he shuddered. Xherw lifted a paw.
“I would not send you for that. Not against this [Witch]. I would send Ulcre and the full might of the tribes if I thought we had to fight her…no, she has fled. But doom remains and it has left. Apparently, so my people say, with a second white Gnoll. A stranger who killed at least a few of our people.”
Merish started. Two Doombringers?
“It is as I suspected. There are more, and they conspire.”
Ulcre broke in. The [Shaman] was upset. He waved a staff skywards, at a hole for the smoke of a fire to escape through. The sky was still bright, but the tent darkened.
“I cannot see this one, or the two. But they have fled Liscor. Heading south.”
“Do you want me to assemble another Doomslayer group to hunt them down, Chieftain?”
“Yes. If you are willing, Merish. I know you are resting, but when destiny calls you like it seems to do…I will ask other [Chief Warriors], but for this task I will arm you with weapons and give you our best warriors. If you agree.”
Xherw met Merish’s gaze. The Gnoll [Shamanic Warrior] sat there, on the pillows. He could have refused, asked to think about it, or asked questions, uttered reservations.
He did not. Merish was a [Warrior] of the Plain’s Eye Tribe. A soldier of his people.
“Of course, Chieftain. You have only to ask.”
Ulcre and Xherw smiled. Merish rose after Xherw, and the [Chieftain] nodded at him.
“You honor your tribe, Merish. Thank you. We shall arrange it and you must be hunting soon—but we have to know our quarry first. There are things you should see.”
“What was the third reason you wanted me, Chieftain?”
Merish followed Xherw to a group of Gnolls outside. For answer, Xherw pointed. Merish saw a scrying orb held by a [Shaman], a group of the Plain’s Eye’s best magic-users…and Yelroan. The [Mathematician] blinked at Merish, and then waved. Xherw gave Merish a slight grin.
“Destiny? Or just friendship. Now, come see this, Merish. Doom has foolish allies, but it may help us in the end.”
He pointed at the scrying orb and Merish saw a Drake on Wistram News Network. He vaguely recognized Drassi as the Drake began speaking, her voice hoarse, strained, her eyes red. With a start, a jolt to his heart, he saw an illustration of a little white Gnoll behind her and the caption.
 
Young Gnoll Missing – Believed Kidnapped.
 
—-
 
It was a road laid with best intentions. You could even see all the logic behind it with little effort. This Mrsha was a friend of Drassi’s. The [Honest Reporter] knew her, and she had a rare position of power in Wistram News Network.
So if Mrsha went missing, Drassi would obviously report the story. The Drake made an impassioned appeal, laying out the events, even getting a [Mage] to show the devastation from the battle.
“Mrsha is a dear child, and I wasn’t able to—listen. This rat-Gnoll, this…white-haired stranger has her. I am begging anyone with information to reach out to us. I’ll be covering this story with any sightings, and if you see her, tell the Watch Captain! Again, her name is Mrsha and she can’t talk, but she can write and…”
Everything checked out. Missing child, appeal across Izril, a heartfelt story. Anyone from Chandrar would instantly sympathize, and indeed, Drassi’s appeal would lead to hundreds, thousands of appeals from other citizens across the world for her to cover missing persons—a segment that would endure.
Drassi had made just one mistake, and no one else had stopped her from making it. No wonder; Wistram News Network was run by Wistram and crewed by Drakes at the top, or City Gnolls. In short, there was no Plains Gnoll with concern on Mrsha’s side to point out how horrific this was.
Alarric stared at the scrying orb and wanted to vomit. He knew Wanderer had the child; he’d received the signal. This?
“She’s going to get them killed.”
He whispered. Drassi’s earnest face—he had to believe she meant the best. But this? Now every tribe with a scrying orb could see that there were two white Gnolls. They were taking notes and writing down the nearest location. Just not for the reasons Drassi hoped.
 
—-
 
“Other tribes have already told me they will join the hunt. Yet Plains’ Eye will not rest on them alone. Every tribe in the region will be searching for the two, but Merish, the older Doombringer is clever. He—it—apparently moves fast and was skilled enough to defeat one Doomslayer group, if with help.”
Xherw shut off the scrying orb with a wave of his paw. Merish stared at Drassi’s face before she vanished. She’d spoken of the Doombringer—Mrsha—with such passion.
Well, she was a Drake. She had no idea what she was talking about. It had given them a lot of information, though.
“Two Doombringers, and we know their ages, even the name of one. Is that not enough, Chieftain? Can we not [Scry] them?”
He glanced at Xherw, but it was Ulcre who responded.
