“Alright. I’m Wanderer. You’re Mrsha. I suppose now’s the time to start from the beginning. We’re both white Gnolls.”
He gestured to his fur as he rummaged in his bag of holding. Mrsha nodded.
“Good observation, genius.”
Wanderer frowned at her note card.
“You’re not what I expected. When we heard of you—our group, that is, all Gnolls with white fur—we thought you’d be wanting to go with us. That inn…seemed nicer than I could have believed, especially in a city with Gnolls.”
Mrsha nodded. Wanderer sighed as she held up a card indicating how mean he was. With a little frowny-face for emphasis. She’d learned that from Erin.
“We were still right. Plain’s Eye was on you and believe me—they’d have launched a sneak-attack if they hadn’t been caught up in that [Witch]’s attack. The first thing they do is…just walk into a room and stab you. Into your shop, into a bar and you’re dead. If that fails? They’d wait until you took a walk, until you had lowered your guard. A thousand paces out, a Gnoll with a bow looses one arrow. That’s how it happens.”
Mrsha felt a chill. It was too much like how Erin had died to be flippant about. Wanderer grimaced, seeing her sober face.
“Argh. I’m not good with children. I’m sorry. I’m just rescue. Coinpurse is going to have my hide.”
He kept using those names. Coinpurse, Shadows, and Spellcaster. Wanderer explained.
“We’re leadership of the Gnolls in Salazsar. They’re aliases. Do you know what that word means…? Okay, stop writing, I can see you do. That’s how you’ll know us. We have names of course, but they’re not our real ones. You can scry real names. For instance, mine? Wer.”
Wer, or Wanderer, indicated his chest.
“It’s the name I use and I’ve gone by for nearly seven years now. You can call me that.” Mrsha stared at the Gnoll. Wanderer was better. He shrugged.
“Fine then. Just remember. There are four of us. Well…four of what you’d call ‘leaders’. There are nearly three dozen of us in total.”
Mrsha began choking on her bite of cube. Three dozen? White Gnolls? She stared at Wanderer. He grinned.
“The biggest gathering of white Gnolls in all of Izril. Perhaps all of us aside from a few who go their own way. What, did you think you were unique? I’m afraid we’re a bit more common than you know. But we die if Plains or even City Gnolls find us, usually. Some of us are survivors; a few were in groups. Last Gnolls of a dead tribe. A few are children who were born by the survivors—they count even though their fur isn’t white.”
Mrsha listened, taking it in. Salazsar. She had wondered where they were going, and worried because she had to tell Lyonette she was alright. She needed to know whatever Wanderer knew about her powers, but…Salazsar made things more interesting.
She knew a certain Drake, a Wall Lord in that city. He might be…helpful.
Wanderer didn’t notice how acquiescent Mrsha had suddenly become. He went on, rubbing at his head.
“Some of the Gnolls are low-leveled. Almost all are [Survivors], like you, but we four are the best. We all have a different role.”
He gestured at his chest.
“They call me Wanderer because I travelled across the world before I found more of my kind. Shadows fell into the underworld of gangs—she still is. There’s also Coinpurse, who began it all by organizing us; he funds our rescues and makes sure we all have enough money. Hrr. You might go with him; you need someone to watch after you. Or Spellcaster. He’s not good with children either, but he knows magic. Real magic, not [Shaman] spells.”
So they knew that Gnolls could be [Mages]? Mrsha wrote furiously and Wanderer nodded. He looked a bit disappointed.
“So you figured that out too? It’s just one of the things Plains Gnolls refuse to understand. Like us. They call us Doombringers, but that’s not all of our power. Take it, use it—that’s the power our tribes left us. Fate, that’s how Spellcaster talks about it. We’re fated.”
Mrsha looked down at herself. Fate? It made sense; she thought of the Raskghar, the monster attacks, all the things, important, good and bad that had happened around her. But that meant…she wrote with a trembling paw.
“But do I hurt other people by being? How does it work?”
“I’ll show you. Later. For now—it’s been thirty minutes. We have to keep moving.”
Wer got to his feet. He gestured, and Mrsha stood up reluctantly. They tossed the cups back into the bag of holding and left almost no trace they had been there.
The two stood on a craggy hill, which Wanderer had been climbing most of the day. The ‘rolling greens’ that Mrsha envisioned of the Great Plains and the rest of Izril from her tribe’s stories bore little truth here. Wanderer was hurrying along the foothills of the High Passes; rough terrain.
He could still move, though, with astonishing speed, yet it seemed Mrsha was slowing him down. The Gnoll pursed his lips and looked at her.
“I have movement Skills, but they’d work on both of us as well as one. If you could run on your own paws, that would help me and let you move about rather than be carried.”
Mrsha nodded dubiously. She had been feeling a bit too much like a sack. She began to pad forwards on all fours. Wanderer stopped her.
“Not like that. We’ll never get anywhere if you just scamper about. Not through your shifting years, eh? Well, either way, you’ll need to move faster than that.”
That was it. Mrsha’s eyes narrowed. She’d had it up to chin-height with this mean Gnoll, who didn’t give her plates and utensils, stole her from her inn, and now disparaged her weight and speed! Without a word she leapt forwards and began racing down the hill.
She expected Wanderer to chase her or call after, but the Gnoll made no sound. Mrsha ran down the hill as fast as she could, stumbling a bit, slowing and dodging the huge rocks that jutted out from the loam. She wondered if this was some kind of geographical feature; stone stuck in hills. Maybe, as a [Druid], she could use her powers better here—
Mrsha passed by Wanderer as he leaned against a boulder and nearly face-planted as the ground leveled out. She turned to stare at him. He wasn’t breathing hard, nor had she seen him pass her!
“No, keep going. Show me how fast you are.”
The Gnoll looked amused. He gestured up the hill. Mrsha hesitated. Even Numbtongue wasn’t able to catch her at full run!
She began running up the hill, glancing back at Wanderer. He stayed there, watching her. It was slower-going uphill, slower by far. Mrsha labored, and as she was racing to the top of the hill, panting, she saw Wanderer move.
He took three steps and jumped. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. She saw him bound up the slope, jumping from rock to rock and land in front of her. It had taken him…six seconds. Mrsha nearly a minute and a half. Panting, she gazed up at him.
He winked.
“Would you like to learn how to run properly?”
 
—-
 
A few minutes later, Wanderer stood on a bare patch of grass and gave Mrsha her first lesson. She was still breathing hard, but he was going to show her…something.
“We all have something to teach you. I? I am the [Farthest Traveller]. And…a [Guardian]. There are things I can teach you. This is the key to travelling fast—well, one key.”
So saying, the Gnoll walked forwards. He did a little pose, like he was beginning to squat. It looked stupid, as he swung his arms back and forth, looking at Mrsha.
“Stand. Like this—and then just hop and curl up. You swing your arms like this. Hm. The rest is knowing not to be scared or if something is off. Try it.”
She gave him a look of moribund enthusiasm; this was not the mood for learning…what? A day, or even two, was not enough to wash away the gloom of Belavierr and leaving her home! Didn’t he know that? What was this, anyways?
“I am going to share a Skill with you, but it doesn’t work unless you know how to use it. You might even pick it up yourself if you work hard. Listen—copy me. You can do it on all fours, but it’s easier standing up.”
Reluctantly, Mrsha stood on her two legs and made the ‘potty pose’ as she instantly labeled it. She swung her arms, feeling the unsteady momentum carrying her forwards.
And what am I supposed to do now, go splat on my face? She glowered at Wanderer. He nodded approvingly.
“Good. Then the next part is pushing off. Then—you do this.”
He did a little hop, and his body rotated in the air. Mrsha’s jaw dropped.
Wanderer did a flip, and landed on his feet. It was so casual, so elegant that Mrsha was dumbstruck! She’d only seen one person ever do a flip like that—Ryoka. And she had done her tricking and big stunts.
This? This was a casual flip, as if there was nothing to spinning your entire body around. Wanderer gestured.
“You try it.”
Me? What, just like that? Wanderer smiled at Mrsha’s expression as she backed up a step.
“It’s simple. You’re young; don’t think about it, just do it. I’ve tried to teach adults and they can’t imagine it. You can flip as easily as hopping. See?”
To prove it, he walked a dozen paces and did six hops, each one a front flip without breaking stride, stopped, and did a tremendous back flip towards Mrsha. She backed up.
“No way! I can’t do that! I’ll land on my head!”
“I will catch you. This is the trick. Go on.”
Encouraged despite the odd lesson, Mrsha stood on her two feet. She wasn’t a perfect walker or runner, but this? She frowned, tried to copy Wanderer’s instructions, and did a mighty hop!
Wanderer stared as Mrsha landed on all fours on the grass. The Gnoll girl gave him an abashed look. She’d forgotten the flip part.
“Try again.”
Mrsha stood up. She hesitated, swung her arms, hopped—and felt someone push her head slightly and legs at the same time in opposite directions. Mrsha spun, screamed silently as she felt herself go spl—
“Nearly.”
Wanderer caught her. Mrsha stared at the ground, up at him, and then tried to bite his arm. He put her down.
“Try again. Now you know how it feels.”
Mrsha glowered, but she had felt it. You tucked your head down and just— Mrsha did a hop, and then flipped. The world spun around her in a terrifying, amazing second, and then she felt an impact.
She landed on her butt and stared. Then laughed in silent delight! Look at that! Ryoka had never taught her…
She looked up as Wanderer loomed over her. He smiled, once.
“Now land on your feet. And spin a bit more. You need to practice so you know exactly when to stop and how far to go.”
 
—-
 
Ten minutes later, Mrsha could flip whenever she chose. It was actually not that hard once you got into it, and the fear of smacking the ground was the biggest impediment.
She’d done just that eight times, and Wanderer had lied when he’d said he’d catch her! Well, he had protected her head twice, but the little bumps weren’t fun!
Nevertheless, he was a somewhat good teacher—although Mrsha found his new instructions to be odd.
“No. You are jumping too high. Lower. I will catch you if you fall…this time. As low as you can.”
He didn’t just want her to learn how to do a flip, he wanted her to learn how to do a tight front-flip, barely an inch off the ground.
She resented his instruction, but the girl had to admit—this was something Lyonette would never have countenanced, and more physically amazing than anyone but Ryoka had ever shown her.
Mrsha found the challenge exhilarating; she could feel her fur touching the ground if she did it right. She did three super-compact flips in a row, and then Wanderer nodded.
“Good enough. You won’t hurt yourself if I don’t catch you. Now, it will take some getting used to, but if you get used to it, we’ll be moving even faster within the hour.”
“Used to what?”
Mrsha frowned, a bit dizzy. She didn’t see how this translated to his jumping ability.
For answer, Wanderer placed a paw on her shoulder. He looked at Mrsha as he hefted his walking staff.
“There are more classes in this world than we can dream of, Mrsha. All with little secrets and Skills. Mine? Mine is [Traveller]. A generalist class. Some call it useless. Yet there is a trick in my class. Do you know what it is?”
Mrsha raised one eyebrow. You’re going to tell me anyways.
Wer grinned with all his teeth.
“The trick is—I have the potential to learn almost any Skill that I encounter. From any class. So—here’s something I learned on my long journey. [World Traveller: Grasshopper’s Run].”
He touched Mrsha’s fur and she felt her hair lift as a sensation ran through her. She felt… Light.
Mrsha stared up at Wer. What had he said just now? The Gnoll saw her look and knew what she was curious about.
“It’s my school of Skills. World Traveller. It encompasses…special Skills.” He hefted the enchanted staff he carried, which appeared to be plain wood, but had been tough enough to survive Belavierr’s battle.
“Staff art. Running technique used by [Rangers] and the like. Stealth Skills I learned from my travels. Enough of that. Follow me. And remember—flip.”
Without a word, he jumped. Mrsha saw him bound down the hill, racing down the grass and rocks without slowing. She hesitated—and then followed a second later.
They bounded down the hill, and this time Mrsha felt gravity loosen its hold on her. She raced, on all fours, and realized what his Skill did.
When you ran up a hill, and even down it, you were careful. Even the fastest runner downhill watched for cliffs, gaps, slowed to avoid the uneven terrain.
Wanderer raced down the hill in nearly a straight line, avoiding only the biggest obstacles. It was more like he was…falling, and pushing himself even faster and faster down the slope!
Mrsha copied him. She was fearless suddenly, and part of it was surely the Skill helping her. She leapt, her paws barely touching the ground. Fast! Faster!
Run as if you were falling, pushing off the ground in bigger leaps and bounds as you leapt.
The two flashed past an antelope bounding down the slope, away from the potential predators. The silly creature actually stopped and stared at them flying past. Mrsha could almost hear its thoughts.
I thought I was fast!
Then it happened. As Mrsha was running, she saw a rock straight in front of her. She swerved to avoid and her paws slipped on a patch of stones. She hurtled towards the rock and then pushed—
Mrsha flipped over the top of the boulder. She landed, turned her head, wide-eyed, looking back at the amazing stunt she’d pulled, and nearly fell into a crevasse. Wanderer laughed as he caught her.
“You’re a natural after all! Now—watch. This is how you complete [Grasshopper’s Run].”
