So saying, he transferred Mrsha to one arm. Then Wanderer planted the stave he was running with on the ground. He pushed hard and vaulted over the small crevasse with Mrsha under one arm.
For a moment—they flew. Then, Wanderer put Mrsha down and they ran on. She bounded up slopes, jumped, and flipped, twisting through the air. Laughing—for a second just enjoying herself. Until she saw Wanderer grinning and realized it should have been Ryoka. Mrsha turned to look back, but she didn’t know where Liscor lay.
And…she had to know. Mrsha followed Wanderer. To learn the truth of her fur. Her power.
She realized what it meant soon enough. For…
They were being hunted.
 
—-
 
Inkar was used to Gnolls by and large after having been adopted by her tribe.
She was not used to Ekhtouch, but circumstances had contrived to put her in close proximity with one of the more unique tribes of Gnolls in the world.
“I do not know if there is any circumstance in which they would welcome us into their camps in this way. Even if we were ‘allies’ in another Meeting of Tribes, it would be political, not like this.”
[Shaman] Cetrule whispered as Satar, Cers, Inkar, Tkrn, Krshia, and a group of other Silverfangs came to visit the Ekhtouch Tribe. Akrisa was still talking with Chieftain Firrelle and the others, who were considering the angle of Earth in a new light.
The cat was out of the bag, to use Rose’s expression, a phrase that invited a lot of questions when she’d used it and everyone else scrutinized her hobbies. It was not what Krshia wanted, having planned to reveal the secret of Earth—but now that Steelfur knew, things were moving fast.
Politics in large made Inkar nervous, but the concrete benefit in the small way—or not so small as she turned out to be was the giant, Gire.
A fifteen year-old Gnoll who was second-tallest of any Gnoll here. Smart, quick—she’d snuck up behind Tkrn and Inkar to stare at the phone. Sweet too; she had apologized so much for overreacting. It was thanks to her, and her alone that Ekhtouch had decided to put their weight behind the other tribes.
It was not just Firrelle, either. Why else were so many Gnolls staring—albeit from behind the hide ‘walls’ each tribe used for privacy’s sake at this odd turn of events? Ekhtouch was busy setting up their camp.
Next to Silverfang. It was a bit of an uproar in the Meeting of Tribes. They had abandoned their spot in the center of the gathering, uprooted their tents overnight, and were settling in over here. Countless Gnolls were wondering what had happened. Why had Ekhtouch decided to move here and state their affiliation so openly?
Gire. When she had convinced her Chieftain to support Akrisa, Inkar had known she had influence, but she was still a child.
It turned out Ekhtouch saw things differently. When Gireulashia spoke, they listened. Not only that—the Gnolls of all three tribes were told they had free access to the Ekhtouch camp, with the obvious proviso that Gire and the others could mingle with them.
“They have never granted such rights before! Not even to the other great tribes! It must be Honored Gireulashia. Please, Honored Inkarr—take care not to offend her.”
“I will.”
Inkar assured Cetrule, who was admonishing Satar and Cers the same way. The younger [Shaman] gazed at the Ekhtouch Gnolls, half-nodding to Cetrule as Cers listened to his father, peeking at them.
They knew it was important, but…even Krshia was distracted. Because Ekhtouch was so interesting.
The young of Ekhtouch were almost never seen outside of their tribe. Perhaps because Ekhtouch had a reputation to maintain; any flaws in their ‘perfect’ people might reflect on their product…which was them.
There were many things to be made uncomfortable by, since they were a species that did what Terandrian nobility did; breed for perfection. That you could do it in this world…well, Inkar was no fool, but she understood Ekhtouch’s arranged matches had produced many ties in the Meeting of Tribes and as they met other tribes.
Satar herself was a product of that relationship, and so some of the Gnolls regarded her like a…half-cousin. Marred by imperfection, yet one of them, family forever because she was a descendant of the same ties that kept their tribe alive.
It made Satar patently uncomfortable. Inkar, though, was drawn to the children.
Like Gire, they were all larger or quicker than other children their age. They had smooth fur of all colors, and they were nimble and quick. They learned and grew fast, such that she was astonished to see a walking Gnoll cub who was only a year old! Even Cers couldn’t walk on two legs unless someone made him.
“Can I play with them?”
Cers whined. Cetrule hushed him, but one of the children had spotted Cers. Ekhtouch and Silverfang watched as a girl raced over on all fours.
“We are allowed to speak with you. You are Silverfang. Do you want to play tag?”
She spoke, a bit too eloquently, and Cers blinked. But in a second he was grinning and showing her a ball Aunt Krshia had given him—he tossed it and they were racing off like a shot. Cers wasn’t too slow to play tag—until Inkar realized he was playing with children several years younger than he was and they were just as fast or faster.
The interesting thing was their games. Tag, fetch the ball, those were normal. But as the Silverfangs walked the camp, looking for Gire and trying not to openly spy, they heard two teenage Gnolls talking as they fletched arrows. One spoke.
“Weasel.”
The other returned, unperturbed.
“Lech.”
“Harlot.”
“Tease.”
“Embarrassment.”
“Temptress.”
At that, the other Gnoll glanced up. He sniffed at his companion, looking victorious.
“I am male. It does not follow.”
“Temptress can be male or female, I opine. You just ran out of insults that begin with ‘s’.”
She snapped back. Inkar looked from one to the other and realized—they weren’t insulting each other, they were playing a word-game.
“Sycophant.”
He retorted instantly, and she wavered just a hair too long, lost, and threw down her arrow in disgust before they began again.
“Animals, next. Taurus.”
“Snake…”
Meanwhile, the children Cers’ age were eager to show this strange Gnoll boy some more games. One paused, ball in hand.
“Let’s show him the game of Triumphs! Me first, me first! I’ll do…words and ball and tumbling!”
“Only three?”
The others mocked her. The Gnoll girl glared around.
“Just to show. Four, then. How about…maths?”
“I’ll do it! Cers, you can play too.”
“What’s Triumphs?”
Cers halted on his bum, looking interested as the Gnoll hefted the ball a few times, gauging the leather orb’s weight and the Gnoll who’d volunteered to help with ‘maths’ stared at the sky, thinking. The other Gnoll boy explained.
“You prove you can do all four! Watch! She’s going to do four—it’ll be easy. Ready?”
“Ready!”
The girl had dusky-grey fur with a striped orange pattern, like a tiger in a way. Inkar slowed as the others counted down.
“Three, two, one…go!”
The Gnoll girl bounded into action. First, she tossed the leather ball up. Not straight up, and not too high! It flew in a lazy arc in the air, with plenty of air time. Then—she began to speak as she burst into, of all things, a cartwheel.
“My fur is silky butter and I have no graying hairs or wen, They envy me from the Walled Cities, Baleros, and Terandria, I race against all Centaurs and I wrestle only Minotaurs…” 
She cartwheeled across the ground, singing, towards the falling ball. Cers’ jaw dropped, but it wasn’t over yet. One of the children shouted.
“Eighteen six times!”
The Gnoll girl heard, but didn’t slow. She came up, out of the cartwheel, still singing without missing a word.
“I know of ancient chieftains and shaman tales historical…”
The ball landed in her paws. She smirked around, but uttered a triumphant finisher to the display of Triumphs.
“96!”
The Gnoll children, who had been watching with appreciation stopped. Then a chorus of jeers rang out.
“Wrong! You failed!”
The Gnoll girl froze, and was then pelted with clods of earth and bits of grass. Cers looked confused.
“But she sang and caught the ball and…”
“Eighteen six times is a hundred and eight! Not ninety six, stupid!”
The other Ekhtouch children shouted at the Gnoll girl, who hung her head all of six seconds before raising it.
“Fine, someone else do four! I wasn’t prepared because I was just showing three!”
“I’ll do five! Um…I’ll do math, juggling, um…”
Another Gnoll boy volunteered. The others began to throw in ideas.
“Eyes closed!”
“No, that should be worth two. Do another song! Sing ‘Oh, Jolly Drakes’.”
“Too long!”
Triumphs was a game only Ekhtouch could have invented, where you demonstrated your ability to perform multiple tasks. Cers looked nervous when they wanted him to do it; math would be his downfall even if he was allowed to do just that.
“Astonishing. That’s what their children do?”
Krshia muttered to herself, eyeing the children’s game, which they seemed to be enjoying, even competitive at. She doubted this was a show; no other tribes mentioned these odd games. This was what Ekhtouch did for fun?
It might explain why the giant child herself, albeit taller than the adults, hurried towards them with such interest in her eyes.
“Inkarr! Tkrn! Honored Krshia, Shaman Cetrule, and Shaman Satar, I welcome you to the Ekhtouch camp. Please, accept the hospitality of the Ekhtouch; need you any refreshments?”
She greeted the two excitedly, her tail wagging, then remembered the others. Her bow was graceful, her tone measured. But when Krshia and Cetrule shook their heads, she was all too eager to bend down.
“May I see it again, Inkar?”
“Of course, Gire.”
Inkar carefully offered the iPhone up to the excited Gnoll [Paragon]. Gire beamed—for all of two seconds before one of the Ekhtouch called out to her.
“Honored Gireulashia, they are playing a game of ‘football’ with the equipment from Liscor. Chieftain Firrelle wants you to participate.”
“I am…entertaining our guests!”
Gire called over her shoulder, peevishly. The Ekhtouch Gnoll was made of sterner stuff than most; maybe it was the silver in her mane that Krshia suspected indicated she had helped raise Gire.
“She knows. One ‘point’, Gire.”
“Very well. Inkarr, I must go play this game. May I see it after I come back?”
Gire handed the iPhone back. Bemused, Inkar nodded.
“Of course. If you want to play…”
To her surprise, Gire scowled, not at all enamored by the game which a lot of Gnolls found so enjoyable.
“No. It will be quick.”
 
—-
 
The game of soccer or football depending on where you were from was popular among Izril’s people. Baseball had its charms, but kicking a ball around was something anyone could do. All you needed was the ball, after all, and Joseph was a celebrity.
So small wonder countless Gnolls wanted to play with the balls that Rose had brought with her from Liscor. The autographed ones courtesy of Joseph were being carefully gifted by Akrisa.
Then again, this game was all about showing off, and there were Gnolls from numerous tribes trying to prove that Pallass’ team would be nothing in the Meeting of Tribes.
They certainly had lots of Skills. One Gnoll kicked the ball so high that Inkar swore it was nearly a minute in coming down—he was told not to do that again. Another Steelfur Gnoll playing goalkeeper blocked a shot at five feet away—with his face. She just blinked and laughed as the ball bounced off her fur.
Gire stomped into the field, not looking as excited as the others. She had been ordered to score a goal, to prove Ekhtouch could do anything. The other Gnolls, [Warriors] and [Rangers], even a [Chieftain], looked like they were still having fun.
“Ekhtouch is playing? That’s Honored Gireulashia! Let’s see how she does! A Gnoll from Emaspath’s tribe has the ball and she looks quick!”
A Gnoll was taking Drassi’s job of announcer. Sure enough, a Gnoll was leaving a blurred path across the field as some Skill took her forwards.
Gire stood a dozen paces in front of the goal on her side and scratched at her arm, looking unhappy. Already, the soccer pitch had been doubled in size and it might need to be tripled, depending on the Skills at play.
Inkar was curious, so she watched only Gire as she stared at the game. Gire was at once shy and imposing, intelligent and childish. She seemed happy enough to race about; was it just the iPhone that made her so unhappy?
The Emaspath’s Gnoll saw Gire standing in front of the goal, and wavered. Another Gnoll raced forwards, waving a paw.
“Here!”
They came towards the Steelfur Gnoll again, watching out for Gire as more Gnolls ran after them—or slowed to see how Gire would do. The [Paragon] stood still, staring around, scratching her arm…waiting.
Both Gnolls slowed, but then the Emaspath’s [Scout] shot towards the goal. At the last moment, she kicked the ball towards the other Gnoll. He responded with a shout.
“[Dust Kick]!”
He actually had a kicking Skill! The [Fighter] didn’t kick the ball, but rather, dug his foot into the ground and then kicked up a wall of dust over Gire.
And the spectators. They cursed and coughed as the [Grasslands Fighter] passed the ball back to the [Scout]. Another move that was going to end up with the player disqualified…but the [Scout] launched the ball back at the goalkeeper, who was still facing the [Fighter], drawn in by the feint and Skill, shielding her face.
Gire had also closed her eyes when the dust storm rose. She stood as the [Scout] kicked the ball—and then whirled. She pivoted on the ball of one foot as the [Scout] kicked the ball straight towards the goal.
Inkar hadn’t been in the way of the dust. She saw it all.
Like a piece of puzzle coming together, Gire stepped in one motion over to a point only she could see and pivoted on one foot. Her other leg flashed up, coming around in an arc to meet the ball flying towards her. The [Scout] gaped as it seemed to the audience as if she’d kicked it straight into Gire’s path.
She had not, but the result was the same. Gire kicked the ball into the air, the rebound so powerful that Inkar lost track of it for a second. Gire stood, stared past the players who were turning, coughed in the dust, and then walked off the pitch.
The soccer ball flew through the air in a powerful arc, curving, losing momentum, but zooming across the pitch. Every player’s head rose and the goalkeeper on the other end stopped flirting with the opposing player. He swore, looked up and jumped—too late.
