He communicated well. Boil the noodles, fry up meat and vegetables—slice those. Big taste paste referred to a pot of seasoning. Fals squatted there, warily, but getting into it.
“A stir-up? That sounds good for so many. Great! Er, how do you want to—”
Rasktooth was slapping vegetables on a cutting board as he chattered to another Cave Goblin, who begrudgingly filled a pot with water and began to hang it over the fire. He gave Fals a look.
I’m not an idiot. Stop getting in my way.
The City Runner hesitated—then stopped asking questions.
As the food began, Pivr watched. He turned to Bird
“We cannot ingest gluten. Revalantor Bird, have we alternative food sources? If not, I have secured ample provisions.”
Bird looked up; he’d missed the food talk in whispering to a little bag for anything else he needed to know. Belatedly, he saw the noodles.
“Oh no. I should shoot some birds.”
“No need. Here. Antinium! Sustenance is prepared.”
Pivr dug in his bag of holding. The Antinium gathered around and saw him disgorge a huge, ample portion of nutrient…
Slop. Sergeant Gna instantly clapped a paw over her nose. Fierre’s own nose wrinkled and Salkis gagged.
“What in the name of the walls is that?”
She pointed and an orange and brown…no, there was green. It was mold. But it was probably edible mold and, all things given, the most appetizing part of the nutrient paste that Antinium produced.
“Efficient food. Storeable. Compact. No fire or preparation needed.”
Pivr extolled the benefits of Antinium food. The Free Antinium looked at each other. They looked at the fire, and Fals and Rasktooth, staring in horror at the abomination of cuisine.
They edged towards the fire. They’d be happy with incontinent stomachs.
“We are not eating that, Pivr.”
“Y-yeah. We can make non-noodle food! Anything! Really. Just—put that away, please?”
Fals waved at Pivr. The Antinium, disgruntled, kicked the food into his bag of holding. The dirt would not interfere with the taste or quality of the food either. Xeu rubbed her scythes together.
“Alternative to noodles required?”
“Yes. I will shoot a bird. Or bat. Or many.”
Bird tilted his head up at the sky. Xeu shook her body, having to scuttle left and right to perform the action.
“Alternative food source. I have.”
“Really? Well then, I will eat it.”
Bird looked up. Niers frowned, poking his head out of the bag. The others watched as Xeu scuttled off. Fierre, who was watching as the Antinium formed a wall between the wagon and road, frowned.
“Wait a second. Where is she going?”
Xeu scuttled right past her, vanishing into the land beyond. But she was headed towards the road…past the road…towards the distant red earth. The area far, far out of range for even the spores or deadly tricks of—
“The Bloodfields. Xeu, wait!”
Octavia screamed, but it was too late. Xeu was gone. Half the party rose to their feet. Ulvama swore as Goblins, Humans, Vampire, Gnoll, and more raced after Xeu. She took five steps forwards, looked back, and then caught herself.
“What am I doing?”
Ulvama went to sit back down. She wasn’t going anywhere near that place.
Two Humans raced after Xeu. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Normen and the other man had also been forgotten, uncomfortable with everyone here. Now, they charged forwards, but were drawn up by a shout.
“No, you idiots! You’re not wilderness fighters! Fall back!” 
They slowed. Normen glanced over his shoulder. The voice was right. They were used to street fights; neither had ever seen the Bloodfields. Who had said…? Numbtongue raced past them, sword drawn. Normen moved to follow, but the Goblin had halted.
“Xeu! Stop!”
Numbtongue bellowed. Yet he couldn’t see the Silent Antinium. Everyone halted on the road, staring into the darkness. They saw the strange, alien fauna beyond.
Bloodfields. The deathly ‘sentry’ plants which impaled the ground, the bulbous plants holding insects within, cutting grass…a thousand things ready to slaughter you. Everyone remembered the Crelers—but even without them, the Bloodfields were dangerous.
Xeu though, was nowhere to be seen. Bird whirled to Pivr.
“Where is she?”
Pivr shrugged his wings.
“I do not know. Xeu is Silent Antinium. Her Queen would know.”
“You are unhelpful, Pivr.”
Bird twisted back, staring, but even his eyes couldn’t spot her amid the twilight. Fierre sniffed the breeze.
“I’m too far away to pick her out. Anyone else have better eyes? A Skill?”
Badarrow was squinting. Gna tried to pick up Xeu’s scent, but she had been odorless and Gna hadn’t detected her even when she was right next to the Antinium! The first sign of Xeu was when the Bloodfields abruptly moved. There was a flash—and one of the bulbous pods went pop. Everyone recoiled and heard distant thrumming.
“Look! There!”
Garia pointed in horror. Normen and the other Brother stared in shock as insects exploded out of one of the pods. They whirled around, having been disgorged from the trap-plant they’d infested by…what?
Xeu! The Silent Antinium became visible in a rending whirlwind of her scythe-arms. The little insects covered her, biting, trying to eat through her armor, but unlike flesh-beings, she was the superior insect.
“Dead gods, she’s slaughtering them!”
Sure enough, the swarm covered Xeu, and then fled. She scuttled around, the bag of holding attached to one limb, and then trotted back. Everyone stared as she appeared, covered in insect blood and bits, but unharmed.
“Food secured.”
She handed Fals a bag full of diced insects. He nearly dropped it. Rasktooth smacked his lips.
“Good extra. Make more fries.”
The others looked at him in horror. But the Antinium were all nodding. Good provisions. The bugs looked tasty.
 
—-
 
“I am not eating from that pan again. Did you make that before this plate? Or after?”
Sergeant Gna nearly threw down her plate of stir-fry when she saw the Antinium’s version. It was roughly the same. Crispy meat, vegetables, all glazed with a sauce to keep it together—Rasktooth also had [Natural Seasonings]. The only difference was that instead of chewy, flat noodles, theirs were fried insects.
Garia turned pale as the plate was handed to Bird. Fals hurried to reassure the others, looking queasy.
“I made it all before that. That’s…are you really going to eat that?”
Bird looked up from stuffing his face. The Free Antinium were accepting plates as Rasktooth and another Cave Goblin handed them out with every sign of enjoyment.
“It’s bugs. I knew they were insect-people but—I’m going to be sick.”
“Oh, stop being such a baby.”
Fierre snapped at last, unable to put up with the Sergeant’s constant complaining. Gna twisted.
“Excuse me, Miss?”
“It’s just bugs! You’re not eating them! Chickens eat bugs all the time. We eat chickens. Bugs are in grain—have you never seen a grasshopper leg in some wheat? I bet you eat at least one per year!”
Fierre was not impressed by the bugs; she was a farm girl. Garia looked a bit queasy, but nodded.
Rather, it was the city-folk, Gna included, who looked pale. Normen muttered into his plate as he reached for a stiff drink instead of water.
“No offense to the Antinium. Fine gents I hear, Miss. But that’s not something I’ve ever seen. Never heard of regular folk eating bugs, myself.”
“Nor me.”
Salkis and the two Brothers exchanged looks. All the Goblins tittered. They were amused. The city-folk glanced at them.
“Not ever eaten bugs? Fat Humans, fat Drakes and Gnolls. Never been hungry! Rasktooth, give us plate of bugs! Non-Goblins eat the rest.”
Snapjaw waved, a challenge in her eyes. She offered the plate back for the noodle-portion and the other Goblins gave up theirs too, grinning. All but Badarrow, who kicked Snapjaw when she poked him.
“I hate bugs.”
Ulvama refused too, but the Goblin’s teasing still clearly rankled the others. Gna’s head turned for support…and found surprisingly little.
The two Brothers were with her, and Fals. Garia and Fierre didn’t object. However, Octavia didn’t blink twice at bugs.
“I use ‘em all the time in my alchemy. They’re in potions too. Also…Ceria eats them, you know. All the time. Even worms. Say, can I get any parts left over? I’ve never experimented with Bloodfields bugs…”
Rasktooth indicated a bowl of bits, in good humor. Octavia went over, and Numbtongue accepted a plate of bug-fry with resignation. But the dour [Bard] had a bit of his own humor in his eyes as he deliberately took a big forkful and crunched on a bite.
“Pretty good. Sour.”
“Needs more good sauce.”
Rasktooth added more sauce. The thing was—which none of the Goblins said—the thing was, bugs still tasted a bit worse than noodles unless your palate was aimed around them. Most bugs were bitter or sour, because they didn’t want to be eaten. Cows were apparently suicidal because they tasted good.
Even so, they grinned as they crunched, supplementing satisfaction for taste. The others stared—until Garia slapped her legs.
“Well—well, why not? Give me a forkful, Numbtongue!”
She rose to her feet, a challenge in her eyes. The others stared as she walked over. Numbtongue was merciful; he gave her a shell-portion, which crunched, but tasted mostly of the rest of the plate. Garia’s eyes watered, but she crunched it down, then lifted an arm up.
“It’s not…bad! Really, Fals!”
He looked horrified, but someone else lifted a claw.
“Why not? I’ve had raw meat. I’ll try one.”
Salkis, grinning again like it was an adventure, actually took a raw bug and after a moment of staring at it, bit off the head. She chewed, swallowed fast, but then tossed it down.
“Hah!”
“Oh, so it’s a contest, is it? I can eat bugs. It’s happened in Liscor’s army. Give me that. I’ll just—”
Gna grabbed a centipede-thing, took a bite, gagged, and nearly threw up. Fals stared at her, lowered the fork he’d taken to try a bite, and refused.
Fierre had a bite too, mostly to see if insect-blood sated her thirst. It didn’t—or there wasn’t enough of it to help. The others chuckled or laughed, and the Antinium quietly noshed, watching the others trying their food.
“I am updating the Blood Fields as possible food source. It is not that dangerous, it seems, if food is abundant.”
Pivr opined to Xeu and Bird. The Silent Antinium rubbed her scythes together.
“Dangerous. Stalk-plants impale any Antinium. Can sense me.”
“How did you survive, Xeu?”
“I did not get close.”
“So Antinium eat bugs and they come in all forms. Goblins eat bugs, and half-Elves apparently. Strange. No one mentioned that. It’s cannibalism—sort of. And they’re all good in a fight?”
Salkis washed down the buggy bite with a drink. She was still getting her bearings. The others looked at the newcomer. All assumed that someone else knew her. Numbtongue shrugged. He counted.
“That one is good at fighting. Bird is. I, Badarrow, Snapjaw, and that one are best at fighting. Redfangs and [Chieftains]. Ulvama too, maybe. Garia can punch. You have enchanted daggers. Brothers are good. So…nine good fighters.”
He counted, and pointed at Xeu, much to Pivr’s dismay. The others stirred as Numbtongue counted them off.
“I know those two are good. Men with hats.”
“Brothers, Miss. I’m Normen, and this is Alcaz. At your service. Pleasure to be with you on this mission—heard you helped us out at the inn.”
Normen tipped his hat. So did Alcaz, the other man. A spluttering sound came from Salkis’ left.
“Wait a second! You forgot me!”
Sergeant Gna. Pivr raised a claw.
“And me. I am a Revalantor of—”
“We’re not bad fighters, Numbtongue. I’ve held my own in a fair number of scraps!”
Fals protested as well. Fierre also nodded.
“I survived the Archmage of Izril’s mansion with Ryoka!”
Numbtongue shrugged, unmoved by all but that last. He looked towards his bedroll and yawned.
“I said good fighters. Most can fight. Let’s sleep. We move tomorrow.”
He went to lie down. Someone threw a spoon at him.
Sergeant Gna. She was on her feet, glowering, eyes flashing.
“I’ve had enough of this, Goblin. I may not like coming along. I may have been ordered to come along, but I am a [Sergeant] in Liscor’s 4th Company. When we get into a scrap, you’d better listen to me because I—”
Numbtongue tossed the spoon back. He spoke over Pivr, who was also trying to state his credentials.
“I am a Level 35 [Bard].”
Gna choked on her tongue. Pivr fell silent. Xeu stared. Niers peeked out of his bag, grinning, and took another bite of his snack. He was damned if he’d live on bugs; he’d had a cookie he’d been eating all day. One cookie. It’d probably last him the next day too. He’d had a single noodle for dinner. Not bad eating.
Gna looked at Numbtongue, lost for words. Her paw twitched towards her side, instinctively. Salkis sat up and stared at Numbtongue, eyes glittering. The [Bard] looked around.
“Who else is over Level 30? Just raise your hands.”
He stared about. Fierre held her breath.
Level 30? It was rare to find anyone of Numbtongue’s level just hanging about. He could be a Gold-rank with that! Erin was even more exceptional. Of course, she was a Vampire, but she understood why he said what he did. There was no way—
Badarrow raised his hand, and Bird raised two of his, one for him, one for Niers. Then he lowered one hand because he remembered he was a [Liar]. Snapjaw raised a hand, and so did Ulvama.
Salkis was the last, and her eyes lit up as all gazes fell on her. Gna gaped.
Goblins with levels. The two Brothers touched their hats, and Normen muttered.
“Crimshaw should’ve been here.”
Octavia stared at the Goblins. One of them, a Redfang, folded her arms, but looked delighted at the representation. Numbtongue counted.
“Six. Good fighters.”
He rolled over.
“Go to sleep.”
Goblin dominance established, the others fell silent. Gna rolled over behind her rock, muttering, but subdued. The Antinium tucked themselves into their holes. Fierre rolled under a wagon and the Goblins fell asleep almost at once. They rested like that, and Octavia, who’d elected to sleep on top of the wagon, unsure why everyone wasn’t fighting for this space, reflected it wasn’t the worst first day.
There was tension, but they’d tried bugs, and it might work out.
…Maybe.
 
—-
 
The next day, the band of mostly not-Brothers except for the two who were, awoke. They packed up and struck camp early—Octavia snoozed through everything until they got moving. So did Salkis, and she just climbed into the wagon, muttering curses; she wasn’t used to rising like that either.
