Ren looked at her, and then he realized what she meant. “I really am stupid.” He said and smacked himself in the forehead with the palm of his hand. Unfortunately, he had forgotten his Skull Cracker ability had been boosted to 40% and stunned himself. Ren was knocked unconscious instantly, and his whole body went stiff as a board. He fell straight backwards and slammed into the ground with a loud thud.

*

“REN!” Rainie and Shanna yelled. They ran over to him and climbed up onto his chest, then all of the succubi flew over to him. The other pixies scattered, but Rainie and Shanna stayed on his chest as the succubi landed and their Aura touched him. They relaxed when they felt that he was only stunned, then looked at the two pixies.

“You shouldn't move him.” Rainie said. “He might be hurt after that fall, and you might hurt him more if you do.”

“You just want to keep him here.” One of the succubi said.

Rainie looked up at the tall blonde and smiled. “Wouldn't you, if you weren't already going with him?”

“I... yes.” Zunala said. “He's too tasty to just leave and ignore.”

“He makes me feel all warm and fuzzy inside.” Rainie said. “I've never felt like that before.”

“None of us have.” One of the succubi said, and she knelt to straighten his hair. “We intended to trap him; but, he trapped us instead.”

“Is it still a trap if you go along willingly?” Rainie asked.

“Oh, yes.” Zunala said and smiled. “That's the most dangerous trap to get caught in.”

*

Frikara and the other maids sat in silence as Lara, the Sage of Ages, told them all about what Ren was doing in Shargon Caverns. When she was done, there was only one thing on their minds.

“Succubi.” Frikara said, shocked. “He has 20 succubi.”

“After hearing about everything else, that's the part you're stuck on?” Lara asked.

“He's going to be spending a lot of time with 20 horny women.” Frikara said. “He goes into battle with them. He protects them. He gave them weapons to fight, even though everyone knows succubi don't fight if they can avoid it.”

“You seem really agitated about that.” Lara said. “What are you worried about?”

“There's a few things that can form strong bonds between people.” Frikara said. “One of the most powerful is going into a fight together and protecting each other.” She said. “Despite the contracts, Ren is going to bond with these women.”

“What are you saying?” Lara asked.

“I'm saying, unless he gets out of those caverns soon and firmly puts the succubi aside...” Frikara sighed. “...they are going to become a dominant presence in his life, even though they can't actually help him fight.”

Lara closed her eyes and thought about that information. “Oh, no.” She said and opened her eyes. “It's going to be much worse than that.”

“What do you mean?” Frikara asked.

“If he keeps them with him, there's a good chance his corruption will become permanent.” Lara said. “I have to go and warn him.” She said and moved off the bed to sit on the chair by the bed.

“Don't you want to lay down?”

Lara shook her head. “I'm not coming back for a day or two.” She said. “Let the others know what I told you.”

Frikara nodded. “I'll tell them you'll be gone, too.”

“Thanks.” Lara said. “Logout.”

When Lara's avatar changed to it's phantom form, Frikara looked at the others.

“Lusinia, go to Donna and ask her who we can find to train us.” Frikara said, and Lusinia nodded. “Verwynn, go to Donan and see about having him make us proper weapons.” She said. “We can worry about armor later.” She turned to Navruth. “Go to Sally and get 5 sets of travelling clothes. We can move around properly in the clothing Ren has made for us; but, for fighting we need pants.”

“What about me?” Andrela asked.

“Find us a good spot to train. One that is out of the way and hidden from prying eyes.” Frikara said. “I'll go to the general store for the supplies we need for making targets and practice dummies.” She said and smiled. “If Ren wants a coherent fighting force... with the gods as our witnesses... we are going to be the only ones he needs!”
