Beside her, Callan’s shoulders slumped. He let out a long breath. “I really don’t like her,” he muttered. Pyre snorted, but she didn’t blame the ghost for his opinion on the crossroads demon. Frankly she wasn’t totally sure how she felt about Pax herself, other than finding her generally suspicious and vague. That uncanny feeling from their first meeting had never gone away.

The sloth fiend directed her attention to the bag the crossroads demon had dropped. By now, her flesh felt a little more firm again, so she carefully extended a section to rummage around the contents. From what she could tell, everything was there: the money, the clothes, other random knicknacks she’d swiped from the guards, the map, and the two evolution crystals and two class crystals. One of which she’d be using very, very soon.

Pyre tugged the map out. “Well, at least we’ve got a place name,” she joked. “You’re gonna be the one who does the removal spell once we’ve got the horn, by the way.”

Callan nodded slowly. “You’re talking about Tivona’s other horn?” He sounded confused.

Ah, right, he wouldn’t know about that. “Yeah, I saw some of her memories just now.” Pyre waved the flesh that supported her own horns for emphasis. “Apparently she was living among humans for a bit, got found out, and they ripped off one of her horns before she escaped. That should be plenty to bind the mark to, right?”

Callan’s brows furrowed at the story, but he nodded. “Magrath is a city in Auren,” he explained. He hovered over to the map and pointed at a spot near the border between Auren and Ravarn. “It’s right next to the mountains. Once we leave the Gravestones, we just need to cross the Pale River to get into Auren. Magrath shouldn’t be far from there.”

That was good at least. If the horn had been transported further away, that would’ve been a lot more annoying to deal with. As it was, there was a good chance they could retrieve the horn and remove the curse before Pyre even started feeling whatever side effects the mark’s ichor-drainage caused.

“Cool, we’ve got a plan then.” The demon glanced at their surroundings. They looked alone right now, save for the dark stain that had once been Tivona, but being out in the open was probably not the greatest idea in the world. Doubly so if class changing took a lot of time.

Slowly, Pyre rose, scooping her bag up with a bone spike as she did so. She began making her way towards the tunnel they’d just exited, not stopping until she’d crossed inside with Callan following behind her. Almost immediately, the sound of the wind and thunder was muffled by layers of rock and stone. The demon stayed right by the entrance where she had a good view of their surroundings.

“Okay,” she said. Pyre plopped back down and leaned against the tunnel wall to let [Regeneration] continue its work. “First we deal with all these notifications, then we head for Magrath.”
