One red opened her jaws. Arthur expected her to breathe flame. Instead, she spat green liquid that looked either acidic or toxic. He and Brixaby phased through, not wanting to find out. Droplets of the liquid splattered on Cressida’s shield and were torn away by the wind.

Brixaby buzzed upward in a way only a purple could. But he angled his wings so that the wash of air hit the other dragon. The red tried to curve her neck around to spit again, but it was as if her own wings lost their grip on the sky—something about turbulent air. Brixaby had explained it to Arthur once or twice, but Arthur never fully understood.

She dropped a good fifty feet before she recovered herself. By then, Arthur and Brixaby were facing their next foe.

Arthur threw one of his javelins, aiming for the dragon’s wing webbing. It tore, slowing dragons or making them land. It was the kindest thing he could do for them.

No, he thought with a frown, the kindest thing he could do was to put these beasts out of their misery. Sick from constant scourge exposure, under the thrall of a Mind Singer . . . that was no life at all. A javelin aimed at a wing could just as easily be aimed at a heart, but—

Arthur sensed more than saw movement right next to him. He whipped his head around for a double take. There was a dragon-sized distortion in the air, the size of a dragon too close.

“Brix—” he started.

Abruptly, giant claws wrapped around him, and he was snatched up from Brixaby’s neck.

Brixaby immediately bellowed and twisted around, reaching up to slap a claw against the other dragon, who was still only barely visible as a shift in the sky.

“You dare steal Arthur from me?!”

Brixaby snatched his claws back with a card, and color and visible light flooded back into the dragon who had Arthur as their illusion broke. Brixaby must have taken its core card because life faded from its eyes, and the claws around Arthur loosened.

But not before a giant of a green shouldered past Brixaby, sending him spinning in the air, and snatched Arthur up just as the former illusionist started to fall.

Arthur readied himself to phase through the claws. He had only seven seconds left on his timer, but it would be well worth it.

Blackness enveloped him, and suddenly he was several hundred feet away—Brixaby bellowing with a Stunning Shout that knocked away several dragons that were trying to intercept him, as well as Cressida and Joy, who were trying to help.

The green dragon who had him had a teleportation card, and its method of teleportation was not kind to Arthur’s head or stomach.

The world spun around him without actually spinning at all. He clutched at the claws just for some stability.

Another brief period of blackness, and again they had jumped—no, teleported—that much closer to the estate. Each shift left Arthur worse than dizzy, and he didn’t trust that if he phased, or snatched the green’s card, there would be anyone to catch him. Battling both nausea and almost debilitating vertigo, he wasn’t sure if he could even use his own cards.

The last teleport placed them directly above the roof of the estate.

“Welcome, welcome,” voices sang in eerie unison, though Arthur couldn’t see where they came from. “Welcome, Arthur.”

Arthur saw Brixaby winging desperately toward him, but the final teleport took him inside the estate.
