Battle arena, floor-is-slime-lava, Dungeon Lab for experimenting on intruders...and a lot more in that vein. She closed the suggestions and thought about the lab then decided to do what she did best.

Take a terrible thing and make it good.

She floated into the room and brought up purchases before she started placing down different pieces of equipment. A lot of it had to be made on the fly by suggesting blueprints to the System which gave her a massive headache, but taking it slow let it fill the room with metal cabinets, single beds and a series of metal top tables.

The stone floor was replaced by a white and black check mark floor tile as false windows were added showing different paintings of beaches, grassy hills, and lakes.

Once that was done... she turned to the middle of the room and grinned.

From the floor, she slowly raised a replica of the Slime Cauldron that was here before, but twisted it so the dark metal came out silverish and decorated with little goblins in cherub togas and harps.

She turned to the system and watched it analyze her creation and intentions.

Quote:'Scheme detected. Would you like to convert empty room into 'Voluntary Medical Advancement Wing'?"

"It's a bit of a long name, how about 'Do-Good Clinic'?" she suggested.

Quote:'The Royal Do-Good Clinic accepted!'

"Hey, don't add words to my idea," Delta complained but was smiling despite her protests.

The room shifted until inlay silver wires ran through the floor to the cauldron, the other ends ending under beds or going up to walls to give off a soft light. The floor shifted to be check marked, but the white squares had an orange D in them while the black ones had a blue N.

The beds went from simply cots to large soft looking beds and a new menu opened up.

Quote:'The Royal Do-Good Clinic:A place where perished monsters can appear in the bed as barely physical forms instead of waiting in a void. While monsters are recovering, adventurers can tend to them by concocting medicine or fetching food for the monsters they harmed, working off a karmic debt that may reduce Jellagon's rage if done with honest intentions.

If defenseless monsters are attacked while in the beds, the head nurse will appear and 'remove' them from the room and mark them with a special symbol that causes King Jellagon to do extra damage to them.'

"Head nurse?" Delta asked and there was a clunk behind her and she turned to see a familiar skull clatter to the floor, now adorned with a cheery white nurse's cap.

"Jellagon?" Delta blinked.

The creature emerged and blinked at her.

Quote:'Jellagon's sibling, Heallagon has arrived. They are clearly siblings and not the same creature. Jellagon may have more siblings in the works that also have names ending in 'agon'.'

"Jell-er... Heallagon, I dig the cap!" Delta gave the creature a thumbs up and Heallagon blushed, his slime body turning pink.

Still amused, Delta looked at the purchase options for the Do-Good Clinic.

Quote:'Purchases:Heallagon can now heal adventurers for a 'donation'. 10 DP

The Cauldron of Life in the middle of the room now periodically produces ten 'Mercury' slime nurses that can aid in soothing beaten monsters or helping adventurers do tasks. Ten may exist at once and they lack combat strength to a degree. 20 DP.

If an adventurer reaches the clinic with no 'sins' attached. Heallagon will give them a blessing for the coming battle with his sibling, Jellagon. 15 DP

If all the beds are filled in the clinic along with Wyin and Fran being beaten. Heallagon will transform into Painagon; a mini-boss that blocks all healing magic in the room.

Add a side room where if Heallagon or Jellagon is not 'occupied', adventurers can talk to a sympathetic ear and gain advice on troubles in one's life. This is run by a sibling called 'Feellagon'. Cost 30 DP

Delta inhaled and sighed as she also turned to Heallagon's personal upgrades.

Quote:Heallagon: The Head Nurse with only a Head.

Able to produce low quality medicinal ooze that heals infections. 3 DP.

Able to produce any mushroom that has been crafted in his body to use as medicine. 10 DP.

If an adventurer brings a rare illness to the Dungeon, Heallagon can absorb them into himself and begin to work on possible solutions (works in tandem with the Soul Well). 50 DP

"They... get spit back out, right?" Delta asked slowly.

Quote:If an adventurer brings a rare illness to the Dungeon, Heallagon can absorb them into himself and begin to work on possible solutions before releasing them safely (works in tandem with the Soul Well). 51 DP

If someone is brought to the Dungeon, a free vaccine produced by Heallagon for the local infections and illness will be offered from the entrance, allowing instant teleportation from the entrance to the Do-Good Clinic. The vaccine is free, but the teleportation is a bit costly. 45 DP.

"Man, these are so good!" Delta announced before she eyed both menus, waiting for her to carefully pick and measure each option in a practical cost-saving measure.

Delta leaned forward and slid two fingers down each list with a beaming smile.

"I have no self-control," she said brightly to no one.

The room around her began to shift and idly, she wondered how Nu was getting on?---

"Platform! PLATFORM! We trained for this!" Geytan screamed as the platforms of mosaic design spun. Three cadets struggled in the warm sludge as they tried to pull treasure chests out of the sinking mud and on the wall, a cackling tree and serious knight stared down at them from the wall where they were painted.

Nu watched silently, knowing the words on the platforms were slowly creeping from 'Stage 3: Warned, Listen, Sweat' to 'Stage 4: Livestock, Slaughter, Looters'.

Their malice practically radiated off them to the point the Dungeon itself could feel it.

Still, it wasn't the Mudroom that would truly challenge these idiots.

The Mushroom Grove approached.
