And then it hit him. Sai Chou was nervous, just as nervous as he was. Why? She was clearly an Expert of great skill and easily the match of Dastan, Li Song and the like, though admittedly she was too old to be considered a young talent. How old exactly it was hard to say, for though she appeared to be a woman in her early thirties, her true age could range anywhere from the mid twenties to late forties, or perhaps even the early fifties if she took great care. Then again, judging by her dirt-streaked cheeks and tangled hair, Sai Chou was not a woman who put effort into her appearance, so she could be younger than her looks would imply and aged prematurely by exposure to the elements. Not that she was unattractive either, she had a rugged and mature look about her, with crystal clear eyes which seemed to pierce clean through him to reveal his very core.

Knowing better than to ask a woman her age, especially one with her weapon so close to his neck, Rustram cleared his throat and consoled her by saying, “Nonsense. If you’re in over your head, then I would have long since drowned.”

Elbowing him so hard she almost pushed him off the stairs, Sai Chou snorted and said, “Bah. Ain’t no sense lyin’, any fool can see ye was born fer this life. The Martial Path is one thing, but soldierin’ be a whole different beast. All this talk of numbers and strategies goes in one ear and out the other, not to mention all the work ye do with supplies and whatnot. I can barely keep track of how many knives I’m carryin’, much less figure out how much food the retinue’s gonna need.”

A quick glance told Rustram she only had the one knife strapped to her belt, which made him wonder if she had issues with counting or a plethora of throwing knifes concealed about her person. While he’d never seen her use one, he’d also never seen Sai Chou at a disadvantage in battle. “Well, I grew up a merchant’s son before I took up soldiering, so I’ve had plenty of practice with that sort of thing.”

Why he felt compelled to talk about his past, Rustram couldn’t say, but Sai Chou visibly brightened at the news. “Ye don’t say? Figured ye fer a military family seein’ how dedicated ye are with training. So what, ye grew up with silk-pants and silver spoons?”

“Ha. I wish. A middling merchant, father made enough to keep us fed, but we ate with wooden chopsticks and wore wool robes like everyone else. Still a better life than most, but nothing extravagant like you’d imagine. The greatest luxuries I had growing up were a room to myself and a nice outfit for special occasions.”

“Wow,” Sai Chou exclaimed with poorly feigned amazement. “Ye had more ‘n one outfit? Why, I was a woman grown afore I could afford to buy me a pair of boots, much less a second tunic. You city slickers sure know how to live it up.”

Rolling his eyes, Rustram shifted topics and continued chatting with Sai Chou, talking about anything and everything beneath the sun. Though self-professed as uneducated, she had a sharp mind and sharper wit, never missing an opportunity for wordplay and sarcasm though lenient enough to never draw blood. Before he knew it, they’d been talking for the better part of an hour without stumbling into a lull, right up until he asked, “So how did you come to join the Protectorate?”

His question was met with silence as the smile slipped from Sai Chou’s face, and he could tell it was not a story she wanted to tell. Taking a deep breath, she shook her head and shrugged. “Ain’t much to say. Papa was a decent hunter, but a piss-poor gambler. Got in deep with the wrong people who decided they’d get their money back faster if they sold me and Mama to a brothel. Couple o’ thugs came a knockin’, words were exchanged, things got heated, then Papa knifes one of em and tells us to run. Mama gets me to the back door but get grabbed, so she screams fer me to run fer the forest before turning back to claw at whoever got her.” Another shrug. “Weren’t long afore they came after me, so I kept runnin’. Knew the forest like the back of me hand, but them thugs weren’t too shabby themselves. Then it got dark and I stumbled down into the river, where the current carries me under. Next thing I know, I’m on dry land gasping fer air with the big gal hovering about, watching to see if I’m still alive. Once I climb to me feet, she heads right on back to the river, snappin’ up fish and fowl quick as she can.” Cracking a feeble smile, Sai Chou quipped, “Guess I’m lucky she’s picky about what she eats, eh? Anyhows, the Protectorate took me in, taught me what I needed to know, and here I am, a soldier marchin’ fer Falling Rain.”

“...I’m sorry about your parents.”

Unsure what else to say, Rustram sat statue-still for long, arduous seconds before she responded. “Yea, me too.” Shrugging for the third time, her eyes shone with a hard light as she ruminated on her past. “So was them thugs, after I went back fer em. They was real sorry.”

Mentor would probably like Sai Chou.

The horns sounded twice to signal Defiled were in sight, and Rustram shot to his feet and looked west as the sea of grass rustling with motion. Minutes passed in silence before the first Defiled finally came into view, far behind the leading figures as they trampled the grass in their passing. Rustram could almost make out their leather head-wraps and mottled-grey skin, though they still had a handful of kilometres to cross before they arrived at Sinuji proper. Soon, more figures revealed themselves as Defiled riders entered the scene, mounted atop horrific creatures of beak and tusks. More and more Defiled arrived, blanketing the plains in movement as they approached with ill intent. The Defiled vanguard stopped over a kilometre away, nestled in the untrampled grass and well out of bow and catapult range. Behind them, the Enemy forces continued trickling in by the thousands, slowly spreading out in a semi-circle around Sinuji like the jaws of a predator ready to devour its prey in a single bite.

The scouts had estimated the force at three-hundred thousand strong, a good match against Sinuji’s paltry twenty-nine thousand. This clash marked the first major conflict between Imperial and Defiled forces since the fall of the Western province, and though they were outnumbered by ten-to-one, such odds were typical in battles against the Enemy. That said, knowing this didn’t make it easier to accept the horde growing before Rustram’s eyes. Three-hundred thousand was not a considerable force in the eyes of the Empire, but it was the largest force Rustram had ever seen. In Sanshu, Butcher Bay had numbered just over twenty-thousand strong, perhaps thirty thousand once you added in the Defiled irregulars they picked up during their march to the city and the traitor guards under Mao Jianghong, but now there were ten times that number of Defiled settling in on the plains of Sinuji.

Mother in Heaven, they even had an armoured contingent reminiscent of Yo Ling’s Butchers, sporting the bulky brigandine suits favoured by the West and standing at full attention beneath the scorching noon sun. In a moment of horrified clarity, Rustram realized that these disciplined Defiled were undoubtedly the surviving warriors of the west, city guards and dedicated soldiers infected by the Father’s taint and turned against their former comrades. Would this be his fate if captured? To take up arms against the people of the Empire and devote himself to wholesale slaughter?

No, better to die a free man than succumb to the Father’s whispered lies.

A glimmer of steel flashed before Rustram’s eyes and he followed it to find a dagger embedded in the throat of a dying Wraith, its pale face etched with surprise as it flopped to the ground. Rapier in hand, Rustram shouted, “Wraiths in camp! Sound the alarm!” Placing himself back-to-back with Sai Chou, he watched Ravil cleave a wraith from shoulder to hip while Bulat sank his axe into another Wraith’s face and almost lost his hand in the process. Isolated and alone, Silva’s eyes darted left and right, unaware of the shadows slinking up behind him, but before Rustram could shout a warning, Siyar appeared out of nowhere and lopped off the Wraith’s head.

The scraping of boots alerted him to danger from above and he shoved Sai Chou away. Raising his rapier to attack, he performed an awkward Deer Parts the Underbrush, and his quick thinking was rewarded with two metallic clangs, smashing two poisoned weapons aside even as his sword scythed through the descending Wraith’s neck. Blood and viscera rained down on Rustram mere moments before the corpse smashed against his chest, driving the breath from his lungs and the strength from his feet. Woozy and lightheaded, he found himself staring at the sky with aching lungs and a massive headache while Sai Chou chuckled from out of sight. Leaning into frame, her hair hung loosely as she shoved the corpse off him and helped him sit up, her eyes still scanning for threats. “Thanks fer the save,” she said, none too gently hoisting him to his feet. Mother in Heaven she was strong. “You good?”

“Yea. Yes. I am fine.”

Spitting a few times to clear the taste of blood from his mouth, turned around to face her but she hissed in reproach. “We ain’t clear of danger yet, merchant boy. Watch my back and I’ll watch yers.” A dainty grunt, followed by the hiss of steel told Rustram she did in fact have more than one dagger, a thought which worried him to no end. The woman was intimidating enough without knowing she had multiple weapons hidden about her person. Ravil could make it look like he pulled blades out of thin air, and if Sai Chou could do the same, then she was far more dangerous than she let on. It took a certain type of mindset to master a skill like hiding weapons about one’s body, an almost irrational paranoia and overwhelming blood-thirst which normal, well-adjusted people could never achieve. Even if she were the most beautiful woman in the world, Rustram would be insane to court her.

Then again... she was easy on the eyes and fun to chat with, plus he found her twisted sense of humour rather charming...

A deafening shout rose out from the gathered Defiled army, and there was no time left for watching for Wraiths or pondering romantic notions. Wiping the blood from his face, he barked orders as the ground shook beneath the Defiled charge, readying his soldiers to lend aid if the Enemy should break through. Falling in line around him with three other Death Corps, Red One saluted and Sent, “Major Sun Qiang has fallen. Command of the Northern flank is yours, Mister Rustram. Your soldiers await you on the front lines.”

Oh no. No, no, no...

Sounding much calmer than he had any right to be, Rustram picked up the pace and said, “Inform them I am on my way over and they are to hold the line until further notice. Red Unit, Wang Bao’s irregulars, and the Protectorate will escort me there.” They wouldn’t get in the way, and best to put those bows and crossbows to work as soon as possible, for every soldier in Sinuji would need to kill ten Defiled a piece in order for the battle to be won. There was also the minor issue regarding the many Demons he could just make out lurking in the distance, including the overgrown, waterlogged abomination responsible for the retinue’s early return from patrol. Worst of all, morale would be an issue if Sun Qiang was seen dead or injured, and no career soldier would be pleased to take orders from a no-name foreigner grunt leading a bunch of bow-wielding peasants.

As if sensing his thoughts, Sai Chou Sent, “Straighten up, merchant boy. Yer taller than you think. Ain’t gonna be no drowning today.”

For some odd reason, her reassurance untwisted his belly and bolstered his courage. Head raised high, he gave her a grateful nod before handing command over to Bulat and heading for the front, where the Defiled would soon arrive to carry out wholesale slaughter. The time for fear and self-loathing was over. Thousands of lives were at stake here, and if he didn’t step up, then they would fall where they stood. Besides, there wasn’t much he’d need to do, the Colonel would soon hear of their plight and...

Oh Mother in Heaven... if Hongji and a few others fell too, then Rustram would be left in sole command of all of Sinuji, something no one would ever want to see.

No one.

Chapter Meme
