“My emotional capacity can fit three emotions at a time. All of them are murder towards the fake demons in my game,” Prim said bluntly.

“I need to disconnect the wi-fi,” Delta mumbled as she shot off towards Fran, her mind swimming. She had Shapes? She was, has been letting, her monsters just develop enough self for these important things to just appear?

“Delta...” Prim appeared and her sudden serious tone made Delta slow down in a wary manner.

“Shapes aren’t so strange. You needn’t be so worried,” Prim said and Delta frowned at the sudden tone shift before she presumed this was Prim trying to ease her into another bombshell.

“Afterall, all Dungeon Cores are round because that’s their Shape. A contained sphere of influence!” Prim said quickly like ripping a bandaid off.

Delta mentally cast her vision to her core which was mostly a sphere with slices of blue intersected with her orange. It was a sphere, just a little oblong on one side and pointy on the other. It looked like it was becoming massively curved at the top with more of a rectangular bottom with a flat edge...

“It’s like a power button on a PC,” she muttered to herself.

“No, you’re just denying the obvious.” Prim sounded sure of herself as she made Delta’s vision slowly turn the right way up.

“My Shape can’t be mushrooms,” Delta said, her voice trembling.

“Eh, more ‘infectious and unkillable’ but same thing really,” Prim said and showed Fran washing down Bacon with warm water and whistling a tune. Prim showed Delta how to lift the layer off the physical world but not sink into the Dungeon vision.

It was a horrible in between state where things were symbolic and teeming with meaning that could be highly subjective.

“This is where your ‘Shapes’ reside. They’re not recordable in the sense of being recreated or upgraded. You cannot upgrade wisdom or life experience generally. Well, you can since all your monsters are weirdos, but most Dungeons can’t,” Prim went on to explain as they looked at Fran.

The goblin knight was a proud knight with a blazing mane on his helmet. His stead was majestic with muscles and the stench of loyalty. Fran’s arena wasn’t a small contained sand pit, but home.

Fran was a knight but also a guardian. Fran was a boss, but was once just a goblin she had. He had visions, not of bloodsoaked sands, but markers of broken weapons, trophies of his victories and in the stand some old motherly batty lady with gray hair who looked helpless as she cheered Fran on with love and kindness.

“This is how Fran resonates. It’s not all his ‘Shape’ but it is how he sees it,” Prim said, sounding used to it.

“So, he wants to be cheered on by old fogies?” Delta pointed at the withered old woman who looked like a stray wind would knock her over.

“Symbolic, Delta. It’s not actually an old woman. Just how he feels towards someone and how he wants to act towards them.” Prim reminded her.

“But there’s no one in the Dungeon that feeble and helpless. That woman looks like she got lost on a single lane road,” Delta joked as the old woman cheered and her neck tie dangled down over her white creased shirt and dark old woman skirt.

The old woman’s waving arms knocked over a jar, releasing mutant spiders and rats with butterfly wings, who the old woman just laughed off.

Delta felt a chill go down her spine.

“It’s Fera, right?” Delta asked, voice devoid of emotion.

“I’ll look into the universal symbol for denial. See if we can’t get your core fixed,” Prim announced.

“I-It’s great. Fran just sees me as a lovely old figure. A dotting loving little old lady. Someone he needs to help... help that old lady...” Delta stuttered, swallowing hard.

“Could be worse,” Prim said, pointing to what looked like a storm sewer hole on the side of the arena where a harrowing gaunt tree figure watched Fran with licking lips and anticipation. Delta admitted being a dotty old woman was looking better by the second. She wandered over to Fran and examined him directly, seeing something in his chest that looked odd.

The thing was like a caricature of a badge, something a kid might get out of a cereal box promoting cowboys and sheriffs. A star with its points ending in little balls and the word ‘captain’ stamped across it. It wasn’t a physical thing, but the manifestation of potential and heights Fran held within himself.

It was too new, too much like something Fran himself might not take seriously as he might not think it was real or given to him by mistake.

But it was real and it was a Shape, an honest to goodness Shape.

Delta reached out with affection and to her surprise, a menu appeared.

Captain Fran. The New Goblin?A captain rides with confidence but does he have the confidence? Maybe.Upgrade:Fran just wishes he knew how.Was it because he was first?Because he was simply there at the right time?How?

There was no way to purchase or even select anything with letters and contrasts shifting rapidly as Fran continued to work in real space. It was like the system she had was trying to convert what a Shape was into Dungeon form but it wasn’t quite compatible.

What made them tick or even limited them but Delta couldn’t change it.

Delta had surrendered any chance of that when she let her monsters grow.

It was a bit of a weird issue. If she controlled their growth, their minds, they wouldn’t grow and develop Shapes, but since she relinquished that control, she could no longer influence their power because they now existed.

It was as if the whole thing needed a touch of humanity about it. To simply trust that maybe things might work out.

She was about to reconfigure her search for Durence’s shield when her systems shut down to a point as people came swarming into her first floor on guest mode, heading straight for the Bar.

Fera’s Shape space. How had Delta never seen it before? But she sensed old friends. The Ninas, Estal, and some Heroes of Ale?

Ok, That is a little weird.

Still, she would take weird rather than alarming anyday.

“BURN THE PATRIARCHY OF BAD FATHERS!” A Nina and Estal cried in comradery.

Okay, now that was a little alarming.
