Dari’s Fishstock did well by their fish. The place had been started by a graduate of the arcanaeum centuries ago, and continued its [Husbandry] tradition to this day, becoming part of Oceanside Academy sometime shortly after its inception. It was there, that they taught young adults how to employ [Husbandry], to raise fish of all kinds, though the lessons learned were applicable to all animal care. When Kiri showed up to buy the hundred thousand fish needed for the lake, they used [Husbandry] on a select few to ensure that they would mate and lay eggs in a day or five. It was a service rarely provided, but one that the current professor, a tenth-generation descendant of Dari himself, came out to cast on a few fish, just for Erick and for Candlepoint’s Lake.

That was good, and Erick had Kiri thank the woman, but something didn’t sit right. Erick had no problem with Oceanside, or with the extra service; that all seemed rather above-board and nice of them.

Erick had a problem with [Husbandry]. He had the spell, since it was one of the enrollment requirements, but the spell didn’t say anything about making animals more fertile.

Husbandry X, instant, touch, 50 MP + Variable

An animal’s opinion of you improves.

But then again, he never studied the spell, or any of its combinations or mutations. He knew it was widely used in animal care, and that was all.

Al smiled, as he asked, “What you looking at?”

Erick came back to the moment. He had invited Al out to music and a meal, at a warehouse-sized, open-air orcol restaurant that Al chose. They had just sat down. The sun had yet to touch the western horizon, and the music had yet to start. But already, person-sized drums sat on the stage, waiting. Set into stands and angled slightly toward each other, the drums had taut-leather covers that looked like they would make a raucous sound, once people got to playing them. This seemed to be exactly what everyone in the bar/restaurant wanted, though. The crowd below was already packed in, but getting fuller by the moment.

He said, “I’m checking on Kiri. She’s transporting fish to the lake that have been imbued with a [Husbandry]-derived fertility spell, but I’m not sure what spell the seller used, exactly.”

Al smiled wide, revealing lower fangs. He grabbed his beer, saying, “Apogee would know for sure, but I bet it’s just [Husbandry] and aura work. You ever use that spell?”

“Never.”

Al sipped his beer, then said, “Neither have I. Thought about it, once or twice. There’s a certain appeal to raising cattle, but then I decided I couldn’t eat what I had raised.”

Erick grinned. “Softie.”

“That is correct,” Al proudly declared, wearing his designation with a grin as he picked up a fried chicken tender, battered and spiced to a flaming red color. “But I’m perfectly happy eating what other people raised.”

“Not to go off on too much of a tangent, but I’m going to anyway: One thing I’ve noticed about Veird is that not many people have pets. Working animals, sure. Cats. Cows. Bees.” Erick asked, “Do people not like cuddly animals, or what?” He reached up and patted Ophiel on his shoulder, eliciting a coo from the little guy. “Ophiel is great, but he’s not really a pet.”

“And how many places have you been?” Al scoffed in a friendly way. “You don’t bring animals to a place like Spur. Shadowolves eat them.”

“Missoli has cats.” Erick said, “I see them prowling in the Garden sometimes. Saw one in my own garden, once. It ran away before I could give it some fish. But those are working cats?”

“Those are working cats.” Al nodded. “You don’t bring them inside the house.”

“So no pets in Spur.” Erick said, “I haven’t had a pet in years, but I expected there to be more… somewhere.”

“Maybe in the Republic, in the calmer places. Wardogs in Nelboor are pretty popular, but those are working dogs. Only the fabulously wealthy have time to take care of an animal that can’t take care of itself.”

A thought occurred, and Erick said, “Oh! Sirocco has cats! A white and black one.”

“Nope.” Al smirked. “[Familiar]s.”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “I guess I’ll settle for [Familiar]s, then.”

Ophiel cooed a tiny violin sound.

Al and Erick spoke of nothing crucial, but they spoke anyway, for Erick liked Al, and he knew that Al liked him, but not in that way, and that was okay. Friends are fine, and good.

In the second round of beer and monsterized chicken strips, Al gasped, and looked down stairs, saying, “They’re starting!” He whispered to Erick, “These people are good.”

Erick gazed around at the restaurant, and the stage up ahead. He had gotten good seats for the show, near the edge of the second floor, overlooking the first, but the first floor down below was absolutely packed. He didn’t even notice it getting that full.

It was nuts-to-butts, elbow-and-beer-room only. The only reason the large venue didn’t overheat was due to people constantly recasting [Temperature Ward]s, that quickly died under the assault of so many orcols. Green, brown, teal, even a few people a few degrees from red; Erick had never seen so many orcols in one location. The men were shirtless, and bulging everywhere with muscles and… other, more hidden-in-pants items. While some women wore normal clothes, others wore bra-adjacent tops that barely held in their prodigious perky parts.

An orcol man wearing a loincloth and nothing else, stepped onto the stage to the sudden cheers of the audience. Even Al leapt up and shouted. Poi stood to the side, a few steps away. He looked surprisingly happy, but he had nothing on Teressa. Erick’s orcol guard stood just behind him, shouting at the loincloth-dude. Loincloth-dude held up a pair of sticks and raised them high to smash them together, eliciting a loud crack of wood on wood.

Ophiel fluffed up big as he suddenly repeated the cracking sound, twice, much to Erick’s total embarrassment and the loincloth-dude’s wide smile. Erick locked down Ophiel after that, muttering about proper behavior that Erick himself didn’t quite hear.

Two other loincloth-people joined the dude on the stage, both of them women, both wearing white cloth like it was too expensive to make a full bikini. They rivaled the dude for sheer muscle size and for the amount of flesh hidden by those strained, white cloths.

Oh man. Vitality in the 80’s strikes again. Erick’s pants got wildly uncomfortable, but he was still sitting down, so this was fine.

Three drums sat on the stage, each the size of an orcol themselves. Two slightly smaller drums were positioned to the left and right on the stage, and angled mostly upward, but slightly inward, while the third drum sat in the back, its bare face angled toward the crowd.

The largest woman approached the rear drum, showing her backside to the crowd.

And wow! That ass! Those thighs!

Erick controlled himself as she struck the rear drum, vibrating the room, drowning out the sound of the cheering crowd, but only briefly. The crowd cheered louder, then the second woman tapped her own drum, followed by the man on his. Silence fell as echoes penetrated the world.

The drumming began with tiny taps. A rainfall of beats, heralding a storm.

A sudden slam of power vibrated the beer in Erick’s mug, sending a drop of liquid into the air. Slams came fast and hard, as the drop fell back into the drink, and thunderous noise pulsed into his lungs and set his bones to shaking. Erick laughed as his [Personal Ward] took a tiny hit with each pulse, flickering white, but he recovered fast enough, for this sound was the pulse of war; it was power, it was the joy of life. A hunt completed and blood spilled in the forest.

Erick wasn't the only one who flickered with a [Personal Ward], but there were not many others.

Ophiel fluffed himself up on Erick’s shoulder, his wings beating the air in time to the tune. Erick held a slight control on him, not wanting him to fly off and join the band, but as his own heart matched the rhythm to the main drum slammed by the woman in the back, he let his control falter. Ophiel just fluffed up a bit more, really getting into the beat, but not making any of his own sounds—

“Hey, dad.”

Erick barely heard it, but he turned to see Savral step near the table. The large blackscale dragonkin was looking more than a little sheepish as he stood there, waiting for acknowledgment, from Al, his father. He didn’t wait more than a half second, just long enough for Al to turn around. He had heard those words, too, and his first instinct was to freeze. But he thawed. He turned. Al smiled wide, laughing loud, but not as loud as the drums, as he rushed his son with a heavy hug.

Savral hadn’t been home in a while. Erick wasn’t sure exactly how long the blackscale boy had been gone, or where he had been, but he had run off after being resurrected by Messalina, after he had died in Caradogh’s attack on Spur, and the Farms. The tall blackscale spoke to his father of something too quiet to hear, and Erick didn’t want to, anyway. Al and Savral looked happy, as father and son, and that was the important thing. Erick tried to excuse himself, so Al could catch up with his son, but neither of them were having it. Erick stayed for two more songs then he begged off, and Al let him go.

As Erick left the bar, the band was still playing, and he paid the tab for everyone there, in the entire bar, for the whole night. The manager was more than happy to take his money, but she wouldn’t let Erick go without an explanation. Erick just told her to say ‘happy homecoming’, and that was good enough for her.

Walking home on the twilight streets, Erick could still feel the beat of the drums in his chest. Ophiel still fluffed up in time to the music, as he waved his wings like a tiny drummer drumming a tiny invisible drum.

And then Erick heard the whole bar cheer again, and shout ‘Happy Homecoming!’ all at once.

Erick smiled. Teressa blushed. Poi chuckled, once.

When Erick had sat down with Al in the beginning of the evening, he had asked after the significance of the drums. If they had any meaning, or what they were about. They were big drums, after all. It was hard not to notice them, or that they were different from all other drums Erick had seen before. Al’s reply had been because drums are awesome. After a bit more poking, Al went on to say that the drums were reminiscent of the heartbeat of a tribe going to hunt, or to war, or to greet people coming home from an adventure, or difficult journey. A unity of sound, linking person to person in the beating of their hearts. A welcome home.

It was a good sound to walk home to.

- - - -

It was too early to go to bed. Not when Shadow’s Feast was tomorrow night.

So Erick stayed up and read about Tree [Familiars], thanks to a few books Kiri brought back from the Book Cellar, in Oceanside. Kiri also picked up a few books for herself while she was out shopping. Across the library, the young emeraldscale read from a leather-bound journal, without a title. Kiri had readily supplied the name of the journal, though, back when Erick first inquired. It was apparently a journal on the ‘Sun Style’, penned by a no-name woman who attempted to piece together everything she could find regarding the Headmaster’s ‘Sun Style’, and every other strong and/or popular Light/Fire/Air style publicly known on the continent of Nelboor.

Erick turned away from his apprentice, and read about trees.

- - - -

Slivered moons hang in the skies over Spur, barely shedding light at all. White, silver, and pink; Celes, the Silver Star, and Hell.

Witness those slivers become less, then vanish altogether.

Tonight is already a time of darkness, save for distant stars too dim to illuminate anything, and the wardlights of civilization too weak to drive back the night. Watch as a mother conjures a brighter nightlight for her scared son, to drive away the shadows in the corner. Hark to the sound of a sword knocked aside by ravenous wolves, and the gnashing of teeth, and the ending of a life. Feel the rumble as the very ground moves under ponderous weight. Thump. Thump. Thump. Crunch. Something is outside, and the walls are too thin to keep it out. Don’t speak. Don’t breathe. It can hear you.

Tomorrow will be worse.
