Erick checked on the map again. It had been running for three hours, and still, it showed no signs of violet eels. The lake was truly clean, now. Some of the scanning magics even got into the springs below, showing that there were no eels in there, either.

That was more than a bit surprising.

Erick found out why, when he went down to investigate. Someone, likely Ava and maybe others, had turned each spring inlet into something… More.

Where once was a simple ten-meter crack into the depths of Veird, plugged by a [Prismatic Ward], was now a monument to water and air. A trio of massive Ophiel, like three winged gods each twenty meters tall and much more than that wide, stood to the sides of the inlet. Wing in wing, they watched over the spring, as water constantly gushed upward, flowing past the stone Ophiel like a strong breeze.

While Erick’s [Prismatic Ward] had not been disturbed in the creation of the Stone Ophiel, someone had gotten around the density of the water, and carved down, deep. Erick floated down the hole. Surface light already had a hard time getting all the way down here, but once in the spring, proper, light vanished.

Until Ophiel turned to light, and illuminated everything.

Caverns, that’s what had been created down here. Massive caverns, carved deep and wide. Twisting and turning, but never blocking the flow, Erick followed the winding caverns through the top level, then down to another, then down another, until he reached a forest of pillars that stretched ten meters tall from floor to ceiling. Ophiel slipped past the pillars easily enough, but Erick almost lost his connection to Ophiel. So Erick brought in another to bridge the gap, and connect him from Ophiel to Ophiel, as he so often did when he was exploring with his [Familiar] over vast distances.

The pillar forest continued on through one more, whole cavern, before Erick poked through to a staging area. The staging area would have been comfortable enough, but it was merely a turn in the stone, and one only had to step forward a few meters to have their world drop out from under them. Which Erick did.

Dark. Deep. A true abyss.

The ceiling was stone, the ground was abyss, and Ophiel was the only light in an ocean full of unseen threats.

Erick breathed deep. He came halfway back to himself, as he patted the Ophiel on his shoulder. And then he smiled. Ophiel didn’t seem to feel bad about any lurking enemies, so Erick wouldn’t either. He returned to the Ophiel at the edge of the abyss.

Ophiel descended. The water flowed stronger once he ventured out into the deep dark.

Something moved in the waters—

Something flashed in the depths.

Darkness coiled around Ophiel like a swirl of ink that filled the entire unseen Underworld Ocean. And then it was gone. Ophiel’s light shone out across untold depths of water, illuminating nothing but the tiny divot that Ophiel had come from, and the endless, craggy rock ceiling. The entrance to Candlepoint’s lake suddenly looked so far away.

Erick cast another map into the water, throwing out a streaming orb of cascading light, while a layer of mist hung in the illuminated depths. That mist slowly became a scan of the ocean, and it truly was an ocean. Eventually, the map showed an edge, but at the scale of the map, that edge was at least a good three hundred, or maybe four hundred, kilometers down. It wasn’t an even depth, either. The ceiling of this ocean was craggy, but the deeper side was full of mountains and pits and canyons and spires.

Erick almost wanted to explore. There was no water pressure down here. Ophiel wouldn’t be crushed to bits. Script shenanigans kept the Underworld open, stabilizing the force of gravity throughout Veird. The bottoms of surface lakes were full of pressure, but that pressure never got too bad, and once you got deep enough to be in the Underworld proper, pressure normalized.

If Jane ever saw this, she would be terrified and thrilled and way, way too eager to explore.

Erick was going to explore, too, but just a bit. Stilling his nerves, Erick set the map to scan for violet eels. He was going to find and kill the main eel, if possible.

He found a trail, almost immediately.

With a few more Ophiel filing in from behind, Erick extended his reach for hundreds of kilometers below the surface of Veird, through deep waters, into hidden rivers, and into twisted caves. The parasites weren’t that present in the beginning, but as Erick continued to follow the trail, he realized…

“I don’t have enough Ophiel to get all the way.”

The thought hit him like a slap out of nowhere, as he sat up in his chair. There was no point in proceeding. If there were a main eel somewhere close, he would have found it. With a thought, he dismissed the Ophiel and the spells he had left under the surface of the world. With a few more thoughts, he reconjured Ophiel and sent the majority back to Candlepoint.

The other two springs in the lake were similar to the first; both had similar stone Ophiel sculptures around them, and similar cavern systems down below, but both were of a smaller scale than the main spring. They all led to the same Underworld Ocean, too.

Erick was sure the Underworld Ocean had a name, but that much was beyond his ken, just as the main violet eel was beyond his reach. He could try to solve both his dearth of knowledge and the eel problem, but both would have to wait for another day.

With the springs done, and the violet eels gone, all the lake needed now was bobber worms and glowfish to keep the parasite problem solved for good. In addition to them, Erick also needed shipments of the three other fish that already existed in Spur’s Lake.

Erick went to find Ava, and Slip. Whichever one he spotted first was probably good enough.

Ava was easy enough to find. The majority of Candlepoint was made of black stone and sandy places where trees and grass grew, but as Erick looked, he saw an addition to all of that.

Crystals, bright and full of light, glittered upon the domed top of Candlepoint’s courthouse, like rock candy stuck to a dark surface. Erick watched for a few moments, as shadelings moved torso-sized crystals either telekinetically, or by using [Stoneshape], up from the street outside the courthouse, to the roof, to Ava, who then planted the crystals in the dark dome, like stacking bricks. The crystals were shaped on site, it seemed, in order to ensure that they locked together with no gaps between. Ava had managed to get three rows of crystal down so far; she was working her way from the bottom edge of the dome, toward the peak.

Ava didn’t stop laying crystal as Ophiel floated in, but she did smile wide, flashing small fangs as tiny scales dotted her pale neck. She also had a band of green, opalescent paint, like thick makeup, laid horizontal across her face, across her eyes. She said, “Hello, Erick! Like what you see?”

“I do.” He also found the strip of paint to be somewhat interesting. He hadn’t seen anyone wear makeup of any sort, until now. He said, “I like the sculptures and designs you got out by the springs, too.”

She smiled wide as she maneuvered a crystal into place. “We’re ready for the bobber worms and glowfish whenever you’re ready.”

“Sure, sure. But how much of the city has everyone agreed to change to crystal?”

“Not nearly enough.” Ava said, “But I’m going to make this place as beautiful as I can.” She paused in setting crystals, then breathed deep the warm air, and said, “Could you spread some lakeseed down in the deeper parts and all over the rest of the lake? I worked with Slip to get the spring traps done, but we need the ecosystem in place in order to make it work like it should. Otherwise, soon as you remove those [Prismatic Ward]s, the eels could come back. I managed to make the flow a lot less direct, so we shouldn’t get any real infestations unless something breaks, or a greater violet eel moves in to our lake, which also shouldn't happen, but you never know.” She said, “I heard you managed to get some million fish grass growing in other places in the last few hours, so that should keep the normal ecosystem working, soon as there is a normal ecosystem.”

That was all good news, and exactly what Erick wanted to hear. He said, “Thank you, Ava. Well done.”

She smiled at the sky, then at the city, saying, “This place is going to be a jewel. A crowning achievement. A joy to behold, but not until that lake gets settled. Two thousand square kilometers of fresh water, and in the Crystal Forest, too! If we don’t get dead by outsiders, wild success will happen whether we want it to, or not. I can’t wait till the day I can see sailing ships flying cloth of every color of the rainbow, plying the waters, turning up fish for dinner.” She added, “We need some of those expensive freshwater fishes, Erick. We need some Bountiful Fortuna for that lake. And Ripping Xerix— Oh! Any xerix you can get at all would be good! You need to talk to Slip. He was a fisherman, you know? Course I think that’s just his cover.” She looked to the shadeling orcol man who handed her the crystals, and took another from him, saying, “Slip is a Shade, right?”

The man chuckled, saying, “I ain’t know shit what goes on round here. Don’t ask me questions like that.”

Ava flipped her hand at the man and then at Ophiel, saying, “Ain’t no one knows shit what goes on round, here, like young mister Worz has so eloquently stated. If we live to see sailing vessels and xerix and everyone wearing good fashion, then I will count my life as lived.” She turned to Erick. “To that end, I need merchants willing to sell to us. Can you make this happen?”

Erick said, “I can try.”

She set another crystal ‘brick’ into the courthouse dome, saying, “Thank you.” She immediately laid another crystal, adding, “That’s all I can ask— NO WAIT!” She spun to Ophiel, her eyes going wide, then deviously narrow.

Erick would have instinctively backed up, but he was controlling Ophiel, and let none of his sudden apprehension show.

In her most serious tone, Ava declared, “I heard you can make diamonds.”

“… Would you like a diamond that is you-sized? Or a lot of smaller ones?”

“Ohmytunnelsandtraps.” She recoiled as though she had won the lottery. Tears streamed from her eyes as she cried out, her voice going high-pitched halfway through, “I want one me-sized! Yes!”

Erick smiled, as he turned to the man who held another crystal, waiting for Ava to collect herself so she could collect the crystal. “Anything you want?”

“Better food. Better beds.” Worz’s answer was instantaneous. And then he added, “And some drums. The proper kind. Big and made for war. Festival is coming up, and I don’t feel proper without the real stuff.”

While Ava cried for joy over diamonds as big as herself, Erick assured Worz that he would get some better stuff for people. Maybe even a merchant contract with the merchants of Spur? Perhaps. Ava came back to clarity when Erick spoke of merchant contracts. She had some ideas, and while Erick listened, he couldn’t promise anything.

Leaving Ava to her enthusiastic crystal-laying, Erick put up a stone board in the center of town, near the Crystal. He labeled it, ‘Necessary Items’ and left written instructions to inscribe upon the surface what was needed. While he left that to be, he went to find Slip.

The not-Shade was currently in the north of town, helping out with the rice harvest. He noticed Ophiel, right away. Explaining the current status of the lake didn’t take long.

“Yeah.” Slip said, “Those’re good fish. If the eels are gone, then it’s time to start seeding. Fish can come later. I left the bag of lakeseed in my office.”

Erick went to work.

Ophiel lugged a huge, 50 kilo bag of lakeseed to the northern shores of the lake, almost 20 kilometers from Candlepoint itself. The coast ended a good hundred meters before the wall, leaving a beach-like area of hard-packed dirt and sand between water and the wall that separated the lake area from the rest of the Crystal Forest.

The shallows here were a good place to start.

Ophiel cut a hole in the bag, and began flying along the coast, dropping seeds in the shallows, while Erick released mist across the cloud-dark land. Mist became fog, became rising clouds, that flashed with silver light in the depths. Platinum rain began to fall. Ophiel expanded a [Weather Ward] around himself and the seeds, by casting it upon the bag itself, preventing early germination.

As Ophiel flew, lilies sprang from the shallows, like dots of green expanding on the water’s surface. Grasses grew up the beach, spindly at first, then ripping into the soil, spreading up the platinum soaked land to turn into tall stalks that then flowered, red and gold. Different grasses grew in other shallows, while different lilies grew in the deeper waters, like great, floating barges.

Ophiel flew faster, spreading seeds over greater distances.

When he was done, he left behind a kilometer or two of starter plants. From the grasses that took hold of the land, all the way to the wall, to the lilies and water grasses that managed to grow a kilometer or more out into open lake, Erick hadn’t done much, considering the size of the lake. He’d given it a start, though, and that’s about anyone was really capable of doing, in this life, or the next, but with any luck, he’d be around to see ships sailing these waters, just like Ava envisioned.

And with that, it was time to buy fishies! Or rather, it was time for someone to buy fishies. Probably not Erick, himself. Erick got up from his chair, to see Kiri sitting across the room from him.

He said, “Oh good! You’re already here.”

Kiri smirked, as she closed her book. “Time to buy something?”

After handing over a list and his badge, Kiri was off to Oceanside, and probably Portal, with maybe a stop by Quartermaster Liquid’s office, too.

- - - -

With a casual glance over to Candlepoint, Erick watched as a load of iridescent fish dumped out of the air, plopping into the shallows of the lake. Erick had shown Kiri around a bit, through Sunny, and introduced her [Familiar] to Mephistopheles, then Valok, then Ava and Zaraanka, and Slip. From there, the competent young woman had brought in the fish, one load at a time, blipping them on her own [Teleporting Platform] all the way from Oceanside. Kiri had price-compared both Portal and Oceanside, and chosen the latter, picking the same place where Erick had gotten the mud flits.

