Erick smiled, having already given the answer he was willing to give…

Mainly because he had no idea what he had done. Was it [Duplicate]? Or something else?

Kiri waved dismissively as she walked away.

Returning to his work, Erick wondered if [Duplicate] was all it took to make wrought-quality metals. There was a test for this. He could use a coin. The common copper piece, silver piece, and gold piece were slag iron at their core, each wrapped in layer of the appropriate metal. They were also horrible for enchanting. Ophiel retrieved coins from Erick’s bags upstairs in his room and brought them to the tower.

Erick made rings out of each kind of coin, and then he copied them.

The copied rings all worked as wrought-quality metal.

“… What?” Erick sat back in his chair. “I guess… The act of copying makes them semi-magical metals? Is that all?”

But then an anomaly appeared.

The original rings were also wrought-quality metals.

They should not have been wrought-quality metals. They were mixed metals, and though Erick [Cleanse]d them first, they were still partially rusted on the insides of three of his coins. Erick couldn’t even tell that they were rusted on the inside until he [Metalshape]d them, but they were. And the rust didn’t interfere with the enchantment-capability of the metal!

“What is going on here?” he mumbled to himself.

He got Kiri involved, at that point, because this was too silly.

Kiri took one look at the coin-metal rings, and said, “That’s not possible.” She smiled wide, seeing something that should not be, so it obviously needed investigating. “Let’s get more coins.”

And so they did. From inside the house, first, but Kiri quickly moved to outside sources. While Erick worked on the rings, he had Kiri purchase a few necessary items at four different stores before it was strictly necessary to purchase them, like milk, and meat, and a few spices that were running low. She got coins in exchange, which was the true purpose of the buying spree. She even stopped by the Mage Bank to turn in some rusted gold coins for fresh ones.

[Mend] didn’t work on rust, for some strange reason—

Nope. No more tangents. Get back on track.

Every single coin gained from outside the house acted as it should have. In other words: it did not work as wrought-quality enchanting metal. There were a few 5% Stat-resonance pieces, but even that was considered a failure by any measure of enchanting.

Every single [Duplicated] coin, worked.

But then came another problem. Kiri figured out the full extent of Erick’s current experiment when he absentmindedly copied a coin-ring right in front of her. As soon as he did it, he froze, thinking horrible thoughts, yet knowing them to be untrue. Kiri froze, too.

And then she laughed.

“Wow. The look on your face.” Kiri smiled, saying, “I already knew that you had this spell, Erick. But… I thought you just had access. Like. A helper. I mean… You had a small box of darkchips and then you had a million. I didn’t see it, but I heard the story.” She shook her head, then said, “I’m not telling anyone, of course. I know how big this spell is— Let’s just… Never speak of this again.”

Erick smiled softly. “Sounds good to me. And now, you can help me experiment some more!”

“Well… Then…” Kiri pointed to the dense air, saying, “Experimenting inside a [Ward] is bad enough, but this thing is probably a lot worse.”

“… Fair enough.”

They moved the entire experiment to the empty third floor room.

The first [Duplicate]d coin ring gave 0% resonance. So did the next one, and the next one. Copied gold, Deep Sky Silver, iron bars both wrought-quality and not, all metal was ‘dead metal’ once copied outside of the [Prismatic Ward].

Not a single bit of copied metal worked when it was copied outside of the dense air.

It took an hour to prove this, with every bit of metal at Erick’s disposal, but it was proven easily enough. Even the innately ‘magical’ grey bars taken from the condensation of [Exalted Storm Aura]’s platinum rain, turned non-magical when copied.

This was the normal outcome, now that Erick thought of it.

Duplicate, instant, touch, 100 Mana

Create a copy of a non-magical, non-living item.

“[Duplicate] does not copy magical items,” Erick said.

Kiri said, “Your [Prismatic Ward] is even better than I thought.”

Erick shook the inert grey-metal bar in his hand, at the other metal bars sitting on the table before him. “But why?”

“No idea!” Kiri said, all cheerful. “But it means you can make wrought-metal from any metal. That’s… That’s a lot of money and saved time. I wasn’t kidding about that Deep Sky Silver. The wrought-quality version is a delicacy to them. I heard royalty eat it.” She added, “Oh yeah! Royal wrought like those blacklights you made, too. I heard you gave Killzone one of them. Someone saw him glowing purple and thought it was an attack but then he got all meek —which was a weird look, let me tell you. He got all meek and showed off the bauble you made. If I hadn’t seen it myself, I never would have thought the General of Spur’s Army could turn from black to vibrant purple, just like that.” She got to the question she needed to ask, “It’s some form of light, right?”

Kiri’s words knocked something loose in Erick’s mind.

With a small part of his attention on Kiri’s question, he said, “Yeah. It’s a form of… light...”

With the major portion of his attention, he took control of an Ophiel and had the little guy pluck the +213 All-Stat crown from its hiding place in the walls of his mage tower. In a white blip, the crown landed in his hand, in the third floor room. Kiri’s previous line of inquiry died, as she eyed the off-black iron crown and its three void-dark octahedron diamonds. It was different than Erick remembered. The whole thing was tinted purple, even though Erick had only put the lightmasks on the diamonds themselves.

Kiri asked, “Did you make another one of them? That looks different than I remember.”

“… No. This is the same one as before.” Erick put it on his head. He breathed deep as he saw his Status. He took off the crown, saying, “Plus 224 All-Stats. It grew again. It was 210 when I made it, but then 213 the last time I used it. Now it’s at 224, and the permanent lightmask has shifted to cover the whole object.”

Kiri eyed the piece with a more critical eye, saying, “That shouldn’t happen. Lightwards don’t shift unless under extreme magical stress. Lightmasks shouldn’t shift, either.”

“None of the other magical items in the house have been affected by the [Prismatic Ward].”

“… But none of the other ones suck in all light, like this one. But you keep this one in the wall. No light in the wall.”

“It’s still subjected to the [Prismatic Ward].”

Erick brought up the blue box, and handed a copy to Kiri.

Prismatic Ward, instant, short range, permanent, Solid Ward, 100 MP + Variable

Create a solid, large space, that absorbs six times Variable damage before breaking.

Prismatic Ward regenerates integrity based on your Rested mana regeneration rate.

You and those you permit are able to operate within Prismatic Ward without restriction. You may grant or revoke this permission at will.

All beings permitted inside Prismatic Ward are at Rest while inside.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

“The Headmaster called it a ‘well-made spell’.” Erick asked, “Have you managed to make it yet, Kiri?”

Kiri said, “Not yet. Not as good as this one. I’ve tried. I’m still trying.” She chuckled, adding, “This is a career-culminating spell, you know.”

“Eh. You’ll get it sooner or later, and then make something better. It took me a while.” He asked, “You have all the ritual parts I gave you, right?”

“Yup.” Kiri said, “All I have to do is succeed.”

“You’ll get it, sooner or later.” He added, “But anyway. That solves the mystery of the coins…” He looked to the crown in his hands, saying, “But not the mystery of this growing crown, or the problem of creating Stat items out of thin air.”

Kiri stared at the crown for a long moment. She said, “I don’t think you can solve that last one. Even Tulamana Blackvoid’s rings were made of glass. You can use almost any old sand to make decent enough glass. Or crystal. Your rains can bring the metal. That stuff is automatically wrought-quality, for whatever reason.” She guessed, “Possibly due to the fact that it was magically pulled out of the atmosphere.”

“… As good a guess as any.”

Kiri eyed the crown again, saying, “If the void spell lasts more than the full hundred days, it could actually be an artifact. ‘The Growing Crown’. Otherwise it’s anomalous magic interacting in weird ways.”

Erick held the purple crown for a little while longer. Were the points on the twisted metal slightly longer than before?

… No. That had to be his imagination.

Erick blipped the crown back in its hiding place with a [Teleport Object], then he gestured to the metals laying before them. “Take your pick, Kiri. Want to do some enchanting of your own?”

“Deep Sky Silver. The wrought-quality version.”

No hesitation. No deliberation. Just a straight-up enthusiastic answer. Erick laughed, and then he obliged.

When he eventually remembered about it, he dismissed the purple-mirror-void ball he had conjured in his tower. Nothing had come of that experiment, for whatever reason.

- - - -

Erick’s new view on his [Prismatic Ward] caused him to reevaluate how he had used the spell in the past. The spell was currently active in five locations, his house, under his own power, and the three springs of Candlepoint, and the dense air at the bottom of the Crystal in the center of town, under Ophiel’s purview.

The Crystal was the trading area where people turned in darkchips and got items, but the giant, 50 meter tall black quartz crystal was also a magical item that had created the greatsword-wielding automatons that had occupied the city. Maybe. It might not be a magical item. It could have just been a diversion. But in case that it was a magical item, Erick had put a [Prismatic Ward] across most of the bottom of the 50-meter tall black quartz, if for no other reason that to keep curious fingers from touching hidden switches, of which Erick had found none.

Placing that dense air down there had seemed like a good idea at the time.

But now, knowing that [Prismatic Ward] imbued metals with magic—

Was that all a Rested State meant?

No no no. No tangents. Here for a reason. Pack that thought up and throw it into the [Renew] idea-box and then get back on track.

Knowing that the [Prismatic Ward] imbued metals with magic, had Erick been ‘charging’ the Crystal this whole time? Or something? [Prismatic Ward] didn’t charge rods or wands or anything like that, but who knows what other hidden effects it could have.

So Erick turned his attention to the Crystal.

Ophiel was still there, under the Crystal’s gazebo section, still in his lightform self, still tapping away at every broken or dirty thing that any shadeling brought him. A [Mend] here, a [Cleanse] there, an occasional [Mirage Slime] cast out into the city, to roam about and turn messes to thick air, as it was wont to do.

Taking brief control of a second Ophiel, Erick inspected the Crystal, flying through the gazebo-section in the bottom, poking around at walls, soaking into the Crystal itself. Soaking inside didn’t seem to do anything but turn the Crystal from black to white, like Ophiel’s body was pushing an ‘ink’ away from the inside of the Crystal.

… Did Erick want to [Domain of Light] the Crystal?

… He kinda really, really wanted to, just to see what would happen.

But! No. Not right now.

Erick, as Ophiel, poked around at the entire 50 meter black crystal. He poked at 20 meters up, then at 40, then at the top, where Bulgan had stood. He dipped down into the flexible darkness inside the stone, flowing in all the way, turning inky blackness into the undersides of lightning-hiding clouds.

But he found nothing inside the Crystal, save for shadows.

He flowed out. Nothing stood in the Courtyard of the Crystal, save for a few people looking up at Erick’s stony ministrations. No protectors swarmed out of the Crystal. No hidden switches laid within.

… Whatever.

Dead End!

Time to get on with life, and check on some other projects.

Erick blipped Ophiel into the center of the lake, to hover where every coast and the habitations of Candlepoint were far out of sight, past the curve of Veird. He conjured a map to better view the blue depths all around. In a few short minutes, his search for ‘violet eels’ turned up zero blue dots. Rejoice! The infection had finally been eradicated! He left the map to run for longer, to make sure, as he blipped across the waters to visit the million fish grass plateau.

Limpid lengths of green grass floated in the water, meters long in some places, shorter in others. Streamers of tiny bubbles rose from the grasses, while some grasses released bubbling seeds that flowed along with the natural currents of the lake. When the seeds eventually lost their buoyant bubble that kept them afloat, they would settle down into the dirt, and likely fail to grow.

It was then, that Erick noticed a small problem in the waters. The waters near the million fish grass were crystal clear. The waters everywhere else, were not. With the clouds above, Erick hadn’t noticed immediately. But now that he did, Ophiel blipped to other parts of the lake, checking. There was only a bit of cloudiness here and there in the north, but a gross yellow foam floated on the lake’s southern surface, where wind-tossed waves pushed grime into a glacier of scum, that rested on the land, pushing almost all the way to the wall, a dozen meters past the beach. In the muddy brown bottom, lay skeletons and dying fish, while the foam and the cloudiness were likely the digested remnants of a violet eel massacre, or bacteria growths. Erick wasn’t sure.

He could solve this problem.

With ten minutes of work, mostly spent in finding other good places to plant via the map he had already made, Erick spread million fish grass seeds all along the southern coast, and on a particularly large underwater plateau in the west. With three hours of work, and filling the lake with platinum rain, three more seeds finally took hold in the silt and began to grow. 40-ish square kilometers of squid-like cleaning-grass wasn’t that impressive, when the whole lake was almost 2000 square kilometers, but it was good enough for now. Erick’s rain had beaten down the yellow-foam masses of scum, but only time and proper ecology would truly rid the lake of its problem.

