Kiri went still, taking the reprimand with aplomb. “Heard and Understood.”

Erick smiled. “Good. Here.” Erick handed her the All-Seeing Eye, saying, “I’m going to make another one of these for myself, but you can have this one. It will help you see through every falsehood out there, but be warned; looking too deep can lead to the depths looking back.”

Kiri eyed the black amulet, with its glowing white sphere in the center. And then she took it into her claws, saying, “Well that’s rather ominous—” She stopped suddenly, her eyes going wide, her heart racing hard as her talons gripped the amulet hard. If she would have had skin, perhaps she would have been sweating, but she had emerald scales. A tiny splash of white fire escaped Kiri’s mouth as she stared at Erick, and whispered, “Oh.”

Erick smiled. “I’m proud of you for not throwing it away. It’s an All-Seeing Eye I made in the Glittering Depths. It should let you see through anything and everything, and it should also let you [True Sight] across mana voids, like the one in space. I didn’t see anything out there when I used it… Except for the moons, I suppose. They look a whole lot better with actual buildings on them and people walking around— Angels, demons, and lesser parishioners, anyway. Meditation-based viewing of those lands is less than nothing compared to using this trinket.”

Kiri’s eyes were wide long before Erick started explaining, as she looked at all of him, seeing whatever the amulet was showing her. From how Burhendurur had reacted, it was probably scary, but Erick hadn’t been able to use it to view himself, so Erick wasn’t exactly sure what she was seeing. As Erick finished his explanation, Kiri’s eyes calmed, and she looked down at the amulet in her hands. “How did you make it? Exactly?”

“I learned a whole lot in that Gem Dungeon, but that thing is basically Wizardry, so it’s hard to explain how I made it. We can talk about all that after we talk about a reorganization of the Office of Gate Expansion.”

Kiri thrust her hand forward, saying, “I can’t take this now. Not until you’ve made a second one.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. He didn’t argue, though. He just took back the amulet, thinking that this was probably easier for him, anyway. He would have needed to evade the Inquisitors and sneak into the dungeon in order to get back to his house down there, to make another one of these, and the Inquisitors were already down there in the dungeon anyway, so that sneaking likely would have been impossible. The All-Seeing Eye had only been in his possession for less than a handful of real-time days, but already it felt like an invaluable tool…

But at the same time, Erick didn’t want to add this functionality to himself, because if he did, then everything would always look like an impressionist painting filled with too much meaning and unreality. Right now, he could moderate his connection to the amulet rather well, but perhaps if he made a Class Ability out of this thing…? Maybe that would work.

He could moderate his Class Abilities rather well, but that was due to the Script helping him.

That was a lot to think about, actually.

So Erick just put on the necklace and tucked the eye back under his robes, saying, “Where would you like to start with the reorganization?”

“Let’s get Zolan.”

Erick smiled. “Great start.”

It took them 3 real hours to come up with a good plan of action that would eventually completely remove the necessity of [Hasted Shelter] from the current Gatemaster. This action would cause a lot more people besides just the Viridian King to find out that Erick wasn’t at the helm of House Benevolence these days, so that was a bit ahead of schedule, but it needed to be done.

Zolan did clarify that, “If anyone asks, this is a trial run for long term solutions to needing less Time Magic in House Benevolence, due to a rise in complaints to meetings going too long. It is not because Erick isn’t here all the time.”

Erick laughed at that. “Are people still complaining about extra-long days?”

“Always and forever.”

- - - -

In the next day, a great many people got promotions in House Benevolence, and a great many more jobs opened up in the lower levels.

And Kiri got a staff that she trusted.

Erick also heard from Odaali that their appeal for a true telling of Odaari’s story was denied, and Odaali was going to appeal to the High Court of Nobles; the only force that could actually overturn Greendale’s decree. That was going to take months, though. Erick wished them luck.

Privately, Erick decided he would cut through all that bullshit and just repentance Odaari himself, after he dealt with these demonic murders. Odaari would keep for that long, but whatever was going on in the depths of the Gem Dungeon would not.

- - - -

One thing to do before he went back to the dungeon, though.

In a room in a secured location in the mountains northeast of Candlepoint, Erick stood before a large circle of pale-red metal that Jane had seen once and called a ‘stargate’. It was more like a ‘moongate’, though, because it connected to one moon in particular, or rather, it connected to Hell, which was also a moon, but also a permeable layer of reality here on Veird that existed everywhere, like all the other Elements.

No demon actually lived on the other side of this particular unpowered portal, though. Quilatalap had once explained it to Erick like how demons lived on Hell, but they could send avatars here to Veird whenever someone summoned them. It took real power and desecration of all that was Exalted and Angelic to make a true connection from Hell to Veird; to bring forth a demon-spawning demon, which was usually called a Breach Demon, like the one the Halls of the Dead had summoned during the Daydropper incident.

The same sort of setup, but in reverse, was necessary to summon an angel, but Erick wasn’t interested in angels right now.

Erick cast spellwork into the circular portal and brimstone fire flashed across the metal and the space between like an explosion of black and gold and burning red, ephemeral and heavy with Elemental Vile. The room turned into an inferno that sapped the heat from Erick’s body just as much as it threatened to burn away absolutely everything in the room. But it wasn’t that bad. Sure, the floor melted and the ceiling dripped a little, and imps popped out of that melt and bright darkness like parasite cockroaches, but the spellwork Erick had layered across the many rooms beyond this one would prevent anything from escaping this hellish ritual—

And then the ritual connected, and the fire of the room turned gold, burning away everything and leaving nothing but solid ground, walls, and ceiling in its wake. Gold foil spun down on the corners of the room, forming expensive moulding that traced patterns on the walls and ceiling. The floor transformed into gold and white tile.

The portal swirled with gold, becoming a vertical pool of the divine that rippled red.

A demonic woman stepped into the portal. Her skin was magenta, her dress radiant red, and her horns formed a broken halo that stretched high above her, like a crescent moon with her at the bottom. She smiled, showing white fangs while her eyes sparkled like solid rubies, as she placed her taloned hands together, and bowed. Wings of fire gently spread down and out; subservient.

She was Erick’s personal connection to Demon King Dinnamoth, and her name was Lynkari.

Lynkari rose, saying, “Greetings, Wizard Flatt. To whom does the Demon King owe this absolute pleasure?”

“To whomever is committing demonic murders in Greendale, and unleashing imps from demon-turned human souls.”

Lynkari knew that she would not have been called upon outside of something important, but she did not hide the fact that she was so very, very relieved. She breathed deep the Hell-tainted, yet still-real air, as her shoulders relaxed, and her tense wings of flame transformed into body-draping red robes, open at the front, showing off her ample assets on purpose.

She was incredibly beautiful, which was yet another of Hell’s temptations.

“Greendale asked this four times already, that we know of. We have attempted to locate those turned souls, but we have had no luck in that matter. Hell might not look like it, but our little moon is as vast as Veird and the architecture of it is more nuanced than Fairie. New, non-contracted souls end up in any millions of unclaimed lands. The dangers and horrors that live there usually rip those souls to shreds and then continue doing that, feeding on their pain until the new soul becomes a true denizen of Hell and is able to fight back.” Lynkari said, “That’s what we think happened to those people. But. We will ask around again and this time, since it’s you asking, we might get different answers.” She asked, “Do you want to form a contract? It’d be the easiest way to ensure you remained yourself should the worst happen.”

“I do not. Thanks for looking into this.”

Erick didn’t begrudge Lynkari her attempt at seduction, or her attempt at converting Erick to a demon; literally every demon wanted Erick to make a contract with them, but Lynkari at least took ‘no’ as an answer. She was better than the last three demon contacts Erick had had for the upper echelons of Hell, and Erick didn’t get along fully with Dinnamoth himself, so that guy never showed up unless it was a real emergency.

Lynkari bowed once again as she stepped backward through the portal, silently leaving.

Gold divinity rushed away, Vile power flashing through the world as it vanished from sight.

And Erick once again stood in a nondescript secured location, in front of a circular vertical ring of pinkish hellite, a good five meters across. The gold filigree and mouldings of the room had vanished. Some of the room was melted, though, so Erick got to fixing that.

“So that was a dead-end,” Erick said to himself, as he Shaped stone. “Still had to cross the t’s and dot the i’s, though.”

- - - -

Erick was once again Ashes, and this time he didn’t fly into the Glittering Depths compound on a Platform. He just popped through a [Gate], directly into the courtyard, where people had once again gathered around and acted like they usually did, getting ready to go down into the dungeon. But then ‘Ashes’ had appeared, through a white-lightning [Gate], followed fast by Ophiel, who made himself very apparent, and who fluffed up into his large form before settling on top of the surface dungeon guildhall. Ophiel turned completely invisible at that point, fading from sight.

The little guy had done a great job of distracting everyone.

‘Ashes’ was already through the black [Gate], golden staff in his hands and all his other metamonds on his body where they should be, as he raced into the dungeon proper. The giant spider overlooking the entrance had barely had time to glance his way.

Erick paid no attention to everyone else on the dirt road leading to the hills. He just hoofed it, fast, into the darkness—

- - - -

—And now he was in a white tutorial room.

“… Well okay then,” Erick said, putting his hands on his hips. “What’s up, dungeon?”

One moment please, Ashes Woodfield. A dungeon master will be with you shortly.

Even before Erick finished reading that sentence the air opened up ahead and out stepped Kinder, looking much the same as the last time Erick had seen him, but wearier. Run down.

Kinder said, “You’re somehow working with the Inquisitors now, and you also have a direct line to the Wizard. I would like to formally request that you do what you have to do down here, and then you go out of the dungeon and find the people who are actually causing these noble murders. Because they’re not here. We’ve checked already.”

“Okay. I just need a list of every Riamite who has ever been dragged out of their floor, and I’ll go investigate that.”

“… There is no such list. We don’t keep tabs on those who escape the floors, but we do catch 95% of them.”

Erick nodded, fully expecting this, for it had been in the report. “I believe you, but now you understand why I cannot agree to your request.”

Kinder frowned. “I suspect I’ll be quintupling the investigations we’ve already done.”

“Probably.” Erick smiled, saying, “So let’s go see those investigations!”

“Before we get there,” Kinder looked to the air beside him, saying, “You evaded him out there, but he’s here as well.”

Wess Clover looked the same as the last time Erick had seen him; impartial and calm, with skin the color of dark wood and close-cropped hair. His green armor gleamed. “Greetings, Ashes. I hope that I don’t have to track you down again like this, or else I will need to report these sorts of purposeful evasions to the Throne.” He frowned a little, adding, “I will already have to report that the Wizard dropped you off here for the express purpose of evading us.”

“And I will report to the Wizard that your King agreed that I would be unencumbered in the dungeon, and yet here you stand, encumbering me.”

Wess said nothing.

“… Go ahead and do what you have to do, and I will do the same, Wess.” Erick had been looking the man over, and he saw some odd things about him that weren’t there the last time Erick had seen him, in the courtyard ambush. “So you’ve got a full set of metamonds, then.”

“I’ve been here for over a year, ever since the last Inquisitor oversight for this dungeon was face-eaten by Riamites, along with the majority of others.”

Erick listened, and then he asked Kinder, “Do you have a list of everyone who has made a meta-artifact real? Can the dungeon check that?”

“No, we do not, and the dungeon cannot check that. We barely have a census, and new Riamites are coming out of the dungeon all the time, brought here through people taking the backroads to the other floors.” Kinder explained, “The Glittering Depths is massive, occupying the dungeon space for all of the nearest few hundred kilometers around Greendale, and even further than that in a few places, all in order to prevent the random creation of more dungeons anywhere near the capital. You saw the first and second floors. We have multiple copies of those floors, and the other 3. And that’s not even counting the Eternal Depths, which can get weird and deep. The most we can do is track someone when they start, and once they fall off that track, we lose them until we can find them again and assign them a tracker.”

