Erick had read about all that in the reports that Darundi had given him. The Glittering Depths was perhaps one of the most important and never-seen areas of Greensoil, and yet it was full of holes large enough for killers to hide within, thanks to the backroads. Grand Dungeons were like that a lot, really; too much space in them, while also being too hard to fully police. But there was an established solution to that problem.

Erick asked, “Have you considered letting the monsters roam in the deeper Dark? To clear out those hiding holes in the backroads with absolute death? Quilatalap does that in the Grand Benevolence Dungeon. That’s what Wizard Destiny and the Life Binder do for the Freelands Grand Dungeon. I had assumed that’s what you all did here.”

Kinder frowned.

And Wess answered, “The Viridian Throne wishes to—”

He didn’t even have to finish what he was saying before Erick realized what had happened.

“— leave the backroads open for safety concerns, since people do get back there every once in a while, and the protections of the regular dungeon do not extend to the deeper backroads.”

“Well that’s a damned lie,” Erick said. “Darundi uses those backroads for his own gains, doesn’t he? Somehow, someway… I bet this whole thing is just a backroads problem of people moving into his territory unopposed— OH! That’s how the demon killers have gotten into and out of all those noble houses, isn’t it! And the backroads are left open so that the Throne can make metamonds down here! That’s what all of this is; the Viridian Throne tried to make a Dark powerbase for themselves, and some parasite roaches moved in, and you can’t get them out.”

Erick almost sighed as he figured it all out right then and there, and as the expressions of Kinder and Wess all but confirmed his wild theory.

Kinder said nothing.

Wess showed no surprise at all as he came right out and said, “Yes. That is exactly correct. We have been trying and barely succeeding in making metamonds into real artifacts for a long while, and some infiltrators now exist in the backroads with our meta-artifact workshops. Shall we get on with the investigation, now?”

Erick said, “We’re going to be exploring a lot of the backsides of this dungeon; I can see it now. So I have two requirements, first. I want to see that workshop, and I want another person to come along with us.”

Wess frowned a little. “Who?”

Kinder spoke up, “Before that, I would like to introduce you to some eyes-in-the-sky that will be overwatching your paths down here.”

Erick paused. “… Well sure? Who?”

- - - -

George could not believe it as Ashes walked through the door to the control room. He leapt out of his chair and smiled, saying, “Welcome, Ashes! I saw you when you first found that [Murky] in the dungeon! Diving into the waters with those eels is something I never would have done—”

Quince was there, saying, “Pardon my over-enthusiastic coworker.” He bowed.

And then George realized he should have bowed, too, so he did that, but he couldn’t wipe the smile off of his face. Even Inquisitor Wess being there wasn’t a real damper on the moment. Ashes was directly tied to the Wizard! How cool was that! And holy shit that spellwork he had unleashed at the dungeon entrance! The Inquisitors seemed a lot less terrifying after that beatdown, and that was great.

Ashes said, “Hello. Nice to meet you two. I understand you’re going to be our oversight?”

George instantly heard that wary tone. He rushed to say, “It’s not like that, I swear. We don’t spy on everyone and we certainly don’t talk to anyone about any of that— Well. Except for the Inquisitors... by law...”

For yet another time in his life, George realized he was talking too much.

Quince tried to save him, saying, “The dungeon is an unknowable box in certain ways, made that way by the holy communion of Atunir and the decree of the Dark. We can track people when we’re focused on them, but finding them once they’ve taken a wrong turn is exceedingly difficult. We don’t spy in houses when people are present in them, either.”

Ashes asked, “And in the backroads? How does your Sight extend back there?”

George gasped a little, as he looked from Wess to Kinder, and then back to Ashes. “… I suppose the Wizard’s people work fast in knowing all there is to know, eh?”

Quince actually answered the question, saying, “We can monitor you and an area about forty meters around you, but if you move too fast then we’ll lose you in the backroads. Calling on the dungeon will let us find you again.”

Ashes asked, “What about making metamonds in the backroads? That doesn’t alert you here?”

“Not at all,” Quince said.

Ashes asked, “How viable would it be to flood the backroads with monsters? To flush out whoever is hiding in them?”

George looked to Kinder. Quince looked to Kinder.

Kinder said nothing.

Wess answered, “There are a lot of people in the backroads besides the killers. And the killers might not even be in the backroads. That’s just one option. They could be in Utopia. They could be living among the monster levels, and thus releasing the monsters would do nothing. They could be moving through Endless Delve zones and hopping through realities to constantly evade. They might even be living inside Greendale, hiding out, or [Gate]ing in from other lands to kill as they please.”

“You’re pretty sure they’re in the backroads, though, right?” Ashes asked.

Wess said nothing.

“The backroads are the least trackable places, so they might be there.” Kinder said, “Even Utopia is more trackable than the backroads.”

Ashes said to George and Quince, “It was nice to meet you, too. Hope you don’t see anything that terrifies you too much.”

Wess said, “I would like to move on.”

Ashes walked away, saying small words to Kinder, as Kinder followed and Wess accompanied them, until all three of them had walked through the door and the door shut behind.

George waited two moments before he allowed his giggling to erupt and turn into a laugh. “That guy has The Wizard on [Telepathy]! And an Ophiel delivered him here! Did you see those Domains, Quince?!”

Quince scowled, like the sourlemon he was, “Everyone saw those damned Domains, George. You’re too excited for this… This is terrifying, and we’re going to have Inquisitors watching over us while we work, and if there really are people in the backroads then… Then they can probably get in here.”

“Phbbbt!” George exclaimed, “It’s a short [True Resurrection] to the green fields for us if we die here—”

“We could be dragged to the backroads, idiot. True Death.”

George waved a hand. “I’m not worried. We’ve got House Benevolence here now. Ashes is going to cut through everything down there and come out with dead demons in his claws.”

Quince was a lot less certain.

- - - -

In the middle of what looked like a field of golden wheat, Erick knocked on the air, and the air thumped. There was no answer right away. Wess, standing beside Erick, gave no signs of irritation or otherwise, for he had already voiced his concerns with Erick’s choice of accompaniment, and then left it at that.

Erick knocked on the air again, saying, “I know you’re in there! I can see you from here!”

The air cleared. Golden wheat vanished. A house and a garden stood revealed on the other side of a low, tumbled-stone barrier that marked the property ahead.

Clarice glared, “What do you want?”

“I want to know if you told Rebecca her name yet.”

“You’re a day over our agreement!” Clarice spat. “… I should have. I have not.”

“Good. In that case: We’re going into the backroads to hunt the demonic killer, and I fully expect us to end up in some dangerous places in the Dark. Probably floor 5, or other floors like it. Want to do some exploring with us?”

Clarice focused with laser intensity. “If we end up on floor 5 you’re going to [Witness] the past, yes?”

“I’m rather sure that I’m on some destined, Benevolent Path right now, so probably.” Erick added, “It might even work with two extra people there, too.”

“Then yes; I want to go. Give me a minute and I’ll get my gear.”
