The harvesting upgrade didn’t come with any physical changes off the baseline, but the original passive of the units was upgraded once more when in that form. A free resource every seven resources didn’t matter too much on the seemingly limitless lower strata resources, but the higher level ones that quickly ran out stretched that much further with the new form.

They spent another two days filling in the gaps in their resource collection and finishing their final upgrades before they launched an attack on the hydra, wanting to keep ahead of the curve.

With thousands of units all upgraded to the second level, as well as having them all armed and armored, they were betting a lot on their attack.

They didn’t necessarily think they were going to succeed, but they were nearly out of expansion routes and the hydra seemed like the easiest foe.

To the east they had their still unknown opponents, and while they might not be as strong as the hydra, they were undoubtedly more cunning.

To the north they had the lake filled with monsters that still managed to one-shot their upgraded units. While the south had shining resources they hadn’t even seen in the battleground and equally impressive monsters.

They’d picked Magnus' mind before launching their attack, which was they had a line of defensives they could retreat to if their attack failed and the hydra decided to go on the offensive as the weaker monsters often did.

They’d considered several plans, but in the end, they decided to air drop a contingent of Gan Le’s units, whose second upgrade gave them a small shield every time they attacked. Their damage was abysmal, but like the Sect tank himself, his units were incredibly durable.

It wasn’t much, but they hoped the aerial attack would distract the hydra and prevent it from wiping the rest of units out as they approached the valley it had taken over. That was how they’d lost any scouts they sent too close, and they weren’t keen to fight through such an opening salvo.

As they’d hoped, the hydra focused all of its attention on the closest units, ignoring the army that raced across the crater filled ground.

Having already talked things out and not wanting to risk their hero units, everyone was silent as they commanded their groups from the command room.

Matt was in charge of the right flank and it was his job to try and relieve Gan Le’s units.

Most were dead by the time reinforcements arrived, but their army, led by Susanne’s units, was surprisingly intact when it reached the boss.

That changed when the hydra’s heads started acting independently.

Whatever variation of hydra the strange realm had created, each of its heads represented a different element and their breath weapons followed the theming.

They prepared for that, but it quickly became clear they hadn’t done well enough.

Aster’s units, farthest in the rear, started creating ice golems that raced forward to attack the hydra. They were being crushed by one of the gigantic claws or destroyed in a breath attack before getting in more than a few attacks, but they single handedly kept two heads and its right claw distracted.

Matt kept his units in their defensive stance, focusing on keeping them at the right level of density. As he’d seen from Gan Le’s units, anything that got too close together became prime targets for another stomping fit. Too far apart, and they were prime targets for a head’s breath weapon to sweep across the battlefield.

There was a small sweet spot of density that seemed to slip through the hydra’s attention, but he was still losing units every time they were attacked.

Eventually, Matt messed up the timing and lost nearly half of his attacks. Cycling forms between engagements was risky, but when it failed, it failed spectacularly. For all of the advantages, the offensive stance couldn’t take much damage before crumbling. Even a glancing blow decimated an attack stance unit.

Watching as units vanished, Matt was about to ask the others and see if they wanted to keep on the offensive or pull back, when Stenson and Magnus finally completed the first turret in range of the hydra.

As the now cannon-like creation fired a blast of energy, the battlefield seemed to pause as everyone waited for the hydra’s reaction.

Every single one of its numerous heads not actively engaged turned and unleashed a deadly breath weapon at the turret.

The single unit that had finished the construction wasn’t able to get out of the way in time and was annihilated, along with the building it had worked so hard to create.

Its sacrifice was more than worth it as the redirected attention gave their frontline units a moment of recovery.

Watching the heads, Matt and Rah, who controlled the center, had their units go on the offensive a moment before the second turret was completed.

The heads that were turning on their units immediately snapped their attention upward and away from the real threat.

Seeing that, Matt was hopeful they’d figured things out after the third successful cycle, but his dreams were dashed as the hydra seemed truly enraged by the fourth turret.

Instead of attacking with an elemental breath attack, as it had the last three times, it charged the turret, finally drawn from its lair.

Cursing the scaly not-lizard, Matt and everyone tried to pivot as their well laid plans fell apart.

Two of the heads snapped at the newest turret, grabbing it at the base and peak, ripping it in half with a triumphant roar, as if the hydra had defeated its most hated foe.

When it spun back around, Matt was almost hopeful that it would crawl back into its lair. Instead, it unleashed a much larger combined breath attack that annihilated most of their troops that were now behind it.

The beams’ energy mixed with each other, but instead of disrupting each other's flow, they amplified the damage.

Matt was wiping his hands of the attempt when Liz came back in with the rest of her aerial units. She commanded them to drop onto the hydra’s back as their final wave of reinforcements sallied out from their base.

It was close, so close Matt felt sweat running down his back even without a body, but with the hydra distracted and facing the wrong way, they were finally able to finally bring it down.

When its body fell to the ground, it didn’t dissolve like the earlier monsters had. Its body started to shrink, but when it had lost about twenty percent of its size, it fully solidified as it turned into harvestable crystals.

Matt realized what it was a moment later and felt almost dumb.

Resources.

The hydra turned into a mound of crystals.

The outer layer was clear crystal, similar to the first most basic resource they gathered, but through that outer shell, they could see swirls of colors that became metallic even deeper where they couldn’t see.

Better than the resources themselves, they were all aiming for the prize at the center.

Not the rare resource its heart had turned into, but rather the monster's former power source, the resource that once turned into a central monument would allow them to ‘win’ the strange realm.

Growth item gems.

The most precious resource in this strange realm and what everyone was fighting over.

Found randomly in bosses, hidden locations, or other teams’ bases, they’d need to find eleven more, one for each of them, to claim a reward at the end of the strange realm.

They, however, wanted far more than the minimum.
