While Matt loved his sword, he would have much preferred if his first upgrade down that path was related to something more useful early on, like the ability to swap locations with one of Liz’s units from their rings.

Finally, his Aster related bond upgrade only seemed to add an ice element to his units. While he was interested in where such upgrades would lead, it wasn’t a priority.

If he was alone he’d have chosen the second, but the unit upgrades took ten of the metallic crystals, which meant they’d be a bottleneck.

After everyone checked their upgrades, they decided to spend ten of their fifteen recovered metallic crystals upgrading Matt’s harvesting ability. That was how they then learned that choosing a color locked those units to that type, no one else in the team could consume them for their own units' upgrades of that Tier.

There were others that were useful, like Aster’s units’ ability to have a storage space to safely and discreetly transport resources and Allie’s short range teleportation. But free resources would snowball them faster, so they felt they made the right choice. Though they needed to be careful to not over-prep and fall flat when they were inevitably forced to fight.

Liz’s units got the ability to glide, which was their next planned upgrade after seeing how useful flying units were.

With the haul from the battle, they were finally able build the ranged weapon research building, though to temporarily unsatisfying results. The units equipped with the weapons could deal damage from range, yes, but it was a far cry from what the melee units could deal. And far less accurate, with any monster entering within melee of them being a near-guaranteed death sentence.

The upgrades looked promising but it caused them to shelve the weapon type until they could finish some initial research.

With a full day before they were pulled into the battleground, and having already done the drudge work the day before, they started expanding with a vengeance.

It wasn’t without effort.

Even with newly unlocked ranged weapons, spears and shields, as well as crystalline armor, taking a resource node defended by magical creatures was hard.

While they were gone, the number of monsters defending the nodes had increased by roughly ten percent. Additional new creatures started to spawn out of the resources themselves, and once they reached a critical mass, the monsters over the cap would start roaming.

While Liz and Susanne handled their offensive efforts, Matt concentrated on the base building with Stenson and Magnus.

Things became a lot easier when they found an onyx crystal node, which finally let them unlock a magic research building.

Similar to the forge, magic needed to be researched. But once unlocked, they were able to add it to their units and items alike.

Sadly, magic wasn’t free and cost colored crystals to use, even for single cast spells. The equivalent of enchanted items were permanent but with a higher initial cost.

Support magic however seemed to be the true star of single cast magic. Like so many other things the first unlock was temping. At the paltry cost of a thousand clear crystals, enchant an area for two hours that would speed up all units action speeds. For low level resources it would be a waste but for the harder to mine resources that were gating their progress, it tempted like a demon's bargain.

They instead started with general earth magic for Rah and his units to start reshaping the terrain. It didn’t cost anything for his units to use, unlike most other magics, which was the deciding factor.

Ice was their second choice for Aster, but that was all the progress they made before another day passed.

Zack had voluntarily taken the third slot, while his units were useful, they were too expensive to make use of this early. Once they unlocked spells his units could, individually but permanently, gain access to a single spell at a time. As such, he was more than happy to help the others while also expanding his own repertoire.

Their second twenty-four hour battle was much like the first, though the metallic resource node was blue. Unlike the first group they encountered, the second wasn’t doing as well, if their lack of upgrades and items was any indication.

It was on that third day they finally expanded outward to the point they started finding metallic crystal nodes in the main world. It was underground and only discovered thanks to Lura, but it signified they were on the right track.

Magical picks were able to break them, but it was time consuming when compared to the lower level resources, and another expense that required additional attention.

Temporarily blocked by a body of water, they started trying to skirt around it until their units were attacked from the water.

Monsters a step above even the metallic node defenders attacked in droves, and their units were slaughtered in a matter of seconds.

The fish monsters forced them to explore in a new direction, which led them to find an even more formidable foe.

To the west was the body of water, but to their north was a hydra. Or a variation of a hydra similar enough they couldn’t see any difference.

Matt didn’t think strange realms could break the rules on creating sentients any more than a rift could, rather he suspected this was more a complicated illusion letting the strange realm do whatever it wanted.

Unlike the water monsters, they didn’t even see it make its move. The only reason they knew of its existence was the map marker left behind.

With only two directions left, they kept exploring.

Their southward exploration team was halted not by a new strong monster, but rather a wall of metallic resource nodes.

In the last direction where they expected disappointment, they discovered their first enemy faction outside of the battlefield.

Neighbors.

Having finally found a possible enemy, they tried to scout the newly discovered base but their efforts proved futile.

Their singular scout failed to deliver any additional information, but it did let them know where they had real opponents. That then prompted them to start shoring up their defenses.

Sharing the information with the others, they made their plan. Push deeper, then secure and fortify as much of the resource rich mountains before the other group tried to do the same.

Mapping things out, they chose good natural break points they hoped would limit the defenses they would need in the short term, but they knew they'd eventually be reinforcing the mountains themselves.

Matt and Katya were working on building said defensive flank when they were pulled back to the main camp where they’d kept their hero bodies.

The members working on research had finally unlocked their hero upgrades by completing their tenth total research project.

Checking his, Matt found the upgrades worked in a slightly different way than he’d expected.

The upgrades that their hero units unlocked were singular and independent of their more disposable units, which contrasted with the unit upgrades that did have secondary bleedover effects to their hero bodies.

The upgrades, however, showed them just how far the strange realm could be pushed.

Resource colors they hadn’t encountered yet were next to seemingly unique upgrades that could only come from a few places.

If he acquired a ‘Primordial’s Lifeforce’, he’d gain access to the ability to sacrifice an increasing amount of normal units in the place of his death.

However, given the indicator for the resource was a beating heart, he suspected where they’d find such impressive upgrades.

They didn’t know where a ‘Primordial’s Lifeforce’ was, but Matt was confident if they killed the hydra, they’d get something in the same vein.

Looking around his own upgrades, Matt found one he thought might be related to the hydra. A ‘Heart of Seven Heads’ upgrade resource in combination with a fourth strata resource they hadn’t discovered would remove his head's critical weakness.

When he shared that tidbit with Liz, figuring it was good for her, their group realized they’d assumed everyone got the same upgrades from the same resources. That wasn’t true in the slightest.

Everyone's upgrades were unique, though they all seemed to have a theme.

Far from a good thing, that indicated they’d have a limited amount, possibly one, use of the special resources. He doubted there was a second hydra waiting to be harvested around the next corner.

Not that they planned to fight the hydra any time soon.

Instead, Matt and Katya returned to work building out their flank in the little time they had left.

Katya provided the plan and helped move materials, while Matt used a host of Stenson’s units to build the walls faster.

Their researcher did find ‘integrated walls’ technology in the research building, but they deliberately didn’t go down that path, instead opting for the stronger defense path.

Tripling the durability of their walls as well as making them extend into the ground further for a nominal price had been an easy choice.

Needing to build both a layer of defense and offense took longer and cost more resources overall, but they hoped the investments would prove useful as their two items further evolved into specialists.

When they were done, Katya suggested they start creating paths for the workers to move on. It was a good idea, and after running the numbers and seeing the cost of upgrading the roads step by step was the same as building them outright, they got to work.

The investment to create so many roads nearly cost as many resources as the walls and turrets combined, but at level two, the roads could interact with the storage buildings and allowed for automatic transport of resources between storage depots.

They even took the time to use Rah’s units to create platforms Liz’s units could use to glide through the valleys should they be attacked and needed to leave their overwatch positions.

Removing the need for micromanagement was a high enough priority they started making the skeleton of a proper transportation network.

They hadn’t considered the possible side effects when they were pulled into the battleground arena, but when they arrived, their starting base had a spiderweb of roads ready for expansion.

They also had access to their walls and defenses, along with their archers atop them, though they’d expected that.

Now more familiar with the battle realms, they started securing the resource nodes around them. Having entered the battlefield several times, they’d started to notice a trend that the resources improved even as they grew more scarce.

With less resources to go around that were also more valuable, fights were becoming inevitable.

Half a dozen of Matt’s units were mining a metallic turquoise node they hadn’t found on the overworld when they first saw their new enemies.

Needle-like arrows rained down on his units, killing three with lucky head shots, but the others were wounded and that hampered their response times. The accuracy and range was far beyond what Matt had seen of their ranged weapons’ research path, making him suspect it was an innate power of the units.

Matt watched as Susanne redirected a small contingent of her and Gan Le’s troops to the base, but knew it would be too late to save his units. Sharing that, he told her not to bother in case there was a trap and instead get a more useful revenge.

Taking his advice to heart, she gathered more of their forces and started raiding the enemy camps.

Their newest enemy chose to create ‘defenses’ that boiled down to a lone turret next to each of their claimed nodes.

It worked surprisingly well, but the flaws were equally apparent.

Without effective ranged units of their own, they didn’t want to risk losing the number of troops necessary to take the nodes, so they let their opponents have their victory. Instead, Susanne harassed their supply lines between bases, stealing or destroying resources any time she could.

Tired of being stifled by their lack of effective ranged attacks, the moment they returned, Zack pushed back their research queue and started researching better ranged weaponry .

That would help, but they also needed more of their unit upgrades, which meant securing and mining more of the colored second strata crystals, as they’d started calling them.

The baseline units were the key to the strange realm, that much was clear to everyone. With that in mind, they started expanding with an eye to those resources.

It wasn’t easy, and they took significant losses sometimes, but they managed to harvest enough resources that everyone got at least their first upgrade, even if not their second.

Matt’s unit's second upgrade once more gave him three choices, but he found his decision much harder the second time around.

While the options he didn’t choose hadn’t changed, the Aster upgrade or his form chance upgrades, the third one wasn’t another passive resource gathering upgrade any more, but rather the ability to store crystals.

Without hard numbers, Matt was only able to trust his gut, but he chose the ability to change forms.

He was immediately glad he did so when his hero body got the same upgrade, giving him a level of control back that he’d been sorely missing.

The three forms were distinct, both visually and functionally.

The offensive stance was thin, no taller than before, but he was faster and more nimble. The defensive stance was the exact opposite, thickening his body and slowing him down, but it also made him far more durable.

What could crack his offense body, hardly scratched the defensive one.

