For more long-term protection, they started funneling the crystals to Susanne. Her units were inherently armored, which did come with more durability, as they found through testing. Their main advantage was, however, that they still took after her Talent and had a passive speed boost that made them a perfect quick reaction force.

Long term, Allie’s units would probably turn into their scouts. If standing perfectly still they were almost impossible to detect, but they were more worried about fighting.

They were still collecting floating sets of armor hours later when their scouting team returned. Without them having to say anything, their return updated the overview room with everything they’d uncovered, letting them follow their path and what they’d found.

Thankfully, everything was well labeled as it was last seen.

Things could have, and probably had, changed but he doubted the resources had grown legs and ran away.

Matt whistled as Magnus' plans pivoted.

The four of them had hardly begun exploring, but had already found several resource nodes, despite having only traveled through two of the mountainous valleys that surrounded them.

The resources were well defended.

They’d expected that, but the crystals weren’t clear, they were silver and purple things they’d only seen on the higher-level buildings.

They didn’t have any buildings unlocked that took the purple crystals, but they did have one that required the silver.

Matt just hoped the forge would do what its name implied.

Not that unlocking it would be easy.

Liz’s irritation was clear as she said, “We tried to fight a lone goblin close to the purple resources, but it took all four of us working together to kill it. The summons helped, but I don’t think we can kill the whole guardian nest given our current strength. The wolves were somewhat easier to fight as they didn’t have spells.”

Having their first target, they gathered all of the units, beside Matt’s who they left mining, as well as burning through all of their loose crystals from storage, creating more troops for their first attack.

Leading a small group of miniature versions of themselves into battle was novel, but a failure. The wolves managed to take down two or three units for each of their deaths, but they’d only sent a probing attack for a reason.

In the fighting, they did discover there was a small chance of the unit dropping a seemingly random colored crystal when killed, but it was far from sustainable or reliable.

Checking the time before their daily first battle, they decided to explore the other valleys and expand as far as they could before they tried to tackle the spell-wielding monsters guarding the better resources.

They were only able to gather a single additional clear crystal mine, found in a secluded nook, thanks to Lura’s units, but it sped up their unit production significantly. Even if the crystals needed to be transported between locations.

Most of the resource nodes they found were various colors, covering most of their available upgrades, but not all. A trend they did notice was the creatures that defended the higher-level resources had spells, while a few, like the silver, didn’t.

Without their own access to magic, Matt’s group could only throw numbers at their problems and hope the forge was worth the cost.

Their first real attack against the wolves with fifty of Susanne’s units failed. It did, however, have the desired effect, and the wolves followed the trickle of units back to their now much more robust line of turrets.

They didn’t have walls, so their units had to hold the frontline, but that was acceptable.

Similar to their un-upgraded units, the turrets took several hits to kill one of the attacking wolves, but they attacked from range, which bought them some time as the wolves targeted them over the units. They took damage, but they’d kept Stenson’s units out of the fighting, using them to repair the damage.

They only delayed the inevitable, as their turrets fell one by one, but combined with their second wave of attackers, they finally managed to clear out most of the wolves.

They did take hits but their bodies, like their units, slowly healed themselves. Though Liz and her units healed much faster once out of combat. They were sure there would be better methods of recovering, but they didn’t have them yet.

What they did have was an extra crystal mine to exploit.

Creating four turrets ate through most of the resources mined while they were fighting, but between them and the wall they managed to erect around the new base, the new silver crystal mine was well protected.

It became immediately clear they’d skipped a step or two when their units were completely unable to mine the silver resource and they needed to do it themselves.

Mining ten crystals took considerable effort and nearly an hour, but with ten of them working on it at the same time, they had their first silver crystal and they were able to build the forge as fast as possible.

When the final piece of the building was put into place, it shimmered into existence. The building looked a lot like forge, but everything was replaced with crystals. Not only the walls and structural elements, but anything traditional made out of metal in a forge was replaced by a variation of crystal.

Matt tried to inspect the building, but without his real body, he couldn’t tell if they were unique or possibly something he could copy.

It wasn’t until they tried to interact with the forge in the overview room that something changed.

Dozens of possible tools and weapons were available, but they needed to both be researched and created, neither of which was free.

Zack figured out the research half easily enough. After entering the building, he’d been presented with puzzles of ever-growing complexity. With each puzzle solved, they got bonus research progress scaled off how hard the puzzle was versus the difficulty of the research.

Arden and Katya, both enjoying such things, assisted him. That turned a ten hour task into only four.

They started by unlocking pickaxes. For one additional clear crystal, they could equip their units, which doubled their mining speed and finally made it possible for their units to mine the colored resources, though at a penalty compared to their original speed.

Matt found the forge interesting.

It was the first building that almost followed normal logic.

While every unit could pick up and use any item regardless of body type or other incompatibility, it was ultimately that, an item.

Any unit that died dropped any items they had, and an enemy could likely pick it up or destroy it if they were so inclined.

Scanning the rest of the unlocked items, they quickly identified weapons and armor.

Weapons were simplified into two types: Ranged and melee. Though, ranged weapons were unavailable at the moment, requiring another building they didn’t have the color to build it yet.

They couldn’t find any mention of magic anywhere in the forge, leaving them to assume it was part of another building entirely.

Similar to the pickaxes, the melee weapons helped tremendously. From taking several hits to kill a non-magical creature like a wolf, they could now kill those weakest monsters in two.

That let them expand into two more colored crystal deposits before their first daily battle, hopefully giving them a lead over their competitors.

Teal and pink crystals weren’t the most vital resources, but they unlocked their first scouting building and a construction building that improved Stenson’s unit production.

The dedicated scouts weren’t as good as their own units, but they were entirely disposable. The scouts looked like glass orbs that floated around, but they were made out of the clear crystal like everything else.

Silent and with no combat capabilities, the scouts slowly drifted through the obscuring fog. Allie and Susanne’s units were faster and better at the job, but the scouts not costing the clear crystals that were in high demand meant a few of the group were at least using a couple to explore manually.

The construction of Stenson’s unit production building revealed to them the power of individual upgrades. Upon creating the building, Stenson was given the option of his first ‘unit upgrade’ which had the option to double the building speed of his units to a twenty percent bonus.

They hadn’t found the level, or the strata as they’d started calling the levels of resources, required for the upgrade, but they were sure they’d find it if they expanded enough.

It was only a matter of time.

At the end of their first twenty four hours, they were all pulled into the overview room where the day-long timer was replaced by an hour-long one.

The units that had been inside their base appeared in a dry scrublands, clustered around a central pillar.

Trying to enter his crystal body, Matt felt a resistance preventing it.

It wasn’t impossible, but he understood he had a limited time descended each round and he’d need to ration it carefully.

Without speaking, they directed their units to start exploring. In the process, they also learned they had final say over their own units, but others could command them when they weren't actively doing so.

Useful, but it opened risks.

Being the first round, their battlefield wasn’t large, but they also didn’t intend to be hostile either if they could avoid it. While the strange realm allowed fighting and killing, destruction of their body would only lock them to the viewing room, not kill them outright.

From their bird-like view, they watched as their scouts found the edges of the area and started discovering deposits of crystals.

Each was small, much smaller than what they’d found in the main world, but they were also much easier to mine. Their pickaxes accelerated the speed even further, turning Matt’s units into miniature excavators, with a crystal being harvested every couple swings.

They discovered opponents a few minutes later when at a blue crystal mine. Three types of creatures walked up from further south, a humanoid rhino, a wooden puppet, and finally a slug of unusual size.

Carefully controlling a single unit, they tried to indicate they were willing to share the mine, but their opponents’ units vanished as quickly as they’d arrived without any indication of how they wanted to respond.

Sending out more scout units to inspect the other half of the map, they found more resources being feverishly exploited by their opponents, but no signs of upgrades like their pickaxes.

They also discovered a totally new resource.

Instead of being a solid color, the smallest crystal node they’d seen, only large enough to have a dozen or so resources, was a deep shiny metallic green.

The resource wasn’t centrally located where they’d expected it, rather it was off to the side and partly hidden. It wasn't so obscure that they were able to mine it uncontested. Their pickaxes helped, but even with them the mining was painfully slow, taking almost ten minutes per resource.

So when they saw an army of two hundred, they debated what they should do. Finally, after Magnus got a good look at their enemies, they decided to hold their ground.

They had both weapons and pickaxes and weren’t afraid to use them.

A phalanx of Susanne’s armor marched out fully armed, intercepting their attacker. Their presence halted their enemies in their tracks, clearly needing to think twice about marching their own units to the metallic crystal.

Most of his concentration was spent on the mining efforts, but Matt kept an eye on his enemies, wanting to see how they were faring. Directing his units efficiently across half a dozen mining sites was a lot of work, but he managed both.

He thought the other side was doing quite well. That many units was either their entire force and they were bluffing, or their group had their own advantages.

They proved both to be correct when harpy-like creatures flew down, and using their feet talons, grabbed two of the metallic green crystals being transported back to their base before escaping into the air unharmed, as the rest of the army surged forward and then back to a safe range again.

Unable to make any ranged weapons as of yet, they were only able to curse ineffectively each time the harpies made their move. Thankfully, once they were prepared for the trick, it was easy enough to send the crystals with a larger contingent of troops that could strike out at the harpies as they dove.

Thankfully, their enemies, whichever team that may be, didn’t seem keen on the offensive beyond trying to plunder a few outposts with their harpies.

When their hour was done, they found themselves once more back in the mountains and forest valleys.

The units that died stayed dead, but they did come back with all of the resources and items they gathered.

Seeing that, Matt suspected that if the other group had been smart enough to grab a fallen pickaxe, they’d have been able to take it back with them, but that went both ways.

They spent most of their gathered resources building the spawning buildings which finally unlocked the ability to see their units’ specific upgrades.

Once his production building was made, Matt finally got to see what Stenson described.

He had three choices for his unit's upgrades.

He could take from his Talents.

He could take one of his growth items.

Or, finally, he could take from his bond with Aster.

The information on each was limited.

The first upgrade seemed like the best. It reduced the harvests needed to generate an extra resource down from ten to nine.

A ten percent reduction wasn’t much alone, but it felt better in the long term than the second upgrade that would let his units have attack, defense, and harvesting modes that they could transform between at-will.

