In the center of the Grand Citadel, more and more of the Inner City's fragmented and crushed buildings are all swirling about in the air.

Large portions of the ether, divine energy, and mana-based structures are flowing into my Astral Form. It strengthens the shielding that forms around me, as well as allows me to grow even larger in size; while simultaneously re-summoning the Soul Sword manifestations that are being destroyed around me.

The level 3 evolution perk is an upgraded, and combined, version of this blade's first attribute gained at level 1, the ability to take energy in from the environment and grow stronger; and its second ability, gained at level 2, to release portions of its mass out in long-range attacks.

Now, perfect copies of the blade are all surrounding me, creating a white and red flaming protective orb that moves about as I swing my blade to attack the massive tendrils of corruption bursting off Miriel Vermillion.

Some merge together, creating stronger copies, while others break apart and self-destruct in order to stop large waves of corruption from slamming into me.

At first, every single change of direction I make is a close call, but it gets much easier.

The borrowed stats flowing into me start to increase exponentially, and the enormous amounts of the Grand Citadel I'm absorbing increase my natural energy control density, as well as my ether pool size, and even add massive amounts of green divine threads to my true core, bringing me closer to a saturation point.

Now, I hardly have to use half of my swords in order to fend off the tendrils of energy.

I'm even faster than the Demon that follows me, and I circle around the Inner City multiple times, now absorbing over half of the mass.

Some of the towers are thousands of kilometers tall, yet compacted and siphoned for their energy, I can compress them down by hundreds of times, just like the sea of corruption that was infused into this Demon's body.

Miriel yells out, with genuine anger in his voice.

"You coward! All you do is run! Face me! Stop destroying this Citadel, it is not your playground!"

At the same time, I feel the cold aura coming off him quiver, and pour out streaks of hot light for some reason.

Rippling waves of an energy source I've only felt up close and personal one time rush into my mind, and the quantity and intensity that it makes itself known is far greater than what I witnessed on Seraphel's greater form, as well as the weak leftover Celestial energy imbued ether commands I manipulated to seal my body.

When I turn my head back to see the Demon chasing me, its entire greater form ripples with a white-grey Celestial glow, as the lowest buff on its status appears in my mind's eye [Celestial Prism].

The gap between us closes in an instant, and it feels like he just teleported, but my foresight and clairvoyance shows me the exact path he took... This Demon just multiplied its power instantly. There was no change in form, nor any shockwave or energy release, it's like he flicked a switch... and now has access to this strange Celestial Power.

The monster's clawed hand covered in layers of corruption swipes toward my chest. Thousands of my soul swords move to block it, but they are consumed by the black liquid shimmering with white light.

It gives off both hot and cold radiation at the same time, confusing yet fascinating.

I swing my strongest soul sword up to block after massive portions of its corruption have been blasted away by the sacrificial blades.

With layers of Citadel commands covering my Astral Form, some even used to make a thick covering over my Soul Sword, I'm still overpowered.

The corruption melts through the Citadel mass, and collides directly with my blade.

I summon a reflection true core ability, the hexagonal divine energy manifestation I gained from killing Raven's bronze dragon; and imbue it with massive amounts of energy from the Citadel.

Miriel's hand slows down once it hits it, but it doesn't stop.

He lets out a Demonic Roar of anger, and thousands of dense corruption tornadoes fly from his back.

The defensive array shatters, but the explosion creates enough force to send me flying backward away from his incoming hand.

I'm sent backward toward the outer rim of this Inner City, with the wilderness to my back.

There is still one more buff on his status that I saw while so close: [????? ???????? ??????????????], yet it is still hidden, telling me that even this isn't the true extent of his power...

–

This explosion cracks the protective ether arrays keeping the wilderness safe even more.

Hundreds of millions of wild beasts as well as intelligent Lords out in the biomes watch their reality start breaking around them.

Massive cracks in the ground, and those with biomes closer to the Great Wall, see jagged fractures and some even see the battle with their naked eyes...

Though, not for long.

The High Noble Vibrations that ripple through the entire citadel forcefully make many Lords pass out, and lose their ability to use the system.

Automated ether Orbs begin forming over them all, as safe zones in the wilderness are starting to break down and be suppressed or completely destroyed.

All of the automated safety protocols are triggered, and hundreds of millions of white orbs form around the hundreds of thousands of biomes, and unconscious Lords are lifted high in the air, moved toward the top of the Grand Citadel's dome; phasing through layers of ether commands to be held with the rest of the Lords from the Inner City.

As massive flashes of white light surround the floating arena stands in the sky, Ava does not stop what she's doing at all.

Using the [Screech] skill, and 4% of borrowed stats, she leaves bright green trails of energy through the sky while yelling out to new groups of Lords.

Over the last few seconds, a chain reaction was spurred in a local crowd.

First it was a few hundred that vowed their loyalty to this human on a whim, but that quickly turned to thousands, then tens to hundreds of thousands, and now millions.

A full section of Lords has broken out of their suppression commands and cuffs that hold them back.

There are not enough Admins to keep them in line any longer, and the announcer that still gives a play-by-play of the fight down below turns his attention to the chaos in these stands.

The extra airtime shows sections of seating too far away to hear Ava to see that somehow Lords are breaking free...

Ava yells out again, holding her Hammer high in the air.

"Swear your Loyalty to the Rising Emperor. The human below us fighting your oppressor. He will set you free, and in return, you will temporarily grant him power to fight that Demon. Miriel Vermillion's Rule over the Green Zone of the Upper Realm is coming to an end today. The only question is will you be a part of it? Will you help the Rising Emperor set you all free?"

The announcer does not move the recording devices away from Ava. Instead, there is a split screen of her yelling out, as a white-haired elf hovers up in the air next to her, and more and more releases of energy light up all over the crowds, even ones too far away for them to see.

The links of loyalty growing make Ava's aura grow brighter and brighter green as it surges past 10 million, then 15 million, then 20 million worlds...

She smiles wide, changing her gaze to even higher up, where all of the floating ether orbs full of unintelligent beasts stand.

The preset commands are programmed to hold them here until a manual override can fix the catastrophic problem at hand. So, they are all trapped inside white orbs in the sky, easily another 500 million Lords, mostly 3rd, 4th, and 5th Class.

Ava wants them to swear their loyalty too, but it will not be as easy to convince them as the 370 million 1st and 2nd Class Intelligent Lords below her as they are a more captive audience.

Just as she's about to yell out again while facing a new direction, the goblin queen's eyes widen.

She watches a crack in the top of the Grand Citadel start to form.

It is not from the battle taking place below... the safety layering has not shattered despite all of the High Noble stress being pushed up on it still.

Instead, something outside in the Green Zone is hammering away to try to get in.

The shadowy outline of a purple and black greater form is what Ava sees first. Three bright purple curved horns coming out of its head.

An enormous matching purple hammer in its grasp.

Thuds start to echo through the air, and the sounds of cracking start to grow louder.

A very distinct vibration ripples through the atmosphere next, one of a Noble Demon.

Ava stops her speeches all of a sudden, and jumps upward, streaking through the air in a blur of green light.

In fractions of a second, she flies past the altitude of the wilderness Lords, and flies even higher upward, so that the top of the dome is less than 50 thousand kilometers away.

Many freed Lords that were cheering her on, and even the announcer of the event, become confused at her strange actions.

Though, it all makes sense when a massive hole breaks open in the top of the Grand Citadel, and a Noble Morvale Family Demon comes crashing in vibrating with killing intent.

Instead of falling straight down into the middle of a crowd of hundreds of millions, he's stopped in midair, dense purple hammer against a white and green one.
