Pancake, thought Alden, holding his arms out toward the can and sighting it through the specific section of the pattern that was supposed to help him target. As his authority filled it and he focused, he experienced a much milder version of the phenomenon that happened when he used his spell impression on the temper sphere. The bottom four fifths of the can became just a little clearer and brighter. And so did the air around it, strangely enough.


So much more pleasant. But apparently I can’t crush the whole can with this spell.


He was worried he wouldn’t be able to finish casting it at all. He struggled with the last few steps. It wasn’t his memory of the pattern or his control that faltered; it was his authority reaching its current limits, growing exhausted as he fought to press through the escalating resistance that came as he approached the spell’s end.


Come on, he thought, pushing himself. Trying to assert the spell into existence in the same way he’d grown accustomed to asserting himself in the chaos. He focused harder on the auriad. It’s been the best night ever for magical experimentation. Just give me a little more.


He was barely aware of Boe standing quietly beside him, staring from his hands to the can with a thoughtful look on his face.


Alden finished the spell.


He was supposed to hold his authority over the final pattern and control how long the spell lasted, but he only had a couple of seconds’ worth of effort left in him.


And that was all it took.


Most of the can accordioned. Grape soda shot out of the spell-made crushing area and spattered with force against the tile backsplash directly opposite Alden. In the next moment, a flat metal disc that had once been a soda can clattered onto the counter, and its severed top fell straight down on top of it. Foaming liquid spread outward and dripped onto the floor.


“Wow. That really crushes, doesn’t it?” Boe stared at the disc. “A lot like a hydraulic press. We should have filmed it so we could see it in slow motion and figure out what exactly you’ve got going on. Does all the excess debris and energy that the spell can’t handle just get blown away from you somehow?”


“That’s what it looked like, right? The soda all shot off in that direction.” Alden was still blinking at the results.


“How hard of a substance can you smash?”


“It said a ‘stubborn stone.’”


“That’s scientific.”


“It might be. For all I know ‘stubborn’ is an agreed-upon category of stone hardness for educated Artonans. Somewhere between crumbly and adamantine.”


“…you might want to reconsider your earlier comments about not making the things you crush into bombs. If you’re crushing certain materials, and it’s not one hundred percent magically contained, you’re going to be sending some bizarre shrapnel flying with deadly force away from you. Away from you is good. Unless someone or something you like is over there.”


“And on a windy day I could end up inhaling tiny particles of pulverized junk.”


“That too.”


“I need to watch more videos of hydraulic presses.”


“You need a physics class or three.”


“I can make my own shields, so that’s good.”


Boe clapped him on the back. “Just don’t do anything stupid. You’re the first human wizard as far as we know. If you kill yourself with your own spell, you’ll embarrass us in front of the aliens.” 

 Stolen from its rightful author, this tale is not meant to be on Amazon; report any sightings.
