He’d been worried that the artificial focus the spell impression created would mess with his ability to detect them, since doing so required a little mental effort on his part.


Part of the magic shone suddenly brighter, and the sphere disappeared…except for the enchantments themselves. I wasn’t expecting that.


Another thread of enchantment blazed bright, and the scream echoed through the apartment.


“You’d better have superhuman-grade soundproofing on the walls in your new dorm, too, or your neighbors are going to hate you.”


Alden was staring at the spherical network of magic on his palm.


Okay so the one that’s glowing brighter still is probably the invisibility. The screaming one faded after the scream was over. The other stuff could be holding it all together or making the ball stronger. Or twenty other things.


He concentrated on just the threads of the magic he’d decided were making the sphere invisible and reached for them. With his fingers. He was still, rather desperately, hoping The Bearer of All Burdens would reveal a function that would allow him to pick up enchantments with nothing but the authority of the skill itself. But tonight, he wanted success in other areas more than he wanted to try to squeeze something like telekinesis out of an affixation that might not have been designed with the option.


He caught the enchantment and preserved it with his right hand. The temper sphere reappeared suddenly in his left. He couldn’t see the other enchantments on it anymore.


Did they completely fall apart when I stole this one?


The sphere should still be entrusted to him. That was how it worked with the NesiCard and its enchantment as long as he didn’t set either down. So that wasn’t it.


“Holy…did you just de-magic it?” Boe leaped out of his chair and strode over to examine the ball eagerly. “You did right? When you showed that Haunting Sphere spell off a couple of days ago, the invisibility lasted longer.”


“Yeah, I’m holding what I hope is some kind of temporary invisibility enchantment that’s been activated by my spell impression.” He held up his hand. “Can you see it?”


He could. It looked like a pale golden web of spirals and curls. And to Alden’s surprise it hadn’t stayed in a sphere shape. Instead it was clinging to his hand like a partial glove. It felt like warm lace.


I assumed the other enchantment laid flat against my fingertip because that was its natural shape. I thought this one would stay spherical.


“I can’t see anything,” Boe said.


“That’s a shame. It’s actually really cool looking.” Alden was still shifting his weight. He held his hand out, palm up since he was going to operate under the assumption that the enchantment was droppable even if it kind of didn’t look like it was right now. “Can you feel it?”


Boe jabbed at his palm with an index finger.


And Alden felt him do it. With his skin. Like it was a totally normal jab.


“Feels like a hand,” Boe announced.


“Really?” Alden stared at his light glove. “I was not expecting it to work like this.”


I should have been practicing with something bigger than the NesiCard I guess.


It wasn’t as obvious what was going on when you were working with something smaller than your pinky fingertip.


He frowned. “I need a ball.”


“You’re holding one.”


“Another ball.”


“There’s an orange in your fruit bowl.”


“A ball that’s less closely associated with the Life element. An Object-ish ball.”


Boe blinked at him, then he held a hand to his chest dramatically. “Excuse me, Master Wizard. I am but a lowly human without knowledge of Artonan arcana.”


Ignoring him, Alden scanned the apartment. “Where’s that fluffy ball on the string that mesmerizes Victor?”


“You heartless bastard. You’re going to make his favorite toy invisible?”


“I hope so.” He tossed the defunct sphere to his friend. “Fooling around with enchantments is pricey. I want to get my money’s worth.”


“You put it with his crate earlier so you wouldn’t forget to send it with us tomorrow.”


“That’s right!” Alden headed into the spare room where he’d been keeping the crate. “Speaking of which, we’re leaving in like six hours. You should drop your barrier now, shouldn’t you?”


“I’m okay. I don’t have to.”


“Don’t you want your skill to be fully functional when you come back to reality?” Alden asked, re-entering the kitchen with a puffy yellow cat toy that dangled from a stick. “I’m emotionally average right now. I think. But Jeremy probably won’t be when he sees you appear from your own personal nowhere.”


“The chances of him being at school or asleep are way higher than the chances of him staring at the cat right as it happens.”


“You think after the coded message we sent him he’s not going to be staring at Victor every second he can? Waiting to see you emerge?”


Boe looked disturbed. “Point taken.”


Alden snipped the ball off the end of the string.


“Truly heartless. I was experiencing your emotions right then, and you felt nothing but curiosity.”


“I’ll tie it back on. He won’t even know the difference!” Alden looked over his shoulder. “Will you stab my hand a little? Don’t think I’m weird.”


Boe raised an eyebrow. “I want you to replay what you just said.”


“It hadn’t occurred to me that enchantments wouldn’t be shielded in exactly the same way as objects. I can see it and feel it clearly, so I thought it was similar. It’s not. The way the skill defaults to protecting them must be different. I’m pretty sure you can stab my hand.”


“…he said with growing feelings of excitement.”


“It is exciting. It’s a new feature.”


“A less useful feature.”


“Less obviously useful. It has advantages. The fact that you can’t tell I’ve got anything for one.”


He found a small knife in a drawer and beckoned Boe over.


“Right there,” he said, pointing to one of the spirals of light at the base of his palm with the knife tip. “Jab it enough to draw a little blood. Just to be completely sure.”


“What are friends for?” Boe muttered, taking the knife handle and pressing down.


Blood welled.


Boe pulled the knife back. “All right. I have stabbed you slightly. And you’re quite pleased about it.”


Alden ignored him.


Nothing, he thought in surprise. No increase in the difficulty of preserving it. Which means there’s no shield. No physical shield anyway.


That implies there’s no way for it to be removed from me physically either.


He was guessing it would be vulnerable to magical attacks, by someone who knew to attack it. Which would be…absolutely nobody. Because they couldn’t see it.


Maybe wizards can? But if I’m getting attacked by a summoner I’m going to have much bigger concerns on my mind. I guess chaos might still batter at it, too.


And, of course, his own fatigue would eventually be a problem.


It’s heavy.


He played with his new “glove” for another minute, moving it from hand to hand as easily as picking up a piece of cloth and repositioning it.


Then he closed his eyes and tried to feel the preserved magic with the very authority that was holding it. To become consciously aware of the points where his own power was protecting the enchantment.


I’m touching it that way. I know I am. I feel the skill working. I just can’t feel the thing the skill is working on. Instead I feel a fake glove. It’s an excellent glove. But it’s stupid if the glove is all there is for me.


For the hundredth time, what kind of bullshit wizards don’t design a skill to work with their own wizard senses?


He examined his skill itself. All the settings and buttons he’d identified so far were there.


Not buttons. I promised I’d come up with something nicer.


He thought of the origami shape he’d created earlier tonight when he was supposed to be making a paper airplane.


Maybe. That wasn’t exactly a happy moment, but it came naturally.


Instead of switches, folds? Many-layered ones making new shapes when I adjust them…wait, let me try this one over here that I use to double run the skill. If it’s not a button, but a paper fold…


He imagined turning it inside out, changing the shape of his authority in that spot so that it molded into its second option.


I like that a little. That’s more like what I do with the auriad. And it’s less ON/OFF than a switch. Less YES/NO. Instead it’s…this shape/that shape/maybe one day we’ll find another shape that’s allowed with this part of the affixation too. That seems more positive.


Wait, where was I? I’m getting a little tired.


Alden opened his eyes. Boe was in the living room watching the tv on mute and munching on a box of Lucky Charms.


Alden was leaning against the refrigerator, a cat toy in one hand and his enchantment in the other.


“Hello there, space cadet,” Boe said without looking away from the television. “Welcome back. That was one heck of a flow state you were having. You kind of propped yourself against the fridge, and I decided you weren’t going to fall in the floor. So I left you to it.”


“How long—” he checked the time. “Boe! It’s five AM. You could have interrupted me before I zoned out for three whole hours.”


“No way. You were hitting that hyperfocus hard. Absorbed and challenged, but not stressed out. I just sat here and let myself enjoy it, too.”


Alden stared down at his glowing hand. “But I wanted to…”


“Hang out with me? We’ve done that a lot. A few hours lost isn’t the end of the world. Anyway—” Boe leaned around the edge of the chair and grinned at him “—you were making progress.”


“No I wasn’t. I got completely distracted playing around with a metaphor.”


“Really? It looks like success from where I’m sitting. Unless you dropped your invisible thing?”


“I’ve got it still.”


Minor miracle. No wonder his skill was getting tired if he’d been fiddling with the options and holding the enchantment with it all this time.


“You haven’t moved in three hours,” Boe said.


“Yeah, apparently.”


Boe adjusted his glasses. “Don’t be slow on the uptake. It makes me worry about leaving you here to fend for yourself. I mean you haven’t been moving your feet. Not even weight shifting.”


Alden looked from him down to his own bare feet sticking out of the bottoms of his flannel pajama pants. He straightened up and kept staring at them, very deliberately not moving a muscle.


The enchantment stayed glued to his hand.


“AH!” he yelled. “I’m doing it! And by ‘it’ I mean ‘nothing!’ I’m just standing here. Can I sit down?!”


Immediately, he slid down the side of the fridge and let his butt rest on the floor. Three seconds later, his light glove was still on his hand.


“I CAN SIT DOWN!”


Boe stood to get a better look at him.


Alden waved his hand at him for emphasis.


“I note your hand,” Boe said. “And I trust that you are still holding the thing only you can see.”


“What if it’s only because it’s an enchantment?! What if it still won’t work with physical objects? I have to ditch this and test it. Hang on.”


He held up Victor’s fuzzy yellow ball and wrapped the hand gloved with the enchantment around it. He dropped the preservation.


Boe whistled. “You really did have something in your hand!”


The cat toy wasn’t perfectly invisible like the temper sphere had been. There was a fairly obvious distortion in the air around it if you were paying attention, and it got worse when Alden moved it back and forth. “I guess it kind of works as camo, since you can’t really tell what the thing is. What do you think?”


The cat toy reappeared.


“I think it didn’t last very long.”


“It did break really quick compared to the temper sphere. What was that? Five seconds? I’m surprised it worked at all, though. So this is a win. Now we have to test the object preservation.”


“Throw,” Boe said, holding out his hand.


Alden tossed him the fuzzy ball.


“Catch.” Boe tossed it right back.


Alden preserved it the instant he caught it and held his breath. He examined his affixation again. The part of it that had enforced the carriage requirement—the foggy magic of the geas permeating it—did seem to be gone. He waited. And waited.


“Well?” Boe asked after almost a full minute had passed.


Alden felt himself grinning like crazy. “It’s still preserved! I can now preserve things while I sit on my ass. Thank you for not interrupting my inappropriately timed zone-out. I’m so happy I could scream.”


“Go right ahead. If your Haunting Sphere didn’t piss off the other residents, nothing will.”


Instead, Alden climbed to his feet. He tossed the ball toward the sofa. Victor was lurking behind it somewhere. “No. I’m good. Let’s do something fun until you have to go.”


“I want you to crush things with your hydraulic press spell.”


“I’ll try.”


“Can of soda,” said Boe, heading toward the fridge. “By the way, if you crush the wrong thing will shards fly off and kill us?”


“It’s not a long range spell. I have to stand right next to it with my auriad. It would be pretty terrible design if it made whatever I crushed into bombs, right?”


Boe slid a dark purple can across the counter toward him. Alden’s fingers were already moving through loops of iridescent indigo string.


“Sphere crush or pancake crush?” he asked. The pattern he’d been practicing for weeks was coming to him easily. His free authority was filling the gaps made by the auriad. “It’s a substantial spell. I’m not sure I can do it more than once.”


“Wizard’s choice.”


