The wind was so strong it almost tore Alden’s plaid shirt out of his hands when he stepped out into the night. He rolled it into a tube and stuffed it under his arm before looking up to admire the gleaming neon sign and colorful lighted spikes on the roof of the apartment building.


The party was still underway, and some of the guests had found fresh energy reserves to draw on. They’d been starting up the karaoke when he said goodbye to Kon and thanked him for the invite.


A minute later, the car he’d called arrived. It was a shiny black luxury sedan, with a woman in a suit and tie in the driver’s seat. He’d decided to search for the fastest possible route back to intake, and it turned out to be this car service, which had a driver available in the area.


Fifteen minutes faster was fifteen more minutes to hang out with Boe before he left. And, anyway, he was a little over-peopled. A car sounded nicer than a crowded bus or train.


He slid into the back seat and found a water bottle and candy bars waiting for him in the cupholders.


<<Would you like music?>> the woman asked in Thai, as she punched their destination into a glowing screen.


“Something calm would be good.”


The car drove itself away from the building. The woman’s hands weren’t on the wheel; she was mostly monitoring the mirrors and cameras.


Fancy.


His mind flicked toward his contacts list and selected Boe’s name from the top. [On my way back. You want me to pick up anything for you?]


[I’m eating all your food, so I’m good.]


Alden snorted.


He leaned back in his seat and looked out the window. The car had turned onto the palm tree-lined street he, Maricel, and Max had walked down on their way to the party earlier. The trees had lights wrapped around the trunks. A boy who looked around eight years old was crouched beside one, examining a fallen frond, while the group of adults he was with stood chatting outside of a Lebanese restaurant.


This is a strange place for a kid to grow up.


He’d thought it a few times tonight at the party. The Anesidoran natives had huge advantages, but they also had some areas where they were really disconnected from the rest of humanity. There were little things like their fascination with wild animals—nothing but the occasional fish or the even more occasional seabird to see around here. Astrid had kept telling him the names of every animal they didn’t have at F-city’s small zoo.


And there were bigger life differences, too, like the fact that they’d grown up with the assumption that access to magical medical care for most ailments was the norm.


The hospitals were combos here—MDs, Healers, and a couple of wizards besides. For the rest of the world, there was a significant amount of Triplanets-gifted healthcare everyone could expect to take advantage of. Certain vaccines and medicines had been made available as part of the Contract. And while the creation of genetically engineered children was still illegal in many countries, the use of magical wombs was allowed in most places even if people had all kinds of bizarre hot takes about it.


But here, there were magical solutions for so many other things, and they were widely available. You could get potions for headaches instead of taking an aspirin if you wanted. People who had dangerous food allergies could have their immune system reconfigured without paying a fortune or joining a Healer lottery and hoping they got selected.


If you capsize your boat, you just call on the System to ET you back to the Teleportation Complex.


Obviously children couldn’t do that for themselves, but the authorities or their parents could do it on their behalf.


That sort of rescue wasn’t something that happened for most people. Regular humans benefited from teleportation in the global sense, but individuals didn’t get access to it for personal use. The System let the Anesidoran government and Avowed living here do all kinds of things with it, though.


I wish I’d had time to take that tour of the Teleportation Complex they offered for the intake residents last month. That one would have been cool.


The whole facility was an enormous, well-dressed summonarium. If humanity was going to cram their Avowed into one spot why wouldn’t the Artonans help them build a massive one here to reduce the load on the System?


The car turned onto a broader thoroughfare. Someone ran past in the opposite lane, and when Alden turned around in his seat curiously to get a better look at them, he saw that the woman had half-functional, half-decorative taillights. On the seat of her pants.


Yep. Definitely an unusual place to be a kid.


They weren’t far from Franklin High now. There were signs at almost every street they came to pointing the way to different sections of the enormous campus, and there were a lot of teenagers heading in and out of all the local businesses. The car stopped, and a rowdy group that had just left a bowling alley crossed the street in front of them.


Alden’s driver suddenly gasped.


“What’s wrong?” he asked.


<<Finally! Eight months since the last time. I was staring to think the Contract had forgotten me.>>


She pressed a series of buttons on the car’s screen to park it and activate the hazard lights, then she reached over and yanked open the glove compartment. She pulled out a small bag.


<<I am sorry to leave you in the middle of the street. The company will be in touch with you momentarily. No charge.>>


“Are you okay? What—?”


<<Contract, send my preset travel messages.>> She pulled a slightly larger bag out from beneath the front passenger seat, unzipped it, and hastily checked the contents. She turned to look at Alden. <<I’ve been summoned, and I’ll be disappearing in a few seconds. Don’t be alarmed.>>


He did feel sort of alarmed. He didn’t know why.


“Yes. I understand. Okay.”


<<Rabbit,>> she said by way of explanation.


“You’re…just gonna go like that then.”


I mean it’s not like I haven’t done it myself. I do realize it happens to other people.


But he’d never seen it.


“Good luck,” he said, trying to think through the manners of having the person in front of you disappear from the planet suddenly. “Have fun with the wizards? I’m a Rabbit, too.”


“Hey!!” she said in English, giving him a little wave. <<Nice to meet you. Hello and then goodbye we say when this happens. I have skills for fragrance reduction and instant textile color change.>>


“I preserve things. Not pickles. I prevent things from being harmed.”


She grinned. <<Sounds like an excellent one. Artona II for me this time. I hope it’s a party.>>


Alden was still processing. “Yeah,” he said finally. “The tips for those are fantastic.”


He looked around for something else to contribute, and his eyes landed on the candy bars. He grabbed them and held them out to her.


“Earth food?” he suggested.


<<Can never have too much! Good idea!>>


She took the candy from him. Their hands touched.


She vanished.


Heart racing, Alden stared at the spot where she’d been.


“Alden,” said a man’s voice from the car speakers, “we apologize for the inconvenience. Your ride tonight will be free of charge. Do you mind if a remote pilot monitors the car on the way to your destination? It’s perfectly safe, and I’m afraid we don’t have any other drivers available in your area.”


“That’s fine with me.”


“Excellent. Thank you for your understanding. If there’s anything else I can do for you tonight, let me know.”


Alden looked down at the hand that had just brushed the driver’s. Then he shook his head and sat back in his seat. “I’m good—oh, wait! Can I book a ride for tomorrow morning? From intake to the Teleportation Complex, then from there to Celena Circle. With a lot of luggage. And a cat.” 
 


******* 
 


By mutual agreement, Alden and Boe pulled an all-nighter. They didn’t know when they would see each other again, even though Alden was hoping to get approval for a trip back home when he could and Boe was semi-confident he could bounce in and out of catspace within a week. As opposed to disappearing for months at a time.


“If you screw up and appear in the middle of the TC in your birthday suit, we can be prison buddies.”


“Until some wizard summons your ass and I get left in the Locker by myself. I’ll err on the side of appearing a few weeks late rather than a few hours early if you don’t mind. Look! That idiot’s really going to try the jetpack!”


He was gesturing at the television. They were doing all of Alden’s homework for the coming week together because why not? Right now it was Engaging with the Unexpected, and the tv was playing a documentary about superchasers—daredevils who made a hobby out of stalking their local hero team and inserting themselves into the action, to the detriment of everyone involved.


Boe said, “Listen, if you’re ever flying around in your slutty loincloth—”


“Cavemanly’s persona is questionable in so many ways.” Alden watched the superhero pause his flight around an office block to reapply one of several spells that helped him stay airborne.


What did cavemen have to do with anything? How was a furry loincloth a good choice for flight? Was selling your own branded bodywax really that profitable?


“If you’re ever flying around,” Boe continued, “and some moron chases you with a jetpack they bought at a flea market and assembled in their mom’s basement, don’t save them. Do the rest of humanity a favor, and let nature take its course.”


He turned up the volume so they could hear the superchaser’s cries for help, captured by his own fleet of filming drones, as his badly designed gear sent him spiraling toward a water tower.


“He looks easy enough to rescue though. And it’s not like Cavemanly will be in much danger doing it.”


“The guy’s competent at everything except for costuming. I’ll give him that. But it’s the principle of the thing…that is a forty-year-old man who jumped off a building so that he could film himself annoying the crap out of someone else. Not for the first time either. I would let him enjoy the consequences of his own actions.”


Alden smiled. “You wouldn’t. If I was a flying caveman, I’d save him. And then I’d call and tell you I’d done it. So you’d have to save someone equally stupid.”


Boe shook his head violently. “No. I will engage in similar good deeds, but I reserve the right to make sure the lucky people I help are slightly more worthy than yours. That way I’m always one-upping you just a little.”


“Seems reasonable.”


For Convo IV, Alden was supposed to film himself describing his day. While he did that, Boe wrote a colorful summary for the reading assignment in Intro to Other Worlds so that Alden wouldn’t have to read the whole thing himself.


By around two o’clock in the morning, they were done with it all. Boe was judging the local newscasters for their cheerful dispositions while Alden paced back and forth in the kitchen, practicing with his skill.


“Are you going to play with your balls all night or are you going to try out the hydraulic press thing?”


“You’re late with the balls joke,” Alden said absently, examining the network of enchantments on the temper sphere in his hand. They were duller than the NesiCard enchantment, but much more complex looking. “Kon already made a similar one. If I’d known eighth grade humorists were going to have so much fun at my expense, I’d have picked a different spell impression.”


“Spoilsport. What are you doing with the banshee orb anyway? When you asked me to throw you one, I thought you were going to make it scream.”


“I’m trying to figure out if I can pull the invisibility off it and put it on something else.”


Boe looked away from an interview with a Kinshasa-based Meister who’d recently captured a pair of teens who’d been trying to go full supervillain—costumes, an unrealized plot to destroy government buildings, the works.


“Run that past me again,” Boe said.


Alden repeated himself.


“You think that’s something you can actually do with Let Me Take Your Luggage? Why didn’t you bring that up earlier?”


“You’re the one who wanted me to stop giving details about my powers and my profile until we were under contract,” Alden reminded him. “I wasn’t sure what to keep my mouth shut about. I’m not publicizing this one, though, so keep your mouth shut.”


“So you can pick up an invisibility spell or enchantment or whatever it is? Like it’s a thing? And reapply it?”


“Well, I’ve never successfully managed it.”


Unless we count holding a debit card enchantment on my finger for a split second before it burns out. Alden poked at the ball he’d gotten Boe to entrust him with twenty minutes before. It was easy enough to see the enchantments when he deliberately tried to. And it felt like it was covered in a warm buzzing net. But they looked duller than the NesiCard enchant for some reason.


“I’m practicing still. Let’s call it a goal rather than a current ability.”


He wasn’t even sure how many enchantments were on the sphere and which did what. He could see the magic but not identify it. And the glittery sand inside the ball seemed to be connected to the network somehow, so he was assuming that it was critical to the temper sphere’s function.


“Now, I’m done looking at it, so I’m going to make it scream,” Alden warned.


Boe covered his ears.


Bracing himself for the odd feeling of the impression taking over his body, Alden pointed at the orb, and activated it. It was easy. Just an assertion of the authority bound into the impression.


His fingers moved, his focus narrowed.


Good, I can still see the enchantments.


