Erick stood with Quilatalap on a barren road between two immense stretches of golden wheat, under a black sky that was Darkness Itself. Erick wore black, which Erick rapidly realized was a very bad look for him at this particular moment, while Quilatalap also wasn’t doing anyone any favors with his black fullplate and his eyes shining white.

A soft wind blew across the fields, carrying with it the scent of storms… Or maybe the white shield upon Erick’s left arm was making that ozone/petrichor smell. The Lightning Shield crackled with white sparks from each of its five points—

And Erick realized something else about it at that moment.

Prior to its rescue from the Breaking, the Lightning Shield had been sparking mad, trying to escape from the [Abyssal Bubble Cage] the Shades had used to imprison it. And then, it had come to Erick. When Erick put the Shield on his left wrist it had seemed to lock into place in the air, floating against his very soul and arm and body like it was his own [Animadversion] silver-spike all-Reflection shield, and it was calm. No sparks. No worries at all. It was just there, weightless and protective in ways that Erick did not know it could be protective.

But it was sparking again.

Erick wasn’t sure how he knew what the Shield was feeling, but it felt as though the Shield was fending off an attack… or preparing for an attack? Erick had no real way to know.

He did know that the Shield was angry. Erick could relate. He was furious, too. Not nearly as angry as Quilatalap, of course. But still angry.

High Priestess Tiza Nindi was here, instead of waiting outside for an official ceremony to transfer the Shield into the hands of Sininindi’s church so that they could better prepare against the Prophesied Storm. She looked smug, too, and that pissed Erick off rather a lot. For a brief moment, Erick imagined his fury had risen to the level of Quilatalap’s, but then Erick’s fury went back down to an acceptable level.

Sailor Asmus at least looked contrite, as he walked with Tiza and the other person down the road, toward Erick and Quilatalap. The professional side of Sininindi’s Church was supposed to be part of the transferal ceremony, too, so in that way, it made sense for him to be here.

But what the fuck was Oozy Stormcaller doing here?

And why the fuck did he have a Benevolence ring around his neck?

Erick, as always, tried to approach the coming probably-problems with dignity and understanding.

He had to walk a bit faster than decorum demanded, though, because Quilatalap was walking angrily and fast. According to Quilatalap, whatever these three intruders had done to get into this dungeon had included violence of some sort. Erick’s limits for that sort of thing were a lot higher than Quilatalap’s right now.

But he would still get to the bottom of this.

The only real question to ask and answer before this confrontation started, was did he want to tell Quilatalap about the Benevolence ring? That fact would completely derail this entire conversation, overshadowing everything, and it needed to be said, but it also meant that Quilatalap’s chances to control the coming conversation rapidly diminished.

But, of course, he had to tell Quilatalap.

Quilatalap would understand.

Erick whipped a [Hasted Shelter] around them along with some Privacy magics to make the [Hasted Shelter] unrealized to the outside world, as he said, “Oozy Stormcaller, the third one, was [Reincarnation]ed by me months ago. I told you that story already. How he has the red bones and an odd [Reincarnation] and a [Blessing of Empathy]. Well now he’s here and there’s a Benevolence ring around his neck.”

Quilatalap had stopped when Erick cast his spellwork. He listened. He sighed deeply. Then he said, “Fuck— Okay… Let’s just kill them all— Oh come on. They don’t have to stay dead. I’m just giving options.”

“… Thank you for walking that response back so quickly.” Erick moved on. “He may be here to help protect against the Prophesied Storm, which would explain the ring—”

“Sometimes I wish you could have made your Benevolence markers a mark of assassination.”

Erick just stared at Quilatalap. He could not believe that Quilatalap would ever say such a thing, for if Benevolence worked that way it would be open season on every person ever Marked by Benevolence, which would then cascade into disaster after disaster, or misunderstanding after misunderstanding, leading to the complete collapse of Benevolence as a ‘thing that is wanted’. It would get Erick hunted by Rozeta and all the gods of the Pantheon. It would get Benevolence Banned. Holding his own anger in check, Erick almost straight-up asked Quilatalap if he was ‘Erick’s’ Quilatalap, but that seemed improper; too much. So, for a long moment, Erick was stunned.

Quilatalap frowned down at Erick, saying, “What.”

“… If you can’t tell me why what you just said was deeply troubling, then I am going to start to think something fucky is happening right now.”

Quilatalap jolted a little. “… What?”

Erick frowned. “What you… Just said?”

“What did I just say?” Quilatalap asked, scrunching his face at Erick.

“That sometimes you wished I could have made Benevolence markers a mark of assassination.”

Quilatalap winced. “I did not actually say that; don’t go policing my thoughts, now.”

“… Did you not say it? Because I heard you—” Erick glanced through the mana, to the past, while speaking in the present, “I see you said the words.” He came back fully to the moment. “Do you not remember?”

Quilatalap frowned a little. “I did not say those words. I am looking at the past right now, and I did not say them. I might have thought about them occasionally but I would never say them, because I know how that would go; a short benefit to all, and then crashing horror and a Forgotten Campaign and a Banning… I think I might have subvocalized them. This whole thing with… These people.” Quilatalap turned his sight outward, to the land beyond the Private space. “It takes a lot to get me angry, and I think these people have done that. Can we talk about my thoughts on Benevolence markers later?”

“… Sorry, Quilatalap.” Erick knew what he saw, but he wasn’t going to make a big deal of it right now. “Maybe I am upset, too. Do you want to take a moment and speak to the dungeon?”

Quilatalap blinked. “Yes. Absolutely. One second.” He closed his eyes and began channeling mana to speak to the dungeon.

It would take him longer than normal since there was a heavy time dilation between this Private space and the dungeon space, so Erick just waited, having a think of his own. Quilatalap was probably a whole lot angrier than he let on. He had said that these three people from the Church of Sininindi would have needed to break through extensive defenses to breach this far into the dungeon which had included ‘guardians’ of some sort. Quilatalap could probably revive them… But they would likely never be the same. People often weren’t the same after reviving, for death was a massive trauma. Most delvers who experienced the [True Resurrection] that most dungeons had these days went on to forswear ever delving again. And maybe they could try delving again later when their soul healed and they felt up to the challenge and reward again. People with souls, as living beings, could heal their souls; they could heal that soul trauma. Undead had to fix their trauma themselves, and sometimes undead guardians with very complicated, sapient souls, needed to be rebuilt from the ground up. This perma-killed the undead—

Quilatalap came back to himself and he was angrier than before. His eyes flickered with the red of Carnage as his Rage slipped out. He maintained, though, pushing his Rage down.

He simply said, “It’s worse than I figured. They have killed the repros of me that were Vanya and Soltic. They have instituted a repro of Tiza into the dungeon core. That repro is still regaining consciousness, but they have used an artifact of Time to speed up the process. She is functioning at 75% effectiveness. Tiza-2 is functionally in charge of this entire dungeon now, though she’s only been at it for an hour or two; only as long as we were back there in the Shadow Dungeon, recovering the Shield. They’re going to attack us as soon as you lower this Privacy.”

Erick skipped right past being surprised and a whole bunch of other emotions and went straight to furious—

Quilatalap continued, “They have likely found our house. If not, then it is only a matter of time. And so, I have instituted the self-destruct sequence on our house. I am leaving this dungeon with you, Erick. We’re not confronting them.” As he spoke, he vented his Rage. With a calm, centered voice and psyche, Quilatalap said, “We’re leaving.”

Erick took a moment to calm himself, too.

Quilatalap needed several more moments anyway. He turned his gaze outward, at the dungeon he had worked so hard to make. At the bridges he had tried to build. Erick watched as Quilatalap silently wondered if it was all for nothing, if there was never any hope of being allowed to live openly on Veird, and if Sininindi had been fucking with him and how badly she had been fucking with him. A hundred other unsaid questions passed through the large man as he cast his sight across the golden wheat fields and at the rest of the frozen world out there, while time passed incredibly fast in here, in this [Hasted Shelter] and other magics.

Erick said, “I would have you escape, please. I need to confront them.”

“Sure.” Quilatalap said, “Confront them outside of the dungeon, though. Tiza-2 is gleefully plotting how to fuck you up if you confront the original here.”

“Prudent. Which way is the fastest escape?”

“Unless we’re in Storm Lockdown, any sort of declaration that you want to leave right now would work, but such an action would place you outside on the valley floor, in the center of the largest, open space. Tiza has likely accounted for that, but even so the ‘largest open space’ is still at least a second of safety. It’s safer than staying here.” Quilatalap held out his hand to Erick, saying, “Let’s both go at the same time. You can leave this Privacy here.”

“Could she have rerouted the escape clause?”

Quilatalap paused, his hand still held out. He dropped his hand. “I will need to check on that.” He focused on Elemental Book again. Slowly, grey magic seeped out of him, into the world.

Erick waited.

An escape clause was an emergent thing that every dungeon had hard-coded into it, because [True Resurrection] needed a place to put the revived person, and that place to put a person had to be a safe zone, and that space often became the very same escape zone that people could evacuate to. So the designation of that space, and what it meant, was one of the things that people could change if they thought to do it, and Quilatalap would have thought about that. The escape clause at the Benevolence Dungeon could be rerouted, for sure; sometimes it went to the entrance if the revived or escaped person still had lives left, and other times it went to a secure holding room if the person was on their last life so that they knew that continuing in the dungeon would kill them.

All escape clauses could be rerouted.

Later, he would ask Quilatalap if the big guy was feeling okay, because while Quilatalap was obviously furious he almost never made small, easily overlooked but very large mistakes like he was making now. Normally, a question of safe direction like Erick had asked would have been met with ‘the escape clause is secure, and if it is not then we’re fucked beyond fucked, so let’s go out blazing from that location anyway’. Or maybe he would have a better idea—

“The escape clause is secure,” Quilatalap said, coming back to himself. “Tiza 2 is getting deep in the Rules right now but she’s only been able to enact a few. Benevolence is subdued. Lightning and Divine magic are heightened. I believe she is planning on fighting here.”

Erick held out his hand. “Then we fight elsewhere and I open with words, not [Grand Fireballs].”

Quilatalap put his hand into Erick’s. “I would like to hear—”

A shadow stood up from the floor.

It was Verrod of Vast Skies, Champion of Melemizargo. He had put away the speedo and donned a black suit that was several centuries out of date.

Erick inhaled, and then let out a shuddering sigh of complete annoyance. He had thought that Verrod had simply been Melemizargo looking in on current events, but nope! It was worse than that. It was a Shade that should have never come back to life, and yet here he was. Was it just him? Or did the other Shades escape from the Breaking Ritual, too?

Verrod grinned as he saw Erick’s turmoil. “I’m supposed to accept a [Blessing of Empathy] to be allowed in this world. Give it to me, Erick Flatt, Fire of the Age, and be prepared to give more to others—”

Quilatalap scowled at him, demanding, “Who did you bring with you.”

“A few assorted accomplices. They’ve already left this ‘dungeon’, by the way. I stuck around because My God demanded I stick around, and so here I am. Initially, when you left the Breaking Ceremony, I suspected I knew about 90% of what all of this was all about, but that number is steadily decreasing. I’m at around 5% comprehension at the moment.” Verrod said, “Destroying the ‘Shadow Dungeon’ as we left was rather cathartic in a few ways, though.”

That was not nearly a good enough answer for Quilatalap.

Verrod noticed, smirking even wider, his expression turning truly gleeful.

“How many of you are there?” Erick asked, keeping his rage out of his voice.

“Around 15 of us survived that absolute purge. It’s enough.” Verrod held out a hand, saying, “Get on with the Empathy, Erick.”

“You’re going to be out of commission for a while and Rozeta is going to have words with you and I am going to have words with you and a whole bunch of other shit is going to happen at my discretion. You are to report to Ascendant Mountain which was probably called ‘Infamy’ back in your day; it is the largest of the Three Sisters, southwest of mainland Quintlan. That is where Melemizargo now makes his main home. Do not go to Ar’Kendrithyst.” Erick asked, “Do you agree to both the wording and spirit of these declarations?”

Verrod stared hard at Erick, his joyful smile fading slightly, and then altogether. He almost dropped his hand, but then he did not. And then he put aside his anger, and said, “I agree.”

Erick slapped his hand with a [Blessing of Empathy].

