Power flooded into Verrod, breaking down his soul and rebuilding him from the core outward, like the flexing of a sphere, turning it briefly to sand and then back to solidness. Small tears gathered in his eyes like liquid light. Those tears fell from his stoic face, leaving behind tracks of illumination that dried fast, turning to flaking ash, before fading away in the manasphere.

He didn’t collapse, though.

“… I’m impressed, Verrod.” Erick said, “All the Shades I’ve ever done that to have broken down into sobbing messes—”

Verrod broke down into a sobbing mess, going down to his knees and then down to the ground. He turned halfway to shadow as he sunk deeper and deeper.

Erick softly said, “I am going to take care of you, Verrod, but you have come into this real world at a very difficult time.” Verrod turned a little more solid. Erick added, “I truly hope you didn’t scatter threats throughout this dungeon and elsewhere in your escape from the Shadow side of things—”

“Oh Holy Dark,” Verrod said, his grey face seeming to turn white as horror dawned within. He was on his feet again. “I made a mistake. I did not follow My God’s command as well as I should have.”

Erick was not surprised, but too much was going on right now to deal with this. “What happened?”

“… I have some Shades to cull— Oh. Okay.” Verrod breathlessly jolted as his emotions did something turmoil-ish inside of him. He softly said, “I don’t think I could kill anyone like this. Even the thought…” His voice trailed away.

Erick said, “We’re leaving the dungeon now and you’re going to fix your mess, Verrod. Ask the other Shades to help you. Quilatalap and I have to deal with this Storm Church mess. Everyone ready to escape?”

Quilatalap glared down at Verrod, his eyes full of uncomfortable concern. “… I’m ready.”

Verrod breathed and regained his composure. “Ready.”

“Quilatalap. Your go,” Erick said.

Quilatalap spoke to the air, “Emergency dungeon exit right fucking now. I’m not joking. Escape, escape es—”

The world flickered black—

- - - -

—and then came back together under a blue sky surrounded by thick clouds and the sun shining right down through the center of them, like Erick, his boyfriend, and the hanger-on Shade, were at the bottom of a massively large well. They were on the northeast-ish floor of the dungeon valley, standing upon solid stone, far away from everything. There was no attack. There had been no diversion to another location. They were in the real world, for Ophiel was already out here and flying far and wide, showing Erick everything Erick wanted to see.

And so, the first thing Erick did was to ask Verrod, “Where are the other Shades?”

Fallopolis and Goldie stepped out of nearby shadows. Fallopolis glanced at Verrod then said to Erick, “We’ll be taking him if you would be so kind, Erick.”

“Gladly.” Erick asked Fallopolis, “Have you found the others who escaped?”

“We have found 16 of them. They’re already at Ascendant Mountain, for My God is taking a heavy hand in this reintroduction.” Fallopolis strongly requested, “We humbly ask that you Empathy them when you get a chance.”

“I’ll be doing that when I can.” Erick felt a certain weight fall off his shoulders as he watched nothing too untoward happen in the world, and as Fallopolis seemed to be in command, even though she wasn’t…

Erick paused.

Verrod had been the Champion of Melemizargo back in the Breaking Ritual. His soul had shone like the most iridescent white/black thing that Erick had ever seen, but it was still nothing compared to Melemizargo himself. It was more like a fraction of Melemizargo’s power, put into a very small person.

That’s what Verrod-the-Champion had looked like.

He did not look like that anymore. He looked like a normal Shade, or maybe worse. Like a tattered soul.

Erick paused as he Looked at Fallopolis. And then he turned his All-Seeing Eye up to full blast. Fallopolis was strong of soul and body, and her soul was iridescent black/white.

Goldie and Verrod, by comparison, looked like a normal Shade and a severely weakened Shade.

Erick said to Fallopolis, “I didn’t think Championships could be moved around like that.”

Fallopolis tried not to grin, but when it was apparent she was failing that attempt, she let it happen. “I promise to be the same Fallopolis you have known all this time, Erick.” And then she waved her black kendrithyst staff at the air at her side and a whirlpool of black appeared. “Come along now, Verrod. A lot has happened since your time, and you and I are going to have a talk about how many Shades you actually brought back.”

“It was 47,” Verrod said, distraught and rapidly. “Most of them were the crazy ones. I released them to soften up whatever was out here or get killed and make it easier for the rest of us.”

Erick almost roared—

“I am handling it, Erick.” Fallopolis requested, “Please let me handle—”

Golden lightning flickered across the northern sky like a dragon fluttering fast through the clouds.

Fallopolis jerked her finger toward Verrod. “Into the gate!” She shouted to the world. “All of you!”

Verrod moved fast as a shadow, into the black. Without warning and for a kilometer around, 27 other shadows coalesced out of the nearby air, rising from the ground halfway as they rushed forward, the glowing white eyes of Shades of every race the only thing they showed of themselves as they bowed to Erick and Fallopolis on their way past, into the portal.

Goldie requested, “I would like to stay for this, my lord.”

“Granted.” Erick said, “We got a Ringer, Goldie. Keep an eye out.”

Fallopolis shuddered, muttered about how she was glad she didn’t have to deal with that, and then she bowed a fraction before she vanished into the black portal.

Goldie remained, standing resolute in the news of a Benevolence ring spotting, her black sword floating behind her, her black leathers and that giant sword looking especially menacing in the bright sunlight. She was ready for anything.

Erick glanced to Quilatalap and saw that the man was gripping his Void spear strongly; he was ready, too.

Erick stood ready to receive whoever might show. He was flanked by one Shade and one not-Shade, with the Lightning Shield upon his left arm and Ophiel in the sky— In a moment of clarity, Erick sent a telepathic message to House Benevolence, to Poi, detailing everything that had just happened.

Ten seconds later, Poi’s voice came to him, ‘I’m sending some reinforcements, and I will have them hold up at the gatehouse. Aisha and Teressa are looking into the Benevolent Sky. I will have their report in a minute.’

‘Send it along when you can. Please inform Solomon and Kromolok of Tiza’s happenings. I am not requesting physical help from either of them, but I do want their input. Inform them of the Shades but leave the new Shade problem to Fallopolis for now. I want the Mind Mages to track any massive Shade problems from any of the escaped Shades, and I will be fixing those problems later.’

‘Understood. Sending messages now— The Throne is responding. Mind Mage Rodrygo is asking for a lessening of hostilities as he tries to coordinate with his people to find out what happened.’

‘I’m standing here, Poi. Waiting.’ Erick thought for a second, and both sent his next thought, and spoke it for the convenience of Goldie and Quilatalap, “Tell the Throne about non-secret information of what happened in the dungeon with Tiza, and what we suspect happened. After what she pulled, I want to know what is going on in Storm’s Edge before she comes out and talks to me.”

Goldie softly asked Quilatalap what happened, and Quilatalap started talking small words.

Erick waited for Poi to get back to—

‘Did you lend out a [Benevolence Detector] ring earlier today?’

Erick felt a good handful of terrible emotions at that moment. Yes, he had lent out a ring. Number 7 out of the bunch. ‘Wiloza Tidewalker has it. The records should show that.’

‘That’s the problem. We don’t know who that is. We can’t find the ring either. It’s gone.’

“… You don’t know who Wiloza Tidewalker is?” Erick asked, also sending that as he spoke the words—

The world flickered red.

- - - -

Shades vanished through a black gate and Fallopolis followed.

And Erick realized he had been here before.

He remembered everything of how he had communicated with Poi, and how Wiloza and the [Benevolence Detection] ring #7 was gone, and how he had tried to inform the whole world of what was going down here, but how time had been reversed, just like how it had been reversed in the Breaking Ritual zone. Back then Erick hadn’t been fully aware of what was happening.

But now, he was aware.

He almost opened his mouth to speak his concerns—

But a distinct, inexplicable feeling of wrongness and terror and aversion held his tongue, drawing out the moment long enough for him to realize that something fucky was happening, and Benevolence itself was telling Erick ‘do not do this’. It was a sixth sense. It was something that rarely happened, but when it did, Erick listened.

He adjusted his thoughts.

He plotted a course forward…

And the feeling vanished.

Erick sent to Poi, ‘I have experienced a problem. I cannot tell you about a lot of it right now, but I think, if I do this correctly, then nothing horribly bad will happen. Just tell Teressa and Aisha to check on the Benevolent Sky. I also want the Mind Mages to help find the Shades that were released by Verrod. Here’s a packet on that.’ Erick sent Poi information on the ‘47’ released Shades, and how many of them were already with Fallopolis on Ascendant Mountain. ‘I don’t believe any of those specific numbers, so make of that what you will.’

‘… Okay. Done. The alarm is half-raised over here. Can you give me more than that?’

‘I do not believe that is wise right now. I will probably go incommunicado shortly. Please give me Teressa and Aisha’s recommendations before that. Also, tell the Sea Foam Throne to get Tiza, Asmus, and Oozy out here.’

‘Done. I’ll be in touch.’

Erick nodded.

There. This felt more stable, for some reason. Erick wasn’t sure, but he had a very sneaking suspicion that this was the anti-meme in full effect, and it had some sort of [Return] power, and some sort of personhood-erasing power since Wiloza was missing, and also… as he had those thoughts, and as nothing happened, he was pretty sure that he had… become immune somehow? Erick wasn’t sure on that part, but he was rather sure that the anti-meme couldn’t read minds.

And yet, why didn’t Debby just tell Erick about the anti-meme through [Telepathy]?

Oh. Well.

Well, maybe the anti-meme couldn’t read minds, but it could certainly alter time and space, so all it did was check on people through the time stream and then alter time based on what those people did when they knew about it, or spoke aloud—

Ah.

Wiloza was a disappeared person now. Speaking her name was tantamount to throwing chum in the water…

Erick was rather angry, but he could pretend that Wiloza did not exist, even though, logically, that was simply fucking crazy. Every major power in the world had an archmage on staff, or at least on call. And Wiloza had a lot of family, didn’t she? That’d be a lot of memories to erase… Except it wasn’t erasing memories, was it?

Oh.

It was altering reality itself.

… Maybe the Red Leviathan wasn’t controlling ‘time’. Maybe it was controlling multiversal dimensions, like a god could control reality, like how Melemizargo had turned Erick into a centaur, and then a fairy, and then a book, that one time, except that’s not what Melemizargo had done at all. He had translated Erick into a new reality.

Perhaps the anti-meme was doing the same to disappeared people; tuning reality itself toward a desired outcome…

Maybe.

It was a working theory.

Another working theory was to not upset the cart too much and thus the anti-meme wouldn’t upset him with more ‘time reversals’—

Poi’s voice came to Erick, ‘The Prophesied Storm is either happening in the next hour or in four months. What do you want to do?’

Archipelago Nergal was home to 22.5 million people.

Erick’s answer was instant, but he took the time to speak as well as send his message, “The dungeon is absolutely not ready to handle the future where the Storm happens right now, and so, I am going to give up a lot of ground here to make sure the Storm happens four months from now.”

Moments passed.

Goldie was loose and ready for war.

Quilatalap grunted, forcing his Rage to gutter at that moment.

Poi replied, ‘Looks like… it’s still up in the air a little, but the distant time frame is slightly more solid.’

‘Thank you, Poi. Give me live updates until it settles one way or another.’ Erick spoke aloud, “Just have to get through this meeting, and the Archipelago is safe for four more months.”

Quilatalap quietly whispered, “Fine.”

Erick said, “Sorry, Quilatalap. I am going to secure your amnesty, but it appears your time and the subterfuge here at Storm’s Edge is over. I doubt there will be any reclamation of your people or your work.”

Quilatalap wanted revenge for the loss of his repros and his guardians and all of the people he lost, but he could settle for taking what he came here for and then leaving. He had needed to do that many different times over his very long life. The loss of the work was much easier to swallow. He could rebuild this dungeon anywhere, and maybe even resurrect the people elsewhere, too, but the loss of the Pantheon’s once-in-a-thousand-years-amnesty was what would have really hurt.

Quilatalap breathed easier, but he was still angry as he said, “That will have to be enough—”

Golden lightning flashed down to the ground twenty meters in front of Erick.

Tiza, Asmus, and Oozy stepped out of the golden lightning.

“Sininindi’s Shield, Erick,” Tiza said, walking forward, hand out, her countenance hidden behind her half-mask, but Erick still saw her smugness and her petty joy. “Now.”

Quilatalap blasted her with a ray of [Absolute Death].

After a split second of a divine golden shield disintegrating away from the Head Priestess of Sininindi, Tiza disintegrated from her heart outward, her face barely recognizing her death before even that dispersed on the wind. Her clothes and her mask fell to the stone ground in a soft clatter.

Quilatalap was satisfied.

