As those thoughts crossed Erick’s mind and Oozy wasn’t able to read his mind —thank the gods!— Erick still managed nonchalance.

Erick sighed, and said to Asmus and Oozy, “Tiza Nindi is your problem. You can [Dispel] that with a good try later, at your leisure. I will not be speaking with her anymore. Now! Regarding the issue of the Shield. In light of the horrors you have inflicted upon stealing the work of Quilatalap for your Grand Dungeon, which includes murders and otherwise, this is where these talks end. I do not believe that Quilatalap killed anyone in your power here, in Storm’s Edge, because his goal was always to gain acceptance from Sininindi, and killing people would be infinitely counterproductive to that. SO! That is that on that. How do you want the rest of this conversation to go? We can either talk through lawyers, or lightning; it is your choice.”

Erick could easily tell a few of Oozy’s goals. He wanted the Shield. He wanted to solidify power. He wanted everything. Erick wasn’t sure what had happened to the man to make him end up this way, but Erick was sure that the Empathy he had placed into the former blood ooze had been burned out of him, otherwise he would have noticed that Erick was reading him like a book and steamrolling right over him.

Being able to experience these Red Rollbacks as Oozy cast them was the only way Erick knew any of this, though. Without that this entire situation would have devolved into fighting… Which Erick would have won anyway, right?

It would have started the Prophesied Storm, but… That was fine?

Well. No. Not fine. Millions would have died; that’s what the Benevolent Sky was saying.

Erick chose to trust that Sky, and so he chose to get out of here with what he wanted, and nothing else.

Oozy decided to cut his losses, too, since he was getting out of his depths. “Fine. You’re dismissed, Wizard Flatt, and you can take your Local Area Gate Network with you.”

Asmus had stood to the side after Erick dismissed him, to watch the proceedings without passion. But at the mention of the LAGN, Sailor Asmus looked hard at Oozy, trying not to say anything. A moment of utter silence passed. Oozy began to sweat a little, as the full realization of his fuckup dawned upon him. So far the fight had just been with words, but the removal of the LAGN was the removal of the gateways to the entire rest of the world.

Erick allowed his own eyes to go a little wide. “… Are you sure about that?”

Oozy tried, “You’ll reduce your monetary gains by half and remit that to Storm’s Edge.” Oozy stared for a moment, then he nodded, as though his decision had been the correct one.

Erick allowed some of his rage to come forth. “You know what. No. I’m just going to cancel your network and move it over to another island. How’s about that? How about the Freelands become the center of the Archipelago— You know what! I’m going to do exactly that. Goodbye, Oozy. Have fun with your ruined kingdom.” Erick opened a [Gate] to leave—

Red filled the air.

- - - -

Erick felt himself speaking, “We can either talk through lawyers, or lightning; it is your choice.”

Luckily, Erick hadn’t fucked up that lead into this new timeline.

Oozy spoke like a king, “We will be talking through official channels, Wizard Flatt. Good day.”

Erick nodded, then he opened a [Gate] and swept him, Quilatalap, and Goldie up in the ring of soft white lightning.

- - - -

They landed at Ascendant Mountain, on the Throne of Melemizargo. Erick shut the [Gate] behind them and shuddered. The sky was caught between shades of blue and purple in the twilight morning, and the Throne was a white disk that was also blue this early in the day.

Erick stood tall, his eyes filled with Sight as he began singing to the mana,

“A time, a space, a sacred brace

“Enacted here; Benevolent gr—”

“DON’T.”

Threads of power unraveled fast, like the breaking of a crystal reality. Everything and nothing shattered as Erick’s Wizardry fell out of the air and Benevolence turned to wisps of spent mana, to turn into glitter and thick air, and then nothing as it all fell back into the manasphere.

The sky darkened. The morning retreated.

Melemizargo took his throne.

The Dark Dragon God of Magic commanded Quilatalap and Goldie, “You may leave.”

Goldie and Quilatalap were already on their knees, but now Goldie turned to shadows and Quilatalap flickered away with much stronger magics. Erick was angry at their dismissal.

“I wanted to tell them, Melemizargo.”

“I know you did.” The world turned Dark, and now it was just Erick standing before a massive black dragon, with little difference between the black and the edges of that large dragon. Melemizargo looked down at Erick, but he did not look down at him at all, as he said, “And in doing so, you were about to confront the anti-meme with Wizardry, which would have been a disaster for you and the world. Believe me, I have tried that before. It never goes well.”

Erick rapidly figured out a few things, but he wanted to know more. “Has he actually switched realities on me, like a god? Or has he merely unleashed memes and antimemes across Storm’s Edge, changing the world at his whim through magic?”

“ ‘Has he colored the world Red, or has he colored the world Red?’ You are asking the same question two different ways.”

“Has he altered reality as you did with the centaur/fae/book worlds? Like you altered the world as a god.”

“Oozy is certainly no god, but there might be a god out there, working through him.”

Erick felt his stomach drop. “Oh fuck.”

“Outer Gods working their direct, divine wills upon Veird is not something to worry about for multiple reasons. I will go over the majority of them.” Melemizargo said, “We have tens of gods here on Veird, and they agree to the God Pact, and so the reality of Veird is settled with more power than whatever sort of power the Red Sparks have.

“Whatever is out there is not able to get to us through our own combined divinity, which, now that you bring the subject up, is likely why Veird has survived at all.

“Veird has also survived because I have prevented new gods from rising outside of my power… Which is something that I was doing for good reasons, I am sure, but I wasn’t aware of those reasons until now. I was trying to stop the Red from gaining a true foothold on this land, obviously.

“Aside from my own culling of all new gods, which is a necessity, I assure you, the Red Sparks eat the weakest ones. So if I don’t get to them first, then the Red Sparks gets them.”

Erick was stunned. Melemizargo was just dropping facts on him now like they weren’t anvils aimed at his skull. ‘Oh yeah. No new gods? Sure. That was me. I did that. Didn’t know why until now, though! Whoop-dee-do.’

Melemizargo continued without regard for Erick’s mental narration, “There was a meme kept in a cube of controlled space down in Nergal that was very near becoming a god, but the Mind Mages kept it docile and dead. Since Debby was clearing out threats, I decided that we should infiltrate and kill the thing for real, and so that is what happened, and then I took its malformed spark. The Red Sparks almost got that nascent divinity when we breached those Mind Mage defenses, but Debby was strong, and the Red Sparks failed. They don’t always fail, though. Three sparks have been lost to me throughout Veird’s existence, post-Sundering.”

Erick stared, feeling lost, the world feeling like it was moving under his feet even though he was standing still, and tall.

Melemizargo continued, “Do you remember the nascent Sun God Ikaronal that the dragonkin worshiped, in their land that attempted to be a second Dragonkin Empire? That dragonkin home grew in the Mondariska Mountains, to the west of what would become the Greensoil Republic.”

“… I see you trying to draw me into a conversation to ground me in the here and now, and I accept your offer.” Erick’s heart beat steady as he said, “Yes, I remember. I also remember someone fucked with Kiri’s memory when she got too deep into that study at the Old Dragonkin Expedition Center, in Treehome. Was that these… ‘Red Sparks’?”

“No. That was Fallopolis, enacting my will, trying to see how easy it would be to tempt Kiri onto the path of world domination and complete tyranny by offering her the spark of the Sun. I did this to help her combat the power of the Red Sparks, which originates on the sun. That temptation did not work, and so Fallopolis erased her mind.”

On the sun?

Erick stared for a moment, and then he breathed deeply, saying, “Okay. I’m going to unpack that later and then yell at you a lot. Please continue.”

Melemizargo nodded. “I captured that spark of that near-dead god, Ikaronal, but it was a near thing. We had to destroy that entire empire for me to take that divinity from the Red Sparks.

“I believe the Red Sparks are going after Sininindi’s divinity next, for Oozy is surely an empowered soul of the Red Sparks. I don’t believe he is a Champion, and I don’t believe he is even a proper Paladin, for only gods can do that, and that fact, combined with the fact that the Red Sparks are still trying to capture the divinities of gods, means that the Red Sparks are not strong enough to change the reality of this land overmuch.

“But it can do Time Magic on a grand scale.

“It might be a proto-divinity. But since it erases its presence, it will never rise to more than that, and so it cannot challenge the God Pact, but since it is still a very worrying presence, I still try to keep all stray divine sparks I find growing in my backyard.”

Erick sighed. “Okay. This is a lot.”

“Yes, it is a lot. Personally, I am overjoyed that I am finally able to talk to you as a real person, and there is a lot of ground to cover. But I understand the scope of the horror dawning in your mind. I can shrink the full breadth of my desired conversation today to a few more words, if you wish.”

“I do want that.” Erick sat down on the ground. Ophiel moved to sit on his lap and Erick hugged the little guy. Erick had often felt way out of his league here on Veird, but he always felt able to rise to the challenge. That was not the case this time. The more he thought about the scale of this ‘Red Sparks’ thing and the ‘on the sun’ thing, the more he felt small. “Let’s end this quickly, please.”

Melemizargo nodded. “This topic of ‘Gods and settled realities’ is a very large conversation that routinely took up 10-year long stints in the reputable arcanaeums of the Old Cosmology, and those people never truly learned all that gods could do with settled realities, so I will end that thread of conversation with one more thing before moving on. The gods of Veird are stronger than whatever god-like thing out there, beyond the Edge of the Script, causing the Red Sparks to flare and jump at every mention of its ‘godly’ nature, and at every mention of the Red Sparks themselves. For now, and for a very long time, the Red Sparks have been trying to tear down this world, and we have succeeded against them, even though we don’t even know them.

“That fact should remain true for a while longer. Centuries or millennia more. But let us not get too comfortable. I once told Debby that you and Jane fell to this world through Fate, and Fate has seen you through a lot, but Fate has tried to fight against the Red Sparks before, and it has failed before. Don’t get cocky, Erick.

“Moving on.

“I want to congratulate you, and warn you deeply.

“You have become 65%-ish immune to the Red Sparks, and that Shield is granting you another 50%-ish immunity. It is likely impossible to become fully immune to these Red Sparks while you are not a True Wizard. The Red Sparks are the things that killed Debby. That is the anti-meme which may or may not have something to do with the Sundering.

“As for the warning: As soon as you are seen by a Mind Mage, you will spread the Sparks among the entire Crossing. I am not sure what this will do. It might cause the entire Crossing to fail, which is unlikely. It will surely cause the Mind Mages nearest to you to forget you, which is at a minimum of what might happen, and what usually happens. And as for the best possible outcome, the Red Sparks might try to affect the entire world, since you’re so well connected to the world and the people, and as an immune response, the entire Script will fight it off, unveiling the Red to all these small gods and Relevant Entities… But this might be a bad thing, too, for that would surely cause the Red Sparks to do some Wizardry.

“Know this, too:

“This Red Spark threat was only ever going to end in Grand Wizardry.

“So choose the time and place for that event, and be prepared.” Melemizargo breathed deep, and then relaxed, as he spoke a bit more happily and sadly at the same time, saying, “I am sorry for the rough treatment Debby suffered, but she went out a hero, and through her, Solomon and your man Poi might achieve immunity as well in the coming weeks and months. You were further along and would have gotten here eventually, and sooner than the others, but Debby’s actions also helped you get here, and sooner than I expected. Right now it’s just you and I against the entire world of Red Sparks, against this enemy which has attacked Veird since the very beginning, which has caused me insanity and the entire world pain for a very long time.

“You have seen the common actions of the Red Sparks so far; erasing people from memory, turning back time to make the world worse than it was before. But you have not seen the worst of it, like when it caused the Death of All Halves, The Rage of the Orcols, the insanity of my own Clergy for a very long time until most recently, and more. Don’t confront it directly, Erick. Even talking about it openly is a confrontation of a sort.”

… Erick lay down on the white stone floor.

He had puzzled together most of that, but to have Melemizargo confirm all of those puzzlements…

He stared at the sky, and he had a think.

Melemizargo remained, silent.

Ophiel moved to stand on Erick’s chest, to chirp at him. “Dad okay?”

Erick patted the little guy. “I’m okay, Ophiel. I’m adjusting.” Erick sat up and held Ophiel in his lap as he looked at Melemizargo. “Is Ophiel immune?”

