In that very same second, he brought Tiza back to life, exactly where she had perished. Good as new. He even managed to put her clothes back onto her body, though everything was a little disheveled. Erick knew that he could have put those clothes on perfectly fine; he had purposefully left her askew.

‘It’s starting,’ Poi sent.

Lightning crashed across the world.

Erick sighed, then before Tiza got out the first expletive he [Return]ed them to 10 seconds ago.

- - - -

As the golden lightning of Sininindi fell to the ground in front of Erick, Erick sent Quilatalap a telepathic recording of him killing Tiza. It wasn’t as good as the real thing but Quilatalap’s mood improved immensely—

And then Tiza’s face appeared out of the lightning right beside Asmus and Oozy, and Quilatalap’s brief joy came crashing down into near-Rage once again. Erick didn’t think he was going to disintegrate her this time, though, which was a win, for now.

Tiza was half a second from speaking—

When Erick spoke first, “Shut the fuck up Tiza. Not one word. Void this decree at the peril of your soul.”

Tiza, of course, said, “Just like a Shade. Draped in black and surrounded by Evil, giving ultimatums and forcing the world to obey your whims.”

Erick swallowed her with a [Gate], depositing her into one of the heavily enchanted and [Ward]ed rooms where he kept people sometimes. The Fyuri who had escaped that noble plot over in Greensoil and who started killing those nobles was still down there, but far down on the other side of the compound. They would never know the other was there.

And then Erick turned to Asmus. “Hello, Asmus.” He looked at Oozy. “Hello, Oozy.” He asked the two of them, “Why take over the dungeon? Why kill people to get inside? Why install Tiza down there? Why kill Soltic and Vanya, without letting them escape? You gave them true deaths, didn’t you. So why all that.”

It was a deadly series of questions that demanded good answers.

Erick hoped for the best, but he expected the worst.

Asmus girded himself. With all the dignity of a man trying to stop the inevitable, he began, “House Benevolence has engaged in subterfuge against Storm’s Edge and the Sea Foam Throne through the various seditious parties known as ‘Vanya’ and ‘Soltic’, who are in actuality repros of Archlich Quilatalap and the arm of House Benevolence. Your people have done this with the express goal of undermining all of Storm’s Edge, and now you are here to recover the Lightning Shield that you have stolen from Sininindi’s grasp.” Asmus continued, “Your infiltration started years ago, with the continual murder of the Aroidos, who had been the caretakers of our dungeons without incident for the last several years…”

Ah.

Blatant lies, then.

Erick kept his temper in check because the lies and crazy thoughts flowing from Asmus’s mouth were so beyond the pale of anywhere near this reality that Erick knew something weird was going on. Something very weird.

What struck Erick most was Oozy’s reaction to all of this.

Oozy stood there to the side, looking like an acolyte of the Blue Temple, with his outfit slightly lesser than Asmus’, but not really lesser at all. And the body language was all wrong. It was not the body language of a high-ranking priest standing next to an acolyte. Oozy stood to the side of Asmus, right in line with him.

… His sky-blue outfit was normal enough? Er… No, it wasn’t, actually.

It was too fancy.

White leather boots that were better than Asmus’. Gold chains resembling lightning hung around his neck, filled with divine power. Sure, Asmus wore the robes of a Sailor, and that meant some ornamentation, so Erick hadn’t noticed right away that Oozy was just as decked out. Those rings on the hands—

Erick recognized one of those rings, and he wasn’t sure why he hadn’t recognized it before. It was a Benevolence ring; one used to detect Benevolence markers in the world. Erick was rather sure it was #7, and yup, the inner parts of that ring held that label.

The look on Oozy’s face said more than all the rest of him could, though.

He was resolute.

He looked like a king—

Erick suddenly realized that Asmus had said ‘Sea Foam Throne’ earlier. Erick himself had even said ‘Sea Foam Throne’. What, then, had happened to the Regency? The Regency that had been in power for the last several centuries, ever since Oozy, the last Stormcaller and king of Storm’s Edge, had been transformed into a blood ooze by a Shade and stuffed into a hole in the ground…

The same Oozy who now looked like a king, with a straight back, an even glare, and the willingness to let his underlings speak for him, for there was no real need for him to wield his power in this situation. Not yet.

Asmus had not stopped talking this whole time. Erick had tuned him out because all he was hearing was propaganda; Asmus was getting all of Soltic and Vanya and Quilatlap’s interactions with Storm’s Edge wrong. Erick had attributed those falsities to the casual lies that hostile governments and politicians told each other when they were at war. His words were not the words of someone trying for peace...

But maybe he was trying to interact peacefully? Using the ‘facts’ as he knew them?

—And then Asmus’s words threw Erick for a complete loop.

Asmus stated as though on record, “Which is when the Archlich infiltrated a party set by the Cultists known as the Maryols and made his first truly overt action against the Throne, through the murder and replacement of the original Aroido Tidewalker. It wasn’t till months when we discovered that the original had been replaced by an undead guardian, but by then you had already extracted the Aroidos in an attempt to hide your lover’s murderous dalliances, and then further removed the Aroidos from us by [Reincarnation]ed the whole team—”

“I’m going to stop you there, Asmus,” Erick said.

Asmus stopped.

“I have a question.” Erick asked, “Who sits on the… ‘Sea Foam Throne’ right now?”

His answer should be regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker, of the Tidewalkers. The man was a good ruler, but everyone in his court held more actual power than him, which is why the church was so strong, why they had been having troubles with the dungeons, and why they needed the Aroido project for the dungeons in the first place.

“That would be me, Erick,” Oozy said, staring hard, even while he tried to affect an air of imperiousness. “And I believe I see the problem now. That black and white dragon eye around your neck. Your dragon form. You are of the Dark, and though it has taken you a while and we have opted to forgo true action against you, I fear we cannot allow inaction to continue, for you’re turning insane just like your God.”

Erick blinked, as though he had heard a joke and he wasn’t sure where the humor was supposed to be.

He turned to the sky and Called, “Sininindi. Rozeta. Koyabez. Phagar. Melemizargo. Fairy Moon.”

Something Red descended instead—

- - - -

Erick remembered everything as the world came back into focus.

“That would be me, Erick,” Oozy said, staring harder than before, as though he was on the precipice of something dangerous and he had to hold on tight. His air of imperiousness remained from the previous timeline, but it had gained a crack. He said, “That black and white dragon eye around your neck. Your dragon form. You are of the Dark, and though it has taken you a while, you’re turning insane just like your God.” And then he added, “Or maybe the Archlich is working magics upon you. How can you even trust him, Erick? He released tens of Shades into the world.”

Erick went through a series of emotions that he kept very well hidden, because he was practiced at this, and he had been ready for something shifty to happen. Oozy was less practiced at this, but he had managed to recover enough in this different timeline that he could add some more words to his previous line of accusations to prevent Erick from calling the gods…

Which would have been bad for Oozy?

What was even more disturbing, though, was that Oozy was trying to talk at Erick like Erick was a part of this… different reality that Oozy had crafted; one where he was the king on the ‘throne’ of Storm’s Edge. The last time Erick had been in the throne room of this land there had been no throne at all. Augustive had even said something like ‘We might not be quite a democracy, but we’re close’. The land of the Regency did not want anyone on any throne at all.

So why was Oozy talking to Erick like he expected Erick to go along with his words? With his version of reality?

There were a few answers.

A god was involved.

This was the anti-meme, in full force.

And Oozy was responsible for the [Area Return], or whatever it was. He had changed his words the second time around, and Erick had allowed the change to go unchallenged. So obviously Oozy did not believe that Erick remembered the other time. But he did.

And then there was the Red from earlier. What had happened there?

Erick rapidly realized that the Red from earlier was a manifestation of power. It was probably a god’s power. So what the fuck had happened to all the rest of Storm’s Edge, where everyone now believed that Oozy was the ‘king’? Was Oozy also a Mind Mage now? Able to make people believe whatever he wanted? Obviously not, or else Erick would have been fucked over already. Oozy was not a Mind Mage, but he was a part of some sort of memetic magic happening here and now.

Had one of the memes that Debby took down logged into Oozy—

Debby had gone out seeking the anti-meme of the Sundering Source—

Oh.

Erick rapidly discarded a bunch of unimportant and cloudy thoughts that were definitely fucking up his entire thinking direction.

That was the Prophesied Storm.

The Sundering Source was here.

The Anti-Meme was here.

Oozy was a conduit for it.

And it was a god, able to change reality as it saw fit.

Erick knew he wasn’t being exposed to Time Magics at all, and back there in the Breaking ritual the Sundering anti-meme had definitely altered reality to suit its needs. It was making reality suit its needs right now. That’s how it had affected all of Storm’s Edge with this change in thought.

How far did this effect go? The entire world? Or just the Archipelago? The Prophesied Storm took place on the Archipelago, so maybe it was just localized?

Erick was rather sure the Lightning Shield around his wrist was… Somehow responsible for allowing him to remember reality as it should have been, instead of how Oozy was making it exist.

Because Oozy was doing this.

So what does ‘Oozy’ want?

“What do you want, Oozy Stormcaller, King of Storm’s Edge? Because what I want out of this is Quilatalap’s forgiveness from the Pantheon, or at least Sininindi’s vote for forgiveness.”

“We will grant him immunity from prosecution here, but The Goddess’s decisions are her own,” Oozy said, solidly. “Now give me the Shield.”

Erick narrowed his eyes. “You give me that Benevolence Detection ring on your finger first—”

Red sparked across the world.

- - - -

“We will grant him immunity from prosecution here, but The Goddess’s decisions are her own,” Oozy said, solidly. “Now the only question that is left is what happens to the Shield.”

So this is what it was like being on the other side of a [Return].

How, exactly, did Erick become able to see this happening, anyway? This ability was not unique. Verrod and Quilatalap and even Tania Webwalker back before she allowed Erick to kill her, all of them had been able to sense when someone used [Return] in their area. Erick could barely sense that sort of thing at all, and he had tried. But here he was, fully cognizant of all Time shenanigans in his area, and rather easily, too.

Erick said, “The Shield stays with me, Oozy. House Benevolence and Storm’s Edge will work out these spurious accusations you have lodged against us in a court of law, and we will find out exactly how deep these evils go.”

Oozy narrowed his eyes.

Red Sparks revealed themselves all across the world like Erick was standing at the bottom of a red ocean and he hadn’t even known it until now.

Time [Return]ed to the past.

- - - -

Oozy said, solidly. “Now the only question that is left is what happens to the Shield, and you will not be keeping it.”

Erick said, “I will be keeping the Shield since it was a product of Quilatalap’s work, and you have no claim to its power. I will, however, give Tiza back to you.” With a wave of his hand and a dumping of a [Gate], Tiza Nindi was once again on the solid stone grounds beside Oozy and Asmus. Oozy, as Erick suspected but did not know, seemed to become relaxed a fraction. Oozy obviously wasn’t in full power here in Storm’s Edge, and he needed Tiza, so Erick had given her back as a measure of good faith, but really it was more like a lizard dropping its tail. Erick needed to regroup elsewhere. Tiza, for her part, was not happy. The Head Priestess of Sininindi began to vigorously yell, but Erick spoke over her, “You are a thorn in the sides of all good people, Tiza. By all rights you should be dead and your evil influence on Sininindi purged from this world, for I have done nothing but good things for everyone in this world, including for you—” Tiza was screaming at him. Erick tried, “Shut the fu— Fine. You can’t be civil? You murder Vanya and Soltic and try to murder me and mine in the dungeon? Shut the fuck up. [Stop].”

Time Magic enveloped the space around Tiza and she froze. Her noise stopped with her. With Tiza here and yet not, Erick briefly wondered exactly how much these Red Sparks had fucked her up, and how much of this antagonism was her own fault. Oozy was behind a lot of this happening right now, for sure, but he was no mastermind, and he had not been here since the beginning… Er.

Wait.

He had been here since the beginning.

He had been at Sea Foam Manor for the last few centuries, and before that, he had been locked and secured in the dungeons of the Regency’s castle. When Erick [Reincarnation]ed him and gave him an Empathy, all of that had been odd, probably because of these Red Sparks in the air. Unknowingly, that is why all that happened…

The scope of how bad this was was a lot larger than Erick was able to deal with right now.

He needed to regroup.

Oozy needed to regroup, too. He was very new at controlling whatever power he was controlling, but even with his newness, he was in control of a lot. He was at the very least a source of memetic and anti-memetic magic, which was terrifying. Perhaps Oozy wasn’t fully in control, either, which was even more terrifying.

