Fung’s chuckle strikes a nerve, my irritation flaring as he shakes his head. Here I am baring my soul and he laughs? “Sorry, sorry, it’s just.. I asked a question just like this... when I was five. It really highlights your sheltered upbringing.” My anger subsides as he catches his breath, embarrassment taking its place. After taking a deep breath, Fung launches into his explanation. “Balance is a concept for which we humans are ill-suited. We are fragile, emotional creatures, capable of observation and thought which many scholars believe hinders our progress. Animals naturally seek Balance, but humans must reach for it, struggle to hold it, and there has yet to be a single person who has truly mastered it.”

“How would you know?”

With a pointed look, Fung replies, “Because we have yet to produce the equivalent of an Ancestral Beast.” After giving me a moment to absorb the information, Fung continues. “You’re a good man and a skilled warrior, but you’ve confused Balance with morality. There is no right or wrong, no good or evil when it comes to Balance. Life and death are but two sides of the same coin, both required for the world to continue. Take for example a wildfire ravaging through a forest, destroying trees and killing wildlife without mercy. Many would see the flames as evil, but it is also a source of renewal. The dead trees nourish the soil and without them, the canopy no longer blocks out the sunlight, allowing for new growth. Some trees have even been noted to only produce seeds after a fire, meaning the forest cannot be sustained without the flames.”

“So you’re saying fire is good?” Of course a pyromaniac like Fung’s dad would love fire.

“No.” Animated, Fung sits up and turns to me with a knowing smile. “The fire is neither good nor evil, it is merely an agent of Balance. As humans, we allow our morals and philosophies to colour our judgment, which affects our ability to find Balance. Does the rabbit consider the wolf evil? Does a flower hate the deer? Perhaps they do, but each are merely acting in their nature. Morality is a human construct, Balance a natural one. It’s how people like the Shrike and Fu Zu Li retain Balance, they are merely doing what is required of them.”

Going over everything he’s said makes my mind spin. “Then how come anger and rage are so bad for Balance?”

“It isn’t. Too much anger is another thing altogether. Take all things in moderation. Laugh when you want to, cry when you must, fight when called upon, and stand up for what you believe.” Shrugging, he adds, “It’s all much easier said than done of course.”

After a long pause, I give up trying to understand it for now and return to the root of my problems. “Okay... None of this really helps my mood problems. Any suggestions?”

Another shrug. “We live in a world of trials and tribulations. I usually get drunk and visit the Golden Swan Pavilion, but neither one is a viable option for you. We’ve a battle to fight and your betrothed is not a woman to cross lightly.”

Laughing at his exaggerated shivers, I clap him on the shoulder. “Thank you my friend. You were no help at all, but you have a very soothing voice. I’ll have no trouble falling asleep tonight.”

Rolling his eyes, he settles back down beside me. “Anytime, it is my duty as your Martial Uncle to guide my Martial Nephew. Besides, I enjoy watching your lips move while you struggle to comprehend higher concepts. It amuses me greatly.”

“Ha ha, enjoy your seniority while it lasts. After I marry Mila, I'll be your Senior Brother-in-law.”

Our banter continues into the night, laughing and chatting around the fire. Whatever problems I face, Fung reminded me I have people to help me through them. My family, my friends, even my pets, I don’t have to go at it alone. My mood lightened, my attention turns back to my rumbling stomach. Taking a bite of the horse steak, I mentally offer a prayer in it’s honour. Sorry horsey, but I’m hungry. It was wrong to kill you, but all I can do is apologize for the necessity. May you have better luck in your next life.

Thank you for being so delicious.

Chapter Meme
