The next second his right hand blurred, as he reached for his handgun holstered at his waist, drawing it in one fluid motion and firing three rapid bullets in quick succession. Three clicks rang out instead, Jack’s expression slowly morphing into one of shock. His reaction had purely been an instinctual one— drugged, kidnapped, part of an elaborate prank, hallucination, all that hadn’t mattered in the moment.

What had, was that one of the chairs’ wasn’t empty as he’d originally thought— no, there was a distortion in the air, one he had to focus on to reveal a humanoid entity. Roughly four and a half foot tall, draped in a shimmering white cloth from head to toe that seemed to float around the being instead of actually being worn and an eerie white mask, which, when he examined carefully, had fractals covering the entirety of it’s surface. Rather, the entire mask itself seemed to be pieced together out of small fractals.

An otherworldly aura seemed to cloak the arcane being, sending a chill down his spine

“Your first instinct was to resort to violence,” The voice had a raspy, metallic tang to it that made Jack wince, his words grating against Jack’s ears. “How wonderfully human of you,” he added, a spark of amusement audible in his voice.

Jack’s breathing turned shallow.

His thoughts slowed.

His brain struggled to comprehend what he was witnessing.

The arcane entity unclasped his right hand, revealing a magazine’s worth of bullets held casually in his palm.

“The first law of thermodynamics states that…,” The arcane entity began and Jack watched with a melange of shock and terror as the bullets hovered above the being’s palm, pointed in his direction. Then, he snapped his index finger and thumb together, and the bullets exploded— Jack was on the verge of making a break for it, but he paused when he noticed that reality did not match his expectations.

The bullets lay suspended in the air, or rather, the shrapnel exploding outward and the small bouts of flame emanating from the site of its imposition were… stationary, as if they had been frozen in time.

“Energy cannot be created or destroyed, only transferred from one form to the other,” they said, a hint of mockery in their voice as their gloved hand reached for the suspended mix of fire and shrapnel, gathering them all in the palm of his hand before clasping it shut.

“The law in itself is not inaccurate,” The arcane entity explicated, slowly opening the palm of his hand to…. reveal nothing. No heat, light or sound, as if the bullets had never been in his hand to begin with. Not even a trace of the matter that had been clasped in his hands. “It only fails to consider the existence of higher forms of energy, laws beyond your own.”

Who are you? What do you want? Where is this place? How did you accomplish that? Is this reality? Am I dead?

Those were the questions circling through his mind, all valid questions but…

Jack was staring at the arcane entity with a glimmer of desire flashing in his eyes.

“How do I get access to that power?” he asked, all his doubts, his questions, his hesitations faded, as he asked that one question, almost mesmerized.

The masked entity broke out into a grating laugh.

“You are an interesting man, Mr. Jack Anderson. That is certainly one of the rarer initialization first questions I have been asked,” the arcane being replied, seemingly in good humor.

Jack grunted, unamused.

“You have me in checkmate. With your little display there you’ve made resistance futile. Not that I’d particularly know where to go even if I somehow managed to kill you. That leaves three possibilities— either I’m insane, you’re an otherworldly being or I’m in the afterlife. In any of those scenarios, I have little left to lose,” he replied with a shrug, trying to put a strong front in an effort to mask the conflicting emotions rippling through his mind.

“How blasé," the arcane entity replied. “Then, shall we move on to the difficult questions? Like why the last descendant of the Anderson family, former mass media tycoons, heir to a veritable fortune, is hiding out in the middle of nowhere? Why has he spent the last decade projecting the image of a socially inept, paranoid wastrel? Your desire for strength is well rooted in reason, but your obsession with the doomsday? Admittedly, a plausible facade.”

Without even realizing, his fists were clenched. His muscles tensed, his breathing grown faster.

“You know,” Jack growled more than snarled, his gaze almost completely consumed by a visceral desire for violence.

“Are you referring to the tragic, untimely demise of your biological guardians? Well yes, I do know. You play the part of an inept wastrel very well, for a man of your determination. Or perhaps, it is because of your determination that your true persona has gone unnoticed for so long?” the arcane being questioned, his tone ponderous. “May I point out the chink in your armor, the veritable flaw in your facade?” he asked.

“Go…ahead..,” Jack barely managed to croak out, holding his fury back because he desperately wished to fish for more information.

“You are too kind. A true wastrel would be more wasteful, more volatile, whilst you just project an image of volatility. If your observers had watched more closely, they would have caught on,” the arcane muttered, and Jack could almost see through his mask and feel the cruel smile behind it.

“So...,” Jack’s eyes widened, as he sucked in a cold breath of air.

“Indeed. As you have long suspected, the demise of your biological guardians was not a, quote-on-quote, natural one,” he spoke the words aloud, knowing full well what it would do to his psyche.

Jack began to walk towards the arcane being, no longer concerned by the consequences.

“Give… me… a name,” his voice bellowed out, his tone sharp and dangerous as he rapidly approached the arcane entity.

“Hmm…,” the arcane being let out a thoughtful hum, before replying, “No, I don’t particularly feel like it.”

Jack knew he was being goaded. He knew that the goal of this arcane entity was to push him till he retaliated and though he didn’t understand his intentions, he was smart enough to sidestep the provocation.

That said, there were certain things that were not allowed to be spoken in his presence. Certain truths that once divulged, had to be divulged in their entirety. Certain provocations, from which a man could simply not back down from.

Jack charged.

The entity rose from his comfortable looking chair. rising to meet Jack’s challenge.

He feinted with his right, before throwing a right hook with a wide arc aimed right at the arcane entity’s right temple. He might have been furious, but that hadn’t affected his spatial awareness or battle IQ. As he suspected, his punch was evaded. But not in the way he’d expected, for instead of dodging, his punch was gently pushed aside in a masterful display of the martial art, Wing Chun.

He followed with a brutal low-kick aimed at the knee-cap, only to wince when it was met with the arcane entity’s shin.

He felt the air being knocked out of his lungs as a powerful palm landed against his abdomen, when it could have been a far more merciless strike.

“Krav Maga? You really want to hurt me, don’t you?” The arcane entity chided, as Jack felt his fury abate a little.

A battle, as one of his instructors had taught him, was a conversation. Stance, body language and methodology conveyed a lot more than the fighter’s next move. One had to listen carefully and they would be able to perceive the enemy’s intent— though a fighter’s tics were hard to grasp, it was not difficult to judge if an enemy wished to seriously injure you or if he was simply toying around with you.

In this case, the Arcane entity was doing neither— rather, he was offering guidance. Subtle as it might be, Jack had reallized that he was pointing out weaknesses in his fighting style.

Or rather, he’d only realized that when he noticed that the Arcane entity hadn’t moved from his original spot.

This time, Tom adopted a boxing guard as he approached the arcane entity, his expression focused. Even before he reached striking distance, he shifted his stance and delivered a brutal kick that unfolded with a pivot, aimed for the neck.

“Shit,” Tom thought to himself, as he felt a kick land against his own shin, on his solitary leg that was planted onto the floor.

“Yop chagi, Taekwondo. Inventive,” the arcane entity complimented, only serving to further agitate Jack.

Time after time Jack rose, and each time he was tossed aside, slammed, tripped, kicked and redirected towards the floor. The most frustrating part was that the arcane entity insisted on using martial arts Jack considered impractical, like Aikido,using it with preternatural skill, with almost precognitive accuracy.

“What…,” Jack croaked out, as he grasped for gulps of air. “...the… fuck.. do you want, man?”

“Oh,” the arcane entity replied, his tone almost crestfallen. “Now that you’ve asked that question, I suppose I am obligated to answer.”

“Spit it out,” Jack replied with a scowl on his face. The whole bizzareness of the situation made him unsure, till this point, if he was in a dream or not.

“I, Arrenis Shen, The Arbiter, greet you on behalf of the three realms,” The Arcane Entity, or rather, Arrenis Shen, introduced, with a gentle bow.

Three realms….? Jack blurted out, feeling a sense of discomfiture as the words rolled off his lips.

“Indeed. I, Arbiter Arrenis Shen, hereby lay an absolute, unconditional, unmitigated and complete claim over the dominion, jurisdiction and territory of the Planet Earth in the System Leidos, Cluster Zerras. This right is free from any limitations, conditions and encumbrances. Whatever rights you enjoyed under the previous legislation are henceforth abolished,” Arrenis Shen’s voice remained as grating as ever, his posture as relaxed as ever as he informed Jack of what was most definitely an incursion.

Jack remained silent as he slowly walked towards Arrenis Shen, but instead of attacking, he seated himself on the chair opposite the arcane entity.

“I suppose it was only a matter of time before aliens did to us what we’ve been doing to each other for centuries,” Jack muttered aloud followed by a sigh, his thoughts flashing as his mind forced him to remember all the townsfolk he interacted with frequently, the few things he held precious, like the wonderful, scenic beauty of Malanike National Preserve.

He didn’t know what this entity was after, but he was sure that it entailed nothing favorable to the human race.

“What is this place?” he finally asked, as Arrenis Shen sat down.

“I am both real and illusory. I can be trappings of the psyche, I can be a portent of the future. I allow mortals to traverse lands they have never been to, witness phenomena that they have never experienced. Am I real. Or am I illusory?” Arrenis Shen answered.

Jack’s eyes widened in shock.

“This….Is this a dream?” He muttered, gazing down at his own hands, tracing the palmistry lines and finding them as recognizable as ever.

“Indeed, though it is far more potent than the dreams of a mere mortal. The same way that I am not really here, and the real Arrenis Shen is not someone you can meet. Welcome to the Dreamscape, Jack,” Arrenis Shen introduced with a flourish of his hand and a light bow.

“Why am I here,” Jack asked, still reeling from the shock of that revelation.

“Because I am obligated to present you with a choice.”

“Why did you goad me? Were you being truthful about my parents’....,” Jack paused, his words failing him, his lips trembling as he found himself unable to say the final word aloud.

“Now that, my friend, is an astute question. The answer to which is different for all eligible humans across all my Dream Avatars. All four billion of them,” Arrenis Shen replied.

‘Four… billion…,’ Jack was silent as he let the words sink in.

“You are headed for a trial, Jack. One for you, perhaps, are better equipped than most to handle. A trial in which your humanity will be tested to the limits. My job is to make sure you are mentally prepared, or as prepared as you can be, before I offer you the choice. “

“Tell me more about the trial,” Jack asked, a little forcefully.

“I am afraid I cannot do that. Now, back to what I was saying— to a young father of one, I would highlight the fact that their children, as long as they are below the age of eighteen human life cycles, are ineligible for the trial, and thus, are in no danger. All he has to do is survive what is to come. To someone who craves power, I will offer them the promise of real, tangible power. To someone craving revenge, I will tell them that there will be arcane ways to seek down and track who they wish to hunt, as long as they are powerful enough to do so. You happen to fall in the latter two categories, making my job surprisingly easy,” Arrenis Shen offered, with a hint of amusement in his voice.

“You…..monster…..,” Jack growled out.

“And yet, I see that you haven’t refuted my offer. Such is human nature, Jack. Your heart’s desires overwhelm your mind’s rationality,” Arrenis Shen brusquely cut him off. “No, I do not know what happened to your parents. As powerful as I may seem, I am neither omniscient, nor omnipotent; otherwise I would not be here to begin with. I only say what I say because I know it will goad you into action, increase your odds of surviving what is to come. But,”

“But?” Jack asked, his voice sharp.

“You can investigate. On the other side, once you awaken, you will have access to abilities beyond your imagination. The power to disregard the laws of physics. The power to track down whoever you wish to. The power to ascertain the truth from the falsities. If you want to find it out, you can— and on that, I swear, upon my honor as an Arbiter of the Three Realms”.

“And if I refuse?”

Arrenis Shen shrugged. “You never had much of a choice to begin with. All I say, all I do, is to assist you. If you disregard my words, you will simply die once you reach the other side. “

“Why? Why assist me?”

“Because this iteration of myself was assigned to you, and thus I wish for you to survive. “

“Survive?” Jack asked.

“Whatever it takes, survive. Yes.”

“Those blue lights? Flame? What were they? Am I even alive?” he asked.

