“You are very much alive and well, Jack. In fact, I would say that your physical and mental capabilities will be better than before when you wake up. The Divine Flame nourishes the mind, reforges the body and cleanses impurities— when you wake up, you will still be on Earth, but the planet will be unrecognizable to you; cleansed of the milleniums of harm your kind has wreaked upon it.

Jack took a deep breath, struggling to maintain his composure.

“You really think that I will act according to your wishes like a hapless puppet because you offer me a possibility at the truth?” he asked, his voice quivering.

“I do,” Arrenis Shen replied, unfazed. “It is my job to weaken the limiters of the human psyche— to the greatest extent I can. Your existence has been shrouded by that day’s events and if nothing changed, I suspect you would have died alone, bitter and sorrowful, suppressing your desire for vengeance until the bitter end.”

“Fuck you,” Jack replied, in a moment of complete, unadulterated and raw honesty.

“Now that the pleasantries have been exchanged, you must make a choice,” Arrenis Shen clapped his hands together, and something popped up in the forefront of his vision, blocking his view of the alien being.

[Choose one of the following options:

Way of the Sword: Receive class [Swordsman], one basic sword artifact and sword skill [Qi Blade].

Skill description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi to form a sharp sword halo that increases sharpness and decreases wind resistance.

Way of the Spear: Receive class [Spearman], one basic spear artifact and skill [Qi Spear].

Skill description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi to form a sharp spear-point halo that increases sharpness and decreases wind resistance.

Way of the Marksman: Receive class [Ranger], one basic bow artifact, an infinity quiver and skill [Qi Arrow].

Infinity quiver description: Used arrows will be replenished every twenty four hours.

Skill description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi to form a sharp, pointed arrow-tip halo that increases sharpness and decreases wind resistance.

Way of the Assassin: Receive class [Assassin], one basic dagger artifact and movement skill [Qi Steps].

Skill Description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi into the feet to significantly increase movement speed while muffling sound of footsteps.]

“Where’s the way of the gun?” Jack asked, scowling at the options presented to him.

“I’m afraid that those toys will do you little good for what is to ensue,” Arrenis Shen off-handedly remarked.

Jack’s gaze shifted to his waist, or rather, his holster, which had been feeling a little lighter the last few minutes.

His scowl grew deeper.

“You took my gun,” his gaze turned to Arrenis Shen, the distaste in his eyes palpable.

“I did.”

“In the real world?” he asked.

“Astute.”

“Why? Is this some sick, twisted, inter-galatic game for you? Is this what you pompous pricks do instead of watching sunday-night football?”

“I am afraid not, Mr. Anderson. As you well know, reality seldom seems to be as simple as we want it to be.”

Jack grimaced.

“What is Qi? An artifact?”

“All the information I can offer you is listed on that screen. Now, you must choose,” Arrenis Shen replied, an air of finality reflected in his tone.

“Fine,” he snapped. “Give me a few minutes, atleast.”

Arrenis Shen replied with a slight nod.

Ten minutes later, Jack’s eyes snapped open. breathing out deeply. His visage hardened.

Hesitating further was pointless.

“The way of the sword,” he replied.

Another screen popped up in front of him.

[Selection Confirmed….]

[Dao Mark status- Inert]

“What the hell is a Dao Mark?” Jack asked, having heard no mention of this… phenomenon or perhaps, mechanic, in the screen that had popped up before him.

“You shall see,” he replied cryptically, before clapping his hands together again.

Jack awoke.
