Gena nodded, reaching into his satchel and pulling out another item to place on the table—a dagger, stamped with Ascension’s symbol. An aluminum dagger. Gena didn’t stop there, however, negotiating a bulky object out of the bag. A flashlight. He switched it on before placing it beside the dagger.

Shit.

Luna twisted one of his rings, peering at Rain through his glasses. “My enchanters tell me neither item contains mana, yet the weapon is far too light to be steel, and the flashlighter, well, that speaks for itself.”

“Where did you get those?” Rain demanded, his voice icy.

Luna laughed. “Everything has a price. Do you have any idea of the value of such things? Your man clearly did not. An unknown metal? Light without Crysts or flame?” He leaned forward. “What are lectons, exactly?”

“Again, no comment,” Rain said. It was Del, then, or maybe Mig. Oh, they are in SO much trouble.

Luna waved a hand. “We are getting ahead of ourselves. We can discuss such things once our deal is in place, so again, I will be direct. An unrestricted charter is unprecedented and out of the question. The Board would never allow me to issue such a thing.” He reached out and picked up the flashlight, pointing at one of the glowing plates on the wall. “Flashlighters and light bulbs could break the stranglehold Jien has on Light Plates and displace him in the market. The method of your ship’s propulsion could likewise break the monopoly he holds on Journey Cores.” He set down the flashlight and touched a finger to the dagger. “This, or rather, the metal it is made from and the antlered smith that made it, would have Omar frothing at the mouth. No, you will not be allowed to operate independently, no matter your ties to the Watch and the Guild. The disruption you would pose to the Bank is too great. However, there is one option available to you.”

Rain narrowed his eyes. For the first time, he’d Seen something in someone’s soul he thought he could ascribe meaning to. There had been an odd...flickering...as Luna talked, not matching the rampant greed flooding from him.

Luna smiled, oblivious to Rain’s thoughts as he removed the lid from the lacquered box, revealing a plate of ruby and gold, the gem etched with the Bank’s scale symbol. “I offer you an opportunity,” he said, sliding the box across the table. “Renounce your allegiance to the Guild. Cast aside that Custodian’s plate you wear. Work for me instead, and I will make you more wealthy than you have ever imagined. Help me rise to the Director’s chair, and I promise you—”

“No.”

Rain’s car-salesman alarm was blaring at full intensity. He didn’t need Reading. This was some bullshit.

Luna stopped, then tilted his head. “Perhaps you do not appreciate exactly what it is I am offering you. I would give you the freedom to travel the entire world as you wish. The freedom to create wonders without fear of repercussion and all of the resources you could possibly require. All I ask is that you allow me to determine to whom your goods are sold and for what price. If it is the Warden’s retaliation you fear, then I assure you that the Bank’s influence—”

“No,” Rain repeated more forcefully. “I’ve met her face to face. Have you?” He slashed a hand across his chest. “Regardless, Ascension isn’t something that can be sold. I am its captain, and that means I serve the will of its members, not the other way around.”

“Come now,” Luna began.

Standing, Rain reached behind his chair to retrieve the rolled flag they’d brought with them. “This is how it’s going to be,” he said, unfurling it across the table. Ascension’s symbol stood out boldly, stitched in royal blue against the snowy white cloth. “We will fly this symbol as our charter flag, whether you choose to recognize it or not. We’ll pay docking fees, passage fees, and so forth, provided we deem the rates reasonable, but we will allow no inspection of our ship or its cargo. If you wish to reverse engineer our goods, by all means, purchase them and try to do so. Competition breeds innovation.”

“You dare speak to me so?” Luna said, rising from his chair like a thundercloud. “I come to you with the opportunity of a lifetime, and you spit in my face? I have half a mind to simply take what I desire.”

“Don’t make threats if you can’t follow through,” Rain replied, coldly throwing Luna’s words back at him as he headed for the door, Nails and Atyl trailing hurriedly in his wake. He paused with his hand on the doorknob and looked back. “You don’t have the power to force us to do anything. Attack us, steal from us, waylay any of our people or otherwise interfere with our operations, and we will retaliate in kind. It didn’t end well for the Empire, and it won’t end well for you.” Pushing the door open, he turned and tapped the twin plates dangling from his neck. “And that’s without even getting into any of the political complications. Leave us alone, and we’ll leave you alone. Trade with us fairly, and you may still get what you desire.”

“Just who do you think you are?” Luna demanded as Rain turned away.

“Thank you for the coffee,” Rain said without looking back. “Crackers were a bit dry.”
