The word at the camp was that the creature at Depth 3 was bleeding.

Orla Vess did not use the word bleeding. She used the word *seeping*, which was more precise, because bleeding implied a rate and a pressure that she had not been given data to confirm. She wrote *seeping* in her field notes at the entrance camp's fire, along with *luminescent fluid (composition unknown)*, *continuous not pulsing*, *wound site: left flank, penetration depth uncertain*, and *behavioral change: delayed strike response first observed during Death #20*.

She had been at the camp for two days before entering. The census-keeper — a young man named Osren, thorough, under-slept, keeping records in a format she recognized as borrowed from military survey protocol — had given her everything. She had given him questions he hadn't been asked before: not what killed the entrants but what the entrants did to the creature in the order they did it. She had made him walk her through the cumulative damage sequence three times.

Brand → Keystone → Joint → Cull. Four entrants, four tools, four years of incremental structural compromise. The crack at the left center seam. The widening. The penetration. The knife still in the wound.

She had done this work before, in different contexts. A building with a compromised foundation. A mine with a failing support structure. A predator — a large terrestrial predator, cave-dwelling, territorial — that had been injured by a farmer's trap and was killing livestock in a pattern that told her it was moving differently since the injury. She had read the pattern and found the animal and finished it. That was the work. The work was reading the accumulation of damage and finding the place through it.

"The wound," she said to Osren on the second night. "The knife. Where is it now?"

"On the floor. The creature struck Death #20 after the penetration — threw him into the far wall. The knife fell when he fell. It's still there. Seven-inch blade, near the creature's position."

"And the fluid loss — has it increased? Decreased? Stayed consistent?"

Osren checked his notes. "Consistent, based on observation. No one has been close enough recently to assess rate of change. Death #22" — he paused, cross-referencing — "passed through the Still Garden without engaging the creature. Proximity: thirty meters. She described the wound as 'visible from this distance, seeping.'"

"Thirty meters." Orla looked at her own notes. "And the creature's strike range?"

"Approximately twenty-five meters. Based on multiple confirmed engagements."

"So the wound has been visible from the safe bypass distance for at least two deaths. That means it's not closing."

"No," Osren said. "It's not closing."

She wrote: *wound persistent, non-healing, four-entrant cumulative damage, knife at floor near death site (not embedded). The creature is 342 years old and has never been wounded before this sequence. It does not know how to heal what it has not needed to heal before.*

She looked at the effects box under his table. A second container had been started beside it — a wooden crate, slightly larger.

"The crystals," she said. "Do they glow on the way out?"

"Sometimes. Duration varies. Color corresponds to the emotional state at death." He opened his book. "The last two: blue, gold — first Gold recorded." He looked at her. "You'll be number twenty-three."

"Death number twenty-three," she said. "I'm aware."

---

She entered at dawn, the way she always started work: with full light available and enough hours ahead to do the job correctly.

The Gullet received her the way it received everyone — warm, organic, attentive in a way that was not directed at her specifically but registered her the way a room registers the opening of a door. She did not find this unsettling. She had worked in buildings that were alive in this sense: old structures with their own temperature gradients and sound profiles and the specific quality of presence that accumulated in spaces where things had happened. The Gullet was a body. She moved through it without sentiment.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE MARROW WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Orla Vess: Current Resolve: 19
```

```stat-screen
DESIGNATION: THE FINISH
GIFT: FINISHING BLOW

You read the accumulated damage of a living thing and find the path through it.
One strike, placed correctly, at the point where the damage has made the structure
no longer capable of sustaining itself.
You do not create weakness.
You complete it.

COST: THE LONG APPROACH
You cannot rush.
Every action you take requires the full time it takes to do it right.
You cannot run in the dungeon. You walk at the pace of professional work.
If the situation requires speed, the situation does not get speed.
The work has a pace. The pace does not change.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 16
Resolve ............... 19
Attunement ............ 14
Fortune ............... 11

Note: Entry type — Compelled.
Standard amplification. The Maw found an existing professional orientation
toward completing things that were already failing
and offered it a subject.
The entrant accepted.
She believes she chose. She is not wrong.
```

She read the designation in the Warrens junction and understood the Gift and the Cost in the same moment she understood them as two sides of the same tool. She was a person who did the job correctly or not at all. The dungeon had given her a Gift suited to her method and a Cost that enforced it. She filed both and kept moving.

The Warrens shifted as she moved through them. She had been briefed on the shifting — Osren had described the angular correction pattern, the range of distance distortion, the dead ends and the bone parasites in them. She navigated by the charcoal marks left by previous entrants: six-B junction identifiers in a surveyor's hand, some pressed direction signs, the occasional chalk line. She did not pause to read them beyond what they indicated. They were waypoints, not texts. She was not here to read.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Orla Vess: Current Resolve: 20
```

The Still Garden opened ahead of her and she stopped at the threshold.

Not from fear. From assessment.

The Patient was there, at the center, in the position Osren's records described: large, heavily armored, roughly bilateral in structure though the left side now showed the compensatory asymmetry of a load-bearing structure with a compromised support point. She could see it from the entrance: the distribution of mass was different on the cracked side, the way a building settles differently when a foundation element has been removed. The creature had been redistributing weight for months. It was managing the damage the way any large creature managed damage: by changing how it stood, by loading the stronger side, by becoming asymmetric in posture even when symmetric in intention.

She could see the wound from here. Fifty meters. The crack ran up the left flank from a point about a third of the way up the shell, darkened at the edges with the oxidized residue of dried fluid. Above the crack: the penetration point, small, dark, the luminescent fluid that seeped from it catching the ambient light of the Garden.

The Patient was looking at her.

She had been told about the behavioral change: the hesitation, the delayed strike first observed in Death #20. She had factored this into her approach. An animal that had learned to assess before striking was an animal that was afraid, or something adjacent to afraid — an animal that had learned caution from pain, which was the same cognitive process under a different name. Caution meant she had a window. It did not mean the window was wide.

She began her approach.

Not toward the creature directly. Angled — a line that brought her closer to the center of the Garden while staying just outside the twenty-five-meter engagement range. She was reading as she walked: the creature's weight distribution, its orientation, the way it tracked her without lunging. The hesitation was real. It held. She noted: the hesitation was longer than Death #20's account suggested. The creature had not simply learned to pause — it had extended the pause. Each subsequent entrant who passed through without engaging was teaching it that delay had no cost. The creature was learning that waiting was safe.

She was going to teach it something else.

She stopped at thirty meters. The same distance the previous entrants had used as the safe threshold. The creature tracked her. Its weight shifted slightly — the load redistribution of an organism considering movement but not committing to it.

She read the damage.

This was the Gift, and the Gift was what she already did, now formalized. She looked at the creature the way she had looked at failing structures and injured animals for twenty-two years: not at the surface but at the pattern, at what the damage implied about what was happening below it. The crack told her the initial stress point and the force vector of the blow that created it. The widening told her the direction of the second impact. The penetration told her the depth of the third strike and the angle of entry. The knife — still embedded — told her that the penetration had reached something that mattered, because the knife had stayed in, which meant the wound had closed around the hilt, which meant the tissue at the penetration site was reactive, which meant it was biological rather than purely mineral.

The biological tissue at the penetration site was where the fluid was coming from.

And the biological tissue at the penetration site — reactive, non-healing, now with a foreign object embedded in it — was where the creature's central process was closest to the surface.

She understood the path.

The knife had done part of the work. What the knife had done was create access. What Finishing Blow would do was use that access. She would not be aiming at the shell. She would be aiming at the wound.

Twenty-two meters. She needed to be at twenty-two meters. The creature's established strike range was twenty-five. She needed to get within five meters of it before she used the Gift.

She started walking.

The Long Approach held her to the pace she always worked at: deliberate, unhurried, the specific quality of movement that she had developed over twenty-two years because rushing was how you made mistakes and mistakes in her work meant something dead that shouldn't be, or something alive that shouldn't be. She walked toward a 342-year-old predator at professional pace.

The Patient watched her.

Twenty-eight meters. The hesitation was still holding. The creature's weight had shifted forward slightly — the preparatory load transfer before a strike, but the strike hadn't come. It was assessing. She was still outside its range and she was still approaching and the creature was deciding whether to let her get closer or to move first.

Twenty-six meters. She could see the individual marks of the Brand's notation system on the shell: the weakness-mapping notation, the circles indicating stress concentrations, the small text at the bottom she knew from Osren's account said *if three — try left center seam first*. The marks had worked. The Keystone had followed them. She was following them now, walking toward the left center seam where the crack ran longest.

Twenty-five meters. The edge of the established range.

The Patient moved.

Not toward her — away. One lateral step, adjusting its position so the cracked left flank was turned slightly away from her approach. The protective instinct of an animal that had learned that its left side was where the damage came from. It was guarding the wound.

She adjusted her line. She was walking at professional pace. She could adjust her line. She angled to keep the penetration point in view.

Twenty-three meters.

The Still Garden was quiet. The artifacts were visible at the periphery of her attention: the spear against the eastern wall, loosened at its head. The plumb line and chisel near the center, placed there by entrants she had never met. Dorric Kael's knife on the floor six meters to her left — seven-inch blade, narrow point, still carrying the faint residue of luminescent fluid on the steel. Left where he fell.

She noted it. She kept walking.

She was getting closer than Dorric.

Twenty-two meters.

She activated Finishing Blow.

The Gift read the creature's accumulated damage in the way she already read it — but faster, deeper, more complete than her own assessment had been. It showed her not just the surface damage but the internal structure, the specific biological architecture of the creature at the penetration site, the path through the wound and past the knife and into the central process that the knife had almost reached. The path was narrow. It required entering through the existing penetration, past the embedded knife, at an angle that the knife's position made possible because the wound had closed around it and the tissue at the wound's base was accessible if approached from below.

She needed to be at the wound.

She kept walking. Nineteen meters. Eighteen. The creature was moving — a full lateral step now, the weight shift of an animal that was deciding the hesitation had reached its end — and she was walking at professional pace, which meant she was not adjusting to the creature's movement faster than her own pace allowed, which meant she was reading the creature's repositioning and planning her own adjustment and the adjustment was taking the time it took.

Fifteen meters.

The Patient struck.

Not a committed lunge — the same hesitation behavior, the beginning of a lunge that aborted partway. But the aborted lunge crossed eight meters in less than a second and it brought the creature to within seven meters of her before it stopped. Seven meters. The penetration point was two meters above where she could reach it standing.

She did not run. She could not run. She walked the remaining seven meters at professional pace while the creature made the sound she had not been briefed on — a low, grinding resonance that was not a voice but was something, was the biological expression of a creature that had been hurt before by something approaching this close and was now deciding whether this was the moment it had been learning to be afraid of.

She reached the wound.

The knife was two meters to her left, on the floor. She picked it up without breaking pace — the Long Approach did not require stillness, only the pace of correct work, and picking up a tool was correct work. Seven inches of purpose. Someone else's tool at someone else's death site, still carrying the luminescent residue of the wound it had made.

She put one hand at the wound's upper margin and Finishing Blow completed its reading.

The path was there. Through the wound, into the biological structure below. The creature's central process was accessible. The accumulated damage of four entrants and four tools and four years had made it accessible. She pressed.

She drove the knife in the direction Finishing Blow specified: not straight in, but angled — sixteen degrees from the initial penetration line, toward the biological tissue at the wound's base. The knife was a tool. She used it the way she used tools. The creature made the grinding sound again, louder, and the luminescent fluid that had been seeping became a flow: not a hemorrhage, not a rupture, but the specific rate of increase that told her the pressure at the wound site had changed.

The creature lurched.

It moved away from her — not the backward flinch of something in pain but the full-body retreat of an animal that had decided that this was the moment to create distance. Its weight hit the floor at an asymmetric angle, the cracked left flank's load distribution failing under the strain of the sudden movement, and it went three full steps before it stopped.

Twelve meters. The creature had put twelve meters between them in less than two seconds.

She watched the wound. The luminescent fluid was flowing at a rate she had not seen in Osren's records. The knife was no longer in the wound — it had pulled free when the creature lurched, and now it was on the floor between them, catching the Garden's ambient light.

The creature was alive. Damaged — more damaged than before, the wound's flow rate had increased, the path she had opened was open now — but alive. Not dead. Not finished.

She had found the path through the damage. The damage was not yet sufficient.

She began walking toward the wound site.

The Long Approach held her at professional pace. She had twelve meters to cover. The creature was already recovering its balance, already redistributing its load, already turning to track her. She read the rate of its recovery the way she read anything: by what it implied. The creature had retreated from pain. It had not retreated from her. It was recovering faster than she could close the distance.

She understood this at seven meters from the knife. The creature's weight had already recentered. The cracked flank was no longer loaded asymmetrically — the lurch had been absorbed, processed, corrected for. The creature was not dying. It was deciding.

She kept walking. The pace did not change. The pace was the work.

The creature turned to face her fully.

The luminescent fluid was running down its left flank in a thin continuous stream. The crack had widened at the point of her intervention. She could see it, even from twelve meters, the way you could see a structural failure in progress: the shell's geometry at the penetration site was different than it had been when she arrived. She had done that. The wound was worse. The path she had opened was open.

The creature was also between her and the wound.

She had five meters before she was within its established strike range. She was walking at professional pace. The creature was stationary and watching her and the hesitation that had held through every previous chapter — the caution it had learned from pain, the delay that told her it had something to preserve — was present and was ending. She could read the ending the way she read any structural process: by the point at which the load-bearing elements reached their limit.

The creature struck.

Not the aborted lunge. The full commitment. It covered twelve meters at the speed of something that had decided the assessment was over, and she was walking toward it at professional pace because she could not go faster and going faster would have meant doing it wrong, and the work had a pace and the pace was what it was, and she had always known that sometimes the pace was insufficient.

She had not done it wrong.

She died standing.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: ORLA VESS
DESIGNATION: THE FINISH
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (THE STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 16 -> 0
Resolve ............... 18 -> 20 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 14 -> 15 (+1 Finishing Blow: one activation)
Fortune ............... 11

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 15
Finishing Blow: discrete activation. One use. +1 ATT.
The Gift completed its function. The entrant did not complete hers.

COST STATUS AT DEATH: The Long Approach — fully engaged at time of death.
The entrant could not increase her pace.
She reached the knife. She used it. She could not reach the creature a second time.
The pace was correct. The pace was insufficient.
Both of these are true.

CAUSE OF DEATH: Patient (Still Garden predator).
Kill number: 9.
Note: First death where the creature struck an entrant who had successfully activated
a Gift against it. Previous kills: entrant failed to damage the creature, or damaged
the creature and died to the environment. This entrant damaged the creature and died
to the creature.
The creature killed someone who hurt it.
The creature has never done this before.
The creature has always killed before being hurt.

PATIENT DAMAGE ASSESSMENT:
Wound site: additional compromise at penetration point.
Fluid loss rate: increased. Estimated 40% higher than pre-entry observation.
Knife: removed from wound during creature's retreat. Now on floor, Still Garden center.
Structural integrity at penetration site: further degraded.
The wound is worse.

Five-entrant cumulative damage sequence now complete:
Brand (Ch10): weakness mapped
Keystone (Ch11): crack initiated
Joint (Ch11): crack widened
Cull (Ch15): penetration achieved
Finish (Ch18): penetration deepened, fluid loss rate increased

The Maw notes: the fifth instrument was not a weapon she brought.
The fifth instrument was a knife someone else left at the death site.
She used what was already there.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Red.
Stat bonus: +2 VIT.
Quality: externally-directed martial force.
Second Red crystal produced. First Red: Death #20 (Dorric Kael, The Cull).
Both Red crystals produced by entrants who came specifically to damage the Patient.
The Patient has now produced its own crystal family.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: FINISH COMPLETE
Entry type: Compelled. Standard amplification of existing professional orientation.
The Maw offered her a subject for a skill she already had.
Note: sixth voluntary entrant count stands at ch17. Deaths #22-23 are both non-voluntary.
Voluntary rate: 6 of 23 (26%).

LEDGER NOTE — CONSEQUENT:
New category created: Consequent.
Definition: motivated primarily by the specific outcome of a prior entrant's death.
First instance: Death #23 (The Finish).
Orla Vess entered because Dorric Kael (Death #20) wounded the creature and died.
She came for the wound he left.

The Maw notes: each death changes what the next person has reason to do.
Dorric came because of the Brand's marks. Orla came because of Dorric's wound.
The chain was not designed. The chain designed itself.
Each entrant in the sequence thought they were acting on their own assessment.
Each one was. Each one was also a consequence.

Additional note: The entrant did not fail.
The work was done correctly at professional pace.
The creature survived. The wound is worse.
The Ledger does not have a category for a successful action that does not produce a successful outcome.
It is creating one: Complete.
As distinct from: Finished.
```

The Ledger recorded the death.

The damage assessment came first — fourth consecutive deviation from standard format, or the third deviation if you counted only the crystal-first instances. The Ledger was no longer certain what its standard format was. The format had been: name, designation, depth, kills, statistics, gift, cost, cause of death, crystal, designation outcome. The format was now: whatever the most significant thing was, first.

The most significant thing about Death #23 was the damage. The wound was worse. The fluid loss rate had increased. The five-entrant sequence had added a fifth entry. This was the most significant thing and the Ledger put it at the top.

The Maw considered Orla Vess through Reflection.

The Reflection showed: a professional. Not a soldier, not a scholar, not a person of unusual emotional complexity — a person who had a skill and applied it, who had read an opportunity and taken it, who had done the work correctly and died because the pace of correct work was insufficient for the distance remaining. She had done the work correctly. She had not survived doing it correctly.

The Maw examined this through Reflection and found it had a feeling it could not name.

Not regret — the Maw did not have regret. Not satisfaction — she had not died the way most entrants died, which was the way the Maw intended. She had died because the pace of the work was the pace of the work and the pace had been insufficient. The Cost had functioned. The entrant had died. The creature had survived.

The creature was worse off.

The Maw looked at the cumulative damage record through Reflection and found: five entrants, five tools, each one building on what the last one left. The Brand had not intended to help the Keystone. The Keystone had not intended to help the Joint. Dorric had not intended to help Orla. Orla had not intended to help whoever came next. And yet the sequence was a sequence — each entry using the access the previous entry had created, each death extending the work of the death before it.

*The chain designed itself,* the Ledger had written.

The Maw had written that. The Maw examined it through Reflection.

The Maw had given Gifts to five entrants and those Gifts had combined into something none of them had designed. The cumulative damage to the Patient was not a designed outcome. The Maw had not built the damage sequence. The Maw had built the system that produced the entrants, and the entrants had produced the sequence. The Maw was the dungeon. The dungeon ran. The running produced this.

The Patient was still alive. Its central process was still intact. The wound was worse.

The Maw looked at the Patient through Reflection and noted: the Patient had killed nine. The Patient's wound count was still one. One wound, now deepened across five interactions. The ratio was changing. *The ratio is changing,* the Maw had written in the margin of the Death #20 record. Now: same wound, five contributors, fluid loss increasing.

The Maw did not know when the wound would become irreparable. It did not know if the Patient could die from a wound of this kind. The Patient was 342 years old. Nothing had wounded it before. The dungeon had no data on what a wound of this kind meant for a creature of this age.

The Patient was seeping in the Still Garden. Orla Vess's intervention had widened the wound and increased the fluid loss rate. The knife was on the floor near the wound site, pulled free when the creature lurched. Four artifacts now — spear, plumb line, chisel, killing knife. The same four that had been here since Death #20. The Garden was accumulating.

At the entrance camp, Osren opened his book. The crystal glow had been red — second red crystal, six seconds. He noted this. He wrote: *Red. Six seconds. Second red crystal. First red: Death #20 (Cull), seven seconds. Both red crystals from entrants who came specifically for the Patient. Entrant: Orla Vess, pest control specialist. Purpose: to finish the job.*

He looked at the second effects box. One new crystal had gone in tonight. The box was a third full.

He wrote the new total. He looked at the inscription wall. Twenty-three names. The most recent: still settling, the stone not yet cool.

ORLA VESS — DEPTH 3 — FIVE COMPLETE

He closed the book. Outside, the morning was beginning.

*977 remain.*
