Giving them the information far enough away in a nearly immortal system would give them an additional goal, which was purely a good thing. It was, however, an action far more deliberate than the ones before. He could have used similar tech and explained more rudimentary advancements, but it seemed unnecessary to make them reinvent however many years of technology just so they could have a chance at reaching the greater Realm.

And that, combined with ensuring his information was distributed in a method he deemed most fair, was a step in a direction he wasn’t sure he had the right to do. Part of himself tried to justify it with that he was only making their lives easier. He even ensured that defensive armaments were half a step better than offensive enchantments and runes, so one side couldn’t just kill everyone by creating an incredibly strong weapon first.

But it was a choice, and that made him feel no better than Winter Hornet or Virgil.

As he left, Emmanuel hoped that he and the others had made the right choices and hadn’t doomed that world with their interference.

He was so bothered that he didn’t do more than scan the cluster of Tier 38 through 41 worlds. Their respective Great Power’s strongest explorers would all be here soon enough to fight over those secondary prizes.

Their prize was the Tier 46 world.

His introspection made him consider something he otherwise might not have, and so after talking it over with Alister, when the eight of them arrived at the Tier 46 world, Emmanuel slowed down, signaling that he wanted to talk.

Under the lumbering mass that was the Tier 46 world’s cultivation core, the surrounding area was nearly as peaceful as their own Great Powers.

At first, it seemed like he would be ignored in favor of arriving first but, when both JR and Winter Hornet slowed to join Emmanuel and Alister, the others did as well.

“What?” Virgil's spiritual sense snapped across chaotic space like a whip, but Emmanuel ignored it.

“I have a proposition for you all.”

Tobias scoffed at Emmanuel’s words, his titanic body making chaotic space around him tremble. “And why would I trust you after your and Allister's stunt? Give me a reason.”

Emmanuel shrugged, not trying to deflect blame. “I tried to get an advantage, but I have an idea that will get all of us, even farther ahead. We are Tier 50s, and obviously won’t get that much out of the raw rift reward distortions, being so over Tier. We will all make far more if we work together. As many of you have all long suspected, I have a Talent set which turns off a rifts penalties for delving down Tiers. If I open each of the rifts, you will all make far more with the potential of Tier 50 rewards and the guarantee of normal full delve rewards.”

Not only the offer, but the admission that he actually had a power that had long been speculated was a cost he was willing to pay. Delving without restriction wasn’t that much more profitable given how low on mana most high-Tier rifts were, but it still helped without making him too much larger of a target.

Winter Hornet smiled as he fluctuated a single word response. “Accepted.”

That caught everyone off guard, and they all shifted their attention to the Sects Tier 50, who just smiled. “I wasn’t able to store people inside of myself, so I will inherently be less productive. No matter how much he asks for, removing the penalty will turn the first dozen delves of each rift into treasure troves. I might as well agree before the price is inflated by attempts at bargaining.”

Tobias looked down at the smaller human. “I don’t have anyone on my world. Is that not enough, Hornet?”

Winter Hornet didn’t back down as he shifted his gaze, his awl already at the ready as he looked at Tobias’ shell world. “I can make that statement true if you’d like.”

His words were punctuated with a calm certainty that only Winter Hornet, one of the Sects’ strongest, could muster when surrounded by other hostile Tier 50s.

Winter Hornet wasn’t so agreeable with Emmanuel because he was being kind. No, what his words failed to mention was that easy acceptance put the onus on Emmanuel to come to an agreement with everyone else. They were very far away from their Great Powers, and anything could happen.

Emmanuel’s intuition told him it was a tightrope, but it would be worth it if he could navigate across without falling.

His father’s Tier 50 couldn’t pierce the fluctuation so many Tier 50s made, but that was why he never fully relied on it.

He was, however, willing to bet that his father's Tier 50 combined with Matt’s Tier 1 and 3 Talents, along with another seeker's Tier 25 Talent, might be able to let him steal the best rewards the others got.

Emmanuel kept his offer short and simple. “I want five rift rewards from your delves. I pick, and you have two refusals. I will also pick in good faith.”

If this worked without blowing up in his face, Emmanuel hoped it could set the stage that he was trustworthy enough to work with instead of fighting when Matt’s Talent finally came out.

There was a long silence as people weighed the disadvantages against the advantages. Could they profit more than the top five items they found if Emmanuel removed the Tier restrictions for them? Was the additional profit for each of them worth more than the edge that Emmanuel would be gaining for the Empire?

He hoped they thought so, because he was willing to bet exactly that.

Finally the silence was broken by JR adjusting the deal with a squawked, “Three refusals and we get to keep three treasures untouchable.”

That counter offer shifted the value weight too much to the others, so Emmanuel countered as well. Eventually, they settled on Emmanuel using his best combination of Talents to form the rift instances while also taking five items of his choice, with everyone only having two reserves and one veto. In addition, he had to promise not to use Allie’s Talent to teleport home, so long as they didn’t come into conflict whilst they delved the world.

Their deal would only come into effect after they cleared the real space universe of monsters and their accompanying treasures, because no one was going to let another person get even a single extra item.

It would be their first collective fight, and there was a non zero chance one of them was forced to Ascend.
