It horrified Emmanuel to see the horror a society of careless immortals left behind.

The controlling logic systems even went as far as leaving specific relics and techniques it wanted to be the new seed items for a generation of cultivation techniques for the eventual survivors to reclaim.

Then, after all of that was done, the remaining robots buried themselves where ore patches should be and decomposed into semi refined metals. The truly excess robots were even sent into rifts, where their matter could be converted back into essence rather than give the people of the world too much metal, ensuring their civilization was slow to grow.

Emmanuel was slightly surprised the people were still close to human standard, but he found that any deviances too far from the original baseline were met with an immediate attack on the populus that changed.

They were slightly different, not because they were a deviant that managed to prosper, but rather because the rest of humanity had drifted slightly over the millenia, making them the new normal.

Looking at the system and its data logs was as easy as scanning the physical structure, but Emmanuel took the time to build a full digital mockup of what he perceived. His efforts turned out to be worth disappointingly little.

Their technological level had been little more than calculators doing semi-complex math, which limited the amount and types of information stored.

Still, the purpose was crystal clear. The civilization who had set this up had done so to try and create new low level cultivation techniques as passively as possible.

Even after going over all of the information, Emmanuel wasn’t entirely sure if they did it because they were a merchant house or they were simply trying to advance the general level of cultivation techniques, but they had traveled from a nearby inhabited world system to this place and essence seeded it. After they terraformed and settled the world, they created the massive array, desiring the world to stay a low-Tier so they wouldn’t need to restart on new worlds after a few tens of thousands of years.

With that desire in mind, they automated the process as much as possible, only needing oversight by a few people from the nearby civilization to direct the progress.

In what Emmanuel could only infer as an effort to show the might of the political entity that built the place, they had made the automation systems incredibly robust. So robust they were still working on tirelessly however many millions of years later.

That explained the rudimentary technology and level of influence. The place was from an immortal civilization and created by their desires for cultivation techniques.

Emmanuel’s political instincts felt the world had been one part political theater, one part recruiting method for a ruling entity given that even robust Tier 4 techniques couldn’t have been worth the effort of establishing an entire settled world, given their magical enchantment levels.

A quick confirmation showed a Tier 12 planet with the wreckage of the closest multi-planet star system. There was even evidence they had immortals of some flavor, if the few bodies still in isolation were any indication.

Perfectly preserved but dead all the same, the bodies that hadn’t let animals or monsters get close were still just as intact as they were the day they died, and served as a reminder of why they cremated their dead.

Better fully gone than still there, lingering for millions of years.

Emmanuel even got a glimpse at the civilization’s fashion. One person, a high-ranking functionary, had been wearing a Tier 15 cloak of some kind with ornate golden thread which shimmered under the caked on dust and detritus.

Sadly, there were no survivors and pretty much everything had long been reclaimed by the world's unchecked rift breaks and ruins.

He did check, but that world's exit into chaotic space was incredibly distant, meaning they truly were stuck until the storm passed outside.

Letting his mind return to the world below, Emmanuel took it as a testament to what essence was capable of.

It was also a testament to what people were capable of, and that was so much worse.

Nothing was as short-lived as the machinations of mankind.

However, none of that offered up a solution as for what they should do. What Emmanuel should do.

Looking over to Janet, he raised an eyebrow as everyone else was flicking through over billions of years of recorded cultivation, inquisitive, wanting to see if there was something truly outstanding.

Sadly, that was proven incorrect with the highest-rated cultivation techniques being some variation of just allocating monster essence as densely as possible, same as they all currently used.

Once they were flying again, Emmanuel would find the time to look through the records and see just how many civilizations had discovered their essence system and if there were any notes about how, because after being bored for so long, that seemed fascinating.

Instead, he just looked at Janet and Tobias, waiting to see what either of them decided.

He couldn’t transport someone away from this world, but the two of them could. Even if the others didn’t know the full capabilities of Janet's Talent, he knew.

Given that the population was mainly human, there was a non-zero chance that Tobias would leave them on the world based on that alone, but Janet could bring them if she willingly revealed her Talent could store living things.

Normally, they could have just been added to Tobias’ people living on his shell, but the turtle had, at least on the surface, already evacuated them before he left settled space. Not only was his shell exposed to chaotic space, which, while not itself dangerous, wasn’t without risk, as any energy from that were to breach inside would be immediately lethal.

Emmanuel suspected just like Janet, Tobias had people hidden away in safety to help their Tier 50 loot the rifts of everything valuable as he delved ahead.

That uncertainty would mean needing to fully clear every rift so their people were not slaughtered by a missed higher monster, but it ensured maximum profit per delve. Something the rest of them couldn’t emulate, which was why he had been contemplating how he could level the playing field.

If Emmanuel could figure out a way to safely bring Allie into chaotic space, he’d have an even larger advantage than them, but the others would have teamed up to kill her if he had done that.

Which was why he had been working on a backup plan to sneak her out into chaotic space with something that wouldn’t be detected by the other Tier 50s. It was very much a work in progress idea, and he still wasn’t sold on it after his first experiments, but still was willing to consider.

This wasn’t the first exploration the Realm’s Tier 50s had done together, even if this was the first one of this generation’s. That meant there was a general understanding that all rifts were to be delved until they dissipated, or were deliberately destroyed, ensuring no one left a contingent of people behind who might start another rival Great Power.

Given that two of the Tier 50s amongst them could do something like that with their Talents, and one had managed to keep secret that her Talent could contain people, the others might have other methods. Spatial items that could store living people or similar items.

With that risk, there was no way any of them without such an ability would be willing to leave a single rift in the system.

Tobias spoke first, pulling his head back into his shell as he seemed to prepare for a nap. “Pitiful creatures, but I cannot take them with me. If I am to fight, there is a chance that I could Ascend, and that would doom those people to an instant death. If you all promise not to engage with me, I can take them and deposit them on a safe moon while we loot the Tier 46 system for everything it's worth.”

Emmanuel was sorely tempted to call the turtle out for lying, but didn’t bother wasting his breath. Either Tobias would continue to pretend and claim the moral high ground, leaving Emmanuel looking like an instigator, or outright admit it and make Emmanuel look like an instigator all the same.

Given how Emmanuel had been half of the instigators leading to them getting trapped on this world, he wasn’t willing to stand out for so little gain.

Instead, he looked away from Janet who spoke, her eyes not leaving the people below.

“I can’t risk my own people's interests in the Tier 46 world’s resources so, despite wishing to assist them, I can’t. However, I will not allow any of you to directly interfere with these people. I intend to stop the mechanized cannibalizing of their world and create enough materials to ensure they can reach the stars. From there, they can see the other world and have a nearby immortal area to strive for. It is the best we can do while still respecting their autonomy. They deserve that much for all of their years of pointlessly being treated like livestock for a society already long dead.”

Emmanuel was tempted to snort and blow her cover, but that was a card better kept to any potential lethal battle they might soon have. He could also admit he wasn’t volunteering to teleport them back to the Empire either, and so had little room to call her out.

After another moment of silence as the others silently conversed, Janet dismantled the world-wide array, finally restarting the process of the world being able to Tier up.

Winter Hornet didn’t seem interested in the conversation, but once he heard that no one was going to take the people, he started singling out exceptional people from the moon's database.

Even without people to do the recruiting, the sensors had been working tirelessly, and the battle maniac had his pick of promising recruits.

Emmanuel was mildly startled to see Winter Hornet give out not cultivation techniques pilfered from the repository, nor show them their own crunch method of cultivation, but rather he started passing out the skill making method.

All of the skills he gave were the basic few Matt had released, but some of the steps had been subtly modified to make them better or stronger in some singular way.

That opened the floodgates, leaving only Janet and Emmanuel to abstain from interfering.

That earned him a strange look, but he just watched the others.

Virgil empowered a few otherwise insignificant people. He couldn’t see how or why she would bother, but she didn’t leave anything behind. When she finished a while later, Emmanuel stopped paying such close attention to the people, noting to check them before he left.

JR, however, was far more lax than even that. He, using a projection of a human, spoke to a few notable inventors. Giving them the hint they needed for their next breakthrough and encouraged them to share what they learned afterwards and to then make as much money as they could.

Tobias, Aoife, and Alister almost looked like they wouldn’t make a move on their own, but each reached out to one of the weaker entities and supported them in various ways, seeming to consider the people or groups they chose to empower their proxies.

Emmanuel couldn’t really fathom why they would bother, but ended up pinning it down to them seeing the winner of the world as a representative of their Great Power, and refused to just not play because it was unethical.

It represented exactly why Tier 50s couldn’t linger. Too long at the top of the food chain and everyone else stopped being real.

He saw a noble or two who seemed genuine enough that Emmanuel would feel confident empowering them with outside knowledge, but he wouldn’t trust that to last more than a generation or two.

That thought left him mulling over the similarities with his own Great Power and if there was an answer that would actually work.

He was pulled out of his reverie when, near the end, he had a thought. With a wave, he undid a few of the key components of damage Janet had done, leaving the massive formation inoperable, but repairable.

On a system cobbled together by copying local methods, Emmanuel left a message letting people know how the formation worked and how they might go about repairing it, as well as the higher-Tier world just a few dozen light years away, framing it as someone who made the device just before they died in the disaster that destroyed the original civilization.

Janet wasn’t wrong about people being able to decide their own destiny, and for all its faults, the formation was a massive undertaking that could inspire and empower the world below them. They had suffered its wrath and they should be able to decide how they wanted to handle it themselves.

Then, in the other inhabited system, Emmanuel put down another beacon, this one of clear Empire make, informing the local civilization group of chaotic space and of modern technology both.

He then further modified the beacon to analyze communication methods so that it would trigger a single broadcast of all of the information across both systems, the moment someone arrived in the other system.

It wouldn’t do to let a single group monopolize the information. In the scenarios shown to him via his future sight Talents, more times than not, it was a recently overthrown group trying to escape punishment who fled to the nearest star system with a habitable world. He didn’t want to empower dictators fleeing prosecution to come back as the oppressors.

It was that decision that made Emmanuel pause.

