RIVERWALL NORTHGATE, ACROSS THE RIVER

The divine guidance had brought them to this small... pitiful settlement, defended by vessels, of all things.

Aryin Three-One didn't understand why a one would give duties to vessels. Their role was to collect the divine essence, condense it, and then be harvested.

Maybe this one simply had eccentric tastes? Whatever the case, the threes would not comment upon it. They had not crushed the laughable defences of this settlement and walked in further for the same reason; this was their one's domain. It was to be respected.

And so they announced themselves, and waited.

It did not take long; the vessels became agitated, assembling in great numbers around the stone works, but wisely did not attempt anything.

Eight bald, white heads turned in unison toward the south-west. A burst of power had been felt. It was... was it the one? It tasted like it, but it was also wrong.

It was only a moment before something else happened; two individuals flew their way, a winged female carrying a baseline male. The woman's indigo wings had Aryin's eyebrow quirk upward. It smelled familiar, yet exotic.

The female angled down. The man she carried began glowing blue. She released him, he caught fire, and torpedoed into the ground before them, a few dozen paces away from Aryin.

From within the smoke, a long blue light extended away from the man's blazing silhouette. As the air cleared, they could see it was a sword, evidently magical in nature.

Aryin figured the man's posture and expression were meant to be intimidating. Instead, he simply observed and waited. This was not the one.

The one was... up there. He returned his sight skyward, tracking the one as she turned around to come land behind the swordsman.

There was no doubt that she was a one, their one. Their flesh danced and sang when they looked at her.

But she was also more. Ones were vessels for the divine. Cocoons, within which the divine essence matured.

This one was whole. There was no separation between the divine and the body. It was as if she had made the divine he own, or perhaps the inverse?

Whatever it was, as faithful threes, they knew what they had to do.

The man took a step forward and addressed them in the deluded one's tongue. His words were inconsequential.

Aryin sent his thoughts to the octuple, and they confirmed his judgment; the one they had been roused to serve was the woman.

Moving as a single entity, they turned to face the sanctified being, then knelt, put their hands to the earth, and pushed their heads to the ground.

And they waited for the one's will.

David blinked once, his warning cut short when the hummers prostrated themselves to him.

He squinted. No, not to him. They were slightly angled to his right, where Niala was...

Right, the hummers were venerating his wife. Nothing strange. No problem.

He looked, and she had the same confused expression as he did. He motioned a question with his hand; she answered by raising her shoulders and folding her ears down.

Turning his head back to the hummers, he took a step forward. “Explain yourselves,” he demanded.

They didn't move.

He motioned for Niala to try. She cleared her throat and spoke in Lumiran. “Explain why you are here.”

Silence, but she frowned after a few seconds.

“What's wrong?” He asked.

“It's... strange. They... I got the feeling that they are here to... serve me?”

“Get the feeling?”

She wiggled her ears. “Yeah, it's... It's like a gut feeling. Whispers I can't hear but that still carry a message- that sort of thing. Let me try something else.”

She turned her head toward them. “Please get up and answer my questions in Lumiran.”

The eight white freaks unfroze from their position and got back to their feet like a synchronized troupe. They didn't look directly at her, instead keeping their upper bodies bowed and looking at her feet.

The one in front spoke in a heavily accented Lumiran. “We obey, sanctified one, and await your will.”

Niala furrowed her brow. “Are you referring to me? I'm the sanctified one? Like that other guy we defeated in the temple?”

“The... yes, sanctified one. We believe so.”

She stepped up to David and leaned toward his ear, whispering. “What do we do? Do you think they're telling the truth?”

“I don't know, kitten. Try asking them questions?” he suggested.

Nodding, she spoke up. “What is your name? You, who's been speaking to me.”

“Aryin Three-One, sanctified one.” The hummer replied.

“Ok then... Aryin. You can see I'm not a, huh, person like you, right?”

“Irrelevant, sanctified one. You carry his essence. That makes you one of the chosen.”

She squinted. “What essence? Whose essence?”

Aryin didn't answer right away, seeming to struggle between wanting to but not being allowed to. “...The Divine one. The Betrayed. The Lost god.”

David winced; the evidence that the corruption was divine in origin was mounting.

Niala filed all that for later and kept going. “We met another group like you before. They attacked our people and captured them with tentacles, then brought them inside a flying whale and back to a temple. Are you going to do that?”

The lead hummer remained completely still as they all did, with only his mouth moving as he spoke. “We have not received your will to do so, sanctified one. We shall only defend ourselves, as is ordained.”

“So... you'll do whatever I tell you to?”

“That is so, sanctified one.”

She raised an eyebrow. “Even if I tell you to forget about me and leave?”

For the first time, Aryin seemed to twitch. He spoke after a few seconds. “That is the single thing we cannot do, sanctified one. We are beholden to remain under your orders. We either stay by your side, or we are given a task to perform.”

“What if I told you to go back where you came from?”

“Then we will go, and once we have reached that place, turn around and come back to you, sanctified one.”

“Ah... what if I told you to go back and build a temple?”

“Then we would build a temple, and come back to you.”

She rubbed her forehead. “Ok, ok, fine. You go back, build a temple, then guard it for the rest of time.”

“...Is that your will, sanctified one?”

She blinked. “What? No! It's a question! What if I asked you that? What would happen?”

“We would do as you willed, sanctified one.”

She let that answer float around while she looked at David, who seemed about as lost as she was.

They hadn't acted aggressively toward anyone, so they couldn't just attack them. Apparently, she could send them back, but then she couldn't ask them more questions.

And she had so many questions!

The north gate groaned open behind them. They turned to watch Jordo walking through, followed by a Rinka trying to hide behind the golem as it stomped toward them.

Niala gave the hummers a glance, but they remained still as mud. No reaction or even interest.

Jordo reached them, his eye flashing once. “Sir, Madam, it is good to find you safe and whole! When I heard of the situation, I raced over here and found Miss Rinka along the way. She asked to come. I hope you do not mind?”

David glanced at the lumiran archivist, making herself small and peeking around Jordo's bulk. She certainly didn't look like she wanted to be here...

He addressed her. “Are you sure you wanted to come?”

She blinked at him. “I... I heard there were hummers. I wanted to come to... help? I guess to help.” She shook her head. “Actually, I don't know why I wanted to come! This is stupid! What kind of help can I give?! You know what? What I really wanted was to see you snap a few white freaks in half!”

She straightened as her words enlivened. “They stole my future for whatever stupid reason! They destroyed my homeland! Killed so many of my people! Killed some of my family!”

Stepping around Jordo, she turned to face the hummers, shouting at them. “Do you hear?! You destroyed an entire people! We weren't perfect, but we did our best! We wanted to learn! To become better! But we had to fight the whisper kingdoms, and then you came along! You forced us to take arms! For what? Because we wouldn't let you take our people!”

Her foot came down hard on the ground. “Why! Why us?! Why? You never even bothered to tell us! You just took, and took, and took, and you ignored all our questions! We just-” Her breath caught, and the fire in her voice puttered out “-We just wanted to learn... damn you...”

With the last word, her shoulders went limp, and her head hung low. For a while, there was no sound except for Rinka's quiet sobs.

Niala walked up to the woman and slowly, gently, put her arms around her, offering her shoulder, upon which Rinka rested her head.

It took a minute or two, but eventually the archivist's pain retreated, and her tears stopped. She took in a deep breath and pushed herself out of Niala's hug, giving her a grateful nod before wiping her nose with her sleeve. She gave her a weak smile. “Thanks, Niala. And sorry. I'm a mess. I... I'll go back now.”

Niala returned the smile and put a hand to Rinka's shoulder, stopping her from turning away. “If you want answers... I think I can ask them.”

Rinka looked at the catkin, sniffed, then up at the still-bowing hummers. Her face crisped in indecision before smoothing out. “Yeah... yes, please. I'd like to know. I feel that... I think it would allow me to close a door I didn't know I'd left open.”

Niala nodded, ears wiggling, and turned to face the hummers. “Aryin. Here are my orders: first, you will not harm anyone unless you are attacked, and only then, only if you cannot subdue them.”

“It will be so, sanctified one.”

Her ears twitched. “Second, you will work for the betterment of this town, its people, and the kingdom it is part of. If you are unsure which actions would qualify, then you are to ask.”

“It... will be so, sanctified one.”

“Third, stop calling me sanctified one. Call me Niala.”

“I-it will be so, sanctified Niala.”

“Just Niala.” She insisted.

“...Niala,” Aryin said with a sound very similar to choking.

She smiled. “Alright. Now, tell me how I can confirm that you will actually follow my orders and that this isn't a ruse for us to let our guard down.”

“...” The hummer remained silent.

“I'm waiting. That was an order.” She warned. David tightened his grip on Heartsong and lowered his stance.

Aryin bowed down lower. “I apologize, sanc- Niala. I cannot convey this through spoken words. May we offer you our thoughts?”

“I don't know what that means.”

The hummer nearly looked up, his head twitching. “I do not understand, Niala. You received them at first, before you willed us to speak.”

She squinted. “Then... try?”

Aryin dipped his head and reached out to the sanctified Niala's light. He offered a connection which was accepted, and pushed through his thoughts, emotions, and senses.

They were absorbed, as it should be of a sanctified Niala.

And yet – she didn't seem to be aware of it, even if he could feel she knew. She knew without knowing.

Curious.

But he had done as asked, and he waited.

Niala, on the receiving end, had the same strange feeling of certainty about something she didn't remember. The... three. He was a three, right? They were all threes. They had all been made for this, to serve what they called a one, or a sanctified one.

And she knew- knew- that they simply couldn't defy her orders. Somehow, she saw how her words engraved themselves into their minds and became laws as intrinsic to their being as the need to breathe.

Or, well, maybe this was all a mind trick she was made to believe, but she knew someone who could probably help.

She waved a few fingers, and a filament of wind left toward the town, to an old house alongside the north wall.

It was only a minute before a whirlwind of broken glass landed beside her, taking the form of a dignified older woman.

Anaakendi looked around before focusing on Niala. “What is it, child?”

The catkin looked at the incarnate. “Could you try controlling their mind and make them throw a rock at David? Just strong enough that it would sting a bit.”

David quirked a brow. “Why me?”

The older woman turned her head toward the bowing hummers. “I can try. Right now?”

“Ah...” Niala looked at the lead hummer. “Aryin, don't resist Anaakendi's compulsion, ok?”

“As you order, Niala.”

David waved his hand. “Why a rock at me?”

Anaakendi lifted her arm, a finger loosely pointing at Aryin, and wisps of grey energy reached out like skeletal hands. They gripped the hummer's face and faded away.

Aryin looked up toward David, bent to pick up a rock, extended his arm back to throw and-

Stayed like this, even while his target put up Heartsong along its flat to intercept any projectile.

The incarnate woman furrowed her brow and strained, imposing her will over the hummer.

Aryin's throwing arm began shaking, and his face contorted. Anaakendi pushed, and the hummer flinched. Milky white tears began forming at his eyes, his mouth opened on a pained moan-

Niala's hand shot up. “Stop! Anaakendi, stop, please.” She looked toward the older woman. “What happened?”

She shook her head. “I couldn't make him do this. His body simply refused. I believe he would have ripped his own arm off before accepting the compulsion.”

Aryin stopped shaking, retracting his extended arm and looking at the stone he held as if it had suddenly appeared there. His head lifted toward Anaakendi, but he caught himself, flung the rock away, and resumed his bow.

Niala observed the hummers for a while. Her senses told her they were trustworthy, especially after what had just happened, but...

Well, they were white freaks. She really didn't know if she should trust them.

On the other hand, they could answer so many questions.

Maybe a little bit of risk was fine for the questions? Surely?