Madame Harriet turned out to be an old woman with a regal disposition, with hard eyes behind which hid grandmotherly love.

And, after listening to Marci, if her thinned lips and barely controlled trembling were any indications, she was also furious.

She turned her head toward Sybil and Sammie, squinted her eyes at them, then turned and walked to her desk, opening a drawer and retrieving a small clinking pouch. She lobbed it at Sybil, who caught it and looked at it, then threw it back on the desk.

Sammie's hand twitched upward, already too late to stop her. He sighed.

Harriet eyed the purse, bringing her stare up at Sybil. “Noble of you, but pointless. Either way, thank you for your help. Please leave, now. This is our problem.”

Sammie threw his head back and muttered something while Sybil steeled her eyes and took a step forward. “No way, miss. From what Marci just said, there's a bad guy who's having girls kidnapped so he can play with them. We're taking him out.”

The room went silent. Marci and Harriet stared blankly as their brain tried to parse her words, while Sammie closed his eyes and accepted his fate.

Harriet shook her head. “Don't be ridiculous, girl. That bad guy is the Earl of Greylight. The boss of their cartel. He owns half the shipping district.”

Sybil narrowed her eyes. “That's just a title, right? He's not really an earl?”

“...No, he's not really an earl.”

She smiled. “Oh! Good, then! Never a good idea to tangle with the nobles. If he's just a lowlife, then it's fine.” She turned her head toward Sammie. “Ready to go?”

“Sybil, we don't even know what he looks like...” He breathed out.

“We'll find out! Let's go ask questions!” She chirped, turning to leave.

Harriet held her hand out. “Wait! Are you... Are you serious?”

Sybil tilted her head. “Sure? Why wouldn't I be?”

The older woman's mouth hung open for a beat. “Buh- because you're going to get yourself killed, foolish girl!” She shouted. “It's a crime syndicate! They have hundreds of men and women, and ten times that in bribed people, like my own missing doorman attests!”

Sybil shrugged. “Yeah, but they won't all be in the same spot. I bet he only has a dozen or so with him.” She looked at her friend. “Come on, Sammie, bad guy needs a kick in the face.”

She was almost at the door, Sammie dragging his feet after her, when Harriet shouted again. “Wait! You death-wished idiot!”

The bunnykin turned around. “Miss, either help us, or stay out of this.”

“...what? You're the one who's supposed to stay out of this! This is our problem!” Harriet countered.

“Pretty sure anyone can make it their problem, lady, and I'm making it our problem. So, what's it going to be?” Sybil said.

The Madame stared at the bunnykin for a few seconds before switching over to her companion. Sammie gave an exasperated nod.

She put a hand to her face, motioning for her “guests” to wait with the other.

The girl was probably going to get herself killed, and that would be the last she'd hear of it.

But... if she didn't, she was going to create so many problems. Better to try to remain in control.

She looked at the bunnykin through her fingers. She was convinced the keyword in that last sentence had been try.

Six days later, Harriet was slumped in her chair, half a bottle of wine in her stomach, and the other half on its way.

She looked at the notes and reports from her network of informants, made up of women retired from her establishment, their children, family members, and the friends that her little birds had picked up along the way, being their vulnerable, charming selves.

She drained half her cup of wine and thought back to the first night, when she had tried to aim the two youngsters at known members of the Greylight cartel.

Not to find the Earl, that was still just as foolish as before, but rather to try and find a bargaining chip. That was how the game was played: with bloody barter. You found things to apply pressure with and then used them to negotiate under a pretense of civility. Sometimes the person pulling or pushing changed, but the wheels kept going.

Criminals enjoyed stability as much as everyone else. The only difference between them and the lawful merchants was that they obeyed their own set of laws, instead of everyone else's.

She took another swig of wine and scoffed.

Instead of the two going out to find leverage, they had started a war on the Greylights.

First, they'd hit the Smelly Clam bar, a front for illicit alcohol, with a small gambling den in the basement. The building had burnt down by the next morning.

From there, they learned about an incoming shipment of counterfeit potions by ship on the morrow. The two went on a brawling rampage through the docks, going up the chain of mooks, until they'd collected enough incriminating evidence.

They went to the guards with that, but not directly. Instead, they played it smart and approached one of the more ambitious, younger officers, offering him the evidence and everything he needed to make it appear as if it had been the result of his own private investigation.

The officer would get all the credits for dismantling a major slop potion trade. Harriet suspected it was the boy's work. Too subtle to be the fist-headed girl.

The stroke of genius, or madness, depending on where you stood, was how they then made certain they were seen strutting around in the company of rival gang members.

From what her informant had reported, the girl was a surprisingly good actor and wasn't shy of wearing alluring clothes when needed. Harriet had to admit, the bunnykin had looks that put some of her girls to shame, and she was evidently not afraid to use them.

She had led those rival gang members around, right into view of the Greylight people.

Later that night, a guard patrol had been tipped off and found those rival gang members beaten up in an alley, bound in rope, with written and signed testimonies attached to them.

Evidently, just being seen like that hadn't been enough to start anything, but it had put the Greylight on edge, which had in turn put the other gangs on the opposite edge.

The following night, they'd hit a rival gang's operations, and left a few beaten-up Greylight thugs on the premises, and did the inverse to the Greylight.

The next day, the pair had gone and talked to whoever they could find that was being extorted by the Greylights and used the coins they'd liberated from their two raids the previous night to loosen lips. They came out of it with a long list of names.

They hit every one of those names, using her own informant network to find them, and kept going until they got what they were looking for: a lead to one of the Earl's personal guards.

Next came the puzzling part; they had apparently approached one of the other gangs in town, the Longwater Dockers, for talks.

The Dockers had grown out of disgruntled dock workers, as their name implied, and were, all things considered, relatively tame for a criminal organization. They mostly dealt in gambling dens, fight clubs, protection rackets and tax evasion.

On the other hand, they were also still mostly comprised of labourers, and had a certain hard life honour. They asked for protection money, yes, but they actually offered protection, took reasonable cuts, and respected the agreed-upon prices.

What exactly the two had discussed with the Dockers, she hadn't been able to find out, but from what had happened next, she could take a very good guess.

She emptied her wine glass and refilled it.

Then emptied it again.

Two days ago

Willis “The Earl” ground his teeth together as his lieutenant yapped away, finding excuses why they had dozens of men either injured or in the slammer, why the Uptown Slickers were suddenly meddling in their part of town, and who the man and his bunnykin thug were.

He slammed his fist on the desk. “Enough!”

The lieutenant froze mid-sentence, eyes wide with a hint of panic.

Willis put his elbows up on the desk and leaned forward. “I don't care about any of that right now, Roscoe. What I want to know is how exactly you lost fifty crates of powder.”

Puffjoy, the powder in question, was the main revenue of their cartel. They bought it from Sonnel merchants smuggling the stuff into port, and then in turn sold it to small-time criminals who handled the distribution. It was addictive and plastered a smile on people's faces for a few hours. The perfect thing for the dregs to waste their evening away giggling before waking up for another pit-cursed day.

And now, when his boys had sought to replenish their stores this morning, they found half their reserve missing, replaced with bags of sand.

Roscoe, his lieutenant, wiped his forehead. “I don't know, Earl Greylight. We're still investigating. We caught a few vagrants nearby who must have seen something, and we've been trying to beat it out of them. I also have men shaking down all the dock workers as we speak.”

Willis growled. “...Get out.”

“E-Earl?”

He sprang to his feet and threw a hand. “Get out! Come back once you've found something! You have a day!” His tone lowered. “And you don't want to wait and see what happens once that day is gone, Roscoe. Got it?”

His lieutenant nodded. “Yes, Earl Greylight! I'll figure it out!”

He turned and hard-walked out of the room. The lone guard flanking it opened the door for the man and closed it after him.

Willis glared at the guard. “Where's Myron? You told me he was just late. Why hasn't he shown up?”

The guard went rigid. “I... don't know, Earl. I thought he was just running late.”

Willis barked. “Saint's armpit! Why are you all so useless? Get someone to go find him! Check his quarters! Where he goes to drink or fuck! Find him!”

“Yes, Earl!” The guard nodded, seeing himself out of the room about as quick as Roscoe had.

He slumped back into his chair. Something was going on, and he didn't like it at all. His stomach was getting upset, all the stress getting to him.

He got up and made his way to his bedchambers. He'd have one of his girls brought up, take it out on her. He wondered if he had Marci in his stable already. He had sent one of his best men after her a few days ago...

Willis put his clothes back on, the wreck of a woman passed out behind him, bruised and marked with rope burns. He took one last look at her battered body and felt the last dregs of stress drain out of his body.

This was much better.

He went out the door, finding one of his guards waiting for him with a grim look on his face.

Willis let out a breath. He could feel the stress coming back already.

“Boss, we think Myron betrayed us.”

Willis froze. “Say that again?” He said slowly, carefully.

The guard swallowed. “I... we searched his room, then his watering hole, and finally the girls he hangs out with. We threatened them a bit, and they talked right quick, leading us to a stash of money and a few letters from the Slickers that refer to stuff like a shipment, cargo, and so on.”

The Earl narrowed his eyes. “You're saying... he, Myron, sold me out to the Slickers?” His face turned red as he shouted the next words. “He sold them my property?!”

The guard took a step back. “I- that's what we think, Earl. We don't know where he's gone.”

Willis stepped after his guard, getting face-to-face with him and yelled, spittle flying. “Then go find him!”

The guard dipped his head and side-stepped, turning to jog out of sight.

Willis shouted after him. “And get another girl to my room!”

Later that night

Willis, flanked by his personal guards and a few more dozen of his men, looked at the large, dark, abandoned industrial building. “You're saying this is where he is?”

“Yes, Earl. That's what we found out after beating up half the vagrants in the district.” His guard said.

Willis sucked on his teeth. He didn't like this at all. If he had to set up an ambush, this would be the place. He barked a few orders and sent underlings in to go investigate.

It didn't take long before he heard shouts and the sounds of a scuffle. His men came jogging back out after that. He waved them down. None of them looked seriously injured, but a few had taken a punch or a cudgel to the face.

He addressed the closest one. “What happened?”

The man slightly bowed. “Earl, we found Slickers prowling about, but we also found a bunch of crates stacked high in the main room. Didn't have time to open them, but they looked like they could be our missing crates.”

Willis pieced the parts together. It fit; Myron had sold information about his powder to the Slickers, and they'd swooped in, gathered what they could, and hid it here while they found somewhere safer to store it. You didn't move fifty crates all at once without attracting attention, and this place was just the right distance from his warehouses and in a poor enough district that there wouldn't be too many witnesses.

And if there were Slickers around, then they were probably guarding those crates.

He felt his temper flare up. To the pits with those saints-sucking dungheads!

“Roscoe!” He yelled after his lieutenant. The man trotted up to him. “Go and gather all the men you can in half a bell. Come back here loaded for war. Go!”

“Yes, Earl!” He replied and ran off, dragging a few of his subordinates with him to spread the word.

Willis turned back toward the building, chewing on his teeth. He'd go in and get his property back, but he'd do it smart. He sent a few men back in, just to keep an eye on the crates, make sure nobody came in to move them out.

As he waited, and reinforcement trickled in, he got reports of Slickers doing more or less the same as his men did inside: keeping an eye on the crates.

There weren't any doubts now.

They were after his powder.

After his business.

He blew steam out his nose and looked at his pocket watch, tapping his foot.

Roscoe had better grab at least a hundred men within the time he'd been given.

Half a bell later

His men stormed the central room, where the crates had been stashed. He followed in after them.

With no slickers in sight, he ordered his men to open the closest crates. Crowbars came out, and lids were popped. His men dug into the crates with haste before stopping and freezing in place.

One of them threw a puzzled glance his way.

Willis growled. “What is it?! What's in that crate! Is it my powder?!” He shouted as he walked up to the band of idiots just staring inside.

They parted ways and let him see for himself. His steps slowed down as he came to a stop, close enough to see inside.

It was... bottles of alcohol. He picked one up and inspected it. It was the same kind that the Slickers dealt in. Where his signature ware was Puffjoy, theirs was swill augmented with slop potions for an extra kick and sold under false labels.

He shook himself out of his stupor and barked at his men to keep opening crates. They took a few steps before a mass of Slickers barged into the room opposite them.

Both sides charged up to the middle and formed a line, as men armed with all manner of melee weapons stared each other down, waiting for their leaders to tell them what to do.

From the Slicker's side, Dewitt, their boss, came walking through his ranks, stopping just ahead of his men. He spotted Willis and scowled. “Willis, really? Stealing my merchandise? I thought we had a deal. Got too hungry? Your girls weren't enough?”

Willis grimaced and marched through his men to face Dewitt, a bottle of alcohol still in his hand, bellowing as he went. “What in the pit fiend's arsehole are you spouting, you cretin!? You stole from me! My powder!”

Dewitt squinted, letting his gaze migrate to the bottle in his foe's hand. “From where I am, friend, evidence speaks to the contrary.”

“What?! You- You!” He lifted a hand and shouted. “MEN! AT-”

Several glass spheres were thrown through the windows from all sides. The breaking glass had everyone swivel their head to try and find the source.

The spheres finished their flight and crashed all over the room, releasing a blinding spark of light and dense, hazy smoke that gripped the lungs.

People began coughing and rubbing their eyes, stumbling about.

Before either leader could give further orders, a veritable swarm of city guards, with filtering masks, came running in, encircling the room, wielding cudgels, shields and man-catchers.

From a side door, a tall-standing young officer waltzed in, a voice-casting orb held up to his mouth.

“ATTENTION CRIMINALS! YOU ARE UNDER ARREST FOR THE TRADE OF UNLAWFUL GOODS! SURRENDER, AND YOU WILL BE FAIRLY JUDGED!”

Half the men, coughing and half-blind, gave up, lying on the ground. The brave and foolish attempted to group up and force a way out.

It didn't go very well for them.

In the aftermath, once the nearly two hundred men, including the two gangs' leaders, lieutenants, and other important people, had been taken away, the guards made stock of the crates.

Half of them, on the side that the Greylighters had come in, contained the fraudulent Slicker alcohol. The other half, on the Slicker's side, held Puffjoy.

One of the crates held two men in their underwear and bound in rope with a gag. One was Myron, Willis' missing bodyguard. The other was his equivalent on Dewitt's side.

With them in the crate were directions to more crates.

On a rooftop, some distance away.

Walton, shift boss in the Dockers, looked at the scene unfolding at the old Lindwald factory, eyes wide, mouth clamped shut, wondering if this was just a very elaborate set-up.

The Greylights and Slickers gutted, just like that, in one night.

The gangs weren't dead, far from it, but their heads had been removed, if at least temporarily, which meant they'd be weak and ripe for taking over.

He turned his head toward his two companions: a man and a bunnykin woman. The girl had a wide smile on her face, while the corner of the man's mouth was ticking upward before being forced back down.

She noticed him looking and turned her smile his way. “There you have it, mister. Our part of the deal, with your very appreciated help in moving those crates, is done. Now, for your part. You remember what it is?”

Walton swallowed. She'd asked cheerfully, but her eyes were anything but. “Ah, yes, Miss. Like the boss said: we'll take over, and stick to the guidelines we signed. Fair dealings, no kidnappings, drugs, or swill.”

He rubbed the back of his head. “Pretty much already what we were doing, to be honest.”

She nodded, her ears swaying back and forth. “Yep! That's why we got in touch! You aren't that bad! Just... a little rough around the edges, but that's fine! Everyone can make some mistakes now and then. Right, Sammie?” She turned her head and asked.

He dismissed her question with a hand.

She turned back toward Walton. “Right! So, that's it. You take over their territories, keep the pot from boiling over, and keep the underworld clean and happy! You do that, and you'll never see us again!”

Walton nodded. “Right, miss. That would be good, I think, yeah.”

Sybil's smile widened.

It's not like they would see them again. She and Sammie had to report to the Azurean barracks in the morning, getting shipped out to the training camp.

But this guy didn't need to know that.

She gave him a thumbs-up.

Sammie sighed.