“There’s a lot of storms in the mountains,” Callan explained. “It’s, uh, pretty dangerous.”

“Sounds fun.” Pyre carefully rolled the map up, which involved nudging it along with the blunt end of a bone, then deposited it back into her bag.

She settled further back, using Fred’s dead body as support, and relaxed. “Anyway, I need to heal. I’m just gonna lay here and rest for a bit. You go study the dead demon or whatever.”

Callan seemed more than eager to take her up on the offer and immediately drifted over to Fred’s corpse again. Pyre amused herself by watching the ghost dart about like a kid with a new toy, circling all the way around several times in an effort to study every inch of the ancient titan.

At some point, Callan started floating higher up, clearly hoping to view the corpse from above. Pyre briefly considered warning him about the whole “ripped open stomach” thing, but by then it was already too late. The ghost’s face suddenly became very pale, and he looked like he wanted to barf if only he could. Pyre snorted.

“I did say a bunch of flesh lumps fought to the death in there. What did you expect?”

After that little hiccup and another smaller one when Callan saw the empty eye sockets, though, it was smooth sailing from there. The ghost floated, taking note of everything while also attempting to untangle whatever complex spell had been cast on the corpse, and Pyre laid back and let [Regeneration] do its job. It was actually kind of fascinating to watch her own flesh grow back. It kept the demon occupied.

A few days later, she decided she’d healed enough and was ready to leave.

It wasn’t a full recovery, mind you. A bit of flesh still had to regrow, and she was down one eye, but it was enough for her. Frankly, she was impressed with how quickly [Regeneration] had worked. It probably helped that the sloth bonus had been active basically the whole time.

“So we’re just… leaving?” Callan sounded a little put out.

Pyre raised an eyebrow at the ghost. “You’re the one who said the wards would keep this place hidden. We can always come back later.” She’d been considering using a stone to block the hole in the hill or something, but according to the ghost it wasn’t necessary. Supposedly one of the spells made people instinctively avoid the area, which was how it had remained hidden for so long. Only those who already knew it was there could actively seek it out.

Callan nodded slowly, but he still didn’t look too happy about leaving his best “research material” behind. Pyre just snorted and continued forward, her bag swinging from a bone on her side. Personally, she was glad to be moving again.

“Come on,” she said. “I want to see what’s in those mountains.”
