Jelaqua ran back. Mrsha was racing towards Lyonette with the ball in her mouth. The [Barmaid] waved her hands encouragingly, holding a glove up.
“Throw it, Mrsha!”
The Gnoll cub did. The ball went wide of Lyonette. The young woman raced after it with Mrsha as Jelaqua ran onto first base. She raised her arms in celebration.
“I did it!”
“Keep going!”
“Right! Second base!”
Jelaqua ran as Mrsha and Lyonette grabbed the ball and chased after her. She got all the way to third before they caught up. Then Erin had to explain how the rest of the game worked again. Jelaqua groaned.
“Wait, so I just stand here?”
“I mean, you can steal, but it’s dangerous. You don’t have to stand here. This is just to show everyone how the game is played. Let’s have someone else bat. Moore?”
“I’m afraid I couldn’t use one of those bats, Miss Erin.”
The half-Giant smiled apologetically. Erin grinned up at him.
“That’s okay! I got you a special bat! Here—”
She pointed at the oversized baseball bat which was more of a log. Moore blinked. He picked it up, and Jelaqua whistled.
“That’s a stick! You could crack a few heads with that thing, Moore!”
“I’d prefer not to. But playing—hm. Yes. Thank you, Erin.”
Moore smiled gratefully at Erin. He took up position at bat as Jelaqua grabbed a glove and sat far behind him. Erin returned to her seat next to Ceria. The half-Elf was still sunbathing. Erin smiled at Ceria.
“What do you think?”
The half-Elf looked up. She had another pillow underneath her head, and she’d been reluctantly looking up to see the action. Now she sat up and gave Erin a rueful smile.
“Honestly, Erin? It looks incredibly dull.”
“You think so?”
Erin didn’t seem too offended. She took a seat by Ceria as Moore swung his bat. Slowly. He missed Seborn’s first pitch. Ceria shrugged.
“It’s…well, I don’t want to be rude, but it’s about as fun as chess for me. Pisces likes chess, but I don’t know if he’ll enjoy this game. At least the Halfseekers are having fun.”
“Strike two!”
Jelaqua shouted happily at Moore. The half-Giant frowned at her. Their voices were audible to Ceria and Erin as they sat together.
“Stop yelling at me.”
“It’s part of the game, Moore! Hit the ball already!”
“I can’t see it. It’s hard to swing this bat fast enough, alright?”
“You get one more swing, Moore!”
“That doesn’t seem fair. You got to practice with Seborn.”
“Tough luck! There’s no mercy in baseball!”
“Stop arguing, both of you. We’ll give Moore more swings.”
“Aw, Seborn!”
Erin smiled as she watched the Halfseekers play. Mrsha was lying in the grass, waiting for another ball as Lyonette yawned at first base. Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr had also been recruited to stand at second and third base and in the outfield. They looked around, clearly waiting for something to happen. Bird and Octavia watched from the sidelines.
“It is sort of boring, isn’t it?”
“You think so too?”
“Eh. I never liked baseball too much when I was back home. My dad used to take me to a few games, but he wasn’t the hugest fan either. He would watch the big games and that’s about it.”
“I see. So why are we playing it?”
Erin smiled as she stretched out her legs in the grass. She propped herself up with her arms and watched as Moore swung again.
“It’s boring. And exciting when someone hits the ball. Mostly, you sit and watch. In baseball games, the audience sits for hours. You can talk to one another, eat…it’s not filled with action. I thought it was perfect for today. For everyone. And for Mrsha.”
She pointed at Mrsha. The Gnoll was rolling about on her back as Moore missed again. Jelaqua was heckling him. Ceria glanced at Mrsha.
“You were right about us needing some sunlight. I’d forgotten we could just…go to Celum. It’s amazing.”
“All thanks to your door. Without it, I couldn’t have done so many things. It really was the best thing you brought out of Albez. Thank you for giving it to me, Ceria.”
The half-Elf waved that away.
“You helped us. You gave us coin, brought us together—and you saved me. Twice. With the door we gave you.”
Erin smiled and looked away.
“Yeah. But I didn’t do too much.”
“You came up with the plan. I heard from Pisces and Yvlon what was happening while I was below. Everyone was fighting the dungeon, but you were the one who got the Goblins to find the Raskghar. And you made the plan. You even got people like Zevara and Ilvriss on board. You saved me, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“It was everyone. I just gave them a chance. I…I’m not proud of what I did.”
Ceria frowned and sat up a bit more.
“Not proud? Why wouldn’t you be? Erin, you beat the Raskghar! There were thousands of them, and they were killing—”
“I know. I know. It’s just…I guess I’m really good at killing people after all.”
Erin’s voice was quiet. She was still looking away from Ceria. The half-Elf paused. Then Erin looked back at her friend. The young woman sat on the grass, smiling. But there were tears in her eyes. They ran down Erin’s cheeks as she watched Mrsha run after a foul ball.
“I knew I could, Ceria. I knew that I could figure out a way to kill the Raskghar. With fire. With water. With monsters or traps. And I did. I’d do it again. But I don’t like it.”
“It had to be done. The Raskghar were evil. They were sacrificing Gnolls. If you hadn’t, Mrsha and I would be dead.”
There was no pity in Ceria’s heart or her voice. Erin nodded. She wiped at her eyes.
“That’s true. It’s all true. But I still did it. I went into their home and killed them. I made the plan. I knew what would happen.”
Ceria stared at Erin. She couldn’t feel whatever it was Erin felt. Ceria had been there. She had looked into Nokha’s eyes as the Raskghar devoured the Gnolls’ hearts. If the Raskghar had been in front of her again, Ceria would have killed them without a second thought.
“They were monsters.”
“They were. But they were people. I walked into their camp before we destroyed the entrance. They were monsters. But they had a home. They were evil, but I still helped kill them.”
“Not all of them. Some got away.”
Ceria didn’t know if she was trying to cheer Erin up. If she was, it wasn’t working. Erin shrugged. She was smiling and crying a bit as Moore swung again and missed.
“It doesn’t matter, Ceria. I know it had to be done. And if I had to, I’d do it again. A thousand times. I just feel bad about it. It’s…something I feel. I just feel bad. For the people who died. The Antinium Soldiers, the Watch…Ilvriss’ people. They died because I asked them to. And the Raskghar. We killed an entire group of people. They were bad people, but still people.”
“I guess so.”
Ceria sat back, troubled. She stared at her skeletal hand. A bug had decided to crawl between her fingers, and she’d smashed it accidentally. There was no feeling in her bone hand, after all. Absentmindedly, Ceria scrubbed her hand on the grass.
“I’m sorry. I know you probably don’t feel bad at all. Not after what happened. With Calruz.”
“Yeah. I don’t. I just wish I could have talked him into releasing the Gnolls. I wish I could have stopped him. But I didn’t. That was my fault.”
The half-Elf shook her head. Erin reached out and grabbed her flesh hand.
“It wasn’t. You did all you could.”
“I didn’t save him. He’s going to be executed. Drake law. I should have killed him when I had the chance. But I couldn’t. He’s…insane, Erin. He wasn’t in his right mind. There were bits and pieces of him, but it was all wrong. That’s the hard part. He cared about Gerial and the others. If he hadn’t, if he’d just been mad, it would have been easy to—but he cared and then—I couldn’t stop it.”
Ceria’s voice cracked. She stared at Moore as the half-Giant began arguing with Jelaqua. Seborn walked over to confer. Erin’s hand squeezed Ceria’s.
“I heard a bit of what happened. I…”
She didn’t finish her sentence. Ceria stared ahead. The sun felt less bright as she whispered.
“It was bad down there, Erin. I told the others about it. But not all of it. I don’t think I can. I wish—I can still hear them screaming. I know there were too many Raskghar. I know. But I was the only adventurer down there. They died, and I couldn’t stop them.”
Erin stared at Ceria’s face. The half-Elf shook her head, her hands trembling.
“Do you want to talk about it? I can listen.”
“No. I—maybe later. But not right now. I just want to sit.”
“Okay.”
Ceria stared past Erin. After a while, Erin took her hand away. The half-Elf wished she hadn’t. She felt tense. Guilty. Alone, despite Erin sitting next to her. Her failures pierced her over and over until—
Crack.
The half-Elf looked up. Jelaqua had hit the ball. She pointed.
“There! Like that, see?”
Moore stared as Ksmvr and Yvlon looked up. The Antinium and woman watched the ball land and then remembered they had to run and pick it up. He turned and glared at Jelaqua.
“Like what? You’re just hitting the ball, Jelaqua. Let me keep trying.”
“Aw, come on!”
The half-Giant took a position at home base again. Ceria watched Seborn throw a ball and Moore miss. Suddenly, she was back in the present. She looked around. Erin was watching her. Ceria half-rose. Then she inhaled and smelled the earth. The grass. She looked up and saw the sun.
Her heart began to beat slowly again. Ceria looked at her hands and then at Erin. The young woman smiled. Her eyes were mostly dry, but there was still moisture in them.
“It’s a beautiful day.”
Ceria looked up again. The sky was blue. High, high above, a few clouds slowly moved across the vast sky. The half-Elf closed her eyes and inhaled the scent of growing life. The sun shone down as Moore finally hit a ball and Mrsha and Pisces both raced after it. Ceria remembered the dungeon, the scent of blood. Calruz’s eyes full of madness. The Raskghar devouring the heart over the lifeless Gnoll. She blinked and found her eyes were watering as well.
“It really is, isn’t it?”
The two sat together for a while. Just sat. The horrors of the past melted away from Ceria as she watched Seborn take a place at bat. He swung and connected with the first ball, ran around the bases until Ksmvr tagged him out, and then waited at first base as Lyonette took a turn swinging the bat. The game was boring. Some might have even called it dull. But in this moment, it was the game Ceria needed. So she stood up.
“Alright. I’ll give it a shot.”
Erin looked up.
“You sure?”
Ceria smiled.
“Why not? I could use a bit of exercise. And I can always lie down afterwards. Are you going to play too?”
“Sure!”
Erin stood up. She smiled at Ceria and then cupped her hands.
“Hey guys! Want to play a real game? With teams?”
The others looked up. They looked at each other and shrugged. Jelaqua shouted back.
“Sure! Let’s play a bit. Then we can eat!”
The others nodded. They trooped over to home base as Erin walked forwards with Ceria. The game wasn’t amazing. It wasn’t fantastic or exciting. It was sort of fun. But that was what they needed. A game of baseball in the sun.
 
——
 
The first game was simple. It was between the Horns of Hammerad and the Halfseekers, with Bird, Lyonette, and Mrsha acting as extras for the outfield team. Octavia watched from the sidelines with a bowl of popcorn as Erin umpired the game.
“Alright! Game one! We’ll play till one side scores five points, okay? Jelaqua, you’re up for bat first! Pisces, throw the ball!”
“Don’t let her hit the ball, Pisces! That’s an order!”
Ceria shouted at Pisces from first base. The [Necromancer] sniffed and awkwardly raised the ball.
“Very well. Allow me to throw a truly unhittable pitch. Like so—”
He threw the ball as fast and hard as he could without warning. It was a good pitch. But Jelaqua was quicker. The Selphid grinned and swung her bat.
“Hah!”
The bat cracked as it connected full-force with the ball. Pisces’ eyes widened, and he ducked as the ball flashed by his head. Mrsha and Ksmvr raced after the ball as Jelaqua raised her bat and cheered. Erin shouted urgently.
“Don’t cheer yet, Jelaqua! Drop the bat! Okay, now run for first base! Ksmvr, grab the ball and throw it to Ceria!”
“Captain Ceria!”
Ksmvr threw the ball. Ceria raised her glove, swore as she saw Jelaqua charging towards the pillow, and tried to grab the ball. She caught it, but only after Jelaqua had stepped on the pillow. Erin shouted.
“Safe! She’s safe, Ceria! You can’t tag her out!”
The half-Elf looked up. Jelaqua had both claws raised to fend Ceria off. Both looked slightly disappointed. Jelaqua coughed. Ceria scratched her head.
“That was it? She touched the pillow and that’s it?”
“Yup. She’s safe. Until the next ball is hit, she can stay there. Or steal a base.”
“Aha! I knew this game was fun!”
Jelaqua charged towards second base. Ceria swore and ran after her. Erin shouted at both of them to come back.
“Wait, wait! No stealing in the first game! And you can’t just run all the way home! I think.”
“Why not?”
“Well—you’d be caught. If we had a full team. Which we don’t, so—no stealing.”
“Drat. So what do I do?”
Erin pointed back towards home base where Seborn had the bat and was waiting patiently. Moore was catcher and sitting cross-legged rather than crouching since he was large enough to cover the entire base anyways.
“You just stand there. Seborn will swing, and if he hits, you run for second or third or even home, Jelaqua.”
The Selphid sighed. She scratched a loose scale on her cheek.
“So this is a waiting game?”
“Um. Yeah! But it’s not too long. Hold on. Seborn, let me get out of the way! Pisces, throw another ball when I say so! Try to not let Seborn hit it this time!”
Jelaqua and Ceria awkwardly stood together at first base while Erin had Seborn step up and take a few swings. The Selphid scratched the spines on the back of her head. Ceria coughed. Jelaqua scratched the spines on the back of her Drake body. After a moment, she spoke out of the corner of her mouth.
“So. Do you think they’ll let me try out a Raskghar body?”
The half-Elf blinked. Jelaqua grinned sheepishly.
“I mean, I think we brought a few back. Trophies and to show other adventurers what they look like, you know? I don’t need a new one, but I’d like to be the first Selphid to try one out, you know? Bragging rights. And have you seen their muscles?”
“I, uh, didn’t get too good a look at them. But that’s actually a good idea. Raskghar are really strong.”
“I know, right? And if I could get Erin to store a few bodies in her basement, you know, as insurance—is this getting creepy?”
