The Selphid waved back. She was laughing so hard she could barely stand. It was the reactions of the Humans that amused her. One of Celum’s [Guardsmen] followed the Players of Celum, practically hiding behind Jasi.
“Game? What’s all this? Mister Wesle, these Goblins—”
“Security for Miss Erin’s inn. Don’t mind them, Fabial. The rest of you, take heed! These are Miss Erin’s employees. There’s to be no fighting here! Besides, there’s a team of Gold-rank adventurers.”
“Exactly!”
Jelaqua walked over, still chuckling. She grinned at Fabial, who looked alarmed as Moore approached.
“We’ve got this. These Goblins are under control. Hey, Headscratcher.”
She nodded at Badarrow, who ignored her. The Hobs stared around as Erin tried to explain why the Goblins were here to the Humans. Emme began to pester Jelaqua for details. Grev stared about and made eye contact with Mrsha. In the end, Erin had to wave her hands and shout.
“Attention! Everyone! Shut up!”
They all quieted. The Players of Celum, adventurers, and Goblins all stared at Erin. She looked around and smiled.
“Let’s leave the plays and killing each other for later, huh? Today’s not a work day. We’re just going to relax here. Goblins, Humans, Selphids—”
“Selphid. Unless anyone wants to change my mind?”
“We can do everything later. But for now—does anyone want to play a game of baseball?”
The crowd paused. They looked at Erin and at each other. Then Numbtongue raised a hand.
“What’s baseball?”
The Celum [Guardsmen] stared at the Hob in horror.
“It can talk?”
Erin rolled her eyes.
 
——
 
“Baseball is a sport. A game where two teams compete. One team is on the attack, the other one defends. Those’re the basics. Now, we never hurt anyone else. That’s against the rules. We’re competing to get more points. The way you do that is to hit a ball…”
Erin lectured the crowd of people in front of her. Cave Goblins, Hobs, and Humans stared at her. The Players of Celum and Goblins had joined the others in the meadow. The Watch from Celum had to go back to the city and try to explain…something. Erin had Seborn and Jelaqua demonstrate as she spoke.
“—And then, if Jelaqua hits it far enough, it’s a home run. Everyone runs around the bases and scores! It’s great! What do you think?”
The Players and Goblins stared at each other. They shrugged. Emme smiled.
“It looks as stupid as a play did to me the first time I saw one. So we grab these bats and start playing? Why not?”
“Awesome! Let’s play a game! We can make teams. Why don’t the Goblins play a game against the Players of Celum first? The rest of us can correct things, then we can divide and play with everyone!”
Obediently, the groups divided up. Erin grinned at Jelaqua as the Selphid began showing the Humans how to use the bat.
“I still think this is boring as watching tar dry.”
Octavia remarked from her seat in the grass. She’d finished three bowls of popcorn and was eating a fourth. Erin eyed her severely.
“You can go back to Celum. Or pay for that popcorn if you’re bored.”
“Bored? Hey, who’s bored? I love baseball! Go team! Hit those balls!”
Erin rolled her eyes. The Players of Celum seemed excited by the game. As they lined up, Jasi sidled over to Erin.
“It was a good thing Grev heard you were here. We’ve been cooped up this last week, what with your inn being too dangerous.”
“Haven’t you been performing?”
“Ah, well…we didn’t think it’d be right. Not with all the other inns smearing your name. You heard about that, right? We’ve been performing in the squares, but it’s not the same. Everyone’s been antsy, waiting for you to finish. This game is just what we need.”
“What everyone needs. Hey, it looks like the Goblins like the game too. See?”
Jasi stared as Erin pointed. Badarrow was throwing a ball at Numbtongue, who swung and connected solidly with it. The Cave Goblins ducked as the ball flew over their heads and then ran after it as Numbtongue shouted. They seemed nervous, rather than excited to play. But Erin hoped they’d warm up to the game. Jasi just shook her head.
“More Goblins. And you beat those horrible beasts in the dungeon with their help? You have to tell us the entire story, Erin.”
“Alright, but later. I just want to have fun today. Hey, Wesle looks great!”
The [Actor] was at bat. And the first ball that Jelaqua threw he hit. Not just hit—the impact sent the ball flying into the air. Mrsha raced after it. Erin whistled.
“That’s good form! Did he copy Jelaqua or something?”
Wesle was swinging the bat as if he’d played the game before. Jasi shook her head. She leaned forwards and whispered.
“He got a Skill! From his class! It’s called [Method Acting]. It means he actually becomes the person he’s playing! A little bit.”
“What? That’s incredible!”
The Drake smiled.
“It is. But it’s not that powerful. I think we checked it, and he’s only as good as someone with, say, ten levels. So he can copy a [Butcher] and do a decent job even without training, but it still takes a lot of work to get any better. If he really copies someone for a while he can get even better.”
“Wow. Hey, that’s a real advantage! Do you have a Skill like that?”
“Not that Skill. But I do have a few new ones. I’ll tell you about it later. I’m going to play this game. You’d better watch out for Emme, though. She’s stronger than anyone else in the troupe!”
Sure enough, when it was Emme’s turn to practice, she hit the ball farther than Wesle did, although it took her four tries to connect. Erin watched the Players bat and catch and field and whistled.
“They’re good! I mean, I guess it’s their acting thing. But—hey, these guys could play a game against my dad’s team! Back home, he had a team in his neighborhood. They were about this good.”
“And the Goblins?”
Erin stared at the Goblins. They’d finished their practice, but it was a bit…lopsided. Badarrow had taken up pitching, and he could throw a fastball. And all the Hobs had hit the ball far. When they hit it. They seemed to strike out surprisingly often given how coordinated Erin knew them to be. Still, when they hit it, the ball went far. Those were the Hobs, though.
The Cave Goblins were barely larger than children, and so when they hit the ball, it barely went anywhere. But they seemed quite coordinated, and as they lined up in the outfield, they seemed cheerful. The Goblins kept staring at the grass and flowers as if they’d never seen them before. Which they hadn’t.
“I think they’ll be okay. We can always change up the teams. Besides, if the Players win a game or two, maybe some of them won’t be so nervous. Hey guys! Are you ready to play ball or what?”
“Ready!”
The Humans cheered as they got up to bat. The Goblins looked to Erin, and she waved her arms as she came over.
“I’ll umpire! You all start playing! Remember, hit the ball and run for the bases! You can steal—oh, just go for it! Who’s up first?”
“Me.”
Wesle strode up to bat. He choked up on the grip of the wooden baseball bat and took a stance that was surprisingly like the one Erin had copied from watching professional baseball players on television. The Players cheered and clapped as the Goblins looked at Badarrow.
The Hob looked at Erin. She smiled at him. Badarrow fingered the baseball and gazed at Wesle. Shorthilt was catching. The Hob glanced up as the wind blew and then slowly wound up. His arm came up, and he threw. The ball flew towards Shorthilt’s mitt. Wesle grinned, swung—
And the ball dropped. Wesle’s bat passed straight over it. The ball struck the ‘plate’ that was a pillow, and Shorthilt snatched it up. He tossed the ball back at Badarrow. Wesle gaped. So did Erin. Everyone stared at her until she remembered and raised her arms.
“Uh, strike!”
“What was that throw?”
Jelaqua stared at Badarrow. The Hob was smirking as Wesle gaped at him in astonishment. Erin’s mind raced.
“That was—that was a splitter! Or a forkball? It’s a legal throw, but—how’d you figure that out, Badarrow?”
The Hob just grinned at Erin. He threw the ball up again and pointed at Wesle. The [Actor] was clearly disoriented, but he gritted his teeth.
“I get two more tries, right Erin?”
“That’s right. Uh—keep playing!”
The Hob wound up and threw another pitch. Wesle waited. This time, he swung as the ball dropped and clipped it. The ball flew up behind him.
“Foul ball! That’s a strike!”
There was a groan from the Players of Celum. They watched as Badarrow caught another ball and threw it. This time, Wesle swung low and clipped the ball again, but it was another foul ball.
“Foul ball!”
Wesle hurled the bat to the ground in frustration. Badarrow grinned. Erin had to call Wesle back.
“You get another swing if it’s a foul ball! Don’t give up!”
“What is with that Hob? How’s he throwing like that?”
Wesle pointed at Badarrow. The Hob was smirking and throwing more splitters at Shorthilt.
“Well, he is an [Archer]. I guess it comes naturally? Or…”
Erin’s eyes narrowed. She remembered the Hobs striking out against Badarrow.
“I think he was practicing that pitch! I told you there are multiple ways to throw the ball. Fastballs, curves, uh, sliders…you just need practice. And unfortunately, Badarrow’s pretty good. Hey, Badarrow! Don’t throw splitters for game one! It’s not fair!”
Badarrow looked up. He grimaced at Erin, but nodded reluctantly. The next ball he threw was a curve. This time, Wesle connected with it though. The man was so surprised that he barely got to first base before the Cave Goblins got the ball. The players cheered, and Jasi went up to bat.
“Fastballs! It’s just game one!”
The Hob pitcher was clearly put upon, but he obliged Erin by tossing a fastball…nice and slow. Jasi was so surprised she missed the first ball. Erin slapped her forehead, but Badarrow’s antics had amused the crowd. And more importantly, the Players of Celum were now competing to get a hit.
Jasi managed to bunt to first, but she got tagged out. Wesle ran to second and then all the way to third as Emme smashed a ball straight past Badarrow. The next actor struck out, and it was Kilkran, the former [Blacksmith], who took up the bat next.
Badarrow threw a deceptively easy pitch. Kilkran smashed the ball out to left field. Wesle charged home and scored. The Players cheered as Emme ran for second. The Cave Goblins had a ball, but they fumbled getting it to Numbtongue. Emme ran to third. And then Numbtongue threw.
The ball snapped into Rabbiteater’s glove as Emme was two-thirds of the way to his base. She turned to run, but the Hob sprinted at her. He tagged her out instantly.
“Alright! That’s three outs! Switch sides!”
The Players groaned and the ones who hadn’t had a chance to bat moaned as they put them down. But they seemed pleased. Quite a few slapped Wesle’s back, and they took to the field with good nature. But Erin wasn’t fooled. Her eyes were on the Goblins as they meekly took up position at bat. She saw them glancing at each other and making covert signs she could half-understand.
“Hey Jelaqua. What do you think of the game?”
The Selphid was sitting with the adventurers, taking turns combing Mrsha’s fur. She looked up from the pampered Gnoll. Her mouth was full of popcorn. Dipped in fish sauce. Apparently it was better that way, according to her and Seborn at least. She shrugged.
“Looks fun. The Players can hit the ball. Unlike Moore.”
“Are you trying to hurt my feelings, Jelaqua?”
“I’m just saying…we should get that Wesle guy on our team. When can we play?”
“After five points. But the Goblins—well, just watch them, would you?”
“For what?”
“Just watch.”
The adventurers sat up a bit as Erin went back to the game. She looked hard at Headscratcher. The Hob smiled at her. Innocently. Erin gazed at Rabbiteater, Shorthilt, Badarrow, and Numbtongue. She narrowed her eyes. They seemed a bit too eager. And she had a funny thought.
“You guys take it easy, okay?”
The Hobs nodded obediently. Headscratcher squared up to bat as Wesle took the pitcher’s mound, which was, in fact, more grass. The [Actor] was clearly keen to get his own back, and he threw a ball into the mitt that Emme held twice. Both times it dropped. He met Headscratcher’s eyes as Erin shouted.
“Play ball!”
The first pitch came in hard and fast and dropped. Headscratcher swung and missed. Wide. The Players laughed as the Hob stared at the ball in Emme’s mitt. Wesle grinned and threw a second pitch. This one was a fastball and went right over Headscratcher’s bat. The Humans cheered. Erin just watched Emme throw the ball back. She saw Headscratcher glance at his fellow Hobs. They gave him a tiny nod. The Hob turned back as Wesle wound up for a throw.
The third pitch was a curve. Headscratcher watched it come. He drew back his bat, took a breath, and roared as he swung. The sound shattered the air. Headscratcher’s red eyes blazed—and he connected.
It sounded like a car backfiring. Erin flinched as she saw the ball disappear. Wesle ducked, and the Players of Celum all flinched as well. The ball flew up and up and—Erin’s jaw dropped. She saw the ball fly past Kilkran in the outfield and land. The big man stared at the ball, a good eighty paces behind him, as Headscratcher took off. The Hob charged around the bases as Kilkran belatedly ran after the ball. The Goblins cheered wildly, and Headscratcher slowed as he realized there was no way the Humans would get the ball back to him. He sauntered back to home base to thunderous cheers.
“Okay. That was a home run.”
Erin stared at the Goblins. So did everyone else. The Redfang Warriors were grinning as they slapped Headscratcher on the back. And then Numbtongue took up the bat.
“Move back a bit!”
Wesle’s voice trembled a bit as he ordered the Players back. They obediently backed up. When he threw the ball, Numbtongue connected on the first hit. He didn’t hit it nearly as far as Headscratcher, but the Hob charged down first base so fast he actually managed to get to second before the bewildered actors managed to get the ball. And then Badarrow was up. He took one look at the first ball that came his way and let it pass.
“Ball!”
The second one the Hob hit solidly. He got to first, and Numbtongue got onto third. The Players blinked as a Cave Goblin came up next instead of Shorthilt or Rabbiteater. The little Goblin had trouble lifting the bat. But when Wesle threw the ball—
“Bunt!”
