The [Guardsmen] on duty looked up. They walked up the stairs. And as is the nature of Humans, some of the people on the streets crowded up onto the walls to see. Soon, they were watching the crowd in the distance. Then the people of Celum were coming out the gates while the [Guardsmen] had to stay on duty. Not because they knew what was going on, but because they thought something interesting was happening and they wanted in. That was people for you.
 
——
 
“Baseball.”
Erin stood in front of a crowd. She had a bat in her hands, and she was nervous. Not because she didn’t know what to say—she’d done this explanation multiple times already. No, it was, uh, the size of the crowd that intimidated her.
Gnolls from Liscor. Ishkr had brought a bunch of his friends, and Krshia and Elirr had come with their own group. They were all keen for sun as well as a chance to be outdoors after hiding in the city for so long.
Drakes. Not only adventurers but interested civilians, Relc, Olesm, Selys, and Drassi. No Embria, Zevara, or Ilvriss—they were busy doing official things in the city. That was sort of a relief, actually, and there were plenty of Drakes besides.
Bevussa, Dawil, Falene. The adventurers who’d fought in the dungeon. Griffon Hunt, Gemhammer, the Pride of Kelia, the Silver Swords…
And Pawn and his Soldiers. And Klbkch. Apparently, they hadn’t received orders to stop guarding Erin’s inn, and Klbkch had come with Relc.
And the Humans from Celum. Erin looked at the crowd. She didn’t get nervous in front of crowds. But this? This was a lot of people. She cleared her throat and went on.
“Baseball. Right. Well, this is a game. Some call it the greatest game. I don’t. I like chess. But baseball is a sport. It’s a game that takes nine people. We’ve got a small demonstration ready, so I’ll run you all through it. You see, it starts with this. This is called a bat. You don’t hit people with it…”
Not everyone was here to play baseball. In fact, Erin bet that most of the people from Liscor were just here to experience the sun. She could understand. After so long in rainy Liscor, seeing the sun and being able to walk around in the grass was almost addictive. A good deal of her crowd elected not to play after hearing her explanation. But a surprising number did want to try.
“Hey, this looks like fun! I can hit things and not get in trouble for it! Sign me up!”
Relc was first to grab a bat and stomp onto home plate. Erin pointed randomly and assigned three Gnolls and five Drakes to the field.
“Just hit the ball, Relc.”
“I’m gonna do more than that. This Goblin guy? He’s not going to get a single ball past me.”
The Drake locked eyes with Badarrow, who was still occupying the pitcher’s mound. The Hob sneered. Relc was so busy giving him the stink-eye that he didn’t even see the first splitter. It dropped underneath his bat. Relc roared in outrage.
“Hey! What was that! That was cheating! Foul ball or whatever!”
“Nope! Sorry, it was within the zone! Try again!”
Relc growled as he swung his bat back and forth. This time, Badarrow threw a curve.
“Strike two!”
“Damn it!”
“Hit the ball, Relc!”
One of the Drakes heckled Relc from the grass where Erin had put out blankets and food. Relc lifted a finger, and Erin saw Lyonette cover Mrsha’s eyes. Grev just grinned and raised the same finger. The Drake swung the bat wildly and then hunkered down. He watched the ball fly at him, dip, and then hit it with a roar.
“Take that!”
It was Erin who ducked when the bat hit the ball. She’d forgotten how scary it was to watch baseball up close! Badarrow turned and cursed as the ball went flying deep behind him. Erin stood up sheepishly as Relc crowed.
“Hah! See that?”
“Homerun! That’s definitely a—”
Erin shouted to the Gnolls and Drakes running after the ball. There was no way they’d get it. The ball flew as far as when Headscratcher had hit it. It was high, but far. She saw Ishkr running ahead. The Gnoll was moving fast! But he still wouldn’t make it. The ball had to be going at least four hundred feet—
“Move Ishkr! Run!”
Krshia stood up and shouted at Ishkr. Erin’s jaw dropped. The Gnoll had abandoned his two legs! He bounded along on all fours as the ball fell to earth. The Gnoll dove. Erin saw him roll. She looked for the ball and then saw Ishkr on his feet, holding it aloft.
“He caught it! He actually caught it!”
Erin jumped up and down excitedly. She’d never seen anything like it! Ishkr ran wildly back to home base as Relc stepped on the pillow, crowing.
“Hah! Best hit ever! Take that you stupid Goblins!”
“Relc, you’re out!”
“What? No I’m not! Did you see how far it went?”
“But Ishkr got the ball!”
“He did? I always hated that guy! Damn, damn, damn—”
Relc stomped off. Erin saw Ishkr return, panting. She looked around. Now everyone was interested. Baseball was a slow sport, but seeing Relc hit a homer on his first try and then Ishkr run hundreds of feet to catch it—that was impressive.
“Hey, can we play a second game over here?”
One of the adventurers called out to Erin. She looked around. They were trying to set up a second game on the side. They did have enough space for it. Plenty of space in fact. And they had balls, enough bats…maybe not enough gloves, but there were always normal gloves. And hands.
“Sure! Why don’t we—okay! Let’s make some teams! We’re going to need another umpire!”
“I volunt—”
Olesm ‘tripped’ as Drassi rushed forwards. The Drake waved her hands about as she ran up to Erin.
“Oh, me, me! Please let me do it, Erin!”
“Do you know how the game works?”
“Totally! And I love to talk!”
“In that case, why don’t you be a commentator? And Olesm can be an umpire. Now, we need teams—”
Olesm got up and gave Drassi a dirty look. He pointed, and Erin turned her head. A team of Gnolls was facing down the Goblins in one section. The Silver Swords had teamed up with Gemhammer against Griffon Hunt and The Wings of Pallass on another pitch. And on a third, the Antinium were lined up silently as the Players of Celum reconsidered their life choices. Erin hesitated. Then she grinned.
 
——
 
“It’s a wonderful day to be alive, isn’t it, Olesm?”
“It would be if someone didn’t keep tripping me, Drassi.”
“I said sorry! But just look at this weather! You can’t get this in Liscor! And the grass! Isn’t it great?”
“I thought we were supposed to be talking about the game, Drassi.”
“This is commentary, commentary, Olesm! Alright, for our first game we have the Gnolls versus the Goblins. And—wow, those Hobs are hitting the ball hard!”
“But the Gnolls are catching the ball. Almost every time.”
“That’s true! Would you look at Krshia go! I didn’t know she was that fast, especially for an old—I mean, a Gnoll in her prime! Uh oh. I think she heard me.”
“Gnoll ears are quite sharp. But if I might add a point Drassi—”
“Go ahead, Olesm.”
“—Thank you. The Goblins are quite good. But I would call their team fairly unbalanced compared to the Gnoll team. The Hobs are extraordinarily strong, as befits their Silver-rank designation as threats at the very least—”
“Do you have a point here, Olesm? Just say the Hobs are good at hitting things.”
“—but the Cave Goblins are physically much weaker, leading to a weaker offense. And the Gnolls are experts at fielding the ball, as I believe the term goes, due to their long practice of similar mechanics.”
“…So you’re saying the Gnolls play catch a lot so they can catch the ball and the Cave Goblins don’t hit hard.”
“Well, that’s a basic summary—”
“What I’m impressed with is the Goblins’ teamwork. I mean, the Gnolls play together really well. You can tell they’re giving each other signals by the way their ears twitch. But the Goblins? They don’t even talk to each other! They just signal somehow and bam! Cave Goblin steals a base! It’s like magic!”
“It’s not, in fact. The Goblin system of communication has long been both verbal and nonverbal. I spoke with Pisces at length about why they might have evolved this unique form of—”
“Fly ball to right field. Ishkr is going for first base. It looks like Shorthilt’s fumbled the catch, but he’ll stop Ishkr from going to second. Will he—no, he’s staying put. Krshia Silverfang at bat.”
“—as I was saying, Pisces was referring to—”
“Maybe save it for later? I want to talk about Krshia. Now, look at her swing. She’s got good form—not as good as that handsome [Actor]. What’s his name? Wesle. But I think Krshia’s got more muscle than him and she can probably hit the ball. Gnolls love to play catch. Looks like Badarrow’s getting ready for a pitch. Too bad curveballs and sliders don’t work on Gnolls. Hey, don’t step on my foot, Olesm! I’m trying to commentate here!”
“But I had a point!”
“It was long winded! Go on, shoo! Go commentate somewhere else! Can I get another announcer with me? Selys, get up here! No? Okay then, I’ll do it myself! Get lost, Olesm!”
Erin heard the sound of fighting from behind her as Olesm and Drassi fought for the magically-enhanced speaking crystal. The Goblins and Gnolls were natural baseball players it turned out. One team because they could run faster than any Human and loved to catch, and the other because they were naturals at teamwork. On the other hand, the pitch she was umpiring…
“Homerun! Again!”
Ylawes’ bat connected with the ball that Halrac had thrown. The [Scout] wore a displeased expression as the [Knight] rounded the bases. Both his team and Gemhammer had hit every ball that Halrac had thrown, and the outfield wasn’t good enough to keep up. After he had rounded the bases, Erin called the teams in.
It was Gemhammer and the Silver Swords at bat and Griffon Hunt and the Wings of Pallass on defense. Halrac had been the pitcher. Erin looked around at the unhappy faces on one side and the smiling ones on the other.
“Okay, I think we have a problem here.”
“Yeah, the problem’s that Halrac can’t pitch!”
“Shut it, Revi.”
The Stitch-Girl glared at Halrac. He looked sourly at Erin.
“Well?”
“Um…she’s sort of right. Halrac, what’s wrong? You’re pitching fast, but the balls keep getting hit. Can’t you make them curve or something like Badarrow?”
The [Veteran Scout] looked unhappy at being compared to Badarrow.
“I don’t make my arrows curve. I hit the target.”
“Which is why they keep hitting the ball! All your balls go straight!”
“You want to pitch? Be my guest! I don’t want to play this game.”
Halrac snapped at Revi. She threw up her hands. Bevussa, who’d been watching all this with mild amusement, raised her talons.
“Hey Erin, we have a problem too.”
“What’s that, Bevussa?”
“We have to run for the ball. But why can’t we fly? We’re the Wings of Pallass, not the feet.”
Erin tilted her head.
“Yeah, but wouldn’t that be unfair? I mean, if you can fly…”
“We still need to get the ball. That’s not always easy. And we hate running. Come on, are there rules against it where you come from?”
“Well…we don’t have many flying people where we come from. It’s, uh, mainly Humans.”
The Oldblood Drakes in Bevussa’s team rolled their eyes.
“Figures. Humans.”
“Hey! It’s not in the rules because it doesn’t happen where I come from! Fine! Bevussa, your team can fly. Halrac, Revi—”
“I’ll pitch.”
The other adventurers looked around as Typhenous raised his hand. The old [Mage] grinned and stroked his white beard as Erin stared at him.
“You? But, uh—”
“I’m quite hale. And I think I can resolve this. Why not let me try?”
“Suits me.”
Halrac tossed the glove at Typhenous. Erin eyed the old man apprehensively. He looked as if he’d break an arm throwing the ball too hard. The other team certainly thought so. Earlia chuckled as she took up the bat, swinging it hard enough to cut the air. After all, her team was a bunch of former [Miners] and she swung a warhammer in battle. She shouted at Typhenous, who was inspecting the hide-wrapped ball.
“Get ready to duck, old man!”
He looked up and smiled at her. Erin prayed Typhenous wouldn’t get hit. She waved as Bevussa and her team took to the air.
“Okay, play ball!”
Typhenous lifted the baseball. He didn’t hold it like a pitcher, and Erin saw that he had no idea how to grip it properly. She was just about to shout at him when the ball levitated up in his palm. Erin paused. She saw Earlia’s eyes widen. Typhenous made the ball spin in the air and levitate around his palm. Then he looked at Earlia and grinned.
“Oh shit.”
The ball drifted up, and Typhenous pointed a finger. He spoke.
“[Wind Blast].”
The air around him exploded. Erin felt the wind slam into her as the ball shot from Typhenous’ finger and struck Revi’s glove. The Stitch-Girl hurtled backwards with a shout. Earlia stared blankly at the space in front of her.
“Foul! That’s cheating!”
Erin waved her arms as Revi got up, cursing. Typhenous looked puzzled as Erin ran up to him. He leaned on his staff.
“Why would it be cheating, Miss Solstice? If a team can fly or use natural abilities and other players can use Skills, why can I not use a spell, at least to move the ball around?”
“Well—because—I mean, Skills aren’t—no one can hit that!”
“Hey! I can hit that! Give me a few swings and I’ll nail that thing!”
Earlia shouted as she swung the bat. Erin looked at her and then at Revi. The Stitch-Girl was massaging her chest and cursing Typhenous loudly. Umpire Erin threw up her hands and gave up.
“Fine! But if your catcher can’t catch the ball, then the player can still run! That’s the new rule, got it?”
“Very well.”
Typhenous nodded politely to Erin. She turned.
“I don’t think Revi can handle that ball. Maybe Halrac or Bevussa—”
“I’ve got this. Give me five minutes with some thread and cotton. Hey, [Alchemist]! Give me a hand here!”
Revi turned. Erin watched as she and Octavia went together to confer and then disappeared into Erin’s inn. In that time, Typhenous practiced shooting balls through the air. They didn’t curve or drop, but they moved so fast that Erin was sure he’d broken some kind of world record for pitching. She thought that the other adventurers would complain, but they seemed to enjoy the challenge.
When Revi came back, Erin took one look at her and didn’t see anything different. Until she saw Revi’s arms. The [Summoner]’s thin, brown arms had suddenly gone on a weight-training course with protein supplements in the course of five minutes. Revi’s arms were muscular. And bigger. The Stitch-Girl smirked as she took up the catcher’s mitt. She caught Earlia’s eye.
