“What, you’ve never seen this trick? Stitch-People are what we make ourselves. Hey Typhenous, throw me a ball!”
This time, Revi caught the ball without being knocked over. Earlia swung and missed three times, as did her other teammate. Dawil got a hit—the impact sent the ball soaring high, right into Bevussa’s mitt. The Dwarf grumbled as he stopped running to first.
“Short legs, flying balls, running to each of the bases—this game wasn’t made for Dwarves! Hey, half-Elf. I’ll catch, you throw. Got it?”
“Can you handle the ball, Dwarf?”
Falene brushed hair out of her face as she took the mound. Dawil grinned.
“Depends on whether you can make that ball fly faster. Come on, hit the glove! Unless you’ve not got more magic than Typhenous in you?”
The half-Elf smiled coolly at Dawil. She levitated the ball up, flicked her finger, and sent a burning fastball into Dawil’s mitt. A literally burning fastball. The heat from the impact and Dawil’s cursing as his glove and beard caught on fire made Erin flee.
“Foul! That’s illegal, Falene!”
“You damn pointy-eared pyromaniac! I’ll crap in your bag of holding!”
The Dwarf hurled the ball back at Falene. She sniffed, levitated the ball up, and looked pointedly past Dawil.
“Is this game commencing or not?”
She struck out Bevussa without a problem. And then Typhenous, who had problems telekinetically wielding the bat. And then Halrac came up to bat. He watched the first two balls whiz past him and then calmly struck the third.
The impact made the [Scout] wince, but the ball flew high overhead. It was a pop fly, but neither Ylawes nor Gemhammer were prepared for it. Halrac ran to first as Falene looked up—
Then the ball swerved in midair and flew over to tap Halrac in the back. Again Erin had to yell.
“Foul! Again! You can’t grab the ball with magic, Falene! No arguing! That’s one step too far!”
The half-Elf sighed as Halrac took first. Next was Revi. She got a hit—mainly from luck—and the ball went soaring. The Stitch-Girl still groused as she ran, though.
“Argh! I forgot how heavy these arms are! This is why I don’t wear muscle that often!”
Erin smiled. The game finally looked like it was going well! And the audience was loving it. Normal baseball could be fun, but watching Falene make the ball stop in midair and float back to her and then argue with Erin whether that was legal or not? That was fun.
And it wasn’t just one team, either! Gnolls and Goblins and the two adventuring teams aside, there were other standouts as well. The Antinium Soldiers were slower than most, and they had to use the special bat Erin had commissioned because of their odd hands, but they were as coordinated as the Goblins. And when they ran, the Players of Celum got out of the way. And they seemed to hit a surprising number of balls quite perfectly. And some of their catches were perfect. Almost…miraculous.
“Yes, I am praying for good fortune.”
Pawn admitted freely to Erin as he sat with a bowl of popcorn by his side. Yellow Splatters was signing to Purple Smile at bat. Erin stared at Pawn. The Worker paused.
“Is that illegal?”
“Um. Well, no. I think a lot of fans pray when their team’s playing. I just never thought it would work. I, uh, I think it’s okay since you’re playing. And the Antinium are sort of at a disadvantage so yeah. But don’t you think it’s a bit…I dunno, not worth praying for?”
Pawn tilted his head.
“Why would I not pray? Is there some fault for doing so? It is not like prayer is a limited resource. Is it?”
“No…you know what? I think I’m in the wrong here. Keep on praying! Good luck!”
The first rounds of games ended with some predictable outcomes. The Gnolls beat the Goblins, due to superior fielding and the Hobs being the only ones who could hit far, although it was close. Griffon Hunt and the Wings of Pallass beat the Silver Swords and Gemhammer in the end. Both teams had [Mages] for pitchers, but the Wings could catch the balls that were hit. And the Players lost to the Antinium to no one’s surprise.
“Alright! Change it up! We’ll have new teams out there! Flamewardens get to play! Oh, and the Horns want a shot at things! Looks like people from Celum want to play—hey, is this going to be a grudge match between Liscor and Celum? And the third pitch can be…how about a kid’s game? Mrsha, Grev, get some teams together!”
The second round of games heated up fast. Literally. Erin wasn’t umpiring the kid’s game—that was Olesm’s job since Drassi had taken over announcing.
“—Mrsha up at bat. She’s so cute. You know, she was the one who helped save the Gnolls in the dungeon? Fact. And, by the way, she likes being scratched behind the ears. Only, don’t do it unless she asks because that’s very private for a Gnoll. You know, that reminds me of an encounter I had with this Gnoll guy back when I was a [Receptionist] working at the Adventurer’s Guild. Until I got fired that was—oh, look, Mrsha hit the ball and she’s running! Go Mrsha! She’s going to second base—”
Erin was umpiring the game between the adventuring teams. The Flamewardens were on one side with some Drakes and the Horns and Vuliel Drae were competing together, to their mutual displeasure. Meanwhile, the citizens from Liscor and Celum were trying to outdo each other in a heated match overseen by Halrac, who was a natural umpire. His keen eyes and sunny disposition meant that no one argued with him, and he could call every pitch perfectly.
However, it was the shenanigans of both adventuring teams that had Erin ducking for cover, sometimes literally. She started with Keldrass’ team.
“You can’t set the balls on fire!”
“Why not? It’s just a bit of flame.”
“Yeah, but it could hit someone!”
“That’s what healing potions are for. Besides, that’s a walk, remember? This is just for…optical advantage.”
“Fine!”
The flaming fastballs that Keldrass served up were one thing. But then Ceria got the bright idea of trying her own take on it. Her first frozen fastball shattered into a thousand pieces.
“No shrapnel! No ice balls!”
Ceria looked embarrassed.
“Sorry, Erin.”
She threw a regular ball, and one of the Drakes hit it into the air. Ksmvr ran after it as Pisces used his [Flash Step] to blink after the ball. But he didn’t get to it first. Ksmvr leapt into the air, so high he looked like he was flying! He caught the ball and threw it down to Pisces who threw it to first base. Erin gaped until she remembered Ksmvr had the Ring of Jumping. Naturally, the Flamewardens protested, but Erin overruled them.
“That’s legal! You get to set balls on fire, he can use his ring! And Pisces can [Flash Step]! No buts!”
It was when the Flamewardens had a pair of runners on first and second that Erin began coughing. She saw smoke drifting from two of the Oldblood Drakes and saw Ceria coughing. She waved her arms.
“Stop blowing smoke!”
“It’s part of our ancestry! Don’t be racist, Human!”
“Shut it!”
Besides that, the game really was fun. Neither team was a powerhouse, but they had their own tricks. It actually took Halrac stomping over to help Erin with one problem. He pointed at Pisces who was patiently waiting on second base.
“Foul. Illusion spell!”
The image of Pisces vanished, and he appeared, sneaking over to third base. Erin actually ruled that as legal, and the Drakes began poking Pisces to make sure he was really there whenever he was on base.
Of course, it wasn’t all just fun. Yvlon accidentally retired one of the Drakes on the opposite team when she smacked a ball straight into the side of his head. He had to lie down, and Bird of all people was roped into playing. He did well in that he stood patiently in his position in the outfield until a fly ball flew towards him. Then he raised his bow and shot it. Bird caught both ball and arrow. Erin waved her arms.
“No using weapons!”
But she was enjoying herself. The second round of games ended with a victory for the Horns mainly due to Pisces’ ability to run faster than anyone else, a victory for Celum mainly thanks to the Gnolls, and Mrsha’s team’s victory. That was because of Grev, whose ability to get his team to steal bases won most of the points.
“You know, there’s a rule that if you hit the ball beyond a fence it’s a home run no matter what. And I think you can’t keep stealing bases forever, but I could be wrong on that.”
Erin addressed her teams of players. They stared at her blankly. Relc grinned.
“So? It’s more fun this way. Hey, let’s play another game! Liscor’s Watch vs Celum’s Watch!”
That was received well by the Gnolls and Drakes and poorly by Celum’s Watch. Klbkch, who’d opted not to play, cocked his head and spoke calmly.
“I believe that game would be indefinitely long, Relc?”
“What? Don’t you have faith in us, Klb old buddy?”
“I do. I lack confidence in the opposing team’s ability to ever strike us out.”
“Hah!”
“No, no more sides! We’re all tired, and I’m running out of sausage-dogs!”
Erin raised her voice to prevent a fight from breaking out. She took a deep breath.
“I think what we need…is a championship.”
That got everyone’s attention. Erin pointed at her first pitch, which was filled with trampled and dirty pillows.
“Here’s what I’m thinking. First, we expand the pitch. We make all the bases twice as far apart. Maybe even a bit more? Because the ball goes flying and you lot can run fast. Then, we make two teams. Not of one side or one adventuring team. Of the best. We take the best eighteen players and make two teams. Dream teams. And whichever side wins…gets a prize.”
“What’s the prize?”
Erin had no idea. She cast about and then had it.
“Cake! And ice cream! I’ll make some right after we get back!”
Half of the players hadn’t ever had cake or ice cream or even knew what it was. But the other half did and that settled it. The next part was arguing over who would be in each team. Everyone wanted to join in. Jelaqua was quickly selected, as was Moore, although the poor half-Giant hadn’t hit a ball in a game yet. Jelaqua betrayed her earlier mockery of Moore by insisting he be on her team.
“You can be catcher, Moore! We need someone to catch Falene’s balls. She’s on my team, by the way.”
Yellow Splatters found a place on the opposite team, as did Relc. Pisces was nominated, as was Ksmvr for his jumping ability, and Bevussa was the only one of her team who got a spot. Halrac joined, much to everyone’s surprise, as did Dawil despite his grumbling. Ylawes wasn’t picked, much to his unhappiness. Seborn and Ishkr found themselves on opposite sides, and with a few more picks that Erin didn’t know by name, the teams were formed. However, there was one spot left, and Erin filled it herself.
“Headscratcher gets a place!”
Some of the people from Celum loudly objected, but Erin overruled them.
“He can hit the ball as far as anyone else! He’s on the team! I say so!”
The Hob gave Erin a stunned look. She only smiled and waved at the Goblins who were sitting far from everyone else. The audience from Celum grumbled, but they fell silent as the teams took their places. It wasn’t Liscor vs Celum, and it wasn’t adventurers vs Goblins. It was two teams filled with all kinds of people working towards a common goal: cake. With extra frosting.
That wasn’t to say there weren’t sides. Erin could hear betting in the background, and Olesm was conferring with Jelaqua on strategy, perhaps in exchange for some of the rewards if her team won. Erin also had to interrupt Octavia, who’d been making a killing selling ‘enhancements’ to each team.
“No potions! I want a clean game! Don’t make me shut you down! Is everyone ready?”
Both teams looked up. They nodded at Erin, and she turned. The playing field was occupied by some of the audience who wanted to throw around a ball. Erin raised her voice.
“Alright, the final game is going to begin! Clear the field or you’ll get hit! All Mrshas must leave the field at once!”
Mrsha, who had been playing in the grass, looked up. She gazed around, realized she was the only Mrsha, and gloomily left the field. She perked up when Lyonette offered her a cool drink. Erin was making a small fortune on food for her audience, although her regulars hadn’t paid. Yet.
“Okay! I will be your umpire! Drassi will commentate! Now, please welcome our two teams! At bat…uh…Team A!”
The audience cheered as nine players took the field. They were Halrac, Relc, Yellow Splatters, Bevussa, Falene, Dawil, Ishkr, a Gnoll and Wesle. The other team, Team B, took to the outfield.
Jelaqua, Seborn, Pisces, Ksmvr, Headscratcher, Moore, Keldrass, and two Drakes threw balls to each other and shouted good-natured insults at Team A. They grew still and the audience sat forwards as Erin looked around. The wind blew and the sky turned orange as Erin raised her hand.
“Play ball!”
 
——
 
It wasn’t a game you’d see on Earth. And perhaps that didn’t make it baseball. There were a lot of rule violations, arguing over the legality of hexing your opponents or creating snares out of bone—or just plain cheating. But Erin thought that was what made the game so great. It wasn’t baseball. It was magic baseball. And that meant there were only a few dull moments.
Each time Falene shot a fastball into Dawil’s waiting glove, the audience groaned. She made just hitting the ball a challenge! And she could make the ball wiggle around in the air like a snake, even vanish! The only person who could hit her reliably was Pisces. All he had to do was tap the ball and take off, and he was practically impossible to catch. His [Flash Steps] were as useful on the offense as defense, and only Relc could keep up with him.
But that was the thing. When the Gecko of Liscor hit the ball, it flew far. And he could sprint around the bases so quick that the only way to get him out was to catch a fly ball. However, he was only one powerhouse on his team. Team B had Jelaqua and Headscratcher. Even Dawil and Yellow Splatters could not hit the ball nearly as far as those two.
Erin hadn’t predicted it, but the games quickly became a battle between excellent defense and offense. Team A had Bevussa’s wings, Ishkr’s catching ability, and Halrac’s eyes. Not to mention Falene’s magic pitches. On the other side, Team B had Jelaqua, Pisces, Headscratcher, and Seborn.
At first, he was the underrated player of Team B. But after the second time he stole a base, every eye was on him whenever he got onto a plate. It wasn’t easy. Even when you watched him, Seborn could slip away into the shadows. And catching him?
