“Just a little bit. But I get it. You don’t think the bodies will rot in her inn, right? What about bugs?”
“Well, Selphids have this paste I can get Octavia to make that—”
Crack. Both Ceria and Jelaqua looked up. A ball flew past them, and Erin shouted.
“Run!”
Suddenly, Seborn was charging towards them! Pisces and Ksmvr ran for the ball. Ceria and Jelaqua looked at each other. The Selphid looked around.
“Oh kidney stones, what am I supposed to do again?”
“Run to second base! Ceria, get ready to stop Seborn! Catch the ball!”
“Over here!”
Ceria waved her arms in frustration as Jelaqua took off. Pisces blurred over to the ball with [Flash Step] and snatched it up. He looked around. But Seborn was already on first base. The Drowned Man eyed Ceria. And Jelaqua was rounding second base, headed towards third. Ceria pointed.
“I’ll stop Jelaqua! Pisces, get her!”
The Selphid was laughing as she ran. Pisces charged towards her. Jelaqua kept her eye on Pisces, but she didn’t see Ceria coming up from the side. The half-Elf tackled the Selphid, knocking her to the ground.
“Get her, Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] was twenty paces away. He threw the ball at Jelaqua as the Selphid turned and threw Ceria off. The Selphid dodged back as she saw the ball land at her feet, but then she grinned. She picked the ball up and threw it at Seborn.
“Get rid of it!”
“On it.”
Seborn turned, hurled the ball in the opposite direction, then charged to second base as Pisces and Ksmvr ran after the ball again. Ceria tried to slow Jelaqua as the Selphid tried to follow Seborn. Erin watched, jaw slightly open as Seborn rounded the bases. Jelaqua was nearly at third base with Ceria holding onto her waist when Pisces threw a ball and struck her shoulder.
“Aw, damnit!”
Ceria let go, and Jelaqua threw up her hands. Seborn tried to run back to second, but Ksmvr was there. He caught the ball and chased Seborn as the Drowned Man ran back to first base. There Seborn stopped. He looked at Erin, and she found her voice.
“Okay! Um. Return back to home base!”
All five players returned to the plate. Seborn looked at Erin as Ceria gave Pisces and Ksmvr a thumbs-up.
“How’d we do?”
“Well…that was awful. You’re not supposed to tackle players, Ceria! And Pisces, you can’t hit people with the ball! And if you touch the ball, you’re out! And Ksmvr—you did a good job. Only Ksmvr played according to the rules!”
Ksmvr straightened up and smiled. The other adventurers scratched their heads. Ceria shook her head exasperatedly.
“This game has a lot of rules. And it’s hard catching people while they’re running.”
“That’s why you stand on the bases. The runners can’t score if you block them, and then you just have to tag them out. You throw the ball between each other. Look, we’re doing good. I think we just need a few more players.”
“You think so? We’re a pretty good team by ourselves, right Seborn, Moore? Right?”
Jelaqua elbowed Seborn. The Drowned Man looked at her.
“Stop elbowing me.”
Erin smiled. She looked to the outfield. Yvlon, Lyonette, and Mrsha were bored in right field and were playing catch with another ball.
“Look, one more game. But let me just call a few people over first, okay?”
The adventurers shrugged. Ceria nodded.
“Sure. Who did you have in mind?”
“Well…”
 
——
 
The Redfang Hobs sat around in their cave. Around them sat Cave Goblins. The Hobs were busy at work and not busy at the same time. They were showing the Cave Goblins how to bandage wounds. Headscratcher winced as Badarrow sewed up a gash on his arm. The Hob flinched as the tip of the needle went through his flesh. Badarrow slapped his shoulder and glared at him.
It was a necessity. The Cave Goblins were wounded. Some were badly hurt. Those had been healed with the potions the Goblins had, but far more had injuries that could heal with time. And the Goblins wouldn’t waste a potion on something like that.
With that said, the medical knowledge the Redfangs had was limited to stitching up bad cuts and making sure nothing got too dirty. That was still miles ahead of Cave Goblin medical advances, which hadn’t gotten much past ‘don’t poke an open wound’. So, the Goblins watched as Badarrow demonstrated how to clean and stitch up a cut. He didn’t have to do it twice. The Goblins remembered and would teach their friends.
The mood in the cave was optimistic, despite the injured Goblins. Despite the dead. Because they had won their freedom. It was a battle no one cared about. It had not resulted in the freedom of Gnolls or a half-Elf. It was not a glorious battle, but many skirmishes. It had freed only Goblins. And who cared about them?
The Hobs. Each of them was wounded. The worst of their injuries had been healed, but they still had gashes. It was nothing compared to some of the pain they’d borne, but it did hurt. Still, they would have been celebrating normally. Except, it was just that…
The door hadn’t opened. The magical door that connected Erin’s inn to the Goblin cave hadn’t activated since she’d set up the attack on the Raskghar camp. Of course, the Hobs knew she was alive. The Cave Goblins had reported everything. And naturally, she was busy. Rabbiteater made that point so many times that the other Hobs threw things at him, forcing him to hide behind his water cloak.
Erin was probably very busy. It was just that she hadn’t talked to them today. It wasn’t as if they needed to see her. But there was a feeling in the back of the Goblins’ minds. It was a ridiculous thought. It ran something like this.
What if Erin had just used them to beat the Raskghar? And she didn’t need them anymore? Or maybe—maybe now that all the Goblins were here, she couldn’t help them anymore? Maybe they were a liability with so many…monsters around. Or maybe she’d grown tired of them.
Ridiculous thoughts. Totally at odds with everything they knew of Erin. But the Hobs couldn’t shake the feeling. So they sat around moodily, bandaging their injuries. The Cave Goblins didn’t understand why the Hobs were upset. They were cheerfully sewing each other up when the door opened.
“Guys? Are you—”
The Hobs looked up as one as they heard a voice. Erin Solstice stood in the doorway and paused when she saw the Goblins. A detail yet to be mentioned was that there were a lot of Cave Goblins in the enclosed space. More than last time, even. And they were just the ones Erin could see. She looked around wide-eyed and then focused on the Hobs who sprang to their feet.
“What happened? There are so many Goblins! And—oh my god! What happened?”
Erin had spotted a huge cut on Numbtongue’s chest. The Hob blinked as Erin threw up her hands in horror. She dashed back into her inn, and the Hobs saw a little figure appear in the doorway.
Pebblesnatch had been happily sleeping until Erin woke her up. The little Goblin had been treated to a no-holds-barred breakfast, and she’d been eating it all morning. She paused, and all the Cave Goblins stared at her. She was holding a giant cookie. Pebblesnatch wavered as the Goblins’ eyes fixed on the treat, which gave off a smell they’d never inhaled before. She looked from face to face, looked at her cookie, and closed the door.
A few seconds later, it reopened. Erin appeared with a potion box in her hands.
“What are you doing? Here—”
She moved past Pebblesnatch as the Cave Goblin backed away, clutching her cookie to her chest so hard that it began to crumble. Erin grabbed healing potions and thrust them at the Hobs.
“Where did you get those injuries? Oh no—did the Raskghar attack you? Here, use them! Any Goblin that needs it—”
Shorthilt blinked bemusedly at the healing potion that was thrust into his hands. He opened his mouth, but Erin was already handing healing potions out. The Goblins looked at each other. They hesitated. But then Headscratcher nodded. He uncorked a bottle and carefully splashed some on his arm. The stitches popped out of his healing flesh. The Cave Goblins did the same. Erin breathed a sigh of relief as she looked around.
It was a curious thing. The Cave Goblins stared. Some, a portion of them who had seen Erin, tasted her cooking. The others only had rumors to go on. They had heard of a strange Human that didn’t hurt Goblins. They barely knew what a Human was, but they had heard she ordered the Hobs around. And she made good food. And now that they saw her, they were shocked. Because she was so normal. Because she was giving healing potions to Goblins.
Because she cared. The Cave Goblins stared at Erin. They stared at Pebblesnatch, who was reluctantly giving out fingernail-sized portions of her cookie to other Goblins, and at Erin. She was talking with the Hobs, and they were clustered around her. Smiling. As if they liked her. As if—
As if she was a friend. The Goblins listened as Erin spoke.
“—Had no idea. I’m so sorry I didn’t come by earlier, but I was so busy that I just crashed when everyone was safe. I have food—where did all the Goblins come from? From below? Ha ha. Very funny. I meant…well, okay, that makes sense. Do you have enough food? I can…well, I’ll need to see about buying more. We can deal with that later if you’re good for now. I was really coming to see if you wanted to, uh, play a game. Of baseball.”
The Goblins looked up. The Redfangs glanced at each other. Erin hastened to explain.
“It’s in Celum! In a field right next to the city. It…well, it might be a bit dangerous if someone panics, but Jelaqua said that you’re probably safe. And we owe you so much. So…if you want to bring some Goblins over, we could play a game. There’ll be food. I can’t let all of the Goblins through, but maybe a few and all of you? I’m sorry, but I can’t bring everyone through—”
The Goblins stared at the Hobs. They looked at each other as the Redfangs conferred, glancing around. Then they nodded. The Goblins saw Headscratcher smiling as Erin tried to explain the game to him. Not about the game. Just at her. And then the young woman smiled, and the smile was everything. The Hobs turned. Numbtongue gestured.
“Thirty.”
They would take thirty with them. Pebblesnatch instantly sidled back into the inn. The Cave Goblins stared at her. At the cookie, mostly eaten. At Erin, the empty box of potions—and her smile. Then they charged towards the door, fighting tooth-and-nail to be the first ones through.
 
——
 
“I feel so bad.”
Erin confessed to Numbtongue as she closed the door on the disappointed Goblins. There were hundreds crammed into the cave. And they’d all tried to get into her inn. A large number had gone through—until the Hobs had restored order.
It hadn’t been pretty. More than one Goblin probably needed another potion for their blinding headache as the Hobs had banged heads together and thrown the rest back through the door. Now, a lucky thirty Cave Goblins, including Pebblesnatch, were celebrating in Erin’s inn. The rest were in the cave. Sulking.
“You’re sure they’ll be alright without you?”
Numbtongue nodded.
“They’ll be fine. We don’t need to leave one of us behind.”
“You’re sure?”
“Yes.”
The Hob didn’t quite meet her eyes. He was holding a big mug of ale, and he was eating a cookie. So were the other Goblins. The luxury of Erin’s inn and the sweet food was making some of them swoon. Erin eyed the Hob but gave in. The Cave Goblins would probably be fine. And she owed the Hobs. She placed Celum’s mana stone on the door.
“Ready?”
The Goblins nodded. Erin threw open the door. Sunlight made the Goblins gasp. They looked out into a beautiful grassy field. And beyond it were adventurers. The Cave Goblins shrank back in terror, but the Redfangs stood between them and the door and made beckoning noises. They led the Goblins through.
There were adventurers standing on the grass. They froze when they saw the Goblins, but relaxed quickly. The others didn’t. A group of Humans, some dressed in armor, others in bright clothing, whirled when the door opened. When the Goblins came through, they panicked.
“Dead gods! Goblins! Hobs! Sound the alarm!”
“Run for it!”
The members of Celum’s Watch reached for their swords, then began to flee in a stampede at the sight of five Hobs. The brightly-dressed Humans paled, but didn’t run. One of them threw up a hand. He raised his voice and shouted in a surprisingly loud, commanding tone.
“Hold! I say hold, all of you! Turn, guardsmen, turn! These Goblins aren’t enemies!”
Wesle strode towards Erin. He nodded at the Hobgoblins as the Players of Celum stared at the Cave Goblins. They weren’t afraid! The Cave Goblins peered around Rabbiteater’s cloak as the guardsmen of Celum halted in their panicked flight. He bowed to Erin with a flourish.
“Erin, it’s a delight!”
“Wesle! What brings you out here?”
Erin beamed as she hugged the man. He wasn’t too much taller than her, and he wasn’t that imposing or huge a man. His lips were clean-shaven, and he wore a fairly fancy red tunic and breeches, but that was all. And yet, the Goblins thought he looked taller than the Humans around him. It was in the way he carried himself. And the way he moved and spoke. He seemed to draw the eye. Wesle stroked his upper lip as if he still had his fuzzy mustache.
“We got word you’d passed through the city. Caused a bit of a commotion. We thought—we hoped that it was safe to return to your inn. It’s been terribly quiet without you or your inn to perform in.”
Erin smacked her forehead.
“Of course! I forgot—we won! There was a huge battle, Wesle! The Raskghar were defeated! We saved the Gnolls! It was incredible! Liscor’s saved, the Goblins helped, and the Antinium, no matter what Ilvriss says—”
“Huge battle? Raskghar? Sounds like a play!”
A short woman strode over. Emme gave the Goblins a glance and then focused on Erin.
“Is this something we could turn into a play, Miss Erin?”
“Um? Yes?”
“Well then! What are we waiting for? Hey, you lot! Gather over here! Forget the Goblins—they won’t bite. And if they do, bite back! We’ve got material for a new play!”
The Players of Celum approached cautiously. Erin turned and beamed at a Drake and a Human child.
“Jasi! Grev! It’s great to see you all! And you’re all here at the perfect time! We were having a break after all that’s happened.”
“Hullo, Miss Erin. You’ve got a lot of monster folk behind you. Are all them new security for your inn?”
Grev stared at the Cave Goblins, who stared back, never having seen a Human child before. Erin turned.
“What, the Goblins? No, I brought them for the game. Hey, Jelaqua! Look, we’ve got two teams of players!”
