The Goblin didn’t even try to hit the ball. It just blocked and then ran towards first base, screaming wildly. Emme and Wesle ran to get the ball, but that meant Emme was out of place. And then Numbtongue scored. And the Cave Goblin ran so fast it got to second and Badarrow to third. And then Shorthilt came up to bat—
“Wow.”
Erin stared as the ball went flying. She turned to the bases. Headscratcher was on third, a Cave Goblin on first. It wasn’t that it was a different inning. It was that the Goblins had played through all nine players on their team. There were two outs, but they’d scored seven times. The Players of Celum stared as Numbtongue swung. They ran for the ball and threw it desperately towards Emme. They got Headscratcher out. Barely.
“I, uh—that’s game one!”
Erin called it there. The Goblins cheered and ran around the Hobs. The Players of Celum trooped back to home, panting. They gaped at the Goblins.
“How’d they do that?”
Wesle gasped as he accepted some chilled ice water. He gulped from it, staring at the Hobs. They were grinning and eying the Humans. Erin sighed, but there was a smile on her face.
“I think…they planned that. Sorry. But I guess the Players aren’t as good as Goblins are naturally.”
“I see. That’s humbling. I think…we might be done for a little bit.”
The actor groaned as he massaged his shoulders. Erin nodded sympathetically.
“Sorry about that. It, uh, looked hard but I didn’t want to call it. You take a break. We’ve got food.”
She pointed to the picnic in the audience. Wesle nodded gratefully. The Cave Goblins and Hobs occupied the field as the beaten Players left it. They were playing a game by themselves when Jelaqua stood up.
“Hold it!”
The Goblins looked at her. The Selphid grinned as she walked towards the pitch.
“Looks like you guys are pretty good. Hey guys, why don’t we take them on? Adventurers versus Goblins?”
“Uh, I don’t think that’s such a—”
Erin began nervously, but the other adventurers were already on their feet. The Horns and Halfseekers strode to the pitch, as did Mrsha and Lyonette. The Goblins looked at each other and grinned. They took up positions at bat. Jelaqua grinned at Erin as she walked past. Seborn was already practicing throwing a curveball with Moore.
“Hey Erin, you were right. This game is fun. Especially when there’s good competition. Those Hobs can hit pretty hard. We might have to use our full strength.”
“Wait, this is just a fun game. Jelaqua—”
“Hey, Pisces! You’re in the middle of the outfield! Use [Flash Step]! Ceria, first base! Can you freeze the ground? Is that against the rules? Ksmvr, outfield on the right? Lyonette and Mrsha can take third base and the left!”
The Selphid grinned as she pounded a fist into her glove. She strode over to second base. Erin eyed the Hobs. They were pointing at Lyonette and Mrsha, clearly telling Headscratcher to hit the ball their way. They huddled together like…well, like any team, really. Erin looked at the Players of Celum who were gulping down food.
“Go Horns and Halfseekers! Teach those Goblins a lesson!”
“Five silver on the Goblins!”
“Pass me those popcorn things! Stop hogging them, Emme!”
And suddenly? Suddenly it was a game.
 
——
 
It was wet as Bevussa walked out of Liscor’s gates. Or rather, climbed down the ladder on Liscor’s walls and began walking across the water bridge to The Wandering Inn. The water was still high, and it was raining in droves. Of course, the Garuda could have flown to the inn, but the water made her wings heavy, and she didn’t know if she’d crash in the water. That would be embarrassing, so she elected to walk. She’d tried to get to the inn through the magic door, but it hadn’t opened no matter how long she’d waited.
She met someone else crossing the bridge towards the inn. Keldrass, leader of the Flamewardens, slowed and waved a claw at Bevussa. He wasn’t wearing his armor. Like her, he was dressed casually now that the crisis in the dungeon was over. Bevussa jogged up to him.
“Hey Keldrass, you’re going to the inn too?”
“That’s right. What are you going for?”
The Garuda hesitated. But she’d known Keldrass professionally, if not personally. She glanced around at the rainy landscape and coughed.
“I was actually hoping I could meet the Halfseekers and possibly Griffon Hunt there and negotiate about the artifacts. You know, who gets what?”
Keldrass nodded.
“That’s why I’m going.”
“Oh—uh, what do you—”
“We want the armor.”
Bevussa breathed a sigh of relief. She began walking to the inn, watching her footing as the water splashed over her talons.
“Oh, good. We’re after the invisible bow or the shortsword. Or that staff that blasts people with wind. Or…we’re open for a lot of the items, actually. But I want to make sure we have a good chance of claiming what we aim for, so I need to talk with them. They’ve probably got two of the best claims of the Gold-rank teams.”
Keldrass grunted.
“We all shed blood. Some of us more than others.”
“True. But you have to admit, they went in hard. Did you see Moore smashing Raskghar? Or Halrac? That one’s not far from Named Adventurer.”
“He’s still a ways away. You’ve met the one in Pallass, right?”
“Oh—him? Well, he’s certainly better than Halrac, but he struck me as, uh, atypical of Named Adventurers.”
“They’re all insane like him. The [Scout]’s not at that level yet.”
“Yet.”
Bevussa let the word hang in the air. Keldrass nodded. The two walked towards the inn. After a few seconds, the Garuda chuckled. Keldrass looked at her.
“What?”
“Nothing. But it’s almost like a reflex, coming here. We’ve done it so many times, and Erin’s inn is so useful. Plus, she’s got so much unique food. Some of it’s awful—but it’s always new. I can’t stand the inn we’re staying at.”
“The Tailless Thief? The innkeeper’s food is good.”
Keldrass looked mildly offended on behalf of Peslas. Bevussa shrugged.
“That’s true. They’re as good as Erin’s in terms of quality. But they’re all Drake dishes, and I can eat that in Pallass, and far better. Our inns are superior.”
“No arguments there. But the [Innkeeper]—what’s his name—had a new dish. Hamburgers. I thought that was original. Quick food, I think he called it.”
“Yeah, but apparently, the recipe came from Erin.”
“Really?”
Keldrass blinked in surprise. He glanced at the inn coming up ahead of them. Bevussa smiled.
“Do you doubt it?”
“No. But where did she get it from?”
“Search me. There’s something odd about her. Not that I’m complaining. I just—hello?”
Bevussa opened the door and called about inside. The inn was empty. But the first thing that struck the two adventurers was light. They stopped as bright sunlight shone into the inn. The magic door was open and a blue sky and grassy field could be seen through it. It was such an odd sight after the rain that they had to stop in surprise.
“What the—is the door open to Pallass?”
“It can’t be. That takes up too much mana. I thought. Hello?”
Bevussa walked over to the door. She heard cheering as she drew nearer. She blinked as she stared out into the field. Keldrass stood by her and stared around.
“Where is this?”
“Oh, hey!”
The two Gold-rank adventurers had been spotted by a group of Humans lounging on the grass. The Players of Celum waved at them. One of them, a young boy, jumped to his feet.
“You’re more guests for Miss Erin, ain’t ya?”
The adventurers nodded. Grev grinned.
“Hold on, I’ll get her! She’s umpiring the game. Miss Erin!”
The adventurers stared as he raced out of view. They looked at each other. Then they stepped through the door. They gazed around. Then they heard a crack. Both ducked reflexively. Then they saw a ball flying through the air and heard a voice.
“Fly ball! Go, Jelaqua, go!”
They saw a familiar Selphid sprinting across the grass. She was moving fast, as if she was in danger. But the cheering that came from the crowd of Humans and Goblins, yes, Goblins was at odds with that idea. So was the grin on Jelaqua’s face. She rounded a pillow on the grass and dove as the Hobgoblin on another pillow reached out and caught a ball flying towards him. There was a cheer, and the two saw Erin run forwards, waving her arms.
“Safe! That was safe!”
She turned as Grev grabbed her shirt. Erin looked surprised to see Keldrass and Bevussa.
“Bevussa! Uh, Keldram? Oh man, did you walk here? Sorry, we’re closed! I can get you to Pallass if you need it, but I’m not selling any meals right now! We’re having a vacation!”
“Uh, no. That’s not why we’re here. We were hoping to find the Halfseekers. And Griffon Hunt if they’re here.”
“I haven’t seen Griffon Hunt. But the Halfseekers are playing a game!”
Erin indicated Jelaqua as the Selphid waved at Pisces and shouted at him as he took up position with a long wooden bat.
“We saw. What’s the game called?”
“Baseball! Hold on—Grev, you umpire. I’ll explain.”
It took Erin several minutes to explain the game to the bewildered adventurers. In that time, Pisces bunted the ball Badarrow threw. He didn’t just run, he blinked across the field using [Flash Step]. The Goblins scrambled to keep up, but Pisces got to second without being caught.
“Pisces! That’s cheating!”
Erin turned to yell at the [Necromancer]. He yelled back in an aggrieved tone.
“Why? They can use Skills! Why can’t I use magic?”
“Uh—never mind!”
She turned back and beamed at the adventurers.
“You wanna play?”
“Um—not at the moment.”
Keldrass coughed a bit of smoke. He looked at the Halfseekers.
“They’re busy. I’ll come back later.”
“I, uh, I’ll do the same.”
“Suit yourself. Hey, can you let the others know the inn’s closed if they come calling? Thanks!”
Erin went back to the game. The two Gold-rank adventurers walked back to the door. They paused as they stepped back into Erin’s inn. On the other side of the door, the rain was falling through the open door that Bevussa had forgotten to close. The inn was dark, and the skies were grey. Keldrass glanced back through the door.
“Sunlight. It’s been a long time since I saw that, or so it feels.”
Bevussa looked longingly back as well.
“It’s a nice day out there. Perfect weather for flying.”
“Indeed.”
They looked at each other. Keldrass coughed again. He shifted.
“I told my team I’d be back soon.”
“So did I. We were actually going to get both teams to join us for negotiations. We felt like Erin’s inn would favor them a bit.”
“Sensible. Well. We should get back.”
“Yeah.”
The two stared back into the field. The sun was warm on Bevussa’s feathers. And she remembered the drinks and food the Humans were eating. She wondered what it would be like to swing that bat. It would be nice to hit something that wasn’t a monster’s skull.
“We did promise to go back.”
Keldrass reminded her. Bevussa looked at him. The Garuda hesitated, then smiled.
“True. But we could always come back. It’s a beautiful day out there, isn’t it?”
The Drake paused. He looked back out the door. There were more people coming towards the inn. Adventurers looking to do some negotiating. Relc and Klbkch, the Antinium clutching the ropes, Ishkr and another Gnoll coming for their shift…the Drake looked back at the grass. Bevussa nudged him.
“Wanna decide who goes back to get the others?”
“Sure.”
 
——
 
At first, the City Watch of Celum was bored. It was, after all, an uneventful day in Celum. There were no monster attacks, no important dignitaries or caravans or even criminal activity that needed dealing with. That was good because excitement was often dangerous in their line of work, but dull was dull. It was a relief to have a bit of excitement.
And to begin with, that was exactly what had happened. A bunch of Gold-rank adventurers transporting the magic door through the city? It was all too fun to speculate why and laugh at the unlucky Fabial’s misfortune. They’d even had a chance to spread the word to the Players of Celum and get a few autographs. And from their vantage point on the walls, the bored [Guardsmen] could see the entire troupe head out.
But then the Goblins had appeared. At first, the men (there were very few women in Celum’s City Watch) hadn’t believed it. Then they’d seen their comrades racing towards them and had been ready to lock the gates. And then—well, they didn’t know what to think. They’d watched the distant game of baseball begin with much bemusement. Still, their nervousness had quickly become fascination with the game, which was fun to watch for men whose only job was to stand and watch things. But now—
“Hey, look. There are more people coming through that door.”
“I see ‘em. Stop nudging me. Looks like that bird’s back. And a bunch of others. Looks like Drakes…another damn Antinium. Gnolls?”
“Huh. Liscor must be filled with non-Humans. Crazy city if you ask me. I don’t see why anyone’d want to live there.”
“Right. Right. Say, there’s a lot of folk coming through. Another pack of Gnolls. More Drakes…Humans…wait a second.”
“Is that—is that Halrac the Grim?”
“It can’t be!”
“Look at him!”
“I can’t see. You’ve got [Keen Eyes]. Is it—”
“That’s him! And those Drakes—they must be other adventurers! Wait, I recognize some of the others! That’s Gemhammer! And all those other Drakes and Gnolls—”
The [Guardsmen] looked at each other.
“They can’t all be adventurers, right?”
“I heard Liscor had a ton of Gold-ranks.”
“Yeah, but—they wouldn’t be here, right? They have things to do.”
“Like Halrac the Grim.”
“Yeah.”
They stared at the distant people flooding through the doorway. A group of Antinium walked through. They wore paint on their carapaces. Celum’s Watch stared.
“There’s so many. Why’re they here? For the game?”
“Can’t be. But—there’s Antinium and Goblins. Do you think—should we raise the alarm?”
“Why? There’s got to be at least eight adventuring teams down there. Do you think they’d be sitting about if there was any danger?”
“Right. So what do we do? Do you think we should tell someone?”
“Tell them what?”
The men glanced at each other. They stared at the crowd filling the field. Then they turned and hollered at their comrades on gate duty.
“Hey, you lot! Come up and see this!”
