The sky was open. A warm sun shone down on the green grass below. The air smelled of spring. In the field just outside of Celum, the flowers and wild grass had been cropped short. A [Shepherd] must have taken his flock through the meadow recently. That also meant there were piles of poo in places. At least they were dried out.
Not everything was perfect. But it was good. Beautiful, even. Compared to the rains in Liscor, this was bliss. Compared to the dungeon, this was…Ceria looked around as she sat on the grass. A wooden ring was on her finger, and the sun felt good as it shone down on her skin. She felt blissful, content. Full.
“I really like this ring. I feel like a tree.”
Pisces, sitting beside Ceria and fiddling with a pile of yellowed bones, looked up. The half-Elf ignored the bones as they danced about in midair. The [Necromancer] peered at Ceria’s Ring of Barkskin.
“Do you in fact feel yourself absorbing sunlight? Or is it just a pleasant sensation?”
“Hm. It feels warm. And I feel happier in the sun.”
“…Do you have an urge to dig yourself a hole and stand in it? Or imbibe water through your toes?”
“Shut up, Pisces. Don’t ruin this for me.”
The [Necromancer] huffed and went back to his bones. Ceria smiled. There was no real rancor in her tone, and Pisces seemed perfectly at ease to play with his bones. He was making another Bone Horror. The quiet click of bones didn’t disturb Ceria. She looked up and remembered the dungeon. The memory was still bitter, the horror real. But as the sunlight warmed her face, it seemed more distant.
“This is what I needed. Erin was right.”
“You mean, this is what we needed.”
Pisces looked up. Ceria blinked at him and then nodded. She looked around and saw the others.
Bird. Jelaqua. Moore. Seborn. Lyonette. Octavia. And Mrsha. They sat or walked around the meadow, looking around. Half were barefoot. Mrsha didn’t wear shoes to begin with, but some had taken off their shoes. Just to feel the grass. After so long in the rain, after so many days in the dungeon, this was bliss.
Wonderful. Ceria smiled and stretched out in the grass. Something crawled on her arm. She flicked it at Pisces. He raised a finger and blasted it with fire. The stink and smoke made Pisces cough. He glared mildly at Ceria.
“That was quite unnecessary.”
“Remember the time we pranked you by dumping a bunch of bugs in your room?”
“In my fondest recollections. Are you incapable of enjoying yourself except at my expense?”
“It does make life more fun.”
Pisces sighed. Ceria laughed. She looked around. The meadow really was beautiful. Ceria didn’t love nature all the time, but this made her remember the forests of her home in Terandria. With fondness. She stared at the flowers blooming in the sun, some with white petals, others pink, blue…a green flower with curious arrow-shaped petals seemed to wave at her as the wind blew.
A butterfly flew through the air and landed on a dandelion. It perched there delicately. Then a loud buzzing sound made it take wing. It got three feet before Apista smacked into it. The butterfly flapped away as the Ashfire Bee buzzed in a wide circle. Apista possessively landed on the flower and began to feed on the nectar and pollen.
Ceria sat up a bit and stared at Apista. She glanced at Pisces. The tranquility of the moment was interrupted somewhat as Apista, buzzing loudly, flew up and landed on another flower nearby. The sound of her wings beating was loud. The bee cast about, then charged another group of butterflies. Both [Mages] watched Apista flying sentinel for a moment. Ceria glanced at Pisces.
“That’s one angry bug.”
He shrugged.
“I think Ashfire Bees are rather competitive. Or perhaps it is simply this one that seems to want to monopolize the surrounding area.”
“Lyonette sure can choose them, huh? And is it just me or is Apista…bigger? Her stinger looks nastier than last time. Do you think they get bigger?”
“One would hope not.”
Both [Mages] ducked as Apista shot inches over their heads, chasing a much smaller bee. They watched Apista warily until she disappeared into a patch of flowers. Then they went back to sitting around. It was the most fun Ceria wanted to have at the moment. She heard an excited rustling sound and glanced up just in time to see a white shape flash past her.
“Mrsha, slow down! Watch out, Pisces!”
Pisces looked up and levitated his bones out of the way just in time. Mrsha leapt and nearly grabbed one with her teeth. He smirked as Mrsha narrowed her eyes at him. Then the Gnoll seemed to lose interest and dashed over to the green flower. She sniffed it, seemed to like the scent, and bounded over to another.
Mrsha was running about, smiling. She ran to each flower, smelling them, her tail wagging. Lyonette chased after her, laughing. It made Ceria glad to see. She looked around again.
Everyone was in good spirits. The Halfseekers were sitting together, basking in the sun. Bird was staring at the sky—he’d already shot six birds, and Octavia was plucking some flowers and muttering about cheap ingredients. Erin was in her inn, getting some food together. And Ksmvr and Yvlon—
“Hey, I think they’re coming back.”
Ceria pointed. Pisces looked up and nodded. Yvlon and Ksmvr were walking from Celum. It was easy to spot the two—aside from them being the only two people moving towards them, Yvlon’s vambraces and gauntlets shone in the light. The woman wore armor nowhere else, but she still caught the light. Ksmvr was a black and brown shape behind her. Both were carrying something.
“Got what you wanted?”
“We did. Anyone have any water?”
Ceria looked around. Pisces shook his head. Yvlon shrugged.
“I’ll get it from Erin’s inn. Let me just put this down first.”
She was holding at least six odd sticks in her arms. Ceria stared at them. They looked like stirring paddles. Only, they were round and had a thinner handle. They were made completely out of wood, although the handles had been wrapped. She eyed the things as Yvlon tossed them down.
“What are those supposed to be?”
Yvlon shrugged. She massaged one shoulder with a gauntleted hand as Ksmvr laid down more curious objects next to the carved sticks.
“I have no idea. But Erin paid a lot to have them made quick. I think she called these…‘bats’.”
Ceria stared at the wooden bats. They looked nothing like their namesake.
“Okay. And the leather glove-things?”
They looked like gloves, but with an odd twist. There weren’t individual fingers on the glove—it was a large, ungainly thing that looked like a pocket. Ceria had no idea why you’d ever put something like that on your hand. Yvlon shrugged.
“She called them gloves.”
“Right. Of course she did. Did she say why she wanted them?”
“For that game she mentioned, I think. Is Erin in there?”
Yvlon nodded to the door standing about ten feet away. Ceria nodded. Yvlon walked over to the magic door and stared inside. The grass ran right up to the door’s edge, at which point wooden floorboards took over. Yvlon stepped from Celum’s meadow into the shade of The Wandering Inn. She blinked as the room grew darker and then stared around Erin’s grand common room.
“Erin? We’ve got your bats and gloves. Do you have any water?”
“What?”
Erin poked her head out of the kitchen. She blinked as she saw Yvlon.
“Oh, hey Yvlon! Did you get my bats?”
Ksmvr poked his head through the doorway.
“Yes, Miss Erin. We have acquired your desired objects. Another successful mission for the Horns of Hammerad. Yvlon requests water as our reward. As do I. Comrade Pisces would like a glass of wine.”
“Sure! Wait—tell Pisces he can’t drink just yet! I’ll be out in one moment! I just have to put this dough in the oven…”
It took a few minutes for Erin to emerge from the kitchen. When she walked outside into the meadow, she had a tray with a filled pitcher of water and cups. She raised her voice.
“Hey everyone! Gather around here! I’ve got something to show you! Also: water!”
She placed the tray on the ground. Everyone looked around and got up to come over. Pisces sniffed as Ceria offered him a cup of water. The half-Elf took a sip of the lukewarm water, grimaced, and then raised a hand before Yvlon could pour herself a cup.
“Let me.”
She pointed at the pitcher and conjured a sphere of ice out of the air. She tossed it into the pitcher, making a splash. Yvlon eyed the giant ice cube floating in the water.
“That’s handy. Normally ice is a rare treat.”
“That’s what you get with an ice mage around. You want smaller ice cubes? I like to chew them.”
“Ooh. I’ll have some!”
Jelaqua Ivirith grinned as she walked over. She nodded appreciatively at Ceria as the half-Elf conjured ice cubes out of the air and flicked them into a cup. Seborn took a cup, filled it, drained it, and then sighed.
“Refreshing. No ice, thanks, Ceria. What’s this you have to show us, Erin?”
“Baseball! You got the bats and gloves? And I have baseballs! Hey Mrsha, are you having fun?”
Erin bent down as Mrsha raced over. The Gnoll smiled up at Erin as she grabbed a cup and then ran over to Ceria to get free ice. Lyonette jogged over, huffing, and stared at the baseball bats, gloves, and balls. She glanced at Erin.
“Is this the game you were talking about?”
“Yup! Baseball! The perfect game for today! I thought we could sit outside, play games, eat some food—I’ve got some buns rising in the oven for hot dogs, popcorn, and there’s sausages since hot dogs aren’t made in Liscor. That’s probably a good thing. Anyways, we can try baseball or just have fun!”
Erin beamed. The others looked at each other. Everything sounded good, especially just sitting in the sun. But…Ceria coughed.
“Erin, would you mind explaining what this baseball thing is?”
“Oh. Right. I forgot that, uh…well, it’s a game!”
Pisces rolled his eyes.
“Do tell.”
Ceria smirked as Erin glared at both of them. She picked up a bat and one of the hide-wrapped balls she’d bought from Liscor.
“It’s a fun game! I told you, people where I come from play it all the time. Everyone loves it!”
She paused and bit her lip.
“Okay, some people like to play it. I mean, in my country it’s big, but in the world it’s not that huge a sport compared to…”
She scratched her head. Her audience stared at the young woman expectantly. Erin coughed.
“It has fans. And it’s easy to play. Okay, wait, let me explain from the start. Baseball…baseball…”
Erin was at a bit of a loss of how to describe baseball. It wasn’t that she didn’t know the rules and so forth, it was just that she’d never had to explain the game in its entirety. She scratched her head as everyone sipped from their cups.
“I’ve got it! Okay. Baseball is this game. Where you hit balls.”
Ksmvr raised his hand.
“At people?”
“No! Okay, sometimes. Not on purpose. No, you hit balls, and then run around this…this diamond. It’s not actually a diamond, it’s actually three, no, four bases. On the ground. You run from base to base while the other team—there are teams—tries to get the ball you hit and tag you out. And if you run all the way around and get back where you started, you score!”
Jelaqua glanced up at Moore. The half-Giant was scratching his head.
“And you win? Is that the point of the game?”
“Nope! You get a point! And if you’re tagged, you’re ‘out’. And if you get three outs, the other team gets to hit the ball. And we change sides like that like…nine times. Whoever has the highest score wins. Unless there’s a tie.”
“What happens then?”
“Then we play another round until one team has more points than the other. Both teams get a chance at bat—that means hitting the ball. And if one team gets more points by the end they win the game. If not, we play another inning. That’s both teams pitching—throwing the ball—and batting—hitting the ball.”
Ceria looked at Pisces. He raised both eyebrows and smiled sardonically. Ksmvr raised his other hand, not having lowered the first one.
“Miss Solstice, what happens if both teams fail to acquire more points?”
“Then we keep playing. Forever. Or until one team can’t play anymore.”
Erin stared at Ksmvr. He nodded.
“Defeat by attrition. Very appropriate.”
“Right. So that’s baseball. Any questions?”
The adventurers, Mrsha, Bird, and Lyonette looked at each other. Then they all raised their hands. Ksmvr raised his third one. Erin sighed.
“Let me try again.”
 
——
 
A few explanations later, Ceria understood baseball. At least, she understood how the game was played. There was a logic to it—hitting a ball sounded like fun, and the gloves made sense to her now. Still, she had declined to practice at first. The Halfseekers and Mrsha had volunteered to take the equipment and hit a few balls. Everyone else was sitting and watching as Erin coached from the sidelines.
“Okay! Aim for Moore’s glove, Seborn! Not at Jelaqua! Mrsha, you stay in the outfield! Grab the ball when it goes flying and throw it at Lyonette!”
“Alright! Throw that ball, Seborn!”
Jelaqua grinned as she swung the baseball bat energetically. Moore, crouching behind her with his hand open—he was holding a tablecloth for a glove since Erin hadn’t wanted to pay for a glove for his hands—eyed Jelaqua’s bat with some apprehension.
“Don’t let go of that bat, Jelaqua. And please don’t hit me in the head.”
“Relax! I’ve got this! Throw, Seborn!”
The Drowned Man did. Erin had shown him how to pitch, and the [Rogue] threw the ball surprisingly fast. Jelaqua swung. Her bat whiffed the air as the baseball bounced off of Moore’s palm. The half-Giant picked up the ball between two fingers and threw it clumsily back at Seborn.
“Aw.”
“Strike one!”
Erin waved her arms. Jelaqua looked over.
“What? Am I out already?”
“No, you get two more chances!”
“Got it! Throw me another, Seborn!”
The Drowned Man did. Ceria watched the ball flash past Jelaqua. The Selphid blinked.
“Hey, not that fast!”
“Too bad. I’m trying to win here.”
Seborn smiled as Moore threw the ball back to him. Jelaqua growled and swung the bat around. Ceria watched as Seborn wound up and threw the third ball. This time, Jelaqua had the timing down. She stepped forward and swung.
The crack of bat hitting ball made Mrsha look up. She’d been playing in the grass impatiently. Her eyes widened as she saw the baseball flying overhead. She raced after it as Jelaqua looked around.
“Did you see that?”
“Run for first base!”
“Oh, right!”
The Selphid charged towards the ‘base’ Erin had set up, which was a pillow lying in the grass. Erin waved her arms frantically.
“The bat! Put the bat back!”
“Argh!”
