Garia punched Numbtongue lightly. She mistook his look for eying Lady Rie for bardic inspiration. Namely, the kind they got a bad rap for, like how they might sing of the ‘low-cut bodice, alluringly clinging dress’, or some such.
Numbtongue didn’t go in for that. Although the [Lady] was attractive and had a nice dress…he was eying her skin. And teeth.
Was there a faint ochre tinge to her skin? It looked fairly flawless, no freckles or scars. But that wasn’t what interested him.
He thought, even as she smiled and held a hand over her mouth—
She had faintly sharp teeth. Not just her canines like Fierre, but all her teeth, like a Goblin.
Which was hot. And probably justified the punch. More than that, Lady Rie was shifting, and Numbtongue saw, faintly, some muscle move along her arms and shoulder and even along her calf, exposed by the aforementioned dress cut down the sides. Ooh, muscle. She didn’t seem like she worked out.
What an interesting Human. She went up higher on the danger-meter. Then he paid attention to the half-Troll girl, Durene. Lady Rie’s unusual features or not—she was squashed by the Troll.
After all, it wasn’t often that Numbtongue had to stare up at someone only a bit shorter than Moore, with tough, grey skin and armor. It was faintly golden, with an authentic glow that beat the Thronebearers’ shiny armor. A giant wooden mace was propped beside her, and she was giving him a glare. He blew her a kiss, and her look of outrage made him laugh.
Oh yes, if Riverfarm was showing off, Erin’s group was giving at least a bit of what it got. People were pointing at Tkrn, who looked embarrassed to be so interesting. Ulvama glanced around with a vaguely interested expression because she had seen this before and eyed the crowd, then sniffed the air for the food set out. Typhenous waved grandly as people cheered him, beaming and winking into the crowd as a group of three pushed forwards.
The Thronebearers and Lyonette attracted just as much attention; Dalimont and Lormel flanked Lyonette, who had not been announced because she was incognito—but people cheered and waved her like, well, a [Princess]. She was even doing the graceful little wave.
But it was Erin Solstice who had locked eyes with Laken Godart’s closed ones. And it was harder to say whether they liked or disliked each other at once.
Or rather, which outweighed which.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was smiling, but her eyes darted around the huge crowd with a clear dislike for the moment. Laken Godart was almost ignorant of the commotion, as if this were commonplace. Yet his smile was equally—strained.
She could not know it, but a bubbling dislike was warring with an intellectual appreciation that knew full well his animosity was not natural. Still, the feeling was hard to erase. And at the same time…Erin gazed at Laken.
Laken, whom she knew full well had participated in the siege of Liscor. Laken, who had kidnapped the Goblins; to save them, but also kidnapped them. And fought with Rags. Who had…saved her life. And he was Ryoka’s dubious friend or acquaintance. Also, Laken from Earth, who had become an [Emperor]?
She was eying Laken Godart in a way that Lyonette did not like. The [Princess] knew Erin’s moods, and Erin had the same expression she sometimes cheerfully gave to Zevara or Lism or…a lot of people.
“Erin. Erin, this is his welcome, and we need his cooperation. Be very polite. Erin? Erin?”
The procession was coming face-to-face with Laken’s entourage, who had waited for them to approach. Like supplicants before an informal throne. Erin even smelled flower petals and a faint perfume in the air instead of sweat or anything else.
Such an orchestrated event, and people were cheering or applauding. Laken raised a hand, and the sounds died down instantly.
Erin tried. She really did. She twitched—then, as Gamel began to read out an official welcome, she lost control.
“Hey, Laken! Good to meet you at last! Put her there!”
The [Innkeeper] strode forwards with a hand stretched out. Lyonette screamed—internally. Erin halted a second as the half-Troll girl stirred, frowning. Laken had no eyes to blink, but he twitched, and Gamel faltered.
“His M—er…”
Undaunted, Erin took another step, holding her hand out, right before a woman’s arm shot out and the [Farmer] blocked her way. Prost and Rie gave Erin long stares.
“His Majesty doesn’t shake hands, Miss—”
“Emperor Godart is waiting upon a formal greeting, I believe—”
The two began until Laken coughed. They stopped, turned, and he walked forwards.
“Laken!”
Durene hissed at him, but the blind man continued. Erin blinked. He wore pale white clothing with flashes of color added to them along the sleeves and leggings around his ankles, an oddly austere look matched by the embroidery of that pyramid and eyes—his symbols, emblazoned on his chest.
Royal-casual clothing? It certainly seemed nice, and he had a few artifacts on. A ring like hers, probably, buffed walking shoes, but he didn’t dress like Altestiel even.
Yet never had Erin felt an aura as strong as his. Not even Magnolia had the…intensity. The power, maybe, but she felt like it was pressing all around her. Erin’s own aura was skin-deep, and she pushed it back, but she’d never been so conscious of the authority in the air.
But the blind man was casual, and indeed, he walked without a cane, as sure as could be across the newly-laid brick street. Erin had only half meant it when she held out a hand. Yet up his came, and he clasped hers with both of his. And shook it gently.
“Erin Solstice. You’re every bit as outstanding as Ryoka said.”
His grip was firm, even tight, but Erin saw him smile widely. Almost too widely. Did he…not like her? Was he offended?
For once, she had no idea. She had known—well, met people who were blind, a few times, but she couldn’t read Laken for more reasons than just that. Fortunately or unfortunately, her mouth was running on autopilot.
And there were people watching her. Erin felt a prickling on the back of her neck from some—feeling. But she couldn’t turn away from Laken, so she smiled and joked.
“It’s a pleasure, Laken. I’m Erin—you knew that! Oops, sorry. Can I call you Laken?”
Outrage and murmuring from people who could hear. Laken Godart’s brows just rose, and then an expression of amusement crossed his face.
“You can call me…‘L’, Erin.”
She blinked in confusion—then began to giggle and laugh as she remembered. Laken chuckled, and the expressions of anger changed to confusion. A joke only the two of them knew as Lyonette smiled desperately and everyone watched. And suddenly, Erin felt a little calmer.
She let go of Laken’s hands and looked at him again. Then Erin properly stared around Riverfarm, at the thousands of people, and whistled.
“Whoa! This is amazing! This is your village? And you’re—and I’m here at last and—the Summer Solstice party happened? You, an [Emperor]!”
The young woman laughed in delight now, and Laken shrugged self-consciously. His head turned as if he was ‘looking’, but his eyes never opened.
“And you’re as striking as Ryoka said! You know, I felt the moment you crossed into the Unseen Empire? Are those three Goblins with you? And two Gnolls—I should love to meet them. No Drakes? More friends from home?”
“Oh, just one. Um, the others are sort of busy—but we brought you gifts! Sorry, I forgot you didn’t get Drakes up north…”
Laken’s smile changed, and the word ‘Drakes’ produced a rumble that Erin didn’t like, but she held judgment, or tried.
“It might be just as well. We have run into a few. From Manus.”
“Ooh. Manus? What…no, um, maybe we should do the introducing thing?”
Erin faltered, because Lyonette was staring at her out of the corner of her eyes. She was embarrassed, but Laken just turned his head. Cool as a cucumber.
“Of course. To whom do I have the honor of meeting?”
His head turned straight to Lyonette, and Ser Lormel stepped forwards and bowed smoothly. He performed a strange bow, deep, for royalty, perhaps, and spoke.
“Your Majesty of Riverfarm, it is my honor on behalf of the Eternal Throne of Calanfer to extend the greetings of thrones from His Majesty, King Reclis du Marquin. I present to you Princess—”
Lyonette was hissing at him, but Lormel had clearly decided that this was not the time to play incognito. Erin saw Laken turn and then greet Lyonette, waiting through five minutes of floral addresses.
He was so unbothered by the attention. Which was unlike Erin—she could generate it, but she always knew it was there. Laken stood with thousands of eyes on him as if he had forgotten they were there. True, he might be blind, but this was different.
It was all going better than you could hope, if less well than planned, in short. Lyonette was stepping back, eying Laken with clear interest and wariness, but he turned his head.
“May I meet the rest of your group, Erin, Princess du Marquin? I confess, I am powerfully interested.”
That was unusual, and Lyonette faltered, but Mrsha was squirming with a notecard in Ulvama’s arms, and Dame Ushar was trying to take it from her with clear worry. Numbtongue’s eyes lit up, and he produced another, worryingly toothy grin. But the person that Erin feared most was a Goblin spitting into her hand and cackling.
Gothica. 
They never got that far, and Laken was spared whatever Gothica had planned for one simple reason. Erin heard, in the crowd—which was murmuring, calling out, hardly silent during these proceedings now it was more casual—a familiar, caustic voice.
“Did we miss it? Did we miss—move it, please. Gold-rank adventurers, coming through! Come on, Halrac. Where’s Briganda? Dead gods, what are you, shy? Come on and—”
Then Erin Solstice’s head turned, and she saw a familiar Stitch-Woman tugging on a loose thread in her neck anxiously. Half-bullying, half-cajoling a taller man with a face set with lines that defaulted to ‘grumpy’, through the crowd.
He wore enchanted leather armor and a bow was on his back at all times. Or rather, the invisible outline of one. His grey hair was not an indication of his actual age, but added to the grumpy old man. He seemed far more tired than Erin remembered. As if someone else were weighing him down, and he had always seemed tired.
But right now—his eyes were lowered, fixed on Revi determinedly, as if he were trying not to look. His eyes were always roaming, but they were turned away from her.
Shyly. As if afraid to look. A [Shieldmaiden] was pushing through the crowd with a little boy on her shoulders, who was waving at a Gnoll who’d sat bolt-upright in Ulvama’s arms, sickness or not.
Typhenous hurried through the crowd and turned, delighted. But Erin turned away from Laken Godart and began walking, completely forgetting the [Emperor] was there.
Revi Cotton looked up as Halrac the Grim’s head rose. His face was set in that expression that had earned him his nickname before Named-rank. The face of a man about to take a wound or endure a sandstorm naked.
His friends and teammates knew it was fear. That of someone afraid of what he might see, or not see. His gaze rose, passing through people stepping to one side, sounding shocked.
He saw a young woman in travelling clothes, her brown hair flying in the wind a bit, hazel eyes on him. She was running forwards, arms waving, outstretched, flying past a surprised [Emperor].
“Halrac! Halrac! Haaaaalrac! And Revi!”
The Gold-rank [Marksman] had only a second to blink before she leapt and threw her arms around him. He froze up, and Erin laughed as she grabbed him.
“Erin! Emperor Laken—”
Revi was horrified, but Erin just grabbed Halrac, and the man stared down at her. His arms went wide, but hesitated, hovering over her.
“Erin?”
Halrac stared down at her, taking in her face, how she’d changed from being—dead. Those eyes seemed older, and yet, when she looked up and smiled—
“Hug me, silly! Or are you too cool?”
Awkwardly, flushing as Master Helm and Windrest’s folk watched, Halrac put his arms down and—patted Erin on the back. She squeezed him harder.
“You silly guy! I’ve missed you. You…you…”
“Erin. You did it.”
You came back to life. He had never expected to see her again. He had gone to the Village of the Dead for a dream, but never had Halrac thought to see Erin again. Ulrien…his friends in war and as adventurers.
He thought he’d known some things never changed. Now—Halrac, who kept his feet planted on the ground, felt as though he were floating. He squeezed harder as Revi made a gasping sound.
“You—you’re so—Erin!”
She grabbed Erin, and Typhenous gently placed his hands on Erin’s shoulders, seeming delighted. Briganda watched, looking at Halrac’s face. Stone was trying very hard not to crack. Erin squeaked as her feet left the ground. The [Marksman] realized she was alive.
Then—a laughing, snotting, sobbing little white blur leapt towards Halrac and slammed into his legs. He glanced down, bent down, and Mrsha was all over him. She hugged Halrac, clinging to him as he tried to say something.
“Halrac? You look like someone’s just slipped ice into your britches. Say something.”
Briganda teased. Revi glanced up at Halrac, and then her head spun around.
“Typh—Typhenous, get a scrying orb. Record his face!”
What did he—? Halrac almost let go, but then he saw Mrsha’s sobbing face. She was hugging him, and Erin gazed up at him. Her eyes were shining. She wiped at one and then began to hiccup.
“Oh no—hic—what’s going—hic—now? Come on, this is so embarrassing.”
She glanced around as an [Emperor] held up a hand and listened, smiling. As a coven of [Witches] halted and an ordinary witch caught her first sight of Erin. For there was Erin Solstice, Mrsha, Halrac, Griffon Hunt—and then Lyonette came hurrying over, and to the horror of her Thronebearers, flung her arms around the group.
At this, the little Goblin with the poofy hat issued a strangled cry and broke off from the cautious group who’d left their territory and ran, screaming, across the ground. A [Shaman] shouted and ran at her, but Pebblesnatch ran straight past Ulvama and launched herself into a flying headbutt that nearly took down the [Innkeeper].
And all through it, Halrac didn’t understand why Erin was hiccuping. Until he realized his cheeks were faintly wet. Erin was sobbing.
“Pebble—? Halrac, stop crying! You’re making me cry!”
“I’m crying?”
Halrac felt at his face, and Revi looked up. Mrsha offered him a truly soiled handkerchief, and the [Summoner] pointed at Halrac’s face as Typhenous took a magical image for posterity. Just in case he needed to show it around, because no one would ever believe this.
“You’re crying and smiling, you idiot. Make up your mind.”
