The [Hostel Manager] clearly thought Erin was insane, and she watched fearfully as the guests trooped over to the ‘guest house’. Erin was tired after sitting in a carriage all day, and even Mrsha was droopy. So they went inside and discovered why the guest house wasn’t being used.
It was run-down, had holes in the walls, and Erin discovered the beds had spiders living under them. She found that out after waking up, because she had a rash of bites on her arm.
Frankly, the people who’d elected to camp outside—Numbtongue, Garia, Inkar, and Tkrn—had probably enjoyed their sleep far more. When Erin got up, exclaiming over the itchy bites and having to wash with a bucket drawn from the well, she found breakfast was a bunch of cold porridge and milk someone had left them outside the cottage.
Lyonette was haranguing the [Hostel Manager] before they left. She had a little Mrsha clinging to her, oddly tired.
“—poor quality food, completely inadequate rooms, and I noted that your [Stablehands] were barely able to bed the horses down. My companions had to do it themselves! Completely inept.”
“That’s my son.”
“Well—I—it’s still poor service for the price!”
The angry woman glared at Lyonette, and they argued as the carriages were loaded up. Erin Solstice just stared.
The [Hostel Manager] noticed the [Innkeeper]’s eyes digging into the side of her face after about three minutes of arguing. She turned and snapped.
“What—what do you want?”
Erin just spoke after a long silence. Eating cold bisque was not a fun way to gain her strength, either.
“Is it fun?”
“Is what fun?”
“Is doing this fun?”
Erin gestured at the hostel and the…everything. It wasn’t a rich place, and if the guests leaving were any judge, it only got a decent amount of travellers most of the time. The woman just stared back, hard.
“Not everyone comes from Invrisil.”
Then she slammed the door and locked it before Erin could say anything else. The [Innkeeper] stopped Lyonette from banging on the door, but she was angry enough herself to say something. She noticed Inkar glancing her way and waved.
“Maybe I could ride with you or talk to you, Inkar?”
She tried to look forwards to the next day of travel. Then Mrsha groaned and began to cough. She rubbed at her throat, and Lyonette felt at her forehead.
“Oh dear.”
 
——
 
Mrsha was sick. She had a cold. Probably from running about and being excited late into the night.
It wasn’t a bad cold, just unpleasant. She blew her nose, coughed, and stared around at everyone with the banked fury of a victim of the most unfair and unscrupulous treatment.
She was sick on her big vacation! This was all your fault! You! And you! And especially you! She wanted to have fun, and now she felt like a wet dishrag.
Curse you! She shook her fist at Typhenous, her seat-passenger for the day. He adamantly claimed to be innocent.
 
——
 
Sick Mrsha, bad accommodations, and another day of this. Lyonette was [Messaging] ahead, and she quickly realized that the same problem applied—her ‘reservation’ wasn’t much good, and the owners did not like Goblins.
It would be the height of unpleasantness to find a place to camp—without a tent—as they arrived at dusk or, alternatively, have to argue their way into a place to sleep, so Inkar volunteered to help.
“We will ride ahead. We can find out if there is anywhere to stay.”
“I’ll ride with you! I can ride a horse. I think. I’d like to try, if that’s okay?”
Erin offered, and Inkar gave her a long stare. Erin worried the [Traveller] was mad about Erin taking Tkrn’s place or unwilling to ride with her, but Inkar just nodded.
“How many times have you ridden? Let’s see.”
She got off her horse and helped Erin into another one. Erin had forgotten how big horses were, and how…
“Whoa. Whoa. Um…hey, buddy.”
She tried to pat the horse on the back of the head. The animal whickered, sounding as uneasy as Erin. He took a few steps forwards, and Erin grasped at the reins, but was too nervous to pull them.
“I, uh—stop! Whoa!”
Inkar made a clicking sound with her tongue, and the horse stopped. It gazed at her as she reached up and patted it on the sides of the head. Soothed, the animal turned as Inkar smiled.
“You’ve ridden a horse?”
Her English wasn’t bad! She had a lot of practice, but she had an accent that Erin noticed. It sounded a bit high-pitched? As if she didn’t follow through on the full breath of some words. Perfectly understandable, but interesting.
“I have—a bit. For fun. At, like, ranches and for that kind of thing. But I, um, don’t know how to ride one. Is that okay?”
“Erin, the carriages move pretty fast…”
Lyonette was clearly worried Erin would get left behind, but Inkar reassured her.
“It’s okay. [We Travel Together]. My Skills and hers…we’ll go fast.”
She smiled, and Erin looked delighted. She sat up straighter as Inkar swung herself onto Samal’s saddle with one move. So cool! Mrsha whined as she pointed, and Lyonette patted her on the head.
“Sorry, dear, but no. Absolutely not.”
“We could gamble, Mrsha? I have a deck of cards.”
“Typhenous! Absolutely…”
The carriages began to pull away as Erin saw Inkar wave at Tkrn, who had elected to sit with Numbtongue. The Hob was already playing a song as Gothica poked him, demanding he work on her theme song. Erin kicked her horse.
“Gee up! Let’s go after them, pal! You and me! What’s your name? Bobby? Stanford?”
The horse ignored her. Erin was trying to be a confident rider, so she pressed her heel into the sides. She thought it was hard, but the horse ignored her. Erin flushed as Inkar trotted forwards.
“Want to go? I wanted to talk to you.”
She smiled with her teeth like a Gnoll, and Erin blinked.
“Sure. How do I…? Whoa!”
The horse began trotting after Inkar’s horse. It barely listened to Erin, but followed the other horse. Erin quickly realized that she had no control over her mount, but it was a well-trained animal. It knew to follow Inkar, and once she learned to adjust to the bouncy rhythm—it was fun.
Being on a horse was nothing like being in a car or on a carriage. It felt—close to everything and fast. Not least because Inkar’s Skills meant they caught up to the carriage at a canter!
Both girls had to get moving first, though, so Inkar’s first half-hour was telling Erin to hold onto the reins differently, relax in the saddle, and watch her tongue in case she bit it while riding. Erin felt completely out of her depth, but Inkar was a good guide.
“Sit back a bit. Good. Now we ride! Do you want food?”
“Food? We had some bad porridge. You have, uh, any snacks?”
For answer, Inkar pulled out what looked like…travel pancakes? They were a flatbread, fried up, and she offered some to Erin.
“Shelpek? I made them like home. Gnolls have something like it. And silkap.”
She offered a jar of the fine meat spread, and Erin found herself munching on a piece of bread covered in the rich food and perked up.
The world felt so much better with the good food in her mouth! Suddenly, she glanced around, and the bleh morning took on some color. Erin stared around and saw a dirt road winding ahead, passing by a huge field of Yellats being yanked out of the ground by a [Farmer] with tongs.
He had an odd hat with two crystals dangling off it and stopped mid-pull with the orange vegetable dangling off the tongs to see the three carriages, each one painted a gentle green, passing by.
Clairei Carriages, painted in a bit of bright yellow, with the advisory underneath: Protected by the Order of Clairei Fields.
The field of Yellats was huge! Erin saw dried and what she would have assumed meant dead stalks of faded yellow amid the dry dirt, but that was just how Yellats grew. Indeed, the [Farmer] didn’t need to wait on rain since the crops native to Chandrar were so hardy. He waved a hand, and the crystals dangling from his wicker hat shone as Erin realized they were cooling gems.
“Hello there! Headed to Riverfarm?”
“How do you know?”
Erin shouted back. He laughed in a huge voice, amused.
“Everyone’s headed there these days! Safe roads in the Unseen Empire!”
“Thank you! Who are you? Tell me, so plains can sing your name!”
The [Farmer] blinked as Inkar slowed and shouted back.
“Farmer Geleit! And who’re you?”
“Inkar of Longstalker’s Fang, and Erin of Liscor!”
The [Traveller] shouted and laughed at his expression. Inkar rode high-backed, staring up at the sky, where grey clouds were passing over the blue. Erin’s face fell.
“Aw, no. Not rain—”
It began to shower, and it looked like that morning would be bad again as the damp smell overtook the vague spicy hint of the Yellats and the fall air. But Inkar just laughed.
“Rain! Do you want a jacket?”
It bounced off her enchanted clothing, and she didn’t look like she even cared about the drizzle. Erin blinked, then accepted a long hide-jacket. The instant she put it on, she felt warmer, and the rain slid off the oil worked into it. She still got wet, but suddenly, they were riding through the morning rain instead of suffering it, and Erin saw the horse open its mouth to the sky and drink some of the drops, and then—
And then it felt like an adventure. A travelling adventure, not some great journey, but no less exciting for all that. Inkar turned to Erin and gave her a smile, seeing how Erin felt. And Erin felt a big grin come over her face.
“Is it warm enough, Erin?”
“Yep! Thanks! This is great, Inkar!”
A carriage slowed as the two young women picked up speed again, and Lyonette called out the window, seeming worried.
“Erin, are you too cold? We can have Ser Sest trade with you.”
“I’m fine! Inkar lent me a coat! Let’s go, Inkar! Ride faster, Bobby!”
Bobby the horse ignored her until Inkar made a whistling sound, and both horses began to move. Then, Inkar was riding alongside Erin, and they were watching the rain drizzle down, waving at riders and talking.
Not all the time, and not about everything at first. Sometimes, one horse would slow and the other would follow, or one of them would point at something and the other would agree—that was something to stare at.
But unlike the carriages, Inkar was only too happy to slow and exchange words with someone on the road or call out. Which was interesting, because Erin was the [Innkeeper] and Inkar seemed like the reserved one.
She didn’t speak as long as others. She didn’t chatter. But she did greet almost everyone who passed her by, such that Erin wondered who said more, her at length, or Inkar from person-to-person.
“So you were in Longstalker’s Fang? What was it like?”
Inkar considered the question as she cut up half a carrot with a knife and fed it to both horses. She did it while sitting astride Samal, as if there were nothing easier.
“A bit like home. I lived outside the cities. We rode horses, we travelled—”
“Oh, nomadic? I had no idea! Where’s, um, Kazakhstan? Where do they kazak?”
Inkar gave Erin a blank look, and then, to her credit, she tried to smile at the joke. Erin turned red, and Inkar tried to explain.
“South of…Russia? It—hold on. I have a map.”
“You have a what?”
To Erin’s amazement, Inkar pulled out a drawing she had once made for Chieftain Eska after a few minutes of searching. She showed Erin where Kazakhstan was, and Erin embarrassed herself twice in as many minutes.
“Wait, Kazakhstan is that big? Is this map accurate?”
She had no idea how big Kazakhstan was or that it was in central Asia…or, really, what central Asia was. Because if east Asia was China, Korea, Japan, and so on, Kazakhstan bordered the middle east, a large nation landlocked as you headed north into that vast expanse you marked as ‘Russia’.
And Erin had barely known it existed, much less anything about the culture or people living there. But as Inkar explained, it had a lot of oil, cities filled with emerging industry, but an entire culture of people who still participated in horse races and who mixed with urban landscapes before heading out into the wide flatlands.
“I was going home. On a train. Then…I was walking in a place I thought was in the middle of nowhere. Lost—I thought it was home at first. It was dark.”
She had been lost in the Great Plains of Izril for almost a week and had been forced to cannibalize her smartphone to start a fire before Longstalker’s Fang had found her. That had been the hardest moment of her life, aside from the battle at the Meeting of Tribes.
“The Gnolls did not all like me, at first. Because I showed Honored Deskie how to make a device to help spin without working hard. So many of the [Spinners] played tricks. One put a bug in my tent.”
“Those jerks! Did you get back at them? Did Eska punish them?”
For answer, Inkar just smiled.
“Not much. I helped them, and we became friends after I apologized.”
“Apologized for what?”
Erin was outraged, but Inkar shook her head.
“Taking their jobs. All their classes and levels.”
That was another difference of opinion, and Erin’s righteous anger on Inkar’s behalf got confused, because the [Traveller] seemed quite calm about everything. She had won over a tribe’s approval, and as she showed Erin—
“Honored Deskie made this for me. The most beautiful clothing I have ever worn. Longstalker’s Fang and I will always be friends. See?”
Then she teleported ahead of Erin, and the [Innkeeper] shouted in amazement and wonder and envy.
“That’s so amazing! Could I buy clothing like that?”
“Maybe. Deskie is old. But maybe for a friend. She has to make it out of Waisrabbit fur, and it is hard to get much of that. I promised to hunt any I saw. But what about you?”
And then Erin had to tell her about Liscor, and she felt like it was hard to explain how she’d started, with meeting Relc and Klbkch at first and fumbling around in her inn, but Inkar listened and asked a lot of questions, shuddering when Erin described Skinner and all the monsters she’d met.
“You’re braver than most warriors. You saw so much danger.”
More than Inkar had with a tribe in one of Izril’s wildernesses. Erin demurred and asked what kind of monsters Inkar had seen—but they weren’t nearly as prolific. Monstrous bulls, semi-vampiric hunters, slimes, occasionally a rogue Wyvern…
 
——
 
They were so engrossed by talking that they were almost at their destination by early evening. Erin hadn’t realized they hadn’t stopped for more than a few stretches of the legs and to pee—Inkar had kept sharing out snacks periodically such that Erin never really got hungry for lunch.
They had also made splendid time thanks to the [Worldly Traveller]’s Skills. Like everyone else, Inkar had benefited greatly from the Meeting of Tribes, and she had a number of unique abilities.
