Then he turned back to Erin and spoke conversationally.
“The world of bird-hunting is very deep, Erin. I did not know this, but first I had to learn to hunt big Wyvern-birds, next, I learn some can snap your bowstrings. Others flash, and some have ‘owners’ who try to stop you. Do not worry, I will rise to the challenge.”
Erin opened her mouth. Then she patted Bird on the shoulder.
“Just, uh, just be careful, Bird.”
He waved as she left and was still waving as the group began to leave for Invrisil. Though they took the door downstairs for that. He called out cheerfully to the air.
“Do not worry, Erin. I know my level is not high enough yet. I am a cautious [Hunter]. I need twenty more levels at least before I hunt a Wrymvr.”
He rubbed his hands together.
“Heh. Heheheheh.”
He normally worried about the ethics of hunting people-birds like Bevussa, but Klbkch and Chaldion and Saliss had all told him he was welcome to try. Pivr was sadly more cowardly.
 
——
 
So, a [Witch] set out to meet a [Witch]. A classic. The journey was different, non-standard. She began her trip by stepping a single time and moving four hundred miles. She prepared little, and she gave no warning.
Oh, she gave warning to the [Emperor], but none to the [Witch], save by proxy. Nor to the other [Witches]. She strolled about in company, arranging a carriage ride to a series of stops over the next two days that would see them in Riverfarm.
Nor did she realize there was a stirring in the air. Grave worms amidst a fallow field. Not that Wiskeria paid attention to that either.
Or the old man sobbing as she walked over him. Each morning he whispered to her, and each morning she broke a tiny bit of his skin away. She walked over the wet ground tilled by farmers and found a father searching for food to feed his family.
He froze, and she snapped his neck. For a second, they locked eyes, then he turned, and she put a foot on his back and drove her other heel down as he writhed and began to scream. Her sensible boots struck the bone on his neck and snapped it. Blood rushed helplessly around as she ground the flesh down, and the head lolled, eyes blank, as she lifted him up.
His children watched as Wiskeria turned. She hefted the limp rag up, a bit of blood running from the nose, and met the children’s eyes. She would have had them too, but they fled, and the [Witch] simply exhaled.
She could have tracked them down to their homes and snuck upon them at night. A hammer to bash their brains out or a knife in the darkness. But that required more effort than she had. If she wanted, she could have followed them by day, using the father’s corpse like a dowsing rod. She could have whispered a name into the dark roots of the forest and heard an answer for a price.
She did none of those things. Instead, Wiskeria walked on, ignoring the signs of the worms. A farmer groused at them, then jerked in surprise as she offered the father’s body.
“General Wiskeria! What brings you here?”
“Just touring the farms, Mister Ram. Worms?”
“Odd bastards. Grave worms. Not natural. I think it might be—er, some of your folk, begging your pardon, Miss Wiskeria.”
He was careful around her. He almost said something else, and Wiskeria caught the not-words.
Might be unnatural magic. Tampering.
Witchcraft, or what the [Head Farmer] thought witchcraft was. She took no offense. A [Witch] could conjure worms or relocate them, but she had done nothing about it.
“I can ask about, Mister Ram. No doubt it’s just some carrion. Speaking of which—”
She showed him the body again, and the dead father stared out with glassy eyes, head hanging askew. Blood was drying, and his body was stiffening already in rigor mortis. Murdered moments ago by those sensible boots trodding over worms and pulping them into the soil.
Mister Ram stared at the dead body and smiled. Approvingly, gratefully. It was something Wiskeria had learned people did.
“Damn. A racoon by daylight?”
“He must have been hungry. Should I not have killed him?”
Wiskeria saw the man instantly shake his head and purse his lips.
“Not at all. You needn’t’ve troubled yourself though, General. Not you—we’ll put out some of Gralton’s dogs on night-watch. The last thing we need is them stripping some of the good crops.”
He nodded at the valuable crops, not mere wheat or barley sprouting up in vast fields, but even some aspiring grape vines and most crucially—a whole host of pumpkins.
“Are they growing…well?”
Ram nodded.
“We’ll be eating them for ages. Pumpkins in the bread, pumpkin pie—though we’re not growing sugarcane, as of yet—and have enough for Emperor Godart’s funny tradition. Carving faces.”
He laughed at that, like a man who saw only a funny image in a face carved. Not a curse. Not a place for a screaming soul to hide or eyes to watch. He accepted the dead body from Wiskeria.
“I’ll trot it over to a [Butcher]. Could be some good meat for the hounds. Thank you kindly.”
The [Witch] smiled and tipped her hat. She turned, stomping more worms to death as they writhed away—but so did he. She walked off, deliberately not worrying about what was coming. Because she wouldn’t know anything about that, would she?
She was a [General], a [Witch]—and most thought of the two classes as an odd combination. They forgot that [Witches] had led armies. A [Witch] could marshall a village. How hard was an army compared to that? If she could medicate wounds, settle disputes, make sure there was enough to eat, the animals were fed, the pests dealt with—a talented [Witch] could do that for a hundred thousand people.
It was only a matter of scale.
So, Wiskeria walked the farms. She checked on the people in the town—too large to be called a village now, even with the other outlying settlements being built—and listened for the sounds of disputes, people who might be unwell.
These were far more difficult for her to pick up than the man weeping and begging her to listen. Mortal voices were soft and—confusing. But they greeted her with smiles and called her ‘General’, ‘Miss Wiskeria’, or ‘Witch Wiskeria’, and she smiled back.
“How has your day been—Yesel?”
Prost’s wife was only too happy to tell Wiskeria.
“It’s been a night, Wiskeria. We had little Rulent up with a fever, so his parents came rushing to us. Nevermind that it was a spring fever—new parents get worried, so I was up halfway till dawn with tea and blankets until we all passed out.”
“Oh no. How terrible!”
Wiskeria seemed shocked and upset. Right up until she noticed the blank look cross Yesel’s face.
“I mean—for Rulent?”
Then her heart was pounding fast in her chest, as fast as the dying father’s, with worry until Yesel’s expression cleared.
“Yes, the poor dear! He was so upset—I should see if he can take down some soup.”
Wiskeria smiled, and her heart rate calmed down. Oh, so that was how it went.
“It’s…tough for you? A nuisance?”
“Not too much, but thank you for asking.”
“Oh. I see. Well, let me know if I can help.”
Yesel waved it away, but her smile seemed to increase, and she patted Wiskeria’s hand.
“You are so thoughtful, Wiskeria. Not like—”
She caught herself, and Wiskeria read the other words. The [Witch]’s smile never changed. But she remembered this, remembered this and tried to figure out how to do it right next time.
Because this was hard. Not that Yesel noticed, aside from that one moment of uncertainty. They were all people. More than Humans—and Riverfarm did have a few non-Humans these days—people were well-trained. They ignored little moments like that, smoothed them over, and Wiskeria was intensely grateful for their forgiveness.
Yet if she passed by in the eye of many as an important person, but unseen—there was one group of people who did watch Wiskeria. Who looked at her oddly.
Who—saw her.
And they were also [Witches]. But they were not the ones Wiskeria was trying to fit with. So she ignored the straightening [Witch] with her sensible cardigan sweater—under the lightest of ‘robes’, more like a long jacket, all bright red over a linen-beige covered with little mauve flowers—and her non-threatening hat with a little embroidered crown like leaves. The green thread spread downwards until they bloomed into ‘flowers’ which were black cats and broomsticks, cauldrons and wands and stars.
A beautiful hat that took everything that was [Witch] and made it somehow less and expected. A terribly wretched hat, to some, which offended their eyes.
But a perfect hat for the friendly woman with a face that was welcoming and excited to tell you things as a teacher, for that was what she was. Witch Agratha carried sweet toffee she made in one pocket, sealed with bits of wax paper that she would give to children or her apprentices. She had a handshake that even a [Miner] respected, and her clothing was often the brightest among any coven of [Witches].
In her way, she was as noted and as separate as Wiskeria was. But even Agratha, who smiled in the face of scorn like a willow in the winds—even she looked at Wiskeria with a frown full of unease. Until Wiskeria turned and Agratha smiled as if Wiskeria could not see out of the corners of her eyes.
As if Wiskeria were as blind as a [Witch] like Agratha, who didn’t need to ignore the whisper of the winds and the old man’s sobbing. For she, who taught hundreds of apprentices, had never learned to listen.
 
——
 
A [Witch] was made by many things. Her craft, her personality, her deeds and experiences and if she was sick or well and her friends and…everything.
But she still expressed much of it in her hat. A hat, Emperor Laken had learned, was a [Witch].
…Which annoyed him no end because the blind [Emperor] did not have eyes, and even his senses, which allowed him to detect most of Riverfarm, did not do detail like hats. It was something he would have learned to live with—except that they sounded like wonderful damn hats.
Nor could he go around and lay his hands on and feel out each [Witch]’s hat one-by-one. Even an [Emperor] did not go around touching hats.
So, in his desperation, like a [Pervert] seeking intimate details of the goings-on in a bathhouse or restroom—that was how he felt—he summoned one of Riverfarm’s subjects to describe hats.
It was objectively weird. And not the thing he should be doing while Erin Solstice was headed this way. Durene had paused for the longest time when he confessed his hat-envy.
“…I think I’ll go fight those skeletons in that graveyard, Laken. Have fun?”
It only made him more uncomfortable, and the unfortunate hat-describer was no less awkward as he laid out his request.
“Why me, Your Majesty?”
To that, he only responded with honesty:
“You, Adventurer Revi, have the best sense of fashion and a way with words among everyone I could name. I also think a Gold-rank adventurer might be discreet.”
The [Summoner] huffed and tried not to sound pleased.
“Well, I suppose that’s true. A Stitch-Woman for a cloth job. Do you want a hat?”
“Me? I don’t think so. And I don’t think a [Witch]’s hat is that, ah, simply obtained. I am trying to learn more about [Witches]. Do you…know much about them?”
Revi hmmed.
“There’s not many in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They were…more common with the Tyrant herself. I’ve met a few. Never partied with any—Wiskeria’s the first [Witch] I’ve really met in that sense. Do their hats matter?”
The [Emperor] thought about the question.
“Absolutely and not at all. But they do sound fascinating. Possibly fabulous or striking.”
Revi nodded slowly.
“In that case—that’s all the justification they need. Where do we start?”
 
——
 
They started with Hedag’s hat. The Hedag was, after all, one of the great [Witches] who had come to Riverfarm and among the greatest who remained.
Laken left the wide, vacuous ‘throne building’, which was an old storehouse they had converted into a place for him to take audiences, and walked down the bricked roads of Riverfarm. He could not see, but he could smell a morning’s breakfast on the air, hear excited panting as dogs ran up and Revi cursed at them and they danced away.
A wagon rolled past as he seated himself at an outdoor café and was brought a milk tea. Oh, the teas. It smelled of mild juniper, and if you so wanted, you could have a tea filled with a bit of saffron from Chandrar or something so hot and refreshing as to wake you up in Cenidau’s colds.
The great Tea-Witch, Eloise, was much to do with Riverfarm’s renaissance in tea, and the iron lattice of the chair and [Servers] fussing over Laken, very pleased at their modest outdoor café’s patronage, faded into the background. Laken had heard coffee had been discovered or rediscovered, but he had found tea was far better with an expert in Riverfarm.
Hedag was on the same street, hence them choosing one of Riverfarm’s new outdoor cafés where everyone could get a cup if they waited in line, gratis. Money was still something being worked out, but there were enough people and gold coming in that they had more than just the Unseen Empire’s citizens.
And somehow, Hedag picked out children of [Merchants] in the crowd. She, despite being an imposing figure, attracted children and younger people who sat about with her. She needed no toffee; she needed only to sit on the sidewalk and let a boy dangle his legs on her knee, perhaps wiping his nose on her dress, and whisper timidly in her ear until she handed him a coin made of wood and gave him a promise with a handshake as wide as his head.
Of such things was a Hedag’s craft, and Laken would not stop her even if he could. Of the [Witches], she stood out for what she did. More than that, she had a title from the days of old. Hedag. A word like the woman herself. A force of nature walking as much as a woman. Like old law given form. Arms like a woodcutter’s, a smile, or so Laken had been told, as broad and unassuming as could be.
As terrible as the axe she carried, which Revi claimed had the red of rust or blood on it, but an edge as sharp as a razor. Revi described Hedag as best she could as they had breakfast.
“She’s got…well, if there were workwoman’s robes, that’s what they’d be. I don’t think it’s cotton. Some kind of sturdy, twill cotton? Maybe another fabric like that?”
“What, it’s not a robe?”
Laken had assumed all the [Witches] were walking around with what he took to be classic [Wizard] and [Mage] robes, long and flowing, long-sleeved, a tripping hazard. But Revi, much amused, corrected him.
