Going faster on horseback was just the basic stuff. She had ears like a Gnoll, and as they entered a village where Lyonette had intended to make their second day of rest, it turned out, a nose like one too.
“[Gift of Friendship: Sharper Scents]. There are a lot of good smells—and bad—and people that way. Let’s see if they will let us stay the night.”
 
——
 
Erin’s good mood lasted until she felt how saddle-sore she was, but then she drank a healing potion for the day and felt better.
Then it plummeted again when it turned out not only was the local [Tavern] full up, but the owner flatly turned them away when they mentioned Goblins.
“If you want somewhere to stay, try one of the farms. But good luck. Goblins? A damn Chieftain raided last winter. Tremborag, the great bastard of the mountain. He’s dead and all of them with him. Are you mad? Are you—”
Inkar pulled Erin away as the [Innkeeper] shook her fist. The angry young woman turned to Inkar.
“Maybe we’ve gotta pay them. I’ve got gold. How much is a room? Let’s offer them…uh…four more gold. Sixteen? I just want a room.”
Inkar studied Erin’s face. The [Innkeeper] was still tiring faster than she would have liked, and she was fed up. Inkar glanced at the coins.
“He’ll toss someone out instead. Let’s ask the farmers first. You can rest if you want?”
“No, I’ll come with you.”
 
——
 
The rain was picking up as Inkar led Erin from place to place, asking who might have room for an entire party. They were directed to a farm twenty minutes down the road, and by this point, Erin was desperate enough to offer that much gold just to stop staring.
The [Farmer] wasn’t that wary of them when he saw the two wet travellers, and he welcomed them into a home with two boys, both young, and his wife, who was just offering them tea when Erin mentioned the Goblins.
“Let them sleep here? Even the barn—our animals are in for the night. What if they eat ‘em all?”
Erin bristled.
“Goblins don’t eat—my friends aren’t—they’re not monsters. Listen, I’ve got—”
She was digging in her money pouch when Inkar forestalled her. Instead of responding directly to the worried [Farmer] who had lurched to his feet, Inkar took a sip of the tea and smiled.
“It’s very good. Have you lived here a long time?”
The woman, Miss Veierne, shook her head, casting a worried glance at Erin.
“We fled the raids when the Goblin Chieftain from the mountain came. We kept most of our animals, but we came here.”
“Why here?”
Inkar was digging for something in her bag of holding as Erin watched the two boys staring at her as if she had antlers. She was trying to think of a way to convince the farmer. She had to introduce Numbtongue to him! But if he chased them out before she could get him to sit down…she felt like he was not an unreasonable man, but he looked worried, and she understood why.
But Inkar didn’t wait for Numbtongue. She was nodding and gestured to herself.
“I am Inkar of Longstalker’s Fang. I came from their tribe. I come from further away still, but I lived with them in the Great Plains.”
“Longstalker’s Fang? That sounds like—you mean a Gnoll tribe? All the way in the Great Plains? You’ve come thousands of miles! Were you there with all that—unpleasantness I heard about? Drakes and Gnolls and these new lands? Dead gods, but we felt that and heard out days later what happened.”
The [Farmer] broke off from his study of Erin. The [Worldly Traveller] smiled and nodded.
“Izril’s north is very beautiful. We have come to visit friends in the Unseen Empire—yes, I was there.”
“You were?”
The family looked at Inkar, astonished, and were about to ask a dozen questions when Inkar held something out.
“Here. This is Fang Brie. A gift for you all from Longstalker’s Fang. They make it out of their Shockwoolies.”
“Oh my. Really? But this is so generous—are you sure?”
Miss Veierne seemed uncertain, but Inkar’s eyes crinkled up with mischief. She leaned forward.
“Please, take it. It is my [Traveller’s Gift From Home]. My great Skill of Level 30.”
Erin’s eyes went round, and she beheld a Skill from a class unlike even an [Innkeeper], much less a [Mage] or [Warrior]. The round piece of cheese covered in wax paper wasn’t huge, hardly a comical wheel, but it was actual, real cheese.
And it tasted sharp! Even a bit electric, but it was also sweet, and Erin knew this because the family cut it open and shared it around as Inkar told them about living among the Gnolls and an account of the Meeting of Tribes.
This village had no scrying orb, so Inkar was the first and best account of the tale that Erin had thought everyone knew about. The family listened solemnly and fetched out handkerchiefs when Inkar began to describe the Doombringers and the terrible conspiracy.
“All that’s been going on for centuries in the south? Hold on, won’t you? We have—there’s some brisket from a goat and—”
The [Farmer], whose name was Oreth, hurried out. Erin was sipping tea and wondering about the Goblins when he came back with no less than eight people from the village and some of the brisket.
She found herself having dinner as Inkar told a number of villagers her story again, and the brie disappeared along with the meat as she brought out her flatbread and then a jar of jam she’d bought in Liscor.
At some point, Erin stopped fidgeting and trying to look for a moment to talk about the Goblins, and she started watching Inkar. She broke in, adding more details about the Gnolls and talked earnestly as the people of the Village of Alast reacted with outrage, shock, wonder, and confusion at what had happened.
“New lands. New lands…never seen before.”
That was all Farmer Oreth said as the rain began to really hammer down. Erin glanced down at a [Message] scroll shaking by her side. She unraveled it and groaned.
“Oh no. Lyonette’s here, and they went to the tavern.”
They had spent two hours, and no rooms were available! Oreth looked at Inkar, hesitated, and Veierne took his arm. They vanished into the kitchen as Inkar glanced up, and Oreth came back.
“It’s not that tidy, but I can shovel the hay around, and we’ve got linens. How many did you say there were? You can roll those carriages right inside, Miss Erin, Miss Inkar. As for food—we’ll see what we have.”
“Really?”
Erin fished in her money pouch, but the [Farmer] smiled, embarrassed.
“It’s just a farmhouse. We wouldn’t take coin for that.”
“Then—let us pay for food! And do you have a room for a sick Gnoll girl?”
“Of course! Bring her in right away. What does she have? There’s someone with a few Skills down the road.”
Veierne seemed appalled, and no sooner was Erin writing a response to Lyonette than the three carriages rolled in. The sick and cramped passengers looked ready for a terrible night, but Lyonette herself perked up as the [Midwife] came out to check on Mrsha and tell everyone they’d have food in a trice.
And that was Inkar’s doing. She smiled as Erin turned to her, and the [Innkeeper] narrowed her eyes.
“That was so smart! Did you know that would work?”
Inkar gave her a puzzled look.
“No. But I gave them a gift because it was polite. They are very generous.”
Oreth had halted as he saw the three Goblins standing in the rain, and the two boys hid in the doorway. But Numbtongue held the guitar in his hands, and he began to play a merry song. The [Farmer] blinked.
The [Bard] was a good student of Erin’s. But Inkar…there wasn’t any guile in her expression. Erin watched her and exhaled, then smiled.
“No wonder you’re such a good [Traveller].”
She liked Inkar in that moment as if they had known each other for months. And Erin thought—if anything, she could learn to be a little bit like Inkar. So that was their trip to Riverfarm. Erin feeling a bit like a lump, a bit like someone on an adventure, out of her element but enjoying the rain. Learning instead of telling.
But she had forgotten, perhaps, that the world didn’t revolve around her. Not that she would have ever said as much. Erin slept on a lovely bed inside the farmhouse while some of the guests camped in the farmhouse, but with pillows and bedding aplenty, her belly full of good food and a night listening to stories, both familiar and of living on Izril, from people who had seen the Goblin King’s rampage and spoke of the Five Families like distant, if erratic, protectors.
Then she slept, wondering if Inkar were levelling, and awoke to the news of the High Passes exploding.
 
——
 
It was the strangest thing. Erin felt the vibration in her bones, the beating of her heart. She glanced around and wondered if you could make a white flag out of a shirt and a stick.
She listened as Lyonette read out loud the [Message] that had been relayed to her by Selys.
“Thousands of Eater Goats. Hundreds of Gargoyles led by Bossels—leadership, advanced monsters. They’re storming down the main pass.”
“Where’s that, exactly?”
“Northwest of Celum. Ryoka’s run it—it’s a lot of miles from Celum. The city’s probably safe. So is the farm.”
Garia was trembling as Numbtongue put an arm on her shoulder, a hand on his sword hilt. He was listening with as much insight as the City Runner. He knew the High Passes.
“Bossels, Numbtongue?”
“Big. Strong. Smart, for Gargoyles. Have weapons, armor—we fought some. Never hundreds. Each clan has Bossels. One dies to a Frost Wyvern but hurts it. Two can beat a Frost Wyvern, but one dies. Three always wins, and all three live.”
Erin gulped. Those sounded like a higher caliber of monster than even Liscor was used to. She began to pace.
“Eater Goats. They…they don’t stop.”
She looked at Numbtongue, and his head bowed. They both remembered Bugear.
“No. More of them—the more dangerous. Thousands? They won’t stop. Can’t kill them. Not with pikes, not with spells.”
“Surely a good pikewall would do it. No offense to Goblins, but…”
Numbtongue glanced at Dame Ushar and shook his head. He drew a finger alongside his throat.
“Nope. They run onto pikes. Then eat the pikes. Then eat the Humans. Too many. Overwhelming death. Bitey death.”
The Thronebearers muttered uneasily. Typhenous tugged at his beard.
“Indeed. As a senior adventurer, I can tell you that, as horde-monsters go, Eater Goats are entirely unpleasant. Only Crelers are worse. What caused this?”
“They don’t know. Only—Selys is telling me that the Mage’s Guilds have advised all the cities near the High Passes to evacuate. They’re already rushing people away, and the Merchant’s Guild and the Driver’s Guild are sending anyone they can to help…the Adventurer’s Guild has put out bounties on the horde, but it’s unclear how many will go to fight.”
“Even a Gold-rank team won’t go into certain death.”
Ser Lormel predicted darkly. Erin turned.
“This is terrible! Okay, we—it’s pretty far from Celum, right? But still closer than Invrisil? Can we make it back to Invrisil in two days or will one of the cities be under attack?”
“One is less than half a day’s ride from the High Passes. Why?”
Ser Dalimont was checking a map as Inkar listened to Tkrn explain quietly the threats of the High Passes to someone not native to this region. Erin put her hands behind her back, trying to pace.
“Then—then Grimalkin. And Chaldion! And who else can we get? Saliss? Does he have enough potions? We’ve got to turn around now. How fast can we get to—?”
“Erin. What are you talking about?”
Erin turned and saw Lyonette staring at her. She pointed back the way they’d come as Farmer Oreth gave her a strange look.
“We’ve gotta help.”
Lyonette spoke, as if trying to drip Apista’s honey into a jar of understanding.
“No, Erin. We don’t. You’re on vacation, and we’re days away. By the time we get back to Invrisil, all the evacuations and adventurers will already be on the way. Leave it.”
“But the monsters—”
Erin felt like she was being dragged back to Liscor, but Dame Ushar cleared her throat.
“My understanding is that the Five Families have long since been alerted to the issue. The local nobility and cities are mobilizing their militias. They’ll try to halt the horde at the first city they can, and if it can’t be stopped, House Veltras or another noble’s force will stop it.”
“If they head to Esthelm, Liscor’s army might sortie and hold the pass. Hells, they might let it go for Liscor and have the city use their wall spells.”
Tkrn offered. Erin looked around.
“But—what about Saliss? Or Chaldion?”
“Maybe they’ll do something. Send a [Message], Erin. But you aren’t doing anything.”
Lyonette folded her arms, and Numbtongue nodded.
“No craziness. Just do something here, and we keep going. Riverfarm is too far away, too.”
Erin cast around for support, but even Mrsha, Bane of Crelers, just sniffed and gazed at Erin with a vague sense of…expectation.
Were they going to do this? Turn around and race south to a battle they might be days late for? Erin…Erin…
What did you want us to do? So Erin Solstice took a breath and felt it in her veins. Like how she had felt when watching a tragedy on the news, far, far from where she was on Earth.
A vague sense of helpless unease.
It didn’t feel right. Not anymore. So she sat down, wrote [Message] spells as the carriages were loaded up, and ended up riding to Riverfarm on the third day, writing notes to friends and waiting for responses. She didn’t turn around to Invrisil. She had something else to do.
She was on vacation, and for once, The Wandering Inn would not march on the High Passes.
It wasn’t her fight.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad were packing up while Ceria argued with Yvlon. She gave up in the end and sighed, but the inn was quieter than Ishkr expected.
He was almost as shocked as Erin when he got the [Message].
 
Ishkr. Stop. Will not be returning to the inn. Stop. Please tell any adventurers to take gear if needed. Stop. It’s their choice, stop. Hold down the fort. Stop.
 
“Stop?”
He held up the message and didn’t get the irony, but he understood the broad meaning. The humor…he wondered what her face had been like when she sent it.
A few Antinium, Menolit, a handful of regulars, and Relc stirred when Ishkr announced Erin wasn’t coming back. Ceria threw up her hands.
“See? Why are we joining the muster? Even Erin’s aware how far away it is.”
“Someone’s got to stop the monsters. Have you gone mad, Ceria?”
Yvlon glared at her, and the half-Elf scratched at her head.
“…No, but I’m aware of how many ‘thousands’ is. Fine, other teams are going. Let’s scope it out.”
And that was it. Ishkr saw a [Guardsman] get up and sigh in relief. Some of the Antinium looked around blankly, but only Relc sighed.
