“Damn. No Solstice event? Come on! She’s losing her touch! Oh well, glad she’s safe.”
Ishkr got back to work. He didn’t believe Erin’s message. Oh, he believed she might not come back, but he was waiting. A few Antinium hires were on trainee duty, so he let them serve their counterparts, mostly the Antinium on break like Squad 5 had been or Pawn’s Painted Antinium.
That was a good portion of the business at the inn without Erin. The other part were guests who just liked it, like Menolit, and Ishkr was enough to hold down the fort for the remaining guests with Liska’s help. He sighed.
She was forty minutes late. But he kept working and occasionally checked the position of the sun. It took him only twenty minutes before he heard an exclamation, and someone came running into the inn. Ishkr nodded to himself as Relc came roaring back in.
“She did it! I knew it! And I’m gonna miss it!”
 
——
 
<Mass Heroic Quest – Stop the Monster Hordes from the High Passes!>
Failure: Horde dissolves, destroys (8) settlements.
Monsters are pouring out of the High Passes! Eater Goats, Gargoyles led by Bossels—watch out! An army needs to fight them back. Any brave adventurers or people, stop the monsters and evacuate people! I can’t offer much, but please do what you can and stay safe!
Conditions: Destroy monsters, save lives in immediate danger, aid with evacuation or intelligence leading to the horde’s destruction. Higher value monsters rewarded proportionally.
Quest Reward Pool: 200 Gold Coins, flawed simple agate, half-pot of butter, iron butter knife, experience in <Combat>, <Aid> class categories.
 
For someone who was interested…well, it was all interesting. Firstly, that there were other elements to the quest that had appeared.
For instance, this was a mass quest. Second? There were conditions, a way to fail, as if it could be judged. Finally—the quest pool.
The morality didn’t come into play. Oh, it was interesting, but the keen minds who noted this phenomenon were concerned mostly about that last bit.
A simple agate? The gold…predictable. But why a half-pot of butter? A butter knife?
The answer became obvious over the course of a few hours as the <Quest> circulated. But in the opening moments of the day, when it was posted—only Erin Solstice realized what was going on.
“Erin, stop putting things into the quest!”
Lyonette stopped Erin from adding the farmer’s family heirloom to the <Quest>. Erin guiltily lowered her hand.
“I didn’t know I could do that! I’ll pay you back!”
“Did you just…post a pot of butter as a quest reward?”
Typhenous looked at the place where the butter had been and his hither-to unbuttered piece of toast, which would never receive any, as the butter—and butter knife—were gone. But that wasn’t the fascinating thing.
Once they got on the road, Erin was reading [Message] spells like the Horns telling her they’d head to whatever rally point was set up and do what they could. She wrote a reply, and was told by Selys not to come back, that Liscor was abuzz with the news, although they were far from danger, as was Celum, for now.
Then she received an update.
 
Quest Reward Pool: 1236 Gold Coins, flawed simple agate, half-pot of butter, iron butter knife, experience in <Combat>, <Aid> class categories.
 
“Hm? What the—”
No less than ten minutes later, as Erin was waiting for Ishkr or Selys to confirm what was going on, it happened again. It was like…she could always check on her <Quests>. The ones she had posted.
But if she thought about the one she’d just added, Erin realized something had changed.
 
Quest Reward Pool: 5236 Gold Coins, flawed simple agate, half-pot of butter, iron butter knife, experience in <Combat>, <Aid> class categories.
 
And it kept happening.
 
Quest Reward Pool: 5237 Gold Coins, 15 Silver Coins, 44 Copper, flawed simple agate, half-pot of butter, iron butter knife, experience in <Combat>, <Aid> class categories.
 
Then it began getting weird.
 
Quest Reward Pool: 6536 Gold Coins, 515 Silver Coins, 994 Copper, flawed simple agate, iron butter knife, 299 potatoes, goosefeather pillow, 5 pots of ink, steel sword, rusted buckler, 22 apples, 18 fake gold coins, pewter mortar and pestle, low-grade healing potion, full pot of butter—
 
And it kept going. The list, no, the quest pool began expanding so much that Erin began reading the world’s craziest laundry list. Then she heard from Selys what was going on.
 
Erin, they’re adding to the quest in the Adventurer’s Guilds! Lady Reinhart, apparently, added those four thousand gold coins, and she’s done that in addition to ‘regular’ bounties in the Adventurer’s Guild. What have you done? 
—Selys
 
You could add to a quest bounty. And if Erin was right…
“I bet you get a proportion of the rewards! So that’s how it works!”
She sat back as Numbtongue folded his arms, fuming.
“It’s not a flawed agate. It’s nice.”
That gave her some hope. More adventurers and people might go help just for a slice of that growing pie. She wasn’t stupid; some people would help purely for the money, but if it was more hands evacuating citizens…
She noticed something.
“Wait a second, did someone already get the pot of butter? So it’s already giving out rewards!”
Erin sat back and felt better. Not like she’d helped, not really, but better. But she wondered who would stop that many goats. Who cared enough? Magnolia, enough to offer gold? Or…House Veltras?
Who would care and do something? She didn’t, and it gnawed on her. But Erin turned ahead and also thought of a promise she had made. For a girl named Nanette. Her head bowed, and she exhaled.
Yes. She did have to keep on this path.
That was how, on another day with rain and monsters, a [Witch] came to Riverfarm. The instant she passed over the border where a totem pole decorated with eyes sat by the road, an [Emperor] felt it. Like a burning outrage, like instinctual hatred. Like—
He closed his eyes and smiled grimly. It was not his heart that beat for instant dislike. His heart surged against the other emotions foreign to his soul. So the mind and the heart liked her even more even as he felt it in his blood, like boiling contempt.
Erin Solstice had arrived.
 
——
 
A girl sat with locks of slightly curly, chestnut brown hair tangling underneath a hat fit for a child. Navy blue and dark, but not poor, not ill-made. Simply a child’s hat, because it had a little star on top.
Made of thin wood, painted silver, like an idea. A child’s idea of magic, and so simple, so innocent and thus so wonderful that it sometimes made people smile to see it.
In other days, she had been hurrying along, trying to match a longer stride, looking up, looking ahead, looking behind uncertainly but expecting in all three directions only great things.
That was the promise. Something scary, perhaps, or wonderful, hard work or daunting as it might be—her round cheeks would light up with a smile or a frown of determination, or she’d crumple a bit and look for guidance.
But such things were fine, because the world was solid. Where she stepped, the ground held firm, and in those days, her hair had been shorter and always combed, because such things were expected, and if it had ever become a nest, someone would have briskly produced a comb and lectured her about appearances as she gently untangled the locks.
There were other hands, now, and gentler words. Gentler words, but never kinder, never better, and never more welcome, so the hair tangled. The hat, with its silver star, no longer seemed to glimmer.
The girl sat under a tree like a doll with its strings cut. Her name was Nanette Weishart, and her mother was no more. It was a terrible thing to tell a child directly or confront. Yet she was a [Witch]. And Califor’s daughter should do nothing less.
On this day, she thought like a dream, hoping perhaps she’d wake and knowing that her days of daydreams were forever gone. But she still thought, as she sat, of children. Of mothers.
Ever since she had been old enough to walk and know, she had been a secret daughter of Califor. Not that her mother had ever left her side or been ashamed. Shame had met Califor and walked the other way down the street.
No, it was, as the great Witch of her time had told Nanette, purely practical. Nanette should not be favored. Whatever she was should not be done in the shadow of a name. So Nanette became Califor’s apprentice, already startling, for the Witch Califor had never had any, but a fair one, whom [Witches] held expectations of, but treated like any other.
By contrast, when she had heard of Wiskeria, even from afar, and especially when they had been preparing to visit Riverfarm, the other [Witch] had always been Belavierr’s daughter.
No…that wasn’t right. Nanette had never heard the other, older [Witches] say ‘Belavierr’s daughter’. It was more that Belavierr was Wiskeria’s mother. An odd distinction, only a change of words. But [Witches] paid attention to words.
Wiskeria had been kinder than Nanette thought. Odder too, but not in a way Nanette expected. She had feared an Alevica or someone who walked heavy in the old ways, like Mavika, or simply was, defiant of all whispers, like Hedag.
Yet Wiskeria was…normal. And when she had said that, her mother had looked at her and told her to find the true Wiskeria. Which was how Califor had always taught her daughter when she was wrong.
So Nanette had thought and listened and realized how [Witches] talked of Wiskeria was odd. They spoke of Belavierr’s legend and were glad Wiskeria was no monster to sacrifice all for a power so depraved it defied death. They were relieved she denounced her mother, and that, to all intents and purposes, she was naught but a credit to [Witches].
…But then they spoke of her, in the same breath, with a bit of disappointment.
“Wiskeria? She’s talented, in her way, but she never took to my lessons. She is exceedingly practical, but I don’t know what to make of her.”
So spoke Agratha, who praised Wiskeria’s lack of showing off, but found her disquietingly hard to read. She would, with Agratha’s encouragement, seek out others and try to befriend them or perform ‘good acts’, which would endear Agratha’s style of craft to the world.
But something made the Teacher Witch uneasy, and so she did not talk to Wiskeria much.
“She knows every old way, and if I wore her face, I would sneer and spit in my own shadow for daring to try to teach her. I think she knows it all, but she practices no great craft. Never have I seen a greater failure of a [Witch] for what she should be. But is it failure if she is the Stitch Witch’s daughter? I can judge neither, but she is not mine.”
And there was Oliyaya, whom even Califor respected for her views on craft. Oliyaya, who told the others that Wiskeria knew more than she.
Yet Nanette had done magic with Wiskeria and seen no great art. So, the little girl had realized, before her mother died, that something was off about Wiskeria. But she had thought Wiskeria was kind, and kindness was all Nanette needed to like someone.
Her craft was—had been—happiness. Happiness and contentment and good things. Califor had indulged it with a bit of exasperation and told Nanette it would not last. But for the moment, the apprentice had trundled along, tucking a smile for a meal into a hat filled with a passing compliment, an infectious laugh, and she had baked little tarts filled with mirth like sugar.
Now, her hat lay empty on her head, and everything she put in it drained away like water through a sieve. Only grief sat there, brooding and heavy. So much so that she could barely raise her head.
Only the other [Witches] knew what to do with her. So Nanette was like Wiskeria to those that remained.
A puzzle. Here were the daughters of two great [Witches]. One was too young, and grief might eat her whole, but she should be saved, must be saved, yet it was hard.
The other was older, a [Witch] on her own, and a [Witch] was a [Witch]. No one had forgotten.
…But a [Witch] of Law? Could she even have that as a craft? She did less magic and more mundane things than even Agratha. They were puzzles apiece, and perhaps that was why Wiskeria often visited Nanette.
Even if her mother had been the one to end Califor. Perhaps because of that.
They could have been great friends.
Nanette thought that and felt a lump in her throat, like a frog. A tingle in her toes, a creeping down her spine. A [Witch] paid attention to such things, Califor said. Sometimes, it meant you needed a massage or you were getting a chill. Other times, it meant something else.
However, how many [Witches] knew each stage of the two moons that hung overhead? How many could still speak the old words and not be laughed at by the trees? Nanette understood that when the older [Witches] saw Wiskeria and said, ‘what a shame’ without saying it, they wondered what she could do.
Nanette? She knew. Not that Califor had taught her the old ways. They were lessons at midnight or in the blazing sun, where dark things couldn’t listen or take note. And the lessons were sometimes just stories in a pool of crystal water, where Nanette tried not to splash about while she listened to a secret or a…a change of perspective.
That was how Califor had carefully taught her daughter, looking to raise a child as much as lead a [Witch] to her craft. But Belavierr?
Of all the differences between the two, and they were great [Witches], the one thing Nanette would always believe, always—was that Califor had been the better mother. For Belavierr had taught her daughter, in her strange love…
Everything.
The result was Wiskeria. Wiskeria, who sat with dark hair, closer to black, but the faintest bit blue—like her robes—if you looked hard enough. Her eyes were like a pale firefly’s yellow crossed with the wereflames in a swamp, a lurid green.
But she didn’t often meet your eyes long, so you might never notice how beautiful and eerie those eyes were. If you looked, you might never notice the roots of her hair tinged blue. Her dress was simple and ordinary to the point where it offended other [Witches], even Agratha. For where Agratha took her craft to be inviting and accessible and non-threatening, Wiskeria craved something else. She was a wonderful [Witch], with all the potential in the world.
Her hat was empty. She had no craft, no stored anything. So she was the least of [Witches], even among the youngest apprentices. Even Nanette.
She sat down next to Nanette, and she was so silent she might have been a corpse. She was so still that a butterfly landed on her shoulder almost at once. Nanette had been sitting there, a doll filled with grief, for hours.
