Now that provoked a furor. Laken was proud of himself—right before he heard Oliyaya’s cackle and got worried. But Agratha bowed instantly.
“A hat contest? I shall need to prepare. When will it be, and what will the rules consist of?”
Laken had no idea, and he didn’t like Agratha’s enthusiastic tone. But he had methods for dealing with this. He turned his head ever-so-slightly and nodded, and Wiskeria broke in.
“We shall announce it by the end of the day, Witch Agratha. For now—disperse, please. No more fighting, indoors or out.”
And there ended a fight. Laken exhaled, then turned to Revi as Wiskeria marched over, talking to the citizens, but going to both camps of [Witches] and having a word.
His [General] really was good at her job. Which was keeping the peace, being the arm that connected [Witches] to people.
For a Witch of Law, or so she had claimed, Wiskeria truly was efficient. He had heard she was diligent in making sure the new trainees and [Soldiers] drilled, and she listened to experts like [Instructors] and weapon trainers and delegated her command to the actual soldiers.
He trusted her, for all she was Belavierr’s daughter. He thought Wiskeria liked her job, but Laken had to confess—of Prost, of Durene, even compared to the changed Rie—
He did not know Wiskeria. Laken realized how much he did not know her the longer they were acquainted. It was not just the tests he’d had Gamel run in the past, where Wiskeria had performed all manner of unsavory tasks without missing a beat.
It was not even her relationship with her mother.
There was something off about Wiskeria, and Laken confirmed that by the reaction of the other [Witches]. He leaned over.
“Revi, what is Wiskeria doing? Oh, and what is she wearing?”
He had high hopes for Wiskeria’s hat, but Revi took a few seconds before replying.
“…She’s wearing some blue robes. I’d say midnight blue if that wasn’t being too pretentious, but more like a darker cobalt. Bog-standard [Mage] robes.”
“Standard? What about her hat?”
“The same color. It’s also blue. Fairly straight. I’d bet it’s some kind of sturdy cotton. Probably a stiff lining of something.”
“What about decorations? Some…magic?”
Revi scrutinized Wiskeria a second and shook her head.
“Uh, no.”
“No aura? No patterns? No dirt?”
“…Nope. It’s a hat. She’s got spectacles. Decent work-boots.”
Laken was crestfallen. He had never imagined what Wiskeria wore, but to hear it was so…so…mundane? He was disappointed for a second. Then he had a thought.
“Then, how do the [Witches] treat her?”
Revi paused a moment, and the [Summoner] sounded a bit uncertain when she replied.
“Just—politely. She’s talking to Agratha—I don’t know if many of the [Witches] like Agratha. But she’s civil. Oh, and now she’s headed over to Oliyaya. That young [Witch] apprentice is creepy. She’s staring at us.”
“Be polite, please, Revi. I’m aware she has—scars.”
The [Summoner] shuddered.
“Scars? That’s one thing. But she’s staring at us.”
“So? She’s allowed to—”
“Her body is facing the other way.”
The [Emperor] hesitated. He twisted his neck about 90-degrees, but that was how far it went.
“What, all the way around?”
“Yep.”
“Ah. You may be creeped out, then. Is—is Oliyaya’s apprentice smiling?”
“What do you think?”
Still, there was something about Wiskeria that Laken noticed. And it was what Revi reported back to her.
“Oliyaya’s listening. Wiskeria is so business-like. Yep. Seems like she’s just lecturing or something. Can we go now or are we going to stare at Eloise and Mavika? I could tell you what Eloise has. Pressed tea leaves on her hat and lovely flowers embroidered in.”
“Thanks for ruining the surprise. Just tell me one thing. Do the [Witches]…like Wiskeria?”
Revi took a long time to answer that. She peered, frowning, standing on her tiptoes, and then replied in an odd voice.
“Now you mention it, neither one seems too keen to hang around Wiskeria long. The apprentices are staring at her. Even the creepy one. She doesn’t hang out with them much, not that I’ve seen. Why? Is that wrong? She’s mostly being your, uh, [General], Your Majesty.”
Revi might have remembered then that she was technically under his authority and he was an [Emperor]. But Laken only waited for Wiskeria to approach.
“Just part of the mystery. I suppose I’ll have to tackle it another way, Miss Cotton. You said her hat’s normal?”
“As boring as can be. Why? Did you expect something different?”
The [Emperor] smiled tightly as Revi shot him a glance.
“Yes and no. It’s more outstanding because it looks so boring. Did you know that her mother made it?”
“T-the Stitch Witch?”
Revi stuttered slightly. Laken Godart whispered.
“Yes. So what a normal, ordinary [Witch] her daughter is, eh?”
She was quite good at it. But Laken’s investigation into Wiskeria being Wiskeria was just a side-project of his. Something he wondered if she could even answer if he asked it to her face. He turned his head to the east on this day about hats.
Soon enough, he’d have far more to do. At last, she was coming. He wondered if she would bring a storm like Ryoka. After hearing tales of Erin Solstice, somehow, the [Emperor] expected nothing less.
 
——
 
Within the first day of setting out from Invrisil, everything went wrong. Like vacations did.
Erin didn’t get much of a chance to look around Invrisil. Lyonette was, stressfully, organizing the carriage-ride that would stop at two places she’d arranged for them to stay. Erin was busy defending the Goblins.
“They’re Goblins. There’re monsters! Someone call the Watch!”
“No, they’re not.”
“Wh—I can see them right there. I’m not having Goblins on my carriage!”
“But they’re not Goblins.”
“How are they not Goblins?”
A bug-eyed [Carriage Driver] was looking like he was starting to question his sanity. He was no Termin, and Erin calmly pointed to an amused Numbtongue, chatting with Garia.
“If they were Goblins and monsters, they’d be stabbing you. They’re just, uh, green people. They’ve got lime disease.”
“Lime what? Where’s the Watch? What’s…?”
“How about you just drive us to our destination and not worry about your passengers. We’re paying, and I’ll sweeten the deal.”
That caught his attention.
“Sweeten how?”
For answer, Erin offered him a cinnamon cookie.
 
——
 
That went well. But then Erin was sitting in a carriage, and much to her disappointment, there was no Inkar.
Inkar! The one Earther that Erin had yet to really meet! It was so strange how she hadn’t gotten a good chance to talk with Inkar. Of course, they had all been busy, but Erin realized that the young woman hadn’t sought her out.
She had been with the Silverfangs, and it occurred to Erin only as they started their journey that Inkar really had lived among the Gnolls for a year. Erin lived in Liscor, but she still was, in many ways, separate.
Yet Inkar had lived with the Longstalker’s Fang tribe, even won the right to be called Honored Inkar. She was a [Worldly Traveller], which fascinated both Lyonette and Erin.
She had slightly tanned skin from days under the sun, but Erin didn’t see much of it for the dress that Inkar wore. It was one of those ornate, embroidered ones, travelling clothes covered by a beautiful pattern of thread. The kind of clothing you could wear for a long time, because you had nothing else nearly as fine in your collection.
Erin certainly didn’t have an equivalent, even with Drassi and Selys’ clothes to round out her collection. She had put on a light shirt embroidered with a Rock Crab at the hem, which was cute. Inkar had a hat lined with slightly yellow wool that sometimes crackled if it built up too much static electricity, upon which Honored Deskie had stitched, in gold thread, her flag and added Longstalker’s Fang’s so people would recognize it.
A cap, not a pointy hat, to match a long-sleeved vest of dyed red, a deep currant color, so better to stand out on the Gnoll Plains, which were often long with green and yellows of the grass or the blue and white skies. The clothing was lined, again, with fleece to keep Inkar warm or cool her off from the sun, and the lining was apparently so magical she could teleport herself and her horse.
Which was awesome. But what made Erin really think the clothing was something else was…the embroidery. Gnoll traditions that intersected with some Earth ideas said that your clothing should represent who you were and where you came from.
So, there was an orb of Earth stenciled in green and blue, and, to Erin’s amazement, Deskie had even done an entire solar system.
Which was…just a fascinating choice. If Ryoka Griffin could have seen it, how many blood vessels of anxiety would she have burst? But then again—who would realize the solar system for what it was?
It spoke to a different attitude. Even Inkar’s decision to journey out to Riverfarm, albeit only for a few days, said something about her.
Because Kevin, Joseph, and Imani—or the absent Troy—weren’t going. Each one had begged justifiable workload in their new jobs. Well, Kevin had said he could probably go since he could take Solar Cycles on the road unlike Joseph, who had a team, or Imani, who had a kitchen. But he’d refused.
“I already have enough monarchs, thanks. I’ll die for lack of sleep if I get another one.”
Which was an odd statement. Nevertheless, Inkar had asked to join them. Erin had really been looking forward to chatting with her.
…Right until she realized the conceit of her thinking. Which was assuming Inkar would sit in a carriage the entire way there. The reason Erin could admire Inkar’s clothing only from afar was because the [Traveller] was riding.
She was astride the long-legged mare she’d named Samal, who was joyfully galloping ahead of the carriage. Followed by a less-graceful but no less-willing Tkrn.
“What happened to that guy?”
Erin turned to the occupants of her carriage. She had also been unlucky in her seatmates. There were no less than three carriages heading to Riverfarm given the number of people. Each one had a Thronebearer; Lyonette’s had two. So Ser Dalimont, judged the best candidate for Erin, got to sit with Erin, Gothica, and Typhenous. Technically, the carriage could have fit six or even seven, extremely cramped, but this was the minimum for everyone not to go insane while sitting for hours at a time.
Unfortunately, there was no Mrsha, who was with Lyonette, and Numbtongue had decided to try running with Garia.
…He’d given up after thirty minutes. As for Erin’s fellow passengers, Typhenous glanced up from trying to bribe Gothica into spilling the secrets of her class.
“Who, Tkrn? I don’t recall him, but he looks fairly good, doesn’t he? A fine class. [Companion], I believe.”
“Yeah, but I remember Tkrn, and he was this silly…[Guard]. Not—”
Erin waved a hand out of the window at the Gnoll racing after Inkar. Tkrn! He seemed older. Certainly tougher. He had an enchanted sword, and while he’d given back the Demas Metal plate armor, he had replaced it with Liscor’s City Watch’s gear, and he had a shield with an eye on the back of it.
A [Companion]. Someone who’d fought alongside Gire and held their own in a war. Erin kept peeking at him. And Inkar and he were a thing?
“That’s so weird. Uph!”
That was the sound of Gothica hitting Erin with a piece of her burrito. Erin spluttered as Ser Dalimont started. Gothica raised a finger.
“No judge.”
Erin stared at the [Goth].
“I wasn’t.”
“Was.”
“No, I wasn’t. Okay, a little, but I was just—don’t throw your burrito! I’ll kick you!”
“Try it. Bitch.”
Erin’s mouth opened. She thought this [Goth] class was going too far. She glanced around for help, but Typhenous was delightedly stroking his beard and hiding a smile, and Ser Dalimont was pondering the ethics of fighting a Goblin half his height. And probably eying her teeth.
It never occurred to Erin that Gothica was to her what she was to Chaldion. Or trying to be.
 
——
 
The point was that Erin spent the rest of the carriage ride asking Typhenous how Griffon Hunt was doing and getting a rundown on Terandrian kingdoms from Dalimont. The Thronebearer was good at storytelling, and even Gothica liked him retelling stories of Noelictus.
“…Overcast skies, always grey. I believe they get less than six hours of pure sunlight per day, and as you may know, the undead rise due to the concentration of death magic in the earth.”
“Ugh. Who would want to live—Gothica, I swear!”
Erin blocked the burrito wrapper as the carriage swerved slightly. Ser Dalimont hesitated.
“It is slightly—gloomy. But Noelictus’ people are resilient, and they have their own methods, Miss Solstice. Not least, Noelictus is considered the great breadbasket of Terandria. Their fields are among the most fertile in the world. The Ashwheat I believe you wanted comes from there. Most of their produce is distinctive.”
“Oh, you don’t say. Gothica, would you want to live there? Really? I know you have a class, but do you really like stuff like that enough to live in an undead…gloomy place?”
Gothica considered the question. She bared her teeth.
“I want to sleep in coffin. You make. Coffin in basement with dead bodies.”
Erin threw up her hands.
“Forget it.”
 
——
 
She was slightly aggrieved, in short, when they disembarked for their stay at a local inn on their way to Riverfarm. That was when the next part of the bad journey took hold.
“No Goblins.”
“But they’re not Goblins. They’re—”
This time, the surly [Hostel Manager] cut Erin off.
“No Goblins.”
She barely emerged from behind the door she had only opened a crack. Lyonette took over before Erin could explode.
“We’ve already paid for our rooms. Surely there’s somewhere we could stay?”
“You can have your money back. You said nothing about Goblins. ‘Sides, there wasn’t any reservation. We’re almost full up.”
“But I sent you a [Message]—”
“We don’t do reservations. First come, first serve. That’s how it works.”
Both Lyonette and Erin were used to a different system of, well, tourism. However, Riverfarm was not exactly a populated hub—or it hadn’t been. Erin fumed as Numbtongue picked out a good spot to camp. Inkar was only too willing to find them a spot, but Lyonette came back with an offer.
There was a guest-house of sorts, not connected to the hostel itself, that the group could stay in. It would cost them extra, and the Goblins had to stay out of sight and not do Goblin things. Frankly, only the Thronebearers’ presence had gotten that much.
