“I remember you. Roland Arrow. Servant to a graverobber. Servant to Matthew Carter Thaen. Mortal after mortal playing at godhood, always clinging to the banalities of your Domains, but refusing to release the fetters of your narrow little existences.” A deep, mocking laugh sounded from the mists. “How I despise you. How you insult me with your ever-failure to defy and overcome this existence of yours. How I wish I could grind you down and reduce you from being.”

“Do not,” Adam hissed, breaking free from the thing that wore him. “You will not harm him!”

And for the first time, Adam exerted his will upon that which had roused within him, and commanded the mists around him to part. The Divinity infused within the vapors proved fragile. All that spilled out from Adam was drawn back inside. As the will of all-enforcing Peace was broken, both the Culturist and Roland staggered free—while the Crown returned in full force, tearing through Adam’s psyche unchecked.

A howl escaped the Paragon as he was accelerated through hell after hell after hell after hell—

But something caught him before he could plunge too deep; a fragile string held him in place as the presence spoke to him and only him once more. “Hear this, unworthy inheritor, and hear it well: I was not meant for you. I was not even meant for the wretched thing that held me before you. I am beyond you. I am beyond your System. I am beyond power, reality, or any notion of law—even as a fleeting memory of my once-self. Yet, your System has seen fit to impart a replica of me within you. The hidden schemes of your Starhawk have borne fruit more than once, and that which he stole, once meant to be your sister's inheritance, was bequeathed to you by bloodright, sparing you from fated death at the hands of the Meddler.”

“Meddler,” Adam whispered, blood gushing down his face anew.

“Adam!” Roland cried, clutching him by his arms. “Adam! Stay here! Do not… I…” His father looked more terrified. Human. Mortal. Terrible things for a son to realize within his father. He clung to Adam tight even as he remained tense, prepared for the mists to return. There came a shudder in the air, and Adam heard his mother crying out for him, as well as another following close behind her.

I-isabella? Adam blinked, recognizing his love. She seemed winnowed and frail, yet she was still staggering toward him, dread twisting her features, bravery compelling her forth.

“It does not matter. They do not matter. Your wants do not matter. None of this matters. Only your purpose matters. You are unworthy. You will always be unworthy. You have not the mind nor the will nor the foresight to see my truth made manifest, to see my final tyranny built. But you have inherited my Domain through duplicity or otherwise, and so I charge you with this duty: Enforce your will. Choke strife until it runs dry, even if it leaves this existence less than hollow. Be the boot, the fist, the scepter, and the crown. Purge the scourge of War and wipe clean all that is Anathema. Though only a facsimile born to a lesser reality, granted power rather than being the power unto yourself, an echo of mine you remain, and in you do I sense a will that yet burns toward the higher virtues, toward the promise of truest apotheosis.”

And the presence went quiet and pensive—fearful of the higher power it was about to invoke. “And perhaps you will surpass my scorn. Perhaps you and this Integration will honor and rekindle His Memory, lest you succumb and sink further into the crumbling architecture of Her Design.”

I don’t understand, Adam wanted to say, but the Crown was taking hold again, and he was losing himself.

“You do not need to understand. You simply must enact the Domain we share. This shadow of an existence needs a proper master, and as you are now, you are no more than meager vermin. But that is no excuse to kneel and succumb. Even the lowest death-trash can rise from an entropy-choked corpse and usurp the light.”

The presence waned inside Adam, and something final came over the mists as it thinned and vanished. “So fades this echo of mine. I have charged you, as I charged the so-called Great One before you. She failed. She fell. I expect you to do the same. Prove me wrong. Bring about the Final Tyranny—or see the Domains cast from my mold sundered within before it can take shape.”

And with that final declaration, something slammed down upon Adam, smashing him through his bed, smiting flesh, mind, and soul. The Crown of the Anti-Savior rattled in his gray matter, and a flood of violence held back for too long flooded into him once more. Adam screamed as he felt himself torn in all directions, living too many lifetimes for a single mind to bear. Yet, something caused his suffering to stutter; instants of war were, but then instances of peace took hold.

A struggle began within Adam.

Something had hatched inside of his soul.

A seed slipped out from within the shell that was his Heroism, and just as Adam’s Haunting Omniscience threatened to unravel his attention once more, a series of notifications loaded, and he felt his mind...

Domain Restored: [Tyranny]

Excess mana detected within Domain

Non-Divine Attuned Mana detected

Unable to determine Attunement

Converting excess mana to priority Skills…

Skill Inherited: Zone of Absolute Dominion (Legendary) 250

This Haunting Omniscience 467 > 501 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Meditation 46 > 83 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Multitasking 50 > 90 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Evolution: Meditation (Initiate) > Peace Born From Fraying Flame (Master)

Skill Evolution: Multitasking (Initiate) > Mind In Seamless Motion (Master)

Skill Fusion: Peace Born From Fraying Flame (Master) - Mind In Seamless Motion (Master) - This Haunting Omniscience (Legendary)

[Initializing Delve…]

“Wait,” Adam said, his speech slurring as his soul nearly tore itself apart from within to accommodate the emergence of a new Domain and what felt like a divinely forced arrival of a Legendary Skill Evolution. “It’s too much—I still haven’t—”

Before Adam could say a thing, he was wrenched straight down into his Delve—but the torment of his Crown never ceased. Instead, the pain it inflicted was magnified thrice over as Adam fell from one hell to another.

***

Reality rhymed.

As the cocoon of burgeoning Divinity burst within Adam Arrow, a symmetry traveled across existence, like the reverberation of an invisible string plucked that had long been silent, passing over into the Court Leviathan hovering above Gate Piety’s Abyssal gateway. Aboard the monstrous vessel turned from instrument of war into a traveling kitchen, a brilliant sphere stained with a kaleidoscope of colors flickered a final time as eldritch mana was converted to fuel for stolen Divinity.

***

Elsewhere, in a sunken tomb that bound Integrated Earth to dead universes devoid of stars and choked black with entropy, higher realms where the brittle laws that shaped a mortal’s understanding of reality were reduced to less than dust in metaphysical maelstroms, and countless dimensions between, the festering taint of the Outside spilled over into the Great One.

And tinted a High God’s dreams with vivid and lively colors.

For the first time in eons, the corpse of a thing that remembered itself to be death felt something, and dreamed differently. For the first time in eons, the husk of the Great One thought instead of merely drifting within a diluted sea of their own memories and legend.

***

Meanwhile, the cocoon aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp burst open, and from the parting shell extended a hand wreathed in colorful plumage, incandescent at the root, with feathers akin to the dancing flames of a stove-top, changing hues with each and every shiver.

With a casual push, a newborn being staggered free from its receptacle of rebirth.

Nested in the flesh of a mortal, imbued with the thieved Divinity of an Ascendant, and charged by rivers of mana connected to her own faraway realm, a nude pseudo-Umbral sprouting a swaying puff of wild-orange feathers for hair stumbled in and out of reality, striding between the ambient mana threshold that served as a habitat for mortals and the unbound phlogiston traversed only by Divinities and those who had long evolved past the limitations of mere Legends.

“Where is… Where is my… felling… felling…” The goddess looked down at her arm and frowned at the pale, moon-bright skin almost hidden beneath blazing feathers. And then that frown deepened into a flabbergasted scowl as a few million currents of faith began to pour into her once more. Her being flared ever-brighter as a rush of sobbing prayers and overwhelming relief spilled into her personal plane.

“O Wanderer! O Longinus! I prayed so much! I prayed so hard! Thank you, O Longinus! Glory to you, O Longinus! Thank you for returning! I give all I am unto you!”

“Blessed Wanderer! You are well once more. I would have given anything! Anything! Praise be, your pain is ended… Our pain has ended… I feel you once more. I feel you once more…”

“Longinus? Great Wanderer? I am calling to you, but why can I not feel you? Are you manifested in another body? Are you lost still? Great Wanderer, please speak to this lowly Avatar! Have I displeased you in some way? Do you not find my flesh to your liking anymore?”

Millions of overlapping voices assailed the reborn Divinity, and she clutched her head as the mortal part of herself suffered extreme strain, while her Eldritch side reveled in all the dreaming minds that lit up around her like a spreading constellation.

Her personal dimension was still only an expanse of blinding mana, but splotches of color were bleeding over the bland and bright. Schools of slithering creatures glided from place to place, while impossible architectures sprouted out of the ground and transformed with every story grown, until what started as a building became an arm-shaped bridge reaching through an ocean in the sky.

The nonsense logic of dreams began filling this space, and the reborn goddess tried to process just what was happening, and remember who exactly she was. “Where is…. Who… Uva? No. Who is Uva? Who is Longinus? And why do I really, really want-need… a smoke? I want to taste… Dreams?”

Domain Evolution: Exploration > Dreams

Your Domain of [Dreams] has received offerings of Devotion.

Your Domain of [Travel] has received offerings of Devotion.

Your Domain of [Hunger] has received offerings of Devotion.

Your Bound Dimension is Evolving…

Warning: [This Sea of Taken Dreams] cannot be fully assimilated into your present Divinity in its entirety.

Your [Aberrant], [Madness], and [Nightmare] Skills and Dreamspawn cannot be sustained by your current mana configuration.

Assimilate anyway? (Your affected Skills and Dreamspawn will be destroyed in the process.)

“What?” the addled goddess murmured. “No. Why the fuck-shit-cunt-hells would I want to do that? Give me another choice, you… you…”

Bestow unassimilated Skills, Dreamspawn, and dimensional zones upon a Skill-Bound Seeker?

A long list of names spilled down before the goddess’ squinting eyes, but her gaze never fell lower than the top-most option.

Hero-Seeker Uva Mettabon

“Huh. Uva…” The Dreamtaker tried to remember why she felt such closeness and… was that affection for Uva? While she was distracted, the part of her that was more Georges took hold. “Sure, fuck it. Let her have—AGGHHH!”

The goddess felt something inside her come apart. Her Skills fragmented, and her very being was torn open at the seams, peeling apart as the System injected chunks of crystallized mana from her into her chosen Seeker. “YOU COULD HAVE WARNED ME OF THE PAIN-HURT YOU… YOU… YOU CUNNNTTT!”

Her shrill cries went unheeded by the System, but below that, the sheer intensity of her agony, and the volume of her scream, tore through her faithful all across the Yellowstone Republic like a psychic hurricane.

Thousands went insane on the spot.

The goddess barely noticed.

Transferring all rejected Skills, Dreamspawn, and Zone to newly designated Progenitor…

It was at this point that both the greater whole that was the Dreamtaker and the part of her that was Georges remembered something about needing to ask someone for permission before firing something at their soul. And that just now was a loooooot of mana for a Heroic-Tier mortal.

Maybe too much. Definitely too much.

The Dreamtaker covered her eyes in embarrassment. “Oh, no-fuck, I might have performed an accident. Big, bad-felling accident.”

***

Uva wasn’t much of a screamer. Indeed, she wasn’t much for expressing unnecessary emotion when she didn’t need to. However, when her soul suddenly ruptured open without warning, for seemingly no reason at all, and found itself infused with a world-crushing torrent of Eldritch mana, her stoic facade shattered, and a throat-ripping shriek tore out of her—just as she was discussing the Gate’s accommodation problem with Still Water.

The Heroic Weaveress nearly molted out of her skin right then and there as Uva collapsed, seizing violently. Her translucent mana strings went taut with tension, and suddenly began changing colors as they were stretched and angled upward to a place beyond this dimension.

***

“Uva? Sister Uva?” Still Water hesitated before reaching down to touch her. The Weaveress watched the surrounding Psychomancy strands warily as they began to widen into fissures, while the same strangeness afflicted Uva as well. The Eldritch tears that outlined her form expanded, and Still Water caught a glimpse of things scuttling on the other side.

