Things that made her mind reel and her hairs rise. “Sister Uva, if you can hear me, I’m going to go find that surfacer pervert—the Headmaster. You just… Keep yourself alive if you can. I’ll be back as soon as I—”

“No need,” a different voice declared. That elven man, Hades Hymn, if Still Water remembered correctly, teleported into the office, fumbling with his clothes—most of which were off for some reason. Still Water also noticed a series of human—or Umbral—bite marks running down and along Hymn’s neck and exposed torso. His eyes lit up with violet and translucent mana as he strode toward them. “I know what this is. She will be fine. I think. Theoretically.” Hymn paused. “Alright, I’m actually not sure. She could turn into a vegetable if the transference goes poorly, so prepare yourself if she wets herself and starts drooling.”

“Transference?” Still Water asked, taking cover behind the tall but still much smaller elf.

“It’s when an Outsider God—or any powerful Outsider, really—is destroyed or consumed by the System, leaving a portion of their previous legend behind. In this case, I suspect the Dreamtaker has completed her Metamorphosis. Now, because she is too close to Longinus to carry aspects of herself, she decided to give all the Skills, spawn, and dimensional aspects born of her original existence over to Uva as a gift. Or just because.” Hymn closed his eyes with naked frustration. “System, you lucky, lucky girl. I would have welcomed and been prepared for such a thing. But no, everything must go to these over-favored, over-tortured children for some reason.”

“H-hurts,” Uva gasped, her eyes rolling—growing brighter and brighter. So bright that all the other lights in the room began to dim, and a shifting mirage started to form.

“I know,” Hymn said, sounding not at all sympathetic. “But let me tell you, girl, true pain is when—”

Twin beams of coruscating light exploded out from Uva’s eyes—barely missing Hymn and utterly disintegrating the ceiling before flooding the Unique mana core high above.

“Oh, no,” Hymn muttered, wincing. “That might not be ideal.” The sky along the mana core began to fissure, and bits of the Outside started bleeding over again. “That might not be ideal at all. You know, spider, Eldritch mana is invasive because the System hasn’t fully structured how it works yet, so it often causes a sort of corruption, and pair that with our dear Uva’s newest Feat…”

Tendrils of eldritch power tainted the azure sphere in the sky, and the Gate was bathed in an ethereal glow.

“Stop explaining how it works to me and find a way to stop it!” Still Water hissed.

Hymn scratched his square beard and grimaced. “Well, it’s… quite a bit of mana. Stay here. I’m going to see if I can find a certain someone to block her eyes.”

“Block her eyes?”

“Yes! Using the Deathless. Maybe he can blunt the flow for a while. I’ll be back in a moment. Don’t die. I’ll be indifferent if you do.”

With that, Hymn blinked out as suddenly as he entered, leaving only Uva and a speechless Still Water behind. A slight limb that resembled a merger between an Umbral’s and a spider’s slithered out from Uva’s unnatural flesh, and a symphony of disturbing laughter rang out across the world.

Still Water's left palp twitched in exhausted terror. “I wish Null Mont was still here instead of me.”
