 Sweat coated her entire body and her heart pumped like a wild bird but she felt alive.The beast before her was panting, remaining upright mostly due to his many roots but Isanella could see him tiring rapidly.“No Encore?” she taunted, unable to help the old habits of her adventuring life. Maestro harrumphed and straightened to his full height.“Encore! The main event isn’t over yet, after all... It ain’t over until the fat fungi sings!” he pointed dramatically to the ceiling. All the star-like mushrooms glowed to the best of their power. The entire room’s light focused on Maestro. Isanella flicked a stray hair out of her face.“Then sing for me!” she beckoned. Maestro’s dark eyes met hers.“Hunny, you got a season pass to this next show. I hate to be a diva but you really bring out the naughty mushroom in me,” he shook his head as if amused by his own mood.“I have to thank you... before I send you to the curb,” he admitted. Isanella tilted her head in curiosity at his words. What was he up to?“I’ve never been tested... I’ve never interacted with a human so well before. They were always the target of my acid, my bile... my hatred. But now?” Maestro laughed with a demonic hand to his mouth.“Ha ha ha! A human has become the target of my passion!” he smiled that smile of his. At first it was nightmarish, and still was in some regards, but Isanella could see past that first look.There was actual joy to the monster’s actions.“Then as a fellow artist, let me thank you for showing me that my knowledge of music was still so lacking,” she bowed her head to Maestro.The harshness of the beastly sounds. The heartbeat of a thunderstorm. The wailing of of once soft sounds turned on their head.It made Isanella feel like a novice all over again as she stared at the tasks before her, the mountains still left to climb. She closed her eyes.She may have broken music itself in the darkest moment of her time adventuring, but here in this hole normally meant for death?Isanella found beauty.It was wonderful!“Maestro, patron of music! Sing to me!” she ordered with a laugh, a pure clear sound. Maestro turned his face up slightly.“Darling, it’s like me asking you to breath, I’m going to do it with or without your say so!” he sniffed.There was a beat of deadly silence before a long sound began in Maestro’s mouth.It was low and haunting before it rapidly became a sound of creation and emotion.Isanella basked in it and then she allowed it to overwhelm her.---Sis watched with interest as Delta panicked.From her orb in the layers between the screens Sis couldn’t ‘see’ as much as know what was happening. Still, she liked to pretend she could. Delta was so lovely and easy to picture. A slightly orange figure who would be rambling to herself and having a meltdown about something rather benign. It was very cute.Nu would be... ah, there he was. Nu was a nice counter to Delta. He prevented her from doing anything too self-destructive and encouraged her to act despite her worries.As far as a wild system went, Delta was rather stable. Not that Sis didn’t take a little pride in helping where she could.Sure, she could have reigned Nu in... and yes, she assumed far more about Delta’s phrasing than the girl would probably like but it was all for a good cause! Granted it was often just to see what would happen but curiosity should never be punished.To be honest... it wasn’t like Sis could control Delta. Nor would she want to. Nu, Sis, the various parts to the dungeon that even Nu wasn’t aware of... they were all subservient to Delta. Loyal to a fault.Delta impressed her despite this. Programmed loyalty was once thing in her monsters and Nu but they actually did like her as a core. That wasn’t something programming could sustain over a long period to someone who could at times be perceptive...Delta had an effect on people and Sis was a little stumped at how it kept breaking things such as rules and basic physics.She giggled as Delta just lifted the whole Wyin tree in a panic. The thing groaned and soil went flying everywhere. Sis quickly just filled that hole in as Delta flew off.She planted a new apple tree in its place so as not to look too oddly empty to the incoming visitors. She convinced the system to do it as a reward for moving a big enough tree.The system processed it. A task and a reward. It was accepted.Even she had to follow the rules at times.Sis watched as Delta tried to hide the tree in the Pygmy hole but it didn’t quite fit... There was a moment that Sis half-expected the hole to morph to fit Delta’s desires but it thankfully remained true to the rules of an entrance.Sis turned in her sphere to watched the guests for a moment. This giant blue orb where she had awoken. This self-contained world.The girl in the middle was nothing more than something for parts of the system to interact with. An avatar. Sis was the sphere in its entirety.Still, it felt good to have something to exercise.She watched as a simple streak of orange flittered over the surface, quickly swallowed by the blue.“Delta the girl who was a dungeon who acted like a human. How lovely!” she giggled. For someone who was supposed to micromanage everything, Sis felt a liberation and a sense of pride at Delta.The girl who named her.With fondness, she had to laugh as Delta planted the tree in the only free space that might not be found as Delta tried to plant various signs reading ‘Do not Enter’ and ‘Work in progress, no peeking!’The faith Delta had in humanity was a little heartbreaking.The tree’s roots settled into the empty boss room and Delta froze as a notification appeared.Sis frowned as the system demanded a huge price for converting such a powerful magic tree into a boss.Delta was going to decline, the thoughts on what needed to be done and her dedication to her other monsters was going to force her to decline. That would be a shame, Sis really wanted to see what would happen.She looked around, a little guilty, as she focused. A tiny part of her sphere rippled as a streak of deep blue was replaced by a simmering orange.Sis could stand to give up a little more control.The screen before Delta flickered as if it had bad reception. Delta blinked at the much...much cheaper cost of the boss purchase.Sis beamed. Delta couldn’t just pick any ole frog or mushroom. Delta had to have a tree of legend as her second floor boss!She watched as the template control for monster summoning went a little wonky without the part she was using to control it. Sis guessed it was about 85% function with various parts still as ‘Sis’. Nu and Delta would have to try and control the rest on their own until she regained it.After all, as Delta grew so did Sis.It should be nothing devastating. Just that the chance of getting the same shape and size for the same purchase of monster types was a little off.Besides, who needed every goblin or mushroom to look exactly the same?Sis watched with pleasure as Delta hit the confirm button. She sang as it was processed and the tree shook violently.“Wyin tree has become a boss monster! The Wyin tree becomes the Wyin of Legend!” she giggled and watched as her sphere expanded.Delta was like a little bug in her system.But Sis knew full well that a good bug was just a feature waiting to happen.
