It had been a day. And right now, Ben was hunting through the Tide, flying in the sky. Throbbing at the back of his skull, his [Hunter] title flooded his brain with warnings of danger. But his [Mana Sonar] showed absolutely zero contacts in that patch of the Tide.

Ben stared down into the wave of monsters and frowned. Something was rapidly moving through the Tide, and his perception skill was completely blind to it.

And that was highly inconvenient right now.

Especially since the Tides had been relentlessly increasing in both frequency and difficulty over the last day. Most of the people in the rift were entirely bogged down just trying to manage the endless waves of monsters without dying.

But Ben had been keeping himself plenty busy elsewhere.

Pushing his limits, he had made a ton of progress on the monolith steps. The mental and physical pressure was still a nightmare, but he was adapting quickly.

He actually expected to reach the very top soon.

Taking advantage of the little time he got to himself, he'd also been practicing with Alice and her gravity affinity. Because he had a very specific suspicion.

He turned around in the air and yanked his focus back to the present moment as he swept his eyes over the monsters below, trying to spot the invisible threat from the relative safety of the sky.

But then something slashed through the air directly at his face.

Jerking his head to the side, he barely managed to dodge. The invisible projectile whipped past his cheek, drawing a stinging line of blood.

Touching his face, he stared at the red smeared across his fingers.

Was that an arrow? A spear?

Wiping the blood away on his sleeve, he decided it was definitely something like it.

So he aimed his staff and immediately blasted a [Mana Cannon] right at the origin point of the attack. The bright blue cannon of mana tore through the air and hit the ground.

The creature had already moved.

Sighing, Ben braced himself for a highly annoying game of cat and mouse.

Ducking under another invisible projectile, he started adjusting his [Mana Sonar]'s frequency. Normal pulses weren't catching this thing, so he had to stretch the range far past its usual limits.

He forced his [Mana Manipulation] to do the heavy lifting. It was exactly like trying to manually tune an old radio while someone was actively throwing knives at his head.

And it gave him a bit of a headache.

Moving wildly through the sky, he could do nothing but dodge the invisible projectiles. The damn thing was fast, constantly repositioning. The chaotic nature of the Tide didn't help either.

But Ben was stubborn.

Forcing the mana to stretch and thin out, he warped the frequency of his sonar until the world looked completely distorted in his mind's eye.

And then a tiny, shadowy outline finally flickered into his perception.

Gotcha.

Locking onto the blurry target instantly, Ben dumped a massive amount of mana into his staff, and blasted a [Mana Cannon] directly through the creature's chest.

The shadow dissipated as the [Mana Cannon] punched a small crater into the dirt beneath it. A moment later, the body became visible and fell to the ground with a massive hole in its chest.

[Tier 1 Shadow Monkey slain. Essence gained.]

Shadow Monkey? Really?

Staring at the system notification, he couldn't help but feel a little smug. It was another shadow monkey, and he had tracked this one down way faster than the last one. Though that one had been Tier 2.

But then he remembered that the Tier 2 he'd fought before had been weak because the rift had not adapted fully yet.

So he probably shouldn't get too excited just yet.

And that humbling realization proved instantly correct when a projectile ripped through the air toward him. Catching the threat on his [Mana Sonar] way too late, he frantically twisted his body out of the way. The invisible projectile wasn't a spear this time.

A dagger?

Realizing it a fraction of a second too late, he felt the blade slice cleanly across his stomach. Thankfully, his panicked dodge meant it only grazed his side instead of completely disemboweling him.

He clamped a hand over his bleeding side and watched the invisible weapon suddenly dissolve into a trail of particles. The particles rapidly rushed backward through the air, returning straight toward wherever it had been thrown from.

Aiming his staff instantly, Ben blasted a [Mana Cannon] right down the particle trail.

But the ball of mana just hit empty ground and faded away. The damn creature had already moved from its spot.

Cursing in his head, Ben dropped himself a bit lower in the sky to try and get a better vantage point. Ramping his [Mana Sonar] up to the absolute maximum, he scanned the entire area while flooding his body with healing through [Regeneration], [Focus] helping him do all that without so much as a sweat.

And then a signal finally pinged in his mind.

Wait what? Above?!

Snapping his head upward, he stared at the completely empty air high above his current position. He was already floating in the sky to stay away from the Tide below.

How the hell is a monkey flying?!

Dodging in a hurry, he barely avoided the next dagger strike whistling down at his head. Looking closely through his distorted [Mana Sonar] vision, he could clearly see it was a monkey winding up to throw the dagger right at his face.

Ben blasted himself completely out of the way of the projectile, and it whipped past him. He immediately leveled his staff right at the monkey's chest, ready to blow a hole straight through it before it could throw again.

But the creature just vanished into thin air.

A sharp sting suddenly slashed right across his back, drawing fresh blood. Bursting forward with another explosion of fire, Ben spun around to face his attacker.

His [Mana Sonar] was having a constant, chaotic battle of hide-and-seek with the creature's shifting signal. Every single time he locked onto its position, the monkey was already gone again, appearing on a completely different side of him.

Ben was completely baffled by the impossible movements.

How is it teleporting?

Ramping up [Regeneration], he focused on the more important parts that needed healing while keeping his eyes peeled.

Swinging his staff in a wide arc, he sent out a sweeping wave of [Mana Cannons]. Though weaker they had the quantity, just to create some breathing room. The monkey simply popped out of existence before the wave could even touch it.

And it reappeared directly below him.

Blasting [Fire Burst] into it, Ben grew concerned when it teleported again. The monkey had dissolved the moment he attacked, only to reform a few feet away with another dagger already flying from its hand.

Deflecting the blade with the shaft of his staff, Ben felt the impact rattle his arms a little. There was a surprising amount of force behind that throw.

Come on, think.

Analyzing the chaotic pings on his sonar, he realized the teleports weren't entirely random. The monkey was only jumping to his immediate blind spots, deliberately utilizing the exact moments when Ben's attention was forced to shift.

More specifically, it was teleporting where it threw its dagger.

Realizing the pattern, he watched the chaotic pings on his sonar with a new understanding. So it threw the dagger, and then it teleported exactly to where the blade was.

Was it using the dagger as a gateway to teleport?

Clever.

Ben stopped moving so frantically and just hovered in the air. He deliberately left himself wide open as bait. He didn't have to wait long.

Twisting his body at the absolute last second, he let the invisible dagger whistle right past his ear. But instead of aiming his staff at the monkey, he tracked the trajectory of the flying blade.

He whipped his staff around to point directly at the weapon. He pumped mana into the wood just as the monkey began to dissolve into shadows.

And he fired a [Mana Cannon] right at the dagger.

The blast slammed into the invisible dagger, or at least, what should've been the dagger. Instead the blast slammed into the monkey as it materialized there. Pushing his mana output to the max, Ben pummeled the stunned creature with a barrage of [Mana Cannons].

The blasts slammed into the monkey one after another, tearing through before it could even try to teleport again.

[Tier 2 Shadow Monkey slain. Essence gained.]

[Regeneration Lvl 11 > Lvl 12]

[Warforged Lvl 9 > Lvl 10]

[Fire Burst Lvl 16 > 17]

[Mana Sonar Lvl 12 > Lvl 15]

[Mana Cannon Lvl 6 > Lvl 8]

That had been entirely too close for comfort. But the rewards were absolutely worth the hassle. And with that last kill, he felt a strange yet thrilling pressure building up inside his core.

He was incredibly close to peak Tier 1.

That was Tier 2?

Ben was a bit confused. Was he stronger than he realized, or were the Tier 2 monsters still not at full strength yet?

Blasting toward the monolith, Ben landed inside the barrier on the path leading to the stairway. It was time to reach the top. And see just what was up there.

It better be worth it, or I'm going to be pissed.