Once more, Shiv’s paranoia reared its head. The Deathless promptly stomped on the feeling, as there would be no point in capturing both him and Adam at the same time. Again, Cripple could have simply aided his fellow Ascendant earlier if he wanted Shiv captured. “Got it. You’ll be able to track me with this core, won’t you?”

“It is necessary. If you do not trust me—”

“It’s fine. I think we’re both past that point now. If the other Ascendants manage to recapture me and peek into my mind, how much trouble will you be in if they see this conversation we just had?”

“I do not wish to think of such things,” Cripple whispered.

A beat of awkwardness slid between them, and Shiv grunted. “Alright. I’ll see if I can figure out where Adam is without getting myself put back in a cage. You better get back before the other false gods start getting more weird feelings about you.”

“Mind yourself, Deathless. And mind who you decide to use for this task. The prisoners in the Nadir are powerful and without remorse. You may think yourself a Legend, but you are not yet True. There are many here that could slaughter the capital alone if not for our own Legends, as well as us Ascendants and our Avatars. I will hold you to your words about my wardens and beg that your deeds will live up to your beliefs.”

“I’m damn sure going to try,” Shiv said in reply.

Cripple gave a distorted hum. “That is all that can be done sometimes.”

With that, the talk between them came to a close. A thunderclap of pressure shook the brilliant domain, and the divine mana crashed toward Shiv in receding waves. Rather than slamming into his body, the incandescence narrowed into streams and wormed into the reactor core Shiv now clutched in his left hand. When the final motes of brightness faded, he found himself hovering in the crawlspace, staring at a shredded Orichalcum wall. There was still a lingering stench in the air, but with Daughter missing, it wasn’t nearly as bad. He placed the reactor core into his cape and stepped forward. Shiv lined the underside of his feet with vectors and dashed through the air. He entered the prison cube again in search of Rebis—and then realized Bonk and Five probably heard the entire conversation.

I completely forgot about them. Well, might as well get this over with. “Five. Bonk. Come out. I think we got some stuff to talk about.”

Neither the orc nor the wolf-man replied immediately. Shiv frowned as he landed on the valley floor of the prison. There were bodies everywhere. Dismembered wardens littered the ground, and smears of their blood painted the walls. Most of them were crushed and mangled in strange ways. It looked as if a giant hand squeezed them until their organs were forced out of their body.

Shiv remembered the massive Vulteg that he'd halted earlier. Urri, Shiv thought his name was. Maybe this was his doing. Distant sounds of battle rang out from ahead and behind, and Shiv considered calling out for Rebis. Drawing attention to himself might not be the best idea right now, but he needed—

Something crashed into Shiv. The Deathless felt his heart drop as he reacted. He seized his attacker by the neck and drove them against the Orichalcum wall. A resounding bang rang out. The attacker writhed. Shiv gathered his Shapeless Tides and prepared to rip them asunder. Pointed vectors of force speared along his arms and stabbed against his adversary. Just as Shiv was about to pull his newest victim apart, he hissed and stopped himself.

“Rebis,” Shiv snapped, looking at his badly damaged companion. “The hells? Don’t just throw yourself at me like that.”

The amalgamated Pathbearer was not in good condition. His human side was bleeding and wounded in a dozen places. Blood seeped out from his many cuts, and his skin bounced in parted flaps while smoke rose from sparking wires protruding from his mechanical side. Despite this, Rebis was still combat-capable.

“S-sorry,” Rebis said, pointing his face away from Shiv. The cyborg’s wings twitched a few times before ultimately going slack. “I was… I moved too fast.”

Shiv let Rebis go and used his Aegis of Assimilation to drain away the wounds he could. As he turned the cuts lining Rebis into crystallized mana, the cyborg glanced down at his human half in surprise before briefly shooting Shiv a glance.

“Glad Daughter didn’t kill you,” Shiv muttered. “She tore you up something bad, though. Damn, that’s a lot of cuts.”

“No,” Rebis said, shaking his head violently.

“No?” Shiv asked, not understanding what the cyborg was referring to.

“Not a lot of cuts. They cut more when they experiment on me. They cut more when they are trying to put things inside.”

“Oh. Yeah. Sorry. Bunch of felling bastards.”

Rebis gave Shiv a twitching nod.

“Five. Bonk. You guys alright?” Shiv called out again. When there was still no response, Shiv knew something terrible had happened.
