“No indication there’s been any major developments, but I get the feeling things are progressing slow and steady. I did recently have a conversation with her partly related to the subject, and from that, I believe that she’s quite serious about the matter and giving it a lot of thought,” Nature’s Attendant answered honestly. “It’s Jake I have a harder time reading.”

Duskleaf nodded, in thought for a moment. They were really acting like two old men right now, discussing the love lives of a young-ish god and a young mortal. However, it was a fairly important matter that should not be taken lightly.

From an outside perspective, it was likely just viewed as Artemis having a temporary fling with a mortal for a few years. This was quite common and not at all viewed as weird, but these two old men knew there was far more to it. And not just because they were both operating under the working theory that Jake would eventually reach godhood.

Jake was clearly not a normal Chosen, so anyone he was close to also automatically got close to the Malefic Viper and his Order. Meanwhile, Artemis had been a member of the Pantheon of Life ever since she was a child and was now a relatively high-ranked member of the faction.

All of this is to say that any relationship had massive political implications.

He also gave Meira some thought, and truthfully, he believed this was a good thing for her. Even if she couldn’t see it right now.

“I think it best to just leave the two to it,” Duskleaf shook his head. “Let whatever happens happen.”

“That does sound like the best approach,” Nature’s Attendant smiled. “You know, a part of me had hoped Dina could be a way to forge a stronger bond with him, but this development isn’t too bad, either.”

“Enough about that,” Duskleaf waved him off. “I should really get back to it, and I believe you also have plenty of matters to address.”

“True, true,” Nature’s Attendant smiled. “But there’s nothing wrong with looking forward to a potentially flourishing relationship between both factions and people.”

With those words, the god teleported away, leaving Duskleaf behind. Shaking his head, the alchemist got back to work, and only a few seconds later, he was so engrossed that he’d already entirely forgotten about everything irrelevant to the current project.
