With a gentle command, separated into seven pieces, Erick commanded Ophiel to expand. Each tiny [Familiar] unfolded with wing and feathers and eyes, one meter tall, then two. Each of them turned symmetrical; jumbles of wings and eyes became artistic grace. This was not their full size, but it was slightly bigger than Erick, and that was the perfect size. He set each winged Ophiel on a different task. He started with the one on his left.

Seven motes of stone floated up from the dungeon floor, into the air around the first Ophiel, shaped into spheres. The second Ophiel grabbed seven globes of water pulled from the pond. [Prestidigitation] gave rise to orbs of fire, held in place with [Fireshape] around the third Ophiel, while balls of flowing air came from the inlet above the pool and took position around the fourth Ophiel. Radiance circled the next Ophiel, seven perfect spheres of light plucked from the room, while seven orbs of utter darkness held around the sixth Ophiel. The seventh held strong with seven floating balls of diamond, roughly plucked from a nearby statue and quickly shaped into perfect spheres by Erick’s concentrated effort. He scattered the resulting diamond dust into the pool, setting the water to sparkling even more, as hand-sized, smooth and spherical orbs began to float around the last Ophiel.

Erick cast seven [Wards] across the pool. They were filled with intent, but not much more than that.

Though he didn’t get all the math in Hocnihai’s books, the ritual and the process called to Erick in some deep way. He hadn’t planned on doing this today, or here, but now was as good a time as any to try and go for the big spell.

With another gentle nudge, he set all seven Ophiel to singing their parts. Erick joined them,

“Here we lay a solid claim to land roughhewn and gentle made

“by this act of river tamed, by this need of monsters slain.

“Start a pyre, burn the night! Keep us safe and not afraid.

“Feel the breeze and scent the wind, banish all your thoughts of pain

“for all is seen and all is known, for these lights will never wane.

“If monsters crawl we are prepared, for there are ever hidden swords

“here in this hard land, I say! Here in this [Prismatic Ward]!”

Erick flowed meaning and power into his words as Ophiel joined him, surrounding the rippling pool and its layered, basic warding with vibrations and meaning and magic. Each line passed broke one of the [Ward]s over the water, quickly leaving the air empty, but full of resonance.

The air broke over the pond.

One second, there was nothing but the changing kaleidoscopic dungeon all around Erick. Even through his sunglasses the room was bright. And then it wasn’t. It was like he had walked indoors from the sun. A gentle, homey feeling overtook him. He smiled as he took off his glasses. The seven summoned Ophiel each put their spheres of matter back where they got them, or dismissed them back into the world. The one with the diamonds just stacked the seven balls in a heap on the floor, as all of them flashed down to parakeet-size and hovered over to Erick.

Erick stood on the edge of a calm pool of water, as a gentle breeze flowed from above, and a dense feeling hung all around him. He moved his hand through the air. It didn’t shatter the air like how [Crystalline Air] broke at his touch. He just existed, and everything felt normal.

All around Erick and the five meter wide pond, and another good seven meters outside of that pond in every direction, pressed against the ceiling and against the wavy ground, laid a density. A gravity, almost, but not quite. Outside of that density laid the dungeon, still kaleidoscopic bright and supremely radiant. Of the bright [Ward]s caught inside the effect, they were still bright, but they didn’t burn Erick’s eyes.

The Headmaster stood outside of that density, too, along with the light slimes. Those little balls of light were bouncing along, like before, though some of them bounced at the density, like hitting an invisible thing in the air, before they bounced right back to continue their play somewhere else. Streams of water flowed from outside the space, into the space, while air and mana swirled above, unimpeded.

The Headmaster’s eyes were a bit wider than normal, but he said nothing. Instead, he looked to the air, like he was reading something.

Erick looked around, too. Where were his notifications? They didn’t usually take this long.

The Headmaster frowned a little as he said, “Ah. That’s my fault. I was looking at the skill. Here—”

Prismatic Ward, instant, short range, permanent, Solid Ward, 100 MP + Variable

Create a solid, large space, that absorbs six times Variable damage before breaking.

Prismatic Ward regenerates integrity based on your Rested mana regeneration rate.

You and those you permit are able to operate within Prismatic Ward without restriction. You may grant or revoke this permission at will.

All beings permitted inside Prismatic Ward are at Rest while inside.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Choose which Solid Ward to keep:

Prismatic Ward

OR

Crystalline Air

Erick was a little sad to lose the ‘You may increase or decrease the size of your Solid Ward for an increase or decrease in Variable cost’ of [Crystalline Air], but he readily chose [Prismatic Ward]. The ability to deny [Teleport]s of all kinds, not just the [Teleport] spell, was too good to pass up; you couldn’t blip into a space already occupied by an object, after all. He gave a sad smile and a deep, deep ‘thank you’ to [Crystalline Air] as he felt it break apart inside of his soul, or his link to the mana through the Script, or wherever was that odd space inside of him where the spells actually resided.

The Headmaster said, “That is a remarkably good version of the spell. Do you mind if I give that rhyme and method to others who I hold in confidence?”

“I didn’t even know anyone could intercept notifications.”

“Ah.” The Headmaster said, “I usually do not, but this one came through the Script like a charging wyrm.” He added, “I’m technically a Registrar but only because I am Second to Rozeta.” He suddenly looked to the side. He looked back to Erick, saying, “This was a treat to witness, but I must go.” He said, “I will send Krigea to you later. I am very interested in procuring an actual light slime dungeon. If you are interested in a further bargain of trade for such a thing, I am willing to discuss terms. Whatever the case, I do think you should get both [Lightwalk] and [Shadowalk]. Separately, they are not that great for killing or escaping from Shades, but together they are wonderful. Like two halves of a coin. Of course, the other Four Elements taken together are similarly useful—” He looked to the air again. He said, “I must go.”

The Headmaster vanished in a blip of gold light.

Erick sighed out into the air. He watched as seven Ophiel played together, moving in and out of the [Prismatic Ward] without disturbing the space at all. After a few moments of just resting, feeling his mana refill, he set to putting his dungeon back to rights. [Stoneshape] remade floors and plumbing rather quickly. When the pool was back to the endpoint of the water stream curling around the room, and the pipes were back to their proper positions, Erick looked down at the nearest light slime, bumbling against the edge of his [Prismatic Ward].

Did he need a [Lightwalk]? Jane seemed to think he did, and so did the Headmaster. According to both of them, he needed [Shadowalk], too. But these slimes were just too cute.

...It wasn’t a decision he had to make today, anyway. For now, it was time to go home! Erick dismissed six of his seven Ophiel, then blipped back to Windy Manor.

He mostly ignored the nagging feeling eating at his gut that the Headmaster had done something to his [Prismatic Ward].
