Kind of like me, Shiv thought. Godsdamn you, Sullain.

The Tarrasque proceeded to make him feel worse as it bellowed another declaration against the remaining Ascendants. “I am the chef! You are the food!”

Georges did a double-take. His eyes snapped to Shiv. “The felling fuck did that thing just say?”

But the Tarrasque wasn’t done. It twisted around as massive spells crashed down against its body. The world shook. Swelling blasts of light and devastating skills bathed the apocalyptic monster in destruction. A claw woven from the blackest lightning closed around the Tarrasque while Hawgrave descended to drive her blade against the side of its head.

It barely registered most of the hits. And now it was glaring at Blackedge, its eyes of red and white glistening like stars even through the chaotic canvas of charge wrought by the Ascendants.

“Shit,” Shiv hissed. He stomped a foot down on the ground and cracked the floor some more. In the same instant, he branded a temporal echo of himself upon the flesh of reality so he could easily return to the Perch later. When he finished, he shot out from the room with a pulse of force and triggered his Pillar once again. “Marikos, you feel recovered enough to get bloody?”

The Dragon-Knight reached up and seized Shiv. A large, predatory grin lined his draconic features. “I was waiting on you, my little comrade.” Once more, he wielded Shiv as if he was nothing more than a large rod rather than an unmovable tower of ever-escalating Toughness. “But our enemy has grown most durable. I fear we will need a clever strategy.”

“If you can pin it in place, I can kill it at least once,” Adam said, looking down at his smiting arrow. Then, he grimaced. “But Shiv. We can’t trust the Ascendants.” That admission left Adam with no small amount of discomfort. “Even if we join the fray, they will come for the Perch. At least some of them will.”

“Yeah, Kathereine and… Halsur,” Shiv said, managing to remember the name of the storm-forged giant. “I know. I had a run-in with those two assholes earlier. The point isn’t to treat them like allies. The point is putting the Tarrasque down and making sure they know the Dragon-Knights are on their side. Maybe that’s what it will take to finally end the damn Legendary skill reward.”

“Legendary?” Roland whispered. The Town Lord’s voice was raw, but he looked at Shiv with overwhelming suspicion.

The Deathless grinned sweetly at his former captor and overlord. “Yeah. I got a certain Quest down in the Abyss that offers me a pretty nice reward. Turns out, if I break the siege at Blackedge by dealing with Sullain and prevent a war between the surface and the Abyssal nations, I’ll be able to choose a Legendary Skill evolution. Pretty nice, huh?”

Roland’s right eye twitched slightly. A low wheeze of pain and misery escaped from him.

“Father? Father, are you alright?” Adam asked with genuine concern.

The noise continued, and Shiv’s smile kept growing. “And don’t worry about Sullain. I got his ass already. So. I think all I need is to make sure the Ascendants don’t get into it with the Dragon-Knights. And this is my best idea—to help them put the Tarrasque down while you guys take this chance to escape. I already got a temporal echo planted, so I should be able to blink back later. Marikos—”

“Worry not for me,” the Legendary knight declared. He held his Shiv-stick out at the Tarrasque that was currently being pinned by a massive, fiery hand. “I will see the Tarrasque slain, or our lifeblood shed fully in the attempt.”

“Sounds good,” Shiv replied without complaint.

Uva’s mana strands snaked through everyone else present within the Perch as well. Incandescent flames danced along the hair-thin tendrils of mana. What’s more, what used to be a skill for telepathy now possessed a weight—a tangible power. Shiv could feel her mana pressing against his flesh, digging its way through the walls and breaking more pieces of glass. As the incandescent mana flowed downward, the ground shuddered, and a sudden force sent Blackedge jerking upward.

“I can feel Blackedge,” Uva said, with a gasp of effort. “This Perch… It doubles as a mana core as well.”

“It is more than that,” the Starhawk said. “Far more. Do not overchannel. My divinity will pass through you at a trickle until your Eldritch Skill acclimates fully.”

“Understood,” Uva replied. Something escaped her and struck Shiv—a feeling of immense strain. She shot a look at him and gave the slightest of shrugs. “I must confess that I am not sure how I’m going to explain this to the Composer. The presence of another god connecting to me on top of the Dreamtaker is… going to make things troublesome when I inevitably have to write a report of our experiences.”

Slowly, Blackedge began to ascend once more. Below the Perch, people on the street stopped what they were doing as their heads turned to regard the peak of Roland’s spire. Several people cheered the Town Lord’s name, ignorant of the fact that he was too wounded to be of service, and that it was an Abyssal that was currently serving in his stead.

“Well, I can tell her that we were shit out of good and bad choices,” Shiv said telepathically. “And that all we could do was select from different flavors of shit.” A beat passed between them. “Get everyone left in Blackedge to safety, but don't let the Starhawk fry you.”

“Go deal with Sullain’s abomination, but don’t let it kill you for good,” she replied. “Same to you, Legend Marikos.”

The dragon let out a rumbling laugh as he held his Shiv-stick high. A flame lit at the end of the Orichalcum pillar. A small ember that was gradually growing brighter and hotter. “Your concern is heard, Daughter of the Composer. But I do not intend to be the victim in this tale.”

“Hold. A final matter.” Valor’s interruption drew a snarl from Marikos, but he refrained from doing anything. “Shiv. Should you gain access to the Legendary Skill reward, do not select a skill immediately. It will draw you out of the fight and pull you into the depths of your soul. When you Delve, there is no guarantee when you might return—or if you will return at all.”

“What? So even if I get the Legendary Skill, I can’t just pick it and evolve?” Shiv grunted in annoyance but let it go. “Right. Fine. Don’t even know what skill I want to evolve yet. I’ll just need to figure out how to kick the Tarrasque’s ass as a Hero. Marikos. Let’s get the bastard.”

“Away, and unto the fray once more!” Marikos roared. The air around him shook. Adam winced, and Rose’s eardrums erupted in sprays of blood. The Gate Lord called out to his mother—but Helix simply cast a spell at her without even looking. The orcs were moving too. Whisper was already missing, and Mortar was stomping toward the edge of the Perch’s spire. And then Shiv was moving, the town vanishing behind him in a blur. “Dragon-Knights! If you draw breath, come forth to battle! Let fire reign! Burn yourselves down to cold ashes, for our lives are but passing, but our vows stand eternal. Semper Fidelis! Semper Fidelis! Semper Fidelis!”

And as the Legend chanted a phrase Shiv didn’t quite understand, his voice was echoed from the skies above.

Besides the new group that had almost reached the battlefield, surviving Dragon-Knights descended from a sky darkened by the haze of battle. Many of them were wounded and maimed, missing limbs or even trailing entrails. Few had intact weapons, and their magical fields expanded from them like tattered veils.

But still they came, heeding Marikos’s call.

“Semper Fidelis!”

“Semper Fidelis!”

“Semper Fidelis!”

Including the new arrivals, there were maybe three dozen full Lances left. But on their backs, Shiv noticed other figures hanging off of them. Burly figures of gray skin and murderous glee. They chanted along with the dragons while waving their own arms and spells in the air.

And that was enough to get a laugh out of Shiv.

Despite everything, Shiv found himself proud to be their Insul.

“Remember: I just need a moment,” Adam said to Shiv. “Just stun it for an instant if you can. Or get one of the Ascendants to do it. It’s still thrashing and moving too fast for me right now, but I think they can do it. But after that death, I fear my effectiveness will—”

“Shoot a hundred orcs,” Shiv replied casually. Just because he was proud to be an Insul didn’t mean he forgot what they were. “That should fill you back up.”

A pulse of surprise leaked over from Adam, but it flattened to immediate acceptance. “Well, nothing they wouldn’t do to us, is it?”

“Nope,” Shiv said. “So have fun and feel free. Hey. Marikos. See if you can pin me against the Tarrasque for a few seconds.” He directed his attention to his Drain Vitality Skill once more and narrowed his eyes at the faint film of vitality lining existence. “There’s something I want to try again…”
