“But he will lower it by a few years or so every time I bring him something interesting. There will be some years left at the end no matter what, of course. Speaking of, I heard that you might have the same issue with red mana? At some point?”

“This is a very private question you are asking and I will not answer. What I can say is that the process is eminently complex and… you will not be able to conduct it within the timeline you have for you. Even with your talent. I am not just talking about researching the problem. You do not have the skills and willpower, acuity, or focus to carry out some of the necessary tasks. You need assistance and I cannot provide it.”

The dean gauged her for a moment, then sighed, his mind made.

“The final ritual is a death and rebirth one. There is no way your mind can handle the death of the self and keep the spell going at the same time, not now and not within the next thirty years. It takes centuries for us to reach that point of power. I am sorry.”

“Damn.”

“You could always gather the ingredients yourself. It is a major aspect of the process and I am sure Elunath will shave decades off.”

“What sorts of components? He was supposed to tell me.”

“You will need pure silverite and also a pure core of large size of the color that you have picked.”

“So for you it would be…”

“A fire elemental could hypothetically do, though I cannot think of anyone who would survive the harvest. Volcano clams have them. It is only a matter of reaching the beasts themselves. Fortunately, I already found a way to obtain one. As for you…”

“An undead.”

“Not just any undead. You need a large core, and only one species of monster on Nyil has a black core of sufficient size.”

“Necrarchs.”

The dead nodded.

“You can’t hunt a necrarch. However, I was informed you have ties with the Temple of Neriad. I suggest you petition them for help. They always need more help from pure casters, you see.”

“I see, thanks.”

“Good luck to you, Viviane the Outlander. Those are unfortunate circumstances you find yourself in. I hope you get the help you need but do heed my words. You won’t live to the transition unless you exert some common sense. There is plenty of danger even within the city walls, no need to go look for some more.”

“I assure you I’m trying to stay alive. Thank you for your time, sir. I’ll show myself out.”

***

Sterek watched the shore pass by.

He was in self-imposed exile. It was the only solution. He was not the first and he would not be the last to lose his spot and his reputation in a risky venture. So long as one did not provoke a branding of the pariah through some heinous crime, Helock remained kind to her wayward children. It was a well-established process. He would scour the continent for lost knowledge or serve some backwater duke until he regained something of value. Then he would return in quiet triumph, contribute to the Academy and restore his position quietly between two semesters.

It was a terrible waste of his time and talent and yet, while Sterek felt two emotions, neither of them were shame.

The first was relief. After several months of vain efforts and machinations, it was done. He had fallen. He could fall no further. The only way left was up. Strangely, it soothed him, like getting rid of a rotten tooth calmed the infection.

The second was anger.

He had been humiliated by a backstabber and a muddy, mannerless outlander from some backwater shithole. Truly, the low cunning and base guile of the unwashed masses could be terrifying at times. It was difficult to beat a conwoman and charlatan at her own games but Sterek had always been a good student. There were many tools at his disposal.

For example, rumor had it she had such a serious health problem even the faculty could not help her. She had asked to meet with Elunath.

It would be a shame if her symptoms worsened.

Sterek started to hum to himself but soon found air missing from his lungs. He gasped in surprise as a particularly violent spike of agony stole his breath. His surprise only grew when he was lifted from the deck. Rather than empty embankments, his gaze captured the muddy waters of the Shal river, the railing he had been resting against, and the long bone limb jutting from his torso. It was attached to a nightmarish head whose eye cavities burnt with a malevolent amber glare. The twin yellow fires captured his attention despite the pain spreading through his chest, not because they were cold and lifeless, but because they expressed an emotion with absolute, unnatural clarity.

It was contemptuous pride.

Without a noise, without even a nearby sailor turning his head, the war golem slipped back under the brackish waters with its wriggling trophy. They closed around him with nary a ripple, and Sterek was never found again.
