She was close to a breakthrough, she could feel it. Rather than facilitating calculations like it did for Rakan, her skill gave her an intuitive understanding of balance and what should be done to keep an enchantment stable. She felt she could go back to Kazar and build three monoliths a day to expand the livable zone around the city. In fact, she probably would if she survived.

Viv managed to finish her second essay around midnight by cheating a little bit. General Jaratalassi had asked them to comment on a battle report and Viv found a section written by the man himself in a rare book on the topic. She made sure that their vision and analysis subtly ‘aligned’, made one significant change to make sure it wasn’t too obvious, then did some light reading and called it a night. Six hours of sleep per night were considered a luxury here, and exam periods would be significantly worse.

***

The next day started with a surprise. A general announcement spread via sound spell asked the students to remain in their rooms for a little longer. Everyone was then summoned to the massive amphitheater where announcements were made. To Viv’s surprise, the assembled staff was here along with a manacled junior teacher waiting on his knees. Everyone seemed grim and Viv felt the mood keenly. Auras were agitated that day, with plumes of free mana escaping the distracted casters.

“Ladies and gentlemen,” the Dean began, “it is with deep regret that I must tell you that assistant professor Ulys attempted to murder a student of this noble institution.”

Whispers spread across the assembly until the dean lifted a hand. A wave of viciously powerful magic covered the vast room, silencing every conversation. His voice came crisp and clear as if he were standing right next to Viv.

“Silence. I know you are curious and it does not matter. Just know this: he planned to poison his target by having two different students feed him innocuous potion. When combined in his stomach, the mix would become deadly.”

The dean scoffed.

“Every year, someone tries to skirt the rules by lying to themselves or by hiding behind technicalities. It will not work. Better and smarter people than you have tried over the years and those few who succeeded led to rare loopholes getting closed. The Academy is a safe haven. You will respect and enjoy this truth or you will perish. His accomplices have been firmly disciplined for their naivete which led to the endangerment of one of their peers, and they will spend the rest of the year mucking stables without magic. As for professor Ulys, the verdict is simple and definitive.”

The dean placed his hand at the base of Ulys’ skull. A dreadful flash shone brightly, pushing back the shadows of the room to their darkest corners. The bound man collapsed, quite obviously dead.

A priest walked in and placed a hand on the corpse to stop it from rising. In the following moment of quiet, two armored warmages retrieved the body.

“Let me be perfectly clear again. The Academy is a safe haven. You are protected here, just as the other students are. Do not give yourself to complacency by participating in schemes for easy rewards, and do not think for a moment you will succeed where generations of crooks have failed before you. The entire staff is on the side of the students and their protection. We will show no mercy. That is all. Despite the circumstances, I wish to each and everyone of you a good week.”

Viv queued out with other subdued students but when she reached the doors, an armored mage placed a gauntleted hand on her wrist.

“Viviane the Outlander? The dean would like a word with you. If you’ll follow me please.”

The guard turned around without checking if Viv followed, not that Viv would bail. She realized the guard’s voice had been distinctly female though the armored chest plate and helmet made them hard to identify. It led her to wonder if some of the staff moonlighted as terminators or if it was a dedicated position. In any case, she wouldn’t find out easily. The potent enchantments masked her aura and their own. She didn’t even know what element her guide wielded.

Those considerations lasted until they entered the dome-covered main concourse and up several flights of stairs. The guard politely opened a warded door to a section of the Academy Viv had never visited. They were quite high with many windows leading outside to the garden. She read a plate near a heavily protected entrance and recognized one of the teachers’ names.

“Are those the staff personal quarters?” Viv asked.

“If I may ask,” she amended quickly.

For a moment, she thought the guard might ignore her which she would understand. Hard to maintain the armored bounty hunter vibe while entertaining small talk. Nevertheless, the guard nodded under her visor.

“Yes. Offices and living quarters. The junior staff share accommodations with students.”

“I see.”

This part of the Academy would be harder to breach than a bank vault. Viv didn’t think anyone except Irao would consider doing it. Everything from the walls to the floor to even the window pane swirled with embedded mana channels linked together. Most of it seemed unpowered at the moment, possibly active defenses, but there was so much stuff it made her dizzy. She blinked and tried to focus on something else. Furniture was sparse in common areas with just paintings and rewards hanging from the polished walls. They didn’t come across anyone since classes had just started. Eventually, the guard let her up a flight of monumental stairs and past a suspended platform Viv heavily suspected was an elevator. The dean’s domain extended past a modest reception area, more like a lounge than an antechamber. The guard knocked on the most ornamented door Viv had seen in a while. They were let in before she could develop a headache from all those enchantments.

While the rest of the Academy’s top floor had not wasted any space, the dean’s office was large and cleared with a long empty spot leading to a massive desk. Windows lined the walls, showing Helock far below and beyond that, the shimmering blue of the ocean lit by the morning sun. The guard’s feet stomped on an intricately parquet floor. The air was clean and pleasant, the temperature perfect. A tea table waited towards the back of the room and a door that led further in. The singularly ugly face of the dean glanced up from a pile of documents he was reading and signing with a speed that only an advanced skill could provide. He passed a massive mitt through his perfectly groomed beard and considered the pair.

“Thank you Zael. I will not bother you any longer. Student Saint-Lys, kindly take a seat.”

While the guard left, Viv settled on the offered chair and studied the glyphs below, which when activated, would explode and incinerate her at the same time. Her detached interest was ignored for the time it took for Dean Tallit to finish his pile of paperwork. It took only a couple of minutes. Truly, skills made bureaucracy much more effective and that was sometimes even more terrifying than the explosions.

“All done. Now, onto our meeting.”

Dean Tallit crossed his fingers under his fat lips and suddenly, Viv felt the full attention of the man who ruled the continent’s most powerful institution fully focused on herself.

“During the welcome ceremony, I reminded everyone the only reason why we have endured throughout the ages. I was quite clear, I believe. In fact, I specifically forwent any sort of subtlety and witticisms to make absolutely sure everyone understood. Can you remind me what that reason was.”

“Because the Academy separates itself from the world’s trouble,” Viv allowed smoothly.

She was up for some scolding, That was fine. Better than prison or anything else the dean could have gotten away with since he was powerful. It was no secret that Sidjin had to break in to leave his teleportation circle in Sterek’s lab. A thorough interrogation by a mildly talented truth seeker would reveal she had a hand or three in the process.

“Yes, separated from the troubles of the world. This includes getting involved in political turmoil and administrative disputes. I would also expect my students to clear away from our noble town’s seediest elements. I would especially expect none of my requests to be ignored within the first TWO WEEKS of your stay here.”

Viv waited politely while the dean glared.

“At least you are not foolish enough to deny your involvement. Know that we have a very thorough, very protective intelligence branch to root out troubles before they occur just like the late Ulys found out. We are not blind and stupid, Viviane the Outlander. You have done the exact contrary of what we recommended and not very smartly either. I am aware that you are from afar and perhaps your society was more peaceful or simple than our own, so I will, again, state things very clearly, very thoroughly, so you understand. Helock is on the verge of serious unrest due to a combination of factors. We are also due a Hallurian invasion very soon. This is not the time to make waves or you will be caught in them and most likely die which I can tolerate. Worse, your status as a student could be used by others to prove that we got involved and this I cannot allow. From now on you will behave like a model student or I will consider measures to make sure you do, adult or not. So long as you are among our numbers you will follow the rules. Am I making myself clear?”

Viv waited, giving herself a couple of seconds to calm down and formulate her response. It was an old trick her dad taught her, though he would fill the silence with inane chatter like ‘I heard your question’. Viv had no need to fill the silence.

“What,” she asked, “is the difference between a rule and a request?”

An intimidation like a tidal wave crashed into her. The power of Dallit’s soul was so massive, so overwhelming it was almost a physical presence. She was not facing an archmage at the moment. She was facing an institution.

“You are playing a dangerous game, Viviane the Traveler.”

There was one thing she had noticed with intimidation. It worked much less when the other person had their own. When she had gone to save Arthur from abduction, many of the thugs had resisted her aura of terror despite being clearly weaker, intimidation included. Viv let her own soul pulse in response with the pressure it was being submitted to. Anger coaxed the calm, serpentine skill to uncoil itself in response until Viv felt like an island in the middle of a storm. She could in no way affect Dallit but the man was blowing and trumpeting in vain. After the storm, Viv would still be there.

“Since you gave me the courtesy of being blunt, I shall return the favor. Sterek sent assassins after my lover, Sidjin.”

The storm abated for a while, less because Dallit was taken aback and more out of curiosity.

“If you have proof of that…”

“I am not accusing,” Viv calmly interrupted, “I am stating a fact. Assassins went after Sidjn the day after he made a formal complaint and long before his family could have gotten wind he was here in Helock. An assassination contract costs gold talents. Only an influential individual could afford the cost and have the contacts to find proper agents. It leaves me with exactly one logical explanation, so yes, Sterek sent assassins after the man I love. Therefore the distinction between rule and request are clear. When I signed up with you, I swore oaths not to do anything that hurts the Academy. Those are the terms I agreed to. I never said I would let a research thief turned attempted murderer go after a man I love dearly because you asked nicely. Wait, I was being too polite. Let me rephrase.”

Viv was still an island facing a storm but this time, the island was a volcano, and it was smoking.

“I will not let one of your employees, or anyone for that matter, go after a person I love, not now, not ever, and whether you like it or not. If you can’t keep your own employees on the right side of not just the law but also common ethical practices, then I consider it doing a favor to the Academy to discredit such individuals.”

“There were other venues available to you.”

“And to Sterek as well, but he still sent killers.”

Dallit fumed behind his desk.

“And Sidjin was stonewalled by your administration. Don’t tell me you needed a birth certificate in triplicate to prove the identity of the fallen Prince Sidjin of Glastia, one of the brightest colorless mana specialists in existence.”

“We have to be careful.”

“Bullshit.”

The time to storm roared and blew, and Viv was pushed back against her seat, but she didn’t flinch.

“We have to be careful because there are many talented conmen who can even change the shape of their face.”

“And no one came to verify if he was one such person, no one visited him in his home. You never bothered.”

“We have better things to do…”

“I didn’t.”

The two casters stood frozen like statues. Dallit was a miniature sun, his mere presence warming the room, but Viv was a shard of obsidian and she could not be brushed aside.

But she had better things to do with her day.

“Look, I was not going after Sterek because he was one of us. I did it because he went after someone I care about deeply. It was a one off. I hope it was a one off. But just so that we’re clear, I am going to go out and be involved some more, and do you know why?”

“You must be suicidal.”

“No, I’m dying.”

This made the dean caress his ample beard once more.

“Ah yes, the health situation. What did Elunath say?”

“He’ll help me if I promise to serve him for a hundred years.”

Shock blossomed on the dean’s ugly face.

“This… is not very generous.”

