Here it is. She focused on her own health while she unleashed her unrelenting attacks. The pain from the fire curse was not quite as crippling as it had been, and with the increase in her healing magic and her vitality, she felt vastly more resilient to its damage. She celebrated by leaping upward and kicking the monster in the jaw with a perfect axle kick, happy that she had taken Calen’s advice with her skill advancement. A black fang shot loose as the creature’s jaw clacked shut.

Nice. And it will continue to grow, she thought, smiling. This was a skill that would become proportionally more and more valuable as she gained more skill levels, and her damage mitigation grew. She watched the numbers tick by, excited for her new resilience and power. After ten seconds the curse exploded, and she just healed the damage without the slightest interruption in her attack combination.

Ali focused, tracking more of the battle at once than she would have ever believed possible. The presence of the warlock had turned what should have been a relatively straightforward fight into a chaotic mess of fire, random curses, and explosions. More specifically, the imps made everything harder.

“Next to the big boulder!” Malika shouted as the Flamecaller hunter vanished, replaced by its near-perfect illusory replicas.

“Ali, barriers!” Calen shouted.

Ali didn’t bother replying – he was just getting caught up in the frenetic pace and falling into micromanagement. She resummoned her barriers, of course. She had decided to restrict herself to only two Sparkling Oozes for this fight – it was simply too hard for her to manage them in the presence of the Explosive Conflagration curse. Their ability to run – wobble? blob? – whatever the appropriate term for slime locomotion was, it was too slow. With only two of them, she had been able to separate them from each other and all the rest of her minions and have them simply lob bombs at the Flamecaller hunter from maximum distance, but she felt the lack of the additional effective area damage keenly every time the hunter pulled its vanishing trick. More and more, she was coming to appreciate the canny Death’s Acolyte Kobolds for their cunning and intelligent awareness of the unfolding situation. Even now, when she turned to direct them, she found that both of them had anticipated her request and were already huddled behind the new barrier lobbing blobs of ominous-looking death across the field to land among the illusions and the crackling lightning totems. Why people considered Kobolds weak and stupid, she had no idea. They were some of her most reliable minions.

She studied the battlefield simultaneously through her own senses, the senses of a holy Acolyte, a shaman, and one of the Hobgoblins. In the first chaotic minute of combat, with an unfettered warlock spraying curses around, she had lost three of her four archers to an instantaneously cast, empowered hellfire fireball, and three of her six shamans to a combination of flame-arrow suppression fire and the Explosive Conflagration. It had turned what should have been an easy task into a nightmare of anxious improvisation as she struggled to cover her responsibilities with far fewer resources than she had planned.

The illusions shattered, and the interrupted Power Shot cracked against her barrier with shocking power, but without the additional critical damage coming from Ambush, the golden wall just cracked a little. The Death’s Acolyte who had just been saved let out a high-pitched squawk and fell on his butt.

“Clear,” Calen called out. “I’m back on imps.”

“Right,” Ali said, sending a series of rapid-fire directions to her remaining minions.

Agony of Flame. The curse gave her lower-level minions negative resistance to fire, actually amplifying the damage far beyond what was normal. Her little Acolytes struggled to heal her shamans through the enormous damage that resulted from the conflagration and flame arrows. Her Kobolds, at least, had a racial resistance to fire damage, but even that was no match for the giant ball of hellfire that had taken them out in an instant, especially given that the shamans were too low-level to use the elixirs to boost their fire resistance.

She only hoped she would have minions left by the time Malika finished suppressing the warlock.

“Move,” she ordered, but the Hobgoblin who had just been hit with Explosive Conflagration was intelligent enough to understand their strategy and was already backing away from the melee so that the explosion wouldn’t hit everyone else and proliferate the curse. The muscular crimson Goblin was also robust enough to survive the explosion, allowing her Acolytes to handle healing the damage without panic.

She examined the melee group carefully with her Acolyte’s Healer’s Sight tracking their health. She had hoped Mato and the Hobs could kill one or two wargs while they were working on the warlock, but the imps seemed to favor dumping fireballs – or themselves – on the melee group regularly, damaging all her Hobgoblins and simultaneously healing the wargs with an extra infusion of hellfire damage. She would just have to keep healing through it and deal with the consequences later. They still had a hunter to kill.

“Fury,” Calen said, biting the word out from between clenched teeth.

“Kill the imps,” she instructed, and Ali’s remaining shamans, archer, and the one Bone Mage she kept around to boost her intelligence attribute all unleashed their spells and arrows at the unpredictable imps. Light mana ignited somewhere behind and off to her side, causing the pulsing of the floating beacons of light to surge with an injection of raw power. A veritable storm of brilliantly shining arrows filled the air, raining down on all the imps as they scampered around the battlefield. By now her Hobgoblins were familiar with Calen’s powerful damage enhancement, and they reacted with booming shouts of their own to further enhance the melee attacks.

Ali cast her senses broadly across the expanse of the battlefield and as soon as she detected the spell-formation for an empowered fireball, she summoned her barrier to block it from blasting into Mato and the wargs. In her haste, she had angled the barrier poorly and it shattered from the devastating explosion, but the hellfire rained down in sizzling gobs hitting bare rocky ground and missing the monsters it had been intended to heal. The imp that had fired it materialized in midair amid the spray of tinkling golden shards and burning bits of hellfire and fell to the ground with a painful-sounding thump she could hear from all the way over by the healers. A shining arrow of light slammed into the demon, pinning it to the ground, and instantly it turned into flame, teleporting to one of the nearby pools of burning hellfire.

“That is a stupidly good teleport,” Ali muttered, keeping her commentary quiet enough that it wouldn’t distract Calen as he peppered the battlefield with uncannily accurate shots.

Ali ignored the fickle demon, leaving it to Calen. She didn’t have the mental bandwidth to harass it with her barrier shards – all her left-over capacity was poured into defending her healers and herself from stray fireballs and the never-ending hail of flame arrows raining down about them. With what little remained, she attempted to interfere with the fireballs that whizzed and detonated all around, angling barriers to deflect them out of harm’s way.

As if she had suddenly been dunked into a cool pool of soothing waters, relief flooded her mind and body as the pain of the Agony of Flame faded and the curse expired.

“One minute,” Calen announced. “Agony down.”

Thank goodness! So much was going on that it was hard to believe that it was only just the first minute of combat, but Malika’s effect was being felt – the warlock failed to refresh the giant area curse. The monstrous caster couldn’t have been fully drained because it was still tossing the Explosive Conflagration about, but the highly damaging curse was vastly more manageable without the negative resistance some of her minions had been subjected to.

Calen’s intense glow of ignited mana faded, and Ali spied the corpses of three of the imps lying dead on the rocks. As she took note of them, a double blast of lightning ripped the final imp out of the fireball it was riding and threw its blackened, smoking corpse against the wall. It bounced and hit the ground and lay unmoving, flames extinguished.

“Imps are down. Hunter next,” Calen called out the strategy calmly, shifting his focus.

No more fireballs! Ali breathed a sigh of relief and swiveled all her barriers, now entirely focused on blocking flame arrows. At least the Flamecaller hunter was always shooting from a mostly predictable location. She tweaked the positions and targets for her remaining Sparkling Ooze and Death’s Acolytes, happier with the locations their explosive magic was landing in, and directed her one remaining shaman to drop her Lightning Nova totem beside the Flamecaller. The hunter fired its arrow, vanishing from sight and leaving four illusory images behind. Four shining arrows of light from Calen’s bow struck through the center of each image, dispersing them into sparks, and interrupting the hunter’s ability to Ambush.

“Good shot,” Ali observed, impressed with the speed with which he dispatched the illusion.

“Thanks, got lucky,” he answered. But it was far easier to be ‘lucky’ when the archer no longer had to also concentrate on picking off crazy imps riding fireballs in all directions.

As best she could with her remaining minions, she filled the space near the Flamecaller hunter with explosions of light, death, and arcing lightning, and began attacking with as many barrier shards as she could spare. Over by the wall, a Hellfire Warg collapsed, and she reacted, dropping all her barrier shards in favor of a protective wall preventing the hellfire of its kin from reaching the downed warg.

Mato reacted to her barrier, shifting sideways along his wall, dragging the remaining three wargs along with him.

“Stay,” Ali instructed, keeping one of her Hobgoblins standing over the downed corpse of the warg, and as soon as Mato had created some distance, she activated Minion Teleport, switching places with her Hobgoblin and arriving right on top of the warg’s body.

“Don’t move”, she said, dishing out instructions to the same Hobgoblin, now waiting in her original spot, and began deconstructing the corpse, keeping a watchful eye for stray arrows. As the warg turned into mana, refilling her pool, her teleport recharge expired and she switched back, right in time to see Calen and her pitifully small, ranged attack group finish off the Flamecaller hunter.

“Let’s finish the wargs, Malika has the warlock under control,” Calen called the strategy. It was the plan all along, but it sounded like Calen didn’t like leaving things to chance.

With none of the ranged enemies remaining alive, save the drained warlock, Ali let her protective barriers drop, converting all her power into flying shards. The wargs dropped quickly to their combined assault, and she only had to deconstruct one of them before the final two died simultaneously. After that, it was a simple matter to finish up the warlock.

“Took you guys long enough,” Malika said, grinning as Ali joined her to deconstruct the corpse.

“Next time you can chase down all the imps,” Ali offered.

“No thanks,” Malika said. “I like my cushy job.” She mimed punching an invisible Flamecaller several times.

“Pfft,” Ali said, feigning disinterest.

Variant: Flamecaller Warlock added to Imprint: Flamecaller.

Yay, more useless monster imprints. What a great reward!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
