Crissi eyed the food, and then took the tea and sipped it in a queenly manner. In that moment, the woman was suddenly back in her element. She regarded Erick. “I have appreciated the citrus that you have added to my cupboards, Wizard Flatt. The oranges and lemons have added quite welcome flavors.” She set down the cup. “What other sorts of additions would you contribute to Pearl?”

“Gates, at least two. You need not pay for these initial Gates since I have discovered how to make them out of simple iron, but the tolls of 1 gold per ton of goods and 1 gold per person will be enforced, with you able to add whatever fees you want onto those tolls. The Cities will soon have a whole Local Area Gate Network, which will probably become active somewhere around the center of Triumph of Light, in several days,” Erick said, “As for restrictions: every City is getting House Benevolence oversight for at least 5 years, which means dragons and Dicers, but primarily my Overseer of the Exterior, Mox Dawnsider, overseeing your lands on behalf of my House.

“You will also gain Oceanside oversight.

“These people will work to enact a few large changes in your society, primarily in the form of how your law is enacted. From now on, everyone in your lands will be judged the same; No more commoner/noble split for how the law works. The law during this period will be considered deeply harsh by all the world’s standards, but it will be no more than what I have already done to you; everyone who breaks the law in a violent way is getting a [Blessing of Empathy]. I’ve already done this Blessing 1,907 times, outside of the initial war transformation, and I expect to do this Blessing thousands of times more.

“Kirginatharp, the Headmaster, has his own Arcanaeum Consortium-specific rules which he desires to implement. It is my understanding that he desires for Matriculation to be open to everyone; not only those who sign up under noble houses or under City warbanners. I am sure he has teaching-arcanaeum-specific desires, as well.

“You will enact those desires.

“I know this is a large transformation of your society, which is the goal. I want to see you prosperous, and your people educated. I want to see people in stone houses, or at least in nice wooden houses, and to have a literacy rate of 99%, if only due to the literacy-comprehension-boost that one gains when they Matriculate. Stone roads. Cheaper food. Less drugs. More opportunity for advancement and more opportunity to change one’s own fate. Everyone working in a society where the people on top do what they can to ensure a just society for those below them, and to keep everyone at the higher levels from abusing their power.” To end on a high note, Erick added, “And any nobles who manage to make this work well, including you, can have a [Reincarnation] into whatever sort of body you wish, whenever you need such a transformation. Ten years from now, fifty years from now; whatever. There need not be any dying of old age on my watch. And there need not be any sort of uncomfortableness, either. I have transformed a great deal of men into women, and women into men, and made some people into different races altogether, if they wished to leave this land and this life behind.”

Crissi had some deep objections at the beginning of Erick’s speech, but then he kept talking. At the end, when he spoke of [Reincarnation]s for all, she only had one question, “Can you turn an angel into a real person?”

An unexpected question, but one which Erick had already spoken to Quilatalap about. “The short answer is ‘yes, I can, but it probably won’t work out perfectly’. Setting that aside: if I brought an angel back, then I would have to do the same for a demon in order to maintain neutrality in the Quiet War. Doing that would require a lot of knowledge about who I was turning back into a real person, first, which would draw me into that war… And I don’t want to do that. I recognize, though, that I might end up doing this eventually anyway, because I have had a lot of people on both sides asking me for this. Do you want someone in particular brought back? Knowing it might not work, and it might shred their soul?”

“My mother. But… Maybe not today.” Crissi paused. Then she began, “I would speak on specifics regarding this noble/commoner split in the law you dislike…”

Erick listened, and then he spoke of the many, many complaints of the Dicers, and how Bobbi, of the Dicers, would likely be working directly with Crissi and with the remade nobility, alongside House Benevolence. The revolutionaries would likely have a great deal of power going forward in the remaking of the Cities, and so Erick asked how Crissi felt about that.

Crissi pretended to be ambivalent, and that whatever oversight she gained from House Benevolence would be acceptable, of course, since she was the subjugated party. But Erick could tell she was fuming, and relieved, and hopeful, and really quite happy that she was allowed to be in power at all, though picking out those specific emotions from her took about an hour of talking. Crissi felt comfortable in being in power, and she was angry when Erick spoke of how her power was now limited, but Crissi also felt relief when they spoke of the changes in the law, which was a new feeling for her. That was probably her new Empathy working overtime.

And so, they spoke for a few hours about direct matters of state, while the subtext of the conversation pointed in a whole bunch of different directions, and Erick (and Crissi, too, sometimes) got to know who Crissi was as a person.

As they spoke, Erick felt better and better about his decision to keep Crissi in charge of Pearl.

Other people would probably be angry about this, but everything was still up in the air right now. Things could change in a week, or a month, or even in two days. But for now, Crissi would probably return to being Queen Pearl, though she and her power would be lesser; all of Pearl would be beholden to House Benevolence, and to Erick.

For a while, anyway.
