Armies dissolved, as they were suddenly not needed, since there were no other armies to fight. A lot of people were still needed to combat the monsters that poured up from the Underworld, out of the Curio River, so a lot of soldiers transitioned into that sort of life. A few Empathy’d people were able to maintain defensive anti-monster magic formations, but what really kept the monsters away were some [Withering]s in the waters, some Nodes connecting those [Withering]s together, and some [Undertow Star]s providing a lot of continual power to those spells, through Draining power from all the monsters in the water. Erick did help a lot of simply-[Reincarnation]’d people to regain some levels, so they could resume the endless fight for their homeland, but Erick’s spells (and Matriculated nobility providing them with power) pulled most of that duty.

Seven days had passed since the start of this war, and by now the Dicers were getting antsy to participate in a large way. They had repeatedly requested to be allowed to participate in a larger way than following orders on his command, and so, now that four of the five Cities had fallen, Erick allowed the Dicers a mass migration. Many of those Dicers asked to be subjected to the same sort of transformation that Erick was giving the regular nobles of the Cities, so that they, too, might be elevated to power how Erick was elevating others to power, so that they could once again live in their homes, and directly make their homes better. Erick easily granted many of those requests, though he asked those Dicers who could fight monsters to rescind their requests, so they could guard their homes against those always-enemies. [Reincarnation] reset a person’s Status, after all, while [Blessing of Empathy] made it truly difficult for someone to commit harm against another living thing, and monsters counted in that restriction.

- - -

For as many people as existed in the Sovereign Cities during Erick’s war, there were stories unfolding about those people, but Erick had no time to follow any of them with the focus that they deserved. Shadow’s Feast was 3 days away, Pearl remained unconquered, and the royalty of the Cities were nowhere to be found.

- - - -

Inside a [Hasted Shelter] and [Fairy Stronghold], Erick lay in bed next to Quilatalap, thinking. The big green man was still sleeping lightly.

For the rest of the world, this war had been going on for 7 days, but for Erick, this war had been going on for over a month. 36 days so far. It had been 36 days for Quilatalap, too, for Erick’s boyfriend had been beside him this entire time. Figuratively in many cases, but literally, too—

Quilatalap stirred, breathing deep, waking. He blinked a bit. “Ah. Morning?”

Erick smiled a little, then glanced out the window. “Still morning, yup.”

The sky outside was pink and gold with sunrise, and it had been that way for the last several hours.

Quilatalap reached over and wrapped an arm around Erick, dragging him close, then whispering into the back of his head, “Does it have to be morning?”

Erick chuckled, feeling all the wonderful warmth of another person at his back. “We’ve got all the time in the world. Though I am eager to be done with this war.”

“Yup. Me too. It’s been a rather great war according to how these things are usually measured, but it’s still a war.” Quilatalap patted Erick on the chest, and then rolled out of bed, saying, “So let's end it and be done with the Cities.”

Erick rolled out of bed, too…

Over the past month, Erick had danced around Quilatalap about a single topic. At that moment he decided that the dance was over. “So... We’ve been keeping kinda… Quiet about it. But is this what a Forgotten Campaign is like?”

“Absolutely not,” Quilatalap said, suddenly serious as cancer, “Those things are completely without care for the people they affect and done so quickly and deeply that barely anyone has a chance to comprehend that they’re happening at all. Has Kromolok asked you to do one of those?”

Quilatalap and Kromolok did not get along. Sure, they might appear to be friendly enough when Erick was around, but they never spoke to each other, and they never looked at each other. Those two men did not like each other at all, which was why Erick had been avoiding this topic until now.

Erick answered honestly, “Kromolok has said that I might need to assist with a Campaign in the future, in order to repay the help they’re giving me right now… But I know he’s using the idea of an exchange of assistance as a cover for his baser evaluation that I must simply help, as a matter of course, if a Campaign should occur, and especially so if I should end up being the cause of one.”

Quilatalap frowned a little, then his frown relaxed. He began putting on his clothes that he had discarded to the back of a chair several hours ago. “… I suppose a softer Forgotten Campaign is probably the better way to do one of those, if one needs to be done. I just... don’t like how cast-happy the wrought have been with a few magics in the past that could have been monumentally interesting and productive to the world.”

Erick got dressed, too, as he asked, “Like what?”

Quilatalap frowned a little. “Ehh. They’re Silenced now, and I’d need to enact a ritual to tell you about them, but I can say that…” Quilatalap’s voice cut out as his lips flickered, hiding all of his words from Erick. Quilatalap stopped talking and his lips and throat and vocal cords came back into mana sensing. And then he said, “Guess I can’t even say that.”

Erick touched his ears and his fingers came away dry. With a bit of good nature in his voice, Erick said, “At least I can’t be injured by a casual mention of a Silenced topic.”

Quilatalap raised an eyebrow, looking Erick over. “Ah! I suppose not. Also, that reminds me of a warning I should give you: A sufficiently powerful person can use those Silences to injure others. This almost always results in the death of the user when they’re trying to cause injury… But it is a valid way to attack someone. It’s a tactic that will definitely be used against you… You know. Eventually.”

Erick chuckled. “Gods above, Quilatalap. Every time I think you’ve told me something that will make me worry from now until forever, you manage to top it not a day later.”

“… Do you want me to stop?”

“Absolutely not.” Erick walked toward the big man while also discarding his clothes and letting himself grow a fraction taller, to match Quilatalap; ‘letting the Dragon out’ as the saying went. He grabbed Quilatalap in a hug, and then a sudden kiss, saying, “You’re amazing.”

Quilatalap brightened like the sun, kissing Erick back. “If I had known you were going to be frisky I wouldn’t have put my clothes back on.”

“That’s a problem you can fix.”

And so he did.

Some time later, laying in bed, Erick stared at the ceiling for a long moment. Words held in the back of his mind, unsaid…

And then he blurted out, “I don’t like living in [Hasted Shelter]s, but I do like living with you. Want to keep doing this?” He turned and looked at Quilatalap, and he almost spoke—

But Quilatalap got there first, “Want to move into my house when we get back to Candlepoint?”

Erick’s mind blanked. Words came out, “I was going to ask you that.”

“And I got there first,” Quilatalap said, with a firm nod.

And then, suddenly, the enormity of what Erick had asked suddenly filled his chest with a cold sensation of change. “… I want to introduce you to my family, and then make a decision. Maybe in a few realtime weeks, after things have hopefully settled down.”

With an easy grin, Quilatalap said, “I look forward to all of that.”

- - - -

In a different [Hasted Shelter], Erick met with his forces once more.

Kromolok and the wrought, including archmage Tasar. A few Elites from Oceanside, including Tyli, the bright red incani woman who had always kinda been Kirginatharp’s Elite-level go-between when it came to interacting with Erick. A few other assorted forces, including some people from Treehome and Portal, who were there mostly as observers. Syllea and Nirzir and most of the other powerful people Erick directly knew were not there.

But there were a lot of dragons in mortal form who had decided to stay on for the entirety of the campaign. The dragon Erick knew the most at this point was primarily the ‘orcol’ Baronoli, who had been among the first of the dragons Erick had Benevolence’d. He was part of Emprazala’s group whom Fairy Moon had wanted excised from Ar’Cosmos before they could form a political bloc and crush the Houses. Now, that bloc of dragons had seemed to want to spread their power over here in the Cities, and Erick was content to let them, for Erick did not have nearly enough forces to cause a true occupation of these lands, and the Benevolence dragons needed homes anyway.

Aside from the dragons who would be moving here to oversee the lands, a few Dicers had decided to do the same. Most of those Dicers were now in occupational-force hierarchies scattered across the Cities, but Harridon and Bobbi remained here, at the end. Harridon would be going back to Gambler’s Rest after this to become the elected mayor of that city, but Bobbi would likely be gaining some sort of overseer position here, in their final target, the Sovereign City of Pearl. Just like how Glorida’s hometown had been Killtree and Erick had left her behind in that city, Pearl was Bobbi’s hometown, and he wanted to stay here after this war.

And there would be a war now. A real war. Unlike all the other cities, Pearl was prepared to put up a fight. All of the missing royals were in this City by the ocean, waiting for Erick’s arrival and the arrival of all of his allies. The royals had even sent a letter demanding peace, and Erick’s capitulation, but none of Erick’s forces were going to do that at all.

“For they will not accept the transformations that we have committed against the other four Sovereign Cities,” Kromolok announced to their gathered forces, before going on to explain the rest of the battle plan. “To begin, Baronoli and the dragons will...”

The Head Inquisitor of Rozeta had taken a more active role in this war toward the end, and probably for a hundred different reasons, from him being very good at exactly this sort of thing, to Erick wanting this to be over, and because Kromolok was very good at this. It was only after the Curios, when compared to Charme and Killtree, that Erick realized that he was rather trigger happy with the number of spells he put out across the sky, and that had caused a lot of undue stress in the populations under those spells. This stress had led to some altercations that didn’t need to happen. Of course, the Curios had surrendered with even less of a fight than the other Cities, but only because Erick had followed Kromolok’s advice, and let Charme and Killtree out of their [Slowing Enclosure]s to show the world that Erick had not harmed them unduly.

And so, since Erick wanted this war to be over, he let Kromolok take charge of the battleplans, and he was thankful for that. He hated this shit.

He was much more looking forward to what came next.

After the storm there would be a year of cleanup, at least. Erick was looking forward to that; to helping people and making the world better through that help. Kirginatharp had already volunteered to help with that cleanup, too, along with others, mostly to get into Erick’s good graces. Erick mostly trusted the dragons (which actually included the other Houses of Ar’Cosmos, now, surprisingly) to do what was right. The Dicers were looking forward to the cleanup too, but their help was, well, a dicey proposition, as a lot of the rank and file revolutionaries wanted vengeance as opposed to reform.

The only offer of support that Erick had outright rejected was the offer from the Greensoil Republic.

Even though their offer had come as one of open support, Erick (and a lot of his allies) knew that if the Greensoil Republic was involved with the Cities that they would try to ally with Cities against the incani lands, the Wasteland Kingdoms. That was a recipe for a Quiet War disaster.

There would be a lot of small and large knock-on effects like that in the coming years.

And Erick would navigate all of them as he helped get people into real homes and had Gates connect all these lands together and—

Kromolok stepped back, glancing to Erick.

And Erick stepped forward, saying, “We are not a punitive force, though I know all of you have seen reasons why we should be exactly that. We are a reconstructive force. The Cities that come out of these actions we undertake today, and for some of you, in the coming years, will ensure that all of the people living here and all the rest of Veird is better off for our actions. Everything can always be made better, but it takes people to enact those changes, and so, that is what we will do. It starts with force, but it ends with uplift.”

Strong stares all around. A few smiles. A few hearts lifted upward.

All sights focused on the battle.

Everyone knew their places.

And then came action.

- - - -

The sky was filled with contracted angels as Queen Pearl stood upon the ramparts of her palace.

The ocean boiled with the contained power of the King of North Curio.

The wind cut with the million daggers of the King of South Curio.

The King of Killtree stood in the sky, surrounded by red light; intractable, unstoppable.

Flesh copies of the King of Charme waited in the crossroads of several streets, ready to unleash transformative magics upon the populace.

The ultimatum they had sent to Erick had read like this:

You have done enough destruction to the very souls of our people, Dark Wizard. Give up your conquest of our Cities. Return to your own lands and take your people with you. If you follow this demand, then we will not pursue this conflict any further.

If you do not leave, then we will annihilate all of the Cities to save them from you, and continue on to Candlepoint. A million dead will be your fault.

This was, of course, an unworkable ‘peace offer’. All it did was cause Kromolok to heighten his war plan, changing from ‘we can save most of them’ to ‘it’s time to kill these people’.

And so, a few magics which Erick had long suspected to exist, but which he had not seen yet, were taken out of storage and used on behalf of him and the entire world against these terrorists who called themselves royalty.

Erick’s magic was only the final nail in the coffin; the one they expected to see. The one that they were ready for.

