They were not ready for Ascendant Prime, taking control of the Crossroads above and smashing a small portion of that telepathic highway to motes of scattered light. [Telepathy] failed in almost all cases across the entirety of a thousand kilometer radius. [Familiar]s and other inborn telepathic connections remained. The Mind Mages were able to connect to others. But all of Pearl’s defenses fell apart, and all of Pearl’s Mind Mages left in that exact same moment, denying Pearl the ability to regain anything resembling coherence.

In the very same moment as the breaking of the Crossing, Pearl was not ready for Goldie locking down all teleportation magics across all of Pearl, as she assassinated the most dangerous of royalty, the King of South Curio and his million thieving hands. One down, four to go.

They were not ready for Quilatalap’s attack at all. The Archlich of Necromancy Itself raised a hand to the sky and sent a black pulse of power out into the world. It was an attack against all summoned creatures, though it was focused in one direction in particular. Each Ophiel wore a reflective thorn shield, so that qualified as protection, but even still they were half disintegrated by Quilatalap’s magic. The Angels fared much worse as they were the target. Most angels simply popped; their Veirdly forms disintegrating under the Archlich’s power. Quilatalap would later explain that those ones were the angels less strongly bound to this world; that they had opted to leave under their own power once they had taken enough damage. More than a few angels were strongly bonded, though, like the angel that had overseen Executioner’s Hall. Those fleshy angels were half-destroyed, but rather than heal themselves they opted to finish their disintegrations on their own terms. Quilatalap later explained that this, too, was an option that he had given those angels. If they had chosen to stay, then his magic had marked them, and the next spell would absolutely destroy their souls.

And Quilatalap could chain-cast that spell as many times as necessary, but he usually only needed to do it twice, at the most.

Erick went next, filling the sky with Stars upon Stars. [Undertow Star] scraped against all four remaining royals, and all the people in the city, Draining them all and erasing magics everywhere they touched. The only people he could not touch were the royals, under their Domains, but those Stars worked wonders anyway. The boiling ocean turned to a simmer, and then began to falter back down from where it threatened to spill into the city and drown everyone. The copies of the King of Charme began to unravel into tendrils and bone and meaty flesh, as abominations often did; whatever spellwork they had managed to get out of themselves before they fully collapsed into blood oozes was disrupted much more thoroughly.

Dragons attacked King Killtree, up there in the sky, easily ripping through the red-haired man’s ‘invulnerability’ magic. Ripping into King Killtree himself was more difficult, but they managed it.

Goldie delivered King South Curio’s body to Erick in the meantime, where Quilatalap put the body into [Soul Stasis]. And then Goldie went to collect Queen Pearl. The royal woman had been trying to run, disguised as a servant, but Goldie found her and delivered the freshly dead woman to Erick, where she got the same [Soul Stasis] as King South Curio. Later, they would both get a [True Resurrection].

And then King Killtree detonated in the sky, for some bizarre reason. He had still been fighting dragons, but then suddenly, boom; he was dead, and his soul was destroyed in that same instant.

King North Curio’s body also detonated, but Erick didn’t find this out until a minute after the fact since the man was deep under the ocean at the time.

Quilatalap couldn’t save King Killtree for interrogation. He postulated that the explosion had been to prevent the man’s interrogations after death. But when Goldie brought back North Curio’s intact body (but with a detonated soul) Quilatalap proclaimed the same thing was wrong with North Curio. At that moment, King Charme was still out there, still fighting amongst all his look-alike copies, but Erick knew that he probably wouldn’t be able to interrogate King Charme, either.

Sure enough, once Goldie managed to actually find King Charme among all the copies, he detonated, too, filling the area with mutative mist in a final ‘fuck you’. Erick’s [Undertow Star]s destroyed that mutative mist, though, so it only managed to transform a few nearby innocent caravaneers into blood oozes. Erick fixed those blood ooze problems with some [Reincarnation]s, so aside from the trauma of half an hour as a blood ooze, those caravaneers were more or less okay.

But he only had two royals to interrogate.

The true reasons for this war had weighed on Erick’s mind ever since it started, but instead of getting a clear picture from all five royals, he would have to make do with the two that were left, and all the hearsay from all the underlings the royals had left behind.

- - - -

Three hours of battle, and a day of [Reincarnation]s and other such magics later, the war with the Sovereign Cities was over.

Erick and his allies had decisively won.

While his allies mostly moved on, either back to the Geodes in the case of the wrought, or back to Treehome, or Portal, or otherwise, Erick and his dragons and House Benevolence spent a day solving murders and attempted murders in the other Cities. Oceanside stayed to help, for they were here for the long haul; they wanted to see the Cities rise up as prosperous nations even more than Erick did.

Justice moved swift and with Empathy in the aftermath of the war, both for commoners and for nobility alike.

Though some people did get some special treatment.

- - - -

King South Curio Xaro had ‘survived’ the war, because Quilatalap had [True Resurrection]’d him, alongside Queen Pearl. And then Erick had given both of them Option 3, stripping them of all their power and giving them a new perspective on life.

Erick had been keeping the level 0, reincarnated Xaro, inside a [Fairy Stronghold] and a [Slowing Enclosure], and in a location known only to him and a few others.

This was apparently not good enough, because an angel came ripping across the land, holding a spear with a lead blade. That angel had ripped into that protected space with that antirhine blade and then killed Xaro with a specialized soul-killing dagger. Xaro was gone, and he was never coming back.

The angel, having fulfilled her mission, attempted to vacate the space of the murder, to unsummon herself and return to Celes, but Quilatalap got there first and kept her summoned against her will. So she detonated herself and her immortal soul in the process. There was nothing Quilatalap could do to bring the angel back; to ask why she had done this.

But Erick knew why she had done this.

- - - -

Queen Pearl the Fifth was a 45 year old blonde woman with pale skin and an evil smile. Tears rolled down her face, marring her image of an unrepentant mastermind, but she still managed to look the part even with those tears, behind bars in a cell, and inside a [Fairy Stronghold] that had no exit.

Erick accused, “You killed Xaro.”

“They all tried to kill me, too. Charme almost got me; he certainly got Killtree. He almost got everyone.”

A lot of things slotted into place at that moment.

This war was never about him.

It was about all the old rivalries of the Sovereign Cities.

Erick almost wanted to laugh, but all he could do was sigh.

“Is that truly what this was? Some sort of war between all of you, that spilled out into the rest of the world? You attacked me and threatened murder of a million people in order to kill each other?”

“The cities needed a major change and you played your part perfectly.” Pearl grinned like an ancient evil. She reminded Erick a lot of Melemizargo in that moment. “And I won the final battle.”

Erick had expected to walk into this space and interrogate Pearl as much as needed in order to understand the shape of this war; the reasons behind it all, and the purposes of the major players. Why would they attack him? Declare war on him? He was allied with all the people who normally attacked Wizards, and he had even managed an uneasy peace between the Dark and everyone else. Erick was not a boastful man, but he knew what he had done; the shape of his own actions on this alien world of Veird.

And he knew that he had been used by other forces many times. This was not a new situation.

From how Sirocco Zago had used him to learn more of Particle Magic, years ago, to Melemizargo using him to Shape the Shades of Veird into something better, to Fairy Moon using him to make Ar’Cosmos a better land, and then how many disparate people —from gods to dragons to his own Benevolence twisting toward power— had turned Erick into a dragon, in order to elevate other dragons to power. Of course, Erick had gotten a lot out of those exchanges.

But as Erick looked down at Queen Pearl, his worldview was thrown into a little chaos. He did not like being used. And he certainly did not like being used in a war. Which is probably why he spoke how he spoke next.

“Oh? You won?” Erick asked, not innocently at all. “How so? Because you are still alive?”

A crack formed in Pearl’s facade. “… You’ve already [Reincarnation]ed and Empathy’d me, and then left me in this box for two days to stew in my own heinous life. Is there some other form of ultimate torture that you would like to inflict next? Or was soul mutilation not enough for you?”

… Those words caused Erick to pause in his anger.

And Erick found himself at a crossroads.

He was going to release Pearl into the world, no matter what happened here. All he had wanted to know was why the war had happened, and then he would trust in his Empathy to see Pearl through the rest of her transformation into a good person. This was what Erick was doing to everyone else he had Empathy’d, and according to almost all sources except for one (the Shades who empowered the Chelation War) every time a person was Empathy’d, they became a better person. All of the Terror Peaks people who has survived Erick’s purge were now living and working in Songli, doing such normal things such as working as healers, or as farmers, or as rebuilders for the nation they had attacked, trying to make amends for what they had done. According to the previous several days, every single noble of the Sovereign Cities was doing better, and even Kromolok agreed that this was exactly what they did in Forgotten Campaigns sometimes; this sort of soul mutilation worked. As long as Erick could preserve the power structures he had emplaced for a good ten years, what they had done to the Cities would have long term, good consequences.

And so...

A part of him wanted to [Reincarnation] Pearl from a human to an incani. As a practitioner of an ‘Exalted Path of Angels’, Queen Pearl was very in-tune with the human-to-angel extremism pipeline. And yet, if Erick transformed her into an incani, that would automatically make her a demon, no matter her personal beliefs. This might be a catastrophic change of perspective for her, or it might be exactly the thing that Veird and the Angels needed from Queen Pearl; a little bit of ‘walk a mile in their shoes’ thing. This action would be directly stepping into the Quiet War, though, which would be not-so-great.

A different part of Erick wanted Pearl as a subordinate. He would use her as ruler of Pearl to ensure that at least one Sovereign City did not experience a massive change of leadership, and thus be thrown into the chaos that all the other Cities were currently experiencing. There was merit to this option, for, in a practical sense, the best person to lead a Sovereign City was the person who had already claimed that royal spot.

Another part of Erick recognized that Queen Pearl would soon be in a position to rid herself of her [Blessing of Empathy], just by virtue of regaining some of her Exalted/Angelic powers, and access to the soul twisting powers of the angels. Perhaps, if he let her go, she would cause problems for him later. She had already foreseen her ‘victory’ in this war as what was happening right here, with her at Erick’s mercy. She had certainly planned to have some angels enact some ‘final justice’ against any possible living-yet-weakened royals who might have also survived this war. Therefore, Erick should kill Pearl now.

… After thinking through all his options, and thus calming himself a fraction, he decided to simply talk to Pearl about all of that; to see her reaction.

Erick began with, “I could do a lot worse, Pearl, for your personal viewpoint of ‘worse’. I could have made you incani.”

Pearl paled, her words failing her completely.

Erick continued, “I could simply kill you, though you would become an angel so that’s not much of a threat.”

Pearl stilled, gauging Erick’s everything with her own mana senses.

“Or, I could do none of that, and instead reinstate you as the leader of Pearl, and offer you assistance in rebuilding and expanding Pearl in the form of Gates and trade agreements.”

For a long moment, Pearl collected herself. Then she asked, “What do I need to do to get those trade agreements?”

Now that Pearl was suitably motivated, Erick had a much easier time talking to her.

Erick had gone through the same thing with almost every other (minor) leader he reinstated into power in the Sovereign Cities, but this time was different, if only because Pearl had been one of the people who actually started this war. She would also be one of the few people capable of undoing all the shit she had started, though, so…

“Firstly: you’re dropping your royal name; you are no longer synonymous with your city of Pearl. What’s your real name?”

“… Crissi Diver.” And then, like a queen going through some hard times, Crissi spoke with subdued strength, “Though my name on my Status is now Crissi Benev, so I believe that I will be going with that from now on.”

With a cancel command and another cast of [Fairy Stronghold] in the same moment, Erick erased the bars of Crissi’s cell and added some nice chairs around a simple table. With another cast, Erick brought in some nice food from House Benevolence. As he set these things down before the new Queen Crissi of Pearl, along with a nice mug of hot citrus tea, Erick said, “It is nice to meet you, Crissi. If your cupboards in your palace and your staff are to be believed, then you have a few favorite foods, of which I have provided. None of that should have changed due to your [Reincarnation].”

