olid black marble that he threw down the hall where it exploded back into smoke.Kemy couldn’t complain; breathing in fumes was bad for ones lungs. That was just the truth.They slowly walked in, Aneya carefully checking for pressure plates that wouldn’t be affected by the fire.Gonga looked proud of his work.“A little fire and done. Really, we should blow more stuff up if it’s gonna be this easy. Nature Dungeons are my forte,” he bragged.Kemy frowned.The room had looked pretty. The tree most of all... it had looked like a reward to her but... she was still learning.That was when something very odd... sounded out. A collection of piano notes sounded out in a sly jingle.“What?” Gonga looked shocked. Aneya had her bow raised in an instant. The music was soon followed by a smooth voice.“I think it’s time for a date...” the almost girlish voice sang. Where was it coming from?That was when Delem’s fist smacked into Gonga’ chin. A shocked silence took over, except for the music and the words.“It’s time for the Spider Dance...” the girl’s voice laughed.“Gonga- I didn’t-” Delem tried to explain but his foot rose so suddenly that he tried to kick the man.“What the hell? Delem, have you lost your mind?” Gonga demanded. Aneya suddenly spun on her toes with a yelp as her foot shot out and hit Gonga on the rear.“W-what?! My body is moving on its own!” she yelled.“It’s time for the Spider Dance... all under her spell should LOOK UP!” The girl’s singing voice turned deep into the mirthful chuckle of a man for a moment running alongside the female lyrics.Kemy felt her own body move, and fearing the worst, she blinked as she was pulled up into the air and put into some sitting position to watch the show.She saw then her wrists and torso had been wrapped in a very thin wire that had been almost impossible to see in the dim room. She followed the wires to the source. Looking up... and up...until she saw it.A white translucent spider much larger than any other she had ever seen stared down at her. The glowing red eyes twinkled. The eight legs twitched wildly and her friends spun and twitched as they continued to assault Gonga with playful attacks.“The madam of the first room, Lady Muffet invites her guests to dance!” the voice sang and Kemy could barely see a small mushroom near the corner of the room buzzing as the voice sang.“Kemy, are you alright?!” Aneya yelled as her head tried to look behind her. Her body rose like a dancer on strings.“Y-yes! There’s some ghost spider pulling your strings... uh... webs!” she called.“Psh enough of this!” Gonga yelled and his free hand shot another fireball at the white spider...Muffet?Was that its... her name?The heat and flames engulfed the spider. The strings went slack and all three of her friends sagged with relief.“Fire solves everything,” Gonga grinned triumphantly.Kemy wanted to cheer or say something but her mind snagged on one little detail.Kemy’s web hadn’t given or sagged.“GONGA! YOU JUST MADE IT MAD!” she screamed.Gonga turned with confusion but the large man was lifted off the ground and dropped twice as Aneya and Delem were put aside like toys the spider no longer had interest in. Gonga was yanked hard side to side as one of his feet was hoisted into the air.He began to spin faster and faster as the Spider... eh.. Muffet emerged from the smoke untouched.The mushroom buzzed again.“With legs like those? Who needs a physical body?” the voice teased.Gonga was yelling and cursing so much that Kemy was shocked to find a pair of earmuffs made of the silvery web lowered onto her head. She touched them gently, noticing how she was trapped but not tightly bound…That was when Muffet the ghost Spider began to hold the man still.It looked like the punishment was over until the very tightly twisted web began to unwind. The reversing speed spun her friend so much faster than before, she had a bad feeling as the screaming turned to groaning.From what she could hear anyway... these earmuffs were really well made, a perfect size...That was when Gonga threw up and Kemy heard a distant scream from deep within the dungeon.Muffet was ready to do more but Aneya managed to loose an arrow and hit the thin wire like a pro.Gonga dropped and he just laid there for a moment.“I think we should regroup and leave for a moment,” Kemy suggested. Muffet looked at her, crawling closer. Kemy felt her face go pale before the spider patted her head.Then the web vanished and Muffet seemed to melt into the shadows.That was apparently Ghost Spider for ‘of course you will, silly human.’Delem and Aneya dragged Gonga back and the man stumbled to his feet.“What the hell was that?!” he demanded. Kemy lowered the earmuffs to her neck and looked sheepish as they all stared at her.“I got a consolation prize… do they exist in Dungeons?” she asked with brightness.The lack of answer made her wilt just a tad.Gonga lead the way back.“I had that... just needed the time to make the flame funnel spell work,” he said with some hurt pride and lingering nausea. Kemy wasn’t going to point out the lack of spiky objects in the room for Muffet to swing him into...Gonga was getting his morale back with each excuse and he grinned before long.“Let’s plan and get revenge!” he said with a boastful laugh. That was when he screamed and fell over in shock as a sign of all things popped out of the wall.It was clearly the back of the sign but there was still text.“Was Muffet too much for you? - Nu”Kemy slowly put the ear muffs back on as the cursing began again.They were warm...Kemy wondered if placing an offering to a specific monster in a Dungeon was allowed?She hoped the Dungeon wouldn’t mind. Kemy looked back at the blackened room, and had to be honest.Both as a follower of the Goddess of Truth and as the kind of person she was.Dungeon 1... Scarlet Moons 0.Still, she got a treasure!That had to count for something?---Ruli blinked three times at Quiss very slowly.“You mean to tell me... that some asshat noob hero wannabes are in Delta’ place... setting shit on fire or killing everything?” Ruli asked, nostrils flaring as her hangover came in heavy. Quiss and Dabberghast shared a look.“Delta has very good defences-” Quiss began but Ruli picked him up by his shirt.“Delta is my friend. The girl who shits out monsters but turns them into gold? The person who made me a fishing spot? The girl who doesn’t want to kill and slapped you down like a bitch when you pushed? That Delta? It doesn’t matter if she can fend them off. I’m not going to sit here and let people torment her!” she growled.“You can’t stop the world from coming,” Quiss said calmly despite his feet dangling off the ground. Ruli grinned darkly.“No but I sure as hell can stop the first million,” she stated and dropped Quiss as she turned to walk back out of the village.“If she takes the first load... I could always do another couple million on a bad day?” Dabberghast helped Quiss to his feet, ignoring the hot glare he was giving off.“She’s a Dungeon. We can’t protect her from her own existence,” he said hotly. Dabberghast shrugged.“Who is it for anyone to decide who Delta is? I think that’s just rude,” the woman said kindly and left Quiss alone in front of the pub.“I know but... we aren’t doing her any favours by sheltering her. Nothing wrong with Delta learning how to deal with people...” he mused mostly to himself.Honestly, they were acting like if Quiss saw a real monster heading towards Delta, he wouldn’t stop it.He was just preparing for the long term.He walked after Ruli, his body becoming a blue ball of fire, a tiny wisp in the forest as he easily overtook Ruli’s angry stomping pace. He’d give these fellows, these Scarlet Moon folks, a decent chance at Delta’s place.Now... he just had to do it without Ruli breaking his jaw.---The group slowed as they bypassed the Spider room, as they called it; since they hadn’t left the dungeon... it hadn’t had the chance to respawn its contents, but they were wary of Muffet. Soon, they found themselves before a large pond beyond an intersection.Aneya’s eyes lit up at the fish swimming about as Delem investigated the logs and the potential campfire he could make of them.Kemy was smiling at the glowing mushrooms and moss on the ceiling.She didn’t see Gonga eyeing the black duck snoozing in a tiny alcove.Nor did she see Gonga licking his lips.Kemy... really... wished she had afterwards. Because the challenge box appeared too late, as if to punish them for closing it last time prematurely.
