“You do not wish for a permanent weapon?” Sam raised his bushy eyebrows. “If the issue is the price.”

Azriel shrugged. “A weapon is always just a means to an end. I only wish to make it into the top 8 and earn the right to face off against Randidly. A tool that could carry me farther than that… is somewhat meaningless to the current me. I do not need it. My fiance will only wait so long and I feel enough guilt for making him wait as much as he has.”

Sam hummed to himself, sensing that there was something off about Azriel’s words, but he didn’t press her. Instead, he studied the thin needle spear that she brought to his workshop. He traced his fingers across the jagged fractures that ran through the item, reducing it to a jigsaw puzzle of torn metal. Honestly, the destruction was a thing of beauty. It was clear that the material hadn’t been able to handle Azriel’s thunderous image. Her strike had defeated the opponent, but also obliterated her weapon.

“Considering the quality of this spear… creating a similar object that can handle your power will not be an easy thing,” Sam chewed on his lip. A dozen materials crossed his mind, but each would be insufficient. Azriel’s affinity with moonlight made this a unique challenge. “Even if I rush the job-”

“It doesn’t need to be strong enough to contain my image,” Azriel waved a hand in a casual dismissal. “In my next match, I can more efficiently channel my energy. There will be no more accidents.”

“Just like that, huh. How many spears did it take you to manage that sort of control?” Sam raised an eyebrow.

Azriel met his gaze without blinking or looking away. “A single spear. This spear. I think you’ll find that I can be the most excellent student, especially when it concerns martial pursuits. Many claim that I am uniquely blessed. Despite my… sabbatical from combat, I am swiftly rounding into proper form.”

Sam grunted noncommittally. Then he scratched the back of his head. “You are the customer. If it just has to be a sturdy spear in this shape, I can have it done quickly. Definitely in time for your next match.”

*****

Randidly felt more drained than he had in a long time at the end of the first week of the All Alpha Cosmos tournament. He sat in a bathroom in his mansion on his island, drifting above Kharon which was squatting next to the tournament island. Moonlight spirits flitted in and out through the walls, fleeing in mock terror from the Unborn Duo. He rubbed the bridge of his nose. It was the first moment in quite a while where he was out of the public eye and he sorely needed the downtime.

First, because he was present for all of the matches and the new Tatiana (recovered from her vacation of binge drinking and lounging), stressed that him appearing checked out of the matches was not a good thing.

Second, because he continued to refine his emotional affect in order to make use of his dwindling time in Expira. The Patron of Feather’s condition continued to deteriorate, making him wonder if this sprawling tournament would finish in time for him to complete this challenge. Of course, the further along they went, the more efficient the rounds would be. But now, as they cut themselves down from 8,192 fighters to 4,096, the tournament was a sprawling thing with too many arms and details for the public to grapple effectively with it.

Third, everything was made worse by the massive attendance of Expira and elsewhere, crammed into this island to cheer on their favorites and to see some of their heroes. And in the meantime, make so much noise that Randidly considered starting down a Visage of Obsession and hoping that his hearing was one of the first things to go

Randidly walked to the sink and splashed water on his face. Fourth and most depressingly, he had gotten the idiotic idea in his head to briefly convene with every defeated participant in the tournament.

A good idea, but one I didn’t think all the way through…

Of course, his motives were selfish for two reasons. He wanted to at least speak to each of the participants once because they were likely the most powerful individuals in the Alpha Cosmos. Knowing who they were and what they were capable of now, while he was still on Expira, might give him some information to tip off Tatiana about future problems.

Along the same lines, establishing those connections exchanged significance. Randidly felt his Nether approach a limit of density and slippery force with all the influx of connections and history.

Because the meetings with losers ran the gamut of emotional turbulence. Some were sad, some were solemn, some were gruff, some were as exhausted as he was now, some had a thousand questions for him while others didn’t seem to even want to speak to him. Yet uniformly, all sat with him on that dream hill and looked out over the river for a while, taking a break from reality.

Perhaps it was some side effect of his Animation Nova, but they took a few breaths and simply existed in that conjured space. And Randidly could feel their emotions shift begrudgingly into a more positive direction.

Randidly raised his head and looked at himself in the mirror. His sharp features, his dark hair, his bright eyes, the stubble on his chin… all of it was very familiar. But he also felt the arrival of mental weariness squeezing out all of his free and inspired thoughts, leaving only the necessary and acceptable.

Too much had been scraped away in the experience, leaving him raw and reactionary.

He felt like a filter, through which all the losers had passed, leaving him with a bone-deep sense of helplessness. He had cleansed their emotion the slightest bit by taking all that depression and loss onto himself. And sure, he had received a powerful surge in significance for it; he had also helped the Nether Rituals spread throughout the Alpha Cosmos in more easily refining Nether into Weight. Yet-

Randidly pressed his eyes closed and blew air through his lips. Right now you are exhausted. And somewhat tense because not only do you need to fight some of these individuals, but also return to the Nexus. Relax a bit; take a night off. Because there is more work waiting in the morning.

Randidly laid himself down and slept, dreamlessly, for almost ten hours. When he woke, it was to Tatiana opening the door and looking down at him. Sunlight streamed through the window, making the moonlight spirits all but invisible. Clearly, he had overslept. Groaning, he sat up and rubbed his eyes, warm and languid in a way that he hadn’t been in a long time.

“I tried to let you sleep as long as possible,” Tatiana came into the room, carrying a tray. She sat on the edge of the bed and offered it to him, concern apparent on her face. Steam and the smell of cheese, fried potatoes, and bacon wafted up from the tray of food. He immediately picked up a fork and began shoveling food into his mouth. “I know how draining this is for you. And I appreciate how much effort you are putting into this.”

Randidly paused in his devouring to down half the glass of orange juice to clear his throat. He smiled at Tatiana. “You don’t need to thank me for doing the sorts of things that I should have been doing all along. This is my responsibility.”

“Oh, don’t make me be on this side of the argument with you,” Tatiana swatted at Randidly and scowled. “What we do now is important, but so is the other work you have been doing. For all your power, you can’t be everywhere at once. So just eat as much as you can and then-”

“Mr. Ghosthound?”

Both looked up. A new figure appeared at the edges of the room, hovering off the ground in the doorway. The Winged Serpent’s body undulated as the former Nemesai looked awkwardly at the closeness of the two of them. Its reptilian pupils narrowed.“I… hope I am not interrupting anything.”

Tatiana snorted, but did push herself off the bed and smooth her dress. Randidly frowned, trying to understand this sudden arrival. “Is there something you need? I know that several of your people lose in the first round of the tournament, but-”

“No, no, this visit is not one of necessity. Although I can understand why my sudden presence would be unnerving. After you gave us free rein over our own worlds… we didn’t feel much cause to interact with the broader Alpha Cosmos.” The Winged Serpent’s tongue flicked out. Randidly felt its unease as it looked at him; it still feared him. Yet it had forced itself to come here. “After your call for a tournament pulled so much of the attention of our world’s population… perhaps we will see this was a mistake. However, that’s neither here nor there. I am here to say thank you. For your kindness.”

Understanding bloomed in Randidly’s chest. He felt oddly warm at the recognition. “You mean for talking for the participants from your world that lost.”

“Not just my own, but for all of the Nemesai worlds, it is noted and appreciated. We… well, maybe of our people have wondered about the treatment of them on Expira. You gave each one time and attention. It will not be forgotten. If trouble comes, know that our lot is tied to the Alpha Cosmos.” The Winged Serpent bowed its head. Its scales gleamed in the light.

It was vaguely reassuring, but Randidly had previously been under the impression that the Nemesai had already agreed to help if anything went wrong. He licked his lips and managed a thank you.

Randidly left with Tatiana to proceed to the tournament, putting the meeting out of his mind. He had another few days of brooding above the fights, sharpening his emotional edge. This second round included quite a few more notable happenings: Dinesh, one of Donnyton’s early elite, was defeated by a three-headed ogre. Kadir, one of the strongest bodyguards around King Phirun, collapsed against a young woman with curly blonde hair and bright blue eyes.

The crowd slowly found their favorites, cheering violently when Alana Donal executed a single attack and forced an opponent to concede.

At the end of the period, the number of competitors was cut in half once again, down to 2,048. Not a very small number at all, but already one-fourth of the warriors that had come to the Alpha Cosmos to prove themselves. The great Nether Ritual within the core of Expira continued to churn, making medals and ornaments out of the dreams left shattered in the arena.

Again, Randidly met the losers in the dream above the Hallat. There were only half as many, but he found these meetings to be even more difficult. The emotions of each individual ran hotter and more violent; they had tasted victory once and now their tongues soured to the truth about their capabilities. He ended the last night exhausted and drained, with even the Stillborn Phoenix warning him that he had absorbed too much.

One thing he did note was the difference in power. The first round had rid the tournament of all the individuals who were good fighters but hadn’t yet found their pure image. In the second, everyone had strong images, but some were just better honed and polished than others.

He slept again when he came back to his physical body, waking to find his Nether humming with the pressure of the significance he absorbed. He was close to a shift, he sensed it. With the exit interviews for the tournament, he sensed he would make a new sort of breakthrough with his Nether.

The next morning, Randidly took a hot shower, letting the water run off his back for almost ten minutes before he snapped back to wakefulness and yawned. He knew that the third round would be even more difficult.

But he also knew that he couldn’t be late for the start of the round. Because the first confrontation would be a showdown from old Donnyton, an arrangement he had made casually, without thinking deeply about it. But as the weaker people were sheared away, stronger fighters would eventually encounter one another.

The match was Tykes versus Glendel. Raw powerful versus the Sovereign of Ghosts.
