The man proceeded to wolf down the entire bowl of sludge at an alarming speed, somehow not spilling any of it anywhere, then leaned back against the wall with a satisfied sigh. Though she felt bad about it, Elise couldn’t help but picture a pig eating slop. She normally wouldn’t have thought of something like that, but the man’s name was Wilbur, for heaven’s sake. How could she not picture a pig?

They proceeded to chat for an hour or so about school and classes, and he was actually a good conversationalist. He did bring up his family’s gloop a few too many times for Elise’s taste, and she also occasionally got a whiff of mustard from his breath, but it was otherwise pleasant. She kept senses peeled for signs of approaching knights, but thankfully, nothing disturbed them, and close to the end of the hour, she sensed a powerful source of aether approaching. Elise immediately recognized it as Charlotte when it crawled up the ceiling of the larger cavern, then into the tunnel.

“Wilbur!” called a woman’s voice.

“Charlotte!” replied Wilbur. “There’s another of your friends here!”

“Friends?”

As she spoke, a head poked up from around the bend in the tunnel, revealing a woman with black hair and violet eyes. Elise smiled at first, but her smile quickly turned into an O of horror as the rest of Charlotte appeared and Elise realized the young monster was nude.

“Friends!” shouted Charlotte, rushing forward.

Elise shot a harsh glare at Wilbur, who at least had the decency to look ashamed before she suddenly found herself wrapped up in a very powerful hug.

“Char– Lotte–” she said, barely able to get the word out.

“Friends!” said Charlotte, her mouth right by Elise’s ear and her voice almost deafening.

“Yes. Friends. Now. Please. Let. Me. Go.”

Charlotte unfortunately didn’t seem to understand words too well, but she let Elise go anyway after a few seconds. The moment Elise was free, she looked back at Wilbur, who was now looking down at the ground.

“Wilbur, turn around.”

“I’m not look–”

“Turn. Around.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Friends!” said Charlotte again.

“Yes, friends,” said Elise, turning back to the spider girl with a smile. “Now, let’s get you a shirt.”

A glance told her that Charlotte wouldn’t fit in any of Elise’s clothes, but fortunately, she had a spare set of clothes she kept for Jessie, and that would fit much better. She summoned it, and held it up so Charlotte could see it.

“A gift?” asked Charlotte.

“Yes, a gift! A shirt.”

“Shirt,” repeated Charlotte.

“Yes, a shirt.”

“Yes, a shirt.”

“Now, hold up your arms.”

Charlotte tilted her head to the side, confused, so Elise demonstrated. Charlotte was still confused, but she mimicked Elise’s actions, and raised her arms.

“Now, stay like that,” said Elise, floating up.

It took a lot of coaxing, and a little bit of wrestling, but Elise eventually managed to get the shirt onto Charlotte’s body. The spider girl looked down with a frown, feeling the fabric with her fingers, so Elise took an opportunity to take a closer look at her new form. From the waist up, she looked almost completely human, aside from her teeth, which were sharp like a canine’s, for some reason. Below the waist, she had most of a spider body.

There was no spider head, since that segment of the body morphed into the humanoid form halfway through, but for some reason, there was still a maw and a set of fangs. As Elise thought about it more, she realized it made sense, since eating enough food for the enormous spider body through the human mouth would be incredibly difficult, but she had to admit it looked a bit odd.

She also took a moment to check her species, and saw that Wilbur had indeed made a correct guess.

[ Solitary Acid Arachne, lvl ??? ]

“Shirt?” asked Charlotte, pinching the fabric.

“Shirt,” Elise confirmed. “You need to wear a shirt to make friends.”

“Friends? Shirt?”

“Yes. Shirt, friends.” Elise used {Suggest} to send the feeling of laughing with friends. “No shirt–” she lifted her own to expose her midriff to demonstrate. “–no friends.” She sent a feeling of loneliness.

Charlotte looked incredibly sad when she felt that.

“N– no friends?”

“It’s okay,” assured Elise. “Because you have a shirt!”

“Shirt?”

“Yes! You have a shirt, so you can have friends. Shirt, friends.”

“Shirt friends?”

“Yes, shirt friends.”

“Shirt friends!” said Charlotte before turning to Wilbur. “Wilbur! Shirt!”

“You can turn back around now,” said Elise.

Wilbur did so, hissing in pain, but he still smiled as he looked up at Charlotte.

“Wow!” he said. “That’s a very nice shirt!”

“Shirt!” repeated Charlotte happily. “Friends!”

“Friends!” repeated Wilbur with just as much enthusiasm.

At least he’s nice, thought Elise.

“Alright, Charlotte,” she said. “Unfortunately, Wilbur is going to have to go home now.”

“Wilbur?”

“Yes. He need to leave.” Elise sent the feeling of slight disappointment at parting with a friend you wanted to spend more time with.

“Leave?” asks Charlotte.

“Yes. Wilbur has other friends–”

“Friends?”

“–that he needs to get back home to.”

Charlotte did not seem to fully understand, but she knew that what Elise said was not pleasant.

“Charlotte,” said Wilbur. “It’s been great, and I’m glad to be your friend, but I do need to get home now. I’ve been gone for too long.”

“Wilbur?”

“I have to go,” said Wilbur, pushing himself to his feet.

“Wilbur hurt!” said Charlotte rushing forward to support him.

“Yes, I’m hurt,” said Wilbur. “That’s why I need to go see a healer.”

“Yes, a healer,” repeated Elise, sending the feeling of a wound being magically healed.

“Healer,” said Charlotte, comprehension dawning on her. “Healer!”

“Yes, a healer. He’s hurt, so he needs a healer.”

Charlotte nodded in understanding.

“Wilbur hurt. Wilbur healer.”

“Yes, and to do that, he needs to leave.”

Charlotte didn’t seem to understand that, but when Elise moved to pick Wilbur up and carry him out of the cave, Charlotte didn’t move to stop them. She followed them down to the main chamber, and then tried to follow them further as Elise continued to carry Wilbur further back up the tunnels.

“No,” said Elise. “Stay here. I’ll be back. I need to take Wilbur to the healer.”

“Wilbur healer?”

“Yes. But you can’t come. It’s dangerous for you. Dangerous for Charlotte.”

Elise sent a very light sense of fear, which made Charlotte shiver, but she seemed to understand well enough, and stopped trying to pursue them.

Fortunately, it was not a long trip to find the knights. She sensed their aether after not even ten minutes of flying, and the moment she did, she set Wilbur down and made sure he could support his weight before pulling back.

“There are some knights up ahead,” she said. “They can help you. I’m going to go back to Charlotte.”

“Thank you,” he said. “Make sure she stays safe. She’s pretty naive.”

“Yes, she is,” said Elise, frowning at him. “Did you really not have a spare shirt in your spatial storage?”

“I did try to get her to wear one,” he said defensively. “But she tore it off because she didn’t like it. I didn’t think about the friend angle. That was smart.”

Elise narrowed her eyes, but ultimately let it go. It wasn’t worth it, anyway.

“Well, good luck getting home,” she said. “And thank you for being Charlotte’s friend. I’m glad she met someone like you, and not someone else.”

“Me too,” said Wilbur, nodding. “Well, see you around.”

“See you.”

Elise soon returned to the chamber where Charlotte was waiting, wringing her hands in nervousness. Her face lit up when she saw Elise, but then fell when she saw that Wilbur wasn’t with her.

“Wilbur?” she asked.

“Wilbur is at the healer,” said Elise.

“Oh,” said Charlotte, nodding in understanding. “Healer.”

“Yes,” said Elise. “Now, it’s just us two. And I need to figure out what the heck I’m going to do with you.”

Elise sighed, and Charlotte did the same. Then, Charlotte said something that Elise didn’t expect.

“Shit!”

Elise’s jaw dropped, then she scowled.

Ah, that bastard.
