“You shared some things about them, Elke,” Ailis said. She sat next to Veron now. “It got me thinking. The creatures down here that have always seemed the most straightforward to me were Chaos beasts. They are the most aggressive, the most direct, the most like… monsters in the dark, like the creatures in children’s tales. You can’t extract them into vessels, so all you can do is kill them and take their essence for yourself.” She paused for a moment. “What do you know of them? What do the hunters from your village say of them?”

Elke blinked her eyes. She sat hugging her knees, neither her blood spattered furs nor the cold and damp seemingly bothering her. “Those of chaos… it is said that they hunger, but are never sated. That they fear the light of fire but seek it nonetheless. It is said that they wander, though nobody knows where to, nor why.”

“Lost and malnourished,” Isaac said. “That almost makes me pity them.”

“You should never pity a Chaos beast. It will cost your life,” Elke said. “They relish in carnage and death. They are uncaring, frenzied monsters stemming from the coldest, darkest places of this world. They-” Her voice grew more heated before she cut herself off and looked away.

“Are there humans with that Path?” Veron asked.

The others looked at him. Elke with disgust, Isaac with a thoughtful look, and Ailis as if she’d never considered the question.

“I’ve not heard of any,” Isaac said. “But the same can be said about the Fae Path.”

“We are not of Fae origin, nor of Chaos,” Elke said. “It is not our nature.”

Veron blinked his eyes. He wondered if that was true.

“Devotion and Runic are the most common for humans,” Ailis said. “There are Elemental Paths here and there, and some rare Blood Paths. I’ve not heard of any Fae or Chaos Path humans.”

Veron nodded. As far as he understood, one’s Path manifested sometime in early adulthood. Perhaps it had to do with one’s identity. Hayden believed it manifested once a person found their calling. Veron could also imagine that it simply had to do with some organ related to magic finishing its growth, or with him gaining access to his Path upon arrival here in Renavor, it could be something external; The magic of the world, something more spiritual or god-like, or even some kind of parasite or symbiote mushroom or bacteria that spread from person to person.

He wondered if there had been more Elemental Paths when the people of this world had less technology. “Are Elemental Paths more common in villages and tribes? Compared to the big cities.”

“Not much, I don’t think. But there are more Runics coming out of the big cities, that much is sure,” Ailis said.

“We should probably continue this discussion when we’re out of the dungeon,” Isaac said. He rubbed his arms and shivered slightly.

“You’re right,” Veron said. “And before you two freeze to death.”

“It’s not that cold,” Ailis said.

“It’s pretty cold,” Isaac countered.

“Then let’s get moving. Same formation, ready for another fight,” Veron said and then stood up. He checked his blades, projectiles, shield, and mace. Some of it was damaged or blood covered. He would repair it back in town. “Ready?”
