“That shouldn't happen.” Max said, and pulled up the raw footage from the backup server. It was uncompressed and not encoded. He hated leaving it that way, because anyone could watch it if they knew where to find it. It was the only way to verify what was going on in the game. He watched the actual footage, and there wasn't a blue screen at all. He saw 30 seconds of something, then ran it at game speed, then saw 2 minutes of something all on fire.

“What the hell is that?” Max thought and pulled the raw footage into a video editor. Even going frame by frame, he could barely make out what was going on, but when he realized what he was actually seeing, he froze.

“No way.” Max said, and then did something he never did at work. He cursed and yelled at the same time. “NO FUCKING WAY!”

Everyone in the tech department looked at him with surprise.

“Sorry folks.” He said as he stood, and put his hands up in surrender. “I just got a little excited.”

Several people laughed. “There's a first.” Someone said, and another person snickered a laugh.

Max sat down and transferred the new video file to a thumb drive. He typed furiously for about 10 minutes, sighed, then left the tech department.

*

Ren finished his shower, and tried to dry off. His arm was still sore and didn't work right. Ren sighed and asked Denise to help dry off.

“I wouldn't bother you if I didn't need the help.” Ren said.

Denise rolled her eyes. “I'm sorry, okay? How many more times do I have to apologize for the way I acted?”

“Only a few dozen more.” Ren said and smiled. “I should be happy by then.”

“I could always poke your elbow again, you know.” Denise snorted a laugh. “This time on purpose.”

Ren nodded. “The whole thing with Lucy set me on edge, and I was more defensive than usual.” He said. “I'm sorry.” He handed her a towel. “Help, please.”

Denise nodded and it only took a few minutes with the two of them working, to finish drying everything.

“Thanks, Denise.” Ren said, and put on a set of pajamas. He went out to his bed and climbed up into it. She helped him get settled and held out his VR headset.

“Have fun in there.” Denise said, and his eyes widened for a moment.

“Damn! Bathroom break.” Ren said and slid a hand into his cubbyhole to palm a foil packet. He got out of bed and went to the bathroom. He flushed the toilet and came back to the bed and climbed in again. “Okay, now I'm ready.”

Denise smiled and helped him put the headset on.

“See you at lunch.” Ren said and logged back into the game.

*

“You'll need to be a little sneakier than that if you want to keep things from me.” Denise smiled and reached into the cubbyhole Ren was using, and took out a foil packet. “They make noise when they crinkle.”

*

“What is it you're showing me again?” Edward Torren, the CEO of Sid Tec, asked Max.

Max sighed and slowed the video down to a single frame. He zoomed it in, and it was full of digital boxes, but you could clearly see someone holding a baby up high next to a large fireball. Max pointed to the baby.

“That.”

“It's a baby.” Edward said.

“No, sir.” Max said. “That is a randomly generated AI that was not programmed by me, or anyone else in the tech department.”

“How do you know that?”

“I wrote the Fire Deity scenario.” Max said. “She was supposed to degrade down to almost nothing, and the fire realm was supposed to lose it's restriction of no entry unless you have 100% immunity. Once it was down to players only needing 10% immunity, portals were supposed to open up in random fields in the game so players could go there and farm higher level experience.”

“What about the Fire Deity?” Edward asked.

“If enough players enter the realm, she starts to regain her abilities and the fire resistance raises up.”

“You made it a progressive level?”

Max nodded. “The more people playing it, the more resistance you need, and the bigger creatures that are generated.”

“And bigger XP rewards.” Edward said. “So, what happened?”

“I don't know.”

“What?”

Max shrugged. “All I know is, Ren got in there somehow. Now the Fire Deity is at about half-strength, and the fire realm still has the 100% restriction.”

“So what's the new AI for?”

“No idea.”

“You don't know a lot.” Edward said and frowned.

Max chuckled. “As soon as I saw it, I came right here after checking a few things. This is the raw footage, and that is the only clear image in the whole 2 minutes that was captured.”

“2 minutes? How did he mess up your whole scenario in only 2 minutes?”

Max shook his head. “I'll keep digging, but the only reason I found this is because the system drew a ton of power for the 30 seconds it needed to create a new AI.”

“Are you going to delete it?” Edward asked.

“I can't.” Max said. “According to the system, there's no new AI... and I can't find one in the logs.”

“Well, shit.”

“Succinctly put, boss.”

*

Elise walked into the office and saw Mr. Torren's office door was shut. She shrugged and sat down at her desk. She started her day in a very good mood, because she'd spent nearly the whole night watching footage of Ren as he progressed through the game. She'd intended to only watch it for a few hours, but it had been so addicting that she couldn't help but keep watching until the next thing happened.

He's such a great person! Elise thought, as she automatically sorted through the piles of emails the company had received during the night.

********

Ren got up from the couch and stored his red royal suit, and equipped his armor's bodysuit.

Anything happen, Teepo?

“Everything's quiet.” Teepo said.

You don't have to stay up all the time, Teepo.

“I might as well do something.” Teepo said. “I could go back in the ring, but I kinda forget everything when I'm in there.”

Ren nodded slightly. I understand. See you in the morning.

“Goodnight, Ren.”

Ren crept down the hallway and into the old bedroom, and saw two lumps under the blanket. They were on their sides, but close together. He knew he wasn't going to be able to slip between them to hug like he did the last 2 times, so Ren went to the side at their backs and lifted the blanket just enough to slide in. He cuddled in close, and put an arm over them. The one in front grabbed onto the arm and held it tight against her abdomen. Ren hugged them both as he drifted off to sleep.

********

Sera Loris ran back up to her room after forcing herself to eat brunch. She pretended to slam her bedroom door, and walked over to her closet.

“Dammit, Mother!” Sera exclaimed. “You know how much I hate it when your 'friends' come over!” She said to herself, because she'd never say such things to her mother's face. Sera looked in the mirror and admired the latest fashion as it hugged her well-toned body. She was only 21, but she worked hard to maintain her figure. She looked like a Miss Universe contestant with her flowing red hair halfway down her back.

No plastic surgery needed for this chick! Sera thought, then smiled as she opened her closet door and stepped into her VR studio. Every piece of equipment ever invented for the VR industry was there, even the free-floating magnetic couch. The jewel of her collection was the new Sid Tec VR headset, specifically designed to be used for F.L.O.W., and she grinned as she remembered her last venture into the VR world.

“I'm sure the company will love my new show idea.” Sera said, picked up the headset, and walked over to the mainframe installed in the corner. “I better get that video I recorded edited right away.” She picked up her cell phone and speed-dialed her contact at the television studio's editing department.

“Hi, John.” “Yeah, sent it this morning.” “Uh huh.” “Yes, standard package.” “Hold on, what did you say?” “You have got to be kidding me!” “They can't do that!”

Sera hung up the phone and threw it across the room. “Son of a BITCH!”

*

Sid Tec's secretary, Elise Stanford, was elated with joy because she had just hung up the phone with the television studio.

“They bought the pilot for Ren's show!” She hopped up and ran into her boss' office. “Sir! They bought it!”

“Bought what?” Edward asked, perplexed.

“Mr. Haddon's show idea, sir!” Elise said, and had to stop herself from jumping up and down.

“That, Ms. Stanford...” Edward smiled. “...is wonderful news!”

*

Lisa Everet stepped off the city bus and tried to avoid all the stares. She always hated it when people stared at her, and undressed her with their eyes.

He said to try and think positive thoughts. She sighed. I'd like to shove a positive thought right up his ass!  Lisa stopped walking and smiled. Does that count as a positive thought?

She kept walking down the street and around the corner. She'd lived in this neighborhood since her family had moved here when she was in kindergarten 13 years ago (making her 18), and it still hadn't changed one bit. Lisa was depressed because not one thing had changed in her life in all that time. She went into the house, and her mother tried to get her to talk about her visit to the psychiatrist.

“Maybe later.” Lisa said, and went upstairs. She entered her bedroom and looked at her meager shelf of third-hand books she'd picked up at flea markets and swap meets. She loved books; but, they were expensive and hard for her to get. Lisa wasn't allowed to work anymore because of the frequent anger outbursts she was prone to, and the court ordered therapy sessions were pure torture for her.

She sighed, then looked at her 3 year old computer, and at the oldest VR headset ever made. “Okay, something finally changed in my life.” She said, and sat down in the chair at the desk. She regretted having to log out of F.L.O.W. again, but her mother warned her that if she missed another appointment with the psychiatrist, Lisa wouldn't be allowed online for a week.

“At least in the game, I can do what I want.” She said as she put on the VR headset. It had cost her almost as much as she had paid for the VR headset in the first place, to get that punk girl to mod it for her 6 months ago. It was well worth the money, though. After that, everything felt so real! Lisa thought. It's still going to be nighttime in the game; but, the time of the day doesn't matter when you're inside most of the time anyways.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Lara, the Sage of Ages, woke up in the 'space' made available to her at the Library. The closet was small; but it let her go to any Library in the game. She just picked it from the menu and opened the door.

She gasped when she got all the XP notices from Ren's battle.

“Good god!” Lara exclaimed, as she leveled up 30 times, and it unlocked a Secret Class Skill bonus for nearly every level. She got the notice that her Fame had maxed out at 10,000; the extra Fame converted to XP, and she leveled up twice more. Tears came to her eyes as her brain was flooded with new information.
