“Have you hired a proper staff yet?” Ren asked.

Ereka nodded. “I'm pretty much just the executive manager now.”

“Good.” Ren said. “If Narhilda doesn't try to extend the ban, you'll be seeing a lot more of me in the evenings.”

“Not in the day or overnight?” Ereka asked, a little surprised.

“I've got to spend my days in the Fire Realm to try and make up for all the time I missed with the Deity of Fire, and most of my nights I have Adventurer's business to take care of.”

Ereka shook her head. “You're still doing too much, Ren.” She said. “You're not supposed to be doing everything yourself.”

“Don't worry, I make plenty of time to relax and take it easy.” Ren said and gave her a brief kiss. “Thank you for taking care of everything.”

“You make it sound like I'm doing it all for you.” Ereka said with a smile.

“Is that what I did?” Ren asked and walked around the bed to Artrude. “You did a great job.” He said and hugged her. “Thank you.”

Artrude chuckled. “All I did was catch the little guy.”

Ren let her out of the hug and turned to Malenka. “Malenka, I have something for you.”

“Ooo, is it another wand? Another bracelet?” Malenka asked, then her eyes widened. “More frilly underwear?”

Ren laughed. “If you want more, I'll make you some.” He said. “No, this is about what you asked me about before I left the dwarf lands.”

“What was that?” Malenka asked.

“Do you remember that picture I drew for you?” Ren asked, and she caught her breath.

“The... the... unicorn.” Malenka whispered.

“That's right. I met someone who's actually been to the fabled land of Staibel.” Ren said. “I talked to her for a couple of minutes, and asked her to remember what she saw, and then I made this.”

Malenka gasped when Ren took out the piece of parchment that had the picture of 6 unicorns on it. “R-Ren... it... it's real.” She said, her voice and feelings full of wonder. “They really exist.”

Quest Complete!

You have given Malenka proof that her childhood fantasy horse really exists.

Rewards: 2,500 XP (Negated: XP maxed); Honor: +2,500 (Negated: Honor stat locked); Malenka's Adoration

Ren took the picture back and activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability and placed it on the platform. He added a piece of wood and a few gold and the picture reappeared with a nice frame around it. He then made it twice as big and gave it back to her.

“That's all the proof you need, Malenka.” Ren said, and he felt how happy she was.

“Th-thank you, Ren.” Malenka said and stored the picture, then stepped close and gave him a kiss on the lips. None of the women in the room felt any envy or jealousy at the kiss, because they all felt that she was only kissing him as a thank you and there wasn't anything sexual about it.

“I'm kind of surprised you didn't try to jump on me to do that.” Ren said, and she grinned at him.

“Artrude said I have to save stuff like that for her at night.” Malenka said.

“Malenka!” Artrude's face flushed red, and everyone laughed.

“I'll see you tonight.” Ren said to the maids and Xuunah, took Artemis' hand and cast another portal. He appeared inside the back room of the Library in his county. He opened the messaging system and sent Lara the Sage of Ages a quick message. A moment later, she stepped out of her apartment.

“Ren, you... it's really...” Lara stammered.

“I'm the proud father of a beautiful baby boy.” Ren said and held the forms out. “Please be a dear and submit these to the other Libraries as a registered birth.”

Lara's eyes glazed over when she took the forms, then she smiled. “Oh, you sneaky little genius.”

“That's me.” Ren said and gave her a kiss. “Now get that cute little ass wiggling and make those deliveries.”

Lara shook a fist at him, gave him a kiss, then stepped back into her apartment and shut the door.
