I sense the floor below me disappear from sight.

All I see is the hand I hold onto, and Maria's sword frozen to the pointed tail of a Demonic Dragon.

We're pulled upward, away from the cave, and deep into the dark black void.

I would have been far more apprehensive to plunge into the darkness, as I felt our strength was lacking just minutes ago. But now, as this Demon and Dragon have been forced to retreat, only excitement and intrigue fill my mind.

Instead of wandering around in the dark searching for caves and minor clues, odds are, this Demon and Dragon will bring us straight to something far more enlightening.

This thought is shared with Maria, as she does not try to send any attacks into the Dragon's tail, but only tries to hold on.

Every passing second as we're pulled upward, the actions of the battle we just had continually flash through our minds, and are compounded by the cycles of Celestial energy that continue to flow through us.

This new understanding makes even our Celestial Energy cycling more efficient.

Royal Vibrations begin to merge and tether around the flow of energy, and release and disperse to increase their speed, density, and intent to be refined.

Even all the possible ways that Maria could easily pull me upward to send a lethal attack toward this Dragon race through our minds, but we do not move, only wait to see where it's taking its injured bonded partner.

The tail of this dragon is being swung about, whipping us back and forth in the air; but without my ether senses I would have hardly even noticed.

It is an extremely strange sensation.

The flapping of this massive beast's wings doesn't even make a sound, but I see them come down into my range every few seconds.

Below me, there is only empty black darkness.

I could be hundreds of meters off the ground, or right above the black rock floor.

After a few minutes, the Dragon stops frantically waving its tail. It's most likely given up and accepted that Maria's ice has covered the bottom half of its tail and only hardens more each cycle.

I can still vaguely sense the Noble Vibrations of the injured Demon being carried high above us in the Dragon's mouth, and occasional pulses of Celestial energy waves that even ripple through the Dragon's spine, carrying the excess as it tries to heal.

Yet, woven into these vibrations, the feelings of fear, confusion, and despair still are strong. I'm positive my last strike has made a wound on its body it can't fully heal.

This makes me grin, as even more time passes, floating off further into the endless black abyss.

–

Over an hour passes.

The speed of this Dragon's wings does not slow down at all, and considering its size and strength, I estimate it could easily travel hundreds of kilometers in this time.

If we were wandering into the abyss on our own, it would have taken days, maybe weeks, or longer to travel this far... not to mention, we wouldn't even know how to possibly navigate through the darkness.

We don't even try to guess where we're headed, only take advantage of the energy-rich resources we're attached to.

Not only has Maria's ice covered this Dragon's full tail, forcing it not to even move it any longer if it wanted to; but the layers of Vibrations on its surface have created micro-fractures all over the monster's black scales.

Here, Celestial energy leaks out, and is slowly siphoned back down into Maria's sword.

It is an extremely slow drip, but it's added to her core, and cycled through me to slowly increase our own pool, while not affecting this Dragon much as we fly.

Once these slow drips do not affect us much at all anymore, not even making our minds face small white burning mental attacks, Maria sends her ice up further, even into the Dragon's back legs and upper spine.

It lurches upward and begins frantically flapping its wings even harder at this development; and I feel the waves of fear from the Noble Demon in its mouth grow.

They're somehow communicating... and they've decided to go wherever they're bringing us much faster than before.

Another denser surge of pure Celestial Energy is siphoned through our cycles.

Surprisingly, it's not too much more refined than the Celestial energy we already have.

In fact, after about another half hour passes, and we go through another few hundred cycles back and forth assimilating even more white energy into our bodies; the Celestial Energy itself is actually exactly the same purity.

The new energy being added to our pool only increases the volume that we have, not its purity any longer.

I'm not quite sure what kind of refinement technique these Demons use, but it is far inferior to ours; filtering Celestial Energy through resonating yet polar opposite elemental soul energy cores.

Almost our entire bodies glow bright blue and red at the peaks of our cycles now. I can fathom easily attacking and defending at the same time if needed.

Our Royal Vibrations become far more fine-tuned as well, very focused on refining and cycling Celestial energy; however, it does open up my mind to many possibilities for its use through my sword and even outside my body.

Just as Maria's ice spreads even further up this Dragon's spine, and even spreads to its underbelly; my expanded ether senses see a shift in its wing's trajectory.

It's begun to move downward, and has stopped flapping so vigorously.

This soon pairs with the Noble Demon's feeling of fear and dread subsiding quickly, and new feelings of hatred, relief, and a devious plan for revenge rippling through the air.

Maria and I feel this shift immediately; and it's paired with even more senses that light up the realm around us.

Waves of weak Celestial energy pulses begin traveling upward through the abyss. They feel like commoner demons, or maybe some slightly stronger, like 3rd or 2nd Class.

Then, from above, quite far away, but in the direction where the Dragon's nose was pointing just moments ago, I feel the presence of another Noble Demon.

This one with far more confidence and stronger waves. I can't sense any Celestial Energy to gauge its actual distance in this abyss; but I can tell it's staring down at us with killing intent.

Maria acts first, and uses the end of her cycle to lift me upward and swing us flying up into the air.

The tail and back legs of this Dragon shatter as she releases her sword that was holding it together, and even portions of the base of its wings break off as well.

We soar through the abyss, flying over its back, watching its bright white wings flap on both our sides, and I let my cycle flow through me; charging up my full body with burning hot Celestial fire.

After so much practice flying through the sky, it feels natural, almost like second nature to control the flow of Celestial energy surging out from my core with waves of vibrations to strengthen its intent.

It is not a random raging burst of flames that slices downward.

It is a sharp, searing hot, unstoppable blade of Celestial fire; one commanded by layers of my Royal Vibrations' will.

I collide with the top of the Dragon's head, and slice through its hide and scales.

The dense sea of Celestial energy flowing through its body is parted like my blade is boiling and destroying everything in its path.

There isn't a hint of resistance.

The same goes for the Demon inside its mouth, my real target.

The creature holds the broken soul weapon in front of its body as it senses me coming its way; but this too is sliced clear through like a heavy axe slicing through a twig.

The layers of Noble Vibrations tethering its will as defense around its chest are weak.

The constant change of its emotions has completely broken its spirit.

This Demon cannot decide to be scared or ready to fight, and its will reflects this shaky foundation of strength.

My blade breaks through its Vibrations just as easily as its Dragon's head; and in a swing downward, its Demon core and Cyan core are both sliced in two.

The Dragon's head completely explodes from the outward pressure of this kill, and the remaining Celestial energy in this Demon's body all surges into me.

We fall down through the darkness toward the many weak Demons I sensed below, with fragments of melting Noble Grade avatar raining down with us.

–

This surge of Celestial Energy all at once is enough to actually make me feel some pain.

I yell out into the void, half happy about my successful kill, half to make the surging sharp white light burning through my consciousness less painful.

However, compared to the relative pain from absorbing the first commoner Demon's energy, this is not so bad.

It is just a large quantity to filter, the purity is even lower than my own.

Maria braces herself as we fall through the air further, and takes the cycle, almost whiting out while I process the influx of memories, as well as far more demonic energy than any demon I've killed in this abyss so far...

Surprisingly, the amount of dark purple and black essence I absorb makes a noticeable difference to my Royal Demon's core. However, there is still a dense barrier of Royal Vibrations around it that won't allow me to make use of it.

The fractured and broken memories I absorb, shrouded in the darkness of this zone, are no better than the commoners I killed. Only battle emotions and instincts are transferred.

My ether senses expand greatly though, to about 50 meters in every direction, and the ground below us starts to come into view.

Well... it isn't exactly a flat ground.

I begin to see the outline of a massive black staircase. Its width is too wide for me to even see its edges, and some of its steps appear to be meters high. As we fall closer to it, more Demons and Dragons appear to slowly be climbing toward the top.

They all look up at us, and a few begin running toward where we're about to land with soul weapons drawn; but others look back up the massive stairs and take another step, ignoring us.
