There was only a single trap belching poison off to the side, but nobody was standing in it. Teagan fired a green beam of healing into the pair of tanks while downing a freshly crafted potion Basil handed her. She wore an intense expression of pure focus, but it was different than before. Willow studied her friend for a moment. No panic this time. Preparation, preparation, and preparation – the Guildmaster was right. We just didn’t listen.

Willow smiled and nocked an arrow to her bowstring. The rogue was solidly locked down by Havok, and Willow didn’t have to move an inch for the entire five minutes it took for their group to whittle down his strength until the kill chime finally sounded. But it was a further ten minutes of constant attack before the warrior finally dropped, and Willow was running low on arrows and stamina by the end.

We really underestimated this fight, she thought. So badly…

The incredibly durable warrior finally collapsed with a chime and a crash of heavy armor against brick, and Willow walked over and slumped down beside Teagan, both spent. She smiled at her friend and got an exhausted grin in return.

It barely felt real. She even opened her notifications to double-check.

Your group has defeated Acolyte – Kobold – level 10.Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Kobold – level 10.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Kobold – level 10.Your group has defeated Warrior – Kobold – level 10.Beast Tamer has reached level 12 (+3).+30 attribute points.Concussive Shot has reached level 9.Marksmanship has reached level 10 (+2).Fleet Footed has reached level 6Identify has reached level 5.Class skill slot unlocked.New skills are available for Beast Tamer.…

Willow’s mind’s eye glazed over. While the others were chatting excitedly about the battle, and the above-average quality of the items the Kobolds had worn, Willow simply stared at the notifications, barely seeing most of them.

Three levels…

I did it. She was officially a bronze-rank adventurer. Her notifications continued chiming as her class offered her choices for her first class skill unlock. I wonder what -

“Hey! Beast Tamer!”

The loud shout from the other archer, Kaitlyn, cut across the jubilance of the raid. Willow cringed inside. Here it comes… Criticism of her abilities, her class, and her limited role and performance in the battle. This was where they would decide she was weak enough that she didn’t deserve a cut of the loot that they had earned as a team.

But the biting words and critical glares didn’t… arrive? The tall girl stood over a hole at the far end of the chamber, staring intently at something below her feet. She glanced back at Willow and urgently gestured her over, with a look of … excitement?

Willow clambered to her feet up, still half-expecting hostility and criticism, but when she got to Kaitlyn, the other girl grinned at her and pointed. There was a spiral staircase made of glowing transparent golden magic that hovered in the air leading downward into a cavern.

“Didn’t you say your ritual works on dungeon spawn?”

“It can,” Willow said. Of course, that was all theoretical given she’d never had the opportunity to try it. “But it’s harder, the literature says it requires time to invite a new soul to replace the dun –”

“That’s a beast, will it work for you?” Kaitlyn said, interrupting her and pointing down into the darkness below.

Willow frowned at her in confusion, letting her eyes follow the direction she pointed. And from deep in the darkness a pair of emerald-green eyes gleamed back at her. Electricity seemed to jolt up through her spine, causing her scalp to prickle as if it were trying to tear itself loose.

Timber Wolf – Wolf – level 12

Willow identified it twice, just to be sure. Her voice cracked as she yelped, “Teagan! Help?”

“What?” Teagan exclaimed, alarmed and sprinting across the chamber to join her.

“Don’t attack it, please?” Willow asked, turning to Kaitlyn. “I might get hurt in the process, please just heal me, no attacking.”

I’ll definitely get hurt. She gulped as she stared at the enormous dark shape of the Timber Wolf. This was her chance. It had to be.

Both the girls nodded, and Willow darted down the stairs as fast as she could. She was channeling her Ritual of Bonding skill before she even reached the bottom of the stairs. Please, please, please work!

The wolf howled and charged immediately, its heavy jaws clamping down on her arm and thrashing back and forth savagely. But Willow just gritted her teeth against the pain, adamantly refusing to budge. She would not lose focus. A beam of green lanced down from above, healing her wounds even as the fangs lacerated her arm.

This was what her class was, what she was. She could not – would not – give in. Besides, the wolf was gorgeous and powerful, and she dared to hope.

She struggled with her ritual while an immense pressure built in her mind like an unseen magical tug-of-war – herself against the wolf. She fed it more and more of her mana. The wolf growled, lunging low and snapping its jaws shut on her calf. Pain blossomed as the fangs tore a chunk out of the muscle and she staggered, hamstrung, fighting for consciousness. If she passed out, she would probably die. Worse, she might lose her chance.

“Willow!” Teagan shouted.

“Wait!”

“She alright?” Havok worried.

“I’m fine!”

“Fine at getting eaten!” someone shouted. “Get her out of there!”

“No!”

She fought on and on. Suddenly, the pressure from her ritual caused something to snap, and the wolf went wild, growling and tearing at the arms she brought up to protect herself. But she refused to attack it, simply blocking and defending herself against the vicious teeth while she pressed more of her mana into her ritual spell.

“Wait!” she called out, sensing Kaitlyn nocking her bow. She simply clung on to her magic, while the wolf savaged her in a one-sided display of violence.

“You’re going to die!” Kaitlyn yelled.

“Don’t shoot it!” Willow shouted.

“Willow, you’ve got this!” Teagan screamed. “Come on!”

Her mouth made a rasping groan she barely recognized as her own.

Without warning, the wolf backed off, and crouched down, growling deep in its throat.

Your Ritual of Bonding has ensouled Timber Wolf.

The crazy look in its eyes faded and Willow sensed a sudden innocence and curiosity trickling through her ritual magic. She met its gaze and tried to send thoughts of kindness, sharing, exploration, and growing together – all her hopes and dreams bundled together into a messy mishmash of emotions. The very essence of herself.

“Please… I want to meet you,” she sent to the brand-new soul inhabiting the wolf before her.

The wolf lowered its head and finally stopped growling. Willow, trembling so violently she had to clench her teeth lest she chip them, reached out her hand towards the beautiful creature and let it smell her. A few moments later, she retrieved a piece of jerky from the pouch at her belt and offered the snack to the wolf. It sniffed at it and looked at her for a moment, but then it took the offering and ate it. The wolf suddenly sat up, startling her, but it simply licked her face with its enormous tongue.

Timber Wolf has accepted your companion pact.

There was a sudden rush as her mind connected with the wolf. She could see what the wolf saw, and smell what she smelled. She could taste her own tears as the wolf licked her face again. She sank to the ground and hugged the enormous creature who was suddenly the most beautiful thing in her world.

“Willow? Are you alright?” Teagan asked.

“I’m… Teagan, her name is Cami!” Willow cried.

The team’s cheers ebbed and flowed in her hearing as she struggled to come to terms with her emotions.

Your Kobold Warrior has been defeated.

Ali let her awareness return fully to her body, releasing the sight and senses of her minions through which she had been watching the scene.

“They won,” she said – to the obvious relief of her friends.

“Nobody died?” Calen asked.

“Nope,” she confirmed. “And they all reached at least level ten.” Vivian was going to be ecstatic – ten novices had entered that chamber and come out alive as bronze-ranked adventurers. Even Basil and Seth had reached ten.

“Bronze rank means they can take jobs now,” Calen said. “That will be a huge step for the guild. I will go talk to Vivian about it if we’re done with Elvish grammar for today. She will be overjoyed.”

“I think we can let the new bronze ranks break the news,” Ali said. “They earned it.”

“Aah, true,” he said.

He seems very interested in the guild. He had always been invested, but the quiet half-elf seemed different somehow – ever since he had his hair cut and he had donned the Pathfinder cloak. He was right though; this changed a lot for the guild. Bronze rank meant that they were strong enough now to take the zombie kill quests and help clean up the disaster Alexander Gray had unleashed upon the entire region. Good for the guild and for the town, but it would also provide abundant opportunities for them to level up and earn money.

Lira just sipped on her tea, watching everyone with a serene curiosity and calm, and Ryn was lost to the world immersed in the grammar books Ali had copied earlier.

“You didn’t pay that much attention to the novices before,” Ali said. Vivian had done much to restore their broken trust, but their relationship was cordial rather than friendly. There had to be a different reason.

“Lyeneru told me to help Vivian tutor them on strategy as part of my own training,” he answered with a grimace. But Ali knew it was his discomfort with speaking in front of people and not a reluctance to help them.

“That sounds like a great idea,” she said – and it was. Calen had a mind for strategy and an intuitive grasp of skills and how they interacted. She could also see it helping him get out of his shell a bit and develop more confidence in his own abilities. Questing on his own without Mato, joining the Pathfinders and this new task his mentor had set him seemed to be encouraging him to find himself a little more.

“True,” Calen said. “I just wish it didn’t require lectures.”

“It’s probably a good time to take a break from language lessons, too,” she said. They had been working on grammar for the better part of the morning and her two eager students were getting tired.

She reflected on the encounter she had just witnessed. In order to let them gain full experience for the fight, Ali had not observed from within the chamber, so she had only a peripheral awareness of the strategy they had used, but she trusted Vivian to set them right. She had had to content herself with the sharp snapping of her mana as the Kobolds died one at a time in the order she would have expected.

It had been nerve-wracking to wait without seeing, hoping she wouldn’t see a kill notification for one of the eager novices. But her fears that her first boss would be the death trap that destroyed all her guildmates hadn’t come to pass – but by the number of levels some of them had earned, it had been hard fought.

And that scene at the end…

When her reservation holding the Timber Wolf snapped and it went berserk trying to kill Willow, Ali had very nearly intervened to save her. Willow’s impassioned cry to her friends, begging them to hold back, had been the only thing that had stayed Ali’s hand.

The sensation of Willow’s ritual spell slipping into her Timber Wolf had been skin-crawlingly uncanny, and something had replaced her mana bond to the monster. She just wished she had had a minion with mana sight nearby to see what had happened next. I need to talk to her about this later, she thought, meeting Lira’s eyes. And I need to see that wolf with my own senses.

Lira had been certain Ali’s minions were merely extensions of her mana, and therefore her will. But that wolf… What is it? I’m sure it’s not a dungeon spawn anymore.

And then, there were Willow’s tears of joy as the wolf accepted her… well, Ali would be lying if she tried to pretend that she hadn’t shed a few sympathetic tears herself.

Ali took a deep breath and switched focus to a different topic – one that she could do something about. She opened Domain Mastery and looked at her enhanced monsters list. It was a short list containing only one monster.

Kobold WarriorDomain Enhancement: Raid.Status: Dead.Domain: Respawn. Recharge: 5 hours 58 minutes.

Ali shared the details with everyone. So, it does seem to work, she thought. In six hours, all signs indicated that her domain would resummon her Kobold boss and it would be ready for another fight.

“A six-hour respawn is nice,” Calen said, noting it in his book. “This explains a lot. Remember that pack of wolves that respawned on top of us?”

“How could I forget?” Ali said. She had been the one eating dirt that day.

“I wonder if all dungeons have the same recharge timer?” Calen mused. “I suppose it might depend on aptitudes and specializations. Are there advancements that reduce your respawn timer?”

He’d begun to ramble as he speculated, and Ali had no definitive answers for him. At least at this point – maybe she would unlock an advancement like that in the future. “I’ll come with you when you go up to town,” she decided. “I need to resummon the other monsters they killed in the sewer.” She also hadn’t checked on the trash her Kobolds had collected in a couple of days, and it would be the perfect opportunity to inspect her former wolf.

“Are you going to use that domain respawn ability on all the trash monsters in the sewer?” Calen asked. “It would save you the chore of respawning them all manually.”

“If it increases the reservation cost, I can’t afford it,” she answered, still worried about her mana. It was certainly worth exploring given that she had only tried the raid enhancement so far. It was always frustrating testing abilities with long recharge timers.

“I’m pretty sure the description didn’t say it increased the cost. Come on, let’s go test it,” Calen said, getting to his feet. After saying goodbye to Lira and Ryn, the two of them flew to the Kobold warrior’s chamber together.

The boss chamber looked like a disaster scene. Giant scorch marks marred the walls and floors, leaving wide stretches of blackened moss and burnt mushrooms. Several massive slabs of dark gray basalt jutted out of the ground on one side of the chamber and the corpses of her four Kobolds and several Brine Oozes lay strewn about. All the equipment she had made for them was gone, presumably looted by the raid for gear upgrades or to be sold for expenses.

