“Adventurers Guild? Groups? Teamwork? Bah! That’s just a scam to have other people leech your hard-earned experience. Solo is the way to go!”

- Thomas Belray, Rogue, Last Words.

Willow picked her way among the mushrooms sprouting from the vibrant moss growing on the damp brick of the sewer and hopped over the water channel, keeping her eyes on the dark nooks and side tunnels. The nervous chatter from the newly formed raid group filtered up to her, letting her know they’d finished with the last Kobold she had brought them.

She turned the corner, catching signs of movement in the water and the telltale glow of a root trap off to the side. The entrance to the chamber with the powerful Kobold boss loomed darkly at the end of the tunnel. Willow drew her bow, aiming at the dirty green slime lurking below the surprisingly clean water. She was no longer being embarrassed by her tears, but every time she thought of the Guildmaster and her harsh assessment, she felt a burning in her cheeks and a thickness in her throat. Why she hadn’t been kicked out of the guild, she had no idea. She was level nine already – one of the highest in the guild – but she was by far the weakest on the team. Half her skills lay dormant, still at level one, because she had been unable to find a good beast for her Ritual of Bonding.

I need to find a beast companion… Without the cooperation of a beast, she would remain half a class. The problem was the forest had been consumed by blight and all the natural beasts had been turned into undead. In theory, her ritual was capable of breaking a monster from the clutches of a dungeon and inviting a fresh soul into it, but that would require finding a beast dungeon somewhere – and who knew how long that would take? She sighed, eyeing the Toxic Slimes that hauled themselves out of the water channel to pursue her. Why did it have to be Kobolds and Slimes? Or Goblins. Or Zombies.

Willow sprinted back to the approaching team with her slimes blobbing along behind her. The strategy discussion at the guild had been quite eye-opening. Aiden’s group had discovered several things that she hadn’t even noticed – for example, that only two of the oozes, the biggest blue ones, were linked to the boss. The rest could be pulled separately – something she hadn’t even thought to try. As the weakest damage dealer, they had assigned that job to her.

She grimaced at the thoughts of charity – pity. The group killed the slimes so quickly that Willow barely had time to pause.

“It’s clear to the entrance,” she said.

“Ok, let’s form up and review the plan,” Aiden said.

Willow listened patiently while Aiden summarized a vastly more complex plan than the one they had tried the first time around, her heart beginning to race. The most subtle nuances of the plan had been hard-won through painful experience, and everyone knew it. Chatter faded as tension rose to fill the tunnel.

“You ready?” Flynn whispered. He was a slightly chubby guy with a boyish-looking face, and he would be her partner for most of the fight.

“Yup,” Willow said, glancing at the brown-robed earth mage putting on a brave face – his fake confidence marred by the white knuckles of the hand that gripped his plain wooden staff. He had suggested summoning some rock walls for her as she kited the Fire Mage. Her job would be to keep the deadly mage busy, and it rankled that she couldn’t even be trusted to do that by herself – even if she knew that was irrational. She forced a smile at Flynn, but his sudden return grin lit his face banishing all signs of anxiety – and, surprisingly, lifted her spirits.

“Let’s kick some Kobold butt,” he declared.

Despite her despondency, she snorted.

“Willow, can you pull the slimes when you’re ready?” Aiden asked.

“Are you sure you don’t want to do it?” Willow asked, glancing at Kaitlyn – the other archer in their group. She grimaced. Her insecurities had betrayed her again. We have a plan.

“I’m worried my lightning arrows will aggro the whole room,” Kaitlyn said. “You’re the better choice.”

“Ok,” Willow said. She crept forward to the entrance and scanned the room, picking out the highly camouflaged water-affinity oozes lurking in the sewer channel. A little of her confidence returned. She nocked an arrow and drew, sighting carefully before releasing her shot. It flew out into the room with a quiet swoosh, piercing the water and the slime crawling beneath the surface. The monster surged out of the channel, splashing water across the damp brick as it slithered up and onto the land. Willow ducked back into the tunnel as a high-speed bolt of water took a chip of brick out of the wall, and she sprinted for Havok, luring the ooze into the relative safety of the tunnel.

The tiny Goblin lit an array of holy magic buffs, turning himself into a beacon of light in the dark tunnel, and charged the incoming Brine Ooze. The dull wet splat of enchanted wood striking ooze signaled that Willow was free. They don’t need my damage. Leaving it to them, she headed back to the boss room, searching out the next ooze, relieved to find the Kobolds still standing there in the back of the chamber.

The pulls all went smoothly and, in a few minutes, the room was cleared of everything she could split. “That’s the last one,” Willow said as the blue ooze popped. She eyed it closely as Seth raised it as a zombie.

“Ok, buff up,” Aiden said. “Havok will pull the boss and tank the rogue. Braden, go in second and pull the warrior off him.”

Havok and Braden nodded in turn. The tanking decision had been made, Willow recalled, entirely due to Havok having enough wisdom to resist the warrior’s taunt. At least in theory, he should be able to keep the rogue under control. Also, the plate-clad Goblin’s class was far more invested in the defense trait than Braden’s, and Teagan had been hopeful that would mitigate the ridiculous damage the rogue dished out.

“Willow and Flynn will take care of the mage for the first part of the fight while everyone else kills the healer. After the healer is down, the kill order is mage, then rogue, and finally the warrior,” Aiden continued.

That was the tricky part, Willow would have to make sure she didn’t get hit by the fireballs. Healing was expected to be hard, so she had made certain to stock up on health potions from the alchemy shop, Pretty Powerful Potions, near the guild.

“Havok will mainly focus on healing the tanks, and Teagan will heal everyone. Did I miss anything?” Aiden concluded.

“Don’t stand in the poison?” Willow said. “I left an arrow with a red ribbon in the center of all the poison traps on this side of the channel.”

“That’s clever,” Aiden said.

“If you can’t be strong, at least be useful, right?” Willow answered, but her attempted joke fell flat, getting only a quiet chuckle from Flynn and a hesitant smile from Seth.

“Aah, yes, thanks,” Aiden said. “Ok, get ready.”

“Can I get Amplify Damage on the mage if you have time?” Willow asked quietly as the tanks readied their shields. It was an amazing curse, and with it, she could be certain to keep the mage’s attention even after the entire group swapped to it.

“Yup, no problem,” Seth answered. Some of the members of Aiden’s group were conspicuously keeping their distance from the necromancer and his fresh army of zombies and skeletons, but Willow liked him – he was dependable and pretty friendly.

“Ok, Havok, get us started.”

The small green Goblin, blazing with the light of his holy magic, stepped through the entryway and into the room. The rest of the group filed in behind him, taking their positions, and as soon as the formation was set, Havok charged. He shot across the moss-covered room in a blur of high-speed movement. Right behind him, Braden followed with a similar charge skill, and the Kobold warrior’s sword clashed against his shield as he shouted the alarm. Every Kobold immediately sprang into action.

The moment the Fire Mage paused to summon an angry red ball of flame, Willow let her arrow fly. Undetected amid the sudden eruption of chaos and noise, her arrow struck the mage, burying itself in his left shoulder, and drawing an angry yip of pain. His head snapped around, and hateful reptilian eyes locked on her. Willow fled, making for the far corner of the chamber as new fire sprang from the monster’s fearsome talons. She leapt the water channel and dodged the poison trap, glancing back at the red glare of fire and angry eyes trained on her.

Uh… Flynn? Any time now… she thought, even her inner voice growing shrill with rising panic. There was no cover anywhere and she was a sitting duck if that Fireball came her way. She loosed a second arrow but missed.

The sewer brick creaked and then splintered, showering her with dust and rubble as a massive wall of stone burst from the ground. Aah, thank you! She dove for cover as the roiling ball of flame shot out toward her. Even behind the rock wall, the powerful concussion shook her to the core and a vast wave of flame surged past on both sides, scorching her skin and singeing her hair.

Willow popped her head out from behind her cover and loosed another arrow, sending it flying across the chaos of the battlefield to strike the mage in the leg. The instant it hit, she could tell Seth had remembered the curse – the Kobold screeched and stumbled before the Acolyte healed him. But that wasn’t her problem – all she had to do was keep it facing the corner and the fireballs coming her way allowing the rest of the team to do their jobs.

Another creaking and splintering of rock told her there was a second rock wall behind her, and she turned and sprinted again, keeping her stamina flowing through Fleet Footed so that she could reach cover in time. She caught the high-speed flash of flame and dove for the ground as the Firebolt scorched past her ear. She rolled up onto her feet and fired an arrow, ducking behind the rock wall without even waiting to verify the hit.

She caught a quick glimpse of the flickering frenetic chaos of the battlefield. Pressed up against the far wall of the chamber, wreathed in holy magic, the little Goblin faced off against the high-speed dagger strikes of the vicious, black-scaled rogue – Willow could hear the rapid clanging of steel against plate even from where she crouched. Standing side-by-side with him, Braden tanked the giant Kobold warrior, deflecting powerful blows of the vicious bone sword with his already battered shield, taking advantage of the healing fire of Havok’s consecrated ground at his feet.

Dead center in the chamber, the beleaguered Kobold Acolyte was being mobbed by a massive melee of skeletons and zombies, interspersed with the close-range members of their raid. The blinding white of Aiden’s ice blades shone brightly amid the undead, while the air shimmered as Devan’s Wind Cutter dagger strikes danced among them.

Willow couldn’t keep track of all the details, but it was enough to tell her things were more or less going according to plan. She ducked behind the rock wall and put her fingers in her ears right as a fresh Fireball detonated against her cover. From the pain and ringing in her ears, she wasn’t quite certain her fingers had even helped, but at least Flynn’s rock walls were remarkably effective barriers against the explosive fire.

Might not have much hair left after this… with a wild yell, she sprinted back to the other rock wall, firing an arrow on the way. She grinned at the sight of her arrow striking home, burying itself in his ribs, leaving only the fletchings jutting out from the crimson robes. In the background, the crack of rocks flying into things with wet thuds, the loud reports and flashes of lightning, and the clashing of steel were overlaid with the shrill unholy scream of Seth’s Volatile Wraith. As she lined up another shot, she saw the Wraith flying through the Fire Mage’s chest, drawing a pained howl from the monster.

Clever, she thought. It was the only monster without any allies near it, it had Amplify Damage on it, and the Wraith’s distraction of her target was already creating bigger windows of time for her to shoot and dodge. She managed to get off two shots before sprinting off to the next rock wall, leaving the mage approaching the now vacated one.

Willow popped out and fired again, barely dodging a Firebolt as she continued her deadly game of cat-and-mouse with the furious Fire Mage. The rest of the battle faded into the background as the crashes and shouts blended into an incoherent buzz of noise. It was just her and the mage, and if she made a mistake, she would be badly hurt, if not killed. She found herself grinning maniacally as she ducked and dodged between the rock walls, always barely a step ahead of the explosions. Always vigilant for any changes to the mage’s routine. Firebolt. Firebolt. Fireball, duck! She darted sideways just in time, wincing as the skin on her neck began to blister.

Suddenly, the shouting grew closer, and, when she popped her head around the wall to fire, she saw the frost-gleaming swords slashing through the crimson robes as Aiden charged the mage. A heavy barrage of lightning arrows hit it squarely in the chest and Willow’s eyes widened at the powerful display of Kaitlyn’s lightning archery. Willow snapped off another arrow, careful not to hit her teammates, and ducked behind cover, catching a glimpse of Devan appearing from nowhere with her daggers flying. A gruesome shower of Kobold blood sprayed into the air.

They got the healer! Her glance took in the crumpled body of the Kobold Acolyte lying beside the sewer channel and realized she had missed the chime of it dying. For the first time since they had tried this boss, excitement and hope began to rise within her heart.

Don’t mess it up, she told herself, but the combination of her arrows and Seth’s Amplify Damage curse had so badly angered the mage, that she continued to draw all its fire while dodging between the walls of stone. Not even the full power of the raid unleashed at it could shake its focus.

It took perhaps five or six minutes before an anticipated explosion of flame failed to materialize, and instead, she heard the beautiful sound of a chime in her mind. She poked her head out cautiously, and sure enough, the deadly Fire Mage lay in a bloody, battered heap on the damp ground while the entire raid sprinted for the far wall to corner and tackle the cunning rogue.

She took a deep breath and emerged from cover, joining the small group of ranged damage dealers. “Thanks,” she nodded to Flynn.

“No problem,” he smiled. “Good work!”

“Yeah, the cat-on-hot-bricks technique was great, right?” she grinned back.

