“I hope the gear respawns too,” she said, but she had a feeling that it might – she could tell the domain imprint was quite extensive. Ever since her Grimoire had added Customization, her monsters were summoned with semi-random gear they were capable of using and she expected either that or the exact same gear to be respawned. None of her traps had been destroyed and they had simply reset on their own as usual.

“Looks like they marked the traps with this,” Calen said, pulling up a snapped arrow with a red ribbon attached to the end.

“Clever,” Ali said, beginning the chore of cleaning up and deconstructing the corpses. Ugh, what remains of them, she thought, realizing their skeletons were missing. At least, based on her experiences with the Ruins of Dal’mohra, she guessed that removing the corpses wouldn’t affect the respawn effect. Seth must have been busy here.

“They must have kited the Fire Mage,” Calen said, examining the scorched rock walls. “Someone ran around here dodging Fireballs until they killed the healer.”

He’s reading this room like a book. It seemed like a good strategy to Ali, at least from what she’d seen of Calen’s ability to kite. But the rock walls were ugly and burnt. First, she added this variant of basalt to her imprint, and then she used the magic of her Grimoire and Domain Mastery in tandem to reshape the remainder, growing the rock walls into thick symmetrical pillars that reached the ceiling before transmuting them to marble.

“That looks nice,” Calen said. “That will provide some cover – it should make the fight just a little easier for teams without earth mages.”

With her Grimoire open, she resummoned the Brine Oozes that were missing or turned into nasty puddles over by the door, and then picked one for her experiment.

Choose Domain Enhancement Level: Domain, Boss, or Raid.

“Domain,” she thought, making her selection.

Domain Respawn applied to Brine Ooze.

Ali waited, but there were no additional notifications, and her reservation remained unchanged. Curious, she opened her Domain Mastery and checked her minions on the list.

Kobold WarriorDomain Enhancement: RaidStatus: DeadDomain: Respawn. Recharge: 5 hours 36 minutesBrine OozeDomain Enhancement: DomainStatus: AliveDomain: Respawn. Recharge: 2 hours

“It works,” Ali said, once again sharing the details with Calen. “And it didn’t cost any extra.”

“Two hours,” Calen said. “That’s even better.”

“I’m not sure if it’s because the enhancement is weaker, or if it’s just drawing less on the domain itself,” Ali mused.

“Isn’t that the same thing?”

“I don’t exactly know,” Ali said – but she could see the domain mana had far less load on it than when her boss walked in this chamber.

“At least you can use it on everything,” Calen observed.

“The only disadvantage is that they are limited in how far they can move from where I attach them,” Ali said.

But I don’t have to resummon them all the time. She smiled, realizing just how much time this ability was going to save her.

“Why don’t you finish up here,” Calen said. “I’ll go take care of things at the guild.”

“Ok,” Ali said, calling a few higher-level minions to join her as guards. Calen vanished into the darkness, leaving her to her task, and she set to it with enthusiasm, resummoning all the slain monsters and bestowing the respawn buff on every last one.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
