“Which part do you want?” I asked as I began chopping off bits of the flesh using Iron Claws.

“Ehh, I don’t know. I’ve only eaten insects and plants, I’ve never tasted such a big animal.”

Then you get the belly and the innards.

After chopping it up in nice pieces, I threw the innards I didn’t want, like intestines and kidneys, alongside the fat belly meat. I hadn’t considered how such a small thing would eat those, but imagine my surprise when she used a Skill to break the meat into smaller pieces.

It looked like a sort of underwater air slash, or rather, air beam. Water beam?

“Little fish, what is that?”

“Lord Fire Bird! I discovered I can shoot out bubbles very fast if I focus, and this has helped me hunt a lot of insects. Unfortunately, even that didn’t stop the turtle from chasing me…” The little fish complained, but took energetic bites from the meat. “Oh Lord Fire Bird, this is amazing! This little one has never eaten anything so tasty before!”

I smiled, though mostly with my eyes. It wasn’t like my beak could bend like human lips could. “Eat then, eat all you can.” For some reason, seeing the little fish enjoy the food made me really happy.

Of course, I also ate as much as I could, and by the time we were both done with the carcass, only the skin remained on its bones, and also the brain.

Splitting its skull open revealed the slimy delicacy, and I saw the little fish look at it with a desiring expression from the corner of my eyes.

“Heh,” I snorted lightly and threw it in the lake. It wasn’t like eating it would give me any more benefits. My body was already pretty tough and the small amount of nutrients from a normal beast would not help my growth.

“Thank you, Lord Fire Bird!” The little fish did a few loops around the sinking brain and shot a couple of water beams at it, breaking it into tiny bite sized pieces that it then devoured.

I couldn’t believe my eyes, but that little fish was actually quite gluttonous. It ate the entire thing in less than three breaths of time, and it even burped after!

“Lord Fire Bird, this one thanks you for the care, and for the feather. Lord Fire Bird, I pledge my allegiance to you!” The little fish jumped out of the water and onto the ground, flopping onto her belly and bowing her head.

“This…” I didn’t quite know how to react at that moment… to think I would get a fish subordinate… The heavens truly played games with me.

***

I didn’t sit around for much longer. After leaving the fish, and promising I would come back every so often to feed it, I went in search of her lake. That turtle probably claimed ownership of the lake, but I wanted to confirm my theory.

It took me an hour of flying downstream to find the lake she was talking about. It was situated in a rather remote area of the forest, and after seeing just how far away the river was from the lake, I could tell that she underestimated herself.

The river was approximately one hundred and fifty feet away from the lake, meaning she must have jumped really high and basically flown over the forest, then surviving the fall before sliding into the river.

I had to give her credit, she was a tough fish. I suspect she didn’t tell me the whole truth, but maybe she didn’t know what she’d done either. That little fish seemed too innocent to lie.

There was a chance she used a large bubble to attenuate her fall or even surrounded herself with it, thus giving her the ability to float. Such a thing sounded difficult, much more difficult than a simple bubble shot.

Perhaps she was worth taking under my wing? Such a talented Spirit Beast would definitely go far— becoming a dragon wouldn’t be outside the realm of possibility— and she could help me get more water affinity.

Ellemental Affinity

[Fire: 500%]

[Water: -150%]

I know, you didn’t have to remind me.

I rolled my eyes, almost unable to believe System’s gall. Whatever— I wouldn’t be in the negatives for very long, not if the little fish helped me.

With that thought in mind, I advanced toward the lake. Without knowing just how strong that turtle was, I wouldn’t be as daring as to literally dive into it. I landed a good distance away from it and activated both of my stealth skills.

I wouldn't be able to stay like that for long, so I hurried with big steps and listened carefully.

Taking a whiff of the air didn’t tell me anything. A Phenix’s sense of smell wasn’t as strong as a wolf, fox or other land animals. Our vision though, well it seemed to be much better. That was normal, considering we had to hunt from way high above.

That allowed me to see that the turtle the little fish was terrified off wasn’t exactly swimming in the lake, nor was it exactly moving. I doubted it was alive, in fact, as its carapace had been smashed to bits and the head had been severed.

I couldn’t say the scene shocked me, but I did find it weird. Approaching carefully, I heard voices. They didn’t seem to belong to spirit beasts, but I couldn’t be sure if they were human either.

Had they discovered the special properties of the stones?

That was a hard question to get an answer to. But why else would they be here?

I creeped closer through the bushes, making sure to not bend the grass as I stepped and approached, and finally got a clear view of the scene.
