The scroll of his interface had already informed him his power had increased with a flourish of a feather. If he had grown stronger in just an hour from this miraculous food, there was no telling what effect it would have on an entire army. Not that it would be of any consequence.

The spy knew what the problem was. The Empress of Harrak, a sovereign from some distant land, was here. Although the Sheem had agreed to serve under the immense might of King Oleander, someone who could slay a dragon in single combat would be, if not a match, at least a contender. His people had to know. They were moving in expecting a shattered force and instead, they were going to face a dragon slayer. Nobody had seen the fight but everyone had tasted the meat. He didn’t dare think what that empress person was capable of.

A shiver crawled down his spine.Those eyes. They were not the eyes of a human being. Maybe she was blessed by one of the dark ones.

A dragonslayer.

The hawks must be told, or thousands would die.

“Going somewhere?”

The spy froze, fingers away from the communication altar he had buried there. His hand went for a pill in his pocket. Not for his sword. He knew it would be of no use.

That snake Bes was standing a dozen steps away from him. The spy took some measure of comfort from the fact he was sweating. Unfortunately, Lady Mar, the Ravinport scout, was standing next to him. She was more dangerous than he had expected.

“And that is why patrols and sentries must be shuffled often. The Sandsong rely too much on their knowledge of the desert, not enough on their knowledge of the self,” she said.

The blade master was here as well, alongside an officer. The spy used [sleight of hand] to swallow the pill. He hoped he hadn’t been lied to.

“Are you not from Sandsong?” the fallen envoy asked, disgust dripping from his every word.

“There are some… some causes that transcend a people.”

Cold spread through his limbs, but there was no pain. As promised.

“A world built on merit, not birth. One where the poor do not starve. I will not see it, but you might. The king and queen cannot be everywhere. They were not here when Baron Ko seized my parents’ mill so he could grant it to that pansy Tor instead. Nothing ever changes. Not really. Not unless the kingdom falls.”

They were keeping their distance. They knew. At least, it would be painless. His only regret was that he had failed the scouts who would die warning the rest.

“There are indeed causes that transcend one’s nation. But you chose poorly,” Bes said.

The spy didn’t feel himself fall but the ground did come up to greet him. Only warped sounds came, the envoy, still talking to himself.

“The strong always rise to the top. So long as humans are humans, that truth will remain. You must choose which one you will follow so that their vision can shape the world we lesser beings must live in. I have decided to follow the one who slew a dragon, then refused the reward. You have chosen the hangman. You fell for his lies. There is no kindness to be found in a servant of Maranor, fool, only the strength and order they believe in.

The spy died. Bes let him go peacefully as this army didn’t have paths capable of making him talk anyway. He picked up the communication altar.

“What now?” Captain Sin asked.

“Now? Now we return and keep an eye out again, or were you confident this was the only spy?”

“No…”

“If you hope to influence a war of legends, Sin, you must be prepared to go all the way if you hope to make a difference.”

“I do not need lessons on duty, Ambassador. I am a Janar. Though I do appreciate your advice when it comes to subterfuge.”

There was a brief tension between them. It didn’t last long. Ravinport would need their help if it ever hoped to be its own again.

“Let us return. Something tells me this is just the beginning.”

***

It was late at night but Bes was confident that the Empress wasn’t sleeping because he could hear the faint hiss of magic coming from her tent. He was not a mage by any means, but he did practice with fire on occasion and his basic talent allowed him to feel her move the will of the world around. The two sentries let him and the two others pass without challenge. He knocked on the post as a matter of politeness although he had no doubt she’d felt them approach.

“Come on in.”

The inside of the tent was dull when they approached, the twin emerald circles of her irises shining ominously in the darkness. A gesture from her, and an engraved stone emitted a soothing blue light. He had never seen magical lights that were not white before.

“Blue?” Janar Sin whispered.

“A simple matter of wavelength… but that would take some time to explain, and I assume you have a reason to come here, hmm?”

Since the reveal, she had given up all pretense of normalcy. The confident, tall woman had been replaced by a domineering sovereign whose posture radiated with power. Others might have been intimated by two men and a woman entering her private quarters so late in the night but there was not a hint of doubt in the woman’s patient expression. She wasn’t larger, exactly, but she seemed to occupy more space, and even standing five steps away made him feel like he was inside of her space. Bes was used to high leadership skills, but this? This was different. He bowed smartly.

“I have something to report, and a request.”

Black tendrils manifested in the air a full arm away from her body. They carved symbols on a metal chestplate with a hiss. It was happening while the woman wasn’t even looking, a ridiculous feat for anyone who knew enchanting and its cost.

“I regret to say that I cannot afford to stop my preparations at this stage, but I assure you, you still have my attention,” she said, sensing his own attention shift.

Her tone was not an apology but the mark of respect was still a good sign. He bowed again.

“Thank you. With our assistance, the Sandsong have caught two spies who were attempting to send messages to our enemies. I estimate that they do not have more as two was already a high number for their type of operation.”

“Then we could still have maintained some measure of secrecy. Good. Now, as for your request?”

Bes took a step forward.

“What you told us, when you released the oath, I recognized it as truth. Your soul was bared. Before we continue, I would like to ask you a few questions.”

“Yes, you can enter my service and leave it to return to Ravinport at a later time.”

Bes stopped.

“Ah.”

“I assume that you, Lady Mar, and you, Janar Sin, had similar intentions? We will fight the Sheem and their master. I also offer decent pay and free healthcare up to and including limb regrowth. Resurrection not included.”

“How did you guess?” Mar asked with a mighty frown on her honest face.

“Believe it or not, you are not the first group to consider joining my banner. Most of us come for a safe place to carry out our ambitions and they usually stay for the food but some people do return to their homelands after a while. You have lost your nation and I offer vengeance. It is logical for you to seek me. I will need to clarify something as well. If you do serve Harrak, you will abide by our laws and your service will not end at the moment we need you the most. We have had no trouble yet, but I feel the need to say it anyway.”

“I would never desert you!” Janar said, “do not imply that I would!”

He was quite offended. Rather than talking him down, the Empress waved his concerns away.

“I am saying this because this war just started and it will get much worse before it gets better. I had to say it.”

“You will not find us lacking.”

“I’d like to join as well, as a scout,” Lady Mar said. “You… do have have a scout corps in Harrak. Naturally?”

The empress smiled.

“Oh, you have no idea. I will have your oath, then leave me until morning. I need to finish this armor set tonight or there will never be enough time.”

“I can protect you,” Sin offered.

“You will protect me, as will my shield, as will this piece of armor. Trust me, I’ll need every layer. Now, repeat after me…”

***

Viv was in the command tent the next morning alongside Jei and a disheveled Naila. Even stats couldn’t save someone who never got more than three hours of uninterrupted sleep. Meanwhile, the soldiers outside were almost ready to leave, with advanced parties already on their way east.

“I think we need to talk about plans now. You mentioned that the Sheem army was approaching the pass. Can we defend it?” Viv asked.

The royal pair exchanged a quick glance. King Jei nodded at his wife.

“Before we begin,” Naila said, “messengers have brought news from the capital. Ravinport ships have arrived carrying exiled families and most of their soldiers, a bucket of hope in an otherwise arid situation. The other piece of news is more surprising. Ships have come from across the ocean, Your Majesty: four large war frigates with cores, like in the old days. Their sails are black, with a triangle and dragon wings as their flag.”

Viv blinked. That was definitely the Harrakan ‘fleet’, such as it was. Hey, she’d only had fifteen years to get the dry docks going. Why were they here though? What was going on?

“Please let them know I am here, and inquire the reason for their coming.”

It was going to complicate reinforcements as well. Agh. Not convenient.

“It will be done. Now, for the plan. My love, if you will?” Naila finished with a yawn.

King Jei moved over to the command table. He pointed at little statues nearing the Salt Mountains pass. They didn’t mean anything to Viv.

“We have enough time to move the army there, and then prepare for one day. The enemy might not know that the dragon is dead. Even if they did find out, there are no witnesses to the fight. Even if there were witnesses, they would be scouts who would not understand who you are or the tools at your disposal. I believe we still have secrecy on our side. As such, I propose the following plan: the army will converge upon the ruins of the city of Barrier. At the same time, our scouts and singer mages will deny the enemy their sight. We will allow the Sheem to descend upon the ruins of the fort assuming it is empty, then we will spring a trap. Can we count on your support?”

“You can count on my support, yes. I will take a position inside the city and cast a massive spell from there. Even if we are outnumbered, I can cut the Sheem army in half and allow us to defeat them in detail.”

“Our mages are at your disposal!”

“Nope. I don’t know them, they don't know me. Just tell them I’ll be tossing massive spells and killing elites and let them do their thing. We don’t have time to train together.”

Jei seemed very surprised, but Naila nodded in understanding.

“She is a witch, dear. Let us magickers do our thing and you slice our enemies, alright?”

“You will be fighting at the front?” Viv asked.

The two looked at her with a mix of pride and arrogance Viv was very familiar with.

“Of course! We lead the army!”

“Forget I asked.”

“We shall depart immediately. We lost two of our singers last night as they were flying over the enemy army, and had to pull back the rest so information is sparse, but I have no doubt that with you at our side, victory is — “

“NO!” Viv screamed. “No. Don’t finish that sentence.”
