The celebration for the harvest festival was massive. The Blue Rose dueling ground was especially popular, with Viv having organized ‘friendly’ bouts in full protective gear between neighbors and family with no penalties. People handled grudges through the cathartic medium of beating the shit out of each other and then going for a drink. The female-only slapping competition was a hit as well. Viv was happy to see that the mood was good and a little wild. The Harrakans were trying stuff ranging from new embroidery techniques as remembered by Solfis to northern music. The festivities even included the kark, the yries, and even masked hadals performing tricks and sneaking naughty messages in people’s pockets while they were distracted. All in all, Viv had a blast.

The festive mood continued over the next day with the induction of a new class of recruits for the various companies, this one picked directly from the beastling war games’ deadliest winners. It had apparently gotten so bad that the hadal hunters had to ferry the teenagers deeper in the forest because they’d successfully depleted the local population.

The local beastlings had been exterminated.

Oh, they would come back, but in the meanwhile the Harrakans had achieved something no one really thought possible. The recruits already had skills and beginner paths to serve them. Even Solfis called the little psychopaths ‘a promising lot’, perhaps due to their tendencies to collect trophies. Like before, Viv couldn’t really afford to pay all of them despite an exploding budget so they would be pillaging the deadlands for all it contained. Even the local young adults had now taken revenant hunting as a pastime, though there was little slaying and a lot of drinking.

In the following months, Viv got busy spreading and then maintaining the portal network over the places she had agreed to cover. Building the portals only took a little bit of time. It was the traveling that was the most time-consuming, especially on the two occasions a portal array was destroyed. Harrak was spared most of the upheaval that came with the fall of several caravan guilds, with traffic drastically reduced between large cities. Although many blamed her for the crisis, no one dared attack Viv directly. She happily left the task of managing the rebels to local authorities. She returned during fall to prepare for the island trip to face Octas. There were two more good surprises waiting.

First, Lady Azar had finally gathered enough people who intensely disliked farming enough to accept less fertile plots of land near the mine to start factories. Although they didn’t actually embrace mass production, some of the more systematic methods Viv had suggested were still accepted including specialization and production lines. It helped that the crafters accepted to be in large buildings built specifically for production rather than successions of smaller ones organically sprouting all over a city. The first cheap steel farming tools were soon out, though they would only be useful next year. Nails, needles, and other miscellaneous items soon followed. Viv was feeling good about it when she was contacted by Lak-Tak.

“We want to show you what we have done,” he said while Viv was visiting the yries caves.

“Hmm?”

“We have done this mass production thing. Humans are cunning, yes. The machines to make machines are already at work. I used my free time to design the next platform.”

“Oh, I didn’t expect that.”

“We work well.”

The owl-like being dragged her to a hangar under the fearful gazes of some of his compatriots. They were more scared of him than they were of the elemental witch in their midst.

The hangar housed a new breed of tanks.

While the previous platforms were clearly repurposed drilling machines with a flat, modular surface on top, this one was a massive armored beast with six wheels and actual plates to protect the crew. Viv judged only an artillery spell would make a dent in that thing as even Enorian snipers wouldn’t go through that much steel. It looked like the gothic unholy child between a steam locomotive and a modern armored personnel carrier. Even the crossbows started as hunting tools so Viv believed she was standing in front of the very first yries creation specifically designed to kill people.

“I will name it after you.”

“What, like, Viv?”

“No. This is the Liberator. It only needs a weapon.”

Viv felt fear crawl up her spine. This was it. The moment to decide.

“You know of weapons. Tell me of weapons.”

“This will take time and require intensive testing.”

“I am ready.”

“I know you are. I’m just not sure Nyil is.”

“If we are ready, and it is not. Then it will burn.”

“Sometimes you scare me, my little friend.”

“Good.”

***

Viv had done all she could to make sure Harrak would thrive while she was away. Now the time had come to prepare for the confrontation with Octas, starting with extensive planning. A quick calculation confirmed that no portals could reach the island. It was simply too far from the shore of the continent and the energy required to activate it would be prohibitively expensive. That didn’t mean that her nation couldn’t help. She explained her plan to the clergy of Neriad, Enttiku and Sardanal during a secret conference.

They didn’t seem too pleased.

“The only reason I assent to this insanity is because my god appeared to me in a dream asking me to comply,” the new bishop said.

“Excellent! Construction starts immediately.”
