Viv had burned the Baranese bridge by allying with Enoria. Oh, it wasn’t definitive or even that bad. Erezak expected her to be a thorn in Enoria’s flank and now that it was obvious she wouldn’t be that, he had no more use for her. A part of her resented that he would be so blunt after she defended his lands as members of the alliance but this was a world of harsh politics and honor didn’t always rule over self-interest. That was fine. Viv accepted that possibility when she decided to help Sangor. In this place, being someone’s friend would turn you into someone else’s enemy. This was the way mentalities worked and there was little she could do to change that.

***

Viv had a problem. She needed to save the Zazas ruling couple from the Pure League ambush, but attacking the Pure League directly could lead to complications, especially if they saw her coming.

Sangor had another problem. He needed to get his son safely to Enoria while under constant surveillance from agents and his entourage couldn’t avoid their watchful gaze.

Fortunately, Viv had an idea.

***

Dust and horse sweat. It smelled like dust and horse sweat. The Sister of Enttiku focused for an instant and her robe, now dark green and mottled, turned a pale gold stained with orange spots. She stepped slowly out of the forest and into the light of the harvested field. To her right, the tail of the Enorian convoy rolled away in a cloud of suspended soil. Only cereal stalks remained in front of her on the cracked, dry ground. Her two sisters stepped out by her side and they slowly made their way across the empty field.

Following without being seen was exhausting. Doing so against a prepared and well-trained opponent doubly so. Against a moving opponent during daylight made this mission a chore like no other. She’d rather be slitting cultist throats in a putrid marsh. Her eyes searched the edge of the nearest patch of wood for hostile entities and found none, only a couple of young fang boars sleeping away the midday heat. She hurried. Soon, blessed shadow covered her form again and her hood returned to its forest camouflage. A sister made to climb trees but the woman stopped her.

She pointed at her ears, then forward, then made a series of complicated gestures. Combat, ahead, half a league or less, not the target. If not the Enorian convoy, then who? The Helockian convoy? Zazas? Probably Zazas. She made the sign to accelerate. The trio of Enttiku elites rushed forward under the quiet canopy. Sweat made the woman’s armor clingy and uncomfortable but she didn’t slow down. Her hearing picked up the sound of people dying and she wasn’t the only one. Just ahead of her, the knights of the Enorian convoy charged forward. The woman peered from behind low bushes towards the series of carriages.

The central one stood empty, door ajar. An old servant was shaking his head while folding an elaborate doublet.

The king of Enoria was missing.

He’d charged to the rescue with his knights.

If the king died here protecting Zazas at the edge of Mornyr territory… The woman made another series of hurried signs and the trio burst out of the underbush, all attempts at stealth discarded. There were a few cries from the convoy’s infantry and archers but a domineering voice stopped them.

“Those are Sisters of Enttiku you dumbasses. No shooting. And keep your damn eyes peeled!”

The three women rushed ahead towards a true forest this time. It marked the border between Mornyr and a minor city. The clang of weapons and screams of the wounded became more intense. Trunks and thick brambles barely hampered them. The damp cloth on the woman’s back was forgotten now that she could feel the cold of the grave covering her skin. Death waited ahead. The anguish of departing souls whispered in her ears, guiding her deeper into the thicket. Suddenly, she heard a whistling sound, a little to her left, while the majority of the battle happened ahead and to her right. She pointed in the direction and the trio glided through the harshest terrain as if it were not there, jumping over roots and using trunks to propel themselves. The woman could feel the souls in front of her as a tendril of energy touched them, recognizing they had killed someone. Marking them with the result of their choices. One last tree and she was among them.

They reacted very quickly.

The woman took in her surroundings in an instant. A battle to her right, near the road. A line of four archers using solid short bows, uniformly made, good quality. Nondescript clothes of average make you would find on traveling merchants. Dark skin. Empty expressions, brown eyes looking at her with detachment. Confident motions. A short sword going for her belly. She knew that technique: a standard disabling strike taught in Luten, useful against unarmored opponents. Good as an opener. She parried and stabbed with her other hand. Her dagger met another dagger and the fighters disengaged Already, three bows were swiveling towards her. She was exposed. She was obvious.

Her sisters were not.

Throwing daggers whistled through the air. Impossibly, one of the enemies dodged though the other was just a hair too slow. The black weapon sliced a thin bloody line along his exposed cheek. The foe’s eyes glazed over.

In her soul sense, the woman saw the fingers of her goddess scoop out the marked soul like one plucks a cherry. As the body fell, the intact white orb sailed away to the in between, shedding a trail of misery behind. His own and that of his victims. Back in the real world, a fierce battle was joined. The archers discarded their bow and closed the distance in a flurry of blades. The woman winced when one of her sister was wounded but soon, the three survivors disengaged in a puff of shadow magic. She felt their souls sprinting away in the distance, splitting almost immediately. Her wounded sister took out a vial from a breast pocket which she imbibed immediately. There was no need to wonder what the poison was. After all, dark blades were nothing if not reliable.

This time, The Pure League had really gone too far.

The trio turned to the road battle but it was already over. The woman spotted dead soldiers with javelins and chainmail along with a few dark blades skewered where they stood. The Enorian cavalry turned after their king as he swept the field with a massive spear bearing the blue flag of his nation. The dark blades had not waited to face him. The last of them puffed away in clouds of darkness, teleporting to safety. She let them.

Kneeling by the nearby body, she pulled his hood back to reveal a scar near his neck. A symbol, burned away with a hot blade. A renegade, or a pariah. It would be enough for Luten to deny all involvement but that didn’t matter. The Pure League had just tried to assassinate the rulers of Zazas right outside of the boundaries of Mornyr. Her mistress must be informed.

The woman watched the wounded being carried to safety. Her decision was made. For the first time in hours, she spoke.

“The church must be informed. I am bringing an end to this operation. It is clear that if Prince Gil is to meet with the king, it will not happen here or soon. We will share our spare antidotes with the Zazas convoy then head back. This was a fool’s errand anyway.”

***

The two sisters paused at the edge of the docks, far enough not to be detected by the witch’s bone abomination. This was one of the most tedious missions they’d ever done, not because of opposing forces but because they needed to stay close enough to look for anomalies while far enough to avoid the guardian’s ceaseless scrutiny. Direct line of sight would spell their doom for the golem never blinked. Their only saving grace was its low autonomy. As the mistress had surmised, the thing was massively mana-intensive. It had not deployed once since the witch’s departure. It allowed the sisters to identify the dangerous zones as the caravan plodded on.

Now, the convoy had finally reached the Shal river and they were making ready to cross. The mistress had left the duration of the operation to the sisters’ discretion. Surely, this was far enough away? There had been no new arrivals, no suspicious departures. If the witch was planning something, it would have already happened. Right? They had already left Mornyr’s territory anyway.

The left sister raised her fist, and they had a signed conversation. The left sister suggested they returned. The right sister agreed but wanted to wait until the witch had boarded, just in case.

The left sister signed that the golem might spot them as it searched the ship for threats.

The middle fist said it wouldn’t matter.

The two sisters froze.

They looked up from the pale hand signing with them, up a black-clad arm and right to a mask covering a full face except for soot-stained skin around the yellow eyes of a hadal.

The mask was painted with an exaggerated expression, and that expression could only be described as insufferably smug.

The sisters decided that, perhaps, it was better to leave now. They turned around. The left sister still took one last look at him, fully expecting him to be already gone.

Instead, he was still standing there but wearing a different mask.

This one was winking.

***

On the other side of the Shal river, Viv walked to a secluded spot under the watchful gaze of her guards. It was only a matter of minutes to open a portal to a secret spot in the depths of Mornyr. Gil walked out while holding a half-devoured poultry leg, spice crusting the golden skin.

“This is so good!” he said.

“I see you’re making up for years of being subjected to solely frugal cuisine.”

“Where’s dad?”

“We’re going to wait for him here. Allow me to be the first to welcome you to Enoria, Prince Gil.”

“Nice. Can I have some wine?”

“No.”

“Are you sure you can refuse me?” he asked with a cocky smile. “I’m the Prince of Enoria!”

But Viv only returned an even broader smile. It spread a sinister aura across the empty clearing, with the heavies standing as silent steel gargoyles in the background..

“Are you sure that’s the reason you want to pick to convince me, young man? Being a prince? Of Enoria? Really really sure?”

“Never mind.”

“Wait for your dad to start drinking.”

“You are not a fun person.”

//I FORMALLY DISAGREE.

***

Sangor had a party back at the official Enorian capital of Three Rivers, the site of the previous siege of the loyalist faction, and Viv was pretty much forced to attend. To add insult to injury, Sangor invited the clergy of Maranor to officiate the ceremony that made Gil the official heir in exchange for concessions. Gil would finish his knight formation with their temple locally, and the church would let go of the humiliation they’d suffered. Viv had entertained the idea that Sangor would just kick them out on their asses but that was naive. One could not simply oust a religion overnight. It was clear, however, that a rift had formed and Sardanal’s priests soon arrived from the portal system to offer an alternative to the church of order. Viv would take it.

Her return to Harrak was triumphant because no one had died this time and the profits from trade were flowing in. With the portal network operational over Enoria and access to Baran as well, Harrak’s metal, rare mushrooms, and black mana rations were extremely popular among mercenaries, guards, and armies. In return, a stream of goods had flooded the market, the most popular being new kinds of crops. The Harrakan fortified villages were planting things and seeing what stuck. So far, they had the most success with crops that preferred dry weather for obvious reasons. Irrigation remained an issue, with rain also less abundant than it should be. Lana had helped with deep wells but that was still a stopgap measure. Unfortunately, the weather would remain dry until the deadlands were pushed back farther but Viv had one recourse, something that would help.

“Trees?” Lana asked.

“Well, not just trees. Hedges, terraces… We’re receiving very little moisture and whatever rain we get can quickly erode the soil. We can’t just plant things and expect to get the Old Empire environment. We need to adapt what we grow to the current circumstances, that’s why we need to do our best to promote soil conservation.”

And the newly arrived priests of Sardanal would help. It seemed that after Neriad, they would be next to take on the fight to restore the deadlands. They immediately loved the ideas Viv shared.

“There was a similar event called the Dust Bowl in one of my world’s nations. Essentially, intensive agriculture destroyed deep rooted grass over large plains. Deep roots keep the soil in place and capture moisture. Without it, the wind can create massive dust storms that lead to widespread devastation, not to mention the drought,” she told them.

“And you have a solution?”

“Well, I remember what I read in geography class. Here, let me explain.”

Viv expected farmers to complain about her new measures but she underestimated the reputation she had for good ideas and the pyramidal structure of Nyil society. For most people, they were just implementing a mysterious outlander plan to make the land even more fertile, and, actually, they were right. It also helped that Solfis identified native species that would work very well for this purpose and also eagerly distributed rose seeds, leading to nice hedges decorated with colorful flowers and the odd blue roses. The first blooms matured right in time for the next big event.

