I gotta say, I admire their tactics, standing shoulder-to-shoulder in a shield ring. I think it's smart, but Mila says it's stupid without elaborating. I've no idea why she's so angry at these particular bandits, but she leads the way with eerie focus, savagely killing every wounded bandit we come across without blinking an eye. No mercy, no surrender, but then again, I'm not in any position to offer any. After all, to be merciful to your enemy is to be cruel to yourself.

Still, killing men and women who can't fight back sits poorly with me, but there's no choice. I can't risk the bandits learning we're behind them, else my sixty-man group will be fighting alone against five hundred. My body tenses up at every errant sound, expecting the next rolling pebble or broken branch to alert our enemy to our presence and ruin my grand plans of a three-pronged pincer.

Note to self: in the future, shit before fighting. Nerves do crazy things to my stomach, and as little as I care for face, even I can't recover from browning my pants in front of everyone. I'd have to dye my hair, change my name, and move south just to escape from the humiliation, become a hermit ranch owner with my cats.

That actually sounds like a pleasant retirement plan.

The bandit force comes into sight and I snap out of my daydreams. My forces silently lay in wait with weapons at the ready. Crouched low to the ground, Mafu silently watches his prey, his body tensed and still. Shadowing them from a hundred paces, the bandits pause at the forests edge, right before the empty fields and village. It wasn't easy convincing the fishermen to move inland to another village for a few days, the promise of safety not enough to displace them. They wanted to keep fishing right until the bandits arrived, so sealing their 'docks' didn't win me any points, even though I promised to help unseal them afterwards. If things don't work out, I'm going to look like a total ass.

The bandits march out of the forest, still wary of arrows and traps as they head towards the village. My retinue matches their pace, moving in to cut off their retreat as Huu's people fire a few arrows to draw them in. Before they're half-way to the village, the ground begins to shake as a thunderous cacophony rises from the empty village, drowning out all other sounds.

There are certain things you can never understand without experiencing them for yourself. No matter how much you read up on the subject, it's not until you see it in action that you go: Ah, so that's what they're talking about.

A cavalry charge is one of those things.

Fung leads his retinue to battle from atop his massive war-charger, screaming in challenge as the bandits stand before him in a wall of shields and weapons. Blood and bodies fly as Fung crashes into the bandits without a care, running them over as if riding through a field of daisies, his spear smashing opponents aside with ease. Like a god of battle in his resplendent armour, he wheels to the left and his riders follow as if of one mind, their weapons extended to reap lives like wheat as they continue to run roughshod over their enemies.

Broken in an instant, the previously disciplined bandits flee in terror from the vicious charge, heading towards me. Leading the way, Mafu pounces on an unfortunate soul as my blade and shield lash out, each strike taking a life. Panicked and broken, killing the bandits is simple as extending my sword, and I feel more like a lumberjack than a warrior, hacking away with little skill at opponents too frightened to defend themselves.

The slaughter is over in minutes, my men milling about from the sudden end to hostilities, taking prisoners and putting the grievously wounded out of their misery. A verdant, beautiful field on a bright sunny day is now a field of slaughter, blood and dirt churned beneath hooves, boots, and bodies, the iron-rich smell of blood and the fetid stink of shit our reward for a job well done.

Huh... that went better than expected. I still don't like horses, but damn me if I ever want to stand in front of a charge.

Swallowing my revulsion, I listen to the battle report from Rustram, our casualty list numbering in the single digits among all three retinues. Glancing at Tursinai, she speaks. “Tenjin reports that the bandits at the beach broke through the wall quickly and searched the village, but are now fighting to put out the flames. He's doing what he can from the shadows to slow them, but it won't be long before they're done. The little lady is unharmed, although the bandit leader had a few harsh words for her. Nothing serious.”

“After this defeat here, there's no way he'll stay and fight, especially since there's nothing for him to take. Fung, your men did the lions share, clean and rest up, but be ready. If you can stand on your quin as it swims, you're with me, otherwise line up at the cove edge and fire at will when you see the enemy. Kill as many as you can before they escape. No sense letting the tiger return to the mountains.” Close to thirty riders follow me on a ride through the forest, and we wait for the sound of arrows before entering the water.

Mafu paddles out to the cove entrance, stopping to block the exit. Their long, sleek rowboats power forward towards us, weathering a storm of arrows and bolts beneath their shields. Mila's spear flashes through the air, clipping the tail end of a boat with a powerful toss. The wood shatters beneath the impact, splinters exploding as the back section of the boat is destroyed in the blink of an eye. The prow lifts out of the water as the stern sinks, the bandits jumping ship in hopes of finding refuge in another. Two unfortunate ships crash into the sinking wreck, launching several of their occupants into the water and putting an end to their escape.

Every time I think I have a grasp on Mila's strength, she does something like this. How'd she make the boat explode?

The boats continue accelerating towards us without pause. A white maned warrior glares at me from the leading boat, carrying a wicked double-bladed axe. Panic hits me and it occurs to me I have no idea what I'm doing out here. What was I thinking? I can't stop the boats, I'm just gonna get run over like those poor bandits. “Scatter!”

The warrior's axe slashes towards me as Mafu dives down. Blocking the attack, my sword flies out of my hand as I'm launched back into the freezing water. Arms shielding my head, I float about as the oars batter me senseless. Somehow making my way beneath the boat, I panic and punch through the wood with my shield's Honed blade, carving a furrow through the wood as it streaks away, the cold water rushing past me. My blade twists, caught on the boat at an awkward angle and I'm dragged away, moving faster than I can believe while trapped underwater.

Clinging for dear life, my panic rises as I watch the coastline disappear into the distance, the boat heading for open waters. Darting, shadowy forms move in the dark waters below me, either dangerous predators, my overactive imagination, or oxygen deprivation. My arm strapped to the shield, I frantically work at clasps to free myself, but the cold numbs my fingers and the fierce torrent of water renders me unable to open my eyes while looking forward.

Wrenching my body against the pressure, I place both feet on the boat, tugging and twisting with all my might, struggling to free myself to no avail. Honing the blade does no good, as the pressure on the flat of the blade is what has me stuck. My supply of air begins to run short, exertion and panic taking its toll as my foot stomps at the boat. My mind grows foggy and I lift my foot once more, concentrating with every fiber of my being and drawing every ounce of chi I have to bear. Power surges through my leg and it crashes through the boat's bottom, freeing my shield and my body.

My strength spent and the air in my lungs consumed, I flail uselessly, trying to reach the light, my body sinking in the almost peaceful surroundings. A currents catches me and carries me away as the light dims, the darkness envelops me, my chi continuing to cycle through me, healing myself to stay alive. A warm embrace takes me in as I close my eyes, feeling as if I'm wrapped in a blanket beneath the sun. Safe and comforting, my worries melt away as a wordless whisper tells me everything will be okay.

Sorry Lin and Mila. I guess you're both going to be widows before marriage.

Please look after my cats.

And uhh... burn the books beneath my bed without looking at them.

- End of Volume 7 -

Chapter Meme
