“In a combat scenario? No. I have in a few other instances, but only because other gods are also involved in the matter,” Artemis said. “But such a thing is very rare. Usually, gods don’t interfere directly with mortal matters.”

Jake nodded along slowly, Villy having already talked about that several times in the past.

“A bit of a topic change, but how did you come by Blessing Keerla? How do you even decide who to bless?” Jake continued to ask questions relentlessly to satisfy his curiosity.

“I didn’t bless her personally,” Artemis shook her head, entertaining Jake.

“You had a priest do it?”

“I don’t have priests, at least not the traditional kind,” the Godqueen chuckled. “I do have people with religious Paths who can give out my Blessings with my permission, though. Mostly, these are not only representing myself, but all the gods of the Pantheon of Life. That’s how Keerla got hers. She was deemed talented enough to have it granted, thus she was given it. For Lesser Blessings, I don’t personally review every individual, as that would simply be a waste of time and effort. I check every person with Divine Blessings, of course, as well as many of those with Major and even Greater Blessings.”

“I’m learning a lot today,” Jake smiled.

“Glad to hear it,” Artemis shook her head. “Speaking of Blessings, I have a feeling Keerla will be in for an upgrade soon, as the Records she’ll get through her direct yet brief interaction with you will definitely strengthen her potential.”

“I’d wager that a direct interaction with her Patron in disguise will also positively affect her,” Jake smiled.

“Also a possibility for sure,” Artemis chuckled. “Now, my brief amusement over getting a prayer about an upcoming dinner aside, I come directly from Nature’s Attendant’s side.”

“Oh?” Jake said, totally fine with the extreme change of subject. “Has anything changed with the bow ritual?”

“You could say that. At least my work there is done, and Nature’s Attendant also seems to be wrapping things up,” Artemis said in a casual voice.

Jake was confused about what she meant by that until a thought struck him. “Do you mean that...?”

“The problem is, without the future owner of the bow, we can’t finish the ritual,” Artemis said in a teasing voice. “To clarify, we’re not in a rush to finish it, so if you want to wait a few days and-“

“Artemis. Don’t even joke about keeping a man away from his new bow,” Jake interrupted the Godqueen.

“I just gave the option,” Artemis chuckled as space magic wrapped up the two of them.

Finally... it was bow time.
