He shooed. Qwera didn’t normally hold with treating the help badly, but the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters staffed their guild with sycophants who reported everything you did. Her head was turning, and she spotted the only person she did like in the entire place so far, standing with the [Pianist]. The woman seemed quite uncomfortable, probably because they’d hassled her, but no one could eject the woman standing with the piano, because she was Qwera’s partner and guest.
Ysara Byres had re-dyed her purple hair and put on some of the Silversteel that had given her her nickname. Ysara the Silver Trader. She and Qwera were almost made to partner up, thematically. But she wasn’t as high-ranking a [Merchant] as Qwera, albeit a very good one, and her arms were folded, one finger tapping the sword at her side.
“Qwera, there you are. The meeting’s in—”
“I know. I’ll try to get you in. Just relax. Casual, Ysara.”
The woman was visibly unhappy as Qwera and Selchess approached. A crowd was gathered around the piano, and Qwera smiled as some turned to her.
“Like the piano? Straight out of the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Fascinating, Merchant Qwera, is it? How do you do? Merchant Brevess, one of the top [Merchants] in Zeres!”
A Drake offered her a claw, smiling too wide—he was elderly, and Qwera inspected him. Touched the Card of Fortune’s Chosen hidden behind her belt as she rested one hand on her colorful sash and shook his clawed hand.
…Nothing. [Prospective Client] showed him as a bright sparkle in her eyes, so he was a top [Merchant] in Zeres, probably.
Not a card-carrying member. He was trying to imply he was, but she just smiled at him.
“If you’d like to make me an offer, Merchant Brevess, go ahead! It’s one of four in the world, and I intend to wow the Serpentine Matriarch with it before I go.”
His face flickered as Ysara glanced at Qwera, and that was how lower-level [Merchants] acted. Brevess coughed.
“You have an invitation to the Wavesent Palace? I thought you only arrived in the city today…getting one is very difficult, you know. But I could perhaps procure—”
Qwera threw back her head and laughed, loudly, because she was already done with this conversation. She wanted to talk to a real player.
“Oh, you sweet summer’s child. Invitation? The Serpentine Matriarch knows me—I tend to make an impression! I’ll just have the grand piano—grand piano, mind you—installed in a plaza. Playing it for half a day will get enough attention for that. Ah, my [Pianist], Vrozerr here, will certainly level. Vrozerr, bow for the audience! Don’t let them touch the keys. They’re ivory.”
Merchant Brevess didn’t know how to respond to Qwera’s superior attitude as she turned away from him, clearly dismissing the Drake. He turned pale, then his scales flushed dark.
“Why, the nerve! I’ve never been spoken to like—you’re as coarse as the roads you travel, clearly! In Zeres, there’s such a thing as respect, you know!”
Qwera was debating how to deal with the Drake when there was a long, amused chuckle, and someone else strolled past Brevess, parting the crowd with a wave of his hand. Well, the giant, stomping Golem with a huge sword mounted directly onto its arm helped.
“Respect is for members, Merchant whomever you are. Go back to Zeres’ Merchant’s Guild. We don’t recognize age here.”
Brevess paled, and the [Merchant], who had a tunic of rather simple grey but an extraordinary decoration over his heart—an embroidered, clockwork Golem’s Heart of magic and gears—nodded to Qwera.
This time, her Card of Fortune’s Chosen vibrated as they locked eyes, and she saw him smile. The Human man bowed slightly.
“Merchant Freirgat, [Esteemed Trader of Cabochon Hearts]. Normally of First Landing. In service to the Terlands, though I am still my own agent. Rerum possessionem capere.”
“Oh, the Golem Merchant himself. I think we met in First Landing the last time I was there. I washed my paws of trying to sell Golems. They look nice, walk themselves, but the margins just were not there for me. Somnia possessionis vendere, Freirgat.”
She finished the Merchant Guild’s slogan as the two shook hands, utterly ignoring the Drake, and the man smiled. Six of his teeth had been replaced by colorful replacements shaped to look like the enamel, but were some precious stone.
Not the clear jewels you might assume, but stone of a more varied kind. Like…lapis lazuli, instead of a straight sapphire, with little gradients baked into the stone, polished until the minerals gleamed.
“Here I thought I was ostentatious.”
He laughed, and she wondered if he had a charm Skill or just knew the score. Either way, she warmed to him ever-so-slightly as he swept a hand out.
“Everyone thinks it’s a way to advertise my stones, which is fair enough. But in truth, I just lost the teeth in a bar fight when I was a younger man. I thought having a Golem meant I was immune from being punched repeatedly in the face if I was nose-to-nose with someone. May I steal your time? Lovely piece. Grand Piano? How’d you get the Gnolls to sell you one? All the Terlands were badgering me to get one, but I made zero headway.”
“By being a Gnoll. And by being rather in with their leadership.”
“You wouldn’t happen to know if I could get one…? No, at those prices it would be far better to wait. It’s just like the bicycle phenomenon. You know, I bought two on a lark? I was 56th in line with Solar Cycles—and I still made a profit you wouldn’t believe! One sold in First Landing, the other one for any noble who wanted to ride on it. Until an idiot rode it into the harbor.”
He sighed, and Qwera grinned.
“That’s Earth-tech for you, especially this year, it feels. Slap a marker on anything that you can claim fits the bill and it’s a 300% margin at least.”
Earth. She spoke the word into the air, and all the people listening except for Freirgat, two of the staff, and one [Trader] in the far back didn’t know what that meant. But Qwera and Freirgat glanced at a Chandrian Stitch-man, then at each other, and his eyes flickered.
“—Well, of course. Merchant Qwera, are you in this meeting I’ve been called to? I thought it was some small matter I wouldn’t even bother to attend, but I’m reconsidering if the Golden Gnoll’s joining.”
“It’s personal. I know some of the parties involved. Trader Ysara here, my partner in crime, is related to them. Ysara, Freirgat.”
“The Silver Trader of House Byres?”
Brows rose as Freirgat went to kiss Ysara’s hand. She held her hand out, and he changed quickly to a handshake. Very adaptable. Ysara was a touch cool as she smiled.
“I hope you haven’t heard anything poor of me up north. It’s been a long time since I went home, let alone to First Landing, Freirgat.”
“Not at all. Rather, I know some [Lords] who still have dueling scars. I’d say young [Lords], but, argh, we’re all reaching up there in years! Don’t you run the Bloodfields?”
“Occasionally.”
He shuddered.
“Dead gods. But that’s an experience in and of itself. I’ve been trying to hire on with experienced [Traders] now that I have my eyes on the New Lands, but this blow about the magic…terrible, utterly terrible. I was just talking to a Lord Comigen who told me of a disastrous expedition. But there are opportunities as well. Golems bleed magic, but their Golem Hearts regenerate just enough to make them a viable asset.”
“Really?”
Ysara and Qwera were fascinated. Freirgat went to touch a ring on his hand, but caught himself and glanced around at the people scavenging their conversation with clear amusement.
“Oh, naturally. It would make any Golem more of a target, and the Golem’s Hearts won’t allow them to defend themselves, but it is a way to keep some magic in the New Lands. Now, I don’t consider that a particularly attractive proposition, but if you two had some venture, I’d be willing to join in.”
“We’re not planning on delving deep. There’s more gold to be found in the cities. Qwera’s sent three caravans laden with food, and that’s enough profits for me.”
Ysara murmured. Qwera chuckled.
“Two with profits that have me scrambling, one waylaid. It is why I rely on Ysara here. Her caravan ladies can swing a sword. My [Guards] do well enough, but not for this…do you use only Golems on patrol?”
“Heavens, no. They’re too slow. I have a few higher-grade ones.”
“Sentient-class?”
Ysara was interested, and Freirgat began to answer when Brevess and two other Drakes dressed to the nines tried to enter into the conversation.
“I say, is this business with the New Lands about the, ah, troubles encountered there? I’ve heard it’s not all roses and exploration.”
All three turned to the Drakes, and Freirgat’s voice was flat.
“You mean the mana-drain and salted ground.”
“I—er—”
The ‘secret’ of the New Lands that the trio thought they were part of hung in the air, and no one blinked an eye. Freirgat turned to Qwera, tapped his Ring of Hush pointedly, and continued talking.
“Actually, Sentient-class isn’t how they’re categorized. That’s all in the…mind of the Golem, really. There’s other classifications, Lady Byres.”
“Oh, don’t call me that.”
“My apologies. I’m in possession of some of those serving-models, you know? Imagine the ceramic ones that can set a table in House Terland. Mine are wood—it’s far more economic given that wear and tear and damage do occur—and they’re all technically Autonomous-class, but so well made you’d never realize it. They can rub down horses, fight back, even sell goods, though you do not wish to try that without someone keeping an eye on them.”
He shuddered.
“Clockwork-types. You’d call the rough ones Sculpture-type Golems, whereas my bodyguard here is Artifact-type. More magic functions.”
“Fascinating.”
Qwera really couldn’t care less about the Golems at the moment, but she was always in the market for a good bodyguard or asset—just not now. She leaned over to Freirgat.
“Let’s talk New Lands later. Though—who’s the Chandrarian?”
“I don’t know, but he’s one of a number I’ve seen passing through here. Clearly, he understands the Earth situation too. Have you ever met an Earther, or whatever they are? House Terland is abuzz about them, but I wasn’t sure if they were asking me to kidnap one or what.”
Freirgat adjusted his tunic with a grimace, clearly uncomfortable, and Ysara and Qwera exchanged perfectly innocent glances.
“Met one? I can’t say I have. Then again, the piano told us that the Meeting of Tribes knew at least one.”
Ysara was learning. Well, she’d never been bad at the job, just not as deep in the Guild politics as Qwera. Freirgat eyed her, sighed, and swept a hand out.
“I believe the meeting’s starting. A fair word of warning: I’m not sure we are on the same side here, Qwera? Then again, I’m open to suggestions.”
They walked out of his [Hush] spell, and Selchess followed, anxious. Qwera snorted.
“We’re all bastards here, Freirgat. I’ll bet the Guild will say it’s siding with us, but what I see—impartially even to the fact that they’re friends of mine—is idiocy. What makes us look bad hurts us, and this is not the time to trade reputation for gold coins.”
“I like that. Very well. He is part of my Guild, the Merchant, um…well, one of the six. But I never cared for him. Related, you said? Ah, of course. House Byres. Do you know, Trader Ysara, that your sister is all the buzz with the nobles? Especially the female ones.”
Ysara managed a smile as they headed into the guild, towards one of the meeting rooms. There were hardly more secure places in the world, and the [Guards] eyed her sword—and Qwera’s and Freirgat’s protections—but didn’t say a word as they passed. The Silver Trader gestured to her bag of holding.
“Do you sell the t-shirts with Yvlon on them, Freirgat? It might be a bit below your usual line of quality, but they sell surprising numbers, north and south. All of my [Caravaners] have one of her. They’re, um, rather taken with her.”
Since Ysara tended to hire mostly female [Caravaners], [Guards], and so on to work with her, all of whom were of a certain…Turnscale proclivity, Qwera grinned. If Freirgat got what that meant, he just smiled and shook his head politely.
“Perhaps I should—Golems are not exactly popular with the fair sex outside of House Terland, and it would be an excellent introduction. Do you have an autograph of hers, by chance? No? Pity. I would love to hear some stories about her.”
“You’d be surprised. She was far more mild-mannered when she was younger. I was the wild child.”
“Dead gods. But then again, I know House Byres, and I’m surprised it produced anyone like, er, well—”
Another smile that Ysara had to clearly force.
“I think it is surprising, but not unexpected to me, Freirgat. Shall we?”
They’d reached Meeting Room 3, and Qwera strode for the doors. She was mostly naked anyways, to better flaunt her golden fur, but Ysara was adjusting her clothing—until one of the [Guards] spoke.
“Members only, with apologies.”
“Oh, come now. We both vouch for her.”
Freirgat objected with a frown, and the [Guard] bowed.
“Apologies, sir. One of the members requested the change at the last-minute.”
“Damn. I guess that’s how it has to be, Ysara. Don’t worry.”
Ysara was clearly unhappy, but Freirgat and Qwera walked through the doors as they opened and closed. The moment they entered the room where two other [Merchants] were waiting in the flesh and two more were speaking from scrying orbs, Qwera felt all the little alarm bells in her head go off.
Wash my fur, but I don’t like this. She’d been hoping to get a Headquarters flunkie and a few annoying idiots at worst. But the moment she saw the woman in the scrying orb, sitting in a huge office with a view of a harbor, with a glass of whiskey in hand and a shard of Everfrozen ice in it, and that banner draped behind her, of chains before a harbor, the symbol of Roshal—
She realized the Merchant’s Guild really should have reviewed its membership criteria.
 
——
 
Slave Lady Andra was a [Merchant]. She was one of good standing, but not known to Izril’s Merchant’s Guild, clearly. Her presence was odd, and she was…unsettling.
Exactly how wasn’t clear at first. She was dressed up in one of those modern suits that Magnolia Reinhart had popularized, though she had chosen a blood-red outfit instead of pink, and she appeared middle-aged.
