Thoroughly embarrassed, the [Squire] paced back and saluted Ylawes as he drew his sword and shield, and a crowd of onlookers gathered. Dawil shouted as he saw them drawing a dueling ground in the grass.
“Lad, you’d best not let us down! An egg on my boy!”
“Go, Captain!”
Dasha and Insill were cheering as Anith yip-howled, and Gnolls were calling out good-naturedly. Mostly for Ylawes; he was Izrilian. Falene was watching worriedly, and Pekona was shifting from foot to foot. It was the latter who came over.
“Ylawes, why are you dueling her?”
“To see how good the Thousand Lances are, Pekona. It’s a dream of mine.”
Surprised, Ylawes replied as he put on his helmet, and she bit her lip.
“She’s fast. Very fast. Very controlled. Probably…beyond even someone who’s mastered Sword Auras. That’s a…first-rank master of blades. Like a [Blademaster]. She’s better.”
The [Knight]’s brows rose as he watched Thellabell swishing at the air with her sword. He nodded at the silent, rust-armored [Knight] next to her, arms folded.
“Dame Rosenthine? I’ve heard she defeated a Cyclops in single combat when she was younger, decades ago.”
“No. The younger one.”
His own warm-ups with his sword slowed a second. Pekona’s eyes flicked to him, and then someone came over.
“Ser Ylawes! A word?”
Ser Pavoriad was all smiles this morning, but the [Knight] leaned on a little paddock fence the Gnolls had set up to coral their animals, patting a curious cow on the head as he beamed at them. His face didn’t change, but his voice lowered without him seeming to more than chat.
“This duel is a fine thing between [Knights]. Dame Rosenthine has a habit of sending her [Squire] out against most [Knights]—she receives challenges wherever she goes, of course.”
“I hope I’m not being indecorous, Ser Pavoriad?”
“No, no! If anything, the slight is upon the Thousand Lances’ honor! We should meet a [Knight] with a [Knight] to be truly chivalrous. Though that is also a problem, as it would not be fair in level or equipment. I merely remark that Rosenthine’s squire is no pushover, etiquette aside. She would be a full [Knight] in any other Knight Order. And she has bested veterans of said Orders, more than once. Merely a remark that you would do well to engage her at full strength.”
The half-Elf peered up at the clouds as if chatting about the weather, and Ylawes felt the first prickle of apprehension. However, this was a spar of pure friendship. He lifted his sword and saluted Squire Thellabell as she performed a complex sword-salute from Kaaz.
“In the honor of the Thousand Lances and Knightess Rosenthine, I accept this duel, Ser Ylawes of House Byres!”
She cried from behind her helmet, and he saluted her awkwardly.
“In—House Byres’ name, I accept and thank you, Dame Thellabell! To friendship and honor!”
They advanced as the audience watched, a friendly match after the Goblin King’s death. With about the same level of auspiciousness. Ylawes lifted his sword, and he touched blades with her gently, then stepped back. Despite Ser Pavoriad’s warnings, he swung a bit gently at Thellabell’s shield as she stepped forwards. He didn’t want to hurt—
Her first strike on his shield landed hard, and he grunted as it rang off his silversteel metal.
Dead gods, that’s a hard blow! So she wanted to make this a fight? He could respect th—
Then he saw her arms tense and realized she was heaving h—Ylawes’ feet left the ground as his shield-arm compressed against his side. He heard a shout, a massed gasp—
“Lad!”
—Hit the ground after flying several feet, stumbled, and saw her lunge. So fast and perfectly his shield came up, and he gasped.
[Shield of Valor].
He had never, ever seen someone hit his Skill and pierce it. The blade of the [Squire] slashed through his shield-Skill, hit his shield, and punched a hole through the lower part of the guard. It only halted before striking his armor when Rosenthine herself leapt forwards and seized the blade, bare-handed.
“Squire, watch your blade!”
Ylawes stared at the tip of Thellabell’s blade, which was in his silversteel plate armor, right below his liver. He saw the [Squire] back up, abashed, and then saw Dawil’s alarmed face. The [Knight] swallowed.
The [Squire] of the Thousand Lances came at him fast and hard when he reset his stance. He matched her blows, trying to block, strike, and the ringing of steel had the Gnolls covering their ears in moments. His shield-arm was dead in the next thirty seconds.
 
——
 
Dawil knew Ylawes was a good fighter. He’d fought beside his friend so many times—Ylawes had downed [Bandits], monsters like Gargoyles, and even fought Facestealer and kept himself alive.
He was a good fighter. Even other Gold-rankers didn’t have his practiced finesse. The Dwarf had thought that would mean that if even if he didn’t win, Ylawes would give a good fight to the Thousand Lances.
…He’d been away from home too long. Been too low-level to realize what the Thousand Lances were.
“She’s not Level 20. She’s Level 30 or higher, same as Ylawes. Dead gods, what do they feed their [Squires]?”
Thellabell kept coming. She was precise, fast, and strong enough to make Ylawes’ shield-arm quake. Maybe he hadn’t been using Skills at the start, but he was now. She was still pressing him back.
Mind you, Dawil thought that Ylawes was still stronger, but that was the only thing the Izrilian [Knight] had on Thellabell. In swordsmanship, she was outmaneuvering him.
He’d never even seen some of the things she was doing executed in combat. For instance, Thellabell hooked her shield on Ylawes’ from the inside, yanking his guard open and nearly cutting him with a slash, but for his swing that made her back up. The old shield-hook trick was one Dawil had seen a few times in practice courts and knew of.
But never seen in a fight. Falene was whispering to him.
“She’s a [Squire] of one of the Thousand Lances’ best [Knights]. Ylawes shouldn’t have taken the duel! He’s getting overwhelmed!”
“It’s just a duel, Falene. He’s probably delighted to fight his idols.”
“But she’s a squire!”
Certainly, Ylawes didn’t look happy. His too-honest face was a picture of alarm as Thellabell backed him around the dueling ring. She kept going for strikes to his helm, knees, or…
“She’s going for a wound.”
“Hm? Why?”
“It’s how you win duels, Dawil! Don’t tell me you don’t know [Knight] duels?”
“We don’t have many Dwarf-[Knights]. We don’t have an order in Deríthal-Vel. Right, the lad did say…”
In conventional Terandrian dueling, you didn’t kill each other or beat the other fellow down. It was first blood. So the two armored [Knights] were going back-and-forth, trying to score a blow on the other that drew blood.
A lot harder on the lad than Thellabell. The few times Ylawes managed a blow, it was against the heaviest parts of Thellabell’s armor, and hers was enchanted. His had lost its magic, and he had developed several dents already.
“C’mon, lad! Use your [Grand Slash]! Hit her with the old [Piercing Charge]!”
Dawil cupped his hands to his mouth and shouted. Instantly, Thellabell leapt back, abandoning her assault, and Dame Rosenthine slapped her forehead.
“Squire!”
—The one reason Thellabell hadn’t pressed her luck was because she seemed very wary of Ylawes, ready to put her shield up and guard if he used a Skill. Dawil’s shout made the [Squire] visibly falter to a chuckle of laughter, but then she was back on the attack. He saw her wind up, sword coming back, and—
Kkkrakow! The sound metal on metal made caused Dawil to wince. Ylawes reeled again, and this time, Falene groaned.
“He’s got to use his best Skills! Ylawes! Do the one where you run at her!”
She meant his weapon-art, [The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel]. It was Dawil’s turn to hiss at Falene.
“Pointy, are you mad? She’s a kid!”
“He’s going to lose! Do you want that?”
It’s just a duel. Dawil almost said that until he closed his mouth and considered honor and such. He was debating shouting at Ylawes again when Squire Thellabell evidently lost patience.
Ylawes had been hunkering behind his shield, waiting for his chance, the classic move of a sword-and-shield expert. He came out with a high swing as her own shield rose.
[Shieldbreaker].
Dawil saw his friend going for the blow that would knock Thellabell’s arm down or break her shield entirely. However, Thellabell was coiled up. Tense, like a spring. As Ylawes’ sword swung for her shield, she shoved the shield-arm up—sideways—
Backstepped as Ylawes’ blade missed her shield, and he tried to correct, and Dawil saw her moving at speeds only other [Warriors] could process, and maybe Falene—
A spinning slash across the neck. Dawil choked.
“L—”
Ylawes’ shield caught the tip of the sword, and it slashed off the top of the metal. He recoiled, jerking his head back—
“[Stunning Shield Bash]. [Burst of Greater Strength]!”
Thellabell slammed into Ylawes. The impact sent him reeling, and his guard was down, shield and sword knocked down. But he was raising his shield and sword when Thellabell used her third Skill of the duel:
“[Free Blow: Swallow’s Cut].”
She slashed across his shoulder-guard, and the faint splatter of blood was only a few drops, but Dawil saw Ylawes’ recoil, clutch at his shoulder, and it was done.
Blood struck the ground as the Gnolls gasped. Three blows executed in such close proximity that the experienced Gold-rank adventurer hadn’t had time to react.
Especially to the last one. Thellabell had moved almost simultaneously into the cut, like Relc’s [Triple Thrust]. A perfect blow into the moment she’d opened.
Blood ran from Ylawes’ shoulder as he raised his sword to attack, glanced at his open wound, and Ser Brindelhor bellowed.
“First blood, Thellabell! Swords down! This match of honor is over!”
Crestfallen, embarrassed, and visibly stunned, Ylawes lowered his blade. Thellabell pumped her sword into the air with a cry.
“For Kaaz and Knight Rosenthine!”
The tip of her sword was bloody, and she thrust back her visor, cheering, as Ylawes’ head sank. Right up until Dame Rosenthine strode over and punched the top of Thellabell’s visor.
“Squire, you will be my end! You embarrass us both! Ser Byres, I apologize. Ser Pavoriad, I am in need of a poultice for the evercut injury!”
She turned and bowed stiffly to Ylawes. Pavoriad was already coming over with a mortar and pestle. Thellabell protested.
“But, Dame Rosenthine, I won—”
“This is not a duel of honor but a sparring match, you thoughtless child! First blood may end the duel, but it is not honorable to always seek it! She equates victory with satisfaction, you see.”
Rosenthine was sighing, shaking her head over her talented [Squire]’s many missteps. But Ylawes? He glanced at Dawil, and the two had the same thought.
She’s top of Gold-rank or better without her armor. What monsters the Thousand Lances were.
 
——
 
The upside of Ylawes’ highly embarrassing defeat, if you could call it that, was that Thellabell proved it was no fluke. She took on six Gnolls after Ylawes, and each one she bested so fast and skillfully it salved his pride.
If not his stinging shoulder.
“She’s a Demon with that blade.”
Thellabell just hacked apart Vhra’s training-spear with three blows and put her sword at the Gnoll’s throat, and that was a full Plain’s Eye warrior with as much experience as Ylawes in combat. But whatever they had—Thellabell was just more practiced.
Ylawes had thought he’d worked hard on the practice courts, but every movement from the young [Squire] was like watching a spring-loaded blade moving with impeccable aim and timing. His shield-arm still hurt.
“Oh, aye, she’s Rosenthine’s squire for a reason. The finest candidate in all of Kaaz, to hear Rosenthine say it. Not that she goes lightly upon Thellabell. Especially for the New Lands; she almost forbade Thellabell to join her, but the girl would have like as not swum across the sea, armor and all. She’s that devoted.”
Ser Brindelhor rested his greatsword on his knees, cleaning his sword since he would not be dueling anyone. After all, if a [Squire] could best Ylawes so easily…
So that’s the difference between us. Ylawes hung his head, and he did know he’d let his team and House Byres down.
‘Uncourteous’ blow or not, as Rosenthine had put it, Thellabell had overwhelmed Ylawes then used her Skills to draw blood in such an effortless manner it made his cheeks red with shame. They…were of a level, he realized, and he had thought she was Level 28 or something. Not above Level 30. Now, he wondered if she were above his level.
So young, so peerless, so…she was like what they’d used to call him. A prodigy. Only, seeing Thellabell made Ylawes feel that term had been misapplied to him.
He sat there as the sixth Gnoll challenger went down, and Thellabell saluted the sky again.
“In the name of Infinite Kaaz! Will anyone else challenge me for the Thousand Lances’ honor? I should not like to disappoint our reputations!”
No one did, even if Viri was urging Chieftain Merish himself to take Thellabell on. This was the proof of the pudding: the Thousand Lances were superior, and embarrassment of Rosenthine or not, it was implicit in the others.
No one here can match us. Ser Pavoriad was smiling as he tended to the others with a poultice that apparently stopped the deadly [Evercut] enchantment from bleeding one to death, although natural healing would do that if the body was allowed enough time. Falene was squatting down as well, trying to practice dispelling the relatively rare enchantment.
But Ylawes was humbled. The Gnolls were not happy either, and Ylawes heard Vhra arguing with Merish.
“She’s not that good. Give me another shot, Chieftain, or time to find a warrior in the other clans! We could best her in a real fight!”
“Peace, Vhra. They have come under the banner of peace so we must offer it in kind. She’s made her point, and you showed your capabilities well.”
“But she’s making a mockery of us, same as the adventurers…!”
Ylawes flushed again, and Nailren was the one who spoke.
“A bit of humility would do us all better than arrogance, eh, Captain? I admire your restraint.”
He seemed relaxed and un-pressed to line up to duel Thellabell like a lot of hotheads. Dawil, who’d been about to rise, hesitated.
“The Thousand Lances are the world’s finest Knight-Order. But, eh, they are Terandrian to their cores, Nailren. Bit embarrassing, but I’d never thought of how it looks outside of home before. I’m glad you and the lad know how it is.”
He nodded at Ylawes, and Nailren grinned at him.
