From what he’d seen of the aerial footage, the only reason the Floodplains weren’t cratered was due to the rains and floodwaters. Dawil sat down heavily.
“I don’t know, lad. I didn’t want to push them for explanations. What do you think caused it? Even for the inn…”
They began speculating. Ylawes clenched a fist. He didn’t say the obvious again, that they should have been there. After a moment, he felt someone take his hand. Pekona. She held his hand as they tried to wonder what it might have been.
“What if it was a Goblin in the dungeon? Or some kind of super-Relic there?”
Dawil tugged at his beard.
“Maybe. Or it could be, uh, an Erin-Skill? She’s got that [Pavilion of Secrets]. Could be the Goblin King did that memory thing Goblins do and passed his powers on to some poor Goblin? Remember Numbtongue talking about it? Damn, I wish I’d asked more about Goblins.”
“Me too, Dawil. Maybe. Falene, what do you think it was?”
She walked over, adjusting her spectacles.
“Me? Magic, of course. Archmage Valeterisa and her experiments. Or this Goblin King sensed Chieftain Rags, came to recruit her, and the inn got involved…”
They speculated, sitting around as Vuliel Drae and the colonists came over. Homle shifted uncomfortably.
“But that’s not really…begging your pardon, Captain Ylawes, but I’ve heard of The Wandering Inn. I mean, who hasn’t? But you talk about it like it’s Heiste or some magical land.”
Ylawes smiled at the man as he saw other people eying him skeptically.
“It’s not as grand as that, Master Homle. But neither is it devoid of wonders. It’s the people, not the building.”
“If you say so, Captain Byres. I’ll have to visit some day.”
Homle’s face showed quite clearly he didn’t believe Ylawes, not really, and was just being polite. The [Knight] cast around and glanced at Falene. Her brows rose.
“To the incredulous, it does seem impossible, but I recall that the Players of Celum arose from that very inn. And it was where Zeladona’s Trial of Blades took place. Events you can clearly see and, I am sure, are aware of.”
Homle blinked.
“What, those Players of Celum? They passed by a town where I was working and I missed their performance. Thought it was a load of horseshit, and I regretted never having seen…no.”
“Oh, yes. Lad, tell ‘em about the Face-Eater Moth attack. No, that’s too normal and it makes Pisces the hero. Let’s tell ‘em about…the day they invented soccer at the inn.”
“Were we even there for that, Dawil?”
Ylawes grinned as Pekona leaned against him, and everyone blinked. The Dwarf was stroking his beard.
“No, but I’ve heard the story, and I can just picture it. Right, so let’s describe the inn first. It’s not much to look at from the outside, but by then they’d blown it up…twice? So they had a trapped hallway on the inside, and Miss Erin was, oh, let’s say Level 30-ish. She’d just met some friends from her home. A bunch of rather annoying Humans. Joseph, Leon, Troydel, Rose, Galina—their first entry to the inn was them entering, eating everything in sight, and not having any gold to pay the tab! So they weren’t in Erin’s good books, and she was keeping them there on charity. But on that day, Ishkr told me that it was really Lyonette who was trying to make something of ‘em…”
Lunch came out hot and delicious, and then everyone was sitting in the grass, checking their new weapons and listening to a story about The Wandering Inn. Ylawes smiled as he and Falene corrected Dawil’s tall tales or added details they had been told and remembered.
For a moment, it felt like an adventure.
Then, as before, the bad days came again.
