“Ser Brindelhor, it’s an honor. The Irriven Redbloods? I learned of your order just recently! You’re the famous [Knight]-Order of commonfolk! I should have recognized you from the greatsword! Is that a classic Irriven Commonblade? I was rather inspired when I researched your order and the stories of your exploits! If I’d ever been able to journey to Terandria as a boy, I would have loved to join the Order of the Forest’s Heart or Redbloods if I’d known about them —though I couldn’t join the Redbloods, obviously.”
—And there it was. Dawil covered a smile as he watched Brindelhor’s face go slack for a moment. Ylawes really hadn’t known about the Irriven Redbloods, but he was still a [Knight]. He rather enjoyed learning about other [Knights] and their Orders and he was genuine, all the way down.
“What? Er—yes, yes, a classic Commonblade in style, though it’s enchanted—you know my Order?”
Ser Brindelhor had come prepared to dislike Ylawes intensely, doubtless due to the fact that he was a commoner and [Knights] were largely noble or at least rich. However, he had made a mistake: Ylawes was an Izrilian [Knight], so he excitedly beckoned Pekona over.
“May I introduce you to Dawil, Falene, Pekona—all my teammates, sir? Pekona, this is Ser Brindelhor of the Irriven Redbloods, the only [Knight] Order who only accepts commoners. They’re quasi-mercenaries, but they fight with great distinction on the field and are famous for using greatswords.”
“Hello.”
Pekona was shy, but Brindelhor’s face was colorful as Ser Pavoriad covered a smile. Abashed, the other [Knight] stepped back and crossed his arms.
“The Redbloods are that famous to Izrilians? You hail from no [Knight] Order yourself, Knight Ylawes?”
“No, we have only a few like the Clairei Fields, but I couldn’t identify with most. The Redbloods? Of course they’re so well known! The code about commoners is far more interesting than another [Knight] Order. With great respect to all, of course!”
Ylawes flushed, realizing he might have put his foot in his mouth, but Ser Brindelhor’s mouth opened and closed, then he cleared his throat.
“Well, we’re not the only Knight-Order of commonfolk. The Order of the Hydra is quite commendable, but they do accept nobles as well as—House Byres. A fine house of Izril, I do believe.”
“Silver and steel. They were known to crusade in the past and I believe had ties to the famous Silver Knight-Dragon, Yderigrisel? Though Knight Ylawes does himself a disservice; he does have ties to a Knight Order you would know, Brindelhor.”
Pavoriad’s eyes were twinkling as Brindelhor turned to him for help. Ylawes blinked.
“I do? Oh—”
“The Order of Solstice. Though I gather, then, you may not be as active a member.”
Brindelhor’s eyes lit up.
“The Order of—! I remember that! I had a bet about whether or not it was real. That man set aflame by that rabble. Another group we should have pursued if only we had the time!”
He clenched a fist, then nodded at Ylawes.
“Well…I can see you know something of Terandrian [Knights]. But I ask again, Ser! Goblins and Antinium? How did this come to be? Does it not go against the very vows we have taken to let either roam around?”
He pointed at Rasktooth and Infinitypear, who froze with a bucket in their hands. Brindelhor turned to Pavoriad, who was frowning, but lightly.
“Look! Wait, what are they doing?”
“Um, I think trying to steal milk from a cow? Lads…what are you up to?”
Poke Duo was sneaking after a cow, trying to milk the udders as it plodded along. Since the cow was moving and not inclined to be stopped, they were having to grab the teats and were causing a mess.
“Poke Duo, stop trying to steal milk!”
Ylawes was embarrassed, but Rasktooth hollered back.
“We not stealing nothing! We just, uh, taste-testing! In case it poison! Yah, yah!”
He leaned over and hissed.
“Brother! Hurry up, they onto us!”
“I’m trying! This cow is not very milkable! Moo! Slow down! Rasktooth, how do you tell a cow to slow down?”
“I not know how to speak cow. I wish Captain Ceria were here. She say she know how to speak to all animals. Moo! Eh, moo, slow down!”
The two’s antics had several watching Gnolls in stitches, Goblin and Antinium or not. Ser Brindelhor’s pointing finger followed the two shuffling after the cow until the [Knight] lowered it. Then he turned. Ser Pavoriad was wearing a huge smile.
“…I grant you, they seem less threatening than I had been led to believe. However, I am not blind to the threat of Goblin Kings nor the Black Tide! I have read countless books upon the matter coming here.”
“Books, er, Ser Brindelhor? Which ones?”
Falene blinked, and the [Knight] bristled at her.
“The Antinium Wars by Krsysl Wordsmith, Reflections Upon Goblin Kings by Lord Mercun, Entreaties for A Safer World by [Writer] Vondraeimus—as every [Knight] should educate his mind!”
“I’m sure my little sister was not implying you were illiterate in any way, Ser Brindelhor. Nor do I think most Izrilians share the bias.”
Pavoriad put in, and Brindelhor stopped bristling again. He swung back to Poke Duo, blushing faintly.
“Be that as it may…strange. I might not have even taken that Goblin as a Goblin. More like a malnourished half-Elf child. His skin’s more grey than green.”
Both half-Elves glared at him, and Ylawes blinked.
“You’ve never seen a Goblin before, Ser Brindelhor? Or never a Cave Goblin? Rasktooth is a variant of the species.”
The [Knight] scratched at his stubble of a beard.
“I never have. Goblins are not that common to Terandria. They’re hunted down quickly, and I know some [Knights] who have exterminated them in more remote regions, but…Ser Pavoriad?”
“I’ve run into a few tribes over my time, Brindelhor, but they’re not nearly as common as on other continents. Half-Elves are sometimes remote enough to fear them, but we have our own guardians who patrol the old villages. Why not let the matter be until Ser Ylawes has a chance to explain himself? We do speak overlong when we should be engaging in civil discourse!”
At this, both [Knights] bowed again, and Ylawes was grateful as Ser Brindelhor relaxed—though he kept his eyes on Poke Duo most of the time. The two adventurers kept trying to get milk in the bucket until the young Gnoll came riding back with a little pail of milk the two began to slurp greedily from.
“Those little children. Well, we’re further in Plain’s Eyes debt. We should make them a gift too, Ylawes, and perhaps see if we can go with them. At least until we’re away from Goisedall and can sort this mess out.”
Falene grumbled. Reminded of the bind they were in, Ylawes sighed, and Ser Pavoriad hugged Falene.
“Little sister, you’re barely older than they are! I should be delighted by your company! Let us rejoin the good Chieftain and see if we all might prevail on his company.”
“I’m eighty—”
Perhaps only Ylawes and Dawil noticed the twinkle in Pavoriad’s eyes as he grinned and hugged Falene.
 
——
 
Chieftain Merish was glad to meet the Silver Swords and the Thousand Lances at Goisedall. Not just because it was a welcome break from the long march west, but because they distracted his people.
That was worth more than the trouble of clashing with Goisedall, even indirectly. It had been a long, long winter and spring.
How did a tribe rebuild after revealing that they were not only traitors to their own kind, but had been perpetuating a terrible lie built on the blood of innocents? That was Plain’s Eyes’ struggle, and their tribe had fallen furthest from grace since the Meeting of Tribes.
The answer was: they didn’t. Even if Merish was ten times wiser, twenty levels higher, he didn’t think he could have saved them from what Xherw, Ulcreziek, and they had done to themselves.
Xherw had broken them with his madness, and this?
This was just all Merish had been able to put back together.
To outsiders, it surely seemed like the largest tribe of Izril with so many Gnolls and animals, but it was not. Plain’s Eye had been made up of so many sub-tribes and groups that it had been vast beyond belief.
Those sub-tribes had scattered to the winds, if they hadn’t dissolved in infighting and guilt, fled to other tribes, or just…run. Merish had gone around finding every single one he could, convincing them to stick together, but this new tribe he led was made up of people still processing what they had done.
Or just in denial.
“Chieftain. More Drakes from Goisedall are demanding we halt and answer to them. And turn over the adventurers. Should I run them off?”
Merish broke away from talking with the Thousand Lances as a Gnollish woman trotted over. Viri stuck his tongue out at Chief Warrior Vhra, who was one of the highest-level warriors remaining. Like Merish, she had experience leading their people into battle.
Unlike Merish, she’d never gone to Rhir, had been a staunch supporter of Chieftain Xherw, and fought with Plain’s Eye until their surrender. She was a traitor, but no one had put her in chains or judged her.
How could he? If he condemned every warrior who’d fought with Xherw, there would be none left to guard the tribe, and many were people who had known nothing about what they were doing.
Vhra had stayed out of duty to her people, and even if she clearly disliked Merish for both killing Xherw and taking a side against Plain’s Eye, she could not deny what she had seen.
Nor…her own fur.
Vhra held the spear at her side as Merish shook his head, and her fur was covered in muck from the animals, pieces of grass, and dirt from the road. Despite all of that—and he suspected she sometimes rolled around in the grass just to get more colors on her—her fur was pearly white. Just like Mrsha’s.
Vhra was a Doombearer, like many of Plain’s Eye. She’d lost her fur colors after the Meeting of Tribes, and it was probably the only reason she wasn’t forming her own tribe and denouncing Merish as a heretical traitor who’d engaged in some kind of conspiracy to destroy Plain’s Eye.
She saw him glance at her fur and stood straighter.
“Chieftain?”
“…No, don’t run them off. Let them follow and keep them off us, Vhra.”
“We could loose a few arrows—”
“They can’t do anything to us, yes, Vhra?”
“They’re trying to push their authority on us. Plain’s Eye takes orders from no one—”
“Plain’s Eye used to take orders from no one, Vhra. Leave the Drakes be.”
She stood there silently, then nodded.
“What about the adventurers and [Knights]? Keep an eye on them?”
Merish felt at the sword he’d been given by Dame Rosenthine. He handed it to Vhra, who eyed the blade.
“Find who’s our best sword-expert and give it to them. Give both groups respect. No need to watch either. They stand out.”
She sniffed.
“Does Honored Mrsha the Great and Infinitely Powerful demand that too?”
“They’re friends of our allies, and I have heard they have helped Gnolls, the Silver Swords. And if Mrsha the Great and Truly Terrible wants them protected, we shall do it, Vhra. If she wants someone to dig a tunnel from here to Baleros, I shall, of course, sign you up.”
Her glower was deep, but she flushed as he pointedly glanced at her fur. She strode off, and Viri leaned over.
“I hate her.”
“Viri, you love or hate my tribe with nothing in between.”
“Well…I don’t do ‘meh’. Why do you keep her around?”
“Because she can lead a group of our warriors into a fight outnumbered three-to-one and come out the other side, Viri.”
“Oh. Right. Darn, I hate good reasons like that.”
This was Merish’s problem. Even if the tribe stuck together, his leadership was always being challenged. He had the backing of Feshi and other tribes, but they weren’t here, and by the same token, he needed Plain’s Eye not to splinter again.
We must work together or we shall be divided and die. That was why he had Vhra and another pain in his tail.
“Chieftain. I have an important matter to discuss.”
Merish sighed.
“Shaman Frivet. Can this wait? We have important guests, and I would like to establish our camp in the New Lands at last.”
Frivet was another Xherw-supporter. But worse, he’d been the apprentice of Ulcreziek, and the [Shaman] glowered back at Merish. However, Frivet was the highest-level.
“A Gnoll of some interest to Plain’s Eye has joined us. Nailren. You should speak to him before he departs.”
“Nailren?”
Merish had never heard the name before, and he perked up one ear as Frivet drew closer. The [Shaman] growled in his ear as they pretended to walk, inspecting the cattle.
“He’s one of our people who undertakes clandestine missions.”
Merish grew instantly alarmed.
“Like the Doomslayers? If he’s one of them—”
“He is not, Chieftain. He’s an agent of Hawkarrow. A very good one. Fletchsing. They’re a fake tribe—argh, if you were a proper Chieftain, you’d know this! The point is that he claims to be retired, but he has valuable intelligence. Intelligence no one should get ahold of, from those [Knights] to the adventurers.”
Frivet jerked his head at the Thousand Lances, and Merish grunted softly.
“Can’t you ask him what he knows in private?”
“He won’t speak to me. Or Vhra. He recognizes us as…original Plain’s Eye.”
The [Shaman] grew visibly uncomfortable, and Merish eyed him dryly.
“Well, good thing you have me. Send him to me once there’s a moment.”
More work to do. Merish’s shoulders hurt. He had never wanted this. But someone had to be [Chieftain]. Someone had to kill Xherw, and now…
He gazed across the New Lands as the song of Gnolls rose in the air, and his spirits lifted.
“A new opportunity. For all of us.”
That’s what he hoped they’d find here.
 
——
 
Chieftain Merish did not seem to be the most popular Gnoll around, Ylawes realized. When the Plain’s Eye Gnolls began to slow and spread out after marching half a day into the New Lands, most of the Gnolls formed camps without consulting him. Even the Gnolls who were waiting for orders seemed not to quite know what to make of him.
“Chieftain Merish? He’s, uh, uh…you should ask someone else about him. I don’t wanna get in trouble, y’hear?”
Their source of information was the young [Rancher], Cullous, the same boy who’d run on the cattle’s backs and given Infinitypear and Rasktooth some fresh milk. He was wide-eyed, excited to see adventurers, but evasive on Merish.
“But how’s Plain’s Eye doing, lad? After the Meeting of Tribes. And with the Doombearers?”
Dawil was helping the boy milk some of the cattle, and Rasktooth and Infinitypear were earning their snack as well. Cullous shrugged.
