Bad enough to delay leaving for two more hours while he walked around Plain’s Eye’s camp. Gnolls were heading off to establish other camps, and settlers from Goisedall were driving towards them with questions, looking to buy or sell, and even Drakes from the other cities had ridden out to ask why the Gnolls were here and to trade for much-needed food.
Gold and business already, and trouble no doubt—he nodded at the [Warriors] who were keeping a sharp eye out for all the newcomers. But they only looked out for Gnolls. Nailren sighed to himself as he checked his bow, shortsword, and other little weapons he was so familiar with.
I’d love a better bow with a permanent enchantment or anything alchemical or magic that’d last in the New Lands. Damn, if the Silver Swords had a jar of acid, I’d be dumping gold in their hands—not that they could use it.
Who knew Erin was so right about acid jars? Oh well. He strung his bow as he put one tip into the dirt, grunting as he slid the string across the limbs of the bow with a practiced motion. Spare bowstrings, right. Good I stayed. Nailren selected an arrow from his quiver as Gnolls turned and gave him an odd look. He pulled back and loosed.
 
——
 
Up and down.
Up and down. Ylawes felt like someone had been lifting him up with things like the feeling of Pekona’s lips on his, the Thousand Lances, Plain’s Eye—
Then dropping him off a cliff with rocks tied around his feet. The Merchant’s Guild, the Goblin King, Falene’s class in a sense—
His soul felt bruised. He felt tired.
They were going back into the New Lands. No break, no rest. The realization had everyone visibly dismayed, except for Rasktooth, Infinitypear, and oddly, Falene. She was striding around, giving orders, embracing her new class.
“I want all the supplies we can buy on Nailren’s credit, Anith. No scrimping. Don’t get more than we can carry, but everything we were missing on the trip. Oil for armor, salt, I heard Nailren say, good travelling gear since we lost our bags of holding. Backpacks—and clothing! I’ll see to clothing.”
“You’re spirited, Pointy. I feel like an Ogre just shat in my breakfast bowl. Dead gods, the Merchant’s Guild!”
Even Dawil was ill-tempered as he threw a rock at the ground hard enough to leave it buried half a foot deep. That made Ylawes feel better, but Falene just snarked back.
“Listen…Shorty. Dawil. Trees, why is it so hard to come up with nicknames that don’t sound racist? Stop writing that down, Rasktooth, that was accidental. We may have been dealt a poor hand, but we must keep moving. Besides, it’s in my class. [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance]. I am an adventurer! Romance and magic; my class is adapting for the New Lands. We are levelling.”
Dawil’s head rose a bit.
“Aye, we are. I reckon I’m due for a class consolidation too. Any day now. I’ll take, uh, [Mountainborn] or maybe [Stoneguard]. Y’know, I’ve always fancied [Stalwart]. Very classic, Dwarfish classes. Right, let’s get to it. I’ll get the horses. You lot always get ones too tall for me if I don’t. We’ll owe Nailren a barrel of gold, but I do think Lyonette can cover for us.”
They were all moving, and Ylawes muttered about talking to Merish. Dawil and Falene shot him a glance, and Pekona hurried after Ylawes.
“You alright, C—Ylawes?”
“I am, Pekona. Just disheartened.”
“It seems…unfair. I don’t know how things work here. Only my home, but it was unfair, wasn’t it?”
“Yes. Very. Is it not like that in Drath?”
She shrugged.
“It seems very…close. We have Guilds in Drath too. Just not the ones like yours. The Beggar’s Guild, the Dark Guilds—but [Merchants] are [Merchants]. And plenty of sects could do something that wrong.”
Just like always, she distracted him with her tales of a land he had never envisioned. Ylawes peered at her.
“…The Beggar’s Guild? I can see that, but what’s a ‘Dark Guild’?”
“Oh, you know. The normal ones. The Hands of Blood, or maybe a sect that practices dark arts.”
“That sounds entirely evil! And you let them have a Guild?”
“Well…yes. Using dark cultivator arts is, um, bad. Like draining someone’s soul out with your fist or something. But everyone’s trying to reach a higher level.”
“But if you do it by nefarious means—”
“Then you’re a Named-rank adventurer, yes. Just like in Drath.”
He opened his mouth as she beamed at him and nodded. He was trying to explain that, no, that wasn’t what he meant, when they ran into Merish. The Gnoll was besieged by people who wanted his time, but he found some for Ylawes.
“Ah, Captain. I heard you had bad news, no? We have talked to the Merchant’s Guild in Goisedall, but they claim it is all above them. My tribe would like to help you if the Drakes will not.”
“Thank you, Chieftain Merish. We are buying what we can, and Captain Nailren is standing guarantee for us—we have the gold! But if I may—would your tribe consider hiring good [Miners] and [Farmers]?”
Merish tugged on the bottom of one lip, frowning.
“Can you…vouch for them, Captain Ylawes? That they are both hardworking and trustworthy?”
Ylawes thought, honestly, of Homle and Petia’s people as Merish eyed him.
“I can. They’ve had plenty of time to run off or not pull their weight, especially given how poorly things went. But none of them have, and they kept up with us with barely any complaints.”
“Hm. Good enough. I cannot promise much gold, but if they stay here, we’ll put them with a clan, and we do plan on doing some farming. Captain Nailren says it is possible.”
“Wh—really?”
Ylawes and Pekona were incredulous, and Merish’s brows rose.
“He didn’t tell you? There are these odd ‘Freshwater Gardens’, as he calls them, growing in the New Lands. Divots where freshwater used to exist, or so he thinks. That aside, we can also just haul soil from Izril since we are close enough. As for [Miners], Master Homle’s knowledge would be welcome. I forgot to ask. When you found those odd pieces of ore, you said they were not normal, yes?”
Ylawes told Merish all he recalled as some Gnolls with [Miner] classes came over, and Homle and Petia gave what knowledge they had. Both man and woman were pale, but Petia managed a smile.
“Work for the Gnolls might be better than Goisedall, given how crowded and expensive it was. We can manage here, Captain Byres.”
“You’re sure? I’d like to leave you some gold, either way—”
“There’s no cause for that, sir. You got us out of trouble when you didn’t have to. Let’s not go giving favors my lads can’t repay.”
Homle and Petia didn’t look happy. But they were persevering as they asked Merish what they might do to make themselves useful, and Ylawes took inspiration from them. If they were pulling themselves up by their bootstraps, he had to shape up.
Funny. He’d always thought he was good at pulling himself up from his bootstraps, but they felt damn heavy today. The [Knight] wanted to say goodbye to the Thousand Lances, but they beat him to it.
“Ser Byres! I am told you have some trouble with the Merchant’s Guild? Might I ask what it is? We are heading into the New Lands again. It is high time we explored, now we understand what the border looks like. Myself, I want to ride until I hit the sea on the western coast, but Ser Pavoriad and Lord Volede are more practically minded. And Ser Brindelhor wishes to explore the first ruin we come across.”
Dame Rosenthine herself was mounted, and they were ready to go. It embarrassed Ylawes to relate his account of his woes, but all the Thousand Lances frowned when they heard his story.
“And you swear your account is true? Then by my honor, it sounds like this Merchant’s Guild is as underhanded in Izril as it is back home! We shall write back to our order at once! Kaaz will hear of this!”
Ser Brindelhor barked, and Ylawes was glad the man smiled and nodded at him. Lord Volede was far more cautious, which worried Ylawes.
“The Merchant’s Guild is obstinate and powerful. We shall indeed prevail, but your friend seems to understand its politics best. Dame Rosenthine, shall I draft a missive?”
“Do so. I shall remember this slight against your honor, Ser Byres. I would offer assistance, but it seems your team has provisions enough. And if your colonists are cared for…? Then I must simply salute you and remind us all that valor and honor triumph in the end.”
Dame Rosenthine drew her sword and saluted him, and he fumbled his sword out to copy the gesture. The Thousand Lances saluted him, and then they whirled their horses.
“To the New Lands! Silver Swords, Plain’s Eye Gnolls, may we meet again!”
—And then they were gone. Riding so fast across the ground that Ylawes wondered what Skills they had, or if their horses had enchanted horseshoes. They left the world more mundane behind them. He tried to cling to the image of them going, but dead gods—
Every time his spirits rose, someone kicked his knees out. For instance, he was trooping back to Falene and Dawil who had horses, supplies, and were appearing ready to go.
“I think we could ride out with Nailren after all. What do you say?”
Larr was showing the others how to pack things into the Gnolls’ sturdy hide travel bags on the horses when someone coughed.
“About that, Captain Byres. I’m afraid you might have a bit of trouble. Chieftain Merish would like to see you right now. Um, there’s been a shooting.”
Viri looked very apologetic as he pog-jumped over. Ylawes felt that familiar sinking feeling, and he heard howls of alarm and a distant scream of someone in pain. Viri clarified.
“In the butt.”
Rasktooth tsked.
“Oh, the worst place to be shot. No, wait, first the balls, then brain, then eyes, then…okay, ninth worst place.”
 
——
 
When Ylawes rushed over, he saw a strange sight. Namely, that of a Drake lying on the ground, clawing at an arrow sticking out of one asscheek, and a line of men and women being cut loose from…ropes?
The colonists. Farmer Petia and Homle were horrified, and the perpetrator of both butt-shot and savior of the colonists was standing there sighing.
Captain Nailren. He turned from talking to Vhra and Merish.
“Oh, Ylawes. I feared this might happen. The Merchant’s Guild is already on the move. [Bounty Hunter]. Some kind of Skill to call in debts. He had all of this lot walking off, and no one noticed.”
“The Merchant’s Guild? Already?”
Ylawes and the Silver Swords stopped in horror, and Nailren shrugged.
“[Bounty Hunters], [Debt Collectors], they’re all over. You probably never had to deal with them, but they pursue these claims. Goisedall knew exactly where you were. I bet they were holding a grudge, so they pointed anyone nearby your way.”
“Those damn—”
For a second red clouded Ylawes’ vision, and he had a grip on his sword hilt. But then he forced himself to bite his lip, hard, and relax. It wasn’t the [Bounty Hunter]’s fault. The Drake was shouting.
“I have a legal contract to pursue my profession! These are criminals—”
“You are in our tribe, Drake. These are our guests. I do not walk into your city and throw my weight around, do I?”
Merish growled as he loomed over the Drake. He shot a glance back at Ylawes and grimaced.
“This makes it far harder to accept your people, Captain. We can watch them, but…”
If every chance [Bounty Hunter] and [Debt Collector] came calling, the Plain’s Eye Gnolls wouldn’t and couldn’t deal with that. Ylawes’ heart sank as Petia and Homle turned to him, but someone spoke loudly.
“Right, more horses. Insill, go get as many as we can afford. We can do half mounted. There’s a good lad. More food too. Petia, Homle, you’re with us.”
“Dawil! We can’t—”
The Dwarf was stumping over to the [Bounty Hunter] as a Gnoll tried to cut the arrow out of his rear-end. Nailren hadn’t shot him hard, but the Dwarf was calm.
“We can and we have to, Falene. That’s what the lad was going to say. I just beat him to it. He doesn’t get to be the best fellow all the time. Petia, Homle, I don’t see any other option, so unless you want to strike out, let’s get moving.”
They nodded silently as Dawil squatted down next to the [Bounty Hunter]. The Drake had gone still.
“I, uh, I’m not after your heads.”
Dawil gave the Drake a friendly smile.
“I didn’t think so. You’re a sensible man, aren’t you, Mister…?”
“Oakley. Oakley Letswood.”
Vhra snorted loudly, and Dawil grinned.
“Nice northern Izrilian name. Okay, Oakley. I’m sure you don’t want to get into any details about why we’re on the Merchant’s Guild’s lists. You’re all business, and the bounty’s the bounty. Do we have one on us?”
“Uh…yes. And it’s definitely not personal.”
“Fair, fair. But let’s just say that we, the Silver Swords, the Gold-rank team, don’t agree with the Merchant’s Guild.”
Oakley was lying very still now. His eyes flickered.
“…Fair. No one does.”
“Right, and you’re just doing your job.”
“Yep. Exactly.”
Dawil was leaning on his hammer. The Dwarf appeared older and ponderous, but he smiled.
“No hard feelings either way. I’d just like to ask you that once you get on your feet and go back to Goisedall, Oakley, to let your friends know—all the people on that bounty? They’re with us. And we are a Gold-rank team, a very respectable one. If you go after one of us, you go after all of us. Now, Captain Nailren’s a friend of ours. We’ve got friends all over. I’d not go anywhere near Liscor, House Byres, or Wistram if you let it be known you were after our bounty. And if we ran into you again, say—and I’m a good eye for faces, even other species—”
He thunked the hammer next to Oakley’s face in the grass, and the Drake didn’t say a word.
“There’s no healing potions in the New Lands. Nor a lot of second chances. I’d hate for you to think I was threatening you, now; the Silver Swords don’t do that.”
“What? Threats? Psht, none at all—”
Dawil hefted his hammer up and nodded.
“Of course not. It’s a promise, Oakley. Just tell your friends that. Now, let me help you with that arrow. Grit your teeth.”
“Wait, wait, I can get a [Healer]—waitwaitwait—”
Dawil yanked the arrow out, and the scream made Ylawes wince. Then he saw the Dwarf walking back, tossing the bloody arrow at Nailren, and the Gnoll gave the Dwarf a respectful gaze. Dawil sighed as he tugged his beard.
“Alright. Let’s get out of here before I decide to walk back to Goisedall and throw a hammer through their Merchant’s Guild.”
