Strange how she revelled in giving one of the Thousand Lances that same, wide-eyed moment of disbelief and wonder so normalized to her in the inn. How she envied that chill he must feel, the tingling and heart beating with excitement. But then, she felt it too. Ser Pavoriad glanced around, then stepped forwards.
“And where might one find such…information, sister?”
She shrugged.
“I don’t know. Which is why I have not pursued it. And I believed this knowledge would potentially endanger the one who has it. She is…often pursued by those who consider her too dangerous. I did not want to add my people to that list. But that name itself is a clue. Sprithae is the name we hold in antiquity. An assumed name? Or perhaps one that covers up the true personage? If I had access to the Tree Libraries of Gaiil-Drome—”
He rubbed at his clean-shaven chin, and she forgot he was more than a bluff [Knight], because Pavoriad’s eyes were focused.
“I see. It’s the [Innkeeper] again. The same woman who slew Erribathe’s [Prince of Men] knows the Face of Elves? Cordially, sister, I regard that woman as a threat, and I harbor no love for someone who would take Greydath of Blades’ hand. He has set the Thousand Lances to alarm. If anything would have us crusade from Terandria by the hundreds, it would be him.”
She shivered at that bold proclamation, but Pavoriad went on, thinking out loud.
“But that name! I see I must ask twice, then, sister, about this inn and where you believe honor lies.”
She nodded, now summoning all her tact and diplomacy.
“I shall, Ser Pavoriad, to convince you that you are at least no enemy. But again, if you had someone you trusted to the utmost in Gaiil-Drome? Someone who would take on this request for information without making it—political?”
He gazed at her, then snapped his fingers softly.
“Sister. I have some, but I have a thought. This is bigger than you or I. With respect, I see why you shelter it. The hunt for this could obsess our people and lead to bitter entanglement, and we are an obsessive people at times. It requires good, practical half-Elves of honor and worldliness. High levels, too, with contacts among our various peoples.”
She sighed. She’d come to the same conclusion, and she hadn’t trusted her Wistram faction with it. She knew Teura, Feor, and…no. The only person she did trust was Ceria, and wasn’t that dire? Also, Ceria really didn’t care about their heritage in the same way.
“I know. Who, then? Unless—”
She had a thought, and Pavoriad’s eyes suddenly sparkled with mirth and an idea.
“It is hard to find so many half-Elves with their heads opened up. But as it happens, there might be a colony of them learning the lessons you and I have learned, eh? It should be delivered in person, this news. A project made of it. What if we had a little race?”
He bent over, grinning, and tapped her on the nose. She blinked up at him.
“A what?”
“First one to the western coast wins a drink. I shall meet you there, fates willing. If not, one of us shall find others of good cheer and ask for help. A quest for this New Land and age! Let us have a way to identify each other. How about a codephase? ‘Stick up the ass’.”
She blinked at him, but his voice was alight with mirth, and his eyes were serious. Falene glanced around and realized no one could hear them amidst the mooing cows, far from the camp. She smiled. What a canny [Knight].
“It’s just a project, Ser Pavoriad. It may lead to nothing at all.”
To that, he just grinned at her, knowing she was lying.
“We’re half-Elves, sister. We love meaningless, time-consuming projects.”
Like that, she had a goal again. The half-Elf returned to her company in a bit. If her Captain pursued the dream of a Silver Dragon, she followed a name and a statue’s face captured in grief and guilt. But it was just a quest. First and foremost, she was a Silver Sword. And Falene wondered…if Dawil had something he longed for too.
 
——
 
Knights were so amusing. They ran around doing self-important things, so loud and noisy and almost cartoonish, except for the fact that these [Knights] could back up all their bark.
They belonged to a different world. One that Nailren wasn’t sure he wanted to visit, but like the New Lands, it fascinated his weary, cynical heart.
For he was a Gnoll of the plains and City Gnoll combined. An adventurer at times, a Gnoll who went among the Drakes, but whose heart was always with the tribes. He felt like a small piece on a weary, bitter old board with groove marks gashed in the wood, disfigured pieces, gouging at his opponents—and there were so many.
Manus’ spears which came at you straight, but ran through everything. Salazsar’s endless gold stockpiles, their overpriced elites, and blades in the dark. Oteslia’s fairweather friendship—traitors on the other side, sometimes, who growled at you. Smaller Drake cities that each had their own agenda, ‘small’, but who could wipe out a tribe in the night.
And who would be there to stop it or weep for them?
I have to get out of here. The [Clandestine Chieftain] realized it was the Plain’s Eye tribe that was doing this to him. He was scratching at his fur so much it seemed like he had fleas.
This tribe…the Gnoll surveyed the white Gnolls working, laughing, and talking, but with that shell-shocked air to them, uncertain of their place in the world. Nailren had always known them as…
 
The bright eyes of their tribe embroidered on their clothing, walking proudly, trading with the six Walled Cities, ever-vigilant, ever-alert. 
If there was one tribe who checked the Walled Cities, it was theirs. Plain’s Eye. We are watching you, Drakes. The one tribe who never sent for him. On the contrary, sometimes their people met him on the job. Hawkarrow wasn’t wary of Plain’s Eye as potential rivals, but more of Xherw’s influence. There was a rumor he might be looking to expand Plain’s Eye again, in which case, it wouldn’t be another of the great tribes of Izril, but the great tribe.
But why did you do that and not just spin off another tribe? You did that if you wanted a nation, not a tribe. Nailren wasn’t against the idea of that; the Gnollish people needed unity, something the Drakes had more of at times for all their squabbling. But Xherw…
He just had no read on the Chieftain. Nor what followed the Chieftain around. It was not just his aura. It was something else. But whenever he saw Plain’s Eye Gnolls passing, armed and walking without fear of angering Drakes, confident in their tribe, he thought—
If only the tribes were like that. If only—
 
Nailren blinked, and the Gnolls around him replaced the ones from his memory. Then he realized those trade caravans, Plain’s Eye’s widespread presence, were gone. The sheer number of Gnolls here was the tribe. It appeared impressive, but they were here, not making money across Izril. This was a desperate push. Consolidate strength and go to the one place you might be able to start again.
He saw no Gnolls armed with artifacts bought from Drakes. Nor smelled dyes, velvets, or the spices from other continents he was used to. [Ranchers] and [Herders] predominated, not [Jewelers], [Traders]—Gnolls forced into the most needful classes. Nailren felt ghostly fingers on his shoulder. A questioning touch. He spoke to her and himself.
“A great tribe of Izril has fallen. They were monstrous and led by one who sold out his own kind in the name of protecting us. But they were still a great spear in the wall between us and Drakes. With them gone, I fear for the future. The Walled Cities will return. They’ve only stopped because everyone’s watching them. Some of them would turn every last one of us to pelts on a wall if given the chance.”
Maybe not modern Drakes like Wall Lord Ilvriss, but Nailren knew all the old names, the real bastards that if he ever had a shot at—he might take. Most were dead.
Chaldion hadn’t even been that bad. Chaldion, the dread Cyclops of Pallass, just pushed Drakes forwards and held off if it wasn’t worth the cost. But some Drakes were personal. They were supposed to be dead.
Wall Lord Eschowar. Why couldn’t they just die in their sleep? Nailren was so preoccupied with his dark thoughts overtaking the joy of the New Lands that he didn’t hear the other Gnoll coming up behind him. Then Nailren shifted, and a hidden flat-dagger strapped to one forearm was in his paw—
He halted when his peripheral vision revealed Chieftain Merish. Nailren instantly let go of the blade, but he knew the Chieftain had noticed it. However, Merish just grinned politely.
“Plain’s Eye has fallen indeed, Adventurer Nailren.”
“I’m retired. I apologize for speaking out of turn, Chieftain. You’ve done splendidly.”
Nailren flushed at his unusual rudeness, but Merish just tilted his head.
“Walk with me? I have to make sure the herds aren’t coming down with sickness. The long march and New Lands. There are no pests we could see that give them illness, but predators?”
“Oh, there are some leech-creatures that you’ll have to watch for.”
Nailren’s mind raced ahead to the idea of new plagues that might wipe out herds like these. Disastrous. The one advantage the Gnolls had was these herds, which were the right call, but one pack of Wyverns or illness or parasites spreading the same and…
Merish led him along a herd of sheep as Gnolls diligently checked under wool, patting the excited sheep who were munching on the yellow grass with evident delight. Turning hooves over, and he commented as they walked.
“I have sent eighteen groups to the New Lands with smaller herds, and none have reported sickness or illness from the climate. Part of the reason we stop here and spread out is to avoid the risk of losing more than one herd, yes? Mostly, though, we listen to the animals. Gaarh Marsh and Wild Wastes have generously lent some [Beast Tamers] and [Herd Tenders]. See.”
A Gnoll with Wild Wastes markings on her fur was walking through the sheep. She was growling.
“Who’s hurt? No, no pets. Who’s hurt? No, I don’t care if you twisted your little hoof. You’re not Sariant Lambs. If anyone’s sick, get over here, yes?”
Nailren exhaled, feeling foolish.
“Talk to the animals, of course. You’ve thought about this move, Chieftain.”
“You’d be surprised how many Drakes don’t have anyone who does. If you had any thoughts, Chieftain Nailren, I would gladly take them.”
A side-eye from Merish as Nailren slowed, and the ghostly hand seemed to jump. His unseen listener must be able to hear Merish so long as he had the spoon on his chest. Nailren murmured back as he saw Cullous running around with some shears, grooming sheep ready for it. They actually lined up, baahing. Clever animals. They’d run to Gnolls for help. Yes, they might do well here.
“I’m no Chieftain as you are, Chieftain Merish. Just Nailren. I’ve put it all behind me. As for advice? I’d have kids like Cullous pulling night-duty. The little walking leeches—I don’t know if the Adventurer’s Guild has classified them—they’re not much of a threat. Slap them with a stone from a sling and they back up. Your real threat will be the Landsharks. And…complications from other folk, I think.”
Merish noted Nailren touching the spoon at his neck and rubbed at his chin.
“Hrr. People I know. It makes me miss Rhir.”
“Truly? After 5th Wall? I apologize, that’s crass—”
For a second Merish flinched. And if Nailren had thought he had Warsights, it was nothing to the way the Gnoll just…vanished. Vanished, and a second version of him was somewhere else, staring upwards at a terrible monster. Friends and comrades dying around him—
The Gnoll blinked and smiled. As if nothing had happened. He turned to Nailren, forcing a chuckle with effort.
“No, no. It is fair, absolutely. It was the comrades I missed.”
Wordlessly, Nailren put out a hand and grasped Merish’s arm.
“I apologize, Chieftain.”
Merish accepted his apology by returning the arm-clasp. He turned.
“I was needed here. But there was something of Rhir I missed in Izril, Nailren. A sense that we were all on the same side! Coming back to Zeres and getting shoved into a line while Drakes disembarked first—”
“Ah, they do that in Zeres? Second-class citizens?”
Nailren pulled a face, and Merish shrugged.
“Just for those entering and exiting. Drakes have one line, everyone else has another. It reminded me, ‘ah, yes, I’m home’. Then the Meeting of Tribes…”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“In Rhir, once we got to know each other, it was every species getting along as best we could. Against the Demons. Here? How often have you needed to use that wrist-dagger? It’s very well-made. I’ve never seen one on another Gnoll that hides against the fur.”
Nailren flicked it out and handed it to Merish, who whistled at the very flat blade. You had to work the scabbard into your fur and even shave your fur a bit so it didn’t show up.
“Not once in the New Lands. Force of habit. But it is a concern. Landsharks first. You can tell they’re there as they burrow around. Anyone with [Tremorsense] could alert you. I know it’s rare, but there’s a kind of totem that [Shamans] can make. They use it in areas where rock slides are common. Ask Gaarh Marsh or a mountainous tribe.”
Merish’s ears perked up, and he motioned to a Gnoll who’d been shadowing them respectfully. Shaman Frivet approached and listened, committing the details to memory.
“I had no notion. Say a pack is coming, how might we repel them?”
Nailren chewed on his lip.
“Ideally, you don’t. Fighting a pack off is like fighting Wyverns off.”
“Ah, a bad idea?”
“They’re too big, too tough, and they hunt in groups of six to eighteen. Better to put out bait. Fresh blood and meat tied to a tall pole. That’s how my group did it. A herd might have them rushing in even with bait…just keep your scouts active. Hunt them first.”
“Sounds like at least eighty Gnolls, then. Heavy bows and bait. They pop out, shoot them, hack up any who survive. Would they fall on each other?”
“I don’t know. I wish I’d hunted some. But yes, that’s how I’d do it.”
Merish nodded.
“Vhra will be happy. She’s been antsy. Frivet, have her lead a hunting party. Tell her I’d like to eat shark. Though, having had it at sea, it’s not all that, yes? I prefer fatty tuna.”
Speaking to Chieftain Merish was actually quite enjoyable. He might not have been trained for it, but there was a confidence and easy leadership he had that Nailren appreciated. He might do well here. Nailren cleared his throat and took them away from the herd. Frivet slowed, and Merish tilted his head. He raised a paw to motion the [Shaman] away, but Nailren shook his head.
