“Ow, I think I broke my tail. I’m a [Rogue]! And that kid can—wait, how’s he doing that?”
The young Gnoll with bright red fur had caught sight of the [Knights], and his jaw had dropped. He clearly wanted to stare at them, but since he had to be part of the cattle train, which he seemed to be in charge of, he jumped up until he was on the first of the Plainsfollower cows’ backs, then began to run across the others!
He ran like he was on a bumpy road! The cows barely noticed him as he nimbly ran ‘backwards’, which gave him plenty of time to gawk at the [Knights].
“Dead gods, that’s a [Drover] if ever I saw one. He must have grown up farming animals.”
It was Ylawes out of everyone who identified the boy’s class. Dawil raised his brows, purely amazed.
“We saw some herds this large up north, lad. The southeast of Izril has those lovely plains, but I’ve never seen anyone run on cattle like that.”
“I haven’t either, but I heard stories as a kid. You’d run into some [Farmhands] who pushed cows over for fun, or ran herds backwards. It was pretty dangerous, apparently. They knew someone who’d fallen and died when the cows stampeded over him.”
“What a way to go.”
Anith muttered, but the young Gnoll boy just kept running, and Ylawes took his eyes off him and turned to the [Knights]. Plain’s Eye was a massive wonder of people, but the four [Knights]…
“Dead gods, it is the Thousand Lances of Kaaz. I mean, they introduced themselves. I shook the hand of Rosenthine! Me!”
He wondered if she did autographs. No, that was crass; he knew that was embarrassing, but maybe if she autographed his armor? Pekona was still scratching her head.
“People shove cows over? Why? It is some Izrilian thing?”
“It’s fun, Pekona. Also speaks to how strong they must be. Imagine tipping over one of that lot, and they’re not even as big as regular cows. Lad, what do you think the Thousand Lances are doing here? I reckon once we get a moment, we ask covertly. I wanted a word with you before I talked.”
Dawil moved closer, and Ylawes realized the Dwarf was less awed and more…
“Oh, come on, Dawil. They just saved us from Goisedall! Do we have to use our brains now?”
Everyone turned to Ylawes and Dawil, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth, who’d been hiding from the angry Ser Brindelhor, turned to Ylawes with rapt interest.
Dawil sighed.
“Lad, they’re here for a reason. It’s worth coin!”
“Just for one second, I’d like to not to have to—”
“Captain, you not want to use brain?”
Rasktooth interrupted with an expression of hilarity on his face, and Ylawes blinked at him.
“What? Oh, that’s our private lingo, Rasktooth. It’s whenever Dawil or Falene, or I think that a situation’s more complex than, well, face-value. You know?”
Sometimes, you took a quest for an old [Lady] with monsters in her backyard and it’s simple. Sometimes, you wonder ‘why does she have a Mothbear in her basement? Why’s there chains on the Mothbear’s legs? What kind of old lady stays around with a dangerous Mothbear and doesn’t run for the hills?’
“Engage your brains. That’s, uh—a fascinating way of putting it, Ylawes.”
The [Knight] only then realized how it sounded and tried to clarify, but too late. Rasktooth promptly saluted his forehead.
“Adventurer Infinitypear! Permission to engage brain, sir!”
“Permission denied, Rasktooth! No engaging of brains is needed today!”
Ylawes colored as Dawil laughed.
“Dead gods, we should have had rookies years ago. Pointy and Ylawes never even twitched an eye at the term! Lad, I’m telling you, they’re going to be a thing.”
“Great. So I have to do, what, pump them for information?”
“Maybe just ask what their goals are, if they came with support, before getting one of them to make you his [Squire].”
Dawil suggested gently, and Pekona covered her mouth as Ylawes flushed. Then the [Blade Dancer] hesitated and raised a hand.
“Who are the Thousand Lances?”
Dawil and Ylawes turned to her, incredulous, but Insill, Larr, both were nodding. Infinitypear and Rasktooth made sense, but—! Anith shrugged.
“I know of them. But only distantly, Captain, Dawil. I’d be grateful for a refresher as well. They’re the most powerful [Knight] Order in the world, right?”
“What? How does anyone decide that?”
Insill’s jaw dropped, but Ylawes just nodded at the field where the [Knights] had punched through the Drakes without effort. Some of the Drakes were still passed out.
“It’s just common knowledge, Insill. The Thousand Lances of Kaaz, the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon, are only one thousand in number, hence the name. They’re drawn from every Knight-Order in the world. Being invited into their ranks is a huge honor. It’s a safe bet to assume any member of the Thousand Lances is…Named-rank in capability.”
“No way. That’s impossible.”
Larr laughed hugely, and Dawil fixed him with a calm eye.
“It’s true enough, lad. I know it sounds like Djinni smoke and tall tales, but I’m from Terandria, remember. Kaaz funds the Thousand Lances, and Kaaz is rich from their dungeon. Each [Knight] might not be Level 40, but their gear is beyond excellent. Not one of those [Knights] is wearing plain steel, for instance. It’s all enchanted and survived the New Lands. That’s Named-ranker gear. I remember meeting some fellow from the Order of Haegris, the Haggle Knights. He was armored in pure Mithril, and that was considered mandatory for membership, given his levels and Skills could not guarantee it. Not that we all carry Mithril, but enchantments of superior quality, at least.”
Larr stopped laughing and swallowed as Pekona murmured.
“If they are so famous, why don’t they go everywhere?”
“Well, they mainly keep peace in Terandria. They quest there, slay monsters—some go abroad and do great acts, like this lot. But mostly…since no one battles Kaaz, the Thousand Lances haven’t been called on for war in my lifetime. There was some question if they’d fight the King of Destruction back when he was rampaging. The entire Order; I know individual members had fought against him. I had little dolls of some of them as a boy.”
Ylawes truly didn’t know what to say to them, but Dawil just sighed.
“They’re not all perfect. When one of them decides to make a point, it’s made hard. Those four have as much presence as an army, and as you can see, they can fight one off just by themselves. They’ll be big players in the New Lands, so we’d better be on our best behavior.”
“They already hate Rasktooth.”
Larr pointed out cynically. Ylawes’ stomach clenched as Rasktooth nodded.
“That true, but most people hate me then find me lovable. Because I so cute. Like you, Larr.”
“I don’t like you.”
“You do! You say, ‘I really grateful for you, Rasktooth’.”
“I was starving. And I did not!”
“You is my best friend. After Infinitypear and Ylawes and Dawil and Falene and Pekona.”
“After Falene? What’d she ever do for you?”
“She save my life from those undead face-guys.”
“Oh…right…but I shot a rabbit for you one time!”
“Yah, that right. That why you above Insill and Anith and Dasha.”
“What? We’re last?”
As the Silver Swords argued, the cattle herd cleared, and Ylawes got a chance to approach his heroes again. He worried they wouldn’t want to talk to him, as they were still speaking with Merish, but he needn’t have worried.
Ser Pavoriad, the tall half-Elf, was still swinging Falene around.
“Ser Pavoriad, please! I’ll vomit!”
She was begging him, and he put her down, then ruffled her hair.
“Oh, forgive me, little sister. When you told me how young you were, I forgot you were a [Mage] of Wistram! Very decorous and honorable. And so soon! You must be a prodigy!”
He laughed as Ylawes slowed, and he and Dawil bit their lips. Falene was flushed.
“Ser Pavoriad, I’m eighty-three! That’s forty-one years in Human terms!”
The [Knight] appeared astonished.
“Is it? Dead gods, I thought it was one Human year for every four of ours!”
“They changed the standards two decades ago. It’s one for every three, but for someone who lives outside of home, as I do, it’s one for two.”
“I must not have heard of it. Even so, you’re far too young to not be running barefoot and dancing with your hair down, little sister! We might not be in the villages, but I’m barely past my prime at a hundred and fifty! Don’t make me seem so old!”
He struck his chest lightly, with a laugh. He was huge, and Ylawes had to admire his armor now—it was some kind of wood, maybe? Or metal that resembled wood, polished and green, and Ser Pavoriad had a sigil of trees on his chestplate.
When he saw Ylawes, he turned and stuck out a hand.
“Ah, Knight Ylawes, my sister-kin here was telling me all about your team. I am, once again, Ser Pavoriad, and delighted am I to meet another half-Elf! I thank you for taking care of Falene here. Such a brilliant girl.”
Falene, who’d done much the same to Ceria, albeit in a mildly condescending way, was bright red from the genuine goodwill practically beaming off Pavoriad’s face. Then he had a thought and touched the arm of his gauntlet.
“This sight! A half-Elf, a Dwarf, and a Human—a classic Terandrian team. Give me one moment; I must draw a picture. For my journal, you see.”
His right armguard had a section of metal that flipped up and produced a painter’s palette as little metal wings unfolded and ejected the slat of wood. And a little stand…and canvas…
Everyone stared at Pavoriad as he plucked a brush from his in-built art tray and wet it before slashing across the canvas. Falene was bright red and spluttering.
“Ser Pavoriad, I am a full grown woman! Though I thank you for the greeting. Ylawes, Dawil, Ser Pavoriad hails from Gaiil-Drome, my home. He’s one of four of our [Knights] of the Thousand Lances.”
Four? Was that high or low? Ylawes bowed to Ser Pavoriad, who smiled again.
“I only regret that I have not done more for my homeland, especially in the Dawn Concordat war. I stood silently as our brave folk fought with Calanfer—! But it was politics, you see? If I took to the field, my counterparts from Ailendamus and perhaps Taimaguros would have as well. Then it would have been the six of us versus near thirty.”
“Taimaguros and Ailendamus count for thirty members in the Thousand Lances?”
Falene was dismayed, and Ser Pavoriad sighed.
“Oh, aye, Sister, they do. Most of Taimaguros, if I’m honest. Ailendamus seems to think their Great Knights are equal to us—if not better—and do not seem inclined to call for many candidates. It is customary, you see, Ser Ylawes. If a kingdom has members in the Thousand Lances, then they do not fear other [Knights] of the Thousand Lances going to war against them. For we would not wish to make war against each other.”
“I see. And your aid is very well taken, Ser Pavoriad. I wish to thank you for—”
“Ah.”
The half-Elf thrust up a hand, and Ylawes hesitated. Ser Pavoriad had pale blond hair and a long face, which might have been called horse-like but for his great smile and the merriment of his features. He seemed oddly dignified, even when sketching out his painting, and he lowered his brush, removed the image from his canvas, and eyed it critically.
“I cannot accept your thanks, Ser Ylawes. To do so implies we did some service for you that was not exactly what was deserved and what we are bound to do. Nor did we exactly tax ourselves in the doing thereof. When good men—and women—meet, there is no other recourse than righteous action. So, I am glad we meet as equals.”
He handed the paper to Ylawes with a grimace.
“Not my finest work. I try, but the nuance is lost as I am only an amateur [Painter].”
Ylawes stared down at the [Knight] with golden flax for hair, who stood next to a beaming Dwarf that had on armor gleaming under the sun, next to a rather young-looking Falene, as a herd of cows passed by in the background.
Ylawes turned, and a cow eyed him. Both agreed it was damn fine art. However, Ser Pavoriad just accepted the picture back and tucked it into a journal.
“I shall master the sword sooner than the brush. Though I am but a neophyte in both. Falene tells me you are a Gold-rank team? The Silver Swords? Very well met indeed. You are the first adventurers we encountered who were not dead—not that we have seen many given our route.”
“Dead?”
Ylawes and Dawil echoed, and Ser Pavoriad’s brows drew together.
“Aye, dead. One of some monster attack, torn to bits, and another group cut down by a bladesman if I’m any judge. One blow to the back of the neck, each time, from a thin, thin blade…but we landed in the northern section of the New Lands, then came southwards, so we have not exactly explored the New Lands proper.”
“An odd route to take, Ser Pavoriad. Dawil. Dwarfhome.”
Dawil shook the half-Elf’s hand, and Pavoriad chuckled.
“Both the sea and curiosity had us hugging the coast, sir. We wanted to see the Hivelands, in truth. But we didn’t step ashore, despite some debate.”
Ylawes had heard few ships went close to the Antinium’s lands, but the Thousand Lances were clearly without fear. This was confirmed when the second [Knight] stomped over.
“We should have landed to challenge them and see if the rumors were true. Though they’re said to be a ‘people’. As much as Goblins? I call both into question, Knight Byres. And I challenge your assertions.”
Ser Brindelhor was shorter, wearing red armor and a velvet cloak that was clearly enchanted, which hung in the air as if too light, despite the thick purple cloth. When his visor was up, it revealed freckles, a shock of brown hair, and a glare at Ylawes.
Ser Pavoriad sighed.
“Ser Brindelhor, our leader, Rosenthine, has accepted Ser Byres’ word, and you would not care to challenge that again so soon, surely?”
“I may, for I consider it a point of honor, and if my valor be true, I shall prevail.”
The man grated, then stuck a hand out at Ylawes.
“Ser Brindelhor once more. The Irriven Redbloods. No one kingdom, though I have pledged my sword in service of Oztera. And you are Lord Ylawes of House Byres. Izrilian nobility and a Gold-rank adventurer.”
His glower, a burly brown gaze to match his hair, intensified. Right up until Ylawes took his hand, beaming, and pumped it up and down.
