That was his half-Elf friend and [Mage]. Ylawes remembered why he had always loved her as Falene tossed her head back. A shame they were fellow adventurers. You didn’t date them, obviously.
Um, except for Pekona.
 
——
 
Pekona was wide-eyed as Falene accepted a towel to wipe the light sweat off her brows. Rosenthine was debriefing Thellabell, explaining to the young [Squire] exactly how overconfident she’d been and how many ways Falene had her.
But Ser Pavoriad was ecstatic.
“Younger sister! No, Magus Falene, what a splendid victory at your age! I can’t remember the last time Thellabell’s lost a battle, let alone to a non-[Knight]! I shall have to write home of you! Such talent at your tender young age?”
“Once again, Ser Pavoriad, I am more than fully grown! But thank you. I just wished to represent the team, and I am sure Dawil would have done likewise, but he might have hurt the young woman with his best.”
“Oh, aye, and we can’t have that, eh, Pointy? But you took it easy on the lass.”
Dawil was slapping Falene on the back, and she grimaced.
“Dawil, stop hitting me. Well, Captain.”
She turned to Ylawes and gave Pekona an arch smile as the [Sword Dancer] fidgeted. But Ylawes was purely amazed.
“Falene, your class. Did it really change?”
“Oh, yes. I suppose it wouldn’t hurt to share…”
Falene was dying to tell everyone, so she cleared her throat, then hesitated. She coughed, eyed Ylawes and Pekona, then murmured.
“It is, um, well, perhaps an odd class at Level 37. But given our adventures in the New Lands, it felt fitting. I am a [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance].”
A [Pursuant Battlemage of—] wait, what was that other part? Ylawes’ huge smile became hesitant, and Pekona’s eyes swivelled to him. Dawil had gone as still as a statue, and Falene fiddled with her staff.
“Aside from some very welcome Skills to manage my mana intake, I have gained [Combine Spell], a very powerful tool, as I’m sure you’ll agree. And, ah, my best Skill which allows me to cast spells at a level unprecedented.”
Everyone murmured and wanted to know what it was, but suddenly, Falene was keen to check on Thellabell and shake the [Squire]’s hand. And Dawil was now very interested in talking to Ser Brindelhor, and Ylawes and Pekona were stepping away for a chat…
The Gnolls really wanted to know, of course. But the rest of Falene’s team gave her peace.
 
——
 
“Hey, hey, Falene. What that Skill you got? We have to know.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear kept badgering Falene even after the duel, and she glared at them, pink-cheeked.
“Rasktooth, Infinitypear, I shared as much as I wanted to! Is decorum not a word in your lexicon?”
“Don’t know what either of them words mean, Falene!”
Rasktooth beamed at her, and Infinitypear waved a hand.
“I do not have a lexicon, Big Sister Falene, but I will obtain one if necessary with my funds.”
“Oh. Um. Well, then. Don’t call me that, Infinitypear.”
“But are you not a big sister to us Bronze-rank adventurers with your superior wisdom, beauty, and magic? You avenged Captain Ylawes’ honor!”
If Rasktooth was the somewhat cynical, at times annoying, scamp, Infinitypear was too honest, too trusting, and too endearing. Falene coughed.
“Well, this is all true…but it is embarrassing. My Skill, you know, can be used against me—”
“We will never tell, right, Brother Rasktooth? We swear on our team! Poke Duo’s vow!”
“Poke Duo’s vow! Please, Big Sis Falene?”
They begged her with huge eyes, and Falene glanced around the private tent and out at Ylawes, who was talking to Merish now the dueling drama was over. She did feel good taking that [Squire] down a peg, and, well…the class was a reward.
A reward for making peace with it all, realizing she had to move on. And that she had to support her fellow teammates, drat Pekona for being too innocent for her own good. Falene turned red, then sat down.
“Okay, but you must keep this silent. Alright?”
They promised again, and she told them.
“My class is indeed [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance]. An…amusing play on words I suspect given the lack of mana and the romance of adventuring inherent to—nevermind. Along with my other Skills, the best one aside from [Combine Spell] would be, um…[Heartbreak’s Compensation: Halfcost Magic (Tier 0-2)].”
They stared at her, open-mouthed. Then Rasktooth raised his hand.
“Wait, who broke your heart? We beat them up!”
Even Infinitypear had to nudge his brother. Falene turned so red and began to shush them, and—well—
She was in her tent with the drapes closed, but she’d forgotten it was a Gnoll tribe. Even with her voice lowered…
Every Gnoll in earshot was staring at her tent. Most began to hurry off to tell other people. And the rest went in search of something nice in their food stores for her. Because—um—
Wow.
 
——
 
Falene felt pretty proud of herself after her display of her recent class. Oh, it was embarrassing; she realized all the Gnolls had heard her admission to Poke Duo, because they kept coming over with cheese, dried meats, things for her to eat. Even a salad.
She was blushing and trying to explain her class wasn’t just a lovesick child’s class. It was an affirmation of a new point of view.
“No, you see, it’s pursuant that defines the class. I am in pursuit, seeking magic.”
“And love. One hopes you have it, yes? These things happen. Such a Skill. So…useful, but you must keep yourself fed, Miss half-Elf. You are far too thin, yes?”
A Gnoll who couldn’t have been older than her mid-thirties was trying to feed Falene, patting her on the shoulder. Falene, who was twice her age, was red-faced. And she blamed Ser Pavoriad for this; his lackadaisical attitude with her had led the Gnolls to thinking she was a child!
Actually, it was somewhat of a relief when the [Knight] in question came striding over.
“Mage Falene, sister. Might I have a word again about your sterling display of magic?”
Falene excused herself from the Plain’s Eye Gnolls and whirled to face him.
“Ser Pavoriad, thank you. If you call me ‘little sister’ one more time, I may try one of my new spells on you!”
He laughed ruefully and brushed at his hair. Then he bowed, rather formally, and looked shamefaced.
“Forgive me, Magus. I jest and play these pranks and go too far. In truth, I did think you needed a bit of reminding of your own youth, and you had that classic…what’s the expression?”
He snapped his fingers a few times.
“‘Tree branch up your own arse’ syndrome so endemic to our people.”
Falene gasped, and half the Gnolls who’d begun wandering off snorted. She colored.
“Ser Pavoriad!”
He was at once overwhelmingly high-level and confident, knightly, but also retiring and young for his role. A legend. She’d heard of him in Gaiil-Drome, seen him riding into the city to be feted before, but never thought to speak to him so long. Falene was over being tongue-tied after the fourth time he’d swung her around like a girl. But she didn’t know what to say to him.
He, though, seemed to know what to say to her, now. For the Knight of Forest’s Heart motioned.
“May we walk and speak, Magus? Candidly.”
She nodded, and they circuited the Gnolls’ camps, watching as more herding animals spread out to graze. Pavoriad sighed as he inhaled deeply. Falene caught a whiff of dung and breathed less deep, but the [Knight]’s chin rose, and he stretched his arms out, shrugging his beautiful armor up as he embraced this vista.
“We are such a curious, oft-hypocritical race, sister. I find myself humbling or teasing my own kind too often. Perhaps it is because for all we claim to love nature, we don’t really like animals, let alone herds. Gnolls have far more claim to being in touch with it. They eat meat and hunt, and who is to say we are better?”
“We cultivate great forests, Ser Pavoriad. One might argue we’re two sides of the same coin.”
Falene had no idea where he was going with this, but Pavoriad grimaced.
“Are we? Or are we stubbornly on one side? Half-Elves have teeth of meat and plant-eaters. But many of my peers claim we’re meant to live like rabbits. We call ourselves superior to other species.”
“I have never thought—”
“In private, of course. We live the longest. We have so much magic and accumulated knowledge. We are superior, just temporarily inconvenienced by the prolificness of Humans and other species.”
He cut her off, and she bit her tongue, because everything he was saying was true…it was just that no one of her age and her species had ever said it so directly. Pavoriad’s face, so kind and humorous, betrayed for a moment a true cynicism. But only when he spoke of his own kind. Then he turned to her and smiled like a [Hero].
“It’s what I saw upon you when we met, Falene. But you, sister—you’re not what I expected. I apologize. I saw only your demeanor when you’re not a fool from home, but a living, breathing adventuress. One who’d found and lost love, no less!”
She turned bright red.
“Ser Pavoriad, how did you—?”
He chuckled.
“I have ears, and Gnolls talk louder than they think. Forgive me. I don’t mean to pry. I’m approving.”
“I just—it wasn’t even a—I’m over it. It’s a class approving my new philosophy towards life!”
Oh, it still hurt. She could glance at Ylawes and Pekona and like Pekona and understand how it had come to this, but she averted her gaze. Pavoriad’s head bowed.
“I understand. I truly do. I just wished to tell you, sister—not to be ashamed. Too many haughty half-Elves go out for their one adventure amongst mortals and come back without ever bleeding their hearts out or becoming, well, entangled. Maybe it suits them, and I am glad when they come back at all for they have better perspectives than those who never venture from our villages. But you are one I’d wish to talk to more.”
Oh. Her conversation from yesterday with Dasha and Pekona hit Falene, but from an angle she’d never thought of before. She glanced up at Pavoriad—but of course if anyone was entangled, it was him! She stuttered.
“I—I confess, I did regard myself as aloof, Ser Pavoriad. Not superior—”
He raised one eyebrow.
“A Wistram half-Elf from Gaiil-Drome?”
She flushed.
“Oh, fine! A tiny bit superior in education, training, but my team is truly wonderful. We get along, Dawil, Ylawes, and I. This recent string of events has been unprecedented, but I am changing. I feel it in my bones.”
She touched her chest, and it felt like the mana in her was burning brighter. A resource that she could expend, but right now, she could have cast low-level spells nonstop until she ran out of breath. She burned. Not necessarily with a desire to go back to the New Lands, but to find that damn love of her life, to become someone new. The [Knight] smiled like someone watching a sapling growing into a World’s Tree.
“This is why I cannot ever retire or cede my seat in the Thousand Lances. I still feel that way. More, now the New Lands have risen! When I go back home and hang up my blades, then I’ll be old. We must race out, sister, and drag our people here to grow.”
He held out a hand, and she grasped it and smiled. This, then, was what she’d craved. Respect from another half-Elf, but as equals? It made her heart flutter.
“All this from a damn broken heart.”
He laughed at her, then put her in a headlock and ruffled her hair as she shouted in outrage, ignoring the Tier 1 spells she blasted on his armor to no effect.
“Little sister, you’ve still got some of that sap of haughtiness on you! Yes, from a broken heart! Yes to levelling in bed, yes to puking over the side of your saddle, passing out, and levelling! Yes to levelling on the floor of an inn after losing a fight. We’re not perfect! Or show me one of us who is!”
He was right. But she wanted some of that idealism, that perfection! Falene spluttered.
“All very well for you to say, you—you chunk of sculpted bark! You look like a hero right out of storybooks, and you chastise me for trying to aspire to that? And there are things to idealize amongst our own!”
Pavoriad snorted at that as he went skipping past cowpats. Nimbly, flowing like a breeze in the forests.
“If you’d ever been to the half-Elven villages, sister, you’d not call them so grand. True, they’re creatures of habit, but all the old monsters there have gone out into the world and come back. Ever heard of Ceria Springwalker, that half-Elf who’s come to prominence? The moment I heard her last name, I knew she’d be something if she lived. The Village of the Spring. I think it drives them crazy; it’s one of the more perfect villages in Erribathe, and it’s a nightmare.”
It was always Ceria. But Falene adjusted her spectacles and, for once, didn’t feel green with envy about the younger half-Elf. She peered at Pavoriad’s back, and something she had carried into the New Lands, her obsession, her goal that she had not shared with Ylawes or Dawil, sprang to her lips.
“I don’t mean other half-Elves like that, Ser Pavoriad. I know our eldest are made of quirks and not as perfect as they seem. I’ve met Archmage Feor and seen the man behind the myth. The same with Archmage Eldavin.”
The [Knight] turned around, losing his smile, even as he continued to walk backwards, avoiding cowpats.
“Ah, that fellow. He troubles me. Everyone recalls the name but no one, even other half-Elves, really knows him. He’s a ghost amongst our kind, and I’ve heard of others like that…suspicious. But he’s in Wistram, and I can do little there. I’m glad you don’t idolize him. Who else, then?”
“Sprigaena.”
For just a second, he faltered. Ser Pavoriad put his foot down in some fresh leavings and stared at Falene. Then he wiped his foot. Rubbed at one ear.
“…That name. I do not know it, yet I know it. It struck me.”
Falene shivered.
“I have heard it in my dreams. I have seen her face again and again, and though it was but stone…Ser Pavoriad, I have seen the face of Elves. I think—the last of Elves. She haunts me.”
“Do you mean the last Elf, the founder of Erribathe, one of the heralds of our race? Queen Sprithae? The name is so close, but yours…”
Now he was wide-eyed, blinking at her. Falene inhaled, exhaled, and the scent of dung and the New Lands became, for a moment, that of an inn. A statue in the mists. She met Pavoriad’s eyes.
“I found her statue in a garden, in an inn I have great fondness for, Ser Pavoriad. But I was told that her story was not one I should hear, but seek out. The story of our ancestor, whom I was told was called Sprigaena. Sprigaena of the Fall. The Last Traitor. The…Traitor of Elves.”
