Another sip of the chilled wine. Andra savored it on her tongue. Such sensations…she was half-minded to call for a [Slave], but it was rude to enjoy oneself in company. In Izril. And even Chandrar. She’d need to change the culture back.
She wondered if she could get Qwera to pursue Shaullile’s pro-slavery initiatives. But sending non-Chandrarians a gift-[Slave] never worked out well in Andra’s experience, though she couldn’t fathom why. She had never had many friends in Roshal before her death or even after. It was why she craved those who could see the beauty of numbers themselves.
“Well then, as I have observed, and you no doubt, Izril is the prime continent for investment at this moment. Chandrar? Distressingly war-ravaged with little revitalization.”
“The King of Destruction does tend to ruin more than he builds. Though his kingdom comes out ahead. Such are [Kings of War].”
Andra beamed. Qwera got it!
“Exactly! I do have some investments in Reim and his holdings. Assuming he is triumphant, I expect exponential profits, but it is still slower than I would like. Izril? The New Lands?”
“I can see why you’re weighing in on the Merchant’s Guild. I’d hate to cross swords with you.”
Andra chuckled.
“I have little experience with actual swordplay, but I do enjoy battles of coin. As I said, however, I have no time to travel, and meeting contacts I can ally with is a priority. You are on a shortlist.”
Qwera stared at the sky for a second.
“…Would that shortlist mean you’re inclined to reverse course on the Silver Swords? Because I am listening.”
Another chuckle, and Andra waved a finger. She was enjoying this. The Gnoll woman was old enough, but compared to Andra, she was far too young and too low-level. Andra might have twenty levels on her, well, before her death. So distressing to lose her levels, but she’d already regained two.
“Merchant Qwera, you have not demonstrated any actionable reason I should believe your willingness to work with me nor any profitability in such an arrangement. When such moments do appear, I shall note them down and reconsider. Your Gold-rank team is not in great danger.”
“They have [Bounty Hunters] after them.”
“True, but adventurers tend to survive. If they enter the Merchant’s Guild’s possession, I will take charge of them. Then we can discuss an equitable trade.”
Oh, the Gnoll didn’t like that. She realized she’d revealed a weak point for Andra to use and bared her teeth. Delightful. She’d be so fetching if she lost, what, forty pounds? And took a Potion of Youth’s Return. Did they still make those? Andra would have to have them rediscovered if not.
Then again, she couldn’t tell if she wanted Qwera as a [Slave] or…an ally. Both were appealing. And because people often turned on her for reasons she never understood, only accounted for, Andra enjoyed both perspectives. She leaned forwards in her chair.
“I am quite interested in the developments over the next few months. The New Lands are a bounty of wealth if one approaches the puzzle correctly. Too many initiatives are foolhardy, such as the Consortium of Enterprise. I trust you will show me far more success.”
She knew the wealth in the New Lands, or she had enough clues to speculate what might be there. Qwera folded her arms.
“I don’t have the resources to go in nearly as thoroughly as Roshal. If you’d care to pave the way…”
“In time. I am currently consolidating our position in Chandrar. It is a rather tedious affair; we were cloistered until I took power.”
So insular. Andra rolled her eyes; her entry into the Merchant’s Guild was one of the things she’d needed to correct. If only she had a good helper—like Qwera, say. Did they have any [Corruptors] left? She’d check the Wishing Well later.
The Golden Gnoll was squinting at Andra.
“Who has any economic power in Chandrar besides Roshal…?”
“A few individuals. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has squandered its position, but Khelt is distressingly present. However, the main competitor in our region is the Empire of Sands.”
A thorn in her side. She didn’t like their growing authority or savvyness, but Yazdil assured her they were better as neutral, friendly parties. Andra didn’t conduct wars, so she sighed…then smiled.
“Their economic position is fairly dominant, but has been slipping of late. They made a terrible fumble of coin recently. I don’t know if you’ve heard…?”
“Recently? No, not at all.”
Qwera’s eyes lit up with curiosity, and Andra chuckled with good humor.
“Inquire about certain recent shipments of cargo if you would like to spot a great opportunity, Merchant Qwera. I, myself, prefer not to gamble on such ventures, but it was highly helpful in uprooting their dominance…until the business with these alternate currencies.”
She scowled again. She was familiar with such things, but it had been annoying—and unprecedented. She’d put it down to some kind of external factor, but she couldn’t understand what magnitude of Skill or effort it had been. Thatalocian had claimed it was due to Erin Solstice, but he said that about most things, and she had noted he had not stated that to the other [Slave Lords], just her.
Politics internally. She hoped she didn’t have to war with the others; they were more useful as allies. Qwera nodded a few times, taking in Andra’s hints.
“Intriguing. But my contacts say that the Empire of Sands is hardly down. They’ve been spending coin like water, as has Germina. Calanfer too.”
Oh, she was capable. Andra drank more wine, grimacing.
“That…is the oddity. Someone has injected a strong amount of monetary power into multiple nations. I traced the funds to Izril, but the Merchant’s Guild is not as thorough as I would like.”
And someone was very good at hiding their trail. She wanted to know whom, to avoid more meddling in her plans, and of course to either recruit or enslave such a party to her side.
Qwera exhaled.
“…And I’m, what, the young ingenue to throw myself at the feet of a master? I’m rather annoyed by this Silver Swords business, Lady Andra. You may not realize it, but you’ve made an enemy of House Byres. Lord Yitton Byres cares about his son.”
Andra’s head tilted to one side as she heard a blip from her speaking stone.
“Lady Andra, [Forewarned Danger] has been triggered. We are doubling your security.”
“Triple and deal with it.”
How annoying, [Assassins] or whatnot. Andra triggered five Djinni she’d bought for her security, then went back to talking.
“Lord Yitton Byres? Ah, the silver and anti-Vampire efforts. Interesting. I shall take note of it, but I don’t consider this a dealbreaker.”
Qwera’s eyes flickered at the ‘Vampire’ mention. Did she know? Andra liked her even more. Yes, she was definitely going to offer the Gnoll some lucrative contracts and see what she did with them. Qwera raised her brows.
“Lord Yitton is a man of honor.”
Andra chuckled until she realized this wasn’t a joke. She smiled at Qwera.
“Merchant Qwera, I am aware you are not a fan of Roshal.”
“Me? I’m just wary.”
The Gnoll tried to pretend to innocence, but Andra’s eyes were superior:
[Visualize Statistic: Favorability]. Qwera’s stat was at a -67 towards Andra, which amused her so greatly because Qwera was trying so hard. The [Slave Lady] smiled wider.
“Your intelligence overrides your dislike of me. That I respect. And because I do, I will make you some offers, and in time, you may provide what I desire most of all.”
“…I’m assuming you mean [Slaves].”
Qwera replied, an edge to her voice, and Andra waved this off.
“Not just any [Slaves]. Ones who have a significant effect on my business. Doombearers. I was worried when I heard they were all but extinct. However, more may be manufactured, and I am in the market—once Izril opens up.”
The Gnoll woman’s eyes widened and then narrowed.
“Because of their luck.”
Nothing better for a business. Andra sipped as her favorability score lost more points. She didn’t need to hide what she was doing; Shaullile would, but this was business, and at least here, nothing came of hiding your position.
“Your price for contributing to Roshal, and Lord Yitton Byres’ price for overlooking his ‘honor’ or familial ties to his son—or that Merchant Ysara—may be values too high for me to be inclined to pay. For the moment, Merchant Qwera.”
“But that implies you think at some point you can pay it?”
Qwera’s voice was oh so soft, and Andra snorted.
“Everything is business. I am not blind to this Yitton Byres’ reputation. Morality, honesty, integrity, these are assets which tend towards appreciation in value. But if they are never liquidated, what are they worth?”
It always annoyed her when she saw that. Some old, doddering fool clinging to something like that as if it meant anything while his house died in poverty. Qwera exhaled.
“I do see your point, Lady Andra.”
“I know you do. That’s why I like you. You’re still a bit naïve, but if I were to offer you, oh, a contract for…”
Andra was baiting a hook to throw at Qwera. Something nice and juicy that the Gnoll could use to prove how good she was. Something she couldn’t justify resisting. The [Slave Lady] was having so much fun that she was thoroughly annoyed when her speaking stone chirped again.
“Lady Andra, there is a situation. Hostile Skill incoming—”
“Deal with it! My office is warded.”
She broke off her meetings and glared at the stone. Her three active meetings all saw it happen; since it wasn’t a scheduled meeting, Andra had to reply in realtime. Qwera blinked.
“Am I interrupting you? We could take this call later, Slave Lady.”
“Not at all. Just one moment…”
What the hell was going on? Andra’s speaking stone lit up, and she heard a voice. Not her security; only four people could call her without going through her system.
“This is Thatalocian. We are under attack.”
Then a panicked voice.
“Get me out of here! What are they? What—”
Shaullile? Andra half-rose, then sat back down. She checked her security; she had vision spells of her entire tower from her office. She felt something crawling down her back. And then…
Was that the ringing of bells? Andra glanced around as Qwera blinked at her. Then she caught her breath.
Combat in the upper hallways. Something had infiltrated her tower. But how? She triggered the sound and heard screaming.
“Antinium! Ant—”
Slave Lady Andra froze as she saw a new species charging down the corridor. But they were all wrong to the images she’d reviewed. They appeared…summoned? Were they speaking? Screaming? And those eyes—
Her gaze flicked up to her doors. Andra checked the security footage outside her rooms and saw five Djinni hovering in the air. She relaxed, turning to Qwera with a smile.
“Some minor disturbance in Roshal. [Assassins]. It happens. Now, as I was—”
Thwoom. She flinched, and her papers moved on her desk. Andra saw her cup jump. What—what was—
She reached for her cup, trying to steady herself, smiling at the Gnoll whose eyes had opened wider. Andra drank from her cup.
“Perhaps I should—”
Then something exploded outside her office. The doors’ magical bindings cracked inwards, and Andra flinched. Nothing more; she didn’t have great reflexes or the instincts of a warrior. She just froze, wine cup in hand, and saw reeling Djinni, one locked in a wrestling match with a glowing Antinium Soldier. And a single Antinium Worker running forwards.
“bE vERy afRaID.”
“Wh—what is—”
Qwera, the Golden Gnoll of Pallass, saw Andra push herself back from her table, fumbling with her desk, her rings.
“Security. Securit—”
“Andra?”
Then the glowing Worker leapt at the [Slave Lady], and she flinched again. The security teams burst into the room and fired crossbows and spells. A Djinni whirled, hurled a spear.
The Worker hit the ground in front of Andra, pinned by the spear. Her heart was in her chest. Andra stared at the damage to her floor and mentally began to add up the costs. Shakily, she sat back in her chair.
“Status report. Trace that Skill and—”
All was well. She was telling herself that as the Worker, still impaled on the spear and thrashing, raised one glowing hand towards her. It had…eight mouths? The mandibles moved up in a smile. And the Antinium began to glow brighter. Andra’s eyes widened.
“N—”
Everything exploded. Qwera saw the room vanish, the scrying orb go dark before her eyes.
Then, Slave Lady Andra was falling out of her tower, screaming. Screaming—
And it was a long way down.
 
——
 
Ylawes felt like things were looking up at last.
Goisedall had been hard, but you know what? You had to treat it like an adventure. There were some difficult parts, like starving and the Merchant’s Guild, but he’d come out of it with treasure.
Namely, Pekona’s affection and having met the Plain’s Eye tribe and the Thousand Lances. Who were his heroes.
He was so shy, actually, he was making out with Pekona until the [Blade Dancer] realized he kept sneaking glances at the [Knights] and glared up at him.
“Captain…I do not have the words to say this, but are you kissing me to hide from them?”
“What? No! Maybe. I get a lot out of it with no ulterior motives, even if I had any.”
Instantly, she stepped back, breathing heavily, and brushed at her hair.
“My lips are not for distractions. They are all serious business. Who are they?”
Ylawes cleared his throat, very embarrassed. He saw Dawil sidle over; the Plain’s Eye tribe was still coming, and only Chieftain Merish and a few of his people had halted to speak with other groups. Everyone else kept moving on.
“Hoi, Humans. Get out of the way, yes?”
Everyone jumped as a little Gnoll riding a small cow with orange fur and long horns shouted at them. A stream of odd, compact cattle with less rotund bodies plodded past them, neatly making it impossible to get past unless you fancied trying to shove past a bunch of cows.
Someone tried it. Insill was so curious about the [Knights] he darted forwards.
“Excuse me. Ex—argh my tail!”
An animal got his tail, and when he twisted, another of the Plainsfollower Cattle knocked him down. Then he was in real danger of being trampled, slowly, before the young Gnoll boy whistled.
“[Safety Roll]! Get out, ya idiot! Darn Drakes…don’t cross a cattle stream! It’ll be four minutes, hear?”
Insill rolled back towards the group, holding his tail, wide-eyed and panting. Dawil twisted around.
“Alright, lad—not you, Ylawes, Insill—don’t do anything stupid like that again. They might be slow and cute, but each one’s got to be hundreds of pounds. One hits you, you fall over, even if you’re a [Warrior]. That’s just basic weight and force.”
