“This isn’t a secret that will last long. More…I do not know if it is entirely widespread. If it is, it changes as much as the salted land or mana. I assure you, we’re safe, but I’d like a test. Er, friend?”
He touched the spoon, and there was no response as Frivet and Merish eyed each other. Nailren sighed.
“I should have come up with a name for…Spoony? Can you test Frivet? He’s the [Shaman], the one with magic. If he hasn’t sensed you, that’s sign enough.”
Well, she didn’t like that. He got a flick to the fur on his head, then Frivet shouted and leapt a full foot in the air; the ghost had grabbed his tail and tweaked it.
“Rude.”
Nailren commented and got a distinctly pleased-sounding giggle in one ear. Merish’s fur had risen, and his axes were in his hands. He put them back in their scabbards as his shamanic paint glowed. Eying Nailren.
“I thought my war paint detected some odd magic about you, but I believed it was just an artifact—what is that, Nailren?”
“Ghosts. Be careful whom you kill. Or what you take. I wondered if Shaman Frivet had heard—I reached out to the Meeting of Tribes.”
“They do not, ah, always communicate with us openly. Did—did you say ghosts?”
Nailren introduced his ghost-friend whose name he didn’t know—she’d been the most far-gone and never whispered her name for him to bury her. The only ghost of the four spirits who’d wanted to come with him instead of moving on.
Merish and Frivet were wide-eyed, and Merish rubbed at his neck.
“This is incredible. Old legends come back. But why here? I can think of so many ghosts. Comrades from Rhir. I would have welcomed them in my guilt—why here?”
“Mana-drain? Some Relic-class item buried in the New Lands? The upheaval from the ghosts that appeared when the Seamwalker incident began? Who can say, Chieftain. Personally, I almost blame Erin, but I think this isn’t her fault.”
“Who?”
Merish might have some contact with Mrsha, but he did not understand the inn. He grinned as if thinking Nailren were making a joke, and his eyes flicked to Frivet, the spoon. Then he sighed.
“It is a lot of complications, but I thank you greatly for your knowledge, Nailren. I ask you this because Frivet tells me you are quite capable—will you stay or work with us? We are in dire need of high-level Gnolls. Those who were not killed at the Meeting of Tribes left, and those who remain are like Vhra.”
Not as loyal as you wanted, or shaken to their core. Nailren hesitated a moment, but there was no real choice.
“No offense, Chieftain Merish, but I left this part of my life behind. I’ll be happy to come back and share what I can, but I am no longer working for the tribes. I’m just another explorer of the New Lands.”
“One might say this is when you are needed most of all, Chieftain of Fletchsing.”
Frivet put in pointedly, and Nailren didn’t bristle at the [Shaman] and his staff with its carved eye, his mantle with swirling eyes decorated on the back. He just replied as Merish growled at the [Shaman].
“Trust is a commodity even the tribes need to earn, Shaman. I put some trust in Chieftain Xherw. Look where that has led us. Let us be friends and a people instead, hmm?”
“And earn the trust we have so manifestly lost. Indeed.”
Nailren’s reply had clearly shaken Frivet, but Merish got it. Merish offered a paw, and Nailren clasped it and felt guilty, but he could not be everywhere. He was just one Gnoll, and the New Lands…they called to him.
“I think the Silver Swords might be heading out, and I am a bit invested in how they’re going to do with this Merchant’s Guild business. Might I prevail on your tribe for a few items before I go? I have coin, and if you had a way to contact the Merchant’s Guild, I believe I have quite ample funds.”
“We do not, but take what you need. Do you require services as well as goods?”
“I could use salt, mostly. Oil, a few more pieces for arrows and the like—glue is going to be another essential, too. But have you any [Woodworkers] who could spare a few hours to rough out a carving? I have an odd project for them.”
Merish and Frivet were only too happy to call for someone to direct Nailren about as they returned to work. It turned out to be Viri, Merish’s friend, and the Lizardman bounded along, badgering Nailren for stories and chattering. He knew most Gnolls, and they seemed to like him more than Merish. The one-legged Lizardman took Nailren to a Gnoll only too happy to find a piece of wood and knife and carve out a funny project.
“You don’t want it stained, friend? Or at least let me give it a bit of polishing. I could make it three times as large.”
“It’s got to move, and I don’t have a bag of holding, [Carpenter]. Can you cut a groove so I can take it apart, here? Thin as you can without making the pieces fragile.”
The Gnoll grunted as pieces of wood flew.
“I have [Sturdy Creation], but I know another Gnoll who can add [Miter Cut] to this and make my life easier. Viri, go find Yorrei, if he’s not headed out with his clan! And I have a pot of a very quick-drying varnish…I cannot let a friend go without a bit of class.”
“Oh, very well. But can you dye it black? The letter in white? Apparently, it’s traditional.”
The Gnoll [Carpenter] huffed and rolled his eyes as Viri went bouncing off.
“Black and white? What are we, [Dark Mages] sitting in palaces eating grapes with our [Overlord] or something? Apologies, but it sounds a bit childish. Or like those odd Drakes with the black scale dye. Have you heard of them? [Goths]. Silliest thing I’ve seen, and even the Drakes thought so…”
“Hrr. I don’t know, [Carpenter]. It does seem a bit silly to me, too, but there’s a point in respecting how it should be. We’re making a ‘Ouija Board’. A friend told me of it, and it might help with communication.”
“What, for those who can’t speak? Ah, so that’s the point of the little marker thing. But you could use a finger.”
Nailren didn’t say who he was thinking of who couldn’t speak, and he wondered if this wooden creation would be of any use. His ghost-friend didn’t seem that able to move objects now that she wasn’t possessed by that murderous rage. She could poke or prod, but he got the feeling she got ‘tired’ after one action. A full conversation seemed hard, but maybe the light piece of wood would let her talk?
They’d see. He was also asking about ample parchment and ink, taking full advantage of Plain’s Eye hospitality. Viri promised to get him all of what he needed, so Nailren decided this was a good time to check in on the Silver Swords.
They’d finished their dueling and breakfast, and he strolled back over just in time to hear what was going on. Which wasn’t good news, to judge from how Ylawes, Dawil, and the rest of his group was gathered around Falene and a little scrying orb she’d temporarily enchanted.
“—who she is. I think she was attacked when our conversation ended. I swear I saw…nevermind. The point is that the Merchant’s Guild is going to pursue this, Ylawes, and it’s not a matter of gold. They want to put you in a servitude contract—I had to search them up, and they’re in our records. Old, old contracts. But dangerous. If they get you in one, I don’t know if you could cut your way out.”
“They’re going to blame us for the Consortium’s deaths? We testified, Qwera!”
Ylawes’ face was pinched and drawn, and Nailren felt for the man. He was a good fellow who’d just run into laws and procedure and the power of a huge entity. Nailren could have told him how they’d act, but Ylawes was floored. Another woman took over, and he saw purple hair.
Ah, Ysara Byres. Turnscale, friendly to Gnolls, quality silver-themed weaponry. A good ally to have especially if she and the Golden Gnoll were partnered. If they worked with Plain’s Eye, they could all benefit. If he told Merish— 
He shook himself.
Dead gods, I’ve got to get back to exploring. Ysara’s voice was strained.
“Ylawes, I’m sorry. I argued myself hoarse, but it’s this lady from Roshal. Slave Lady Andra. Maybe something happened to her, but—the Merchant’s Guild in the north is backing its members. Even if she weren’t in the picture, they want someone to blame, and it’s easier to blame you than to admit their members were that incompetent.”
“I am going to lodge a complaint with Wistram. The Adventurer’s Guild will have something to say about this! If they think we’re without allies…”
Falene snapped. Ylawes just stood there, face pained. He fumbled with a piece of parchment in one hand.
“Um, Father seems to think they have valid cause. His representative at the Merchant’s Guild was unable to help us. He’s concerned about the situation.”
Ysara snapped back testily.
“Father is busy pursuing his damn war and profiting from that, Ylawes. So much for telling me to be the ethical merchant—I’m sorry. This isn’t helping. We’ll put pressure on the Merchant’s Guild, but you cannot come back via Goisedall. Not you, not the [Farmers] or [Miners] or anyone else in the expedition. They’ll have you on lists for [Bounty Hunters] or the Watch to pick up.”
“Bounty hunters. For us?”
Farmer Petia stood there with a half-smile on her face, which turned bitter at once. Homle was scrunching a worn hat up, face white. Ylawes turned to them, then spoke.
“This is ridiculous, Ysara. We’re adventurers, but Petia and Homle’s people did nothing wrong! Tell them—”
“We’re trying, Ylawes. Truly.”
They all went silent, and it was Qwera who took over. The Golden Gnoll was as sharp and collected as Nailren had heard of her.
“This isn’t hopeless, Silver Swords. There’s a way out of this. What it requires is time and the right people. What you need to do is to keep clear of being caught. Keep in the New Lands; no one can [Scry] you easily there with the mana disruption, and it’s the one place the Merchant’s Guild isn’t. Even if you fled the continent, they’ve got power everywhere. Dead gods, your Antinium and Goblin are probably the safest of the lot; no one can tell one from another.”
“Hey! We have been racismed, Brother!”
“It is my fifth—no, sixth time. If I get to ten, Dawil has promised to buy me a snack.”
Infinitypear and Rasktooth high-fived. Qwera’s scowling face turned into a snort.
“Funny. Don’t make me like you, little brats. Listen. The solution here is to get the Merchant’s Guild to change its mind. To prove Anlam’s a little weasel with all the sense of a [Drunkard] in an Alchemist’s shop filled with [Potions of Blast]. There’s a way to do that. While you’re in the New Lands, Ysara and I are going to prevail on our contacts and get you someone who can speak to the Merchant’s Guild people. Do all the little wordplay and footplay and foreplay they want that even we can’t do.”
“Dead gods, Merchant Qwera, I just ate. There’s a class for this?”
Dawil was stroking his beard and not really smiling, but Ysara took over.
“Ylawes, you might be familiar with them. Qwera means [Advocates].”
“Oh…the kind the Five Families have? That get you out of Watch trouble?”
Ylawes pulled a face, but his sister nodded.
“Exactly. We get a good one and they can reverse this or cause a stink big enough to make the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters pay attention. We’ll talk to other [Merchants]—all the ones at the meeting were not happy about being overruled. And I hate to use this card, but the nobility will also object to one of our own being pressured like this. We’ll rally support. Just stay out of trouble until we get this sorted, alright?”
Easier said than done. The Silver Swords stood there as Nailren chewed on some fresh jerky, and he saw how this was going to go. They had nowhere to go but back into the New Lands, and…
They were not ready. All of them were malnourished, even if they had started recovering these last few days. They were down on gear, demoralized he just bet, and they didn’t have any supplies. However, Ylawes just took a breath.
“It seems we have no choice. Silver Swords, prepare to strike camp. I am going to prevail on Chieftain Merish to see if Farmer Petia and Homle’s people can stay here to work. But the rest of us…we will discuss finances and our share of loot from our last expedition and move out today. Falene, Dawil, let’s pool coins and see what we can buy.”
Nailren decided this was his moment to step in. He waved a paw as the Silver Swords began to murmur. He saw some of the colonists weeping, and he coughed.
“Ylawes, I can put in a word with Chieftain Merish if it helps. I have credit with the Merchant’s Guild—they can get it from Goisedall or a Drake city, and Lyonette can pay me back.”
Ylawes turned gratefully to Nailren.
“We owe you greatly already, Nailren—”
“Think nothing of it. I don’t like the Merchant’s Guild, and meeting Plain’s Eye was fortuitous. I’m moving into the New Lands today. If you’d like to join me, I’d not mind the company…but I’m on a new mission.”
Everyone turned to him, and Ylawes blinked.
“A job?”
“Nothing so fancy. Rather, I thought it was high-time someone came up with a map of the region. Doubtless every group is going to be doing the same, but I have an actual lay of the land. I’m no [Cartographer], but I’ll be charting the area forwards.”
If he could find any ruins, notable areas of interest, or actual settlements, it’d be worth a lot to everyone, especially because communication was so hard. It was part wanting to help Plain’s Eye, part stroking his ego and padding his coin pouch. But Nailren did fancy he had a chance to do some good mapping.
“It sounds like an adventure. But—we have to find work. And we’ll slow you down, Nailren.”
“I don’t mind riding with your group for a few days if it helps, but as you decide, Ylawes. Just let me know if you need directions.”
They conferred for a bit as Ylawes asked where they might go, and Nailren got the parchment from Viri and began his first rough of a map.
“I can only tell you where I’ve been and where you’ve been. So north to the hills, and I’m south…most would have gone straight west. If you want to find more people, that’s where you need to be. I’m headed that way too.”
“Might be best to keep away from too many people if the Merchant’s Guild has eyes on us.”
Dawil rumbled, and Ylawes pulled at his hair, exasperated.
“I just cannot believe this! I’m going to write another [Message] to a [Merchant] I know, Falene. How far would they pursue us?”
“After Goisedall? They put an entire city on you, Ylawes. I’d not underestimate them.”
The [Knight] glanced at Nailren and nodded, but he was still a man in shiny-enough armor. Nailren did feel bad for him.
