The Silver Swords glanced at each other, then moved out. Once more to the New Lands. Merish, Nailren, Viri, all saw them off. Nailren even rode with them for an hour. But then the yellow grass was all around them, caravans in the distance, and Ylawes Byres was riding—not walking—back into those untamed lands.
He wished it were all about the New Lands, not the politics. But, he was finding, the New Lands were all politics. Just not the kind he knew.
 
——
 
After a while, Dawil broke the silence. He was riding on a pony as two-thirds of the group walked. Just as he’d predicted, the generosity of Plain’s Eye did have limits. They didn’t have that many horses to sell, and so it’d be movement on foot.
On the plus side…Ylawes would come up with that later. Dawil just nodded back the way they’d come.
“Did you notice earlier this morning, after your duel, lad?”
“Notice what, Dawil? About the Thousand Lances?”
“Yep. Right when everyone was lining up to challenge the [Squire], Thellabell.”
Ylawes had a hole in his armor in two places he’d need to patch, and bruises. He didn’t want to think about being trounced by her. He wanted a healing potion and a bed in Goisedall. He wanted—
“What?”
“When she didn’t fight Pekona. Well, she ended up losing to Falene, so I can’t say that was lucky. But I swear I saw those Fate Wreaths? The ones they were given? A petal or some fur fell off one of them. It might have been hers. Or maybe her master’s?”
Ylawes blinked at the Dwarf. He didn’t know what to say to that. So he brought something up that was on his mind.
“I think we should address the team, Falene, Dawil. I…I don’t even know what we’re going to say to the colonists. But the adventurers are our teammates. However, now we’re on the lam, and why do they call it that? The lamb? What, are lambs just criminals? We can’t pay them, and we’ve landed ourselves in trouble with the Merchant’s Guild and—”
He was babbling, and Falene’s brows crossed as she glanced at the other adventurers.
“We’re in this together, Ylawes. Vuliel Drae knew they were with us, and Poke Duo have nowhere else to be.”
“But we’ve let them down. We’re the Gold-rankers.”
Neither one had anything to say to that. So Ylawes called over the rest of the Silver Swords. He didn’t know what to say as their faces turned towards him, so he went with what he had.
“Listen. We’re all headed into the New Lands, but I understand if you feel we’ve led you astray. I would advise we stick together, but if you would like to part ways—we only have our supplies. And we are out of gold to pay you with, both on hand and in our accounts, I suspect.”
Dawil slapped his forehead, and Falene groaned.
“Lad…”
Insill piped up.
“We don’t need gold right now, Captain! The Merchant’s Guild are all bastards. I always knew it. They never gave my family a loan—we’re with you! Where else would we go?”
“I just…want to be clear about what I can give you. I should be paying you.”
Ylawes was agonizing, but Falene stepped in, voice crisp.
“We’re having a rough patch. It’s happened before, and I’m sure you know what it’s like, Vuliel Drae. Poke Duo, this sometimes happens. The original Horns had plenty of rough patches before they got to Albez. When we acquire loot, we will split it fairly, but what Captain Ylawes means is that we’ll all have to tighten our belts.”
The adventurers nodded, and Ylawes took a breath.
“Yes. Thank you, Falene. There’s only one thing I can offer you right now. We were going to do this when we got back to civilization, but…I think it’s time. Pekona? Can you help me with our package?”
Dasha grumbled as Pekona’s eyes lit up.
“I don’t want to know what’s in your p—oh! The mithril!”
The colonists who’d been listening to the talk glanced up in confusion, and Homle’s eyes sharpened. He was the only colonist not surprised as Ylawes fetched out the bundle they’d taken all the way from the sunken Drake keep. Old, crusted blades that revealed that odd, tarnished metal. More clean than he’d thought. Pekona lifted up a longsword she’d found.
“I’ve been cleaning them, Captain. They’re not ready yet—”
“No handles.”
The sword blades were handleless, and there were little arrowheads, several spearheads—but Ylawes was shocked by how light they were.
Mithril. He glanced around at his team.
“In light of recent events, I propose all of you take at least one piece. Arrowheads for Larr—anything you need, even if it’s only a sidearm.”
“Wait, we get the Mithril? We’re not selling it?”
Insill gasped, and Anith brushed at his fur.
“Well, we can’t, especially not with the Merchant’s Guild against us. Are you sure, Captain? What if people notice what we’re carrying?”
Ylawes had thought of this. He gestured at the weird, almost bronzy tarnishing on the metal.
“I didn’t notice it, and I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, Anith. Only Pekona did. If I were to guess, I’d say it’s just some odd alloy or even cheap potmetal. If you’re carrying it…”
There was no hammer amidst the mithril, and Falene was carrying her staff. Ylawes had the Graveblade from Liscor’s dungeon, so the Gold-rank adventurers wouldn’t be carrying the mithril.
It might seem as if the lower-ranked members of the team were ill-equipped with some cheap weaponry, then. Dawil smiled.
“Lad, have you been levelling up as a [Rogue]? That’s some cunning insight there.”
In truth, Ylawes was just making excuses for what he wanted to do to salve his conscience. The adventurers eyed each other.
“You’re sure, Captain?”
“There’s a lot of it, Dasha. Go on, I insist.”
There was, in fact, a lot more weaponry than Ylawes had thought. The mithril was light, and because all the handles were missing, even the moderate bundle that he and Pekona had made was actually many pieces.
Vuliel Drae were inspecting the weapons as Larr found no less than twenty-three arrowheads in working condition and a bundle more that needed scraping. He grunted.
“Some even have a point. How d’you sharpen mithril? Pekona?”
“With mithril. I have my sword.”
She peered wistfully at the blades, which were decidedly non-Drathian in style, but Insill had a shortsword, Dasha had found a battleaxe, and even Dawil hefted something.
“Throwing axe. These Drakes had a full set of weapons. No mithril hammers, though. Damn me for using Dwarven weapons. Pointy! Dagger!”
He tossed one at her and another at Ylawes, and Insill and Anith both found one. Rasktooth found no mithril crossbow bolts, much to his sadness; Ylawes bet the tips were so small they couldn’t be found or had been washed away. Infinitypear had his Adamantium spear, but they still had pieces left over.
“We’ll have to get an axe shaft chiseled for your battleaxe, Dasha. Don’t bother popping your current one off; it won’t fit. It’ll be the work of an hour or two.”
Dawil advised the Dwarf woman, and she tugged at her beard.
“So, what, am I a two-handed-axe woman, now? This one doesn’t weigh a thing! I bought a mithril alloy axe, but compared to that…either I was ripped off or this is better metal! Dead gods, it’s so light! Insill, help me make the shaft; I want to swing it!”
Her face had lit up like it was Christmas. Ylawes was vaguely envious. Mithril at Silver-ranker’s level? He just squatted down and sorted through the pieces.
“No armor.”
“Must have been just weapons, or they didn’t wear mithril. Even if they had enough for weapons, a full breastplate’s a big ask, Captain. I’ve got spare daggers too. Put ‘em on the packs?”
Insill was trading out his daggers for his new weapons; he was already going to their supplies for wood to begin crafting. Hand-carved wood handles, leather grips—Ylawes’ hands hurt to imagine the shoddy grips, but with mithril on the other end…
Pekona had her sharpening kit, and she was working on a dagger she’d use to sharpen the others. As the adventurers put their weapons down, Ylawes had another idea.
“Dawil, how much wood do we have to craft handles with?”
“Oh, plenty, lad. The Gnolls sold us some tents they don’t use ‘cause of those handy yurts. We’re cannibalizing the tent poles and we had some of the Drake’s weapons from Goisedall. We might need to lose a tent pole or two to adjust everything, but we can take turns sleeping on the ground.”
Ylawes sighed, but that was the adventurer way. Blade in hand over tent above your head. He tossed over a handaxe and spear.
“Can you do me a spear and axe?”
“Looking to vary your weaponry?”
Dawil’s brows rose, but Ylawes nodded to the colonists.
“No. I’m thinking we should arm our new teammates as well.”
Dawil glanced at the colonists, and his face didn’t change, but his voice lowered as he carved out a handle for Dasha’s axe.
“Lad. I’m not suspicious, but if you gave them mithril, one or two might decide taking the blade and selling it’s worth cutting their losses, especially if they could change appearances…plus, there’s too many.”
“I know that. But what about Petia and Homle? Give me the weapons that we’re not using too. And everything we took from Goisedall’s barracks.”
After a moment, Dawil nodded.
“Fair enough.”
Ylawes walked over to Petia and Homle with a bundle of weapons in his arms.
“Master Petia, Master Homle? I know this is not how we wanted this to go, but we are in each other’s company again. I will do my best not to expose you to danger, but given the threats of Landsharks and worse…this is for you and you.”
He handed Homle the handaxe and Petia the spear, and they goggled at them.
“Are you sure, Captain?”
“I’m sure we need you all armed. I know you have your own weapons—”
Daggers or shortswords at most. Ylawes handed Dasha’s old axe out, and she spun.
“Hey, my axe! Well…fine. But do you know how to use it?”
None of the colonists really did, so Ylawes showed a tentative Homle how to swing the handaxe, and Infinitypear came over to help Petia practice with her spear. Ylawes left the colonists to trying out their weapons and wondered if what he’d done was right.
He found Rasktooth sitting on the grass, cross-legged and meditating. The Cave Goblin had little to do since he couldn’t practice his own weapons, and he hadn’t upgraded.
“You alright, Rasktooth?”
“Eh, sure, Captain. Just doing my cultivating thing. Gotta kill them wiggly-worm things.”
“Kill? Pekona says you reinforce your soul or some such. Your energy. It’s very ex—interesting.”
Ylawes sat down, and Rasktooth grinned at him.
“Oh, that what she said. But I know what I sense, and there lots of nasty poo-things in me. Must’ve eaten something bad-bad. They dying, and I eating their energy.”
“Circle of life.”
“Circle of poo, yah. It all go there eventually. Why you look upset?”
“I’m not certain arming the colonists is a good message to send, Rasktooth. I’m happy to share the mithril.”
Seeing Vuliel Drae practicing with their new weapons, filing their grips, and exclaiming over the lightness of the blades made Ylawes smile faintly. Rasktooth eyed the colonists.
“Why it bad to arm them?”
“They’re civilians, Rasktooth. They didn’t sign up for this.”
“Yeah…but now they in it. Better to have swords and practice than not. You know, I thought it was good idea, Captain. It remind me of my heroes.”
“Who?”
“Rabbiteater! Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Badarrow, Numbtongue! They save us, then they don’t go off and be heroes. They teach us how to live. How to fight. You do that with them? Then you get, uh, lots of adventurers. Way too many to pay. We get more shares than they do, right?”
The Bronze-rank adventurer leaned over nervously, trying to make sure his share of the loot was secure. Ylawes smiled at Rasktooth.
“You’re right, Rasktooth. Where does all this Cave Goblin wisdom come from?”
Rasktooth gave him a round-eyed stare.
“Dunno, Captain. I don’t feel very wise. If you say I’m wise when I live in dungeon all my life, I reckon it’s because you above-ground folk not that wise and we all in the same place.”
Ylawes sighed. He felt like that was unfortunately true. For a moment, he watched Dasha swinging her battleaxe and cutting down the long grass, laughing until one swing was too hard and she sent the battleaxe flying sixty feet in a whirlwind of death that had him and Rasktooth flat on their faces as it soared overhead.
“Dasha! Do we have to put a wrist-strap on your axe again?”
Anith shouted as laughter erupted and Dasha, red-faced, ran over to grab her blade and apologize. Everyone was in high spirits, and the only person a bit sad was Pekona, who’d gone to maintain her blade. Ylawes was walking over to offer her a nice flower he’d espied when she shouted.
“Ah!”
She leapt up, distressed, and whirled.
“Ylawes, oh no! My sword!”
She showed it to him, and it was…rusted. There was a distinct patina of rust on the sword’s edge, and Pekona was mortified.
“I haven’t checked it since Goisedall! With the Goblin King and the Thousand Lances—”
She instantly began to remove the rust, and Ylawes began handing her items to help. He commented.
“Good thing you checked just now, Pekona. If you’d cut yourself with a rusty blade…”
She loved to practice her dangerous quickdraw slashes and other techniques, and there was always a risk of Pekona striking herself, given how acrobatic her sword dances were. She was flushed.
“It’s so shameful. And a rusted blade is a very bad, very dishonorable thing to use. If I had cut that [Squire] in the duel…”
Ylawes blinked, and Dawil, who’d walked over, whistled.
“Wreathes of luck indeed. Not saying that’s it, but I’ll wager that if you had cut through that [Squire]’s armor…rust in the blood’s a nasty illness. Locks you up unless a very good [Healer]’s around.”
He gave Ylawes a significant glance as everyone kept practicing. Then Farmer Petia clanged a spoon on a pot.
“I’m making lunch! Cooks, front and center!”
“You got it, boss lady!”
Rasktooth rolled over until he, Dasha, who was a [Baker], and two of the other [Farmers] with applicable cooking Skills were debating over food. Food made everyone smile, even the distracted Pekona. Ylawes realized they had fresh food from the Gnoll camps and smacked his mouth when he was handed a pear. So decadent!
While he ate and waited for their main course, which was something involving chicken and some sandwich bread and a mustardy sauce that Rasktooth had obtained, Ylawes turned to Dawil, and his good mood faded.
“Dawil. Do you think that it’s really all settled at the inn? Mrsha didn’t say what went down with the Goblin King. I’m sure there was devastation.”
