“And Terandrian, who do not hold with slavery. I find myself agreeing with Qwera. This is too much to put upon a respected Gold-rank team. The Merchant’s Guild of First Landing would tarnish its reputation with the Five Families!”
Freirgat faced the Slave Lady. Andra smirked at him, and Freirgat’s stern expression wavered. She chuckled, once, like someone rustling papers.
“Do forgive me, Merchant Freirgat. Terandrians do not hold with slavery indeed. A fine joke. Merchant Bester, I believe Chandrar’s Merchant Guild Headquarters would like to confer on this issue.”
“They would? I may need to take a call—”
“Hold on, she can’t use the Headquarters in Chandrar! We’re voting on this!”
Qwera snapped, and even Rebrent seemed astonished, but Slave Lady Andra just raised her brows.
“I am merely acting in the Merchant Guild’s interest, Merchant Qwera. I understand your passion and would like to discuss business if we can put this matter behind us. There is no personal emotion in this decision for me. What benefits the Guild is for the best.”
“What about our reputations? I don’t fancy being blacklisted by the Adventurer’s Guild!”
Lilstreica shot back. Andra raised her brows higher.
“Do we consider the Adventurer’s Guild to be equal in stature to our influence?”
“Wh—as peers, certainly!”
Andra just shook her head as Freirgat objected. She turned to Bester, and then it seemed like she was speaking just to him.
“The Merchant’s Guild stands to increase its influence over Izril’s operations significantly. With so many members in the field, I believe any diminishment of our authority is a dangerous precedent to set. I request a recess before we put this matter to the vote.”
“Bester, this is our discussion!”
Freirgat snapped as the Drake hesitated, and Bester put up his hands. Merchant Rebrent was glancing at Andra.
“I, ah, do back Lady Andra’s proposal, but I would like some kind of measure to be taken against danger to my friend, Anlam. And the Consortium is still out there. What about a rescue—”
“The Merchant’s Guild has no resources to waste, Merchant Rebrent. I think a recess is in order. I’ll have to confer with some senior management. Fifteen minutes, please.”
Lilstreica’s voice rose in outrage!
“Bester! Oteslia’s Merchant Guild is not on board with slavery!”
“It’s not slavery. This is purely a matter of commerce.”
Slave Lady Andra smiled as Bester snapped back, and Qwera saw her knowing, amused expression.
“Exactly. It’s just good procedure and contracts. As it was first written by the founder of the current Merchant’s Guild. I was such an admirer of her work.”
“Who would that be?”
Freirgat, Lilstreica, Qwera, and Rebrent all turned, and Andra frowned, as if they should know that.
“Why, Empress Nerrhavia herself, of course. The Immortal Tyrant laid the foundations of the modern monetary system and the Merchant’s Guild. One of her finest contributions to world governance.”
 
——
 
You know, the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters did tell its own story. Precious gems, magic, Golems, all these beautiful things taken from other peoples by the expenditure of gold. Other people worked hard to make food, art, and because you had a handful of gold, you tricked them into giving it to you.
“Merchants are bastards. Guess I forgot my own advice.”
Qwera stood in the sun as it glinted off her fur, staring up at the arches. Lilstreica was munching on a carrot as Freirgat wrote in a [Message] scroll.
“Who is that woman? Is she in First Landing’s meetings? Qwera, are you not shocked? She overruled us all!”
“I’m thinking, Freirgat.”
The verdict had come down, and Ysara had stormed off. But Qwera? She just stood there and watched as that Chandrarian [Merchant] began to leave the Headquarters. Perhaps he’d only been here to visit or get information, but someone intercepted him as he was going.
“Sir? [Scrying] spell for you. Lady Andra—”
Curious. What Qwera’s ears heard before the conversation was silenced did not match what her eyes expected to see. Because, when the [Merchant] turned and saw the scrying orb light up—
All the color drained out of his dusky cheeks. He appeared afraid.
“That fellow there. He’s not from Roshal, is he? Does anyone know?”
Lilstreica stopped crunching on a carrot and glanced up.
“That man? No, Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I think his name is…nope, I don’t have it. Pretty intelligent fellow, though. Knew about Earthers. You two know that, right?”
“Everyone does. Do you think she does?”
Slave Lady Andra’s face was on a scrying orb coming their way. Qwera blinked as a [Servant] held the orb out.
“Merchant Qwera? Slave Lady Andra. A private call.”
“I’ll…take it. Hello?”
A [Hush] and other privacy spells fell around them as Slave Lady Andra spoke, and Qwera stood in a dark room.
“Merchant Qwera, your reputation for good business and penchant for dramatic discourse was not exaggerated in my files. I wished to speak with you. I trust you did not take the judgement of the Merchant’s Guild personally? It was merely business.”
“My partner is the sister of the adventurers we just hung out to dry, Slave Lady.”
“I see. So there is some stake in the matter. How much does she care about family?”
“Greatly, in this case.”
Andra’s head nodded slowly. Her eyes were distant, not disinterested, but as if the idea of ‘family’ were a remote concept she’d dallied with and had left behind. She twirled a quill in her fingers.
“I see, so there is some debt in our exchange. Nevertheless, I wished to introduce myself as a potential partner. There is quite a lot of interest in Izril at the moment, and a partnership might be profitable.”
Dead gods, Qwera thought she could have ice-for-veins at times. Here she was doing business with Tesy dead and Vetn…but Andra was all of Cenidau. Qwera smiled, baring her teeth in as genuine a grin as she had.
“You’re a dangerous woman, Lady Andra. I can see that. Let’s say I’m interested, if only to avoid crossing swords again.”
That got a smile out of the woman.
“A practical businesswoman, excellent. So many people are so—personal.”
Qwera nodded, then frowned.
“I’d love to chat. But didn’t I see you meeting with someone else? I’m not in your way, am I?”
Andra’s eyes flashed approvingly.
“Not at all. [Simultaneous Meeting: Nineway Conference]. I could hardly keep abreast of my work without it.”
Dead gods she was a monster. Qwera smiled wider as she envisioned a dog rolling over and showing its belly. Because—she wasn’t sure how to counter this.
“Amazing. Well, let’s talk, Slave Lady. And it’s not personal at all, of course. The Silver Swords might be in debt now, but I imagine Ysara will pony up the money to pay the debt.”
Or Lyonette at the inn will as soon as she gets in contact with us. Qwera hadn’t heard from the inn, but she was surprised they weren’t on the warpath already, and they had sway with the Merchant’s Guild, even if they weren’t card-carrying members. Andra tilted her head slightly, and that smile never reached her eyes either.
“Ah, another personal debt I owe you then, Qwera. Rest assured, I am keeping track. Though it is your partner, and you seem far more able to separate relationships from business. The Silver Swords are responsible for the death of five [Merchants], or at least, their disappearance. This is no longer a case of owed incomes.”
All the fur on Qwera’s neck stood on end. Then she saw Andra’s eyes light up with the most pleased expression ever, like a cat watching a mouse in a trap.
“A bounty will be issued for their apprehension. We shall have them. Or the Merchant’s Guild must make an example.”
After a second, Qwera forced a laugh. And then she really wished she had someone to tell about this.
 
——
 
Slave Lady Andra was enjoying herself; an unexpected treat this morning given she had expected drudgery.
Then again, it was only two meetings out of sixty-three that were at all pleasant or amusing. She was used to this ratio; most of what she had to do was administrative, and while she enjoyed the accumulation of wealth and seeing the business of Roshal, which was her business, doing well, it could be tiresome.
She was Roshal. Oh, Andra acknowledged that the same statement and claim had been made by the other [Slave Lords], Shaullile, Yazdil, Thatalocian, even Pazeral, and that they represented different ethoses and times, but Andra still believed she was the true heart of Roshal.
For she was its coin. She was the ink that signed the parchments that bound those to chains, and she was the gold that flowed to pay for the nets, the caravans, the [Slave Takers], and grease the wheels of other kingdoms so that Roshal continued.
They had entrusted her with Roshal’s finances, the Masters of Roshal. Not all by choice, but she had used Yazdil’s position and her Skills to eliminate most issues, and she now ran Roshal’s heart from her new office. Which was her old office.
She had died here, once, with Crelers crawling up the city. Andra shuddered. The most unpleasant, frightening experience of her life. The attack spell that the Revenant, Fetohep, had launched on Roshal? The second-worst moment of her life.
However, she could now leave Roshal’s defense to Thatalocian and Pazeral, its relationships to Shaullile, and some of its governance in non-economic sectors to Yazdil. It was a partnership; Andra was the only [Slave Lord] who understood and truly appreciated the system they had here.
High-level individuals capable of effecting change in a low-leveled system. Delicious. She drank more wine since she had [Ever-Rational Mind]. Nothing would affect her decision-making process, save for herself. She could be completely inebriated or distracted and she would still make as cold a judgement as she saw fit.
She had done this a long time. She had been a half-Elf before death, Roshal her home of centuries. She was no Golem, of course; she required enjoyment and pursued her vices. She was, after all, Roshal.
Only, Andra was old. She’d been in her late three hundred and sixties when she’d died, which had been considerable time in the mortal world for a half-Elf. Andra had long since experienced every vice, every act and depravity Roshal had to offer. Hence why she took such pleasure in true power over people by way of economic might.
She’d stocked this tower up on [Slaves], chosen ones who were capable or physically appealing, and indulged in having a body again for two weeks before getting back to work. Now she was bored of them, and as such, pursued the vice that all [Slave Lords] had in common: finding their favorite [Slaves].
Each one had a type. Pazeral seemed to favor extreme beauty, exoticism, or just prestige. Classic. Shaullile? Too private, but Andra was compiling lists of [Slaves] that Shaullile had bought. High charisma, it seemed. Thatalocian? A mystery, truly, but Yazdil was easy: competence and levels.
Collecting the best specimens, training them, and enjoying them was a [Slave Lady]’s passion. In Andra’s case, her work tended to dovetail with her collection. Andra’s quill scribbled like lightning in front of her, jotting down notes from the seven different meetings she was having all at once.
Meeting #18 out of 63, 8:35 AM. [Simultaneous Meeting: Nineway Conference], scrying into Chandrar, city of Scitv. Empire of Scaied. Merchant Alabreta begins weeping uncontrollably. Saved recording for later.
“You’ve ruined me.”
The Stitch-woman was sobbing as Andra smiled into the scrying orb. The adjudicator for the Empire of Scaied, a nobleman, was silent, uncomfortable. Lady Andra smiled.
“We engaged in business rivalry. You chose the wrong opponent. I gave you numerous chances to join my interests.”
“You monster. How did you—she’s the reason everyone turned against me! She’s sabotaged my business, Lord…!”
The woman was appealing to the judge, but Andra had bought him out, so the nobleman cleared his throat and smacked a stone gavel.
“Enough of this. I find these allegations hysterical and meritless! Merchant Alabreta, you have not proven your case. The Empire of Scaied finds you are gravely in debt. Your company shall be dissolved and given over to the crown.”
He shot a glance at Andra, and she checked down the neat list of boxes. Over the last month, she’d been taking apart Alabreta’s holdings, using [Assassins] and other tools to remove her profitability, steal her clients.
It was just a hobby. True, the woman was anti-[Slaver], but this was more fun than anything else. Andra smiled.
“I believe the penalty for excessive debts in Scaied is death. Or conscription into the mercenary armies.”
The nobleman nodded. The Stitch-woman inhaled, and Andra savored the fear in her eyes.
“May I make a bid before her sentencing, Lord Judge? I would like to pay off Merchant Alabreta’s considerable debts. You may transfer her into Roshal’s custody. I’ll buy her.”
“You—you—”
The Stitch-woman’s face drained of color, and she saw Andra’s eyes flick to her, a smile crossing the [Businesswoman]’s lips.
Yes, that was the kind of [Slave] Andra liked. Defeated rivals. The powerful laid low. She’d have fun when Alabreta arrived. The nobleman shivered slightly, but he nodded.
“Of course.”
“You can’t do this! You can’t—”
Alabreta began to wail and scream and even, amusingly, to flee. Andra smiled wider. She’d had this all recorded; she’d play it back later when Alabreta arrived. Entertainment for off-work hours. She’d lost her entire collection of slaves and recordings with her death. But, well…
Life could not all be fun. The work was more tedious, which was why it was so refreshing to have…she checked her notes.
Meeting #23 out of 63, 8:34 AM. [Simultaneous Meeting: Nineway Conference], scrying into Izril, City of Zeres. Merchant’s Guild HQ. Person of note: Merchant Qwera, ‘Golden Gnoll’. Impressions favorable. Very attractive personality. Could lose weight.
“Do you have time to discuss more matters, Merchant Qwera? As I said, I have a personal interest in you.”
The Golden Gnoll’s fur rippled as she nodded, smiling cautiously. Guard all the way up. But she shone in Andra’s eyes.
Splendid investing portfolio. She knows exactly when to cut bad investments, and she’d started from nothing. Andra could read someone’s entire portfolio of wealth like a web of bright metal strands behind them. Qwera was beautiful in more ways than just her fur. Andra admired anyone with good business sense.
“I could speak, Slave Lady.”
“Wonderful.”
