Her office was extravagant. Aside from the huge flag with Roshal’s symbol hanging above her desk, there was a view of Lailight Scintillation behind her, an oasis of colors surrounded by an emerald sea compared to the dry land of Chandrar around it. The rest of the room was fit for any monarch: huge shelves of books and trophies flanked the working area where Andra sat. Contrasting the rather rich, ornamental decor were just…desks.
Desks and cabinets scattered about the room. Each one set up for a single person. Like a command room fit for one, and the wheeled chair the half-Elf sat on could flick to any one required.
The wealth made Andra seem more like a [Lady] or a [Merchant] who’d given up caravanning, but Qwera wasn’t fooled. She knew the [Slave Lady] the moment she’d seen her, but it was the presence, again, that was so offputting.
Andra…weighed down the room. Eyes would turn to her. You’d default to addressing her instead of anyone else. It was like she possessed a gravity and authority that had everyone having to fight to defer to her. And, it felt to the [Merchants], she was better than they were.
In terms of the one unit they all respected: wealth. If they were little towers of it, building up their small companies, she was an empire of it, the fountain from which it flowed.
Respect me. Obey me. Listen to me. Her dispassionate eyes seemed to find the room both boring and engaging enough for her to sit there, sipping her wine. Like…a woman inspecting this scene to find any worth in it.
She unnerved the representative, Merchant Bester, the Drake representing the Guild, and everyone else in the room. Qwera’s hair was fully on end—she was the only Gnoll. There were two Humans, two Drakes, and the half-Elf. Andra.
Freirgat of First Landing, a Merchant Rebrent, Slave Lady Andra, Merchant Bester, and the last, a Merchant Lilstreica of Oteslia. She was a Drake and nodded to Qwera as the meeting began. Bester cleared his throat a few times.
“We are, ah, gathered here to discuss the matter of one Consortium of Enterprise’s complaint against their employees, namely the Silver Swords, a Gold-rank team. It has come to the Merchant Guild’s attention that there is a matter of disagreement over how the matter should be resolved. Merchant Qwera, you had voiced an objection. Merchant Rebrent, you are vouching for the Consortium of Enterprise, who is in turn represented by Merchant Anlam, the only known member who is alive or in contact at this moment. Tragic, tragic…he can be summoned for testimony if need be. Merchant Qwera, you have the floor to speak.”
So that was her opponent. Rebrent seemed like a typical big-caravanner from the north, used to buying and selling in bulk and being able to command better margins than smaller groups. To be fair, that was her model, and she bared her teeth at him as he nodded stiffly and held a handkerchief over his nose.
Not for her; his eyes flickered to the half-Elf, and it was Lilstreica who raised a claw.
“Er, may I ask a question?”
Bester nodded at her. He was the final judge and jury in this room; the Merchant’s Guild was adjudicating this dispute, but if they wanted to do something, they’d do it. However, if every [Merchant] in here objected…the members had power. A powerful member could probably overrule the entire room.
Qwera would have guessed that Freirgat was near the top, or Lilstreica, but she had no read on Andra’s position. She felt powerful but Qwera would have heard of her name; she knew a lot of the top [Merchants] from Chandrar by reputation. This woman was a stranger…
“I know we’re all [Merchants] here, but who is our guest? That…she appears to be high-level, but she’s not from Izril, or I’d know about her.”
Bester jumped as Lilstreica said what everyone was thinking. He wiped at his brows.
“Er, Merchant Andra—”
“Slave Lady Andra. I insist on my proper title, Representative Bester.”
The woman interrupted with a cold, no-nonsense voice. She flicked a painted fingernail up towards the banner and smiled with evident pride in who she was. Well, that just settled how Qwera felt about the woman. Bester jumped.
“Slave Lady, yes. She is a member of the Merchant’s Guild. A very old member, in fact, who reactivated her membership recently.”
“…How old?”
Lilstreica gestured at Andra, and Bester licked his lips.
“Er, thousands of years old, it would appear. Slave Lady Andra is on the books as being an active member during the Creler Wars.”
Six thousand years ago. The knowledge filled the room with silence until someone laughed incredulously. Qwera felt her anxious stomach roiling harder.
Because…she wasn’t sure that she saw all that age in the half-Elf’s face, but there was something there. The power. Lilstreica turned her head.
“I haven’t heard of her. Not once. I know the top [Slave Lord] in Roshal is Emir Yazdil. What…let’s assume this is true. She just reappears one day, claiming to be the same Slave Lady Andra and she gets her old roles back? Did you check her identity?”
Bester mopped at his brows as Andra smiled.
“Yes, I believe there was a thorough investigation. It is an extraordinary circumstance given the gap in time…but that is not actually a way to lose membership, Merchant Lilstreica. Lady Andra reactivated her membership, and she is in good standings with Chandrar’s Merchant’s Guilds and, ah, quite interested in the goings-on in Izril. She has voted in every meeting for the last month.”
He had a rather hunted expression on his face, and Qwera felt uneasy. Every meeting? Most [Merchants] hated being called into the procedural votes, which were often disputes between local Guilds or the like. But if you wanted to spend your time, you could curry a lot of favor with people by interceding, probably like what Rebrent was doing.
Great, we have someone from Roshal who’s willing to play politics all day. She should tell someone.
…Who? The Wandering Inn? The Meeting of Tribes? Roshal wasn’t anyone’s enemy, except maybe Erin Solstice’s, but one look at the woman made Qwera feel like they were diametrically opposed.
Her instincts said someone needed to be aware and opposing this woman.
That left only Qwera.
Great. But she smiled at Andra as if they couldn’t be enemies at all, because telling the woman they were enemies was the worst move of all.
“Chandrarian Merchants. We didn’t have that until the New Lands started rising. Does the Headquarters allow foreign interference into our matters, Bester? No offense, Lady Andra, but I’m just protective of our authority.”
That got nods from everyone in the room, but the Slave Lady replied, again stiff as a pole.
“It is the policy of the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters of Izril to allow any [Merchant] to weigh into disputes where their businesses are represented. A number of Chandrarian [Merchants] I am affiliated with, as well as those registered to my city, are going to the New Lands. I find Izril’s matters of great import. If the Izrilian Guild decides to curtail my participation, that is their decision.”
The most narrow-straight, no-nonsense answer you could ask for. Bester spread his claws.
“We have made no deliberations on this point…if you have an objection, Miss Qwera?”
Andra watched Qwera as the Golden Gnoll shook her head instantly. And then hid a smile as someone else spoke.
“I have an objection! This…this [Slave Lady] has no bearing on this case! And she is rather—distracting! I am representing my friend, Anlam, and my fellow [Merchants] from Invrisil’s Merchant’s Guild! I request the removal of outsiders at once!”
Rebrent snapped, and instantly, Andra jotted something down on her papers. He glared at Qwera as Bester lifted his claws.
“Merchant Qwera has ties to the Silver Swords—”
“Non-entities like that thing and the others.”
He meant Lilstreica and lost her support instantly too. Only Freirgat was immune to Rebrent’s objections, and Qwera snorted.
Idiot. The problem was…he had contracts on his side. Bester snapped back.
“Merchant Rebrent, no member will be excised from this room. Let us begin laying out the issue at hand. Merchant Qwera?”
 
——
 
When you got down to it, it was a simple problem. Qwera explained it without real objection from even Rebrent.
“Some [Merchants] tried to strike while the iron was hot. They headed into the New Lands before anyone knew about the mana drain or salted earth. It was a bad investment from the start, but they didn’t know when to quit.”
“Poor fools.”
Freirgat murmured. Lilstreica shook her head.
“Were they planting?”
“They intended to. They had just enough provisions for a first harvest. My understanding is, ah, a harvest was attempted as supplies dwindled.”
Rebrent muttered, and everyone shuddered. Lilstreica shook her head.
“Oteslia has been slammed for food orders. Even our gardens can’t keep up—! It’s not just how many people want to go on an expedition, it’s how much food has been lost. Spoiled when the Chests of Holding fail! So, this Expedition of Commerce…?”
“The Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions, I believe.”
Bester remarked, and even Lady Andra’s lips twisted. Qwera sighed.
“—They made a mistake. But their real mistake was staying. Everyone started to starve, and they refused to leave. That’s when the contracts began being used. The Silver Swords were coerced into staying.”
“Coerced…”
“Contract chains.”
“Dead gods, someone actually used one of those? Those are old contracts on the books!”
Freirgat was astonished, and Qwera eyed him.
“They’re more common than you think on long-haul caravanning. But forcing people to stay and starve went as well as you could expect. The Silver Swords broke the contract.”
“They attacked the Consortium’s members, staged a revolt, broke into their personal property, stole the expedition’s supplies, and fled, Merchant Qwera.”
Rebrent corrected her, and Qwera snorted.
“Your friends wanted everyone to starve to death. One of their members begged for escort! I have all of this on truth stone, and you know, we could have just left it there. Instead, some idiot called down an entire Drake city on all the members of the expedition, and we have arrest warrants sent to dozens of cities! I say call it off. This is making us look bad.”
That was her case. She felt like it was an easy thing to grasp, and Freirgat, Lilstreica, both seemed to be receptive, but Slave Lady Andra…
“According to the deposition of Merchant Anlam, the Silver Swords were unfaithful to the spirit and letter of the contract, hence his desire for both their arrest and arrangement of servitude-contracts. He is correct under the contracts—the Silver Swords testified to the Adventurer’s Guild under truth stone they were coerced and in a position of life or death. Where does the Headquarters stand on this issue, Bester?”
She spoke as the Drake chewed his lip.
“We acknowledge the Adventurer’s Guild’s complaint, which they have raised, of course…but the Consortium were all members of the Guild in good standing. Setting a precedent where any hired contractors can abandon our members in the New Lands would be a terrible example.”
Qwera slammed a fist on the table.
“As would chasing down a Gold-rank team to the ends of the earth. It looks bad! It ruins our reputation.”
“You’re just backing them because of your personal connections, Merchant!”
Rebrent sneered at her, and she barked back.
“And you’re trying to bail out your buddies! Don’t play favoritism with me! Listen to me. Who here knows Merchant Anlam or the other members? What’re their names?”
She peered around, and Freirgat raised a hand.
“I knew Merchant Lolsed, who is part of my guild.”
She nodded at him.
“Famous, was he? Well-liked publicly?”
A shrug from the Golem Trader.
“Publicly, I doubt anyone knew him. Within the Guild…he was fairly successful. Not a member, but he might have gotten there before he retired.”
Then he’d be like Bester, a member of management throwing his power around there because he didn’t want to hack it actually selling goods. Qwera nodded.
“Now, the other side is the Silver Swords. A Gold-rank team. Who knows them?”
Everyone had to raise their hands, even Slave Lady Andra, to Qwera’s surprise, except Lilstreica, who tilted her head.
“The Silver Swords…are they related to the Silver Killer of Izril?”
“Brother to her. Sister of Trader Ysara, who’s in business with Qwera here.”
Freirgat informed her, and the Drake’s expression lit up.
“You don’t say? I’d love an autograph or to chat—”
“Ahem.”
Bester cleared his throat, and Qwera went on in the silence.
“The Silver Swords are respected. Seeing the Merchant’s Guild come after them and siccing the Watch on them as well as the colonists? It looks bad. It calls our contracts into question and makes people second-guess working with us. How many questions have we gotten about those contracts from the Adventurer’s Guild, Bester?”
That was a shot in the dark, but he grimaced, and the other [Merchants] glanced at him. Freirgat was nodding as he rested his hands on the table.
“So you’d propose…”
“Drop the criminal charges. That’s all. The Silver Swords lost most of their gear. The Consortium’s either dead or expended most of their finances. Everyone lost here. What do we stand to gain from pursuing this?”
Lilstreica was nodding, arms folded. Rebrent licked his lips as Bester raised his brows, and Qwera thought she had them until the Slave Lady spoke.
“What we stand to gain is a Gold-rank team’s services. Which would benefit us greatly. It is true our members acted foolishly. Merchant Anlam is incompetent and has misrepresented his case in self-interest. I propose demoting him to Trader-class, absorbing his contract and that of the Consortium into the Merchant’s Guild employ, and pursuing seizure of the Silver Swords unless they can repay their incurred debts.”
Every head turned to her, and Freirgat frowned.
“You want to make them [Slaves]?”
“Indentured workers. As is chartered under Merchant Guild law. They are a capable group. It would behoove Izril’s Merchant’s Guild to develop longer-term assets, especially given the pressure on our members.”
Lady Andra shuffled her papers slowly on the desk, and Bester appeared uneasy.
“[Slaves] are not a common practice in Izril, even if they are allowed in cities like Zeres, Lady Andra—”
“They are not slaves, Merchant Bester. They are assets. And with respect, I do represent other [Merchants] who are keen to know their interests are not being ignored by Izril’s Merchant’s Guild. Baleros, Rhir, and Chandrarian [Merchants] have already begun to land on Izril’s shores.”
