“Um…good? Lots of people left. Most people’re upset about there being Doombearers. Especially the Doombearers. Vhra’s so mad she’ll bite your head off for mentioning her fur. But I guess Chieftain Merish is making everyone work. I mean, someone has to.”
“Sounds like he’s not that popular.”
Dawil suggested, and Cullous hesitated.
“No…but no one’s gonna get a new Chieftain or the other tribes’ll, y’know. And Xherw got everyone killed. That’s what my ma says.”
“You doing alright yourself, lad?”
“Sure. I mean, my dad and uncle and both aunts died at the Meeting of Tribes. But I guess…that was our fault, right?”
The boy stood, then, with buckets of milk in hand, and he gazed blankly at the cow. Dawil paused. He glanced at the boy as Ylawes looked up from greedily eating some cheese and bread—freshly made cheese that tasted so sweet and decadent—
Cullous’ fur was red, but Ylawes stopped chewing on a sample bit of cheese for a second as he noticed an oddity; some of the fur on Cullous’ arms was white in patches. Almost like…
Dye. He exchanged a look with Dawil, and Cullous instantly scrubbed at his fur, averting his eyes. So he’d been at the Meeting of Tribes. But the Dwarf just patted Cullous on the shoulder with a kind smile.
“You didn’t do any of that fighting, did you, lad?”
“No. I just ran away.”
“Then I reckon you weren’t old enough to be carrying that blame. At least, not anything heavier than that bucket. Where do we put this before Poke Duo drink this too?”
Cullous’ face broke out of that blank stare, and he grinned.
“They can have as much milk as they want. They’re funny. Everyone likes distractions since—here’s where the milk goes.”
They had a specially-made wagon that you could add milk to, which stored it and kept it from spoiling. It’d even turn into buttermilk; it spun slowly as it was pulled along thanks to some ingenious work with wooden cogs. Dawil whistled.
“Who made this?”
“Oh, some Gnolls who went to Pallass. We’ve got other stuff like that. Rotating the stuff keeps it from goin’ bad, unless it’s fruits, which get mushed. Once we fill this up, we’ll pasteurize it. See that spot below the barrel? You heat it up, then you gotta ice it. Pain in the butt. And we gotta do it without magic in the New Lands, the [Shamans] say! At least some of us have got [Free Pasteurization] or [Frozen Storage].”
Skills for a people who needed them. Ylawes was impressed, and then he heard a howl and a voice.
“Plain’s Eye! We have arrived!” 
Chieftain Merish. He stood on top of a wagon as Viri bounded up and down next to him. The [Chieftain] shouted at the Gnolls who had formed smaller groups.
“Each sub-tribe is to find a place they choose to camp! This territory might not be yours—be careful of others who have put down claims! For fifty miles north and fifty miles south of here, we shall rest! We shall trade with expeditions in need of supplies. Do not oversell your herds. For every animal you slaughter or sell, two more must be kept or bought. Do not take credit, and if you must barter, ensure it is something needed in the New Lands. Report any strange things to your [Shaman], and they shall be in contact with me. Vhra shall patrol each camp, but ensure she is not needed.”
Then he hopped down from the wagon, and the Gnolls began to move.
“Forests, that didn’t sound precise enough at all. Will they be okay?”
Falene was shocked by how simple the instructions were, but Dawil snorted.
“They’ve got to be used to living more independently than us, Falene. Larr, is that how it’s done?”
The [Ranger] didn’t know since he’d never been outside of Hawkarrow, and they apparently did it differently, but Anith raised a paw.
“It sounds close to how the Beastkin Tribes do it, Falene. A few broad orders for each tribe and then you can do details. Plain’s Eye is less one big, central tribe and more a collective. See? Chieftain Merish is planting his main camp here, and the others will move around him.”
The Gnoll was indeed striding around the largest gathering of tents, and when Ylawes approached, the [Chieftain]’s plan was obvious.
“There is too much uncertainty in the New Lands past this point. I will send parties and explore when I can myself, but I will not take my people there, no. What I will do is let them graze, here, where it is safe enough. There is plenty of grassland, and once we find the best spots, we shall try to claim them. In the meantime, we shall act much as Goisedall has done. Feed the hungry and earn coin enough to be profitable, yes? Only, we’ll do it before the Drakes.”
He grinned at Ylawes. The Human man hesitated.
“Won’t the Drakes object to you taking their business?”
Plain’s Eye was going to be right in front of Goisedall and the other cities! They’d get the people in the New Lands coming to them first. Merish snorted.
“Well they might. But as I see it, they could pack up and move further inland to beat us. If they cannot, or will not, it is just fair business. Besides, we shall all be rich; my tribe alone cannot feed so many. They’ll just have the richest pick of it. Hrr, though I do not think ‘fair business’ is what I would associate with Goisedall. Tell me about what we interrupted, Captain.”
Ylawes strode besides Merish as the huge Gnoll walked his camps. Gnolls were throwing up yurts with tremendous speed and practice, and cookfires were already rising.
Everything we lacked in the expedition. No one was using magic; Gnolls were using flint and tinder in places and going to stockpiles for food and supplies. The lack of magic that had haunted the Gnolls for so long had meant they had found ways to do without. Ylawes coughed.
“I…made a grave misjudgement in choosing my employers, Chieftain. Everything that’s happened since is a result of my foolishness. I thank you greatly for your help, and I wish to assure you that my team has not committed any acts I think are worthy of imprisonment. But the Merchant’s Guild seems to believe otherwise. Merchant Anlam has spoken to them, and I believe he’s misrepresented the truth.”
Here, the [Chieftain]’s head ducked low, and Ylawes took in the Gnoll for the first time. Merish was a physically imposing Gnoll. As a former [Shamanic Warrior], he was over seven feet tall, brawny, and had the markings of his tribe that he could activate in a fight.
But that was the Gnoll who he had been. Instead of the simple cloth clothing, he now walked with the mantle of a Chieftain over his shoulders; brightly dyed fabrics with eyes on them, only, Ylawes realized, this wasn’t like the traditional garb some of the Plain’s Eye Gnolls wore.
The eyes that were customary to Plain’s Eye were no longer their central motif. Instead, a white pawprint was on the back of Merish’s mantle, a cluster of spears drawn below it—broken. The eyes floated above the symbol, some closed, some open. Some weeping blue and red.
And his fur was white. Snow white. Where it was not white, Ylawes saw scarred skin, and the Chieftain had many scars. The most visible and recent was a huge slash mark across one cheek. Wounds he had received in his duel with Chieftain Xherw.
He looked like Ylawes had felt, only more so—someone bearing the scars and wounds of Izril’s most disgraced tribe. But until this very moment, Merish had been a dynamo of action. When he stopped, the scars seemed to appear and grow more visible. His shoulders tensed, then slumped, and when he looked up—Ylawes saw his brave face recede a bit.
“I know what that is like, Captain Ylawes. Putting my faith behind the wrong leader…you woke up well before I, and it was not as grave. Believe me, I understand your shame. But you must move on, no?”
He put a gentle paw out, and Ylawes recalled all of what Merish must have done or been. A tribe of Doomslayers, Chieftain Xherw. He was ashamed to bring up his own woes before the weary Gnoll, but Merish rested a paw on his shoulder and squeezed tight.
“Hold steady, Captain Ylawes. Atone for your deeds by action, not guilt alone. Goisedall will not touch you with us here, but we have little power with the Merchant’s Guild. Almost everything of Plain’s Eye’s wealth was sold to survive the winter and buy enough supplies to come here. Yelroan…well, I am also told that The Wandering Inn is helping you. Can they resolve this?”
Ylawes nodded rapidly.
“Yes! I reached out to my sister, my father, and Lyonette. All of them agreed to help—I haven’t heard back from any, but Ysara was going to intercede with the guild directly, and my father is speaking to a representative as well.”
—And he hadn’t heard back from Lyonette, which was odd. She’d been busy yesterday. Maybe there was a Solstice event at the inn?
Ylawes had hopes, anyways, and Merish smiled.
“Well, it seems straightforwards. Let’s camp bef—”
Then, high overhead as the sun was setting in the sky, Ylawes swore he saw one of the two moons appear overhead. He blinked upwards as the green moon seemed to flash—then drip a tear downwards towards the north. Merish blinked up at the skies.
“Strange. Did you see that?”
“I did, Chieftain. I swore I saw the moon wink.”
They stared upwards, then Merish put two fingers in his mouth and whistled. His [Shaman] came running as the two stared up, and the Thousand Lances, Gnolls, and everyone else gazed up at the moon.
Then Ylawes began hearing howls of alarm, and Merish spun as Chief Warrior Vhra yelled at him.
“Chieftain! [Dangersenses] from everyone! The worst they’ve felt!”
“To arms! Children in the center!”
Everyone was running then, and the Thousand Lances drew their blades as they searched for a threat—but where? Where was it? Ylawes ran towards Rasktooth and Infinitypear.
“Rasktooth! Your [Dangersense]—any idea where it’s coming from?”
The Cave Goblin sat on Infinitypear’s shoulders, and his normally confident expression even in the face of danger had turned to one of uncertainty. He whispered to Ylawes, very quietly, as Falene put a finger to her temple.
“I’m getting a [Message] from Wistram—dead gods.”
She went pale, and Ylawes leaned over.
“What? Your [Dangersense], Rasktooth?”
“It not activating, Captain.”
“What?”
But every single Gnoll—Rasktooth spoke very quietly.
“Maybe…everyone in danger. Except for me.”
Then the [Knight] stood there as Falene Skystrall turned and spoke.
“They said a Goblin King has emerged. In Liscor, Ylawes.”
“What?”
He didn’t know what to think. He didn’t believe it. The inn—
Ylawes was asking for details from Falene as everyone stood and watched the moon shining. Then pulsing more ‘tears’ down to earth. Wondering what was happening.
Forty-six minutes later—
The moon cracked.
 
——
 
“We ride for Liscor, now. Thousand Lances, to me! Squire, you will remain here. Ser Ylawes, if you do not ride for House Byres, I beg you, keep Thellabell safe. Forwards the Thousand Lances in the name of the Hundred Heroes!”
There was a quality that you picked up in The Wandering Inn, Ylawes realized. The [Knight] hadn’t realized it fully, but it was in seeing the reaction of the Thousand Lances of Kaaz and the Plain’s Eye Gnolls versus the Silver Swords to the news of a Goblin King.
For here were two major powers of the world. The world’s finest [Knights] and the tribe formerly known as the largest and strongest of Izril. They had just been informed that a Goblin King had emerged in Liscor—then been treated to the mind-numbing sight of a Harpy, multiple Dragons, and the moon itself seeming to attack the Goblin King.
The battle would be over before any of them made it. Whatever the Goblin King did would be history by the time any of them passed Manus, let alone Pallass.
This, Ylawes knew, and it was a bitter fact. Whatever had happened at The Wandering Inn, he was too late. He would wear the sin of that fact on his chest forever.
However—
Dame Rosenthine was still the [Knight] that set Ylawes Byres’ heart to flame. As soon as she understood what was going on, and saw that armored figure tearing out of the inn, she was mounted, and her lance of Adamantium was thrusting into the air.
Ser Pavoriad, Ser Brindelhor, and Lord Volede were right behind her. Ser Pavoriad only hesitated a moment.
“Should we not link up with the Walled Cities, Dame Rosenthine? We will not stop him alone. Better to die side-by-side with allies who might slay him.”
“We will sort it out on the journey northwards. Ride!”
Rosenthine was galloping when her [Squire] cried out.
“Knightess, take me with you!”
She was running, full-tilt, for her horse at amazing speed, but Rosenthine turned her galloping horse and, to Ylawes’ astonishment, rode her own [Squire] down. Her lance knocked Thellabell flat with a blow that must have bruised her despite her armor.
“Nay—you are a mere [Squire], and I will not have you die to no end. Back.”
“I would rather die with you, Rosenthine—”
“You are a [Squire] of the Thousand Lances. It is not for you to choose where to die!”
The [Knight]’s voice was a thunder of ringing metal, and the very weight of her aura made Ylawes stagger, but Ser Brindelhor was the one who rode past her.
“‘Tis not something that befits her honor to be saved from valorous death when every blade is needed, Rosenthine. We ride to the side of the Hundred Heroes. Let us go together.”
Rosenthine hesitated, and her visor rose and revealed an anguished face, contorted, as her [Squire] begged her.
A drama. A tragedy. [Knights] preparing to ride north knowing it was their deaths.
Plain’s Eye was a flurry of orders as Merish restored calm. Bellowing.
“No one is to move, not one of you! Vhra, prepare your [Warriors]!”
“To head north?”
He slashed the air as the panicked Doombearer lifted her spear. Merish pointed—eastwards.
“No. You will ride for the Meeting of Tribes and the Great Plains if we must. We are far from Liscor. The Tribes will form an army. Calm. Frivet, to me! I need your council!”
Panic among the Gnolls. Cullous, the boy, was waving his arms, trying to prevent a stampede as he ran after the cattle who’d picked up on the panic.
Goblin King. That was what the very name could elicit. And, ironically, everyone had forgotten about the Goblin in their midst for a moment.
Rasktooth was shrinking down as small as he could, anyways. He’d gotten off Infinitypear’s shoulders, and he sat, cross-legged, staring north. His face was wrinkled up in confusion, and Ylawes?
Well, it was that quality from The Wandering Inn that struck him, now. He glanced around, and Vuliel Drae was mostly frozen. Infinitypear was holding his spear, searching for something to stab.
