“Let me tell you something, kid. I want you to remember it. It might be the most important thing you learn from your apprenticeship aside from remembering to keep a lockpick hidden in your neck spines.”
“Y-yes, Miss Qwera? I’m listening.”
“Merchants are bastards.”
“…Miss Qwera?”
“That’s it. That’s the lesson. I know you think you understand it, or you think I’m being cute, but you don’t get it. I want you to remember that when we go in there, and if you’re smart, you’ll figure out what it means by the time we’re done. Now…give me a second.”
The Golden Gnoll stopped outside of the largest and most impressive building that the young [Trader], Selchess, had ever seen in her life. Qwera barely peered up at the fifteen hanging Dragongems casting arcs of color across the silk brocade fabric arches that hung over the walkways of Chemath Marble.
She stopped to fish out a [Message] scroll as rain battered the [Bubble of Calm] overhead. A spring storm was hitting Zeres, but not here. That should have meant Zeresian citizens were running here to take cover from the sleeting rain, but the Guard Golems didn’t admit anyone who wasn’t carrying an official Merchant’s Card. You didn’t have to even flash it at them; it was one of those secret things that non-[Merchants] and even [Traders] had no idea about.
Carry one of them and you’d be recognized by anyone from the Merchant’s Guild. Selchess didn’t have one, but Qwera did. It meant she was important.
So important that she could enter the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters—not just the Merchant’s Guild proper. Selchess was very nervous as she hurried to keep up with Qwera. The young [Apprentice Trader] knew that the Golden Gnoll was famously mean—she went through [Apprentices] like gold paint, but you could become a [Trader] with good credit in a year if you stuck it out and got her recommendation.
Which was not a given. Less than 30% of all Qwera’s [Apprentices] made it. And she demanded at least five years’ experience caravanning before she’d take your application, no matter if you had a Merchant’s Guild letter from your local city. Plus, you had to come up with an item to sell via her Golden Gnoll caravans and make a return of at least 40% net profit within the year…
Qwera was a numbers-[Merchant]. In that she talked math, dividends, investments, gross and net profit—some [Merchants] didn’t do that.
You see, the world of [Merchants] was deeper than you thought. There were all kinds, like [Warriors] or any class. Some [Merchants] were terrible with numbers. But they were charismatic and sold to nobles who valued friendship and had enough gold to spend.
Or they were hard-nosed desperados who went into [Bandit] territory and risked the deadliest routes for the highest margins. The plump, inoffensive [Merchants] selling goods from a caravan in the city were actually a very narrow subset of their kind.
But what they all aspired to be was what Qwera was: a card-carrying [Merchant] who could walk into one of two buildings in Izril, the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters, and get intelligence on any good or service across Izril. Be able to recruit top-tier [Mercenaries] or adventurers at the drop of a hat, and run caravans across the continent, even the world.
However, Qwera didn’t seem to like it here, which was astonishing because the Merchant’s Guild Headquarters was amazing.
Selchess was Liscorian. She’d begged an apprenticeship when Qwera was passing through the city, and the Golden Gnoll had waived her standards on the five-years caravanning and accepted the young Drake. She’d said that if Selchess had survived Liscor, she’d probably handle herself well on the road.
One minor [Thief] incident, two brawls between caravans, and a nasty internal fight in one of Qwera’s caravans later, and the Golden Gnoll hadn’t been let down so far by Selchess. True, Selchess hadn’t been rushing to throw hands with an angry shopper fighting with the [Guards], or the one to run down the [Sneak Thief], but she hadn’t exactly wilted either.
It sure beat fighting Face-Eater Moths or running from Raskghar in the streets. Selchess hadn’t even realized it had toughened her up until she’d seen another [Apprentice of Commerce] reduced to a tearful mess after someone had punched the stall next to her head. When what you really did was smile, lie, wait for a [Guard] to come running, and have your hand under the counter on the emergency wand you were issued.
Experience, Qwera called it. Real experience, not book-knowledge. Get conned—once. Get cheated—once. Get mugged—once. And never let it happen again. Never put all your stock in one place or you could lose it all. Get people’s attention and you had their coins.
By these principles the Golden Gnoll had made her fortune, and Selchess was one of her acolytes who’d bought Qwera’s book and was now in the business.
Even so, she had learned to fear Qwera’s scowl, and the Golden Gnoll rolled up her [Message] scroll.
“Right. Meeting’s in ten. Let’s get in there. You’ll be outside. Don’t tell the other apprentices anything. They’re going to pump you for information. So will the staff. Just lie to them. Tell them we’re selling Shield Spider glue.”
“A-aren’t we selling Shield Spider glue, Miss Qwera?”
“Exactly. If they think that’s the biggest thing coming out of Liscor—well, some are that dumb. Remember what I told you, which is?”
“…Merchants are bastards?”
Qwera pointed a finger as they passed through another arch, this one made of swords. She rolled her eyes, and Selchess’ eyes popped as she saw Sage’s Grass, gigantic pumpkins, beautiful corn—every plant imaginable blooming from a garden plot. The third arch was made of old wood and beautiful coral, and Qwera kicked it as she passed.
“Damn right we are. Stop gaping.”
“Merchant! It’s so beautiful—”
“Looted is what it is. Or copied. You think this is fancy? What are the giant gems up there?”
“Dragongems, Merchant Qwera?”
The highest grade of magical gemstone, so huge and powerful that [Archmages] used them in spells. Tier 7 spells, according to the legends. No one these days could actually use one. Qwera nodded.
“What’s the weather spell?”
“[Bubble of Calm]?”
Selchess had heard of the Merchant’s Guild. Qwera pointed up.
“That first arch? Cloth is…”
“Brocade? For, um, um, tapestries! Stitch-folk sometimes will take it for their cloth, but it’s not actually as popular because it’s heavy and stiff. But that much is worth a fortune, and in the open air! It must be enchanted against mildewing. And is that a floating fountain?”
They passed by a pyramid of stone that held a basin in the center, whose waters were spraying across the air. Another [Merchant] entering the headquarters stopped to fill a water flask from it—Qwera rolled her eyes.
“Yep. Now, apprentice, real quiz time.”
“T-that wasn’t the quiz? Oh dear…”
“Where’s it come from? [Bubble of Calm]—go.”
Selchess panicked. She stood there, knowing Qwera was going to snap at her if she didn’t answer—but again, it wasn’t exactly like Draugr breaking down the city walls, so her rushed mind came to the only conclusion she had.
“U-um, Wistram?”
“Correct! Dragongems?”
“They look…I’ve heard they come from Salazsar, and I know the City of Gems has them. Actually, don’t all the Walled Cities have some for their best enchantments—?”
“Correct! Garden of plants?”
“I don’t…I’ve never heard of them before.”
“Hmpf. Drath. Eternal Verdant Gardens of Some Shit. Floating fountain’s from Baleros, Lizardfolk. Second gate with the swords is supposed to be Terandrian, but I think they just ran out of ideas. Third gate?”
“It has to be Drowned Folk. Oh, so this is—”
Qwera folded her arms.
“All stolen. Not anything literally, but the ideas. You see? We’re as good as Wistram, as elegant as Drath, as, I don’t know, able to afford Golems as House Terland. The Guild changes the front every few decades. I heard we once used to have Djinni servants. Guess how that went.”
“But it’s still amazing, Qwera. Did Zeres pay for any of it?”
“Nope. Like I said, it’s ours. Merchants. You think we mined those Dragongems? Enchanted that magic? We don’t know how to swing swords, most of us. We don’t make things. We’re good at buying and selling, that’s all. The people here forget that. So bear in mind what I said. This is going to be unpleasant, anyways. I hate it here.”
She cracked her neck, sighing. Selchess didn’t see how Qwera could say that. The Drake glanced over her shoulder.
“But aren’t there all kinds of amenities here? And all the greatest [Merchants] would be here or in First Landing’s Guild…”
“Yep. Which means I’d feel more at home in a dive filled with [Rogues] and [Cutthroats]. I’m not the biggest fish in this pond; far from it. I only managed to scrounge enough gold to qualify for Headquarters membership two years ago. You have to stay above a certain amount in their accounts, or have it in all your investments, at least.”
The Golden Gnoll could barely afford a membership here? Another gulp from Selchess, but Qwera was speeding through the other symbolic arches that represented peoples the Merchant’s Guild traded with—and made a profit off of.
“Should I keep my eyes out for anything, Qwera? Or be wary of anything?”
She nearly slammed into Qwera’s back, and the Golden Gnoll stopped to give her an approving look.
“There’s that Liscorian survival instinct, I guess. Good! Keep your earholes open for good gossip, though most people will be playing the same game as I am. New items on display, yes. Mostly…any big players from other continents. Everyone’s come for the New Lands, and I want to know the field. Well, I’ll find out soon enough. Where’s the [Pianist]? Ah, perfect. I have arrived!”
She reached the glass double doors of the Merchant’s Guild, threw them open before a staff member could open them, and shouted into the Guild’s entryway. Then she smiled as [Merchants] and lesser [Traders] jumped and turned to her, annoyed, envious, and someone began to play.
 
——
 
Qwera did know how to make an entrance. And with respect to what she’d said to Selchess, she might not be the biggest player, but impressions were everything.
A lot of her peers had no style. They swanned in, expecting their wealth to do all the talking for them, and it did work on the sycophants whose noses were shoved so far up other people’s rectums they’d lost all sense of taste as well. But Qwera?
She knew she needed to command respect today, which was why the Gnoll at the piano began playing the moment she came in, and she triggered a full spread of her favorite illusion spells.
Golden Gnoll! The light hit her golden fur and sent sparkles up and down the Guild’s walls. Several twirling golden serpents exploded in the air—silently—because the piano was singing.
It was the most complex melody that they had, something from Earth that showcased the dynamic range. Music beyond any harpsichord that told any [Merchant] who heard it that this was a new instrument; the gleaming finish on the black piano as the [Pianist]’s hands danced across the keys in a spotlight?
Ah, she loved showing off. Qwera grinned. It was twice as sweet, because it was an object she knew the others had no chance of obtaining.
Only one group was making pianos in the entire damn world, and this Earth-tech device was not something you could buy with coin alone. Three had gone up for auction from the Meeting of Tribes until now, and this one, a fourth, had gone to a trusted [Merchant] who was actually liked by the tribes: Qwera.
She had no intention of selling it unless the Serpentine Matriarch herself decided she absolutely needed it; she could have those whims, and in that case, Qwera would probably sell it for a hundred thousand gold pieces or something ridiculous and give the [Treasurer] of Zeres’ Admiralty a heart attack.
But it was more useful to show off, anyways. Qwera blew kisses as Selchess stood there, open-mouthed and gazing around the vast entry hall with its three layers of open balconies, air-conditioned seating, statues of famous [Merchants] who’d come before, free drinks, scrying spells with views of other Merchant’s Guilds across the world…
This used to be more impressive a year or two ago. These days, [Scrying] spells were so common that the round mirrors almost seemed tacky, out-of-date. There was discomfort there that Qwera picked up on as [Merchants] eyed her piano and tried to go back to pretending they were so important you had to talk to them. They glanced at the scrying spells, then checked personal, compact scrying devices.
One [Trader] even unfolded a six-piece scrying mirror that he mounted on one arm via a little gauntlet. It was a mirror that you could fold up to stow away, and when unpacked, it was a huge screen to watch the news on.
Stupid. Pointless. The folding probably means it breaks or chips far more easily. A cheap attempt to cash in on the scrying fad by going impressive. Plenty of people will look at it, but only a few without any taste will actually buy it.
Qwera’s instincts told her that even as her [Inspection: Market Viability] Skill told her that the [Trader] had managed to sell this particular item three times. Total.
That was how this Merchant’s Guild ran. Everyone pretended, everyone tried to sucker the others, but real power often was recognizable. Qwera lifted a hand, and the frantic [Pianist] stopped playing, because she’d made her point.
Besides, they couldn’t actually play the entire song of Paganini/Liszt – Etude No. 6; it was far too complex for a new musician. Point made, Qwera strode forwards as an underling ran up to her.
“Merchant Qwera, do refrain from excessive—”
“One side.”
Qwera pointed, and the junior stopped, stepped aside, and Qwera spoke.
“I’m here for my meeting. Give my apprentice full services, and I want everything on the New Lands you’ve got. I need a good [Carpenter] for my wagons and connections with a [Mage] of repute who specializes in enchanting. Like hell I’m going into the New Lands and losing my magic.”
Heads turned as she spoke loudly, not caring to whisper, and the Drake man wrote frantically.
“Very good, Merchant. Do you require a list of our adventurers or [Mercenaries] for—”
“If I needed them, I’d have reached out months ago! Shoo!”
