But Ylawes, Dawil, and Falene? They were all looking at each other, and Ylawes felt his skin prickling. They were like…
Ordinary people, able to move and think, amidst a play. The drama with the Thousand Lances arguing, the Plain’s Eye tribe running around were like the secondary actors and primary actors in the Players of Celum, but Ylawes wasn’t part of the play.
He was a member of the audience who vaguely needed to pee. Not in the sense that he took this lightly, but in the sense that he had felt this before. Been here before. And it was the inn.
There was someone else who existed in their free world. A Gnoll with a bow, who was watching, like Ylawes. The [Knight] locked eyes with Nailren, and the Gnoll nodded at him as he strode over.
“Ylawes. The reason Lyonette was missing—”
“I hope not. But that was the inn. I swear, I saw Saliss there. And Lord Xitegen.”
“I as well. Ishkr, too, that damn idiot. I don’t care if he’s realer than Lupp-corn. Grimalkin. No sign of Mrsha or Nanette.”
“Could the [Garden of Sanctuary] save them from…”
Ylawes’ blood was ice, and Nailren’s face was grave.
“I don’t know. If anything could, it would be that, but—”
“Knight Byres! Will you take my apprentice or ride with us?”
Ylawes and Nailren turned. Dame Rosenthine was standing in her saddle as her warhorse tossed its head, a screaming stallion with a dappled ivory coat and blowing sapphire mane, a begging [Squire].
Chieftain Merish facing them. Ylawes Byres stared up at the moon. Then turned to Nailren again, and he swore this wasn’t bravado.
Just…
A man’s madness. His way of making peace with all the tragedy and glory that he had seen. Ylawes slowly took off his helmet that he’d shoved onto his head. Then cleared his throat. As Rosenthine’s eyes blazed at him with that impatience of a good, brave woman, a legend, he glanced about.
“I think…I’m going to watch the scrying orb. We will remain here until we know where the Goblin King is moving. Silver Swords—Insill, Dasha, get something to eat. Rasktooth, I’d like any insights. Infinitypear, put that spear down; the Goblin King isn’t going to teleport on our position, and if he does, it’s too late. Falene, send a [Message] spell to The Wandering Inn. Try to get something out of Liscor, but I doubt they have time to talk.”
Then he sat down on the grass. He thought Ser Brindelhor nearly horked out a lung, so hard was he coughing in incredulity. Dame Rosenthine visibly recoiled with the other of the Thousand Lances, and Merish’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“Ser Byres, are you mad?”
However, Nailren just sat down with Ylawes, head bowed. Neither man smiled, but Ylawes was already uncorking a water flask. He drank as the [Knights] rode towards him.
“We are too far away to do a thing. If the Goblin King is moving north or south, a few hours to establish what he is doing will not take undue amounts of time.”
“True, but it is a Goblin King! Destroyer of kingdoms! The Goblin Kings have ended more of the Hundred Families of Terandria than any war or event! They decimated Izril’s north! Your nobles have never recovered! Have you lost sense of your bravery, Ser?”
Lord Volede’s voice was sharp and outraged, for once. But he did not expect Ylawes’ eyes to meet the older man’s levelly. The blue-eyed gaze of the [Knight] had a hint of steel in it.
“He is in Liscor. The Wandering Inn. A place I hold near and dear to my heart. When this is over, if the inn is gone and the Goblin King lives, I will ride north. Without my team, if I must. Then I will die, or he will. I realize that is bravado, Lord Volede, but you have my word I will do so.”
“But you do not ride now?”
“We are too far. And it is The Wandering Inn.”
No one understood what he was talking about, and Ylawes found that hilarious. He drank from his water flask as Nailren broke out some dried clams. The [Knight] stuffed some into his mouth. His hand—shaking.
But what they saw, the Gnolls, the Terandrians, was the gleam of Ylawes’ eyes. He wasn’t looking at them or at the scrying orb depicting artillery spells being fired at Liscor, the Floodplains, piercing the raining clouds. His gaze was far distant, fixed on someone else.
A frozen woman lying on a bier of stone. And—the sight of a young woman wheeling around in a chair, doing small miracles, eyes filled with secrets.
“If he survives, I will try to kill him. But I am not so arrogant as to think I am needed, Lord Volede.”
“It is the Goblin King, young man.”
Ylawes’ eyes rose, and then they shone with an intensity that had the [Knight] reaching unconsciously for his sword hilt.
“Yes. And that inn belongs to my friend, the [Innkeeper]. Rasktooth, get over here!”
The Cave Goblin hobbled over with Infinitypear’s help, and Falene sat down slowly. In a puddle of robes as Dawil collapsed onto the ground.
“Those kids, lad…”
“I know. Watch, Dawil. Rasktooth, is it the Goblin King?”
“M-maybe. But it all wrong. He so big. So scary. Why no one notice? He scream so loud—and why he so familiar?”
Rasktooth was peering north, an uncertain expression on his face. Ylawes listened. Sat. Drank water as the Thousand Lances hesitated, and Plain’s Eye circled around them. Until…
The end.
That—more than anything—was what the Thousand Lances and Gnolls remembered. The sight of an adventuring team waiting to know what happened. Not calmly, but with a certainty that held when the world shook.
A conviction that maybe it would be tragedy. Or maybe—just maybe—somehow—
The Goblin King would be the one who lost.
And they were right.
 
——
 
Obviously, it took a lot more reassurances than the news from the scrying orbs that the Goblin King was dead to defuse the situation.
But to Ylawes Byres, it was done. He stood, at last, and went to pee.
Then he peed for three minutes straight. He counted to a hundred and ninety-six seconds—that was how much water he’d been drinking out of nerves when waiting.
A pair of Gnolls, Cullous, and an older [Rancher] stared at Ylawes as he stepped away from the latrines. His bladder hurt from holding it in, and that…
That was better than wondering who’d die this time.
“Looks like we continue. Don’t bother them, Falene. Don’t…just don’t.”
She nodded at him, and he sat and hugged Pekona, one-armed. She was wide-eyed, but she leaned against him and embraced him with her good arm as she felt him shivering. And then—
A call from Lyonette. Where he knew something was so terribly wrong, but she just told him to continue.
Ylawes Byres thanked her and sat. Plain’s Eye settled, and explanations were demanded. Everyone watched Channel 1 of Wistram News Network. Saw Drassi paddling a boat into the Flood Plains, hunting for evidence—
Dame Rosenthine was speaking to Kaaz, and Merish was talking to other Gnoll [Chieftains]. Ylawes just sat there. Shivering like a man with a cold.
“We’d never have made it, lad. It was too late. We left because your house was attacked, remember?”
Dawil said it at last, lips pale, sipping from a cup of Velrusk Claw going around. Ylawes just leaned against Pekona, shivering.
“I know. I know, damn it all. I just wish.”
“Yeah. Me too, lad.”
They sat there into the long night, until dawn broke. And a little Gnoll girl padded into camp.
Hey.
Mrsha looked terrible. Thin and exhausted, but Ylawes woke up from his dozing near the embers and sat up. He gazed at her as she rubbed at her eyes.
“Mrsha? Is everything—?”
Everyone’s alive. Everyone, Ylawes. I came by to tell people that. Can’t stay long. Gotta tell Fetohep, then Ilvriss, then…
He didn’t believe her. But she was…Mrsha. Her eyes seemed to contain that aftermath he expected. So the [Knight] just reached out.
“You did it.”
I guess. I didn’t do much. But yeah, it’s over, I think. Sorry for making a mess of it, Ylawes.
You’re a kid. You’re allowed to…Ylawes whispered.
“You’re allowed to make a mess of things just so long as you’re alright, Mrsha. You are alright?”
He saw her pause, then smile at him as she wrote with that glowing paw in the air.
No. But I might be. Go to sleep, Ylawes. We made it.
He must have passed out, then. Because he didn’t remember what else he said to her. He didn’t want to take her time. He knew she had to be so, so tired…
The [Knight] slept. And the world went back to normal and got to pretend nothing had happened the day thereafter. Certainly, the Thousand Lances and Gnolls did, or that they’d misunderstood something. It had been a Goblin King, maybe, but a fluke. Not like the real thing. They’d figure it out.
But Ylawes knew. He knew and continued.
And promised to come back and find the truth one day. When he had finished his adventure. He would believe it all.
That night, he realized that when he thought of home, he often imagined House Byres as he’d grown up, cannonballing into the silver springs with Ysara and Yvlon. Reading books of [Knights] in his keep. But other times, he just imagined that inn and common room overflowing with wondrous chaos.
He wanted to go back to it.
Then, he slept. When he woke up, it was back to his adventure.
 
——
 
The Thousand Lances had spent the night in the Plain’s Eye’s company with ill sleep, and it showed. Nevertheless, they were up and practicing swordplay at dawn. Probably to reassert some normality, if nothing else.
Everyone was sleep-deprived. Insill was making morning tea in one of his boots. Dasha had left her comb in her beard, and Ylawes had woken up and nearly kicked the strange anaconda in his bedroll until he realized it was Pekona.
However, ‘normality’ began to reassert itself as everyone stopped talking about the Goblin King. It was that or go crazy—he knew how that felt too. For his part, he had a few words with his team.
“Sounds like the inn handled it. Mrsha visited me this morning. She said she’s well.”
“Hah. Who died?”
“No one, according to her, Dawil.”
“Lad, that’s crazy, even for the inn.”
“I know, but let’s accept it. She didn’t look like she was lying. Okay, she seemed like someone had been beating her with emotional sticks, but…”
Falene poked at some Gnollish silkap simmering on a flatstone with some bread. Her stomach growled.
“I’ll ask around. And I, uh, levelled up last night. A big level.”
“Oh?”
Wasn’t she only Level 36 , though? Not a capstone. Dawil and Ylawes turned, and Falene moodily poked at the fire, not gazing at Ylawes and Pekona.
“What’s today’s job?”
“Um, see if Ysara or my father cleared up the Merchant’s Guild mess? I’ll remind them of it. Then—we’ll see. I might ask if I can talk to the Thousand Lances. I mean—I’ll never get another chance.”
Ylawes was watching an amazing bout between Ser Pavoriad and Ser Brindelhor, two longswords versus the greatsword that made the air ring. Bared blades clashing against each other in such a thrilling sparring match it looked like a battle from stories—if not for the fact that Ylawes could tell both men were holding back. Dawil drained his mug of tea.
“Sounds like a good distraction. Blagh. Insill! This tea tastes like your socks!”
 
——
 
Ylawes’ request to spar with the Thousand Lances before breakfast was the most consequently inconsequential moment that morning. Gnolls, rattled from yesterday, perked their ears up as Dame Rosenthine put her sword against her shoulder. She’d been air-battling imaginary monsters, and her [Squire], helmetless, had been swinging her sword and shield in practice motions.
“A sparring match?”
“Nothing so formal, Dame Rosenthine! I realize I wouldn’t hold a candle to the Thousand Lances, but I just—wished to see your capabilities!”
Ylawes flushed, and the [Knightess] hesitated, then nodded at him.
“It would be no trouble for an informal bout, Ser Ylawes. For a [Knight] so…foresighted, we should oblige no less. But as you say, we would not wish to have an unequal match.”
She hefted her Adamantium longsword, and he noted how effortlessly she swung it and wondered how he’d fare with an unenchanted shield and sword.
Ser Pavoriad used two longswords, an incredible feat due to his height and strength. Ser Brindelhor, the greatsword, typical of his order, with crushing strength and alarming speed. Ser Volede, a flail and shield, and the long ball-and-chain could spin with alarming force. It was likely mithril, which allowed the elderly [Knight] to spin it with ease, and looked sharp as a ball of razors.
Dame Rosenthine was the most ‘conventional’ with her longsword, but she swung it so fast that the air kept making high-pitched sounds, and the grass billowed around her with her practice swings. Plus, all of them had enchanted armor. With Rosenthine in Adamantium…
I wouldn’t land a scratch, and they’d take me to pieces. Ylawes was conscious of his weakened body, but Rosenthine had an answer after a second.
“Would my squire be an appropriate match, Ser Byres? I would not like to pit a [Squire] against a full [Knight], but Thellabell has participated in duels against over a hundred and forty [Knights] and won over half. It is no insult, upon my honor, but a humble request to train her.”
“I’d be delighted, Dame Rosenthine.”
Privately, Ylawes was a bit sad he couldn’t match blades with her, but if he did well against the [Squire], why not? Thellabell certainly seemed excited and drew her longsword and shield, a copy of his gear, with great excitement.
“You fight in the classic style as well, Ser Byres? Were you trained in your swordsmanship in any particular school?”
“Er—only traditional Izrilian fighting, Squire Thellabell. By my [Tutors] and [Weapon Instructors]. Should we use practice weapons?”
“We do not normally hurt each other with blades. Though your armor—lost its enchantment? Thellabell, watch his armor. You may cut it—her sword is an [Evercut] blade as well as enchanted for durability, Ser Byres. Not a noble enchantment, I know, but it is condescension given her inexperience. I have not been willing to commit her to full combat without my supervision, as you saw yesterday. Thellabell is naïve to the cunning of her foes, inexperienced in true battle, impulsive and reckless, and seeks my guidance as a puppy does leadership.”
“Knightess!”
Thellabell was faintly sandy-haired as she snapped her visor shut and, from what Ylawes had seen, more brown-skinned than the other [Knights]. Her mentor and teacher went on, ruthless.
“You are a daughter of Kaaz, as am I, Thellabell. If you wish to truly become one of the Thousand Lances, I shall not allow you to rest on your laurels. Show Ser Ylawes the fruits of your training. Remember to keep your guard up—you drop it too low then raise it when it should be always centered.”
