Teressa joked, “A lot of people thought you were a Wizard—

Poi cleared his throat.

Erick looked away, as Teressa soldiered on, “But anyone who knows how can make a Particle spell.” She said, “You’re not a wizard, and I’ll punch anyone who says otherwise, Boss.”

Erick smiled at the window, and kept his smile as he turned back to Teressa. “Thank you.”

“Of course, Boss!”

Erick changed the subject, “Has Jane spoken to Kiri, and then to you, Poi?”

Poi said, “Not about anything in particular, but they are housing together in Windy Manor. Jane is fine, as far as I know. She is running missions for the Headmaster and getting some personalized instruction in return, but that is the extent of my knowledge.”

“She said she was coming right home, but that’s hasn’t happened yet—” A lightbulb went off, and Erick’s eyes went wide. “I should invent texting!” He frowned. “One more thing to add to the pile.” He asked Teressa and Poi, “So that was Syllea Wyrmrest. What did you think of her?”

Teressa reported, “About as kooky as I’ve heard, but still deeply knowledgeable about many esoteric magics. That die she had you roll was something she invented herself, and has been trying to popularize ever since she graduated from Oceanside, 25 years ago. The mana-sensing dice tradition comes from South Nelboor.” She added, “Aside from all that: Orcols have a long history of buffing magic because we can endure the aftereffects easier than most other races. This was why I started down the path of developing my [Warcry], but Syllea has taken orcol buffs to extremes unheard of until she came along. Not to mention the whole ‘archmage’ thing. Most people focus on the ‘archmage’ thing, though. Big explosions and magical solutions to every problem are all anyone really sees.”

“She was fine.” Poi said, “But I still feel that buffs are dangerous.”

“And they are.” Teressa said, “But small edges here and there can mean a lot in any fight.”

Erick decided, “I’m going to have to learn some buff spells. At least something approaching your [Warcry], Teressa. The percentage buff to damage and defense cannot be overlooked, going forward.”

Teressa said, “You’re going to have to learn from someone else besides me. I know I got it wrong.” She brightened, to say, “But when we visit Treehome, I’m sure you can find a proper instructor, or at least a good book on the subject.”

Erick smiled. “I will do that, then.” He asked, “Now… I think I want to put up a [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], but with this [Shadow Conversion], up at Candlepoint. But that’s just an idea. I’m asking your opinions, first.”

Teressa subtly froze. She said, “Uh.” She went silent.

Poi spoke up, “I cannot give you a suggestion, for I would never trust anything Shadow. That is a blind spot of mine, especially since my people have vetted Justine as being her own person, without any controls on her mind. You should have this conversation with Justine. Alternatively, I can ask Silverite.” He heavily said, “You should ask Silverite, sir.”

Teressa thawed, and said, “I think you should do this for them. Make them come back to themselves, sir. Help them become real again.”

Poi turned toward Teressa, his bluescaled eyebrows furrowing. “Really?”

“Yes.” Teressa stood tall, saying, “If it works that way; if it actually brings them back to themselves, then you have to. But you should be able to know if that spell of yours would actually work how you think it would work. I don’t know much of anything about dungeons, but I do know that working dungeons are highly controlled, with daily changes to keep the slime populations well regulated. I didn’t know they did it with rifts, though.”

“Right.” Erick said, “If what I made is like the spells they use to regulate dungeons, then there should be some information somewhere about how Elemental Essence boosting magic affects essence monsters— shadelings do have shadow essence in them, don’t they? I wasn’t sure, but they have to, right?”

Poi said, “Yes. Enough essence for [Shadow Blend].”

Teressa said, “People hunt shadelings for shadow essence, sometimes. Mostly, they don’t. But it does happen.”

Erick got up, saying, “I’m sure I have those dungeoneering books in my library, somewhere.” He nodded, he said, “Okay… Now I need to talk to Justine.”

Teressa said, “I’ll go get her.”

“Thank you, Teressa.” As she left, Erick said, “Poi, can you ask Silverite her opinion? She’s still awake at this hour, right?”

“Yes. I will ask her.” Poi sent out tendrils of thought.

When eventually Teressa returned to the sunroom, escorting Justine. The incani woman looked to Erick with tired, but strong eyes, saying, “Hello, sir.” And then her facade cracked, and seemed like a woman headed to an executioner’s block. Erick’s heart almost broke as she sat down on the couch across from him. Her facade was back in place.

Erick said, “I know today has been rough, but it’s getting better.” He got right to it, “I just wanted to ask you about spells that boost the growth of shadow essence monsters— I mean. Shadelings.”

Justine blinked her ruby red eyes for a few moments, then said, “How do you mean?”

“I wish to help shadelings come back to themselves, easier.”

“Ah.” Justine said, “These spells do help shadelings come back to themselves, yes, among other powers. The same is true for any spell that boosts the growth of light essence creatures. Though the second option requires a certain ability among the shadeling in question, in order to begin the conversion, and not everyone has that ability.” She said, “A spell that supports the growth of shadow creatures will likely do a lot that I am unaware of. I suggest you ask someone else more knowledgeable on that particular situation. I was never one for dungeon work.”

“What about something that boosts illusion… Well. Not essence. But that boosts illusion creatures?” He said to himself, “I should have asked Syllea if there were such a thing.”

Justine, unsure, said, “I… have no idea. I’ve never done much with buffing, or dungeon work, or illusions, for that matter. The only person I knew who ever did was the Witch, but I never worked with her. I have no idea what the effect would be on light essence or shadow essence existences.”

Teressa tensed slightly at the mention of the Witch. If Erick didn’t know about Teressa’s history with that Shade, he would have missed her reaction.

Erick said, “Okay. Thank you, Justine. And what level are you?” Erick offered, “If you want an escort into the Crystal Forest for an hour tomorrow, I can get you to 32 rather fast. Maybe a bit beyond.”

Justine sat straighter, saying, “I’m level twelve, and have been pushing myself, daily, to the edge of Mana Exhaustion. I would appreciate a boost in the morning, or at your leisure.” She said, “As far as leveling plans are concerned, I will be going for Focus, unlike how I went for Willpower back when we first met.”

Erick smirked; he saw what Justine was doing. “It’s my understanding that most would see a Scion of Focus as an underpowered Mage, but that’s just one of the many cultural things I do not understand.”

Justine just nodded.

“Then it’s decided: we can do some boosting in the morning.” Erick then set a small stone box on the table between them. Ophiel had blipped it in when Teressa went to go get Justine. Erick said, “I should have given you one of these earlier, especially since Koyabez vouches for your sincerity. I think you already know what they are.”

Justine gazed down at the stone box. Water blurred her ruby red eyes. She blinked, as she took the box. As she opened it, and saw the pair of silver rings inside, small tears rolled down her pale skin. She said a shaky, “Thank you.”

“They should make you feel a little safer; I know that’s what they’ve done for me. Each one is plus-25 All Stats— Heh. I’m going to have to stop calling it that.” He said, “If they’re not your size, I can make others.”

Justine shook her head, as she took the rings out and slipped them on her fingers. “These are perfect.” She smiled, sniffled, and laughed, then said, “They feel good, too.” She held up a hand, and smiled at the silver band upon her finger. “No Stat Sickness, just like I heard.”

Erick smiled, to see Justine happy.
