“Humm. I have heard that human nobles go to such places. You do not seem like a noble.”

“No, everyone goes to school where I’m from. We don’t really have nobles.”

It’s a good thing I spent a few hours with that dictionary last night. Wow, now that was an unexpected sentence.

“Humm. What is this symbol here?” Tallheart asked, taking a seat near Rain and pointing to a zero.

“That’s a...” Rain paused. He didn’t actually know the word. The dictionary he’d been given wasn’t in alphabetical order. Instead, it listed common words first. Numbers were less important than the nobility it seemed, at least from the perspective of the book’s author. He knew the written and spoken forms of the numbers up to a few hundred from his time in the guild, but somehow zero had never come up. The common number system worked a bit like Roman numerals, so zero wasn’t needed to get past ten.

Rain scratched his head. “Actually, I don’t know the word. It is a number. It means none. Here.” He scratched out the numbers 1 through 10 in common in a fresh patch of dirt, then added in the Arabic numerals 1 through 10 below them. Tallheart watched as he sketched in the number zero to the left of the sequence.

“There, that’s one through ten, and that is a zero. It is...well, one less than one. In my language, when you get to ten, you just add a zero to one, see? Then eleven is just two ones, like this.” Rain scratched in the next number in the sequence, adding the common equivalent.

“Humm,” Tallheart rumbled. “You are wrong. You are a scholar. This is beyond me.”

“What? No, this is just basic stuff, Tallheart. What’s the word for it, anyway? Zero, I mean?”

“There is no such number. You cannot have nothing of something.”

“What? Sure you can. If I had one apple and gave it away, then I would have zero apples.”

“No, you would have no apples.”

“That’s what I just said.”

“No, it is not.”

“Tallheart, come on, don’t mess with me. I know you guys know math. There’s numbers everywhere in the system. Percentages and stuff. I asked you a question about skills before and you told me they multiply. How can you know multiplication but not zero?”

“Yes, math is useful. That,” Tallheart waved a hand at Rain’s scrawled formulas, “is not math. That is <something>.”

What? Seriously, I don’t understand. How can he not know this? There’s no school here, sure, but…

Wait a minute. If they really don’t have zero… Like, as a concept, I mean... Huh. How would math even work?

“You really don’t have zero? Wow,” Rain said disbelievingly, sitting back.

“Scholars,” Tallheart said, shaking his antlered head.

“Sorry, Tallheart. I know that sounded a bit… rudely superior,” Rain said, struggling to find a way to say ‘condescending’ as he didn’t know the actual word.

I’ll have to ask Jamus, or maybe Val. I refuse to believe that nobody has heard of zero as a concept. Not with so many percentages in the skill descriptions. Oh...

Tallheart grumbled and made to get up, but Rain stopped him.

“Wait, Tallheart, one more question.”

The armored man sighed and sat back down resignedly. “Fine.”

“No more crazy math, I promise. This is more basic. There’s something that has been bothering me. All of my skills have a range in meters, but nobody here uses that unit. Are skills the same for everyone?”

“Yes and no. Skills are skills. The details vary.”

Oh. Ohhhhh.

“Can you check something for me?” Rain asked. “In the utility auras tree, there is a skill called purify. It’s the one I’m using all the time. Can you tell me what it says? It’s tier zero, so you should be able to see it.”

“There is that word again,” Tallheart said grumpily. Nevertheless, he raised his hand and started flipping through something that Rain couldn’t see. “Purify. Cure poison and remove corruption for one <something> in all directions.”

“Sounds right. It isn’t the same as mine, but it’s close. How far is a <something>?”

“I am around three <somethings> tall.”

Ok, the range has to be shorter than a meter for him then. He’s tall, but not that tall. Wait, is he including the antlers? No, doesn’t matter. Three meters would be insane. He’s 225, 250, tops.

Rain considered, then nodded. “And it just says 1? Not 1.5 or something?”

“You said no more math,” Tallheart groused.

“Oh, come on.”

“It says 1. Enough numbers. I am going to finish my anvil. Will you find more metal for me?”

“Sorry, I don’t really feel up to much walking today,” Rain said, gesturing to his injured shoulder. “I was thinking of just training my skills around here. Oh, I do have this.” Rain pulled the scrap of leather with the metal bit out of his pocket and offered it to Tallheart.

“Humm. This would make a good <something>. Thank you,” Tallheart said, taking the scrap from Rain. He got to his feet and started off in the direction of his forge.

“Tallheart,” Rain called after him, getting to his feet as well. “Thanks for answering my questions. Sorry, I know I can be difficult. Do you think you can keep an eye on me while you work? I lose my senses when I use the skill I want to train today. I don’t want anything to sneak up on me.”

“It hasn’t stopped you before. Very well. I will make sure you are not eaten by a squirrel.”

“Haha, very funny.”
