Progress Report

marker_1: foundry_approach [3061 First Harvest 03 21:00]

marker_2: pre_nadir [3061 First Harvest 05 09:09]

Span: 1.5 days

Character

Total Exp: 12,638,993 -> 16,936,316 (+4,297,323)

↳Monster Kills: 1,482,662

↳Stamina Use: 1,369

↳Mana Use: 2,814,661

Skills

Empire of Brawn: +89,200 exp, 5 -> 10 (+5)

Empire of Drive: +89,200 exp, 5 -> 10 (+5)

Empire of Grit: +89,200 exp, 5 -> 10 (+5)

Empire of Will: +89,200 exp, 5 -> 10 (+5)

Prismatic Intent: +40,864 exp, 13 -> 15 (+2)

Heavy Armor Inventory: +507 exp

Tolerance

Speed: 18.0 -> 21.0 (+3)

Total Known Skill Trees:

Tier 0: 144

Tier 1: 144

Tier 2: 144

Tier 3: 144

Tier 4: 144

Well, that’s that, then.

Rain silently dismissed the dialogs, but something of his sentiment must have made it to Ameliah, who released a quiet laugh as she lounged beside him in the antechamber.

“No super secret achievement, huh?” she asked, smiling.

“You can say ‘I told you so’ if you want,” Rain said, smiling back. “I told myself so. I just hoped, you know? The system just doesn’t do achievements. Accolades, yes, but not achievements.”

“Maybe you’ll get a good class option at gold.”

“There is that,” Rain acknowledged, though he was likely to just stick with the progression of Dynamo, whatever that was. Meshing his fingers behind his head, he lay back to stare at the ceiling.

The antechamber was far from natural, the flawlessly smooth deepstone forming a perfect cube with a fortified entryway and a tight passage to the sheltered rooms beyond. Whatever Geomancer had made this waystation hadn’t gone in much for artistry. Legruz had decorated the walls with some glowing geometric patterns before going to bed, but he’d been more focused on ensuring his light touched every nook and cranny than making something up to his usual standard. The relative minimalism was proof of just how tired he’d been.

After the kidnapping ordeal, things had remained tense, to say the least. The bypass had been deserted. The metal cladding had stretched for several kilometers, with chest-high walls providing cover at strategic intervals and ratcheting Rain’s tension through the stratosphere in expectation of a boss battle. All they’d found at the center, though, was a large room built entirely from steel. The bypass continued on the other side, but there was also a set of massive adamant doors off to the right, sealed resolutely shut and humming with power. Whatever was beyond them might as well not have existed, as far as Detection was concerned, which was fine by him. The Foundry could keep their secrets.

Even after ignoring the doors and leaving the Foundry layer far behind, the tension hadn’t exactly faded. None of them had been able to shake the feeling that they were being watched, at least until the natural hazards of the depths worsened to the point that they became the chief fear. What Rain had hoped would be an all-out, Velocity-empowered sprint had turned into a cautious jog, interspersed with bouts of frantic action where he and Ameliah scrambled to deal with whatever horrible, ravening threat they encountered.

No longer had they been able to deal with things before they reached them. There was a power bump at silver where awakened gained ground against the monsters, but beyond the wall, the scales quickly swung back the other way. With only two silvers worth mentioning, they had struggled.

Consequently, they hadn’t made it to Nadir in one shot. They’d been forced to stop for the night, and with the night had come a redoubled assault. They’d handled it well enough, thanks in no small part to the sheltered waystation. Defending the sleeping group in the middle of an open tunnel for the entire night would not have been fun.

At least it made for great experience. Ten trees a day. Hah. Blew that out of the water. Grannybrain’s task might just be possible. The essence is thicker than pancake batter down here, and I can get more by hunting monsters. With a safe base of operations in Nadir, I’ll just need a few weeks without drama or interruptions.

“Good morning, Tiger and Mouse! Or do you prefer Mouse and Tiger?”

Legruz’s voice boomed as he strode confidently out of the tunnel to the sheltered waystation interior. Sitting up, Rain saw the Illuminator yawn enormously, stretching with his arms clasped above his head.

“Good morning,” Ameliah said pleasantly, getting to her feet. “We thought we would have to get a bucket of water.”

“Nonsense,” Legruz said, waving a hand. “I’m famously a morning person.”

“That is patently untrue,” replied Mora, exiting from the tunnel, followed by the rest of the party in short order. Genn and the fledglings looked various degrees of disheveled, but the Entente looked none the worse for sleeping rough. “We’ll be ready in a minute. No trouble during the watch, I take it?”

“None we couldn’t handle,” Rain said, springing to his feet kung-fu style.

“I’m beginning to think the two of you don’t need sleep at all,” Legruz said, joining him. “Look at you. Fresh as you were six hours past.” He raised a hand to make a placating motion. “No, no, I’m not going to ask how. I know you don’t like it when I pry.”

Rain snorted, though he would admit Legruz had been much better since they’d saved him from being abducted. His somehow-cheeky appreciation was better than the reverence they were getting from the fledglings. That was just uncomfortable. Even Mora and the beardy bros were treating them differently. Compared to that, Legruz’s behavior was welcome.

The Illuminator coughed, then spoke in a hushed, uncharacteristically serious tone. “Now, when we get to Nadir, let me do the talking.”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow at him.

Even without any senses to see through her helmet, Legruz clearly got the message, though he simply laughed and waved a hand. “Oh, give me some credit. I haven’t been here for a goat’s life, but my family’s retainers will recognize me. Our Nadir fortress is only rivaled by our complex in the city proper, though I admit the exterior decorations lack a certain spice. All in service of the theme. Regardless, I can get you accommodations—within our walls, or without, should that be your wish.”

Rain nodded. “We’d appreciate that. Within or without, we’ll decide when we get there.”

Depends on the essence density and the disposition of the locals.

“It’s the least I can do,” Legruz said, then paused to tilt his head. “No, actually...” He trailed off, rubbing his chin. “It’s, uh, the most I can do. Any more would raise questions. I owe the two of you a life debt, but I fear I cannot repay you without attracting the very attention you wish to avoid.” He stomped a foot. “Drat and damnation.”

“We didn’t save you for a reward,” Rain said. “Like we were going to let any of those assholes get away after ganking us like that.”

“A sack of GranCrysts would be nice,” Ameliah said, turning to Rain. “We need crafting materials, remember? For our friend? Not having to scrounge around would save a lot of time and let us focus on our main mission.”

Legruz laughed. “Oh, resources? That I can do. I’ll have to check my personal allotment, but I’m sure it’s built up to quite the embarrassing pile over the past few years. I haven’t needed much while I’ve been studying in Threecore.”

“About that, Legruz,” Mora said, wearing her pack now. “We need to talk about what you owe the Entente for our hospitality. If you’re finished playing around in our lair, it’s time to talk about the bill.”

“Later, dear Mora, later,” Legruz said, grinning at Rain and gesturing expansively at the entryway. “Now, shall we?”

Rain snorted, then stepped forward, leading the way. “Tallyho.”

After an hour of walking and several tough but manageable battles, Detection came up empty for the first time in what felt like forever, showing no monsters in range, even when subsequently boosted with Aura Focus. Thirty minutes after that, Rain picked up the first signals from other people, though not in a tunnel that intersected theirs. At about that point as well, they entered the liminal space between the Cold zone they’d been traversing and the Light zone where Nadir was situated. The nondescript granite-looking deepstone came to an end, jagged intrusions of obsidian-like material taking over until the whole tunnel was made from the stuff. And that was just the start of the weirdness.

“What the hells?” Genn said, staring at his Lunar Orb. Rain joined him in looking, noting that the pure white light it had been giving off this whole time seemed somehow...different. Almost as if it had a certain unreality to it, like it was shining from another dimension. Looking deeper, Rain saw the spell’s mana twisting, distorted by the ambient essence.

“Nadir, touched by the moon,” Legruz said, inhaling deeply. “Ahhhhh, how I’ve missed it.”

“Hmm,” Rain said, still inspecting the Lunar Orb, which was lightly smoking now.

Wait, no, that’s Purify.

He boosted the spell, and the air filled with luminous mist that swirled much slower than he was used to, the mana languishing wistfully.

“Are you planning to keep that going in the city?” Ameliah asked.

“I probably shouldn’t,” Rain said, letting the spell fade. [Dozer, don’t freak out, but I need to turn off Purify.]

[No!!!] *pop* [Not atoned!!!]

[Okay, look,] Rain sent, catching the slime. Interestingly, not all of the mist had faded from around the Lunar Orb. Some of it lingered as if sustained by the power in the air itself. Rain shook his head, looking instead at the troublesome blob of goo. [Let me explain this one last time, and don’t play dumb with me because I know you understand. This is a dangerous place. Any magic that’s not clearly defensive could lead to misunderstandings. If someone sees me throwing mana around anywhere near them, they might freak out and attack us. This is serious, Dozer. If we have to fight, there’ll be a huge mess. Do you want a huge mess?]

[No! Rain-King clean so no mess!]

[No, Rain-King not clean so no mess.]

[No!]

[Yes!]

“Whoa,” Nim said, stopping in her tracks as their tunnel emptied out into a cavern.

Pitterpatter meowed, settling to a stop as Legruz leapt from the saddle, landing with a broad gesture. “I give you... Nadir!”

Rain looked up, splitting his mind to continue the argument with Dozer as he took in the view. Had he not been prepared by Detection and descriptions of the place, he’d probably have been struck speechless too. Gargantuan didn’t do it justice. Fel Sadanis could have fit inside with room to spare. Stars twinkled above him in the dark—a veritable night sky. Those were natural, coming from the magic of the zone itself rather than anything the Illuminators had done, though they’d certainly done plenty.

As close as it was to the Guild shaft, Nadir was viewed by most as a part of the City of Lights—a district, really. The settlement didn’t so much shine as it did twinkle, white fairy lights and shimmering curtains of mist decorating obsidian buildings, with only the faintest hints of color to show where the various houses had made their claim. It was quite understated, so it wasn’t surprising Legruz didn’t like it.

With a few exceptions, there were no large buildings. Instead, there were parks and gardens, paths of crushed white marble winding organically through the cultivated landscape. At rank thirty-three, the essence pressure here was too high for animals, but plants had no souls to be crushed. Off to one side, Rain could see water running through a series of pools, shimmering and steaming with heat—a geothermal spring. More important than that were the people. Hundreds of souls inhabited the various buildings, all awakened.

Rain turned to Ameliah. “No monsters.”

He wasn’t talking about the system kind. There were no overwhelming presences like in the city above.

“Yeah,” Ameliah said distantly. “This place is...” She shook her head, then looked at him with a somber smile. “My dad didn’t do it justice when he described it. It’s beautiful.”

Saved from saying something like ‘not as beautiful as you’ or something equally cheesy, Rain stiffened as a powerful soul streaked toward them from the center of the settlement. “Here comes the welcome wagon,” he said, making sure he had his IFF settings locked down to prevent misunderstandings. “You’re on, Legruz.”

[Fine!] Dozer sent petulantly in the other thread, finally conceding the argument.

With that distraction done with, Rain fixed his full attention on the newcomer. It was a man, Xiugaaraan-born from the outfit, and not Entente. He was old, with neither hair nor beard to speak of, and the golden lights sewn into his equally-golden robe marked him a member of house Dystolle. That was a mixed blessing. Dystolle got along better with the other great houses, on average, but not so much with outsiders. Worryingly, the man’s soul matched his outfit, gold in both strength and color.

He’s strong, but it doesn’t look like he’s done anything to his soul. Halgrave-strong? Maybe Citizen-strong, depending on equipment. Power aside, he’s clearly a Mage. That’s a LOT of mana.

“Light of Dystees find you, Illuminator Legruz,” the man said, touching down from what was probably Flight. Rain obviously couldn’t call himself an expert with Mana Sight, but he knew a flawless cast when he saw one.

“May it shine eternal,” Legruz replied, giving the traditional response to the non-traditional variant of the standard greeting. “You know me?”

The man smiled, the expression reflected on the surface of his golden soul, matching the friendly feeling of his domain.

Rain relaxed. Slightly.

“By reputation,” the man said. “And also by the report given to me by the Entente. Hello, little Mora. When I heard from First Otina that not only had you joined the Entente and made it to first yourself, but also that there was a good chance you would appear here with an Illuminator in tow, I confess, I spilled my drink. A most unexpected surprise.”

“I’m surprised myself,” Mora said politely. “It’s good to see you, Champion Juren.”

“It’s Alderman Juren, now,” the man said, laughing. “I left the dueling circuit for an office five years ago. Some might call that a questionable change of career path, but I’m not as young as I once was. Also, I find that the work of keeping this district from tearing itself apart is no less a challenge. Work fitting for a servant of Dystees, eh? Clearly you feel the same. Last I saw you, you were...this tall?” He flattened a hand, holding it at waist level. He laughed. “How time flies. How is your father?”

