“I wouldn’t know,” Mora said, her voice suddenly tight.

“Ah,” Juren said. “Didn’t like you laying down your family name for that of harmony, did he?”

“He did not,” Mora said dryly.

Juren clapped his hands. “We must have tea, then. Awkward conversations are always helped by tea. Second bell? My office? Will that be enough time for you to confer with First Otina? You don’t have to meet with me, of course, but I would appreciate the chance to catch up with the daughter of my old friend. I always thought of you like a niece, you know.”

Mora nodded. “I’d like that.”

“Good,” Juren said, smiling. He turned sharply back to Legruz. “Now then, Lomaris, I take you under my care as alderman and inform you that your mother wishes to speak with you. She is here, in your compound, making my life difficult. She was most displeased when the Entente told her you’d rushed off so recklessly.”

“Mora, take me back!” Legruz commanded in sudden panic.

“Fuck no,” Mora said, making Rain grin. “And fuck you.”

Legruz inhaled in an appalled gasp. “Ex-excuse me?!”

Mora turned away, then started walking for the city. “Gods, that felt good. Sorry, Alderman, but there are no take-backs. The esteemed Illuminator is your problem now. See you around, Mouse. Tiger.”

“See you around, Mora,” Rain said, smiling. In Zeelada, ‘take-backs’ had been a particularly clever riff off the wording of Legruz’s request, but he appreciated the expression all the more for being familiar.

“We’ll be at the tavern,” Leftbeard said, clapping Rain on the back as he and his brother made to follow. “There is a tavern, right?”

“Two of them,” Juren said. “I recommend the Moon Springs. The place is primarily a hot spring, but they serve both food and drink.” He wrinkled his nose. “The other establishment is the Guild tavern, which you should only choose if you do not care for tranquility. Or your liver. The diggers seem to like it.”

“Excellent,” Rightbeard said, giving him a nod. He punched his brother in the shoulder, then jerked his head after Mora. As the two of them retreated, Genn shifted awkwardly, huddled by Pitterpatter with the fledglings and looking like he wanted to follow.

“Mouse and Tiger, is it?” Juren said, turning to regard Rain and Ameliah. “Mercenaries?”

“Yes,” Rain said.

“And these?” He inclined his head toward the fledglings.

“My apprentices,” Legruz said, sulking.

“Not me,” Genn said. “I’m just here to watch my sister.”

“You have passes?” Juren asked.

Rain nodded, transferring Dozer to one arm and digging in his pouch. Ameliah got hers out first, holding it out to him.

In short order, Juren checked everyone’s credentials, glancing at the numbers on the back of each and making no move to write them down. “And these creatures?” he said when he was finished, gesturing first to Dozer. “The slime and the...whatever that is?”

“Pitterpatter is not a whatever,” Legruz said huffily, clearly upset for losing control of the situation. “She is a Lethano Repeating Feline, and a most majestic one at that.”

Pitterpatter meowed twice.

Was...that a joke?

“I see,” Juren said, looking at Rain.

“This one’s with me,” Rain said, jiggling Dozer as he tore his eyes away from the cattipede. “He’s harmless.”

“If you say so,” Juren said skeptically. “I doubt you carried a mundane Crystal Slime alive through the depths. You’re clearly a Mage, though, despite that armor, so perhaps it is not so unreasonable. I see you are using defensive magic. Barriers?”

“No,” Rain said, offering nothing more.

“Ah, well,” Juren said, disappointed. “We haven’t had a Barrier Mage down here for far too long.” He glanced at Ameliah. “I take it this is your first time here? Have you had the talk?”

“They are under my employ,” Legruz interjected unhappily, probably wanting to regain control of the conversation. “I shall take responsibility for their behavior. And offense, should they be harassed.”

That’s…actually really nice of him.

Juren, though, wasn’t impressed. “Good for you,” was all he said.

“Thank you, Legruz, we appreciate your support,” Ameliah said as the Illuminator spluttered. She turned back to Juren. “The talk?”

Juren nodded. “All silvers—and you are at least that, else a party of your size would never have made it here—are expected to contribute to the safety and security of the district. House, Guild, Watch, Entente, mercenary, Illuminator, even Bank—we all pitch in while we are here. There is a patrol schedule and a list of tasks for those not suited to combat. You cannot buy your way out of contribution if you wish to stay in the cavern, so don’t even ask. As new arrivals, you are expected to muster two hours before nightfall for assignment. There is also a service at noon that I hope you will attend. We do not judge heathens here, but we are happy to show them the light. Now, will you stay with the Illuminator, or on your own? There is no inn as such, but options are available. Ask for Nist. She is in charge of rentals.”

Rain looked at the city, judging the essence level, then at Ameliah, silently communicating his lack of enthusiasm for meeting Legruz’s mother. Finding she felt the same, he looked back at the alderman and shrugged. “We’ll see what’s available, I think. Sorry, Legruz, but we don’t have time for family drama.”

“You won’t leave without telling me, will you?” Legruz pleaded. “Not after all we’ve been through?”

Rain shared another look with Ameliah, then nodded. “We won’t.” He turned back to Legruz. “We’re going to be here a while, and you did offer us political protection, after all.” And a sack of GranCrysts.

“Very good,” Juren said, clapping his hands again. “I believe that is all, and I have the service to prepare for, so I bid you welcome to Nadir and leave you to your own devices.” His feet left the ground, and he began drifting away. Then, something happened that saw the hair standing on the back of Rain’s neck.

The old man’s smile twisted, and in an instant, his whole bearing went from that of a kind grandfather to that of a crazed and starving wolf, promising eager and unrelenting violence. The pressure of his domain spiked as he delivered what was clearly the only warning he intended to give. “Do not. Disturb. The peace.”

Rain nodded, paradoxically relieved.

Hold everyone else to that, and we’re golden.

Juren nodded back, then turned and accelerated smoothly, seeming nothing more than a kind old man once more. He wasn’t fooling anyone. Nor, did it seem, was he trying to.
