Ranthia had been bleary and grouchy in her half-awake state, up until the moment she answered her door—flap, technically—and came face-to-face with Night. Something about a higher order predator in her personal space sent a jolt of energy and tension through her body that chased away all traces of drowsiness and brought her into the moment. Even before he ordered her to attend a meeting, with a tone of cold formality.

Ranthia silently bade him to wait for a moment and tried not to freak out while she hurriedly snuck back into the bedroom. She mouthed the word ‘meeting’ to her bleary beloved, which got a half-nod before Avyna fell back asleep, and set to work grabbing what she needed. A shift later, she was wearing her armor (it was the same armor as her damaged set, crafted identically, so why did it still feel like it didn’t sit right on the left side of her body, no matter how she adjusted the straps and connectors?) and geared up.

Night was, unsurprisingly, exactly where she left him. He waited patiently while she resecured her home, then wordlessly began to lead her through Remera. The bulk of the base was on rest shift, but the walls were still a hive of nonstop activity. The siege never slept.

Remera was in a defensive posture, which meant that the [Mages] assigned to the walls were rarely artillery [Mages]. Instead, their role was to protect Remera itself. Arrows and other implements of death seldom passed the walls into the base proper; they were met by barriers and [Manipulation] specialists that could seize the material or missile and send it back into the shimagu. Even as Ranthia spared a glance for the wall, she watched one [Mage] deflect a large, incoming rock into the air, where it spun in an arc before it launched off into the night.

“I’m not going to apologize; I did what I had to.” Ranthia spontaneously caved under the pressure of the vampire’s ongoing silence.

“At this moment, I remain ignorant of what you speak of, and I suspect that I am happier for it.” He favored her with a smile—sans fangs—before he resumed walking. “To assuage your concerns, I shall inform you that Sentinel Aurora and I arrived to assist in breaking the siege. With that said, I would rather save additional discussion for the meeting itself. Sentinel Mirage would like to know these details and I would rather not spend the entire night repeating myself thrice. And yes, thrice—we will have a meeting with the base commander, once we have discussed things internally.”

That was… reassuring. But Night timed his speech to cut off right as he boldly barged straight into an unfamiliar tent, so there wasn’t time to dwell on it. Ranthia followed him in and found Sentinel Mirage, the woman he’d been with, and Sentinel Aurora already seated in simple wooden chairs, gathered around a fire. A shining aurora was wrapped around it, like a pillar connecting to the hole in the top of the tent, which kept the smoke contained within the fire—which precluded hot beverages.

She really could have used a hot beverage. But she still found her chair, roughly an eighth of a moment before Night called for her and Mirage to report.

Mirage voluntarily went first (he really was rapidly rising in her esteem). He had been assigned to the 15th while they struck an undermanned shimagu stronghold that scouts had spotted. It turned out to be a trap: shortly after they seized the base—and discovered it was bereft of useful assets—the army of shimagu swept in and attempted to pin them inside. The legate managed to get their retreat moving in time to foil the shimagu’s sloppy pincer, but he still sacrificed a full cohort and their Primus Pilus to buy the time required.

Given how Mirage worded things, he clearly didn’t think the losses were necessary.

But it also led to how Mirage got wounded—the elite ‘champion’ of the 15th Legion (the Primus Pilus) got taken alive. Mirage risked his own ass to put a metal slug through the man’s brain, then he got caught by an advance force of the enemy while trying to get clear after. Mirage specialized in long range and the three people he had with him weren’t enough—only the two of them were still alive by the time the fight was done.

“So yeah, I was about to call to White Dove, then a spear goes through the brute’s neck. Wouldn’t be here without Octavia. By the way, I’m poaching her for my support team. But yeah, from there I’ll let Grace take over.” Mirage concluded.

Ranthia took a moment to catch the woman’s eye. From what she’d seen, the legionary wasn’t prone to speaking much—she wanted to make sure Mirage wasn’t running with an assumption. But the woman just nodded to Ranthia, so plainly it was okay. Maybe they knew each other better than Ranthia had expected; she knew better than most that facing the imminent arrival of Black Crow together could create an intense bond between people.

She couldn’t put things off anymore, so Ranthia began her own report. She kept to the facts and tried to walk the narrow line between brief and detailed. From the first blast of Lightning to her failed initial strike against the Lightning twin, from the dullahan’s Lava to the arrival of the winged twin, she recounted the battle blow-by-blow until its conclusion. The fear and her brief abandonment of hope were her own, and she had no intention of sharing it with her peers. She even left off Mirage’s Skill hitting her after killing the Lightning twin—which drew an arched eyebrow from him—and undersold her own contributions to stripping the twin of her defenses.

“Before we start to pick the fight apart though, I… have a bit of conjecture. Like I said, my opponents chose to focus on my images, rather than seriously trying to kill me. But, honestly, I’m not confident I could have outpaced their attacks for so long had they actually focused on me. I’ve had some time to think on it, and there are only two real possible explanations—and they’re not mutually exclusive. They were afraid of me and avoided taking risks, or they hoped to take me alive after stripping me of options.” Ranthia grimly concluded.

“Don’t worry, I would have put a slug through you if they had.” Mirage chimed in with a smile.

Aurora fixed him with an exasperated glare, but Ranthia nodded her sincere thanks. She wanted to live—yes—but the shimagu had managed to create a fate that was so much worse than anything she could imagine. Her Skills might have given her a chance to get free or fight back or… something, but honestly? Yeah, she was willing to accept the certainty of death over the risk of becoming trapped within her own body, forced to witness horrors committed by her own hands for the rest of her life.

After that, they tried to pick her and Mirage’s actions apart, which resulted in a few pieces of flimsy speculation on things that might have helped. They were ideas to keep in mind for the future, if nothing else. Then Aurora pointed out that they forgot to strip the dead twin of her gemstones, which was a painfully valid point (and Mirage, the ingrate, sold her out by chiming in that he’d had no idea the woman had any—which firmly pinned that mistake on Ranthia).

Before Ranthia could respond, though, the meeting moved on. Night and Aurora were there in advance of proper reinforcements—the 4th Legion was mobilizing, supplemented with forces from the gnolls and centaurs that had joined the Coalition. They were due to arrive early the next night, but the siege had to be broken quickly; Coalition City needed them back ASAP.

The majority of the Legions were already marching into shimagu territory to try to take the largest of the parasites’ remaining cities. That was where Deflection and Quake were. The Legions’ leadership was antsy about how few ‘loyal’ personnel they had left, so there was something of an unofficial timer going for the return of the 15th and the 4th. Which meant that the Sentinels and Remera were, somehow, expected to provide a major contribution to breaking the shimagu army.

As if a handful of classers at their modest level could rout an entire army.

Still, they volunteered various ideas. Aurora wasn’t thrilled about playing the role of a mobile artillery platform, but she seemed to be more amenable to the idea when Ranthia proposed putting some of Remera’s defensive [Mages] aboard. Mirage was a bit of an odd duck, tactically. Most [Mages] went for bigger and splashier strikes as their power escalated, but he took the opposite approach: a tiny metal slug accelerated to absurd speeds across a vast distance. He was accurate and deadly, but his ability to assassinate targets from afar mattered less when they had no idea what targets to focus on. The shimagu hid their [Leaders] well. Night and Ranthia’s roles were more obvious, since they could unleash butchery on everything within reach and lead a push for the legionaries that had languished within the walls.

But soon enough, they ran out of time and had to conclude their meeting… so they could walk across Remera to attend another meeting. (What in Xaoc’s glory had she done to deserve so much punishment?!)

Surprisingly, they didn’t head to one of the command tents. Instead, they all crammed inside one of the [Analyst] tents. Granted, they had confirmed the presence of shimagu spies inside Remera, so maybe a change from business as usual made some degree of sense. Too bad it came in the form of standing room only with entirely too many self-important people crammed into far too small a tent.

The base commander was kind of obnoxiously energized and vocal, and Ranthia could only disparagingly assume the idiot was excited to be nominally in charge of such a prestigious operation with so many VIPs present. Night briefed him on the situation with the 4th Legion inbound and all, which somehow led to them being given a single night to break the siege.

Still, it sounded a lot better than trying to outlast the shimagu, which had been the operating plan until that moment. The main beats of the plan were easy enough. The moment the 4th made contact with the shimagu, Remera’s counter-offensive would begin. The dwarves would use their impressive siege weapon to brutalize the shimagu’s camp (which was being called a base—as if something with no fortifications could possibly qualify as a base), with Sentinel Mirage dealing with anyone that tried to escape it. Ranthia and “other elites” were to form a safe zone in front of Remera’s gates so they could be opened without undue risk and unleash the might of Remera’s assault teams and the 15th Legion.

Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] as a mobile artillery platform was also well received and the base commander promised her sixteen of his finest archers and access to some of the protection [Mages]—but the rest were needed for the walls. The base commander frowned there and trailed off, then things got derailed by logistics for a time.

The supplies that Aurora delivered helped with a lot of the problems. They had been running low on arrows and other essential supplies. Food was still an issue, but they hoped it wouldn’t be one for very long. Assignments were made, logistics were solidified, and the plans were set.

Then, as if it were an afterthought, the base commander looked straight at Ranthia.

“We will put out the call to all non-combatants that are proficient with a bow. We need additional archers for the Sentinel’s skyship.” The man ordered.

And Ranthia struggled against the urge to slit her second Legion throat in so many hours.

“Sure, I can do that.” Avyna replied breezily as she sliced a thick chunk off some sort of nutty, fragrantly spiced bread that Ranthia hadn’t seen before.

It was not the response Ranthia wanted to hear.

Avyna was in the kitchen, still dressed in the deep green gown she had worn to bed. Glorine and Gailla were sipping at cups of strong tea at their table while Avyna prepared food.

She hadn’t seemed surprised or alarmed when Ranthia brought word about the call for more archers, she just agreed. As if it was some minor task.

Ranthia had truly counted on Avyna refusing. She had worked out a great argument to keep Avyna safe: a combination of Avyna’s status as a civilian and as a citizen (or however that worked) of the Tympestshard Council which put her outside the base commander’s authority. And then she would have urged the man to just think of the political issues that might be involved, even before her own authority as Sentinel Grace! It was as solid as dwarven steel.

And Avyna wasn’t even going to give her a chance to use it.

“I won’t be up there with you…” Ranthia tried.

“I will be, I can keep an eye on her for you.” Glorine promised.

Ranthia’s opinion of her friend diminished, but she managed to set aside the urge to glare at her.

“My love, with less experienced archers raining arrows above our heads? I would rather be up there, outside of the likely path of accidental misfires. It is far more difficult to accidentally fire an arrow sideways than it is to under-draw and have your arrow drop straight down.” Avyna explained with a wry smirk.

“…What if more flying dinosaurs or a twin attack? The [Starship] is a really obvious target.” Ranthia refused to be persuaded by logic and pressed her arguments.

“They’re not dinosaurs, they’re pterosaurs.” Gailla chimed in—as if that was remotely relevant to anything!

“There will be a Sentinel up there, no?” Avyna prompted.

