He muttered, and the [Courtesan] eyed him, then leaned over the desk.
“Want to experience it?”
Ilvriss’ tail got up and hid around the corner of his desk. He leaned back ever-so-slightly in the face of her wide and suddenly interested smile.
“How do you mean?”
“If you’re curious, I can be a very explicit guide. Any way you choose. There’s all kinds of methods, and as I said, I’ve had plenty of clients who are Turnscales who needed help. Want me to try and play someone you could fall in love with? Or a situation where you figure out a different side of—”
He jumped up.
“Nope! Thank you, Xesci. I think we’d better figure out Georgie’s situation now.”
“Coward.”
She relaxed, appearing disappointed. Ilvriss leaned on his desk.
“…Just one last question, Xesci. I can’t just address the thievery, give Georgie a bonus for the mine, and sweep this under the rug, can I?”
She regarded him, and he knew the answer before she shook her head.
“I’m sure he’d like that. But it’s not Turnscales, it’s your people who won’t let it lie.”
He sighed.
“I was afraid of that.”
 
——
 
In the end, Wall Lord Ilvriss issued a simple proclamation on Georgie’s situation and marked this as a matter for his personal attention.
It had to be him; Welsca was clearly uncomfortable. Dead gods, Osthia didn’t want to really talk about it. When he asked her input, she began talking about the mine. Which made Xesci call her a coward, and the two nearly fought.
Given concerns for Georgie’s safety, which was an issue, Ilvriss thought the easiest answer was…a compromise. He put out notice that Advance Miner Georgie had fallen victim to a curse rune upon entering the mines.
Which Georgie shouldn’t have done, and there was the matter of perhaps him trying to pocket some reclaimed items; they’d found the two tile shards in his boots too. Dramm had apparently turned out the [Miner]’s things and found only that. Nothing out of the ordinary.
The upshot of all this was that pending his recovery, Georgie would be assigned to a female [Miner] team, and Ilvriss hoped that’d hold.
Again, he sort of had the undead mine, Lischelle raids, and Terland Assassination Golems to attend to. But he knew it’d come back up.
Just…
Dead gods. He audibly complained to Xesci as his subordinates filed out of the room.
“It’s just damn sex and gender, and I understand people being sensitive to it, but we have bigger issues, Xesci!”
“So says the Wall Lord who hasn’t had any for over a year.”
Welsca walked into a tent pole, and Ilvriss pointed at her.
“Do you mind? Can you turn it off?”
“I think it’s ordinary, banal. Not worth making a big deal about since I do it so much. You’re the ones who get all precious about it. I think it’d take your mind off things, but don’t snap at me, I can tell you’re traumatized.”
She stuck her tongue out at him; she’d become a half-Elf that looked suspiciously like Ceria Springwalker. He glared at her.
“You’re not using the faces of famous Gold-rank adventurers for your clients, are you, Xesci?”
She froze, creeping away, and hid her right hand in a pocket.
“…No?”
“Banned. I put my foot down on that.”
“You can’t ban—”
“It’s disrespectful. Ceria’s a friend.”
“Oh—fine. I won’t do it. But there are still wigs for a reason!”
She stormed off. Ilvriss put his claws over his face. Welsca hesitated, and her tail drew amazing patterns on his rug that Ilvriss eyed. She wavered for a good half a minute and then coughed.
“Sir, if you wanted t—”
“Out, thank you.”
She left. Ilvriss was dying to go back to the inn suddenly. Dancing. Dancing was nice and simple and only made you want to amputate your legs when the Highstepper gave you a leg cramp. Lyonette was doing far better over there, he was sure.
 
——
 
Krshia Silverfang brought a bunch of election posters when she came to The Wandering Inn to meet with Lyonette. The [Princess] stared at the one with Lism on it.
“You can’t put those up in the Portal Room, Krshia.”
“Lyonette, please, it’s a close race!”
Krshia Silverfang had a little team of followers, all Gnolls, who shuffled to one side, staring at Lyonette as if she were a Hydra. She didn’t know them, or their classes, which seemed to be [Aide], [Policymaker], [Bureaucrat]…
New classes for a new city that actually needed people to keep up with so much work. It felt weird to her. She didn’t know this Council that had campaign flyers.
She didn’t know Krshia anymore. The Gnoll who’d called her tribe-sister once…was a stranger.
It had been a long time since the Gnoll had visited. Now, instead of her usual outfit—a [Shopkeeper]’s light clothing mixed with some Plains Gnoll style—she wore a vest and undershirt, spelled to keep her cool with all her fur, and long pants with Liscor’s crest on it.
She looked like, well, an official. The kind Lyonette might have seen in Calanfer’s wide diplomatic core. The [Mayor] of a city. She even came into the inn differently.
Awkwardly; she’d been here before with Lism and Zevara whenever an incident occurred, but as a guest, a friend?
Seldom. She’d been busy. Lyonette hadn’t visited her or Zevara as much and felt bad about that, but now, Krshia walked into the inn after exclaiming on being ‘shown’ the door, and it was different.
“Ishkr, Nephew. How are you? We never see you in the city, yes? Unless you’re just skating around for fun. Plenty of young Gnolls want to learn from you, and it’s not just us old ones wanting to set you up! You should come by and let us feed you! And Bird, hello. How is, er, being female?”
She came over, hugged Ishkr, and then shook Bird’s hand. Bird jumped as she hesitated over a bowl of hard-boiled eggs.
“Hello, Krshia. It is alright. I am resenting muchly the fact that there are differences. Mostly in how I am treated. Biologically, it feels very similar.”
“Hrr. Er, well, I’d love to have you over for tea sometime. Calescent, yes? And Adventurer Arcsinger…”
She knew them. She was familiar enough to joke with Calescent, to admire Sticks’ new stick he was waving around, and the Antinium she was completely fine with. It just felt odd to Lyonette, who was watching her, because Krshia was introducing herself. Shaking hands.
And, Lyonette couldn’t help but note, she’d zeroed in on the people with the highest levels first. Nothing she did was wrong, but the staff and guests of the inn felt it. Valeterisa practically vanished the moment she saw Krshia going around with handshakes.
“I’m sorry, must be going. Building magical academies and whatnot.”
She flew out the window before Relc ran after her. He had to cut the water to run on it.
“Valley, Valley, wait! I packed you a lunch that Calescent made!”
“You did?”
She came back, wide-eyed, and kissing ensued. Krshia, meanwhile, seemed to pick up on the staff eying her. She hesitated, then apologized to Peggy.
“I must still be in elections-mode, yes? I’ve shaken half the city’s paws it feels like. Er…I brought gifts!”
Snacks and trinkets from her store. Some figurines, including one of Bird that the Antinium promptly threw out the window. She followed it, vowing to get royalties or get even. But again—
Lyonette saw it.
The Krshia of old wouldn’t have come in shaking paws. She’d have greeted people less, actually, but just chatted with them whenever she had a moment. Asked them how things were and had a longer chat, for an hour or two, even, as fancy permitted. If she brought gifts, it’d just be some silkap to share. Or a trinket she was selling. Something nice, easy to please.
This Krshia felt like she was on a timer and that if you got forty minutes with her, great. But it was forty minutes of her time she was allocating to you. Lyonette got it.
But it still made them strangers. Because when Krshia turned to her, the Gnoll stopped, then adjusted her clothing.
 
——
 
“Sorry, Lyonette. You just…intimidated me a bit there.”
“Me?”
Krshia blinked at Lyonette again, then averted her gaze as she sipped at some tea. Lyonette was having coffee. Another change between them, if small.
“Something about your presence is rather more impressive these days. My [Political Instincts] were telling me you could make or break things for Liscor. I know it’s just our classes. [Princess] versus [Councilmember]. The inn looks fine.”
“We don’t have much business, but I’ve been pursuing ventures abroad. Calescent’s bored, but he can do fancy stuff like this latte.”
He’d been trying to do designs with milk and foam, but he didn’t have much artistic sense. He’d done an arrow in milk. Lyonette sipped at it, and Krshia sighed.
“So many people like drinking your bean-water, like Lism. It’s got no elegance, yes?”
“It’s better than drinking mild leaves. Or roots boiled in mud! Do you want some actual caffeine, Krshia? You could need it!”
Lyonette jabbed back, and Krshia blinked, then turned her head.
“Hah! Very true. I could try a cup, yes?”
Silence. Lyonette sat there as Sticks hurried over with a cup and then saw Krshia take a sip, politely grimacing. When the Gnoll looked back at Lyonette, the [Princess] said it.
“Krshia. Your class is eating you a bit.”
The Gnoll woman froze mid-sip, and Lyonette just eyed her. The Krshia of old wouldn’t have backed down from her anti-coffee position. All Lyonette had done was jest with her and she’d folded.
Why? To be polite? Because she wanted Lyonette’s help and a small concession won a big one? Because Lyonette’s class was overpowering her?
Lyonette didn’t know, but all the reasons weren’t the ones that she could have ascribed to the [Shopkeeper] she’d known. Krshia put her coffee down and took a breath.
“I deserve that, I suppose.”
“It’s not an accusation, Krshia. It’s…I’m sorry, but you’ve changed a lot.”
“My sister and other Silverfangs new to the city remind me of that nonstop. It’s been a year, a long year of trying to lead Izril’s fastest-changing, fastest-growing city, Lyonette. I’m sorry if I’m being political. Thank you for meeting with me. I have been asking, but I didn’t want to push. And my class told me to push.”
Then Lyonette felt bad. She linked her fingers together, sighing. Gazed at them.
“Krshia…no, you know why I don’t want to bring the inn into this. I’d love to know how you’re doing, but I realize this is stressful. I still don’t want posters in the Portal Room; it reminds people we own it, and that puts Liska in danger.”
“Fair, but if you were to say something, or we could borrow Ishkr—he’s very popular with young people, you know. And Wishdrinks, Timbor’s inn, plenty of people would all chime in with just a single endorsement—”
“Of who? You? You don’t need help, Krshia! I’ve followed that much of Liscor’s elections!”
Lyonette interrupted, smiling. She beckoned, and Xinthe had a list of candidates and faces for Lyonette. She lifted a page, eying it critically.
“You’re up against ‘Mama Vala’ for your district. There’s also Rubige, a Gnoll challenger, and Tolla…but they don’t have a chance. Of the three, Tolla’s probably the only genuinely independent challenger. Rubige and ‘Mama Vala’ are both backed by the old Council, angry [Landowners], and the Guilds. ‘Mama Vala’ runs the Jeweler’s Guild. Eternal Throne, I hate her nickname.”
Krshia grumbled.
“You do know what’s going on! I hate it too. She’s styled herself as some sweet, caring woman when she voted for plenty of laws that kicked Liscorians out of their homes who couldn’t make rent…right when we first moved in. But not everyone knows or remembers that; she was an old Councilmember, and she put a lot of gold into her campaign. Gifts for citizens, a new park—”
“She’s still second place to you by a huge margin. Darn, I wish we had numbers.”
Krshia’s ears perked up.
“Numbers? Of what? Who’s voting? The election is the only time we’ll know, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] sighed.
“My father has more complex ways to obtain data. It’s some weird system with [Bards] who go around conducting surveys. Then you do some math to account for all the people you didn’t talk to and you can, uh, what’s his favorite word? Extrapolate how people are feeling and put it into numbers.”
Calanfer was one of the most advanced, politically savvy nations in the world. Krshia blinked and leaned forwards.
“If only we had that—! I’d pay a fortune to know exactly how we were doing, Lyonette! We just have to use [Gut Sense], [General Census], and so on! And [Gut Sense] doesn’t work if someone had indigestion!”
A rather bored [Mathematician], who’d stopped working on his grand project at another table, blinked. Yelroan perked one ear up, then began scribbling notes. Upon such little moments, great and terrible things were created. Yelroan fancied he could sell this to most democracies or savvy kingdoms who appreciated this kind of thing. He never had the time to do this kind of thing in Plain’s Eye, but here he was all independent projects. This sounded like fun.
—Lyonette and Krshia paid no notice to the rogue [Mathematician]. The [Princess] was arguing with Krshia.
“There’s no need to back your election, Krshia! You’re going to win! So’s Elirr, so’s Raekea! Mind you, I see your concern about having to fight to keep a majority of people like you, but there are strong candidates battling it out in other districts! Like the four new seats in 3rd District!”
She pulled up another candidate poster.
“Guildmaster Okr, ‘Building a New City for Tomorrow’! Not a bad slogan, but he could do better…but he’s the Mason’s Guild’s Guildmaster!”
“Yes. We’re a bit worried about him. He’s not running with us, or the old council, and he doesn’t want to chat. Well, that makes sense; anyone even seen to talk with us gets called a traitor or has a huge crowd outside their door. It’s gotten nasty. Some fights in the streets over the election. Lots of skullduggery. We had some idiot break into my shop, either to burn it down or…”
Krshia sighed, and Lyonette winced.
“I wouldn’t know about anyone burning down your shop. Terrible. Um, but Okr’s not an issue, Krshia.”
“You think so? He’s a Guildmaster, and they’ve mostly united around taking us down. Alonna’s been fighting to keep her place as Guildmistress of the Mage’s Guild; Wistram’s pressuring her, and she’s admitted her loyalties are conflicted.”
Lyonette sighed.
