She had a headache. The first thing she’d done was stamp out that newspaper article about her ailment. Some fool had gone crying to the newspaper—it would have led to war, no doubt. But it would also have showcased House Terland’s weakness.
She did not need that with the Reinharts about. So…she checked on the progress of Golems marching to Xitegen’s lands. From there they could reach this Wall Lord Ilvriss fast enough.
But to live or die? She drummed her fingers on the tabletop. Her instincts said kill him. Apparently, Wall Lord Zail had also flown into the north, which meant the Drakes had their damn routes through the High Passes again.
Eschowar of Salazsar. There was a Drake she’d kill in a heartbeat if she thought they could get to him.
War. Battles with the Drakes. It felt like she was young again, before the Antinium had come. Ulva stared at her hand and a liver-spot on the wrinkled skin.
“Mirror.”
She whispered, and one reflected her face. So bitter, so untrusting, and paranoia had aged her. She touched her face.
“We cannot all die like Maviola El. Damn the Lady Firestarter, setting the bar on how to die.”
“Lady Terland? Please repeat the command.”
“Silence.”
Ulva stared down at the documents in front of her, then stood. She turned to the window—before realizing it was sealed up. Someone had placed bricks behind the beautiful window in her office. Enchanted them too.
It was an ugly addition to the House of Stone, but she’d insisted on it…years ago. Because she hadn’t wanted a window at her back. In case of assassins. She gazed at the brickwork now, wondering why she’d never put an illusion on—
“Why did I never put an illusion on this ghastly window?”
“The brickwork reassured you, Lady Terland.”
So it had. Now, the [Lady] gazed bleakly at the wall in her office and turned away.
“I can’t understand it. I don’t know the south anymore. [Cattle Barons]? We used to have nobility down there, not jumped-up [Ranchers]. It’s all changed.”
She hesitated, confronted by the annoying truth that The Wandering Inn was responsible for so many events she’d ignored in the complacency of the north. Terandrian affairs had been her concern, like Ailendamus, not some border-city of Drakes.
“Small wonder Xitegen went south or that Magnolia set up a base in Celum. If I’d paid any attention…very well. This [Innkeeper] is another Larracel, then. Hah, I never cared for the Haven as much as the rest of the infants squabbling to visit her inn.”
Ulva could not deny it, then. From the events on the scrying orbs to now, the inn and city of Liscor had been a locus of events. She chewed on some bitter salad of nastiness—the Quarass had prescribed it to keep her strength up. Ulva snatched a cup of water and drank, then spat her next words out.
“…And so what? It’s just like one of the Five Family’s scions racing around. The true scions, not a single family head like Tyrion or Magnolia.”
She glanced at the accounts of an [Innkeeper] overthrowing the [Mayor] of Esthelm in a day and leading an army of Goblins against Tyrion Veltras.
“Not bad. But that only makes her a successor to Maviola. Not that she’d kiss Goblins. But if the rest of Izril is reeling over the Goblins…they are Goblins, but what about Lady Wuvren? Her little baron’s still around, and she had death-threats and [Assassins] for years for bedding a Troll.”
That was it. There was nothing that this [Innkeeper] had done that was that much more insane than the old days. Goblins were one thing, and the Antinium, but even old Linter Veltras had once rode down through the Bloodfields and set the Drake cities to chaos for half a year, fighting on behalf of the Steelfur tribe with that boy who’d become Chieftain Iraz.
Dead now, the both of them. Ulva leaned over her desk, and the names came to her like a litany. Linter, Fulviolo, Maviola and Gresaria, Petria—
“She’s just a girl. Just one woman capable of changing things. If she had been born fifty years ago, she’d be warring with the Wellfars. Treading lightly both north and south. Clashing blades against the Cyclops, the likes of the Lightning Lord of Salazsar, and if she took up arms against House Veltras, she’d have an army of [Druids] coming to sort her out. And on those ships…”
Ulva Terland saw an image of an [Innkeeper] sailing into the distance. A dying [Prince]. And she imagined a fire-haired [Lady] standing next to the [Innkeeper], ablaze with her own righteous flames. Perhaps, it would have been Gresaria Wellfar’s spear running the [Prince of Men] through. Wellfar ships colliding with Bloodtear Pirates.
No. It wasn’t that she didn’t believe. Ulva leaned on the table, and then she re-read the reports. Not the details, but how they were written.
Like stories. [Informants] assuring the reader, again and again, that this had happened. They had proof! Like children trying to convince adults they’d seen Dragons.
Ulva didn’t need to be convinced. But it hit her, then.
“That’s what we lost during the Antinium Wars. People like her. She’s the Goblinfriend of Izril today, the woman who’s shifted Izril by herself. In my time, she’d be just one troublemaker among many.”
That was it. Ulva wanted to sneer at Erin Solstice, but she was not the Ulva Terland who could. Decades ago, the Twin Virtues of House Terland would have already been at the inn, challenging the [Innkeeper]. Today?
Ulva Terland gazed at the bricked-up window. And she didn’t even know if it was sunny or raining outside. She read the reports of the south. And it was a strange land she didn’t remember.
“I’ll never understand the situation where I am.”
Her heart palpitated, and she felt at it. But she remembered Petria and that land beyond. She feared death so much. She still did. But that would not be terrible, to see her sister again. So Ulva Terland closed her eyes, then spoke.
“Prepare me a team of Golem Horses and two bodyguards from the…sixth vault. I am going with the Golems south.”
She would see this Wall Lord and [Princess] for herself. And if she found reason, she would deal with them all. Of course, her family argued.
They thought she had gone mad, that she would die out there. She flatly told them to follow or shut up. Ulva left. Only later did she realize her ‘death’ and her years of inaction had cost her in other ways too. Her command of House Terland was no longer perfect, merely absolute in places.
There were more Golems stalking the Wall Lord’s camps, deployed from House Terland’s holdings. Not all of them were under her control.
 
——
 
It was a tragedy. A betrayal. Nothing would ever be the same.
Damia Reinhart held a Gnoll woman’s hand as the Silverfang [Huntress] cried.
“I trusted her.”
“We all did. This is unacceptable, no.”
“With—with him? He tried to—! Is she mad?”
Damia awkwardly patted the Gnoll woman’s paw. She hadn’t ever comforted anyone, but here she was. Sitting with a bunch of Gnolls in Timbor’s inn, commiserating.
Mostly because she had nothing better to do. The last few days had not exactly been lucrative for Damia. But to say they’d been boring?
Hardly! She’d been frustrated at times. Angry at not finding work or opportunity, mostly with herself, but in her seeking of things to exploit, Damia had fallen into a trap.
The trap of Liscor. She had become fascinated with the city itself. Everyone had a story, you see. So much had happened here, and if you were a bored [Lady] asking questions, they’d tell you.
Like these Silverfangs. Damia had been asking about the Gnollish perspective in the city when the news had come in. The reaction?
Horror, shock, outrage—she had heard Gnolls howling. Damia didn’t quite get it.
“So this Councilmember, Krshia, is sleeping with a Drake, Lism? I’m sorry, I don’t know either one—”
“It’s our Councilwoman! Honored Krshia—Lism is a nightmare! He’s a fool, a speciesist, Human-hating—and they’ve been together?”
“It was a rumor. It’s not like it came out of nowhere. But to think—”
There were, um, pictures. Rather explicit ones the Watch had torn down, but it was in the newspapers, everywhere. Damia was impressed, in her Reinhart way, by the smear campaign. But interestingly, it seemed to hit the Gnolls way harder than the Drakes.
In fact, she’d heard a lot of Drakes laughing about it. But to the Gnollish population—
“It’s a betrayal, then.”
Damia hazarded, and the Gnolls growled and nodded.
“It is! It’s one thing for Honored Krshia to have a relationship with someone. If it were anyone, a Human, another Drake, an Antinium, who’d care?”
“Antinium is an exaggeration, no? But yes, broadly, who cares? But him—he’s everything Krshia ran against! Has he been having her do him favors? Compromising on what she should be doing for us?”
“She didn’t vote for that policy to deal with the Guilds that one of the Silverfangs brought up at our meeting last month. Do you think…?”
Ooh. That was bad. Damia smiled, fascinated.
“But Honored Krshia, she’s the Gnoll who first met Erin Solstice, right? And Akrisa Silverfang’s sister? She brought you to Liscor!”
The Gnolls turned to her, surprised. The female Gnoll sniffed.
“You know a lot, young woman. Er…yes. How did you hear all that?”
“I asked. It’s fascinating to me! Your city’s gone through so much!”
“Well, it’s hardly as big as Pallass or Invrisil—those are bustling cities.”
The female [Huntress] demurred, but Damia shook her head.
“I know Invrisil. I’ve visited plenty of times. It has fads and entertainment, but it does not change. Did you really have a [Druid] come to the Floodplains and fight a hundred thousand Shield Spiders?”
One of the newer Silverfangs angrily ordering another ale hesitated and turned. He began to laugh, but the [Huntress] just sniffed and blew her nose before nodding.
“That? Oh, yes. It was so good for all us [Hunters]. So many Shield Spiders dead; I fell into a nest the week after, thought I was dead, and it was empty. Way more animals appeared after that. This summer will be a good one—excuse me, but this news is bad. I think we have to speak to our friends. I’m so sorry.”
“No, not at all. Binevy, cover their drinks.”
The Gnolls gave Damia a second look and thanked her, asking her name. She introduced herself, and the [Huntress] blinked at her.
“I am sorry, but this—I think I need to reconsider my vote.”
“Even though it’s Krshia? The Gnoll who fought at the Meeting of Tribes?”
The [Huntress] stared at the table, hesitating. Another Gnoll growled for her.
“A vote for Krshia Silverfang sounds like a vote for Lism. I’d rather eat shit.”
The rest of the Gnolls snarled agreement and stormed out. The [Huntress] hesitated.
“Wait, Beirl! She has a point! Excuse me, I’m so sorry—[Farstep Interception]. I said w—”
She took one step, and Damia’s eyes widened. The Gnoll flowed around Damia, out the door, and down the street. She appeared thirty feet away, in front of the snarling Gnoll, and he jumped as she grabbed him. All in a single moment.
“—ait!”
They began to argue as they stormed off, and Damia stood there until Binevy returned.
“That was an amazing Skill! Was that [Huntress] Level 30?”
She half-turned, and Timbor peered up from cleaning their table.
“Her? Nah, that’s a regular of mine. She’s Level 20-something, but that’s one of her Skills. I think she got it after the Raskghar attacks. She fought one off taking her younger brother—gained the Skill.”
“House of thorns, that’s impressive!”
Damia was jealous at once. She’d only levelled once since coming to the city, and only because she was so low-level. But that…that was no ordinary step-Skill. Binevy bowed.
“Lady Damia, should we head back to Invrisil? It’s been three days.”
And we haven’t found anything for our trouble. The only work Damia had found was from the stupid [Recruiter] to get her to work in Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig site—and a [Madam] trying to get her to work in one of Invrisil’s red-light districts.
Damia refused to go. She strode into the rains as Binevy found an umbrella, sighing. Damia didn’t need one; she had a little charm on her belt shaped like an umbrella that made the rain pelt off her body. She smiled.
“This is the city to be in, Binevy! Follow me!”
 
——
 
Okay, she admitted it.
She was having fun. It was such a novel experience Damia didn’t really know what to do about it. It was far headier than even sneaking expensive wine from her mother’s cabinets or her illicit relationship with Wernel.
Taking a carriage for a joyride was more thrilling for a bit, but this felt…fun. How else could you describe it? Damia would walk down a street, find something that caught her eye, and make a purchase of a burger for lunch, a healthy chicken burger marinated in the fish sauce that was special to Liscor, with a smashed patty liberally infused with cheap but flavorful spices.
Then find a charm-seller and ask how that had all started. See a half-Giant doing a stump speech with hundreds listening to him talk about his vision for Liscor.
Binevy was worried.
“Your mother has been asking about you, Lady Damia. She believes you’re overwhelmed or striking out without any direction.”
“Tell her I’m fine and don’t answer her queries.”
Damia didn’t like the ‘no direction’ bit because it was partly accurate, but Binevy fussed with her sheets.
“Lady Damia, she sent an allowance for ‘indulgences so you remember our agreement’. A hundred and fifty gold pieces.”
“Add it to our budget. We can’t go back.”
“But Lady Damia, there are far more amenities in the north—”
Binevy didn’t get it. Damia snapped at her.
“I can’t afford to pay your salaries or the servants that Aunt Cosoi left me for more than a few months, Binevy! I may have a lot of personal gold, but if you add up all the servants, I need a source of income! So unless you’d like to find other members of the family or join the general roster?”
The [Head Maid] shuddered. Being a ‘general servant’ of House Reinhart was the most dangerous job of all; the Reinharts valued their personal servants. The expendable ones were the ones in danger.
“How did you work that out, Lady Damia…?”
“I did the numbers.”
Damia had sat down in her rooms at the inn and worked it out with a quill and ink. Using her brain to actually take stock of her assets instead of relying on Binevy had been wonderful. Even if the problem remained.
After some thought, the [Head Maid] hurried to keep in step with Lady Damia.
“…Perhaps this is the place to be, Lady Damia. But I fear you need bodyguards, and I need more staff. Should I send for all the servants to join us here?”
