“A [Mine Lady]? Because if you were, I could offer a far larger bounty—”
“No. Those don’t exist.”
“Not in the north, apparently. Work’s hard.”
He sighed and walked off to another table. Damia was glad to see someone else struggling to do their job. She muttered.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig. Wait, Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
She sat up in interest. And she approached the table where three Drakes and a Human were waving him off. They seemed like they were around her age, and, she guessed, none of them were apprentices or had the most well-paying jobs. Mud covered their britches, and they’d come in tired and swearing about hauling jobs. But they weren’t having the pitch either.
“Listen, dude. We don’t want work.”
“It pays better than a [Hauler]’s job. Trust me. And you’ll have an actually valuable class.”
“Oh yeah? Who wants to mine for a living?”
“The pay’s double what you’re making, and there’s bonuses.”
That drew the quartet up, but one of the Drakes just snatched the card and read.
“All the way in—I have no idea where this is!”
“It’s not far via the door—”
“Listen, listen. No one wants to go digging in some nowhere place. This is the spot to be. Between Esthelm, Liscor, Celum, all we gotta do is find the right work and get a few levels. Who’d go off to a place without even working toilets?”
The Human interrupted, a young woman with impressive biceps, and everyone nodded. Catsel was biting his lip. He was really not the best at this pitch, or he’d used his Skills throughout the day. Damia was sure he could find anyone who wasn’t employed, hence him continuing to seek her out.
However…Damia jumped into the conversation, because she couldn’t help it.
“Hold on, Catsel. This is for Wall Lord Ilvriss, right? The Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
The group of potential workers eyed her suspiciously. So did Catsel.
“Er, yes.”
Damia peered around. No one got it? She spoke to the table.
“Are all of you new to Liscor or something?”
“Hey. Us two are from Cellidel. We followed Senior Guardsman Relc here—this idiot’s moved from Pallass, and our Humie friend is from Esthelm. We’ve all been here for months!”
They glared at her, and Damia threw up her hands.
“So you know about The Wandering Inn.”
“Of course.”
Timbor half-turned as a few other patrons looked up. Damia pointed at Catsel.
“But you don’t know about Wall Lord Ilvriss? The Wall Lord who came here with Zel Shivertail? The one who danced with a certain [Princess] in Oteslia, proposed to an [Innkeeper], and gave her his ring? He’s fought monsters at Liscor! Dead gods, he charged Fissival during the Meeting of Tribes! That Wall Lord is digging in the north, and you think the best opportunity’s here?”
She pointed northwest as the table blinked at her. Damia was excited. She saw it, suddenly.
“If I wanted to get a piece of some levels, I’d be going there in a shot. Let alone getting paid by Salazsar. They’re the richest of the Walled Cities! Either you get paid and come back or you run into a Solstice event and come out with lots of levels!”
“Hold on, if it’s so profitable, why aren’t you going there?”
One of the Drakes raised a claw, and Damia sighed.
“I’m a [Lady]. I’ve never swung so much as a hammer once in my life. You think I have the muscle to dig?”
She gestured self-deprecatingly at herself, and the Human girl snorted.
“Fair point. Gimme that card again, Rosc. Hey, the pay is nice…and we’re strong.”
“I dunno, it’s pretty damn far.”
“Still, Wall Lord Ilvriss. I know that guy. Didn’t we hear he was actually decent? I heard Watch Captain Zevara liked him.”
“Anyone that stick-in-the-mud likes has got to suck.”
“If he knew the Tidebreaker…”
“You want to die?”
“You want to haul campaign boxes for the stupid election all day? Who you voting for?”
They were arguing, and someone else came over to check the card. Damia stepped back and nudged Catsel.
“You’d better have a Skill or some charm. Hurry up before you lose them.”
He jumped in hurriedly, and she watched him sign no less than five people up right then and there and get more interested names. To her surprise, he came over to her as he promised to run and get more details for the people who wanted them.
“Damia, right? I think I owe you this!”
He handed her a gold coin. She blinked at it.
“What—for that?”
He looked very happy.
“It’s hard enough getting people to sign up, even with all the incentives the Wall Lord’s company gave me! That was a good pitch. I’m going to copy it. How do you know all that about the Wall Lord?”
“I keep my ears open.”
“Well, do you have time? Because if you do, I’ll cut you in on my profits.”
Damia stared at the gold coin, and her brain lit up. She pocketed the coin, then smiled at Catsel.
“Absolutely not.”
“Oh, well, then—”
He turned, and she walked with him to the door.
“Who’re you working for? Put me in touch with them and sign me up as a [Recruiter]. I don’t want the class, but I have charisma-Skills. I don’t want a cut—I want a job.”
Her eyes gleamed, and she remembered her advice. Don’t just provide a service, be the middleman. Who had more gold than a desperate Wall Lord? Catsel blinked at her, then shrugged.
“I could put you in contact with the supervisor, but listen, I’ve been doing this for weeks. You don’t have a chance, good spiel or not. No offense.”
“Really?”
She eyed him, then strode over to the table. Damia smiled down at the group toasting an adventure in the north.
“Hey, do all of you have friends who’re also searching for work?”
The Drakes and Human blinked at her.
“Sure we do.”
“In that case, I have four silver coins per person if you get them to join you. I’ll pay you for every friend you refer to me.”
“Four silver? You serious?”
One of the Drakes stood up, and Damia’s winked.
“Absolutely. So long as they actually sign up. And if they’re hesitant, let me talk to them. Actually, does anyone know another story about Wall Lord Ilvriss? I heard he once got literally hit in the head by a frying pan that the [Innkeeper] threw…”
 
——
 
By the end of the day, Catsel, who was working for Damia, reported they’d signed eighty-eight people. Which made Damia sad.
She’d been going for a hundred. However, her Skills seemed to have a strong effect, or maybe it was the way she talked Ilvriss up. She thought it was obvious.
 
“Anyone with eyes can see he’s up to something in the north. What kind of Drake goes digging up there for nothing?”
“Smelly? Dirty? Sure. You know that City Runner, Sasquatch? She’s being appraised to be a Courier, and she ran deliveries for The Wandering Inn.”
“Oh, sure, it’s probably going to be hard work. And maybe there’s nothing up there. If there’s not, you’ll see everyone back here a month or two later with spending gold. Or you’ll see us in the news. Your choice.”
 
Binevy had to remark after the eighteenth time hearing Damia talk someone into it.
“Lady Damia, you’re rather persuasive when you want to be!”
The Reinhart [Lady] winked at Binevy.
“I’m just being honest. Honesty is easier than lies.”
“But you talk up the inn so well!”
“Well…yes? Doesn’t everyone like the inn?”
“Not a lot of people. Are you going to, ah, be working like this?”
Damia Reinhart had gotten in touch with a bored [Supervisor] who worked in Ilvriss’ dig site. They’d signed her up with zero expectations on Catsel’s recommendation. After she’d reported eighty people, they’d begun telling her if she hit certain quotas they’d pay her very well.
…But only enough to make her a good living as a person. Damia shook her head, sighing.
“No. This is just good for a day. But it can’t pay all my servants’ incomes unless we just do this for a living. Plus, once we get enough people for Wall Lord Ilvriss we’ll be out of work unless I start Damia’s Recruiting Services.”
It wasn’t the worst idea in the world. However, Damia just felt like she was missing something. She thought of the [Gang Leaders], of the Wall Lord. There was money there, but she’d never recruit enough people, even if she did this sunup to sundown! The [Supervisor] had told her flat out that if she recruited a thousand people, they’d take all thousand.
They’re dying for more help, but experienced help. I get way more of a bonus for signing anyone with [Miner] Skills.
…Silverfangs…
An idea came into her head. Damia sat up on her bed and put her fingers to her temples.
“Wait. Wait…[Think Harder]!”
“Does she always do this?”
Sule whispered to Binevy. The young [Head Servant]’s eyes lit up.
“Oh! Lady Damia, what if you hired the Silverfangs for Wall Lord—”
It was a genius idea! Damia snapped at her.
“Shut up, that’s obvious!”
“Oh.”
There was something else. Something deeper. Damia’s eyes snapped open. She began to sweat as she tried to put it together. Then something went ding in her head, and she leapt up.
“I have it. It’s a Solstice event! A Damia event! I need—but if—we have to—”
She ran around, waving her hands as her two employees stared at her, and then stopped.
“It all hinges on one thing. We need the power of The Wandering Inn. If we can’t get it, it fails. Follow me!”
She ran down the steps, then turned.
“Wait. Binevy, my things. Get me the most slutty outfit we’ve got.”
Binevy exchanged a glance with Sule. He wore a happy expression. He’d heard you saw all kinds of stuff in House Reinhart. Good and bad.
 
——
 
“All aboard to Riverfarm? Choo, choo!”
Liska might have been getting a bit delirious after pulling a ten hour shift. She didn’t even know what she was saying; she’d just heard Kevin say it once.
The people in line were giving her worried looks, but she was doing her job. Too much, actually. Yelroan had come out twice to try and relieve her, but she’d insisted.
Working hard levelled you! Her girlfriend got it. Her new girlfriend.
I’m gonna work so hard today, then I get a day off, and it’s smacking lips time. Wait, that sounds terrible. I gotta be cool and impress her. 
Liska wobbled around deliriously.
“Man, I need a break.”
“And a drink, Miss Liska? Can I change your mind about having one? Is there anything you…want?”
The [Doorgnoll] turned and came face-to-face with Damia Reinhart. She stared at the [Lady]. Then down at her low-cut bosom.
“Whoa.”
She kept her eyes low as they had a conversation. Damia was speaking fast.
“I need a favor—”
“Hold on, hold on…one more second…”
Liska raised a paw, slapped her own cheek, and sighed.
“Whatever it is, no. I don’t know where the inn is, I don’t want to deliver whatever it is, no special treatment, no free money. Bye!”
She began shoving Damia to the door. Damia spluttered.
“Wait! I need your help! Only Liska, the [Doorgnoll] who held off Tyrion Veltras himself, can help me! Please! Isn’t there anything you want?”
Well, if she put it like that—Liska squinted at her.
“What makes you think you have anything to offer me? Besides, uh—my partner’s cool, but not throuple-cool. I think.”
She’d have to ask later, because that felt important to bring up, and a certain [Dancer] might really be into it. Which would be—but this [Lady] felt like trouble. Not that Liska knew her aside from today. But Damia was protesting.
“I can surely offer you something! Everyone wants something!”
“Listen, Lady. All I want is levels. Not gold, not s…all I want is levels!”
Liska snapped. But to her surprise, Damia smiled, and her eyes lit up.
“Oh, is that all? And here I was prepared to try sleeping my way to what I need. If it’s levels you want—listen, I have something I need help with. You don’t have to do anything illegal. Well, it’s mostly not illegal. Well, you won’t get in trouble. In any major way. I think. But it’ll level you, I’m positive! Just…”
She explained her idea in brief. Liska was about to shake her head before Damia got to her role. Then Liska wavered.
“That…sounds sort of awesome. And I’d probably level. But—”
She glanced towards the door. Damia snuggled up to her in a very distracting way.
“I swear, it’s not for anything criminal. Despite how it sounds. Plus, you know, House Terland did try to kill Wall Lord Ilvriss recently.”
“Yeah. They did. Yeah…hold on. Let me just get approval for this from, uh, my boss.”
Damia’s face fell as Liska rubbed at her chin.
“No, wait! Please! If you just—”
Too late. Liska wobbled off-duty as Peggy replaced her with a sigh, and Damia stood there, woebegone. It was over. Doomed!
…Where had Liska gone? Damia was wandering around the room, utterly mystified, convinced the [Doorgnoll] had some kind of secret door. And she might know where The Wandering Inn was! Maybe. That was just a dim theory Damia had.
She sat there for a long time, trying to figure out countermeasures and realizing she didn’t have any good ones. Worrying and waiting for an age.
Then the door opened, and Liska came back. Damia was about to throw herself at the Gnoll and beg when Liska held up a thumb.
“Boss approved it.”
“What. Really?”
Liska grinned.
“Yeah.”
Then Damia’s head came up and she beamed. She ran for it before Liska could ask her name and invite her for that drink. Only later did it occur to Damia to ask…who was Liska’s boss?
She had no idea.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin wasn’t exactly happy that evening. She was lying down, trying to sit up.
“Lyonette—Lyonette, it’s a valiant attempt, but let’s just do some classical dances. It’s fine—”
“I—can—do—”
She couldn’t get up. Her red hair was splayed over the ballroom floor like blood, and her cracks were showing, an angry, unhealed red.
She hurt.
She couldn’t move. Her legs…she refused to show him her frustration, but tears sprang to the corners of her eyes.
After three dance meetups, something was abundantly clear about the Highstepper.
Lyonette couldn’t do it.
Now, this wouldn’t be a problem in a bubble. There were dances meant to break the Human condition, to crush the soul and spirit. If you couldn’t do the impossible, fine.
Here was the problem: Lyonette couldn’t do the dance. It was abundantly clear that Ilvriss could.
He’d come back from the dig site several times by now, riding in and out before dawn to justify the excursion. He claimed he enjoyed the time at the inn so much it was worth it, and [Twofold Rest] certainly made up the travel time. He’d even found time to exercise.
“Lots of nervous energy with the mine monsters. I engaged them twice, but everyone shouted at me so much—I can’t risk my life.”
