You met people in your work or the hobbies you engaged in, and by that standard, who was Krshia going to run into? Lyonette herself didn’t meet many people. Pawn had always been at the inn, and these days, it was just employees, which meant never, unacceptable, or…
…Someone she worked with outside of the inn. She fiddled with her fingers.
“I can relate to that. Even so, Krshia. It’s a change.”
“Maybe I should drag him to the inn someday, outside of work. Or invite you two over.”
“I will never set foot in your apartment again without having Ushar disinfect it first.”
Krshia rolled her eyes as Ushar shook her head behind Lyonette. The [Princess] smiled though, after a moment.
“I get it, Krshia. I do. People change. It’s just—Lism? Lism?”
Lyonette sat back in her chair, then sighed.
“Okay. I’ll try to figure out something tactful. No promises!”
Krshia smiled in relief. She stood and held out a paw—Lyonette slapped it down, glared, and went to hug Krshia.
“Don’t let your class change you entirely, Krshia.”
“I know. I think some Gnolls think I’ve become this City Gnoll entirely. Even the ones who came with me. But I just…this is how we change a city, Lyonette. We need Gnolls in government.”
Who could argue with that? Not Lyonette. She sighed as she promised to have something ready for Krshia soon; the voting would begin shortly, and it did matter. She hoped it wouldn’t bite her in the ass, but she wanted to re-establish her friendship with Krshia.
…Just as soon as she stopped Ilvriss from being murdered. Lyonette groaned after seeing Krshia off with a more casual meeting scheduled for next week.
“I have a meeting with Xitegen after this, don’t I, Ushar?”
“Yes, Princess.”
“…Is there anything I should know about other friends and their personal lives that will distress me? I’m ready for it now. Anything?”
Lyonette swivelled around. The staff all bustled away. After a moment, Nanette raised her hand. Lyonette stared at her. But the young witch innocently smiled.
“Your sister Menisi’s back in Calanfer, Lyonette. Ser Dalimont sends me update-gossip from home. You should read the rumors about her.”
The [Princess] sighed.
 
——
 
Lism was waiting for Krshia in the Portal Room, actually. He dashed over the moment she ‘appeared’ from out of nowhere.
“Krshia! Did she agree to help?”
“Yes, yes. Not here. You’re lucky—”
They vanished as people from Liscor eyed the two famous Councilmembers. Some cheered, others shouted at Krshia or Lism, asking what would be done about this or that, hecklers and supporters alike.
More against Lism than Krshia. That was the state of things, and Lyonette would have paid the election little mind; she had bigger fish to fry.
However, a person who’d followed Krshia and Lism now stepped into the inn itself. A rare guest. He came down the trapped corridor, was recognized and seated by Picker, after checking his pockets because the little Goblin had a reputation, and then tried to get a meeting with Lyonette.
Naturally, he’d fail. The [Princess] had some time before meeting with Xitegen, but a rather smug Xinthe came over.
“A busybody wants to speak to you, Princess. A guest, but not one I recognize. Should I send him on his way?”
No friend of the inn like Krshia. She indicated the man, or rather, Drowned Man, who was below Menolit-class and certainly couldn’t just meet w—
Lyonette shoved Xinthe out of the way.
“Nollesc? Is that you? My favorite [Spy]! Hello, I’m so sorry Xinthe kept you waiting.”
“Wh—but—he’s a spy!”
Xinthe spluttered to Ushar as the half-Clam Drake Drowned Man rose and bowed. Ushar sighed.
“He’s the inn’s favorite spy. Which means he ranks above you, most likely.”
The Calanferian woman stood there, poleaxed, as Nanette shot into a seat with the spy that Erin had made friends with.
It was one of the cannier things that Erin had ever done. Not least because it meant Lyonette had a contact who wasn’t an employee, but certainly remembered the inn doing him a good turn like with the spellbook, and who liked to be fed and not be treated as, well, a spy.
It was also why Nollesc was allowed to find the inn. Everyone needed a way to leak information and get important info. He ate for free. And today, he wore a slightly troubled expression as he sat down.
“I came here pursuing some light work, Miss Lyonette. If I may—my client hasn’t paid me to be discreet. Quite the opposite. This is the report I’m about to submit. I’d like you to see it first.”
He handed over a neat file to Lyonette, who opened it. Nanette peeked over Lyonette’s shoulders.
“Oh my—”
Lyonette closed the folder fast, pushed Nanette away, then peeked again. Her face went red.
“Oh no. Nollesc, I appreciate you coming to us. I’d like to buy your silence and if—”
The Drowned Man gave her a pained gaze.
“I’m afraid that’s not an option, Miss Lyonette. I’m just one person hired for this, and it’s not exactly…hard to do this job. This is probably already in their hands. Frankly, I suspect they have far more than one report and they’re waiting to use it.”
Lyonette opened the folder and stared down in dismay. Among the [Magic Pictures] that Nollesc had taken with an artifact—and he had multiple angles—she saw his quarries exposed.
Lism and Krshia, kissing in his apartments. And then a far more explicit—
She stared. Krshia hadn’t been exaggerating. She turned to Nollesc, and he turned red.
“This isn’t my usual line of work, but with the inn quiet, I am one of the top [Spies]…”
“No, I quite understand. And others have the same…images?”
“If not so clear; it wasn’t hard. They have no security on their apartments. They try to be secret, but—”
Ushar’s face was a full wince. The Thronebearer leaned down.
“It’s probably not occurred to them that they need security, Lyonette. They’re learning, but until your first breach—”
“Oh dead gods. Krshia.”
Lyonette closed her eyes. Then she thanked Nollesc and sent Ishkr with an urgent message. Because she didn’t think she could stop this even if she had Vaulont go into Liscor and start stabbing spies.
The election…had just gotten a lot more complicated. But again, Lyonette thought of Ilvriss. Much like his issues with Georgie—
They had bigger problems. Killer Golem ones.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland did not feel great after nearly dying and coming back to life. One seldom did especially when one’s heart stopped, for all they’d put her in the best healing apparatus possible.
It didn’t matter. She lived. And she had the will of Petria in her veins, and she would use it. Once more for the north.
She was debating triggering the Hunter-Killers on the Wall Lord now. She had sent for far higher-grade versions to be placed, but it might make more sense to just send a hundred and take out the entire camp.
“A hundred.”
One of the Lords of Stone accompanying Ulva as she strode around—well, limped fast—was breathless. Milksops and complacent children, the lot. It was her fault, really; she’d kept House Terland insular after the Second Antinium War. Not made them go out and about; the younger generations had some spark, but the older ones were content to sit and manage their holdings.
Again, it made sense. All the brave ones had died in the Sacrifice of Roses.
“Take the entire camp to pieces if we must, yes.”
“To pieces, Lady Ulva?”
She rolled her eyes. It was as if he’d never seen the Battle Golems do what they did—she glanced at the man in his late forties. Oh, right. Lord Moltin was their new [Mint Lord], and he loved numbers.
He probably hadn’t ever seen a battlefield. She snapped at the scrying orb that reflected a bouncing man’s face, covered in sweat but for different reasons than Moltin.
“It will start a war with the Drakes, but if it curtails what they’re planning, I will do it. It’s cost and reward. I take it that’s your comment, Xitegen? Stop jogging. I’m getting sick just looking at you.”
“I have to exercise, Great Aunt. And I am just pointing out that war seems undesirable. But far be it for me to countermand your wisdom. Are you planning on taking command of another Hunter-Killer?”
He was polite as could be, and the gasps from Moltin and the others were like squawking doves, but Ulva just grunted.
“You sound like your mother. She always could score blood. I want them prepared. Just house them in your city, Xitegen. If the Bloodfeast Raiders appear? Waste them.”
“Well, I won’t turn my nose up to that. I am cautioning against killing the Wall Lord, though.”
“So you’ve said. Get me those reports on Liscor and that [Princess]—now. You fought with him at the Winter Solstice, didn’t you, Xitegen? Sentimentality with a war-buddy?”
Ulva was catching herself up on everything that had gone down around Liscor. She knew the trite things like the beach garden, some of the stuff about the [Innkeeper]; she wasn’t blind. But she didn’t have Xitegen’s familiarity, and even he’d come late. He replied slowly.
“I won’t deny that killing a Drake that I fought Draugr with cramps my legs, Great-Aunt. I suppose there’s the flaw in allying oneself with the enemy. You get to respecting them by accident. But more practically, I am worried about the state of Izril. Far too many powers eying our lovely new posterior in the New Lands.”
“Not a time to waste Golems. Very well. But I shall not ignore my grudge.”
Let alone to that thing who’d taken Petria’s face. Ulva growled, and Xitegen nodded.
“Far be it for me to suggest we don’t have a grudge. How dare they thwart our assassination attempt. Those damn Drakes.”
She snarled at him.
“If you have a comment about Goblins not being so bad, I will have you checked for mind-control, Xitegen!”
His reply was as cool as those cucumbers he wouldn’t stop snacking on.
“I saw the Goblin King again, Great Aunt. I just know I’m not ready to greet him a third time. Allow us the time to level. If war with the Drakes gets us there, I won’t argue. But if it leaves us without the Golems to send at him—don’t.”
A frank assessment from the man she thought could lead her House when she died. Ulva strode towards her chambers.
“I hate Drakes. He will not conduct his business in the north without reprisal.”
The only question was…whether killing him was the right move. She was annoyingly torn on that for one reason alone. Petria had mentioned owing the [Princess], Lyonette du Marquin, a favor. So Ulva sat down as a serving Golem began opening reports and passing them across her desk.
Three hours later, she had a headache.
 
——
 
How did one damn city result in this many events? She hadn’t even known about some of the insanity that was, apparently, occurring there!
“Confirm this one too! Mihaela Godfrey, the Mihaela, and our own Eldertuin and other Named-ranks failed to kill one monster?”
She threw another report at the Golem who bowed.
“The report has been confirmed…{SIXTEEN} times, Lady Ulva. I shall do so again if necessary.”
She was one of the Maid Golem styles popularized about two thousand years back. Like one of Magnolia’s servants, perfectly sculpted, ceramic face and a maid’s outfit made out of the tough pottery.
Ulva wasn’t the biggest fan, but the Maid Golem didn’t have interior knives or a combat-form that could mince you, unlike some versions. This one just…was good at chores and paperwork, a mid-grade Autonomous-class Golem. Like Primera and Seconda, the two Golems that Xitegen loved, she could ‘think’ in limited terms, but it was still just her running routines, not true adaptive sentience.
Not like a true Sentient-class Golem, let alone Cognizant-class like Cognita and a few others, but the response was adept, fast, and would have rattled a younger member of House Terland.
Not Ulva. She had made it happen. The Golem-Maid’s glowing heart was an emerald set into her outfit with a brooch’s outline. It…pulsed.
Slowly. But each pulse seemed to add to the Golem’s finesse as she swept the report up, giving her replies more clarity, sharpness. Her eyes seemed to have something behind them.
[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. It was the power of the Terland Family. The great Skill passed down from leader to leader. It let Golems be what Terlands had always wanted them to be: for a bit, closer to people.
They are still Golems. Ulva had less infatuation with Golems than most of the current generation. She didn’t love them. She regarded them as invaluable, beautiful tools. Works of art. Companions and bodyguards, but she knew they were not people.
“Confirm it again and have the person on speaking stone to explain it to me, Golem. From your limited understanding of the world, give me a report on something…modern. Less stories. More current facts.”
The Maid Golem paused and went still. Ulva cursed.
“Overloaded her cognition circuit. Even with a slow heartbeat.”
She waited for it to finish thinking as she glanced at more files.
“If we only had some Zelkyr-made Golems. None of their Golem Hearts or circuits would have atrophied…but that Drake never allowed a single Golem of his design to go to anyone but Drakes.”
He hadn’t been dead that long before her birth. She’d even met a few Zelkyr-Golems, and the Archmage of Golems’ reputation was well-deserved.
Oh, not in all ways. His Truestone Golems, his masterpieces, had only ever numbered three. In the great Golem Ages of the past, many had been created, apparently. Zelkyr had been a jealous Drake, hoarding his greatest techniques, so no one had ever rivalled him. Nor, arguably, was he even the best maker of Battle Golems. He’d done dangerous ones, but she had access to all the surviving Golems of House Terland.
They had some really nasty variants. What Zelkyr had been best at was, well, intelligence. Mannerisms. He created Golems with personality, splendid Sentient-class Golems he arguably didn’t need to make so adaptive.
Or so many that were just attractive women. She snorted. At last, the Maid Golem came to life.
“…This is a modern report, Lady Ulva. I shall inquire about the veracity of this report. Ex-cuse me.”
She placed a report in front of Ulva, which was indeed fresh. Marked today. This hour. Ulva opened it, stared at a nude Drake and Gnoll engaged in—
She closed her eyes.
“Serving Golem?”
Another appeared.
“Yes, Lady Terland?”
“Eyedrops.”
Only after that did Ulva read the report and realize these were two Councilmembers. She sighed.
“I don’t care about who’s getting elected or the scandal. The [Princess] of Calanfer!”
She slammed a fist on the desk. She wanted to know about Lyonette du Marquin! Ulva was furious at her too. She’d helped the Drake! But if Petria said she owed the [Princess] a debt…Ulva sat back.
