“Of course she is. Well, I can’t speak to that, but the Mason’s Guild is largely independent. Pallass might pressure Okr, but they can’t do much. Why, you ask? Because he employs Antinium. He has to, and he’s built the city up with Hexel. If anyone’s going to be pro-Human, pro-immigration, pro-change, it’s him! And good luck beating him! I imagine the old Council thinks they have a shot, but his buildings are very well made and there are few problems. Citizens will remember that and know he’s kept prices down.”
Krshia brightened up.
“That is good to know. Well, we do have hopes to keep a majority, but if you’d just—just one or two statements, Lyonette? Even a quote?”
“But you’re not going to lose, Krshia.”
The Gnoll woman bit her lip.
“No. But Lism might.”
Lyonette du Marquin blinked and shuffled through her papers. Krshia was in a fairly Gnoll-heavy district in the new map they’d drawn up. Hard to beat especially since she had her people on her side no matter how much ‘Mama Vala’ worked.
Lism was in a far more traditional part of Liscor. Yet he had a lot of adherents; she remembered the last election. But when she eyed his competitors…
“Three old Councilmembers?”
Krshia nodded miserably.
“It’s not just his competitors running stronger races. Lism, ah—he’s had pushback from his people. He was very anti-inn, you recall? Anti-Antinium?”
“Right. And he’s…oh dear.”
Lism had done an about-face of sorts when he’d gotten into office. Or rather, he’d taken his vehemence against Antinium, against the Erins and Humans of the world, and turned it on his true opponent: people charging too much rent. He’d pushed through plenty of initiatives Lyonette liked. Expanding Liscor’s services for the elderly or those in need, like the orphanage. Incentivizing people to come from cities like Cellidel, backing Olesm and the war against Hectval—
But she could see how he’d lost the very people who’d voted for him. Krshia elaborated as Lyonette winced, studying his less-than-stellar poster.
“He’s gained supporters as well as lost them; people aren’t blind, and they see how the city’s improved. But he’s having trouble because he’s, well, Lism. He has to brag and claim he’ll do something amazing, and he’s running into plenty who claim he’s a sellout. In truth, it’s the new Council who’s the real problem. Us. Me. He ran against us so hard people think he’s sold out and joined us.”
“Not exactly far from the truth, even if it’s more like you all teaming up to take on the upper classes.”
Lyonette eyed the rough notes Xinthe had prepared and thought that Krshia was right: Lism was tied with the runner-up, Councilmember Grillt, a very respected member of the Merchant’s Guild who’d served as the Guildmaster. Or even behind. She put the paper to one side.
“I see. We could definitely help your new candidates if the inn put its voice behind you, Krshia. Assuming we’re a net boon. Are you sure?”
Krshia Silverfang hesitated. She coughed into one paw.
“I know how the city regarded you after the Winter Solstice, Lyonette. And I am sorry—to Rheirgest as well. However, The Wandering Inn is still a name everyone in the city would listen to, yes? And—and it is a close race. We have used every trick we have. We need a miracle.”
And who else did you turn to for miracles but the inn? Lyonette exhaled and nodded. Certainly, if Imani, Temile, Timbor, and other influential figures who liked the inn spoke out, it would probably gain attention.
“We can at least be loud and attention-grabbing.”
“Then you’ll do it?”
Lyonette’s blue eyes met Krshia’s, and she felt at a crack along her jaw, wincing. Then she turned that wince into a frown.
“For Lism.”
“For the current Council maintaining a grip on sanity, Lyonette. The idiots running against us will try to revert things, and the inn is one of their targets.”
“I know that. But for Lism.”
Krshia was staring at the ceiling, breathing in and out, calculating.
“We lost Jeiss. Tismel and Zalaiss aren’t running, and they were easy to ignore. If we don’t have a clear majority, we lose the ability to act fast. We shouldn’t have agreed to the election, but most old Liscorians got stirred up by the campaign the old Council ran, and it’ll be two years of trouble if we don’t halt this. They want to start regulating the Free Hive, banning people entering the city—idiotic things. Lism and all the candidates running with us see a real future, not a regression to the past that won’t work.”
“So I’m helping. Lism. Lism.”
Lyonette’s tone finally caught on, and Krshia sat up. She gave Lyonette a frown, then a weak smile as she spread her paws.
“Lyonette, please! Isn’t that old water under Liscor? After all this time and him helping the inn, helping Liscor—”
Lyonette du Marquin was no fool. No willing dupe. No Erin. She fixed Krshia with a gaze that pinned the [Councilmember] and sat back in her chair.
“He’s better than the Merchant’s Guild. He’s changed, it’s true. For all those reasons, I can see your argument, Krshia. But I have one question for you that I need answered. I never asked because, well, I didn’t know for certain at first, and some things you don’t bother friends about. I’m going to ask now. Krshia Silverfang. Why Lism?”
Why vote for Lism? Because despite him being bombastic, despite all his foibles and—Krshia’s mouth was open, and she was about to run her pro-Lism spiel when she realized that wasn’t the question. She froze up, and her hair rose slightly. Lyonette stared at her.
Krshia glanced around. No one was paying attention that she could see; Yelroan was busy getting volunteers for his project, and he was one of the few Gnolls around. She lowered her voice.
“Lyonette, I think that’s personal, as you said—”
“Krshia. I may not have been in Liscor as long as Erin, but I know you. I know him, and I know your reputations. He has said some of the most heinous things about Erin, about you—you hated each other’s guts! That wasn’t a joke or a rivalry. He was a hostile ass of a Drake, and you two are…”
Lyonette linked her fingers together. Krshia avoided her gaze.
“I don’t think my private life is any—”
“How about this?”
The [Princess] started making way more explicit hand-gestures she’d learned from the adventurers. Nanette glanced over, snorted coffee out her nose, and Krshia jumped.
“Lyonette!”
“I’m serious, Krshia! What’s the reason?”
It genuinely offended Lyonette when she engaged with it. She got tolerating Lism. Erin had actually let him into the beach garden with less fuss than Tyrion because she understood he had become a useful pest instead of just a detriment.
But she knew how he’d first treated Erin. It might have been something Erin overcame, but he’d been genuinely nasty. Lyonette could shake his hand today, serve him food, and only give him a hard time. Umbral thrones, she’d even go to his birthday with a nice present if necessary!
But never in a million years could she imagine sleeping with him. And why was Krshia, Krshia who sold marital aids and who was so frank, embarrassed?
Because she knew how everyone felt about it, that was why. Krshia was glancing around, looking to her assistants for help, doing everything to get out of this. But the assistants who’d begun to come forwards with help ran straight into Xinthe, and whatever their political savvy, they were no match for six thousand years of Calanferian aplomb.
Krshia had to answer Lyonette. Her ears went flat. She fiddled with her tail, checked a fancy magical Wistram watch, peered up, then deflated. She met Lyonette’s eyes, then hissed.
“You have privacy spells?”
Lyonette nodded to Ushar, who activated them and stepped back. Krshia still drank from her tea, then the coffee, then snapped.
“It was supposed to be a one-night fling! Do you recall when Maviola El was in Liscor? Right when we were elected and we had our first meetings? It was then that we put the first rent fixes on the Council and I realized we might have common interests. We met gazes across the room and just nodded at each other, and then we hit Tismel, Zalaiss, and all the idiots with everything we had for three hours! We put so many laws into place—they couldn’t do a thing! And then we were all celebrating, drinking, and—”
“And you jumped him. You—and him—how drunk were you? Was there Rxlvn being served?”
Lyonette was considering pouring her coffee into her eyes to get the images out. Krshia was probably blushing like mad under her fur; it made the hair ripple if you knew Gnolls.
“He flirted with me first. We started arguing when we were having shots, and it became bets. We always bet—well, we didn’t want to do coins, so we did articles of clothing and—”
“Please stop. Sticks, acid please.”
Lyonette handed a cup to Sticks, who hesitated, then walked off, shrugging. The [Princess] listened. Krshia, for all she’d changed, was still a Gnoll. In that she was willing to give details.
All the details.
After a while, Lyonette took the cup Sticks had come back with and actually did splash it in her face. Unfortunately for her, Sticks was a literal sort of Goblin. She asked for acid?
He brought back acid.
Fortunately for Lyonette, even Sticks had changed. He’d gone over to Imani’s restaurant and filled it up with her acidic vinaigrette.
It still hurt like hell.
 
——
 
A bit later, Lyonette lay with Xinthe and the other staff applying hot towels to her cracked skin. Krshia stared at Lyonette’s…condition.
She hadn’t known. But the pain helped. It made Lyonette focus on that rather than anything Krshia and Lism got up to in the bedroom.
“You do what with…? No, don’t answer that. Don’t tell me what kind of perverted, insane acts you get up to behind closed doors. It doesn’t matter! That’s not the question!”
“We’re good at it, though.”
Krshia huffed defensively. Lyonette opened her mouth. The Gnoll gave her an arch look.
“You think it’s all an even playing field, Lyonette? Tell me about you and Pawn, then. You told me about your bedroom mishaps—I can’t imagine either of you two were good at anything.”
“I—we were both younger—don’t deflect from—it is not a competition!”
“No, it’s a performance, and being good at your part does matter.”
“So that’s it. Lism and his—what does he call it? He names his penis?”
Krshia sighed.
“It’s a perk, Lyonette. You asked. I told. You want to know the real reason?”
She leaned back in her chair, and Lyonette felt vinaigrette burning in the cracks of her skin. It still hurt less than thinking Krshia was just mad or so degenerate she put pleasure over principles. But the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] fixed Lyonette with a look that reminded the [Princess] of the old Krshia, because she was still there. Just changed. The [Royal Shopkeeper] spoke gently.
“Lyonette, Lism is a pain in my fur, even now. There are days when I want to dangle him outside the window and shake him. I can only do it inside, because, well, it’s a secret. Some days, I do have to literally pull his neck spines or put him in a headlock until he figures out he’s being an idiot. And some days, he says something I didn’t think of or reminds me that I’m fixated on an idea that won’t work—like trying to force the Guilds to hire equal members of all species. He’s not a complete fool.”
“He’s still a complete piece of Creler crap, Krshia. And he was, even more than now. Why did you continue?”
Krshia exhaled. She stared past Lyonette.
“Ten years, almost. Ten years of starting up my stall in Market Street, and the first thing he did was ask ‘how many of us’ there would be. It set the tone, no? Years of warring with him. He served Drakes, I served Gnolls. Fighting over prices—it wasn’t always just species. Hurling insults, though he never tried to actually attack me. Probably because he knew I’d end it with a punch. A few times, we had trouble. Soot’s gangs trying to run a racket, and we all had to team up to run them off. Monsters? Fighting poo slimes with brooms.”
“So you knew him as more than a fool.”
Krshia shook her head after a moment of thought.
“No, he was mostly a fool. If I’m honest, his one redeeming quality was Olesm, whom he raised. He never understood Erin. Had to be dragged into tolerating Goblins, Antinium. And I did some of that dragging. I told him that if he bothered Erin again I’d throw a Flask of Fire in his shop. That first time was probably just…hate sex. Which was fun.”
“Pleasestoptalking. And then?”
Krshia glanced at Lyonette.
“He changed. Just a bit. By the time he made Councilmember and we were fighting Tismel and Zalaiss, he was better than the Lism I knew in Market Street. After ten years in Market Street, he was better than the Drake I met when I first entered Liscor. Today? I might have actually liked him a bit if that was the Lism I’d first known. I think he wishes he were that Lism, but he’ll never admit he knows it’s for the best.”
“So you’re fixing him?”
Lyonette could see that, but Krshia just snorted.
“Fixing. What am I, one of Kevin’s people? I don’t have that much time on my paws, Lyonette. No…I gave him a chance after that first night, told him he would have to convince me to put up with him a second longer than I did. And I have changed.”
She glanced at her empty cup of tea, then glanced around. Back through time.
“Krshia Silverfang, the Plains Gnoll, never quite liked her tribe. She loved it and hated it in all the ways you do a family, but she had to leave. Liscor was her big break. She mobilized so many to go there, to take a chance, not just her tribe but those who wanted to try and change a city. Give her credit for that. But she did have a full ego. It took ten years of work, not running into a city and being the most important thing ever, to make her Shopkeeper Krshia. Now she’s a Councilmember, and I think it may have gotten to her head, but not as much as it would have ten years ago. I hope.”
She peeked at Lyonette for confirmation, but the [Princess] was just listening. Krshia glanced down at her cup.
“As for Lism, well, Krshia Silverfang doesn’t have many friends. Customers at her stall? Sure. Silverfangs? Her people, but she’s a leader of them, not always just one of the tribe. Time to do much else than work? She’s always worked, so who does she talk to? Elirr? No. Raekea’s married, Alonna’s in the same boat, Jeiss was married, Tismel and Zalaiss—she’d rather sleep in a sewer.”
“So, Lism. Huh.”
