It didn’t look like the best grazing area, though. The Ruins of Albez were rocky and a bit depressed into the land. Silverfangs were [Miners], but like every good Gnoll tribe, they preferred to raise their flocks.
Were they going to mine Albez? As it turned out, they had been inquiring, but the several thousand Gnolls would have been far surplus to requirements. Not that they were all here; Gnolls were riding into camp, tending to cows, or returning from day-jobs.
They didn’t seem…happy. They didn’t look that unhappy, but their leader was a Gnoll named Rayna Silverfang—at least the one who minded the base camp.
She was as young as Damia with markings down her arms and legs that made her a full warrior of the tribe, but the Meeting of Tribes had aged her, and she was growling as she spoke to a number of people wanting her time.
“Listen. Listen, we will move our camp, yes? Within the week! Just let us pass through your lands. We cannot march the herds nonstop, and we have been searching for work! Have we been stealing, taking your grazing lands? Albez is unclaimed! We’ve slain monsters here, yes? [Clan Leader] Plisce has spoken with your [Mayors]!”
The representative from Ocre hesitated.
“Yes, and we don’t mind you staying, but this is our shared land. So the matter of a fee—”
Okay, older the Silverfang might be, but Rayna threw up her paws.
“Fees! No one is using this grass! No one else is even hunting here! Why must we pay a fee? Is there a fee for the road? For drinking water from a stream? Or just for Gnolls?”
She was mad, and from the way the two representatives shifted, they were uncomfortable. The [Negotiator] from Remendia hurried to clarify.
“Not at all, Chief Hunter Rayna! We completely welcome Gnolls to the north! There won’t be any Drake hostility here.”
“Absolutely not! We’re not warmongering speciesists!”
Both Humans insisted, and they were earnest. The Meeting of Tribes being televised meant that no one was exactly in a rush to be anti-Gnoll at the moment. They even smiled at Rayna, but her expression was stony as Damia strode forwards.
Someone blocked her.
“Excuse me, I believe I am next.”
A rather travel-weary, but distinctly less saddle-sore, Lady Desinee El was holding the reins of a horse she’d rented after growing tired of Overnight Carriages. She and Damia blinked at each other, then warily nodded as Rayna rubbed at her face and turned to a [Shaman].
“For this, I came north. For this, Irit. I should have joined the younger Gnolls forming a tribe, like Kerasil’s band. There would be adventure and a young leader to follow as he became [Chieftain]. Or just stayed in the south.”
“We should have brought Honored Tkrn. He knows the north. But he just had to do his Tkrn thing and put a baby in Honored Inkarr.”
“Bastard. I’d like to see him deal with this.”
Irit was just as young as Rayna and badmouthed the Humans to their faces. Then they turned and gave the two Humans the most insincere of smiles.
“Apologies…friends. Let me explain the situation as [Clan Leader] Plisce might. We have heard, since passing Liscor, so many say the same thing. We welcome you Gnolls, you will find no hostility here, and it is true, not an arrow has been shot—aside from [Bandits]—nor offense truly given in our time here.”
Both Humans nodded as Damia and Desinee listened. Damia was nudging Binevy. Who was Honored Inkarr? She had more to learn!
Irit jumped in as the [Shaman] picked a bug off his clothing and flicked it away.
“Yes, we are welcome. However…it is strange. Drakes, they have their cities and so many rules. You may not graze here. This is our land. You may not trade here, this is our trade. You may only enter our cities like so, with our documents. But Humans do not do this.”
“That’s right. We’re very open, very free compared to Drake lands!”
The Ocre man smiled. The [Negotiator] hesitated because Damia could hear the largest ‘but’ in creation coming. Rayna eyed him.
“Yes, only it seems like every place we go, someone owns the land. We find a forest? The city owns the forest. We find a brook? A [Merchant] has a part-share of a river. A river. Everything has a fee, even camping near a dungeon site!”
She pointed at Albez, and the Humans glanced at each other.
“Well, our cities do claim the area. It’s a very nominal fee, friends—”
Rayna growled, and they backed up.
“Don’t call us friends. Being pecked to death for coins is not better than one giant claw scooping it all up at once. If we were welcome, we would feel it. We will go, but if you respect us, don’t charge us for something that costs you naught, no?”
Likely, the two representatives had their orders, so they began trying to argue the Gnoll around. But at that moment, Lady Desinee interrupted.
“I believe that is quite fair. Let the Silverfangs camp without need for a fee. If Remendia and Ocre object, they may present the bill to House El.”
“And House Reinhart!”
Both negotiators jumped and turned. When they saw Desinee glancing with annoyance at the vibrating Damia, they paled. But Damia just had to jump on the moment. They stepped forwards as Rayna blinked and eyed them. She ducked her head.
“Thank you, [Ladies]. We appreciate such generosity. Be sure I will tell my [Clan Leader], and it is witnessed by [Shamans]. What brings two such famous names to our small camp?”
She was more formal as Desinee introduced herself. Desinee indicated Damia.
“We are not together, incidentally. I have merely stopped by on my…long…trip to Liscor to advertise some new products. The Kaalblade series of House El!”
She flourished and produced the long, almost hacksaw-like design that generated the energy-blade that Ryoka Griffin had popularized. Rayna’s eyes lit up, then she sagged.
“Marvelous, but we cannot afford one, surely.”
She turned to Irit, but Desinee smiled, the consummate sales-lady.
“Not to worry, Chief Huntress. For such an important tribe, I would be delighted to demonstrate. You see, we’ve upgraded the features, modifying Maviola El and Archmage Valeterisa’s designs.”
They had, in fact, finally managed to come up with a new design that no longer meant you had to have a wooden guide-rod for the magic. Now the blade held its shape without need for a guide, and Desinee slashed through a rock to show everyone how they’d improved the ‘edge’ of the magic. It deformed a bit when it contacted the stone, but it was an improvement, no doubt.
“It no longer merely melts through anything it hits. Our, ah, collaboration with the Wind Runner has resulted in far more advanced edge geometry. Not to mention, we have these! Kaal-arrows! And even a Kaal-glaive!”
There was a long-handled, well, spear attached to a modified Kaal-blade for long-ranged magical stabbing and even an arrow that would hit a target and burn through before going out.
Expensive as sin, though. Damia might have bought the Kaalblade until she heard the price, which exceeded all the money she had in her account at the Merchant’s Guild. She could have bought…three Kaal-arrows. The Silverfangs were highly interested, but as they pointed out—
“We could arm ourselves all in steel like [Knights] and Dekava is doing for the Order of Solstice for these prices, Lady Desinee, yes?”
The [Lady] sighed.
“It’s true. This is more of a commander or private citizen’s defensive weapon. And between you and me—I didn’t invent the Kaal-glaive. Dreadful name. That was another member of the family.”
She shuddered as she folded it back up for her bag of holding. Then finished her pitch.
“The real benefit is for the adventurer, the foe facing high-magic. Such as, perhaps, the Archmage of Memory’s famous flying soldiers? He’s lent a few to that dreadful war in Terandria, but I have heard that someone bought a Kaalblade and used it to some effect on even his flying super-soldiers!”
“Really?”
Desinee smiled with pride for her family’s craft.
“Oh yes. When Maviola El came up with the concept, she envisioned Kaalblades as expensive weapons that did require mana stones to function, but would be deadly against most foes who resist lesser magics. Crelers, [Knights] in advanced magical plate—even Djinni! A blade of magic to hurt magical beings.”
“Fascinating. We shall of course tell our [Clan Leader], but at this moment…”
“Of course. If you would like to speak, I shall be in this area, likely Liscor, for at least a few weeks.”
Desinee handed them a card and gave Damia another look before leaving. When it was Damia’s turn…she realized she didn’t have anything to say.
She’d hoped she’d find the Silverfangs engaged in something profitable up north, but it seemed they were a bit aimless or stymied by the local authority of cities. However, her being so flustered and admitting she had just come to say hello actually amused the annoyed Chief Huntress Rayna.
Damia was served some silkap as the young Gnoll woman chatted with her.
“A visit is fine! We appreciate it more than all this polite ‘we love Gnolls, pay us’, yes? We’re looking for more than just a place to stay. We want work! We’d mine around Esthelm, but we want to be further north than just past Liscor. Sadly, everyone owns land here.”
She was rather miffed about it; apparently, the Drakes, for all they enforced their territories, would let a Gnoll tribe graze because grass…was grass.
But even grass was worth something if a [Merchant] owned the area. Damia gnawed on a lip.
“That’s certainly a problem. Around most cities, you’ll find the same issue.”
“So we know. We’re looking into places less settled, but we would like to be near a city! We have never been the wildest tribe…ach, I shouldn’t complain. Did you have a project to hire us on, Lady Damia?”
Rayna cast a hopeful glance at Damia, and the young woman grimaced.
“I couldn’t afford to hire even a few of your people for more than a week! I don’t have that much money.”
“True. It is hard for us Silverfangs to generate profits if our members have to find work for a day, a week. We prefer to have our own mine or task. We might have to stake a claim in the High Passes at this rate. I’ve heard the further north you go, everything is owned by a Human.”
The thought made the Gnoll so gloomy that Damia didn’t know what to say. They were in the same boat.
 
——
 
How did one make money?
By receiving it for something. A service, an item you created, be it fighting or consultation. You got money from work.
Unless you were just born with it. Then you could lend it out. When you had money, you got to change the rules, but if you had no money, you had to go for far simpler exchanges.
Or you could steal it.
Damia was so busy pondering the money problem on the way back to Celum she didn’t notice they were being robbed until Binevy squeaked.
“Lady Damia!”
Someone put a knife at her throat. Damia froze and saw a masked figure grabbing at Binevy’s belt pouch.
“No trouble and you don’t get cut, Miss. Who’re you, fancy nobles?”
Damia saw a trio of highway robbers had jumped them on the road to Celum. She made a quick calculation and spoke frostily.
“I am a member of House Reinhart. Accost me or my servant and regret it.”
It was a risky move, but one of the men had been tugging at Binevy’s blouse. He froze, and then the one with the knife grinned.
“Oh? Sounds like you’re worth a bundle then. Maybe you come with us.”
“Maybe my family feeds you to the snakes if you touch us. No one attacks a Reinhart and lives. Take the money and go. Kill us and they will find you.”
The [Highway Robber] didn’t like that. He raised his hand to hit her, and Damia locked eyes with him.
“You can kill me and try to run—and my mother will find you—or leave and consider my gold your reward. Hit me, and I will be the consequences.”
She rather liked that line. Unfortunately, she might not have been quite as savvy as she thought. The [Highway Robbers] hesitated, drew back to confer as Binevy clung to Damia, then one gazed at her.
“Good point. We don’t need a damn [Assassin] on our backs, Miss oh-so-fancy noblelady.”
Damia turned her head, already annoyed, and began to walk since she assumed they’d take her horses. She stepped over the fallen log they’d set up, and one of them spoke.
“[All-Concealing Hood].”
He put a bag over her head, and she froze, then tried to scream. The [Highway Robber] spoke cheerfully.
“Let’s see what you’re worth as a ransom! Very respectfully. [Nap Tap]—”
 
[Sharp Dame Level 12!]
[Skill – Sharp Remark Obtained!]
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart woke up with the bag over her head. She mumbled.
“Binevy?”
“Your Ladyship, we’ve been kidnapped! Did they touch you? Oh, dead gods!”
“No. They didn’t touch you? I guess that worked. Next time, I think I’ll refrain from using my name…no, it’s better than being assaulted. Mother is going to lecture me forever.”
She felt woozy, very unhappy with herself for not having those bodyguards, and relieved nothing worse had happened to two young women. Still…as she wiggled around, she ascertained they were in a stone room.
It smelled a bit. She guessed it was someone’s basement. Given where they were…
“We’re either in a farmstead or—no, we’re in Celum. Damn, they must have brought us into the city, and for all Xitegen claims he’s controlling the city, the rats passed his Golems. Maybe I can use my aura to signal him.”
“H-how do you know it’s Celum?”
“Smells like a privy. We’re near sewers. Either that or they’ve got an outhouse too close to the basement, but I doubt most people would be that stupid. Let me just throw my aura…”
Silence. After a few minutes of them listening and hearing dull sounds from above, a rumble that was probably a wagon, and concluding Damia was right—Binevy coughed.
“Lady Damia, do you know how to throw an aura?”
“No. I skipped lessons with Lady Zanthia because I didn’t see the point. Damn it, Aunt Magnolia!”
Damia was trying to teach herself until she had an idea. [Think Harder]! She concentrated, then spoke.
“Binevy…those three only got us because we were careless. If that’s the quality of criminal around here, no wonder other gangs are moving in.”
“Yes, milady! They were nothing more than rogues! Lord Gorthes would have run them down in a heartbeat! D-do you think they’ll ransom us?”
“If they know how. Hold on, that wasn’t what I…Binevy, you could have been braver. You collapsed like a wet noodle. Have some dignity.”
“Lady Reinhart, they had knives! I’m no Ressa—”
