“No. She won’t.”
Damia groaned. She felt squished. Xitegen glared at her as there was a thunderous sound from the door. The two Golems rebounded, glanced at him, then set themselves.
“Lord Xitegen, permission to activate spell effects?”
“Granted. Do not cause casualties or collateral damage. Explain.”
“Punishment.”
Damia whispered. She sat up, holding her back.
“You are the judge and jury here, Xitegen. Maybe she’s owed a death sentence, but I argue for a lesser punishment. I request a sentence of labor. Hard labor.”
“Such as…?”
“Mining.”
She gave him such an innocent, calculating expression he was reminded of Magnolia. Lord Xitegen tilted his head and saw the pieces.
“She will, of course, run.”
“If she doesn’t have any honor. You’ve broken her gang and shown her face, Cousin.”
“Whereas you want a pet dog, even one bathed in filth. Very clever, Cousin. And it just falls on me to take one upon my chin for the good of House Damia. At what point do I accept and not kill the [Gang Leader] when my Golems blow through Liska’s door? Because as strong as she is—”
He saw the flash out of the corner of his eyes and grunted.
“—She can’t block a Skillbreaking Fist, which Primera has. Take Lady Damia with us.”
He strode over to the door and walked through. Xitegen Terland held out a hand, blocking Primera a moment, then helped Liska up.
“Damn, damn, damn—”
“Get this young Gnoll a stamina potion and water. Take my handkerchief. It’s nothing personal.”
How did she block the first punch? He quite cordially shook her hand, then eyed the door dial.
“Where did they go?”
She refused to speak, so he snapped his fingers.
“Seconda, analyze the magical dial for the last activated mana stone. Change to that.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
He did know how to use his Golems. Lord Xitegen Terland strode through the door as Liska cursed, eying Damia as she was carried with him.
Why was she still smiling? He was prepared to go through anyone to kill that [Gang Leader]. He was not above being rude. He’d shove Lyonette to one side—gently since it seemed she was hurt—have Ishkr tossed out of his way, the delightful, respectful chap. Even have Miss Ryoka Griffin hung upside down and shaken if she appeared in front of him.
He was willing to be rude to anyone—
 
——
 
The Silverfang Gnolls were walking or riding towards their new job, and there were a lot of them. They had padded wagons, some with enchantments to avoid anyone stealing from them. Or even looking inside.
Like, say, a Golem. And they were very polite.
“Surely, you understand we cannot wait for our entire camp to be searched, Lord.”
The Gnoll [Huntress] smiled at him. He did not.
“If you are concealing a criminal—”
“Will you stop us, Lord? Upon the authority of…hrr…a Terland noble around Invrisil?”
He was scowling now. At Damia, who was beaming at the Gnolls. Xitegen pursed his lips.
“In pursuit of a Face, I am very tempted to.”
“If we must, Lord. It is a very public road, and I hate to see Gnolls being impeded by terrifying Golems.”
Rayna heaved a huge sigh and put up her hands. Xitegen’s cheek twitched.
If he knew for certain the damn [Gang Leader] was even here, he’d risk the embarrassment. Instead, he switched tacks.
“May I ask why you are taking Lady Damia’s side? House Terland has done nothing against Gnolls and expressed support for the tribes entering our lands, the few who have come. It seems odd t—”
Then he hesitated.
Closed his mouth. And Huntress Rayna gave him the sweetest smile imaginable.
“For such a generous Lord of House Terland, who allowed our passage on his lands but informed us the areas around Celum were his lands, not to be grazed upon? I cannot imagine why we’d hold a grudge.”
Lord Xitegen Terland inhaled and exhaled.
“I merely considered that House Terland intended to claim Celum. And as I said to your Chieftain, I would welcome a Gnollish tribe in my area under my governance. A separate entity in another power’s lands causes issues…”
He could have done it. He’d weighed the option, but the local [Farmers] and [Ranchers] had been afraid of the Silverfangs outproducing them and begged him to refuse.
Damia’s words felt like a poker in his back. Rayna bowed her head.
“Naturally, Lord Terland. Well then, shall we begin being strip-searched?”
Lord Xitegen knew when a battle was lost. He turned on his heel.
“Back to Celum. Root that other gang out for me, now.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
They began leaving, and he didn’t even bother arresting Damia; the Reinharts would make a stink, and he was tired. She tried to not look smug, so he nodded.
“Seconda, let Damia Reinhart go. After you give her a spanking.”
“What?”
“Of what duration and intensity, Lord?”
“Whatever you think is best. Beat, hearts of Golems.”
He strode away, shaking his head as an outraged voice rose behind him. Xitegen Terland needed a drink. He fancied he’d buy Liska one.
 
——
 
The [Doorgnoll] levelled. And so, presumably, would Damia.
But she paid a heavy price for it.
Literally, actually. The Silverfangs were much amused by all this, even the skullduggery. They’d had some qualms about being involved in politics, but their annoyance with Xitegen had swayed them.
However, the sight of Damia Reinhart’s, uh, comeuppance actually motivated them to let her lie in the wagons with some ice on her buttocks.
Even Varnie was mildly impressed. She’d been mostly silent until the Lord was gone, and she’d come out of the hiding spot by the road.
“Never had a [Lady] take, what, fifty across the ass for me?”
“D-do you have a healing potion?”
“Nope!”
Damia had heard—colloquially—such things could be fun. This was not fun. It hurt so bad she couldn’t believe it. Varnie just sat with her.
“So why’d you do it? And how? How’d you get Ferxon to join in? He doesn’t take risks. I knew he’d not go for me; it’d be suicide. Even if you laid it out for him…how?”
It wasn’t something that her friend had planned. This was all Damia. The male [Gang Boss], Ferxon, hadn’t actually been planning on trying to rescue Varnie. But Damia just smiled weakly.
“He’s not all logic. I barely had to pay him much for the distraction.”
“Ah, business.”
Varnie snorted. She sat there until Binevy came back with a poultice. Damia began to shout in agony when Binevy tried to apply it.
“I’ll do—”
The [Gang Boss] kicked Sule before he could do it and grabbed the poultice. And a towel, which she applied the cream to. The abrasive sensation did make Damia start crying. But then Varnie sat there.
“Most’ve my gang’s dead. At least those who came into Celum. That Lord takes no prisoners. Funny guy.”
“Don’t…try to kill him. He’s guarded, and those two Golems are top-tier.”
Damia’s head rose, and Varnie didn’t look at her.
“I won’t. Right now. It is how it goes. I reckon I owe you. Got a favor to collect?”
“We’re heading to a dig site…”
Varnie nodded. She sat there and exhaled. Then she just eyed Damia as the young [Lady] talked, cheeks flushed. She’d gotten to see a legend of the inn, made this all happen. She was smiling, but the [Gang Boss] was just as mystified as, well, everyone.
Damia Reinhart. Was she just not like the others? Or was there something Varnie didn’t know?
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland poured an upset Liska a drink at the bar of The Wandering Inn.
“I would offer to do it twice, but it only works, truly works, once. A clever Reinhart. If the rest of her family were so…agreeable…I’d be happier. Would you believe Damia Reinhart is rather young, innocent, and accordingly, likable?”
Liska had two wads of toilet paper stuffed up each nostril and was gloomy.
“I thought I could do it. I really did.”
“You held off two Terland Golems and myself for six minutes.”
“Yeah, only two. Only six. What I don’t get is…she is a Reinhart, right? Isn’t Magnolia the best of the lot?”
Everyone wanted to know that. Xitegen was the only man who could explain. He’d come to the conclusion after hearing Damia, and he exhaled.
“Best of the lot by what terms? She was always strident. She took her House over at sixteen; does that strike you as that likeable? She’s the most courageous in many senses, most devoted to common good. Best? No…no, let’s give it to dear Magnolia. There was still a reason for it. Loyalty.”
Liska spat her drink onto Asgra and got a punch. She apologized as Xitegen eyed the Goblin, but forbore comment. He pushed his drink back, though. Then he spoke.
“A bar in Celum. My treat.”
He rose, and Liska dragged herself up. Xitegen walked towards the door with her.
“It’s often a joke. Reinhart loyalty. But they are loyal in their twisted ways. A den of vipers that protects only their own. There’s a reason we were the Five Families, Liska. We weren’t the only ones who took Izril back in the day. We are just the ones who survived. It’s all the old quotes, you see? I suppose they’re not as common down south since we stopped paying as much mind. Poor as an El, and creative as one too. Haughty as a barefoot Wellfar on deck. Stubborn as a Veltras. Brave as a Veltras. Loyal as a Reinhart. And I suppose, the heart of a Terland. Some call us sentimental, for all we’re in love with stone.”
He held the door open to Liska, and she eyed him.
“I’ve never heard any of that in my life. Mind if I call my g—a really cool lady? Hey, do you have a special someone?”
She peered at Xitegen, and his face went carefully blank.
“One could say Seconda and Primera fill that role.”
He waited for a reaction of horror, scandal, disgust—Liska just glanced at the two Golems. Then she leaned over.
“What? Aren’t they thousands of years old? They’re way too old for you. You should try uh…uh…Cognita! She’s pretty young comparatively, right? Also, what’s it like?”
Xitegen began laughing and clapped her shoulder. He liked Liska.
 
[Sharp Dame Level 16!]
[Skill – Loyalty of the Low Obtained!]
[Skill – Bridge the Gap Obtained!]
[Skill – Daring Getaway Obtained!]
 
[Portal Guardian Level 35!]
[Skill – Door: Reflect Damage Obtained!]
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin did not hear about the incident in Celum for a while, and she didn’t really connect it to Ilvriss since she didn’t know Damia Reinhart.
A certain Mrsha paid attention when she heard, but it was not their battle. Mrsha was at school, battling the forces of amateur carpentry.
And Lyonette was lying in her rooms. Not dancing. Ilvriss had respectfully let her go, but the Calanferian staff kept trying to get her to dance. So had Nanette, but in the end, even the witch had given up and gone to poke at a body floating in the rainy Floodplains.
Rhisveri. Lyonette knew something was up with him, but she was just sad. She really wanted to dance.
“I know it’s a sacrifice, but I love it. What would mother say?”
She screwed her face up, then spoke.
“‘What matters more to you? Your enjoyment or your friend? Choose.’ Or something like that. ‘The Crown does not choose when the nation is at stake.’”
She laughed, then sighed. Lyonette hugged her knees.
“Can’t I have both, Mother?”
Her modest little rooms didn’t bother her. She loved them and had decorated them nicely; she sometimes missed her old bedrooms in the Eternal Throne, but this was a fine compromise. Working was a good compromise. Callused hands, likewise. Cracks in her skin, agony when she encountered something that set off her [Resonant Flesh]…
But dancing.
I want to dance. I want to dance! She wanted to do the Highstepper and rub it in the [Ranchers]’ faces. She wanted it so bad. Lyonette stared around the room, then saw something at the foot of her bed.
“Oh dead gods.”
Aronia’s gift. The amazing, beautiful boots. Lyonette picked one up to throw.
“It’s so soft on the inside and beautiful. Bah.”
She hurled it at a wall. It landed two feet away, and she groaned in pain. So weak. So pathetic.
Apista buzzed down from where she’d been smoking. She landed and lifted the boot up. Lyonette realized she was weaker than her bee and sat there.
“Oh, Apista. I know I can probably build some more muscle, and this is what it was like for Erin. If only I could just…fix this!”
She clenched her fist. But no. There were no shortcuts. No easy ways out. She had known this; she had changed from the spoiled [Princess] who had never worked for anything. Rather like Damia Reinhart, Lyonette du Marquin had forged herself upon the anvil of the inn.
She grabbed the edge of her bed and tried to do an assisted sit up. She failed. But she tried again.
“Just ten today! Just five! Just three! J-just one! Just one, and I’ll recover. I’ll build up muscle. I’ll do it. If it takes a year, I’ll get strong enough, and—”
She couldn’t sit up. Apista buzzed around Lyonette, worried, as she told Apista not to help. Lyonette’s abdominals hurt. Her muscles were—overtaxed from the dancing. She was red-faced. She lay on the floor.
Tried to rise. Couldn’t even with her hands gripping the edge of her bed. Lay down, panting, for eight minutes. Tried to sit up again.
Effort! Just a bit of effort! Please, body! She could do it! She could—
Lyonette’s head rose just high enough to see over the edge of the bed. She saw something sitting there. Collapsed.
Apista morphed into her Scourgebee Form and lifted Lyonette up. The [Princess] half-dangled, half-clung to the bee buzzing like the doom of civilizations and saw what lay on her bed.
The [Box of Incontinuity]. Lyonette du Marquin stopped. She stared at it, then looked down at her body wracked by conditions. Red Skills. She thought of Erin. And then she thought of Maviola El.
 
——
 
A little while later, Xinthe peeked in on the [Princess] and saw Lyonette sitting on her bed, clothes a bit rumpled, with Apista lying on her shoulder, working on a small notepad. She asked Xinthe for a bit of painkiller, a juice, and snack.
And she was calm. The Box of Incontinuity sat next to her, but Lyonette didn’t use it. She didn’t think she needed to.
It was just…a reminder.
She could do it. She had always done ‘it’. Her body had never failed Lyonette, and even now, she’d thought she’d be like Erin should have been from the start and work her way back to health.
“But that’s not how it works, Apista. I’m cursed. Not out of shape. Sometimes something happens. And you need help, like how Maviola couldn’t fight age. Erin needed a wheelchair; no one made her crawl around.”
Exactly. Look at my legs and wings!
Apista buzzed happily on Lyonette’s shoulder. So the [Princess] stared down at the list she’d made and remembered the true advice she’d gotten and, well, hadn’t acted on. The advice of none other than Mrsha the Wise.
