…And Ilvriss the Inconsiderate. Lyonette had a list of the one thing in which she emulated her unfortunate role model, Erin Solstice, at times.
It was a list of Skills. All the Skills that Lyonette had and had barely used.
[Enthralling Glance]. [Endowment of the Thief]. [Remember: My Defining Moment]. So many useful ones.
“[Royal Contract]…I only used it once on Cirediel. I should have done so many more agreements with it. [Royal Tax]? I stopped using it after I felt bad about how much I was taking. Who do I tax these days, Rheirgest? [Seafood Cooking]? Argh! It’s rained for months and not once…at least I used [The Gambler’s Dice] once, but [Traveller’s Advancing Techniques]! Oh no!”
There there, you lovely idiot. It’s not your fault I’m the brains of the two of us.
Apista patted Lyonette on the head, and Lyonette’s head rose.
“I do know what you’re telling me, Apista. [Wildspeech].”
Oops. Oh shit, gotta fly.
Apista buzzed away, and Lyonette gazed down at her list.
“Well, let that be a lesson. Apista? Apista, help me.”
The bee came back, and Lyonette pointed.
“I need those. Both of them. Don’t drop it on my—ow.”
The bee winced and apologized, but Lyonette took a deep breath, then underlined the Skill she’d circled, and her eyes gleamed. Apista read the Skill, and her wings buzzed excitedly.
[Royal Artifact]. [Ritual: Designate Heirloom].
Lyonette smiled with all the wonder of a [Princess] and held up Aronia’s boots. She spoke and waited…then coughed and put her boot down.
“Xinthe? Get out of hiding and come over here.”
A squeak; the [Servant] scrambled out from behind the doorway and began apologizing. Lyonette wore a pained look.
“Get me Erin’s wheelchair, would you? Not a word of this to my daughters! And, uh, get me to the [World’s Eye Theatre].”
 
——
 
The Quarass of Germina was not a happy woman to be called up. Oh, she liked the gold she was using to great effect, but answering anyone’s beck and call irked her, especially Lyonette, who’d made her act as a [Healer] for Ulva Terland and find the Silver Swords lodging.
She was going to collect on these debts, despite what Lyonette had paid her, and—
The aged being wearing the body of a girl rubbed at one ear.
“Wait. You wish me to teach you how to use your Skill? [Ritual: Designate Heirloom]? And [Royal Artifact]?”
“Er, yes, Quarass. I’m terribly sorry to take up your—”
The Quarass stared at Lyonette.
“You want me to teach you how to use your Skills.”
“If you don’t mind? I wanted to make these boots something that could help me dance in light of my condition…”
Lyonette’s voice trailed off, and she shrank. The Quarass eyed Lyonette.
“Your conditions, which you took to help Erin Solstice and gave yourself five Ichor Skills and [Grand Act: Reforge My Shattered Soul]. The Skill of [Inspirations], [Heroes], and [Visionaries].”
“Y-yes?”
The Quarass held out a hand. Someone put a drink in it. She threw it and held it out again.
“Quill.”
One was put in her hand. She wrote this all down. Then she sat back on her throne. And smiled.
“Take a seat, Lyonette du Marquin. The first thing you will understand is that the ritual requires intention much like [Witches], but also actual ceremony as you are a [Princess]. I suggest a Calanferian ceremony that dates back to the dawn of your kingdom’s founding; old is best. And simpler to enact with less requirements for nobility to participate. Queen Marquin’s honoring of Hell’s Wardens comes to mind; she had a sense of ceremony despite the poorness of her nation and the rumors about her. Secondly, the quality of the item matters, and you must add a quality of what you seek into the material. I suggest, in this case, the most high-grade Potion of Stamina and Potion of Strength you can find. Hmm. No, flexibility. Do not do a shapeshifting potion; it may lead to undesired effects.”
Lyonette’s jaw dropped, and she began to hurry to take notes herself. The Quarass was being helpful? Her? Then she realized that for once, she was doing what the Quarass actually wanted to do.
Improve upon a talent. Teach someone about their own Skills.
 
——
 
It took time. One of the Quarass’ pieces of advice to her pupil was personalization.
“Make the boots your own. Your daughter, Nanette, is intelligent in witch-ways. Even if it is mostly a child’s willful desire to stand out. Take this gift back from this [Cattle Baroness]. She is [Smothering You With Kindness].”
“She is? That dreadful—hmm. How do I make this stylish? Beautiful? I want it to be…to make me feel strong. And it’s so damn well made.”
“An exterior coating. Paint?”
“Ugh, I wish I had Erin’s Skills. H-how about the ritual? Does this look right?”
Lyonette had done some rigging up with colored pieces of fabric, which she dithered over, but it wasn’t the materials, but the effect. The [World’s Eye Theatre] had its eye-dome which let light stream in…only now, each pane was covered by fabric.
So it was red or yellow light that shone down. Lyonette waved at Rosencrantz as he adjusted the careful tapestry of fabrics and created a stained glass window’s effect. They had blocked some panes and organized the rest until a rainbow of lights formed a flower in the center of the domed room. The Quarass paced around it.
“Well done. Marquin had the same idea when she spent all her coin on food for her new nation and a delegation of Hell’s Wardens was sent to embarrass her by the King of Desonis. She took them into the Eternal Throne’s heart after this ceremony where she put crowns of paper on their heads and called them her equals, and they caught poor fish that floated in the gravity-less void. She was a genius of diplomacy, just not traditionally elegant. I think she thought less of herself.”
Lyonette du Marquin stopped and stood there, eyes filling up with such longing and—understanding—that the Quarass wanted to know what she’d seen. The immortal coughed after a moment.
“D-did you meet with—?”
Before she could bring up the question that made even her nervous, there was a honking sound, and someone sat up in his chair. Duke Rhisveri looked sick; he was wrapped in a big blanket, and being drowned in the waters for a day and night hadn’t made him much better, but his main body was the one with a fever.
“Das Marquin! I remeber dat! Berry cleber. She had dis thing where she walked up an…and she knew exactly where she’d fought with you. Every single one ‘a us. Then she’d take a cup and hold it to your lips. Got you drunk and made you love her.”
The Quarass’ shoulders hunched, and she glared at Rhisveri, but Lyonette drank that in too—even as she waved at Xinthe to get Rhisveri another handkerchief. The two beings who had met Marquin watched her descendant stand there in the center of the room.
She had placed lanterns in a star around the boots she needed to customize. Each lantern glowed with a different fire, taken from the Order of Solstice.
Blue’s sadness, honor’s bright green, pink’s glory, the kindness of red, grey mercy…no ill flames. Not for this. The [Princess] turned, despairing.
“How shall any of us ever live up to Marquin? Ever? She was a woman who led the charge into Hell itself—and won!”
“Maybe you won’t.”
Rhisveri muttered. Lyonette didn’t scold him, but just gazed at the Quarass.
“No. But I should be ashamed to even be…to even wear her name as I am. We must be more to even call ourselves Marquins.”
Then she turned, and the woman who had threatened to murder the Goblin King placed two potions next to the boots and eyed them critically.
“Wait. I think I know how to make the boots…beautiful. I’ll be back! Xinthe! Push me!”
 
——
 
When she came back, it was with a very amused little girl. Mrsha the Recently Trimmed snorted.
Mom, it’s going to look gross.
“No, it’s not! We just take some lovely white paint, and…”
Lyonette wanted to put the fur around the tops of her boots. Just a delicate trim, and she wanted to paint it white. Whether Mrsha wanted to acknowledge it or not…this was what Lyonette thought when she imagined bravery.
It meant something. Wall Lord Ilvriss had finally been told what was going on. He and the staff of the inn watched as Lyonette put the boots in the center with a lovely fur trim around it. The Quarass nodded briskly.
“Good. Now, some ceremony. There are plenty of old speeches Marquin gave, but I want you to come up with it on your own.”
The star of colors glowed around Lyonette, and the flames burnt. She hobbled around, and the boots she wanted to help her sat there. Mrsha waited with Nanette, eyes on her mother.
And…Lyonette didn’t know what to say.
“It feels so selfish to make a grand speech to designate some boots as an heirloom.”
“Yes. It does, doesn’t it?”
The Quarass’ eyes were locked on the [Princess]. She could help, but she was waiting…and Lyonette glanced around.
“It’s selfish. But I want to dance with you, Ilvriss. I want to dance magic and reclaim what I’ve given up. I’m selfish. But you know what? We’re allowed to be. [Princesses] and Drakes.”
He sat there, staring at her, and she smiled with that cracked smile that refused to break. The [Princess] gazed at the scroll Erin had made.
“Oh, but it’s such a silly dance! Even the end. I just want to dance. Like…”
She gazed at the two objects she was giving up for the ritual. The Potion of Swan’s Grace was a stupid-sounding title, and the Potion of Limitless Stamina was false advertising, but Octavia had given her two of Saliss’ best.
The Quarass supposed they’d be good enough for a decent result. But even she wasn’t prepared for Lyonette to uncork both potions and down them.
“Ergh, Saliss can’t make these taste better?”
“Lyonette, the ingredients!”
She ignored the protest from above. The [Princess] took a breath and felt at her legs. She grimaced; she still hurt. But then she turned and bowed to her small audience. She met her daughters’ eyes as she rose.
“It’s petty. But Marquin witness me, we are all petty women. These boots will win no wars, but may they give me the strength to step forwards when I need to. To forge friendships. And to just…dance. As so.”
Then she spun on one leg, and twirled, raising one leg up and pressing her foot against the other leg. Like a ballerina. She spun, again, and Ilvriss recalled a [Princess] dancing with a dress that opened like a flower.
He half-rose, then saw her tracing the steps she remembered. Dancing around the burning flames and the lights which seemed to suddenly shine. On those plain boots with off-white fur-fuzz. Which no longer seemed so silly and hastily painted.
The [Princess] danced. Hair flowing behind her, moving from the poses she knew, and she had to be in pain.
The Quarass knew that. Those potions didn’t overcome the fact that her literal nerves were…but the [Princess] danced faster and faster. She only stopped once to let Xinthe charge down the steps and throw up a screen. And when she emerged, she wore a proper dress. The [Princess] threw her head back and lifted a gloved hand.
Then someone was playing music. Ser Dalimont had found a scrying orb. Not a song crystal; who had Terandrian ballroom music? So, instead, he’d just set up a scrying spell back to Calanfer, and the royal band was playing.
A [Queen] watched her daughter and said not a word. The [Princess] kept dancing, smiling, and the Wyrm and Quarass watched magic moving. Magic…and meaning. Following her.
Silently, the two immortals locked gazes. And they heard the [Princess]’ question.
How do I stand in Marquin’s shadow? They, who had met the huge woman who had founded a nation and shouted defiance to the eldest of Crelers, gazed down at Marquin’s descendant. So long had passed…and yet some things you never forgot. It was their right and privilege for passing the ages to see both.
And imagine what Marquin would say to her descendant if she could see this.
 
——
 
Lyonette didn’t know how long she danced, ignoring the pain, the protestations of her body. She knew she would pay for it, but for a moment, the magic in her veins let her defy the Skills, so she did.
It was no grand act. Not like Mrsha had done. Just a [Princess]’ defiance. Clinging to what she believed made her special. She only stopped when she could go on no longer.
Then they showered applause down on her, and she thought her audience was being polite until she stared at the staff on their feet, cheering. Even…Calanfer’s royal orchestra!
She gawped at them and turned to Dalimont, wondering how he’d arranged that. He just gave her a mysterious smile, that [Knight] of mysteries. And only then did Lyonette turn and let out a soft sigh.
“Oh…”
The boots that Aronia had gifted her were gone. Oh, roughly the same boots were there. Beautiful, costly leather cut to perfection. The snow-white trim of delicate fur was beautiful. And below it…
The white leather of the boots had shifted. Even when they were taken out of the multi-colored flower of lights, they still had the same colors washed over the leather.
Blue, red, green, the colors of the rainbow, stained like a glass window, had been embossed on the leather.
“It’s so…eclectic! It doesn’t match—”
Xinthe worried audibly the ritual had failed. The boots looked—well, they were a bit—!
Then Lyonette’s head turned as she tried to put one on, and Xinthe saw Nanette’s bright, garishly dyed boots that were just as multicolored. The expression of delight and gratification on the young witch’s face…Xinthe saw Mrsha turn her head and draw a claw across her throat.
Xinthe covered her mouth. She was learning.
Lyonette put the boots on and stood. Which in and of itself was a miracle, because after the potions had left her, she’d fallen down. But she stood now, the boots lifting, and she took a step. Did a twirl on one heel.
It was a fast, sharp twirl. Even faster than she’d been dancing before. She stared down as Ilvriss half-rose. Then she did a jig. A high-knee. A kick-step from the Highstepper, and her face lit up.
The Quarass smiled and spoke.
“What will you call them? A [Royal Artifact] needs a name.”
Lyonette, flustered, said the first thing that came to mind.
“I…I suppose I’ll call them the High Steppers! The High Steppers of House Lischelle!”
She turned, and Colfa blinked. Then she looked proud. She came down to inspect them, and Lyonette gazed around. Wearing magic on her feet. Tears sprang to her eyes, and the Quarass whispered to Rhisveri.
“Just as well she wasn’t too foolish to use her Skill before asking me. She won’t be able to do that for quite some time.”
