So he’d actually practiced the dancing, which he claimed had killed his ankles. Lyonette believed it; she’d been so excited, doing her own stretches and practice to get back in shape.
Right until she’d realized something.
His stamina, his ability to twist, to keep up with the rhythm of the dancing, to even have his muscles remember the complex pattern of the Highstepper? It was incomparable to her abilities.
Her condition. The damage she’d taken from Erin. [Crippled Reflexes]. Lyonette had told herself she could get past it all, but even with [Flawless Attempt], there was a point where her legs just gave out or she failed to move with the rhythm of the dance.
She had no energy. After six minutes of dancing, it was gone. Six minutes! She knew how much she could dance. Before this…
“Just give me one chance. Go—go practice with Colfa, please, Ilvriss? I’ll…”
Lyonette, panting, had Ushar help her up. She gulped water, trying to recover as their instructor and Ilvriss practiced the dance. The worst part was seeing Ilvriss deliberately do a prat-fall to pretend like he wasn’t getting it.
Colfa had picked up the Highstepper once she’d realized Lyonette was serious about practicing it. She and Himilt had come in and done it in six tries.
Damn Vampires.
Then Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont had tried to help demonstrate parts of the dance as they had been studying it. Dalimont had sworn off it after literally stomping on his own foot, but Dame Ushar had managed most of it with Ilvriss.
Damn Thronebearers.
The final blow, though, was seeing Nanette and Mrsha go tap-dancing past Lyonette, doing a complicated shuffle that was part of the Highstepper. The [Princess] beamed at them, then burst into tears.
 
——
 
“I’m sorry! I just—I want to be able to dance. I know I gave it up. I don’t regret it. I just wish I could…”
Everyone was trying to console Lyonette and not doing a great job.
“Don’t worry, Lyonette! It’s a hard dance! Mrsha and I just know how to do that one because we have young bones and we’re all floppy!”
Forsooth, it’s too difficult!
“It’s extraordinarily complex, Lyonette. I just happened to have a lot of training as a dancer, and I am a high-level [Lord]. You couldn’t get even a Named-ranker to dance it. Look at Elia.”
Elia Arcsinger wore an unusually offended expression, but she said nothing as they sat with Lyonette. The [Princess] sniffed.
“I just wish I could heal myself. We’ve tried so much. Healing potions just bring me back to this state…”
“No [Healer]’s helped?”
Ilvriss inquired. Lyonette shook her head.
“No. We subtly went to Demerra and other good [Healers]. Valeterisa tried [Restoration]—it makes sense. This is what I chose. It’s Skills, not just…but oh, I wish it could help! I asked some of the Free Antinium to try healing me, but it didn’t take and Pawn’s gone…”
Normally she’d have been a bit smug about things that faith couldn’t overcome. But he was in Khelt and this…
Lyonette sat there as Mrsha peered around, then fled the table. Nanette glared at the coward abandoning the Lyonette front, but then she turned.
“Lyonette, not even Colfa’s family can dance that well. Right, Colfa?”
The Vampiress was grimacing.
“No. The young ‘uns might, but the Highstepper literally can snap your ankle tendons. Saw it happen once. Not that they don’t gloat; my sister’s already asking me when I’ll have them over. That arrogant udderhead. Look, she even wrote to say she’s sorry we were dressed so poorly. And she sent these.”
She pulled out a pair of custom boots made from magical leather, stained a classic brown but so deep and each stitch so finely placed that Ushar sighed.
“Dead gods, what an insult. That monster.”
“They’re such good boots.”
Nanette spoke plaintively. Lyonette agreed. They were the boots of boots. And worse, Aronia had sent three pairs, one for her, Colfa, and Nanette.
“It must have cost a fortune. This is Splendor Leather. Softer than the ass of a Sariant Lamb and tough enough to walk on nails with.”
Colfa was so upset her hands shook. Ilvriss just stared blankly at the boots.
“They’re nice boots, I agree. What’s the problem?”
Everyone else glared at him.
“It’s showing us up, Ilvriss! Nanette, don’t do it!”
“I have to wear them! Don’t worry, Lyonette. I’ll paint them with all kinds of colors. I think I’ll do a blue base paint and put splotches on ‘em so they’re cool.”
“Oh, good idea Nanette. We can do a [Magical Picture] thanking Aronia for yours! Colfa!”
“I’d rather die.”
Colfa stroked the boots that had been dyed black for her. Truly, a diabolical gift. Lyonette would have to keep the boots, obviously. You didn’t throw away such an excellent gift! But she’d never put them on, unless she visited the Lischelles, obviously. Just stare at them and know how horrible it was.
Aronia was a monstrous woman who could have held her own in any Calanferian court. Worse…Lyonette turned the boots over.
“She put Calanfer’s seal on the bottom. How did she even get it custom…? I’m going to cry. I’m never going to learn the Highstepper, I’m not going to prevent Ilvriss from being ripped to shreds by a Golem, I’m not going to get Nanette to ever put anything fashionable on again—”
She began sobbing again. Ilvriss and Nanette frowned and chorused.
“Hey!”
Liska lifted a paw as she entered the inn and saw Lyonette crying. She shuffled over to a table. Not a good time.
It was Mrsha du Marquin, Lyonette’s first daughter, the one who knew her mother best, who came walking down the stairs and sighed heavily. She leaned against one wall with all the weight of the world on her. The [Survivor of Fates] slapped the wall for everyone’s attention, then wrote with a glowing nail.
I didn’t want to do this. But…it seems I have no choice. Come with me, Mother.
She held out her hand, and Lyonette looked up, tears stopping. She tried to get up, and Nanette and Ilvriss had to help her. The [Princess] wavered.
Should a mother be afraid of her daughter’s eyes? She tried not to be, but she shook slightly, and not just from her overtaxed limbs. She walked forwards.
“Hey…Lyonette…I made it. Don’t mind my condition. Slightly sick. Kids safe? Who’s this Drake fellow?”
Duke Rhisveri inchwormed out from behind a table, lying on his front. Nanette screamed, kicking him in the face. Lyonette glanced down at him.
“Why are you bright scarlet red? Is it contagious?”
His skin was flushed. Duke Rhisveri wobbled.
“No, no! Just—”
“Excuse me, then.”
She stepped over him. Well, stepped on his back.
“Ow! What the—”
Then past him and up the stairs. Rhisveri lay there. Then he rolled over to stare at Wall Lord Ilvriss.
“What’re you looking at? You’re the incompetent who can’t even deal with his own mess and has to call on a [Princess]? Disgraceful.”
He tried to sneer at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord stared at the scarlet duke, then the bulge in his pants. Rhisveri glanced down.
“Er—don’t mind that. That’s temporary—”
Ilvriss tossed Rhisveri out into the rain and watched the Duke roll down the hill and into the water uttering oaths the entire way down. The Wall Lord wiped his hands on his jacket, then went to wait for Lyonette.
 
——
 
Mrsha took Lyonette not into the [Garden of Sanctuary], or some dread location like the [Vault of the Mortal World], but to a spot…slightly less terrifying.
Only slightly.
Erin’s room. Lyonette froze as Mrsha entered, hopped onto the desk, and rummaged around.
“Mrsha, dear? W-what are you searching for?”
What I know is here, Mother. I want to cheer you up, and it occurs to me that if you were working so hard…listen. Erin has lots of secrets. Sometimes, they’re right to keep, but other times, I think she legitimately forgets. I saw her working on this one time. Well, I didn’t. Apista did. Where…here!
She was writing one-handed and came up with something with the other paw. Triumphantly, she spread it on the desk. Lyonette feared to approach.
 
HERE LIES THE LAST TOMB OF THE DRAGONLORD OF DAWN.
<Legendary Quest: Destroy the King of Krakens, Hebowhatisfibh, the Devourer of Nations!>
A guide to casting Tier 8 magic for dummies!
 
…Were not what was written there. Lyonette was terrified to look until she saw the weirdest of all things scribbled down in Erin’s usual sketches.
“Is that…a person dancing?”
Mrsha wore the pained expression of a child regarding someone with worse artistic skills than she had.
Yeah. And Ulvama tried to teach Erin art. Can you believe it? Look at this, Mom.
Lyonette didn’t know what she was looking at at first. There were illustrations, in the beginning stick-people but then a bit more refined, of people waving their arms around. Then little black marks on the ground, reminiscent of ants.
She thought it was some devilishly complex code on the scroll before she remembered it was Erin.
“If it’s a code, it’d be in chess notation. This…wait a second.”
She saw lines pointing to the footmarks and blinked.
“Are these instructions for a dance, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl nodded.
I’m pretty sure they are. Apista said Erin was ‘doing stupid dances, cursing, and writing it down to show Ulvama’. Remember her promising to give the Lord of the Dance some magical dances? I think this is it. Problem is…I don’t think she knows how to write dance choreography.
That was abundantly clear. No one had taught Erin how you actually noted down a dance’s steps. Which, to be fair, was really hard to do in the first place, representing three-dimensional movement and timing on a page.
Erin’s answer was to do a bunch of little footprints that represented where you should be and sketches of poses. As well as incomprehensible shorthand.
 
Do the hip waggler here! 
Very hard. Hurts the back.
I dunno if you’re supposed to go left or right here. Either? Wish I had that ghost around.
 
Just as Mrsha had said. Lyonette’s fingers were trembling as she gazed down at something fit for a kingdom’s treasury. The kind of thing you’d pass down for generations.
A magical dance.
Mrsha held the scroll out to Lyonette.
If you can’t dance the Highstepper, Mom, what about this?
“Mrsha, are you sure?”
We can ask Erin when she checks in for the week. But I reckon it’s fine. Here, this is the most complete one. Um, don’t take that one.
She snatched another scroll back from Lyonette. And there it was. The girl who’d seen the many paths of fate hid that one behind her back as Lyonette hesitated. That last scroll was black vellum and drawn on in red.
“What one’s that, Mrsha?”
I think it calls someone. Things get…complicated if you do that one right. In the best case scenario. Use this one instead.
Mothers were allowed to be frightened of their daughters. Sometimes. Lyonette took the scroll and peered at it. Then? She smiled.
 
——
 
A little while later, Lyonette, Ilvriss, a fascinated Colfa, and the staff were in the ballroom, pouring over the plans and insulting Erin roundly.
“This makes no sense. Dalimont?”
“I fear my teachings have not prepared me for…perhaps like this?”
“No, drat. It’s just like Erin.”
“Ancestors. Are you sure it’s not in code?”
But they were having fun. Trying this new dance, which was interesting, and they had permission!
Erin checked in once a week. Briefly, and not with Lyonette who had, um, excuses, because she still didn’t want to let Erin know she had inherited her weakness. Her response to Nanette had been—
“What? You found my sacred writings? Aw, c’mon! …No, I didn’t forget about—stupid [Pavilion of Secrets]. I was just…saving it. For moments like this. Go ahead and use it. But not the one on black paper. Why is Lyonette dancing with Ilvriss? No, she doesn’t need a reason, but—”
Permission granted. Magical ghost dance obtained! Figuring it out was the fun! After watching Dalimont do a few moves, everyone was laughing. And Lyonette got a tap on the shoulder from Liska.
“Miss Lyonette? I have a weird request. Can I, uh, bother Lord Xitegen Terland?”
“Lord Xitegen? Absolutely not, Liska! Hold on, let me just—”
 
——
 
Lyonette’s legs gave out three minutes into trying to join the others dancing. They fell silent. She lay on the floor and realized the same problem applied. Mrsha slapped her forehead.
Fool of a Mrsha!
Lyonette stared at the ceiling.
“Liska?”
“Er, I’m just gonna tell the lady no. Sorry, I’ll just clock off and—”
“Do it.”
The Terlands were not her friends. The Lischelles were not her friends. Lyonette spoke softly.
“Xinthe? Please help me to my rooms.”
“Lyonette, why don’t we—”
“I just need a minute, Ilvriss.”
“We don’t need to—”
“No. It’s a magical dance. You’d be a fool not to learn.”
She limped off. Feeling…
Weak.
 
——
 
The despair of a [Princess] turned into acceptance of another day as it dawned. Wall Lord Ilvriss actually hung around today to learn the magical dance, though he didn’t want to tell her that. Everyone was practicing it in the inn, and Lyonette’s one comfort was that no one could do it.
Colfa’s the best dancer with mom out of the way. Can you learn a Skill without classes?
“If it’s magic, yes. If it’s a Skill, no…”
“My leg! My leg!”
Nanette was screaming. Asgra, Sticks, and Picker bore her in; she was the first casualty. Nanette had pulled a leg muscle which refused to unpull. It turned out Erin’s dance was not only hellishly hard, but provoked that kind of thing.
Small joys. Lyonette picked at her breakfast despondently.
I knew this would be the case. I can’t keep up with anyone anymore. I have to be a [Princess] in many ways. I need to sit often, I need to lead by intellect and poise, not…activity. That’s fine.
It wasn’t fine, but she resolved herself to do it. Then she had a thought.
…What was Liska talking about yesterday? She hadn’t really remembered.
 
——
 
Lady Damia Reinhart had a schedule to keep. So she met with the Silverfangs after riding through the night without actually, in fact, sleeping.
She caught a few winks, but she was alive on coffee alone as she met with [Clan Leader] Plisce, the local head of the Silverfangs. He was a polite [Silversmith] with good negotiating Skills. No warrior. He had not come to the north for a fight, though his Chief Huntress was ready for one.
And he heard her out, recognizing her status. Then he refused.
“Miss Damia, I am afraid that even if it is lucrative, my tribe does not wish to work for a Walled City. Even Salazsar. You must understand, after the Meeting of Tribes…”
He wanted to let her down gently. Rayna eyed Damia, whom she half-liked, and was surprised by the young woman smiling.
