“Yes. Find us apartments or something…cheap. Actually, look into a mansion or—what do people live in that’s not a mansion?”
“A house, Lady Reinhart?”
“Yes, one of those.”
Binevy got to work, and Damia wondered if it was her [Lesser Charisma] or [Basic Leadership] Skills that made the younger woman seem to actually be working with a will. Or Damia pointing out she was doing this to keep Binevy employed.
Damia was on a time-limit, especially if she racked up expenses like a place to stay. Trivial payments like buying someone a drink? Simple. But anything major was going to cut into her limited budget.
So she kept doing what she found fun in. Exploring and just…okay, falling in love with the city a bit. For she had a question.
 
——
 
“What’s the city’s name?”
“Name?”
“Of course. Invrisil is the City of Adventurers. Pallass the City of Inventions. Liscor is what? Surely it must have one for a city that does so much.”
A [Craftsman] was using Shield Spider glue to put together a piece of custom-made roofing tile. It was shiny, black—Shield Spider chitin held together with the same glue.
Not cheap, and it gave Damia a wonderfully eerie feeling. Not everyone wanted it; a few Gnolls had backed away in horror when they’d asked about it. But as the Drake explained, it had value.
“Name of Liscor? We were once called the Mercenary’s City. And the Floodplains City. But…it fits, but it doesn’t.”
“A city should have a title. Shouldn’t it? After all, this city is so important.”
“It is? It is, isn’t it.”
Thoughtfully, the [Craftsman] glued another piece of the tile into place, then checked it. He tapped it with one claw, then produced a little wind with a glowing clawtip.
“Almost done with this tile. It needs to hook together, see? You can’t nail this down. If the nail even goes through the chitin, it might splinter.”
“This seems awfully expensive and cumbersome compared to a piece of slate or clay.”
Damia eyed the tiles he was working on, enough for a new house’s roof. The [Craftsman] snorted.
“It is, and it costs a fortune even with Shield Spiders being plentiful. But this roof won’t crack or atrophy, even if something hits it in two years’ time. Nothing better, except a good [Roofer] with long-lasting Skills. Some idiots, well, their Skills last a month then fade away. [Rush Roofers] or just [Corner Cutting Contractors]. There’s been an uptick in those bastards, but Liscor’s better than most cities. Hard to beat Antinium. They don’t know how to lie, but I’m better. Unless this roof blows off entirely—and if they put it together like they should, it won’t unless the entire roof comes off—it’ll last four decades if no one damages it!”
He rapped on the hard tile and let Damia run her hands over it.
“Not just that; it keeps in temperature like nothing else. You can’t really enchant it, so I suppose it’s not one of those fancy magic roofs, but there’s only so much magic you can put in a home anyways. Put a rune in each room, on the windows, and enchant it all up and all the magic just…only half-works or fails to work.”
“Ah, because there’s only so much ambient mana or interference. I understand that.”
He nodded, pleased.
“This roof is exceptionally fine without a hint of magic. Took me a while to figure out how to make things like we used to, but my grandfather knew the trade, and he walked me through it. Worth learning. I’m an [Arachnidparts Craftsman]. If you think it’s just for looks, well, when the Necromancer attacked twelve years back, he hit the city with spells. Threw undead and rocks at us. There are still roofs made of this stuff around today, despite everything. And if they’re that old, they probably pre-date the First Antinium War too. Go ask the owners if they remember.”
“Really?”
That was impressive. The Drake went back to work.
“It’s very helpful to have Shield Spider chitin. I don’t do armor, but I’ve heard it’s better’n leather, if less flexible. Good if you can’t buy steel.”
“And this all came about because someone figured out how to make the glue again?”
The Drake scratched his chin.
“I think it was some Human [Alchemist]. Saliss of Lights revitalized the industry and got a lot of [Alchemists] making it. I owe the fellow a drink if I ever meet him. Now, here’s the final trick. [Microweb Coating]!”
He ran a brush down the edges of the locking parts, and Damia peered and saw the smallest webs imaginable there. The Drake nodded proudly.
“Once they’re stuck together, they won’t come apart. I use it on all things. Carpentry, anything I need to hold together—I built this bench out of just the webs. Not a single locking joint or nail. It was just to see if it’d fall apart, but it hasn’t so far.”
Damia blinked at the bench she sat on. Binevy adjusted her skirts nervously as if checking for baby spiders, but there it was again. She peered at the Drake before asking how much his rates were.
No good on hiring him for much. Too expensive, too custom, but it was just—
 
——
 
“Oh sure, I used to deliver to Erin Solstice all the time. Me, I’m still voting for Krshia. She’s my aunt, distantly related. Everyone on her street knew she and Lism were like that. I mean, gross, but Liscor’s way better’n it was.”
One of Liscor’s top City Runners was a Gnoll named Sasquatch. Or nicknamed that; she had big feet. She was pretty popular, not least because she’d just received a notice saying she was being considered for Courier rank in time.
She’d need training, but she had hit Level 30, and she had Skills. She watched as Hawk warmed up beside the gates; they were going on a run north from Liscor so he could appraise her for the Runner’s Guild.
“You ready, rookie?”
He shouted at her. The Rabbit Beastkin Courier was not in a good mood, and he had refused to talk to Damia. Sasquatch leaned over.
“Don’t mind him. He’s been mad since his last girlfriend broke up with him.”
“I heard that! Let’s play a game—you don’t outrun me, I kick you!”
Sasquatch jumped and winced as the other City Runners groaned. Damia frowned.
“Wasn’t that months ago?”
“Yeah, but he’s still pining. I heard he was gonna marry her and everything.”
The two whispered together, and Damia peeked at Hawk. He was amazingly fit.
“And he ran against the Assassin’s Guild—twice! Did you ever meet Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier?”
Sasquatch’s face fell slightly.
“Yeah, he visited the Runner’s Guild. I really liked him. He was super cool. I mean, everyone knows Hawk, but Courier Seve was magic. I guess that’s why I kept pushing. I saw all the Runners from Celum and the Wind Runner, and I thought if she could do it—”
“Ready, rookie? You’d better be because I’m getting this stupid job over with! We’re picking up Runner Fals and Garia. None of you are going to pass the test. Well, Garia might.”
Hawk stormed over, and Sasquatch jumped. She’d been yakking with the other City Runners, barely stretching, which seemed like a bad move to Damia. However, Hawk’s narked expression said he wasn’t going to give her time to warm up.
“Here’s my kicking foot. Since you’re so ready to chat, you must be ready to go! Onetwothree, go!”
“Aw, Courier! My friend—wait, wait, sorry, Miss—[Outrun Trouble]!”
Hawk went for a boot to Sasquatch’s rear and missed. She ran ahead of him and he blinked, then shifted onto his feet, sprinted after her, and went for another kick.
Only…he never caught the Gnoll. She went racing up the battlements, leapt off the walls, and Hawk followed.
“You little—huh? Hold on, that Skill can’t—”
He accelerated, and now he was using his Skill. [Physical Overdrive]. The Courier was—a Courier! But as Damia watched, open-mouthed, with the [Guards] and other City Runners who’d been utterly forgotten, the young Gnoll raced over the bridges, leaving a spray of water behind her.
And Hawk didn’t catch her.
“Dead gods, what Skill is that?”
Someone exclaimed, and Damia breathed.
“She said she got it one time when the moths attacked the inn. It’s…it even works on Hawk?”
It was insane! The faster he went, the faster she did, and he didn’t seem to believe she was beating him. They were over halfway across the Floodplains when Damia saw the distant flickers slow.
“Ooh, it ran out. He got her.”
A Human City Runner commented, but even so, that had to have been ten minutes of free escape time. It probably had limits; Damia just bet that even if Sasquatch was faster than whatever she had to outrun, you could nail her with an arrow or force her into bad terrain.
But…
“Alright, everyone off the walls! Move it, people!”
An Antinium Soldier barked and chivvied the watchers off the walls. One of the City Runners groaned.
“Aw, damn. I was gonna run with them…well, I have to go to the villages. [Waterfoot]! [Nullify Short Fall]!”
He leapt onto the water, and one of the [Guards] snapped down.
“Don’t make us rescue you, kid! If a monster in the water gets you, we won’t be there fast!”
“I’m not asking an Antinium to rescue me!”
The City Runner shot back, and the [Guard] waved a fist. He had a mustache glued to his face, Damia realized.
“That’s Mister Guardsman to you, brat! And I have [Emergency Escape: Water]! You think I’d be on these damn walls in the rain without it?”
He huffed, and Damia had to introduce herself to him. He turned out to be Guardsman Bushyface—he had two eyebrows as well.
“The Skill? Got it during the last rains. Nearly drowned. Damn water. Hates it, so I does. But that’s the job for me. Listen, you a local of Liscor? No, damn. I need more people to vouch for me to apply for Senior Guard—be about your business, Miss!”
She did, smiling, and the Antinium Soldier watched her go, then muttered to a [Guardsman] who gazed after her.
“That’s the Reinhart we’re supposed to keep an eye on? She’s pleasant! I guess that is suspicious.”
 
——
 
Here was the conclusion Damia furnished Binevy with, the reason she liked Liscor and wanted to be here.
“Skills and stories, Binevy. Everyone in the city has a Skill and a story. Anyone who’s been here has survived something, seen something, and gained a Skill as a result!”
It wasn’t even always traumatic! They passed a young Human whose entire job was crazy, but only fit this city.
“Lost your ring? Lost some keys? Lost anything made of metal down a privy, down the sewers, in the water? I’ll get it!”
He had a piece of metal on a string and a fishing pole attached. He’d grab your lost things via the power of magnetism. Or as he called it…
“Electricity! I saw some Hobgoblin playing it on a guitar once, and I taught myself a shock spell! Turns out you can make it attract stuff. Like lovely ladies for a drink after work?”
He tried the line on Damia, and she shot him down, laughing but amused. She turned to Binevy.
“You see? No city back home is like this!”
“I do, milady, but where do you fit in?”
Damia’s face fell.
“I wish I knew. If only I could get to the inn!”
She’d tried. She’d asked Timbor, tried to get into Imani’s restaurant, but she had to book a reservation, and no one important enough with the inn had time for her. Or trusted her.
Damia had gotten a bit obsessed with the inn. It sounded fun. It sounded wondrous. And after days of literally drinking up stories, she knew more than most Liscorians. Like those facts about Krshia.
“Where are the Silverfangs at, Binevy? Can you find that out? If they did come north, I wonder how they’re doing. And how is no one asking anything about Rhaldon Flemmings? The [Alchemist] comes here, rediscovers Shield Spider glue, and no one thinks to follow him?”
She felt alive again—right up until Binevy found out where Rhaldon was.
“He works…with Uncle Calidus? And they sold aphrodisiacs that actually work?”
Damia sagged onto a bench and lay there, face-down in the rain as it bounced off her charm, which took that moment to fail since it didn’t last forever without needing a recharge. Binevy stood over her with an umbrella, patting her back.
A white Gnoll girl walked out of the school next to the bench, Ser Dalimont holding an umbrella over Mrsha the Vaguely Soggy’s head. The Gnoll girl eyed Lady Damia as she, Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva walked back to the inn.
This city gets weirder every week, I tell you what. You think Krshia’s cooked like a hot dog now everyone knows about her and Lism…?
They walked off. Damia’s head rose after a minute of screaming silently. She missed the white Gnoll entirely.
“I’m not giving up, Binevy! If I just hang around here long enough, I know I’ll find my chance! Or someone from the inn!”
Binevy opened her mouth, belatedly putting two-and-two together. She eyed her new mistress and gave her a very wide, very fake smile.
 
——
 
The inn didn’t want anything to do with a Reinhart anyways. Damia tried.
“So, what’s a cool Gnoll like you doing around here? Mind if I buy you a drink?”
Binevy’s note on Liska said ‘Turnscale’, and Damia thought it was way more profitable—and age-appropriate—than trying to settle for Timbor or someone else. Liska was supervising the people coming and going through the doors with increased speed even for her.
“Sorry, I have a new favorite bar and girlfriend. Next!”
“Er, but I’d love to talk, even as friends! I have money for plenty of drinks. Are you open to throuples?”
“Hey, lady, you’re holding up the line. Next to Celum!”
Binevy whispered in Damia’s ear.
“The Silverfangs are around Celum, Lady Damia. If we head north a bit we’ll find them.”
Damia slunk into Celum, and Liska watched as two lines of people flowed through the door she was operating via her Skill that allowed for multiple consecutive entrances. She was so focused on being productive and levelling that only after a moment did she turn.
“…Wait, throuples? Aw, damnit!”
She fell to her knees and put her head on the floor. She was sacrificing everything for this job! A few people waiting in line eyed Liska as she rolled over and stared up at the ceiling.
 
——
 
Without the Unmarked Coach, Damia had to ride a horse. Which wasn’t the worst…she didn’t have much muscle or practice though, so she was thoroughly saddle-sore by the time they reached the Gnolls’ iconic camp north of Celum, just shy of the Remendia-Ocre borders.
This was the Ruins of Albez area, and it was buzzing a bit; the opening of the old laboratory with its treasures had resulted in a huge haul, but there were still things in the area worth taking, from the tiles to the trap spells in Udatron’s laboratory, and so both cities had engaged in their own smaller economic booms.
