Fifty minutes later, Xinthe, who had appeared with refreshments, sliced oranges, and all a [Princess] might need, poked her head into the ballroom with some reservations.
Especially about…this. No matter what Ushar claimed about Lyonette’s innocence of intentions, it looked like—
She halted. Xinthe saw a [Princess] lying flat on her back and a Wall Lord clutching at his shins.
“Ancestors! How do they do that? I think I’ve snapped something.”
“It…it’s not fair! I used to dance like that!”
Lyonette wailed. She was visibly exhausted and tried to sit upright.
“One more try! One more—Dalimont, help me up!”
She waved her arms, and the Thronebearer motioned for Xinthe.
“Your Highness, perhaps a rest?”
“Damn the rest! I can dance! Just—just get me a stamina potion! Mrsha du Marquin, stop that!”
Mrsha stopped running around the ballroom. She and Ekirra were playing soccer with Kenva, Rittane, and Visma on the other team. Lyonette scowled.
“This is a ballroom!”
Exactly, but it sucks. Calanfer’s sigil sucks! Hexel only put it there so you’d be happy. We’re gonna tear it up and put a cooler thing there. Like the Order of Solstice’s flames.
“Don’t you dare, young lady! Don’t you—ooh. Wait, multi-colored flames spiralling out of the center? I…hm…but we are dancing here!”
Ekirra kicked the ball, and it bounced off a wall, hit a chandelier—the crash made the kids flee. Xinthe slowly put down her tray and went to get a broom. Wall Lord Ilvriss held his shins.
“At least it’s exercise.”
 
[Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence Level 38!]
[Wall Lord of the 5th Rank maintained.]
[Skill – Adaptive Plumbing Obtained!]
[Skill – Fancy Footwork Obtained!]
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss got up in the night, stared at his aching shins, then walked over to a wall. He began slamming his head into it repeatedly until his neighbor, Rosencrantz, knocked on his door and asked if he could keep it down.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss supposed that surviving the Hunter-Killer, besting Ulva Terland, and his work with the dig site and the cookout had all contributed to this level.
Dancing was part of a [Lord]’s repertoire. It was just…
“[Adaptive Plumbing]? Really?”
He couldn’t meet Lyonette’s eyes as she snorted, utterly appalled. She was trying not to make fun of him, but he stared at his breakfast: poached eggs on toast, plain, for the road. He didn’t deserve anything else.
“It, ah, might have been me thinking of some projects I wanted to achieve at the dig site. And [Fancy Footwork] is a standard in many classes! It’s just—”
He knew where his heart lay! He wanted a digging Skill, a mass combat Skill, an anti-undead Skill! Ilvriss put his head down, and Lyonette turned sympathetic.
“I’m sorry, Ilvriss. Look, it was probably just an excess Skill. You get those! Look at me, I’ve got, er, [Endowment of the Thief] and I’ve never used it properly! Sometimes, you get superfluous or edge case Skills since our noble classes get so many.”
“Fascinating. And here I thought Erin was the one who wasted all her Skills and potential. You truly are her heir to the inn.”
Lyonette gasped. Nanette and Mrsha fell over each other laughing and cheering the Wall Lord. He felt bad; he got snappish when on the defensive. She delicately put a fork’s tines between one of his neck spines and levered it back. When his head rose, she gave him a cool gaze.
“Wall Lord, I trust you’ll be back on Beithday after returning to your dig.”
“Beithday? Why so soon?”
She gave him a sweet smile.
“To continue our practice. Do remember to stretch nightly.”
Then she let his face plop down in his eggs again. Lyonette smirked for a moment, then lost it when Nanette and Mrsha gave her looks.
Whoa, too far. Lyonette hesitated. Ilvriss looked so miserable.
“I just—oh come, I can’t tease? I am sorry, Ilvriss.”
“It’s fine, Lyonette. I just wish I could get something. It’s damn hard to level a [Lord] class, as you well know. But I didn’t even update my rank! I’m still just 5th Depth. You’d think someday I’d hit the 6th Depth. But no.”
“…Say what now?”
Nanette had stopped munching down on her breakfast. She peered up, and Ilvriss hesitated, then coughed.
“What? Nothing. Say, you know, I wanted to consult with Captain Earlia and her team about digging…”
He got up and hurried off, egg still on his face as Lyonette turned to Ushar. Then hurried after him.
 
——
 
Captain Earlia was a very helpful woman to talk to. She was a former [Miner] and liked to hear about Ilvriss’ woes. Not that she professed to be better than a company of Drakes from Salazsar.
“I knew the [Ranchers] would be trouble. Magic spells stop working at around a thousand feet?”
“Eight hundred. The [Geomancers] shift as slowly as someone with a shovel whenever we hit magicore. Slower, then stop after twenty minutes and complain they’re out of mana.”
Earlia chuckled knowingly.
“Checks out. We tried having [Mages] with us, but the moment they run into any stone that eats mana, they’re tapped. Pretty funny too. Some hotshot Wistram [Mage] gets called in for some noble’s project and tells us all to leave. Ten minutes later, they’re begging to have us back. Er, no offense.”
“None taken. You wouldn’t happen to be interested in overseeing any of it, would you?”
She shuddered.
“What, a project that big? We’re not that good, Wall Lord, and I like my job.”
“Damn. But if you had any recommendations—”
He was showing her the plans of the sites and talking over local rock when Lyonette squeezed onto the bar next to Ilvriss.
“Hello, Earlia, Ilvriss. Don’t mind me. I just had a question, Ilvriss, about something you said—”
“Ah, look at the time. I should be preparing to go back at some point. You know, I need to buy souvenirs to keep up morale in camp.”
Ilvriss rose and excused himself. He walked towards the common room exit and glanced over his shoulder. Lyonette was striding after him.
Well, rockmites in his stew. He really shouldn’t have mentioned…Ilvriss peered around. Then he opened the door, shut it behind him, and ran down the hallway.
“Liska, pretend I went to Pallass!”
“What? Oh, sure—”
He slammed the door, cast around, and ran out the actual door to the inn. Then he charged through the rain. Maybe she’d give up on it—
Ancestors, who was he kidding? At least it was somewhat funny. Ilvriss searched for a hiding spot.
 
——
 
The aquarium was quite lovely. It had sea anemones, kelp, and exotic fishes already. Hexel had bought a bunch as a showcase, and a fish with beautiful ‘wings’, the flying fish that could leap out of the water at great speed, was doing so now in the room filled with blue light.
An Antinium woman was sprinkling fish food into the aquarium, cooing to the fish.
“Hello, my little fishy friends. You can fly. I can fly. It is not cheating on birds if you can fl—”
She half-turned, and Ilvriss hesitated, shuffling his feet.
“I was just hiding from Lyonette, Bird—”
“It’s just a passing interest! Do not judge me! Aaaaah!”
Bird threw up her hands and would have tried to drown herself in the tank but for Ilvriss reassuring her that he didn’t judge her for her fishy dalliances. She ended up showing him the fish in the tank.
“They are quite delightful, though I think Hexel does not know which fish survive with which. The anemones have eaten several smaller fishes.”
“Ah, should we tell him…?”
“Well, he and his apprentices keep coming in and nabbing fish as snacks. So no, I do not think he cares. Would you like a fish, Wall Lord?”
“Hmm, freshly grilled with Calescent’s seasoning? Or a sushi?”
Bird edged over and put an arm around Ilvriss’ shoulders.
“I may like sushi. But this is a secret that will ruin my reputation. So I—”
They jumped as the door slammed open, and Lyonette, panting, pointed.
“Aha! There you are!”
“I was just flirting with Wall Lord Ilvriss, nothing else!”
Bird leapt up, making excuses. Lyonette halted, and Mrsha and Nanette peered in after Ilvriss. And he? He just chuckled ruefully.
“Oh, come on in. Let’s have some sushi since I think I got most of the egg on my face. In the breakfast nook? I’d like to eat there. It’s not the biggest secret around. I’m surprised Calanfer doesn’t have the same, but perhaps it’s too young or something.”
He led the way upstairs, sighing.
 
——
 
“It’s a sub-class. Or something. The world of levels has depths. If you have long-standing organizations, you get classes themed around it. Like [Knight of Gura] is a class. Salazsar’s been around longer than most—so at some point we began getting unique…ranks.”
So [Wall Lord of the 5th Rank] isn’t a real class?
“It’s a rank. Different from a class.”
Mrsha held up a card as Ilvriss munched on some fresh sushi in the lovely breakfast nook. Nanette was agog with delight.
“Mother said covens could have those, but only the really old ones! You have to have a purpose or place or—what do you get?”
“A lot less levels.”
Ilvriss grumbled. It was one of the reasons he hadn’t hit Level 40, despite all he’d been through.
Well…aside from the Meeting of Tribes and Winter Solstice, he hadn’t done that much to credit his class. He’d been low level 30 when he’d tried to take on Zel, and vastly outmatched. However—
“My father hit the 7th Rank. Which tells you how much he’s done for Salazsar in his lifetime. I tried. I’ve given to charitable causes, grown my company as best I could—it’s still part of Salazsar, so it counts—but there’s nothing like fighting in wars for your city.”
So it’s an incentive to be good and help out? Classic Drakes, am I right?
Mrsha was teasing gently, but Ilvriss nodded.
“I doubt Pallass has it anymore. Oteslia…I think they do something with [Druids]. Manus is all army. Though I think they have classes above [General], so that’s something. And Zeres uses their authority to create the Serpentine Matriarch, who’s functionally a Ruler class.”
“Right, right, but what do you get?”
Lyonette wanted to know, and Ilvriss, amused, just sipped from his cup.
“Lovely weather we’re having, isn’t—ow!”
Everyone had poked him. Ilvriss sighed.
“It’s not great, okay? It’s one Skill or Condition or even a [Sword Dance] or something every time you achieve a new Rank. Something you can only get from Salazsar. It slows levelling a bit—but it is rewarding the higher rank you are. Allegedly.”
He grumbled to himself. Lyonette murmured.
“Did Marquin have…? Is it because we’re too young as a kingdom?”
Might just be Calanfer’s not cool enough. Yeow!
Mrsha got another poke, but Ilvriss high-fived her. He snorted.
“It might legitimately be that. My father hit the 7th Rank, and guess what he got? [Company: The Lucre of Drakes]. It means every hundred thousand swings or so, someone tends to find an extra gemstone. Sounds bad, but he got it right as he was retiring and I was taking over. Alrric tried to calculate how much it’s made House Gemscale over the decades. Before that, he gained [Swordmaster of Salazsar: Diamond Cleave]. He’s never been well enough to use it. Damn, I should have asked. But it’s secret.”
“So this is a secret only known to Salazsar’s Walled Families?”
“Yep. Well, it’s not just the Holders of the Wall, but it is regarded as classified information we keep the public from knowing.”
It wasn’t that important, actually, but Ilvriss was rewarded by their beaming faces. He just sighed.
“I’m 5th Rank. I thought beating Zel would get me to 6th, but I think staying in Liscor and, uh, taking the Gnolls’ side aren’t really patriotic things to do. My best Skill is [Formation: Opulence Guard]. Because of my class. The more expensive your gear, the sturdier you are for the Skill’s duration.”
Nothing incredible. Very respectable, obviously, but…he sighed.
“And now I have [Adaptive Plumbing].”
Everyone sniggered, but gently, and Mrsha put a solemn paw on Ilvriss’ shoulders.
When you gotta poo real bad, Wall Lord, you will thank your Skill. Incidentally, do you think I could be a good Wall Lord? I’m technically related to royalty or something, but I don’t mind switching nations.
“Mrsha du Marquin! You’re Calanfer’s daughter!”
Yeah, and what’s that gotten me? Marquin’s one-breasted breastplate that Dame Ushar stabbed? No thank you. All you’ve got is an empty walk-in closet for a Skill, Mom. Ilvriss, whaddya say?
“You wouldn’t be the first Wall Lady as a Gnoll, even right now, Mrsha, and Tasilt’s son does have the 1st Rank class. So Salazsar acknowledges him. Tell you what, I’ll write up the adoption papers today.”
“Ha ha, very funny, you two—”
That did make Ilvriss feel better. Even if he wished he were even Level 40.
At least the Wall Lord had something to do all day. He ate sushi then asked the others to help him buy gifts for the camp, not wanting to go back to his mundane, boring, stinking—
Welsca ran into the breakfast nook, soaked from the rain, still in her pajamas. Which had little miniature Dragons in colored thread. Nanette instantly wanted a copy.
“Wall Lord! They dug up something major! And there was an incident at the dig s—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was running for the portal door before she finished getting down the stairs.
 
——
 
They caught Ilvriss up to speed as he rode into camp. It was a flurry of voices. It was none other than young Wall Lord Dramm who reported in, which dismayed Ilvriss until he realized all the real officers were actually at the danger site.
“We’ve sealed off the tunnel, sir. It’s some kind of mining shaft.”
“One of ours?”
“Nossir. A…new one. Infested with advanced undead. The Rubirel Guard engaged them to seal the hole and recover the [Advance Miner] who entered it.”
“Oh no. Are they dead?”
Ilvriss expected the worst; he knew the job, but to his surprise, Dramm shook his head.
“They, uh, got lucky. It’s Georgie, sir.”
“Oh, the troublemaker. How’d he make it? Advanced undead? What kind?”
“Spidercrawler, Sneaking Devourer, and an Invisible Ghoul were what the Rubirel Guard reported.”
That drew Ilvriss up short.
“Really? Dead gods! Make sure that cordon has detection spells! How’d Georgie get out of there? Escape Skills?”
Dramm was following, a bit nervous. He cleared his throat a few times.
“Nossir. Apparently, he went in when he should have fallen back. We found an enchanted pickaxe on him and an artifact lantern in his bag of holding. It appears he may have been trying to make off with some of the items. Then ran into the undead.”
“Serves him right.”
Welsca glared, and Ilvriss half-nodded.
