“I think, Wall Lord, that Georgie was just…pretending. To be male.”
“Why?”
“I don’t know, sir. But they’re very clearly ill. I can refer them to a sanitorium in the Walled Cities, and I know Wall Lord Dramm ordered everyone to keep silent, but I heard the [Soldiers] talking.”
Ilvriss sat there, stumped. He was trying to wrap his head around this one.
“But why would someone want to pretend to be a man? I mean, what’s the point? Is that—that’s being a Turnscale. I think. Is that being a Turnscale?”
He didn’t actually know. Ilvriss thought he knew what Turnscales were. Erin had told him, and he wasn’t an idiot. It was when two male Drakes or two female Drakes…you heard about [Soldiers] going crazy during long deployments, but you’d crack down on that hard.
Only, according to Erin, he was on the wrong side of that line of thinking, and she had asked him, to his face, to help with their rights and equality. And he’d agreed, but thought…
Damn it. Was she laughing at him? It wasn’t very funny. Ilvriss had the City of Purity to dig up, but somehow, he was dealing with this.
“Advance Miner Georgie found the mineshaft I believe I wanted at great personal risk. He mitigated that by possibly stealing—”
“She, sir.”
Chali interrupted. Ilvriss paused.
“Right, she. Either way, Georgie is also under investigation for theft! I imagine this is more pressing than the Turnscale business?”
He turned to the [Healer], and her lips compressed.
“I can’t speak on Georgie’s record with the company, sir. But I can refer them to the sanatorium. As a [Healer], it is a matter of moral decency.”
“The thefts?”
“Them being a Turnscale, Wall Lord.”
“Ah.”
He stared at her. Ilvriss glanced down at his feet. The City of—he nodded.
“I’ll consider my next course of action, Healer. As Dramm ordered, keep quiet about this.”
She bowed, appearing uncertain, and he rubbed at his forehead. Ilvriss had no idea what to make of all this, so he sent for someone who thankfully was an expert, or so he hoped.
 
——
 
Xesci heard out the vaguely convoluted string of events and sat there, cross-legged. They’d had to pull her from the brothel where she was working.
Baffling to Ilvriss why anyone…but she was in a Gnoll’s body today, rather short for one, with jet black fur. She sniffed.
“This place stinks. It’s gotten worse since you dug that mine shaft up, and not just the undead. They’re actually pleasant by comparison.”
“Xesci, please. I need consultation. What do you make of all this? Could it be a magical effect? The City of Purity?”
She blinked at him, then bared her teeth in a toothy smirk.
“What? Oh, that’s simple. Georgie’s just a man.”
Ilvriss relaxed and stood up.
“Ah, so it was a magical effect. Perfect. Do you think it was the pickaxe or—?”
“He’s a man trapped in the wrong body. He always was.”
Ilvriss sat back down. His head began to ache.
“I don’t follow.”
The [Courtesan of Change] stretched her back out, sighing.
“Nothing in your life would help you with that, Wall Lord. Ancestors, I hate this conversation. Let’s see if you can keep up. Georgie’s a man.”
“But she—”
Xesci wiped at something in her nether regions, balled up a wad of cotton, and tossed it at him. Ilvriss dodged with a shout.
“Xesci!”
“You were doing well, Wall Lord. He’s what he is. I recognized him in a moment, of course. I can always tell with Turnscales. I make them very uncomfortable and worried. They’ve tried to assassinate me before. I try not to take it personally.”
She was always like this. Too calm, too odd, but in this case, Ilvriss had to bark back.
“Xesci, stop—cleaning yourself and make sense of this!”
She shot to her feet and growled at him, hackles rising.
“I just did. Whoops, sorry, temper. This body’s all fire. It’s simple, Wall Lord. Imagine that this pickaxe here was enchanted. You pick it up, you switch genders. Wall Lord Ilvriss becomes Wall Lady Ilvriss. Very demure, same scale coloration, but I imagine you’d probably wear heels.”
She waved the pickaxe at him. Ilvriss eyed it. She held it out. He didn’t take it.
“That’s not the effect. Correct? We haven’t had it appraised—”
Xesci rolled her eyes.
“Ilvriss, it doesn’t do that. But imagine you picked it up. I imagine you’d be unhappy with that change.”
She eyed him.
“…You probably would be. Some take to it.”
“Are there spells like that out there in point of fact or—?”
“Oh, absolutely. You run into all sorts in my line of work. I heard an old Face of the south say they used to use that on other Drakes. Obviously, because to them it was worse than death. But the blood feuds got so bad over it—”
“Wait, wait, wait. This kind of thing is normal?”
Ilvriss couldn’t believe that, and Xesci hesitated. Her tail lifted, and the tip pointed down until she traced a figure eight on the floor in front of them. Ilvriss stared at it. He’d never seen any Drake with as much tail control as Xesci. The [Courtesan] frowned.
“No, not normal. I just ran into it now and then. Three times in my life feels like a lot. There’s a Skill, artifact, or just tonic, and it changes someone’s life forever.”
“But it’s not around any more? Or was that some alchemical recipe passed down…?”
“No, the materials were lost apparently. And, well, if someone finds the artifact that does it, inevitably it goes missing.”
“Why?”
She smiled, briefly at him. Her voice kindly, as if it were obvious.
“Because someone takes it and vanishes. The curse to other people is something that one person will do anything for, Wall Lord. But we were speaking of how it feels. So…imagine how it would be if you were hit by a potion that turned you female. What would that be like? What would you do?”
Ilvriss tried. He didn’t really want to.
“Unpleasant. I’d search for a cure. Where is this going?”
“Well, imagine someone handed Georgie that pickaxe when he was a baby, right when he was born.”
“But no one did—”
“Imagine it, Wall Lord. Use your head.”
He did. He credited his Erin-experience with that and being able to yank himself out of just the standard incredulity or confusion of a moment. Ilvriss rubbed at his temples.
“Alright. I see it now. But how did Georgie know…?”
“He knows because he knows himself. So would you.”
“Even as a child?”
“If someone put you in a dress, made you play with girls, or told you to kiss other boys when you really wanted to—”
“Alright, alright, I get it.”
Ilvriss sat back down and stared at the ceiling. He muttered.
“So that’s also what being a Turnscale is? I see why Healer Chali and Dramm were so upset.”
“Want me to throw something else at you?”
Ilvriss raised his claws rapidly.
“I see why they’re upset! It flies in the face of Drake culture, Xesci. I, personally? I’m rather more invested in Georgie being accused of theft! The City of Purity! If I’m really, truly honest? I don’t care. I have bigger gems to mine!”
He snapped at her and braced for her to toss something unmentionable at him, which would ruin his entire day if he was hit despite the discovery. But Xesci just sat there and smiled wearily.
“If every Drake shared your point of view, Ilvriss, I think Turnscales would be a lot happier. Where’s Georgie now?”
“In the Healer’s Tent. Why?”
“Under guard?”
“He tried to run away and punched me. And the theft.”
“Good. No one will try to kill him tonight. You’d better let him run or figure out what to do. You don’t have long.”
The Wall Lord sat up slightly. And there it was. He recalled the panic on Georgie’s face when he’d seen the camp. He recalled Erin’s warnings.
“They wouldn’t…”
“You think they wouldn’t beat him to death? Maybe not in this group, Wall Lord. You act like you’ve never seen a Turnscale getting lynched or tossed off the walls.”
She eyed his face.
“…Well, maybe no one’s done it, high as you live up there. And I imagine Salazsarians in the Walled Families handle things internally. Poison or being locked up in a sanitorium. You do like your institutions in the City of Gems. One for the elderly, one for anyone you think is crazy.”
“The retirement homes are so they’re cared for and happy.”
“Oh, sure. A bundle of happiness up there.”
Every time he talked to Xesci, she threw him. Mostly because he wanted to argue with her based on what he believed or had been taught the world was, and he had a sinking suspicion she saw the world more clearly than he did.
She reminded him of Erin, but older, more experienced, and way crasser about sex. Ilvriss sat there.
“I don’t understand. No…I feel uncomfortable, Xesci. Don’t throw things at me.”
“I won’t if you’re honest. Tell me what you’re feeling.”
She watched as he sat, not squirming, or rather, most of his body. But his tail was making weird squiggly shapes. It curled up again and again on itself as Ilvriss pulled a face.
“Two Drakes kissing each other who aren’t…it makes my scales itch. Georgie? I don’t get it. It feels wrong. It feels like I shouldn’t stand for it, but that’s much the same feeling I used to get about, well, Nerul. Anyone who objected to Salazsar going to war a traitor.”
He remembered that. The Wall Lord turned to Xesci.
“Anyone who wanted to be friendly with a Human a fool. Then Zel told me I was an idiot. He wasn’t the first one, you know.”
“It wouldn’t have worked the first time. Tell me. Who was your first?”
She cupped her chin in her claws, genuinely interested, and he hesitated.
“Wording aside—it was my friend, Tasilt. He married a Gnoll. We fought about it, and he punched me in the face. The first time he ever hit me like that. I wasn’t a good friend, but I continued to associate with him, and I saw how he was treated. I think that…then there was Alrric, a Gnoll who was unquestionably the best at what he did. And I suppose, by the time I met Periss—she didn’t challenge me aside from being my junior. But her parents were mixed-species. One a Gnoll, one a Drake. That would have been enough for some Drakes to avoid associating with her, or even hiring her. But I fell in love. These are not big things.”
But it had changed him, even among Wall Lords, even though he’d been as hidebound and arrogant as many. In a way, it relieved Ilvriss.
It was not just Liscor. Even if that had been a catalyst. He twiddled his claws.
“Nevertheless, it feels like a lifetime of being a fool and feeling things are wrong only to realize you were the wrong one after all. The feeling’s not always right. The feeling is just what I think I should feel, so I’m receptive that I can be wrong. But it still feels…”
The Wall Lord shuddered, and he couldn’t help it. Xesci peered at him and spoke cautiously.
“Wall Lord, you’re rather courageous. You want to fight the Necromancer himself, and you’ve shrugged off a Terland assassination attempt. You are less bothered about that than this.”
“I’m hardly happy about either.”
He tried to smile, but she tilted her head at him.
“Your feelings about Georgie shouldn’t matter. Treat him like an annoying, thieving [Miner]. But perhaps understand why he steals and has a bad reputation. I imagine he bounces from company to company. Especially if someone begins eying him sideways. You can’t build a life if you’re always worried about being found out. Well, unless you’re Alrric.”
The Wall Lord froze.
“Is Alrric a—?”
“Doombearer.”
Ilvriss unfroze. Sat down, then laughed. He brushed at his forehead.
“Dead gods, Xesci! Is that all? Wait, really?”
She shrugged.
“I don’t tell secrets, but you did employ me to find the Necromancer’s minions, so…”
Ilvriss rubbed at his forehead.
“Actually, that makes…there are clues. Mountain’s riches, you’re incredible Xesci. And terrifying. You haven’t told anyone else, correct?”
She shook her head, and he steepled his claws.
“Don’t tell anyone. I’ll honor his secrecy. Alright, I see Georgie’s concern, especially in light of the danger. Do I have the facts?”
She tilted her head. He watched her tail before realizing a Gnoll’s tail wasn’t as adaptive, but she sat so still he couldn’t read her. As good as Nerul with her body. Xesci spoke slowly.
“I think you don’t understand just what it’s like to be a Turnscale, Ilvriss. More danger, more fear, more…pain than you think.”
“Well, I’ll have to settle for you educating me. There’s no other frame of reference I have. I’ve never met a Turnscale. I mean, unless there was one in hiding?”
He turned to her, and she raised her eyebrows.
“No one, really?”
For just a second, Ilvriss wavered, and he thought of Navine. Hadn’t Xesci said…? No, she’d said two female Drakes. Navine had always been a rebel and someone who tried things. It didn’t mean she was—
Not that he was about to disown her. You heard stories of Drakes on campaign in all-male regiments getting a bit desperate. The same for Zel; Ilvriss had never seen anything, and the Drake himself had never brought up any of the scurrilous allegations you heard in private. Ilvriss stuck to his crossbows.
“Not definitively, no. Certain behavior? Perhaps, but that’s a serious accusation—er, I don’t care to point claws! So, no!”
Xesci’s eyes narrowed as Ilvriss blustered.
“Do you want me to tell you? Because I don’t think I should. Alrric’s a dangerous man, even if I think he’s fairly loyal to the company so long as he thinks you’re not anti-Doombearer, which is why I brought it up. Turnscales you don’t need to know about.”
He bit his lip.
“Fine, fine. Don’t tell me. I’m just curious.”
“It would shock you.”
Now he sort of wanted to know. The Wall Lord frowned at her.
“Just give me one point of reference like—Georgie. Or just a Drake who likes other Drakes of the same gender, Xesci. So I understand.”
She thought about it. Then smiled mischievously at him.
“Sure, Wall Lord. Me.”
He blinked.
“You? But—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, I hinted to you once I can literally change genders. I am what some Turnscales dream of. What some would be in horror of, just like you might be. I’ve had clients of every species, every gender. If I’m not a Turnscale, then who?”
Ilvriss’ mouth fell open at her obvious statement. And it was true, but his scales didn’t do that prickling thing. He even checked his tail, and it was just naturally lying there. Xesci was just…the [Courtesan] who became people.
“It doesn’t feel the same.”
“I’m higher-level, true, but I’ll kiss a woman for you. If Captain Osthia volunteers, I’ll do a full demonstration.”
“I think that’s not necessary. Darn. I still can’t wrap my head around it.”
