“A hazard of the job, but if he survived—again, how? I know he was earmarked for our special initiatives, but he’s only just past Level 30.”
“Level 3…6 today, sir. Two levels from surviving. As to how, he used the pickaxe and a Skill. Collapsed the tunnel onto himself, which bought enough time for the Rubirel Guard to deploy.”
“Smart man.”
Ilvriss admired those instincts. Dramm shifted as he tried to keep up again.
“Yessir, Wall Lord Ilvriss, sir. The thing is—there’s complications. You should speak to the [Healer]. He’s under guard. The undead did savage him up, but no lost limbs, and we had to put a potion on him.”
They’d gotten some from Lyonette and the inn, so this wasn’t a huge concern to Ilvriss. He frowned, wondering what had Dramm antsy. But the mine took precedence.
There were nasty undead down there, and the Rubirel Guard themselves didn’t fancy engaging unknown undead in the dark. Ilvriss gave quick orders.
“Firstly, I want no one speaking of this. Lock down information. Alrric has [Corporate Secrets]; have him deploy the Skill until further notice. Second, we need to clear the mine and dig carefully. Do we have eyes down there?”
Osthia, under her guise as Asrira Shieldscale, nodded to him.
“We do, Wall Lord. We put a movable sensor spell down the shaft, rolled it around. There are a lot of undead. Several hundred, all pretty advanced.”
“So there were a hundred or so [Miners] here? How old?”
He glanced around, and one of his [Mages] coughed.
“Probably far more, Wall Lord. Undead combine and some, like the Spidercrawler, are the product of multiple bodies. This isn’t even a high-magic area. Some of the dropped equipment maybe gave off residue, but if it’s like the pickaxe, the magical bleed is virtually nil. The fact they advanced to this level indicates a long, long gestation cycle. And far more bodies originally.”
“How many?”
“Could be over a thousand were here and amalgamated, sir. Not much more than that or we’d see a Wailing Pit or super-undead.”
A thousand and a long time. Ilvriss glanced at Osthia and felt it.
This is it. But they had to be careful and slow, and apparently, there was one last problem.
“Sir, we went to both ends of the mine shafts. It’s an odd construction. Lots of zigzag patterns which is fair enough, but it looks like they were exploring. The thing is…there’s no exit. Nor entry.”
“What?”
He turned to one of his [Foremen], Dirr, and the Gnoll wore an unsettled expression.
“Just as I said, sir. They showed it to me, and I mapped it out, here.”
He showed Ilvriss a familiar diagram, and Ilvriss stared. There was indeed no exit or entrance.
“The mine leads nowhere?”
“It looks like they collapsed the lower exit, sir. Deliberately. Which indicates there might be something down there. If we can dig that deep…we’ll excavate it. But right now, we need to breach the tunnel carefully. There aren’t actually many ways in. There’s a lot of stone, and those supports are amazingly hard, as are the tiles. It’s why the undead never got out. That and they probably didn’t sense any life this far down. We need to clear it. I suggest we send for adventurers. Heidan the Fireball if he can make it.”
Ilvriss listened to one of his officers, then turned.
“No adventurers. This is a Gemscale operation. The Rubirel Guard will clear this tunnel with [Soldiers]. Captain Asrira will take charge. Once she’s healed.”
“Sir!”
The soldiers didn’t necessarily like the order; monsters were not the same as the foes they liked to face, who were other soldiers. But Ilvriss wanted no one blabbing.
This was it. They just had to clear the mines, and he let Osthia talk about protocols and the time it’d take to slowly weed the monsters out—it didn’t matter. Ilvriss was galvanized.
Right up until he heard the horns blow. He turned and groaned.
“Oh n—”
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle laid Ilvriss out with a punch, went to stomp on his chest, and only when two Rubirel Guard tackled him did he run for it. Wall Lord Ilvriss lay on his back.
“Well, that took the victory out of things nicely. Tell me they don’t know.”
One of his [Aides] was lying flat on his face.
“Nossir. Just a regular raid.”
“Good. Keep it that way.”
Just another reminder these damn fights were draining manpower. Ilvriss sat up and groaned as he saw streams of cattle racing away.
“How many did they get with all our people down there?”
“Er…eight hundred, sir.”
“Eight h—”
 
——
 
The provisions Ilvriss had bought to boost morale turned out to be needed that night. He nursed his sore jaw as he told Osthia to not make it obvious she was taking troops away while clearing monsters.
And now we need diggers more than ever. You’d think they’d need only soldiers now, but no, they needed to widen this shaft to bring down troops in good order, not in a treacherous single-file. They needed to open the mine shaft, then close it with speed.
Still, progress. Apparently, there were magical items in the tunnel, dropped by the [Miners] who’d starved or even suffocated, to hear the [Mages] speculate. Ilvriss had seen the pickaxe that Georgie had found. He stared at it.
This is the most beautiful pickaxe I’ve ever seen. There is nothing like it in Salazsar. Maybe the museums—but we used our old gear until it broke.
He wanted it appraised. Because he suspected the appraisal would tell him what he wanted to be true.
This was gear only a Walled City in its prime could manufacture. The City of Purity’s equipment.
They were onto it. Only, his [Geomancers] said they didn’t detect anything underneath the mines, just the mines themselves. Was this some kind of offshoot mining operation from the city? It had to be nearby.
Dig and dig more. Ilvriss’ spirits rose and fell, and he wondered if the Terlands were going to kill him. Stress.
He wanted to go back to the inn. Oh, right, stretching for the dance. At least that was fun. And he’d sent the letter for the poor boy who’d jumped in the bull’s pen. His family might have…questions. Who was he again? Oh, right.
Liuss.
Ilvriss felt tired again. And they’d nearly lost a good [Miner] on the dig. Fighting monsters would lead to casualties.
So busy was the Wall Lord he forgot about one last thing he apparently needed to do. It was only when Dramm came by again that Ilvriss frowned.
“Georgie. Right. Something was off about him? Infection?”
“Nossir. It’s, uh—it’s hard to say.”
Dramm stood there, saluting. Oddly formal. Ilvriss eyed him.
“Just spit it out, lad.”
The young Drake’s mouth worked. And he had no idea what to say.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Dramm had thought this job sucked, no matter what his father, Brilm, had said. He knew Brilm wanted to help his friend, but it was…politics. The Wall Lord had taken his eldest son aside and spelled it out for him before Dramm had applied for the expedition.
“Listen, Dramm. Ilvriss is my friend. I’ve known him since we were hatchlings. I trust him like you trust your mates. Heh. Stupid word. Look, here’s the thing. I trust him, but he’s made odd decisions. Changed since Liscor. Now, we all want to know what’s going on with this weird dig.”
“Who, Father?”
“Everyone. You just report to me. Be precise. Don’t mess around or get kicked off. Got it? Ilvriss is fair; he might promote you, and then you’d gain some actual damn levels. Just…let me know what happens, alright?”
Dramm got that. Corporate espionage was normal. He bet there were other spies in Ilvriss’ expedition who also sent word to their employers. It was obvious there was something valuable here, or why else dig? What Dramm didn’t get was, well, Ilvriss himself.
The Wall Lord wasn’t like his father said he should be. Or like other Wall Lords. He didn’t take Dramm out drinking. Apparently, he’d stopped. He socialized and was friendly, but he was all work.
Most Wall Lords quit at, like, 1 PM. Brilm did and left it to his subordinates. But Ilvriss would be at a dig site all day until dusk, which meant Dramm and the younger leaders had to do the same.
Then he put other oddities in place. Like…he encouraged subordinates to skip parties he threw, which was weird. And he hired so many Gnolls…not that Dramm hated Gnolls. It was just, why not Drakes? There were more Drakes than Gnolls in Salazsar; Gnolls had a temper and got weird and touchy.
Then had come the cookout, and Dramm had thought he’d had Ilvriss all figured out. He had been about to write to Brilm it was so obvious. That woman, Lyonette. Duh. The Wall Lord was any male Drake. Well, Humans were a bit weird, but he had that [Courtesan], only she was pretty plain for someone who was apparently high-level…
Then had come Liuss. Dramm still had nightmares about it. He saw Liuss hesitating before jumping the fence, and then the angry braying and his body going up in the air like a doll—
Everyone had thought it was funny. It wasn’t Dramm’s fault. They’d all said it. But he’d been the ranking officer, and Ilvriss had looked at him and—
Damn Humans. That haunted Dramm. But he just didn’t understand Ilvriss, even now. His father kept writing to demand updates on the Terlands and things Dramm was kept out of the loop of. Captain Asrira was a cold fish who didn’t chat with him at all. Didn’t respect his rank, and she was military, so he couldn’t make her tell him things—
The mineshaft incident should have been simple. They found the treasure. Something buried there—tell his father. Get a share of the glory from whatever Ilvriss found.
Easy, right? Only, one last headache for Dramm. And this one wasn’t even his fault! Ilvriss stared at him like he was an idiot, but then he got up.
“I see I need to witness this complication myself. Lead the way, Dramm.”
“Yessir, sorry, sir.”
Dramm marched stiffly to the [Healer]’s tent, conscious of the eyes of Foreman Dirr and a few other people on him. The Rubirel Guard, the [Advance Miners], and the officers had all seen the—complication.
They’d told everyone to shut up, but the rumors were probably all through camp. Dramm had done his best and told Ilvriss that. The Wall Lord just gave him a patient gaze.
“And the nature of the issue is?”
“I don’t know how to say, sir.”
Dramm really didn’t. Ilvriss sighed.
“Proceed. Ah, here we are. Healer, Georgie, is everything alr—”
There was a clamor in the [Healer]’s tent. An angry, shouting voice Dramm knew well and an upset [Healer]. Two soldiers barking.
“Lie down! Lie back down!”
“I’m out of here! Get out of my w—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss walked through the tent flaps as Georgie tried to tear out of the two soldiers’ grips and the [Healer] waved her hands. He was throwing fists, cursing. He turned, punched, and clocked Ilvriss in the jaw right as the Wall Lord walked in.
The same spot that he’d just been punched by the [Cattle Baron]. Ilvriss wobbled. Georgie froze, and so did the [Healer], [Soldiers], and Dramm.
Uh oh. Dramm backed up, but Ilvriss didn’t draw his sword or punch the luckless [Advance Miner] out. He just held up a claw, closed his eyes, and exhaled.
“This day gets worse and worse. Miner Georgie, there had better be a damn good reason for you to be fighting with my people. I’m glad you’re w—”
He stopped and blinked. Ilvriss stared at Georgie and saw the issue. So did Dramm.
[Advance Miner] Georgie was not well from his run-in with the undead. Despite a healing potion, he had visibly regrown scales on his ribs, legs, and the potion must not have been all-encompassing; he had plenty of nicks and cuts, numerous bitemarks. A huge section of his thigh was off-colored. Exactly the size of a rather large mouth that had eaten…
He was lucky to be alive. The [Healer] had cut his shirt and pants off, bandaged him up and been applying a poultice. Georgie didn’t look like he should be walking; his scales were very pale, not their classic green. Because of that, he was in a fair state of undress, despite the robes he’d wrapped around himself, but his punching at the [Soldiers] had shifted them.
Which revealed, to Dramm’s keen eyes, the problem. He stared at the two rather obvious things that he was pretty sure Georgie shouldn’t have.
Breasts.
And, he hadn’t seen the other bits, but it had been confirmed to him that [Advance Miner] Georgie, the annoying fellow, the troublemaker, was in fact…
Ilvriss’ eyes lifted to stare at Georgie’s face. Dramm’s stayed low. Ilvriss blinked.
“Oh, a Turnsc—”
He hesitated. And the word made the two [Soldiers] pause. The [Healer] was waving her claws, but she didn’t want to touch the [Miner]. Georgie paled, then tried to shove past Ilvriss.
“Let me go. I’m out of—”
He—she—was trying to push out. Dramm put his claws out.
“Ma’am, Miss, you’re not allowed to leave.”
Georgie snarled, and Dramm would have happily put the idiot on his ass any day of the week. Only, it turned out Georgie was actually a woman. Dramm didn’t hit w—
Ilvriss saw the [Advance Miner] punch the younger Wall Lord straight in the face. He was rather gratified to see Dramm go down in a single punch. It made him feel better. He cleared his throat.
“I think I’d like some explanations.”
Georgie turned to run and saw the entire camp eying him. He hesitated, went pale, and backed up into the tent. Ilvriss rubbed at his jaw again.
Damn, it hurt. And he felt like, somewhere, Erin Solstice was laughing at him. None of his business at the moment. He just had to say that to her face.
 
——
 
“Some clarity. Healer Chali, is Georgie’s present…condition the result of the undead attack? The pickaxe? Er, the healing potion malfunctioning in some spectacular way?”
The Drake [Healer] hesitated as, later, Ilvriss sat in his tent, holding an icepack to his jaw. Georgie was in the [Healer]’s tent with guards posted. Dramm was resting.
“No, Wall Lord. That is to say, that’s what Georgie claimed when he—she—woke up and realized I’d removed her clothing.”
“I see. But we could take them at their word—”
Chali shook her head.
“No, Wall Lord. It was an excuse. There was no magical residue on them, and the potion I applied personally. It only recovered wounds. The first thing Georgie tried to do was convince me to stay silent. Then they made up the lie.”
“So this isn’t a magical effect.”
“No, Wall Lord. They were just…pretending to be male.”
The [Healer] seemed as baffled as Ilvriss felt. He drummed his claws on the table.
“I don’t understand. It’s not like we pay based on gender like other companies. And there are female mining groups, male, mixed—did they assume another name? Do they have a criminal background?”
He was running down the list of options, but the most obvious one was the one Chali brought up.
