“I completely understand that given your history, Clan Leader Plisce. But, I believe, this is the one exception. For Wall Lord Ilvriss, of all Drakes, might have a tiny bit of respect from Gnolls, wouldn’t he?”
She’d saved that part for last. Plisce’s ears twitched.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss? Wait…”
He had to confer with Chieftain Akrisa via scrying spell, of course. And she was highly skeptical of some [Lady] of House Reinhart vouching for Ilvriss.
“Hrr. What is your angle in this, Lady Damia?”
The [Lady] won the trust of Gnolls with the power she had learned in Liscor: honesty.
“I want to get paid the referral fee, Chieftain Akrisa.”
They blinked at her, then snorted and began to ask what kind of rates they might take if they went and had a look. But Damia had another knife to stab into them with.
“Not only would Wall Lord Ilvriss hire every [Miner] you have—and his company is known for working well with Gnolls, Chieftain Akrisa—but I have it on good authority that the, ah, Cowpat Plains are not held by any noble or city.”
“Meaning…wait, are you serious?”
Meaning that the Gnolls had grazing room. There might be conflicts with the local [Ranchers], but Damia bet there was plenty of room for Silverfang camps. And as everyone said, no one had a beef with Gnolls. She was worried that might change, and Akrisa said as much.
“We will promise nothing. I will have my tribe head that way; it seems the east is less developed, so we might settle there if anywhere, but this is no promise, Lady Damia.”
“Absolutely not, Chieftain Akrisa. And I intend to go right with you! My people are still recruiting from Liscor and other cities, and as such, I’ll go with you all!”
Especially if it meant getting paid for all this. Plisce blinked.
“If you are willing, we will ride with you, though it will take time, even if we can all use the door. And to strike camp.”
“Excellent! I have something to do, anyways. I’ll see you at the portal stone at, oh, one o’ clock?”
Damia was hopping from foot-to-foot, and the Magical Carriage they’d rented at great expense from the Mage’s Guild was ready to go with Binevy. The Gnolls watched her dash back and order the carriage to head straight to Celum.
“Do you think this is some kind of grand trick, Chieftain Akrisa?”
The Gnoll was frowning as she chomped down on mustard pickles.
“Hrm. Who can say? Reinharts are known to be tricky and dangerous, and I have heard nothing but ill, even about Magnolia Reinhart. But there is a funny saying about them too. And she is young. Better to be valuable than smiled and condescended to. And Wall Lord Ilvriss is no enemy in how he has acted. Confirm it with The Wandering Inn.”
“I will do so.”
Akrisa paused, then leaned forwards.
“Then tell my sister to stop sleeping with scaled rodents. I told her it was a bad idea.”
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland was attending the hanging not out of any real interest, but because Varnie of the Sorcerer’s Knives was a Face. The odds of someone trying something without security was high.
Hence why Primera, Seconda, and his best Golems surrounded the square, ready to kill anything that so much as sneezed near the executioner’s noose.
He didn’t care for executions, but he was making a statement. There weren’t enough specialized Skill-blocking manacles for the rest of this woman’s gang, so they’d be executed later. A Face was a statement in itself.
This is my city. If you want to conduct crime, do it elsewhere. He rather felt like it was almost wasting time, even if he had taken out a famous gang. He kept thinking of Ilvriss and his Great Aunt, on the move for the first time since…
He kept eying the noose with that weird prickle down his spine, checking to make sure that yes, Erin Solstice was in Baleros and Lyonette was in The Wandering Inn, or at least, not in Celum.
Sometimes, you developed an instinct. He watched as the blank-faced woman stood there, hands behind her back, and the [Executioner] put a noose around her neck and readied the trapdoor. You just took your eyes away for one moment, and blam, there was a [Swashbuckler] trying to cut the ropes or whatnot.
“Hailarrow Golems, full spread of [Arrows of Blast].”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen.”
Lord Xitegen was prepared for everything, he liked to think. What shocked him, genuinely, what he wasn’t prepared for even with his exposure to The Wandering Inn—which was a bit like a plague—was to see Lady Damia Reinhart clambering onto the platform.
“Intruder.”
Seconda and the Golems took aim, and then she spoke.
“Member of the Five Families detected. Do not kill or maim.”
The young [Lady] had frozen when the Golems aimed at her, and she relaxed. She was indeed…smarter to realize they wouldn’t kill a member of the Five Families on sight. Rather stupid in many other ways, Xitegen concluded.
“Well, I expected something else. Primera, grab the young woman and give her ten across the rear, then throw her into Invrisil.”
The Golem began to march forwards, and Damia shouted.
“Wait! Lord Xitegen Terland, I demand to speak to you as a member of the Five Families!”
He held up a hand, sighing. Xitegen saw Damia’s one bodyguard staring at Primera and not really wanting to square up with the Golem. He cleared his throat as the [Gang Leader] regarded Damia with unguarded emotion.
They know each other. His eyes narrowed.
“If you want to invoke the Five Families, Lady Damia, I listen. For your sake, I hope it’s good.”
She swallowed. Then she closed her eyes and spoke.
“I realize I intrude on your domain, Cousin. Celum is indeed yours. You took it and have remade it, even if Magnolia was here first. But you have made it better with the might of Golems. Once you were moved to it…after a decade of hiding in the north. Truly, it feels like my aunt was the only member of the family who cared about the south. I suppose that’s why, for all your commendable, lauded thighs, you have such a paunchy frame.”
The crowd had come here for an execution. They hadn’t realized it included a roast. Their heads turned to Lord Xitegen apprehensively, and several leaned out of the way of his Golems. He just exhaled.
“You have about twenty more seconds before I lose my temper.”
Damia went on, stuttering a bit, but getting louder. What she didn’t know was that she had an audience beyond Celum. Some of the Gangs of Izril were watching to witness a Face dying. Karsaeu herself was in the crowd; she’d choked on some popcorn when she saw Damia up there. The member of Haple and the Sisters of Chell eyed the [Lady] as she cleared her throat.
“I-I shall! Who could argue you are in the right place at the right time, Xitegen? You faced the Goblin King. You were there at the Winter Solstice, an event so few even believe occurred! My family barely believes the evidence of their eyes! A shame on it! It feels as though Magnolia’s Skill only half-left some of them! Or perhaps they were always halfwits.”
Lady Desinee El stopped in the midst of walking to the Merchant’s Guild. She stared at Damia. The [Lady] pointed at Xitegen, whose brows had risen.
“Who could deny there stands Xitegen Terland, first of his house in nobility and pride and thighs?”
“Is that really all I’m known for?”
He whispered to Primera.
“Yes, Lord Xitegen. They are exemplary thighs.”
Well, if even Golems thought so…he waited, and Damia’s eyes flashed. She spoke slowly and with more dignity than he expected.
“I envy you, Cousin. For being what I wish I was. I am trying. But I say to you one thing: for all you are Lord Xitegen, and you have been there when calamity threatens to fight it, for all you are a brave, high-level man—you seem so complacent as to sicken me. There, but for a door, stands Liscor! The Wandering Inn, wherever it is! A Wall Lord dares the north, and instead of aiding him, of going to see anything, you let your family take the most banal of courses!”
She pointed down at him and his eyes narrowed. He didn’t like that. Because…Damia went on, glancing behind her.
“Someday, the Goblin King will come again, or the moons fall, and where will you be? Here, no doubt, Xitegen! But that is all. You have come creeping into Magnolia’s place, and reacted to the inn and the changing of eras! No more. I didn’t think that the Thigh Lord of Izril liked to stand still as a statue.”
Oooh. Lady Desinee winced. Every head swung back to Lord Xitegen, and he stood there, face growing much like his Golems. He took a breath.
Then he heard a snap, a thunk, and [Gang Leader] Varnie landed on the ground behind Damia. She sat up, and Damia whirled as Xitegen’s eyes narrowed.
“Ah, it worked. Good. Um—run—”
The [Gang Leader] incredulously got up, and the [Executioner] stared at the noose.
The noose…which had been cut nearly in half by a tiny blade while no one was watching. In plain sight. [Sharp Remark].
Xitegen figured out what Damia was trying to do in a moment. He pointed.
“Kill the [Gang Leader] and arrest—”
“Attack!”
Seconda blocked him a second before the smoke pellet exploded in his face. Xitegen’s rings flashed, and he coughed, waving a hand. Then it was chaos. He heard his speaking stone activate.
“Lord Xitegen! The prison! There’s been a prison break! Someone’s disabled the Golems! They’re running through the streets!”
Ah, another gang. Coordinated. Xitegen took cover behind Seconda, but he was tensing to leap forwards. He growled.
“Pursue and arrest the gang! And Lady Damia! Even for her, this is stupid. What—”
Another explosion of smoke above his head. Xitegen’s eyes narrowed.
[Rogues] were in the audience! They fired slingshots filled with marbles that exploded into mud, confusing flashes of magic, even a bunch of parakeets that obscured the Golems’ sensors. Damia Reinhart screamed.
“Run for it, Varnie! This way!”
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart’s conclusion was this: she wanted to save Varnie’s life. Not for any reason she understood. Just…they’d been on the carriage.
There was a saying among Reinharts she recalled as she ran, shouting at Varnie to get to the door. The [Gang Leader] sprinted as the other gang covered them. They were headed straight for the door that would save their lives.
Damia…almost made it. She had just seen Varnie dash through the door when Seconda, a seven-foot Golem running so hard and fast she shook the flagstones, caught her.
A Golem moving that fast in the pure form of a runner was terrifying. Damia nearly wet herself. She screamed, flailed, and realized she wasn’t dead when Lord Xitegen appeared.
Dead gods, he was fast. Some of his Golems were pelted with the distraction alchemy, but he just glanced at her.
“Do you know that [Gang Leader] or was that a Reinhart’s idiocy? I’ll deal with you later. Golems, kill that escapee.”
Primera ran towards the door and slammed into an invisible barrier. She didn’t recoil, just bounced with a sound like a brick wall hitting another. Xitegen paused.
The door was still open. Still active, and a panting [Gang Leader] was whirling, shouting for—someone walked forwards.
“Door to Invrisil. This way, Miss. Follow the Silverfangs. Oh hey, where’s the cute [Lady]?”
Liska peered around and spotted Damia, who waved at her. Xitegen spoke politely, but with that sense of a man feeling the walls of a trap closing.
“Liska. I am in pursuit of a known criminal, a Face, sentenced to death. Kindly admit my Golems.”
“Oh, hey, Lord Xitegen. Sorry, no can-do. No moving weapons of war or [Soldiers] through without explicit permission from the boss. Them’s the rules.”
Liska folded her arms, and Xitegen inhaled.
“I believe my cousin has bought your loyalty. I don’t believe that is wise, Liska. Allow me to purchase it or speak to Lyonette—”
“Oh, no. I’m not doing this because I’ve been bought. No one’s paid me a thing. I’m just doing this because I like Wall Lord Ilvriss. Don’t want to help send Golems near him.”
Now, the Lord of Thighs was silent. He spoke, the picture of politeness, but with an intensity that made Damia shiver. His aura was condensing around him, and it was pointed. Fast. Like a hail of arrows.
“Liska, I’m being polite. I am not warring with the inn—or you—because we have been quite helpful allies when the need arises. But I am running out of patience. I will go through that door, and you will regret it.”
“Sure. If you can. More annoying men have tried.”
Liska pulled down one eyelid and stuck out her tongue, trembling with nerves. But she held her ground.
She was so cool. Damia was beaming—until Xitegen turned to glare at her. In the end, he was many things. Pragmatic, friendly, athletic—but he was still a noble of the Five Families.
Pride flashed across his face. Pride and fury. He began to walk forwards towards the door. Liska lifted a paw.
“No one goes through this door that I don’t want to.”
 
——
 
Five minutes.
Five minutes and Damia’s mouth was open in delight—which made her hack and spit dust out. Five minutes and Celum’s citizens were watching, and Lady Desinee was wondering if she wasn’t going to be able to get to Liscor today and very impressed.
Five minutes and Lord Xitegen could admit he wasn’t stronger than Lord Tyrion Veltras. It stung mildly, but he was a pragmatic man. Liska was panting hard, but she held her paws out and grinned at him.
“You are indeed a valuable Gnoll, beyond belief, Liska Silverfang.”
“Th-thanks. And it’s nothing personal. Just…counterlevelling.”
He had to smile at that. So that’s how Damia had gotten her. A Reinhart after all. He still had to have his say.
“Neither is this. Seconda, drop Damia hard. You and Primera—break through that door.”
Liska swallowed. The two Golems advanced. Primera hit the space between the doorframe, and it sounded like a vast, hollowed gong. Liska staggered, wiped at her nose, and snorted out some more blood.
“Good. I was just warming up.”
Xitegen stormed away from the door as the real war began. He stood there, staring ahead, until Damia half got up.
“Don’t want her to see you smile?”
He peered down and put a foot on her back. Lord Xitegen spoke down to Damia.
“Tell me, Cousin. Why should I not hold this embarrassment to my authority against you? No…why rescue her? You have no business dealings with her, to my knowledge.”
He put more of his weight on her back, and she shouted. Then gasped.
“I just—felt like it! We shared a carriage ride! I don’t regret it! A Reinhart—a Reinhart’s loyal to their own!”
She shouted it at him, and he stopped pressing on her with aura and foot. Xitegen lifted his foot, and she rolled away. Binevy helped her mistress up, and Xitegen eyed her.
“A Face will cause death across the north. That is upon you, and I do not accept—”
