“Shut up, will you? I don’t mean it. Well, not really. I suppose that’s the point. Damn all of this, I’m not the consequences, I’m the conesquenced! I don’t have time to be bothered by half-witted, lowbrow idiots I have to do all the thinking for!”
Her words seemed to grow more and more pointed on her tongue until she spat the last remarks out, and what she was going for worked. She heard a faint tearing sound, and then—
The bag on her head developed a hole. A dim basement appeared as she jerked, and Binevy gasped.
“What was—?”
“[Sharp Remark].”
“Sharp…? You can use that to actually cut? I just thought you hurled it at someone you didn’t like!”
“Any Skill is broadly applicable if you’re intelligent. Keep up, idiot.”
After a few more tries, Damia figured out how to activate it with a cutting comment and raised her bound hands and legs. They hadn’t even bound them behind her, and while they were sturdy, a few remarks about her situation, her captors, and how she felt frayed them enough for Damia to rip her hands free of the rope and rip the bag off her head.
Good thing too; her hands were tingling horribly and swollen. She guessed that they’d tied her too tightly with the ropes.
Even if mother ransomed me right away, I might have lost digits. They hurt terribly, and she couldn’t even free Binevy, so she just used her Skill until the young woman freed herself.
“What now?”
“Now? Either we hide here and trick them into thinking we’ve left…or we run. We have to run at some point.”
Plus this basement was not exactly furnished with helpful little gaps two young women could squeeze into. It looked like a damn root cellar, and when they crept up the old stairs, they found the door wasn’t even locked!
“Idiots.”
Damia rolled her eyes as she pushed the trap door open. The noise intensified, and she motioned to Binevy.
“Quietly, we’ll get up, find a window, and bail out. We just have to scream for a Golem and we’ll be safe.”
They emerged into some kind of closet room in what sounded like an inn or other such building. Excellent. Damia went for the door, levered it open a bit, and realized a single flaw in her plan.
Escaping the basement and getting onto the streets worked—so long as the building you escaped into had a handy exit.
As opposed to, say, a room full of lowlifes. She froze the moment she saw the room full of carousing criminals.
Great. This is some kind of safehouse for gangs, and our captors probably rented the basement so they could begin ransoming us. She began to close the door, going back to Plan B, which was hide or throw her aura or—
The problem with a room full of lowlifes was that they might be scum, criminals, and whatever other ill-appellation you wanted to give them, but they were…good at that.
Some of the laughter and music playing—a very familiar guitar and Hobgoblin—died down suddenly, and there was a voice.
“Oi. Did anyone else just see the door to the cellar open?”
“Yep.”
“My [Criminal Instincts] went off too.”
“Right, right. Just checking if any of you were too stupid to notice. So d’you reckon it’s some brave [Rogue] or adventurer going in to rescue whomever’s down there, or them escaping? Knew we should have checked on those three idiots’ work.”
Damia squeezed her eyes shut. Then she threw the door open.
“Run, Binevy! Help! Lord Xiteg—”
They made it three steps before they were captured. Then the members of whatever gang this was had both young women trussed up again—expertly—and were laughing about it. One checked their bindings.
“Seems like someone knows a cutting Skill. Damn, you’re lucky you got to us, Miss Kidnappee. Look at that; they nearly lost their hands. Idiots tied ‘em too tight.”
“Amateur work. Should we charge the idiots three when they get back?”
They were caught. Damia groaned as the group went back to listening to the song-crystal of Numbtongue’s performance. She made one attempt as they began to shove her to the basement.
“I’m important enough to ransom. If I promised you gold, would you accept a better offer than whatever they’re paying?”
“From the Merchant’s Guild and from Lord Xitegen? No thanks, we like not having a Golem’s foot in our brains.”
The [Rogues] laughed. Damia groaned again, but at least they wouldn’t lose limbs because of blood loss. She stared around and heard that Hobgoblin’s voice.
“That song. How is it already on song crystal?”
It was so banal, but now she knew it was no less than Numbtongue, the [Bard] of The Wandering Inn, she was amazed—both by the content of the song and the coincidence. She’d been in the presence of a legend! The [Rogues] blinked.
“You know it? It does get around fast. We got put onto it, and it’s hell of good music.”
“You like music?”
“Who doesn’t? Mind your head, Miss Servant. It’s called ‘Woman of Nothing’. Reminds me of my last breakup. Alright, I can tell you’re being charming. In the basement you go.”
Damnit, they were so good! Damia groaned, and she muttered.
“Think, think…”
Her eyes snapped open. Song crystal? How could they know about it unless—she began struggling at the entrance to the basement.
“Hey. Hey! You—do you know a pair of [Gang Leaders] who just entered the city? Big names. Faces, I bet. One’s got a collapsible spear, the other’s got two daggers. They were riding the Unmarked Coach! Or—or the Sisters of Chell!”
The [Rogues] paused. One of them about to shove the wiggling Damia down the stairs frowned.
“How the hell d’you know the boss?”
“Your boss? I was sitting with him in the coach! We survived a half-Elf together! Tell them it’s me! The Djinni was kicking down trees when we left!”
The group hesitated. One of them let Damia swivel around, and she saw a [Rogue] with a scar down one milky eye glancing at the others.
“Sounds like a trick. She’s got a fancy mouth on her. If this is some [Bard] trick—”
“Just ask! How could I trick a high-level [Gang Boss]? I was on the Unmarked Coach! With the Sisters of Chell’s bean-flicker!”
One of the [Rogues] snorted.
“She even knows what they call ‘em. Damn…wouldn’t hurt to ask, right?”
They hesitated. Eventually, one put Damia downstairs, and she sat, heart pounding. It was only about twenty minutes before the door opened again, and someone went strolling downstairs.
“Well, well, well. Lady Damia Reinhart? I know we said no names, but I suppose you can’t blame me for hearing it from the three yokels who got you. Alright, let ‘em loose. I suppose friends from the Coach who escaped a crazy half-Elf deserve to give each other a turn.”
The spear-carrying male [Gang Boss] grinned at Damia, and she sagged in relief. Then spat.
“Who puts a kidnapper’s basement in an inn?”
“Someone who gets tired of them getting busted out.”
…You had to admit it was a smart idea.
 
——
 
It was a breach of the underworld etiquette, Damia using the [Gang Boss]’ name. But he didn’t give his to her, and as he acknowledged, they’d had an incident already.
He had her and Binevy sipping on drinks as he introduced her to his crew.
“I suppose it’s my fault you ended up in there. Those three were just local toughs. We’re offering clandestine entry into Celum, which was why they got in contact with us. We offer other services too; we were setting up the ransom. Did we even bother the Reinharts yet?”
He frowned, and one of the apologetic [Rogues] coughed.
“No, Boss. It was gonna go to you.”
“Good! Because I don’t fancy some [Assassin] coming down south to put a dagger up all our asses! Gah. Just as well. No hard feelings?”
He offered her a hand, and Damia took it, smiling.
“Not from me. But those three [Highway Robbers]…”
The man had scars on his wrists and hands—though he wore a cat burglar’s gloves. She realized his gang was actually more of the [Rogue] type. Kidnapping, burglary, but not as much thugging.
“Oh, they’re all dead. Unless you’d like to see it done? I’m not keeping them around after this hassle.”
Binevy swallowed at the cheerful, careless way he said that, and the man eyed Damia, but she didn’t even blink. That was also a Reinhart for you.
“I’m just curious how you’ll do it. I don’t feel the need to be vindictive.”
“Very reasonable. I think we’ll just put them in hoods, walk ‘em out into a field, and put a crossbow bolt between their eyes…is what I’d say if I knew they were getting killed. Or giving orders. Y’know, now that I think about it, I don’t think I’ll say anything about them. They might just vanish. Who knows what happened to them? Not me. Not you.”
So that’s how you passed a truth stone. Damia nodded and sighed.
“What a day. And here I was worrying about finding work.”
“Hah! If a noblewoman can’t find work, what’s the world coming to? It’s hard in Celum too—damn Golem Lord is fast. He busted into a safe-room himself the other day. Well…we’ll see. Let me get someone to walk you to a safe street, and again, I hope we’re all very square. No Golems, no problems.”
The warning was that if she called Xitegen down, she’d regret it, but Damia just shook her head.
“I prefer someone who at least seems to like me than an elusive [Gang Boss] with a grudge. I doubt Xitegen could catch you even if he brought every Golem he’s got.”
He relaxed a bit.
“Smart lady. Now, if you want my advice, there’s just no profit these days in the actual action. You knock down a Jeweler’s Guild and the Watch is on your ass like the Brothers. The real money’s in having the entrance to Celum that the Watch don’t know about. The intermediary’s money. Our friend, the female [Shank Boss]? She’s old school.”
Damia appreciated that. She grinned at the man.
“It’s [Sharp Dame], not lady, actually. I like old school, though. I like Liscor. It’s got that ‘old school’. Do you know about the [Innkeeper]?”
He sat there, and his wide smile thinned a bit. The man took a drink.
“The innkeeper? I know a bit. Wanted to visit but—well…not my turf. As for bein’ old school, just remember it’s all glory and guts until it runs out. Turns out we shoulda split at Invrisil. Not your fault, or even the Coach’s; we just didn’t know the score. That safehouse that got busted into? Her gang got nabbed by the Lord of Thighs himself. She’s hanging tomorrow, noon. If you want to see her off, I’ll buy drinks.”
Damia’s smile vanished. The [Gang Boss] lifted a mug as the rest of his gang did too.
“Knew her sixteen years. That’s a real Lord of House Terland for you. You grow up into a fellow half as scary as him, I reckon you’ll do just fine, Lady Damia.”
 
——
 
For some reason, that made Damia feel bad. She didn’t even know the female [Gang Leader]’s n—
“Varnie. The Sorcerer’s Knives gang. Well, what’s left of ‘em is going up. They fought hard, but you don’t fight a Golem with knives.”
…The other [Gang Boss] told her that since that was that. She almost asked if he wouldn’t break out a fellow friend or acquaintance like that, but then she reconsidered.
No matter how good a [Rogue] was, Lord Xitegen probably had some of the finest Golems on the prison. The odds of evading Golem eyes in a limited space…no.
She sat in Liscor after her kidnapping, a bit melancholy. Her servants were arriving; the first had already presented themselves for her security.
“Lady Reinhart, I’m your [Bodyguard]. Don’t know the job that well, but I had teachin’ from Lady Cosoi’s staff, and I’ll do my best.”
…A literal farmboy stood to attention. His name was Sule, and he looked like had been born with hay in his hair. His accent and innocent demeanor as he stood straight, forgetting to check for any kind of danger around Damia, had her smile then instantly turn to Binevy.
“Tell me this is a joke.”
“He’s…trustworthy, Lady Damia. He comes from House Reinhart lands, where your family is, um, actually respected. Lady Cosoi draws new servants from there.”
Damia almost told the boy to get lost, but she felt like it’d be like kicking a puppy. Not something you did, especially because Binevy smiled worriedly at Sule.
[Servants] liked other [Servants]. Damia still frowned.
“My aunt’s no fool. Why’d she hire him? No offense, Sule, but you are not [Bodyguard] material.”
He only appeared vaguely hurt by that and saluted her.
“No, Lady Damia! I’m not! But I can hit any fellow who’s trying to kidnap you! I have practice with a club and everything!”
…Was this so she had someone vaguely appealing to sleep with? That was Damia’s first thought; he was well-built. Country strong or whatever the saying was. Then she thought about it harder.
“Think, think—”
She prodded the side of her head. Binevy told the open-mouthed Sule to stop staring—this was his new [Lady], and he’d better get used to her, uh, eccentricities. Damia, though, had a thought.
Aunt Cosoi might do it for fun, but I doubt she actually cares about me that much. Or she’d send some note or something. 
“Binevy, was Sule on the employee list before I came to Cosoi?”
“Well before, Damia. I mean, Lady—”
“That’s fine.”
So, he was chosen for a reason. Loyalty, most likely. Aunt Cosoi probably doesn’t like opportunists like the family. But why him? She eyed Sule, then spoke.
“Do you have [Lesser Strength], Sule?”
He blinked at her.
“No, Lady Damia.”
“Ah, then—”
“I got [Enhanced Strength]. And [Lesser Toughness]. It was exactly what Lady Cosoi asked about.”
Ah. Damia’s brows cleared instantly, and she smiled. Binevy did a double-take and checked her notes.
“Country strength indeed. And potential. You’ll need more training, Sule. But rest assured, I intend to treat my loyal servants quite well.”
He beamed.
“I reckon that’s good, Lady Damia. I was worried you were like, uh, the rest of your—”
Binevy stomped on his foot, but Damia waved a hand.
“No, no. I understand. Binevy, manage the staff. Now…”
…What did she do? Well, she had to ask Timbor if he had another room for her staff, and he warned her he might run out. So they needed that housing, which cost money, and Damia had no idea what was going on.
Gloomily, she sat down. There had to be something! She felt like she had a bunch of nothing. And who should come by in her moment of weakness other than—
“Hello, Miss. Still down on your luck?”
“Hey, Catsel. Still recruiting for the stupid dig site?”
The [Recruiter] flashed her a grin. He was Salazsarian, apparently, and Sule eyed him like a threat, but the Drake just flashed his card.
“Plenty of work if you’re stuck in a rut.”
“I’m a [Lady], Catsel.”
He blinked at her. Then he actually grew more interested.
