All of these options gave me hope. Even if I wasn't ready for Lehesion just yet, it might not take as long as I imagined it would. Getting a class was also something on the horizon, but I didn't even know where to start with that.

With all that in mind, I prepared to leave. As I did, a dull ringing formed in my ear. A howling came up, louder than a bottle of thunder smashing over my head. A sense of impending doom seized my chest as if I locked eyes with a predator. Frozen in place, I waited. Cold sweat poured down my head, and I suppressed a shiver. What I did to the insects around me, a presence was doing the same to me.

I blinked, and the world shifted around me. I glanced around, finding nothing but a never-ending void. I stared down and found nothing under my feet, so I stood on an invisible force. Underneath that null space, I found the dead spots of a dying sun beneath me. The light off the star was muted so I wasn't blinded.

I remembered this place. It was a personal dimension for an Old One I faced earlier on my time here on Giess. Without waiting, I shouted out,

"Why am I here, Eonoth?"

My voice rang through this new space, trembling in the distance. This space acted as an echo chamber, the sound resounding in my ears until it was as crippling as a mother's death. It shattered my calm, sweat pouring down my forehead. As I steadied my breathing, a familiar and haunting voice answered,

"You know where you are, one with many names. Gray Giant. Dark One. Immortal. The Multiverse. You are many and one. You are only a moment, yet always. I indulge in your presence. You are what I aspire to create."

His voice resounded until it threatened to grind my body to a pulp. Somehow, I withstood the vibration. In fact, I held up better then I expected. Last time I was melting at this point already. Now I was just uneasy. This let me think about what he was saying. Unfortunately, it was still more riddle nonsense from this guy. I clasped my hands into fists,

"You, I remember you mentioned you wanted to discover living metal."

Eonoth spoke, his voice coming from every space around me,

"Yes. Firmness. Absolute. Cold. You are those and more. It is glory to meet you in your final form. You've achieved what I wished for, yet you did not understand it to begin with."

A formless blip appeared in my vision. It was an ever-changing, flickering abomination. In one moment, it was entrails, a riverbed, and a firework all at once. It was also none of those things. In the end, it was like a person pretending to be a 2-dimensional cartoon. It was impossible. All it ended up accomplishing was a hollow masquerade of mortality.

I frowned, "You don't have to give me something to look at. I know you aren't like me, and I'm ok with that."

The voice radiated from all directions,

"It is strange how time travels in circles. I created one event, uncovering the lost failures of a proud son. He wrought havoc on an untested world. Now you come to cleanse that which acts as the cleanser. Ironic. Satisfying.

Eonoth spoke his last word with a hollow ring to them.

"Humbling."

I grimaced, "You sound like you know what I've been doing."

It shivered without recourse, "You think of me as a riddler speaker. You speak riddles to me. Yes. I am the cause of your challenge. I am the bringer of your burdens and the killer of your children. The proud son is unleashed."

I crossed my arms, "Is the proud son supposed to be Lehesion?"

"Is that how you understand him? Curious. I created him with gifts beyond reckoning, yet he accomplished nothing but his corruption. Disappointment. You were born with nothing, yet you bring what I seek."

The shifting object shifted towards me, jerking with rapid, twitching motions. I remembered being paralyzed by a deep, primordial fear when I met Eonoth before. It was there, but it wasn't overwhelming anymore. I didn't feel as lesser to him anymore.

Eonoth boomed,

"I feel no fear. You've changed. You are no longer mortal. You are more."

I swung my hand out and gnarled out,

"Yeah, but I couldn't give two fucks about that. From what you've said, you created Lehesion. From what I know about the guy, you kept him alive in our last fight. Why in the hell would you do that?"

Eonoth backed up from me, "There are gifts that cannot be taken away. They are permeated. Infused. A part of. That is the proud son. He no longer can be killed."

I pointed at my chest, "How the fuck am I supposed to kill the guy then?"

Eonoth tilted the rough approximation of a head, "You cannot. Do not kill the unkillable. It is the body of a greater beast. Lop the head from the body, and it will no longer have teeth to gnash. Tear. Crush."

I blinked, thinking about what he said. He was right. Fighting Lehesion head-on was a fool's errand. It might be far easier to take down Tohtella and her shadow group. Once they were gone, we could control Lehesion or at least stop his madness.

Eonoth reached out to me, "You accomplished what I could not. I will reward you. Take as you wish."

I frowned, "Eh, I'd rather not get anything if I'm honest."

Eonoth grumbled, "You will take as I give."

It jerked towards me, touching my head. Its consciousness expanded over mine, a cosmic entity in its entirety. Its mind was all consuming like a plague of locust. Despite the deluge of thoughts, I held together. My sense of self was constant. I wasn't washed away by its enormous mind, and I did it by keeping my thoughts as condensed as possible. My mind was like an iceberg floating on top of an ocean.

Minutes passed as Eonoth struggled to implant some kind of information in my head. I held steady, stopping this thing from tampering with my mind. After minutes of its probing, I grew frustrated with this damn thing toying with me. I lashed out against it, searching through its own thoughts.

With a violent snap, Eonoth left my presence. As it did, I crossed my arms,

"Yeah, its not very comfortable, is it?"

A deep silence returned my answer. Years may have passed or seconds. I couldn't tell while here. My sense of time was too warped. After waiting for a reasonable length of time, I shouted,

"Are you finished then? If this is all you come to say, then I'm leaving."

Eonoth reverberated out, "You may not. Invasion. Anger. Wrath. To test my mind...you will never leave here. My domain, absolute."

A deep sense of dread rose up my chest as he finished his words. I quivered for a moment, losing my composure. Minutes passed before my eyes widened. I remembered who I was and what I could do. I wasn't some scared, little boy anymore.

I raised a hand, standing tall. I reached out with Event Horizon. The aura didn't mold with ease. It struggled out as if moving through solid concrete. I pushed through the resistance, creating a sphere of control within Eonoth's dimension. I clasped my hand into a fist, saturating it with my aura. I spoke up,

"Yenno, I have a damn good reason for stopping you from tampering with my mind. You see, I've seen what you and other Old Ones do to people. Yawm was turned from warrior king of a race to an insane, genocidal maniac. Lehesion was turned from some sort of Messiah to the puppet for some shadow organization. Now you want to have your way with me."

Eonoth grumbled, "I aim not to harm you. I am different."

I shook my head, "I don't think you know what harm really is. You are entropy incarnate, and fortunately for me, I don't have to rely on you right now. I have ways of accomplishing my goals with my own two hands. Try not to take it personally."

Eonoth droned, "I attempt diplomacy. You tamper with me and my mind, a lesser being. An ant. A void."

I raised a hand and grabbed my wrist. I clasped a hand, "Yeah, maybe I am an ant. So was Yawm, and I remember you mentioning that Etorhma was given fear by him."

The dimension around me shifted, becoming unstable.

"Maybe I'll be the one to give fear to you."

Eonoth's voice thundered in my ears, louder than a supernova,

"This is mine. It cannot be taken."

I shook my head, "Not anymore. I'm no longer at your mercy."

Cracks appeared in the distance. Event Horizon stretched outwards as my infinite mana soaked my surroundings. A tint of red expanded outwards further destabilizing my surroundings. As the star beneath me turned red, Eonoth roared,

"Defiance. You will be crushed. Maimed. Murdered."

I frowned, "We'll see."

Something seized in my chest, and my eyes watered. As I blinked, my scenery shifted back to the forest. I took a sigh of relief out of habit before looking around me. I was surrounded by a circular ring of dirt with trees just outside the range of Event Horizon. The sunset over the skyline cast everything in an orange hue. Not a second had passed in realtime. Leave it to Old Ones to defy the laws of physics.

I shook off a few jitters, the meeting unsettling me. It wasn't as if I could actually overtake Eonoth's mind or anything even vaguely like that. All I could hope to accomplish was a meager kind of retaliation at best. I was pretty sure that Eonoth was more offended and outraged than actually harmed.

Still, I didn't have time to think about this yet. Ready to go, I floated back towards our campsite. I needed to meet up with the others and form a plan of action. As I arrived, I found nothing remaining except a few marks in the grass and the Sentinel who survived. His arms were covered in scars from the conflict, the armor over them shattered. He owned quite a bit of muscle as an ionic mist of some sort ebbed out of the cracks in his armor. This lit the air with electricity.

As I approached, he pushed himself up using two Sentinel spears. One was his, and the other belonged to his fallen brother. He left them embedded in the ground while looking me up and down,

"You've shrunk. I thought you said you'd evolve, not turn smaller."

I raised an eyebrow, "I did, though you probably can't tell because of your perception. Where did everyone else go?"

The Sentinel stared at me, "You do have a different presence...Cleaner, maybe? As for the others, the Novas sent them to a medical facility after you left. That was three days ago."

My eyes widened, "Wait...three days ago? What?"

The Sentinel nodded, "Yes. I've waited for the Overseer to return and put me into another position. Perhaps he is taking so long to give me time to rest and reflect." The Sentinel glared down,

"His kindness is noted, but it simply gives me more time to think. That is the last thing I need right now."

I frowned, "You can follow me for now if you'd like. I can give you something to do."

The Sentinel rolled his eyes, "Why would I follow someone like you?"

That annoyed me, so I put a hand on his shoulder. At the same time, I tested out the new function for Event Horizon. I shifted the oppressive aspects of the aura over him, pulling back the actual damage dealing effects. It worked without a hitch, the red tint growing in the air.

As it landed over the Sentinel, he froze in place. He whispered, "Who is putting out that pressure?"

I grinned, "I am. Now you can choose to lay on this hill until the Overseer returns. Perhaps that could take years or minutes. We can't know. You can also choose to follow me, and I guarantee I'll give you a purpose."

I pulled back the aura and my hand, "It's up to you."

A few droplets of sweat poured down the Sentinel's arms, his breathing ragged. He stared at his hands, his fingers shaking,

"You...you're more than I imagined." He clenched his hands into fists," Perhaps I am as well." He stood up and faced me, "I shall leave with you until I am called to duty once more."

"Good," I said while disguising some surprise. I didn't expect that to work as well as it did. The new control aspects of Event Horizon were powerful, scarily so. I would have to monitor my usage of it. Otherwise, I might become another Yawm.

In this case, it was far better than the Sentinel sitting here and moping around. With that in mind, I opened my status and sent a message to Helios. I asked him where he was and that I was with the Sentinel at the hill. About three minutes later, a portal generated out of nothing.

Helios walked out with his arm in some sort of cast. Despite his injuries, he still wore his cape and kept his dignified manner of being. His mask was fixed as well, the blackened polymers mirroring an aged wood to perfection. He stared down at me,

"And so the immortal returns. You seem different. More pure, and...shorter maybe? Odd. I-"

I rolled my hand, "Expected you to get taller. Yeah, so did I. Where are the others?"

Helios pointed back at his portal, "They are resting within the empire's medical facilities. You've no problem with paying for that service, I assume?"

"As long as it's reasonably priced. Otherwise, fuck that."

Helios tapped his claws against his side, pausing for a moment,

"That was a joke."

I spread out my arms in mock disbelief, "Wait a second...you have a sense of humor?"

Helios deadpanned, "Not anymore." He waved a hand, "Enough chatter. Come."

He stepped halfway into his portal,

"The Empire welcomes you, Harbinger."
