And as it was the late afternoon, the skyline of New York was awash with the colours of a sunburnt summer, transitioning from burnished gold, aluminium-brushed amber to cool hues of marine and mauve where the shadows fell.

And the size. The sheer, unapologetic size of it. The Twin Towers were an icon. They were the sacred beasts guarding the mythoi that greed was good. Unlike the latter 432 Park Ave, the Towers loomed and yet inspired. For an old soul like herself, they awoke something akin to patriotism in her gut, a heat that travelled up her spine and triggered the pleasure chemicals in her brain until they purred.

To think the Towers were still here. She felt numb from relief. O Brave New World.

The vision of the Twin Towers lingered so prominently in Eppie’s mind that she had fallen into a [Sublime] trance, appreciating its every detail so vividly that she didn’t notice the Hudson, the approach into Bowry Bay, or the rough landing. She didn’t think at all of the outdated, dreary ceilings of LaGuardia, the flickering 70s ceiling lights, the cramped passages and the outrage at the baggage claim by impatient travellers.

It was only when they were out and about and in the back of a cigarette-scented yellow cab that she snapped out of the reality of what she had seen.

“Er… Eric?”

“Yes, Eppie?”

“Did er… did anything happen to the Towers back in the er… early 2000s?”

“Oh yeah,” Eric made a face. “Close call.”

“Could you be any less Newfoundlandian?”

Eric obliged. “So er… President Gore’s CIA intercepted the Wahhabi Extremists. All but one of them were charged and jailed. Massive diplomatic fallout throughout the Middle East, though. The oil business, you remember we talked about the Petrodollar? That almost got overturned when they found out the organiser was a prominent Saudi with close ties to the House of Saud. Bad business all around. We were THIS close to Desert Storm II.”

“Inshallah, let that time be behind us,” their cab driver joined in the conversation as naturally as a serving of apple shisha at a Lebanese diner. “Everywhere I drove, people looked at me like I was going to ram them into Tiffany’s on Fifth Avenue—HEY, GET THE FUCK OUT OF THE ROAD—”

Their driver crushed the brakes. Then, before Eppie could react, he slammed the accelerator, almost slapping Eppie’s face into the faded photo of Akhmed’s family on the bulletproof partition.

“Where was I?” the driver continued in his thickly accented English. “Oh yeah, dark times. Very unpleasant. You know, I didn’t fly for four years. I didn’t know what to do with myself at the airport with everyone staring. What if they take me into one of those little dark rooms? I hear they stick a hand up your ass, no gloves. Just right there, then they say, ‘Yalla, how many fingers am I holding up?’ hahaha…”

The pair endured the unsolicited advice of their cabbie, ranging from anal probes to Gore not doing enough for the economy, to the dangers of China as a rival power, to his favourite Chinese Halal noodles. When they finally stopped at Sony Square, he turned around and finally addressed her occupation.

“Good luck in there, Ya Amoura,” he winked at her, then gave a nod to Eric, as if to approve of his guardianship. “Habibti, take care of her, alright? No funny business. God is watching, fahem?”

Eric said he would, and their satisfied driver performed the rare and exquisite act of helping him with his one suitcase and her small bugout bag.

They watched the cab drive away.

“Always a pleasure,” Eric remarked. “You know, my hometown isn’t like this.”

“Yeah, but you don’t have that in Canada, do you?” she pointed a thumb at the gargantuan granite giant in the same hue of pink as her hoodie. More than a corporate building, Sony Tower’s recessed architecture gave off the air of a WWII air shelter. Even in this world, its scooped pediment was the ugliest thing on the NY skyline.

“Yeah-yeah, Yalla, ya Amoura—” Walking away, her Newfoundland called for his little one. “Come. We’ll grab dinner later, then we’ll have you registered at Warwick. But first, we’re off to report to the Director. ”

We’re off to see the Director! Eppie’s head hummed in reply. The wonderful Director of Sony.
