It wasn’t great.

They were far down river from the source, and the river was teeming with life, which had to defecate and decompose somewhere.

Still, he had drank worse and didn’t let that distract him.

Instead, he concentrated on the fire mana infused into the water. It gave the water a unique flavor he typically only associated with high-Tier fine dining, as to make such infused items oneself was an annoyingly long and mana draining process. Not that he minded the mana costs, but he rarely had the time to do so; it was just the typical water on their new home.

Liz hopped off his shoulder and dove into the water, hardly making a splash. She returned a moment later with a fish wriggling in her beak, its suffering ended a moment later with a snap.

As she had her snack, Matt [Portal]ed them north to check out the pole.

As he’d spotted from space, there was actually ice present, the entire area rife with thermal mana. Pockets of hot and cold littered the area, extreme enough that Matt needed to use [Cracked Phantom Armor] just to avoid being harmed.

Geysers of boiling water erupted from the ground around him, only to freeze in midair, coming down as massive clouds of snow. Rivers of boiling water snaked through deep blue glaciers, and a light dusting of snow suddenly sublimated into a cloud of steam, which in turn hardened to form a layer of ice around Matt, albeit one he trivially broke through.

Matt scooped up a snowball and tossed it directly at human Liz’s face. The phoenix body on her shoulder swooped off, caught it in her talons, and tossed it back at him, but it melted before it hit him, and hot water just splashed off his armor.

“Do you think Aster will love or hate this?”

“Oh, definitely hate it. I see there’s a few areas that are more consistently cool, and she might like those, but the thought that her precious ice might suddenly become boiling water at any time…?”

Matt chuckled at the image, then [Portal]ed them south again to check out a few other points of interest, while still avoiding any of the actual settlements away from the more civilized areas of the planet. They were more like outposts than true settlements, as low Tiers didn’t live there and their only purposes seemed to be to house delvers or explorers who were roaming the planet and its hazard zones.

Of which there were many.

A full sixty percent of the planet would be whole uninhabitable to anyone under Tier 15. The fire mana and essence caused too much disturbance that even short-term exposure would cause serious health issues. Even those in the Tier 15 to 20 range would need to take precautions to ensure they didn’t fall afoul of any of the purely environmental hazards, not to mention any monsters.

Thirty percent or so was safe and was where they had just been exploring. They were safe for mortals with minimal continuous interference beyond ensuring any of the Tiered wildlife didn’t eat them, and a super volcanic eruption didn’t wipe them all out.

The final ten percent was incredibly hostile, to the point that Matt and Liz would need to activate some of their defensive abilities.

One notable hazard was a newly forming super volcano that pumped massive quantities of fire essence and mana out from the planet's core into the air, which turned everything… toxic.

The air itself burned with enough power strong enough that without a specifically anti-fire armor spell even the typical Tier 29 would be forced to flee before their bodies were burnt to a crisp.

Liz just absorbed the fire into herself, converting it into ichor, while Matt just kept all of that at bay with [Cracked Phantom Armor].

They found, and noted, but eventually left alone, a few more common Natural Treasures that had grown in the region, and talked about how they really should come back and see what type of rifts had formed in such an area. Maybe get Aster, Allie, Zack, and Susanne in on it for some good old fashion delving.

From there, they teleported to a second, not-quite-hazardous region. It was still a dangerous zone but it was either in the early stages of becoming a hazardous region, or was starting to be naturally pacified and losing its ferocity which made it not that bad in relation to the last area.

A series of small mountains formed mainly of iron had caused near constant lightning clouds to form, which turned the land into a static electric nightmare. A typical Tier 27 would probably be fine if they didn’t linger too long without the appropriate defensive measures, but anyone under Tier 25 wouldn’t be able to survive.

Amusingly enough, right next to that region was a more habitable zone where most Tier 15s could live without serious issues or extra assistance.

Which was far more indicative of the majority of the planet.

Dangerous, but not unduly so.

Still not acceptable for mortals, which was something Matt and Liz would need to figure out.

To prevent the planet from de-aspecting, they wouldn't be able to terraform on a wide scale, but they would need to do something to allow mortals to live on their duchy capital.

Matt had originally been thinking underwater cities in domes or similar on coastlines, but seeing the planet in person and how the seabed was hardly any better than dry land, he believed that they would probably end up buying at least a few habitable moons to give mortals somewhere safe to live, while also having access to the world and its resources.

That would mean a need for cheap shuttle service or some other way to prevent a strata effect from taking hold. Another logistical headache.

It might make for a good use of travel mana if they… Matt stopped himself from getting too distracted as he got lightly pecked on the ear for ignoring Liz pointing out a flock of birds flying overhead.

Together, they visited a few more more-perilous regions: a rain forest that had flaming droplets of fire falling off the trees leaves that caused numerous but short-lived fires. A whirlpool that stopped and started every time the tide changed and was strong enough to create storm mana when it was active, thanks to it pulling lightning from the sky to mix with the water and air mana. A field of seemingly innocent flowers, until a pack of rat-like animals stumbled in and the plant released spores that somehow burned even the fire-based animals.

The desire to explore was redirected when, while visiting one of the habitable regions near the south pole, they found an inland sea rife with archipelagos locked in an eternal summer, the results of three continental plates pressing together.

It wasn’t the most populous region of the world, but it was close thanks to the many islands making it so rifts couldn’t form anywhere nearby. That led to a substantial mortal population who traveled between islands.

Archipelagos were something of an amazing phenomenon and were typically places of safety, which was why so many people were drawn to them, but on Palustris, Matt could see this region needed special control to protect its natural beauty. Thankfully, the local regional power, a sort of subservient sect to one of the local planet powers, the Rage Held Between Heaven and Earth Through My Will sect, kept the mortal population safe from what few higher-Tiered monsters came into the archipelagos.

The rich fire mana and essence caused the entire region to teem with life, while also making each creature a spectacle, a feast for the eyes.

And a feast for the belly, if Phoenix Liz’s attention on a ten-foot-long fish swimming deep in the sea was any indication.

As if the beauty couldn't get any more exaggerated, one of the peninsulas that stretched into the sea from the mainland was a sheer cliff of black marble flecked with silver that stood hundreds of feet in the air, overlooking the islands below.

Simply put, it was stunning.

Liz tugged him along to the top of the cliff. “We are so definitely anchoring our flying island here.”

Matt scoffed. “Of course we are. It's stunning. Look at this view. You can see for miles. Can you imagine the sunset from here?”

“A nice bottle of wine, a good meal, some simple conversation. I can see it now.”

Matt twirled Liz before they sat with their feet dangling over the edge and just took in the view.

Not just of the sight below them, but the world itself.

Matt used his Tier advantage to scan through the populations present.

Seven million was nothing, below typical of low-Tier worlds, but Palustris was a fairly recently settled world. Then again, the Sects weren’t like the Empire, who prioritized getting a self-sustaining mortal population going on any planet. Most of the mortals on this planet were the descendants of the sects who had roots on this planet, the ill-favored and illegitimate children of their disciples, cast off and mostly living in societies at the outskirts of Sect territory, where the rifts were delved and the monsters all killed. The rest were the favored mortal descendants of the sects, and they were primarily concentrated into two massive cities that the planet’s primary sects had built around and under their main compounds.

Despite their relatively sparse populations, the cities were built for future growth, with mortals having the option to have entire estates to themselves. Most still chose to live near the areas where cultivators gathered, meaning there were areas where people crowded together right next to miles of empty buildings.

That would quickly change, Matt was sure.

While they intended to keep billions from flooding in, he and Liz were going to open the world up allowing anyone with the means, motive, and opportunity to move to Palustris. Even ignoring their popularity as Ascenders and Palustris’ unique status as a fire-aspected world, in general, they would expect a Tier 27 ducal capital to have at least fifty billion residents within the next century.

The planet just couldn’t support it.

Matt had read many, many papers on the subject in preparation for this planet’s arrival, and while they could stretch the thirtyish percent of readily-habitable environment to forty, or even possibly even forty five percent, that would require fairly extensive infrastructure to make it anything more than minor outposts. Though, that would risk disrupting the unique balance that made the planet fire-aspected, as well as spoiling much of its natural beauty.

They wouldn’t allow that, but it would mean careful control over the long-term residents as well as ensuring that fire mages who wanted to come and bask in the fire mana or cultivate the fire essence, didn’t do so recklessly.

Even with those restrictions, Palustris was a gem just waiting to be polished and they were aiming for a stable population of ten billion in system, even if not on-planet, within the next century. And they would carefully limit further growth.

After seeing one in person, Matt was extra-hopeful he could persuade Liz that an orbital ring was the best way to expand their habitable area, rather than just bringing in new planetary bodies to the system.

He didn’t really have any good arguments, as moons were far simpler and had, among countless other reasons, the advantage of Tiering up. But the orbital ring had been awesome. He made a note to have Countess Walsh keep him in the loop about how her orbital ring fared in the coming decades.

The orbital ring idea was even more exciting the more he thought about it, but that would be centuries out, while a moon could be ordered in a short few decades so long as they didn’t care about any customization beyond habitable. Would a moon change the local tidal stresses too much and threaten to de-aspect the world? Probably not, but it could be a reason to go with the orbital ring.

Really, after seeing the state of the world, it might be better to skip that and just order a sister world for the system. Even a Tier 1 world would ensure that any mortal who wanted to be in their capital system would have a safe place to put down roots.

The issue with that idea was that people came to live in high-Tier systems because they were higher Tier, and therefore it was easier to Tier up with ambient mana. A Tier 1 world, even one in a Tier 27 system, wouldn’t be nearly as prime a choice as the Tier 27 world itself, and historically most people would prefer to live on a nearby moon rather than a same-system planet.

Though, having more planets in the system had its own advantage.

If they played their cards correctly— if Matt threw a ton of time, mana, and essence at the problem— they could probably have a few other aspected worlds in the system.

Conventional logic said it was nearly impossible to manage, the lower-Tier aspected worlds were incredibly fragile and prone to either elemental apocalypses or de-aspecting entirely. Moons like the nature-aspected moon he had been to with Amelia Galley would be correspondingly easier to make, which might make the idea more feasible.

Matt liked the idea of a lightning moon and a blood moon orbiting Palustris, completing the trilogy of Liz’s ichor mana.

He could picture Liz’s expression if he presented her with two aspected moons for a birthday or anniversary. They would also look stunning in the Palustris night sky, of that he was sure.

Though he might want to complete the trilogy and give her an ichor moon as well.

But that felt wrong.

Ichor should be the main focus.

An ichor planet orbited by fire, lightning, and blood moons sounded far better as a way to represent his wife, and it was flatly impossible to change the aspect of a planet once it was formed and higher than Tier 2 or 3.

That circled right back to the problem of creating an aspected world, and how impossible that was. Worse, even a slight failure stood a major risk of de-aspecting the planet altogether.

