Tossing the idea to the back of his mind where he could let it simmer, Matt turned his attention back to Palustris and the last thing they’d need to do before properly setting up their capital.

The two local sects, the Rage Within and the Dancing Flames sects, had both opted to stay, which was perfectly inline with Sect methodology. Retreating would be seen as cowardice.

The Empire didn’t mind and even had official policy in place to encourage the more useful parts of Sect culture to linger, while stripping away the problematic elements.

But practically speaking, if whoever was directly in charge of the world wasn’t strong enough to physically keep the local sect leadership in line, everything became a thousand times harder. Most sects respected strength above all else, and if Matt and Liz could prove that they were strong enough to beat them, the sects were all but certain to fall in with the new regime, giving them ready access to all their administrators, bureaucrats, and public service systems. If they weren’t, they’d be harried constantly, and while outright open rebellion was very rare, subtle ‘rebellions’ were common.

But even that didn’t last indefinitely, because the Empire would never allow a proper sect to remain in power.

While they weren't immediately disbanded, they were encouraged to transition into a guild with a unique structure reflecting their origin. The restrictions would remove most of their power, but it wouldn't destroy their legacy which, when compared to how disbandment would remove both their power and their legacy, proved a sufficient incentive. There were, in fact, dozens of prestigious and upstanding guilds in the Empire that could trace their origins to captured Sect planets.

The Rage Within sect was a melee-oriented sect that had its main headquarters in an active volcano range, while the Dancing Flames sect was a hybrid fighting style sect that focused on elegant, flowing moves to channel and harness fire for brutal mid-range effect.

The sects were, as all conflicting sects were, hostile to each other, with their main desire to drive the other off their world to gain a period of supremacy where they could grow to take on a new opponent on a higher-Tier world, thus repeating the cycle.

Without the planet being transferred to the Empire, they would have continued to fight. But currently, the two sects seemed to have an uneasy alliance to try and wrestle as much power as they could from Matt and Liz.

The sect leaders were Tier 29 and well-known fighters, but they weren't pinnacle or even peak elites. When they were active in the wars, they were at best mid-level elites who were average amongst their peers.

It wouldn't be easy, but if he and Liz could defeat the two sect leaders in fair combat with no restrictions, they could not only subdue the sects, but gain two capable and reasonably loyal followers.

At least in theory.

It all came down to the upcoming fight. Ideally, they’d want a fight that unilaterally demonstrated their superiority, rather than a win based on a technicality or through cheap tricks. In other words, they’d need to make it look effortless.

Popping to his feet mid-air, Matt helped Liz up and they stood right next to the cliff they had been sitting on.

Liz rippled as her armor took shape, and Matt pulled his armor out of his spatial ring and onto his body.

With a [Portal], they appeared in the canyon that had been prepared for their arrival.

Ignoring the sect leaders, Matt let his eyes scan the sects.

On each side of the valley, the disciples, elders, and staff of the sects were perched on the sharp cliff faces.

Their uniforms were immaculate, perfectly cleaned and pressed into shape, while their appearance was similarly crisp. The men and women of the Rage Within sect showed off their muscular bodies with minimal upper body clothing that wasn’t armor. The sect also seemed to have a tradition of tattooing various mystic beasts onto their bodies; tigers, lions, dragons, phoenixes, bears, leviathans, anything with tremendous strength was represented by at least one disciple or elder. The degree of how complete the tattoos were didn’t exactly seem to indicate rank or seniority, but they did seem to follow that trend in general.

Matt sent a question to Cato, who provided him with the answer: the tattoos were indicative of how proficient the sect member in question was with the sect’s core skills. Hearing that, Matt had Cato stop. He didn’t want anything spoiled before the inevitable fight.

On the other side of the valley, the Dancing Flame sect’s clothes were notable by their long sleeves that nearly reached the ground and merged with their long and flowing skirts. Men and women alike had long flowing hair that was held in place by enchanted needles that would make fantastic throwing weapons. Their other unique feature was the grafted-on animal part from something with a fire bloodline, and if he wasn’t wrong, they were all from the local planet.

Eyes were replaced with eyes that trapped fire. Fingernails were ablaze with inner fire. In one case, a woman had a third arm made entirely out of ethereal flames, while the man next to her had a tail of flames hidden under his skirt.

That was a trend rarely seen any more.

The Federation had been the last one to dabble, but even they didn’t find the old methods more useful than modern ways to gain additional power. Even the Glorious Everlasting Kingdom of Prosperity had considered it an antiquated method, but the Dancing Flames sect, being Tier 29, seemed to have found some success with the method.

Interesting.

“How do you want to do this?” Liz asked in perfect Sect common for all to hear.

Matt smiled at Liz’s question and met the eyes of the two sect leaders eager to get started.
