They all ended up watching, even Lexi, who claimed he needed to study his own efforts far more than Alden’s.


It was always strange to view the gym footage. The first time Alden had seen his body in high definition from every angle, wearing the unitard and doing the kinds of things they did in MPE, he hadn’t recognized himself. In ways both good and bad.


His reaction had included important concerns like: Is my accent slightly different than it used to be? Is my hair funny? My face gets so red when I’m working out, and it makes so many expressions. I bet everyone thinks I’m a creepy tomato head.


And there were some more positive observations. Watching himself do magic was incredible. He looked so much more like a superhuman when he used his skill than he’d realized. Alden from a year ago would have thought the guy on the video had cool powers. On top of that, he looked athletic, which was gratifying. He was aware that he was in great shape; he could feel it. But seeing himself move in ways he couldn’t have before was still exciting.


And as for moving in ways he couldn’t or, rather, shouldn’t…


As they hit the fifteen-minute mark of the recording, Alden watched through his interface as two projectiles came toward him in rapid succession. He paused it.


[Lexi: Double miss.] He was typing in their roommate chat so that they wouldn’t bother the man and woman who’d come to relax on the benches across from them.


[Haoyu: Single miss.]


[Lute: You’re going to get hit in the shoulder and the knee.]


Every now and then they were playing this guessing game, trying to decide whether or not Alden could make the catches.


[Alden: Double miss. These ones are too fast.]


He started the video. The him from just a short while ago threw his body forward to grab the first ball with his right hand before it hit his shin, and then, even as he raised his arm to send the ball back to Instructor Waker, he was snapping up and twisting his spine around to catch the second ball with his left hand even though it had already gone past him.


What the hell? thought Alden, thrilled and confused at the same time.


“Damn,” said Lute from right beside him. “You are so much better than I imagined you being.”


[Alden: Hey.]


[Haoyu: That’s right. Give him the annoyed font.]


[Lute: Seriously, though. You look like you’re using the self-mastery wordchain even though you’re not.]


[Lexi: Did your skill give you some kind of temporary enhancement?]


[Haoyu: A speed boost maybe? That would be amazing!]


Alden doubted that was it, but he didn’t know what it was either. He rewound and watched again in slow motion.


Incoming fastballs that should have hit him one right after the other. Catch. Release. Catch. Release. Smooth as silk.


He watched it twice more at regular speed. Then in slow motion. Then one more time, focusing on the fingers of his right hand as they manipulated the ball into the correct position for the return.


[Alden: I don’t think my body’s moving faster than I’m capable of. But I was concentrating so hard on intercepting the pitches with my magic that I lost my sense of self-preservation a little.]


The all three looked at him.


[Lexi: What does that mean?]


[Alden: I tuned out everything else. I’m pretty sure I wouldn’t have twisted around that hard and fast to catch a ball normally. I’m getting whiplash just watching myself. It explains why I’m this sore.]


There was your normal best, and then there was your ‘I’ve managed to convince myself that catching the ball is the purpose of my existence, and I’m too busy feeling my authority to notice if things hurt or not’ best.


[Lute: Don’t your super stylish turtleneck jumpsuits stop you from injuring yourselves?]


They all turned to look at him.


Haoyu narrowed his eyes. [So you think our superhero suits are stylish?]


[Lexi: They don’t prevent self-inflicted muscle strain unless you’re doing something completely insane.]


I might not be moving that much faster, Alden thought as he watched himself miss one pitch then catch another. But I sure am moving in the right direction more often than not.


And he moved more and more correctly the longer it went on. By the last few minutes of class, even the balls he missed were bare misses. To start with, some of them had caught him completely by surprise, but at the end, he was always reaching for the spot they were coming toward with one hand or the other. Big Snake seemed to have decided that the harder catches were helping the most. He’d even started throwing a few of them wild, instead of playing the villain and always aiming for Alden’s body.


“Your eyes,” Lexi said as they approached the end of the video. Then he seemed to realize he’d spoken aloud, and he looked over at the other sauna users apologetically.


[Haoyu: I was going to say that too. His visual processing must be really great.]


That’s not it.


Alden remembered the feel of catching. He didn’t remember seeing the balls coming at him very often at all.


[Lexi: No. Look at his face again during that fast series of throws earlier.]


[Lute: The one where Teacher Snake hit him like fifteen times just for fun?]


[Haoyu: I don’t think it was for fun. I think he just decided to try out a bunch of different things to see how Alden reacted to them. That ball that hit the floor right in front of him and exploded probably couldn’t have been hand-caught by anyone in our class. It was an experiment.]


Alden was backing up the video to find the part Lexi meant. It was an absurd looking moment. If he hadn’t been so lost in what was going on with his skill right then, the sight of almost twenty inbound objects would have made him throw up his hands in defeat. But apparently, when he was this deep into it, he was all business.


He’d watched his body and his hands last time. He knew he would miss almost all of these pitches. There was no way he could have caught them. Now, following Lexi’s prompting, he watched his face.


I look exhausted.


He was gasping.


I look calm.


He remembered that.


I look…


Shocked, he zoomed in on his face even closer.


What the hell am I doing?


He caught a ball and returned it. A dozen others hit him or whizzed over his head. He caught a second and returned it. He lunged sideways, so that his fingers brushed the final one in the volley, but they couldn’t close over it in time.


Alden replayed the scene again.


“Did I close my eyes?!” he exclaimed.


“Maybe you can hear the balls with your ears,” Haoyu whispered.


[Lexi: Are you reading Instructor Waker’s mind?]


“Not using your eyes makes you one hundred percent cooler. I’m perpetually fifty percent cooler than the rest of you, so I should know.”


“Oh my god, Gym Alden was temporarily psychic,” said Alden.


Haoyu laughed. “You do know gym you is you, don’t you?”


[Lexi: You all remember we’re not supposed to be loud in here, right?]


[Alden: How did I catch them with my eyes closed???]


Lexi blinked at him.


[Lute: Are you seriously asking us to tell you how your own powers work?]


[Haoyu: Maybe you just remembered where all the balls were and caught a couple that way.]


Could that have been it? With that many heading at him, a couple of lucky catches…would still have been too lucky


[Lexi: That wasn’t it. Zoom out so you can see yourself and Instructor Waker at the same time.]


Alden did. Big Snake threw the huge volley, and then followed it up with a few more.


[The last one,] Lexi texted. [The one your fingers barely touched. He threw that one right after you shut your eyes. You couldn’t possibly have seen it, but you still went for it.]


He was right. And since Alden hadn’t been reading Big Snake’s mind…


[Lute: You guys, look at his face. He’s smiling at his own footage.]


Of course Alden was smiling. How could he not be? This was a part of his skill he hadn’t thought to look for. He was always so focused on preserving the burden and using the preserved burden in different ways and finding the limits of the preservation…


He’d needed a broader view. Even though he’d known his skill was special, he still hadn’t been looking at it through a wide enough lens.


A skill for a lifetime. One called The Bearer of All Burdens.


During my last affixation, I even took the “defogging package” she recommended. I enhanced Bearer with the [Sensitivity] option. I assumed all it could do for me right now was help me see and feel enchantments so that I could use the new skill facet properly…because that was what we were talking about using it for at the time.


He had never wondered if it could do anything for solid objects. Nobody had ever entrusted him with an object he didn’t more or less know the location of.


Until today.


His eyes and brain hadn’t been quite fast enough to direct his body toward the burdens he wanted to bear, so his skill had stepped up to the plate. Closing his eyes once he’d fallen all the way into the effort…


I was just letting go of a less capable sense so that another one could do its job better.


******


“Fine.” Haoyu was slurping up noodles at the kitchen table. “You’re right. Ramen noodles are good with minestrone.”


“In the absence of a professional chef and a full kitchen, ramen noodles are good with everything,” Lute replied. “Alden, you’re about to trip over the ottoman. Again.”


Stop talking so much, thought Alden, halting his slow, blindfolded walk through the apartment. It’s making it hard for me to sense my soup.


Somewhere in this place there was a mug of minestrone that Haoyu had told him to preserve. They’d come up with this scheme on the way back from the sauna. Lute had asked if Alden could practice his newly discovered ability by using it like a much more limited version of a lost thing finder skill, like Roman Velra had. Haoyu had volunteered to be his entruster. And Lexi had suggested they use supper as a motivator, since Alden’s stomach was growling.


Now he was wearing his sleep mask, and he was trying to find both his food and the particular mental state that had allowed him to catch pitches he couldn’t see.


“Stop sniffing for it,” Lexi said. “The whole apartment smells like minestrone. You’re not going to get it that way.”


“I’m not doing it on purpose! My nose is just inhaling more than usual on its own.” He paused. “Haoyu, you know where the mug is, right? I don’t know if this will work if neither one of us knows where the thing I’m looking for is hiding.”


“I know where the mug is,” Haoyu confirmed. “And I want you to preserve it. It’s getting cold. It’ll taste bad. You’re ruining the supper I made.”


“Pressure him more,” Lute said.


“I’ll be depressed if that mug is still full of cold soup and soggy ramen in the morning. And you’ll starve to death.”


“Too much pressure,” said Alden, fumbling his way out of the living area. “I’m going to my room. Maybe I can sense the soup better from in there.”


Okay, he thought, after he’d closed his door and pulled off the mask. Let’s do this right.


He went to kneel on his learning cushion and consider everything he knew and everything he suspected.


First of all, he told himself, it wasn’t a neat little trick. So don’t let yourself think of it that way.


Catching things with his eyes closed was neat. And it did seem like a fun party trick. But when he’d actually been doing it, his intentions had been more serious.


I started thinking of myself as The Bearer of All Burdens instead of Alden. That’s a little embarrassing now that I’m not so deeply lost inside my own affixation.


But the effects of it couldn’t be denied. It wasn’t only that he’d been letting his magic lead his hands to the tennis balls’ locations; he’d also been so efficient about it. The more he’d watched the video, the clearer it had become. In the last three or so minutes of class, he hadn’t just been catching more balls, he’d been going for the best ones. He’d obviously started to get a sense for which ones he could actually reach in time.


If being in that headspace had worked once, it would work again. He just had to find a way to get himself there.


He slowed his breathing and let his eyelids fall shut. I should take a look at myself. I should do it like I mean it.


He went backward in his mind, all the way to a better learning cushion in a worse place. Backward to the soft voice of an Artonan kindergarten teacher and the achingly hopeful presence of a grieving girl who kept reaching for a learning partner so that she wouldn’t be alone in the chaos anymore. Back to the moment when he’d first returned the friendly pat.


There was a spot where the universe made room for Alden. A spot that was him. And when he finally found himself…


I have the authority to move here.


He delivered a wizardy fistbump for the first time in months. He sent it rippling out like a tiny, undirected pulse since there was no Kibby here to receive it.


I can move like this. But not all of me.


He remembered the excitement, satisfaction, and joy of that first deliberate exercise of his authority.


And the inevitable horror.


Hi, he thought at the rest of himself. How’s it going? I know you’re me, too.


It was unpleasant to think of himself in his entirety, so often—too often, he suspected—he divided it. He pretended that he was his free authority, and his bound was more like an attachment. A useful one he couldn’t extricate himself from…but still an attachment.


That’s a big self-directed loving lie.


He sighed and let go of that lie for now.


