He knew how to. Denial was a luxury that his last affixation had stripped from him in a profound way, so it wasn’t like he could ever really trick himself into forgetting his true nature. It was just an uncomfortable thing to fully acknowledge in a quiet moment like this.


Accepting that I was mostly The Bearer of All Burdens, and only a little bit free, didn’t feel that bad earlier when I was focused on doing my job right.


The Bearer of All Burdens could not fist bump Kibby. It…he…could not use an auriad. He would never make an ice pop or light a promise stick. The Bearer’s infinite futures had been severed, for the sake of single purpose.


I can bear the hell out of some burdens.


Now…where was Haoyu?


They were close enough to each other right now that Alden was sure he could have sensed his roommate with the part of himself that was free; he’d never tried it for a host of reasons. And anyway, it was an entirely different kind of sensing than Bearer used.


There. That weight.


Judging by the direction, Haoyu was still in the kitchen.


My target has entrusted me with a mug of soup. It’s true that it’s not the most meaningful thing I’ve ever been charged with protecting, but it’s still been placed under my care.


Nothing happened.


I’m not feeling it like I was in gym.


He wasn’t falling into his role as naturally as he had earlier. Too many thoughts running through his head. Too many desires outside of his purpose. Less urgency.


Maybe if the soup was in terrible danger.


He chuckled.


I’m super distractible when I’m hungry, sore, and tired. What else can I do?


He remembered the way the skill had felt more alive as he aligned with it.


Just pick some feature of the skill I know how to access and give it deliberate attention. Maybe that will put me in the zone.


He focused on the targeting ability.


I don’t usually think about you or work on you much. I haven’t bothered to conceive of you as something more interesting than a button on a machine yet. How ungrateful of me. You stayed fixed on Kibby for months without ever failing. I wanted you and needed you, but I haven’t been appreciating what you do.


Alden tried to think about what this part of him was—what it truly was. He thought of it as a small fraction of his power, and that wasn’t wrong. But as he explored it, he found that there was something fundamental about it.


This piece of the affixation runs through everything else Bearer is. Like wires or the roots of a tree.


He was enjoying the origami metaphor for other parts of his skill and he felt like he should keep it consistent, so…paper roots? You could twist paper into root shapes, so that wasn’t the most ridiculous thing. But then there had to be an acknowledgement of what the targeting feature did. It pointed him toward his entruster. It gave him that feeling that they were significant. So significant the universe tilted toward them a little.


Also, when I target someone the feeling isn’t forceful.


Now that he considered it, that was interesting. He felt pokes and pinches when other Avowed targeted him, but he didn’t think he pinched back the same way with his own targeting. Maybe Kibby would be able to tell him what it felt like for sure the next time he saw her. But on his end of things, at least, it was a more receptive process.


Like I’m opening myself up or holding out a hand? Should I try imagining it’s something with roots that opens and tracks things?


It’s pretty special. It keeps me connected to my entruster over long distances.


Alden fixed his mind on his sense of Haoyu. All right, so if I wanted to acknowledge and strengthen this part of the skill then…


It had never occurred to him to try targeting someone more by manipulating his bound authority. For one thing, it didn’t seem necessary. His targeted person was targeted, and he could protect things they entrusted him with. It was such a basic part of the skill that it had gone overlooked.


He worked at it for a while, growing engrossed just as he had on his last night in intake when he’d first started reimagining the affixation.


Eventually, as he’d hoped, focusing intently on even a small part of the skill like this helped him align himself with the whole thing. By the time he’d discovered a way of thinking that helped him become a little more receptive to his target and increase his awareness of Haoyu’s location, he felt relaxed and more at home with himself.


My entruster is there, he thought. Now where is the thing he told me to preserve?


He stood and left the room.


Eyes still closed, he turned and walked a few steps to the end of the hall. He was careful to keep his thoughts quiet. If he took time to question it, he was sure he would lose it.


It needed to be more like an instinct for now.


He bent and his fingers closed around something, preserving it instantly. He opened his eyes.


Of course they put my soup on the floor under the polar bear head.


He carried it toward the kitchen to reheat it. All three of the other guys were in the living room.


“I got it,” said Alden, lifting the mug.


Haoyu and Lexi looked at him. Lute turned around in his chair to look, too.


“No eyes?” Haoyu asked. “Or did you just get hungry?”


“No eyes,” Alden confirmed with a grin. Then he yawned. “But I am very hungry. And sleepy.”


“That’s a fun new power discovery,” said Lute. “I’m going to hide things you need in awkward places. To help you train. Good luck finding the toilet paper tomorrow.”


“Thanks. You’re a true friend.”


“That took you two hours,” Lexi said.


Alden checked the time. “It did. Sorry. I thought I was faster than that, but I got kind of invested in the process.”


He went over to the microwave.


“You can have fresh soup,” said Haoyu. “You don’t have to eat the training soup.”


“I’m going to eat the training soup and the fresh soup if you don’t mind. It smells awesome.”


“Take a selfie with your mug,” Haoyu said. “I’m sending them to my mom. To prove I rock at cooking.”


“Will do.” Alden watched his dinner rotate around on the glass plate. “Hey…heliotropic flowers are cool, aren’t they?”


“Huh?” said Lute.


“You know. Flowers that always turn to face the sun and follow it across the sky. Like daisies. They’re a targeting flower. If you were gonna be a flower you’d want to be a heliotropic one.”


“They’re pretty cool,” said Haoyu.


“Man, you need sleep,” said Lute.


“Were you imagining yourself as a daisy when you were trying to target your soup cup?” Lexi asked slowly.


“Wait!” Haoyu cried. “Was that what you meant?”


“Not exactly.”


He’d played around with imagining he had an origami targeting shape pointed at Haoyu. Not the soup. And it wasn’t really a daisy; it was just a kind of unfolding feeling like a flower opening toward the sun that had gotten him the stronger sense of Haoyu’s location that he’d wanted.


“What exactly did you mean then?” Lexi asked.


“Mmmmm…good minestrone. I’m just doing some metaphor stuff, Lexi. Trying out everything. Approaching magic from new angles. No big deal.”


“Is it working for you?”


“Sometimes. It did take me two whole hours to find my supper though. That’s forever. So maybe don’t take my advice.”


Alden ate every bite, then he pulled the leftovers out of the fridge and refilled the mug.


[Lute: There’s a birthday thing for Uncle Benjamin tomorrow night. It’s not a huge party. Like fifty people. I’m getting an invite from Aimi. Do you still want to come?]


Yuck, thought Alden. “Yes.”


“I’m going,” Haoyu said.


“How many more times do you think you’ll have to practice until you can reliably find your entrusted object?” Lexi asked.


He’s got a one track mind.


“You mean until I’m good at it?” Alden said.


“I just wondered if you knew…”


“I can reliably find it already, probably. If time isn’t an issue, I’m sure I could do it again. But I’ll keep practicing until I get a lot faster. I want to find a way to hit that point I was at in gym today at will instead of after half an hour of having a superhero pelt me with fastballs.”


“How far away do you think—?”


“There’s a distance limit on how far away my target can be from whatever they’re entrusting me with, so not that far. Haoyu could probably tell me to go find something he’d left downstairs but not across campus. And he might need to have at least a general idea of where the item is himself before he can tell me to get it. We haven’t tested that. That would make it way less useful for finding lost objects. But this is still a good way to train myself. And maybe I can have one of you throw some stuff at me. I’ll help you with whatever you want to practice, too.”


“Your new codename is Ball Catcher.”


“You can go to that party alone, Lute.”


“Cotton Balls?”


“By yourself.” Support the creativity of authors by visiting Royal Road for this novel and more.
 
*
