“No questions, Silvie,” Reka said in a tired voice. “We were hired to protect the carriage. We failed. The stranger saved our lives, and he asked us not to speak of him. We can talk about him amongst ourselves, but no word or question to anyone else, Reymond included.”

Silvie groaned. “Really? He could fly! And he slaughtered a band of Herasar in seconds. Who can do that?”

“Plenty of people, I'm sure,” Reka answered. “Now, let’s prepare the horses and move Reymond’s most valuable goods into the carriage. The stranger was right; where there are Herasar, there will be more.”

They worked quietly, Reymond instructing them as they went through the goods in the two wagons. At one point, he opened the flooring in the wagon that was turned on its side, taking out a few smaller chests that he handed to Reka and Silvie. Nobody commented on the hidden compartment but Veron caught a glance from Silvie.

“We will go to Perrion. And we drive through the night,” Reka said. “Two people up front, three in the carriage.”

“You feeling ready to ride?” Silvie asked, looking at Veron.

“I could do with a few days off, but yes, my knee still hurts but as long as I can sit, I should be fine.”

They took first shift and shortly after, they were off on the same road they'd been traveling on.

Silvie was quiet for the first ten minutes, the two of them still on edge from the battle. It was slowly getting dark now, the birch trees casting longer shadows with every passing minute. Veron tensed up whenever he thought he saw movement in the forest.

“What they said about there always being more Herasar...”

She waved him off with a slightly crooked smile on her face. “Just horror stories. But keep your eyes peeled anyway.”

They were soon driving in the dark, dull glowing lantern light making sure the path was at least barely visible. They could see the moon but the night was cloudy. A few hours later, the tension had somewhat settled. The only things they could hear were the hoofs hitting the road and the monotone rattling of the carriage.

“So, what are they? I've heard of them but I've never fought any,” Veron said. He had not heard of them.

“Yeah, I've only ever fought them once, north of Anvakar. Not this many. Savage monsters from the north, dwelling deep in the mountains, depths, and dungeons beyond the reach of our kind. I've heard some people call them chaos beasts, but they use weapons, and the way they fight, they're not just beasts.”

“Can they talk?”

“Not that I know of. Nor if they have any settlements. Maybe we just don’t speak their language.”

“It seemed like they enjoyed it. The fighting I mean.”

She spat. “Yeah. Bunch of shit eating pigs. Should have killed us when they had the chance, before that stranger stepped in. Doesn't want to hurt our pride my ass, he hurt my pride all right. I haven't felt so outclassed in a long while.”

“You don't know who he was?”

“No idea. Some big shot from Leiveen, going by all those relics. Do you have any clue what wings like that cost?”

He shook his head.

“Me neither, but definitely more than everything in this entire caravan, our gear included. I don’t even know what kind of beast essence could create something like that. I guess we were lucky. I'm pretty sure he only traveled with us to get to Perrion in a discreet manner. That would have been our last fight otherwise, yours included.”

Veron looked into the dark forest.

“Do you think he will fly all the way to Perrion or wherever he’s going?”

“I don't know. He probably would’ve done that if it was an option in the first place.”

“Maybe. Or he didn’t want to show off more of his capabilities.”

She looked at him and smiled, then laughed. “Sure, yeah. Why don't you ask him if you ever meet him again?”
