This wasn’t to say Rain had been left wholly undefended. Five thousand of Hongji’s personal soldiers were also camped on the plains, under the command of his most trusted Major, Sun Qiang. Over the last few days, they fortified their campground into a defensible encampment, ringed by spiked pits and earthen barricades to hinder the Defiled from encircling Sinuji and trapping them in a long, protracted siege. What’s more, through some miracle of diplomacy, Rain convinced several clans and sects of the Society to move camps and support his cause alongside a handful of other seemingly unremarkable factions, though Hongji doubted these fringe elements would make for reliable allies if push came to shove.

No matter. Out there, Rain’s hodgepodge of soldiers would make for the perfect hammer to Fort Sinuji’s anvil, not to mention the Bekhai were excellent scouts if the need arose. More interesting were the bows and crossbows, because even though Hongji personally found such weapons distasteful, he couldn’t argue against the advantages they presented. The cattle chariots were a different story altogether, and he worried the Defiled would spook the herd and send the stupid ornery beasts into an uncontrolled stampede, but Rain insisted he had them under control and could direct their anger towards the Defiled.

If so, Hongji would count it a miracle, but the boy deserved a chance...

Satisfied with his preparations, Hongji called for a pot of passionflower tea to calm his nerves, for he was about to deal with the most aggravating part of his day: going through the daily reports. Another reason to admire Rain, for his poise and concentration were admirable especially for a man not twenty years of age, wholly indifferent to the rumours flying through camp and caring nothing for their taunts and derision. While waiting for his tea, Hongji focused his will to Scry on Rain, and the boy didn’t disappoint, sitting in plain view at his breakfast table and reading letters meant to incite him with little more than wry amusement. Yet another calculated move, showing he would not be goaded into acting. Most men twice Rain’s age lacked his level-headed demeanour, and knowing when to retreat was a skill few commanders cared to master.

As he put down his letters to stretch, Rain almost looked Hongji directly in the eyes, though his gaze quickly shifted, peering about in search of danger as he so often did. Talent and luck played a large part in growing Rain’s reputation, but as evidenced by his constant vigilance, it was built on a foundation of hard work and dedication.

Having put his work off long enough, Hongji left off Scrying the boy and returned to his reports. The Society officers and allies continued to complain about this or that, oftentimes contradicting one another in their efforts to find fault with him. This officer believed him wasting valuable man-power digging pits beyond a certain depth, while another criticized him for not digging them deep enough. This nameless fop believed he would be of more use inside the fort, and this armchair general found fault with his deployment. The barrage of paperwork was meant to get under Hongji’s skin, but also distract him from what they were really doing and lay the groundwork for future attacks. The Defiled were active all around Sinuji, so this peaceful lull would not last, and when they came, his political opponents would no doubt find fault in his efforts and dredge up some idiotic letter to prove they had already brought the matter up, thereby forcing him to defend his actions and explain why he hadn’t acted despite having been warned in advance.

A tiresome matter to attend to, since it forced him to do his due-diligence and politely respond to each complaint and suggestion with logic and rationale, though he would much rather retort with a scathing condemnation before inquiring if the officer’s lacking intelligence was due to brain damage or dubious parentage.

Nestled in all the complaints, insults, and transfer requests was the information that truly mattered, such as quartermaster accounts, progress reports, roster statements, and other such things required to run an army. They were running dangerously low on Mandrel Stalk, always in short supply when dining on field rations for weeks without end, but the Lieutenant Marshal was unable to meet their demands. The horses needed more room to exercise if they were to sit idle for so long, which meant opening the fort up to risk of infiltration with so many soldiers coming and going at all times. There was no helping it for now, heavy cavalry would be crucial to evening the odds against massed numbers of Defiled.

After an hour of shuffling through reports, he came upon a report of a farrier who failed to report for duty and was last seen the night before. One missing camp worker was hardly cause for concern, for many of them chose to abandon their work contracts to flee for safety, but this was the second farrier in as many months. Rummaging through his memories, he realized the first farrier had never been found, even though his presence should have been discovered by the multitude of soldiers between Sinuji and the rest of Central. With a second farrier gone missing and the first yet to be found, Hongji believed the matter was worth looking into. A possible murderer in his ranks was nothing to scoff at, for it could be a sign of the Enemy’s taint upon his people and a danger he could not ignore.

Draining his teacup with a sigh, Hongji called for his guards and set out to investigate. In all likelihood, he was overreacting, but like his Papa always said, better to be safe than sorry. However, as he stepped out of his tent, he noticed his elites escorting a ragged scout towards his tent, his eyes wild and breath short. Sensing something amiss, Hongji dropped his Concealment and strode forth to meet the scout. After weaving a barrier against sound around them, he commanded, “Report.”

“The Defiled,” the scout gasped, his mind in such disarray he forgot all protocol. “They march on Sinuji, three days out and in numbers greater than we’ve ever seen before.”

With a mixture of dread and excitement rising in his chest, Hongji strode back to his maps and commanded, “Ready the camp, battle alert. Get him some water and bring him inside. I need details.” Finally, after two weeks of inactivity, the war was finally returning to Sinuji, and Hongji was ready. Even if they brought an invincible army of millions of Defiled and thousands of Demons, Hongji would break their teeth on the earthen walls of Sinuji before his last breath, for this was the task given to him by the Legate himself.

Hongji was here to defend the Empire, and as Papa always said, anything worth doing was worth doing right.

Chapter Meme
