The familiar lines of system text I see when scanning all living beings appear bright silver in my mind. Just like others, certain skills and buffs feel heavier to read.

The most potent and sharp collection of numbers that jumps out at me first is the [Lv. 9,940,167] at the very top.

It is the highest level of existence I've ever seen.

Unlike the many powerhouses I witnessed in the Purple Zone, some reaching over level 1 million, the gap in strength does not properly convey the strength of the numbers I see.

Every number I stare at feels like it carries far more weight than any status screen I've ever seen before.

Understanding this fact brings waves of memories to the forefront of my mind.

All of the gaps that were bent away from my eyes in Noctus' memories start to fill in.

Instantly, every single memory I've absorbed replays with a view of this Demon's full status screen attached. I feel the immense effort that each level took in order to consolidate. Sometimes, tens of thousands of years would pass before a single level would flicker upward.

It makes connections in my mind, back to my own experiences in the human world, when I experienced a skill Ember would use. High levels of the [Plunderer] perks allow raw mana drained by a soul-bonded pair to slowly enhance one's level.

I see the millions of levels slowly drained from the Origin Plane tick up on this Demon's status, a single level in its later years amounting to the total amount of mana left in the Lower Realm right now.

The amount of energy control and mental fortitude gained from such long and tedious methods of leveling up now makes the immense raw strength of this demon far more understandable.

Its fundamental understanding of power is based on the fact that only billions of years of time can make one strong enough to defeat it.

Its thoughts were proven time and time again, as every opponent that ever came to face it was of a far lower level, and in turn, at a far lower realm of understanding in many of the energy forms it wields.

Since it claimed the title of Overseer, it was forced to only grow stronger in this way. No one else in the system was capable of being its opponent.

In the past, I've faced similar obstacles. Even though one can refine their mana control to defeat system users of higher levels doesn't mean there aren't limitations. One must gain a few hundred levels before they can start to tap into this power.

The same goes for refining qi, or even feeling the first few wisps of divine threads. Before attempting either, a system user needs to go through at least one or two rank ups, surpassing level 500 or 1000, to begin gaining the proper edge.

In order to gain any divine bodies or greater forms, the system user must surpass level 10,000.

They are natural built-in limiters within the system. With some wiggle room, of course, but not much...

It is extremely unlikely for system users to ever awaken Celestial Bodies, capable of wielding qi refined past the medium quality ranking, and with dense enough mana to merge with it. Without a proper rank up surpassing the level 100,000 mark, the utilization and proper integration of this energy would never fully click.

Very recently, I felt this bottleneck at level 1 million, when my rank up would not fully allow me to integrate my glyphs and primordial aura's next stage of progression until all of the proper systems were aligned.

Now, watching this Demon inch closer and closer to the next stage of a rank up, I want to let out a laugh as I realize the facts this Demon never grasped.

Its words still ring out while it grabs both our swords, "You still know nothing."

Yet, after hearing its rants about how it believes its addition to the Demon's Legacy has made it a greater version than the one it copied, and feeling its crude and inefficient use of the energy it sits in, I realize yet again its understanding of reality is far too limited.

He cannot see that what he is trying to attempt is impossible with the means available. Even if I never showed up to stop him, the separation of his glyphs and this condensed essence would never survive long enough to withstand the decay of this void.

His only source of new levels has abandoned him, eternally left without hope of ever ranking up again.

The sensation of this demon's mental pressure building up over the years is fresh in my mind. Although it is terrifyingly powerful, it is also extremely constricted. There is a constraining pressure that surrounds it, not allowing it to shift into the desired realm, like an iron bubble around this Demon's mind.

Even when the feeling of a Realm Wave starts to pulse through Maria and I through our blades, I can clearly see the skill that is activating in this Demon's status labeled [Space Time Manipulation] [Primordial Grade].

At first glance, it appears like an unbeatable ability. Especially after feeling the pressure it produced as a defensive measure while we were still floating aimlessly through the void.

I can see and feel all of the spinning and churning microscopic glyphs within the wave of energy that flows our way.

The first few wisps of my aura that touch it are torn apart into billions of pieces. Some rapidly decaying thousands of years and dying instantly, while others are trapped in time, not moving at all. It is exactly the same as what I felt before when stray bits of a realm wave touched me.

Yet now, the strongest veins of silver threads in my body, surrounded by condensed gel, are not affected at all by this pulse of light. With every bit of essence it touches, my perception falls deeper and deeper into the wave, understanding its intricate glyph structure and integration with the system more.

Instead of sacrificing the infected essence and trying to run away, the corner of my energy form's lips turns upward to show a grin, and a surge of strange energy bursts out of my converging cores right back down my arms to collide with the wave.
