From the desk of Erick Flatt, to whom it may concern:

A single day has passed since that unfortunate interruption of the start of the war, but here we are, back at it again! Many of you might have noticed that I have been all over the place recently, and mostly in the sky. If you looked out there right now you would probably see me in at least 5 places at once.

That is because I am in at least 5 places at once, but I am also here, on Veird.

I’m a fae, now. That means something, I am sure.

What means more, is that Plan Surround and Consume is working. I have been fighting the Primal Lightning out there at every step of the way, and that has probably looked strange to everyone here, with Lightning happening where it ought not to happen and then suddenly not happening at all. In some places, the Red Lightning even flowed backwards.

That’s the nature of a Wizard War.

Nothanganathor’s attempts to disrupt the plan are just that; disruptions. We are winning, and I have spent about 3 weeks doing that sort of winning for us, while less than a day has passed here on Verid.

Soon it will be time for everyone else to step up to the line and take their swing. And it won’t be hopeless! It won’t be a death sentence, as some of you are saying.

We have big plans for those of you that wish to fight. I am writing this letter to tell you that you have the full capability to rise up and fight yourselves… After a little bit of help from the Pantheon and House Benevolence and myself.

We’ve already begun deployments of that power among many people. I am sure many of you receiving this letter have heard of that. We’ll tell you all more in the following week.

As for the current events of the war, all that Lightning you see coming from the Edge of the Scheme of Fenrir are 90% automatic attack magics. Nothanganathor is, of course, actively throwing each bolt and I am directly fighting against him in a contest of wills each time, but the contest of wills is, so far, a routine series of attacks, and I am easily able to counter all of Nothanganathor’s bolts of Primal Lightning.

Is he lulling us into a false sense of security?

Perhaps.

I am not going to take the bait and commit to a larger attack at this moment. Plan Surround and Consume is perhaps a day or five away from completion. It is going slower than it had in the beginning, because the system was getting bigger. A lot bigger. And that necessitates a whole bunch of coordination magics and the complete revamping of the Northern Spellsurge Mountains into a singular focus.

Currently, the planetoids are crashing into sunlights and devouring them, to become sunlights themselves and light up the void for all the people on Fenrir, forming a net of interconnected planetoids that are both generating mana —mostly Benevolence— and actively suppressing Malevolence in the area.

The growth is already spiraling hard. One planet has become two, and those two each made another planet, making 4, which then doubled again, to 8. We slowed down the rampant growth to add more stabilization to the system, to make the planetoids grow into true planets, larger and more solid in their construction.

Soon, they will envelop the whole of Fenrir.

The calculation to that deadline is kinda simple.

The entire outer surface area of Fenrir in square kilometers is calculated by the surface area of a sphere, which is A=4πr^2, at a radius of around 150 million kilometers. Meaning Fenrir is around 3x10^17 million square kilometers. The distance between the surface of Fenrir and the height of the Seeds is mostly negligible, so the space the Seeds have to cover is pretty much 3x10^17 square kilometers.

Each Seed is spaced out from each other Seed at a distance roughly equal to the distance that used to exist between Veird and its moons, meaning each Seed is covering a sphere of the sky over Fenrir that was more easily calculated based on the simple area of a circle, which is A=πr^2. So at a radius of 380,000 kilometers, that means that one Seed, when fully grown, covers about 4.5x10^11 square kilometers.

We don’t want the Seeds to simply be a single layer deep, though, with no ability to bolster each other. And so, we have plotted for triple coverage; making the necessary area to cover three times as large as the original 3x10^17 number. Or 9x10^17.

Figuring out how many moons we need is a simple calculation of:

9/4.5 and 10^(17-11)

or

2x10^6

Or 2,000,000 planetoids.

Which is about 21 doublings.

Not too much, really! We could have done that in a single day, because each Seed is already repaying back the mana used to cast it in under an hour.

Each planet is easily paying for itself and every other planet down the line. If we were deploying this system on our own, without the threat of Nothanganathor out here, then we could have had some rather exponential growth and land creation.

At 15 hours into Plan Surround and Consume, the [Seeds of Atunir] had reached 10 doublings. Over a thousand Seeds. The next doubling came in at 17 hours, making over 2000 Seeds.

I have been out fighting the Red and securing the Seeds for 3 subjective weeks, but only for a single Veird-day. At 24 hours, when this note was written, we were at 15 doublings, or 33,000-ish planets.

The 2,000,000 mark is not very far at all.

Pray for our success, and know that you are contributing to our success.

If you are a True Believer of Atunir, as is natural, then come to the Spellsurge Mountains and pray for our success yourselves. Leave your uteruses behind if you don’t want to get pregnant, though. Check with the clergy of Atunir if you are safe to approach, or not. Or, if you do wish for pregnancy, then come on up here and achieve a dream.

In a week, after Plan Surround and Consume is finished, there will be Very Big News about empowering people to fight for Veird themselves, and it’s not that update to all the Benevolence Spells out there that some of you have already noticed. It’s so much more than that. You will have the power to affect your world, on your own terms. Soon.

Sincerely,

Erick Flatt

- -

“So how about that letter from my father?” Jane asked, as she lay beside Sitnakov, in her rooms beside the Blue Corps headquarters in Ar’Kendrithyst.

Sitnakov, white as snow, breathed deep, his chest expanding far and then falling down as he breathed out, thinking. Jane lay there with him, his arm around her body, both of them not doing much of anything at all. He was warm and solid as metallic flesh. His solidity usually didn’t faze Jane but she was still feeling a little weak from her Personal Script, inundating her body and transforming how she interacted with the world, so there was a soft comforter between some of where they touched.

Her Personal Status had filled up completely and she had even switched over to it a few times, but mostly not. It was still tender. Still made her body freak out in little ways. Rozeta had prescribed rest for at least a day, and so, Jane was doing that.

Sitnakov had come to her to talk about the letter, but then one thing had led to another and now they were here, in bed together.

“Yeah… That letter. He offered me a Personal Script. Didn’t take. He offered it to a lot of people… He said he’d announce it in a week, but it’s already out there. Talk about lighting a signal fire.”

Jane laughed at that. “He really did light a fire, didn’t he.”

“He did.” A pause. “You got the PS, right?”

“I did. Made me a bit weaker, as you can tell, but it’s already better. Be fully better by tomorrow. Maybe 5 hours.”

Sitnakov let out a sigh of relief, his big chest deflating some. “Good. I like you being sturdy.”

Jane smiled at that. Being called ‘sturdy’ wasn’t every girl’s dream, but she liked it a whole lot when Sitnakov said it.

Silence took over the warm room, and it was nice.

Softly, Sitnakov asked, “Want to go see the Northern Mountains?”

“Kinda, but I’m supposed to stay away from great magical influences.” Jane poked Sitnakov’s chest. It was like poking adamantium that was trying so very hard to be flesh. “You can be an exception.”

Sitnakov chuckled. He craned his neck a little to look at her, asking, “We should probably stay away from the Fertility Goddess’s grand ritual, anyway. Wouldn’t want our handholding to end up with you pregnant.”

“Ha! We can’t have…” Jane had been about to say that they couldn’t have kids anyway, but… “I suppose, me being a dragon would bridge half of the gap, but you being a True Wizard could also… Hmm. Is that enough to bridge a gap? Even with you being wrought? We hadn’t really… ever talked… Hmm.”

As Jane talked, Sitnakov gave a soft chuckle. Jane loved that deep, warm sound.

And then Jane realized.

Her heart beat hard.

Oh.

Shit.

Was this a Big Conversation?

Jane realized this might be a Big Conversation.

Sitnakov had asked about visiting the ritual site, and then kids, and now...

Sitnakov said, “We’ve been doing this for a while now. I think I love you. Would you ever want to have kids?”

Jane had an eternal moment, laying there against Sitnakov. Her heart raced. Her head felt heavy and light at the same time. She had to check herself to make sure she wasn’t having some sort of cascading biological reaction that could end up with her dead, or worse. She even brought up her Personal Script to see if there was a problem.

Jane Flatt, [35] [Current Location: Layer 789; Veird, year 1453]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 59%, 31%, 9% [Full!]

Reson allocation rate: 1%

Darkness Level: Archmage

Fractal Level: Blind

Benevolence Level: Store Manager

Soul: 114; 721,500 per day / 8.3 per second

Body: 60

Mind: 19

Overall Stability: ↑ [+8.2, -0]

Mp: 114,000/114,000, ↑ [+4.9, -0]

Hp: 60,000/60,000, ↑ [+2.5, -0]

Pp: 19,000/19,000, ↑ [+1.5, -0]

Resons: 100/100, [+.1 = +.01, -0]

There was no problem there.

One thing that Jane really liked about this new Status is that it told her when things were wrong, and what kind of danger she faced. One thing she did not like about it was that she was still figuring the whole thing out. It wasn’t very cooperative—

“Jane?” Sitnakov asked, quietly.

“I know I love you,” Jane said, the words coming easily. “My body was just… acting weird.”

Sitnakov breathed deep, gasping a little— and then he heard the rest of Jane’s words. “Sorry. You said to take it easy—"

“No no— You’re fine. Nothing happened… Well. Yeah.” Jane huffed a laugh. “You threw me for a loop. But… Yeah.” Jane looked up at Sitnakov’s face. He looked at her, questioningly. Jane said, “Yeah. I want kids eventually, if that’s actually on the table. I didn’t know that you did, though.”

Sitnakov relaxed and tensed in equal measure as he smiled brightly. “Yeah, I do. And I’d like to have them with you.”

Jane asked, “What would they even be, though? Adamantium wrought? Orcol-sized dragonkin? Human?”

Sitnakov declared, “Adamantium wrought. I think I could swing it. There would be some rituals to get it done. Wrought reproduction is not like fleshy people’s— Well. It is, in some respects. Some.”

Jane snorted a laugh. “It better not exclude all the fun parts.”

“Of course not!”

Sitnakov did not elaborate, though.

“You’re not going to elaborate?”

“Nope. Not until we’re married and praying to Atunir.” Sitnakov waggled his eyebrows. “Unless you want to go visit the northern mountains and give both our dads heart attacks?”

Jane smiled at that. “Come on.” She sat up and got up, saying, “Now you got me wanting to go see it. I’m ditching the uterus though while we’re up there.”

Sitnakov seriously nodded. “That might prevent pregnancy.”

“Ha! ‘Might’?”

“It’s a big fucking ritual, Jane.” Sitnakov stared off at nothing for a moment. “It’s…” He looked to Jane. “I really do want to go see it with you.”

“Big sights get my blood pumping too, big guy.” She added, “And I guess I can just morph into a dude for a whil— mmrph!”

Sitnakov rose from bed and wrapped Jane in a hug, kissing her deeply. Jane did the same for him.

The moment lasted longer than either of them expected it to last, and it was great.

Jane was in love.

Finally, breathlessly, Jane was in love, and the man she loved loved her back. Suddenly she started crying and laughing and Sitnakov asked what was wrong and they ended up back in the bed, talking small words that were so very large.

- - - -

Jane stepped out of a portal alongside a deployment from the Blue Corps and House Benevolence.

Sunny, Kiri’s [Familiar], eyed them all, and then bounced in place. The little girl was shaped like a long dragon these days, Kiri having long abandoned the couatl-disguise that her [Familiar] used to wear all the time, since she herself was a dragon. Sunny shut the big [Gate] that had taken the team here, and then briefly bounced in the air in front of Jane and Sitnakov.

“Thanks for the ride, Kiri. Sunny.”

Sunny twirled and then vanished into a little [Gate] perfectly sized for her, vanishing like an illuminated noodle sucked into a white hole.

Karonditus, the engineer team leader of this excursion, asked them, “So we don’t need to care about having you here, right? You’re not in charge right now?”

“Correct,” Jane said.

The Blue Corps was a conglomeration of various political entities that was less like a real power, and more like an organizational structure, making sure everyone knew what was happening. Karonditus was technically from House Benevolence, and he was here with a bunch of tech to settle some of the overloading problems of this ‘Seed Ritual’ up here at the Spellsurge Mountains.

Such a thing would have taken maybe 5 people, with some cartloads of stuff.

They had 37 people in their entourage. No one had wanted to deny the leave of those who wanted to come up here to see the largest magic on Veird since the creation of Fenrir.

Jane said, “We’re here to see the sight as pilgrims, just like all these extra people in your over-inflated team.”

Karonditus chuckled. “What do you mean, sir— Oh. Uh. Is it ‘ma’am’? Or… What?”

Jane said, “Whatever you want.”

Jane had needed to get rid of her uterus to visit this place safely, so she did that with [Perfect Polymorph], allowing her to assume the guise of a man she referred to as ‘Jake’. Sitnakov was just himself, standing to the side, all white instead of black.

The Northern Spellsurge Mountains loomed a few kilometers ahead, like craggy walls of silvered rock. A pass in the mountains was the road into the various facilities inside, and that’s where thousands of pilgrims walked into the place, under a glittering golden sky.

