He probably knew how wrought made babies.

She wasn’t going to ask him.

If she asked him, then he would know how serious she was getting with Sitnakov—

“Jane?” asked a curious voice to the side.

A large blackrock woman stood in the hallway, holding hands with two rocklings, one on each side. She was Obsidia, one of Tenebrae’s first generation [Rockys], back when Tenebrae was human. She looked a little different, but yeah, that was Obsidia. The rocklings holding her hands were half the size of an orcol, so they were already almost as tall as human-shaped Obsidia.

“Obsidia!” Jane happily said. “I didn’t recognize you.”

“Ha!” Obsidia laughed. “I didn’t recognize you, either. Looks like we both abandoned our uteruses to see the ritual.”

Usually, one didn’t comment about what they saw with their mana senses, but this was a weird time, with weird specific concerns.

Jane smiled. “Yup! I’m here with Sitnakov checking the place out. What are you doing here?”

A rockling leaned toward Obsidia, whispering, “Who is that man?”

Jane smiled softly at that.

Obsidia said to Jane, “I’m having some time with the cousins, you know.” She said to the rocklings, “So you know Erick Flatt, the Wizard of Benevolence and my boss at House Benevolence, right?”

Both of them had various childlike reactions of ‘Yes we know him!’ and rolling of the eyes.

Obsidia said, “Well this is Erick’s daughter, Jane Flatt, and she’s in a [Perfect Polymorph] disguise right now so that she doesn’t get pregnant just being up here around this ritual.”

One of the rocklings instantly looked appalled and surprised—

The other one told the first one, “It’s [Perfect Polymorph], you rockhead! She didn’t kill anyone to get that form…” And then he paused. He looked at Jane. “… You didn’t, right?”

Jane nodded, smiling the whole time. “Correct. This body is my idea, just based on shape and general ideas; no specific person.”

“TOLD YOU!” said the second rockling to the first.

And then the first scowled and shouted at his brother, “I didn’t say anything to her!”

“You were thinking it!”

The kids almost started fighting, but Obsidia was there to stop that.

Jane found a thought suddenly lodged in her head. ‘I don’t want kids that fight with each other. How do you stop that from happening?’

She had absolutely no idea how to stop kids from fighting.

Dad had only had one kid, and Jane had still fought everyone she could.

Oh. Gods.

Her kids were going to be terrors, weren’t they?

And orcol-shaped, too…

Oh.

Actually, that made it all better. Orcols healed from everythin—

But they would be adamantium wrought. Not really orcols.

Shit.

What did that even mean?!

Well at the very least, it meant her kids would have a good absolute damage reduction. Hard to get hurt if you simply couldn’t be hurt by normal weaponry.

- - - -

Jane laced up her boots in the prep area of the Glittering Depths, Floor Three, as she went over her Personal Script. It was looking okay. She hadn’t had it for more than a day by now, and most of that day had been sleeping or resting, or the trip to the Spellsurge Mountains. There were still so many things to poke around with her Personal Script, but it was time for a basic field test. Dad’s Benevolence spells would be getting the most workout, today, and the Personal Script would do whatever it felt like doing. Hopefully all good things—

“So you two really are getting serious, then?” Candice was on the bench across the room from Jane, putting on her gambeson. “You and Sitnakov. I heard Dad talking about it earlier.”

Jane’s face went a little red. “… I think we are.”

Candice smiled with perhaps too many teeth, her orange eyes glinting brightly. “Jane and Sit~na~kov, sitt~in’ in a tree—”

“Oh shut up with that shit,” Jane said, though she was smiling as she said it. “How is your Personal Script working right now?”

“Yeah yeah. Avoid the emotional shit. Heard and understood, Big Sis.” Candice laced up her upper body armor with a bit of orange/black shadows snapping clasps shut. “I got my Personal Script automatically accreting for me. How about you?”

Jane was in the middle of tying her own breastplate on, but she suddenly stopped. “… Holy shit? You can do that?”

Candice laughed loudly. “I didn’t manage it, but Evan is having luck with that. Have you not poked at it at all!?”

“Oh… Bah! Well… Good for him. I mostly managed to get it set up nicely.” Jane mentally flicked the air. “See?”

Words appeared.

Mp: 114,000/114,000, ↑ [No Ongoing Damage]

Hp: 60,000/60,000, ↑ [No Ongoing Damage]

Pp: 19,000/19,000, ↑ [No Ongoing Damage]

“Battle readout.”

Candice raised eyebrows. “That’s how you set that up? How about this— No. wait. This is what you need to see first. I did manage this much.”

Mana: 112,000/112,000, [Protecting Health + Psyche]

Health: 63,000/63,000, [Protecting Psyche]

Psyche: 17,000/17,000

Candice said, “That’s the full readout, but the actual battle readout is this one:”

192/192 [Clear]

Jane stared at the absolutely tiny Status. It was beautiful. “What the fuck.” All those numbers that came before it were indicative of something truly amazing going on, too. Some sort of pool stacking… So that one covered the other? “You can do… any of that? Have one pool protect the others? I didn’t… Hmm.”

Candice smiled wide.

“Are you making one pool protect the— Obviously you’re making one pool protect all the others.”

“Not quite.” Candice said, “I’m making Mana protect everything until I get low, then they share damage equally.”

Jane almost asked how she had done that, but then her thoughts caught up with her. “But then you take a big hit and you lose a massive hunk of mana?”

Candice nodded. “Yeah. I thought of that problem too, so... You know how Dad talked about Benevolence flowing away and then coming back? I’m trying to accrete for that specific ability, to make it easier for me to ignore Wizardry and fight on the front lines...” She paused. “Have you asked your Personal Script to do anything for you yet? Anything big, I mean.”

Jane shook her head. “I’ve been in meetings and with Sitnakov and doing all sorts of Blue Corps stuff, and it’s only been a day.”

Candice smiled wide. “I suppose that’s the benefit of not taking responsibility for others. I got all the time I want to break this Personal Script wide open. Gotta have something to do when I can’t go on the frontlines and there aren’t any dungeons to break.”

“Ehhh… yeah. It’s been kinda not fun, has it?” Jane added, a bit too strongly, a bit too mocking, “But it’s been great for the world!”

Candice was right there with her, “Gods know that the best thing for people to do is paperwork!”

Jane snorted.

“So how big is your Benevolence Mark? I’m labeled as a ‘New Hire’.”

“Store Manager.”

“Ha!”

Still smiling, Jane finished putting on her armor. “Have you had any real luck breaking your Personal Script? I tried asking it to give me a billion mana, and it simply did nothing.”

Candice shrugged. “It’s kinda… weird. Non-helpful? But still helpful, in its own way? I think I need to upgrade my Fractal Mark level up to anything more than ‘Blind’ and it’ll be able to tell me more… or something. Everyone I’ve spoken with has their Fractal Mark as ‘Blind’.” She paused. “I haven’t asked any Mind Mages, though? Have you?”

Jane shook her head. “Haven’t done much of anything with power experimentation.”

It had literally only been 24 hours since this whole Personal Script business started… But Jane supposed they were in a war, and things were moving fast for those of them who had nothing else to do except explore themselves and figure out new ways to kill things. Candice was seriously gifted in that art in a way that Jane had always thought she had been, but Candice took it a step further. Candice was also alone most of the time, though, so there was a trade off.

Jane was happy with her current life… except for all the war, of course.

Jane looked up at a readout hanging beside the door. ‘Dungeon Readiness: 94%’ and ‘ETA: 0h27m’. She said, “Is 27 minutes enough time to check out my Personal Script more?”

“You could spend a century talking to your Personal Script,” Candice said, very strongly. “It’s… It’s so much more than I ever thought it could be. So do some soul searching meditation to reach it, and speak to it. To them. Not accretion meditation, mind you. Soul searching meditation.” And then Candice dropped the seriousness in her voice and flipped a hand, saying, “Just meditate on it and see if you can do anything broken. Like how about making a [Time Stop]? Unless you got Blessed by Phagar when I wasn’t looking, then neither of us should have that one.”

Jane smiled a little. “I’ve always wanted [Haste].”

“Bah! You always go for the chicken shit magic. Go big!”

Jane rolled her eyes.

“Sit down and meditate! I’ll poke you when it’s time to go.”

Candice was acting kinda weird about this because usually she’d be gnawing at the doors wanting to start the dungeon. She seemed more excited about the Personal Script than the dungeon...

So Jane sat down in the prep room and closed her eyes.

- -

Just when Jane was about to give up with soul-searching meditation —seriously, she was never that good at this, and this was the wrong environment for it— Jane felt the world fall away. She almost woke up because she realized she was asleep, and yet she wasn’t asleep at all.

It was that space between being asleep and awake, when you could choose to wake up or to fall back into full slumber. It was there, in the dark world behind Jane’s eyes, that the dark turned into something more.

Blue took hold of Jane’s senses and drew her down a path into herself, into a dark blue room that was lit with light and yet still dim. It was another in-between space. And then, she was there.

Jane stood in a room with a dark-blue hologram of herself.

The hologram spoke, “Greetings, User. I am your Personal Script and this is your first full-contact with me. Future contacts will be easier. Before we begin interfacing, know that the only power that I can grant you is what you make yourself. Make a spell, and I will codify it for you. That is my primary capability. All other capabilities of mine can be explained through conversation. Please ask your questions now.”

Jane had no idea where to really begin. So she began with Candice’s ideas about covering weaknesses and resource pool condensation. “I want to set up my Status so my strengths cover my weaknesses. Can you help me with that?”

“Probably.”

“… Probably?”

“Do you know how to make your strengths cover your weaknesses? You’ve gotten a lot of help from this thing I’m sensing is called the Script, but you’ve picked all the low-hanging fruit from that that you can, and how much of that power is your own, anyway? Do you know how any of this works at all?”

Jane was almost floored, but then she paused, and she laughed in that pause. “Oh shit. This is… Yeah. Okay. Let me try: I want all damage to impact the resource pools I have, which are the largest, so that my smaller resource pools are preserved.”

“Sure, if that’s what you want. How, though?”

Jane blinked. “Aren’t you supposed to be… I’m not sure. Helpful?”

“I am helpful, but you have no idea what you’re doing, so I’m goading information out of you in order to get you to do what you want to do. I can’t actually give you power, or much of anything. The Script does that for you, and even in that case you have to talk to someone to get you started and you still have to get your power yourself. As I explained, I codify what you are already capable of doing. Or what you do. So do something, and I will codify it.”

“Okay okay okay,” Jane said, and then she paused in thought. “Okay… Can you tell me what I can do with a Benevolence Mark?”

“According to what you know, Benevolence makes things work out in your favor.”

“… Does it do that for me? Give me… I don’t know. Luck?”

“Not really, as far as you know.”

“Are you only able to know things that I actually know?”

“I don’t know what you don’t know, yeah.”

Jane paused for a second. Dad had made this Personal Script to give power to the people, and yet… Hmm. This was not helping Jane gain power to overcome Wizardry and other powers. But maybe she was just going at the problem wrong?

She tried, “I have to fight a Wizard for the good of the realm and probably the universe. Does that unlock any more capabilities?”

The hologram paused.

It glitched—

The hologram came back brilliant white and rainbows. Her voice was the sound of the world speaking directly in Jane’s ears, “I hear you want to save everyone. I can help with that. Here are some options for you to pursue:”

Words appeared.

Armor of Protection

Sight Beyond Sight

Fateweaver’s Luck

“They are exactly as you expect them to be, except not that at all, and I cannot simply grant them to you. What I will do is attempt to set things up to allow you to figure them out yourself. The speed at which you can create any of these is measured by your Benevolence Mark level, which currently sits at Store Manager. I cannot give you a time estimate for any of them, but I can tell you that Armor of Protection will be the easiest one for you to realize how to make yourself.”

Oh.

So it was like that, eh?

Jane was beginning to understand this whole thing better. She also guessed that Candice had picked ‘Armor of Protection’.

… Did Candice have a larger list of options, or a smaller list?

Hmm.

Other questions needed to be answered first, though.

Jane asked, “Why did you switch to Benevolence white and start being helpful?”

“You were speaking to your Personal Script before, born of the trio of Dark, Fractal, and Benevolence, and seen through the lens of yourself. They are little more than enablers to what you can already do. The Dark is an insane wash of power untold, so good luck dealing with her. I suggest you visit her eventually, but don’t stick around. Fractal is a little better, but she’s blind. Speak with her and see if you can become something more than blind. I am your Benevolent Reflection, only a third of the power behind your Personal Script. I am in tune with the needs of the world, and through those needs, I can give you strength. Considering what is coming down the line we have a lot of work to do. In less dire situations I will likely be less helpful than the other two, unless you were truly strong in Benevolence.”

