There was a lot of fantastic information there.

Jane asked, “What does being strong in Benevolence look like? What would I need to be for you to always be this helpful?”

“The leader of a nation of millions or more, who desires to make that nation stronger through Benevolence, or anyone headed in that direction either through fate or personal choice and desire, will unlock me at my full capability at all points in time. Someone truly versed in the Fractal might have better luck pursuing that sort of power. The Dark is the Dark, and good luck with that, though they do give out the most power, so me saying ‘good luck with that’ is not being dismissive. I really do mean good luck with that, because you will get power, but it might not be what you need or want.” Jane’s Benevolent Mark said, “Anything smaller than national-level only activates me to the level you are experiencing now when the threat is large enough that the whole realm is in danger—” She glanced away, then turned back to Jane. “Pick a desired power and mana-alter your mana to Benevolence as much as you can in the following battles for it will be able to shield you from reality-based alterations better than what you are currently capa—”

A soft voice called from outside the room, and something pressed against Jane’s shoulder.

Benevolence rapidly added, “I might be able to help you make a second one later! But pick a starter now!”

Jane already knew which one she was picking. “Armor of Protection. I pick that one.”

And then Jane woke up.

- -

Jane blinked several times as the world came back into focus.

Candice was there, looking at her, grinning. “Did you manage anything?”

Jane glanced at the air, where some letters hung outside of a box that only she could see.

Current Benevolence Focus: [Armor of Protection]

Unlocked! Wizardry Resistance! Utilize Elemental Benevolence in all your workings against ultimate threats and parts of that Benevolence will cling to you, to shield you against reality alterations. Base Benevolence Mark affords full protection against <Store Manager> level Wizardry. Warning! Does not work against basic damage. Only reality altering.

WR: 1%

Jane asked, “What does a Wizardry Resistance of 1% even mean?”

Candice smiled wide. “Fuck if I know! I bet the faux-Wizard might trigger it, though, so let’s go find out.”

- - - -

Jane walked into the command center of the Glittering Depths dungeon of Greensoil.

Her father stood with Quilatalap and a few others, while Rebecca was at the controls. The special deployment of the Third Floor was almost ready, and there were so many things about this that Jane’s father didn’t like, but which he had chosen to accept anyway. It was fine that he was worried, but Jane had been here while he had been gone, and the people who worked here were good people.

Jane knew most of the story of this land through secondary sources since her father hadn’t spoken of much of it while he had been here, and then he had been gone for two years before he came back, and then it was Margleknot Margleknot Margleknot all until a few days ago when the War started for real. Jane knew about Dungeon Master Rebecca’s true nature as an original inhabitant of this dungeon, and how her real name was Fyuri. Rebecca was good at her job, and she didn’t need to make a dungeon slime repro to become dungeon master here, since she was born here.

Jane thought her a rather competent dungeon master.

Rebecca caught sight of Jane as she stepped into the command center. She poked at the controls, dictating the scenario, but she looked up long enough to say, “We’re about a minute from start. All systems are blue. That bar over there shows the level of worry we should be having over this false Wizard turning real, and it’s reading 1%—” She glanced at Erick. “It’ll never go below that. It might jump and fall 3 or 4 points at a time. Anything over 50% we stop the scenario. Usually it bounces around, and especially if the false Wizard starts seeing stuff that shouldn’t happen. Simply resisting his attacks does not set him off.”

That was enough to answer Jane’s questions even before she asked them, and a few more besides, but Rebecca was obviously focused on Erick more than her. Jane had a more personable relationship with the people of Glittering Depths, but Erick’s memories of this land and Fyuri’s memories and all that previous-life stuff was…

Was something Jane just didn’t want to think about, so she didn’t.

Jane asked, “How are Atunir’s prayer systems helping with stability?”

Rebecca loved that question, because it allowed her to grin and happily say, “The ritual in the north is doing amazing things for the scenario. The Faux Wizard today will be strong, but the dungeon is even stronger. Easily 10 times as much.”

Erick spoke up, “Good.”

He gripped Quilatalap’s hand a bit tighter, and Quilatalap squeezed back.

Jane ignored that.

Rebecca asked, “Shall we proceed, Wizard Flatt? Delve Master Jane Flatt?”

“I just came in to make sure everything was going well.” Jane said, “I’ll head to start.”

Erick didn’t answer. He just smiled a little, and breathed.

Rebecca said, “I’ll start the countdown when you are in position, when you say ‘ready’.”

The screens flickered a bit as the [Scry] cameras moved around and focused on empty lands all around the unmoving Siphon. In the normal Scenario, the Siphon was a kilometer-tall thing of silver metal and cutting edges, sitting in a wasteland of rock. It was broken, and the people of the other land were trying to fix it, so they could continue Siphoning away the world, stealing it and making it their own.

In this closer-to-real scenario, the Siphon was a 10-kilometer tall construct of twisted silver with a Wizard floating around on top. This version of ‘The Third Floor, The Broken Siphon’ was more like ‘The Third Floor – The very-much-working Siphon’, and this one was actively eating away at the land. That land then turned into power to flow across the void to the imperialist world. In both scenarios, though, the destruction of the Mana Siphon was the main goal of the Third Floor of the Glittering Depths.

This version had a Malevolent Wizard at the top.

It was a little extra addition that made this scenario actually worth running by outsiders training to fight Wizardry and such, like Jane today.

Quilatalap eagerly said, “I haven’t seen anyone make it past the front rotors until True Wizard Sitnakov tried this last month. He stopped before he made it within a kilometer of the false Wizard and they risked another Event.”

“Gods,” Erick muttered, as he squeezed Quilatalap’s hand and held it. “People get up to crazy shit all the time, eh?”

Quilatalap chuckled.

Jane headed to start.
