The ‘natural’ auroras of this northern pole had long since vanished ever since the day of Fenrir, when the Shells of adamantium layered over Veird’s original Surface. They had only been in existence for 10 years before that, though, because they required a magnetosphere and Veird didn’t have one until Jane’s father had drawn up plans for one.

The auroras were back, though, and different. Golden hues filled the world overhead like a dance of sparks and a wash of mist. And down here, the songs of priests echoed in the mountains, like an open-air church.

It was an absolute miracle of an experience.

Jane’s heart was thumping hard at the power in the air, and the people, and the divinity of it all.

Sitnakov was stunned, eyes fixed on the sky.

Almost everyone in the company was similarly stunned, but Jane and Karonditus had needed to keep their heads about them as the ‘leaders’ of this little trip.

“Looks like we have some checkpoints to clear, Karonditus. It’s your show here. Get it moving.”

Karonditus nodded seriously, and then he raised his voice and drew the party’s gaze. “Attention! Everyone with a uterus! If you get closer to the mountains you will likely end up pregnant if you even touch a man. Hand holding counts as touching! All of you women-looking people know what you’re in for, yeah?”

“Yeah yeah!” said Charon. She was a woman from the University of Candlepoint with a Script-given Class of Managineer. She was one of hundreds like that. She started walking forward with one hand on the floating cart she pulled behind her. “I got it clipped before I came here. I’ll get it healed back tomorrow.”

Karonditus hummed, unsure.

Charon rolled her eyes. “The priest I talked to said it was fine!”

A few of the women in the party were already holding hands with men; they were obviously couples seeking blessings.

Jane wished them the best of luck.

And then Jane started walking on the mountain path, up to the mountains, under the golden sky.

Sitnakov stayed with her, looking up as he walked, whispering, “Beautiful.”

Jane smiled as she looked over Sitnakov. The golden glows of the sky were the only light all around. That gold reflected off of the silver-ish mountains, casting everything in brilliance, while Sitnakov stood out like pure gold himself. “You’re beautiful.”

Sitnakov smiled wide and then he picked up Jane and kissed her for a brief moment.

Jane loved that about him. No matter what she appeared as, man or woman of any race or species, he had no problem expressing his love with a simple kiss, or some small, nice words.

They held hands as they walked into the mountain pass, alongside hundreds of other people, most of whom had been dropped outside the mountains through portals just like their team had been dropped.

The songs of singers deepened.

Together, Jane and Sitnakov walked under the monastic song of priests who stood on the sides of the mountain pass and wore woven-wheat hats and robes. The song echoed. The world reverberated. Jane was walking into the world’s largest cathedral—

Something poked out of the ground over there, and Jane recognized it. It was a thread of wheat, too small to be called a stalk, and yet it was growing fast, becoming a stalk of wheat. That was when Jane looked ahead, and saw even more stalks of wheat poking out of the ground.

Ahead, the crowd cleared as the pass ended and space opened up.

They exited the mountain pass into a field of golden wheat, under the bright gold sky, into a vast, vast valley between the mountains that was supposed to be made holey with deployment tubes, but was instead made holy with fields of grain and the song of ten thousand or more singers, gathered here and there, praising Atunir and her bounty. Far, far overhead was the first planetoid that her father had planted in that sky, with the help of the Goddess of Field and Fertility. It was as big as a moon, now, and it shone down brilliant white in a sea of gold.

Jane felt her heart hitch.

The entire party stilled, all of them transfixed in the moment. It was absolutely heavenly.

Some woman broke down crying to the side, thanking Atunir as she held her belly. Jane wasn’t sure, but she thought she heard baby cries among the hymnals. Another couple of Karonditus’s repair mission broke down in shared tears as that woman held her belly. Somehow, some priests came out of the field of wheat and ushered people whatever ways they needed to go.

Somehow, Jane and Sitnakov walked across the golden field.

She found herself holding Sitnakov’s hand, standing in front of an archway that led into the mountain complex itself. Karonditus and his main people were there, 5 of the team pushing floating carts down into the tunnels.

Sitnakov squeezed Jane’s hand a little bit, smiling and gold, as he asked, “A bit of a rush, ain’t it?”

Jane started laughing for joy, and Sitnakov joined her. Their laughter and happiness seemed to be a part of the songs in the air, along with babies crying and the sounds of wheat pushing up through the rocky stone mountains.

- - - -

It took a minute of walking for Jane to regain her composure, though she was still feeling off-kilter —in a fantastic way— by the time they entered the main facilities. Tenebrae’s Rocklings stood in pairs here and there in the wide, wide tunnels, checking everyone out. A few of the older Rocklings were wearing clothes instead of their simple rock bodies, and those ones directed people where they actually needed to go.

Jane walked toward the center.

All around her, wires from the entire rest of the place journeyed like collections of colored snakes, cordoned off to the sides of walls and out of the main paths. They were doing a lot of sudden reconstruction here, and nothing was getting put away as it should have been put away.

Priests were also putting up altars here and there, with big beeswax candles that dripped white wax and burning sticks of incense that drifted smoke into the air. Paladins in armor prayed with their swords and priests and priestesses prayed with folded hands. Bands of wheat were turned into bracelets and hats and prayer mats everywhere. Choirs of children sang hymns in hallways and old men and women sang songs in grand, newly-carved rooms that echoed.

And then Jane reached the center, and dad was there.

A few big people were here.

Standing right beside the main [Spellsurge Weave] for the entire project was Tenebrae, tall and green. Over there was Archmage Riivo, of Archmage’s Rest, down by Stratagold. He was an iron wrought. And then there was Jane’s father, tall and looking like a kind king, with a crown of black horns to match his black hair. Jane barely saw anything else in the room because now that she saw her father, everything else fell to the sides.

He was a weight upon the world… and yet not at all? Jane couldn’t feel him. Was it just a lightward? Jane and everyone else could usually feel him when he was around, like how you felt when a god was around, but different. Atunir was heavy in the air so maybe that’s why Jane had missed him.

Also, he didn’t show up to Jane’s mana sense at all.

“Dad?” Jane asked.

Dad turned and then, like a light switching from off to on, he smiled wide and he was Present in the moment. Just like that, his usual weight upon the world was back, and then he relaxed and Atunir retook the area. He now showed up to mana senses, though, so that was good.

“Jane! Almost didn’t recognize you. Good show not showing up with a uterus. Everyone who has a uterus is already pregnant, especially if they come this close.”

“Yeah. I heard,” Jane said, as she looked around. “Sitnakov wanted to come, and so did I.”

Sitnakov nodded to Erick. “Sir.”

Archmage Riivo spoke up, “Ah! Sitnakov, my boy! What brings you here?”

“I had to see it in person,” Sitnakov said, and then he went off with the Archmage, to talk of the magic and what was happening and other such stuff. Jane would get back to him later.

Jane asked her father, “How long till full saturation?”

“Politics gummed it up, so it’ll be another full day, at least. Maybe less,” Erick said, as he gestured to the map in front of them.

The [Spellsurge Weave] map of Fenrir and the planetoids hung in the air before them, like a holographic white sphere 5 meters wide with tiny pinpricks of golden dots all around it. It glowed, absolutely beautifully. The entire rest of the room also glowed, but in a different sort of way. The room had been transformed into a temple loaded with monitors and candles and tubes filled with wires and incense burning, smoke wafting and filling the air with the scents of applewood.

A lot of machines were hooked into the Weaver… as much as metal and exterior magic could hook into the Weaver, anyway. What really bridged the gap between the Weaver and tech were the several altars to Atunir, positioned around the map equally. A few different monks and paladins were in attendance around those altars, around the Weaver, heads bowed and lips mumbling in prayer, as they sat upon pillows that were really prayer altars themselves. Litanies of hope and good fortune and desires for good growth spilled from those monks, to flow into the [Spellsurge Weave].

The initial Weave had become a lot more than what it was. It was now an artifact and nexus of power, all on its own, doing tens of thousands of things at once, from negating the prayers of those down on Fenrir that were invariably picked up by the sights of the sun/moons in their sky, to alerting Jane’s father when direct intervention was necessary.

Even now, as Jane stood there, she watched her father watch the map.

The little glowing gold planetoids around the representation of Fenrir would sometimes flicker Red, and then go back to being gold. If Jane didn’t know better, she would have thought it a trick of the light, but there was no trick at all. There had been a problem, and then it had been solved.

Erick was out there, solving those problems right now, even as he was in the command center, watching it all happen.

A few very important numbers floated to the side, giving the overall readout of the machine. One of those numbers was the full coverage readout, saying ‘1.6%’, and ‘Time to next doubling: READY’. So they could double right now? Jane kinda wondered why they weren’t doubling when they could, but her father had already explained ‘politics’, and so it wasn’t her concern anymore. Another readout read ‘Integrity: 94%’ with breakdowns for ‘Spell coherence: 99%’ and ‘Tech resilience: 95%’ and ‘Divine Purpose: 87%’.

That divine purpose was kinda low.

Jane looked further to the sides. [Scry] orbs held in the ceiling, beyond protective glass and spellwork all over the place. They were tiny eyes looking in from all across the world, linking masses and rituals out there on Veird to the Goddess of Field and Fertility and this working right here. Churches all across the entirety of Veird were tuned in, but it wasn’t enough for full integrity.

That’s why Jane hadn’t really felt her father. He wasn’t really here until Jane was here, drawing his full attention. Most of his attention was out there, where he worked.

They needed more true believers here, in this space, but that’s what the massive influx of people outside on the mountain paths were for. The problem was getting solved.

That was probably all the explanation of ‘politics’ had meant.

Erick answered Jane’s questions even though she hadn’t asked any, “Parts are getting replaced, the spell itself is holding, and I’m out there doing what needs to be done. We’ll do the doubling in a few more minutes; 87% is good enough. When we reach 100% coverage we will have the metaphysical advantage in this war, and then we can begin to crack Fenrir’s Scheme and then take that land over. You’ll be involved heavily in that, Jane, along with everyone else who has a Personal Script. I expect godly resistance and the Personal Script should be able to help mitigate much of that threat, but it’s literally too much for me to handle on my own, so you’re gonna have to do that. I’ve already deployed thousands of PS’s to the Valkyries, too. Once we crack Fenrir’s Scheme, we’re also likely going to need to move to save the people there from dying to the vacuum of space. Once we take Fenrir back, then we’ll secure Nothanganathor’s cage, and then Nothanganathor himself. And then we’ll continue until the cage becomes just simple real estate.”

Jane gave no response. She just thought.

Tenebrae harrumphed, then he walked away, back to work.

Erick softly asked Jane, “So you’re shaped like a guy today. That’s new for you?”

Jane laughed at that, though she tried to keep it as respectful as she could. They were standing to the side of a very, very large divine ritual, and a lot of people were all over the place. She whispered, “I actually attended a party at House Benevolence once in a body like this one, just to see if I could pull one over on you. Burhendurur caught me before I could get anywhere near you.” She added, “Also, this isn’t that new. Evan is a guy all the time.”

Erick smiled. “How is your Personal Script coming along?”

“It’s going great… I think.” Jane wasn’t willing to be nearly as open as her father with regard to certain things, so she said, “The thing we talked about. The scenario will be ready soon. Another 5 hours, and then I’ll be ready to tackle it. Candice is feeling a lot better as well. She’ll be there as well.”

Erick breathed deep, then smiled softly and nodded. “I look forward to seeing the experiment.”

Jane chuckled a little at that. “See you later. I’m going to go find Sitnakov.”

Erick nodded.

Jane walked further into the complex, the paladins and priests singing deep and strong, their songs echoing through the tunnels of the Spellsurge Mountains, turning the entire place into a monastery to the Goddess of Field and Fertility. Golden wheat poked out from between especially dense piles of wires, and rocklings poked at the new growth, trying to understand it…

Jane looked at the rocklings.

Rocklings were shaped like child orcols.

And Sitnakov wanted kids.

Jane theoretically wanted kids… ya know, eventually. Not right now. Maybe in a few years, when they were back to fighting monsters instead of existential universal threats? Yeah. That would be a good time for kids.

… Oh holy shit. Was that really ‘a good time for kids’? Did that mean she was really considering this?

She was.

But Jane didn’t know how wrought made kids. She always imagined it was some sort of slime-budding process, but Sitnakov liked sex and everything worked for him as it would on a normal guy, so… Who knew? Maybe dad knew how wrought made babies?

