So much had changed in only a few short weeks. Rubber, glass, concrete, War Bonds, the world was changing around them at a breakneck pace, but even then, Luo-Luo worried things were not changing fast enough, not in her personal life at least. Days before Mila’s wedding, Lord Husband proposed to marry Luo-Luo on the Winter Solstice, and she turned him down, but now it was all she could do not to break down in tears with each passing day. Their relationship had improved to the point where they were less than lovers and more than friends, but it just wasn’t enough. They took strolls together at night and sometimes sat together for meals, but never alone and only rarely outside the company of his wives. Mila and Yan were utterly intoxicated by Lord Husband, and he with them, which meant even though almost a month had passed since his wedding with Yan, Luo-Luo was still an outsider looking in.

Oh, if only she hadn’t rejected his proposal like a moon-eyed fool... At this rate, she would be well into her thirties before he was ready to marry her, and that was assuming there were no other women besides Li-Li and Lin-Lin in his life. What if that fox Da’in succeeded in winning his affections, or the hordes of other women who sought to bear the child of an Imperial Scion. Liu Xuande and his fellow Imperial Scions were also bombarded with proposals and the like, but thus far, they’d resisted the urge to sow their seeds amongst the outer provinces and only kept company with the Imperial slaves they brought with them from the East. None of them seemed thrilled by the prospect of giving their children over to Imperial Service, and Luo-Luo could not fault them, for if Lord Husband’s children were also fated to... be given...

Oh no... no, no, no...

Assumptions... Luo-Luo was guilty of them more often than not, for she often felt like the answer was so obvious it didn’t bear further study, but what if this were like the misunderstanding with Lord Husband and Brother-in-Law Charok? Luo-Luo assumed they were related, because it appeared as if they were, just as she assumed Lord Husband’s children would be Imperial Scions themselves, but what if she was mistaken? The tenth generation of Nobility was always given over to Imperial Service, but while she assumed Lord Husband would be considered a first generation Noble, generation was usually determined by relation to the Emperor Himself.

And Lord Husband had no relationship to this Emperor, or the next, or any Emperor whatsoever, which meant that while logically he was a first generation Scion, it could easily be argued he was more than ten generations removed from any Emperor, meaning...

Meaning any child of his must be given over to Imperial Service.

“Hey? You seem distracted. Is everything alright?” So distraught by her unexpected discovery, Luo-Luo had no recollection of returning home to their manor. Around her, Lord Husband’s loving family sat about the courtyard in their couch swings and along the veranda to enjoy the cool autumn night after a sumptuous family banquet. Before her sat Lord Husband’s concerned expression, cuddling Mama Bun once more while Banjo and Baloo begged for his attention. Grinning as he embraced each bear in turn, he sat down beside her and laughed as the bears settled into their laps. Nudging her ever so gently with his elbow, he stroked Baloo’s head and said, “I’m here if you want to talk, or if you just want some company. If you just want to be alone, feel free to let me know and I’ll leave you to your thoughts, no offence taken.”

“It’s nothing,” she lied, too terrified to even consider the implications, for Lord Husband was not one to easily give up his child. Even securing jobs for his cattle was proving next to impossible, and he had trained Martial Warriors spying on village cart drivers to ensure his precious floofs were not harmed. Luo-Luo herself was not much better, for she always dreamed that her Patron would be kind enough to let her keep her children and powerful enough that it wouldn’t be an issue. Hell, she even privately hoped this cattle wagon venture failed so she could bring them back to live on the ranch and appreciate her music, for she noticed some of the cattle seemed upset by the loss of their friends. How was she supposed to live knowing her child might go through the same pains she had, or worse?

“Doesn’t seem like nothing,” Lord Husband said, keeping his tone carefully neutral. “But it’s fine if you don’t want to talk about it. Just know, I’m here if you do, and so are Yan, Mila, Lin-Lin, and everyone else.”

It was almost enough to make her cry, and she wanted to blurt out her suspicions for him to hear, but there was too much hinging on his good relationship with Shen ZhenWu, and this revelation was sure to stress it, whether her suspicions were true or not. “Thank you, Lord Husband,” she said, grateful she’d found such a kind and caring Patron. “But it’s nothing.”

Her actions betrayed her words as she wrapped her arms around his and leaned heavily against him, seeking comfort from his warm and sturdy presence. There they sat with the bears’ heads in their laps, stroking their fur and giggling at their silly expressions as if secluded in their own private world. They traded stories about the animals and shared tricks on keeping them contented, and their conversation was so soothing and peaceful, Luo-Luo didn’t even notice that the others had left them alone, not until Lord Husband cleared his throat and said, “Well, it’s getting late. We should head off to bed.”

Gently lowering Baloo’s snoring head down into the grass, Lord Husband straightened up and brushed the dust from his pants. Then, he hesitated ever so slightly before offering her his hand with a shy, almost expectant smile and asked, “Would you mind if I walked you to your room?”

A question she’d been waiting to hear for agonizing months, an implication only barely hinted at to leave her ample room to refuse, because he didn’t want her to feel forced into this. Luo-Luo knew she should refuse, at least until she made certain of his Imperial Status, but she’d been waiting for this moment for so long, had ached for it, dreamed of it, and now it was finally here...

“Yes,” she said, the word coming out hot and heavy. “Yes, that would be –”

“Trouble approaches, Junior Brother.” Appearing before them out of thin air, the Abbot gently lowered two heavy, stained sacks to his feet before collapsing into the grass. Raising a blood-covered hand in supplication, the aged Abbot intoned, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, such pride, such sin. Our foes return home with tales of victory and triumph, while our presence provides proof of a shameful defeat.”

It was only then that Luo-Luo realized the sacks were not sacks at all, but the crumpled forms of Ancestral Beasts, namely Guan Suo and GangShu themselves. Blood, dirt, and injuries covered them from head to toe, and the Abbot did not look much better. “They will bring violence and bloodshed, Junior Brother,” the Abbot said, his voice calm and eyes pained. “And this one is helpless to stop them.”

With that, the Abbot collapsed in the grass and Lord Husband ran over to help him, leaving Luo-Luo to consider if this latest tribulation was too much for her poor heart to bear.

Chapter Meme
