At times, it almost felt like he was always playing a part, the part of Falling Rain, loving husband, filial son, dutiful noble, and creative visionary, but with Li-Li, he was free to be his true self. A pet-loving fool who spoke in a high-pitched voice while begging sweet Princess to let him pet her ‘floofy face’, a venture he immediately abandoned upon noticing Luo-Luo’s presence, thereby proving her observation. “Yellow One,” he called, tossing the rest of the honey biscuit to Princess while straightening up and taking in Luo-Luo’s uncovered shoulders and bared bosom, “Could you please fetch a cloak for Luo-Luo before we set out? Thanks.” Smiling, he met Luo-Luo’s eyes and nodded in silent acceptance of ungiven thanks, because she deliberately left her cloak behind so she would have an excuse to cuddle even if Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin were to join them in the carriage.

Granted, the last time she tried this, he’d simply given her his cloak and shivered with cold on his own, a noble gesture which made her feel terrible since she was a Martial Warrior and more suited to withstand a light chill than he. Perhaps that’s why he was so discerning of her needs, because he didn’t want to be cold again...

Regardless of her complaints, the truth was that Lord Husband had become more amenable in recent weeks, albeit nowhere near as amenable as she would like. Still, any progress was good progress, and she contented herself with sidling up beside him to discuss how his recent endeavours were progressing. With the Autumn Solstice three weeks behind them, the migration of farmers had long since come to a standstill, but swathes of skilled tradesmen were still flocking to the Western Border with each passing day, and thanks to them, the districts had blossomed into burgeoning boroughs teeming with life and laughter. Carpenters, tanners, brewers, tailors, and more, while these individuals were far from wealthy, they generally had enough coin on hand to afford better building materials than dirt, especially at Lord Husband’s generous and almost ruinous prices.

Honestly, sometimes it felt like Lord Husband didn’t care to be wealthy, and would happily live out his life in a tiny yurt. Still, as talented as he was at spending his coin, he was even better at accruing it. Five days after his wedding with Yan, he hosted the second War Bond auction in the Central Citadel, and it was a resounding success by any measure. This time, they put a thousand War Bonds up for auction, because while they anticipated higher prices due to increased interest in War Bonds, Lord Husband also expected he would need more coin for his next projects. Thanks to his careful planning and diligent efforts, he raised a total of forty-million gold which he immediately pledged towards building roads. Not just a single thoroughfare stretching across the Western Border to facilitate troop and supply transport, but he also committed to building a sprawling network of ‘paved’ roads throughout all three provinces. He likened it to the grand avenue which stretched from the Northern Wall to the headquarters of the Society of Heaven and Earth, except his roads would connect every city in the Empire to usher in a new era of trade and prosperity.

This would be a massive undertaking, and even his magnificent discovery of quick-drying cement only meant his goals were merely attainable rather than impossible, but his next announcement drove the gathered nobles into fevered excitement. Instead of building all the roads by himself, he announced his intention to only supply plans and materials for the project, while contracting the labour out to local construction companies. A sensible move by any measure, but not even Luo-Luo expected him to give up so much control. She suspected it was because he wanted to distance himself from responsibility and spend more time with his wives and personal studies, but Luo-Luo didn’t agree with his decision. Contracting labour out would open him up to being cheated by unscrupulous individuals, ones who would be more than happy to falsify evidence and bill him for ‘unforeseen’ issues, but then Lord Husband drove his hidden knife home. The Imperial contracts would be offered to the lowest bidder, meaning the winning company would be paid whatever amount they bid, and not a single copper more. Failure to complete the project would result in breaking Imperial contract, which, at minimum, was punishable by death.

A clever workaround to do away with cheats and liars, but Lord Husband also introduced several caveats to protect the lives of slaves and labourers involved in the project, including steep fines for deaths and mistreatment. This had the full support of his Patron, Shen ZhenWu, who announced that every able-bodied man and woman in the Empire was a resource to be safeguarded, for they were all Children of the Mother Above. Though his vocal support came as something of a surprise, Luo-Luo reasoned it was more for the purpose of morale than anything else. These trying times had not been kind to the lowly peasants and commoners, who worked harder, ate less, and were all but held in contempt as they died in droves to keep the Empire going, so a few words would do much to soothe their anger and appease their pride, even if nothing changed in the end.

Then again, with Lord Husband quietly paying his Khishigs to teach commoners the Forms, as well as his endeavour to arm every peasant at the wall with a crossbow and quiver of bolts, it was only a matter of time before the balance of power tipped in favour of the common people. Having seen the aftermath of crossbows at work on the battlefield, Luo-Luo was under the impression that most Martial Warriors were letting pride blind them to the facts when it came to their contempt for ranged weaponry, and she worried Lord Husband would be blamed for the inevitable peasant rebellion.

Assuming the peasant rebellion failed of course, which would have widespread ramifications for the entire Empire at large. Success or failure wasn’t even the biggest issue, not with the threat of Defiled knocking at their door, not to mention the all-too-real danger of defeated rebels turning into crazed Defiled...

Luo-Luo found it impossible to gauge just how far ahead Lord Husband could see, and she sometimes wondered if his plans were guided by the Mother Above. Perhaps even he didn’t understand the full breadth of his actions, and she was giving him too much credit. Then again, while it might feel like events had a way of falling perfectly into place and leaving him poised to capitalize, hindsight revealed all the innocuous comments and well-timed steps Lord Husband took to get there, and she realized it wasn’t fate at all, but broad vision, uncanny insight, and careful preparation.

So perhaps Lord Husband aspired to one day overthrow the Emperor, which left Luo-Luo in a moral quandary. As a dutiful citizen and Imperial Servant, she was honour-bound to report a rebel insurgent to the authorities, even if said rebel was Lord Husband himself, yet she couldn’t help but think he would make for an incredible Emperor, perhaps the greatest Emperor who ever lived, barring the Founding Emperor of course. Just look at what Lord Husband had done, first as a mere Warrant Officer, then as a crippled Imperial Scion, and now as Minister of Finance. How much more could he accomplish as Emperor?

A stirring around her bosom drew Luo-Luo from her treasonous thoughts, and she quickly pulled a purse out from her dress, where it sat tucked against her skin for warmth. Ignoring Lord Husband’s cautious retreat, she opened the purse on her lap and waited for Noodle to unfurl and slide out. The beautiful viridian viper sluggishly slithered out onto Luo-Luo’s silk dress, where he struggled to find traction before falling still and offering her a plaintive stare. Giggling at his adorably aggrieved expression, she offered him her palm and he promptly climbed on and circled around her wrist in a snug show of affection. “Hello, my beauty,” she called, using the same sing-song tone Lord Husband reserved for his pets. “Good to see you awake at last.”

With winter soon upon them, this was becoming something of a concern, for Emerald Vipers thrived in the hot and humid climates of the South. Even Central’s temperate autumns were too chilly for the beast, which Lord Husband claimed was because lizards and snakes were ‘cold blooded’ and therefore unable to generate their own body heat. There was something to his claims, though how he knew this, he couldn’t say, so Luo-Luo did her best to keep little Noodle warm.

“Wow,” Lord Husband exclaimed, still keeping his distance while using his foot to bar Jimjam’s path. There was no need to be so concerned, but he had yet to warm up to Noodle, as it were. “He’s gotten a lot longer. Like... a lot a lot.”

Which only went to show how little attention Lord Husband paid Noodle and Luo-Luo. “Indeed,” Luo-Luo proclaimed, giving Noodle’s head a light scratch. “He was only a few weeks hatched when we first got him, and he’s shed his skin five times since then, though he’s fast approaching his adult size.” Though only marginally wider than before, Noodle now stretched from fingertip to past her elbows, almost encroaching upon her shoulder, but he was a sweet, docile beast, not at all like the books described his kin. This may have something to do with whatever it was the Medical Saint did to render Noodle’s biological venom ineffective, but there was nothing to be gained from asking, and she rather liked the snake’s friendly demeanour. “Would you like to hold him?”

Truth be told, Luo-Luo only offered to see Lord Husband flinch, and he shook his head in staunch refusal, but Li-Li was game to try. Holding out her hand without uttering a word, Li-Li flicked her cat ears and cast her eager gaze at Luo-Luo, leaving her no room to refuse. Inwardly worried Noodle might come to love Li-Li too much, Luo-Luo urged the little snake over into the half-cat’s waiting palm, who accepted him without batting an eye. As Noodle explored his new surroundings, Li-Li watched with fascinated interest, and were it not for Mama Bun fast asleep in her arms, she no doubt would have brought her other hand over to touch him.

Unfortunately, while snake and half-cat seemed amenable to each other’s company, the weasel bear was of a different mind. Raising her hackles with a throaty, guttural growl, Princess’s predatory stare turned Luo-Luo’s stomach and raised Noodle’s vigil. It was almost hypnotic watching him rise up in warning, swaying ever so gently from side to side while baring fangs and forked tongue. Terrified the weasel-bear would make short work of Noodle, Luo-Luo hastily collected her little friend and gently clutched him close to her chest while humming a cheery tune. Thankfully, this was enough to appease not just Noodle, but Princess as well, who settled back on her haunches and sat on the carriage seat, clutching Li-Li’s arm close for comfort like an adorable toddler with her mother.

To further soothe their ruffled spirits, Luo-Luo brought out her pipa and played a relaxing tune, which set Noodle to undulating and Princess’s tail to wagging. This set Lord Husband back to trying to win the weasel-bear’s affection, all the while keeping a close eye on Noodle. The rest of their carriage ride passed by in relative peace, and they spent the rest of the day playing with Lin-Lin and the twins and strolling through the districts to take in the new sights. The originally unappealing dirt hovels were now covered in verdant grass, blending them into the local landscape and offering a quaint and rustic sense of comfort to their otherwise unremarkable appearances. The decidedly upscale Bekhai district was spotless as could be, and there were no tensions between Lord Husband’s people and the farmers and civilians, many of whom originally worked on Lord Husband’s beet farms. Banners and pennants decorated the wide eaves and upturned roofs of the beautifully designed buildings, any of which would fit right into a wealthy city district, while papers bearing news and announcements were posted at almost every intersection, alongside a healthy sprinkling of saplings which would eventually sprout into beautiful, fruit bearing trees.

Their stroll also brought them to the neighbouring district to the south, which was not quite as beautifully crafted as the Bekhai district, but still had a homey sense of comfort about it. Here, potted plants were popular decor, as were small gardens and fields of grass lining the smooth cement roads which facilitated the ease of travel. Even on foot, it took less than two hours to cover the distance from district to district, and it didn’t even take half that for Lord Husband’s cattle wagon to bring them back. Yet another venture of his, putting his many cattle to work hauling people and goods along the districts for a small fee. Thus far, his wagons only covered a dozen or so districts since he had yet to find enough people he trusted to care for his precious pets, but the sweet bull pulling their wagon seemed happy enough, and even greeted Luo-Luo with an affectionate nuzzle.

