Swallowing a mouthful of tepid tea, Luo-Luo felt it seep around the lump in her throat as she sat and stared at the papers neatly arranged across the table. She’d personally gone through all of them to check and double-check the information contained within, and they painted a disturbing and downright terrifying portrait of the world around her. Now, as she watched Lord Husband go through those same papers, she prayed he would come up with a different, less terrifying explanation to soothe her unsettled nerves.

At first glance, the information seemed innocuous enough. A report on Shen Mu’s lumber industry, including a detailed estimate of what the city’s warehouses held prior to its destruction. Bills of sale from skilled tradesmen leaving the doomed city months in advance, bringing their entire families away to disappear into the wilderness. Copies of Shen Jin’s comprehensive tax records, recounting every copper collected from goods and travellers moving through the sole trade route between West and North in the year prior to the Defiled invasion. Conflicting harbormaster logs from ports all around the Azure Sea which were evidence of smuggled goods on ships whose captains brought their cargo and crew west, only to never return and leave their homes, families, and profitable trade-routes behind.

Luo-Luo stumbled across all of this information and more whilst working with MuYang to verify Rang Min’s claims regarding the widespread theft and fraud plaguing the Imperial supply lines, and every time she found a single loose thread, she followed it to the same, unpleasant conclusion. Individually, these facts were meaningless and unimportant, but put together, they hinted at a concentrated effort to move products and people into the West in a clandestine matter, an effort which had been going on for months, if not years before the Defiled invasion. In fact, had Shen Mu not been put to the sword, the City would have soon discovered a serious shortage in skilled tradesmen, and Luo-Luo suspected their warehouses had been pilfered as well, holding perhaps as little as half of what the reports indicated. And this was assuming someone had set up an unregistered logging company somewhere north of Shen Jin, yet south and west of any other Northern City, because there was far more lumber moving into the West than Luo-Luo could legally account for.

It wasn’t just lumber either. In the year prior to the Defiled invasion, the North sold record amounts of provisions, cloth, stone, leather, and weapons to the West, averaging close to four times the quantity sold in previous years. Knowing this, Luo-Luo supposed the stolen goods were being moved West as well, though she had yet to uncover any definitive proof. She was thankful to even know this much, because none of this would have come to light if not for MuYang’s tireless dedication and Imperial Scion Jian Xianhe’s canny insight, so she was all but certain of it now. Whatever shadowy mastermind was behind all the theft and fraud plaguing Imperial supply lines was working for or with the Defiled and had done so for months, which meant there were Enemy agents lurking within their ranks.

A fact Lord Husband apparently suspected from the moment he heard Rang Min’s report, and didn’t share so as not to frighten Luo-Luo or colour her judgment. Even now, as he went through her notes and verified her information, he didn’t look upset or surprised, but resigned, as if all of this was merely confirming what he already knew.

Logically, Luo-Luo had always known that the Enemy was crafty and insidious to the extreme, but the thought that she might well have brokered a deal or corresponded with a Defiled agent or sympathizer left her trembling in fright. Worst of all, the evidence pointed to a conspiracy taken on by dozens, if not hundreds of individuals working in concert, yet done in a compartmentalized manner which left them unaware of who their insidious allies might be. Of course, not all of those people had to be Defiled, because looking the other way for Nobles and Merchants was almost ingrained in Imperial culture, but it was mind-boggling that no one had come forth to shine a light on these issues yet.

No, that wasn’t true, for also on Luo-Luo’s desk were reports of missing husbands, wives, sons, and daughters, men and women who disappeared without a trace and whose whereabouts were still unknown to this day. Some might have just gone into hiding to avoid the Imperial Decree mandating they take up Imperial contracts, and others might have just abandoned their lives and families for other reasons, but there were too many missing tradesmen for Luo-Luo to simply ignore like so many city guardsmen and Imperial Adjudicator’s already had.

“Welp,” Lord Husband said, sitting back with a sigh. “Looks like there are Defiled sympathizers in the North working secretly to supply the West. Guess we’re all fucked.”

That was certainly less optimistic than what Luo-Luo had hoped for, and the lump in her throat grew three sizes larger. Reaching for her cup of tea with shaky hands, she carefully brought it to her lips while MuYang oozed disgruntled disapproval. “Mind your words,” he chided, as grim and cheerless as always. “An errant comment can give hope to the hopeless, or render a killing blow to wavering courage.”

“Fair enough.” Accepting the criticism without blinking, Lord Husband sighed and said, “Still... Things are looking grim.”

“Why?” With elbows propped on the table and head resting in his hands, the irreverent Jian Xianhe presented an image at odds with the ideal Imperial Scion, impeccably dressed and exquisitely groomed yet coarse and boorish in behaviour. Never once did the man stand when Luo-Luo or Lord Husband entered the room, and were it not for her loud objections, the lout would likely have his bare feet resting on the table instead of his clothed elbows. “So the Enemy made plans to build homes and feed the populace before invading,” Xianhe said, offering the barest hint of a shrug. “Hardly a dire threat, all things considered, and it’s more than what the Imperial Clan would do if the situation were reversed.”

Words which would be considered blasphemous anywhere outside this room, but MuYang and Lord Husband shared the ill-mannered Scion’s low opinion of the Empire and took things in stride, as did Luo-Luo now that she’d grown used to their impertinence. “The food is not for feeding commoners,” Lord Husband said, absently staring at the documents as if waiting for the answers to jump out at him. “The food is for their enslaved workforce who must remain sane and healthy to do their jobs, as well as potential new soldiers, the so-called Chosen of Heaven who are a different breed of Defiled. More in control, less irrational, and all the more dangerous for it, they combine the rapid Martial progress of Defiled tribesmen with the training, discipline, and equipment of Imperial soldiers. With Gen’s Oration bringing more recruits to their side, soon, they will outnumber the Imperial Army even without the tribesmen to bolster their numbers. What’s more, I believe at least some of the materials will be used in building siege weapons for when they finally march on Central. It’s not enough to win by relying on the Defiled, because this isn’t about vengeance or revolution. He’s an arrogant man who feels he was wronged, so he means to use the Chosen to show the world he was right all this time...”

Luo-Luo exchanged glances with MuYang and Xianhe, all of them unsure what Lord Husband was talking about. “Who are you speaking of?” Xianhe asked, stroking his meticulously groomed beard with an atrociously filthy hand. “And what is he right about?”

Noticing he’d said too much, Lord Husband’s brief moment of panic was quickly hidden by a knowing grin. “Above your pay grade, I’m afraid,” he quipped, eliciting a chuckle from the unpaid Scion, one who was more than happy to take advantage of the fine tea and alcohol Lord Husband kept in the office. “Looks like I’ll need to set a meeting with Shen ZhenWu.”

After an entire year of Luo-Luo’s careful use of the correct title, Lord Husband finally caught on to proper decorum. ‘Divine True Warrior’ was a loftier form of address than mere ‘Legate’ of the Empire, and so Lord Husband’s Patron should be addressed as such, but for a time, Luo-Luo feared Lord Husband was purposely using the lesser title as a snub. To think, it took four other Imperial Scions using his Patron’s proper title before he thought to ask why, at which point Liu Xuande explained things exactly as Luo-Luo had, yet somehow, Lord Husband finally understood. Maddening is what it was, to know Lord Husband was so smart, yet so hard-headed it took multiple people telling him the same thing before he would even consider believing it. Of course, it didn’t help that everyone else in the outer provinces thought Shen ZhenWu was his true name and referred to him only as ‘Imperial Legate’, but the publicly favoured contender for heir to the throne seemed to take great delight in the misconception. To make matters worse, the Royal Guardians and Imperial Scions under Lord Husband’s command had all been ordered to keep quiet about Shen ZhenWu’s true identity, much like Luo-Luo herself. If Lord Husband knew who he was dealing with, perhaps he would better remember his manners and stop attending meetings in his ‘casual’ outfits...

Then again, Lord Husband would balk at changing clothes for a meeting with the Emperor Himself. At least she was able to steer him away from wearing sandals all the time, lest he complete his transformation into a lowly street thug and lose the respect of his peers.

Upon learning his Patron was not in the Northern Citadel, Lord Husband gave orders to MuYang and Xianhe to prepare for a journey south, which would leave first thing tomorrow morning. Though he put great effort into appearing calm and unconcerned, Luo-Luo could sense the tension bubbling over inside him as she took his arm and accompanied him out of the office. “Any other business you need to attend to before we leave for Central?” Lord Husband asked, and upon seeing her surprise, he patted her hand and smiled. “I’d very much appreciate it if you explained your findings to Shen ZhenWu before I share my conclusions. In the meantime, would you care to join me on a trip to the district? I figured I’d pay my sister a visit to let her know I’ll be gone and invite her here for dinner, then ride back with Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin when they’re ready.”

“That sounds delightful, Lord Husband. Luo-Luo is happy to accompany you on both accounts.” Heart racing in excitement and embarrassment from his amused smile, she cursed herself for her past foolishness as they collected the Guardian Turtle and headed back to the manor to retrieve their carriage. Oh how her cheeks had burned at the memory of when she quietly suggested Lord Husband behave more appropriately around his “brother’s” wife, only for him to immediately laugh and share the tale with the rest of the family. It was a minor misunderstanding which could have happened to anyone, assuming Brother-in-law Charok and Lord Husband were brothers by blood, but no. Sister-in-Law Alsantset was Lord Husband’s sister by adoption, and now they both took great delight in teasing Luo-Luo about her mistake by commenting on how they shouldn’t behave inappropriately around each other every time she was in earshot.

Still, even this teasing was a marked improvement from the detached apathy and indifference which preceded it. In the weeks following his marriages to Mila and Yan, Lord Husband was more compassionate and amicable towards Luo-Luo, though he had yet to invite her into his bed. No, that honour belonged solely to his two amorous wives, who kept him so busy Luo-Luo wondered how he even had the energy to stay awake during the day, much less stroll about with a skip in his step. Insatiable and indefatigable were terms which came to mind, but Luo-Luo’s only hope of experiencing this first-hand was to wait until Mila and Yan were not around to monopolize him.

And now, with this trip back to the Central Citadel, it seemed like her chance had finally come...

Or it would have, if not for one minor detail Luo-Luo overlooked. After freshening up at the manor, changing into a more appropriate travelling clothes, and collecting her pipa, she returned to the carriage with Jimjam on her heels and found Li-Li already waiting in the carriage with Lord Husband, the former cuddling Mama Bun close while the latter fed Princess honey biscuits from across the aisle. In all her excitement, Luo-Luo forgot Li-Li and the timid weasel-bear would be accompanying them, and while the taciturn half-cat was hardly the most affectionate person around, Luo-Luo feared Lord Husband would undoubtedly pick Li-Li over herself, if he were ever in dire need of comfort. They were a well-matched pair, so comfortable with one another they could sit together in complete silence for hours without end. There was an understanding between them, a bond which transcended that of friends yet fell woefully short of lovers, but it was far more than Luo-Luo shared with Lord Husband, and perhaps even more than Mila or Yan shared with him as well.

