A thousand appendages failed to grab onto the hidden enemy, but Zac didn’t have to wait long for the target to appear on its own. A sudden and extremely intense scream of danger made Zac flash out of the way with the help of a Void-activated [Skystriker]. The danger sense only abated by half, and Zac unhesitatingly swung [Verun’s Bite] in a wide overhead arc.

Zac felt a pang of pain in his hand as his axe struck something harder than metal. Space rippled the next moment as a figure appeared out of nowhere. The hidden enemy was an enormous centipede that looked like it had been stitched together from dozens of Rapture Beasts. Its back was covered in a multitude of oily feathers, while its legs were crooked wings ending in serrated talons.

It latched onto the ceiling the moment it appeared, effortlessly ripping apart the vines blocking the way. It wasn’t just because of a disparity of strength. The first generation of vines was already withered because of the overtly Miasmic environment. However, death was part of the skill, and the next generation was already sprouting, sporting greater resistance against the Dao of Death.

The centipede had no maw, only an enormous eye that had almost stared Zac down point-blank moments ago. Despite Zac’s various advantages, he didn’t dare face that stare head-on. Wherever it looked, Zac's vines immediately turned to ash. Zac activated [Apex Jungle] and used the rebound of his strike against the centipede's leg to fly into a tree, appearing right behind the creature.

[Verun’s Bite] was already glowing with swirls of Life and Conflict, allowing Zac to unleash [Rapturous Beginning] right onto the centipede’s head. The demarcation born between the churning swirls of Zac’s Daos tore through the outer layer of feathers, which exhausted a surprising amount of energy.

Only half the force remained when the attack struck flesh. It was barely enough to create a shallow wound, and drops of ichor, five points similar to the pool of concentrate, fell to the ground. While the attack failed to cause any real damage, it was enough to fully draw the centipede’s attention. Zac was yanked away into a tree by a vine, his mind spinning from the toxic fumes released by the blood. It was just in time, too. The C-grade beast’s head yanked around, annihilating a hundred trees where its stare passed.

“Go!” Zac shouted as the centipede barreled through the forest.

Thousands of vines emerged from the surrounding trees, wrapping themselves around the monstrosity while Zac threw out occasional bursts with [Evolutionary Edge] to keep its attention. Generations of vines died and were reborn in the blink of an eye, each time gaining a slightly darker hue.

Suddenly, the centipede stopped in place as it failed to directly tear apart the vines coiled around its body. It was at that moment that three vines shot forth from the swarm, each as durable as a D-grade Spirit Tool. They stabbed into the gap between the two frontmost segments. They barely managed to dig in deep enough to latch on, making it harder for the creature to wave its head around.

Unfortunately, the centipede had plenty of other eyes, and one of them must have spotted Tavza carefully scooping the concentrate into earthen jars. The centipede wailed with fury, and Zac felt a terrifying premonition. There was no need to coordinate. Zac and Tavza disappeared from the building, leaving a third of the concentrate behind as they escaped through different cracks.

Zac kept his skills going to help their escape. A few minutes later, they reconvened inside a building a mile away from the rotunda. They could hear and feel the centipede thrashing around inside, but it thankfully never left its lair. The mission was a success, though it left Zac with a sour taste in his mouth. After successfully killing a few Monarchs, failing to even wound the centipede felt like a failure.

Sure, he didn’t use his strongest skills and his focus was to distract, but Zac wasn’t sure he could’ve killed the target even if he went all out. It was way more durable than he’d expected, especially for a creature with stealth abilities. A putrid stench dragged Zac out of his thoughts. It was Tavza who held out one of the two jars, which helped perk right Zac up.

Judging by the roars of his other body, he’d secured the means to break through.
