"Do you think that's a proper thing to do?" Cullywier asked. There was no judgment in his voice, simply curiosity. “He cannot truly hurt me, and this might have been noticed by another party.”

"Proper?" Shiv thought about it and shrugged. "Not sure, but I do know this: if you don't act first when someone's trying to hurt you, you're going to be the one who suffers first, and I am not someone who likes to bleed for free."

"Still, you chance that Lord Rackham might remember your face. Might remember the indignities he suffered immediately after speaking to you."

"Yeah? Well, I think he'll be lucky to remember his own name after that ogre knocked the daylight out of him. He's going to be spending a few days sleeping that off. Or he'll be heading to a healer for that shattered jaw. Actually…”

Shiv used his Aegis of Assimilation to cup his own jaw, and the moment he did, a mana rendition of his facial structure manifested. After that, he focused on the microspells simulating the architecture of the jawbone and turned to see if he could find his most recent victim. To his surprise, he could see all the other biological signatures around him light up. And there, currently stumbling out of the door of the pub he'd been into while mugs of beer were thrown after him, was Lord Rackham's bio-simulation. His jaw was almost entirely shattered; just parted splinters compared to every other jaw highlighted in Shiv’s vicinity.

"Adept Toughness at most," Shiv noted. "Probably barely even that. How do these nobles even live through life being so soft and brittle?"

"By having enchanted armor and someone else to fight for them," Adam answered derisively.

"Oh, so they're all like you," Shiv replied, nodding sagely.

"What?" Adam cleared his throat exaggeratedly. "I take offense! I'm nothing like that fool. How dare you!”

"You have special armor, and I do most of your fighting for you."

"Shiv, I'm going to shoot you in the back of the head sometime soon."

"Yeah, yeah, there it is, the noble urge to abuse the downtrodden and poor. Felling nobles. They’re all the same…”

"Your grandmother is quite literally the leader of the Republic."

"My grandmother isn't anything. I don't have a grandmother," Shiv growled. “And besides, she would have probably commanded the guy to force the cane up his own ass. Speaking of, you want a new sword cane? I have two. Took both of them from nobles. What’s it with these canes, anyway?”

“Popular fashion,” Adam said simply.

“That’s it?’

“Most people want to be admired and participate in culture.”

Shiv grunted. “Dunno, seems like most people are pretty easily manipulated into doing something because someone else does it too.”

“A portrait of humanity,” Whisper commented pithily. The orc had joined them before Shiv had left the coliseum again, saying he was quite interested in what the conversation with the Dragon Brokers might entail.

As they finally entered the establishment proper, Shiv found the inside of the Dragon's Biscuit filled with a haze of flavorful smoke, delectable perfume, and practiced laughter that went off like ringing bells.
