And as his lunch break arrived, he took his sweet time with the bread in his hands, slicing it clean and even. There was little need to rush.

And with no rain soaking through his uniform, the little ritual felt extra special.

A good day to enjoy a succulent meal.

His gaze drifted briefly toward the road beyond the gate.

He wondered how much longer the expedition would take out there. According to his adventurer friend, it could take well over a week – depending on nest size, and how far it was.

Which meant more quiet days ahead. His already quiet posting felt even more deserted without that noisy bunch mulling about.

He wondered how it was going.

Hopefully well.

Fewer giant ants near the city was generally considered a good thing.

And once they were done…

The town would probably get even livelier.

Though, truth be told…

It already had, lately.

Derek huffed a quiet laugh under his breath as he reached for the fillings.

Didn’t even need to think long about the why.

A certain little speedy troublemaker came to mind immediately.

Silver haired, always cheerful, and looking at every opportunity to grab more food with those piercing golden eyes.

The town had felt different ever since she showed up. More animated, and full of life. Shaken up from its stupor just enough to wake people up.

And he, too, was one of the ‘victims’ of that unpredictable fluffball.

He glanced down at the sandwich he was assembling.

He used to just… make them.

Sure, he put in the effort to make them good. To make them look good. The taste a reward on its own.

But it was, more often than not…

Quick. Simple. Just merely good enough.

But now?

Now he adjusted the layers slightly, pressing the meat into place with more care than strictly necessary. Experimented with condiments until ingredients fit just right.

All because a certain someone had called it–

“Awoomazing!”

Derek snorted softly.

Yeah.

That.

So now he tried just a little bit harder.

Nicer cuts, slices aligned just right. Filling balanced, not too much, and not too little. Structure holding just right.

A sandwich made greater than the sum of its parts.

A delight for the senses.

Yep, that felt just right.

Another nugget of sandwich wisdom to his repertoire. And a repertoire he needed, since his new little friend consumed his sandwiches and sandwichy philosophies with equal zeal.

So what other ones could he come up with?

He frowned slightly as he added the final layer.

“…Alright,” he muttered under his breath. “If each sandwich is… an idea…”

His knife hovered for a moment.

“…Then what would this one represent? What wisdom do you hold, o mighty sammich?”

He eyed it critically.

Good meat. Solid base. Clean layering.

Reliable. Dependable.

“…Stability comes from the layers a sandwich holds?” he tried.

He immediately grimaced.

“Too stiff.”

He adjusted the top slice slightly.

“…Sandwich of–”

“Hiii–!”

Derek flinched.

The knife stopped mid-motion as his head snapped to the side.

And there she was.

Right next to him.

Bright. Grinning. And completely unbothered by the very concept of approaching a guard like a normal person.

Golden eyes locked onto him.

No – onto the sandwich.

Of course.

“That smells delicious!” Luna chirped happily.

Derek stared at her for a long second.

Then exhaled slowly through his nose.

“…One day,” he said, very calmly, “could you perhaps approach from a direction I can actually see coming?”

Luna tilted her head.

Considered that.

Then nodded.

“Yip yep! If Luna remembers!”

Her gaze dropped immediately back to his hands.

“…New sandwich?” she asked, very serious.

Derek looked down at it too.

Then back at her.

“…Indeed.”

Luna’s eyes lit up.

“Oh!”

A pause.

Somehow, Derek already knew what came next.

Luna’s smile brightened, her tail wagged hopefully, and the fateful words fell.

“Trade?”

Derek, Town Guard, Great Sandwich Maker, and now apparently… A fortune teller too.

He snorted, cut his sandwich in half, and handed the girl her share.

The world was truly strange. Full of many layers, weird and new.

And this one, while small, brought joy for two.
