“If all went as I hoped today, I had put telling you about it on the itinerary for tomorrow, too. Do you mind waiting? I want to show you a particular spell first, and it will take a long time to cast.” He paused. “Or maybe me <<grandly presenting>> it sounds self-indulgent.”

“Are you joking? Now that I know grand presentation is an option, I’ll accept nothing less.”

Stuart smiled and winced at the same time. “If the spell fails now, I’ll look even worse…returning to our discussion of your teammates—I think I would get along with Lucille.”

Alden lifted his eyebrows. “I didn’t realize you were selecting favorites while I talked.”

“She’s thinking about who she’ll be in the future. She’s set a challenging goal for herself, and she’s willing to suffer humiliation and the bad-opinion of others in pursuit of it. How did the final race end for you all?”

“You’d probably get along with several of my classmates. Once you were used to their personalities,” Alden said. “Anyway…the rope I bought for that day had a piece of smaller, clear string inside it that’s usually used for catching fish.”

Talking about the obstacle course naturally led to a discussion of the dinner at the mall. Stuart seemed to think the event was odd.

“Shouldn’t it have been more formal or more festive?” he asked. “For an occasion celebrating your acceptance as students at a new school, a casual meal in a public location seems <<unfitting>>.”

Further questioning from Alden revealed that, in Stuart’s opinion, the dinner would have been more normal if Alden and his classmates had spent several hours quietly absorbing secret wisdom from their new instructors while multiple courses, each with special meaning, were served. Or, if the focus of the event had been on the class bonding with one another, he thought the instructors should have done whatever the human equivalent of dropping off a bunch of rare potions and enchanted rings was before leaving the students to go wild.

I think being in an Artonan school might wear me out before I even made it to the classroom.

“Do you attend a lot of parties like those at LeafSong?” Alden asked. Stuart hadn’t been at the big one where Alden had met his father and aunt. But he had just been injured then.

“I only attended the traditional student stress-releasing party held during the entrance exams,” Stuart said. “It was fun at the time. But I decided not to attend more for a while. The <<camaraderie of celebrants>> had more of an impact on my judgment than I expected it to.”

“For my taste, the class dinner was just right. And there were husenots at one of the shops.”

“Is the Rosa Grove building still there? Or was it one of the ones destroyed?”

“The mall was safe. Only the ground floor flooded, and it wasn’t too bad when I saw it on the news.”

“Were the husenots…?”

“They were upstairs! Safe.”

Stuart looked relieved.

“If we’d just left a few minutes later or earlier, my night might have been a lot easier,” said Alden.

He thought about ending it there and switching to a lighter story. Stuart wouldn’t mind hearing about the rooftop-to-rooftop rollercoaster. Or commenting on the situation with Hazel Velra at the birthday party.

But he does actually know Esh-erdi and Lind-otta. Of course he’s curious about how they’re using their skills and the big magic event that just happened.

He decided he’d just hit the highlights.

But the more he talked, the more talking felt like something he wanted to do. Sitting on the cushion spell in the warm forest, with sunlight slanting through gaps in the branches and a ryeh-b’t trying to tempt the two of them into a game of chase with a zipper, it was hard to imagine a setting farther away from the disaster.

It felt like he’d left Anesidora behind a month ago instead of hours.

“I really don’t think Esh-erdi would mind me telling you what happened in the greenhouse,” he said when he approached that part of the story. “He said he would spread the truth around to wizards. I think he just doesn’t want to let the Anesidoran legal system know until he understands what its role is and how humans will react. He’s trying to protect me from inconvenience and Zeridee from being accused of doing something wrong. He says he knows her family.”

“The knights of the und’h family live in Rapport III,” said Stuart.

That wasn’t that surprising after all the pieces of the puzzle Alden had collected. It explained a lot. From Zeridee being able to obtain a position on Earth at a young age, to her familiarity with Stuart, to…

“Do all children of knight families have the same abnormally strong body thing you do?”

Stuart’s brow furrowed. “You can’t use that word for abnormal that way. But it is common in families like ours, where becoming a hn’tyon or entering service through <<votaryship>> or other contracts is the usual course.”

“The und’hs?”

“Yes.”

“I understand now,” said Alden. “Maybe she was trained to be a knight in her childhood, and she didn’t want to. Or a votary. Being able to kill an Avowed with bare hands sounds like it might be what votaries learn to do?”

Stuart snorted.

“What?”

“I’m going to need to explain a lot to you this weekend. I’m looking forward to it. But why are you mentioning killing Avowed?”

“In the greenhouse…”

He talked and talked. The conversation was lengthened, but also eased, by focusing less on how he’d felt during all of it and more on explaining complicated water behavior, giggling door seals, and literally everything about Liam Long in a foreign language to someone who didn’t know what swim briefs or scratchart cards were.

When the story—as much of it as could be told—was finished, Alden was less drained than he would have expected to be if he’d known he was going to deliver a full account of the disaster. He wondered if there was some magic in the Rapport that made you feel more at ease.

Stuart took his ryeh-b’t back to the house and returned with two clear glass jars and a small net. Then the two of them stood in the stream just downhill from the cottage, pants rolled up to their knees and squishboot removed despite a couple of disapproving looks from the Primary’s son.

Alden learned to catch shiny water bugs. They moved fast and looked like metallic grains of rice.

“Some of them aren’t silver,” he said, noticing a few green ones when he emptied the net into his jar for the second time.

“Do you have a yellow-orange one yet?”

Alden checked the jar. “Not yet.”

That was all that needed saying for a while.

When they had captured enough zansees to satisfy Stuart, who felt there was a correct number to make a good decoration, Alden put his boot back on and they headed toward the cottage.

“You’ve been through more than one terrible experience. In less than a year,” said Stuart. “That’s shitty.”

Alden, who was preserving his jar so that his water bugs didn’t get sloshed around, looked over at him. “It’s absolutely been shitty,” he agreed. “But there have been good things, too.”

“If you want, I can introduce you to one of the healers I know who help with alterations and support of the mind. I experienced a severe…injury isn’t the right word in my opinion. But when I was very young, Father personally interviewed every <<renowned>> specialist on the Triplanets for my sake.” Stuart looked at him over the top of his own jar, his expression guarded. “You seem well to me, but if some memory or emotion tied to all that’s happened to you is <<tiresome>> for you, you might consider seeking help with it.”

They stood on the hillside, holding their zansees.

“I’m sorry you were hurt when you were younger,” Alden said finally.

“I’m sorry you keep having to deal with wounded Artonans,” said Stuart, starting back up the hill. “And that I let you talk me into ignoring the human bedtime I put on the itinerary. It was there for a reason. You’re healing. You need even more sleep than usual.”

Ah. That was all there was to it, thought Alden, deeply relieved as he watched Stuart march ahead of him. Just a single offer. Not a whole conversation that will ruin the good time we’re having here at the end of the day.

“It is weird-weird that I keep carrying hurt people through trouble,” he said, hurrying to catch up, his trait helping him close the distance in a moment.

“What’s weird is that you keep finding yourself in trouble,” said Stuart. “Carrying someone once you’re already there makes sense.”

“Does it?”

“If Lind-otta were there, she would slow something dangerous. If Esh-erdi were there, he would widen fractures. You can stop someone from being hurt by holding them in your arms. It’s how you can help, so it’s how you do help.”

“That’s true,” said Alden. “You’re saying something smart.”

“I try to speak thoughtfully.”

“No. Once you told me I should use you as bait for a mishnen.”

Stuart hissed at him. “Don’t say that so loud! My family doesn’t need to know every single thing that came out of my mouth that day!”

************
