“I was already involved in summoning you without your permission once. It wasn’t my idea, but I was there. And I behaved wrongly toward you in almost every way. I even offered to summon you often in the future. I did mean voluntary summonses, but I still acted as though working for me would naturally be something you wanted to do.”

“I almost forgot that part. You promised to pay me well.”

Stuart blinked. “You almost forgot that part?”

“Yes,” said Alden. “You said it at the same time you introduced the idea of being a Hn’tyon of the Mother Planet, and I was more focused on that. I wasn’t referring to the day with the mishnen, though. I know I like to mention it, but that’s my way of trying to be funny-mean. You’ve apologized. It’s behind us. I don’t think you’re going to feed either of us to an alien animal again. But I…”

Stuart waited patiently while he searched for the right explanation.

“I just wanted you to know that my feelings about being an Avowed are too complicated for a summons to be completely casual to me,” he said. “Especially as a Ryeh-b’t. I realize we’re the casual summons class, and I chose to be one. So that may sound odd. But I want things to be different between me and my friend than they are between me and every other summoner on the Triplanets.”

“I understand.”

“Yes?”

Stuart placed a hand over the center of his own chest.

“Good,” said Alden. “And I understand that you are going to become a knight. And that your family thinks it will be very dangerous and you’ll die. But you think you won’t and you’ll be able to make the universe a better place. And of course I’m not going to wait to see what happens before I decide you’re worth my emotional…” What’s a word that means investment? “…emotional giving.”

The Artonan boy beamed at him.

“Whoever told you they’d rather be sure you’re going to survive before they weave a friendship is a gokoratch,” Alden said.

“Most of them don’t say it like that.” Stuart looked startled. At the word choice, Alden hoped. “Those who are preparing for their own <<first binding>> just feel it’s wisest to exclude me as they deepen their companionships with one another. And a few of the others <<berate>> me so much and try so hard to change my mind that I no longer want to be around them.”

“Gokoratches,” said Alden.

“No, they’re protecting themselves as they prepare for the trial ahead of them. Or their families want them to avoid an <<attachment>> that might end badly. I do see their perspective. I just wasn’t expecting it to happen when I first announced my decision. At the time, I…misunderstood how everyone thought of me.”

So he wasn’t talking about the LeafSong kids at all. He meant the other future knights. The other Rapport adolescents. Probably some of the ones Alden had seen in the vision, wearing the purple coats.

The ones who are choosing the same thing Stuart is.

Still…

“There’s a famous new song on Earth that I think you need to hear,” said Alden. “It applies to this situation. I’ll get my tablet.”

******

******

“Let me give her the suitcase now.”

“No.”

“But she’s crying.”

“She’s not crying. She’s <<gurgling>>. Because the last time she gurgled, you came and took the message from her instead of making her perform proper delivery.”

Alden the ryeh-b’t and Alden the Ryeh-b’t gave Stuart pitiful looks.

They’d taken a walk upstream until they reached an area that was out of view of the house and cottages to have their training session. The blue suitcase, which Alden had volunteered as a reward, was just behind him. But Stuart had illusioned the spot it sat in so anything standing there was invisible.

The red ryeh-b’t got so excited every time Alden produced the case.

Now she stood halfway between the two of them, claws gripping the top of a root. She wore a lightweight harness with a tube that could be filled with whatever she was delivering. The trick she was supposed to be learning was a flappy hover, with the message tube turned toward the recipient so that they could take it from her without her landing.

But she didn’t want to flap in place right now.

“Just wait.” Stuart was sitting far enough away that they were raising their voices to talk. He was on his own giant root, on a cushioning spell he’d cast with a chant and a plant that looked like a tangled up dandelion head. He’d produced it from a small belt pouch that was hidden by his tunic. “She’ll do it soon.”

Alden had a cushioning spell, too. It felt like sitting on a marshmallow that was slowly sinking. And it smelled like basil. Alden didn’t know if that was the spell or the plant that had been involved in casting it.

“I have an idea,” he said, grinning across the distance. “Maybe she’ll come to me if I sing.”

Stuart began to purple. “I don’t think the numbers below that video are real! I think it’s a joke you <<brewed>> in the <<sour cauldron>> of your thoughts.”

“Tell me how to get Earth internet here, and I’ll show you how unsour my thought cauldron is. Finlay’s songs are popular. Someone commenting on it ranked our efforts, and they said I was the second most enthusiastic flapper.”

Which was minimizing his contribution. He was definitely the first most enthusiastic member of the group when it came to the cannibalistic flapping. That commenter was just sucking up to Astrid.

“Gokoratching is now a global hobby on Earth thanks to you. You’ve changed my planet.”

“That is not how I want to become a changer of worlds.”

Distressed not to be the center of attention anymore, the ryeh-b’t took to the air and came to deliver her message properly.

Alden said, “Good delivery,” as instructed, and then they played with the suitcase. Her favorite game so far involved him setting the suitcase upright repeatedly, so she could tackle it, claw it a few times, then stand on top of it in a victory pose.

“Is she finished growing?” he asked, watching her clobber the luggage again. “She seems to be around the same size as the last time I saw her.”

“She’ll only be a little larger,” said Stuart. “Her growth has slowed. I do think she’s going to be a good adult. Some ryeh-b’ts become less <<affectionate>> as they age, but she isn’t.”

“Kivb-ee says this breed is known for athleticism and a merry nature.”

“They are. I might have picked one just like her when I was younger, if it had been an option.”

“No pets when you were growing up?”

Stuart watched the ryeh-b’t stomp on the defeated suitcase. “I remember asking for an egg a few times. To hatch and train. Nobody ever said I couldn’t have one, but I think there might have been an agreement to distract me from the idea whenever I mentioned it. I would have struggled if there were any mishaps. Father bought me husenots instead.”

Alden recognized the word. “The little animals that look like colorful rocks? We have those on Anesidora. People keep them in tables as a decoration.”

“Mine started in a table. But once my family realized I enjoyed collecting them, everyone searched for rare colors and patterns to give me. They have their own room now.”

“A whole room? That’s a lot of husenots.”

“Are you picturing them stacked to the ceiling?” Stuart sounded amused.

“Maybe. Is that not right?”

“We put the habitat below a transparent floor in what used to be an extra sitting room. You can see them when you look down. They don’t all <<tumble>> out the door when it’s opened.”

“That makes more sense.”

“Do humans pile up some kind of animal like that?”

Alden laughed. “No. But we don’t have any native pets that pretend to be rocks for days at a time. Can we add the husenot room to the itinerary?”

“Yes. Tomorrow morning? We’re ahead of schedule anyway.”

Alden tried not to let his smile fade. That’s right. He had “tell Alden everyone thinks I’ll die” sometime after dinner and ryeh-b’t walking, but we got to it quicker than expected.

“Stuart—” He was planning to ask why, exactly, everyone thought that. As delicately as possible.

But at the same time, Stuart said, “Tell me more about Anesidora.”

“You want to hear about the Sinker Sender?” Alden asked.

“Obviously I wonder. But it doesn’t have to be that. Anything that happened to you since the last time we talked would be interesting. Your days are so similar to my own in some ways and so different in others.”

“The Artonan language instructor you were outraged by is gone,” said Alden.

“Ah!” Stuart’s face brightened. “You all performed a righteous scholarly exit, and the school was forced to apologize to you.”

“No. She wants to live on the Triplanets, so she quit her job to spend time searching for wizards who might want to bring her here.”

Stuart tilted his head. “I’m confused.”

“We were all a little confused, too. Our new instructor seems much better. She told me to stop coming to class.”

“Now I’m more confused.”

“Let me tell you about gym! We were in teams, and we…”

******

Alden talked for a long time, with Stuart interjecting whenever he wanted an explanation of something or found a place where their experiences matched.

Stuart thought it was totally normal that Søren had set himself on fire; his own classmates injured themselves frequently trying out new spells.

But he found the categorization of Brutes into one named class flummoxing once Alden had described some of his schoolmates’ powers. “Someone who can reshape their own flesh doesn’t belong in the same category as someone who focuses on swift movement. They’re not similar.”

Stuart had come over to sit on the same root as him now that they were finished with ryeh-b’t training. Other Alden was hanging upside down from a branch high over their heads.

“Do you think they’re similar?” Stuart’s back was against the trunk, and his feet stretched out toward where Alden sat cross-legged on a renewed cushioning spell. “Maybe it’s a species <<accommodating>> category to aid with their perception of their abilities.”

“I haven’t given enough thought to it,” said Alden. “But Brutes are the largest class on Earth, and members of the same Avowed class do have a sense of companionship with each other. If we considered every variety of Brute to be separate classes it would definitely change something socially. And Brutes do all get a lot of foundational enhancements. The idea on Earth is that they’re the group with powers centered on their own bodies.”

“I understand that. Most species struggle to accurately <<conceptualize>> the self beyond the physical. So giving you a way to perform magic that feels like an <<extension>> of the abilities you already possess is one logical solution.”

“Right,” said Alden. “Nobody has much trouble using what we call ‘speed foundation points’, for example. Learning to safely use the power and take full advantage of it takes time and practice. But just wanting to be faster and doing it comes naturally. Most people know what it feels like to try to run harder, and maybe because of how the affixation is designed, doing it as an Avowed seems a lot like the same kind of thing you’ve always done. With more amazing results.”

He examined his hands. “That’s how it feels with these anyway. I think I’d like to have them enhanced until they’re about the same as Lute’s.”

“For wordchains?”

“And for other things.”

Stuart looked down at his own fingers, interlaced in his lap. After a moment, he said, “I’ll have mine altered as well. Maybe not in quite the same way as your foundation points. That’s an option but not the only one. And I won’t choose it during the first binding of my authority. But…eventually. It’s a useful change.”

His eyes flicked up.

Checking me for my reaction.

“I already knew knights had their authority bound,” Alden told him. “I was waiting for you to say it yourself. This morning I asked Esh-erdi why it’s never mentioned, and he told me that it’s taboo. And that many people even swear to maintain a respectful silence.”

Stuart straightened. “That doesn’t mean you have to stay quiet! Especially not with me.”

“I was trying to do the right thing.”

“I wondered how much you knew, or if you knew at all, and then I decided you didn’t. And I was so nervous to tell you!”

“Why?” asked Alden. “It’s something you do so that you can go to places full of chaos and fight demons better. There’s no reason for me to be upset about that, except for the fact that we live in a universe where people have to go to places full of chaos and fight demons.”

“I thought…” Stuart said. “If I were an Avowed and I were to learn what knights were without having known before, and without fully understanding, I might become upset about many things.”

Something plinked onto the root between them and bounced once toward Alden. He looked down just in time to see it was the zipper pull that had been gnawed off of his suitcase earlier. A heavy flapping and a rush of air announced the arrival of the zipper’s new owner, who snatched it up before taking off into the forest with it.

“She’s running from us,” Alden noted.

“She hopes we’ll chase her. It’s not a fair competition since she can fly, and I’m not going to shoot her down with spells.”

They watched her land on a distant limb.

“What will you choose for your skill?” Alden asked. “If you don’t mind telling me.”

