“I was trying to protect you.” Suniva said and easily dodged most of the swats. “I didn't realize that you...” She looked around at the other pixies. “...that all of you would give me so much of your Mana.” She sighed. “I thought you all hated me.”

“We do.” One of the males said. “You are so full of yourself and believe you're special, just because there's only one of you.”

“Yeah, and?”

“You intimidate us with your flame, and a lot of us are scared of you.” He said. “But, that doesn't mean we want you to die.” He smiled. “I'm actually surprised that Shanna even looks at you, let alone is your friend.”

“What? But, I love Suniva!” Shanna said. “If she didn't burn down the things I make, we'd all be covered in weeds and vines by now.”

“I don't mind helping a friend when she needs me.” Suniva chuckled. “Plus, you have no idea how good it feels to feed the Fire.”

“I do.” Ren said, and she looked at him with lust in her eyes and in her heart. “Can you tell me what happened?”

Suniva nodded and told Ren of the two people that had left the cursed goblet. Ren took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked it where the two people were. He saw them huddled inside a cocoon together, their bodes covered in large spider bites, and their skin covered in poison veins. He turned the mirror to show Suniva, and she started to laugh. He showed the other pixies, and they all laughed, too.

Ren asked where they were, and saw they were in the cavern that made them receive the repercussions of their worst decision during their time in Shargon Caverns.

“I didn't meet any spiders myself.” Ren said. “I wonder... does that mean each person gets a different experience?”

“Probably.” Artemis said. “I'm sure if Princess was along the last time you were here, you might have had a different experience.”

Ren remembered his Phantom Steed being half-eaten, and he reached out to scratch Princess' chin.

“Are you going to save them, too?” Suniva asked and pointed to the mirror.

“No, I didn't come here to interfere with other Adventurers.” Ren said. “I came here for you.”

Suniva knew he meant all the pixies, but since he had saved her life, she took it quite personally. Ren felt her emotions, and her gratitude and need for him was powerful. He remembered the last time she felt like that and had pleased herself on his nose.

“Suniva...”

“Ren, my Fire burns for you now.” Suniva said. “Take me from this place and I will be yours forever.”

“Um... about that.” Ren said, and took out a heavily modified contract. “I want you all to read this...”
