Your group has defeated Fungaloth Ravager – Fungal Aberration – level 180 (Nature / Death)Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 150 (+4).+40 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 85 (+3).Arcane Recall has reached level 44.Barrier has reached level 81.Sage of Learning has reached level 66.Martial Insight has reached level 91 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 70 (+2).Domain Mastery has reached level 49 (+2).Minion Teleport has reached level 42 (+2).Inspiration has reached level 28.

There we go. Ali smiled at the cheers that erupted in response to the Fungaloth Ravager collapsing while she dismissed several level-up notifications for her new minions. And indeed, it had been well earned. Although stressful and difficult, this fight had most certainly been won in the planning room – the complete overhaul of strategy, minion breakdown, gear, potions, and even the particular selection of which adventurers to bring and which to leave behind had all been crucial to the success of the raid.

It was dead, and she had no desire to do this particular fight again, and as she flew forward to deconstruct the corpse, she brought her hungry domain with her, ripping through the fungal creep as she consumed the entire area, preventing the monster from ever respawning.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Trait Suppression Aura (Healing).Domain Magic analyzed: Affinity Aura (Rot).Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Vitality).

“Did you get it?” Calen asked. He didn’t specify what he was talking about, but Ali knew exactly what he was referring to. So, she simply shared the domain magic, choosing to include the rest of the raid group, too. She didn’t mind sharing with them as they had worked hard for the fight, and she was benefiting from their efforts.

Trait Suppression AuraRequirements: Choose a known trait.Source: Fungaloth RavagerTraits: Healing, Minion, Knowledge, Nature, Arcane.Project an aura that inflicts an additional recharge on any skill with the chosen trait. The imposed recharge time is dependent on class level and the breadth of the trait chosen.Skill – Domain Magic

Calen looked rather surprised. “Not just healing?”

“My class often adds its own affinities to any Domain Magic I learn. I think it is the same here, it added some of my more common traits as options,” she said. By the description, suppressing an entire mana affinity would likely only increase the recharge by a much smaller amount, but a Minion or Knowledge suppression would probably hurt her far more, seeming almost tailored to disrupt her class.

“I don’t want to face a Minion Suppression boss,” Seth said, grimacing.

“Yeah, me neither,” Ali said, wondering if it would suppress the abilities of her minions in addition to her skills that bore the minion trait.

“Shouldn’t we press on quickly?” Aiden asked. “We don’t get much time in this dungeon, and we need to see what’s left.” There were several exhausted groans from adventurers sitting on the ground trying to recover.

“No rush,” Ali said. “I own everything up to the tunnel into the next cavern. The Ravager won’t be respawning.”

“Oh, that’s a relief,” Aiden said, plopping himself down and getting a drink of water.

Ali sat down also, considering her attribute points. Her class was generally fairly focused on her three primary attributes, but her actions occasionally required investments in the others. Given what she had been facing recently, she spent five points on vitality, three on endurance, and two more on dexterity. There, that should help, she thought as the new points of endurance took a little of the edge off the continual dungeon rage. She split the remaining thirty points evenly among wisdom, intelligence, and perception, but just then her notification chime sounded again.

Aha, I wondered if level one-fifty – no, nothing to do with that. Quickly, she re-read the notification.

Requirements met for skill advancement. Mentor: Azryet.Survived being afflicted with Mana Saturation multiple times.Mentors two protégés with primary Minion traits. Empowered Summoner has reached at least 70.Maximum mana has surpassed 60,000.Empowered Summoner gains Power Infusion.(+Third target. Channel mana for a proportional increase in minion Arcane and Nature spell power and damage.)Empowered Summoner gains Mana Battery.(+Third target. You can channel mana, donating it to your minions.)Choose one advancement.

Oh, this looks amazing! she thought, studying the advancement for one of the most consistently used skills in her repertoire. Already, her skill granted her two attribute boosts, and this would finally provide a third. She didn’t even have to wonder what she might choose; the clear winner was to always keep an Eye of Agnor and boost her perception attribute, improving Martial Insight, Arcane Insight, and Sage of Learning. But both of the choices offered provided this improvement, and so that did not help her make a decision.

Empowered Summoner already granted her minions additional nature and arcane damage on hit, regardless of whether the hit was melee, ranged, or a spell. Now, she would be able to channel mana to increase this damage with Power Infusion – and it looked to be bound only by the limits of her mana pool. Mana Battery, on the other hand, would ensure her healers would never run out of mana as she could simply donate her own and then use Inspiration or Deconstruction to replenish.

Hmm. She didn’t quite know which to pick. “Hey, can I get your opinions on this?” she asked, turning to her friends and sharing the choices she had been offered.

“Mana Battery seems a little like my Second Wind,” Malika said. “But if you ask me, I think I’d favor the damage option.”

“Definitely,” Calen said.

“You sound so sure?”

“How often are you in a situation where you have too much mana, but your minions do not?” Calen asked. “You’ve already given all your healers storage rings and mana potions. Mana Battery is nice, but if your mages or healers are not running out of mana, it does nothing for you. The other way is not the same; you can always stack damage. I think Power Infusion will be useful in many more situations, especially as you don’t mind spending gold for elixirs or specialized gear, and you can make potions before the fights. Think about how it will stack with Bloodlust, for example.”

“That’s a good way to look at it,” Ali said. Trust Calen to come up with an articulate and clear description of the tradeoff. And he was right, as soon as Morwynne and Eliyen had succeeded, she had committed the elixirs and absorption potions against rot to her Grimoire imprint and spent ridiculous amounts of money funding special gear orders from the crafters for all her minions.

“Also, Power Infusion seems to boost all arcane and nature spell power and damage, not just the added damage from your Empowered Summoner.”

“Oh!” Ali quickly rechecked the description, verifying Calen’s observation. “That changes a lot.” She didn’t have many arcane affinity minions, but she most certainly had a lot of nature ones – particularly after destroying half of Blooming Rot – and if he was right, that meant all their spells would benefit from the improvement. Basically, she would be able to spike their damage dramatically any time she needed it.

Now convinced, she committed her choice and studied her updated skill.

Empowered Summoner – level 70Mana: Your minions gain added nature and arcane damage on hit.Choose up to three Minions. You gain 198.8% [40 + skill + base intelligence x 0.15] of their highest base attribute. Range: 46.5 meters. Reserve: 10%0: Replace a minion target for your attribute enhancement. Minions with at least Boss Domain Enhancement may be used as a target regardless of range. Recharge: 1 hour.Mana: Your minions gain increased nature and arcane spell power proportional to mana spent. Channeled.Nature, Arcane, Minion, Buff, Intelligence

Right. Now to see how it all works. She began summoning an Eye of Agnor, eager to discover how much her Perception attribute would increase, and start to experiment with boosting her demon’s arcane spell power.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
