“Well, I mean, she just might.” The girl who didn't exist shrugged, but her own anxiety leaked out from her expression and the way she grabbed her elbows tightly. “She didn't intervene while you were kicking Longinus' ass. She didn't intervene while you evolved a bunch of your skills. She didn't intervene for an entire day, almost two. This entire time you've been in the Boiling Toad, skirmishing with Longinus. The story she planned for you, it couldn't be this, right? You’ve basically been stuck here, fighting to free your former mentor, beating up on this piece of shit of a god. But even if the fighting is exciting, the pacing kind of sucks.”

“The pacing?” Shiv had a puzzled look on his face before he caught on to what she was talking about. “Right, like the pacing of the story.” He thought about what the girl said, and frankly, it made a lot of sense. He'd happened upon Longinus by pure chance. “Hells, I thought I ran into another version of Georges here. I thought she was planning something, using him as a character.”

“And she probably was. Remember, she briefly flipped the pages of the Fairwoods back and forth when you first went Backstage.

“But after that, she didn't reset the loop,” Shiv said. “Why?”

“She wanted to speak to us. At least that was what she claimed earlier, before we escaped. I suspect she might be genuine. I also suspect that she will try to force her will on us the moment we displease her too much.”

“And we haven't already?”

“Apparently not.” The Harbinger scratched the scruff of his golden stubble in thought. "We know a few things about the Usurper-Narrator. We know how she reacts in specific situations when faced with specific kinds of resistance. She captured you, Uva, and Adam, and added you to the Fairwoods because she wants new heroes for her story. Furthermore, the Watchtower burned parts of you and is likely using your essence to fuel its expansion or potential evolution. Evanescia does not care about what other people want. She acts purely out of a selfish desire to discover new novelties between her pages. Her not intervening in the battle between you and Longinus has nothing to do with ethics."

Shiv let out a wry laugh. “I mean, shit, Harbinger, aside from the Composer, the Starhawk, and maaayyybe Cripple, I don't think I've met any gods who care about ethics or what some mortals might want.”

The Harbinger hummed in agreement. "It seems that becoming divine is an inherently alienating thing, even without degeneration. It's not that hard to conceptualize, either. Think of how much we have changed in so short a time. We've grown powerful, yes, but the way that power has changed our perception of the world is just as great. You were never so careless before your first death, for instance. Reckless, perhaps, but not careless."

“You think most gods will naturally become slave-taking bastards? Is that what you're saying?”

"What I am saying is that most gods will forget the burdens of being mortal, and neglect to consider another's wants before their own. After all, how often do you contemplate the risk you pose to an insect before sprinting across an open field?"

Shiv really wasn't sure about that analogy. “But people aren't insects. Not even close.”

"Indeed, they are not. However, understand that the determining thing isn't the epistemology of a person, but rather how a god feels about them."

Shiv eyed the Usurper-Narrator back in the Fairwoods with a sharp glare. “So, what do you think she feels about me? Fascination? Is that why she hasn't tried to revert the loop?”

"She said something about wanting to see if we could best Longinus. Perhaps our martial feats have impressed her. But I don't think that's likely."

And when the Harbinger didn't spell out why it was unlikely, Shiv did his own thinking and came to a conclusion. “Because… Wait, doesn't she already have far more powerful Pathbearers under her control?” He gestured at the screen of Chronomancy that tinged all of existence. It was a blood-chilling level of power to wield.

Beyond Legendary.

"Correct. Remember the Pathbearers she inserted herself into."

“Mythic,” Shiv muttered. “A whole Tier beyond us.”

"And we are by no means the single most skilled or talented Pathbearer to ever walk Integration. So it can't just be our martial performance that has pleased her. No, she is personally invested in us. She has to be, to show herself so openly."

From what Shiv could tell, the Usurper-Narrator had arrived in person. There was a halo of true Divinity that shrouded her silhouette, as if a sun was hovering behind her, just out of sight. But Longinus had pulled tricks on Shiv before—left divine echoes in place of his true self to bait Shiv out and strike him down in a counter-attack. Considering how Evanescia had the Wanderer trapped here, there was little question about which of the two was superior. And if Shiv had to bet, Evanescia was also far cleverer and undoubtedly more self-controlled.

But she was also right there. He could strike at her right now. Try an ambush and skirmish against her using his new skill in tandem with his other Unique Skills. Continuity Error would keep him beyond her grasp. The Harbinger would allow him to move and hit her where she was vulnerable.

Yet, at that thought, the Harbinger posed his own question: "And where is she vulnerable?"

“Huh?”

"What psychological flaw are we striking at exactly? What fragility are we taking advantage of? What fracture in her ego are we to widen?"

Shiv went over everything he knew about Evanescia—and realized he didn't know much at all. More importantly, he didn't know anything that would allow him to emotionally imbalance her or reveal mental traumas he could exploit. He couldn't displace her across time without breaking her Magical Resistance first, and considering how she was able to insert herself in a Mythic-Tier Pathbearer at a moment's notice and how durable her soul felt beneath Shiv’s cutting aura, it just didn’t seem feasible. Fighting Longinus had already taken longer than a day, and the Wanderer was still standing, even with his divine visage cracked in so many places.

"And she is more than he will ever be," the Harbinger reiterated. "I am higher than a skill of raw and brutal force. My lethality is at its highest when we understand our enemy, when we know what to strike. The slaver we broke was nothing but psychological imbalances constructed on top of a foundation of physical weakness and emotional depravity. And though Longinus is conventionally powerful, his mind is fragile and feeble. It is why the wounds he takes there are inflicted across the rest of his tripartite whole. But what aspect of Evanescia strikes you as brittle? What insult would you use against her to turn her flesh to glass?"

“I don’t know,” Shiv admitted.

"Then what do you think about our odds of victory?"

“Low. Very felling low. But…” He gritted his teeth in frustration. Longinus was right there. The Usurper-Narrator was right there. If he could just figure something out, or maybe if he could dance the perfect fight and never let either of them touch him a single time, he could break both of them and bring this bullshit trip to an end. He could free Georges, put down an Ascendant, and murder the tyrant of the Fairwoods to set everyone in the dimension free in one fell swoop.

"And what a vivid and beautiful fantasy that is,” the Harbinger whispered. “Now, for comparison, I want you to imagine making a mistake. I want you to imagine Evanescia striking you down, breaking your mind long enough for her to gift you to Longinus as a specially enforced ‘darkest hour.’"

That Shiv could also imagine easily, and imagining what would likely follow that scenario made him struggle not to heave. “Okay, okay. I see the point. But what now? Wait for her to leave and keep kicking Longinus' ass after?”

The Harbinger didn't answer immediately. Instead, he continued looking on at Evanescia while the gears were turning inside Shiv's head, thoughts jumping between him and his great psychological skill.

“We should talk to her,” he and the Harbinger said at the same time.

The girl’s eyes widened in disbelief. She looked between the two versions of Shiv with utter incredulity. “What? What the fuck? Have you both gone mad? If you pop back into Integration right now, you'll be dealing with Longinus and Evanescia. You're already dancing on a knife's edge, fighting that psychotic rapist. Exposing yourself for a conversation while she's also there is like putting your head through a noose.”

"No, it's like having a conversation with our favorite reader," the Harbinger declared. "She is a fan. We don't fully understand the reason yet, but she is most certainly a fan. She has shown her favoritism by not resetting the loop. This is the one thing that we are certain of with her. There is no way we haven't deviated from the story arc she planned for us by acquiring Continuity Error, but she hasn't corrected it yet."

“And there's got to be a reason for that,” Shiv followed. “She's not going to help Longinus bring us down. If that was her goal, then she would have just inserted herself into him.” And that made Shiv imagine what it would be like fighting the Wanderer if the Ascendant didn't have any severe mental issues.

Basically hopeless. Even if he were a True Legend.

“If you go out there and she uses a Mythic-Tier spell against you…” the girl began.

“My Shapeless Tides will buy me a second, at least. Harbinger, you stay inside of me. She brings all that Chronomancy down on me, I'd rather be frozen in time than see you broken—because that's us dead for good.”

"Wise. This foresight is becoming for a proper Pathbearer."

“Insane risks aren't!” the girl cried out. She really reminded Shiv of Adam when she acted like this.

“This isn't an insane risk. This is going to be a conversation. Something that'll teach me more about who I'm actually dealing with. Show me the face of my true enemy.” And that was just it. Shiv hated Longinus; he would do anything to break him down. But ultimately, it was Evanescia who stood in his way, Evanescia who kept him trapped inside the Fairwoods. Even if he didn't hate her nearly as much, she needed to be overcome for any escape to be possible.

But there were many ways besides violence to overcome someone.

“Alright, Harbinger. Let's go see where her cracks lie.” Just as Shiv was about to cross back over into Integration, however, he felt something behind him.

A presence watching him.

His Shapeless Tides revolved horizontally across his body, spinning him in place. He expected an ambush from some kind of eldritch being, something made of wounds and ruins, but instead he found the garden as it was. There were even more injuries and wrecked husks raining down from above, but no obvious enemies trying to attack him.

The seconds dragged on. No assault came. Shiv's unease remained. Even though this garden was born of his Unique Skill Evolution, it remained an Eldritch Skill, and it was tied to a new Outsider entity. That made this place unpredictable in the best of cases and downright lethal in all others. But there was something else. He'd put off discovering the true nature of his Eldritch Physiology Skill’s evolution. As much as the Garden worried him, he also felt ready to find out about its dangers here and now, rather than later, when he had no choice, when the circumstances were truly dire.

With grim reluctance, Shiv resurrected a new body and called upon his Eldritch Physiology the way he did in the past. His flesh shifted once more, but rather than immediately adopting the visage of death, the space around his biology shifted as injuries spilled out behind it, as lacerations became like vines at his feet and patterns formed from bruises, contusions, rips, tears, ruptured organs, and more sprouted out from his back like wings of macabre design. At this point, his skin was gone, becoming a flowing cape behind him, but his skeletal frame was not something made from enamel and bone anymore. Instead, it looked like broken concrete, shattered glass, dilapidated buildings intermixed with festering gashes. And from within the many wounds lining his form spilled even more out into the world, contaminating the nature of reality.

But the contamination came at a cost. That which poured forth from his altered body was drawn from the garden. Buildings collapsed and vanished as the weathered stones that made up the ruins were squeezed out from Shiv's physical vessel. The same went for the assortment of wounds as well. To his surprise, however, he could move them. Every injury, every bit of damage that sprouted free from him was like an extension of his body, was a portion of his physical form. He moved the lacerations connected to him, and they painted trails of oozing blood that dissolved like ink upon a surface of swirling water.

Shiv nodded slowly. “Alright, kind of weird and bloody, but doesn’t seem to be dangerous. I don’t really get it yet, but at least you won’t stab me in the ass when I least expect it. I think. I hope.”

The Garden accepts your praise.

“Yeah, okay.” Shiv sighed, not sure how to take that. “I… I’ll figure the rest of you out later. Maybe after I find Uva. Or when I get back to Hymn.”

With that bit of weariness resolved, Shiv turned his physical form back to normal and crossed over into Integration. As he did, his Harbinger shrank inside him as his Severed Shadow turned faint and intangible. Only a single physical form remained in place to face Evanescia down. She turned toward him immediately. From her body language alone, he could tell that she was excited; however, anything she had to say was interrupted as Longinus locked eyes with Shiv and lost hold of his rage entirely.

