His blazing lance came forth in a thrust. “YOU—”

“No,” Evanescia interrupted casually. Her featureless silhouette widened and blurred. She inserted herself into a three-headed humanoid made from countless hovering crystals, with many more orbiting around its body.

Waves of continent-crushing Dynamancy gushed out from each of the crystals, and all that mass-altering power was turned on Longinus in an instant. But it was more than Dynamancy.

The Usurper-Narrator pitted her own Divinity, and that of all the deities and Demigods she had within her list of characters, against the Wanderer, and the wounds Shiv had inflicted upon him tore wide open.

Longinus’ left arm snapped like a twig. His shoulder disintegrated, his bicep folded in half, and his forearm toppled free and crashed upon the ground in a splintered mess. The rest of his body fared little better. Incandescent ichor spilled out from a hundred brutal wounds. Longinus' reaction started as a rage-filled scream that broke down into a hysterical, pain-filled shriek. Impossibly dense fields of hostile mana gripped his lance and ripped it out of his grasp before casting it aside and pinning it into the ground.

Then, with the simple twitch of a finger, Evanescia undid the Ascendant entirely.

She ripped Georges out of Longinus. His Avatar erupted free from his centaur form in a spray of divine essence. Mortal and devoid of a Chronomancy skill, Georges was frozen in place, dragged across reality only at Evanescia's whims. Sinews of burning incandescence connected him to Longinus for a few moments longer, but each of them snapped like mere strings as Evanescia curled her finger a bit more. With the connection broken, Longinus no longer had an Avatar, no longer possessed an anchor to the world, and so, with a final fleeting howl of unfulfilled emotion, the Wanderer was banished—vanishing in a puff of fading sparks.

Shit, Shiv thought, trying not to overreact before the vulgar display of dominance Evanescia had performed upon the false god. Maybe coming out to speak with her wasn’t the best idea after all.

But the moment she spoke, all his concerns evaporated. “Deathless. There you are again. I'm so glad you decided to come out. I have many things to ask you—and I'm not even sure if I want you to tell me the answers.” The inhuman creature of crystals she inhabited clasped its hands together, and Evanescia giggled, sounding positively giddy. Through the Harbinger, Shiv could feel the warmth of her heart. Her core was a star of pure enthusiasm; her excitement was roused like a child set free upon a playground with no restrictions to her time nor any dangers to her person, her mind whispering with glee and heightened anticipation.

She really, really wanted to speak with him. This wasn't a trap at all. At least, not yet.

"Lead her on," the Harbinger advised. "Learn more about her. Understand her. That's the only way we'll gain the opportunity to break or solve her. Don't be rattled by her power—it’s just a set of obstacles to overcome. Focus on what we can do, and use that to solve her."

Right. Got it.

Evanescia cleared her throat. “First off—I'm sorry about interrupting your duel. I'll let you finish that later—I'll revert the story to that exact part. I have to admit, you've gone very, very far off course. None of this was supposed to happen, and I really should have restarted the loop a while ago.”

“Kind of figured,” Shiv grunted. “So. What stopped you?”

The Usurper-Narrator shuffled awkwardly for a moment, as if she were too embarrassed to admit her truth. “Well, to be honest, jealousy.”

Shiv squinted. “Explain that.”

“I… He’s not a good enough foil for you,” Evanescia said, almost stammering. “I mean, let's be honest, he's not a good enough foil even for himself. He's a shadow of a shadow of a man. Sure, he's powerful, but it's not even his own power. It will be a grand feat if you bring him down regardless, but where is the narrative significance? Where is the real climax to that?”

“I get to free Georges,” Shiv said. “And I get to kill a depraved piece of shit who hurt a lot of people and will hurt even more in the future if I don't do anything. Seems pretty climactic to me.”

“But the way it happened, the way it's turned out, it's all just so happenstance. I won't accept that. I don't want to accept that. More importantly, however…” She not-so-subtly gestured toward herself. “He isn't right. He's not a good enough nemesis for you. He can't stop you. You can see it as well as I. For all his divine power, he's broken. He's been nothing more than a thing for a long time. And you'll never give up. You'll keep going at him over and over again until you finally knock his tower down. But that's not good enough.”

“And you are?” Shiv asked. “Wait, are you trying to actually make yourself the villain of my story?”

She let out a pitched laugh as her body bent back. “Oh, what a statement. Of course you would think that. Everyone's the hero of their own story. No, the other way around, Deathless. I want you to be the villain of mine. I'm going to be more than just a narrator this time. I think I've finally found a villain good enough to make me the hero I was always meant to b—”

Then, without any warning at all, a burning, azure arrow detonated against Evanescia’s head from out of nowhere.
