Ren watched television with Barbara for another hour and a half then his watched beeped.

“I better get back in before they think I'm passed out drunk.” Ren said then laughed at Barbara's shocked expression. “I didn't actually get drunk, Barbara.” He said and set up the video of the meal and the party. “You can watch it yourself if you want proof.”

Barbara shook her head, but eyed the laptop.

Ren smiled. “Goodnight, Barbara.”

“Night, Ren.” She said and slid the laptop over to watch the video. Ren put on the VR headset and got comfortable in the bed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up in the hold of the ship. Princess was still in her crate, Ruck was still on the wall, and Teepo was on his chest.

“Good morning, everyone.” Ren said and Teepo held on as Ren sat up, then crawled up onto his shoulder.

“Morning!” Teepo said.

Ruck waved, and Princess huffed. Ren stood up and stretched. The hold was dark but at least it wasn't damp. “I should probably let you stretch your legs, Princess.” Ren said. “Feel like a short walk?”

Princess looked at him, stepped out of her crate, took 3 steps, turned around and went right back into the crate.

“Are you okay?” Ren asked her.

She shook a little and he noticed the saddle.

“Oh! I'm so sorry, Princess!” Ren said and stepped forward. “Let me take that off of you.”

She stood there and Ren undid the saddle and stored it into inventory. He undid the harness around her face that held the reins and stored it as well. Ren rubbed the spots where the straps were, and Princess stared at him like he was crazy.

“I'm getting that look a lot on this trip.” Ren said and laughed. “I'm going to go and try to find something for breakfast.”

Princess huffed and Ruck gave the 'okay' gesture. If Ren didn't know any better, he would say that Ruck looked like he was sick.

“Are you feeling alright, Ruck?” Ren asked.

Ruck held out a hand and did the 'so/so' gesture.

“I'm sorry, Ruck.” Ren said. “I'm not sure what I can do to help.”

Ruck held out both hands and shrugged. Ren went over to him and pat his side.

“You'll just have to tough it out... and if I think of anything, I'll let you know.”

Ruck gave the 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren stepped over the guarding stones he had put out the night before. He went to the closest hidden opening and went up on deck. It was still dark out and he went into the main cabin area, down the hall, and into the dining room. He saw Nathalia working in the kitchen and walked over to the serving window.

“Good morning.” Ren said and Nathalia ignored him. “Um... what's for breakfast?”

She glanced at him and huffed. Ren smiled. She really did sound like Princess when she did that.

“Can I come into the kitchen? I can help you make breakfast.” Ren said, and Nathalia dropped her knife onto the table and looked at him. She looks mad.

“You have some nerve showing up here.” Nathalia said.

Ren looked at her in surprise. “If this is about me saying your name last night...”

Nathalia huffed loudly. “No! I accepted that!”

“Then what's wrong?” Ren asked, curious.

“What's wrong? What's wrong?!?” She said, building up a head of steam to start a good rant. Ren braced himself for the onslaught. “I showed up at your cabin last night and knocked on the door. When you didn't answer, I thought you were being shy.” She said and glared at him. “I poured my heart out, telling you how this was all so sudden, and how I didn't expect a man to show interest in me for at least another 10 years, and how great you are, and strong, and handsome, and smart, and a good cook.”

Ren was impressed she could say so much in a single breath.

“But then you didn't say a word! I was so embarrassed!” Nathalia said and covered her face with her hands. “I stood there for an hour trying to get you to talk to me, and you never did!” She said, and tears came to her eyes. She wiped them away, but they were quickly replaced with several more. “How you could do that to me!” Nathalia cried. “Then you show up here like nothing happened!” She sobbed. “How can you do this to me!”

Ren was so shocked to hear what she went through, that he didn't say anything for a minute as Nathalia cried. He shook himself out of the shock and tried to console her.

“Nathalia.” Ren said. “Nathalia, please listen.”

“Don't say my name so casually like that! Not after last night!”

Ren sighed. “Please, Na... ah...” Ren stumbled. Better go with the tried and true method. Ren thought and continued. “My Lady... please listen.”

Nathalia caught her breath at Ren's last words. He... he... he's given me a title in his House! She thought in shock.

“I wasn't in my cabin last night.”

Nathalia's eyes widened at his words. “B-b-but... I thought... you...” Then she squinted her eyes. “You mean you... you were... with someone else?”

Ren looked at her in shock. “Of course I wasn't!” Ren vehemently denied her accusation.

“Then what...” She started to say.

“I spent the night in the hold.” Ren said.

“In the HOLD?!?”

Ren nodded. “I was told when I boarded the ship, that if I was so worried about my mount, I should stay in the hold with her.”

Nathalia had a shocked look on her face. “You... you...”

“I've been sleeping in the hold, and not in my cabin.” Ren said. “Actually, I don't even know where my cabin is.”

Nathalia looked like she was going to start crying again. “Come into the kitchen.” She said in a soft voice. Ren nodded and went out into the hall and saw that the kitchen door was already opened. He stepped inside the kitchen and shut the door. He was immediately taken into a bone crushing hug; and since Ren loved hugs, he automatically hugged her back.

“I thought... I thought you were spurning me.” Nathalia said and the tears flowed down her face and onto Ren's shirt. “And right after your declaration!” She said and sobbed.

“About that, I'm actually seeing someone...” Ren said.

Nathalia continued to hiccup and cry, and continued to talk, ignoring what he'd said.

“I thought... I thought I'd lost all of my Honor!”

“I'm really sorry you had to go through all of that.” Ren said and pat her on the back. “I didn't mean to embarrass you.”

“You are a good man after all!” Nathalia said and buried her head on his chest and cried. “I called you so many nasty names!”

Ren laughed. “I'd have deserved every single one of those if I'd done what you thought I did.”

Since they were hugging so close, Ren felt it when Nathalia froze. She lifted her head and looked him right in the eyes. “You're not mad?”

“Why would I be?” Ren asked.

Nathalia got a worried look on her face. “Some... some people might have heard me last night.”

Ren clamped his mouth closed, but he couldn't hold it in and laughed out loud. She looked at him like he was crazy and Ren laughed harder. Nathalia started to smile and her tears stopped.

“That must have been a sight to see!” Ren said, wiping away tears from laughing so hard. “You standing in front of my door, calling be down to the lowest for ignoring you... and I wasn't even there to stop you!”

Nathalia started to laugh as well. It made her feel happy that he didn't hate her for that. They laughed together for a few minutes and then Ren broke the hug. He stepped back from her and smiled.

“Natha... ah... My Lady, please accept my sincere apology for last night.” Ren said and bowed to her.

He... he's doing it again! Nathalia thought. I'm so blessed to have so much Honor!

“I think you've fallen a bit behind in making breakfast.” Ren said and smiled. “May I offer you a hand?”

Nathalia nodded and they got to work cracking open eggs and slicing the loaves of bread. Ren was a bit surprised that it was only scrambled eggs and toast.

“Na... My Lady, is there no bacon?”

“Bacon? Where would I get that?” She said and laughed. “We're on a ship!”

Ren smiled. “If I remember correctly, you cooked a side of boar last night.”

Nathalia nodded and told him it was in the pantry. Ren looked inside and there was clumps of half-fatty uncooked meat and smiled. He took it out and put it on the table.

“That's just the fat I cut off before I cooked the meat.” She said. “It's not bacon.”

Ren grinned at her and took a sharp knife, sliced the meat into appropriately sized chunks and then into thin strips. Nathalia stared at him as he threw the improvised bacon on the grill-like surface and it started to sizzle.

“You really are crazy.” She said and smiled.

Ren winked at her and she blushed. He whipped the eggs for her and she marveled at his speed. He added milk and butter; just like he did with the potatoes, and it nearly doubled the amount of scrambled eggs they could make.

“You're amazing!” Nathalia said as he cooked up the scrambled eggs.

“You shouldn't have said that.” Ren said and grinned at her surprised expression. “You should have saved it... because I'm going to show you a sandwich I make sometimes.” He said. “You're gonna love it.”

Nathalia did love the sandwich, and agreed that she should have saved her 'amazing' comment for it.

“I told you so.” Ren said and laughed.

Unlike the supper the night before, breakfast was a lot less formal and dwarves ate when they came in, instead of waiting for the captain. Ren found out it was like that because the captain didn't usually attend breakfast. Nathalia made up a special tray for the waitress to take to the captain's cabin and Ren made up a couple of sandwiches to put with it. Ren stayed in the kitchen for the whole meal and helped Nathalia clean everything up afterwards.

“I've been meaning to ask you something...” Nathalia said when they were all done.

Ren looked at her and took off his apron to store into inventory.

“The first time you were in here... when you... fondled almost everything I own...” Nathalia said and blushed slightly. “...did... did you do something to my things?”

Ren smiled. “If your asking me if I fixed everything I could get my hands on, then yes.”

Nathalia's eyes widened at Ren's words. “So it really was you!” She exclaimed. “As I was using my pots and pans, they all gleamed like they were brand new.” She said, her voice full of surprise. “I wasn't sure what was going on... but it was you.”

Ren nodded. “When I filled the big pot with water, I noticed it was weak and about to break, then fixed it.” He said. “Of course, that made me wonder what else you might have that needed repairs, so I checked everything I could find.”

Nathalia reached out a hand and put it on Ren's arm. “You've saved me a fortune in replacements. I was so worried that what I had wasn't going to last another trip.” She sighed. “There's a few blacksmiths on board, but they charge a lot of money to fix even the smallest things.” She placed a hand on her chest and Ren saw a small bump under the cloth of her dress, between her breasts.

“May I see it?”

Nathalia caught her breath for a moment and then relaxed. He has the right to know of my family. She reached behind her neck, undid the clasp, and pulled out a tarnished locket from around her neck. She passed it to him and Ren held it in his hand to examine it, and his face flushed a little red.

It's... quite warm. Ren thought, and carefully opened it. Inside the locket was two old and faded pictures, one on each side. A man on one side, and a woman on the other.

Nathalia pointed to the man. “That's my Da.” She said with warmth in her voice, and unconciously stroked her dress. “He was a great man.”

“He made that for you?” Ren asked and touched the cloth. It was frayed at the seams and the cloth was worn in spots, probably from excessive wearing.

Nathalia smiled and nodded. “People came from all over to have him make something for them.” Then her face turned from happiness to sadness. “He passed away not long after making this for me.”

Ren put a hand on her arm. “I'm sorry to hear that.” Ren said with sympathy in his voice. “I wondered why you wore such a fancy dress all the time... it was his final gift.”

Nathalia nodded again and pointed to the other picture. “That's my Ma.”

“She's a striking woman.” Ren commented and let Nathalia's arm go to hold the locket in both hands.

Nathalia chuckled. “It's an old picture. Her hair has a bit of gray in it now.” She said and smiled.

“You look just like her.” Ren said innocently, and she blushed a little at his implied compliment. “You said before that someone charged you a lot to repair this?” Ren asked.

Nathalia nodded. Ren opened and closed the locket carefully, and felt that the hinge was loose, and his Vision of Impurity picked out small cracks in the finish.

Notice!

You have learned the plans for: Locket (Hinged)

“When did you have it repaired?” He asked.

“Last week.” She said.

Ren widened his eyes. “Just last week?”

Nathalia nodded.

“If you'd said a few months ago, or a year, I'd understand it's condition... but last week?” Ren shook his head. “How much did he charge you?”

Nathalia was a bit surprised at Ren's sudden interest in her finances, but she accepted that they'd be sharing a lot more than that soon. “Tegwen charged me 15 gold.”

Ren's mouth dropped open. “You have got to be kidding me!” He said and closed the locket. “To charge so much and not even fix it properly!” Ren took out his blacksmith hammer.

“What are you doing?!?” Nathalia asked and tried to take the locket back. She didn't want him to damage her family heirloom by using such a large hammer on it. Tegwen had only used a tiny hammer! She thought.

Ren held it above her reach and held the hammer to it. “REPAIR!” Ren exclaimed loudly and poured Mana into his hammer. He hadn't done that before, but it had felt like the right thing to do at the moment. The locket, and the gold chain that it was attached to, were encompassed in a bright glow. Nathalia turned her face away until the glow faded. When she turned back, Ren handed her a gleaming golden locket, and her mouth formed a little 'o' in surprise. She opened it and felt how much stronger it was, then gasped at the faded pictures... only they weren't faded anymore. The pictures looked like they'd been taken yesterday, and Nathalia stared at Ren in shock.

“People who scam others makes me so mad.” Ren said and put his hammer away. “As if people haven't worked hard enough for their money in the first place, and then thieves steal it from you by claiming to fix things.” He shook his head. “I'm sorry I wasn't here to do this for you, before you wasted your money.”

