Nathalia blinked a few times, then responded. “I... I didn't know I was wasting my money by having something I loved fixed.”

Ren had a surprised look on his face, then put his hands on both of Nathalia's shoulders. “Nathalia! That's not what I meant!”

Nathalia trembled a little, in both pleasure and shock from the use of her name in such a tone, and also from the emotion in Ren's voice.

“It was a waste for a bad repair job, not that it wasn't worth fixing!” Ren shook his head. “In fact, here.” Ren let her shoulders go, grabbed both of her hands to cup them together, then gave her 15 gold. “I'm sorry if you took what I said the wrong way, Nathalia. I hope you can forgive me.”

Nathalia stared at the gold in her cupped hands and didn't know what to say.

“I... I'll be going now.” Ren said, and picked up Princess' bowl filled with scrambled eggs and bacon. He opened the kitchen door and stepped out into the hallway.

“W-wait...” Nathalia said, but Ren was already gone.

I really have to watch what I say from now on. Ren thought as he walked out of the main cabin area and onto the deck. He went into the hold and ignored the slight terror feeling as he stepped over his improvised protection, and gave Princess the big bowl of eggs and bacon. She dug into it with abandon and Ren chuckled. He was tempted to warn her again, but shook his head and went back up on the deck of the ship. Ren walked all around the ship this time, and didn't see a trace of land anywhere.

We're really out to sea, Teepo. Ren thought. I don't even know which way to go to get back.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “You could always ask the captain. I'm sure he'd tell you.”

Ren nodded. Actually, now that you mention the captain... I forgot to ask him about showing me the engine room.

“Now's a good a time as any.” Teepo said and Ren nodded again.

They went inside and went to the captain's cabin, and Ren knocked. He waited for a while, and then the blonde answered the door.

“My apologies for disturbing you.” Ren said and bowed slightly. “Is the captain available?”

The blonde had a slightly shocked look on her face, bowed back, and then promptly shut the door.

Okay, Teepo... what did I do wrong this time?

Teepo chittered in laughter. “You gave Honor to the captain's companion, even though she wasn't with him.”

I wasn't supposed to? Ren thought.

“It's not expected to even acknowledge her presence if he's not around.” Teepo said. “You've given her quite a shock, I think.”

A minute later, the door opened and the captain looked at Ren. “That explains it.”

Ren widened his eyes and the captain laughed.

“Lily could barely tell me someone was at the door.” The captain waved into the cabin and Ren looked inside. Lily sat on the side of the bed and stared at the wall.

“I'm sorry. I didn't mean to cause any trouble.” Ren said. “Miss, please accept my apology.”

Lily's mouth opened and closed a few times, but she didn't say anything. The captain stepped out of his cabin and shut the door behind him.

“Yes, that definitely explains it.” He said and laughed. “What can I do for you?”

“I was wondering if I could get a tour of the engine room.” Ren said.

“Wh-wh-what?”

“The engine room. I'd like to see how the ship is moving, if I could.”

“We row.” The captain said in an even monotone.

Ren chuckled. “If you'd told me that before we left shore, I'd have believed you.” Ren said. “Now that I've seen how many people are actually on the ship, I know there's not a single soul on the rowing deck.”

The captain looked at Ren with an appraising eye, then shook his head. “I'm sorry, but no.”

“Okay. Thanks for your time.” Ren said and started to walk away.

“Wait!” The captain said and Ren turned around. “You're not going to protest about my unfairness? Or claim how I'm keeping secrets from you? Or challenge me to a fight?”

Ren laughed and shook his head. “I don't need to see it that badly. I was just curious as to how it worked.” Ren said and waved. “Sorry to have bothered you.”

“He really is crazy.” The captain said and went back into his cabin to try and convince his wife that Ren wasn't interested in her.

Ren walked down the hallway and a door across the hall from the dining room opened. Several dwarves stepped out into the hallway and blocked his path.

“In here, please.” The tall one said.

Teepo.

“On it, Ren!” Teepo said and hopped off his shoulder and crawled into the room.

“Why?” Ren asked the men.

“Someone has a quarrel with you that needs to be settled.” The tall one waved to the room.

“There's 3 other dwarves in here, and they all have weapons.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo.

“And if I refuse your generous invitation?” Ren asked.

The dwarves had surprised looks on their faces and then turned to each other.

“No one's ever refused a challenge before.”

“What do we do?”

“Should we call the captain?”

Ren stood there with his arms crossed and let them bicker. A dwarf stuck a head out of the room. “What's taking so long?” He said and the others filled him in. He looked at Ren. “Are you refusing a challenge?”

Ren uncrossed his arms. “What challenge?”

The dwarf looked at the other three. “You didn't issue the challenge?”

“I told him someone had a quarrel with him and it needed to be settled.” The tall one said.

“That's not a challenge.” Ren said. “That's telling me someone wants to challenge me.”

The dwarves all had surprised looks on their faces.

“You know what? He's right.” One of them said.

“Yeah, we've been doing this so long, it never occurred to us we might be doing it wrong.” The other one said.

The new dwarf laughed. “Tegwen, get out here and issue your challenge.”

Ren perked up at hearing that name. Another dwarf came out of the room. He had light brown hair, a full beard and mustache, and a perpetual scowl on his face that made him look like he was mad all the time. He wore thick brown leather armor, and carried what looked like a giant meat tenderizer in his right hand. It was a maul, but had a bunch of short spikes on the flat ends.

That looks pretty cool. Ren thought, admiring the hammer.

Tegwen also had a large slab of stone strapped to his left arm as a shield, and it had a big spike sticking out of it's center.

“I challenge you to a trial by combat! You've stolen my intended woman!”

Ren looked at him with a raised eyebrow. That wasn't what I had expected as a reason. He thought.

“What is your answer?” One of the other dwarves said.

Ren looked around. “What are the rules?”

They all looked at each other, then back at Ren.

“You fight.” One said.

“Weapons and armor are allowed.” The other said.

“No killing.” The tall one said.

“What about interference? You aren't going to jump on me when I crush this guy, are you?”

They all had shocked looks on their faces. “We'd never do that! We'd lose our Honor.” They all said together.

Ren nodded. “Then I accept your challenge.”

Notice!

You have entered PvNPC Special Mode: Duel

A bell rang throughout the ship 3 times quickly, a moment later 2 more times, then once more. The ship was filled with the clamor of booted feet and shouts as every dwarf on the ship came together to enter the room. Tegwen and the other dwarves went into the room and Ren stepped close to the wall to let everyone else pass. Nathalia came out of the kitchen, saw him, and came over. “C-c-come and sit with me.” She asked and blushed a little. She'd never asked a man to sit with her before, but he'd done such a wonderful job on her family heirloom that she felt a little bold where he was concerned. “We haven't had a duel on the ship before.”

Ren smiled. “You go on ahead. I'll be right in.”

Nathalia reached out and squeezed Ren's hand for a second and then went inside the room.

I'm glad she's forgiven me. Ren thought as the captain and his companion were the last to pass him in the hallway. Well, it's official. I'm the tallest person on the ship. Ren chuckled, waited for another minute, then Teepo spoke.

“They're all seated, Ren... except for one dwarf that's wearing leather armor.”

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought, then entered the room himself.
