Thomas, not about to rat out the Dark Elves, only nodded. "From the looks of things as I came in, you're already taking care of the lingering dark magic. I'm glad to see that."

The man's expression darkened slightly. "Yes, well, if you know what it is, then you know what is likely to happen if that sort of aura lingers."

Thomas, who had no idea other than that it was probably bad, nodded.

"Which is why we find it interesting that you should know so much about it." The man gazed blandly at Thomas. "I know every face in the Old Families, but I've never seen you before."

"I'm not Old Family."

"Which brings me to my next point." He reached under the desk and placed a stone on the table between them. It looked like a large opal, but something in the way it gleamed spoke to Thomas of mana.

"What's that?"

The man's eyebrows raised. "It's a mana identification stone, of course. Simply place your palm on the top. It will go a long way toward trusting any word you give."

Declining would be suspicious as hell. Once, a couple of dungeons ago, Thomas had asked Zach if people could scan Gifts. He had assured him they couldn't. It seemed like he was going to put that to the test.

Thomas didn't hesitate as he put his hand over the stone. It beeped. He removed his hand to see that it was pulsing a strong, fleshy rose-gold color.

The man's eyebrows rose. "No dark magic detected... but you’re a healer?" He paused again, looking at the stone as if he could read it. "A level 3 healer. My apologies, sir."

Sir? That was more like it. "I understand we have to be careful in these changing times," Thomas said magnanimously. "As you said, I'm not known to the Old Families."

"My name," said the man, "is Robert Ross." Interestingly enough, his tone had shifted to something more respectful. Thomas wasn't sure if it was the healer thing, the level three thing, or both. "To whom do I have the pleasure of speaking?"

Thomas held up a hand. "I'd rather be an anonymous tipster for now. Considering what I've seen the witches do, I hope you understand."

Robert didn't look happy, but he nodded. "Tell me what you came here to report."

With that, Thomas gave him the cover story he'd cooked up.

"I was out looking for dungeons. As we both know," he said, including Robert in a slightly conspiratorial look as if to say, "We both understand these things." "Not all dungeons are on the maps, and I was able to feel the strength of the Level 3 dungeon here. As I came closer, it was obvious that it was claimed. I would have hiked onto the next, except there seemed to be a coven sacrificing two guards practically on your doorstep."

"Yes, this is one of our feeder dungeons, and we were alerted to trouble when our men missed the normal check-in."

"I was too late to save the guards," Thomas admitted with a touch of unfeigned regret. He was, after all, a healer and from what he saw, they’d died horrifically. "The truth is that the coven almost got me too. I escaped by the skin of my teeth and laid low for a day, after which I started making inquiries and found out through some contacts whose family likely owned the dungeon." He gave the man a significant look. "I believe the head of the coven was Tabitha Brighten."

"I see," Robert said. He didn't seem surprised by any of this. Considering what Zach had said about the reputation of the Brightens, it would be easy to add two and two. The man focused on Thomas. "What is it you want from the Ross-Astor family for providing this information to us?"

"Want?" Thomas didn't have to pretend surprise. "I was about ten seconds from being the third ritual sacrifice on your land. Apparently, Tabitha and one of her dark wizards was really excited about me being a healer. I just want that coven gone." Thomas considered for a moment. "I wouldn't say no to being able to dive that dungeon, though."

Robert flashed a quick smile. "As you said before, 'The times, they are a'changing.' What do you know about the Ross-Astor family?" He continued before Thomas had time to answer. "Would it surprise you to know that we are one of the most powerful families on the West Coast?"

Oh boy, was he about to be threatened? "No, it doesn't surprise me, from what I've heard," he said blandly.

"You seem like an intelligent man." Robert leaned forward. "Frankly, I'm surprised to see a healer—any healer—diving alone. Much less one that has already reached Level 3. It seems that you have ambition and talent. Have you thought about what joining a well-organized, well-funded group can do for you?"

Oh, okay. Phew. He wasn't about to get threatened. He was about to get propositioned. No, wait, that made him sound like he was getting hit on. He was about to receive an offer, hopefully one that he would be able to refuse.

Either way, this was going better than his paranoid, anxious thoughts had expected. Maybe thinking positively did have an effect.

That was when a knock came at the door.

Robert looked briefly annoyed at being interrupted. "Yes?"

The door opened, and a guard poked his head in. "Sir, Theodore Woolworth is here to see you. He says it's urgent."

Theodore Woolworth? Why did that sound familiar?

That was when Theodore, or Tad, pushed past the guard to stride into the room with arrogance like he owned it. Buried behind him stood another man that immediately made all the hair rise on the back of Thomas's neck.

He couldn't exactly say why, except that he felt a much greater sense of danger from him than he did from Tad. That spoke volumes, considering he wasn't exactly friends with Tad, having taken his mace and possibly ruined it.

"What is this?" asked Robert. "Can't you see I'm in the middle of a meeting?"

"That's why I'm here, Mr. Ross," Tad said, throwing a sneer at Thomas. "Sir, you're gonna want to hear this—"

The guy who followed Tad into the room locked eyes with Thomas and smiled. It was the smile that did it. Last time Thomas saw him, he'd been wearing a deep hood that had obscured much of his face... but he would always remember that smile.

That was the Brighten's wizard.

Thomas wasn't sure how he kept his voice so calm as he said, "Get me out of here."

That was all it took. In a second, Zach stood there beside him and laid a hand on his shoulder, taking a breath to pop them out.

The wizard moved. He was faster than the guard, who couldn't help but notice the intruder and lunge forward. He also reacted quicker than Robert Ross, who yelled out, "You!" and started to stand up, his wide eyes on Zach.

In less than a second, the wizard had crossed the room and thrown a loop of what looked like purple light around the hand that Thomas had automatically brought up to start to defend himself.

Then Zach teleported them away and dragged the wizard along with them.
