The world goes dark for the blink of an eye as the Void careens around me, and what little remains of my stamina and vitality drain away in an instant. My stomach roils as everything heaves at once, with my soul and the Eternal Emperor’s soul remaining fixed in place as my Natal Palace slides exactly 11.32 metres away from where I stand. No longer is my enemy seated within my Natal Throne, nor is he even in my room anymore, but rather floating in the air just outside my bedroom window, and I struggle to stand upright while cursing myself for leaping before I look. Moving my Manifested Natal Palace took a lot out of me, whether it be Chi or Life Force or whatever, but it was the only move I could come up with that might have some effect. There is no change in the Eternal Emperor’s bored, neutral expression, no minor snarl or pursed lips, no twitch of the eye or flare of the nostrils, but his underlying fury is there all the same, palpable to behold as he remains seated upon empty air with arms extended to hold a mouse and press a spacebar which are no longer there. Slowly coming to his feet, he smooths out his left sleeve, then the right with deliberate care and lack of haste, actions made of habit meant to quell his pique as he studies me from across the way. This is an unexpected turn of events, one he was not prepared for, and his eyes ever so slightly narrowed as his focus returns to his present surroundings and away from his calculations of how to take over my Natal Throne. Clearly, he thought he’d have more time to puzzle out the inner workings of my Natal Palace before I broke free of the illusion, and it stings his pride to have been proven wrong yet again.

Pride is an emotion, and I’ve wounded his, but while the Eternal Emperor’s temper is nowhere near as volatile as Zhen Shi’s, I know that deep down, Ying Zheng has the same capacity for heated rage and callous violence as the man who kept a detailed log of his torture victims. Two parts of a whole, that’s how he described their relationship, a clue I only just picked up on and one I would’ve overlooked had I not just been given a glimpse of the man who would one day rise up to become the Eternal Emperor. Another interesting detail to note is that the man I saw in those memories was a heated and impassioned man, one who gave in to his anger without a thought but could also be generous and magnanimous to a fault. Somewhere along the way, he turned into the Eternal Emperor before me, but I noticed earlier that not only is he more emotive than he appears, he oftentimes struggles to keep his emotions in check. As he looms over me from afar, he falls completely still, neither blinking nor breathing as he slowly quenches his rage and indulges his curiosity. To be fair, he exists as a soul which doesn’t really need to blink or breathe, but you could say the same about me and I still pant, heave, and sweat nonetheless because it feels normal to do so, and I imagine it’s the same for him. Thus, to see him fall so still is eerie to the extreme, an inhuman display of control and restraint which I would never even try to emulate, and I cannot help but give voice to my doubts, and the meme just speaks for itself.

“You mad bro?”

My question shatters the Eternal Emperor’s stillness as he takes a long, deep breath, and the air thrums with impending violence as he fights to keep his temper in check. I bet it’s been a long time since he’s been disrespected like this, but as much as I would like to take credit for my rage-inducing ways, I’m only kicking him while he’s down. He only just reabsorbed Zhen Shi who was much more in tune with his emotions, relying on the Razor’s Edge of indulging all Emotions while adhering to cold logic, which is vastly different from the Eternal Emperor’s Dao which appears to be no emotion or logic, and only Balance.

Which oddly enough, is something I can sort of relate to, as it is a less extreme version of my misguided desire for nihility and oblivion.

That being said, this is my time to shine, because emotions are the Eternal Emperor’s weakness, and if there’s one thing I’m good at, it’s pissing people off. “I can see why you would be. It’s been a rough day, hasn’t it? I mean, after Heavens knows how many years, your descendants have finally given your old ass the boot. That’s gotta sting. How’d that happen by the way? You slip up and call yourself by the wrong name or something? An understandable mistake given how you’re getting up there in age, and seeing how much trouble you were having with my Natal Throne just now, it wouldn’t’ surprise me to learn you’ve gone senile – ”

“Silence, worm.”

“Oh hai Zhen Shi!” Waving at the Eternal Emperor with a shit eating grin, I catch a glimpse of confusion flash across his face and add, “I figured he was still around. Guess he’s not entirely onboard with your ‘two parts of a whole’ bit. Can’t really blame him, because even though I only just learned about your existence today, I am just thoroughly disappointed by what I’ve seen. Like seriously, you’ve been Emperor for ages, and as far as I can tell, you’ve pretty much done shit all. Your failure to ascend is one thing, but like, why don’t you build some roads or something? Get shot by a ballista one time and all of a sudden technology is the enemy. Scared much? Congratulations on your mastery of small peen energy, your fuzzy truck nuts are in the mail.”

“And who,” the Eternal Emperor retorts, cutting me off just as it’s getting good, “Are you, to dare criticize this Sovereign? You are but a child who knows not the heights of Heaven as you trample upon all our efforts, accomplishments revealed to you through this Sovereign’s eyes, yet still you are too blind to see.”

“Psh.” Not my most eloquent rejoinder, but I work with what I’ve got. “I saw you doing a whole lot of nothing while you sat on the throne, which explains why Zhen Shi kept calling you the dog Emperor and why you needed a jade throne, since your stanky swamp ass would’ve probably rotted the wooden one clean through.”

The ghost of a smile flits across his lips, one I sense more than see but is there all the same. “You think this Sovereign so easily rattled by mere words? Sharp though your tongue may be, your intelligence is sorely lacking, for you have entered into a battle of wits unarmed and still believe victory is within reach.”

…I think he just called me stupid, but I’m not entirely sure.

Growing in size before me, Ying Zheng uses a move out of Zhen Shi’s playbook as he looms over me in threat, the weight of his mere presence making it difficult for me to breathe. “This Sovereign has borne witness to the sunrise and sunset nigh on a million times and more, so it will take more than mere jibes to shake his resolve.” The pressure ramps up and forces me down, but the Eternal Emperor offers no quarter as he descends alongside me, a slow and controlled fall from which I cannot escape. “You were fortunate enough to defeat this Sovereign’s Nascent Soul, but all the fortune of Heaven cannot lead you to victory here, a truth you should have long since realized before this Sovereign’s patience came to an end. A shame, for you showed promise aplenty, but even the most promising sapling will require years to grow into a towering tree, so perhaps this Sovereign’s efforts would be better spent elsewhere.”

As soon as my feet touch the ground, the pressure overwhelms me and drives my body flat against the cement while Ying Zheng materializes a sword in hand. As far as weapons go, it’s fairly generic, only to morph into a crude scalpel instead, one he holds in a manner I would attribute more to Zhen Shi than the Eternal Emperor, which tells me my plan is working. Granted, I’m trapped on my back with nowhere to run and no ability to fight back, but the plan is a work in progress so some bumps can only be expected. The air solidifies around me as my foe raises me off the ground, but try as I might, I cannot break free as he ignores my weapons hammering away at his flesh. Nor can I exert my Will to call upon the Energy of the Heavens, and I realize it’s because his Materialized Domain has me wrapped up tight, cutting me off from my Domain and the Heavens both in a manner that reminds me of Concealment, except instead of a blending, it is more of a sealing. Not so tight that I cannot struggle, but I suspect this is by design as my frantic efforts bring a smile to the Eternal Emperor’s face, a genuine toothy snarl so full of cruel delight. “Your resistance will only delay the inevitable, but time is what this Sovereign lacks the least.” As he places his free hand upon my chest, my golden armour is ground away before even coming into contact with his skin as the weight of his unrestrained presence overwhelms my defenses. That’s the secret to his strength, I realize this now, the sheer volume and density of soul packed within him, a ten-thousand-kilometre-tall soul packed into a human-sized package with little to no effort at all.

That’s why he sometimes takes a moment to respond, because of the vast disconnect between his mind and soul, a mind he’s borrowed no less. I suffered from something similar in the aftermath of JiangHu, but this is on a whole other level. He’s so solid and compact, my attacks are crumbling apart before they ever reach him, like meteors burning up on entry into the atmosphere before landing on the earth below. How am I supposed to win against an opponent this strong?

Dunno… but I can’t give up just yet.

With my armour out of the way, the Eternal Emperor uses his free hand to measure where he would like to cut, no doubt making calculations regarding matters I have yet to even encounter much less would comprehend, a slow and methodical process which only serves to draw this out even more. Much as I would like to crack wise about not swinging his way, he’s sealed off my mouth and voice leaving me no way to speak. Here in the heart of my Domain, I am bound, gagged, and helpless, subject to the mercy of a monster who might well have never understood the concept to begin with, and try as I might, I see no hope in sight.

The scalpel descends and stops just as it touches my skin, and the pain sends a wave of agony surging through every fibre of my being, but I will not allow him to break me. Seeing the defiance in my eyes even as I am wracked with pain, the Eternal Emperor’s twisted grin grows even wider. Again, I see this as an absolute win, because it means Zhen Shi is closer to the surface than Ying Zheng cares to admit, but I can’t make use of this if I cannot speak. Thankfully, his pride and hubris get the better of him as he loosens the bindings on my voice and says, “Before we rend open your soul to reveal your secrets hidden underneath, have you any last words to share?”

I only have one shot, one opportunity to seize victory in hand, one moment to capture it or let it slip. My palms are sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy, but here and now, Insight, Inspiration, or plain old intuition finally strikes as I know exactly what I need to say.

“Why do you seek strength?”

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
