Or why he held onto it for as long as he has without ever doing anything useful with the power in his grasp. Though I don’t understand why, being Emperor was his life’s goal, one he accomplished with apparent ease and hasn’t given up ever since, so while it appears as if he gave up on the throne to Liang Wu Di without a fight, as far as I can tell, Ying Zheng wholeheartedly believes the Five Supreme Families will screw things up and eventually come crawling back to him for his help. While he is no longer Emperor in title, he sees himself as Emperor still, albeit one without a throne, and I sense within him a burning desire to reclaim what is his, the same driving motivation which compelled him to unite the provinces in the first place. Again, I ask why? What drives him so? What is it that makes him yearn to be Emperor if not for the wealth, riches, power, or prestige? The answer escapes me, and from what I’ve seen, I’m not sure the Eternal Emperor himself really knows why, or if he does, he isn’t sharing. Going back through Ying Zheng’s memories, I find no defining moment in which he decides to become Emperor, for after the death of his mother, he threw himself into conflict after conflict without ever stopping to consider why. There were always enemies to fight, and he won battle after battle, war after war, until finally, there was no one left to fight. That’s his story, but one that has yet to end as he sits upon his relatively plain wooden throne as the years pass by and leave him untouched.

A scene meant to denote how long he continued to study the Dao, and an accomplishment he takes pride in, but all I can see is the loneliness of his existence.

This is a man who devoted his entire life waging war, and after conquering the Empire, he finally found peace, yet the Eternal Emperor glosses over the bounty to be had in these times. Once again, I see no wives standing by his side, no children seated upon his lap, no pets to cuddle and not even a comrade to drink with, only officials to pester him with the minutia of governance. This is who he is, the Eternal Emperor, a role he plays the same way I sometimes become the Warrior, except for Ying Zheng, there is no delineation between the two as they are one and the same. That’s why he hasn’t bothered to show me any slice of life content, because aside from his mother, he no longer places any value on the people he loved or those who loved him. All he cares to show is himself as the Emperor, yet even then, I see him doing little to nothing at all, or at least nothing worthy of note, and history would support these claims. This is a man who has been Emperor since time immemorial, the Sovereign of all humankind, the hand upon the tiller of humanity’s progress since uniting them all under one banner. When I hear the title, ‘Eternal Emperor’, I envision an incredible leader with power and charisma aplenty, a cunning and Machiavellian politician who sees things in terms of centuries and millennia rather than years and decades as he steers us through the currents of time in unending advancement.

Instead, Ying Zheng spends all this time pretty much twiddling his thumbs, and I am wholly unimpressed.

No, worse than just twiddling his thumbs, he’s made a conscious effort to unite the Eastern Province against the outer provinces in order to maintain the status quo. Rather than move us forward, he’s kept humanity locked in place, a stagnant civilization that is only slightly different from what I saw in his memories, with the same styles of clothes, architecture, cultures, and more. How… uninspired, I would say, but his memories show that this is by design, for after Ascending to Divinity in a deliberately obscured fashion so as not to give any answers away, the Ying Zheng of old meets his fifth brother, Di Zi, who I recognize as the portly soul in colourful robes still standing outside my Natal Palace. Then disaster strikes as Ying Zheng’s ungrateful heirs lead a rebellion against their ancestor, who until now has been ruling as himself for over a hundred years.

And as I watch the Martial Warrior outlanders run rampant throughout the provinces and share in his outrage, I finally realize Ying Zheng’s motivation for securing the throne.

It all makes sense when you look at things from his perspective. This is a man who lost his mother because he’d been conscripted into the army and was off fighting a war instead of keeping her safe and sound, so everything he’s done since then has been because of her death. He killed his father, then conquered his home state, then took over as king and conquered his neighbours too, because they started a war which he intended to end. Step by methodical step, he led his soldiers and brothers to unite the provinces, not because he yearned for power or glory, but because it was the only way he knew how to make amends with his mother. That’s it, isn’t it? In his eyes, the Emperor’s foremost duty is not to govern, but to protect. Might makes right, and as the strongest individual under Heaven, he sees his role as the guardian of all humankind, the iron fist which maintains peace throughout all the lands. This is no different from how Bai Qi became the Lord of Martial Peace, and I can’t exactly argue against the logic. As far as I can tell, the lands were embroiled in bitter conflict before Ying Zheng conquered them all, as often times he would ride into battle against armies already fighting against one another and slaughter them all. What’s more, the Eternal Emperor spent all that time showing his younger self just sitting on the throne to prove that his ascension to the throne was followed by peace in his time, until his own descendants went and fucked it all up.

That’s why he refuses to pass the mantle of Emperor onto another. Not because he desires peace, but rather to maintain control and stability above all else. This is his view of Balance, one in which progress is merely an agent for chaos and imbalance, so he strives to maintain the status quo. This is his take on the Dao, one which has bled over into his style of governance and compelled him to hold the throne for as long as he has, because in his mind, giving up the throne is akin to throwing the scales of Balance into whack.

Narcissistic much? This is extreme Main Character Syndrome, where he sees everyone else in the world as supporting actors in the feature production that is his life.

The following scenes only go on to prove my suspicions. Ying Zheng helps his brothers grow stronger and leads them to war against the outlanders, a war which sees the outlands destroyed and the Five Supreme Ancestors killed, but he saves their souls and gives four of them brand new bodies. As for the last, Di Zi possesses too much of a conscience to steal a body away from an unborn child. I like him, but there’s not much more to be seen of the portly outlander as the years pass some more and Ying Zheng continues to rule the Empire from the shadows, having wholly embraced the body-hopping monster that he has become. In his desire to maintain control, he pits the five Supreme Families against the outer provinces and introduces the flawed understanding of the Dao we still use today. Di Zi is not pleased by this blasphemy against the Dao and leads the other Supreme Ancestors in rebellion against Ying Zheng, but again, the Eternal Emperor emerges victorious and enslaves his brothers before continuing along his Path. Technological progress introduces more instability, as seen by Grand Marshal Sima Yi who designs a ballista which pins the Eternal Emperor to his wooden throne, but even though the rebel burns the palace down around him, Ying Zheng cannot be stopped. He kills the rebel leaders and decides that technological advancements are no longer needed, so after seizing the body of the new Emperor, he embarks on yet another killing spree of scholars and historians while burning their books to do away with centuries of collective progress, including everything his Fifth Brother Di Zi only recently introduced, like concrete and a system of meritorious advancement.

And though his people suffer for it, Ying Zheng cares not for their adversity, because he wholeheartedly believes that these trials and tribulations will make them strong, and that mankind would be lost without his strength to keep us all in line.

All this and more is revealed to me as he shares what comes next, and while it all sounds marvellous in theory, there’s little left to be gleaned from his memories. The earlier scenes were rife with emotion and sensation, but these later ones have almost been completely scrubbed clean of sentiment. Much as I would love to go over every scene in painstaking detail, the Eternal Emperor is not foolish enough to leave in any information which I might use against him. I can tell he’s hiding most if not all of the truth, only glossing over these momentous events to give me a glimpse of what he has experienced while skipping over so much of what he’s done over the years, things I suspect he played a part in but have yet to see any proof. All in all, after seeing him claim the throne, the rest of his memories are his hard sell on why I should join him, his attempt to lure me over to his side, telling me he can guide my Dao the same way he guided his brothers at which point we could be comrades and peers, but unfortunately for the both of us, peace was never an option.

Armed with the knowledge of my foe and myself, I pray that the idiom holds true and hope for victory in a hundred battles, though I would happily settle for winning just two, this battle against Ying Zheng and the ongoing conflict in Shi Bei. Oh, and whatever other battles still to come after as I extract myself, my loved ones, and maybe even the entire Northern Province from the coming conflict between the Five Supreme Families. I’d take Central and the South with me as well, but I’m not ready for a direct clash against the Imperial Clan and their chosen puppet Shuai Jiao, while the Southern Marshal seems competent enough to take care of his province without my help. Either way, there’s still a lot of fighting left to go, but I can only take things one step at a time.

Storing away the Eternal Emperor’s memories for later perusal, I open my eyes to find myself standing outside my Natal Palace while my foe violates the sanctity of my office chair with his foul presence. Okay, fine, given how neat and tidy his robes appear to be, how seldom I clean said chair, and how often my doggo sits on it with me, chances are it’s the other way around, but still. You don’t touch a man’s PC, look in his bookmarks, or sit in his chair, rules which every man should know and adhere to. Buddy is about as useful as ever, shivering up a storm as he stretches out across my bed in a downward dog pose, more ready to run than ready to pounce. Poor little guy is so scared, but barking didn’t work and he doesn’t know what else to do. Then again, considering how powerful Ying Zheng has shown himself to be, even here in the heart of my Natal Palace, I can’t really fault Buddy for lying low.

Doesn’t matter if he didn’t contribute. Buddy is a good dog no matter what.

Then again, now that I think about it, the fact that my pupper is occupying the bed might possibly be partially responsible for thwarting Ying Zheng’s efforts to dethrone me, because I’m pretty sure my bed and the PC are both part and parcel of my throne. Or at least, I used to envision my throne as the bed, before I added the PC and everything that came with it, so there are still times when the bed serves the same purpose. I dunno. It’s all a matter of Intent, though even that much isn’t enough to overcome the Eternal Emperor’s big boomer energy as he tries to puzzle out how to turn on the PC. Cupping the mouse with his ginormous right hand, he moves it about the mousepad in a slow, meandering fashion while tapping on the spacebar of my keyboard with his left hand. He’s essentially copying all the same movements I made while using the PC, but the slow and methodical manner in which he does it is both sad and hilarious at the same time. That being said, I suspect he would learn quickly enough if properly taught, and I’m not entirely sure if he actually needs to use the PC to supersede my authority here in my Natal Palace, so it’s probably not the best idea to leave him to his own devices.

Which honestly is a real shame. I was thinking I could just leave him to fiddle with the PC while I slip out and decapitate his host body, but considering how quickly time moves in reality compared to here in the Void, I could very well end up a puppet the moment I step away, assuming I can even break out of the current host Emperor’s Domain.

Rather than immediately confront the Eternal Emperor however, I take a moment to go over my options and consider what to do next. When he first stepped foot into my Natal Palace, I put all my effort into killing him and couldn’t leave a scratch. Then I tried to eject him from my Natal Palace, which had absolutely no effect. It’s not that his Authority supersedes mine here in my Domain, but rather his defenses are so formidable that I lack the strength to break through them. The Domain around him is too solid to scratch, too dense to pierce, too ponderous an existence for my feeble efforts to move, so much so that he doesn’t even need to lift a finger to fight me, as there’s nothing I can do to hurt him. Even if I throw everything I have at him again, he can ignore it all to sit there finagling with my PC all day until he figures out how to turn it on.

So instead of wasting my effort to move him away from my PC, I Will my Natal Palace to shift instead.

