As the scene unfolds to reveal the life and times of the Eternal Emperor, I make the conscious decision to neither struggle against nor surrender to this illusion.

Not as easy as it sounds, as I find myself facing a deluge of boredom and apathy which stems not from my foe, but from within, because this epic saga of the Eternal Emperor’s life can only be best described as some shit-tier television. The visuals? Stunningly vivid in ways I can barely describe, so real I feel as if I was there to see it happen, because in a way, I am. What I see is the world as Ying Zheng perceives it, which means everything I see is as he remembers it, in crystalline clarity and coloured by his emotions. The same can be said for all the other physical senses, with smells, sounds, and all other sensations accounted for all along the way. In the opening scene, the cool, damp grass sticks to my feet and the dirt burrows between my toes as I make my way up a hill to take in the fresh air and scenic sights. A pristine river runs through a gently sloping valley as the red-orange glow of the rising sun casts it all aglow, and little Ying Zhen is awestruck as he plops himself down on the ground and loses himself in the moment with his emotions laid bare for me to share. There’s a beauty to this which I will remember for the rest of my days, a sense of wonder and oneness which I have never felt before and fear I might never find again, an awareness of how vast and complex the world truly is yet also simple and straightforward at the same time. This is a union of man and nature that is intimate and ineffable, the start of little Ying Zheng’s journey in search of the Dao, but even as I struggle to comprehend the profundity hidden within this moment, I wholeheartedly wish my lacklustre storyteller would just get on with it.

Pretty visuals does not a good story make, and I find it difficult to become invested in the story with a protagonist I just know I’m going to hate, especially when the story telling is so janky and jarring.

Unfortunately for my high standards and short attention span, I cannot afford to pass this chance up, which is why I’m willing to risk my life to see these illusions through to the end, when I would otherwise mash the ESC button to skip the cutscene. Unlike the macabre scenes of death and suffering Zhen Shi crafted in an effort to drive me to the depths of despair, Ying Zheng is showing me all this in an effort to enlighten and advise me against my chosen course of action. These Manifested memories are here to show me the indisputable truth as seen from his eyes, a glimpse into the Dao from the perspective of a man who has pursued it for millennia untold. I would be stupid to believe everything he shows me, but I would also be a fool to pass up the chance to see the Dao from the perspective of a man who’s seen it all. Is it dangerous? Of course it is, especially considering how a mere moment of distraction on my part might well be all Ying Zheng needs to seize my Natal Throne and enslave me, but I deem it a risk well worth taking. Mostly because I left Buddy seated on my chair and my PC turned off, so I’m confident I have time enough for a quick jaunt down memory lane to see what makes Ying Zheng tick.

Should’ve probably put a password on my PC too, but who has the patience to type in a password these days?

Of course, my confidence also stems from the fact that I’ve put some thought into my current dilemma. From the moment Ying Zheng stepped foot into my Natal Palace, I’ve been planning for the very worst, but the way I see it, I’ve got nothing to be afraid of. My Natal Palace is no longer a permanent fixture within the landscape of my soul, but even if it was, we’re not technically in my soul. We’re in the Emperor’s soul, Liang Wu Di’s sorry sap of a brother kneeling by the jade throne with the chain around his neck. As such, my Natal Palace exists here only because I have Willed it into existence, Manifested all around me to give me a fighting chance. Theoretically, this should mean that the moment I sense danger, I can just un-Will it out of existence and retract everything back into my soul, leaving Ying Zheng no way to directly access to my Natal Throne without delving into my soul for real. Which I assume was his plan seeing how he drew me into the Emperor’s Natal Palace in the first place, which leads me to believe he has his methods to access my soul and Natal Throne even if I don’t materialize it, but I also have three Natal Souls hidden away in the Call Centre of the Void waiting to jump in, so it’s not like I’ve left myself completely helpless.

It'll be fine. I got this.,

Probably.

Maybe?

Whatever. Either way, I’ve already tested it out and I can break out of this illusion with little more than an effort of Will, and in fact have to work to remain engaged lest I accidentally break free. Probably due to the complete and utter lack of immersion, since Zhen Shi and Ying Zheng are both terrible directors, able to showcase the most vivid scenes imaginable yet lacking a basic understanding of how to keep your audience engaged. The only reason I’m still watching is because I threw everything and the kitchen sink at Ying Zheng after he willingly stepped foot into my Natal Palace and couldn’t even leave a scratch. Since there’s nothing I can do to stop him, I’m hoping these memories lead me to the silver bullet I need to put an end to his reign, or maybe even give me an inkling on what to do next in terms of the Dao. If I’m lucky, maybe I’ll even get some answers to the questions that have been eating away at me inside, like how an Empire that has been around for thousands of years could fail to develop indoor plumbing.

What? Pooping outside sucks. Pooping in a chamber pot is almost worse, because now you have a pot full of your shit that’s just gonna stew all night until someone empties it. That means carrying a pot of shit to the pile of shit where everyone dumps their second-hand shit, or living with the knowledge that someone else now knows what your most recent shit smelled like. This is a crime against humanity I tell you, an injustice I will not let stand, and the Eternal Emperor shall pay for this atrocious lack of progress.

All that being said, I found it an acceptable risk to delve into the Eternal Emperor’s memories while leaving him to his own devices inside my Natal Palace, but the cinematography really leaves much to be desired. I get it, this is Ying Zheng’s real life, so I shouldn’t expect a theatrical masterpiece on par with Lord of the Rings or gripping storytelling like found in season one of Game of Thrones, but this shit makes season eight of Game of Thrones look coherent and well thought out. Seriously, would it kill him to put in a proper transition every now and then? Maybe set the scene with a bit of narrated exposition? Then again, I don’t really want to hear him say ‘This Sovereign’ a bajillion times, so I suppose this is the lesser of two evils, but as we flit from one scene to the next with little context or explanation, I find myself quickly losing interest even as I force myself to commit everything to memory and analyze it for any and all useful information.

Seriously, the dude is called the Eternal Emperor, so I was expecting a super awesome origin story, though now that I think about it, it’s a name he made up himself and no one else has ever used. I mean, I guess Zhen Shi used it, but they’re the same person, so that hardly counts, and while Liang Wu Di caught onto Ying Zheng’s schemes and shared the news with the powers that be, I doubt any of them are calling him the Eternal Emperor now that they’ve dethroned him.

As fascinating as the prospect of seeing how he conquered the Azure Empire might sound, it’s much less interesting in practice. There’s little to no context provided as he takes me through a dizzying array of battles with people and soldiers of countless factions and fashions, so I have no real reason to care about anything I see. Following a brief time spent as a bounty hunter, a couple years spent as a soldier, and a grisly scene of slaughter in which he murders his father and half-siblings, Ying Zheng becomes an outlaw, then a mercenary, then a general, then a king who conquers all who stand before him. From start to finish, few of his foes are able to trade blows against him, for the Martial Dao has yet to become widespread and it appears that not even the Forms are in use. As such, most of his opponents are common, everyday mortals wielding poorly crafted weapons of iron and bronze, making for a rather boring series of fights in which he repeated kills his foes in a single hit. That being said, while proponents of the Dao are few and far between, those who do stand out are far more powerful than even the greatest Peak Experts of this current generation, utilizing Chi almost as freely as a Divinity utilizing Heavenly Energy without the massive drawback of accidentally nuking everyone and everything around them. An interesting tidbit which I file away for later as I watch Ying Zheng dominate almost every enemy he meets save for a select few.

Yang Kai, Liang Bo, Xing Wushen, and Tian Yi. There are other Martial Warriors who offer a challenge, ones who are much stronger than even the greatest Peak Experts of this current generation, but these four are the only ones worth noting. For two reasons really, first because the rest die at Ying Zheng’s hands while these four pledge allegiance and become his most trusted brothers and Great Generals, and secondly because I recognize these four faces as younger versions of the four formidable souls currently trapped beneath the waves of my Natal Seas. Four of five Supreme Family Ancestors, brothers and comrades who have been with Ying Zheng since time immemorial, yet despite appearing in so many scenes depicting a shared bond stronger than steel, I sense no emotions whatsoever from the Eternal Emperor, the man this young Ying Zheng would eventually become, as he depicts the origins of these oldest of friendships. In fact, I sense and see nothing of their exploits or friendship and might well have never noticed them if I didn’t just have a life and death battle against them, which leads me to suspect my foe is doing his best to avoid thinking about them and sharing how he feels about them.

I can see why. I’d feel guilty too if I imprisoned the souls of my closest friends for countless millennia, which just goes to show that the Eternal Emperor is still human yet.

This realization leads me to another discovery, the complete and utter lack of insight into young Ying Zheng’s personal life. The Eternal Emperor is more than happy to share his battlefield conquests, but never once do I see him make friends, meet lovers, raise children, or do anything other than fight. Not because he only knows how to fight, but because he’s willfully omitted these details of his life, his memories all fixated on conquest and bloodshed rather than reminiscing about the good times and the bad. There’s more to this as well, but now is not the time to delve into it as I watch the young Ying Zheng transform into a salt-and-peppered veteran over the course of a hundred battles, then a snowy-haired elder without ever stepping away from his conquest.

And after a lifetime spent on the battlefield, he finally conquers his last foe in the twilight of his life and crowns himself Emperor of the Azure Sea.

Another scene which is shockingly lacking in emotion and significance, which throws me for a complete loop. This should have been the highlight of his life, the literal crowning achievement which he devoted most of his mortal life to accomplish, yet the Eternal Emperor of today holds almost no fondness or reverence for this moment. He cares not for the culmination of his mortal efforts save for the value inherent to the title and throne themselves. As far as I can tell, even though he was proud and contented in the moment, the Eternal Emperor of today only sees it as claiming his birthright, no different from how someone else would see turning eighteen as a passage into adulthood. Though he accomplished what others could only ever dream of, he sees his success as an outcome which was all but guaranteed since that first memory he shared with me, of a young boy uncovering the grand existence of the Dao.

Upon taking the throne however, the Ying Zheng in these memories does little to nothing at all, an Emperor in name who appoints others to rule in his place. There are no grand balls or wasteful banquets, no plans for opulent palaces or grand luxuries fit for an Emperor, for the man on the throne cares not for the glory of the title or the wealth and riches that come with it, nor does he show any interest in guiding humanity or ensuring prosperity for all. He takes no joy in being Emperor, or if he does, he’s neglected to show it, and as the seasons change and the years go by within the blink of an eye, the old man on the throne remains firmly fixed in place, doing nothing of particular importance. Despite his lack of action however, the world still revolves around him, only he cares not to interfere, which leads me to wonder why he wanted to be Emperor in the first place.

