Viv reclined in her throne, enjoying her latest invention. She called it: reverse shopping. Instead of going out to stores, they had the crafters line up in her throne room with products and stuff and she picked what she liked. The crafters got publicity, even if they were not selected, so they didn’t mind the short wait. Newcomers were especially fond of the practice since they could introduce themselves to Sinur’s Gate’s richer denizens. It was ok to spend her money on pairs of shoes because she was the boss and she had a walk-in closet — ok it was a repurposed boudoir but still — and obviously the head honchette needed to have a wardrobe that suited her super important role as a leader for her people. How could one impress without nice moccasins? How, Viv asked? Right.

Sadly, Sidjin categorically refused to join her for this exercise and even Solfis used the opportunity to run diagnostics. They refused to comment on her favorite picks! She needed a best friend of the female persuasion. Maybe Lana would accept.

With a gesture, she added a pair of riding boots to her ‘maybe’ pile. The cobbler looked hopeful yet anxious. He was rather young.

Viv sighed. She was doing this to distract herself from the upcoming summit of the Paramese Alliance, and also because her first attempt at mass production had failed.

Spectacularly.

Viv had accounted for boredom: teams were supposed to rotate between different tasks on a regular basis. She had accounted for the fact that 13-years old on Param were closer to 16 earth-side because the years lasted a longer time. It was a well-known and proven fact that such individuals were hormone-wracked, horny adults-in-training. Thus, the factories offered a decent pay, decent hours, and free birth control. She had even accounted for the remoteness of the job with regular convoys meant to pick up the finished product. What she had not accounted for was that almost nobody wanted to work in those ‘factories’ when there was fertile land freely available for grab, and no amount of incentives could change that.

It wasn’t that the factory jobs sucked. It was just that being a land-owner was a dream for most exiles coming here, and very little could compete with that. Good, safe land was an unattainable dream for those who were not born heirs. Viv was considering smaller plots for families to grow a vegetable garden, and the project interested those who wanted to get into metalworking but it wasn’t enough to make much of a difference. Back on earth, rural exodus fed the industrial revolution. People worked in factories or starved, sometimes both. Here, people had a choice, one that was considerably more attractive. And they would have it for a long, long time. Not to say Harrak wouldn’t have an industry but Viv would have to find another way to make it work.

It was ok. She didn’t have to succeed at everything all at once. Other projects were doing well. For example, Viv’s opinion that some criminals ought to be given a second chance found an ardent defender in the person of Abenezigel. For a certain definition of person. Now, prisoners could work and be reinserted into society instead of being flogged! Progress, yay. It was better to have clean orphanages than welted buttocks, Viv claimed, and her citizens begrudgingly agreed that it was true. This was but one of the improvements for the budding nation. The most major one was perhaps the graduation of the first generation of Solfis-trained civil servants. As the city grew, the need for bureaucracy and justice grew with it. Viv wasn’t sure how she could have managed without the well-organized secret army of planners and executors Solfis had enlightened to the wonders of red tape, just that it would have been a massive mess. She had to thank stats and pre-existing paths for saving her the hassle. The only minor problem was the cost. It turned out that competent administrators were rather expensive.

//This is an inevitable fact of life.

//Any person in a key position must be recognized appropriately.

//It is foolish to foster discontent in servants you have trained and positioned for maximum effect.

“But three gold talents a month?”

//It comes with a large workload and additional responsibilities.

//They must swear an oath.

//Additionally, the punishment for corruption for Harrakan civil servants is death.

//No matter how benign the transgression.

“Wow.”

//This is standard practice.

//With such conditions we must compensate them appropriately.

//Or they will leave.

“I see your point. I assume their salary increases as time passes?”

//Correct.

“I really hope the harvest goes well.”

And the harvest did go well. Tremendously so, in fact. The new crops gave a great yield of black-mana infused vegetables of all sorts. Monster meat and cereals supplemented this bounty for both inner consumption and export. Viv allowed herself to relax during the annual celebration when platters full of food were systematically demolished for being both mana-rich and delicious. Not only did they repay the Manipeleso bank’s loan but they also made a steady profit on taxes and tariffs from the trade with Enoria and beyond. It turned out that Baran really wanted foodstuffs that could be kept for a long time, especially in the south. Money came in and Harrakan goods became a normal sight in the markets of the large kingdoms. It was not yet a fortune because food wasn’t that precious, but it was a good start.

It was also something she didn’t have to handle herself. It gave her time to train and prepare for the summit.

Her magical training focused on the darkness aspect of black mana, the one she was the least experienced with. She felt that it would be very useful in Mornyr, where the summit would take place, and experimented with its effects. The coating spell made to protect her acted as a sort of cloak when infused with darkness, one that only worked when she was already in a dark spot, or at least in deep shadows. The effect was more interesting on spectators, however. By experimenting with various helpers, she realized that there was a ‘mental’ aspect to it, a sort of manipulation that made it easier for others to be distracted. She was not invisible so much as unnoticeable. It even worked on those who expected her or actively hunted for her, though never for long. It didn’t allow her to slip past wards, however. A darkness shield achieved the same effect, only in a worse way.

Coating only worked on the caster though, so she experimented with other spells. Direct attacks like Excalibur did little of note against rocks and trees. She requested beastling test subjects and was granted a few, and as far as she could tell, it only scared and confused them with no ill effects. The area-of-effect spells were more promising, however, especially her old ‘blight’ spell. Now obsolete, blight created a cloud in a single direction although she could also cast it around herself. Experiments showed that if cast in the sewers or at night, it seamlessly merged with the natural darkness around it to make those caught in its effect extremely distracted, almost catatonic. They also had no memory of having been affected at all. She tested it on heavies and even temple guards with the same effect. Unfortunately, it also affected her allies, with the exception of the hadals who judged the cloud as cozy and relaxing. Further experimentations proved she could tug people along if they were attached by a rope. It was a slow and awkward process, however. The dark blight was also completely useless in bright daylight. Not only did it disperse fast, consuming energy, but it also attracted the attention as large patches of dark smoke tended to do in a place where fires could destroy entire districts. Those were still her best spells.

The other half of the preparation involved Lady Azar.

Mornyr was one of the oldest and most stable cities in the continent. The city-state was neutral in all but the most heated conflicts and its leadership was picked from the churches of mankind’s various faiths. It wasn’t very large but it was ancient and filled with temples. The land under its control had remained small and consistent throughout history because no one thought three orchards were worth pissing off the gods’ representatives on earth. Even the Harrakans had treated the place the same way one would treat the Vatican. It simply wasn’t worth picking a fight with them. As such, Mornyr remained one of the most secure and peaceful places on the continent. Lady Azar made sure to explain this in detail during their first preparatory meeting. Said peace was enforced by a large lattice of wards fueled by divine mana, as well as the shield.

“What do you mean, a shield?” Viv asked.

“An entire shield surrounds the city. It is said to be impenetrable. I have been informed that it is centered around a massive tower that dominates the city in the same way the Mountain of the Gods dominates Nyil.”

“Wait, I thought this was a myth.”

“No. The mountain exists, and so does Larrean, where the gods reside. For a certain definition of existence, I suppose, since nobody on the continent knows where it is. Regardless, you may consider Mornyr to be inviolable.”

What followed was a long and tedious lesson on how the city worked, who was important, what was the hierarchy of different organizations and a brief history of the most recent scandals. Viv’s favorite was the one where one of Sardanal’s bishops organized a wild orgy in his superior’s office.

“You speak as if you’ve never been there,” Viv observed.

“Because I have not. The Paramese alliance is one of might. Very few women end up in positions of military leadership on Param, so my presence has never been relevant, to my despair as such gatherings present unique opportunities to create bonds of alliance and friendship. I have to ask, what is your purpose in going there?”

Viv sighed. This was yet another test, or rather, another opportunity for learning.

“My goal is to solidify the image of reliability and efficacy we’ve forged during the war against the Empire of Dawn. We need to transition from ‘upstart revolutionary town’ to ‘budding kingdom’ in the minds of the other rulers. I am also counting on potential business interests considering our portal technology and the reduced cost that comes with deserted forts.”

Lady Azar nodded.

“So far, the ring of forts guarding the deadlands is still inhabited. Do you believe the alliance will desert them?”

“If they do not, I will suggest it… against compensation of course. With the Hallurian threat diminished for decades and the deadlands under strict surveillance, the alliance can focus on the last great danger to civilization right now.”

“You?”

“Haha. No. The beastling tide at the Glastian wall.”

“A good observation. I see you have given the negotiations some thought. What do you intend to ask in return?”

“With my plan for mass production on hold, the only way for us to grow quickly is to attract people, so I will request free passage for immigrants to Harrak, including in the use of potential portals. You did say the flow of refugees slowed down.”

“Yes, not a bad idea considering many nations intend to offload their poor. It will not work on some of the northern city-states, considering they are at war.”

“We have no chance of getting immigration from either Glastia, Helock, or the Pure League. We can consider them as hostile.”

“Why would the Pure League be hostile?”

“We are harboring and training Kark members of a tribe they are attempting to exterminate.”

“Ah, yes, that.”

“And they kill hadals on sight. We cannot be friends.”

“I see. I can advise you on whom to approach. There is only one thing...”

“Yes?”

“Viviane, I am an old woman with an advanced path in politics. I have placed my daughter upon the throne and I have led my duchy to greatness.”

“Is it flexing time?”

“What I mean to say is that I know you are hiding something. I would know what it is.”

“Are you sure? Because you will not be able to deny knowledge of that plan.”

“Viviane, it is far too late for me to detach myself from your cause. Speak.”

“King Sangor offered an alliance if I free his son and heir from the custody of the Church of Maranor, in Mornyr.”

“Ah.”

“Yeah.”

“Ah. And you intend to free him… how? Negotiate for his release?”

Viv looked at Azar like she was a complete moron, making the older woman bristle.

“That was a rhetorical question. Oh, alright, it was a question born of hope. You intend to commit violence.”

“No no no it’s supposed to stay as covert as possible.”

“Violence.”

“Quite, contained, limited violence. Yes, I can do that. Yes, I have done that before.”

“Very well. Ugh. I suppose we need to decide who will escort you then. Not me, my presence is required here.”

“I’ll take Solfis, Zero Five, Sidjin, and an escort of knights and heavies.”

Lady Azar nodded.

“I will select some of my assistants to accompany you, or you will be sending the wrong sort of message. One last thing. Do not get caught.”

“Oh they will know it was me, eventually, but I hope to be gone by then.”

***

