The fateful day of departure came and Viv led a small convoy through the portals and back to Enoria. Rollo selected six knights as an escort, leaving his lover and second in command behind. Ban picked twenty of his best One Hundreds including the now famous Brick, official standard bearer of New Harrak. It was a much smaller escort than what larger nations would bring and it matched her nation’s current size pretty well. The only change of plan came with Zero Five’s refusal to come on account of it being a peaceful mission, and the axe wielder was here to infiltrate and chop people up. The good news was that he would be replaced by Irao himself. The first hadal was aware of Viv’s plan to break out Sangor’s son and thought it was a fun and challenging way to conduct a heist since the prize was alive and meant to stay that way. It was new and exciting from his jaded perspective.

He and Solfis were spending entirely too much time making plans. It made Viv a little uncomfortable.

The convoy left without fanfare though it was received with one. In order to avoid too much impromptu bullshit, Viv had left the planning in the capable hands of the Manipeleso bank of exchange, its members much more polite now that Viv had both made them a tidy profit and threatened to switch all of her assets over to a certain dragon-run institution. With them in charge, the Harrakans went through every portal with smooth efficiency. It was such a seamless experience that Viv found herself appreciating her surroundings.

The first time Viv went through Enoria, she found a war-torn collection of isolated, fortified villages. Now, gates stood open, traffic flowed, and there were more smiles than scars on the faces of its denizens. Builders erected new edifices everywhere and, generally, the number of armed soldiers was just lower. Viv found herself appreciating the surroundings even as her guards remained grim. People were the same everywhere. Seeing them do better was just a little heartwarming, even if Enoria was still technically a rival nation. She even allowed the Duke of Reixa to hold her back for an afternoon tea at the edge of a pond. Late summer turned the land golden and a little burnt, like a child who played in the sun for too long. The air was heavy with the smell of sap and dust. It made her a little nostalgic.

It only took a day for Viv to reach the end of the portal network, thanks to priority transit. They stopped at a medium-sized town on a long river marking the natural border between Enoria and Baran to the east. The river went straight north. In traditional fashion, Enorians and Baranese categorically refused to agree on its name. The Manipeleso Bank and Exchange had contracted two river ships to carry Viv, her horses, and her retinue across the continent. This would be the longest part of the trip and Viv was actually hoping there would be pirates so she could have a little roast off with Sidjin just like old times.

“I do not like pirates,” Sidjin confessed.

“What? Why! It’s fun!”

“I prefer monsters since they’re edible.”

“You know what, that's an excellent take. Maybe we could lure one.”

She sighed.

“I wish Arthur were here but… she’s her own girl now, with her own life and dreams.”

Sidjin patted her shoulder with sympathy.

“I’m sure she will make you proud.”

“That’s honestly the least of my worries.”

“I’m sure she won’t engage in mass destruction without clearing it out with you first.”

“Thank you darling, you always know just what to say.”

Despite Viv’s hopes, for once, nothing bothered them for a while. The two fat-bottomed ships just sailed their merry way with Ban occasionally glaring at the green shores as if daring them to attempt something. Fresh air warded off the worst of the heat and Viv used her awesome powers to hover around to harvest berries and ripe fruits, under the amused gaze of her lover.

“Enough mana to enchant a wall and you use it to get five fruits.”

“Imperial fruits.”

“And two nuts.”

“Imperial nuts. I may consent to sharing one with you, minion. If you ask nicely.”

“Can we get some Imperial fish as well?”

“No. They taste like mud.”

“That’s an Imperial lie.”

“That’s it, no Imperial snack for you.”

But Sidjin had a few tricks up his sleeves and he stole the snack in the end.

***

Viv’s mood remained high for a couple of days. For once, she had no immediate threat to worry about since she was protected by both Irao and Solfis. She couldn’t further plan the extraction without learning more, and for the rest, everything was prepared as well as it could be. She was left with little to do besides enjoying the moment. It was the first holiday she’d taken since meeting Sidjin. Truly, boats protected her. A little dose of reality returned when the convoy came across the burnt out husk of a town.

It would have been a good-sized stop on their trip if anything remained at all, but now it was completely destroyed. The sailors fell silent when they passed by, with a few making protective signs. The captain came to stand by her side.

“Ered, nice fishing town with plenty of marsh food. It was hit the hardest during the civil war, just before Tarano’s doomed march. This used to be a city of three thousand souls but the rebels put the houses to the torch and the people to the sword.”

Sangor’s men did this. Perhaps he’d given the order. That was… a chilling reminder that the rules of war didn’t exist here. Oh, sure, Viv used biological weapons and dubious tactics, but she didn’t exterminate civilians. She had standards.

The damper on her mood continued over the next several hours, with every collapsed farm and torched fishing cabin. There were no bodies left. Viv hoped most of them had been given the last rites but she knew the truth. A fresh batch of revenants was on its way to the deadlands. Two days later, they came across their first signs of human activity.

“They are building a fortress there?”

From flat and marshy, the land had grown more mountainous with deep forests defying the grasp of the dry season. A mountain range rose to the left, its peaks still white. The single pass now hosted a fortress crawling with activity, though they were so far Viv had to use a lens spell to spot anything.

“This leads to Regnos,” the ship captain told her. “Jewel of Enoria, great iron deposits but…”

“The battles?”

He nodded somberly.

“Yes. Place is cursed. Even some of the undead are staying and it’s crawling with aberrants. Lots of bad blood spilled with much hatred. Tends to make a lot of them. Place is wrecked anyway so ‘King Sangor’ decided it wasn’t a priority. Guess we won’t need much iron in the near future.”

The captain spat over the railings. His tone clearly expressed what he thought of the civil war’s winner. Viv could hardly blame him. The two sides had fought viciously and it would take decades for the wounds to close.

“Whole valley’s been evacuated. Now they’re closing the gate and throwing away the key.”

Viv shrugged. Aberrants were not just dangerous, they resisted magic and could survive vast amounts of punishment. It would necessarily lead to casualties, ones Enoria could not afford. Aberrants were also stupid and lacked drive so it might be safe to just contain them. Maybe Viv should sell her services if she and Sangor ever ended up as allies. Something about leaving aberrants roaming just felt wrong to her.

The ships continued north for another few days. Nature grew more arid around them while people returned. They sailed past orchards of golden fruits the Enorians used to make sweet wine and Viv was really looking for her next stop. It would be the end of the river trip. After that, the convoy would follow roads towards their destination, only crossing the Shal river on the way. While the sailors offloaded the ship, she led her people towards the large inn where they would spend the night. She was really looking forward to it after a week of travel food. The Harrakans crossed the town under the petrified gaze of civilians, stopping only when a pudgy Enorian wearing an apron rushed out to meet them.

“Milady, forgive me, it’s…. it’s young master Ezus, the baron’s son. He and his… friends… they took over your quarters!”

Viv froze in her steps. Even with withholding her aura, the innkeeper withered under her glare.

“Explain.”

“He… he came and declared precedence. My lady, they had weapons…”

“Very well, innkeeper. Lead me to MY quarters.”

“Immediately.”

Viv expected the man to fear what must have been a local noble until she picked his vindictive smile. Whoever that Ezus man was, he must have pissed him off something fierce. As expected, the bank had rented a nice place, cozy, clean, and tastefully decorated with locally made statues and vases. A flute let out a merry jig that died off the moment Ban and Brick stomped their way through the common room in full battle gear. Members of The One Hundred were almost never seen outside of their armor.

Viv heard raucous laughter at the end of the next corridor. The innkeeper stopped near the entrance.

“We’ll handle it from here,” Viv said. “Ban, if you would?”

“As you will.”

The old bugger tried the door which was locked, an issue promptly solved by the vigorous application of an armored boot. A part of Viv thought ‘well there goes the caution’ but she had to admit Ban had style. He trampled his way in before standing to the side.

“Hey!” A voice said, “This is…”

Brick followed her boss in. More heavies filed in, then Viv.

“...a private…”

Viv gasped.

The first room of the Harrakan private quarters could host at least forty guests around a massive central table. Others lined the wall, loaded with fruits, biscuits, cold cuts, and slices of cheese. Bottles of juice and fresh water waited by hearty clay mugs decorated with flowers. A veritable banquet awaited the guests and that was just the entrance: pickled vegetables, mashed tubers, pates and sausages fought with fresh bread arranged around lumps of yellow butter. A dozen absolute assholes splayed among the chairs, having liberally trounced their ways through several dishes in the most disruptive manner imaginable.

Behind her, Rollo and his knights finished deploying so the little shits were surrounded and outnumbered. Sidjin came to stand by her side, staff plain in evidence.

“...event,” a voice squeaked.

But Viv could no longer listen, even as Solfis slithered in with a snarled chuckle. This was no laughing matter, oh no, this was a crime. Against good taste.

The inn had made a favorite dessert, a sweet tart made of fresh permonn fruit. Whoever baked it had cut the small yellow fruits in half, then positioned them in an elegant spiral for optimal gustative and visual experience and some cunt had torn — TORN — a quarter away as if it were some post-binge margherita pizza.

“Oh!”

Her bottle of sweet wine was empty, a quarter of its content spilled over stained napkins.

“OH!”

Viv’s aura exploded. She didn’t care about the screams in the common room or the suddenly darker air. Pressure smashed into the whimpering shitstains like an avalanche. Her anchors swallowed the light.

“You disgusting, pathetic, cockless wastes of offals, you insufferable mannerless little fuckwits. How could you drag your flea-ridden hides to MY LAIR and eat MY PRIZE with such wanton disrespect you abominable moonblood-licking beastling spawns. Your mothers would have thrown themselves off the balcony if they knew they’d see you revolting aberrant anal prolapses crawl out of their taints. I was going to go easy on you and throw you out on your asses but now you’ve done it. Ooooh you’ve done it.”

She turned to Rollo and Ban, both matching her for incandescent outrage.

“Make our guests comfortable,” she told her people.

Viv turned away while both heavies and knights fell on the hapless idiots. The meaty sound of gauntlets impacting flesh soothed some of her anger. In the common room, a gaggle of people had gathered, including most of her support staff. The innkeeper looked distinctly uncomfortable though he recovered quickly.

“Do you have a switch? A cane would work as well.”

“We have a whip. For cornudons.”

“That will do nicely. Fetch it for me please.”

“Of course, dear guest. And, hmmm, the roast is about ready. We can bring the main course at your convenience.”

“Give me, hmm, half an hour. And another bottle of that fine wine?”

“Of course.”

“And… they ate some of the tart.”

“Goodmother Leni will bake another one, ma’am. Permonns are in season.”

“Excellent.”

Two minutes later, Viv had received not just the whip but also five freshly cut switches, two canes, a paddle, an enchanted cattle prod, an old sandal and a pair of cudgels (only slightly bloodstained). She was under the impression dear Ezus was not really appreciated. She decided to pick a switch and distributed the rest among her folks. For some reason, the knights snickered when Rollo picked the whip. She was absolutely certain she didn’t want to know why.

That left the naked and bruised gaggle of idiots whimpering before her.

“Right, where were we?”

“My love?” Sidjin said with some disapproval.

Viv frowned. Curse decorum. Those twats had it coming.

“No need for a vulgar piece of wood. I have a spell for that.”

“Oh.”

***

Baron Ezus the Elder stood before the Riverside Inn alongside a retinue of his best warriors in an attempt to save the life of his idiot son.

This time, he’d decided to offend the ‘Great Black Whore’, though no one had dared call her that in a long while.

