“He was talented! The best swordmaster, tactician…he had instructors from around the world, and his talents in alchemy didn’t hurt!”
“Are we talking about that [Captain] here? Someone should do something about that.”
Edellein shook his head.
“The tragedy was that the Grand Strategist pushed it too far, Wall Lady. He snapped. Chaldion pushed too hard, and it broke something in him. One of his greatest mistakes; you could see how it haunted the old Drake. Well, he’s still alive, but as he is…”
Navine was glancing across the room at Saliss, who was utterly oblivious to the conversation. She hesitated, though.
“Is…is that how it works?”
Edellein sat back, waving a clawed hand as he fished for a puffer stick.
“It’s the common theory. Now, of course, he has his admirers. No one will deny he’s been an asset to the Walled Cities.”
“Of course.”
Everyone could agree with that, except for Femar, who’d gotten up to go somewhere. Rigrel growled.
“Yes, that’s how it has to be done. The best you can do is use them in service to a great cause. Like the Tidebreaker. It’s when they get erratic that you can’t trust—”
It seemed like General Narrina was losing her temper, and Edellein himself wasn’t sure how much slander they should be doing of General Zel Shivertail’s name. He was spared from breaking up an argument at the commanders’ table as Shark Captain Femar sat back down.
“I need a drink. This isn’t the kind of conversation for a Wall Lady or dinner, Generals.”
“True, Shark Captain. My apologies.”
Edellein nodded at the Shark Captain, and Femar stretched out. He nodded at Captain Lyssander.
“Don’t worry, I’ve got a strong stomach, and I’ve sorted it out. Just so you don’t go shouting when the action starts.”
“Action?”
Everyone turned to him. Femar pointed, and one of his [Nautical Captains] got up slowly. A huge Gnoll and, Edellein realized, a lot of Zeresian [Sailors] were sitting just across from them. Femar gave the [Captain] a nod. The [Captain] spread his hands and gave Femar a huge frown. Femar jerked his head impatiently and glared. With a resigned expression, the [Captain] kicked back his chair and snapped something at the more-willing officers next to him.
“Shark Captain, what are you doing?”
Navine hadn’t missed that, and she grew alarmed as she saw the trajectory all the [Marines] were heading. Captain Lyssander’s table.
“Sorting it out.”
Femar wore an expression of complete confidence as he watched. Edellein opened his mouth, then turned to General Rigrel. The grey Gnoll grew palpably nervous.
“Discipline is one thing, Sharkcaptain, but this is my army. Letting Zeres handle it, why, when I was a [Sergeant], we’d be up in arms at the thought!”
That was Edellein’s line, but he relaxed as Rigrel pointed out the obvious. Too early as it turned out—Femar turned and gave the old Gnoll a nudge.
“There’s inter-city fights, and then there’s solidarity. The way I hear it, no one likes that [Captain] anyways. Let me sort it out, and you tell your boys to stand down, General Rigrel. That way you don’t have to cause bad blood inside your forces.”
“I don’t know…”
Rigrel was blinking rapidly, wavering back and forth, and Femar leaned on him. Both physically and mentally. Edellein felt the Sharkcaptain’s aura pressing down like a weight. It might have been unconscious; he gripped Rigrel’s shoulder as the old Manus commander looked up at him.
“Call it a favor, General Rigrel? Old-fashioned solutions for old-fashioned men like us.”
Don’t do it—Edellein opened his mouth, and he saw Rigrel nod. His head lowered into a nod, and he turned, beckoning for one of his [Captains]. He didn’t glance at Edellein as he muttered.
“It might work. Too many soft paws around Manus these days. Try not to cause a fuss, Shark Captain. I want to watch the performance! [Captain], tell the lads…”
Captain Femar was beaming. Edellein’s face was utterly blank. He saw the Gnoll [Captain] listen, then snap an order and stride off.
Esor glanced at Edellein from where he was standing and the two shared the same thought. This was…
Well, there was nothing to be done now. Rigrel focused on the [Magician] on stage as if that was all that mattered, and Femar gave one of his [Captains] the nod across the room.
So General Edellein sat back and watched as one of the Zeresian [Captains] strode over to the lone Captain Lyssander and the [Soldiers] of his company. He watched Manus’ [Captain] look up, then gesture at the table. The Zeresian [Captain] spat something back, and the atmosphere turned tense.
Normally, in this kind of situation, it took a few chance incidents to turn into a big brawl or ongoing hostilities between one Walled City or another. Contrary to what you might think, [Soldiers] were cautious of starting fights, especially if another city had all their buddies nearby who’d back up one of their own in a heartbeat.
However, in Manus’ case, Captain Lyssander’s company were already pariahs, and as more of Manus’ [Soldiers] turned and saw the altercation, they eyed their [General]. Rigrel was focused on the performance on stage, and he waved down several officers who began to rise.
Edellein sighed. He turned to Wall Lady Navine. Femar really couldn’t read his dinner partners. She was tense and upset as a Wall Lady unused to physical brawls in her presence would be.
“And how is…Wall Lord Ilvriss, Lady Navine? I met him once while he was around Pallass. In the north, isn’t he?”
She blinked at him and didn’t really engage with his conversation. Across the mess hall, Lyssander rose, hands outstretched, and the first [Marine] tossed a drink on him. In the localized silence, he balled a fist, then eyed the much bigger [Captain]—and all the [Marines] getting to their feet.
Still, the boy was brave. Edellein saw Lyssander throw a punch. He winced as he saw the [Nautical Captain] catch the fist. Zeres were known for being able to brawl with [Sailors]. Even Manus’ [Soldiers] wouldn’t throw hands with them casually. He sighed as the first punch tossed Captain Lyssander into another table. His company leapt to their feet and searched around for support. None was coming, and there were about three [Marines] for every one of them.
“Rough medicine. Just make sure they’re still able to march tomorrow, Shark Captain.”
Rigrel nodded approvingly as, on stage, Deyssdra’s act faltered during the fight.
 
——
 
Saliss wasn’t surprised when he heard a fight start. With five armies present, the odds were high. He expected the officers to break it up, though, given the commanders were all present. When they didn’t, Saliss turned.
“Huh. Look at those poor sods.”
He hadn’t really been part of the conversation, but the adventurers at his table had been swapping tales, mostly of Liscor. Keldrass half-rose and grimaced.
“Which company is that? It can’t be Pallass; seems like Zeres is kicking the tar out of some poor bastards. Why isn’t anyone coming to help?”
It looked like a massacre; Zeres’ [Soldiers] were punching and brawling at one table with less than four dozen [Soldiers]. Bevussa stood up as Mivifa grimaced.
“This is so unprofessional. It better not be Oteslia—”
The Garuda fluttered up a bit.
“Nope. Looks like…Manus. Ooh! Some poor [Captain] is going up against a lot of Zeres’ [Marines]. Hey, I think I recognize him. Wasn’t that the officer who was there when we flew in?”
Issa and Kin turned as Saliss’ fork halted, stabbing at his salad. He slowly turned as Mivifa stood up. Feathi wasn’t here; she hated this many people, and the Oldblood Drake murmured.
“It is. Captain Lyssander, I think? What did he do to earn their wrath? Where’s his people? I can see Manus’ army right there.”
Captain Yorm had also heard, and the Gnoll traded one long gaze with Saliss as Keldrass murmured.
“Lyssander. Lyssander…the name rings a bell. I didn’t hear good things about him? If no one’s coming to help his company out, maybe they deserve it. Manus aren’t cowards like Fissival. They’d throw down even if they were all outnumbered.”
“He wouldn’t have started it.”
Captain Yorm’s voice was low, and he hesitated as he turned towards the commanders’ table. Saliss? Saliss murmured.
“Nope. They’re not breaking it up. Someone’s teaching him a lesson. Might be Femar. Might be Rigrel.”
Everyone turned to regard him. But Saliss wasn’t gazing at Lyssander. He didn’t have to look. There was no shouting or the clash of metal, so the kid hadn’t drawn his sword.
He didn’t have a chance without a blade, and drawing one would get him court-martialed. That conversation about strength beating skill came to Saliss’ mind. Mivifa turned to Yorm.
“Why is General Rigrel upset with his own officer?”
Yorm hesitated and coughed into a fist.
“I cannot give you a definitive answer, Adventurer Mivifa. But from my observations, I might guess…”
Saliss was sick of the explanations and dancing around the words. He stared into his mug and didn’t see Onieva’s mismatched gaze. Just a flurry of bodies and maybe a grey-scaled Drake losing a fistfight behind him. He spoke loudly.
“He’s a Turnscale. Or they think he is. That’s why they’re beating the pulp out of him.”
Everyone stopped talking and turned to him. The Wings of Pallass glanced at each other, and Bevussa shook her head. The Flamewardens pulled faces, and Keldrass sat back down.
“Ah—damn. What, did he do something?”
“Nope. Just speaks too loudly and says the wrong things. I don’t even think he really knows what it means or that he was doing it. Poor kid. I had a word with him earlier, but word’s already spread.”
Saliss was staring across the mess hall, not looking at anyone. Mivifa fanned her wings.
“That’s not acceptable. His entire command is getting punched out. Where’s General Narrina? I’m going to stop this.”
She flew upwards, and Saliss called to her.
“You’re never going to get Femar to back down!”
He explained to Yorm, and the other Gold-rank adventurers.
“He’s stubborn as a brick wall. Even if Mivifa got it called up, they’ll just find Lyssander and his group tonight. Zeres doesn’t know when to quit.”
“They’re getting hammered. That’s not just a brawl, it’s a beatdown.”
Bevussa spoke softly. Keldrass half-rose again.
“They’re going to get more than just sent to the [Healer]’s for a night. Someone should put a stop to it. Captain Yorm, what sort of fellow is that Captain Lyssander?”
The Gnoll was hesitating.
“He seemed quite straightforwards and upstanding to me. Capable—”
“What if we went in there and pulled them apart?”
Keldrass floated the idea, and one of his teammates muttered as she craned her neck.
“Good way to get our faces mushed in, Captain. You might have the Heartflame Breastplate on, but there’s more Zeresian [Sailors] here tonight than the rest of us combined!”
So, the Drake wavered, and then stood in that half-crouch of indecision, not quite rising from his chair. Bevussa was staring after Mivifa, and Captain Yorm kept peering at Saliss.
“Adventurer Saliss?”
“Yorm. You say my name like you want something.”
Saliss was in a kind of dreamy state where time was too fast and too slow. He knew it; the moments when a decision had to be made, and one could be made if you just hesitated too long. But he never turned around. Yorm licked his lips.
“It’s an—unpleasant brawl, Adventurer Saliss. I’m sure you’ve seen them. I would have thought with your opinions on your cousin…”
Ah, so he knew about Onieva and Saliss’ statements about her. The [Captain] peeked at his squad, who were all carefully eying him, also not quite volunteering to get that badly hurt. But Saliss? Saliss was just doing the same thing as General Rigrel.
He was watching Deyssdra.
Across the mess tent, the [Magician]’s act was faltering. He’d done the old card-throwing routine, and he had been juggling fourteen objects of varying sizes; light work, really. Saliss knew he could do twenty. But the Gnoll nearly fumbled a sword as he flipped it up. He was rattled. He was off his game.
He knew. And he called out.
“Alright, alright, ladies and gentleman, back to your seats, please! For my next trick, I’ll conjure a—-a Dragon out of light!”
His voice was booming. He was trying to get everyone’s attention, trying to attract every eye and stop the fight that way. But it wasn’t going to work. Zeres was like a shark; much like Femar, they’d scented blood in the water, and a ring was forming, and they were cheering on the fighting.
Here was the million-coin question: was Deyssdra going to do anything? Saliss just bet that he knew who Lyssander was, or at least, what was going on. You had a sixth sense for this kind of thing, and in Deyssdra’s case, he had a literal sense-Skill that let him pick out fellow Turnscales. That’s where a lot of his assistants came from. Like the nervous Drake wearing facepaint, watching from the side of the stage as she juggled, eyes wide.
For one second, Deyssdra met Saliss’ gaze across the hall, and when they locked eyes, Saliss knew.
Of course Deyssdra wasn’t going to do anything. He never would. He was too afraid. Too worried he’d compromise everything by pushing things too far. But then, Saliss supposed, who could do something?
Mirn? If the [Protector] dared, it would have been the last moment he served in the army if he hadn’t already quit. Turnscales worked in the shadows. When the crowd was gathered and everything was taut to the point of breaking, sometimes you had to watch or hope they just ran.
“Right?”
The other adventurers and soldiers glanced at Saliss, but he wasn’t speaking to them or Deyssdra. He was looking at his reflection in his mug. The Drake took a drink, then pushed the glass back.
He stretched, lazily. On the stage, there was a crash—Deyssdra had dropped a huge weight and broken the stage.
“Hey, Captain Keldrass. I don’t normally do the advice-thing. It’s more like tips with me. It’s pretentious to do advice, but here I go. The Flamewardens deserve to be a Named-ranked team.”
The surprised Drake turned from the fight. Bevussa blinked and looked away from Mivifa, who was arguing with Shark Captain Femar.
“Thank you, Saliss?”
Keldrass began, but Saliss was still staring at the mug, turning it right and left. Looking for that beautiful face, his conscience to reprimand him.
But he couldn’t find her. The [Alchemist] was smiling faintly. He didn’t look at the Oldblood Drake, but his voice rose.
