He realized he was parroting exactly what Spearmaster Lulv had advised, but the words were already coming out of his mouth. He…couldn’t look at his reflection as he said that. Just his feet. When he glanced up, Lyss was shaking his head, his face agonized.
“But I’m not—! I just say what’s obvious. What’s normal. Don’t I? I’ve heard plenty of other [Soldiers] saying the same thing.”
“Female soldiers, maybe. You’re not supposed to say that about fellow guys, kid.”
Saliss’ mouth was working on autopilot. He continued, rushing on, as Lyss’ face screwed up, and he began to look around. With a sense of sudden—guilt. As if he hadn’t realized something was wrong until someone had pointed it out. Saliss.
“You should, uh, look into the matter.”
“Look into it? How?”
“—Ask some questions next time you’re on break in Manus. You know? Have a conversation with some civilians. B—somewhere you can broach the subject where it’s not a bunch of touchy [Soldiers]. Then you can, uh, figure out what’s…wrong. But in general, yeah. That’s it. Not like it’ll change things right away, even if you act different.”
Lyssander had a reputation. It’d take years, and he might have to transfer commands, and the rumors would still follow him around. He’d probably have to punch a few people to clear his name.
Clear his name from the taint of being a Turnscale. Captain Lyssander’s head was hanging low. Then it rose, and he gave Saliss what seemed to be a genuine smile. Pained, but he saluted crisply.
“So that’s it. Thank you for telling me, Alchemist Saliss. Hah. It’s sort of funny. All this fuss and it’s just down to how I’m talking and acting. I can change that. I was worried it was something else that I couldn’t fix.”
He was a good [Swordsman] after all. Because Saliss couldn’t respond around the piercing blade running through his heart for a moment. Lyssander gazed around, then nodded.
“I’ll—figure out the rest, sir. I don’t want to take more of your time up. But I hope you see I can improve. My company will be better for it. All the lads and lasses have been supporting me despite the shit they get. I’ll make it up to them.”
He seemed relaxed as he grinned and put his hands in his pockets. Then he turned and walked away. Saliss stood there, and he tried to swallow the words bubbling up from within.
Come back. That’s not what I meant! Come back and let me explain—
But that was exactly what he meant. Lyssander had to knock it off. He had to quit being so damn obvious or someone would decide to do more than just harass him. If he were in Pallass, Mirn would be on anyone who was that obvious in a heartbeat. Because it’d get them hurt or killed…
After that, if Lyss listened, Mirn would talk to someone in Manus or another city, and they’d get him on the right track. Then he could start figuring it out. That was how it would go. This was the correct order of operations, like an alchemist formula. Hells, he didn’t even seem that beat up about it.
But it felt like Saliss was mixing poison. He felt sick. He stared at the melting piece of ice, wishing Onieva didn’t have that agonized expression on her face. He muttered to himself.
“I did the right thing. I did. Even in Rose’s world, that fairytale that’s supposed to be better, it was like this. You hold out and keep them alive. There’s no future for the dead.”
He spoke to the piece of ice. All he saw was her desolate face. Saliss stood in the empty part of the camp as the army marched around him, and his scales itched.
He always felt like he was in the wrong body. Often felt out of place, unwanted, and certainly unloved by people whom he had always wanted to respect him.
But he had seldom felt like that idea of Turnscales everyone hated so much. Small, disgusting, pathetic. A disgrace to the Walled Cities.
 
——
 
Aside from the ice wall incident and the excitement of the morning, nothing really occurred until the evening dinner. It was a big meal with extra rations for all to celebrate Salazsar’s arrival, and the main mess hall tent was packed.
That was because Deyssdra the Spectacular was performing on an impromptu stage, and [Soldiers] were sitting cheek-to-jowl. In fact, even the five commanders were present to watch the show. They were all sitting at a table in the back, which provided less of a good view, but such was the price of privacy and command. They were:
Fortress General Rigrel of Manus.
Green General Narrina of Oteslia.
Supreme General Edellein of Pallass.
Wall Lady Navine Gemscale, representing Salazsar.
Shark Captain Femar for Zeres.
The conversation between the five leaders was a bit trite at first; none of them were familiar with each other. If anything, Femar was the best known quantity, and he’d met Rigrel, Narrina, and Edellein before. However, his social abilities meant that he wasn’t the best leader for the conversation.
“The Serpentine Matriarch? Oh, she’s grand, grand…never been healthier! You know, she’s been focused on the New Lands like everyone else. It’s a good distraction, er, for her.”
“A distraction from what, Shark Captain?”
Navine was picking at her rations with a somewhat dubious expression. She wasn’t used to commoner fare, and all the [Generals] were eating the same meal as the [Soldiers] in this place. Femar was gnawing on a leg of mutton.
“Er, well, recent events. Those [Strategist] kids with the Blades of Serept and, uh, the army from Khelt?”
“That feels like it was a while ago.”
Green General Narrina put in. The Gnoll was eating a vegetarian plate with good humor, and she was [Druid]-trained, apparently. Edellein raised his brows as Femar scratched at his neck spines.
“Well, to you. It was only last year. The Serpentine Matriarch’s still pissed—upset. She was hoping one of the blades would be donated to her due to Zeres’ involvement in everything.”
For doing what, exactly? None of the other commanders said that out loud, of course. The Serpentine Matriarch was a rather mysterious figure, despite ruling Zeres. Reclusive and mercurial. Femar shrugged awkwardly.
“After Khelt threw that damn spear through one of our towers, she’s been furious, even though they bought her off declaring war. Getting it out was a hell of a task, and we still can’t melt it down for the gems. The Admiralty had to talk her out of sending a raiding force to Khelt.”
General Edellein began coughing as he got some salad caught in his throat. Rigrel had to thump him on the back. Send a raiding party at Khelt? That sounded like a really bad idea.
“Did she, uh, bring that up with the other Walled Cities?”
“Nah, the Admiralty talked her down. She’s just been annoyed, so the New Lands need to deliver. But that’s Zeres for you. All the ships coming in with the damn colonists are a good distraction. How’s Salazsar, Wall Lady?”
Femar flipped the conversation back to Navine with all the subtlety of a [Bartender] slapping down a mug on a table. The Wall Lady began to break into a complicated discussion of the war against Fissival, the Last Defenders of the Wall, and recent mining developments—but the other commanders were spared when the curtains on the far side of the mess hall opened and Deyssdra the Spectacular front-flipped onto the stage.
“Ladies, gentlemen, [Soldiers], [Generals], and more! Welcome to the New Lands! Fame and fortune await!”
His act was quite showy; the first thing he did was toss gold coins in a huge shower across his audience. Edellein feared a riot, but they turned into flowers as the [Soldiers] shouted and grabbed for them. Deyssdra waggled a finger as his apprentice tossed something at him; a little bag of holding? The [Soldiers] were booing.
“Ah, ah. You only get your pay once a month or so I hear!”
Laughter, and he whirled the bag up.
“Besides, fame and fortune only come after the monsters. That ice-bird was just the start. But I’ve beaten worse. In fact, I think I have a feather from a Phoenix I once bested—whoa!”
He leaned back as flames shot out of the bag of holding. A flaming Phoenix swooped across the room in a wide loop, causing several to duck, and then flew back into Deyssdra’s hat. He waved the smoke away, coughing theatrically.
“Huh, I forgot it does that. I am a Named Adventurer of many talents, as you can see! Now, throwing fire and catching lightning is all very well, but the key to my success is a steady hand. I can hit a target from a hundred feet away, blindfolded! To demonstrate you’ll be in good hands with me around—would anyone care to let me throw cards at them?”
He grinned as his helper set up a board where he could perform one of the oldest tricks in the magician’s handbook—throwing cards while blindfolded at a volunteer from the audience. General Rigrel wasn’t that impressed as he muttered to the others.
“Throwing cards? Daggers are far more intimidating.”
Narrina murmured back.
“I hear his are made of metal, General Rigrel. And that he can toss one through someone’s skull.”
Rigrel’s brows rose.
“Really? What kind of Skills are those?”
Navine smiled knowingly around at everyone.
“Aside from his aiming Skill? I think it’s mostly muscle. When he tossed that giant fist at the wall of ice, he wasn’t using a Skill. He just threw the bag of holding; there’s a little string on it. When he pulls it back, whatever’s inside comes out.”
Femar blinked.
“Hold on, bags of holding are powerful, but that thing seemed heavy as hell. Even if it’s efficient, it was probably only one-tenth the weight. Either that or he has a bag of holding that’s practically a Relic. So he was throwing what…”
An eighty pound bag at that speed? Edellein peered at Deyssdra again, and he realized the Gnoll was rather big under all his capes and his outfit. He might be a lot more muscle than anyone gave him credit for.
Since no one was leading the conversation and Deyssdra wasn’t going to captivate the commanders into complete silence, Edellein decided to fill the void.
“There’s a Named-rank I can respect and appreciate in our forces. The same with Magus Glasiaad. Some of our adventurers now—troublesome. I’ll apologize for Saliss of Lights in advance, but you know his reputation.”
Everyone nodded, and Femar shot a glower at the [Alchemist], whom he hadn’t forgiven for the flatulence prank. But Saliss appeared rather subdued tonight; he was picking at his food with Mivifa, the Wings of Pallass, the Flamewardens, and Captain Yorm’s squad. Femar grunted.
“Troublemakers are normal with Zeres. We sort things out the old-fashioned way. You run into any problems, Lady Navine, General Narrina, send them to me.”
He punched a hand into a fist with a grin, and the Gnoll [General] and Navine traded a look Edellein didn’t miss. To avoid Femar making enemies, he coughed into a fist.
“Most of our [Soldiers] are being well-behaved, the regular pranks aside. Wouldn’t you agree, General Rigrel?”
The Gnoll seemed like he wished he were already in bed. He blinked.
“Hm? Yes, mostly! Aside from a few bad apples. I still have to apologize over that fool, Lyssander. He’s still causing trouble.”
He nodded at a Drake who was sitting with his company that was relatively uncrowded, despite the press of bodies. Femar frowned at him.
“I heard comments about him. What’s his problem? Lippy? Can’t follow orders?”
General Rigrel made a face.
“If that were all of it we’d have little problem! There’s always hotheads and idiots—no, he’s a you-know-what.”
He saw Femar blink as Edellein sat up slightly. He checked, but their table was warded against eavesdropping, but in the open? Then again, Rigrel was oldschool—Navine frowned in confusion as General Narrina eyed Rigrel.
“A what, General Rigrel?”
“You know, Shark Captain. Sick in the head. Shivertail’s disease.”
Femar’s eyes widened, and Edellein muttered.
“Turnscale.”
The Shark Captain’s reaction was instantaneous. He pushed back his plate and rose slightly for a better look.
“And you’re just letting him in the army?”
“It happens, Captain Femar. Stop staring. Surely, Zeres isn’t surprised by something like that.”
Narrina spoke, and Femar twisted around to stare at her.
“Us? Not on my watch. Asale likes to handle that kind of thing—phaugh, that makes my scales crawl.”
“Ah, of course.”
Navine sighed, and Edellein reflected that much like lower-level officers, you had to understand what each commander was good at. Femar was a solid war-leader, but he imagined the Admiral of Supply was a defter claw with this kind of thing.
Edellein didn’t like it himself, of course, but he knew how to manage such elements. But it seemed that Rigrel was, like Femar, unwilling to let the matter drop. Narrina seemed far more nuanced about it—though Wall Lady Navine was patently uncomfortable.
She probably finds this topic quite distasteful. No notion of how the military has to operate. But since they were all together, Edellein lowered his voice and nodded.
“It’s something any good [General] can accommodate for, of course. In fact, that’s the same issue with my problematic adventurer.”
He nodded at Saliss, and Navine’s head snapped around. Narrina didn’t blink, nor did Rigrel; some secrets got around. But the Wall Lady did a double-take.
“Saliss of Lights is…?”
Shark Captain Femar might not have heard. He was staring at Lyssander, standing up at his table. He only peeked over when Edellein coughed.
“Yes, well, it’s a very sad story, actually. You have to pity them.”
“Pity them? General Edellein, you say the damndest things. It’s a sickness. But for that and we’d still have the Tidebreaker. But it takes the mind.”
Rigrel tapped the side of his head. The greying Gnoll got a glower from General Narrina.
“Having met the Tidebreaker, I can’t say anything was wrong about him.”
“No, no, of course, but you know…”
Edellein cleared his throat.
“In this case, it’s a tragedy. You know the story, of course?”
“What story? About that [Captain]?”
Femar sat back down, and the other four decided to ignore him. Navine shook her head wordlessly and Edellein smiled conspiratorially. He was in his element, and he nodded covertly.
“Well, it goes back to the Cyclops of Pallass. Everyone knew when he was growing up that Grand Strategist Chaldion was searching for an heir. His children and grandchildren all fell in battle—well, aside from a few tragedies—the pressure on him and them for someone to succeed him was intense. I served under one of Chaldion’s sons—brilliant man. But his most gifted successor?”
“He was being groomed as a successor to the Cyclops?”
General Narrina nodded silently, and Rigrel huffed.
“Terrible decision in hindsight.”
