Checkers, or sithrel, a Drake strategy-game involving taking territory with colored pieces. Overly complex and three-dimensional; it wasn’t popular, but Chaldion played such games for fun. He’d been known to challenge Drathians to their board games and practiced an assortment of such recreational games to keep his wits sharp. He was a known gambler in taverns that most people avoided. Any Drake who could see the literal [Path to Victory] wasn’t a fun opponent.
Chaldion’s good eye focused on the distant figure again. It seemed Saliss had stopped, fallen to his knees, and a few figures approached—but Chaldion saw the little shape straighten and the others fall back.
“You can’t teach willpower like that, Duln. That’s what Saliss gets. His father? He thinks you can get away with outthinking an opponent. Sometimes you can, like that little Fraerling [Strategist]. The adventurer. World’s Foundlings or whatever that pretentious group is called. But there will always be a moment when you’re out of clever plans and have to fight.”
Chaldion himself had a sword at his side, and though his advancing age kept him from using the weapon, Duln knew he’d been considered almost as good as some [Swordsmen] in the army. Chaldion nodded at the little figure.
“If he gains a Sword Skill, I promised to take him to Oteslia and the Meeting of Tribes. Let him buy whatever alchemical things he wants from their gardens for him and his friends.”
That was a treat indeed, but Duln still couldn’t credit that with the determination to last more than, say, four hours, much less how long Saliss had been swinging that sword. He turned to the Grand Strategist.
“Is that all the motivation young Saliss needs, Grand Strategist?”
“Of course not. He wants to impress me. I’ve put my hopes on him. I’m not making a [Slave] out of him, Duln. He can quit, if he wants. But I told Saliss that I see a future where he’ll matter to Pallass, to the Walled Cities. The boy understands what that means. So do you. We need Pallass to secure its future.”
Chaldion turned back to his war maps. He flexed one hand and grimaced at the grey scales appearing there. Then gazed at Duln. And it seemed to the Dullahan that Chaldion truly was as cold and calculating as they said, because he was envisioning a future where he was gone. The Cyclops’ eyes glimmered.
“Pallass needs…a Dragon of its own, Duln. Metaphorically speaking, of course. I intend we have one. The best one. So watch Saliss. He’s the best candidate I’ve found so far.”
Then he chuckled to himself, laughing at a joke only he seemed to get. After a moment, Duln saluted and stepped out of the war rooms.
Of course, Saliss wasn’t there for this conversation. General Duln told the boy what he’d heard two days later when a panting Drake was lying on his back, crying up at the rain on the practice courts. He was there when Saliss stood, and limbs trembling, swung his sword and cried a Skill to the heavens.
That night, Chaldion drank with every officer and underling he had, eyes flashing with delight. And when the Drake boy woke up, bandaged, with a map of Oteslia on his bedstand, and an almanac of the Gnollish tribes…he really had been delighted.
 
——
 
Saliss blinked as he stared into the second water barrel. He gazed at the empty vial in his hands and realized he’d been wasting time.
Four minutes left and he’d just been standing over the second tent’s water barrel. Saliss shook himself and turned.
Some people called that child abuse. Well, the Old Man had gotten his wish, just never what he wanted. 
This is why Saliss hated the army. Too many memories.
The third and last water tent was the smallest by far, and most ragged, but the [Mage] who’d done the magic had put a heating spell on the tent, so it was, conversely, probably the most enjoyable. The steam wafted across the ground, and it was indeed hot as it billowed out of the tent flaps. Bad ventilation though; it wasn’t coming out of the top but along the sides. Saliss was strolling up towards the water barrel, and he loaded six vials into his claws.
They might actually blow the tent skywards after this. He was feeling vindictive. Saliss pulled the barrel’s lid up and felt a tingle on the back of his neck.
The sword stabbed through the spot where his back had been, and Saliss saw it sweep through the air as his attacker moved around. Blindly; he saw the sword lashing in every direction in an attack pattern meant to catch invisible foes. Saliss crouched behind the water-barrel, a highly-concentrated acid in hand, then saw the figure stop.
“I know you’re there. You have five seconds to reveal yourself before I trigger the entire camp on alarm, and I don’t think either of us wants that level of chaos.”
The voice was familiar. Saliss poked his head up as he saw the grey-scaled Drake peering about. Then Captain Lyssander took in a deep breath.
He was about to shout when Saliss appeared, hands raised.
“You got me! I surrender! Don’t attack!”
Lyssander turned and grinned when he saw Saliss—then ducked the Potion of Silence that Saliss threw.
Damn, he was expecting that? He cut the second vial in half, but since it contained Sticky Webs, it still nailed him to the ground. Saliss began to pour a vial into the barrel, but Lyssander shouted.
“Company, out of the showers! We’ve got a prankster on the loose!”
His bellow made Saliss wince, and there were shouts of alarm from the tent. Drakes and Gnolls shot out of it, well aware of what kind of pranks you might get up to. No one wanted to be dyed or whatnot.
Saliss didn’t bother pouring the tonic in; instead, he strolled over and began kicking the young [Captain] with a foot. Gently.
“Nice job, kid. You’ve saved your company, but I hope you don’t breathe deep tonight. It’s gonna be a noisy one.”
He was actually annoyed by his failure. He should have nailed the Drake with a second Potion of Silence, but he’d expected to have a second. Good thinking—Saliss frowned.
“How’d you know I was here?”
The [Captain] grinned, despite the kicks to his side.
“After General Rigrel had the horses’ lines cut? I had half my company on lookout for a prank. Drakes are Drakes, sir.”
Good instincts and a good understanding of Drake culture. Saliss stopped kicking the [Captain]. He heard [Soldiers] running this way and gave the Drake a mocking salute.
“Well done, then. I suppose you win this round; I’ll remember it next time.”
“Uh oh. Can I buy your forgiveness with a drink or two, Alchemist?”
The Drake grinned at Saliss without fear or the usual annoyance, despite the annoying webbing on him. Saliss just eyed him.
Why the hell had Mrsha mentioned him? He was certainly quick-witted and good with a sword, but Saliss had seen better. No…then again, how the hell had he noticed Saliss was there when he clearly couldn’t see through an invisibility spell?
Saliss coughed.
“Maybe I’ll be forgiving if you let me know how you picked up I was there. I know I don’t smell; bathing and all that. And I’m sure I didn’t leave a trail.”
He had nudged the water barrel or something? The [Captain] beamed in actual delight.
“Oh, that was the steam, sir. I know Pallass loves their [Invisibility] potions, so I saw your trail in the steamclouds. And we tossed water on the ground so we could see tracks.”
What a rookie mistake…Saliss glanced over his shoulder and realized when he’d passed by the entrance of the tents, he must have left a trail in the steam! That’s how you died! Well, he hadn’t been taking this seriously enough.
He thought about pouring the entire Potion of Extreme Flatulence down Lyssander’s throat, then gave up as some of the Drake [Captain]’s people ran over. Saliss nodded to the Drake, then fled, arms flailing and laughing as they gave chase. In the distance, he heard the first shouts of alarm and what sounded like miniature explosions coming from Zeres’ camp.
All in all, a victory. Saliss laughed as he saw the City of Waves’ camp turn into chaos, [Soldiers] running around, away from the noxious stink, shouting, and he fancied he could even hear Femar’s roaring voice over all of it. Then Manus’ camp had the same problem, if less nasty thanks to Lyssander.
It took them a while to realize what the culprit of the potions were, so more [Soldiers] got dosed. A very smug Pallass cheered Saliss as he waved his claws and danced back through the camp.
He enjoyed himself for all of eight minutes. Then the amusement and hilarity and sense of triumph faded, and Saliss sat in his tent and then stared up at the ceiling.
What was the point of all that?
He’d forgotten somehow already. What a damn waste of time and effort.
Saliss rolled over and went to sleep.
 
——
 
The next morning, Saliss checked in with Esor, who noted his report about Lyssander foiling his attempts and jotted it down.
“General Edellein didn’t notice the lack of a third tent being hit. Still, that’s interesting. I’ll mark Lyssander as a potential talent.”
“To headhunt? He’s top of Rigrel’s horse manure pile. Esor, what is going on?”
Saliss was marginally more polite to Esor today, because he was curious about the state of, well, things. He realized after seeing all the troops on the march that there were a lot more than he’d thought.
“Just as you said, Saliss. Pallass is outnumbering the contributions of any other Walled City into this New Lands expedition combined. We’ve sent about eighty thousand troops this way, with more to come if we find anything that warrants reinforcements.”
“Eighty th—”
That was an army’s worth in and of itself! Esor clarified.
“Spread out, of course. They’re setting up waystations, forming garrisons—only a fraction are marching with us.”
“…I don’t want to know how much this is costing Pallass, do I?”
They could spend so much money they made his yearly alchemy budget look small. Esor shrugged.
“Edellein is betting on the New Lands, Saliss. For context, General Rigrel is operating with about ten thousand combat-capable units. But after last night…”
“Yeah. Odd to prank an ally, especially one you want to cozy up to. Old-fashioned isn’t enough of an excuse for that.”
“He’s…a Fortress Commander past his prime, Saliss. My impression is that Manus took border units and put them under the command of Rigrel. One last campaign for a [General] and combat experience for underutilized units.”
Great. So Manus was seeing this campaign entirely different from Pallass. Saliss chewed that over.
“Rigrel’s not a good leader.”
A helpless look from Esor.
“He used to be, from all my notes on him. But he can’t keep pace with his men. He has to ride, and it means he’s not the rough-and-tumble [General] who could throw a few punches and drink in the mess hall. You know, Sserys-type?”
“Yeah, well…adapt or die. Let’s assume half of what we’re sending is currently at the New Lands. Good estimate? That’s my headcount.”
“You count too well. We’ll outnumber any other army’s forces by far, though the Sharkcaptain proves that some of the other Walled Cities are taking this seriously. It’s possible that Dragonspeaker Luciva is hoping Rigrel’s instincts will make up for his age and, ah, temperament.”
Was that because he was a Gnoll and she thought he just had affinity with the wilds? No, Luciva wasn’t that stupid. Saliss thought it over.
“He’s good enough to buddy-buddy with Edellein. Probably has a few more social-type Skills than he’d like to admit. But Manus can’t be happy with him. Give the Sharkcaptain this, he’s like Rigrel in his prime. A bluff idiot you’d follow if you like him. Don’t trust Manus with an important flank.”
That was his assessment, and Esor concurred. He glanced up at Saliss.
“Morale’s low, anyways, Saliss. It might have been that the pranks weren’t even Rigrel’s choice; someone just did them and he had to take credit.”
Saliss paused by the tent flap as he strode out, a Potion of Dog’s Hearing in one hand. He made a face.
“Well, that’s even worse.”
 
——
 
There were two results from the pranks last night. The first was that both Zeres and Manus lodged complaints with Pallass, and more pranks ensued, just not on the level of Saliss’ revenge. No more horselines being cut either.
Edellein was happy, though, and all too willing to insincerely issue apologies on behalf of Saliss. All the forces got moving towards the New Lands despite the incidents, though much of Manus and all of Zeres lagged behind.
That meant that healthier elements, like Lyssander’s company and Pallass’ forces, were first on the march that morning, and it so happened that Saliss was up bright and early. Thus, he and Captain Yorm were jogging along with the first group that included Captain Lyssander and his men.
They seemed rather pleased at having avoided his potions, and the good-natured [Captain] himself was so cheerful that during one of their rest stops, he asked if Yorm’s company wanted to join his in training.
You knew you had a problem if you stopped marching to train. However, Saliss noted only Lyssander’s detachment was training on the go. It wasn’t just the flatulence problems—on his walk around their camp, he’d picked up on what Esor meant.
Morale was low. He’d heard several fights being broken up, and he couldn’t blame that solely on Rigrel being an idiot for starting this sabotage war.
Pallass wasn’t hard to figure out. 2nd Army’s losses were felt everywhere; even if they were presenting a united front, your average [Soldier] was rattled. Hearing that the Slayers of 2nd Army had gone down to a man fighting a Draconic Titan and Goblin Lord…and knowing that Edellein had made some calls that had got people killed?
Better almost to be distracted with feuding with another Walled City. But Manus…the more Saliss eyed the army Rigrel was bringing, the less convinced the Drake was that Rigrel had a solid command here. Certainly, Lyssander’s group seemed to operate almost independently of his chain of command.
Captain Yorm was impressed, though. But anyone who trained probably impressed one of Grimalkin’s students. He had to stop to join in.
“We don’t do much beyond sparring, Captain Lyssander, but we do have a portable weights set that Magus Grimalkin gifted us. We could set it up tonight if your company’s interested.”
Lyssander’s eyes lit up as Captain Yorm spoke.
“I’ve tried that gymnasium stuff! It’s amazing what Pallass’ Sinew Magus comes up with! I’ve always wanted to visit, you know. We mostly do sparring, though.”
He nodded to his company, who were indeed swinging…swords? Saliss was sipping from his water flask, but he eyed the Drakes.
“Weird to see a sword-company. Mostly it’s spears.”
