“That was the case, sir. But General Edellein was the second [General] to adopt Magus Grimalkin’s methods into his army.”
“…What? Him? I know Thrissiam was the first. But really? All I know about 4th Army is that annoying idiot at the Trial of Blades. The one who sliced up a bunch of people including Yvlon and Typhenous.”
“Lieutenant Comois, sir? He was one of General Edellein’s prized pupils. His loss is still keenly felt among the army.”
Ooh. Yorm’s face was straight, but Saliss detected a weakness.
“He should have known better than to try and maim adventurers. Rookie mistake, that.”
The Gnoll stared past Saliss, and his response was slow.
“That would appear to be evident, Adventurer Saliss. Lieutenant Comois was…confident. But he was also a dedicated member of 4th Army, and I would hope his record invites some appreciation from a former military man such as yourself.”
The rebuke, mild as it was, made Saliss’ eyes narrow. He thought about telling Yorm exactly what he thought of that bloodthirsty [Lieutenant], then changed tack. He didn’t need an enemy if this Gnoll was following him around.
“How the hell did Edellein find that Drake? Idi—arrogant or not, he had a very powerful class. [Lieutenant of Perfection] isn’t a class that just pops up.”
Yorm smiled faintly.
“Why, Edellein helped cultivate his potential, Alchemist. He mentored Lieutenant Comois himself. Even bought him Drathian pills and such and had him trained by our best. It’s what the General is known for.”
“What? Edellein?”
Another nod. Now, Saliss was genuinely interested; he’d heard Edellein had a lucky streak with some of his people, but Yorm had a different explanation.
“General Edellein is quite good at talentseeking. More than one officer under his army has gone on to make far higher ranks. He spots what works, like Magus Grimalkin’s methods, and incorporates it into his forces. For instance, the late General Thrissiam got his start under Edellein as a junior officer.”
“I remember that. Though I recall he was shuffled off to 2nd Army to get experience without nepotism paving his path.”
Yorm frowned.
“I…don’t believe that would have been the case, sir. General Edellein does take interest in promising members of his army, but he doesn’t coddle them.”
“Well, that was Chaldion’s perspective.”
“Ah. I see, sir. Well, I can’t speak of the objective truth, just my own insight into the matter. I would advise that you refrain from any comments about Lieutenant Comois in the General’s presence.”
“No promises.”
They were walking through the camp towards the exit now, and Saliss saw the winding stream of soldiers heading westwards. He stretched his arms out and turned to Yorm.
“So you’re going to follow me? I’m fed up with wandering around; I’m going to get to the next part of camp and do some alchemy.”
“I could have a Wyvern readied, sir?”
Yorm suggested, but he was glancing at Saliss, and the Drake just stretched his legs out.
“Nah. I’ll run. You can keep up if you like.”
 
——
 
Rather to his annoyance—Yorm did keep up. Though he definitely used some kind of Skill or magical item to keep pace.
The Drake and Gnoll flashed past [Soldiers] on the march, easily outpacing them. Saliss even outran the cavalry divisions and heard the officers shouting at the soldiers so they didn’t try to race him.
Smart. Even a horse couldn’t beat someone with Galas muscle—and Saliss did have Galas. Most non-[Warriors] might not get any, even past Level 40, but he was an exception. An [Alchemist] could redefine his body, and Saliss…was rather good at manipulating the body.
Argh, his scales were itching a bit. So soon? Normally Saliss could keep it together for at least two weeks after becoming Onieva. He wanted to be back at the inn, in Ishkr’s arms…
The image of Saliss in Ishkr’s arms flashed into his mind, and his scales itched harder.
Not Saliss, Onieva. The Drake slowed, wiping sweat from his brows, and his bad mood was back. And what should he see as he slowed but that stupid tent, and that idiot’s face beaming at him.
“Glasiaad. Oh, great. And here I was hoping he’d stay away. The Magpie just has to get some of the loot, doesn’t he?”
Captain Yorm was too busy catching his breath to reply. Saliss saw half a dozen people exiting Glasiaad’s tent, and more entering cautiously.
“Do you know…Magus Glasiaad…Adventurer Saliss? I received…an invite to his tent, but I felt it was inappropriate.”
Yorm panted, and Saliss eyed the somewhat-unsteady group.
“Don’t bother. See that lot wobbling? He’ll just get you drunk and full on his stupid cheeses and talk your ears off about what real adventuring is like. Hold on, I’m going to cause trouble.”
“Wait, sir—”
Yorm was too slow as Saliss skipped over to the group. He waved
“Hello there! Drinking by daylight? Tsk, tsk—I’ll report you to High Command! Who’s this now?”
They jumped, and two of them turned and blinked at him. Adventurers? Saliss grinned and put out a hand.
“Saliss of Lights. And you’re Drunk, and you’re Tipsy. Good to meet you!”
He shook the Drake’s hand, then the Human’s, and the young man tried to yank his hand out of Saliss’ grip.
“Adventurer Saliss? Ah, good to meet you. I’m Captain Thoir of Green Solutions.”
He was polite enough, but there was a clear reserve as Nekessa murmured her name and team. Saliss noticed the [Major] pulling a face as well. Ooh, someone’s been telling stories about me.
“Old Glasiaad doing well? I’d check in on him, but he hates my tail. You kids excited for the New Lands?”
“Er, yes, sir. Will you be adventuring with us?”
Thoir eyed Saliss, and the Named-rank waved a claw.
“Oh, not me. I go solo, mostly. Few teams keep up. You just call if you run into an Elder Creler, and watch how many minders you have. If you find any loot, maybe grab it first then report to High Command. Otherwise, they tend to get all grabby.”
He grinned as the other soldiers gave him outraged glares. Thoir hesitated, glancing at Captain Yorm, but Saliss didn’t see what face the Gnoll was making. Nekessa backed up a step.
“We’ll take that under advisement, Adventurer Saliss. But we really must be going.”
She backed up, and Saliss eyed her. Let’s see. She was in her twenties, a [Sorcerer], Gold-rank, and attractive…yep. He popped up behind her.
“Where’s your team? I’ll walk you to them! You’re Manus, right? Have you met old Zeter Sixdicks? He lost five in the war, but I never hold that against him.”
She jumped and looked at Thoir for help, but at that moment, Captain Yorm introduced himself. Nekessa gave up and tried to jog back to her team.
“Adventurer Saliss, I really don’t have time to discuss anything with you—excuse me, please!”
Nekessa was red-cheeked, and Saliss gave her a toothy grin as she glared at him. He spoke as she yanked an arm free.
“If I’m right, old Glasiaad offered to give you magical lessons in the evening. Am I right?”
“No!”
She stalked away, and he raised his brows.
“Not magical lessons? Then…looking at your adventurer contracts? Or was it giving you combat advice? Appraising an artifact?”
Nekessa stumbled, and he popped back into place, strolling next to her. She gave him a sideways eye.
“Why would that—”
“Oh, it’s fine. I’d just go with your team Captain. Glasiaad and I hate each other, so I really don’t mind saying whatever I feel about him. He’s largely harmless. But he does have warts on his dick.”
Her mouth opened. Saliss glanced at her.
“They’re contagious. Just in case you were blown away by his wonderful demeanor and charm. But hey, if you happen to decide it’s worth the itch, I have this [Alchemist] friend who does a wonderful salve. Xif in Pallass—just tell him I sent you. I don’t do custom cures anymore.”
Her eyes flickered as she stared at him, and Saliss glanced over his shoulder; Yorm was jogging towards him.
“Oops, I haven’t finished my run. Got to go! Be sure to check your contracts! Manus never gives good ones ooooouuuuut!”
He waved as he leapt away, leaving the Gold-rank [Sorceress] gazing at his back.
 
——
 
“Adventurer Saliss, what was that about?”
Yorm commented to Saliss when the Drake slowed down. The [Alchemist] glanced at him.
“That’s my question. Aren’t you supposed to be following me, not making smalltalk?”
The Gnoll [Captain] grunted.
“I could tell you were interested in talking to the adventurer alone. Am I correct in assuming Adventurer Glasiaad has—objectionable indiscretions?”
His voice was very careful, and Saliss beamed at him.
“And if he did, what would you do about it, report it to High Command? Would that do anything?”
There was a deafening silence from the Gnoll, and Saliss relented after a moment.
“He doesn’t. If he does, then I’d find out about it. And if I found out about it, Glasiaad and I would have to fight, and he’d hate that. I just gave the young lady some advice about having things stuck where she really might not want them. Why, did you think he was up to no good?”
Captain Yorm glanced over his shoulder.
“What is the purpose of Adventurer Glasiaad hosting so many officers and adventurers? Purely social or to find company?”
Saliss waved a claw.
“Oh, that. That’s just him being the Magpie. Don’t you know how it’ll be in the New Lands? Work it out for me.”
He let Yorm think until the Gnoll replied back.
“Would it have something to do with treasure distribution?”
“Wow, you are Grimalkin’s student. Got it in one. If he helps dispel anything when they pull out loot, he gets a cut. Good way to get paid. Glasiaad’s adventuring days are a bit behind him; he’d rather just do some magic and not run around. He’s too fat to escape a monster, anyways.”
“He looks in good condition to me?”
“Illusion. He’s not the worst Named-rank around.”
But what did that mean? Nothing, really. Half were insane, the other half were insane and some kind of twisted.
 
——
 
And Saliss?
He reached the next camp, set up a tent in the nicest, most out-of-the-way spot he could find, and tried to work on some of the alchemy recipes in his mind, scribbling down notes on how to improve them until it was time for dinner.
He was so miserable that he just lay there instead of getting something to eat until Captain Yorm scratched on the tent flap.
“Adventurer Saliss, a [Message] for you, sir.”
“Add it to my pile of thousands and go away.”
“This is from The Wandering Inn.”
Saliss sat up and opened the tent flaps.
“Go on.”
Yorm handed him a note. Saliss read the writing.
 
Dear Saliss,
Would you go to a private area please and turn off your anti-scrying countermeasures? Thank you!
 
It wasn’t a message that said people were dead or dying. Saliss frowned, then exhaled.
“Ah, of course.”
He jogged away from the camp, and Captain Yorm stood back at a distance after Saliss threw a few rocks his way. Then, Saliss deactivated one of his rings and waited.
The little Gnoll girl appeared with a notepad in one paw and a bowl of noodles in the other. Mrsha slurped up some noodles as Saliss spread his arms.
“Mrsha! My fifth-favorite Gnoll!”
Hey! I should be at least top three! How are you doing, Saliss?
He jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“Oh, you know, doing army stuff. March here, go there, poop over there…there’s my sixth-favorite Gnoll that way. See that guy? Captain Yorm, one of Grimalkin’s students.”
Whoa, he’s big.
Mrsha eyed Yorm, who was giving her a very interested gaze. Saliss sat down cross-legged. He was vaguely annoyed how cheerful seeing Mrsha made him.
“So, am I now on your little list of people to check in on, hmm?”
The girl innocently scribbled something down on the notepad.
Just saying hi, daily if I can, Saliss. You can ask for a weekly check-in, but it’s hard getting ahold of you, and if you’re in the New Lands…can I contact this Yorm guy if you’re busy?
Saliss’ eyes twinkled, but his tongue said—
“Check on me? How dare you be concerned about me? I’m Saliss of Lights!”
He threw his arms open and twirled around with a grin. But the Gnoll girl didn’t laugh or giggle or roll her eyes like she was supposed to.
Too old, those eyes. Shirka had looked like that even as a kid. Mrsha wrote back.
I bet that works on a lot of people, but I know Erin. How are things, Saliss?
He frowned at her.
“Oh, playing tough, are we? You first. How’s the inn? Any…things happen? Any trouble? Cross your heart and hope to fly.”
He’d hit her with a Levitation Potion for fun when he got back. Mrsha hesitated a second too long, and Saliss’ felt his heart skip a beat. But then she just sighed.
I’m still being super-watched but I get it, and besides that, we’re okay! I was bullied the other day.
“You? Bullied? Oh no, how will you ever survive?”
Saliss put a hand over his heart, but he was relieved when she smiled.
It was sort of novel. I used to get bullied, but now it’s weird. Okay, your turn, Saliss. How’s the army?
The Drake knew he paused a bit too long before shrugging.
“Eh, it’s about as fun as pulling teeth, but once we get to the New Lands, I’m fine. Also the food sucks. Write that down.”
She did and then peered at Saliss.
Sorry the army sucks. Are you with General Imreallydumb?
“No, just General Idiot. General Imreallydumb retired last year.”
She nodded sympathetically and then she did something that unnerved Saliss a bit. Mrsha peered at him, then wrote…
Saliss, would you like a hint?
“What sort of hint?”
Just a general hint about things that may-or-may-not happen. Nothing big—just a name or two.
“A name as in…someone important? Someone dangerous?”
I dunno.
She gave him a round-eyed look that was equal to any of Erin’s blank expressions, but Saliss had a thought. He knew where a…hint might come from. And he hesitated. Even he hesitated.
But if it’s important…
“Okay, hit me.”
Well, can you tell me what armies you’re with? Pallass and any others?
“Just Manus and Oteslia for the moment. We should get all of them at one point. That narrow it down?”
Mrsha didn’t rise to the bait. She thought for a moment, closing her eyes, then wrote slowly.
In that case, I would keep an eye out for…Rafaema of Manus. Cire of Oteslia. Lyssander of Manus, and Werica of Zeres. If you wanted to do something interesting.
Saliss’ face never changed, but he felt his tail curl ever-so-slightly.
Okay, now that was a bit interesting. He gave Mrsha a big smile.
“Sounds like fun. You wouldn’t happen to have a reason to check on those names, would you?”
Why the hell would he be interested in Rafaema, that annoying Wall Lady…? Or her friend that Mivifa was so interested in? And why Lyssander? He saw Mrsha—hesitate.
