“He’s as much adventurer as Saliss is, Bevussa. Don’t mind him. The two fight like a cat and dog, but I swear they like each other. I think it’s the showing off—one just has to outdo the other. Deyssdra’s a bit of an odd fighter. He’s got a bag of tricks, and once that runs out, he’s more of a utility backup. But an odd one; Saliss is more of a frontliner. You’ll be glad with Deyssdra at your back, though. Come on, Saliss.”
She wanted to tug him away, and Saliss let himself be pulled all of fifteen feet—almost into a Drake, who offered Mivifa a salute.
“Adventurer Mivifa! Saliss of Lights! I apologize if my team stepped on any tails back there! I didn’t realize I was interfering with Adventurer Deyssdra’s performance; I just saw the problem and hit it. Bevussa, is that you? It’s been months!”
The Drake looked slimmer without his armor, but only just. Saliss blinked as Captain Keldrass of the Flamewardens ducked out from behind a tent.
“Keldrass, is that you? How’d you get out of that crowd?”
Bevussa exclaimed and clasped his forearms. Another old soldier of Pallass—it was a trend with a lot of adventurers, Saliss included. Mivifa smiled as Keldrass jerked a thumbclaw over his shoulder.
“I gave the armor to Mittch, my second-in-command. Everyone just stares at the armor. I had to duck away to apologize—Adventurer Saliss, it’s an honor to work alongside you again, sir.”
He was so earnest it made Saliss embarrassed to be sulking. The [Alchemist] waved a claw.
“Bah, I don’t care if you got the wall. I like the flames. Very colorful. It’s Deyss that annoys me. Throwing his cards around, and you just know he was waiting for the big entrance. He’s a showoff, that one.”
Mivifa rolled her eyes, but Keldrass breathed out in relief. He coughed, thumped his chest, but didn’t exhibit the normal effects of overuse of Dragonbreath that Saliss normally saw—and they had been hot flames.
“That’s a relief. We just marched into the New Lands; we had intended to be here two days earlier, but the breastplate attracts way too much attention. We’ve had to guard it like hawks, and we sleep with it on. Well, mostly me, to be honest. It’s eerie how powerful it is—I feel like my Dragonbreath is three times as strong as it used to be.”
Now, Saliss remembered Keldrass at the Winter Solstice. The Drake had immolated countless undead when he’d unlocked more of the breastplate’s power. It seemed like that had led to a great change in the Drake’s capabilities.
“With the Heartflame Breastplate, your team might well be Named-rank, Captain Keldrass. So that Relic not only shields you from damage but enhances your breath attack?”
Keldrass nodded as he explained it to Mivifa.
“It’s a new function. Or rather, another one we’ve rediscovered. I swear there are more secrets, but we only have a few of them that we’ve identified. If we had the Helm of Fire…but that’s on its way to the Empire of Sands. So far, enhancing my breath is the main effect. And with my new class, well—we’re being recertified now, but I was told unofficially that within the month we’ll be allowed to call ourselves a Named-rank team so long as we have the breastplate!”
That was big. Bevussa’s beak opened, and Saliss didn’t miss the other part. He stared at Keldrass, then read something hovering above the Drake’s head.
[Oldblood Flamebreath Warrior Level 41]. Saliss smiled faintly and clapped Keldrass on the shoulder.
“You might want to get a ring of anti-appraisal there, Captain Keldrass. But hey—welcome to the big leagues. Now you get to pay for everyone’s drinks.”
Keldrass gave him a round-eyed stare, and Mivifa, who knew Saliss’ eyes, gave him a curious look. The Drake coughed a bit of smoke out.
“Th-thank you, sir. Not that we can afford to buy all the drinks. One cost of the armor is that I have an agreement to share profits with Miss Selys Shivertail, the owner of the breastplate. Worth it, of course, but it is a cost.”
He smiled, a Named-rank team’s Captain wearing a Relic so powerful that even the New Lands couldn’t drain it of magic. Then Saliss remembered Bevussa and saw her hesitate, then extend a hand.
“Well done, Keldrass. That’s wonderful news!”
She had to force a smile, and Saliss saw a clear contrast between the impoverished leader of the Wings of Pallass and the resplendent Flamewardens. Keldrass hesitated.
“Thank you, Bevussa. How’s your team doing? Did the New Lands…?”
Saliss spared Bevussa from having to bring up the anti-magic disaster with a clap on both Gold-rankers’ shoulders.
“Let’s not stand around here chatting; the eavesdroppers always come after you. How about we have a big meal at Mivifa’s?”
The Oldblood of Feathers shook her head.
“I don’t have that many provisions, Saliss! The Wings, er, ate a lot of it, and I’m not going to bother the [Quartermaster] nonstop. Let’s eat at the mess hall tonight. You know Deyss is going to perform, and everyone will love to see it. Don’t grouse at me.”
Saliss pulled a huge face, but he couldn’t deny everyone but him would have a grand old time. He glowered, but agreed, and Keldrass glanced around.
“I have to get back to my team. Bevussa, Saliss, I’d love to catch up and ask about Liscor and the Goblin King—”
Of course you would. But Saliss, despite himself, realized that Keldrass was another believer. So there was another adventurer who won a mark. He turned to Bevussa.
“I always thought Keldrass was a bit of a stick-in-the-mud. He seems to have loosened up a bit.”
“He has, and it hasn’t gone to his head. I think the inn helped with that. A Named-rank team. He deserves it. He blasted more Draugr than I can count. Good for him.”
The Garuda seemed so forlorn that Mivifa fidgeted—then spoke up too-brightly.
“Well, now the wall of ice is gone, it’s time to scout! Captain Bevussa, would your team care to show me some of the nearby landmarks? I’d love to fly with you.”
That distracted Bevussa, and she agreed that she’d love to have Mivifa check her team’s form and show her what they could. They headed off, and Saliss sighed. More adventurers. More fun. No, but really, he didn’t mind having the Flamewardens…
“It’s just Deyss that’s a pain in the ass. That brightly-colored rat. No one likes him. Every Gnoll I know says he smells, that’s why he got kicked out of the tribes. And he’s a horrible boss, so all his apprentices quit on him. Plus, he has Yellow Rivers. Magical Yellow Rivers. Incurable. I hear he was the first person to spread it around.”
He spoke to the air until a shadow moved out from a tent. A Gnoll, his cloak shimmering as it stopped looking like the fabric, stepped out and glared.
“It’s not like I knew you were coming with Pallass’ forces, Saliss. I thought you’d never join—well, they have you over a barrel, don’t they?”
“Deyss.”
The two faced each other, Saliss’ arms folded, the [Magician] fiddling with a card. His were sharp, and he could throw one through an enemy’s skull, but Saliss had always thought they lacked punch. Accordingly, Deyss had come up with his ‘golden punch’ trick.
He was bigger than you’d expect; not Yorm’s size, but close. But he hid all that under his colorful attire and glamour. Right now, he seemed—well, defensive.
They were always like this. Saliss glowered.
“No one forced you to come. Let me guess, you volunteered.”
“Showing willingness and patriotism isn’t a bad thing, Saliss. You should try it. Salazsar’s all aflurry with the Last Defenders of the Wall coming back. We have everyone from old Eschowar to Navine’s father, Wall Lord Zail. I’m doing my part.”
“Performing for General Edellein and everyone else.”
Saliss sneered, and Deyss shot him a glower as he adjusted his high collar.
“I’m not going to do this with you, Saliss. I was going to ask what the hell kind of madness is coming out of Liscor. It’s either tall tales or…was there really a Goblin King?”
The [Alchemist] didn’t want to get into it right now. He shrugged.
“I’ll tell everyone later. Who’s the kid?”
“My apprentice? She’s been with me eight months. Bright. Very good with her hands and timings. Too much into the adventuring lifestyle, but I need help, and we’re with the army—she’s fifteen. Keep an eye on her.”
“You keep her out of our job, Deyss. Don’t make your problems my problems.”
“I’m asking you to—”
The Gnoll’s hackles rose, and they glared at each other. A few passersby saw the uncharacteristically mad Named-ranks, known for their good humor and entertaining affect, and stared. Saliss and Deyss paused, then stepped into one of the tents to argue. Saliss was ready to go again, but Deyss just rubbed at his face.
“Let’s not fight. How’s Mirn?”
“…Fine. He’s got an annoying new kid to look after—same old, same old. How’s Laszi?”
Deyss fiddled with a cufflink.
“Doing fine—I think. I try not to check in that often, you know.”
“Don’t want to remind everyone about your terrible indiscretions?”
The Gnoll grabbed Saliss’ shoulder.
“It beats waging a one-Drake war against an entire Walled City! Now, if you don’t mind, can we be professionals for five seconds while we’re about to fight monsters in the New Lands or are you going to do this the entire time?”
The [Alchemist] relaxed after a long moment. He tried to stop glowering, but that was, after all, a difference between them. Saliss was an Architect. Mirn was a Sentry.
Deyssdra was a Mason, someone who built things and who preferred to earn favor and accede where he could. It was a philosophical difference between them. Saliss called it cowardice; Deyss called it pragmatism.
“—Odd to see Mivifa here.”
Deyss changed the subject again, and Saliss shrugged.
“She says her obligations in Oteslia vanished.”
“Hmpf. Oteslia…I hear it’s rife with criminals having a damn war on the streets. Very odd she’s leaving it, but maybe it’s not as bad as I thought. I’ll tell you one thing, Saliss—Salazsar is abuzz with change, and Navine is just one element of it. Ever since Wall Lord Ilvriss came back a changed man, it’s been one thing after another.”
“Oh, really? I wouldn’t know with that door to Liscor, Chaldion retiring, Thrissiam, and Goblin Kings popping out of my ass.”
The caustic tone made Deyss throw up his paws.
“I cannot with you, Saliss. Is it Onieva? Are you low on reagents or something because—”
Saliss jabbed Deyss several times in the chest.
“Stop. Meddling. And. I’ll. Stop. Being. Grumpy. Got it, Deyss? Just go be entertaining, and I’ll go murder monsters, and we can both be happy.”
The Gnoll had a sad expression on his face that made Saliss guilty. He drew himself up.
“I just thought you might want to talk to someone, Saliss.”
“About what, how much it sucks?”
Saliss spun in the entrance to the tent as a [Major] lifted the flap to his tent and halted. Both Named-ranks ignored him, and Deyss shrugged.
“Well, yes.”
Saliss stopped, and stared at Deyssdra the Spectacular, then managed to slam the tent flap against the air. He stomped off, and what made him angriest of all was that he couldn’t quite remember why he and Deyss were so mad at each other.
A long while ago, Saliss had been fighting with everything he had. He put out a call to help, and friends came, and they set part of a Walled City ablaze. They might have even won…
They’d never have won. But they tried. Saliss had called for help, and good people had come to die.
Deyssdra hadn’t. It turned out he’d been right.
Saliss had never forgiven him for it.
Old stories like that. The Named-rank was in a worse and worse mood as he stomped around camp again. Up and down, that familiar feeling.
He found Onieva staring at him in a piece of melting ice and met her gaze. Saliss walked over to rest his head against the ice.
“Damnit, Deyss. Why do we have to always fight?”
Two different kinds of people on the same side, that was all. So they fought the hardest. Deyss was a great Drake, for all he was a Gnoll. And so was Saliss.
The [Alchemist] was still standing there when Captain Lyssander found him.
 
——
 
Captain Lyssander was apprehensive, so he tried to sneak up on Saliss of Lights. A fruitless task, of course. One did not merely sneak up on a Named-rank adventurer. Well, one could do that to some of them. Zeter, for instance, had little awareness beyond that of a trained soldier. But one of the things you learned really quick in the army was that sneaking up on Zeter for a prank could be the last thing you did. It wasn’t his fault if you jumped out of a closet and his fist punched through your skull. If it was his fault, well, the Walled Cities needed Zeter more than Corporal Relln.
But the [Soldiers] remembered. They had a kind of hive-like intelligence and memory that lost a lot as generations retired or casualties took them away, and the facts got distorted, but they remembered…moments. Yes, Lyss knew the irony of comparing Manus’ army to a hive. But it fit, so why couldn’t he say it?
That was the refrain he’d often heard coming from his mouth before he was told to run a lap around Manus. Why not do it this way? ‘Because we don’t’ was a stupid answer, wasn’t it? Why not try that? Why not…
Saliss of Lights was nothing like the notes in his files. As a [Captain] of Manus, Lyssander had access to a lot of files that a civilian would envy. Like notes on active Named-rank adventurers. None of the juicy stuff; that was always (REDACTED), but he’d read Saliss’ file by accident once and thought it was describing some scarred war veteran like Spearmaster Lulv, all intensity and excellence. Not a silly, naked Drake like the [Alchemist] acted like. But was that Lyss’ eyes deceiving him?
The Drake expected to be noticed as he edged closer, but somehow, it seemed like the [Alchemist] didn’t see him or was pretending not to. He was staring at a piece of ice on the ground, which barely melted even under the morning’s sun. And speaking?
“Why are you looking at me like that?”
Lyssander opened his mouth, but the question wasn’t directed at him. Saliss kept his eyes focused on the piece of ice, and his tail waved slowly in the grass. He seemed—disturbed. And tired.
“Stop it. I had to come here. For the seith as well as to make sure fewer idiots die than…everything important is over there, but you don’t protect that by staying. I can’t. The flowers are gone. I can’t bring you back easily. It’s going to be harder unless I can find—”
Silence. As if he could hear someone, the Drake tilted his head. Closed his eyes.
