“Atteeeeeennnnnshiooon! 1st General Edellein, prepared for departure, sir!”
“Command is prepped for takeoff! Wyvern Wing One ready to fly!”
“Strategist Esor has reported in, sir! Ancillary civilians all accounted for!”
It was like the military were trying to out-shout each other. Saliss stuffed some beeswax in his earholes as he watched the shiny Pallassian [Soldiers] with their puffed-out chests cavorting around the new leader of Pallass’ military.
General Edellein.
All things considered, it could be worse, Saliss supposed.
…It could have been Senator Errif in charge. Or a Creler. You had to hand it to Edellein, there were possibly as many as five people worse suited for command in the world. The worst part was that Saliss saw why he was here. It had this dreadful logic to it.
Chaldion was out, comatose, and Pallass had been too used to him calling the shots. It had meant they lost their decision-making capabilities. So they deferred to the things that made sense but Chaldion had always called ‘traps of poor logic’. It was one of the lessons that Saliss had taken to heart and thought the old man had been right about, even after he’d grown up and seen the world.
The traps of poor logic were a belief in seniority, that age should be a metric of capability. The same for likeability, in some senses. A [General] should be able to command respect, but if you judged them based on popular support, you would get what you used as your criteria: a social general versus one who was best at commanding or winning wars.
Edellein was a product of these factors. He was a senior [General] who was well-connected in both the military and politics. He could lead a battle and dance in social engagements, and he was the wrong Drake to lead Pallass.
His best use was in 4th Army as a political [General] who could read the air and fight decently in the battleground of Drake-city conflict. That was where Chaldion had kept him.
Unfortunately…the disasters that had struck Pallass had propelled Edellein to the top. Thrissiam Blackwing would have been a far better leader, but the Goblin Lord Reiss had killed him.
In the doing, he hurt Pallass far more than the actual casualties in battle. If Thrissiam had lived, a number of poor choices and events might have gone differently.
Same for Zel. Same for so many.
So, Saliss was in a bad mood as he watched Edellein parading around the flight area where Wyverns were readying themselves for takeoff. It was a mess, literally and figuratively.
Edellein wanted a show. He’d already thrown a parade to announce that Pallass’ army would be taking to the New Lands in force to secure a huge spot for the City of Inventions. It was his way of distancing himself from the disaster of the Goblin King as well. His seat was precarious; Saliss wasn’t surprised he’d clawed his way back from being court-martialed and demoted, but if Edellein could get out of the city and focus everyone on the New Lands, people would forget he’d ordered Shirka into fighting Goblinhome and all the hell that had occurred.
Because of this, there wasn’t exactly a huge crowd to see Edellein off. He was flying after the ground forces, and that was fine, right? Only, this was his first big campaign. So of course, everyone was wearing full shining armor, and they were making a ceremony of this. But Edellein hadn’t thought the entire thing out.
Picture the scene. A bunch of Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda crowded together on a flight platform. Already, you had less space than you wanted. Cram in a choir to sing the anthem, some [Senators] who were up early and phoning in their speeches, and it was a stuffy mess…before you factored in the Wyverns.
Wyverns; temperamental beasts. Sensitive for all they were mean as hell. They did not like the commotion and were doing what monsters did when stressed.
Shitting. Giant piles of poo were being smeared around on the flight deck as poor [Cleaners] and underlings tried to clear it away, but you needed a strong water spell or a cart for that. That was General Edellein’s flaw to Saliss.
He could lead, he could read a room, he wasn’t substandard in those areas as a [General], but he lacked Chaldion’s ruthless genius. He didn’t think about the Wyvern poop. And that meant this might be a bad expedition.
Not that Saliss was in the military. He was just the Named-rank, outside the chain of command but necessary. The Drake stood there, unmoving, as Edellein finally snapped. He coughed into a handkerchief, glancing at the poo befouling the air, and called out.
“Alright, alright, let’s get moving! Strategist Esor, are you flying with the Wyverns or independently? I want us at the muster point in three days!”
He strode along, shaking hands with [Senators] wishing him well, clapping the officers he knew on the shoulders.
“Take care of the city for me, General Forwek. General Shirka, as you were. Wikem, I’ll bring you back a souvenir…and that’s everyone loaded up. Except for—where’s Saliss?”
There were a lot of civilians needed for an operation like this, but most didn’t have the rank to get a Wyvernback ride to the New Lands. Edellein turned, and Saliss offered him a salute.
“General Whatsyourface, sir! Ready to fly!”
Edellein’s mouth dropped open, and General Forwek, 3rd Army, now in charge of Pallass’ defense, snorted before he managed to control himself.
Saliss had beeswax in his earholes, and he’d added two noseplugs. And an eyemask, just because he also resented having to stare at things as well.
Edellein’s brows shot together, and he took a breath as Saliss lowered the eyemask to get a gauge on his reaction. Then he forced a smile.
“Adventurer Saliss, I’m so pleased you’re being reasonable about your service to Pallass…get on board the Wyverns. You were in the army once; kindly remember how it goes?”
“Yes, sir, I can do that, sir! Left foot goes in the left boot, right foot in the right boot! It’s a difficult thing to master, but that’s what boot camp is for. I’m amazed we get so many fine [Soldiers] out of there each year!”
Edellein’s jaw muscles twitched, and he wisely ignored Saliss. The other [Soldiers] were trying to keep their faces straight as well; Saliss turned.
“Hey, Forwek, Wikem. General Shirka.”
He nodded at her, and the straight-faced [General] who’d been staring ahead at parade rest finally focused on someone and nodded to him.
“Adventurer Saliss. Best of luck on your expedition.”
She seemed tired. He wondered how many [Soldiers] of 2nd Army she’d buried or attended the funerals of. Or how many notices she’d had to deliver to families.
Forwek and Wikem didn’t know how to treat the disgraced Shirka in public. They nodded to Saliss, wishing him luck, and Wikem eyed Saliss’ nudity before snapping his eyes up. He wasn’t always in the city, so Saliss disconcerted him.
“Best, uh, best of luck, Adventurer Saliss. I trust Edellein will bring back a trove of wealth to the city. If 4th Army, I mean, 1st Army needs any backup, we’ll come running.”
“Hopefully all of 1st Army isn’t needed, General. But knowing Edellein, I’m sure we’ll find a way to need both your armies as backup.”
Wikem frowned at Saliss, but forbore reply. Saliss just turned to the Wyverns as Edellein got on the lead one. Bringing an army to colonize the New Lands of Izril. Classic Drake move. He met Shirka’s eyes once and wondered if she knew what he was thinking.
Dead gods, just let the settlers do it. When you brought an army, you were searching for a fight. But she said nothing, even if she could read his own thoughts. She just nodded at him.
“I’m sure your expertise will be needed, Alchemist Saliss.”
It was genuine and honest as statements went, so Saliss paused and pulled his eyemask up. He gave Shirka a direct gaze and responded to her in a way that made the other [Generals] shift.
“Assuming they know how to use me, I’ll do my best. Chaldion wouldn’t have sent Duln. He’d have sent civilians, not [Soldiers]. He did send civilians; they’re in caravans right now, and I bet the Eyes of Pallass are sprinkled all amongst them, eating grass like everyone else.”
The invocation of Chaldion’s name, the rebuke of Edellein in the open, made everyone go silent, but Saliss didn’t care. Politics was one thing. Intelligence another, and he did not like this job.
Dead gods, he wished he were still in Ishkr’s…no, he wished Onieva were in Ishkr’s arms. Part of Saliss mentally recoiled from the very idea of him and Ishkr in any private moment.
They were one and the same, but…argh, it hurt. The Drake’s good mood was being rapidly eaten away by a lack of sleep and a surplus of military. He rolled his shoulders, then saw Shirka studying him.
“I, uh, told an old story about us yesterday, General Shirka. Hope you don’t mind.”
The confession popped out of his mouth before he could help himself. She was one of the people Saliss had problems lying to. Shirka’s brows rose. She studied Saliss without showing her own cards.
Just like she’d been taught. Well, he’d taught her now and then—the other officers blinked, confused. Shirka just nodded her head, though.
“It’s never been secret, Alchemist. I’m sure it was meaningful.”
She scratched idly at her side, then smiled. Her teeth glinted.
“I look better than I used to.”
Her melted baby teeth were now sharp adult ones. And her scars…Saliss exhaled.
“You’re great, General. Wasted on Pallass and us. I’ll try to teach Edellein to be half as ready for his post as you are.”
Teach him? Again, there was a temptation to laugh or reprimand Saliss. But Shirka just tilted her head.
“Interesting. I’d pay for such lessons.”
“Eh, these ones might suck. The old man used to teach his students the same kind of way. He taught all the Drakes like that. You’re lucky you never got such moments. If he were still in charge, it’d probably be midnight and you’d all be riding out covertly to the New Lands. He’d probably have some [Soldiers] there. Just not an army.”
Covert deployments, hiding troop reshuffling in the paperwork…all to fool his allies as well as his enemies. There was something honest about Edellein’s plans, at least.
“And you, Saliss of Lights? Would he have sent you?”
Forwek inquired mildly. His eyes focused on Saliss, and he was old enough to remember a time when Saliss had been in the army. Chaldion’s heir. Corporal Oliwing, 8th Army…
Ah, memories. Saliss turned on his heel and walked with military correctness to the Wyvern.
“If the Old Man were in charge and he didn’t need me anywhere else, I’d have been there before the water dried.”
 
——
 
The flight was not interesting. Saliss didn’t nap, given that he had to strap in with a bunch of surly [Soldiers] trying not to vomit over the wings. Once you’d flown Wyvernback a few times, it lost its appeal.
Pegasi were far nicer rides, but only Oteslia had them. In lieu of a book to read—he got airsick—and because this was an important expedition, Saliss talked with the only person whose opinion he could trust.
Esor. The [Strategist] wasn’t Chaldion, but he had been trained by the Old Man, and he should have been in charge. But given that Edellein had upstaged him…he lacked what Chaldion had, the personality and charisma. Well, he was also just not a Drake.
“What’s the latest from the New Lands, hmm, Esor?”
The Garuda was flying at the moment, panting with the effort of keeping pace with the Wyverns, even in their slipstream. He called back as he flew next to Saliss.
“Well…it’s not pretty. Huge floods of people from the eastern approach means there have been conflicts and thefts. Bottlenecks, whereas penetration into the heart of the New Lands is slow given most people’s speeds. There’s smaller inroads from the Drowned Folk and half-Elven colonies, but nothing major. The biggest footholds would be Chandrarian ships striking along the southern coast—and the Terandrian fleet and Iron Vanguard.”
“Oh, landed, have they?”
Saliss knew it had been a while since the battle at sea, but he hadn’t kept tabs on the mangled Terandrian fleet. Esor replied breathily.
“What ships that didn’t turn around and weren’t sunk made landings on the New Lands, yes. More are coming, but the Iron Vanguard has landed in good order and have clashed with Terandrian kingdoms in relentless naval battles.”
“Dullahans hold a grudge. What’s new? So we have a bunch of colonists, more coming, and several major powers. Is that why Edellein’s bringing out the army?”
The [Strategist] grabbed hold of the Wyvern’s saddle, too tired to fly any longer. He gulped down some water and splashed the [Soldier] behind him with most of it as the wind blew it away.
“Excuse me! Partly, Saliss. The Walled Cities want a strong foothold in the New Lands, as you might imagine. Officially, Edellein is part of a cooperative initiative to reinforce the cities on the eastern edge of the New Lands. Build up forts in case of, well, war.”
Make a nice checkpoint into old Izril in case anyone wanted to start something. Well, that would take an army. Saliss nodded.
“And…? You don’t call me up for that kind of job.”
“No indeed, we have other adventuring teams as well. Even other Named-rank adventurers from Pallass and the other Walled Cities have bid their own adventurers. I have a list—ah—”
Esor pulled the list out and watched it vanish into the air. Saliss shrugged.
“If I know them, I know them. Why me, Esor?”
He leaned forwards, and the Garuda was tough enough not to balk in the face of Saliss’ yellow stare.
“I wanted you, Saliss. So did Edellein, though he won’t admit it. We need the best Named-rank we have, and you are one of the best all-rounders. An [Alchemist] is invaluable in the New Lands. Yes, the official line is that we’re fortifying the border and simply claiming lands like everyone else. Unofficially…General Edellein’s priority, which I agree with, is finding a way into the Crossroads of Izril. The Horns of Hammerad prove that doors exist. Securing the old Walled Cities there and any valuable intelligence or Relics is 1st Army’s priority objective.”
Ah, and there it was. Saliss closed his eyes as he saw his task. So not just the seith he’d put in his report. It always went back to Drakes and cities.
The Horns of Hammerad. But for them, he might not be on this dratted mission. However, they’d reminded the Walled Cities of the old legends in the Crossroads, and the idea that someone else would get to ‘their’ ancestral homes was probably driving all the High Commands nutty.
Small things. Events that overlapped and affected each other. Goblin Lord. Horns of Hammerad. The Wandering Inn.
