I’m going to miss that place. I’m going to hate this, being surrounded by military idiots for months on end. Saliss’ expression must have told Esor how he was feeling because the Garuda lowered his voice above the howl of wind.
“I’m actually surprised you agreed to come without a fight, Saliss. Normally, I’d expect to have to beg and twist your arm. Chaldion had a lot of comments about, uh…”
He would remember how things were. Saliss opened his eyes and snapped back quietly.
“You know why I’m here, Esor. So long as Edellein remembers why I agree to do anything for Pallass, we’ll be nice. But he’s getting on my nerves. Remember that.”
Esor swallowed. Saliss’ glare was for Edellein, and the truth was just that. Saliss was participating in this stupid venture because Pallass needed him, and because if he didn’t, life got harder for Turnscales in Pallass. Of course, Edellein was about as open-minded as Chaldion, and he might be only too happy to push Saliss. In which case, Saliss would push right back, and they’d have fun counting how many Watch officers broke bones…but Saliss didn’t have the time.
If there is seith in the New Lands, I have to find it. So everyone has a reason to be here.
Again—he just hated the company. Saliss settled back in his seat as Esor began flying again. The biggest downside to all this was really just that Edellein was in charge. He didn’t know how to lead Pallass, and he was leading Pallass right now. Every time he made a mistake, people would die. And oh, there were a lot of mistakes you could make. Just like he’d told Shirka, Saliss supposed…
He’d have to teach Edellein a lesson or two.
 
——
 
Contrary to what you might expect, General Edellein liked being on campaign. Even after an entire day of flying, he rolled out of his bedroll, emerged from his admittedly sumptuous tent, and was in planning-mode over breakfast at dawn.
He liked having his command staff around him at such times, and 1st Army, formerly 4th Army, were a honed unit, an extension of his will. Naturally, it wasn’t just 1st Army on this expedition; he’d asked for other soldiers and made a more rounded force with specialists for this campaign.
The only chinks in the smoothly-turning cogwheels of his army were two individuals. Esor and Saliss.
Neither one quite fit in. Esor had an authority second only to Edellein, and unlike the [General]’s subordinates, he would vocally object to Edellein’s decisions if he disagreed, a practice the [General] hated but Chaldion had encouraged. And Saliss?
Saliss was Saliss. Edellein knew he needed the damn Drake, but, privately, he wished he could have had anyone else.
“Don’t we have another Named-rank Adventurer for this campaign, Esor?”
Edellein snapped as he saw Saliss, still nude, munching on some cereal at the mess table. Esor raised his brows.
“Of course, General Edellein. Glasiaad the Tome Magus should be meeting us at the rendezvous point.”
Edellein brightened up at once.
“Glasiaad, of course! Excellent Drake; have you met him? There’s someone I can count on. Once we get to the rendezvous point and meet up with the other Walled Cities, I may have him stick with 1st Army. Let Saliss…do whatever he does until we need him.”
That meant he could get rid of Saliss and not have to tolerate him hanging about. You needed a Named-rank for monsters…Esor gave him one of those annoying, dubious expressions.
“Saliss is the Named-rank with the most utility and experience adventuring and in military combat, General Edellein. I would weigh him over Glasiaad.”
“Well, that is your opinion, but personality matters as much as competency. If we have a Wyvern attack, I will of course use Saliss, but in day-to-day matters, I’ll take Glasiaad.”
Edellein shot back, and Esor closed his beak on a reply. It was one of Edellein’s younger [Strategists], a young Drake woman, who raised a claw.
“General, I don’t know Glasiaad. I thought Pallass had only one Named-rank: Saliss. Was I mistaken?”
Edellein smiled; he liked to be the teacher and educate his subordinates, so the [General] grabbed a bowl of hardboiled eggs and salted one liberally before taking a bite and replying.
“Ah, well, that’s true. Glasiaad, for example, isn’t in Pallass; you’d only see him visiting. But he is ‘ours’; he’s in one of the cities under the Pallassian aegis. By that standard, we have more than just Saliss. No Walled City would rely on just one Named-rank! For instance, Manus isn’t sending Zeter Sixswords to the New Lands, but I think they’re sending Heidan the Fireball, who doesn’t live in the city proper.”
“I see, of course, sir.”
Edellein smiled at the [Strategist].
“You’ll like him. He’s a bit elderly, but a capable [Wizard]; as you might expect, he has a number of spellbooks he uses to cast magic. Pure sorcery like you’d hear in those Tales of Adventure and Woe. I’ve seen him call down a blizzard in seconds!”
Honestly, Edellein didn’t see why Esor would weigh Saliss higher than Glasiaad. They had [Alchemists], and even if Saliss was the best one, a [Mage] had so much utility and power…well, it was at that precise moment that Saliss strolled over with his breakfast and slid himself into a seat.
“Did I hear old Glasiaad is in town? I haven’t seen the bastard in years! We’ll have to catch up. So, General Edellein, mind if I ask a question or two about my duties while we’re hunting for the Crossroads of Izril and exploring?”
Everyone stirred, and Edellein glared at Esor; Saliss should not have known about their true objective! He addressed Saliss with a forced smile.
“You’ll be briefed fully on each phase of the command, Adventurer Saliss. First, we are linking up with other Walled Cities. A chain of command will have to be established.”
Hopefully with him at the top or near the top, but he understood that Manus, Oteslia, and Zeres would all be at this rally, with Salazsar and Fissival to come. It might be hard to be in charge of everything…Saliss raised his brows.
“Oh, so are we considering other Walled Cities to be in alliance for this campaign?”
“No, not as of yet. We don’t even consider them non-aggressive yet.”
Esor replied before Edellein, and the [General] nearly objected before he recognized the terminology. Saliss was using military jargon and querying the other Walled City’s status…but the way he worded it made Edellein itch a bit.
“Our foes in the New Lands are monsters, potentially foreign powers—not other Drakes, Saliss!”
He snapped, and Saliss just blinked at him. Calm.
“Whatever you order, I’ll follow, General Edellein. I just need to know their status. I’m going with ‘neutral’ for now. Let me know if that changes. Where is our rendezvous point? I’d like to see our approach into the New Lands.”
Someone found a map and indicated to Saliss where the rendezvous point was, well clear of the New Land’s border. From there they’d march or fly in—while Saliss asked questions, Edellein leaned over to Esor.
“What the hell did he just say? Neutral?”
Esor whispered back.
“It’s how Saliss is viewing the other Walled Cities’ forces, sir. He is our Named-rank. He’ll be watching for potential saboteurs or assassins or other threats from them. It’s, ah, more like how an Eye of Pallass would view the other Walled Cities, even if we are mustering together under a tentative alliance.”
Like an Eye of Pallass? Edellein eyed Saliss, a bit disturbed. He had read the Drake’s file and knew Saliss had done everything from battling [Assassins] to running reconnaissance on the Antinium to participating in wars, but the silly naked [Alchemist] seemed sharper than Edellein remembered.
And then he turned in his seat.
“Alright, so only Glasiaad as a fellow Named-rank for backup unless we partner with another Walled City. Hopefully we can get some independent Named-ranks with us, and maybe some of the Gold-rankers can hold water. How many Archmage cards do I have for this campaign?”
Now he’d lost Edellein. The [General] knew Saliss didn’t mean just cards—he shot a glance at Esor, who cleared his throat.
“The Assembly of Crafts hasn’t approved any extraneous devices, Saliss. And unfortunately, they do have the authority to withhold them…”
“No Archmage cards?”
“You’re going to have to explain that particular idea, Saliss. I don’t know the term. Is it something you’re familiar with from Duln?”
Edellein frowned at Saliss and saw blank expressions on the rest of his command. Saliss gave him a toothy smile which wasn’t condescending, but it still rankled Edellein until the Drake spoke.
“Sorry, the old man—Grand Strategist Chaldion—liked to call them that. Archmage cards, General. Trump cards if everything goes Creler-shaped. Like…strike spells from Pallass’ walls. A Tier 7 scroll. A battalion of Wyvern-riders, that sort of thing. If a disaster happens, you point and it dies. Do we not have one, Esor? What about the Potion of Lake’s Freeze I made? You’ve got to have that!”
A Potion of…Esor just spread his wing-hands, shooting Edellein a sideways glance.
“Not approved by the Assembly, Saliss.”
“So we have no contingencies?”
The Drake’s voice rose, and Edellein cut in, smooth.
“Ah, I see the misapprehension. Saliss, 1st Army has our own backups and failsafes. Rest assured, we have your tail covered. I’ll give you an appraisal of such matters once we coordinate with the other Walled Cities.”
Saliss paused, tilted his head, and sat back. He dipped his spoon in the cereal and began to chew.
“Hm. Okay. Let me know if I can get a Tier 7 scroll on backup. I like those. There’s always a huge list of warnings before they fire off.”
Did that mean he’d seen Tier 7 scrolls activated? Edellein hadn’t even laid eyes on one—even during the Antinium Wars, he’d only been issued Tier 6 scrolls to combat the Black Tide! Then again, how many such weapons existed even in a Walled City’s armory? He smiled and nodded, then hissed at Esor.
“How many failsafes do we have, and why am I not aware of them?”
“The Assembly of Crafts, sir…I noted all of the items needing ratification from them with Grand Strategist Chaldion no longer able to give permission for their use.”
Edellein pointed at one of his [Strategists] and beckoned. Then he spoke.
“I will dictate a [Message] to Senator Errif before takeoff. I want to review that list, and I will inform the Assembly I require a few of these—failsafes—just in case.”
“It might be difficult to get them to approve it, General.”
Esor vouchsafed, and Edellein ground his teeth, well imagining how hard it would be to get the [Senators] to all vote to release Relic-class items to his command.
“Well, look into the other thing Saliss mentioned. Wyvern squads. Actually, just pull up a list of all the failsafes Chaldion used, and I’ll pick from that!”
He was unhappy when Esor consulted his bag of holding and pulled out a file that Edellein vaguely recognized as having skimmed before. This time, he took it and was reading it before they mustered for takeoff.
Edellein was busy giving orders that morning and was thusly relieved when Saliss didn’t cause any more trouble. The thoughtless Drake could be a complete pain, and Edellein didn’t have time for Saliss as he tried to pull the slow levers of Pallassian bureaucracy to get what he needed.
Failsafes. Dead gods, some of them were extreme. They didn’t need…well, you didn’t have to use it. Maybe a few just to be safe. There were elements to his role that Edellein hadn’t been aware of. It was a good chance of luck that idiot Saliss had brought it up.
 
——
 
Two more days of Edellein’s company left Saliss rather annoyed by the time they reached the rendezvous point. It was as annoying as he thought it’d be; from afar it was nothing more than a bunch of tents laid out in neat formation, Wyverns circling lower, and the shine of armor and weapons from below.
Ancestors, that’s a full regiment from Manus down there. I would have thought that the City of War wasn’t interested in the New Lands. What poor idiot got given this duty?
The psychology of each Walled City had to be taken into account in matters like these. No Walled City would ignore the value of the New Lands, but they’d be cautious about over-spending to secure the New Lands when colonists would do it for them. Forces to build up the western border? Sure. Teams to explore the Crossroads of Izril? Absolutely.
However, Edellein was the one pushing for Pallass to make such a big entry into the New Lands, and by the looks of it, Pallass’ colors were the most manifold on the muster field. As far as Saliss saw, both Manus and Oteslia had sent less than half of the army Pallass had, and he suspected it went for their leadership too.
You’d send someone capable for the New Lands, but maybe not the best. Dead gods, it could even be a punishment; digging a fort and having to shepherd soldiers around and avoid stabbing civilians? More than one [General] would do all they could not to get this job unless they saw potential glory in it.
Instead of paying for an entire army’s rations in the field, it would be better to have someone else share the burden, like, say, another Walled City, hence this collaborative attempt. Especially given the fact that the New Lands were going to be difficult to grow anything in and be draining mana from everything.
A fact that Saliss was aware of and not looking forward to. His potions were almost all magic-based, and while some wouldn’t lose power from a mana-drain effect, a good number would, not to mention his personal gear.
He’d taken precautions, but it added to the expense of this venture, and as they circled lower on the Wyverns, Edellein was clearly feeling the pressure.
“One regiment? What is Manus playing at? I expected Oteslia to skimp out, but we’re conducting a campaign here, not a training exercise! And they’ve occupied the central camp area—take us down, and they’d better have more reinforcements coming!”
His voice over the speaking stone was piqued, and Saliss rolled his eyes as the Wyverns descended fast. One of the [Soldiers] groaned; a Gnoll was appearing rather sick, and Saliss reached over.
“Tonic for the stomach?”
They were dropping so fast the Gnoll clung to his seat, shaking his head. Saliss shrugged, tucked the vial into his bag of holding, and then saw a flash from below.
“Incoming spell! Dodge!”
His roar into the speaking stone made both the Wyvern he was on and the one ahead of him roll to the side. Saliss’ world rotated, and he saw something bright flash past his head; then heard the Gnoll vomiting profusely. He was too busy scanning for—
“More spells! Light arrows, evade, evade!”
“Who the hell is firing at—”
