Saliss was already jogging after the lizards, and the rest of the Oteslians gave chase too. They realized after a few moments that the lizards were following the yellow grass even as it thinned out and became less tall. They were indeed heading—northwest?
“Ah, the mountains. But they’re a terribly far ways off. Is there anything to even eat there?”
Lagister pointed at distant hills that became mountains and saw a few lizards stop to munch on bugs or worms. He listened, and then his eyebrows rose.
“You’ll heat it up and they’ll come! Of course!”
In a private aside, he muttered to the others.
“What a damn menace! They’ll destabilize the entire ecosystem! We’d better watch them if they migrate around Oteslia. Might have to pull a Nalthaliarstrelous if they’re as bad as Shield Spiders.”
“Druid Lagister, you are the living end!”
Sharteeth exclaimed, and one of the lizards shot forwards and bit Lagister as he tickled their chins. He yelped.
“Ow, I was just kidding! Sort of—wait, what do you mean, you’re not the only ones? You mean, that icebird fellow does it?”
He listened, tilting his head back and forth, then gave Sharteeth a significant eye. She blinked.
“What is it, Druid Lagister? I don’t speak lizard as well as you do.”
He scratched at a chin.
“I swear they just told me that something really cold lives around here. Something that produces more ice than the frost-bird could dream of—and moves. But it doesn’t mess with them, and they don’t mess with it. Sort of a common-courtesy.”
Saliss perked up. That sounded like a really powerful ice-based monster. Sharteeth lifted the tiny lizard in her hands.
“You’re that important? You cute little things!”
She tickled one until it coughed up some yellow beetles, and Saliss fished in his pockets.
“Want a fish?”
The lizard sniffed it dubiously, took a bite, and then chewed and swallowed. Then it horked up the entire bite of fish.
“He says it’s got nothing to it. Beetles are where it’s at, my friend.”
Lagister told Saliss, and the Drake obligingly caught a double-handful. He ended up stuffing two dozen lizards until they were little pillows he buried in the dirt.
That was how Saliss spent several hours. He gained absolutely zero grand alchemical insights, but when he was hiking back with the Oteslians, chattering about the lizards and the bugs they’d seen—he caught himself smiling.
Smiling at silly lizards, crazy-dangerous Fatguins, and failing at his job. Then heard an aggrieved voice from overhead, and they all glanced up as a shadow crossed over them.
“Saliss! Stop harassing my people!”
The Drake jerked as a familiar voice sang out, and an angry neigh came from overhead. He dodged sideways just in time; the flying piece of poo nearly hit him as the Pegasus turned and banked her wings, coming around for a second bombing run.
“Mivifa?”
Mivifa Selifscale, the Oldblood of Feathers, Named-rank Adventurer of Oteslia, and her Pegasus, Feathi, landed in the tall grass. Mivifa leapt off Feathi’s back, and her wings, feathered, flapped as she pointed accusingly at him.
“I knew it! You just had to go and annoy the scouting teams—the moment I heard of the farting incident, it was you. If you poison my people, I’ll have Feathi bite you, Saliss—”
“Adventurer Mivifa, please! Alchemist Saliss hasn’t done a thing to us! He was quite helpful in our research, in fact!”
The Oteslians protested, and Mivifa drew up. Her mouth opened, and she stared at them and then at Saliss.
“What? Saliss, helping?”
He pretended to appear hurt as he clutched at his chest.
“Unfairly attacked! Oh, dead gods, this is the classic Oteslian hostility I’ve heard so much about! By a fellow Named-rank adventurer, no less! Mivifa, how could you? Can you believe her, Feathi?”
He leaned on the Pegasus’ side, patting her head. She sidled left, and Saliss fell on his face. But Feathi didn’t stomp on him; she just rested a hoof on his back and spread her wings in a victorious pose.
“Feathi, get off him. I’m, er, sorry, Saliss. I just assumed—Druid Lagister, you’re going to have to issue a full report to the Green General back at camp! I’ve been trying to trace the path of that icebird. It’s set the Walled Cities into a panic.”
Saliss raised his head as Feathi shuffled to the side, and he sat up.
“Why, what did it do? And hi, Mivifa. Why are you here? You never leave Oteslia if you can help it.”
She was always hanging around the city and claimed she had ‘duties’ there that she couldn’t shake. And she normally tried to hide her age. But right now, the Named-rank was without makeup and the kid’s slang, and she smiled as she bent over to offer him a hand.
“That’s…complicated. I’m not needed at Oteslia for the moment, Saliss.”
She looked unhappy, but then shook herself briskly.
“—So I’m here in the New Lands! Where would you rather be as an adventurer, eh? I’m just surprised you’re not hunting down the most magical monster around!”
“Eh, I’m sort of lazy right now. The Goblin King and all that.”
All the Oteslians turned to Saliss with that familiar expression of disbelief. But Mivifa? She just turned with Feathi and gave Saliss the most serious expression. Then she leapt up into the air and nodded.
“Ancestors. So it was him? Did they manage to kill him? Tell me he’s dead, Saliss—no, tell me in the air. Feathi will give you a lift back to camp. Come on!”
She didn’t even ask if he was joking. Saliss felt his heart lift, and he saw Feathi shaking herself off. She gave him a eye, but waited as he hopped into the saddle. Then she leapt into the air, and Mivifa shouted.
“I’m glad you’re here! The first Named-rank I saw was Glasiaad, and I almost flew back the way I came when I did!”
“Don’t worry—Xif has a great cream for that now, Mivifa!”
She found something to throw at him, and Saliss found himself laughing. One of the two [Druids] ran to pick up the empty vial and shout at them about littering, and then Saliss was flying higher, literally and in his heart. He’d forgotten, by the by, that yes, even he had a few of them.
Friends.
 
——
 
Incidentally, Druid Lagister had done more than he’d thought with his warning to the Fatguin. When Saliss saw the Walled Cities’ camps next, he wasn’t prepared for the line of ice drawn across the landscape.
“It’s a damn [Ice Wall], only it’s not a spell. They’re having to break through it since it won’t melt for days. Some monster you two ran into.”
It seemed the Fatguin had decided to slow the Walled Cities to let its lizard-allies make tracks in a very literal way. Saliss shouted back at Mivifa as they descended.
“And you didn’t stop it? For shame, Mivifa of Feathers!”
She stuck her tongue out at him.
“Feathi and I drop when we freeze! That’s the last thing I want to tangle with in the air! And it was fast! Even that Wyvern Lord you tangled with in Pallass seemed like a better fight. You never did tell me how it was to battle.”
“Eh, it was tough and fast, but aside from the Frost Breath, not that unpredictable. That Fatguin didn’t even register on my danger scale until I saw it open its beak. It’s highly magical.”
Mivifa nodded.
“I’ve heard a lot of magical monsters are in the New Lands. Far more than you’d think, given this damn mana drain! I’ve been worried about that all the way here, Saliss. I had to put all my enchanted gear away, so I’m down to just steel. At least Feathi says she’s not feeling any mana drain. She loves the grass. How are you handling it?”
Feathi neighed agreement, and Saliss, well aware she was as intelligent as most people, shrugged.
“I’ve got a magical lantern that’s energizing the air around me. Don’t you have one? Also, steel, Mivifa, really? Not even some mithril?”
She cursed at him.
“Damn it, I didn’t even know that was possible! Do you know how hard it is to get unenchanted Mithril gear at the drop of a hat? You wouldn’t happen to have another, would you, Saliss?”
“Nnnnnope.”
“Well then, could you take some of my gear? I’ve got it with our [Quartermaster], but it makes me nervous having them storing my best items.”
Saliss shrugged lightly.
“Oh, sure. For you, it’ll only be a thousand gold a night—”
She threw a boot at him, then swooped down to catch it. Saliss grinned as Feathi did a slow roll in the air, clearly trying to drop him as they descended towards camp. He hung on easily.
“So…you’re going to be a roaming scout, Mivifa? I’ve been hired to do that and blow anything nasty up. Fancy a team-up?”
She climbed back up towards him and sombered, shaking her head.
“I’d love to, Saliss. More than hanging out with the Magpie and having to give him a cut of loot, but I’m not going to be with the expedition all the time. The First Gardener wants me flying across the New Lands, checking on other colonists from Oteslia, essentially acting as a Courier since not a lot of them are willing to come here. Sorry—when we can, let’s work together, though! Especially if we find a dungeon or the Crossroads.”
He felt a pang at that, but having Mivifa around was good enough. She was one of the few adventurers he liked, and they were already making dinner plans when the speaking stone they had crackled.
“Lady Mivifa, we see you on approach. Apologies, but can you recite your day-code for me?”
She rolled her eyes, but her tone was good-natured.
“Certainly, officer…”
The voice was familiar, and Saliss wasn’t surprised when he saw Captain Lyssander waving them in. He gave Saliss and Mivifa a salute.
“Adventurer Saliss! A good first day, I hope?”
Mivifa raised her brows as Saliss waved, not quite meeting Lyssander’s eyes.
“Oh, you know. Dig up a few roots here, feed a lizard there, annoy a magical ice-bird there…hey, Mivifa, this is Captain Lyssander. And that giant Gnoll is Captain Yorm.”
He saw the Gnoll jogging over, and Mivifa shook Lyssander’s hand.
“I’m a huge fan, Lady Mivifa—”
“Just Adventurer Mivifa, please. Manus? Good to work with you! And you—Ancestors, you’re tall!”
She exclaimed as Yorm loomed over them, and Feathi backed up a step, not used to anyone that big. Yorm saluted.
“Adventurer Saliss, Strategist Esor would like a debriefing if you have a moment—Adventurer Mivifa, it is an honor to meet the Oldblood of Feathers herself! Might I trouble you for an autograph?”
Saliss gestured at his chest.
“Hey! What am I, spare salamander parts?”
Everyone loved Mivifa. She obliged Yorm and signed her name with a flourish before turning back to Saliss.
“Debriefings and reports nonstop. Lovely. Are you eating in the mess hall tonight, Saliss?”
Yorm and Lyssander were giving Saliss looks, clearly hoping to be invited, but he hesitated. He glanced at the two—Saliss waved a claw.
“Eh, maybe I will, but why don’t we talk in private? Adventurer stuff.”
She nodded at once, sensing he didn’t want to have company.
“I can get food delivered to my tent. I’ll see you then at—”
“Fliers coming in! Excuse me, Lady Mivifa, but another group is approaching.”
Lyssander’s disappointed expression turned to concentration as someone else came towards the small landing zone. Feathi trotted out of the landing pad, bemused, as if wondering why a flier couldn’t land anywhere they wanted. Saliss shaded his eyes, wondering if it was someone from High Command from another city.
…But he didn’t see anyone. Then he realized they were all looking the wrong way, and he turned his gaze westwards. Into the New Lands—and he saw three figures dropping towards him out of the skies.
Captain Lyssander spoke crisply.
“Your codes have been approved, and you are cleared for landing, Wings of Pallass.”
The Wings of Pallass? Saliss gazed up, and a single Garuda and two Drakes landed on the ground. They were panting, their leather armor scratched to hell and back, and—Yorm pinched his nose and recoiled a second before the others smelled it—
Filthy.
Captain Bevussa’s feathers were stained from the dirt encrusting them, and she strode over to shake Captain Lyssander’s hand before apologizing.
“Excuse us, sir. We’ve been over two months in the rough, and water’s not always easy to come by. We ran out of soap as well.”
“Dead gods, two months, Captain? I knew you were in the New Lands, but you look rough. Who’re your teammates?”
She nodded to them tiredly.
“Issa and Kin. We had a few more recruits, but they couldn’t keep up or quit, so we had them run escort for groups getting to civilization. I hope to link up with them soon, if the rest don’t bow out. Does—does this camp have hot water? Fire?”
“Food?”
Kin, an Oldblood with wings, added hopefully. Lyssander assured them they did, and she sagged.
“Dead gods, thank goodness! I’d kill for a hot bath!”
“We’ll…try to get you one, adventurers. You look like you’ve had a rough go of it.”
Bevussa had noticed Saliss and Mivifa and did a double-take as she stared at them. She saluted reflexively.
“Adventurer Saliss! Adventurer Mivifa? We, uh—it’s not been the most pleasant experience in the New Lands. We’ve gotten valuable experience and insights into the land, though.”
That meant ‘this is shit, and we hate it here’, but gussied up to seem good in front of the non-adventurers. Saliss eyed her.
“Let me guess…mana-drain?”
Bevussa nodded, and it said it all, really.
“We didn’t expect it until our bags of holding exploded in midair. We lost almost all our supplies. The enchantments wore out, you see. We lasted way, way longer than other groups, but…I guess it got us in the end. All our items scattered to the winds.”
“And weapons and armor.”
Issa groaned, and Saliss felt his stomach twist, imagining how much that would cost a Gold-rank team like that. Bevussa put a hand on her shortsword, her features grim.
“Since then, we’ve picked up work delivering messages and supplies to colonists. And, ah, finding failed expedition sites. The skies aren’t safe past this point, Lady Mivifa. Elemental Wyverns are just the start.”
“Noted, Captain. I’d love a chat—but your team looks like you need to rest first. Could I trouble you later?”
“Of course, Ma’am!”
Bevussa was a former [Soldier] through and through; her entire team seemed awestruck by the most famous flier in Izril. She saluted and then headed straight for the nearest bathing tent. Saliss leaned over.
“I know the Wings of Pallass. They’re solid, Mivifa. Shame about the magic items. They lost members at Liscor.”
She gave him a strange gaze.
“In the dungeon?”
“Nope, Hectval.”
