He was a Drake, to Saliss’ mild surprise; Lagister had pearly white scales and bark-like robes that seemed quite comfortable. Certainly, he was avoided by the yellow beetles that clung to everything and everyone in the tall grasses. He caught a beetle, absently, and raised it; to Saliss’ surprise, a smaller black-and-red lizard scurried out of one of his sleeves and ate it!
“A good idea since these ones seem to be magical. Not that I begrudge Pallass for wanting their alchemy reagents, but if they harvest as many as they did in that clam field…we must tell High Command to avoid wiping out species! With respect, Alchemist Saliss, I hope you understand the dangers of overharvesting.”
His comment to Saliss was direct and fearless, and the [Alchemist] smiled.
“Don’t go after me. Do you see me chopping up the ground for samples?”
That surprised the [Scout], who was Human and peered at Saliss. Merwinkle had a short spear and buckler, like Saliss had observed, and was keeping an eye around the tall grasses with her party.
Lagister backed down after a moment and nodded. He sighed around at the landscape, and shook his head.
“Places like these are beautiful. Take out the beetles, and it would be a sight to picnic in.”
On that, they could agree. It was a bit rugged for a citygoer’s sensibilities, but Saliss could imagine, with a forest path, walking around here…
“It’d be fun to stroll around with someone.”
He muttered under his breath. Lagister blinked at him.
“Hm? What was that?”
“Nothing. Yep, no chopping from me. Go beat up some Pallassian [Alchemists], only don’t, because we don’t need more brawls between armies.”
Merwinkle nodded with the others, then bit her lip.
“Begging your pardon, but I’d have thought a Master Alchemist would take the most samples, sir.”
“Bah. No, that’s just how army-[Alchemists] operate. Most things you can find in nature aren’t that useful for alchemy. Those lizards? Clearly magical, but I don’t need to collect everything. If it’s got magic or utility, it’s obvious.”
Heatband Lizards produced heat. There was a bug that was used a lot in Healing Potions which had a fast regenerative factor—the [Druids] nodded.
“These things are interconnected. Besides, we do not know what each creature and plant does. Chopping one up only provides a few answers. Oteslia observes and benefits from that. Ah—like so.”
He pointed, and everyone turned back to the spot where the Heatband Lizard had buried itself. Saliss blinked. In the time they’d been chatting, something rather funny had occurred.
The lizard, buried under only a bit of soil, had clearly decided it was naptime while it digested its food. As it did, another creature had appeared in the grass and, completely fearless of the bigfolk, sat itself down and wrapped itself up with its arms.
It was…a bird? Saliss had never seen one like it. It was probably three feet high at best and round. It also had long, flipper-like wings, which it dragged across the ground until it sat down and wrapped itself up.
The mournful expression on the blue-beaked bird, and its lack of feathers from head to toe, made Saliss feel like it was an aquatic animal—or formerly aquatic, perhaps. It was also shivering.
The odd, squat bird-thing sat right on top of the buried Heatband Lizard, and its shivering stopped. Saliss saw heat radiating from the ground and realized the Heatband Lizard was warming the soil around it.
A defense mechanism? If so, it didn’t work on the shivering bird—but the bird didn’t try to uproot the lizard. It just sat there, soaking up the heat.
“What in the world?”
Merwinkle and the other [Scouts] scratched their heads. Meanwhile, Druids Sharteeth and Lagister were delighted. Saliss saw them whispering and pointing.
“Look at that! What a delightfully stupid bird!”
“Druid Lagister, you can’t say that! It can hear us! It’s so cute!”
“Bah, it’s like a bloated penguin. Ever seen a penguin? Why is it shivering?”
Saliss wanted to know that too. The bird’s chill had stopped, but it was clearly reluctant to move. He saw it open two huge eyes and peer, again, without fear at the intruders. After a moment, he waved.
“Hey. ‘Sup?”
The bird reacted to his voice, opening its blue-beak and uttering a ‘blerk?’ sound. It stared at Saliss with two bright, yellow eyes, and Saliss—then saw the young Gnoll approaching.
“Hello. I’m Sharteeth. We don’t mean you any harm!”
The [Druid] smiled at the bird and put her staff on the ground. She waved at the bird, which blerked at her, then seemed to recognize her as a friend. It squiggled in place, trying to get the most warmth out of its living seat, and the Gnoll edged closer.
“May we come near you, friend?”
“Blerk, blerk.”
At its words, Druid Lagister approached, and the black lizard hiding in his robes crawled down and onto the bird’s head. It made a pleased sound, and its eyes rolled up as the lizard began emitting more heat!
“Fascinating. There’s not a trace of animosity or fear between the two species. They’re friends for all I swear this fat penguin could make a meal out of the lizards. Has anyone found them before? I’m naming it a Fatguin.”
Sharteeth whisper-shouted.
“Druid Lagister, you can’t do that! That’s so rude!”
The Drake sat with a grin as the bird sighed in contentment. He didn’t touch it, but sat at his ease as the other Oteslians came forwards. The [Scouts] were fascinated, and Saliss himself walked over. The bird just opened one eye and blerked again as they all sat.
“I get to name something on this trip, and I’m calling it like I see it. Hello, my friend. You and your lizard buddy here might want to soon clear out. With respect, a lot of us stompers are coming, and I’d hate to see you in a cookpot or alchemy lab.”
Lagister advised the Fatguin with a friendly tone, and it opened one eye to frown at him. He lifted one clawed hand.
“I’m sorry, but devastation is likely coming for you and those who live in this stretch of grassland—unless we can prove it’s too dangerous for our people to continue into. We, of Oteslia, and Alchemist Saliss come in peace, though, my fat and fiery friends. We are neither hungry nor malicious. Will you treat or trade with us?”
[Druids] had a way with nature, though it was never what you exactly imagined. Lagister didn’t apologize for the army coming this way and delivered the news of danger like someone did the weather report.
Of course, they were predators and dangerous. And of course, we might eat you, but not just yet. Saliss had always thought [Druids] were fairly practical about how they lived. They disliked violence against animals and waste, but many of them ate meat. Well, some were diehard animal pacifists. Those tended to be the scary ones that’d kill you for eating a rabbit.
The Fatguin took the warning from the [Druids] without apparent rancor. It uttered several more heavy hooting sounds, then settled back for a nap.
“You’re awfully confident, sir. I assure you, there are a lot of us, and we have fangs of steel. Don’t say we didn’t warn you. We’ll do a mass [Wild Call] later today.”
Lagister poked the Fatguin in the side, his fingers sinking into the feathers, and Sharteeth protested.
“Druid, you’re so rude! I knew your Circle would be insulting on this expedition! Oh, he’s all feathers! See?”
You could poke a finger down to the knuckle in the bird’s feathers and not touch its skin, apparently. The Fatguin didn’t mind the [Scouts] and even Saliss doing that. It was supremely chill. Indeed, despite the two [Druids] warning it, the bird just snuggled down harder for a nap.
By contrast, the lizards seemed to get ‘danger coming’, and the one below the Fatguin dug itself up, seeming alarmed. It began to scamper away from Saliss, and the Drake saw the bird wake up. It cracked one eye open as the heat from below receded and gave Druid Lagister a reproachful gaze.
“Look, your friends think it’s a good idea to go. Waddle on off, friend. Unless you need a bit of a boost? You don’t look like you can move that fast.”
Lagister was still getting on the Fatguin about its weight, and Saliss thought that the Fatguin was becoming a bit annoyed. It stood up slowly, revealing two big clawed feet, and Saliss blinked.
“Claws?”
Scout Merwinkle had noticed it too and pointed.
“[Druids]. Do birds like that normally have clawed feet?”
Sharteeth blinked as the bird stretched, tilting what Saliss could see of its neck in its feathery body. She frowned.
“No, not normally. If it walks everywhere, it’d have flat feet. Isn’t that so, Druid Lagister?”
“True…penguins have adorably funny finned feet. You’re a strange one, my friend. Listen, I apologize about the disturbance, but we are here in good faith, and we didn’t even try to eat you! Can I offer you a snack by way of recompense?”
Lagister had a few more yellow beetles and what looked like some dried bread, which he offered to the Fatguin. It turned its beak up haughtily, then spread its flippers.
Stranger and stranger. Saliss muttered.
“It looks like it has flying talons, but those flipper-arms have no feathers. And it’s about as aerodynamic as a football…which is fairly aerodynamic, I guess, but only if you kick it. Also, why is it shivering? It’s not cold at all.”
It was a fine spring day, on the warmish side. He turned to Sharteeth.
“Most creatures can regulate their own body warmth, at least enough to survive in temperate weather. Some magical creatures can’t, and it was sitting on the Heatband Lizards—that’s what I’m calling them, dibs—without hesitation. It was fairly hot!”
She nodded, turning back to the Fatguin.
“Sir, we’re very sorry for our intrusion and Druid Lagister’s comments. Can we do anything or are you leaving?”
Leaving, because I’m quite sick of you lot annoying me was the dignified look from the blerking Fatguin. It stood up slightly, flapping its fin-arms out, and then motioned them back. Druid Lagister got up.
“Alright, alright, I apologize. I’m from the Circle of Tempered Metal, which lives in harmony with animals. Sharteeth is the Circle of Nurturement, all hugs and kisses and letting pigeons walk over you. If you’re safe, we’ve done our job.”
They all stepped back. The round penguin-thing made more flappy-motions with its fin-arms.
Further back, further, I say! They retreated until they were fifty feet away. It still kept flapping its wings at them, but Lagister shouted back.
“Just go ahead and leave already! I said more of us are coming! So if you don’t like the space—Ancestors!”
His last comment was because the Fatguin had narrowed its eyes—and then opened its beak. Saliss saw the frost magic before everyone else.
“Watch it!”
His Potion of Ice Resistance splashed them a second before the icy wind blasted across the field, turning the yellow grass to icicles. The Oteslians flinched, and Saliss spun.
Where the hell was—
The Fatguin was fourteen feet up, wings spread now, and he realized they were wings instead of long fins—if it wanted them to be.
Icy feathers were sprouting from the fins! The huge, fuzzy body of the bird had elongated—Saliss saw it was stretched out and wondered if it had compressed itself up to get as warm as possible.
That beak! It was blowing a blizzard downwards, lifting the magical bird higher and higher—and the entire grassland area was an ice bowl!
“Dead gods, it’s flying! It’s—”
The blast of ice from above finally stopped, and they stared upwards as a long-necked bird swept forwards through the air. It had crystalline feathers that flashed in the sky, frozen ice molded into feathers, and its body radiated a cold Saliss could feel from here. It shot towards the Walled Cities’ camps, and Druid Lagister grabbed for something.
“Speaking stone—this is Druid Lagister! Magical beast coming right at you, Oteslia! It froze an entire field of grass in a second! I don’t think it’s hostile, but it’s tetchy—get someone in the skies to head it off, and for the love of Treants, don’t attack it!”
They all watched as the magical ice-bird sped eastwards, and Saliss tried to estimate how cold it was compared to the Wyvern Lord. Not nearly as tough, maybe, nor as cold, but it was powerful.
After maybe six minutes, he saw the bird zooming back the way it had come. It flashed overhead, trailing snow that melted before it hit the ground, and Lagister listened to a squawked report in his ear.
“It’s going past us, yes. Some kind of exceptionally magical bird. It didn’t seem hostile—it was warning us off, but I think it didn’t like the notion of us here, General. It’s killed everything…no, wait!”
Saliss had thought that the entire grassland was dead too. The tall yellow grass was frozen into place, surely a death sentence for whatever was here. But the ice was already beginning to melt…because of the lizards.
The Heatband Lizards were glowing patches of orange light in the field. They rustled through the grass, eating flash-frozen bugs, warming the field until water was dripping downwards, turning it lush and moist. And then—heading westwards in a mass.
Away from the armies. The Drake watched, bemused, and then saw one of the lizards come out of the grass and race up Lagister’s robes. The [Druid] caught his animal friend on one hand.
“Did you know what a fearsome bird we were talking to? Fatguin indeed…I’d better rename it!”
“Druid Lagister, you nearly got us all frozen! If not for Alchemist Saliss—I told you to be nicer to animals!”
Sharteeth’s teeth were chattering, but she bowed to Saliss. Lagister sighed.
“Yes, yes. I suppose we were all lucky! What a specimen! And what did we learn, I wonder? That creature can’t survive its own chill—that’s why it was so friendly to the lizards! And they’re remarkably…”
“Resistant to ice. They got blasted, and not a single one froze. They’re not good for heating spells. My bet is they’ll make great Potions of Frost Resistance. Even armor, if you harvest enough of them.”
Saliss nodded to himself. Druid Sharteeth gave him a disturbed gaze before gathering up another lizard into her arms.
“All I know is that no one should hunt these lizards! Or attack cute, round birds in the wild lest they end up frozen into a block of ice! Should we have chased them all away?”
Lagister shrugged.
“If they’re willing to go, they must have an alternate home they know they can survive in. Perhaps the Fatguin is headed there now. So…let’s follow them.”
He pointed in the direction of the scurrying lizards, and everyone blinked. Lagister turned to Saliss.
“We’re allowed to pursue such things, but if we’ve impeded you—”
“No, I want to follow the lizards too. Let’s go!”
