Edellein turned, and here his exasperation turned to genuine ire. Esor clarified.
“I think he regards it as light fun between armies. He is, ah, old.”
“Old or not, those horses could have trampled someone or thrown a shoe! First the damn flying incident, now—I’m going to have a word with him! You get this kind of pranking between other forces, but we are on campaign. This is unprofessional!”
The Drake was about to march over before Esor coughed.
“Rigrel might regard it as turnabout, General Edellein. It, uh, appears that Manus’ forces aren’t the forward element in reaching the New Lands. A full division of Oteslia’s forces are half a day’s march ahead of us.”
Edellein closed his eyes and sat down wearily.
“If I ask how they got there, will I like the answer?”
“Mysterious walls of dirt, sir. They appeared and blocked Manus off until they circled around. It appears that one of Oteslia’s Wall Ladies publicly stated that Oteslia would be first to reach the New Lands.”
Well, that would just about do it. Saliss rolled his eyes as every Drake, Gnoll, Garuda, and Dullahan in the room sat up slowly. Edellein’s eyes narrowed.
“Did she? Well, that changes everything. Classic Oteslia, really, making statements it can’t back up. It would appear that Oteslia’s forward elements are about to run into…let’s see. A horrible rainstorm?”
He glanced up and down the room, and one of his officers nodded.
“Magus Glasiaad could do that.”
“Tragic. And as far as I’m concerned, Zeres and Manus are both unfortunate recipients of problems of their own. But how…”
Then he eyed Saliss. The Drake turned around and stared into Major Zifren’s eyes.
“Major Zifren, you’re a Drake of many depths. You scallywag.”
He elbowed the [Major], and Edellein spoke.
“Adventurer Saliss, you enjoy a jest. Something non-lethal and non-serious? I’ll pay your fee.”
You know, Saliss didn’t like Edellein. He didn’t like Drakes being at their worst, especially when it was Gnolls and other species joining in the same stupidity.
He would have said all this of course, but then he thought about Shark Captain Femar and General Rigrel. Solemnly, Saliss steepled his claws together.
“General, you’ve just given your finest order of the campaign. How far is too far, though, in the interest of clarity?”
“Slow them down a day, no longer. Nothing—humiliating that will escalate.”
Saliss nodded, making some notes.
“So no laxatives.”
“What? No, dead gods.”
“Dyed scales?”
“Uh—too disruptive.”
“How do you feel about excessive flatulence of an ear-shattering and noxious variety?”
Edellein was mid-shaking his head, then he hesitated.
“Just flatulence? Can you do half a day?”
“I can do eight hours.”
The [General] thought about it.
“Do it.”
 
——
 
The draught in question was a prank one Saliss had made up to annoy enemy [Infiltrators]. It had a few conditions to it—it had to be ingested in oral form, not a gas, and it had a halflife of twenty minutes. Then the substance broke down and the effects began.
Naturally, Saliss had a plan that involved hitting Zeres and Manus, and of course, he had decided to hit the best targets first. That was how he ended up sneaking into Zeres’ camp and locating Shark Captain Femar’s tent.
It was easy to get in undetected, of course. Captain Yorm had offered magical assistance, but Saliss had found no magic was better than magic if you could swing it. His real problem was how to get Femar and as many troops as possible.
Water barrel? Not enough [Soldiers] drink that. By the time it starts activating, I’d get a few dozen at most, assuming I could spike them all fast enough.
Mess hall? I’ll hit too many of our own. No, this has to be elegant. Think, Saliss, think.
He was having a bit of fun, and the Drake snapped his fingers as he thought of Zeres and came up with the solution.
Strategist Esor wasn’t happy, but he could provide what Saliss wanted with ease. And that was how the Drake ended up rolling a giant barrel into the center of Zeres’ camp, shouting loudly as he could.
“Delivery from the Serpentine Matriarch! Up and at ‘em, you salty seadogs! Come get yer grog!”
He had four barrels actually, and the Shark Captain himself came out of his tents.
“What delivery? What’s this about?”
He squinted at Saliss, but it was already past evening, and Saliss had on an impenetrable disguise: he was wearing pants.
“Evening, Shark Captain, sir! City Runner from Hoisehess. I was told to bring a few barrels of our finest, courtesy of the Serpentine Matriarch! Something about a toast for Zeres’ success? I was told someone else had the message.”
The Shark Captain visibly brightened up as he eyed the barrels that had come from Pallass’ stores.
“You hear that, marines? Drinks are on the Serpentine Matriarch! Line up; I want some order, here! And try not to wake the other camps or they’ll get jealous! Here’s to the greatest city in Izril!”
He tapped the first barrel himself and filled a huge mug of frothing ale. Saliss had even chilled it, special, and the Drake smacked his lips. Femar was a huge figure, scarred and wielding a Relic-class spear of Zeres.
Saliss didn’t like him. He beamed as Femar nodded.
“That’s solid work, City Runner. Do you need a tip?”
“All taken care of, sir!”
“Then have a drink, I insist.”
“Oops, I can’t, I have to be on the road. But if I could have your autograph? That’d be one for the kids, yes it would, sir. Oh, how kind!”
Femar signed his name with a flourish, and Saliss beamed at him. Then he tucked the autograph into his pockets and ran for it.
Nineteen minutes and counting…he had to hit Manus fast. But Saliss did pause on the way to jog by the latrines.
“Anyone need toilet paper?”
Someone shouted, and Saliss hucked the piece of paper with Femar’s name on it.
“Don’t thank me!”
 
——
 
He was getting into it now. Mostly because there was little Saliss loved more than annoying people. And Manus?
One of his favorite cities to pick on. So, Saliss swanned into their camp after abandoning his City Runner disguise.
That didn’t work on Manus’ security, who’d challenge anything they didn’t have explicit orders about. It meant they were rigid and annoyingly inflexible, like the Wyvern fiasco, but relatively good against infiltration like this.
Well, unless you had a Potion of Invisibility and knew how they liked to place their detection spells and officers. No perimeter was flawless, and with Saliss’ ability—[Eyes of Appraisal]—he had already mapped theirs out.
He ducked under the eyeline of a Gnoll who had [See Invisibility] and was patrolling along a trench and palisade wall in which more detection runes were placed. Saliss did a huge leap across the trench to the wall, landing between two more wards, and then reached up.
Double backflip into the camp proper. Land on his back.
“Ow.”
Well, that was easy. Saliss dusted himself off. Manus would dig an entire trench around most camps nightly and put up a wall too. They used Chests of Holding to store the walls, but even so, their [Soldiers] worked hard on campaign. By contrast, Zeres and Pallass were both wall-less, though they did have fortifications as well. Oteslia had a bunch of odd roots in a huge swathe around their camp; it made them appear the least-defended, but said roots would attack anyone who walked into them and alert any [Druid] if you stepped onto them.
Each to their own. Now…he had about sixteen minutes. How to hit Manus with the flatulence of legends?
Water barrels were out again, but Manus wouldn’t fall for the drink-routine. Saliss’ head rotated as he speed-walked through the camp. Then he had it. Of course!
The showers.
Everyone got dirty on campaign, but a luxury, at least while they had magic, was a tent with a [Rain] spell attached to it. If you were lucky, the [Mage] could even warm the water, and the steam rising from one such tent made Saliss grin.
He counted three in Manus’ camp. Each one had a lot of [Soldiers] trooping in and out, and if it wasn’t the same as drinking the liquid, Saliss well knew that you’d absorb enough liquid through your scales, fur, or just mouth if you were chatting or drinking some water as it fell.
Best of all, Saliss had no need to even get in the tent and rig up some kind of complex aerosolization method with his Potions of Extreme Flatulence. He sped towards the first tent and poked around.
Manus’ [Soldiers] were trooping into the tent in squads. An entire company was dirty and grumbling as they rolled up, shoving into line and shouting for those inside to get out quick; they wanted to eat! Yells and jeers from within; a Gnoll wrapped up in just a towel kicked her way out of the tent flaps.
“Shut up out there! Some of us had to dig the latrines all day instead of sit with our tails up our asses drinking and shooting our mouths off!”
She was probably a [Sergeant], and she’d made the classic mistake of forgetting to bring a change of clothes. There were approving hoots and whistles from the male [Soldiers] as she stalked out followed by her squad; some of the male Drakes got the same from female [Soldiers].
Saliss had little interest in the naked form, contrary to what you might expect. However, a voice in his head that sounded like Onieva gave some of the male [Soldiers] a second glance. He was mostly searching for the water-source.
He’d been many things in his life. [Soldier], [Alchemist], loyal son of Pallass, rebellious daughter, Turnscale, spy…adventurer. One of the things the Old Man had tried to make Saliss into was a leader of Pallass, and that meant a [Strategist], in Chaldion’s eyes. So he’d had Saliss learn lessons about magic, even though the Drake had never become a [Mage].
One of the things you quickly realized about magic was that it was convenient, but pricey. Both in gold and magic. And [Mages] were lazy. So, if you had an ongoing [Rain] spell like this, you could draw from the atmosphere, but that was hard, and there were prohibitions against doing that because it could destabilize the weather. The Hivelands were proof of what weather spells could do to the climate.
No, any [Mage] would take a far easier way out. Like, say, a barrel of water sitting right behind the tent. An orderly was, in fact, sloshing more water into it with buckets. Saliss snorted as he saw the water was being heated in huge metal cauldrons by a team of [Soldiers].
The [Mages] aren’t even warming it; they’re just having the barrel filled with pre-heated water and using that for the [Rain] spell. He bet the water in this tent was barely lukewarm due to the way the spell would lose thermal energy.
Well, it made his job so much easier. Saliss poured in two vials of his potion into the barrel when the orderly stomped off for a refill, then added two-thirds of a vial after some thought. The fact no one was drinking this stuff would reduce the effect, but that should do it.
Then he scampered off. Twelve minutes, two more tents to hit.
Easy.
Saliss skipped around [Soldiers] walking towards their sleeping bags, past a group watching a scrying orb, another singing around a huge fire—he knew this. If not this camp, this life. He’d lived it all.
Lessons in swordsmanship, how to ride, how to perform strategy—
The Drake moved on autopilot, uncorking another vial as he remembered, for a second, being proud of being Chaldion’s grandson. He wondered if the old [Strategist] remembered it too.
 
——
 
“Strategist, a word please.”
Grand Strategist Chaldion turned, and his eyes nearly pinned in place the young [General] coming his way. One was flashing red, a gemstone embedded in his eye socket that gave him his nickname, the Cyclops.
Even in his early sixties, he had an air of danger about him that was only added to by his reputation for eviscerating anyone he found incompetent, both on and off the battlefield.
“General Duln. What?”
8th General Duln, the youngest [General] of Pallass and the only Dullahan—approved by Chaldion himself—faltered a step, then put his hands behind his back.
“Merely a question, sir. I have a comment of concern regarding the young Drake occupying one of our practice courts?”
“Is this a comment from you or the cowards who appointed you to bring the comments to me?”
Chaldion was half paying attention to Duln, half-focused on a map. He was peering at a map of Baleros and grimacing; another map showing Izril had red markings, indicating where they’d finally pushed the Nagas back into the sea. Now, it was counterattack time…the Lizardfolk of Baleros had to be stopped. Even the Humans of the North had agreed to a ceasefire in the Bloodfields to pursue an all-out campaign against them. A Terandrian Crusade was forming up, but it wouldn’t go without…
The Drake was using multiple Walled Cities as the basis for an army, drawing on other cities’ levies of troops and specialists by memory. He barely glanced out his window as Duln cleared his throat again.
“Strategist?”
“I know what Saliss is doing. Practicing. A notion some of our officers seem to have forgotten.”
“Yes, sir. But he hasn’t stopped practicing for the last twenty-three hours.”
Duln saw Chaldion smile, once. Such a rare expression, especially when it came to discussing his family. He had one son and two grandchildren—living. Two of his children, a son and daughter, had died already; one during the Naga wars and, the other before that, fighting a war against Salazsar’s Lord of Lightning. Chaldion murmured.
“He’s trying to learn a Sword Skill.”
“Learn it, sir?”
“Of course. It’s a waste of levels to be given one. He won’t need a sword all the time, regardless. His mind is too quick to be some simple [Sword General].”
As a [General] of martial abilities himself, Duln forbore comment. The Dullahan shifted.
“Sir, some of the officers, including myself, feel that the boy may injure himself.”
“Probably. That’s what healing potions are for.”
“He’s eight years old, Grand Strategist.”
At this, Chaldion did turn and give Duln a real glower. He glanced out the window, where he could see the practice courts below Pallass’ HQ. If he narrowed his eyes, he could see a tiny figure occupying the furthest court to the left. Still swinging a sword around.
Again, the Grand Strategist just smiled. He turned back to Duln and gave the young Dullahan the benefit of his opinion, because he thought Duln deserved it. Because the [General] had potential. If you had none, Chaldion cared little for you beyond your utility as a piece on the board.
