I…don’t remember.
Well, can you take a memory tonic and…he saw Mrsha’s face scrunch up miserably. Then Saliss remembered where she was getting this from.
The [Palace of Fates]. How many doors had she seen? How many future worlds? She rubbed at her little face.
They’re important. I was told that. But I don’t know why. They might be important, or maybe not in this time. But maybe. I wish I could tell you more, but it’s like following prophecy.
“Follow it too much and you’ll trip over your own tail. Right, got it.”
Saliss had some experience dealing with this sort of thing. It was like a [Dangersense]. Vague enough to tell you something was there, never specific enough to give you more than a heads up. Sometimes it was all you needed. He saw Mrsha perk up after a moment, and her fake smile was pretty good, but he wished she didn’t need to practice it.
Who knows? The future’s uncertain, Saliss. Okay, got to go! Do you have anything you’d like to say to Ceria?
Saliss thought after a moment, then pointed at her.
“Uh, green bananas on the squib-squab buttchunk.”
Got it. I’ll talk to you later, Saliss! Good luck!
“Good job, kid.”
She waved and was gone. The Drake stood there for a moment. Then he decided he was hungry after all.
 
——
 
“So that was the famous inn. I must admit, it didn’t disappoint.”
Captain Yorm sat with Saliss in the mess hall as the Drake poked at some decent food, despite what he’d told Mrsha. The army did try to feed its soldiers well enough they were happy, and Manus was serving a meal.
So they had, well, french fried Yellats on part of his tray with a mashed up bit of pork and baked bean mixture combined with a Prelon on the side, and if you were hungry enough, stew.
There was always stew if you needed extra rations, and Yorm had a huge plate. They were eating with his squad, who were all enormous. They made Saliss feel like a child among half-Giants.
Dead gods, they’re all fit. Not a shred of fat on them. It was a sight to make Mirn’s eyes hurt; if he had been here, he’d be eating his fill, and not the food.
Saliss being Saliss, he had zero interest in anyone at the moment, but Onieva would have preferred less assorted muscle. He popped some fries into his mouth and crunched.
“You’ve never been to the inn, Captain Yorm?”
“Not enough time off, sir. And we’re not always stationed in Pallass. But you hear stories…Magus Grimalkin doesn’t furnish us with any when he visits, sadly, but soldiers love to gossip.”
“Really, you don’t say? And here I just learned water was wet.”
There was a chuckle from the table, and Saliss decided Captain Yorm wouldn’t be the worst minder. At least his group knew a joke when they heard it. Saliss glanced around the mess hall.
He’d timed his meal just right. So there…aha. Here came some rather sweaty [Soldiers]. They wore Manus’ color of orange, which meant they were in a sea of orange, yellow, and green from the three cities present. Zeres was blue, Salazsar was purple, and Fissival had to be precious and wear white. Which stained, so only their [Mages] wore it.
“Now that’s a sweaty crew. What did you say that [Captain]’s name was, Yorm?”
Saliss indicated the Drake marching to the line. Yorm twisted in his sweat.
“Captain Lyssander. Hm. We should invite him over. Make a hole!”
Saliss wondered if he’d overplayed his hand, but it seemed Yorm knew something he didn’t. Because once Lyssander had gotten his meal, he and his group of [Soldiers] glanced around for space, and no one called out to them.
Which was odd because every group of [Soldiers] usually had buddies—but they stuck together. Which wasn’t strange in itself, but no officer was calling out to the Drake. That was until Yorm stood up and shouted.
“Captain Lyssander, here!”
Yep, there was the Grimalkin rumble. Lyssander turned from marching out and wavered, then strode over with an easy smile. Saliss shrank back in his seat as Lyssander sat—and he wasn’t the only one.
Major Zifren halted as he and some of his officers came over, clearly intent on sitting with Yorm, but the Gnoll just called out.
“Budge over more! We can fit!”
In fact, they took over three tables in the mess hall, but it meant that Saliss was sitting with the officers, who were all Pallassian except for Captain Lyssander. They outranked him, and instantly adopted that jovial senior club welcoming the young hatchling in.
As the outsider, Saliss was obviously a target of interest, but he just chomped down fries, waving.
“Hey, I’m Saliss. Don’t talk to me when I’m eating or I’ll bite you.”
That mostly worked—Major Zifren clearly didn’t have a good opinion of him, but Captain Lyssander eyed Saliss a bit longer than normal before nodding at him and smiling at the others.
“Major Zifren, isn’t it? I don’t know you, Captain…?”
“Yorm. You are acquainted with each other then, Major?”
The Drake laughed as he dug into his food.
“Not very strongly, though I certainly felt bad when General Rigrel tore a strip off you, Captain Lyss! But then, we were sweating up there dodging the [Light Arrow] spells.”
Lyssander raised his brows as he drank down a cup of water and wiped his mouth.
“You were fired upon? No one was hurt I hope?”
“Just a few empty stomachs—but you were there! Or didn’t you hear General Edellein shouting curses at you?”
Saliss peeked at Lyssander as Yorm raised his brows, but the Captain’s brows cleared.
“Ah, oops. Well, chain of command. I was in charge of the field, but I wasn’t with the anti-air division.”
“Then why did General Rigrel—ah, nevermind. It’s good to see you, Lieutenant!”
“Captain, now.”
One of the other officers reminded Zifren, and the [Major] slapped his forehead.
“Captain! Congratulations, but if you don’t mind me saying so, it feels wrong! I remember you and Lieutenant Comois sparring whenever our forces met. Then again, maybe he’d be [Captain] if…”
A silence fell over the table, and Lyssander looked from face to face.
“I was told he was killed during the Trial of Blades. I saw part of it—”
“The damned adventurers. And the Antinium! And the Goblins and—what a nightmare that was. You’ve heard of that inn and Liscor?”
All the Pallassians adopted a kind of weary ‘you had to be there’ approach about the inn and the things they’d seen, and the Manus soldiers leaned in, half denying the stories as tall tales, but drinking it in. Saliss just chewed on some beans, listening.
“Comois. Here’s to Comois! He never lost a single duel, not once in the officer trials. Yorm, you never partook of those, did you? You made [Captain] out of Grimalkin’s training?”
Yorm shook his head.
“Different path, so no. Alchemist Saliss, do you know about this training?”
Saliss debated biting Yorm as every eye swung towards him, but he just shrugged.
“Manus puts it on. They bring their officers, other cities bring theirs. You take your cute lieutenants and try to get them to beat the other ones down.”
Major Zifren hesitated, then nodded at Saliss.
“Not how we’d put it, but yes. It’s very prestigious, and you get to see talent that way! Comois, of course, couldn’t be touched on the dueling mats. You remember, Captain Lyssander?”
Lyssander smiled crookedly in a way most missed.
“I couldn’t ever take him down, it’s true.”
“Didn’t you beat him in a number of the command matches, though? He was spitting fire for weeks after that!”
Another officer joked, and Lyssander nodded. He cast another glance at Saliss.
“I’ve graduated from those since I made [Captain], but it was fun. With that said, not everyone enjoys them, and they weren’t always a good test of full capability. I mean that in the sense that you can always tell who’s promising, but sometimes you miss real genius.”
Major Zifren scoffed.
“Oh, come now. Who could you name who didn’t show promise in the officer trials?”
Lyssander raised his brows.
“Speaking of Liscor, have you heard of Strategos Olesm? He was in Manus’ academy when I was studying. I remember he hated the officer trials. He’d get destroyed by everyone—I think it was nerves. But now he’s leading one of Liscor’s armies and holding down three Drake cities up north.”
“Really? I don’t know this…Olesm. Wait, no, the name rings a bell?”
“What kind of rank is Strategos? Is that a class?”
“Liscor, hah! Imagine leading a bunch of Ants…”
The conversation was about to go to Liscor, which Saliss was willing to entertain, but he kept noticing Lyssander glancing at him. He felt a premonition before the Drake addressed him directly.
“Well, I do know of someone else who was never beaten during the time he participated in the officer trials. It would be a record, except that it was already set decades ago by Chaldion. Alchemist Saliss, didn’t you participate in the officer trials? Were they any different when you were enrolled in Manus?”
Everyone turned and peered at Saliss, and the Drake calmly put down one fork. He decided he didn’t like Lyssander after all. He grinned.
“Me? Oh, sure, I remember something like that. Officers. Trials. Leading formations. All you do is yell ‘charge’ loud enough and it tends to work out!”
The [Major] and other officers seemed affronted, and before they could argue, Yorm changed the subject, asking what Lyssander’s orders were for the New Lands. Then they got into politics, and Saliss sat back, but he was eying Lyssander.
Who remembers my military records in Manus just like that? Did he just have that off the top of his head or does he know it because he knew he was going to run into me?
But it didn’t seem like Lyssander had said that to rattle Saliss or pursue some greater point. He had to excuse himself first and drained his cup.
“We’re back on flyer-duty. I have to run. Major, it was good to catch up. Let’s do it again. And Captain, a delight to meet Grimalkin’s famous magical corps. You don’t disappoint.”
He grinned and gave Yorm a huge handshake as the Gnoll chuckled. Then Lyssander was shouting for his people to rise. The Pallassians waved and then turned back to their meals. Saliss waited a beat, and before he rose, he heard Major Zifren say—
“Ancestors, but it hurts without Comois here. Lyssander’s looking sharp. If only…”
A Garuda nodded solemnly and raised her cup.
“Let’s focus on the job. Save the drinking for that Named-rank’s tent or for General Edellein’s. Am I wrong or was he not the idiot who got us fired on?”
“I swear it wasn’t him—but I get the impression he’s not exactly well-liked in Manus’ army. Any idea why?”
The officers leaned over the table as Saliss crunched on a fry and Captain Yorm bussed both their trays. Major Zifren coughed.
“Ah, well. Lyssander’s not bad in a scrap, but Comois always disliked him. As for the issue…egh, I’ll mention it later. Actually—well—”
Saliss had to go before the [Major] spat it out, and he strolled off with Captain Yorm following. Strange. He decided this was at least a way to kill the rest of the evening, but wasn’t sure how he’d get the information he was after.
As it so happened, the answer was quite obvious, although first—it began with another time-honored tradition when Walled Cities met.
Sabotage.
 
——
 
“They’re stealing our Prelons!”
Of all the problems to face Pallass’ army, this was certainly one of them. Saliss sat there as one of the officers protested to General Edellein’s face. For once, the [General] wore the same expression as Saliss. A kind of weary incredulity.
“Colonel…who’s stealing our Prelons?”
“It could be Manus or Oteslia, sir! All I know is that our [Quartermaster] lost an entire wagonload of Prelons! And our camp spots for an entire regiment were stolen by Oteslia! They claimed they hadn’t received plans for where each regiment was assigned!”
General Edellein pressed two claws to the bridge of his forehead.
“So one of our regiments has to camp elsewhere and we’re down Prelons. I’ll have an inquiry made.”
“But sir! If they keep this up, we’ll be homeless and hungry! And Zeres’ forces just arrived and camped ahead of us! We’ll be hours behind!”
Esor was doing his best not to roll his eyes, and Saliss just put his head down on the table. This was where Drakes became Drakes to the max—petty sabotage. It was just a game between armies.
“Well, I want you to take two regiments and beat Zeres to the march. Just get ahead of them. Have the soldiers sleep now and wake up at four.”
Edellein ordered, and the colonel brightened up. The worst part was that the [Soldiers] might grumble and swear, but they’d do it just to get ‘one up’ over Zeres. Saliss cracked one eye open.
“The City of Waves is here? Anyone I know?”
“You could say that, Saliss. Shark-Captain Femar himself is leading their forces.”
Femar? Saliss sat up with a groan. Great, someone else as pig-headed and stubborn as Zeter! Worse, he was the Serpentine Matriarch’s favorite, so he’d have authority to throw around. Edellein just sighed.
“Femar’s a bit…competitive. I’m not going to have his forces leave ours in the dust, but I don’t want brawls between our forces and Zeres’, understood? Some jockeying is always acceptable, but no conflict.”
He got agreement from his officers, but as everyone knew, this was pettiness on the level of Walled Cities. Each one had national pride, and they were regarding the New Lands as a contest, even if they were on the same side. Even the prestige of getting there ‘first’, nevermind everyone else who had done it, meant that more than one officer or [Soldier] got creative.
They were about to get to the adventurers, which was why Saliss was here, when the [Colonel] raced back into the tent, swearing.
“General! General!”
“What is it now?”
Edellein snapped, and the [Colonel] gasped.
“Some idiot cut the horselines! Half of them are out in the camp!”
 
——
 
Saliss peeked out into the camp and saw a lot of [Soldiers] chasing a lot of horses. Oooh. That was more than a casual disturbance.
That would actually tire out the horses and put Pallass’ [Riders] well behind schedule. Edellein was not happy.
“If it’s one of the [Soldiers] or officers, find them, and I’ll have them lashed! Who ordered that?”
He snapped, and the command tent was a flurry as the officers tried to dig into the matter. However, here was where Esor proved he wasn’t just any [Strategist]. Saliss saw him peer up with a huge sigh from talking to a nondescript [Soldier]—Saliss waved at the Eye of Pallass as they retreated—and tap Edellein on the shoulder.
“General, I have bad news. It would appear that the culprit in this bout of sabotage is none other than General Rigrel himself.”
“He what?”
