That didn’t…work when you were a Named-rank. Saliss was already getting tons of stares from Manus’ [Soldiers]. They’d see him walking around naked, recoil or begin bawling him out, then realize who he was and shut up. The privileges of his status, again. But he wasn’t chummy with the officers either.
The Drake was walking around in a circle in the middle of camp, bored out of his mind, when Esor found him.
“Saliss, it looks like we’re waiting on elements from Oteslia by air, and Zeres is marching in within a day or two. Salazsar and Fissival won’t make it on time; the two forces are slowing each other down given the war between the cities. Negotiating a way not to kill each other on the way here. It appears the Walled Cities will be operating under a state of non-aggression and defensive coordination. No guaranteed alliance, unless General Edellein forges a pact on the spot. We’ll be marching towards the New Lands daily.”
Saliss kept walking in a circle, staring at the blue sky. Yonder lay the New Lands. He could almost taste them.
“Great, so it’s, what, a week to get to the New Lands? Wonderful. I should have slept for a week.”
Esor shrugged as he tried to follow Saliss around. The two were both aware they were being watched. Esor was a [Strategist] and the highest-ranking Garuda, already a rare species in the Walled Cities, and Saliss was, well, Saliss. More than one [Soldier] was eavesdropping, and Saliss was not bothering to keep his voice down. Esor was doing his best, but Saliss didn’t care.
“Saliss, I’ll try to get you sent to the New Lands as soon as I can, so you can get to work. But Manus and Oteslia are both hosting General Edellein. It would appear both cities would like an alliance of mutual cooperation.”
The [Alchemist] nodded. If he were to explain this to Octavia or someone else, he’d say it was simple. The Walled Cities were a pack of rats. Big ones who could fight hard, but they were well aware the New Lands were being contested by every power on the globe. Normally, each Walled City was the biggest rat around, and it’d bully anyone it could, including the other Walled Cities, but when they saw trouble, the cities always did this.
The defensive pact meant they wouldn’t step on each other’s tails. They’d share information, band together if someone attacked them—common sense stuff. But it also left the door open for one city to grab something valuable if they found it first. Sort of a ‘we’re on the same side but it’s still a race between us’ mentality.
What Oteslia, Manus, and probably the other cities wanted was to get in bed with Pallass and commit to a full alliance. Information-sharing, coordinated troop movements, again, because Pallass was spending the most on this campaign.
“Who’s Oteslia’s leader?”
“A [Wild General] Narrina. Gnoll. Oteslia’s mostly scouting and specialists, not a lot of [Soldiers] on the line. I think Zeres is pulling a rather large company of their marines up; Edellein’s interested in a pact with them, but General Rigrel has been very…flattering.”
Saliss snorted. Dragonspeaker Luciva was a canny leader. She’d probably written a letter glowing with praise for Edellein.
“So what you’re telling me is that everyone’s courting us. Probably because Chaldion’s out, so they have no way to know how we’ll jump.”
Chaldion would have had all this already set out in deals before they landed, but Edellein was different. Esor nodded, wings twitching. Saliss imagined it wasn’t fun trying to teach Edellein how to do things. He had little sympathy. The Drake glanced to the side and saw a group of four Gnolls and a Human whispering and pointing at him.
They’re not wearing any regular uniforms. Huh, adventuring team. But those two Gnolls have that military posture…Manus’ adventurers. Silver-rankers, probably. Does Manus sponsor them or are they just organic adventurers?
Esor cleared his throat, clearly hoping for a response, and Saliss glanced at him.
“Hm?”
“Did you have an opinion on any of this, Alchemist Saliss? Anything I should bear in mind or bring back to the [General]? I was told to listen to your opinion, and I do respect your insight.”
The Garuda smiled at him. Saliss stopped, turned, and put a hand on Esor’s shoulder. He met the Garuda’s eyes and spoke seriously.
“Indeed I do. I hope the other Walled Cities buy Edellein something nice and treat him to some wine and a lovely meal before they bend him over and fuck him.”
Esor’s eyes widened, and a passing [Soldier] walked straight into one of the tent poles. Esor gave Saliss a look of horror as his head snapped around. Saliss beamed at him.
“I could write it down for Edellein if you want.”
He got a dozen paces before Esor flapped after him.
“Saliss! I’m trying to include you in this expedition! If you want General Edellein’s ear, you cannot treat him like Chaldion!”
Saliss spun and poked Esor in the chest, hard.
“Who says I want to do the same damn dance as with the old man? I want Edellein to understand exactly what I do. I blow things up. If he thinks he’s holding a [Fireball], well, he might actually be cautious, and that’s what I want. I’m not going to hold Edellein’s hand, Esor! You and I both know he’s going to fuck up.”
“Yes, and people will die if we don’t mitigate that. He could lead Pallass well enough, Saliss.”
The Drake lowered his voice as his tail lashed.
“He could? Really? What about Shirka and the entire debacle with the Goblin Lord and Titan? What about that order to ‘dislodge Manus’? Even putting aside the fact that he doesn’t know how to use me, he thinks like a Pallassian General. Chaldion led all the Drake cities, whether they liked it or not. If you want better leadership, if you want to replace Edellein, then lead people, Esor. But keep me the hell out of it. I’m done playing politics in the army.”
With that, Saliss shoved Esor. He dropped his knees, pushed up, and had the satisfaction of hearing a squawk before Esor was flying through the air. The Garuda caught himself, flapping wildly, and Saliss glared…then saw more people staring at him.
Damn. He hated being a bit honest. Saliss stalked off, rattled. What had happened to his usual composure and ability to annoy everyone?
I’ve gotten angrier. It’s all too personal again, too raw. Was it the Goblin King? Is it…Onieva? 
He didn’t know, but suddenly doing this dance was harder than before. It made him feel like a clown, and he didn’t like the feeling.
Dead gods. Saliss caught himself humming a military tune as he went in search of a tent so he could be alone. It was repetitive and dry, and it stuck in your head. The ratatatatat of drums until you were all marching together, thinking together, fighting together. You and the army, all sharing the same brain.
The problem wasn’t that they made Saliss join them on their campaigns. The problem was that he’d grown up as Chaldion’s grandchild.
He’d been a really damn good soldier.
 
——
 
With the exception of Saliss, every other adventurer of Gold-rank or higher was actually quite social in the mixed-army camps. Adventurers had stories, wealth, and that allure of fame and success about them. Some hung out with regular [Soldiers] in the mess camps, but the higher-level ones tended to stick with each other and officers.
Word had spread about Saliss’ near dive-bombing of Manus’ air defense force, and he didn’t seem very approachable. By contrast, Glasiaad the Tome Magus was representing Pallass like a real Named-rank adventurer.
He’d set up a tent in the camp, and on the morning after General Edellein’s arrival, he was pouring out drinks inside of it, sitting in a huge chair as he met fellow adventurers and shook hands over the crystal table. His tent was fourteen feet tall on the outside, circular, and the yellow cloth hung with multi-colored tassels and his personal sigil, which was of a younger Glasiaad’s face.
The Drake himself was in his sixties these days, but he looked good, roguishly old with still-sleek neck spines and fine fitness for his age. His voice was deep and mellow; floating spell tomes moved with him.
“I can cast a spell from each one, you see. It’s like a permanent spell scroll; once I use a spell, I have to re-bind it back onto the pages. Tedious, but it means my library of spells is four times that of my peers.”
“Why doesn’t everyone use magic like that, Magus? I’ve never heard of my [Battlemages] acting that way.”
One of the [Majors] under Edellein’s command was keeping the Named-rank company, despite soldiers marching past the open tent. Glasiaad chuckled as a wine bottle poured more wine around. The [Major] was one of half a dozen people sitting with the Named-rank. There were two Gold-rank adventurers from different teams, one of Oteslia’s [Druids], and officers from General Rigrel’s personal command.
Glasiaad was meeting them for the first time, and he winked at the awestruck Gold-rank [Sorceress], a Drake in her twenties.
“Well, if I may be so bold as to say it, Major Zifren, it’s a difficult thing to scribe spells in the first place! Not to mention making a spellbook that can hold spells and endure the process of expending magic and re-using it…think of it like this. I need to manufacture my ammunition as well as use it. So I occupy the role of [Fletcher] and [Archer]—and [Quartermaster]! People have tried to copy my methods, but I think they’re not something that’s easily transferable.”
There were nods around the table, and the other Gold-ranker, a Human from Oteslia, broke in.
“Sir Glasiaad, I have that ‘sir’ right?”
“I am a Wall Lord of Pallass. Though it’s a technicality; I spend most of my time in Liltengrass. Lovely city, just close enough to get all the amenities I want, but not to be in the City of Inventions itself. It gets tiring, you know! All those stairs at my age?”
Glasiaad winked, and the view from the tent’s opening of marching soldiers blurred for a moment, then stopped—on a new patch of ground. Some of the [Soldiers] did a double-take, but the company within the tent had seen it ‘hop’ across the ground more than once.
Now that was Named-rank power. The Human was part of Green Solutions, a Gold-rank team out of Oteslia, and he was rather starstruck by the Named-ranker. His team was adorned in all-natural armor, grown from Oteslia’s gardens, and used—among other things—seeds which would explode with natural power. He wasn’t a [Druid] himself; he was a [Warrior of the Green] and Level 36.
Close, in short, to Named-rank status for his team. Glasiaad smiled.
“You can drop the title, though, Adventurer Thoir. After all, it might be your team who hits Named-rank soon! It’s always good to have a friend among fellow adventurers, eh?”
Thoir nodded as he accepted a refill and relaxed. The Drake [Sorceress] seemed tongue-tied.
“Thoir and Nekessa? You should bring your teams by tonight! I confess, I don’t know all you up-and-coming Gold-rankers as well as I should, even Pallass’ teams! Do we know who’s with us?”
Major Zifren knew that.
“I’m aware the Wings of Pallass are flying in, and of course, General Edellein had to call on the Flamewardens. Their leader, Keldrass, is wearing the Heartflame Breastplate. They cost nearly twice what the Wings did to be put on retainer due to the expense of renting the armor, but it’s a sight to see!”
The others murmured excitedly, and Glasiaad tapped his lips.
“Flamewardens…Flamewardens…I think I recall that name. The Wings too. They don’t stand out in my memory, though—you tend to notice the adventurers who rise to Named-rank. They move like lightning bolts up through the ranks! Like Lehra Ruinstrider, in fact. When I heard she’d found the Blade of Mershi, I knew she was going to be Named-rank. Now, it may be we’ll find the same kinds of discoveries in the New Lands—but we’ll see where High Command puts us, eh? I do hope that General Edellein will understand I’m more focused on magical phenomena. Just call me in when you find that dungeon, and I’ll de-trap everything! But catch me footslogging across the New Lands?”
He rolled his eyes expressively, and the Major assured him that he’d ensure the [Wizard] was their go-to specialist for any dungeons or the like. The Oteslian [Warrior] opened his mouth, eyed Glasiaad, and then closed it. He was drinking sparingly from the wine since it was barely past 10.
“What is our share of treasure going to be like, by the way, Major? I know we’re all on retainer, but if we were to come across a huge find like the Heartflame Breastplate, do we have a claim on that?”
Sorceress Nekessa asked worriedly. The Major hesitated, but Glasiaad waved a claw.
“Ah, well, if you’re wise, you’ll have a contract pre-determined with your Walled City, Miss Nekessa. I have one that stipulates any treasure I help recover, I have a claim to, though obviously, if it were the Heartflame Breastplate, they might buy it from me. But a share is a share! Do you have an individual contract or did you just agree to one from the Adventurer’s Guild?”
Both adventurers seemed mildly alarmed, but the Oteslian [Warrior] cut in.
“Green Solutions should be covered under our contracts. Mivifa herself negotiated the contracts which apply to all adventurers.”
“And Manus…?”
Nekessa seemed worried, and Glasiaad nodded knowingly.
“Why don’t you bring over your contract tonight, Miss Nekessa? I’ll take a look and we’ll see if we can hammer another one out. It’s never too late to negotiate in my experience.”
She beamed at him in relief, thanking him profusely, and then Glasiaad was snapping his claws again, producing sparks of light.
“I’d love to work with your teams, you two. And a good company of whichever Walled City’s forces are doing the expeditions. I’m not like Saliss, who’s rather hard to work with. He’ll run off and throw his exploding potions—me? Teamwork with our [Soldiers] all the way down. Maybe those Pallassian teams too. Any others? Where do I know those names from?”
“Wouldn’t it be the Wyvern attack on Pallass, Magus?”
Thoir exchanged a glance with Nekessa, surprised that it wasn’t top-of-mind. Glasiaad blinked.
“Of course! I wasn’t there for that—now I recall! Brave adventurers. If they’re willing to fight that many Frost Wyverns like that, then I can certainly trust them with my tail.”
He shook his head, and Nekessa lifted a claw.
“Magus, I have to admit, I was surprised when I heard you were Pallass’ Named-rank! I would have expected you to be on the walls with Magus Grimalkin, but I suppose you were too far out of range when the attack came?”
Everyone looked at Glasiaad, and he paused, then grimaced and shrugged.
