Drakes loved spears. Their famous formations had triumphed over many a foe, and it was common practice to issue any new [Soldier] with a spear and shield. Lyssander tapped his sword hilt.
“Well, I’m a sword-user, and my company ended up being specialists, sir. Lyssander’s Swords. It’s a stupid nickname, but, well—we’re a bit unconventional, or so they tell me.”
What that meant soon became clear as Manus’ forces practiced. Normally, you had lines of [Soldiers] who’d practice one move. Like the old shield-and-poke. They’d attack training dummies as a [Sergeant] bellowed orders at them; you just wanted your [Soldiers] to learn a few core moves. That way, when they were in the thick of combat, they wouldn’t try something fancy and just do what they knew. All you had to do was hold the line and poke a charging enemy dead if you were lucky.
If you had spears. But swords? Swords were a bit more fiddly. They were shorter in reach, and you had to know more forms with a sword. Of course, Lyssander’s people practiced several moves for thirty minutes, like the overhand slash, various thrusts and even parries, but then they began to spar en-masse.
Fifty Drakes and Gnolls versus fifty. They used practice-swords, but one side charged the other in a rather aggressive assault, and the other had to hold them off. It wasn’t just practice blows, but a free-for-all, and Lyssander himself was in the mix. That was still in line with what Saliss expected, though. What made him and Yorm do a double-take was when Lyssander—who was on the defending side—shouted.
“Fall back! Fall back! Ten steps—”
His side was retreating across the ground. The aggressors pushed them hard, shouting, and then Lyssander’s group fell back another ten steps, shedding ‘dead’ [Soldiers] and forming a shrinking circle of blades. After ten minutes, he whistled.
“Alright, switch! Sergeant Marri, you’re on defense!”
Then his group attacked, and the other [Soldiers] were retreating. Saliss blinked, and Yorm commented.
“Does Manus practice fighting retreats?”
“I doubt it. This is just…training. It makes sense. His is a mobile company, so you’d have to fall back in good order like this, and it gives both sides the experience of attacking and defending with swords.”
But it was exceptionally odd to see, because Saliss couldn’t remember seeing that kind of training since he’d been a kid. That stupid axiom that had become so popular twenty years ago flashed into both Pallassians’ minds.
“Drakes don’t run. No one else in Manus’ forces is moving like that.”
Indeed, some other [Captains] and their companies were giving Lyssander’s Swords a familiar expression of disdain. Yorm murmured.
“So Captain Lyssander came up with that himself? That might explain part of his unpopularity. But I’m surprised Manus allows it.”
Saliss could answer that one. He shrugged his slim shoulders.
“Manus lets companies vary their efforts so long as they produce results. It’s that way from the top down. Ever seen Spearmaster Lulv and his Spears of Manus? They race around stabbing things; you can’t train that normally. Your squad is the same, isn’t it, Captain?”
Yorm grunted.
“True enough. We’d better put in some effort as well, not just stand around. Spellarm Squad, muster up!”
He only had about two dozen under his command, but they were all the muscled magic-users. Saliss watched idly as they practiced shooting the wands they carried, then switched to close-combat.
Spellblades. Grimalkin had taught them well. If someone managed to beat Captain Yorm’s wands, they’d run into his spear, which he could fight well with solo or in a squad. And if they somehow disarmed him, he knew close-combat grappling moves as well.
Saliss imagined that Yorm’s squad would rove around the battlefield, attacking targets of opportunity like enemy [Mages] or [Archers]. He grinned, imagining some spindly Wistram-[Mage] eating a punch from Yorm.
The [Alchemist] wasn’t training since he didn’t train like the [Soldiers], nor did he want the attention. You might think that he was bored, but Saliss didn’t mind watching. There was something…scenic about watching Captain Yorm grappling with one of his squadmates in the grass.
Lots of sweat beading on his fur, and you could see it running in rivulets down his abdominal muscles, which were visible on the thinner coat of his front fur. He’d stripped off his leather armor probably to avoid getting it dirty, and the Drake he was grappling with, also male, was twining his tail around one of Yorm’s legs as he tried to sweep the [Captain]. His arm-muscles were bulging as the two pivoted, trying to throw the other.
Again, Onieva would have preferred to see Ishkr doing the grappling, but it was enough to be not-bored. Saliss let her observe until he heard a panting voice remark too-loudly behind him.
“Ancestors, what a sight! That Captain Yorm’s a tall drink of water! I’ve never seen muscles move like that!”
For a moment, Saliss almost forgot where he was, and he was turning to tell Mirn to shut the hell up. Only, it wasn’t Mirn’s voice. The speaker was too young, and he was shading his eyes as sweat rolled off his own grey scales with a cheerful grin without even trying to hide what he was looking at or lower his voice.
Saliss froze as Captain Lyssander pointed at Yorm and the training squad. He saw Lyssander lick his lips, and his eyes never left Yorm.
“Here I thought Manus had the best training, but there’s a sight for sore eyes. You mind if I sit, Alchemist? We reek a bit, but there’s nothing like getting a workout in the morning!”
He flopped down, and the [Alchemist] said not a word. He stared at Lyssander as the Drake kept watching Yorm, gulping water from a flask. And Saliss’ first thought was—
Oh, no. Nope, this is just bait. Or a trick. Or I misheard him. Or…
Then he saw Lyssander peer at the sun, uncork his waterflask, pour the rest of the water over his head, and shake his head out. He slicked back his neck spines, spraying the water out, and then shouted.
“Hey, Swords, take a break! Get over here and rest up! Let’s see how the Sinew Magus’ people do it! Corporal Riss, stop playing with your sword and relax. We’ve got a full march and we’re on flier-duty so save the effort!”
He sprang up, then slung an arm around one of the Drakes still stubbornly practicing. He dragged the protesting Corporal over, pushed him onto the ground, and flung himself down. Then he leaned on the Drake’s arm.
“No one’s moving until I’m moving. Phew! I don’t think we need to practice hand-to-hand like Yorm’s lot, but I’ll be damned if I ever try brawling with him!”
He grinned, eyes flicking back to Yorm’s command as the corporal, embarrassed, tried to edge away from his captain. But Lyssander just turned and punched him in the side.
“No moving, Corporal! I’ll demote you to a pillow.”
“And toss him into your tent, Captain Lyss?”
That came from a Gnoll, Sergeant Marri, who grinned as she trooped over with her squad. Several of the [Soldiers] gave Saliss a glance that he read—
Nervousness? Trepidation? But Lyssander just snorted.
“My pillow’s better than Corporal Riss. I’ll sleep on your ass before Riss, Sergeant. Though, mind you, I bet Yorm’s lot would be hard as wood planks.”
She grinned as she threw herself down, and there were chuckles and, again, glances at Saliss.
“Just so long as the Alchemist doesn’t spike our drinks with whatever he hit Zeres with. I could hear the Sharkcaptain farting across camp all night long! Much less the latrines—I hear there was blowback.”
Everyone shuddered and eyed Saliss. He managed a faint response.
“Yeah, uh, that’s, uh—a hazard of the potion. Careful where you aim when something might come out.”
“There’s a weapon of war. We could just have our [Soldiers] pull down their pants, lift their tails, and aim. I wouldn’t charge that.”
Lyssander joked, and Saliss just gazed at the [Captain], still taking his ease, relaxed as could be. No matter how hard Saliss looked, he didn’t see any…irony on Lyssander’s face. Or even self-consciousness.
No.
No, it couldn’t be…
When Captain Yorm finished sparring and strode over to ask if Lyssander cared to do some mixed-sparring between their groups, Saliss saw it. And once he did, it was so obvious. To everyone, it seemed—
Except Lyssander.
 
——
 
Lyssander’s Swords were still on their punishment duty waving in fliers, and it seemed to be a known fact that if there was dirty work, they tended to get it. However, like many good officers, Lyssander had the affection of his [Soldiers].
But not just affection—there was a level of defensiveness that Saliss would have taken for the company having a chip on their shoulders until he’d figured it out. Then he saw the hints, and they were everywhere.
“Hoi, Captain Hiress, is that you? Ancestors, how the hell have you been? I was sorry to hear about Lieutenant Comois—”
Lyssander met a fellow [Captain] he’d clearly known from the Officer Trials and instantly dashed over to throw an arm around the Drake’s shoulders and give him a hug. Which wasn’t, in and of itself, odd.
Nor was appreciating someone’s physique. Dead gods, most [Soldiers] who met Yorm for the first time had to comment on the Gnoll being so fit. It was just that Lyssander could get distracted in the middle of reminiscing with Captain Hiress and point.
“Dead gods, look at that man’s thighs. Who the hell is that?”
He was pointing to a scrying orb of Lord Xitegen on the news, replaying Captain Zevara’s exploits around Liscor and Pallass. And again, who could deny that Xitegen, the Thigh Lord of House Terland, was a man blessed with amazing thighs?
It was just—how Lyssander said it, maybe. With a bit too much appreciation? Or enthusiasm for the male form? Or he noticed it too much? Or he was a bit more ready to lay hands on fellow [Soldiers]—in a respectful way.
For instance, he caught one of his [Soldiers] with filthy neck spines, so he spat on one claw and hand-groomed the protesting [Soldier]’s ‘hair’. Then slapped the [Soldier] on the shoulder.
“We’re supposed to look good for all the bigwigs flying in, [Soldier]. Wash—eugh, do you even use soap? I’ll have your entire squad scrub you with a broom if I have to!”
“I had to cut it short because of the [Alchemist], sir!”
“Oh—well, you’re forgiven today. But watch it!”
Lyssander pointed an outraged finger at the [Soldier] and his squad, who joked about his smell alerting the enemy from miles away. Then Lyssander dashed back to Captain Hiress, apologizing, and the [Captain] gave him much the same gaze that Saliss and Yorm were.
That of someone picking up on something that Saliss felt was obvious—too obvious. And doing that glance around to get everyone else’s opinions.
Is he serious?
It was Captain Yorm who broached the subject with that Grimalkin directness that you grew to know and debatably love.
“…It may be presumptuous, Alchemist Saliss, but I think I have identified an, ah, reason for the disdain shown to Captain Lyssander’s company.”
“You don’t say.”
Saliss didn’t glance at Yorm, but he was suddenly hearing alarm bells ringing. He didn’t know what the Gnoll had been told, but Yorm continued after a moment.
“I, ah, heard a rumor…you had made significant statements to several members of 1st Army and Pallass’ Watch about your feelings regarding Turnscales.”
“I may have done.”
Don’t tense up, he’ll notice. Yorm glanced at Saliss, then folded his arms uncomfortably, like Grimalkin.
“A cousin…? I would never spread rumors, Alchemist, but you may understand the, uh, phenomena more than I? Magus Grimalkin did give us brief lectures on such matters, but he was more focused on sexual disease in the army.”
Oh, he didn’t know. General Edellein must have kept his mouth shut, then. Saliss relaxed and mustered a wry smile.
“I’d hate for any rumors to spread, Captain Yorm. You know how those get people hurt or fired from their jobs. And I’d hate to find someone spreading rumors and hit them repeatedly with a club.”
“Absolutely, Alchemist. It’s just that—are you seeing what I’m seeing?”
Saliss stared at Lyssander as Captain Hiress excused himself too-hurriedly and saw the moment of hurt flash across the young [Captain]’s face. He murmured.
“Oh, yes. Yes, I do. I can’t believe it.”
But how the hell did this happen? Saliss was so incredulous it was fascinating in some horrific not-funny way. Lyssander was as obvious as the sun. Mind you, some people didn’t pick up on it; it wasn’t as if it was tattooed on the Drake’s forehead. But even so—!
Surely some Sentry had a word with this idiot. Or a Mason or Architect—
Those were ranks in Turnscale hierarchy, such as it was. There tended to be a bar in every city that had, well, people who understood each other. Each group had older Turnscales who looked out for the younger ones, led the way, protected them, or built a space where they could gather…because being a Turnscale got you ostracized at best, killed or exiled at worst.
It was not safe to act like Lyssander was doing. He set off so many alarm bells in Saliss’ head that the Drake fancied they were almost audible. So why was he…?
Lyssander rejoined Yorm and Saliss, shaking his head.
“Looks like Captain Hiress isn’t in the mood to chat. A shame, but I get Lieutenant Comois hitting the army hard. I thought that it’d take a Dragon to kill him. I can’t say that I actually liked Comois, but, well…he was nigh-on unbeatable in single combat.”
He shrugged, sighing, and gestured to the road.
“Our group is back to the march. Will you join us, you two?”
Saliss and Yorm exchanged a glance and nodded. They joined Lyssander, jogging ahead, but now the two were fishing, as it was. And boy, Lyssander was a school of fish that had never seen bait before. The Gnoll coughed into one fist.
“I heard you were often paired against Lieutenant Comois, Captain Lyssander. No love lost? I knew the Lieutenant, and he could be rather prickly at times.”
Lyssander sighed and glanced around for more of Pallass’ army before nodding.
“It wasn’t that we were always paired off—we were clashing for 1st place a lot of the time. I don’t want to brag, but I was top of my class with a sword in Manus. The problem was, Comois was the [Lieutenant of Perfection]. His [Perfect Slash], [Perfect Parry], [Perfect Sneer]—you run into him for the first time and he puts you on the ground in a second. There was this poor Stitch-girl all the way from Chandrar, and he cut off both her arms in a single move. Nasty, and he was reprimanded, but he got away with it because, well, Stitch-girl. She sewed them back on.”
