“As of this morning, General Rigrel has stepped down from his post. He will be heading back to Manus for his retirement shortly. A sudden fever, at his age—a replacement will be dispatched as fast as possible. Until then, you have been appointed acting commander of Manus’ forces. We’ll be liaisoning, given my role in Pallass’ command structure. A pleasure to work with you, [Major].”
He held out a paper covered in seals from Manus and then a clawed hand to shake. Ultarwe stood there, confused, until her training took over. She peered at Esor, then read the papers.
Luciva Skybreath’s own seal. She took Esor’s hand.
“You…just delivered the news to General Rigrel?”
“I just got the news, Major. And I was in position to relay this all to Dragonspeaker Luciva. I did serve with Grand Strategist Chaldion, after all. ”
Esor. Of course, she’d heard his name, but the Cyclops had been famous. He…
“I, ah, didn’t know the General had fallen ill.”
The [Major] did her best to fish, but she wasn’t good at this. Esor’s face was utterly blank as he smiled.
“These things take you fast. All things considered, I think it’s for the best. Don’t you?”
She did. Absolutely. A huge weight lifted from Ultarwe’s shoulders, and the churning fear in her stomach abated, but she wasn’t sure if…if this wasn’t like Femar leaning on Rigrel.
“So you’re in command of Manus?”
His claw tightened, and she was shocked by his strength as the [Strategist] looked her in the eyes.
“Manus is in command of Manus, Major. You are. I hope you don’t mistake my words. I’m no [General]. I know my role. I am merely the [Strategist]. A [Strategist] of the Walled Cities, not just Pallass. We are all on the same side here. Let’s act like it. No more pranks. No more infighting. I’ve had a word with Sharkcaptain Femar as well.”
—The ground stabilized. The shaky foundations that Ultarwe had been treading on became more solid. She nodded, and suddenly her mind was churning with all the problems—but Esor had a file he was taking out.
“You’ll need to restructure, but I imagine it won’t take much time. Let’s get everyone moving, General—if I can take your time and your command for an hour or two?”
“Absolutely, Strategist Esor. I am looking forward to working with you. And I apologize for any unprofessionalism from my side. I assure you, Manus will have its act together.”
The new Acting-General of Manus squared her shoulders, then stepped out of the privacy spell to begin barking orders. Behind her, Esor rolled up the Scroll of [Message] with a direct line to Dragonspeaker Luciva with a sigh. He turned his head as he flew up to survey the camps. Then he spoke to himself.
“We’re not incompetent yet, Grand Strategist. Just restructuring.”
 
——
 
Later that day, Saliss of Lights was packing for his expedition. He’d see Lyssander and Deyss again—Saliss could move fast, but he was going to do that adventure-thing. They’d be backup if he needed it, while working on bigger military projects.
However, he had a thought as he checked his bag of holding and considered the future. Old Deyss had promised to teach Lyssander, and Captain Yorm would be good instruction too, though he might kill Lyssander’s company with all his weight training.
But it seemed to Saliss that his grumpy and dispirited entry into the New Lands had turned into something positive. And he had his own debts to pay.
So, the Named-rank Adventurer stepped out of his tent and found Strategist Esor. He seemed busy organizing things, but he was always doing that. When the Garuda looked up expectantly at his desk where he was working, Saliss cleared his throat.
“Esor. I owe a certain Garuda a great deal. Therefore, I’d like to be assigned Captain Bevussa and her team. I could use someone who can keep up with me.”
The [Strategist] blinked, then began to scowl at Saliss before a thoughtful expression crossed his face.
“She knows the landscape. But are you sure? I could use good fliers like her.”
“Absolutely. She’s a rookie, but promising.”
And she had my back even after knowing Lyssander was a Turnscale. She was from the inn…Saliss threw a salute.
“Thank you, Strategist Esor, sir! Have the paperwork done in the hour! Bye!”
He ran out of the tent, laughing, before an ink pot sailed out after him. Then Saliss really was busy as Captain Bevussa flapped over, demanding to know if there was a mistake. He had to talk to her about tactics and draw a map of where he wanted to go and explain his process…
 
——
 
A busy day. Saliss was napping in a camp sixty miles from the main army’s location in the evening. Not far; he’d taken it easy and mostly jogged while talking to Bevussa’s team.
They were doing scout duty and getting firewood for the night’s camp. It was fun to have rookies do that. He’d have to figure out if he was giving them potions or better weapons and armor for if he wanted to rely on them, but that was a future-Saliss problem.
The Drake was just napping because he had been rather stressed of late. He dozed off, then woke up and noted that he hadn’t levelled up.
“Ah, well. It’s hard at my level.”
Being kids like Bevussa and Lyss was so nice. You scratched your butt, you levelled. Saliss was rolling around in his bedroll when his eyes opened, and he stared at the sky.
Something hit him. Slowly, ever-so-slowly, the Drake sat up and thunked his head a few times. Then found a rock and tapped it against his skull.
“No. They can’t be that stupid. We’re not that stupid. I’m…would Xif make that mistake?”
He thought back to the Alchecorps, who were still gamely identifying all of the New Lands. And the mysterious Super Monsters who had way too much magical power. And the lizards who just loved those beetles.
Yellow beetles with a 1.01 magirite rating. So, in short, barely more than 1% more magical than a regular beetle you’d find across Izril.
Right? Right? Saliss muttered to himself.
“But then…how the hell does a magirite test produce a 1.01 result with a beetle in the New Lands? With an active mana drain effect everywhere?”
His head slowly turned left and right, and then he whispered as he pulled up some ordinary yellow grass made by the Archmage of the Eternal Grasses. Stared at a bug fanning its wings and a colorful abdomen rising on a leaf.
“It’s all magical. Just not—here.”
Where the hell was it all going? And if you took this out of the New Lands…Feathi loved the grass…
Saliss’ mind was racing suddenly. He was glancing at everything, then, and wondering—how powerful is a Heatband Lizard outside the New Lands? Magic didn’t drain into nothing. Was it entering the atmosphere or somewhere else?
He was about to run around and scream randomly until Bevussa found him when the Drake saw a flicker of light. He paused, yanked out a vial from his side, and rolled out of his bedroll as he readied himself.
New Lands of Izril meet Saliss of Lights. The Drake peeked around a tree at the shining figure and then relaxed. He hesitated, then stood.
There was a babbling brook next to the camp, idyllic—and also non-potable according to Saliss’ tests. But it was still reflective thanks to little stones on the bottom, and a Drake stepped forwards, past the trees.
If she glanced down, she could see herself walking there. An alchemy-wrought form. The Drake had cobalt blue and rose pink scales, mismatched blue and yellow eyes, and she was right there.
Hidden, at times. But there, like the glimmer of a mirror. The figure caught in the corner of your eyes. Waiting for the veil to lift and to appear when she was needed. No dream.
Onieva smiled and waved as the glowing figure turned. Ishkr laid eyes on the Drake coming his way, and she smiled with Saliss’ lips. Spoke in his voice…but she could hear herself.
See herself as she waved a hand and blew a kiss at the Gnoll she hoped could see her too, even without a potion. She saw the [Server]’s eye brightened, and the shy smile filled his face. Onieva winked as her spirits rose.
“Hey, Ishkr. How was your week?”
