“I can’t teleport all the way to Pallass, sadly. Both a matter of mana and anti-teleportation spells on the city. Even General Edellein’s army was unable to reach Pallass in time—besides, they had Saliss. He always shows up for trouble involving Pallass itself.”
He waved an airy claw, and Thoir glanced over his shoulder.
“What is Saliss of Lights like, Magus? I’ve never met him. I thought he was supposed to be funny and friendly, but I, uh, heard he nearly threw a [Strategist] across the camp yesterday.”
“Saliss?”
For the first time, Glasiaad’s easy smile vanished. He hesitated and swirled his wine around in his goblet, then grimaced as he drank it.
“Saliss is…a Named-rank adventurer, no doubt about that. He’s insane, dangerous—the nudity is real, by the way. I’ve seen him adventuring for thirty years, and never once did he wear a pair of pants. Let’s just say there’s a reason he’s the only Named-rank living in Pallass.”
Everyone glanced at each other.
“No one can stand him?”
Glasiaad waved a clawed finger.
“Not just that. He’s just—overbearing. You get adventurers like that. Territorial. It’s his way or the highway, and I didn’t feel like butting heads with another Named-rank at my age. So I stay away. Now, is he the Drake you want when the monsters appear? Obviously. But will you see me inviting him for a drink?”
He shook his head, tsking, and the two Gold-ranks nodded along with everyone else. Nekessa saw Glasiaad offer her another smile as he whisked the vintage of wine away.
“Let’s have some Amentus wine next! It’s sweet, so we’ll need something to cut it with. I have some cheeses, though if our Oteslian [Quartermaster] had any access to fresh foods, I would be exceptionally grateful, Druid Ulwhe. Now, if we’re talking about adventurers and Named-ranks, did anyone ever meet old Torreb? Just me? Now there’s an unpleasant fellow to get along with…”
 
——
 
Saliss left his tents at around ten in the morning. The camp had already begun being struck at dawn, but moving such a huge army meant that it was all in phases.
Walled Army camps had a certain…surreal quality to them that caught people off-guard. The lines of neatly-organized tents and roads you had to march down were laid out like miniature cities, because that’s what they were. You had a plan with each tent, and if you were Esor, you could see it laid out like from on high.
Organized, that was the word for it. Unlike other armies, Drakes enforced all the rules. March on the right side in columns while foot-traffic could move around them. Fortified sentry posts and command usually in the center of the camp, but never in the direct center, because that might let someone find or strike it easily…these were the basics of any army.
Where they differed was how each Walled City operated. For instance, Pallass loved alchemy and metallurgy, so you had camp [Alchemists] with their own area on the outskirts of camp. Their noxious odors always annoyed other Walled Cities, and they were always kept on the edges—in case a bad reaction blew something up. More than one surprise attack had been foiled by someone ambushing a group of the Alchecorps and getting a premature detonation in the face.
Each encampment from each Walled City had its quirks like that. They camped next to each other, separated by an open stretch of ground so it felt you walked into a new area if you crossed from, say, Pallass to Oteslia. Different turf, different city.
Quite literally if you were hanging out with the [Druids], who were walking around a quite untidy section of camp. Some didn’t even bother with tents; they slept in the open, showered nude under rain spells, or hung out or smoked illicit substances in the open. Civilian experts; the envy and dismay of soldiers.
Manus, by contrast, had all the tricks like subtly lowering the terrain around each of their watchtowers they set up—and they lugged the damn watchtowers in Chests of Holding—it made it hard to evade their sentries’ eyes. Unless you were Saliss. If Fissival were here, you’d see all the Gnolls and Drakes staying well clear of each other. Conscripts or auxiliaries from smaller cities supplementing a Walled City’s forces.
Salazsar had used to be like that too. Manus had Drakes and Gnolls mixing without problems; everyone was a [Soldier] there. But Saliss had noticed Gnolls from Oteslia giving some of Manus’ [Soldiers] a death-glare. Possibly, they were Plains Gnolls or had been at the Meeting of Tribes. Still, if there was one city that wasn’t going to get fights between Gnolls and Drakes, it was Oteslia.
Mixed levels of sharpness on all sides. Pallass had brought the most quality and numbers, just as Saliss suspected. Manus seemed oddly mixed; a few groups of [Soldiers] seemed sharper than the others. Probably pulled from various areas, then. Oteslia…Saliss thought they were average. The [Druids] actually seemed sharper than the troops. It made sense; Oteslia had been in a fight with Zeres recently, and after the Meeting of Tribes, they weren’t going to send their finest into the New Lands. Not without knowing what the stakes were. No, only good old Pallass for that.
The [Alchemist] packed up his tent, but didn’t feel like marching with any one group.
“Don’t worry, I’ll get to the next spot. I’ll just walk around. Don’t mind me.”
He assured one of the [Soldiers] sent to mind him. The [Tactician] cleared his throat.
“But Alchemist, General Edellein sent me to watch over you! If you’d like any services, just let me know and—”
Saliss frowned.
“Services? Well, I might need to replace my belt. Is there a leatherworker in camp?”
“Of course, sir! I can get you to the highest-level one and put in a priority order.”
Saliss nodded as the [Tactician] wrote a rapid note, then peered over his shoulder.
“Good idea, but maybe you should put out the fire first? Is that the workshop?”
He pointed, and the [Tactician] spun in alarm.
“Where? What fire? Wh—Adventurer Saliss?”
 
——
 
Saliss paused to let a column of [Soldiers] march past him and saw they were Oteslia’s forces. They had green armor, more Gnolls than usual, and this lot was armed with shortbows and shortspears. Rapid engagement. They all stared at Saliss as he stood there. One whistled.
“Lost your clothes, adventurer? It gets cold in the New Lands, I hear!”
There was laughter, and some of them eyed his private parts before jerking their eyes away. It was always a mix, Saliss found, of people who stared and those who tried to pretend there was nothing to see. He called back, voice cheerful.
“I lost all my clothes gambling! If you’d like to donate to my clothing fund, I accept donations!”
He produced a razor and slashed energetically, removing some tufts of fur from the nearest Gnolls, who swore at him, then checked themselves and laughed. There was laughter until another column of [Soldiers] marched at double-pace past the Oteslian one.
“More of Pallass’ crazies. Who wants a naked [Alchemist] when the Adult Creler pops up?”
Manus’ forces did not like him; well, these were younger [Soldiers] who might have just heard about yesterday. Or they just didn’t like naked Drakes. Now, the old guard would really hate him…Saliss beamed at the scowling Drake who’d issued the comment.
“Oh, you don’t call on me for Adult Crelers, you cute boys and girls. Go get an adventurer who cares.”
More heads turned, and they eyed him. Saliss kept beaming.
“You call on me when the Elder Creler shows up. Got it? Don’t waste my time. Adult Crelers. Hah! Spoken like someone who’s never seen one of them before.”
A silence fell over the marching column, and several [Soldiers] glanced back at Saliss. He cupped his hands to his mouth.
“Hey, if you get back to Manus, tell Zeter Sixswords I said hello! Ask him if he’s ever going to kill an Elder Creler or if he’s just sticking to babies!”
Then Saliss wondered if Zeter would actually show up. Probably not…Manus loved to use him around the city where he could be rapidly deployed. Hopefully, they wouldn’t meet; Saliss hated Zeter. He hated a lot of Named-ranks he knew, come to that.
He strolled on, moving around the camp, trading jests with passing groups of [Soldiers] and getting the feel for the camp. Saliss was mostly on the lookout for interesting facets any army had brought. There were always general [Soldiers] and specialists, and the specialists tended to be what turned the tide. Not even fighters; if you had a strong group of support classes, well, it was good to know.
A good number of Oteslian [Druids]. They’re going to be useful, I bet. I wonder how they’re mitigating the mana-drain. I brought that damn Mana Lantern, and it’s going to eat magical gems like no tomorrow, but it should keep my potions and gear safe. How the hell is Edellein going to keep his magic from wearing out?
Chests of Holding getting recharged by [Mages]? Wasteful. But then again, only officers would have magical items.
This entire campaign was going to be a nightmare for logistics the further into the New Lands they went. In Drake territory, they could buy provisions or get resupplies, but in the New Lands, they’d need to ration carefully. Esor could probably handle that, but disasters in the supply chains would be a huge problem.
I’ve got to watch for toxins and other nastiness since no one else is going to do that. Maybe some of the Alchecorps…but they’re not going to have the same eyes I do. I assume they’ll test the water.
Damnit, I’d better test the water before any idiots make camp.
Right now, it felt like his role would be scouting in advance—it’d get him out of the way of Edellein and allow him to properly adventure while neutralizing problems. The issue? Saliss just….wasn’t feeling it.
There was a tingle you got in your tail that raced up your spine, a shivering on your scales when adventure called. It was the palpitating of your heart, the urge that dragged you forwards into the unknown. He…didn’t have it. Not for the New Lands. Not when the inn had contained a Goblin King and Saliss felt like he should be in Baleros, if anywhere.
I can’t believe I survived the Goblin King. There I was, watching Dragonlords fighting him and losing, and I could barely even survive. Too low-level. Me! Hah! I hate this era. I need more seith. Buckets of it. A chest’s worth of it and I might be able to blow a hole in Pallass’ walls.
One thing of note made Saliss turn his head as he passed by the landing zones where a few Wyverns were coming in. He saw a company of [Soldiers] was on escort duty, debriefing visitors and standing in the sun. The [Soldiers] looked hot in their armor despite it being spring; this was no rainy Liscor.
“Well now, that’s Captain Whatshisname. That old Gnoll really doesn’t like him.”
Saliss muttered to himself. A voice spoke up from behind him.
“General Rigrel’s sentiments appear to be shared by a number of Manus’ officers. My own squad was warned his unit is often passed over when commendations come around. Why, I could not say, Adventurer Saliss. But the [Soldiers] I spoke to claimed that Captain Lyssander, or Captain ‘Lyss’, is a good leader, if odd.”
Saliss didn’t jump because he’d noticed the Gnoll coming up from behind him. But when he turned, he did raise his brows.
“Well, you’re big.”
The Gnoll was six foot seven, and even as Gnolls went, he was a unit. His arm muscles bulged, and his stomach was taut under the leather armor he wore. Leather? He was no [Scout]. Saliss pointed at him.
“You’re one of them! Muscle-men! The muscle-men of Pallass! Flee for your lives, everyone!”
He threw up his hands and dashed away. Saliss covered a hundred feet in six seconds, rounded a corner…and the Gnoll was almost instantly behind him.
“Magus-Captain Yorm, Adventurer Saliss! I am indeed part of Sinew Magus Grimalkin’s Magical Corps. Spellarm Squad. I am not a specialist [Mage] myself, of course, though I have great interests in levelling the class. [Artifact Captain]. Level 12 [Mage].”
He had two wands at his belt and a short spear and buckler. Both enchanted. He was also annoyingly fast. Saliss began speed-walking away from him.
“Great! Nice to meet you! Tell Grimalkin I hope that thing with the thing works out. Goodbye!”
Captain Yorm kept pace.
“Would you be referring to the rumor of his assignation with Lady Pryde Ulta, sir? That is a controversial topic within Pallass’ army…but not among his students. I am, of course, in full support of the Magus as I am pleased to note you are.”
Dead gods, he even talks like Grimalkin. At least the poor Sinew Magus had support from his students. Saliss shrugged.
“Eh, kissing Humans isn’t the worst thing I’ve seen. Grimalkin’s got someone to love. Good for him. Muscular romance. Are you seeing any one?”
“Not in so many words, sir. But hope springs eternal.”
“Hah! Loser.”
After a moment, Saliss patted Captain Yorm on the arm.
“That was harsh. Sorry.”
“Not at all, sir. It’s a hazard of the occupation. Long deployments and being a higher rank means you have to be careful with that sort of thing. If I might ask…does a Named-rank adventurer find company that often?”
“Here and there. Here and there. I found a cute someone recently. But hey, that’s personal.”
Don’t mention Ishkr. Even if his heart leapt a bit in his chest. Saliss gave Yorm a big smile.
“…If I run across the entire camp, you’re going to follow me, aren’t you?”
“Yes, sir. General Edellein’s orders. I am to ensure you cause no trouble, which, respectfully, I doubt will be the case. But if you will permit me to follow along? Do not slow yourself on my account.”
Saliss was tempted to try to lose Yorm, but he had a sneaking suspicion that the Gnoll would catch up in time, and he’d probably enjoy the chase, the sick freaks that Grimalkin’s students were.
“Great. Edellein has a brain after all.”
“General Edellein, sir.”
And he was a military man. Yorm’s voice was disapproving, and Saliss shot him a fake smile.
“Are you part of 4th Army, Yorm?”
“1st Army now, sir, but yes. I have had the pleasure of serving under General Edellein’s command for six years; I was part of the 8th as a rookie for ten years before that until I was hand-picked for Magus Grimalkin’s training initiatives. I’m well familiar with the General’s forces if you had any questions.”
“I’m surprised he accepted any of Grimalkin’s students into the army. They were controversial, and most armies didn’t want his people. Let alone non-spellcasters.”
If Saliss recalled right, it was only after several of Grimalkin’s [Mages] had racked up very impressive battle records that the initiative had caught on. Yorm nodded as he strode along.
