“So you didn’t like him? Looks like his people don’t really care for you either. I can relate. People hate me for some reason, like Femar. I can never tell why.”
Lyssander grinned at Saliss before shaking his head.
“Me? I didn’t care for Comois’ attitude, but I think he just never liked me, personally. I tried to get to know him, but he couldn’t stand my guts. There was a year we were best friends, then—? It happens. I must be annoying to people.”
His smile turned rueful, and Saliss and Yorm exchanged another glance behind Lyssander’s back. Yorm’s brows rose, and he did a quick gesture to Saliss. The Drake tapped the side of his head repeatedly, shook his head, and pointed back. Yorm cleared his throat.
“Speaking honestly, Captain Lyssander—”
“Call me Lyss, Captain Yorm. All my friends do.”
“Very well, Lyss—you weren’t in charge with the debacle around General Edellein’s Wyverns flying in, were you? General Rigrel just blamed you for that. Is that—common in Manus?”
Lyssander hesitated. He glanced back at them and seemed to choose his words carefully.
“No…but the old Gnoll’s never liked my unit. We were attached to his fort; saw some action with monster nests, which is how I made [Captain]. I think we’re just too unconventional. Rigrel always tells me I’m too much of a nonconformist because of how I lead my command.”
“Oh, like retreating in battle? Very un-Drake-like.”
Saliss spoke, straight-faced, and Lyssander hesitated, rubbing at his neck-spines.
“You think so? We get taught in Manus that General Sserys’ famous line isn’t gospel. You have to perform tactical withdrawals, so why not practice it? History teaches us that we won a lot of victories by baiting opponents into an attack.”
The [Alchemist] shrugged, privately thinking that Lyssander had been paying attention in class and a lot of officers and even strategists had been sleeping when that line was delivered.
“Still un-Drake-like. Why, you remind me of Sserys, Captain Lyssander!”
The Drake blinked, and Yorm opened his mouth then shut it hurriedly.
“Sserys? I’ll take the compliment, Alchemist Saliss, but how?”
“Oh, he’d retreat all the time. Mercenary General that he was—I remember him. Don’t you, Yorm?”
“Erh, before my time, Alchemist.”
To his annoyance, Saliss realized that even Yorm was too young to remember Sserys as anything but the war-hero of the First Antinium War. He sighed loudly.
“Just…take it from me, okay? So, Rigrel hates your unit, Captain Lyss? Not the most popular bunch, are you?”
He nudged Lyssander a few times, grinning, and the [Captain] coughed, flushing.
“Well, among officers. Lots of the [Soldiers] get on just fine with my command. I know it’s me. It’s that I’m too pushy, I think? Too strident about my opinions? I can’t do the political dance with other officers. Ancestors know I try, but I just somehow put my foot in my mouth—”
He sighed, and this time, Yorm nudged Saliss. Saliss shook his head. The Gnoll jogged over and nudged Saliss harder; the counter-shove nearly tossed Yorm into a bush patch, so the Gnoll coughed.
“I, uh—I don’t notice anything objectionable, Captain Lyss. But then, Magus Grimalkin is also somewhat of a loose cannon. And Alchemist Saliss is as much a pariah.”
“Yep, no taste at all. Lyssander could be as rude as a Creler, and how would I know?”
Saliss remarked blandly. Yorm’s mouth worked a few seconds.
“Has…has anyone indicated what your objectionable trait might be, Lyss?”
They both stared at the Drake as he jogged along, frowning seriously. He scratched at his chin.
“Well…in Manus, you get all kinds of officers looking in on you. Even High Command! I remember Spearmaster Lulv himself wanted to see if I was actually a candidate for [Swordmaster] training. He kicked me and a bunch of poor sods up and down a mountain for two weeks and said I had good instincts and potential—that’s how I got put into the officer program to begin with. But he also said I need to ‘shut up more and think about what I say’. Which I’ve tried, but somehow General Rigrel has it out for me even when I’m not on duty.”
He heaved a huge sigh, and Yorm spread his arms. He made a thinking gesture as Saliss just stared at him, then thrust both hands at Lyss’ back with a pleading look for Saliss. The [Alchemist] relented and felt a sinking sensation in his stomach as he jogged forwards until he was next to Lyssander. He grinned hugely, but internally, he was thinking.
This can’t be what I think it is. If so, then this guy is rarer than Taletevirion. How the hell did Manus not beat it out of him? Could it be he doesn’t…know?
“Tell me about Comois, Captain Lyss. You said you two were best buds? How’d you fall out? Maybe it was a bad prank or something? Believe me, that’s how I ruin relationships. I can’t count how many Named-rankers I hate. Glasiaad, Zeter, Romuleus—no, wait, he’s dead; I killed him—lay it on me, a professional unpopular person!”
Lyssander hesitated, then shrugged, seeming genuinely uncomfortable and remorseful.
“I…I don’t know. At first, well, the first time he beat me in a single move, Comois was aloof—you’d know that if you ever met him. But he did say that I was the closest person to parrying his strike, so I got to talking, and he didn’t mind the compliments! We’d head off and spar and trade tips whenever we had the Officer Trials, which was actually monthly at some points. They really get you competitive with the other Walled Cities—and then one night we have a huge falling out. I said something wrong when we were out on the town, and we got into a brawl. After that, he tried to take me out every time we met.”
“Brawl? What about?”
Lyssander was staring into the distance as they ran towards that horizon where the New Lands began to rise upwards.
“Oh, something stupid. There was a Drake [Waitress] he was trying to impress in Manus, and he was freshening up, so I was giving him a hand. Then he got all upset and claimed I was getting too personal. Called me a Turnscale, so I punched him in the face.”
Lyssander grinned sadly at Saliss, and the [Alchemist] didn’t know what kind of face he was making.
“Imagine that! It was the most childish thing I’ve ever heard from him. Imagine being a…pervert like that. You’d think they were around every corner the way people toss that insult out.”
“I see.”
Saliss whispered. He stared at Lyssander so hard he felt like his eyes were burning.
“Ever met one?”
The young [Captain] gave Saliss the most puzzled of looks.
“What? No. Don’t they get tossed out of the city or something? Hey, is Turnscale actually a group? I thought it just meant, like, someone sick or off. Lulv asked me the same thing, and he didn’t believe I’d never met one.”
“Oh—you find some, now and then.”
That was all Saliss managed. Yorm was blinking far too rapidly, and Lyssander just jogged along, shaking his head.
“Well, that’s got nothing to do with me. I’ve been in the army since I was a kid. And I’m excited for the New Lands! It beats being on Rigrel’s bad side and quarreling with other officers. I’m glad I’ve met a few friendly faces in Pallass. Here’s to more, eh?”
He pumped a fist, and Saliss smiled at him until he couldn’t stand it any more and ran ahead, outspeeding both Yorm and Lyssander, to the latter’s delight. But Saliss had to run until he lost Lyssander. He felt like he’d be sick, otherwise.
This was not what he wanted. Not at all.
 
——
 
Now he saw it. It was so obvious. Put aside the fact that Mrsha had given him the first clue; Saliss was pretty sure he’d have picked up the rest within a day or two even without her help.
The way Lyssander seemed to be a pariah within his own army. The fact that no one had pulled him aside for a quick chat—and it sounded like even his superiors like Lulv had noticed. But Saliss could just imagine Lulv, who had the empathy of two nails lying on the ground, trying to figure this one out.
How did you tell this kid to knock it off when he didn’t know what he was doing? You could write him off easily as being just a friendly, attentive [Captain]. Or, if you paid attention—you might really hate what you saw, hence General Rigrel’s attitude.
It was also clear that much of Pallass’ army knew Lyssander, probably from Lieutenant Comois. Saliss could just imagine how that uptight [Lieutenant of Perfection] had reacted to the idea of Lyssander being a Turnscale.
And he doesn’t even know what a Turnscale is. Again, that wasn’t even that surprising. It was an insult. Someone calls you a Turnscale, you punch them. It all fit, and Saliss hated the jigsaw puzzle.
So he did the obvious thing: he avoided Lyssander. He didn’t want to deal with this. He didn’t need to deal with this. He just wanted to get to the New Lands, find seith, and go home.
Of course, Lyssander noticed when Saliss didn’t eat in the mess halls, appear during the evening training, or have time to join the Drake on the march. If he seemed crestfallen or if his company gave Saliss hostile glances—the [Alchemist] didn’t care.
Someone would tell Lyssander what was going on at some point, and what a—painful conversation that would be. Finding out you were something that your species hated. Realizing you had to hide it.
The irony was that Saliss just bet most of Lyssander’s company weren’t Turnscales. They just saw their commander as worth it, despite his proclivities…or they admired him as an officer more than they hated the Turnscale part. Yes, that would be why Manus kept him around; the City of War hated wasting talent. It was probably the only city where Lyssander could emerge, ironically.
Saliss roamed ahead rather than deal with Lyssander, and only Captain Yorm could even keep up with him, sometimes having to catch up as Saliss ran past everything. Towards the place he wanted to be:
The New Lands. But he couldn’t outpace the army he was attached to, and so Saliss had to endure, well, their stupidity. He hadn’t realized it would come to him. Normally, you didn’t bother the crazy Saliss of Lights unless you needed a potion or something exploded, but he hadn’t factored in the other thing that had happened:
The Goblin King.
 
——
 
Salazsar’s forces and Fissival’s caught up on the fifth day of marching as they were a literal stone’s throw away from the New Lands. Everyone was busy restructuring; the word was out.
“No magical items! If you have one, it goes in the Chests of Holding or else you lose it! Personal charms, trinkets, anything goes in the Chest of Holding! Get a receipt from the [Quartermasters] for your items! This is your last warning!”
A Garuda was flying above the [Soldiers] turning in their gear so they could be magically shielded as they entered the New Lands. It meant each army was going to lose a lot of their immediate combat potential; Pallass was hit second-worst of the lot.
“Not only will most of our [Mages] need to fuel up the Chests of Holding to protect our magic, but any magic-using group like Captain Yorm’s will be hamstrung! Our Alchecorps will store all their potions until we see combat. The [Strategists] tell me they’ll be able to fight in a battle…but we’ll need to distribute our magic before any major engagement.”
Edellein was grousing to General Rigrel, who was nodding with a similarly lemon-faced expression. Pallass hadn’t, as of yet, committed to any other Walled City for an alliance, but Edellein was certainly being hosted by each Walled City day and night.
The Gnollish [General] speared a bite of fish on one fork, glancing at Saliss, who had the honor of joining the [Generals]’ table for breakfast. Saliss was mostly interested in the better vittles and the discussion of what was going on.
He didn’t expect a question to come his way. But one of Manus’ senior officers, a Gnoll woman, leaned over the table.
“Adventurer Saliss. I hear you’ll be one of the first into the New Lands today. If I may…I never caught you at the mess hall, and I have a burning question to ask.”
Saliss swallowed his bite of food.
“No, I can’t cure whatever it is. Please talk to Alchemist Xif in Pallass.”
Everyone in earshot chuckled. So did the [Commander] and shook her head.
“No, though speaking of Pallass and, ah, Liscor…it’s on the news again, that strange city. Some Watch Captain. But I have to know. The incident a while back, where the moon—cracked?”
Everyone in earshot went silent, even the two [Generals]. Edellein shifted uncomfortably as the [Commander] looked around, then at Saliss.
“What went on at that inn? I know what we all saw on the scrying orb and in the skies.”
“That pink meteor.”
Someone murmured, but the Gnoll woman was focused on Saliss. She smiled with all her teeth in a friendly grin, for a Gnoll or Drake.
“What happened? They said it was the Goblin King, but you were there, [Alchemist]. There wasn’t much to see from the aerial view. We saw all kinds of incredible things, but you were on the ground, weren’t you?”
“Yep.”
Saliss didn’t quite know where she was going, but the [Commander] lowered her voice.
“So…what really went down there? Under the illusions? What was it really? Was it the Demons? They said there was a giant Harpy.”
The Named-rank adventurer blinked at the Gnoll [Commander], then he glanced around the table. Everyone from Edellein on down was gazing his way, and he turned to the [Major].
“It was the Goblin King. Same guy, different body. Second time’s no more pleasant than the first.”
She grinned, and he felt his tail twitch under the table.
“Come on, Alchemist. We’re all officers here. You can at least hint, can’t you?”
His face was perfectly straight, but internally, Saliss didn’t know what to say. Lean into the lie? Tell the truth?
Would you even believe me if I told you? Small wonder she was treating this like a coverup. He barely believed it, and he was there.
“It was the Goblin King, Commander. That’s all I can say.”
Carefully, Saliss drained his cup, and she sighed.
“Damn, that high-clearance, huh? I wish it was even a believable lie—one of our Wall Ladies got wrapped up in the fighting, Rafaema. But she just snarled at me when I asked.”
A fresh breadroll bounced off her head as she turned to reach for the water pitcher. The Gnoll’s head swung back around, and Saliss innocently took a drink of water. She reached for the pitcher, and he bounced the empty cup off her head.
“Alchemist!”
Edellein called out warningly as the [Commander] shot to her feet. She glowered.
“I’m just asking questions, Alchemist! If you won’t tell me the truth, don’t get annoyed at me for asking what everyone wants to know!”
