Saliss gave her a bright smile as he flipped a fork up and down. She snarled—
And blinked as the fork flashed past her ear. It took a tuft of hair with it and exited the command tent, punching through the fabric. The whistling sound it made had half the officers on their feet. They stared at Saliss as the Gnoll woman felt at her ear. The [Alchemist] just smiled at her.
“The Goblin King isn’t a funny guy. I’m a fun guy. When he charges, everything dies. Word to the wise if you live long enough to meet him. After all, I’ve met him once, at least. Or do you want to doubt that too?”
She said nothing, and her face turned uncertain. The tension at the tables mounted—until Saliss heard someone clear his throat.
“That will be all, Major. Don’t trouble our Named-rank adventurer. We must take him at his word, and I’m sure this is in the reports.”
“Yessir, General Rigrel!”
The Gnoll [Major] instantly stood and saluted Rigrel. Saliss kept his face blank as Edellein’s left eye twitched. Esor scribbled in the background, and all three were thinking the same thing.
That was low. Reprimanding his subordinate to score a point for Pallass? One look at the Gnoll woman’s blank face and Saliss would have reassessed how much loyalty he was getting from his officers, but Rigrel just went back to talking to Edellein after a moment. Had he lost touch or did he think he had to win over Edellein at all costs?
Saliss pushed himself back from his table carefully. He glanced around at the other officers and smiled.
“Well, this has been fun, but I think all this socializing with you army folk has left me dying to see the New Lands at once. Or meet the Goblin King a third time. Toodles!”
He waggled his claws at them and skipped out of the tent. And there pretty much went his goodwill with the officers as well. Between that and Glasiaad talking about Saliss behind his back, adventurers, officers, and regular [Soldiers] avoided Saliss like the plague.
As he reached the New Lands, Saliss got what he wanted. Isolation.
 
——
 
It even smelled different. Saliss stood, arms stretched, and just breathed in and out. Savoring the odd, slightly salty air and feeling the yellow grass under his toes.
The Eternal Grasslands of Archmage Kishkeria. The same grass that the [Soldiers] were marching over, complaining about how tough it was and tangling wagons, had been invented by the Gnollish [Archmage] of legends.
Even the grass was amazing. Saliss saw no one ahead of him for a moment. Just a flat stretch of land, unnaturally flat, rolling upwards until his eyes began to pick out oddities among the flatlands. Mushrooms, there, or something like them? A flatbed of brown….were those blue tufts in the air?
Even with a Potion of Eagle Eyes, there was so much to see. Saliss wiggled his toes in the grass again.
—Then the first [Battle Alchemist] inserted a shovel into the earth next to him, levered up a huge chunk, and shouted.
“Alchecorps, move up! All [Soldiers] stand back! Sampling teams, go!”
Saliss turned his head and lowered his spread arms. The [Battle Alchemist] stormed back over to a field laboratory where a team of [Alchemists] were waiting. One seized the first strand of grass and popped it into a vial where it began to dissolve.
“Magirite test—1.08!”
He noted that down on a chalkboard and a ledger, and another Drake came running over with another sample of grass.
“I want field samples of the grass at a thousand feet each, and we’ll cross-reference it with grass every ten miles!”
The [Battle Alchemist] in charge bellowed. Saliss saw more junior [Alchemists] running back.
“Sir, do we have nomenclature for the insect samples?”
“We do have a cross-reference with some notes from the Adventurer’s Guild, but label them numerically anyways. Remember, we don’t have Mage’s Picture, so get me a pinning of each for the samples. I want each component part dissected and run through a magirite test, then sent back for analysis! So that’s twenty samples minimum of each, understand?”
The young [Alchemist] had a yellow beetle in a jar; several, actually. He removed some as the [Battle Alchemist] exhorted him and efficiently pinned one through its squirming body. Then he dissected another and popped each part—wings, guts, abdomen—into vials.
“Magirite…1.01. Standard beetle.”
The Gnoll doing notations said with a disappointed sigh. Then he turned as someone ran over with a plant they’d ripped up by the roots. Saliss watched until he saw the [Alchemists] glancing at him.
“Something wrong with our methodology, Alchemist Saliss?”
The [Battle Alchemist] inquired, voice more respectful than most officers. Saliss forced a smile.
“Oh, no. Looks like you’re efficiently collecting samples according to Pallassian doctrine.”
He waved a weak hand as more [Alchemists] hacked up the landscape, ripping out every plant and bringing it back to be tested for magical power. It was a simple test, but often correlated to magical ingredients. The [Battle Alchemist] nodded.
“We’re going at this with a purely methodical, scientific approach, sir. If you have any notes or rare samples, please inform us so we can note the specimens for our [Scouts]. Which reminds me—get me a soil sample as well! I want to see this salinity content and compare against any other spots we visit! Also, tell those [Soldiers] not to eat anything they see until we get it tested for poison!”
More of the Alchecorps swarmed forwards, and Saliss saw them charging over the untouched landscape, excavating holes, and—he saw the first rodent, some long-nosed armadillo-like creature, vanish with a squeal. The [Alchemist] grabbed it, killed it with a twist to the neck, and got scolded for not dispatching it with a tool in case it released a toxin or exploded.
“Ah, well then…”
Saliss kicked a clod of dirt. His desire to do great alchemy faded away too.
 
——
 
There was nothing wrong with the way Pallass’ army-[Alchemists] operated. You wanted a methodical approach to cataloguing the New Lands where everything might be useful or valuable. But Saliss had to say that by the time the army itself moved into the New Lands, it seemed more like a warzone or excavation site, with the dirt churned up, and the army proceeded to stomp through everything else.
Armies generated a lot of trash and ripped up the landscape. Literally—the yellow grass was being pulled as kindling, and theirs were not the only groups that had reached the New Lands. Saliss was moving ahead of the army, and his first discovery, the area of brown land, was that it was a field of clams!
Or…had been. What he found were just empty clamshells by the thousand. One look and Saliss bet that every group who’d come ahead of him had harvested the clams, and now this area was devoid of life. He tossed some shells down and felt his scales tingling.
He had a magical lantern emitting a green glow by his hip. Every now and then, he’d have to add a magical gemstone to it, but the magical ‘field’ it generated would provide him with ambient mana. That was how he could stave off the mana drain of the New Lands—by paying a fortune.
However, it wasn’t so pleasant for other people. Indeed, Saliss heard a [Quartermaster] arguing with one of the [Mages].
“So no enchantments whatsoever?”
“None. We’re reserving all our mana to keep our Chests of Holding maintained. So no bug wards, no cooling or heating spells—find someone with Dragonbreath or a fire-making spell for the fires! If we have to, we’ll purify water, but that’s it. Talk to one of the officers if you want more.”
Already, the lack of magic was being felt by some of the [Soldiers] in small ways. Like, say, wagons.
Wagons had wheels. They were often enchanted to get more traction in the mud or to not break. And [Cooks] had charms to keep the bugs away from their food, or latrines a cantrip to avoid smelling so bad and, again, remove bugs.
All that was vanishing, and it added up. By the time Saliss had finished four hours of his own explorations—mainly moving ahead and occasionally digging up a plant or two or catching an animal to inspect—he returned to camp to realize another comfort was gone.
“There’s not enough water for washing until we hit a river or well! If you were assigned to latrine duty, you have a bucket!”
And the bucket was cold. Saliss got one by virtue of his rank, but sluicing off dirt from his scales with handfuls of water wasn’t exactly fun. He could have heated it up, of course, but he didn’t bother.
“Already done for the day, Adventurer Saliss?”
Edellein appeared disapproving as he oversaw the camp being set up. Saliss just grinned at him with energy he didn’t feel.
“Nope. Getting clean. There was some sap stuff I wasn’t sure about. How’s old Manus doing? Oteslia? Salazsar? Fissival? Zeres?”
The Supreme General grunted as he indicated columns of troops marching to their left and right.
“Fissival’s hanging back due to all their magical equipment. I don’t envy them—the other Walled Cities are moving up with us. Manus seems content to let us do all the researching. Oteslia’s somewhere over there—their [Druids] raised an objection to our [Alchemists]’ practices.”
He snorted.
“We’ll be moving slowly and have our [Scouts] identify areas for squadrons to investigate. Esor has a list of areas for you to explore, Saliss. Don’t go too far out of range, but I give you free rein to act so long as you bring results.”
“Oh, joy, General, sir. Trusting a Named-rank adventurer to be good at adventuring? What will High Command’s genius turn up next?”
The [General] scowled Saliss’ way, but the Drake was already gone. Saliss began jogging into the New Lands proper, and he realized he almost missed Captain Yorm following him. But here he was.
Joy.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights lay in the grass about eighteen miles north of where the armies were mustering. He stared up at the blue skies as blue tufts drifted overhead and didn’t move.
He was tired. There was something restful about being away from the army, of doing nothing at all and just being…alone.
If he sat up, the grass was so tall he could barely see over the tops of it. No one in any direction—yet. Soon, they’d come, tearing up the landscape, but for a moment, he just lay there.
After a while, a lizard crawled over him. It was black with reddish bands of scales over its body. It was fairly big too; as long as Saliss’ leg, though most of that was tail. It had a rather stubby head for a lizard and tried to bite Saliss’—
The Drake snatched the lizard away from his groin, and the thing went wild, spitting and hissing, and the red bands glowed. Saliss felt heat on his clawed hands and blinked.
“Oh, aren’t you cute? What are you, some kind of heat-lizard?”
The red bands were projecting some kind of localized magical effect. He could see the shimmering heat lines around the lizard, and when he tossed it down, it scampered into the grass. Saliss sat up and tracked the strange lizard around.
It seemed to be some kind of predator of insects and, perhaps, smaller rodents. When it wasn’t trying to nibble on his jewels, the lizard would creep around the grass, then activate the heatbands on its scaled body.
The level of heat it projected wasn’t enough to start a fire, but it could bake an insect, at which point the lizard would gobble it up. It also used the effect when cornering rodents; Saliss saw it blasting an area with heat. The long-tailed mouse in the burrow reacted to the heat and evacuated out another hole in its burrow—where the lizard was waiting to gobble it up.
What a strange creature. Saliss bet that its scales were naturally conductive, and there were probably sacs or other elements in its body that could generate a strong heating effect. Maybe nothing groundbreaking, but he imagined Pallass’ [Alchemists] would hack up hundreds of these lizards for cheap heating reagents.
The thought made Saliss gloomy. He sat as the creature with a full stomach he’d dubbed Heatband Lizard began to dig in the grass. It was halfway submerged when he heard the tromp of boots and realized the scouting elements had caught up to him.
Time to run another ten miles. Saliss began to pretend he was actually doing his job when he heard a soft voice.
“Tall grass, now. Fascinating. Everyone, halt. See that heat signature in the grass, there? There’s two lizards like we’ve been seeing. One small—and one very large one, I think?”
The accent was different from the ones Saliss knew of in Pallass or Manus. After a second, another voice replied.
“Oh! I can see the little lizard. It’s digging a hole for itself? So they don’t have nests.”
“They’re a very individualistic species, I feel. Those eggs we found were abandoned by their mother—deliberately, or so she said. Hot as [Fireballs] too. I wonder that they don’t burn the grass. Druid Lagister, that large lizard there—is it some kind of relative?”
“Hard to say. Let’s creep up on it. Slowly, now, watch out for—”
Saliss burst out of the grass as the Oteslian group of six softly moved towards him. He screamed.
“Aaaahblghegh!”
All six [Druids] yelled, and one pointed a staff at him. Saliss laughed as he dodged a [Stone Dart] spell.
“Alchemist Saliss, you scared us to death!”
A pale-faced [Scout] lowered a bow as the Drake leader clutched at his chest. The [Soldiers] glared—but then one of the two [Druids] laughed.
“Giant lizard indeed! I should have known we wouldn’t outpace a Named-rank. Good day to you, Alchemist. I am Druid Lagister, and this is Druid Sharteeth and our lead [Scout], Merwinkle.”
He bowed, and Saliss waved at him, smiling despite his bad mood.
“Hey, what are you doing so far from the camps? Aren’t we supposed to stick close to the army and all that?”
The [Druids] glanced at each other and shrugged.
“It’s only eighteen miles or so. We had to move ahead of the other Walled Cities’ forces. They’re causing such a ruckus that all the wildlife is fleeing ahead of them. If we’re in your way, we shall, of course, go.”
The [Scout] opened her mouth to object, but Saliss waved a claw.
“I’m just exploring like the rest of you. Why, do you have dibs on the lizards?”
He cast an eye on the lizard he’d been watching, which was now buried all the way in the ground. Druid Sharteeth, a young Gnoll with a sprig of berries tucked behind one ear, shook her head.
“No! That is, we’ve encouraged a dozen to join us already, but we’re leaving the rest alone. Though we might want to warn all of them to evacuate, Druid Lagister?”
