Then he hit the other Gnoll in the solar plexus, and the white-faced [Marine] dropped. Saliss turned and saw another huge Drake pick up a [Marine] and toss him like a toy. Then he heard someone shouting.
“Flamewardens, get them!”
Reinforcements? Saliss hadn’t expected them, but they were all here. The Wings of Pallass, Kin and Issa hurling mugs and tables down into the melee, the Flamewardens, bunched up and fighting like a squad—and Captain Yorm’s squad.
Only a handful compared to hundreds of angry [Marines] and more coming from outside, but when they saw Yorm get dogpiled by a bunch of [Sailors], that was enough.
Major Zifren leapt up from his table.
“They got Yorm! With me!”
He charged into the fight and tackled a [Mariner Lieutenant], and then it was a full brawl. Anyone who didn’t want a piece of it had to fight to get out of the tent, but more than one Walled City’s [Soldiers] decided it was a good day to hit someone. Then they ran into Saliss of Lights and reconsidered.
 
——
 
“How the hell is he doing that?”
Possibly, Shark Captain Femar had forgotten he himself had seen Saliss fighting outside of Oteslia. Or maybe he’d assumed the Drake had used potions then. Even the other [Generals] were staring. Even Edellein, who knew Saliss’ record, had forgotten the Drake could use a sword better than most of his people.
But they also just forgot that Saliss was a Named-rank adventurer. Did that mean nothing? He was over Level 50. Yet Mivifa, watching from the sidelines, thought…
He’s levelled again. He really has. That monster.
Even for them, he was one of the best. She could see his new levels, or so it felt. Or maybe it was his fighting edge that hadn’t dulled. He was piling up downed [Marines] in neat rows, since a pile might actually suffocate the ones at the bottom. The only people she’d seen even touch him were the highest-level officers, and the Drake went after them before they could muster a squad to surround him.
Of course, all the other [Generals] were trying to restore order. Except maybe Wall Lady Navine; she was just watching Saliss open-mouthed. It was Shark Captain Femar who grabbed his Relic-class spear.
“I’m stopping him! Out of the way!”
He would have charged straight at Saliss except for the shortsword that would have decapitated him if he took another step. Femar froze as Mivifa smiled at him.
“Shark Captain, the last thing we need is for this to go to blood. I insist you lower your weapon.”
“Drop your blade!”
He roared at her, but she had her sword at his throat. Green General Narrina barked.
“Femar, drop your spear! Adventurer Mivifa, that is the Shark Captain of Zeres!”
She was mostly just shouting it for effect. Femar lowered his spear and then snapped.
“Well, your sword?”
“Drop the spear.”
When he did, cursing, she kicked it at General Edellein, who had the sense to keep it away from Femar. Then she sheathed her sword and bowed to him. Femar made a fist as he growled—then felt a wetness on his shoulder. He turned and came nose-to-nose with Feathi.
The Pegasus intimated, mostly by eye-contact and a lot of teeth, that if Femar wanted to throw down with both her and Mivifa, he could. The Shark Captain hesitated.
“But someone has to end this fighting!”
He roared, and on that they could all agree. But who—? Mivifa spun as there was the loudest crash yet, then relaxed.
“Ah, of course.”
She smiled a second too early. Then Deyssdra the Spectacular shouted.
“Saliss, enough!”
He threw two handfuls of razor-edged cards at Saliss, and the [Alchemist] spun.
 
——
 
When it came to throwing expertise, Deyssdra was the only adventurer on Izril that made Saliss sweat. The razor-edged cards were metal too. Saliss, swearing, caught the shower with the only thing that would stop it: a dozen glowing vials hit the cards, and they lodged in the glass or showered to the ground.
“In the name of Salazsar, I will stop you now!”
The [Magician] threw another shower of cards, and Saliss caught them this time, flicking them back at the [Magician] one after another. Only, he added a trick: each one was now on fire. The [Magician] swung his cape around, and the projectiles vanished into it.
The sudden showdown between the two Named-ranks caused a lull in the fighting; even the angry [Soldiers] were prescient enough to realize they didn’t want to get in the way of so many edged weapons. Deyssdra paused, then flipped something up.
“Catch.”
He hurled a literal ball and chain at Saliss, and the spiked ball smashed through a table as Saliss leapt the first one. He caught the second as it hit his stomach, swirled around, and tossed it back.
“Right back at you, Deyss! And have this for good measure!”
Saliss hurled three chairs after the ball and chain at such speed that they seemed to almost appear in the [Magician]’s hands. The Gnoll’s teeth were bared as he stacked them up—then Saliss uncorked a vial.
“Nice. Now show me a Lightning Thief. Here’s mud in your eye.”
He threw a ball of flames across the room, and everyone dove out of the way as Deyss’ eyes widened. How he caught it, no one could see, but the Gnoll was juggling a hand-sized orb of fire from one paw to another.
“Two can play at that game.”
He pulled a second glowing ball of crackling lightning from a belt pouch and hurled the bolt of lightning at Saliss. The Drake’s thrown glass jar contained the lightning a foot from his face, and the ball of flames landed in another jar. Saliss juggled the two jars, swearing, and then added a third to the mix. This one was glowing with what looked like a firestorm of purple and yellow.
The [Magician] caught the firestorm bottle with both paws in a flying leap as it shot towards him. He fielded the other two jars, barely, and then reached for his belt pouch.
“If that’s how it’s going to be…”
The air was crackling with force, and Saliss was pulling vials out of his bag of holding with a terrifying grin when Wall Lady Navine screamed.
“Enough!”
Both Saliss and Deyss hesitated, on the verge of throwing, and the Wall Lady shouted.
“Two Named-ranks will not fight! I will not have casualties between Walled Cities on the first days of entering the New Lands! Adventurer Deyssdra, Adventurer Saliss, stand down! That is an order!”
The two Named-ranks paused as everyone, fighting [Soldiers], adventurers, all held their breaths. Everyone had the same thought.
If those two actually start trying to kill each other, am I in the blast radius?
After a long, long second, Saliss put away his vials and held up his hands. He grinned, blood trickling from one corner of his mouth.
“Alright, I guess the New Lands doesn’t need a new crater in it. What about you, Deyss?”
“Perish the thought.”
The Gnoll chucked the lightning bottle back at Saliss and swept his cloak around.
“What a mess. Assistant! Show’s over.”
A huge sigh of relief filled the room, and only then did the brawlers hear the officers shouting.
“Blades down! Down, you idiots! Separate and back it off! No more fights or I’ll have the lot of you in the stockades!”
“That’s right, hands down or I’ll keelhaul the lot of ya!”
Wounded men and women separated, swearing or searching for their friends. Only then did Saliss walk over and pick someone up.
“There you are, kid. Smarter than you look.”
Lyssander and his company hadn’t leapt back in the fighting once Saliss had rescued them, but rather cunningly, played dead. Then again, Captain Lyssander and his crew looked pretty beat up. But he stared at Saliss as the Named-rank offered him a hand.
“Let’s see. You’re going to need a bone-fixing tonic here, here, and, eh, just drink this.”
He flipped a vial onto Lyssander’s chest and then began to triage the most badly-hurt members of his company. Lyssander just stared at Saliss’ back until the [Alchemist] turned.
Saliss pretended he didn’t see Lyssander wiping at his eyes. The Drake turned towards a broken mug.
“Kids these days.”
There was no Onieva gazing back at him. But that was alright. She was wearing a bloody, but relieved smile. Even if there were consequences.
 
——
 
Saliss was still braced for the consequences the next day when he went to check on Captain Lyssander. He kept poking Esor about it.
“So what is it? Public lashing? Beaten with sticks? Writing ‘I’m sorry I’m a disgrace to Pallass’ a hundred times on a blackboard?”
The [Strategist] hissed back at Saliss as they marched into Manus’ camp.
“I told you, there aren’t any! And a bit of gratitude wouldn’t go amiss, Saliss!”
The Drake didn’t buy it.
“Don’t give me that. I put half the [Marines] in that tent into the [Healers]’ care.”
“Yes, and I told General Edellein that given your…public statements on your cousin, it was the most expected thing to happen. Besides which, I don’t think he minds reminding the other Walled Cities who won that encounter.”
Saliss blinked. No, but there were always consequences. Especially for standing up for Turnscales.
“Edellein’s not that forgiving. He’ll make an example. Who is it?”
Esor rubbed at his forehead.
“Technically, I believe he would be inclined to censure Captain Yorm for his failures, and General Rigrel would certainly love to blame Captain Lyssander for this mess.”
“Aha!”
“—But that isn’t going to happen. You may thank Adventurer Mivifa and Green General Narrina for putting pressure on the two of them, but mostly, it’s Wall Lady Navine’s initiative that will complicate any vengeful opinions from the two of them.”
“Wall Lady who now? Salazsar’s commander? Why?”
Esor wore a slightly pleased smile.
“She suggested it, quite stridently. In light of the clear hostilities between our armies, her proposal was to do as they do in the Blighted Kingdom.”
“War crimes?”
Esor scowled.
“Form a joint army! She’s agreed to take charge of Commander Lyssander’s forces and Captain Yorm’s squad, and we’re forming special task forces who will pursue more far-flung objectives together. It’s the beginning of a true alliance. Very well done by her.”
It was smart. And Saliss didn’t believe it.
She wants Lyssander’s company? After he got attacked for being a Turnscale? There’s no way—
The vaguest hint of suspicion crossed his mind, and he shut up as Esor glared at him.
“You need to produce results, Saliss, and stay away from the camp. I’m putting you on scouting duty with the other adventuring teams. Tell me what you need, and I’ll get it. But consider yourself moving up to the forward bases as soon as you finish here.”
Saliss said nothing. For once, he held his tongue until Esor flew off, and then he turned into Manus’ camp. A lot of [Soldiers] eyed him, but Saliss just waved at them and shooed them like they were chickens until he got to a section of camp with a lot of [Soldiers] laying abed.
They’d heal fast enough with bone growth tonics. Healing potions might be out, but he had enough supplies for that. It didn’t surprise Saliss either when he saw two adventurers hanging out, talking quietly.
Mivifa and Deyssdra glanced up when they saw him, and she waved.
“Saliss, you’re annoyingly healthy. Everyone else is limping around—you didn’t even need a healing potion, did you?”
“For a little brawl with Zeres? Psh. Deyss, what’s up?”
Saliss actually managed a smile for the Gnoll [Magician]; Deyss seemed slightly stressed, but he nodded at Saliss.
“I, ah, wanted a word. Mivifa, would you mind…?”
“Not at all. I need to start flying soon anyways. Saliss—”
Mivifa tilted her head and stared at the sky as he gazed at her. She shrugged.
“Good job. You’re looking more cheerful. Try not to break any more heads while I’m gone.”
Then she leapt into the skies. Up, up, and away…there was something about how she flew that made Saliss and Deyss watch her for a while.
“Damn, I hate being around her. She makes us look bad.”
Saliss commented, and Deyss sniffed.
“She makes everyone look bad. Name me a Named-rank who’s more popular than her.”
“Lehra?”
“Hah. Lehra’s only popular before you meet her. She doesn’t inspire.”
They fell awkwardly silent, and Deyss fiddled with his top hat again. He smoothed his stupid mustache.
“I think you’d better handle it. I was going to, but he’ll listen to you.”
“Oh, you trust me now?”
The Gnoll pulled a face.
“I never stopped trusting—Mirn would do it better. But he’s not here, and you…I’m surprised they haven’t strung us all up.”
Saliss smiled crookedly and nodded.
“Me too. But you covered the ending well. What were you reaching for?”
“A magical ball of yarn. What was in the firestorm jar?”
“Oh, that’s just a fancy light effect. It makes this high-pitched humming sound that sounds like [Dangersense].”
The two chuckled about that. Deyss rubbed at his head again, then shot Saliss a glance.
“Navine is…sympathetic. I don’t want to say an ally. But I had this sense—”
“You and your senses. Really? Her?”
Saliss was surprised, but not. When Esor had said the Wall Lady had pulled for them…how many of them were there in this army? The [Magician] shrugged.
“She couldn’t have done it alone. That Captain Yorm fellow spoke up for you, I heard.”
“Well, he’s Grimalkin’s student. Principled. It’s not me, especially.”
“Oh, of course. And Keldrass’ Flamewardens? He has a lot of weight, and he used it.”
Deyss gave Saliss a meaningful glance at the Drake kicked at his leg rather than reply.
“I don’t have time for you, Deyss. Move it. I’ve got a stupid damn conversation to have…you’re going to be listening in, aren’t you?”
The Named-rank Gnoll huffily drew himself up.
“Just so you don’t mess it up. And…just so you know, the kids are doing splendidly. There’s a fine city where everyone is more relaxed than Salazsar. And they put the rest down to them being [Apprentice Magicians].”
Saliss paused by the tent flap.
“Good. I’ve got a weirdo kid myself. Highly annoying. You’ll have to meet her. Human.”
Deyss’ ears perked up.
“Would this be one of the mysterious Humans I’m supposed to look out for, even in the New Lands?”
Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Deyss, you are so far behind…talk to me later. Oh, and one more thing!”
He spun around and poked the Gnoll in the chest.
“I’ve been in a relationship for months now. Steady. And supportive.”
Deyss slowed.
“Wait, you told—someone from the community?”
“Nope.”
“And they know…? Months, you said?”
The Gnoll seemed envious as Saliss brushed his neck spines.
“That’s right.”
“I hate you.”
“Mwah.”
