Thank goodness for [Disable Friendly Fire]. It came in real handy in moments like these, when standing in the epicenter of an explosion was, in fact, the safest place to be.
He had the satisfaction of hearing surprised screams and shouts—[Blastproof Hearing] was a Skill he’d gotten when he was Level 11, thankfully. Old Xif was more than a little deaf at his age from all the bangs of things going off.
Saliss twisted around in the air, prepared to land fairly hard, but knowing he’d survive the impact. Now, aside from that cloud of smoke, what kind of damage…
He caught sight of the ice wall and swore mildly. It was still standing! But there were huge cracks running along it; it had shattered like glass, but only a few places had pieces missing.
Dead gods, what the hell kind of bird is that? Super-monsters indeed! This is definitely a Named-rank threat and—
“Got you!”
Bevussa caught Saliss in midair. He was so shocked he nearly punched her before he realized she was slowing his descent. Saliss came down and blinked.
“Er, thanks, Captain. Good flying.”
“You learn to catch rookies in the flight wings. Nice explosion, Alchemist! Though that wall’s tough as mithril!”
“Not quite, but I really thought I’d have a hole. Oh well.”
Saliss strode forwards in the refreshing silence and took a look at the wall. General Edellein was shaking his head.
“You’ve cracked it, Alchemist. Alright, let’s get some rams and—”
The [Alchemist] pulled a vial, uncorked it with one thumb, and tossed it.
Potion of Blast—his recipe. [Flask: Directional Force] meant it didn’t blow backwards onto his audience. This time, the shockwave illuminated Saliss’ body as he turned.
“No wall beats me.”
A piece of ice twice as large as Edellein’s tent slid to the ground with a crash. More pieces showered away from the camp. To his credit, the Supreme General barely flinched. Saliss juggled six vials. He grinned.
“Stand back! You soldiers can haul the pieces away once I’m done with them.”
He grinned at the cheers; [Soldiers] loved a spectacle. Even Edellein smiled as he gave Saliss an indulgent wave before leaning over to ask Esor how much six of Saliss’ potions cost.
The Drake flicked the potions up, calculating six spots along the wall to hit. He had perfect aim; synchronizing the throws to land at the same time and blast the right way took a bit more effort, but the wall was already broken inwards from his first Potion of Blast. Six more would give them the holes they wanted.
Saliss flicked his claw out as he spun, and he—missed—his grab for the Potion of Blast. And the other six. He started.
He never missed—Saliss grabbed one of the falling vials and blinked. Something was embedding in the enchanted glass of each one, and it had thrown their trajectory off. A…
Playing card? Saliss blinked at it in shock as Edellein turned. Then he cursed.
“Oh no, not—”
This time it wasn’t his explosion. Nor was the shower of confetti his. Saliss saw a figure leaping into a cloud of smoke, and then he was right there. That preening popinjay wearing a ringmaster’s coat in red, cards falling from his fingers. And the mustache.
What kind of Gnoll had a mustache?
“[Soldiers] of the Walled Cities, I hear you have a little ice problem! Not to fear, I’m here! Who needs a little potion when you’ve got magic?”
The voice boomed and rolled over the audience, and they gasped as the smoke cleared and he swept a bow. Saliss’ smile vanished.
“Deyss.”
“That’s—the Magician?”
Edellein coughed, and the Gnoll boomed.
“Deyssdra the Spectacular! And now, for my first trick—making this ice wall vanish! Thank you, Adventurer Saliss, for the warmup!”
He spun, and Saliss saw a young Drake in a helper’s flashy uniform run up. A female Drake wearing makeup—Deyss always had an assistant. The Named-rank grinned. Then his apprentice tossed up a bag of holding.
“Nothing up my sleeves—”
“I did that already! Deyss, you hack! Go back home to Salazsar!”
Saliss shouted, and the [Magician] winked at him. Then he shrugged and flipped the Bag of Holding at the wall. He threw it deceptively slow—only the highest-level people probably saw the bag of holding release its payload at around a hundred miles per hour. A baseball ace’s pitch combined with, oh…
A bag of holding that could hold four hundred pounds of weight.
That idiot had even formed the piece of lead into a fist and painted it gold. The boom made everyone around Saliss flinch. He just glared as the wall splintered inwards. The section of the wall vanished and chunks of ice showered onto the grass. Deyss took a bow to the cheers. The golden fist vanished as he waved his hands, and a handkerchief floated down where it had been.
“That was just a warmup. Now, how about a fireball? I’m sure I have one—”
He produced a match, lit it, and then swallowed the flame. His cheeks puffed out, and he blew an oversized [Fireball] straight at the wall of ice. Everyone gasped, but the [Fireball] vanished before it could hit the wall of ice. Instead, a glass jar dinked off the ice. Deyssdra recoiled, then turned.
“Oops. Did I do that?”
Saliss of Lights polished his claws on his side. He flipped a Potion of Blast up.
“Sorry, Deyss. I was just blowing this wall up. Like so—”
His potion hit the wall, and the explosion kicked several tents near it skywards. Deyssdra the Spectacular laughed.
“Saliss! The second-most entertaining Named-rank in the Walled Cities!”
Saliss mimicked Deyss, spreading his arms in a mock greeting.
“You know, I always thought Tessa was the most entertaining Named-rank in Salazsar, it’s true. Why don’t you go do some card tricks, Deyss? Is that a new apprentice? What happened to the last one? Fall into another magic hat?”
The Gnoll’s teeth ground together, and he chuckled.
“Okay. So you think you know how to make things disappear? You’ve got no elegance, Saliss, no showmanship. No class.”
He blew his nose into a handkerchief and tossed it over one shoulder. The falling sword cracked the wall of ice. Saliss tossed another vial.
“I make things go boom.”
To his annoyance, the Gnoll performed a flying dive off his impromptu stage. He caught the vial and whirled.
“That’s you and vials. How about a hand of cards?”
He threw a flurry of them, and Saliss saw a dozen throwing cards hit the wall of ice, stick in the ice, and glow. This time, the explosions knocked more pieces of ice down, and Saliss rolled his eyes.
That’s just showy. I can blow a bigger piece out, and he knows it. But Deyssdra was playing to his audience.
“Oho. A single hand not good enough? What about the full deck?”
He spread two huge hands of cards and tossed them at the walls. A pop of air; Saliss innocently closed his Jar of Air as the vortex blew the cards into the air where they rained down. The [Magician] turned.
“Saliss, come on—”
Mivifa began, but he glared at her, and she remembered that he and Deyss didn’t get on. The show-off from Salazsar coughed into one fist.
“Assistant? Let’s give Saliss a hand.”
She tossed up another bag of holding, and Saliss flicked up a glowing vial, waiting for Deyss to try to hit it with his throwing cards. His aim was spectacular. The Gnoll grinned as he juggled a bowling pin, a trio of cards, the bag of holding, and a cup into the air. Every head swung from Saliss of Lights to Deyssdra the Spectacular.
The two Named-rank adventurers lifted a hand to throw—and the wall of flames blasted past them and hit the ice wall like the crashing of crackling waves. Saliss blinked; Deyssdra spun and nearly dropped the bag of holding. They turned.
“Huh?”
A band of eight Drakes exhaled again, and the combined wave of Dragonbreath washed over the ice wall, melting and breaking apart the weakened ice. The multi-colored flames burned strongest with blue flames; the same color as the flames wreathing the leader’s armor.
The Heartflame Breastplate burned on Captain Keldrass’ chest as his team, the Flamewardens, burned a groove into the ice wall. Then there was a crash of ice as a section of wall fell in.
“Flamewardens—pause!”
Keldrass held up a fist, and his team stopped breathing as another section of wall collapsed, water steaming upwards and pooling on the ground.
Saliss saw the Drake nod and then call out.
“[Mark Target]—that breach! Inhale, breathe!”
His team burned another weakened section of the wall as someone, Major Zifren, gasped.
“The Heartflame Breastplate! The Flamewardens!”
Then everyone was crowding around to see the famed Relic, and one of Saliss’ potions bounced off his foot. He picked it up and dusted it off as Deyssdra the Spectacular lowered his paws. The Gold-rank team continued breathing until General Edellein stormed over, beaming. Then Captain Keldrass was blinking around in the confusion.
“Well, I heard there was an obstruction, so I had my team double-time to the spot. I saw we were breaking it down and—”
Saliss heard no more in the excitement. The Named-rank [Alchemist] folded his arms. He glared at Deyssdra as the Gnoll ruefully adjusted his tophat. Saliss kicked at a piece of ice on the ground.
“Showoffs.”
 
——
 
Salazsar’s Named-rank had arrived along with their leadership. The fanciful [Magician]—and he was a [Magician], not a [Mage], a very important distinction—was Salazsar’s famous champion. Beloved in the expensive City of Gems as an entertainer.
Saliss preferred Tessa, who was realer for all her problems. He preferred a lot of adventurers over Deyss, in fact, and glowered the entire time Salazsar’s commander was introducing herself.
“It took us a while to re-order our [Soldiers], General Edellein. Without magic, the Gem Regiments are badly handicapped, but I’ve taken the liberty of bringing a number of specialists for this expedition. Adventurer Deyssdra is evidence of the City of Gem’s commitment to this effort, and I have a letter from the Wall Ladies and Lords of Salazsar congratulating you on your rank.”
“Wonderful, Wall Lady…?”
“Navine Gemscale.”
Saliss vaguely recognized the name, but the purple scales were a dead giveaway. He raised his brows as she glanced around the warcamp. Now here was someone who didn’t lead armies, but fit with Salazsar’s mentality. A corporate leader—he wondered how inept she might be.
However, he was mostly just glaring at the Gnoll who gave Edellein a handshake—his hand came away, and the [General] nearly dropped the fake hand before laughing. Deyssdra winked at him.
“And I hope to provide some levity for our hard-working [Soldiers], General! I put on performances nightly—with permission, of course! When I heard about the New Lands, I had to stop touring and go back to my roots!”
“This is a delight, Adventurer Deyssdra! I’m certain the troops will appreciate your presence, as do I! I’ve always wanted to see one of your shows—and of course, let me introduce my command and Saliss of Lights, whom I believe you know?”
Navine Gemscale did a double-take when she saw Saliss’ naked form, but she shook his hand, trying to pretend she wasn’t rattled. Saliss turned as the Gnoll beamed.
“Ah, Saliss, once again, a pleasure for us old dogs, eh?”
“Hey, Deyss. How’re the kids?”
Saliss’ voice was flat, but the Gnoll ignored that, twiddling his mustache and beaming around his audience. Which was everyone at all times.
“Is that Mivifa I saw back there? A delight, a delight to be among such fine Named-ranks. Will any more be coming?”
“None with the Walled Cities, I think. Maybe from Fissival? But they haven’t said. Four Named-ranks should account for most threats.”
Edellein rubbed his claws together, and Deyssdra threw him another low bow.
“One can only hope, General! With your permission, I shall set up my camp—my assistant, Neys, may have a few questions about resources and whatnot. But rest assured, I shall be performing in your mess halls tonight!”
“Sawing people in half, asking which card he’s holding up, and making rabbits disappear into his hat.”
Saliss muttered as the Gnoll strode out of the tent. Esor blinked at him.
“I thought you would get along well with Adventurer Deyssdra, Saliss. He’s certainly as, uh, flamboyant as you.”
“Me?”
The [Alchemist] pointed at his chest, outraged. He glared at Esor.
“I make things go boom. Deyss sprinkles glitter everywhere and does some fancy sleight of hand. We’re nothing alike.”
“But you’re both showoffs, I mean, er—”
Esor realized he was putting his foot in it as Saliss’ glower intensified. The Drake stuck a finger up as he leaned closer to Esor.
“We’re nothing alike. And I throw better than he does!”
He stomped off, and Navine Gemscale blinked at Saliss’ back.
“I thought that Saliss of Lights was supposed to be a humorous adventurer. Full of pranks. Adventurer Deyssdra was complimentary enough about him on the way here!”
Edellein shook his head as he indicated the war tent.
“I’m afraid he’s moodier than one would think, Wall Lady. But you learn to deal with adventurers in a command setting. May I offer you refreshments? How, exactly, is Salazsar? I heard about the Last Defenders of the Wall, and I must say, the memories that brought back…”
 
——
 
The Flamewardens of Pallass were so popular that Saliss didn’t even see them as he kicked around camp. He was still kicking over tent pegs and glowering at a few camp-dogs from Manus when Mivifa found him.
“There you are. Saliss, come greet the other adventurers from Salazsar and those Flamewardens. Stop sulking. You got to blow up most of the wall!”
“I’m not sulking, your face is sulking.”
He glared at the ground, and she exhaled hard.
“I don’t know why you and Deyss hate each other’s guts so much. You used to be inseparable!”
“I don’t hate him. Feathi hates him.”
She raised a fist.
“If you don’t stop throwing a tantrum, I will hit you. This is what he’s like, Bevussa. Don’t let the act fool you; every Named-rank is a child deep down.”
His head snapped up; he hadn’t realized Mivifa had company! Captain Bevussa hid a smile as she flew down. Saliss glowered at Mivifa. She gave him a ‘you did this to yourself’ glower.
“I’ve heard of Deyssdra the Spectacular, but even when I flew to Salazsar, I only heard he was on tour.”
“He visits lots of cities with his act. He’s more stage magician than Named-rank.”
Mivifa swatted at Saliss.
