General Edellein’s entry into the rendezvous point went badly. The flight of Wyverns broke as more [Light Arrows] flew past them; tiny spells, but still enough to make the Wyverns dive and dodge in dizzying displays that caused the untrained [Soldiers] to puke their guts out and cling on for dear life.
Why were they under attack? The answer came after six more seconds of stomach-lurching midair acrobatics.
“Incoming Wyvern flight, you are entering into Manus’ airspace without identification codes! Halt immediately or you will be fired upon!”
“Manus.”
Saliss muttered and heard an explosion of rage from Edellein’s speaking stone. Typical. Even if they could see Pallass’ Wyverns and knew exactly who was coming, the City of War was throwing its tail around.
To be fair, this kind of thing might have happened even with Chaldion in charge; Saliss could just imagine the old man shouting curses over the command line. Edellein did much the same, roaring into the speaking stone.
“This is General Edellein of Pallass’ 1st Army! Do you think we’re a pack of wild Wyverns or rogue giant seagulls? Your warning shots have my entire command in disarray!”
Silence, then a distinctly obdurate tone.
“Wyvern flight, please transmit identification codes.”
I guess we know who wants to pretend they’re in charge of this one. Or maybe it was just classic Drake pettiness, stubbornness, and love of bureaucracy. Saliss rolled his eyes as Esor took over, transmitting a string of codewords, and Saliss saw the Wyverns reforming.
They were right overhead the anti-air group, which was tracking them with a portable ballista and several [Battlemages]. As his Wyvern flapped its wings, uttering protests at its strained muscles, Saliss drew alongside General Edellein. The Drake was incandescent.
“Those damn—this is unacceptable! We nearly lost one of our people when our Wyverns dove! Esor had to grab them midair!”
One of the younger [Strategists] was visibly shaking. Saliss eyed the broken straps; even with a good saddle, that was an all-too-common occurrence in the sky. He said nothing since Edellein had a right to his pique for once…until the [General] addressed him.
“Saliss! I want you to dislodge those idiots down below! Pallass won’t stand for this affront!”
The Drake’s head turned incredulously.
“You want me to deal with Manus’ forces?”
“Yes, are you deaf? Oteslia’s sending in their fliers as well—clear them out!”
Edellein barked back. Saliss just stared at him, then smiled tightly.
“If you’re sure.”
“Of course I’m sure. I’ll pay your damn bills—you’re on retainer; go!”
Esor twisted around in his seat with an expression of alarm.
“General Edellein, did you just—Saliss, no! That’s an order!”
But it was too late. Saliss had already thought about it, and he unbuckled his belt with a huge smile. The Gnoll [Soldier] behind him gave Saliss a look of pure horror and incredulity as the Drake stood up on the Wyvern’s back, untethered. Even the rest of Edellein’s command seemed shocked. Saliss just flicked the stomach-tonic at the Gnoll behind him.
“Yes sir, General Edellein! You might want to steady your stomach after all, kid. You’re going to need to swing that sword today.”
He took two steps forwards, met Edellein’s eyes as the [General] blinked—and then dove over the edge of the Wyvern’s back. Straight down, headfirst. Saliss gazed down at the tiny group of Manus’ anti-air forces below him.
Even as the wind began to howl in his earholes, he could hear Esor shrieking behind him.
 
——-
 
“Call him off!”
Esor dropped his speaking stone, leapt across the Wyvern’s back, and grabbed Edellein. He shook the Drake so hard that Edellein seized the pommel of the saddle for support.
“What? Have you gone mad, Esor? Unhand me! You do not give orders in—”
“You idiot, you’re about to start a war with Manus! Call Saliss off before he wipes them out!”
The Garuda’s shriek was almost like a bird’s, and the note of true terror froze Edellein.
“What? Don’t be mad, I told him to—”
He glanced down and saw the tiny shape of the plummeting Drake heading straight towards Manus’ forces. Which even Edellein had to admit was quite amazing to see. Saliss did deserve his Named-rank status. It was refreshingly…direct? Saliss normally never obeyed any order.
Except they were on campaign. Edellein remembered a story about one of only two times Saliss of Lights had ever gone to war. Esor’s voice had gone from a shrill to a piercing whisper.
“[Rapid Conversation]. Listen to me, General Edellein. Whatever you think you ordered, that is not the Saliss you know as a civilian. When you tell him to clear out a foreign force, he will do it. The moment he hits ground, every Drake and Gnoll below us will be dead. Call him off or this entire meeting point is going to turn into a warzone.”
Edellein met Esor’s gaze, and part of him expected the Garuda to burst into a grin and say it was a joke. Then he gazed down and fumbled for his speaking stone. Below him, he heard the same annoying operator’s voice speaking.
“Ah, Pallassian flight? We have full [Dangersense] alerts going off in our Air Denial force. Is there a monster in the area? Pallass?”
 
——
 
Saliss was maybe eighty feet from the ground, and he could see the Manus force below him now very clearly. They were taking cover, glancing right, left, and up at him as their [Dangersenses] went off. Even shielding themselves behind barrier spells, which was a good, sensible call.
Explosions tended not to care about barriers after they’d ripped them apart. The Drake was grinning, and he was dropping with annihilation in clawed hand.
The thing about [Dangersense] was that it worked on, well, real things. Sometimes, it just told you someone dangerous was in front of you and not to mouth off, but mostly, it based itself on real and present threats.
So yes, Saliss was thinking that it would be a quick way to rid Pallass of an incompetent [General]. The only cost was, what, a hundred or more [Soldiers] of Manus? In the grand scheme of things, that was cheap.
Sadly—he wasn’t that resolved, and he’d given Edellein enough time.
“Saliss, abort, abort! Do not engage—”
The Drake sighed. He should have thrown the vials. Then it would be too late…well, no. He could have used [Disable Friendly Fire] even at the last moment, which he did know, so he hadn’t thrown the vials. Waste of good alchemy that.
Fourteen feet—they were diving out of the way of—
Saliss crunched the Featherform Tonic in his mouth, activated the Airblast Potion on his chest, felt the kick of air blast him, and hit the ground. It still hurt even with his precautions, but it didn’t turn his bones to dust.
The explosion of dirt blew upwards, and Saliss heard cries, saw figures stumbling back, shielding their faces as they aimed weapons at him. Blind or not, Manus didn’t train you to drop your blades. He was already on his feet, dusting himself off.
“Intruder! Drop your—”
Saliss popped a Potion of Invisibility, drank just a sip, and then touched the speaking stone hanging next to his earhole as Edellein screamed at him.
“Saliss, Saliss!”
“Hey, General! First you tell me to kill everyone, then the next moment you don’t want that? I can never tell with you military types…alright, no one’s dead. Close thing, too; I was just about to explode them! I’m walking out of their formations. Tell them to calm down, would you?”
He strolled out of the camp as Drakes and Gnolls ran around trying to find him and flicked open a notepad.
Let’s see. So that was one Airblast Potion, a Potion of Featherbody, one Potion of Invisibility—he had to charge the full potion even if he only took a swig; that was just standard business practice for [Battle Alchemists]—and a combat drop…
Saliss did a quick sum, underlined the figure, and sent a [Message] to 1st Army’s [Quartermaster] with a note reminding them that he expected to be paid at the end of each week, not whatever pay cycle they had for [Soldiers]. My oh my, that was an expensive way to intimidate Manus, but who was he to question Edellein’s orders?
Saliss waved at the Wyverns as they landed, and he caught a distinctly disheveled Esor glaring daggers at him as he flew down.
“Just following orders, sir.”
The Named-rank saluted Esor as Edellein’s people gave him wide-eyed stares. The [General] himself appeared apoplectic, but there was an element of worry behind his eyes as he landed and started cursing out the Manus operators who’d started this mess. He met Saliss’ eyes once, then looked away.
Good.
They might be slow learners, but they were figuring it out. Saliss nodded at the Gnoll and the [Soldiers] who he’d been sharing the Wyvern with. Then he spat on the ground and walked away.
Ancestors, he hated it here.
 
——
 
In Saliss’ experience, Drakes played nicely after you scared the hell out of them and they thought they couldn’t effectively get back at you. There was something about the military mindset that fell back on protocol and rank once shouting and intimidation had failed.
Thus, Manus’ [General] was at the landing zone before Edellein had even disembarked, profuse with apologies. That Manus had actually sent a [General] was a surprise…until Saliss saw the grey in the Gnoll’s fur.
“Fortress General Rigrel, General Edellein. Normally, I hold Fort Filmres, but I’ve been tasked with keeping the elements of Manus’ forces in line for this expedition. What a disaster! I apologize for the idiots who fired those spells. It’s protocol, but I admire your restraint! If I had been present, this would never have occurred, you mark my words.”
The Gnoll looked like a retiree in Manus’ army. He didn’t have the military trim an acting [General] usually was expected to have, and Saliss’ suspicions were confirmed as he stood in the sun and covertly checked a map.
Fortress Filmres was not bordering the Antinium Hivelands. It occupied a more southwestern approach that had probably been good for coastal defense…before the New Lands popped up. Now, it was either more or less important depending on how you viewed it. Either way, Rigrel was an interesting pick from Manus.
He was more than willing to duck his head and soothe Edellein’s pique with profuse apologies. You would never catch Lulv or the top brass backing down—the Supreme General of Pallass snapped, red-faced.
“I’d like to know which officer caused this mess, General! I accept your apology; you were clearly uninformed.”
Rigrel nodded.
“Of course! Who’s the officer on duty?”
He spun and barked as Manus’ [Soldiers] stood with their backs straight, doing their best not to meet the eyes of Pallass’ forces. Saliss wondered how tight a ship Edellein ran. There might be brawls between the [Soldiers] over this, but they fought all the time anyways. He still didn’t quite have Edellein’s number. Idiot, yes, but what kind of idiot? They had flavors, like leavings at the bottom of a toilet bowl.
He saw an officer trot forwards, a Drake with white scales underneath his helmet. He began to salute, and General Rigrel waved a paw at him.
“Not you, the officer in charge! Where is he? Get me—”
The Gnoll cast around, then yanked the arm of a subordinate and muttered. The underling went running, and Saliss eyed the expression of pure confusion on the younger Drake’s face as he stepped back into line. However, they didn’t have to wait long; a figure came hurtling towards the landing field at a full sprint. Another Drake, though this one had greyish scales with maybe a hint of blue.
He was slamming a helmet onto his head as he skidded to a halt and threw a salute.
“Captain Lyssander reporting for duty, General!”
“Lyssander, you fool! Pallass’ Supreme General was nearly shot out of the skies on your watch!”
General Rigrel roared, and the [Captain] hesitated. Then he pivoted smoothly and saluted again.
“—It’s an inexcusable lapse on my part, General! I beg your forgiveness!”
Interesting. Saliss saw Edellein turn his wrath on the [Captain], who stood blank-faced, not even panting from his run.
“One would hope you have better insight on the battlefield, young man. Lyssander…I swear I know that name. Ah!”
He snapped his fingers.
“You were at the officer duels more than once! Comois used to square off against your cadets. Ah, Comois.”
The name clearly pained Edellein, and General Rigrel frowned.
“Isn’t that the promising young salamander in your army, Edellein? Where is he?”
“Dead. Murdered during the Trial of Blades.”
Edellein replied bleakly, and the Gnollish General tsked. He rested a hand on Edellein’s shoulder.
“When promising young blood passes…you never get used to it. Come, General Edellein, let’s put this nasty business behind us and welcome each other properly! I have a letter from the Dragonspeaker somewhere on my person, and I fancy we have met. I certainly heard of your name when I was active! A Blackwing’s always a threat; it never surprised me to hear you became Pallass’ 1st General. We’ll have a drink and toast your [Lieutenant]…Captain Lyssander!”
“Sir!”
“Your company will see to Pallass’ disembarkation and ensure no more accidents occur with our allies.”
“Yessir!”
The Drake stood straight as more [Soldiers] approached at a run. Saliss strolled past the unfortunate [Captain] as Pallass’ forces entered the rendezvous point. And Saliss idly wondered what the poor [Captain] had done to put himself at the top of General Rigrel’s shitlist.
 
——
 
Off-duty, Manus’ [Soldiers] were more than the military-minded freaks who marched everywhere and fought nonstop. Each Walled City had its own flavor in the military, and you got to contrast that when they mingled.
Right now it was Manus, elements of Oteslia’s forces, and Pallass all mixing about in a huge network of tents and buildings, the kind you got when any major force camped. Drakes being Drakes, it was organized enough; Saliss could use the signs to navigate the camp with ease.
The problem was he had no desire to do anything here. Consider the problem: he was a Named-rank adventurer. What could an army’s camp get him?
A lower-level adventurer might want gear repairs, to see what a [Quartermaster] would sell, avail themselves of services from one of Pallass’ [Battle Alchemists], or so on. Saliss was already prepped. He needed no intelligence, training, or supplies. So that left socialization.
Card games and gambling were traditional, you could buy some overpriced drinks and spend your pay, or just shoot the shit with [Soldiers]. Swap tales and hear what the brass was thinking.
