The Oldblood of Feathers shook her head, with that grimace of weary resignation. Not more than a flash of sadness, really; it was the job they knew. Feathi did the same. She rolled her eyes.
“Not in the dungeon then. Just another one of those Liscor-events all over the news. Dead gods, Saliss, it’s like that entire place is a death-zone, and it’s not even the Bloodfields. Alright, tell me later. Would you mind if I invited Bevussa’s team to dinner?”
He hesitated and almost said ‘no’, but the bedraggled Garuda and her team made even him accede.
“Oh, fine.”
She pointed a finger at him.
“And be nice, Saliss! Don’t be, well, you.”
The story of my life. The Drake sighed, but for his friend, he just smiled.
“I’ll give it a shot.”
 
——
 
That evening, Saliss wandered over to Mivifa’s tent and knocked on the huge canvas flaps. Mivifa had a big tent with her sigil on it, that of a flying Pegasus. Still pretentious, but because it was her…
He didn’t want to hang out with the Wings of Pallass. With respect to them, he didn’t know them well. Oh, he’d seen Bevussa around, and she’d been a semi-regular at The Wandering Inn, but he didn’t know her like the Horns, and even them he wasn’t chummy with.
Saliss caught himself as he waited, hearing muffled voices from within. Wait—he might not know the Wings more than most Gold-rank teams, but then again, he knew them a bit. Because they’d known Erin and fought and lost teammates defending her.
Erin was a good judge of character. So, perhaps he wouldn’t be too annoying.
Whatever his apprehensions, Saliss still felt off about dodging Captain Lyssander. He felt—annoyed, despite the fun with Oteslia’s scouts. He rather figured he might like the City of Growth’s approach to the New Lands and was envisioning a better scenario for himself with Mivifa around.
Still, Lyssander bothered Saliss. He could just imagine Mirn fretting over the Drake, thinking about how to have a word with him, wondering how the kid had survived, but Saliss…he caught sight of himself in a watering trough for Feathi outside the tent.
Someone else stared up at him. Not a naked orange-scaled Drake with that silly smile, but an indigo-scaled Drake with blue and yellow eyes.
Onieva. Saliss gazed into his reflection. Troubled.
That wasn’t normal. Was he having hallucinations now? Great, that’d be the last thing he needed, to actually be going crazy. Not that it made his scales itch like normal. He watched Onieva brush at her neck spines. Smile at herself. Give herself finger guns.
“Hey, good looking.”
Before he could investigate further, the tent flaps opened. Saliss saw a giant horse’s head staring at him. Feathi.
“Oh, hey.”
She held the flap open with a wing, and Saliss ducked inside. He found Mivifa sitting at a table with Captain Bevussa, Issa, and Kin.
Saliss had rather imagined it’d go how it usually did with Gold-rankers. Too much awe and admiration and tongue-tiedness. All the silly questions you got from lower-level people who thought you had all the answers and were a different breed of being.
He wasn’t expecting to see a choking Drake trying to swallow an entire chicken wing whole or Captain Bevussa tearing pieces of bread and gulping them down after dunking them in soup. Mivifa gave Saliss a relieved glance as she waved him in, and Feathi rubbed at her own head with a wing.
“Saliss, glad you could join us! We got, uh, started without you.”
The Wings were hungrier than the Drake had expected. Bevussa tried to apologize between bites.
“We’re so sorry, Alchemist Saliss, sir, Lady Mivifa—we haven’t had decent food in ages.”
“I thought you’d at least have good hunting with your aerial mobility, Captain.”
Mivifa was astounded, and Saliss entered adventurer-mode without thinking, leaning over the table. The Wings weren’t amateurs. They might be only Gold-rankers, but he knew they’d been former Pallassian army. However, Bevussa just gulped down some wine and gasped for air. It was Kin who muttered.
“It’s the damn super-monsters.”
“The what?”
“Super-monsters. That’s our name for them. Well, I say ‘we’—Mrsha coined it. She’s checked in on us twice, but we normally missed her since we’re either airborne or in a dead-zone. They’re magical monsters that rate at Named-rank—or worse! They’ve forced us to ground more than once, and we’ve had to hide for days to avoid them.”
Saliss’ brows rose.
“I think I ran into one of them. It was a Fatguin—well, it looked silly until it turned into an ice bird.”
Bevussa shuddered, but shook her head to his surprise.
“That thing? I’ve seen it flying about once or twice near the mountain, but it never came after us. No, I mean…the fish school.” 
Her team blanched and Issa burst out, eyes wide.
“Not to mention the damn Dragon!”
She smashed a fist on the table, and Mivifa froze up. Saliss sat up.
“Did you just say Dragon?”
Issa nodded rapidly.
“We think it’s a Dragon. None of us even got close—one second we were flying away from a snowstorm, the next second we realize the storm is coming at us. We had to dive into cover, and I saw it landing. It was all white scales and frost—we nearly froze as it hunted for us.”
“Hunted? As in, trying to eat you? Dragons from stories aren’t predators of people like that.”
Mivifa’s voice was carefully neutral, and Saliss had an image of the Dragonlord of Flames. He couldn’t square that with a people-eater…well, not for food. Bevussa shook her head at Issa.
“Stow that kind of gossip, Issa. We never got more than a glance at it. Dragon-like. It could have been a Wyvern, but if so, it’s a grade above the Wyvern Lord. But it wasn’t that big…the fish were bastards, though.”
They began reciting the other aerial monsters they’d seen, many of whom had taken umbrage to their presence in the skies. Bevussa sighed.
“I think they were after our mana. Kin’s a [Mage], you see. And I think my shortsword has a tiny bit of magical charge. You wouldn’t happen to know if that was the case?”
She offered a Shortsword of Shock with a pleading look at them. It seemed pretty dead to Saliss, and he doubted the enchantment would have lasted unless it was made well; it was pretty abused from cutting everything from firewood to monsters up.
Here, at least, he could be the good guy, because Mivifa, for all her reputation as a considerate, upstanding Named-rank, could be painfully frank. She pushed Bevussa’s shortsword back over the table after studying it up and down.
“I’m going to be honest with you, Captain Slenderscale. I think it’s a goner. It could be a good [Enchanter] will bring it to life, but it’ll cost you, and my thinking is that your team just lost most of its gold in the New Lands. I wondered why a team already in the New Lands would take a contract with the army…how hard up are you?”
Everyone went silent as Saliss saw Feathi kick Mivifa; the horse was able to partake in the conversation given how big Mivifa’s tent was. Bevussa swallowed another glass of wine, and her clawed hand tightened around the cup.
“I’ll be honest too, Lady Mivifa—Kin and Issa know we’ve lost our fortunes. The moment my bag of holding exploded in the air, well, it wasn’t a fun day. I’m treating this contract as a way to stay solvent. For the rest? I’m going to do what the Halfseekers did in the dungeon of Liscor. Stick it out. Hope to the Ancestors that there’s a fortune in the New Lands, because we’ve sunk all we have here. Not just us; I’ll bet there’s a lot of teams who’re committed to fortune or destitution.”
Saliss clapped his hands in the silence.
“Well, that’s a cheerful discussion! Nice going, Mivifa. Normally I get to bring the mood down.”
Embarrassed, the Oldblood of Feathers began apologizing.
“I didn’t mean to make it sound so aggressive. If I hadn’t gotten warnings, I’d have made the same mistake with me and Feathi—”
Bevussa shook her head with that worn smile of someone who’d lost too much to sugarcoat it.
“I appreciate someone being straight with us, Lady Mivifa. It’s good to have a flier be tough as mithril. Everyone thinks we break like glass…but do you mind if I ask Adventurer Saliss about Liscor? We saw the moon crack, and I swear there was a pink comet around the High Passes—everyone says there was a—a Goblin King that appeared?”
She forced a smile as Mivifa turned to Saliss, just as interested. Bevussa glanced at him.
“I wouldn’t believe it, but they said he appeared at The Wandering Inn. So I give it 50-50 odds he was actually there.”
Here was someone else who believed. More than even Mivifa, who knew Saliss, Bevussa just listened as Saliss nodded and gave a redacted version of the events after the [Palace of Fates].
“He’s dead? You’re sure he’s dead?”
“Until the next time, sure. It’s not like I killed him, Mivifa. I was more of an annoying speedbump with a few good quips. I think those hurt his feelings more than all my damn potions.”
Mivifa exchanged an incredulous look with Feathi, but Kin just muttered.
“Ancestors. We fly off thinking there’s fame and fortune in the New Lands when we could have stayed and fought the Goblin King.”
“And died like Zassil. For all the things we saw in the New Lands, we didn’t die.”
Issa wore a bitter expression as she drained her cup of wine, and Bevussa just studied Saliss. Then she dipped her head.
“Is that—twice now you’ve gone up against the Goblin King, Adventurer Saliss? I feel like I should thank you on behalf of Pallass and my family, if not all of Izril.”
Again, every eye turned to Saliss, and he grew uncomfortable. Mivifa’s wings stirred, and this time she blinked. She believed, but if you really did think the Goblin King had appeared twice, the Goblin King, who lay waste to entire kingdoms…Bevussa met Saliss’ eyes as he tried to wave it off.
“You know, you see him once, you’ve seen him a thousand times. I survived; he can’t be that bad, right?”
I don’t know how I lived. Only that something was fighting him as hard as we were. But Bevussa just lifted her cup.
“If you met him, then you levelled again, Adventurer Saliss, didn’t you? Between that and the Solstice…I was thinking my Level 40 capstone was around the corner. Is yours coming up?”
Ah, she came to it. Mivifa and Feathi’s head snapped around to Saliss, and he kept his face utterly straight. Because they knew, if not his exact class or level, where he was roughly. They were old friends. They knew more of Saliss’ secrets than most, if not Onieva.
They knew Saliss was over Level 50. And if he’d levelled from two major events…Saliss’ eyes twinkled as he decided Bevussa was more than a generic Gold-ranker after all.
“Oh, you charming kids. Me, close to my capstone? That’s nice of you to say. I’d love to hit Level 50 before turning fif—damn. Well, you know, one can dream.”
He gave them a twinkle-eyed stare as he put his chin in his hands. Bevussa chuckled with laughter, and Saliss’ eyes gleamed with secrets.
 
——
 
Only when they were gone, early to bed after their travels, did Mivifa fill their winecups and survey the mess of a table. Feathi picked up bowls with her mouth, tossing them into a bin for cleaning later, and Mivifa murmured.
“Poor kids. I know, I know, they’re Gold-ranks and we were their age, once. But losing all your gear like that? It makes me feel bad for them, and don’t call me old, Saliss!”
She was around his age, and her wings bristled defensively, but Saliss just leaned on the table.
“No, I was going to say that it sucks for them, too. There’s another team I know, the Silver Swords? They lost most of their gear as well. This is going to break a lot of teams, Mivi. There’s no sugarcoating that. Fortunes have already been lost in the New Lands. This is a damn disaster, and the worst part is that big-tailed assholes like the Walled Cities can swan in with all the warnings from those who went first. They can shield their magic. The adventurers can’t.”
She stopped, cup to her lips.
“Dead gods, Saliss. You are in a bad mood.”
He scowled.
“Who told you that? Esor?”
“No one. I just flew in and asked what you’d been up to. When someone said you just pranked Manus and Zeres, and that they’d hardly seen you, I knew you were upset. When you’re in a good mood, everyone’s screaming insults at you, but things are better. Is that new General, Edellein, that incompetent? I saw 2nd Army getting torn up…but that was some kind of super Goblin Lord.”
Saliss snorted and poured a cup for Feathi, who had a custom-made bowl she could drink out of. She drank like, well, a horse.
“Edellein turned that situation into a nightmare when it was already a debacle. He’s as far from Chaldion as you can get.”
“One would think that’s a good thing.”
She murmured carefully, and Saliss scowled harder.
“Chaldion knew what was best for Pallass. Edellein? Well, he’s loyal, and that’s his best quality. Let’s not talk about him, okay? You’ll get to know him whether you like it or not. Be real with me. Why are you out of Oteslia? You never like leaving it.”
It was Mivifa’s turn to be evasive, and she fiddled with a napkin.
“Let’s just say that I’ve had a falling out of sorts.”
“Not with the First Gardener. She loves you. That Cire kid that you were trying to hang about? The First Gardener’s son? Just dangle him off the walls a bit.”
Mivifa shook her head as Saliss watched her, but he didn’t press. That was her secret, and he had his. They had an agreement not to inspect each other’s madnesses; it was how they stayed friends. So long as she wasn’t trying to sleep with Drakes too young for her, Saliss didn’t care to find out.
“It’s freeing, in a way, Saliss. I can go back to being an adventurer, and I do feel the call from the New Lands. You’re the one who looks fed up and miserable. Being with the army is that bad? Why’d you join them?”
“Pressure.”
He grunted, and Mivifa’s eyes widened. She glanced around, and Feathi trotted over to close the tentflaps, then put her head on the table to stare at Saliss.
“Is it Mirn? Is Edellein doing the same thing as Chaldion did and threatening to raid Turnscale bars?”
The fact that she knew Mirn and Turnscales was a product of their long friendship and that Oteslia was the most liberal Walled City by a mile. But she didn’t know about Onieva. She probably thought Saliss was ‘just’ a Turnscale in the sense that he loved men.
Saliss shrugged.
“Why change a winning formula? I’m here because I have to be, Mivifa. And because someone has to keep this damn army from getting mass-poisoned or killed by those ‘super-monsters’.”
