Saliss blew a kiss at Deyss, and the Gnoll caught it and threw it over his shoulder. That scored the most fur off of him yet, and Saliss whirled with a huge smile as Deyss glowered. He wasn’t going to let that drop, but that was fine. Gloating was something Saliss could do all day.
“Now, if you’ll excuse me Deyss—”
When he pushed open the tent flaps, there was a rustle of movement, and Captain Lyssander tried to appear like he’d just been reaching for a cup of water. He was bandaged up, but looked fairly chipper.
And nervous. Saliss grinned at him.
“Hey, how’s the ribs? That one? That one? Ooh, that one’s not great still.”
He prodded Lyss in the chest in several spots, and the Drake winced. But Saliss sat him up; he could move if not flex hard after a night with the tonic in him.
“Alchemist, I have to thank you again. My entire company does, actually. We’d love to buy you a drink and—”
“Yes, yes. You’re all fans of mine. What a terrible delusion. I hope you wake up from it. Come on, let’s go for a walk. I hear you’re working for Salazsar now. Hope you like mining.”
Saliss chivvied Lyssander up from his bed and actually helped him out of the tent. He saw Deyss glowering at him and offered the Gnoll a cheerful middle finger. Then he and Lyssander walked out of the camp and stood where they could watch the forward elements of the Walled Cities marching into the New Lands.
It was all ahead of them. They’d actually done very little exploring. Just a brawl and a lot of politicking. Saliss wanted to get to the actual adventuring. He was a Named-rank, after all. It was in his blood.
Actually, he realized, he wanted to get out there. He wanted to find that Fatguin and see the mysterious “Dragon” and find the Crossroads of Izril. Sure, the Horns had found it ‘first’, but they hadn’t uncovered its secrets.
He was in a good mood—and he was also nervous. Scared. He took a few deep breaths, wondering if Lyss could tell his heart was beating.
Nerves, from him? But this was so hard. Maybe Deyss should do it after all. And yet, when he turned to Lyssander and saw the Drake eying [Soldiers] passing by, Saliss saw the [Captain] had a determined gleam in his eyes.
“Ah, there it is. The look of a real idiot.”
Lyss started and gave him a questioning gaze, and Saliss clarified.
“The look of a [Soldier]. You’re still in it, aren’t you? Despite getting beaten up and having your own [General] toss you to the sharks.”
The [Captain] shrugged.
“Everyone knows General Rigrel is senile and out-of-date. They only pulled him for this because he can socialize and dig fortresses. Once we’re past the border zone, he’ll stay behind. And if I quit, what would I do? Become a [Mercenary]? My company needs me.”
“Even if you’re an unliked Turnscale?”
The direct comment drew a gasp from a definitely-not-spying Gnoll behind them. Lyss’ face grew troubled. But then he nodded.
“I’m not wrong about thinking Manus needs an adaptive sword company. We’ve shown we can pull our weight. I’m not quitting, Adventurer Saliss. I can be a great officer. I know it.”
The [Alchemist] exhaled softly. He patted Lyss on the shoulder.
“Well, there’s no curing that. The military thing is often fatal, but who knows? You might survive. Do you think you’ll survive your fellow [Soldiers] giving your company shit?”
The young Drake hesitated.
“After last night? I think I’ll sit with Captain Yorm from now on. And…I think some of them thought better about making comments.”
In case Saliss of Lights takes offense and comes over to hit them? Perhaps it was a message. Perhaps it’d wear off. Perhaps it made Saliss even more unpopular than he was, but the end result didn’t seem so bad. Lyssander was gazing at the passing [Soldiers], and Saliss didn’t have anything else to ask, so he just peered at the marching group until he saw a tall Drake, probably one of the Rubirel Guard, only without his armor due to the mana drain. He nudged Lyssander.
“That one, there. Red scales, chin raised? Almost as tall as Yorm?”
“What about him?”
“There’s a handsome Drake.”
Captain Lyssander almost nodded before catching himself and gazing up hesitantly at Saliss. A question in his eyes. Saliss went on, casual.
“Of course, that’s more of an objective kind of thing based on Drake norms. It hits all sorts different. Mirn would say that the more handsome the Drake, the more he wants to see what they look like when they lose their cool. Mirn’s a friend of mine with terrible taste. Oh, that fellow has a great tail.”
“…He does indeed.”
The two eyed a passing Gnoll with a perfect stripe down his longer tail, and Saliss went on, never looking at Lyssander.
“The thing is, you can’t say that out loud. Female Drakes can say that, and male Drakes can say tons of stuff—if they were speaking about the ladies. You see? Those are the rules, only, no one ever wrote them down for you. But they’re important rules because everyone does it. You just can’t read them, can you?”
“…No, sir.”
Lyssander gazed down at his boots, and Saliss went on, voice cheerful and bright, like a sword blade he swung oh so carefully.
“There’s no voice in your head that says the right thing. The right thing to fit in, like ‘hey, look at the tits on that Garuda’!”
He shouted, and a passing Garuda turned and flipped him off. Then Saliss lowered his voice.
“That’s the way it works, and if you don’t want to be called a Turnscale, be kicked out of society, and worse, you’d better find that oh so important voice, Lyssander. Because it’s the only right and natural way to be.”
Saliss cleared his throat.
“Of course, the Selphids change who they are depending on their bodies, mostly, but they don’t count because the Body Snatchers of Baleros are just—different. Obviously. And the Stitch-folk of Chandrar can change anything they want. Except the quality of their cloth. But Chandrarians, am I right? And the House of Minos doesn’t really care, but they’re islanders. Same with the Drathians. And Dullahans have an agreement to let anything that happens under the armor stay under the armor—”
“They’re all different?”
Here, Saliss paused, because he couldn’t lie.
“…No. There are groups that are like Drakes or even worse. But that’s just an example. We’re not in Drath. We’re here, in Izril, and there are ways you should act if you don’t want to get hurt. If you don’t want people around you to get hurt.”
The younger Drake said nothing for a while.
“So I’m…a Turnscale, then? Because I—I think that other guys are sometimes attractive?”
He sounded lost, confused, and nervous, and Saliss bent down and fixed him with a huge smile and stare.
“Nope!”
Lyssander started. Saliss grinned at him.
“Do you think it’s that simple? Well, it is to people like General Rigrel and Femar. You don’t know what you are, Captain Lyssander. Neither do I, honestly. It could be you just admire the physical form. But what is true is that you just don’t fit quite right. And if you don’t fit, you must be wrong. That’s how it works. It’s not a…a precise system they’ve got here. All we Drakes have is a box. And if you don’t fit exactly in the box…”
“You’re a Turnscale?”
Saliss patted Lyss on the shoulders silently. The Drake [Captain] said nothing for a while, then spoke, hesitant.
“Alchemist, I know that it might be—be dangerous for you to tell me all this. And I appreciate the talk. But if I can be honest?”
He rubbed at a bruise on his cheeks.
“I think…I think I can try to be normal. Wouldn’t that solve everything? Now I know the problem—that’s the best thing to do, right?”
Ah, he said the same thing that Saliss had heard so many times, and he was relieved he knew the answer to this one. The Drake shrugged.
“That’s certainly an option, and frankly, you might be right! I won’t stop you. But remember what I said about you not knowing if you are a Turnscale or not? You have no idea what’s in here. Or out there.”
He prodded Lyssander gently on the shoulder, and the [Captain] bit his lip. Saliss went on gently.
“Now, if you’d like to turn around and go, you can. There’s a lot of suffering if you ask too many questions. But you may just find that if you ever felt…wrong, empty, or alone when everyone else says they’re full? There’s answers. There’s someone to talk to. There’s that feeling you’ve been chasing all your life. And it is not the answer you’ll find in any books in Manus. But it may be the lesson you wanted to find.”
He peered into Lyssander’s eyes, and the young Drake glanced away. He took a deep, shuddering breath.
“That’s funny. I thought I could march up to you and ask for lessons and it wouldn’t be terrifying since all you could say is ‘no’ or maybe prank me. But this is—frightening.”
Saliss threw an arm around Lyssander’s shoulder and hugged him gently, the way he wished someone had once done to him.
“Well, that’s because you’re just playing with a sword, kid. All you can do is cut yourself. Now, there’s a nosy Gnoll whom I think could answer more questions, but if you want to go, just remember it’s a secret. Out of respect, I think you’ll keep it. But the threat of me burning you with acid would probably help if you had doubts there.”
Captain Lyssander nodded and glanced over his shoulder. He hesitated, then turned to Saliss.
“I have—a few questions. Does being a Turnscale mean you really have—I mean, you’re sleeping with the same…?”
Saliss grinned.
“Not always. But sometimes.”
“But how would that—work?”
Then the [Alchemist] was laughing faintly. Trying not to embarrass the young [Captain] who had that look in his eyes that meant he’d probably never be tired of asking questions.
Poor kid. Saliss motioned for Deyss to come forwards, and he had a thought. He looked at Lyssander, red-cheeked and embarrassed, beaten up, and wondered…
Mrsha knew his name. What did she see? What would decades of surviving Manus do to this Drake? 
He knew what it had done to two other Drakes. Sserys and Zel…and Saliss wondered if he should tell Lyssander that story now or whether he should be eased into that painful truth that burned in the heart of the Walled Cities’ militaries and Turnscales alike. Pride and pain. Rejection and triumph.
“Can I ask a question, Captain Lyssander? You don’t have to answer—but I have awesome eyes.”
Saliss tapped one eye and winked at Lyssander.
“Normally, I can read people’s classes and Skills, but you’re warded. Probably a ring they issue to Manus’ [Captains]? What is your class?”
[Lieutenant of Perfection] Comois had beaten Lyssander, but only in duels. Saliss wondered if he could see that seed of greatness Mrsha had hinted at. But the young Drake just shrugged, embarrassed.
“Me, Alchemist? I don’t have a problem answering. I’m just a [Slash Captain]. Level 25. Nothing special.”
Saliss blinked, then blurted out—
“How the hell did you beat a Level 30+ [Lieutenant] like Comois at anything? Sorry, sorry, that’s rude.”
He saw Lyss grin, and then the Drake managed a wink of his own.
“Well, Alchemist…I’ve learned six sword-Skills. My entire company’s learned at least one. There’s nothing to level against doing guard duty in Rigrel’s fortress, so we train.”
The [Alchemist] blinked, and then he laughed again. There it was.
 
——
 
There were consequences for every action. Good and bad. That morning, as Saliss of Lights talked with Captain Lyss, another group was having a meeting, though far less pleasant.
Major Ultarwe was the Gnoll woman who had quarreled with Saliss about the Goblin King. She was also one of the most senior officers serving in Manus’ command—aside from [General] Rigrel himself.
She’d had a bad night. A long night having arguments with [Soldiers] to subordinates and being pushed towards an inevitable conclusion. One she’d made herself, really.
That was why two other [Majors], a [Captain], and eleven lower-level officers were meeting in the camp. There were a lot of eyes on them from the regular [Soldiers]. Ultarwe dragged her heels. She did not want to do what was coming next.
General Rigrel’s tent was in the center of the camp, and the old Gnoll was probably still asleep despite the troops moving. He had been a great leader once. He’d fought with distinction in both Antinium Wars, but the last one had already seen him among the oldest of Manus’ [Generals].
He’d taken his demotion to fortress-guard…poorly. Always wanted to get back out there on campaign, and Luciva had let him have his shot. But he was still—
There was a place for him. Just not here. Training young officers, maybe. Somewhere, but not in this army. Not now.
Not after the mess hall disaster. The moment he’d given the order to let Sharkcaptain Femar deal with one of Manus’ officers, even Lyss—he’d lost the trust of his troops. Zeres beating down one of their own?
Adventurer Saliss had probably done the best thing, getting involved. Because that night, there would have been a war once news of the fight got out. All of that was why Major Ultarwe was going to put her class on the line and march into that tent to have a conversation with General Rigrel.
Insubordination in the ranks was not a light matter. Depending on how this got back to High Command, it might be seen as mutiny, which it was not—this could break her entire career and every officer with her.
But it was going to break Manus’ forces if something wasn’t done. So, the [Major] straightened her back.
“Let me do the talking. Just stand there and don’t say a word, got it?”
Someone had to fall on their sword, and it might as well be her. She’d served under Rigrel the longest…she took a few breaths and then approached the tent.
“General Rigrel, sir? Permission to en—”
The tent flaps opened, and Ultarwe jumped backwards in surprise. She feared, for a moment, that Rigrel was up early and she’d have to ask him to step inside in front of the camp. But no, it wasn’t him.
A Garuda with green-blue feathers pushed out, General Rigrel’s low voice following him. Strategist Esor of Pallass had a clipboard in hand, and Ultarwe caught the last few words.
“—a bit longer.”
She stared at Esor, uncertain, and the [Strategist] smiled.
“Ah, Major. A word, if you please?”
The rest of the officers stood there, and Ultarwe cleared her throat.
“Strategist, I was actually hoping to speak to General Rigrel on a matter of importance—”
“I understand, Major. Just one word.”
He took her aside, and she felt…something in the air as they stepped to the side of Rigrel’s tent. Esor activated a privacy stone, then handed her a paper.
