“Okay, you really shouldn’t be able to talk. I’m going crazy. For real this time. Or is it the palace? I never even looked in a door. Like the eyes of a Bogleraum. Better never to look, but I’ll dream of it.”
He rubbed at his face, and Lyssander wondered what a ‘Bogleraum’ was. He knew plenty of monsters from his study of them before this campaign, and it didn’t ring a bell. Saliss shook his head.
“Disappointed? What are you, the Old Man? Disappointed…why do you think I’m here?”
He stabbed a claw towards the ground, and then his face went blank. Saliss twisted around so fast that Lyssander started. The Drake had a claw holding a vial in a second, and Lyssander’s scales shivered as he saw the claw on the cork top, about to unleash…
“Alchemist Saliss, I apologize if I’m interrupting! I, uh, hope I could have a word?”
Lyssander saw Saliss stare at him, then glance at the piece of ice. The [Alchemist] didn’t smile. He grimaced before putting on that fake smile.
“Wonderful. What?”
The young [Captain] ducked his head and approached, feeling as though he’d already messed it up, but—
He had to ask. He was getting tired of it, that sense of disdain, no, the alienation he felt like he didn’t deserve. Lyss truly felt like Saliss had liked him for a second, or at least, not minded him. So—he took a breath and glanced at the piece of ice.
There was nothing there. Just his reflection.
 
——
 
Of all the Drakes to appear, Lyssander was not the one Saliss wanted to talk to. Especially not now as he was trying to admire her, again. Well, the image in the ice.
Onieva. Her features were bright, alluring. Perfect. She was no Oldblood, but she had a unique pattern of scales, and her mismatched eyes were filled with all the potential and dreams of someone who could still have them.
She was younger too. That was maybe, okay, definitely vanity, but that was part of the desire. Not just the picture he wished he could see in a mirror, but the chance to try again and capture those lost years.
Saliss was 50 years old. He knew he didn’t look like it; alchemy had a way of preserving you, especially if you were an expert in altering the physical form like he was. But Onieva…
Sometimes he wished she really were a separate person. But no, it was just him. His…
Reflection. Saliss closed his eyes and thought. Dead gods, Lyssander was back. Saliss had to just chase him away.
Part of him didn’t want to do that. Part of him said—just tell the kid. Mirn would kill him for dancing around the subject so much. What was he doing?
Nothing, that was what. This was not his job. He was, at best, Saliss the Architect. Mirn was the Sentry.
Stupid terms. He was whatever he was, and here was a kid who…
The danger was insane. This wasn’t some random kid on the street, and Saliss couldn’t disguise himself to have a word. This was a [Captain] of Manus.
A kid. A kid who was so genuinely naïve…how did he not get it? This had to be an act. He’d wise up and figure it out—
Now he sounded like all the old elders with their wisdom. Fit in, shape up, don’t rock the boat. Saliss ground his teeth together.
“Alchemist? Is something wrong?”
“No, just admiring my reflection. What, you never do that?”
“Er…no, sir.”
Saliss stared at Lyssander, thinking furiously as the [Captain] fidgeted.
I’ve done this so many times, and he’d be happier not to know. He…
Deyss was the one who gave up. Stopped fighting. And in a way, Saliss had too. No more riots. No more wars. He’d lost his wars. They had never killed him. Just everyone else. What good was fighting a war where everyone you loved died?
It could always get worse. And there was no way to move a city that he had ever found. Zel Shivertail couldn’t do it. It could get so much worse…
He didn’t know. He didn’t know if it would just be kinder not to tell this kid. Because being suspected of something was one thing. Being that? It was so much harder.
No good answers. So Saliss just focused on the conversation itself. The kid was saying something.
“Alchemist, I, ah, apologize for interrupting you. I know this may be unprofessional, but I wanted to apologize.”
“Apologize? For what?”
Saliss grinned at Lyssander, and the [Captain] ducked his head. Dead gods, what was he, twenty-five at most? Maybe even younger. He’d probably been in the academy for a number of years, but how many times had he seen battle? How long was he going to live in Manus’ forces? Reaching their lovely retirement years was a luxury so, so few ever attained…and they’d keep pulling you out, like General Rigrel.
“Yes, sir. I feel like I’ve offended you somehow. I—wanted to beg your forgiveness and ask what my mistake was. It seems to be a pattern I can’t break, but I need to.”
Lyss’ words took Saliss’ breath away like a punch to the gut. Out of the corner of his eye, he heard Onieva sigh.
“See?”
The [Alchemist] put on a self-indulgent smirk he didn’t feel. He snorted and scoffed at Lyss, who blinked.
“You didn’t do anything wrong, Captain Lyss. Hey, what’s with all the self-recriminations? I’m a snooty Named-rank! Don’t get in your feelings if I say hi, then I don’t hang out. Frankly, kid, it’s hard to talk to anyone who’s not my level or a fellow adventurer. I don’t even hang out with the Gold-rankers. No offense to you or Yorm, but [Captains] are sort of, y’know, boring?”
He paused and pretended to think.
“Unless you’re a real specialist. There’s this former Drake [Sergeant] who’s decent. Real corn, you know? You’re more like, uh, well, not even baby corn. Brussel sprouts. You gotta respect that they exist, but no one’s reaching for you instead of grilled corn, you know?”
There, that was one of his most confusing analogies thrown at Lyss. Plenty of ways he could explain the corn thing or talk about Relc—but the young [Captain] refused to take the bait.
“Sir, I can’t help but feel that’s not true. I think that I’ve made a bad impression on you. Presented myself or acted in some way—I would sincerely love any honesty from you. I know there is an issue, and if it is my affect or something I’m doing, I can knock it off. But I have to have it pointed out to me, and no one is willing to do that. Not Lulv, not General Rigrel—not my commander. If it’s a hard conversation to have, well, I hoped a Named-rank adventurer could have it.”
Great, it wasn’t his decision after all. Suddenly, Saliss was sweating under his scales.
Why me? Why the hell me? He glanced to the side, then snapped.
“Why me? Go bother Yorm or someone, Captain Lyssander! Do you think I’m the model of propriety? Look at me—I’m naked! My entire thing is annoying people and being a disturbance!”
He indicated his nude form, which was, as he had once told Erin, on purpose. The effect, the pranks—a rebellion against his Walled City wanting him to be the good adventurer, against Chaldion. Decades long, never-ending, but not the white-hot defiance it had used to be.
Stale as Deyss’ act, in a way. That was what being old was—but Lyssander was too earnest. Saliss didn’t like him. He’d liked Erin, who was buried a thousand layers deep, like an onion. Who got the mask you had to wear to avoid scaring the normal, ‘reasonable’ people, and who was willing to throw the Potion of Blast into the fire if she needed to. Mad and determined.
Lyss sounded like a kid for all he was a [Soldier] trained to take lives.
“I’m sorry, Adventure Saliss—but I was looking forward to meeting you.”
“Pull the other tail. You were looking forward to meeting me? Listen, even the Alchecorps of Pallass don’t ‘look forward’ to meeting me. Now and then, I get a few rookies who want to hear tips, but I don’t get admirers. Mivifa, now, everyone loves her. What makes me so special? Did I save your village? Are you a huge fan of the way I blew up the Assassin’s Guild or something?”
Goodwill ran out in everyone. The appreciation over the Wyvern attack had faded away months ago in Pallass. Only a few people like Shirka never seemed to forget, and that was because he’d been the only person there. But once again, Lyssander surprised him. He scuffed a boot against the ground, embarrassed.
“Uh, truthfully, I don’t know many stories about you, Adventurer Saliss. Manus tells the one about the only time you went to war…”
Death and damnation. Chaldion screaming at him in the fallout as he laughed and showed them exactly what revenge looked like. Revenge for poison and a single city block they just couldn’t let go—
Saliss blinked the memories away, and Lyss went on.
“…but it was when I was trying to study new sword forms that I learned about you, sir.”
“What?”
Suddenly, he had no idea where this was going. Saliss peered at Lyss as the Drake tried to explain.
“I’ve studied every manual and book on Skills that I have access to as a [Captain], Alchemist! It’s, well, the only way I can keep up. Ever since I ran into Lieutenant Comois years ago, I realized how bad I was at swinging a sword. The Trial of Blades, seeing actual combat, the Village of the Dead, all prove it. I’m not an idiot. My entire regiment watched the Trial of Blades, and half the idiots talked like they could take out those Goblins with one hand tied behind their back. That swordmaster on the wolf…I knew I couldn’t best him, and I knew how good Comois was, and he died there.”
Ah. Another thing that marked Lyss as rare, especially given his age. He was aware that he was a small frog in a very big well. Saliss shrugged.
“You’re comparing yourself to a Revenant and a [Blademistress] from legends. But go on.”
“It’s not just recently, Alchemist. I’ve been searching for ways to improve since I became an officer. It’s, well, it’s because I’m just not gifted naturally.”
Saliss eyed Lyssander up and down, and he could tell the Drake had a strong sense of balance, fast instincts, and a natural level of athleticism. Saliss raised one brow.
“Yeah…that’s not true.”
“It is, sir! I don’t have the sheer strength or the Skills other officers do. I can swing a sword all day, but someone like the Shark Captain of Zeres is three or four times stronger than I am. In a duel with someone like that, you die fast if you practice any of Manus’ regular sword forms.”
Okay, that was true. Everyone liked to talk a big game about skill and technique overcoming any level of strength, but as far as Saliss had observed, strength tended to triumph the moment technique made a mistake. Just look at the King of Destruction vs the King of Duels. The much-lauded Raelt had scored a lot of blows while Flos Reimarch was punching him through stone walls.
The same with the late Torreb; combine strength and technique and it was hard to out-perform that.
“I still don’t see what that has to do with me…”
Though his instincts were telling him he sort of did know. Lyss nodded rapidly.
“Getting to the point, sir—I was perusing a list of teachers to find someone who could train me in non-standard ways. Even teach me a Skill. That’s when I ran across your name. You’re the only living teacher in grappling, three sword styles, and assassination techniques! You know the Sword Spider school, don’t you? None of my instructors could show me anything.”
He was visibly excited, and Saliss was so surprised he uncrossed his arms and stared for a second. Then he scowled.
“Manus loves their stupid lists. I knew I should have burned their files…but they have like three backups. Don’t believe everything that’s written. There’s [Assassins] not in their public files who’re way better than me. As for the other stuff, Manus only keeps those files on people friendly to them. There are plenty of Drakes and Gnolls across Izril who could do any of that.”
“But it is true, sir?”
Saliss glowered.
“Half of Manus’ officers could teach you grappling. Lulv is a hand-to-hand expert.”
“Not in, uh, submission grappling? Is that the right term?”
Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Whomever wrote that down didn’t even know what it was. All I know how to do is toss someone heavier or wriggle around them and put them in a chokehold. All the ignoble stuff that Drakes don’t like learning because it’s not brave enough or they can’t deal with the touchy-feely stuff. I learned it in Nerrhavia’s Fallen where they teach wrestling.”
“But that’s the kind of thing I wanted to learn, sir—excuse me. I’ve gotten off track. That’s, uh, how I knew you. And how I knew you were the top candidate in the Officer Trials. You could have been one of Pallass’ best [Commanders]!”
Lyss gave him that shining-eyed expression that made Saliss want to slap it off him. The [Alchemist] replied flatly.
“That was someone else’s dream. Not mine. Do I look like I want to lace up my boots and fit right in the jolly old army?”
I’d have done it. It might have even made me happy if Chaldion would have let me be me. Now, he’s going to ask you. What do I say? Truth or lie? Truth or—
Lyssander was nodding and peering at the ground again.
“Well, Adventurer Saliss—I can respect you not having the time to teach or the desire. But that’s not why you stopped talking to me, is it? It’s…what Comois said, isn’t it? The Turnscale thing? I swear I’m not—I don’t do—”
He struggled, red-faced.
“If it’s something I’m doing wrong, I can stop it! It is that, isn’t it? I’ve ignored the comments because I thought they were just insults, but I asked Captain Yorm to his face, and he hinted it was that.”
That muscle-headed idiot. Why couldn’t he just say it outright? Instead, it was Saliss. You had to have a Named-rank for the hard stuff.
Again, he felt like someone was trying to melt part of his stomach out of his guts, but it wasn’t actually hard to figure out what to do. There was only, objectively, one right call to make. Mirn would have done the exact same thing. He would have. Saliss forced a casual smile and shrugged.
“Listen, I’m not an expert on the exact nuances of an army, Lyss. It’s been too long, and Manus isn’t Pallass. But—if you’re twisting my tail here—”
He swallowed hard and felt like his throat were covered in gravel. Lyss was waiting, standing to attention, and Saliss stared past him at a tent.
“Well yeah, that’s probably it. It’s not one big thing, but a bunch of little things. The way you hug people, commenting on Yorm—it’s not like that’s unacceptable! It’s just the nuance of how you’re saying it that comes off T-Turnscale. You know. Just, uh, watch how you word things. Refrain from commenting.”
