“You’ve got the firepower and levels. But there’s a rule that comes with the territory. You’d better remember it too, Captain Yorm. The rule is that you don’t ever look around like that again. When you’re the Named-rank team or a Named-rank adventurer, you don’t get to do that. There’s plenty of room for cowards even among Named-rank adventurers. But not hesitation. Pretentious advice number two?”
He stepped away from the table, then turned around. Saliss focused on the melee, and he saw a grey-scaled Drake swinging wildly like he was drunk. Staggering. Blood. A lot of downed [Soldiers] wearing Manus’ colors. Saliss grinned with all his teeth.
“Counting the odds is how you can make a Named-rank team. Never a Named-rank adventurer. You have to forget common sense. It gets easier. Like…this.”
He strode forwards, and Captain Yorm rose from his seat.
“Adventurer Saliss—”
He hesitated and missed grabbing Saliss’ tail. Then the Drake was hopping over the tops of tables, making [Soldiers] recoil. Keldrass rose, and one of the Flamewardens looked at the others.
“He’s not going to…?”
Then they were all standing, including Bevussa’s team. But the Garuda remained seated for just one second. She was studying the glass tankard that Saliss had been drinking from. It must have been a trick of light. But she swore she’d seen a pale blue eye winking from the glass. Then she turned in her seat.
 
——
 
“This isn’t your army, and you’re not an officer, Adventurer Mivifa!”
Shark Captain Femar was shouting at Mivifa as the sounds of the fighting and cheering and shouting in the mess tent rose. Green General Narrina was arguing with General Rigrel, and he was hesitating. Edellein was also wondering if he should let things burn out or try to contain what might turn into a full brawl.
“Shark Captain, you are an idiot! This is not how you address discipline in any army!”
He turned red and roared back.
“Maybe not your army! But Zeres has standards! That [Captain] has it coming! You only get one chance to make something of yourself, and that freak needs fixing.”
Mivifa drew a breath as her eyes flashed, and Wall Lady Navine pushed herself up abruptly. Navine opened her mouth to shout, and a naked orange Drake leapt past their table. Mivifa turned along with Navine as Edellein saw Saliss leap gracefully over the heads of the [Soldiers]. Like a strange nude swan.
He landed lightly, and Edellein rose in sudden alarm.
“Saliss? Was that Saliss? Where’s Captain Yorm? Why didn’t he—? Esor?”
This might be a bad thing, right? He turned to search for the Garuda [Strategist]. Esor wasn’t at the high table. But he always had an opinion. He saw the Garuda standing to the side. Esor blinked as Edellein pointed.
“Do something.”
“Do what?”
“Stop him!”
Esor peered at Edellein, and then he counted the five commanders. His eyes flicked to the [Soldiers] around them, their bodyguards, and he eyed Mivifa. Then he leaned over to Edellein.
“…How?”
 
——
 
Captain Lyssander wasn’t on his feet because he was that full of fight, but more that his opponent wasn’t letting him drop. And he had a sense that the fight might not end even if he passed out. Zeres’ [Nautical Captain] was a veteran of the seas, as muscular and scarred as any [Captain] who’d served decades fighting [Pirates], Drowned Folk, and everyone else on land and deck.
The Gnoll dodged a punch Lyssander threw and countered. Lyssander would have gone under, but a Skill was anchoring him to the ground. Which meant he couldn’t step back, and when he ate a punch, it was like being hit against a wall.
His bloody gaze saw a fist rise as the Zeresian [Soldier] raised it, and Lyssander willed his legs to move. Duck. Duck or you’ll—
The Gnoll stopped and stared down at his stomach. Lyssander flinched, then saw something odd. A pair of slim orange arms? They were encircling the Gnoll’s stomach in a hug, over the painted abdominals of metal.
“Who the hell—? Let go of me!”
The Zeresian [Captain] snapped and swung around. He gazed down as a grinning Drake poked his head out of the small of his back. Saliss was so much smaller that he looked like a child compared to the Gnoll. He winked, not at the Gnoll, but at Lyssander.
“Hey, kid. You should have drawn your sword.”
“Alchemist?”
Lyssander wasn’t sure if he was having a dream because he’d been punched out. He wobbled and then saw Saliss’ eyes look him up and down. Lyssander was afraid his jaw was broken; he knew he’d broken a rib or two. But the Drake’s gaze seemed too—upset for that.
Saliss of Lights never lost his cool. Everyone said that. The only time he didn’t smile was when he went to war. All the veterans said to run if you saw that.
The Gnoll [Captain] swung around, trying to get Saliss off him. But the Drake just rotated with him, hugging harder. He spoke, again, not to the [Captain].
“You suck, Lyssander. Your fighting ability, nothing else. If you can only use your sword—draw your sword no matter what. But even if you have to use your fists, you win. Even if it’s an army. Armies are easy. As long as they’re not mindless Golems and they have morale, you just have to break it. You just have to try harder than they do. That’s how Galas develops.”
He was grinning. Or baring his teeth. And Lyssander felt like the advice he was speaking was…real. It sounded casual, but something in him said: listen. Remember that.
“Let—go! Someone get this idiot off me!”
The [Captain] was panting, calling at his buddies, and one of them tried to yank Saliss off.
“Adventurer, Shark Captain Femar’s orders—”
He tried to drag Saliss away, but the Drake was glued to the Gnoll. And something was wrong. Lyssander, wobbling dizzily, thought it was his imagination, but then he saw the metal armor crumpling inwards.
The [Captain] turned pale and gasped as Saliss’ arms constricted, folding in the metal as if it were cloth. The [Alchemist]’s yellow eyes were beginning to glow. Then his knees flexed. What he did, Lyssander couldn’t quite tell.
It was like he did a backflip, knees bending, springing up. But somehow—the far-larger Gnoll [Captain] came with him. It seemed, to those further away, like the [Gnoll] suddenly did an insane backflip—until an orange figure detached from him.
The Zeresian [Captain] hit a wall of his fellow [Soldiers] with a crash of metal and shouts of pain. They collapsed, stunned, and Saliss gazed around. The brawl had already broken several chairs and the long tables; the Drake found a leg of a table and flipped it around so he was holding the broken end. He winked at Lyssander as the [Captain] sat down.
“Then you do something like this, but everyone has their own style. Just so you know, I’m holding back. I’m not even using my aura.”
“Adventurer, what are you doing?”
Another [Captain] assigned by Femar to the fight came roaring at Saliss. His fists were balled up, and he took a swing as he charged at Saliss. The Drake ducked his punch. Then he rotated around in the air. It looked like a spinning top; the first blow hit the Drake’s chin in an uppercut from below. Then Saliss twirled as the Drake reeled.
“Y—”
The second blow from the table leg hit the Drake straight in the face. He went over without a word.
That was a [Captain]. He had to be at least Level 20—if he was a veteran, what level was he? The [Marines] had seen the entire thing, of course. They saw their [Captain] go down, then shouted.
“Get him!”
A roar of rage filled the air, and the wave of Zeres’ [Soldiers] poured forwards towards the Named-rank adventurer. There they made their mistake. Lyssander saw it as he sagged against a broken table. He’d seen Saliss’ eyes.
The [Alchemist] was angry. Lyssander and his company were one thing. But the thundering charge of Zeres’ wave of flesh and blood—the Drake lifted the chair leg.
“Right. Sword dances.”
He whirled the table leg up, holding one claw forwards, pointing the ‘sword’ he was holding ahead. Then he stepped forwards, pivoting—stabbing, as if he were holding a short spear.
Lyssander lost count of how many stabs in the first blur of movement. Saliss switched to a two-handed grip and swung the wooden club in an arc across the bodies in front of him. Then reversed it, swinging another crescent blow. Then another, as if he were tracing a sphere around him, an area he controlled.
That there were bodies, flesh and blood and armor in the way of his club, didn’t seem to matter. The Drake pivoted and kicked as his sword struck in the opposite direction.
Lyssander saw the Drowned Man he’d hit strike a table twenty feet away. That was after the blur of blows collapsed the first wave of Zeresian [Marines]. They slammed into each other, the back ranks shouting in confusion; their buddies in the front had just…fallen? There was a squad pushing forwards with the dizzy Gnoll that Saliss had thrown.
“Wait. Back—”
Then an officer in front of them absorbed something. A stab? Even without damage, the impact still tossed the entire squad off their feet and onto their backs. One of the [Marines] rolled up, reaching for a sword.
“What the hell is—”
A foot kicked her head, and it snapped into the floor of the tent; she lay still.
“Mewi!”
Another [Soldier] bellowed, then Saliss landed on him and axe-kicked the [Soldier] on the shoulder. He screamed and clutched at his arm as he went down.
“Adventurer, stop, or we’ll draw—”
The [Captain] who’d started the brawl was shouting. He tried to grab the blurring orange Drake, and then Saliss was holding his arm. He heard a voice hissing in his ear, and his stomach lurched.
“I’m not even using potions.”
Then the entire world rotated. The Gnoll was shouting in horror as it spun a dozen times in a second, everything flashing around in a blur—the last thing he saw was Captain Femar’s wide eyes before he hit the head table.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights guessed he’d taken out sixty [Marines] before they realized who they were facing. Then the officers were shouting.
“Get back! Back—”
Wise, but it was too late. He ran at a [Major] who was drawing a weapon. Or trying to; he had a trident spear. What a silly weapon.
The Drake ripped it clear, and it glowed as he activated a Skill. Saliss was faster. He landed on the Drake and remembered how you did it.
Swing a sword like—this! Are you proud, Old Man?
“[Helmsplitter Strike].”
He pulled the blow so he didn’t see the Drake’s head explode. The [Major] dropped, and Saliss turned. Six [Marines] leapt on him. Literally leapt, trying to get him on the ground. Smart—his foot kicked one in the chest, and he clipped another across the head, and they were down when the other four hit him.
“Get him, get—”
One of them was grabbing for the nude Drake, but he was so agile. And then the [Marine] felt an arm snake its away around his neck and began to scream.
“Help! Help! Get him off—”
The pile of four [Soldiers] was a tangle of limbs as more of Zeres’ [Marines] hesitated. Then a yellow Drake pulled himself up as the four [Soldiers] collapsed. Saliss turned with a grin. He had his club.
“Catch.”
He threw it into another officer’s chest. The Drake hit his [Soldiers], chestplate dented inwards. Before he’d landed, Saliss was there, retrieving his club. Then Saliss was swinging through the [Soldiers] trying to get up. Alas, it didn’t stay easy forever.
Without potions, he could only attack as fast as his arms could swing, and once they realized he was hitting them, they used their Skills.
“[Guards Up]! Surround—”
Saliss whipped the club across one of the officers’ helmets so fast it rang, but this time, the Drowned Woman didn’t drop. Someone tried to seize him from behind, and Saliss grabbed the arm instead. Forced it free as the [Marine]’s eyes went round and panicky. A slim Drake should not overpower a [Marine] who was bulging with muscles.
Named-rank. Saliss hit him twice in the face with the butt of the chair leg before someone grabbed at him from the other side. Now they were in a melee, and he was punching and striking in every direction.
Right, this is where it hurts. 
Them.
He exploded out of the pile of [Marines], leaping off their bodies. He knew better than to let them immobilize him.
Drop-kick—you.
This officer caught the kick and rocked. They were fast enough to dodge two punches, and Saliss’ arm jarred as he swung the chair leg against their sword.
Probably over Level 40. The Drake seemed alarmed, but he stabbed fast. Saliss leaned under the blow. The Drake made a mistake: he was too worried about using a Skill and wounding Saliss mortally that he didn’t back up fast enough.
Saliss got a piece of him; his non-dominant arm. He snapped it the wrong way before the officer clubbed him, and Saliss leapt back out of a slash. The arm didn’t break, though by the cursing, the officer hadn’t enjoyed it moving nearly a hundred and eighty degrees the wrong way.
Definitely over Level 40. Galas muscle and reinforced bone. Saliss ducked a far more dangerous stab. Kicked the knee. Danced back. Threw the table leg. It was chopped in half.
Tackled the officer hard enough to crunch the steel armor. He rose, panting, a cut on his cheek and a faint stinging on his stomach from the punch.
“Come on, Zeres. Let’s dance.”
They were coming at him now. He wasn’t going to win against the entire force. Not if he couldn’t melt them. Saliss leapt at a pair of officers, going for the higher-level one. The other managed to put an arm around Saliss’ neck. He was about to twist to avoid getting pinned when the arm let go.
“[Impact Kick]! Keldrass, where the hell are you? Keldrass, get over here!”
That voice. Saliss stopped counter-punching the first officer in the face and spun as his opponent dropped. He saw a real idiot throwing punches at the surprised [Marines] in front of him.
Captain Bevussa. The Garuda woman was brawling like the former [Soldier] she was, throwing right hooks and dodging back, and she was an idiot. She was a Garuda, she shouldn’t be fighting like—
Saliss was distracted and ate a punch to the back of the head. He let the impact carry him forwards and punched someone in front of him off their feet before swinging around. Bevussa cursed as a chair hit her arm.
“Kin, Issa! Where are—”
Both she and Saliss saw a table coming their way and ducked. But it wasn’t being thrown; a really angry [Marine] was lifting it up with some kind of Skill, and he began to bring it down like a hammer as Saliss grabbed Bevussa to throw her to the side.
The falling table halted as Captain Yorm put a hand on the end of it. He commented to the surprised [Marine].
“Lever physics.”
