He smiled crookedly into his cup until he felt a pressure on his arm. He turned; Feathi was giving him a soulful gaze with big eyes as she stared up at him. Saliss tried to push her away.
“Your Pegasus is drunk, Mivifa.”
Unfortunately, the two were partners. Mivifa was shaking her head as she refilled all their cups.
“Sometimes, I wonder who’s more faithful to their city, Saliss. You, or me. Listen, I know Glasiaad isn’t fun for you.”
“Glasiaad’s fine. I’m not picking a fight, I just messed with him trying to pick up Drakes too young for him. You beat down someone once and they hold a grudge for a decade.”
Saliss complained loudly, and Mivifa shrugged.
“But he’s not going to be easy to work with. Just—I’ll try to find time to partner with you, okay? Maybe you can ride sidesaddle with me if those super-monsters are that much of a threat, or we can dungeon together.”
The problem was…she and Saliss had complimentary skillsets, but only sometimes. They could make an amazing trio, raining down alchemical weapons on the foe, but when it came to air-combat, Saliss was only so helpful. The same for dungeon-exploring. Mivifa was not good at dungeons. Her partner was a giant Pegasus for crying out loud! Not exactly good at dodging traps.
The Drake shook his head.
“Just you being around as a friendly face, Mivifa. Not everyone in Pallass is a waste of time. Esor’s like a worse Chaldion, but you can trust his judgement. And Captain Yorm, the giant Gnoll, is Grimalkin’s apprentice. Solid.”
“And that Captain Lyssander? He seemed to know you, but you blew him off. Is he a classic Manus idiot like Zeter?”
Mivifa shared Saliss’ opinions on a lot of adventurers, and he hesitated too long.
“No…he’s another problem. He’s not stupid. He actually caught me while I was [Invisible] the other day. It’s just how the armies are being run. Edellein’s my problem. I’m stuck with him, but what do you think about General Rigrel?”
Mivifa was more careful than Saliss, but she merely checked the tentflaps and their privacy spells before lowering her voice.
“General Narrina is not a fan. Candidly? I thought Manus’ camp looks a bit roughshod, but I put that down to your pranks. Morale seems low—but it’s low across most Walled Cities.”
“Even Oteslia? You won at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Tell that to any Gnoll who had relatives there, Saliss. General Narrina took precautions to stay away from Manus to avoid more brawls breaking out, given who was on whose side. I don’t even want to picture Salazsar and Fissival meeting. They’re still at war.”
Drakes hating Drakes. I wonder how we ever find time to fight other species. Saliss downed his drink.
“Well, you’re wondering why I’m in a bad mood.”
Her lips twisted.
“Point. I just hate seeing you like this.”
Saliss was trying not to rock the boat too much. Edellein’s boat, sure, but he hadn’t done more than officially-sanctioned pranks on any other army. He wasn’t messing with Manus’ affairs, and he was playing well with Oteslia. He just hated the dysfunction of the armies, here. He sighed, and pushed Lyssander out of his thoughts.
“Forget about it. The armies brawl and fight and there’s always someone who dies falling into the latrines. We know that. Let’s focus on what we can deal with: the New Lands. You need to be careful in the skies, Mivifa. Everything that wants to eat the Wings will go after Feathi in a heartbeat.”
She nodded.
“Mana-suppressant potions. It makes us sick, but we know how to deal with Wyverns. Ah, did you see the attack on the Haven? Remember what Bevussa said? Flying fish. I wonder if those were the same…”
They began discussing how dangerous these super-monsters actually were and confirming that neither one of them had ever run into most of the monsters Bevussa had described. Saliss left Mivifa’s tent in a focused mood, if not a bit better overall. It was only after he’d tossed himself into his tent that something occurred to him.
“Lyssander. Cire. Werica. Rafaema. All four of those names came from Mrsha.”
He sat up slowly in his tent and frowned.
“So what’s Cire’s potential? What’s Lyssander’s?”
Potential, right? Mrsha didn’t just send him a list of Turnscales—no, Cire had been only after females of any species. Saliss sat there, thinking.
“Potential? He did catch me invisibly. But he couldn’t beat Lieutenant Comois in the Officer Trials. Then again—a Gold-ranker would have lost that fight. Why the hell him?”
But he knew the answer. Saliss rolled over in his bedroll, then rolled over again until he was a cloth sausage rolling across the tent. He wished he hadn’t said that.
Just like General Sserys. Everyone who was a Turnscale knew who Sserys had been. Dead gods, it had been obvious. Fewer knew about Zel Shivertail. Call it coincidence, but Mirn had always had a theory.
“Being a Turnscale is hard. Everything tries to beat it out of you, Saliss, chew you up and spit you out. You have to hang on or go crazy or just—try and quit. It’s hard. How does anyone level? Think on it…”
“If it was that easy, Mirn, we’d all be Level 60. Shut the fuck up.”
Saliss muttered into the night. But he couldn’t shake the question. The next day, he forgot entirely about that late-night thought, at least in the early morning. Captain Yorm woke him up bright and early for Saliss’ speciality:
Demolition work.
 
——
 
The wall of ice that the Fatguin (no one had come up with a better name) had created was still in place, and High Command wanted it gone.
In this case, it was General Edellen, General Rigrel, Green General Narrina, and Shark Captain Femar. There was a Wall Lady who’d elected to lead Salazsar’s troops, but she was more nobility and, apparently, still on the way. Fissival was also on the outs, both politically and in terms of distance, so the four commanders were operating by committee for now.
Femar was the youngest of the four, the brashest, and definitely the best in combat, but seniority meant he had to defer to the others at times. Edellein had the most power despite his lack of seniority over Rigrel due to the size of his army, and it was he who made the request.
“We need a hole in this ice wall, Saliss. We’ve hit it with picks, and our [Battle Alchemists] and Glasiaad took a crack at it, but it’s just draining too much mana. Can you destroy it without wasting too much gold?”
“I mean, I can. But what happened to good, old-fashioned digging?”
Saliss was curious. The ground was frozen solid, but it would be easy to either sap the walls or just ramp over it. He was an expensive solution when an army was a multitool that could fix problems like this. It was Femar who barked back.
“We could waste time making a ramp or give our troops a show, Adventurer. After raising every tentflap in a hundred meters last night, I think they deserve it.”
That drew laughter from people who’d heard until Femar glared around, but he wasn’t actually looking to brawl Saliss. He was glaring, but there was that charisma that Saliss had seen now and then.
“Yes, what the Sharkcaptain said. Bread and visiting the menagerie…that’s the ticket. You know your stuff, Femar.”
General Rigrel put in. He appeared…tired. And, Saliss noticed, he couldn’t take his eyes off of Femar. The Sharkcaptain slapped Rigrel on the back of his armor, and the Gnoll winced.
“I’ve learned it from the best, General Rigrel.”
“Yes, ha-hah. Well, that’s what we’ve elected to do. On with the show, Adventurer Saliss.”
The purely envious gaze Rigrel shot Femar said a lot. One was in the prime of his life, the other…Saliss turned to Edellein, and the [General] gave him a look. Are you going to usurp my command here?
And risk the chance to blow something up and get paid while doing it? Saliss cracked his knuckles as everyone turned to him. He smiled despite himself.
“Ooh, a challenge, is it? Let me see.”
He did like problems like this. This was a puzzle, and Saliss knew better than to brute-force it with a mass flame spell like Glasiaad would have done without the mana drain. His first instinct was simple.
“What if we made a bridge over the ice?‘
Earth ramp up, earth ramp down. However, the amount of troops that each army had meant it would be a lot of work. Esor shook his head.
“If we could break it apart, Alchemist…? Even a few chunks would be enough. We have the muscle; it’s just one solid sheet. Amazingly tough, really. Our [Cryomancers] say that it’s equivalent of a [Glacius Wall] spell—Tier 5.”
“Psh, only Tier 5? Give me a second…”
Saliss was running down the list of options he had. There were several things that dealt with ice. Salt, for one. Heat was too obvious…he was imagining how you could quarry some huge sheets of rock by embedding stakes of wood in the ice, then adding water. The expanding wood cracked the stone, and you could clear huge amounts of stone with only a hammer, a few pieces of wood, water, and time.
However…this was magical ice. Even the compressed wood might not crack it, and he didn’t have time to fiddle around with pieces of wood all day. But the idea still made Saliss think he had something.
What about a shockwave? If I drill a hole in the ice and put a vial in there, let’s say…Potion of Combustion? No, the fire needs air. How about a Thunderclap Vial? That much sound and force will explode and crack the ice—if I seal the hole.
Having a sealant stronger than the ice so the shockwave had nowhere to go but into the ice would be key. Saliss thought and found the right vial.
Gianthammer Glue. So named because apocryphally, it had once been used to make a hammer for a giant. Saliss doubted it was that strong, but he strode over to the wall of ice. A lot of [Soldiers] were waiting to go, and he waved his hands at them, showing off a bit. Maybe it was seeing the Wings of Pallass there or his better mood, but he called out to a hungover Mivifa and Feathi.
“Well, well, well! It seems the Walled Cities have found an enemy they can’t defeat: ice! I, Saliss of Lights, will defeat this cunning obstacle! Observe, nothing up my sleeves…”
Mivifa threw a rock at him.
“Get on with it, Saliss!”
He chucked a hangover tonic back at her. Then Saliss sighed dramatically.
“Oh, fine. Now, I just need a tiny hole…let me just try some lava. Whoops!”
He had a special jar that kept anything in it amazingly hot. Saliss ‘accidentally’ tossed some lava on the wall of ice.
It exploded.
Ice meeting lava tended to do that. Saliss dodged the blast of steam and picked himself up theatrically. Then he stared.
“Huh.”
The ice was unharmed. The cooling lava steamed on the grass, and Saliss upgraded how cold he thought this damn wall was. A dangerous bird indeed.
“Okay…no lava. Let me just try some powder. Anyone got a ladder? Feathi, I need a footstool! Feathi?”
She ignored him, but Bevussa leapt up.
“Where to, Alchemist?”
He had her drop him on top of the wall, and despite his Potion of Ice Resistance, Saliss felt the chill. He pretended to hop on one foot then another as he dumped powder onto a spot.
“You may want to stand back, Captain. And shield your eyes.”
It was mostly just metallic powders he’d combined with a bit of fire magicore on top of the ice wall. Saliss lit a match, then took a step back as the mixture began to burn red-hot.
Rhaldon called the compound ‘thermite’. Which sounded so much less cool than Flaresand. This time, the burning, spitting mixture produced more than just an explosion of steam. Saliss eyed the eye-searing blaze and saw the ice reducing—but it was going to make a circular pit, not a tube-sized hole.
So he pulled out some gloves and, to Bevussa’s shock, began scooping at the burning thermite.
“Come on, burn a hole. A hole! Ooh, that’s a bit hot.”
“Alchemist Saliss, are you okay?”
“What? Sure, sure. Anyone want some of this? It burns through bones, you know.”
The audience stared as the screaming thermite melted a hole into the ice under Saliss’ claws. He eventually picked up the powder and ran, swearing, to another spot on the wall where he repeated the process until it finally burned out.
The end result were some messy holes, and Saliss pulled out another tool to get them a bit more in the shape he wanted.
“Adamantium dagger, say hello to ice. And Adamantium…wins…”
Dead gods, it was annoying to carve. Saliss worked the blade with all his strength, trying not to waste another potion for that. He’d only spent about ten minutes all told, but he was conscious of the time-crunch, and when he thought the two holes were big enough, he found some cotton, stuffed the highest-grade Thunderclap Vials into each hole, and covered them with Giantshammer Glue, taking care to avoid leaving the slightest gap.
Now, in theory, the Thunderclap Potions would explode and the shockwave would transmit through the ice. There was a chance they’d just sunder the place where glue met ice, but Saliss’ estimations had the glue’s adhesion being stronger than that.
If this doesn’t work, I might get to test one of my seith potions. But I doubt Edellein wants to pay that. Saliss stood up and shouted.
“Alright, ladies and gentlemen! Stand back!”
The [Soldiers] milling about retreated as officers bawled the order. Saliss waited until they were fifty feet away before clearing his throat.
“Further back. You may see ice falling on you! If that happens, I advise you to not be there when it lands! Now, all I have to do is set them off…”
Theatrically, he bent down, and his audience saw him light a match. Then stare at the glue-covered caps where the vials were lodged inside. Saliss hesitated.
“Ah.”
“Don’t tell me that idiot’s forgotten to put a fuse on his vials!”
Saliss distinctly heard Shark Captain Femar grouse to laughter and groans from his audience. Saliss spun around.
“Hey, Shark Captain Femar, when I want advice from Zeres’ Admiralty, I’ll go to Admiral Asale! Hold on, I just have to…”
He began kicking at the glue caps and trying to pry one up. He saw Edellein glaring and issuing orders, but only a few of the Alchecorps stirred. They were watching him, and Strategist Esor was sighing. Saliss turned to his jeering audience.
Only Mivifa was watching with a resigned expression, and Saliss couldn’t help but notice that Captain Bevussa was also flying well clear of the icewalls. Smart kid. He winked at her, then put his hands on his hips.
“You know what would be really handy here? [Remote Detonation]. Oh sh—”
The explosion blew him off the icewalls and straight into the air. Which Saliss had known; he’d been standing on one of the gluecaps.
