"I have asked myself that question many a time," Valor replied, but he shook his head, and the corrosive flames within his socket dimmed in disappointment. "I cannot give you a true answer. I do not know myself. How the ruins ended up all the way down here is another mystery. What I can say is that this place used to be a hub for automata before they gained human-like consciousness, before the System imbued them with souls and skills. I also know that this place was once struck by multiple specialized explosives. Radiation-bearing warheads, I believe the ancients called them. Devastating weapons that harness the functions of the natural world to their fullest extent. Yet comparatively feeble compared to the feats certain Pathbearers are capable of."

"Are all ruins like this?" Shiv asked. "Because I didn't feel the same thing when I was going through Lost Angeles. A bunch of lesser vampires set up there too without any problems, and I never felt like something was fundamentally wrong with the place."

"Quite correct. Not all ruins are the same. It seems that places that have been deliberately destroyed at the hands of the ancients themselves are more stained with this deprivation, this loss. As a result, the unique radiation lingers. If I were more certain about the nature of the System, I would dare say it is… mourning."

Uva's expression darkened. "Mourning. What a strange thing to do for an entity that lives only for our suffering and struggle."

"Yes, ours, but perhaps not our predecessors’, for whatever reason. Come, let us continue. The radiation is a sign, but I have not found what I came here to discover."

They proceeded deeper into the heart of the sprawling machine city, and with every step they took, the wrongness in the atmosphere grew, settling inside them like an inflammation called to awaken. The others continued to be anxious, but Shiv felt something different. The wrongness caused him pain. Adam and Uva continued experiencing a rise in unnatural paranoia. The movements of Can Hu's body grew more machine-like, and even some repaired damage returned as its chassis rusted and cracked along its spine and torso. But when asked if they felt any physical pain, all of them answered in the negative.

In that regard, Shiv suffered alone—but it didn’t seem that way, as his skills started whispering their own pleas to him.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Please, leave now. Please. Being here makes us stop. I don't want to fizzle out of existence.

Gardener of Doubt: You should flee. If you stay here for too long, you will become nothing more than a body, an eye, just a blurring, a lie. All magic is born as fantasy, and fantasy without common belief is but delusion. Flee…

A Glimpse of Perspective: Whatever is being sought here cannot be found. Not by you, not by anyone.

And though this wasn't the first time Shiv’s skills had spoken to him, they sounded different. They sounded unnatural. Like someone else was trying to communicate with him through his very soul.

"Come on, guys, we won't be here for long," Shiv muttered under his breath.

"What was that?" Adam asked. Uva was looking at Shiv as well, concern written upon her face.

"I was just speaking to my skills," Shiv replied. "Pain's getting a bit worse. My skills want to leave. They're really scared. No idea why."

Valor turned halfway, but never halted. He didn't say anything either. Shiv suspected the ancient Pathbearer had a theory, and he was testing that on Shiv directly.

"Maybe you should go back," Adam said. "Wait outside this place, at least. It might not be good for you. Perhaps you're developing cancer of some specific sort."

"It is not cancer," Valor said, not turning this time. "He's simply experiencing the full weight of the lack. I feel it too, the pain. I suspected something like this might happen. Do not worry, it is not fatal. It is simply extremely uncomfortable."

Shiv trusted Valor, but it still felt wrong, being here. "Why are we feeling this way? Why do you and I feel physical pain while it's mostly psychological for the others?"

"Because we are far more favored than they are. Some part of us has been overridden on a fundamental level. We are bound to the System now. We have survived too many of its attempts to slay us, and by this point, I think the System no longer fully believes in your destruction. It will claim your life for good if it gets the chance, but it has sunk its tendrils inside of you, and it seeks to use you. Much like my son seeks to use you. But where he wishes to have you usurp the System, that which governs all and stands as the font of magic itself yearns to have you be a foundational pillar of strife to resolve or create new problems for others."

And Shiv flashed back to his experiences at Phoenix Academy, how he ran into so many others in peril, how he encountered so many problems in so short a time, yet how they were different from before. They weren't straight fights. They were conundrums and unexpected encounters, not necessarily for him, but more so for his enemies. From a different perspective, he guessed that he was a nightmare incarnate, especially for that Hero-Inquisitor he broke, or the bullies he brutalized. They'd had no chance against him and were given no hints he was there. And so he tore through the academy like a storm of blades upon a field of wheat.

While they walked and Shiv's thoughts drifted, a text suddenly appeared before his eyes.

What would you sacrifice, who would you kill, and how many worlds would you destroy to bring him back?

These words were fully dissociated from his skills, and they flared bright in his vision, till, an instant later, they vanished as if they had never been. When Shiv tried to pull up the notification as he could with all the others, it didn't return. It was absent. Beyond his grasp. And he found himself wondering if it had been simply a trick of his mind brought on by the loss of Georges, or if something greater was at play.

Might be fucking both when it comes to me, Shiv thought, shaking his head.
