I looked around as we entered the border wall and realized it stretched as far as I could see in every direction, with endless fields of wheat and other crops between it and the main wall, which was at least several miles down the road from us, but standing tall on the horizon.

I didn’t know what exactly I’d expected from coming here, but I was already hopeful that this was the right choice after all.

***

After leaving the church, Valrok meandered over the forests opposite of the Umarii lands for a while. It soon felt like it would be a wasted effort, and he decided he could search the woods more thoroughly later. The beasts would need water, so even though their tracks led away from the river, he figured it’d be best to search upriver for evidence of them heading back that way.

He didn’t know what to make of his discovery at the church, but it was enough to not give up the chase. Had he not discovered such oddities about the attack in the vale, then chasing after the pups for days or weeks just to kill them or perhaps sell them for some gold would have been a wasted effort. While it would have satisfied the tribe somewhat, the true damage had already been done. Though, Elva’s performance against her challengers and on her own hunt had repaired some of that damage.

But everything was different now. He felt the thrill of the hunt coursing through him, perhaps even greater than when he plotted his attack on the god-tier Hell Hound. This alone made it all worthwhile. Before, he’d cursed his decision to take all but Iris, as just killing the rest of the pups on that fateful day would have been better than letting one into Umarii hands and losing twenty additional men.

But a new hunt, a true hunt was on. Though surely not yet powerful enough for a thrilling fight against himself, it was still a beast that could think and strategize like a human. What manner of monster was it? Whether a blessing of the Almighty or a curse by the Scaly Bastard, he didn’t care. He had to know, and he would not lose.

His decision to fly upriver turned out to be a stroke of fortune. Traveling with the Dragon’s incredible speed, he soon came across a toppled merchant’s wagon, and plenty of evidence in the corpses of the bandits and the tracks laid in the dirt to know he was on the right path.

He continued upriver with urgency. When he left the Bloody Peaks several days ago, he never would have expected the hunt would bring him all the way to the Verdant Empire. He couldn’t imagine a reason the Hell Hounds would go there, but just as it was with the Umarii lands, that’d place them out of his reach, so he had to cut off that route as quickly as possible.

***

The fox walked along in human form, back the way she had spent so many days traveling with the brats. She’d occasionally kick a noteworthy stone off the trail and into the river as she meandered along. It hadn’t even been a full hour, yet she felt an unfamiliar heaviness sinking in.

“Snap out of it…” she muttered to herself. “It was just for a stupid quest, after all… If they’d just listened, it wouldn’t have taken half as long anyway…”

And maybe I wouldn’t have had time to get attached…

She shook that thought away as quickly as it had come. The world was too harsh to care about anything other than your own survival. Caring is how you got hurt.

She spotted a particularly inviting rock and slowed her pace, closing an eye to paint a mental target as she reared her foot back.

I do hope they are alright amongst those humans, though… and that they find what they’re looking for.

As her leg started to come forward, something else caught her eye. Far in the distance. Something flying.

She narrowed her eyes and then instantly ran for the trees alongside the trail.

She watched from behind a tree, confirming what she was seeing.

A dragon!?

The Bloody Peaks Tribe were in no way one of the strongest forces in the realm. Yet, they were infamous all the same. Their geographical advantages were one factor to their longevity, but the other was that they had a legendary champion on their side.

Valrok Wyrmscar, the dragon rider. She had heard the tales, and they were the ones who had taken the brat’s family. If he was here now, then—

She turned and instantly began to yank her clothes off, but she wasn’t even down to her skivvies before it all ripped apart around her as her body expanded into fur and muscle and she took her fox form. Even her backpack was left behind as her massive paws hit the forest floor, and she bolted through the trees as fast as her legs could carry her.

She had left them at the boundary wall, but that dragon was moving so fast! If there was any delay, any suspicion that kept them at the checkpoint for too long, then it would catch up to them before they managed to safely make their way behind the city walls.

READ NEXT CHAPTER NOW!
