I'm starting to feel a little bad for them. But it's not like I can let my guard down as it's fifty of them against just the two of us. We are really the victims here, being ganged up on.

While seeing this many Star Core Realm cultivators didn't faze her anymore after what she had seen in the Eternal Realm, there was no doubting that the Frozen Star Sect was a powerhouse worthy of being considered on a similar level to the Celestial Empire.

"Unknown cultivator, stay out of this!" A black robed volcano cultist, this time, floated toward her without a sword drawn. Bloodlust openly radiated off him, but Stella wasn't impressed. Had this guy even killed a monster in his life? His bloodlust was so weak.

"And who might you be?" Stella asked arrogantly. She found that if she said it this way, they were far more likely to try to feel the need to impress her with their name.

"I'm Grand Elder Bingxu."

"Uh-huh," Stella said, secretly tapping the name into her Eternal Pursuit Pavilion pendant. Her eyes widened slightly. There was a bounty! That meant she could kill without Janus getting mad. Glancing up, she smiled at him. "Well, Grand Elder Bingxu..."

She paused, finding the man's confident grin strange.

"It's not often I get the pleasure of facing a beauty like yourself, and it pains my heart to see how you tremble in fear before me after learning of my profound name." The man raised his chin, looking down his nose at her condescendingly and flashing his soul pressure. "But even if you were to kowtow, kiss my foot, and beg for forgiveness, it's far too late for you. For you have wronged too many of my brothers today and are narrow-minded enough to defend Ao Lingxuan from facing judgment. Now... in their memory, I will be the one to handle your execution."

"Oh, is that so?" Stella narrowed her eyes. "Brother, it seems I have restrained myself for too long."

"What do you mean by restraint? It's only been a few hours, and you have killed dozens, many of whom didn't have bounties!" he yelled while grunting from his fight, but Stella could tell Janus was putting on a show to try to deter others from entering the battle. After all, his goal from the start had been to reduce casualties and not anger Ao Lingxuan once the fight with Zeph was over.

But Stella didn't care about any of that. Ash could fight the Celestial Empire just fine, with or without this arrogant dragon's help. All she cared about was finding a Fleshfruit tree, meeting her brother, and heading home as soon as possible.

"Brother, forgive me for what is about to transpire," Stella whispered as she closed her eyes and summoned her sword into her grasp for the first time. She was far too angry to hold back anymore. Aether Qi law surged from her fingertips down the length of the blade, wreathing it in shimmering threads of ethereal energy. Reality itself quivered as she slowly raised the weapon, tracing a hair-thin fissure through existence with its tip that seemed to divide the very fabric of the world. However, with her Phantom Veil Amulet obscuring her cultivation, one would need to have paid close attention to notice what she just did.

Clearly, Grand Elder Bingxu hadn't. He was far too busy sneering at her down that long nose of his.

"It's useless!" Grand Elder Bingxu laughed, floating closer with his arms arrogantly open as if inviting her in. "Closing your eyes won't save you, girl. No matter how much you beg, I, Grand Elder Bingxu, will—"

With her eyes still closed, Stella blinked past him and carved downwards. Reality caught up a second later, a hair-thin tear in the aether tracing her path and seamlessly horizontally slicing Grand Elder Bingxu in half alongside the rest of reality in her wake.

Grand Elder Bingxu's death was swift and silent. The man didn't have time to even blink, let alone cry out in pain. In fact, he likely didn't even know he had died. Yet, despite the incision being hair-thin, reality made up for the silence, loudly shrieking as it pulled itself back together.

Stella slowly opened her eyes and snapped her fingers—a rift to the aether swallowed the two halves of Grand Elder Bingxu. Ash might appreciate the snack, Stella thought as she flicked the blood off her sword and smiled at the remaining cultivators, who all floated backward in fear.

"Game has changed," Stella said, eying each of them. "No more line. If you stay in my sight, you're dead. Got it? Good." She blinked out of existence again.

Enough holding back. It was time to enjoy a hunt.

She just hoped Janus wouldn't be too mad at her once it was over.
