“See? There he is,” she said, standing beside him near the newly-constructed dock, utterly unperturbed by the overwhelming show of power. “Like I said, he’s busy.” She gestured toward the breathtakingly-clear expanse of ocean. “If you want to take up your complaint about your community service placement with him, be my guest and jump right in. Otherwise, get back to the lumberyard and back to work. Just because you’re awakened, it doesn’t mean you can’t take orders from someone who’s not. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I really am quite busy.”

She slipped away, and Thrast didn’t have the presence of mind to do anything but let her go. He shook his head numbly, watching as Rain’s companion on the seafloor did something that sent streaks of bubbles away from her in a fan. It was clearly an attack of some kind, though against what, he couldn’t see. Regardless, his instincts were screaming at him, telling him in no uncertain terms that whatever she’d just done was far more deadly than it had seemed.

And Rain...

The man had been using magic constantly since he’d arrived in the city. Only now was it dawning on Thrast what that meant. He hadn’t been doing it with the level of power he’d just displayed, obviously, but to keep that up for so long...and to still have enough mana left to do something like this...

His mana pool must be as bottomless as the ocean.

Thrast licked his lips. Rain and his organization weren’t on the same level as the Sea Kings like he’d thought. No, they were above them. They were soft, ruling over the city with none of the brutality that their predecessors had employed, but it wasn’t because they were weak. They simply didn’t need to be brutal, and he’d been the fool who’d refused to see it. It was like being in a DKE city or under the thumb of one of the stricter Guild leaders. The rules were the rules. Interfering with those that enforced them was courting death, whether those enforcers were stronger than you or not.

Thrast swallowed heavily, squashing his pride as he turned away to do as he’d been told.

Maybe this...community service thing...isn’t so bad, after all.
