Goblins. I woke up screaming two nights in a row, hand burning, infected. I scared Mrsha. Even now, the Gnoll cub is following me, but a ways away. She fears me and maybe, hates me for what I did.
The price paid for her life, and mine come to that.
I look down at her, and the Gnoll looks up at me. Her fur is so white now, the color of fresh snow. She’s almost invisible if she stops, and her brown eyes are the only real color on her body aside from her claws and nose. She is…silent.
She’s always been silent. But now Mrsha walks like a ghost. She has lost her tribe. Her family, her friends…
All because of me.
Even now I see the faerie hovering overhead. I hear Urksh, hear his voice over the sounds of his tribe dying around him.
“We offer everything.”
Did any of them survive? Any of them? Or did the entire damn army die as well? What was the price?
Mrsha stumbles, tripping over something in the snow. I stop, and she slowly gets to her feet.
She’s tired. And hungry. Neither of us have eaten.
“It’s only a little farther. Can you walk?”
She nods. I nod back. There’s nothing more to say. If I carried her I would fall within a mile.
“I’m sorry.”
How many times have I said that? How many times did I see it when I woke and remembered? Mrsha just looks up at me silently, her young eyes judging. But she can’t tell me how she feels.
It doesn’t matter. I know. I know what it’s like, to lose faith in someone you admired. I failed Mrsha. I brought her stories and then death. I gave her a small dream and then took everything she had.
I…this is all my fault*.
*Of course it isn’t. I know it isn’t. I’m not responsible for all of it. I didn’t force armies to fight or make the Goblins kill. But it is my fault. Mine alone.
Too late to go back. Too late to offer something else. She is all that remains, and I must take care of her. So I turn and look across the snowy plains.
Something flits down into my line of sight. A body made of crystal and ice. Immortality frozen into the shape of a small faerie. She looks at me.
“Yon city is but an hour’s journey away. Do not stop now.”
It almost makes me laugh. The faeries are worried about us. About me. I look at her.
“What was the price? What was paid, and what was lost?”
She looks at me in silence. It’s the same question I’ve asked every time one of them comes near. Silently, the faerie flies back up with the others.
They’ve been avoiding me. Can’t they answer?
“What did we pay? Was it really that steep a price!?”
I shout up at them. Mrsha hunkers in the snow and covers her ears with her paws. The faeries look at me, silent judges.
“Do not ask, mortal. What is done is done. Only regrets can come of knowing what might have been.”
I snap. I don’t remember seizing the rock in the snow and hurling it up at the faeries. I scream at them, my voice raw and furious.
“Fuck you! Give me a goddamn straight answer for once you bitches! Tell me! Damn you all, you traitorous conniving demons! What was the price!? Tell me or—”
Something. I see a shivering ball of fur cowering on the ground beside me as I hurl snow and scream at the retreating faeries. I halt, stop.
Mrsha is cowering in the snow, away from me. She’s shaking so hard that it looks like she’s vibrating.
All at once, the anger goes out of me.
“Mrsha. I—”
I step towards her. She flinches away. I stop.
“I’m sorry.”
I sit in the snow, flames gone. Embers remain, but they smolder on. Yet guilt and sadness are in me now, too strong to ignore.
I’ve really made a mess of things this time, haven’t I? I thought a few potions and some alchemist’s tricks would change things. But I—
I was arrogant. And now that arrogance has cost lives. If I had levels, maybe I would have gotten to Mrsha sooner, or maybe I would have been able to fight. Maybe—
But now it’s too late. Far too late.
Ever since that night, the voice of the system or whatever it was has stopped speaking to me. Usually, every night really, I’d hear some kind of notification in my head and cancel it. [Barefoot Runner Level 1!], or [Disciple Level 3!] after the fight I had with Calruz. Yet now that I’m waiting for it, I hear nothing.
Nothing at all.
I guess it just gave up on me. Or that was part of the price I paid? I don’t know. I only know that I got away from certain death and paid for that miracle with two fingers. And I know that Mrsha survived, at the cost of her entire tribe.
Maybe they were fated to die, and this allowed one to live instead of others. Or maybe the faeries altered destiny so the tribe died instead of just Mrsha. I guess I’ll never know.
But I remember the Goblin Lord. I remember his eyes, and his damn army.
I clench my fists as Mrsha slowly stops shaking and looks up at me. I force myself to smile unconvincingly at her. But inside, the madness rears up again.
I will never forgive them. They will die. I swear it.
I am no killer. That’s what Erin told me. But those monsters deserve to die. And I will kill them, even if it means I can never go back to who I used to be.
For now, I look at Mrsha and try to make my voice soft. Reassure her. I wish I knew how. She’s just a kid. She needs an expert to help her with the trauma and loss. But I’ve been marching her relentlessly.
“I’m sorry for shouting, Mrsha. We’re nearly there. Once we get to the city, we can eat and sleep, okay? We’ll be safe there.”
I point and Mrsha squints. Liscor is visible across the rolling plains of snow in the distance. She looks uncertain.
“We’ll be safe, I promise.”
What a lie. And how could I promise that to a kid who’s just seen her family cut down around her? But Mrsha nods, trusting me and so we walk on as knives of guilt cut my stomach to ribbons.
On and on, in numb silence.
It feels like a second before I’m staring at a wooden door. I look around and blink. It’s night time. Mrsha leans against my leg, too tired to do anything else. The faeries are gone. I look around, but their glow is nowhere to be seen.
Good. I guess. My head is full of fog. I raise my left hand, my good hand, and knock.
For a minute I think no one’s coming. But there’s light in the windows. Please let her be there. Then I hear the scraping of bolts in the lock and the door opens.
Light and warmth spill out into the cold night. I blink.
“Ryoka?”
A familiar face fills the doorway. It’s strange, but she hasn’t changed a bit.
“Hi, Erin.”
She beams at me. I can barely lift my head. I’m back.
All the strength goes out of my legs. I collapse forwards, onto Erin.
She yelps and catches me just in time.
“Ryoka? What’s wrong?”
“I’m back.”
“Are you hurt? Are you tired? Hold on, let me—who’s this?”
I try to pick myself up as Erin fumbles for the door. It’s almost comedic so I smile, but then I see Mrsha peeking anxiously at Erin from the snow.
“Mrsha.”
“Who?”
Erin’s face is a picture of confusion as I turn and beckon. The Gnoll hesitates, but she steps into the warm inn and sniffs the air.
“Oh! She’s so cute!”
Erin bends down and Mrsha leaps back out the door like a wild animal. I sigh.
“It’s okay. Erin—this is Erin Solstice, Mrsha. She’s a friend.”
A friend. I hold the door open. Mrsha hesitates, but she pads in again. This time Erin maintains a respectful distance.
“Where did she come from, Ryoka?”
How can I explain? I just sigh.
“It’s a long story. Her name is Mrsha. She’s just a kid. I brought her here because there’s nowhere else for her to go.”
Mrsha pads a bit into the room, her nails clicking on the floorboards. She’s on all fours—it seems Gnolls alternate between two and four legs and she’s still used to four legs for movement. She sniffs and stares at the dim embers in the fireplace, but she stays next to me.
Erin looks at Mrsha, eyes widening as she realizes what I mean.
“Oh no. Did you—was she lost? Or…abandoned?”
“Neither. Her tribe’s gone, Erin.”
It’s all I can say right now. Even that hurts. Erin’s eyes widen, but it takes her only a few seconds to get it. She’s lived in this world as long as I have. Possibly longer. She knows what I mean.
“I’m so sorry. Hey sweetie, are you alright?”
Erin bends down with a big smile for Mrsha. But Mrsha just edges away. She hides behind a table, staring at Erin. I can’t blame her for being afraid.
“Mrsha. It’s alright. Erin’s not dangerous. She’s nice. She’ll help look after you.”
Better than I can. Mrsha peeks up at Erin from around the table and I realize how thin she’s gotten. She barely ate after that first night, and without food—
Erin lets Mrsha sniff at her hand, but Mrsha’s still shy. She looks up at Erin with wide eyes, and I realize that she’s probably only the second Human that Mrsha’s ever met.
Too bad. If she’d met Erin first—
I close my eyes. It all hurts.
I lean on one of Erin’s tables, exhausted. My hand splays out and Erin looks down and gasps.
“Your hand—”
I grimace. It’s still hard for me to look at the stumps. I wrapped them in some bandages, but—
“It doesn’t matter. I’ll tell you later.”
“Tell me later? Ryoka, what hap—”
“Feed her first. She hasn’t had any food today.”
I point to Mrsha. My stomach is empty, and I’m about to pass out from hunger. Mrsha must be worse off. Her ears perk up when I say ‘food.’
Erin’s still hesitating. She’s looking at my hand, and that makes me…irritated. I know it’s bad. Haven’t I stared at it every second of every day? But that’s not important.
“Erin. Food.”
My friend jerks and Mrsha jumps back. Erin looks around wildly.
“Food? We’ve got food. There’s some leftover meat—uh—where did Toren put it?”
She raises her voice to shout for the damn skeleton.
“T—”
“Don’t.”
I have to raise my voice in a half-shout that scares both Erin and Mrsha. Both look at me.
“What?”
“Don’t call Toren. You’ll scare her.”
I can’t believe I have to explain it to her. My temper—it flares and goes out. Not Erin’s fault. Erin blinks at me, and then looks at Mrsha.
“Oh, right!”
My teeth grit together as Erin rushes into the kitchen and goes looking for the food. Why am I angry? I mean, why am I angry at her? It’s not Erin’s fault if she’s thoughtless—
Control yourself. I can’t trust my emotions at the moment. I take a few deep breaths as the chill leaves me and exhaustion fills my limbs. It’s okay. Everything’s okay now.
It’s really not, but I tell myself that until Erin returns. She’s got some food wrapped in cloth and she’s dusting off snow. It turns out she’s got meat—part of a roasted fowl and some sliced meat, cold bread, and cheese.
She must have put it in the snow to keep it preserved. Doesn’t she know that will attract scavengers and monsters? If she thought for one damn second—
Calm down.
Erin adds more wood to the fire as she unwraps the food.
“Sorry—you can put it near the fire to warm up. And uh, I don’t think Toren’s in the inn. He must have gone outside.”
“Fine.”
The meat is cold and hard from being kept outside. I barely taste it, but gulp it down. Mrsha’s eating just as fast. Erin watches us gobble the food up and goes to get more.
“Enough.”
I say it after a few more minutes of frantic eating. Mrsha looks at me.
“Don’t eat too much or you’ll get sick.”
Heavy food on an empty stomach. Already I feel a tiny bit nauseous, but I’m alive. Alive.
Erin hovers around me and Mrsha, a pitcher of warm milk in her hands. I know she wants to ask questions, and I don’t want to say anything. All I want to do is sleep. Sleep and not have to deal with this. But I’ve got to deal with this.
“Why didn’t you eat? I mean, didn’t you have any more food?”
No, we starved ourselves for the fun of it. I bite my lip. Calm.
“We ran out of food a day ago.”
It was either stop to forage or press on. I wasn’t sure whether I could find anything—or whether I’d be able to get out of danger if I met a monster—so we just kept moving.
Mrsha shudders. She reaches for a glass of milk and gulps it greedily. I stare at her and feel another pang. That’s one more thing I have to answer for.
Erin sees me looking. I don’t know what she sees on my face. I don’t want to know. Looking at her expression is bad enough.
“Ryoka, what happened?”
At last, Erin puts the jug on the table and sits next to me, staring. Mrsha hesitates, but the Gnoll just edges away from Erin a bit as she chews at some scraps on her plate. I sigh.
“It’s a long story.”
“Tell me. Please? All I know is that you were going on a long delivery, but the Frost Faeries chased you away. Did they do this?”
“No.”
They might have. But—they’re malicious, deceitful, antagonistic—and yet, I know they like children. No, they would never have organized this, even if they could.
And Erin’s staring at me. Just staring. I want to tell her, but I don’t. I want to bury the memories forever, and another part of me wants to confess my failure.
I hesitate. Mrsha’s still sitting here. But she’s not going to let me put her to bed so easily. And it needs to be said. So I look at Erin.
“Fine.”
No one else has to know. I may never tell the entirety of what passed again. But Erin knows me. I know Erin. We haven’t known each other for long, but I trust her. More than almost anyone in this damn world. She helped save Ceria with me. She…
Might understand.
Slowly, I begin to speak. I tell Erin everything that passed since I ran out her inn being chased by the faeries. Some of it is unimportant. The long days of being tormented by them – meaningless now. They’re almost pleasant memories to what came next.
And I can’t describe what passed in the Gnoll’s camp. I just tell Erin I entertained the faeries with stories and leave it at that. What I felt then is too precious to break down into a mere words.
Then comes the battle between the two armies. And the Necromancer. Erin listens, asking questions I don’t answer, wondering, speculating. But this is all a prelude.
When I speak of the night that Mrsha lost everything, the Gnoll child flattens herself to the ground and covers her eyes with her paws, shaking. Tears trickle down her face. Erin looks at her but I keep going.
It must be said. And it’s so easy, too.
“I struck a bargain with the faeries. They helped save Mrsha and me, but the Stone Spears tribe—all of them—we left them behind to the Goblins. The army was in retreat and I ran with the faeries. They froze everything in our way. I don’t know what happened to the others.”
The memories almost wipe the living world from me. I see ghosts, blood, and death. But the world swims back into vision when I hear Erin crying.
She’s crying. My eyes are dry. Erin’s shoulder shake as she stares at me. It hurts. Her sympathy hurts. I look away.
