Erin wipes tears from her eyes. She goes to pet Mrsha, but the Gnoll jerks away. She scampers under a table and curls up into a ball.
Heartbreak. My eyes are dry, and my soul is bleeding. I look at Erin.
“We came back. The faeries are still around. Mrsha has nowhere to go. Can you take care of her at your inn?”
“Of—of course. Absolutely. No problem.”
Erin looks around for something to blow her nose on. In the end she runs into the kitchen and comes out with a dirty rag. I eye her as she wipes the snot from her face.
“I’m so, so sorry.”
“You’ve said that. It happened.”
Nothing can change that. I sit at the table and stare at my fingers. So much, and yet so little. Not enough of a price, and yet—
They’re gone. Forever. No potion will bring them back. Not even Magnolia’s healer friend can restore missing body parts, just restore damaged ones.
Gone forever. A small price to pay.
“The Goblin Lord is still out there.”
I clench my hand, ignoring the pain. I sense Erin grow still as she sits next to me. I look at her.
“You need to be careful. His army was many days south of here, but he could come north. If he does—”
“If he does we’ll see. But for now you’re safe. I’ll lock the doors and Toren should be back. I’ll tell him to guard the inn.”
“Fine.”
Erin fidgets in her seat. I look at her. Why is she so easy to read? Doesn’t she have any…
“What is it, Erin?”
She hesitates.
“Um. Rags is in the area. With another Goblin.”
Silence. In my heart. I feel my fingers throbbing.
“Keep her away. If I see a Goblin right now I will kill it.”
I meet Erin’s eyes. Mine feel like they’re burning. She looks startled, but not afraid. Have I ever seen Erin afraid? But then her expression clouds and I see…disappointment.
It makes me angry. How can she judge me, when she’s heard what happened? How can she let Goblins into this inn?
How can—
I need her. I try to stuff the insanity welling up in my chest further down, but it keeps bubbling up. Pockets of madness.
“What happened here?”
I ask to distract myself. I don’t know that I really care. Erin hesitates. Now she looks worried.
“Oh, nothing much. Nothing…too important.”
“Erin.”
“Well…okay, some stuff happened.”
“Tell me.”
Hesitate. Fidget. She looks at Mrsha, and then at her hands. I stare at her. At last, Erin gives in and begins to chatter nervously.
“Oh I met some Gold-rank adventurer’s after I took this girl into my inn. She’s sort of annoying but they were going to let her die in the cold if I didn’t help. So that led to a fight and then I found out the faerie flowers were useful and I kicked Relc out after he got mad at Rags’ Goblin friend and ImaybewenttoseeLadyMagnoliatoday and—”
It’s like someone’s sent a jolt of electricity down my spine. My eyes fly open, and my heart begins to beat again. Anger stirs in my chest, a dark, twisting thing.
“What did you just say?”
“I met Lady Magnolia. Look, she sent a carriage to my inn, Ryoka, and I thought—”
“You just got in, didn’t you? Just like that, without a second damn thought?”
“I—”
Erin spreads her hands out helplessly. As if to say ‘what should I have done’? It makes me even angrier. My voice rises, and Mrsha, half-dozing, looks up.
“What did you tell her?”
“Um.”
Erin scratches her head. She can’t even remember.
“Nothing much…? But she knows I’m from our world. I mean, another world. And uh, she’s got other people.”
“Other people from our world?”
Damn her. My heart is beating faster. Erin nods.
“Yeah, she’s got a bunch of girls and guys. They’re younger than us, but they want to become adventurers. But uh, Magnolia doesn’t want them to leave. She’s afraid they’ll tell the secrets of our world.”
“And she knows those secrets? She knows everything?”
Erin can’t meet my eye.
“…Yeah. She knows about guns and stuff.”
“Fuck.”
I hit the table with my good hand. Erin looks worried. She reaches out to me, but I knock her hand away.
“I didn’t tell her anything important, Ryoka! She just wanted to know if I could be trusted. She tried to use a Skill on me, but it didn’t work—”
“You shouldn’t have been near her in the first place!”
I jab at Erin with one finger. She looks indignant.
“Why not? You met her!”
“Before I knew how dangerous she was. But you—you should have thought before you spoke to her! Did you even hesitate? Or did you see a shiny coach and just decide to get in?”
“Ryoka, that’s not what happened. Listen.”
Erin frowns, but I’m done listening. The beast is in my chest, and the fury is consuming my mind. Too late.
“No. You listen. You going to meet Magnolia is exactly what she wanted. She knows you’re from another world now, you idiot! She had no way of telling, but you gave it away—probably the instant she suggested she knew! And now she knows I know you, she’ll use you to get to me!”
“She wouldn’t do—”
Erin hesitates. Even she can’t finish that sentence. I glare at her. Something’s in my chest. It has control of my tongue.
“You don’t think. You just dance to her strings like a damn puppet, you moron.”
The other girl’s brows snap together.
“Don’t say it like that. I didn’t do anything wrong! I think Magnolia’s on our side.”
“On our side?”
Something in me snaps. All of the hatred, the anger, the frustration and fear and loss—it spews out of me, like poison.
“You fucking idiot. Don’t you ever think? No. you don’t. You just go ahead and do whatever’s in your empty head without a second’s regard for the consequences. Because of you, one of the most dangerous people in the world knows your secret and she’ll never give up. This is all your fault, you airheaded brat.”
I can’t stop the torrent. I don’t even want to. Erin stares at me first in shock and hurt, and then outrage.
“I’m not an idiot! Ryoka, just listen—”
“Shut up.”
“No! You shut up and listen!”
“So I can hear more of the lies Magnolia’s put in your head? But you believe what she’s told you without any doubt. Just how stupid are you!?”
I’m going too far. I know it, but I can’t stop. Erin’s face freezes.
“Don’t call me stupid.”
“Why not? You’re the dumbest person I’ve ever met.”
“Ryoka. I’m warning you—”
“Oh? And what will you do?”
“Just don’t call me names! Listen to me for a second!”
“No. Fuck you. You’re an incompetent buffoon.”
I poke Erin in the chest, hard. Too far. Stop. Erin grabs my hand.
“Don’t touch m—”
I throw her. Erin slams into the table and I realize I’ve gone too far. She gets up fast. I raise my hands.
I want to fight. I want to hit something. But the rest of me wants to stop. A voice is screaming inside my head, the same voice that shouted when I fought Calruz.
But it’s too loud. Everything hurts. My heart is in pieces. I just want to hit something, and get hit back. Maybe then—
Erin swings at me. Slow. Clumsy. I step back and punch her. With my bad hand. My stumps collide with her chest and I grab at my hand in agony.
While I’m bent over, Erin clenches her fist. She punches at my chest. I see the blow coming a mile away. I raise my arms to block—
 
—-
 
Thump.
The impact was so heavy it made Ryoka’s entire world disappear for a second. The impact sent her flying backwards. Ryoka flipped over the table and hit the floor. She lay there, silent and breathless for a few seconds, before she gasped and rolled to one side.
Erin stood, shaking as she stared at Ryoka. [Minotaur Punch]. She hadn’t meant to use it. She hesitated. Should she go and help—
Something sharp stabbed into Erin’s ankle. She screamed in pain as it began to gnaw at her flesh, like needles jabbing into her skin.
“Aaaah!”
Erin shouted and waved her arms in a panic as she tried to shake off the thing that was biting her. She managed to fling it off and then saw Mrsha fly through the air. The Gnoll child crashed into a table and fell to the ground, whimpering in pain.
“Oh no, I’m so sorry—”
Ignoring her bleeding ankle, Erin rushed over. Mrsha blinked as she got to all fours, and then her eyes focused on Erin. She snapped and Erin nearly lost a finger. Mrsha leapt at Erin, and the girl yelled in pain as Mrsha tried to claw at her face.
“Mrsha! Stop!”
The Gnoll paused. She looked over as Ryoka got to her feet. The other girl was clutching at her chest, wincing, but she was unharmed. She pointed at Erin.
“Get off of her.”
The Gnoll hesitated. Then she leapt off of Erin, her needle claws digging into Erin’s flesh one last time. She ran to Ryoka and circled the girl anxiously.
Slowly, Erin stood up and looked at Ryoka. The other girl met her eyes. The anger that had been smoldering in her gaze was suddenly gone, extinguished by the brief fight. She looked down at Mrsha, and then back at Erin.
Neither girl seemed to know what to say. Erin stood and stared at Ryoka, still feeling the pain in her chest from where the girl had poked her. Her ears were still red, and she was angry—
Until she looked at Ryoka’s fingers. And Ryoka’s fury was gone too. She sagged, and suddenly seemed a hundred years old.
“I’m sorry, Erin.”
“No. I’m sorry too.”
Awkwardly, Erin walked over and helped Ryoka sit down. The Asian girl winced as she sat and touched her chest.
“What was that?”
“Uh, [Minotaur Punch]. It’s…a skill. I shouldn’t have used it. I’m sorry.”
“Strong. If I hadn’t blocked it would have cracked my ribs. Nearly did anyways.”
Ryoka took a few deep breaths, wincing. She nodded at Mrsha as the Gnoll circled her legs.
“I’m sorry Mrsha bit you.”
“No—it was my—”
“It was my fault. I shouldn’t have said any of that.”
Ryoka stared blankly at the table. Erin didn’t know what to say. At last, Ryoka looked up.
“Strong. I guess that’s what levels give you, isn’t it? Power.”
“Yeah?”
Erin didn’t know what Ryoka meant, but the girl nodded. She stared at the table again, and her hands.
“If I had levels, I could have saved them. Maybe.”
From an army? Erin opened her mouth and then closed it again. Ryoka’s eyes glistened as she looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll was just staring up at her. Slowly, the girl bent and patted the Gnoll on the head. She curled up around Ryoka’s feet. Shivering.
Silence fell as the two sat with each other. Mrsha’s rapid breathing slowed as she curled around Ryoka, and as time passed by, her body relaxed. Her breath came more slowly, and then crawled. Mrsha slept.
Ryoka stared down at Mrsha’s slumbering body. She looked at Erin, and saw the other girl was barely hurt. But Ryoka could feel her lungs still working for air, and felt the pain from that one punch in her chest. She smiled bitterly.
“I guess I’m weak, huh?”
So weak. Even Erin was stronger. Ryoka stared at her hands. They shook. The bloody bandages around her stumps were coming loose. Erin watched as Ryoka raised them.
“I’m so weak. I couldn’t save anyone. I just watched them die, Erin.”
“I know.”
Erin knew what Ryoka meant. The girl looked at Erin. She was shaking all over now. Ryoka was coming apart at the seams. Her eyes were full of liquid. Tears.
“I tried—”
“I know.”
“I really did—”
“I know, Ryoka. I know.”
Ryoka grabbed at Erin’s arm. Her grip was strong, but she was shaking.
“I couldn’t do a thing, Erin. Not one thing. They’re all dead because of me.”
“It’s not your fault, Ryoka. It’s not.”
“It is. I caused this.”
“No.”
“I couldn’t do anything.”
Erin hugged Ryoka. She felt the girl freeze up, and then Ryoka broke down. She began to sob, slowly, and then into Erin’s shirt. Erin held Ryoka as the tears came at last, the dam breaking, the unshed sorrows spilling out in the safety of Erin’s inn at last.
In the silence of the night, Erin held Ryoka as the girl cried into her arms. Tears rolled down the other girl’s face. She grabbed Erin, clutching at her shirt as if she were hanging on for her life.
“I couldn’t do anything, Erin. I couldn’t—”
“I know. Shh. I know.”
From the staircase, another girl stared down at the two girls sitting in the common room. She spoke not a word. Out in the snowy landscape, a skeleton prowled, hunting, killing. He did it to feel alive.
And on the floor of the inn, a small Gnoll slept. She didn’t hear the agony in Ryoka’s voice or even notice the tears that fell onto her snow-white fur. She slept, not caring if she lived or died when she woke.
Ryoka felt the world spinning around her. Nothing was right. But there was someone hugging her, her one anchor in a world full of pain. She cried into Erin’s arms, letting all of the pain out, sobbing and wishing the past few days had never happened. Wishing she had the power to change the past. Wishing she were stronger. Remembering the dead.
Outside, the snow began to fall again. More and more, until it seemed the world would be covered in it. On Izril, Terandria, and even Baleros and Chandrar. The snow fell as Ryoka wept.
