Selys lowered her voice and hissed at Erin.
“The problem is that he’s a Hobgoblin! They’re not like normal Goblins. They’re dangerous! Even a normal Silver-rank adventurer wouldn’t be a match for one!”
“Well…he’s with Rags! That means he could be okay!”
“That’s not your only problem, Erin. After that Goblin raiding party—this isn’t good.”
“This is my inn. What’s the problem?”
Selys nodded.
“Him.”
Erin looked over and saw Relc. It wasn’t like she’d forgotten the last time Relc and Rags had met, but now that she looked over, she could see Relc’s expression. Selys looked grim.
“He’s not going to stay calm, Erin. He’s going to start a fight.”
“He won’t do that.”
Selys gave Erin one of the flattest looks the girl had ever received. If the Drake had eyebrows, both of them would have been raised. Erin hesitated.
“Right?”
Rags and the mysterious other Goblin chose a table on the other end of the inn, away from Relc and the other guests. Erin was relieved for that, and hoped she could maintain the peace throughout the night. After all, the Goblins weren’t doing anything, and Relc wasn’t that crazy, was he?
Her optimism lasted for ten minutes. Then, as Relc was going back for more food he paused in front of the table and sniffed the air theatrically.
“Does something stink in here, or is it just me?”
Erin’s heart sank. She watched Relc turn towards the Goblins, heart pounding. Relc opened his mouth and Erin spoke.
“Stop it, Relc.”
He turned to look at her. Relc’s eyes were smoldering, and he seemed even bigger than normal. Erin’s heart was pounding. She did not want to be here. She didn’t want this to be happening. But she had to say it.
“They’re not doing anything. Leave them alone.”
“Me? I didn’t say it was the Goblins who stank—”
“Relc.”
Klbkch spoke up from his table. His voice was low, but Relc hunched his shoulders. The Drake made no further comment but stomped back to his table.
Both Goblins had looked up when Relc spoke, but they returned to their meal as if nothing had happened. The taller one was looking between Erin and Relc with interest, but neither seemed upset.
If that was all, Erin would have considered herself lucky. But no sooner had Relc put his plate down then he raised his mug high into the air.
“Hey Klb, let’s toast our friends. You know, the ones who died defending that village from monsters, you remember?”
He raised his mug and spoke loudly to the room.
“To Byssa, Invrss, and Olivis, who died protecting us from a real threat. Those bastard Goblins.”
The inn was silent as Relc noisily drank the entire mug down. He tossed the glass casually onto the table and looked at Rags. She stared back.
“Stop it.”
Erin was on her feet. Her knees were shaking, but she made herself stand. She walked in front of Relc and met his eyes.
“Why are you doing this?”
Relc met her eyes and Erin felt a shock. There was something dark in the large Drake’s gaze.
“Because I can’t stand the fact that you let them in here. Because you’re letting them eat while my friends are rotting in the ground.”
“They’re not the Goblins who killed your friends. Rags is di—”
“It doesn’t matter. They’re all the same!”
Relc picked up the mug and hurled it past Erin. She flinched and Selys screamed as the glass shattered.
Across the room Toren moved. He’d been standing still, but now he grabbed at his sword, purple eyes blazing.
“Toren! Stand still!”
He froze in place. Relc sneered at the skeleton.
“Good decision. Your little pet monster won’t stop me. And neither will you.”
He moved towards Erin.
“Drake.”
Halrac half-rose from his table. Relc pointed at him.
“Stay out of this, Human.”
He looked back at Erin as Halrac hesitated. He was armed, but Erin didn’t want a fight. She shook her head at him as Relc stared at the two Goblins.
“I’ve seen those things kill countless good people. They’re heartless murderers that don’t deserve a chance.”
“You’re wrong.”
“What?”
Erin crossed her arms. She felt like a small bug in front of Relc. His rage seemed to be coming off him like heat. He loomed over Erin, but she refused to take a step back.
She saw the small bodies, held the severed heads of the dead Goblins in her hands. She saw the child looking up at her with hate in her eyes. Never again.
“You will not hurt them. Not here, and not anywhere. Do you understand me? They are under my protection. If you hurt them, you will be my enemy.”
Erin’s chest was tight. The air felt hot, but now she felt like her entire being was being poured into those words. She stared at Relc and felt something alive around her. She pushed, and he narrowed his eyes.
“You’ll regret it, Human.”
“Maybe I will. But until then, I’ll do what I think is right.”
The air was hot. Erin met Relc’s gaze for a long time, an eternity. At last, he looked away.
“Okay, you know what? I’m fine.”
Relc raised his hands. He sat back down. He grabbed a piece of meat and turned back to his plate as if nothing had happened.
The sudden lack of hostility nearly made Erin stumble. She stared at Relc’s back and then got angry. Just like that?
She couldn’t let it go. Not like this. Erin’s pulse was thundering, but she felt oddly calm, as if she was standing on the brink.
“No. Get out.”
Relc paused as he reached for another piece of meat.
“What?”
“You heard me. Get out. You’re not welcome here right now.”
“I’m not going to pester your little Goblin friends.”
“It doesn’t matter. You said—you made yourself clear.”
Erin bit her tongue as she stumbled over her words. They sounded stupid in her ears, but her chest was still tight.
“You were nice to me. But if you can’t tolerate my guests, then you’re not welcome in my inn. Go away, and maybe I’ll let you come back later. But not now. Not tonight.”
Relc’s eyes narrowed.
“You sure you want to do that? I’m a guardsman of the city. You can’t just—”
“Relc.”
Another voice interrupted him. Klbkch spoke. His voice was dry and calm as ever, but there was an edge to it.
“Do not use your position as a guardsman here. Erin Solstice has spoken. She is within her rights. I will testify to that if need be.”
Relc’s head turned. His tail was very still as he looked at his friend.
“Stay out of this, Klb.”
“The [Innkeeper]’s word is law here, guardsman. Don’t push it.”
Now Halrac spoke up. From his chair he stared at Relc. His hands weren’t quite at his belt, but Erin could see a dagger at his side. Relc stared at him.
“You think a dagger will scare me? I could take both you and Klb together. Want to see?”
“No one’s fighting anyone.”
Erin raised her voice. She felt the pressure on her intensify as Relc shifted his gaze her way. But she was also pushing back, and she felt the air around her growing solid. It was like she was pushing down on the entire inn.
“Didn’t you hear me, Relc? Leave.”
He stood up fast. Erin didn’t move, but both Klbkch and Halrac did. They walked forwards but Relc stepped towards Erin.
“Do you think I’m scared of you?”
“No.”
Erin’s eyes were locked on Relc’s. She felt her pulse racing, felt every floorboard and chair in her inn. She pushed harder and Relc gritted his teeth.
“This is my inn, Relc. Get out or face the consequences.”
“You’re just another stupid Human. You don’t understand anything, do you? ”
“I understand right and wrong. You can’t kill people, Relc.”
“They’re monsters!”
He roared it in her face. Erin felt spittle strike her cheeks. She felt Halrac shift, but she refused to move. Relc drew in another breath and then Erin heard a quavering voice.
“Erin’s right, Relc.”
The Drake turned, incredulous, as Selys stood up. The younger Drake looked a lot smaller and she was shaking with her nerves, but she found the courage to look him in the eye as she spoke.
“Erin’s right. You’ve got to leave. This isn’t right. I’ve seen Rags and she’s never—”
Relc whirled and Selys flinched. He stared around the room. All his furious eyes met were cold stares, and two pairs of crimson eyes. Rags stared at Relc with silent hatred, and the other Goblin…smiled.
The Drake guardsman turned back to Erin. But now both Halrac and Klbkch were blocking Relc’s way, and the Hobgoblin was still sitting at the table with Rags. Smiling. Just smiling.
Relc’s eye twitched. He took a deep breath, and then turned. Slowly, he walked towards the door. Relc opened it, and turned. His eyes—Erin felt her heart breaking when she saw the look in his eyes.
“I hope your damn tails fall off. All of you!”
He slammed the door so hard that Erin felt the thump from where she was standing. She wavered, unsure, and then heard the angry roar as Relc stomped back towards the city.
All the strength went out of her legs. Erin sat down, and found that Selys had put a chair underneath her bottom just in time. The other Drake grinned at Erin weakly.
“That was exciting, wasn’t it?”
Erin looked back. Selys’s smile faded. After a moment, Erin put her head on the table. She didn’t cry, but she was terribly, terribly sad.
 
—-
 
It was quite a while before anyone began eating again. Halrac and Klbkch returned to their seats silently without more than a word, and only Selys tried to fill the awful gap in the room with words.
Erin had to go upstairs to find Lyonette. The girl was hiding in her room, under her bed. She only came down when Erin reassured her that Relc was gone, and then she grabbed a plate of food and barricaded herself in her room.
It also took Erin a while to remember she’d told Toren to stand still. The skeleton was frozen in place until she told him he could go, and then he seized a bucket and walked out of the inn. Erin almost wondered if he was mad—but Toren didn’t have emotions, did he?
At their table, the two Goblins chattered quietly. Neither seemed disturbed; Rags actually looked cheerful, and her companion kept shooting glances at Erin.
And Erin herself? She felt awful.
“He was nice to me. He was the first person I ever met. The first one that didn’t try to kill me, I mean.”
“I know.”
Selys patted Erin on the back sympathetically. The two stared at their meals, neither one hungry anymore.
“That was amazing how you faced him down, though. No one picks a fight with Relc in the city when he’s mad. Even Watch Captain Zevara is careful. Relc once beat up over forty people in a fight, did you know?”
“No.”
“And that Skill! It was a Skill, wasn’t it? When you were staring at Relc, everything suddenly grew really heavy. It was like the air was trying to crush me.”
“It just sort of came out. I don’t know how I did it.”
“Well, he’s gone.”
“Yeah. But he might not ever come back.”
Selys had nothing to say to that. After a while, Erin stood up and went over to Klbkch and Halrac and thanked them for helping. Klbkch nodded and told Erin he’d speak with Relc, although she wasn’t sure that was such a good idea. Halrac just nodded.
“You’re an odd person. Brave.”
It was a compliment, Erin supposed.
It was quiet dinner, but at least it was a somewhat pleasant one. Erin chatted with Selys and Klbkch, and occasionally approached the table with the two Goblins. They just stared at her when she came over the first time, and Rags had just shrugged when Erin apologized for Relc.
Something was up with them. They kept watching Erin, but apparently they were too busy chattering in their own language, so Erin left them be.
After a few hours, Selys left. She had to go to work tomorrow, and Klbkch left too, to escort her back. Halrac lingered for an hour longer before he left, muttering about dig sites and mages.
Rags and her mysterious Hobgoblin friend left as well. Erin sensed his eyes on her as they left, but she wasn’t sure if that was a good thing or bad thing.
And then Erin was alone. She sat in her inn, listening to Lyonette moving around overhead and wondering where Toren had gone. Her heart still hurt.
What should she do? Goblins. She felt bad at kicking Relc out but—no, she had meant every word. But Magnolia’s words still echoed in Erin’s mind.
She was weak. All those grand things the woman had talked about—Erin really was incapable of doing anything without help. She couldn’t even face Relc without everyone’s help.
So. Then. What could she do?
“Level up.”
That was her only option, wasn’t it? Erin sighed. Stronger. She had to do something. She had to make something. Somehow. Some way.
“Well, I have one idea.”
Tomorrow she could—
Someone knocked on the door. Erin frowned. A late night visitor? She wondered if she could say they were closed. She stumbled over to the door and unbolted it. Erin yanked the door open and then froze. And then she smiled, her face lighting up with joy and relief.
“Ryoka?”
 
—-
 
I am angry.
I think I’ve always been angry. Ever since I found myself disappointed by the people I looked up to. Ever since the day I stopped believing in heroes.
It’s a long story. And I guess a lot of it was my fault. Once upon a time, there was an angry girl lashing out. Rebelling.
We all go through that phase. But I never quite got over that sense of fury when I learned the world wasn’t fair. That, somehow, while I’d been handed a great life, there was still so much injustice.
At times I forget. I run and run to forget, and I ended up running into another world where I thought I could be happy.
But now it’s back. The same old fury, a snarling beast in my stomach, pounding rage seething in my heart.
The kind of emotion that would lead me to murder. And there are people in this world that are worth killing. No—not people.
Monsters. Just monsters.
The snow crunches under my feet. I walk forwards, a small Gnoll cub awkwardly padding alongside me. My stomach is empty, and I feel lightheaded.
At the end of my rope. Far past it, in truth. My two stumps on my right hand ache. I’m exhausted, hungry, injured.
And so angry.
Even now, the rage threatens to consume me. I—
I’ve never been this angry before.
I’ve felt anger before. Hot and seething. And I’ve felt fury, deep and coiling, building like a pressure cooker, ready to explode outwards with a good spark. And I’ve felt all-consuming rage, burning a hole through my mind, eradicating common sense. But this—this is different. This feeling frightens even me.
This is black fury, terrible madness that grips me. And with it, I hear the little voice I thought I’d buried. It whispers to me.
Kill everything. Kill everyone. Stab them. Gouge their eyes out. Rip them to shreds.
Let the damn world burn.
I can’t stop looking at my hand. The place where my fingers should be. And memory. I can remember Urksh and the Stone Spears tribe.
All dead.
All because of me.
