She slept on the way back. Somehow, Erin found she was extremely tired after her meeting with Magnolia, and despite it being only dusk she slept like a baby.
She woke up as Reynold slowed the coach next to her inn. Erin blinked, looked around wildly, and realized she was home.
Home. It was an odd thing to say, and even odder that the sight of Toren’s skeletal frame standing in front of her inn was reassuring, but there it was.
Erin was home.
It was the work of a few minutes for Erin to extricate herself from the carriage. Not because she was that slow; Reynold insisted on helping her pack up the huge meal Lady Magnolia had sent with her. It was far too much for Erin to eat, but she suspected Lyonette might enjoy the rich food.
“Thanks so much for driving me out here, Reynold.”
“It was my pleasure Miss Solstice.”
“Erin. Um, will you come in for something to eat? Or I could make you up a bed. It’s getting late.”
The [Butler] smiled.
“I fear I must decline. I will return to Lady Magnolia’s side shortly, but I thank you for the offer.”
“Oh, it’s no—if you ever have time, come by and I’ll treat you to a meal on the house, okay?”
“It would be my pleasure.”
Erin watched as the man climbed back in the carriage and the horses began to gallop. She looked over at Toren as the skeleton walked down the hill. He stared at her. She stared back.
“Hi.”
He nodded. Erin looked at him for a few more seconds.
“Is Lyonette here?”
He nodded, and pointed up towards the inn. On cue the doors flew open and Erin heard a strident voice.
“Is he gone? Come back! I insist—!”
The girl dashed down the slope and stopped, waving her arms and shouting at the coach. She turned to Erin, furious.
“How dare he? The nerve—did you inform Magnolia Reinhart of my distress? When will she send for me? You may pass any correspondence from her directly to me.”
She looked at Erin expectantly. Erin blinked.
“Um. She knows you’re here.”
“And?”
“And that’s it. I don’t think she’s sending anyone else. Hey Toren, help me carry all this food to the inn. You can have this basket. And this bundle. And I’ll take this…there’s some good food in here so don’t drop it.”
Erin trooped up to her inn and went inside, ignoring Lyonette’s outraged monologue. The noble girl calmed down only slightly when she saw the feast Erin had brought back.
“Hmf. Well at least the woman was decent enough to provide me with a decent meal as recompense. I will await her reply while I make do.”
Erin suspected Lyonette would be waiting for a long time, but she wisely didn’t mention that.
“If you set the table we can eat, Lyonette.”
The girl stared at Erin. Erin stared back. Lyonette’s petulant self-righteousness was a far cry from Ressa’s stare and Lady Magnolia’s sheer presence. In a few seconds the girl flounced into the kitchen.
She was just finishing setting the table—badly—and Toren had emerged with a jug of cold milk when the door slammed open.
“Humans!”
Relc bellowed the words and Lyonette screamed and dropped the forks and ran for the stairs. Erin laughed.
“Relc! And Klbkch! And Selys?”
The [Receptionist] walked in as Klbkch held the door open and smiled at Erin.
“Hi Erin. I hope I’m not bothering you, but I saw that coach come in and everyone was headed this way, so…”
Klbkch shut the door and nodded to Erin.
“I hope we are not interrupting you today, Miss Solstice?”
“No, that’s great, come in!”
Erin waved the three into her inn happily. She hated being alone, which was to say, trapped with either Lyon or Toren. Relc chortled with delight when he saw the spread of food Toren had placed on one of the tables.
“Where did all this come from?”
“Oh, that? It’s um…a gift. I can’t eat it with just Lyon, so everyone grab a plate and have some. Lyonette—more plates! And forks. And spoons and knives. And cups!”
The girl looked up with disgust, but Toren shepherded her back into the kitchen. Relc stared after the girl and scratched his head, looking briefly put out, but Klbkch spoke to Erin as Selys happily investigated the food.
“I regret that Pawn is not able to visit. He is occupied within the Hive.”
“And I couldn’t find Olesm. I think he’s busy at the Runner’s Guild for some reason. I saw him taking a huge stack of parchment there earlier.”
Selys eyed the food Erin had spread on the table. Magnolia, for all her objectionable traits, was certainly generous when it came to food. Since Erin had fallen asleep before she’d touched the spread, she had two different roasted pheasants, over ten cuts of meat, cheeses, two bottles of wine, fruits that were only slightly wilted, bread, some kind of spicy dip, a sweet dip, olives, and even a crab—
“Is this really all a gift from this Reinhart lady? Did she like you that much, Erin?”
“I think she was just being…generous. She’s really rich, I think.”
“Wow. You know, I knew she was important after Ceria told me about her messenger, but I didn’t know she was that important.”
“You’ve never heard of her?”
Erin was curious. Selys scratched at one cheek and twitched her tail in embarrassment.
“Well, it’s just—she’s a Human, you know, Erin? I guess I just don’t pay attention to famous Humans that much. I might have heard her name once or twice…maybe she was important historically? How old is she? Anyways, I could name a few important adventurers and teams, but not more than that.”
“So no one knows of Lady Magnolia Reinhart?”
“Reinhart? She was the one who sent that carriage?”
Relc looked up from the food as Toren and Lyonette reappeared. Klbkch looked at Erin as well.
“Yeah. She wanted to talk. So you know her, Relc?”
He shrugged.
“The Deadly Flower? Yeah, I’ve heard of her.”
“Oh! From the Antinium Wars! That’s her?”
Selys gasped in sudden realization.
“But she’s a hero! And she helped beat the Antinium both times. I had no idea!”
She glanced over at Klbkch and froze.
“Uh—”
Klbkch nodded as he delicately consumed a slice of beef.
“I have never met Magnolia Reinhart in person, but I am well aware of her accomplishments. I am curious as to why she wished to speak with you, Erin.”
He looked at Erin, and she realized he probably knew why. Relc scratched his spines and shrugged.
“Who cares? I mean, you can tell us, but free food is free food, right? Can I have all of this?”
“Sure.”
“Great!”
Relc began heaping a plate with as much food as possible, much to Lyon’s outrage. She glared daggers at the Drake which Relc happily ignored. Lyonette tried to load her own plate while keeping as far away from any non-Human as possible. That was fairly impossible, but she gravitated more towards Selys than Klbkch or Relc, staying the furthest away from the Antinium.
“This is so tasty!”
Selys smiled at Erin as the two took their plates to a table. Relc wavered, but Klbkch tapped him on the shoulder and they took a table a few feet away. Erin had noticed the lack of invitation from Selys, as well as the way the Drake had kicked her when she opened her mouth to invite the other two to join her.
“Why don’t you want to eat with Relc?”
She whispered that to Selys when she was sure the other Drake was investigating one of the kegs Erin had put on the bar’s counter in the back. Selys made a face.
“He was flirting with me on the way here, Erin. I just don’t want to give him the wrong idea so soon afterwards.”
“Oh.”
Erin had discussed the more…intimate…relations of each species with Selys before, but she’d never really asked about the Drake’s love life. But from the look on Selys’s face, Relc wasn’t included in any of her aspirations.
“Don’t you like him? I do.”
“As a friend, I guess. I mean, I don’t know him like you do. But I’d never date him, Erin!”
“Why? I mean, he’s not that bad, is he?”
Selys looked over at Relc as the Drake happily poured himself a drink of ale and grimaced.
“Well no, but—he’s really muscly, and he’s arrogant and selfish too. I know he’s a really important Senior Guardsman and he’s really high-level, but I’d hate to be the Drake who had to put up with him in a relationship. Anyways, I prefer guys who look…better, you know?”
Erin frowned at Relc.
“Really? He looks fine to me.”
“That’s because you’re a Human.”
Selys sighed. She swished her tail back and forth on the floorboards.
“Look, it’s not just that. He’s older than me, you know? I mean, I’m almost the same age as his d—”
She broke off as Relc walked over. His tail was wagging as he held up a mug.
“This is alcohol, right? You’re finally serving alcohol?”
He nearly had tears in his eyes. Erin nodded and grinned.
“I bought some—I even made this really weird special drink, but it’s uh, sort of in testing. It does weird things when people drink it.”
“Really? I’ll try some so long as I’m not throwing up afterwards.”
Selys looked intrigued. Relc nodded.
“I’ll try it even if I do throw up. Alcohol!”
He went back to his table as Erin turned back to Selys.
“Anyways, meeting with Magnolia was huge. She said so many things—”
“So tell me everything!”
Erin took a deep breath, and then looked towards the door. A second later, Halrac opened it. The [Scout] grunted when he saw the food on the table before his eyes flicked to Erin.
“Are you open?”
Relc looked over and froze, but Klbkch seemed perfectly at ease. Selys had frozen in her seat, but Erin only smiled wider.
“Come on in, Halrac! Get a plate and have something to eat—it’s a buffet tonight!”
The older man eyed the spread without comment. He seemed puzzled by it, possibly because he could identify the rich food as out of place in the inn, but he loaded up his plate and took a table away from the others.
Erin resolved to talk to Halrac later, after she’d finished eating. He was so silent, except when he was bugging her about having more of that faerie flower drink. But she bet she could get him to open up if she talked enough. She turned and saw Selys gaping at her.
“What? Do I have something on my face?”
“Erin! That’s Halrac! Halrac as in, Halrac from Griffon Hunt! The Gold-rank [Scout]!”
“Um. Yeah?”
Erin knew that. She couldn’t remember if Halrac had told her or she’d heard it somewhere else, but Selys seemed blown away by that fact.
“What is he doing here!? I thought he was staying at Peslas’ inn!”
“Really? Well, he comes in every night. I guess he likes my inn better.”
Erin felt a bit smug at that, but Selys shook her head.
“But he’s famous, Erin! How’d you even meet him? I mean, maybe he’s not as famous as Magnolia Reinhart—”
“Who you didn’t know.”
“—Shut up. I know adventurers because it’s my job, okay? Halrac’s a veteran. He’s killed Griffons by himself and he’s probably the closest to becoming a Named Adventurer in Liscor right now.”
“Well, he’s a good customer. Silent. Doesn’t throw things. And he tips well.”
“He’s rich.”
“Really? Well, I think he keeps coming back because of this drink I made. You know those flowers I told you about? A few days ago I—”
Erin broke off again. Selys looked at her.
“More guests? How can you tell?”
“I don’t know. I just…sense it.”
Sure enough, only a few seconds after Erin had turned, the door opened.
“Rags!”
Erin half-rose from her chair, beaming as the small Goblin entered, pushing back her hood. But the young woman stopped when she saw Rags wasn’t alone.
Rags had a friend. Or an underling? How else could Erin explain the second Goblin that walked through the door. He was likewise hooded, and Erin only caught a glimpse of green skin as he tugged the cloth over his face and looked around. But that wasn’t the thing that stopped her.
“A Hob!”
Relc shot out of his chair and reached for his spear. Klbkch caught his arm, but Lyonette screamed and Selys choked on her mouthful of food. Erin looked at the tall Goblin.
He didn’t look like the Goblin Chieftain at all. What had Relc said? A Hob? As in Hobgoblin? But he looked so…so…Human.
That was to say, he looked humanoid. He was about as Human as a Drake and Erin detected fangs in the smile he gave her.
The Hobgoblin made her uneasy. But then Erin noticed Rags was staring at her. Expectantly. And Erin realized Rags was waiting to see what she would do.
Yet, Erin had a definite sense that this mysterious Hobgoblin wasn’t like Rags. He was dangerous, and everyone in the room felt it. Especially the warriors.
Across the room, Relc and Klbkch were silently staring at the Hobgoblin. The air had frozen around Relc and one of his hands was clenched into a fist. Halrac had paused as soon as the second Goblin had entered, and one of his hands was at his belt. Even Toren was staring hard at the second Goblin.
The air was full of tension. Erin felt her [Dangersense] tingling in the back of her head, but she ignored it and made herself smile. What had Lady Magnolia said about Goblins? No—she’d said it about Erin. A girl who treated Goblins like people. Because Goblins were people. Remember that.
“Rags, come in! I’ve got tons of food, and you’re always welcome here. You and any Goblins. And I see you’ve got a friend. That’s great. Well, he’s a guest and isn’t going to be attacked, okay?”
Erin didn’t look at the others, but she raised her voice and sensed the mood change. Klbkch nodded silently, and Halrac slowly relaxed in his seat and turned back to his drink. Only Relc stood staring, until Klbkch tapped him gently on the shoulder and pushed him back towards his seat.
Erin approached the two Goblins cautiously. Rags looked…different. It felt like ages since she’d last been in the inn, and something had changed in her demeanor.
She looked taller. Physically—she seemed to have grown an inch or two, but also in the way she carried herself. She stared up at Erin without a trace of fear, but only a sense of curiosity and something else in her crimson eyes.
“I’ve got food. Um, and we can play chess later. Where’s your tribe?”
Stare. Erin looked up at the other Goblin. He grinned at her, exposing sharp teeth.
“Who’s your friend?”
The Hobgoblin opened his mouth and Rags kicked him. He frowned down at her and she glared up at him. Erin scratched her head.
“Is everything okay?”
Rags shrugged. She walked over to the table filled with food and grabbed a plate. The tall Goblin followed her. Erin watched them begin to pile food on their plates as they muttered to each other in their incomprehensible language and went back to Selys.
“Erin. Who’s that other Goblin?”
“I don’t know.”
“Well, why is he here?”
“He’s…hungry?”
Erin spread her hands out as Selys kicked her.
“Ow! I don’t know! What’s the problem?”
