The snake was still being incredibly humble, but also not wrong. The disparity between individuals only grew with each grade and was especially evident in situations like this. The leader of the vampire hunters was as powerful as these four combined and a truly dangerous existence, while to Jake, he wasn’t even worth fighting and could be effortlessly disposed of.

Yet, at the same time, these members of the Order could still be considered elites. Compared to the B-grades Jake had slaughtered during his Territory expansion, these four were still pretty strong, and one also had to remember that they had managed to make it to the garden in the first place. It wasn’t that they were necessarily weak; it was just that people like Jake were too abnormally strong for their level.

“Do as you must,” Jake nodded, not going to argue with them about staying in the Central Domain.

The snake looked towards the floating golden statue dropped by the vampire hunter before returning his attention to Jake. “The statue naturally belongs to the Chosen, as it will no doubt be more valuable in his competent hands than in ours.”

Again, Jake wasn’t going to argue there. If the four of them were leaving the Central Domain, Jake wouldn’t be surprised if the statue were left behind in the first place, as it clearly had some function related to the Palace of Abundance.

“If the Chosen allows me, I would be more than honored to assist in breaking through the rest of the barrier,” the male vampire who had been trying to solve the barrier before they were ambushed offered.

It didn’t have a statue inside, but seeing as Jake was already there, he saw no need to leave it alone as he shrugged. “No need.”

Jake one One Step and teleported down and appeared in front of the barrier. The vampire had solved more than half of the logic puzzle required to open it, and the final two weren’t exactly difficult, so about four seconds after laying a hand on it, the barrier shattered like glass, revealing a small orb that looked to be made of golden bark.

The group stared at Jake for a moment before all nodding as if such a thing was only to be expected of the Chosen. After a few more words and overly respectful well-wishes by the Order members, the four of them used their escape tokens to leave the Central Domain, likely having earned more than enough Prima Credits to make up for the trip in the first place.

When they were gone, Jake smiled and nodded. “That should help my reputation within the Order and not make them all think I’m some scary monster that would kill them if they said one word wrong, right?”

It would not... but one could always hope.
