All the other stats were also pretty good, definitely leaning on the physical side still, while still providing a bit of Intelligence and Wisdom, with a smidgen of Willpower also tossed in there. Not a lot, but it was something, and Jake primarily wanted physical stats, seeing as his profession was pretty damn good at giving the mental ones. So, yeah, the stats were pretty damn good, and even reached 880 total, which was just a mere 20 off the theoretical maximum. Definitely meant this class also came with a nice handful of drawbacks, but Jake had a feeling none of those would bother him.

Taking a step back, it was very evident that this was more or less the direct upgrade to Jake’s current Arcane Hunter of Horizon’s Edge. Going by the name alone, Jake wasn’t even sure if this class sounded more powerful, though Boundless was a cooler name than Edge. It reminded Jake a bit of the Boundless Hydra – better known as Snappy. That had to be a good thing, right?

In all seriousness, Jake did understand what this change signified. In C-grade, Jake had just begun with this entire ”horizon” theme, and his class had been all about actually finding the edge of the horizon, despite knowing it was seemingly infinitely far away, and whenever he moved closer, it would, by definition, get further in the distance.

Now, Jake recognized that the ”horizon” in this context was indeed entirely conceptual in nature and that all concepts were without limit. He acknowledged that the horizon was boundless, and no matter how powerful Jake ever got, he wouldn’t be able to reach it… But, in his arrogance, he believed he would one day be able to glimpse it. At least that’s what he hypothesized the Event Horizon signified.

Who knows, maybe he was entirely wrong, and there was something even beyond the Event Horizon. It could also be that there wasn’t anything there, at least not yet, but that one had to truly see beyond the Event Horizon for what lay beyond to come into view. The class description sure seemed to say something was there, but who knows, and no matter the case, Jake looked forward to one day finding out. Even if his class diverged from the horizon theme, his archery skill would continue to try to allow his arrows to reach the seemingly impossible.

Four options deep into this class selection, Jake already liked this direct upgrade to his current class a lot… but to address the elephant in the room, this was only the fourth option. Which is to say, there was one more class available. He briefly skimmed and saw it provided the exact same total stats as Arcane Hunter of the Boundless Horizon, but since it came after this one in the class selection, the system seemed to evaluate it higher.

Taking a deep breath, Jake proceeded to the fifth and final option, and to no one’s surprise… it was related to Jake getting more in tune with the Primeval Origins side of his Path.
