Then a familiar divine fire awoke beside him, and Khachi’s voice rolled out over the gathered Questors like distant thunder. It held a new depth, an echo of the divine purpose they’d witnessed at the Crater of Fallen Gods. “By my hand, I name this battle righteous, and I set valor in your hearts. I bless your arms with the strength to break the wicked, and your shields with the power to turn aside the cruel. Let no blow be wasted, and no wound go unpunished. Go forth and enact my judgment upon evil.”

The power that flowed out of Nathan’s ally wasn’t the same as what came from Phryne. It was richer and imbued with shards of divinity that sank into every gathered Questor like embers to fan their spirits. It enhanced every aspect of what they were, and Nathan felt a sting of disappointment that he couldn’t share in the blessing.

“Now that’s a blessing,” Mirus stage-whispered into the awed silence.

Kaelis interrupted the awed quiet with a yell. “Positions!” A notification from Davrar accompanied him.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 8

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 9

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 8

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 4

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 6

Aura Mastery 4
