What is this? Is it a power or a science project? he wondered as he tried to regain his footing. He’d only stepped in the ooze with the toe of one foot, but both feet kept shooting out from under him like they were entirely greased.


He hunkered behind his suitcase, laughing at the absurdity of his own situation as another cudgel blow came in from Andrzej. It hit the unpreserved case, which took it like a chunky heavyweight champion even though it and Alden both slid a few feet across the floor together.


A second later, Alden experienced a sudden bodily lightness. It was like he’d been immersed in a pool without getting wet.


[I think you might be able to stand up now. It’s possible my zone counteracts whatever that substance is.]


The text had come from Max. He’d been in another part of the gym, running the drone he’d borrowed through a zone to test its effect, but it seemed he’d decided that there was a better opportunity for spell testing over here. He’d joined the runaway team, and he was standing on the edge of Andrzej’s range with his arms stretched out toward Alden and a curious look on his face.


“It’s the one I used for track hurdles on assessment day!” he called.


The levitating one? Alden stood and gripped his bag. The preservation didn’t kick back in. He was startled, and he knew his face showed it. He looked back at Max. Thank goodness he seemed to be entirely focused on Alden’s feet.


Even though it wasn’t preserved, the case wasn’t as heavy as it should have been. This isn’t levitation, he thought as he took a single step. There’s resistance. This zone really is more like being on the bottom of a pool.


He’d only caught glimpses of Max using the spell while they both ran track. He’d seen him drifting over the hurdles, and he’d assumed a low gravity environment was going on. This was even wilder. Alden was sure he’d be able to swim through the air if he tried.


Not that he was going to make the attempt if it showed off his skill’s weakness. It would inevitably come out eventually if they were all fighting each other in class and club regularly, but there was no reason to hasten the process.


Of course it would be Max with a spell that interfered. Alden had actually tried The Bearer of All Burdens out in the pool one day at the North of North gym, and he’d been able to make it work fine. I guess this is undeniably somebody else’s magic giving the suitcase a helping hand. Maybe if he was attacking me with the spell instead of assisting, I could work around—


The spell cut out suddenly and his suitcase was instantly preserved. The zone had only lasted a few seconds, but it had overridden the unnatural slickness.


Alden waved his thanks to Max and jumped onto the nearest patch of grass.


“Since you guys are making a mess anyway, I’m joining in!” someone said, and Alden turned to see the club president stomping over to join the other team. Rahul was pushing a shopping cart full of what looked like the entire contents of a rummage sale, and his fully-assembled cannon was on top.


Why does it look so squishy in places? It looks like he tried to make a gun around someone’s black beanbag chair.


Alden was sure it worked, since the club president was already a part-time university student.


Did he call it a multi-object launcher?


A second later there was a shrill sound followed by a deep thunk, and a garden gnome covered in flaking paint sailed over the wall in an arc and land right where Max had been standing a moment before. Its gnome hat broke off on impact.


“Oh right!” Rahul popped over the wall, boosting himself with his hands. “Alden, Max, are you okay with kill shots? I have the go-ahead from the others.”


Alden stared at the dead gnome. “Sure!” he called back, feeling less certain than he sounded.


“You can try to kill me, too,” the president said encouragingly. He waved. “Do your best!”


He dropped back down.


Alden thought he was close enough to skill fatigue to justify some caution, so he stopped preserving his ring. He’d taken quite a few hits on the suitcase by now, and it was harder on him anyway with two hundred pounds of sandbag weight constantly banging into his shield. He’d handicapped his skill enough now, and he wanted to focus on soaking whatever damage the others were dishing out.


He stepped sideways to dodge some more badly aimed ball lightning, and not long after that, something that looked like a broken boat paddle came whistling toward him with scary accuracy.


It bounced off of his suitcase only to be followed in rapid succession by a bowling pin, a frying pan with a missing handle, and a half-disassembled boombox.


Holy cow he can fire anything out of that gun.


Alden ran for his life, leaping from patch of ground to patch of ground to avoid the magic molasses on the floor, trying to make full use of his trait for the first time all night. Max took a powerful hit from Andrzej’s cudgel, and then, not long after it, he “died” to something that looked like the dish of a concrete birdbath.


Alden would totally have died, too, if his suitcase wasn’t so oversized. Or if Rahul wasn’t being forced to launch things in arcs because of the wall.


If a freaking garden gnome flies at you in a straight line, that’s really bad. And someone with a multi-object gun had endless ammunition as long as they weren’t stuck in a barren wasteland. Just pick up some garbage and bang!


Alden suspected the third year Wright had some kind of skill or spell that was helping him instantly determine the trajectory of his projectiles, too. No way was he just correctly guessing how all those things with different sizes, shapes, and weights were going to land every time.


“Five minutes until you need to clean up!” Instructor Plim called merrily from the referee post she’d taken up a moment before, just after finishing up her conversations with everyone who’d needed her attention. “Alden, what have you got in your bag? I’m so happy to see you and Max at club!”


Alden didn’t want to answer because it would give people another way of targeting him. The Life Shaper girl didn’t need anymore help. She had really gotten the hang of giving directions to the others.


“It’s a hundred kilos of sandbags, Instructor!” Rahul shouted for him.


“Oh! How exciting! Yes, yes, I see…I was going to suggest you try something like that, and you’ve already beaten me to it!”


To Alden’s surprise, she ran over to join him, sweeping away the slippery stuff and debris all over the floor in front of her with her pet water balls.


“Are you just weight-testing, today?” she asked curiously, while he held the suitcase over his head and squatted near the base of the wall. Rahul wasn’t having much luck lobbing things this close. “Or are you going to do something else? Would you like suggestions?”


Some sod smacked into the hood of her raincoat and she ignored it.


I bet she has twenty suggestions.


Alden, panting, looked up at her from his protected-froggy position. “Honestly? I want to know what it feels like to be able to throw a two hundred pound suitcase.”


She beamed. “Well, of course you do! Who wouldn’t? Let’s aim for Rahul. He’s graduating soon. You can hit the others with suitcases any time! How are you going to do it?”


Alden couldn’t help but smile back at her. He heard a muffled oath as handspring-guy started sliding around on the floor. “I thought I could jump?” he whispered. “On one of the sod tiles. And get him from above?”


He could use his trait to jump really high if he was here, where there would be no permanent consequences for a bad landing.


“A fine experiment,” Instructor Plim whispered back. “I suggest waiting until you see something fly over. He’s not that fast on the reload. Or do it when he starts swearing. Francis has been instilling a suggestion that Rahul has no right hand for the past ten minutes, and he’s about to unleash it.”


At Alden’s surprised look, she made the flicking motions that the Sway used to activate his bell rings.


So that’s how a mind control bell works? He’d been hearing Francis ringing away for the whole club meeting, but he’d been too busy over here to see any effects his power might be having on his victims.


Instructor Plim gave Alden a double thumbs up, then jogged over to talk to Max. He was taking the opportunity to see what effects all of the incoming objects and rapidly changing surfaces had on his speed zone spell. Alden could have sworn he’d seen him air typing notes to himself shortly after being murdered by the birdbath.


A plastic babydoll with most of its hair missing flew at the terrible gymnast, who still hadn’t caught his footing, and it bounced off his back. A pure humiliation shot. “Come on, man!”


“I’ll get revenge for you, Kaleb!” Francis’s voice shouted from somewhere behind them. Ding ding.


Rahul started to swear.


Alden moved. Is this really going to work?


He had an image in his mind of it working. Of him sailing up ten feet in the air and spiking a two hundred pound suitcase, like a monstrous version of a volleyball player.


More of a two-handed heave than a spike. The suitcase was an unwieldy size even if his authority was carrying the bulk of the load.


But he was excited. His blood was rushing in his ears.


He didn’t care if he hit the club president. He wasn’t sure he was even going to aim for him. He didn’t want to fake kill anyone really.


He just wanted to feel himself do it—something new, ridiculous, and superhuman.


He aimed for the sod tray he’d had his eyes on. He hit it with an approximation of the good form he’d been practicing with Bobby, only too hard. And with a suitcase.


He bounced like he’d been thrown up by a trampoline.


He cleared the wall in an instant and looked down on the group that had gathered on the other side. Andrzej with his club, Laure gesturing wildly to make her grass clumps fly and calling out instructions, the electricity guy with his eyes closed summoning up another shot. And a few more people who’d joined the free-for-all at the end.


Rahul was there, with his cart still half full of junk, shoving some other random thing into the depths of his launcher with his one good arm.


Most of them were grinning like idiots. Alden felt himself doing it, too.


He flung the suitcase.


Someone shouted a warning at Rahul too late, but Alden had been aiming at the Wright’s dwindling supplies anyway. As he fell hard on the floor, he heard a loud crash and a surprised yell.


[Right Ankle - Sprain]
 


Instructor Plim had set the gym to provide them with the breakdowns of their injuries for their information. The low pain setting meant a sprained ankle barely even stung.


Alden ignored it, staring up as a whole shopping cart flipped up into the air and over the edge of the foam wall, taking out a section and spilling junk objects everywhere.


“Holy shit! What a cannonball!” Francis yelled.


“Rahul, Rahul!” called someone watching from the bleachers. Laughter was in their voice. “Did you just take your own broken microwave in the face?!”


Luna Plim leaned over Alden with her hands on her hips. Her red hair clashed with the raincoat.


“Well, what was it like?” she asked.


“It was so much fun,” he said. “I just wish I could have seen it a little better.”


“Don’t worry about that!” She pointed up at a drone hovering around over their heads. “I’ve got it on film!”


She pulled him onto his feet.


“And you can try it again next week! That works, too. Welcome to the B-List! Now, about that fishing line you brought on testing day, have you considered selecting something a little easier for you to handle? Or maybe you could try…” 
 
*
