Ren stored his hammerpick since he couldn't swing it against the wall like he was, and punched the thing in the head twice. It didn't seem to be affected very much, so he tried punching it in the chest. The Shadow Demon pulled it's head back and head-butted Ren into the wall.

“Ow.” Ren said as his head got stuck. The Shadow Demon pulled it's fist back to punch, and then it's arm was cut off by Beltach's sword. He followed through with a stab to the creature's chest and the sword slid through like nothing was there. Beltach tried to pull the sword back, but it was now stuck in the creature and he let it go.

“Dammit, that was my favorite sword!” He said as a knife hit the creature in the head and stuck there.

“That was your only sword.” Emanon said, as the Whip guy used his whip to wrap around the Shadow Demon's neck. He pulled and the shadow's head popped off and fell to the floor.

“That's why it's my favorite.” Beltach said. “Nice shot.”

The shadow body walked around a bit, then dissolved into a puddle. Beltach's sword clattered to the floor, but he didn't take the chance to go near the puddle to pick it up. The Shadow Demon's cut-off parts became puddles and they reformed into a single puddle with the body puddle. The Shadow Demon started to regrow itself out of it.

“Beltach.” Ren said.

Beltach grabbed him by the chest and pulled him from the wall. Ren grunted as his cheek scraped on the wood.

“Thanks.” He absorbed the Gail Force Wind enchantment from his shield, and remembered the Illuminate rune he'd learned from that children's storybook. He took a few moments to imagine what a quadruple glyph would look like, then enchanted a double glyph (8 runes total) on the shield.

“Now what do we do?” Emanon said, as the Shadow Demon was almost reformed.

“Cover your eyes!” Ren said, and ducked behind the shield. Activate!

The entire shield lit up like the sun itself, and the Shadow Demon screamed. Even from behind the shield, Ren could barely see anything.

I think this shield is amplifying it! Ren thought. Teepo, can you see?

“No, Ren.” Teepo said. “It's too bright for me.”

The Shadow Demon's screams went on for a few minutes, then they eventually got quieter. Ren lifted his ear above the edge of the shield and listened. Even though he couldn't hear anything from the creature, he didn't deactivate the shield. Ren stood up and walked to where the puddle was. He moved it around with his foot, heard another little scream, and got a popup.

Notice!

You have defeated a Shadow Demon!

Rewards: 5,000 XP

Fame Bonus: 68%

All that was left was a small pile of ash, and Ren deactivated the shield.

“That was GREAT!” Beltach said and picked up his sword. “I thought we were dead!”

“What the hell was that?!?” Tristan yelled. “You just incinerated my Shadow Demon!”

“Shut up, you fool!” Emanon said and grabbed Tristan by the neck. “What the hell were you thinking, letting that thing out in here?”

“He was winning! I had to do something!”

Ren looked at Tristan's sword and used Enchanted Eyes. It's enchanted with something, but I can't read it.

“Ren, you shouldn't.” Teepo said. “That's evil magic.”

Ren nodded, and rather than using Disassemble Glyph where there was a chance he would learn a new rune, he just absorbed the mana instead. For fun, he enchanted it with Enhancement runes and chose 'Blunt'. Ren tried not to laugh while thinking about the next time Tristan tried to stab someone with it.

Emanon shook Tristan. “I joined your little group because you promised I'd be rich.” He said. “I went along with this little adventure of yours because you said we'd be rich if we got that marker back for you.” He let Tristan go. “Killing him won't get the marker back.”

“I can't give the marker back.” Ren said.

“W-what?” Tristan exclaimed. “But you have it!”

“If you happen to have another marker I can use, I can give it back.”

“What? How?” Emanon asked.

Ren smiled. “It's stuck in my inventory. Since I didn't receive it as part of a 'job', I can't take it out unless I have another one.”

The sword guy looked around at the others. “No one else?” He sighed and stepped over to Ren. “I better get this back.” He took out a shadow coin and handed it to Ren.

“Sure.” Ren put it in inventory, then slid it into his coin vault from there.

Notice!

You now have access to a hidden currency!

Ren smiled, and transferred 2 new shadow coins to his inventory, leaving the other in his coin vault.

“Yes! I got it!” Ren said, and took out the 2 shadow coins. He gave one to the sword guy, who stashed it into his inventory.

“Is this what you want?” Ren asked, then held up the shadow coin.

“Yes.” Tristan said.

“Then what's the magic word?”

Tristan scowled. “Give it to me or I'll kill-OW!”

Emanon smacked Tristan in the back of the head. “Are you really such an asshole?”

“You've got to be kidding me!” Tristan said and held the limp body of his dog up. “He killed my dog!”

“He's unconscious, you idiot.” Ren chuckled. “He's not dead.”

“Shut up, you!” Tristan said, and the dog started to stir. He laid it down on the floor and pet it. “Hey, Cujo.” Tristan said, as the dog opened it's eyes. “Thanks for your help.” A portal opened, the hellhound licked his hand, and stepped through it.

“See?” Ren said. “I told you I didn't want to kill it.”

Tristan stood up and held a hand out. “Give me the marker.”

“I'll hand it over... if you say the magic word.” Ren smiled.

“Magic word?” Beltach asked, and looked at Emanon. He shrugged and looked at Tristan.

“Okay, fine!” Tristan said and scowled. “Please.”

Ren took 2 steps forward and put the coin in Emanon's hand.

“Hey! What are you doing?” Tristan asked.

“You need to let Emanon hold that for you.” Ren said and took out his hammerpick. “We aren't finished.” He held the shield over his eyes and activated it. It blinded everyone, and he enchanted the hammerpick with Earth runes. The hammerpick formed giant stone spikes on it's hammer end, Ren deactivated the shield, and swung the hammerpick into Tristan's chest plate. It smashed him through the wall he stood near, and the shock wave from the impact shattered his armor before he hit the floor in the other room.

“You're not the only one that's been waiting for this.” Ren said. “This is for punching Elerlyth for no reason.” He swung the hammerpick into Tristan's abdomen, right at the spot Elerlyth had been punched. Tristan's breath was knocked out of him and several pieces of his armor flew off from the shock wave. “This is for trying to punch the blacksmith.” Ren said and crushed his hand with the hammerpick.

“Aaahhh!” Tristan screamed and clutched the mangled hand to his chest.

“This is for tripping me.” Ren said and smashed Tristan's foot, crushing the metal armor into the flesh, and the shock wave crumbled the armor on his legs.

“Grrrr!” Tristan gritted his teeth.

*

“Good god, man! Stop him!” Beltach said from the other room. “Ren's not fighting anymore! He's torturing him.”

Emanon put a hand on Beltach's shoulder. “They're in PvP, remember?”

Beltach took a breath and nodded. “It has to end, one way or the other.”

*

“Go ahead! Do it!” Tristan said. “I've still got a good foot and a hand! Crush them! I've been through worse!”

Ren leaned over him and grinned. “So have I.”

Tristan's mouth dropped open in shock.

“I'm not that cruel, though.” Ren said. “I'm tempted to hurt you for poisoning the lumberyard's horse: but I'm tired of having to deal with you and all your stupid schemes.”

Tristan clamped his mouth shut and didn't say anything.

“Not going to deny it, huh?” Ren said and shook his head. “If you ever come near me or anyone I care about ever again, I'll do worse than kill you.”

“Ha!” Tristan barked. “What's worse than dying?”

Ren turned the hammerpick around to use the plow end, and sighed. “Wishing you were dead.” He swung the hammerpick down and jabbed Tristan through the heart.

Notice!

You have successfully defeated your opponent in one-on-one combat.

Rewards: 1500 XP

Fame Bonus: 68%

Notice!

You have defeated an opponent 160 levels higher than you!

Fame: +2000

Notice!

PvP Mode has ended.

Hidden Quest Complete!

You have defeated your sworn Nemesis!

Rewards: 10,000 XP

Fame Bonus: 88%

Holy crap! Ren thought. No wonder Tristan wanted me so bad! He took his hammerpick out of the body and after a moment, it dissolved. There was a pile of gold, a set of expensive clothes, and a needle. Ren took a deep breath and picked it up.

He dropped a needle. Ren shook his head. He dropped a freaking needle! He thought, then examined it.

Family Heir Loom: Sewing Needle (Unique)

This needle was used by the head seamstress for King Alamast of the Human Kingdom, and his Consort, Lady Eleanor.

Ren was tempted to use Iron Grip on it and crush it to powder, but changed his mind and stored it. He turned away and walked out of the room. He stopped in the doorway.

“You guys can split the rest of the loot.”

“No way!” Sword guy said.

“I remember Tristan saying he was supposed to make you rich.” Ren said and pointed to the pile of gold. “I'd say that's a good start.”

“Thanks!” Whip guy said and went into the room to gather the loot. “You're a good guy!”

Ren smiled crookedly. “I've done some questionable things.”

“We all have.” Emanon said. “I still haven't apologized to Elerlyth.”

“You helped her when she needed it the most.” Ren said. “I think she'd punch you if you told her you were sorry for that.”

Emanon laughed. “Yeah, she would.”

“Hey.” Sword guy said after whip guy gave him his cut of the money. “We're heading to the Jiggly Puff. Want to come along?” He grinned. “Tristan's paying.”

Ren laughed. “I'll hitch a ride back to town, but that's all I'll need. Thanks.”

“Your loss, man.” Sword guy said as they all walked out of the mangled hideout and up the stairs. Ren hooked the horse back up to the cart, and they headed back to Aurora.

I might even make it back home before morning. Ren thought during the quiet ride back to town. When they approached the city gates, Ren asked them to stop, and he got out.

“Have fun you guys.”

“You bet your ass we will!” Sword guy said, then remembered the deal Ren had asked about earlier. “You can send a message to 'ididntseenothing', no spaces or apostrophes, when you want those potions.”

“Got it.” Ren said, and waved as the cart entered the city. He ran through the West Gate and up the street that led to his business. He was about to open the door when he got a message.

Lara:  Hi, Ren. Thanks for all the XP. (big grin)

Ren chuckled and messaged her back.

Ren:  You knew, didn't you?

Lara:  Ha! (points finger) Every bit of info you want to know about!

Ren:  LOL Okay, talk to you later.

Lara:  You're not going to ask about Tristan?

Ren:  (shakes head) I know he's not gone. Bye, Lara.

Lara:  Bye, Ren.

Ren closed the message system and entered his building. Once inside, he was tempted to log out, but that would eat up even more of his time, so he ran upstairs and into the living room. He had Teepo go back into the ring and Ren stepped through the portal. He summoned Teepo again, ran downstairs and woke Princess up.

“Sorry, Princess.” Ren said. “I'd let you sleep longer, but I need to get back home.”

She huffed and got out of the crate. Ren stored it and took her outside to hook up the cart.

“Oh, before I forget.” Ren said and opened her stat window. “You've leveled 10 times and have 50 points to spend!”

Princess nodded and he grinned as she picked where to put them. Most went into Strength and Vitality, and some went into Endurance and a few points went to Agility. Ren closed the window and climbed into the cart.

“Let's go!” Ren said, and Princess took off like a shot.

“Wheeee!” Teepo said as they sped down the road.

During the trip, Ren finally got a chance to look at the popup he'd dismissed in the fire realm.

Notice!

You have gained a new title: Father of Fire.

This title grants you the abilities: Absorb Fire and Fire Manipulation.

“Show info for Absorb Fire.”

Absorb Fire (Master):

This ability allows you to absorb fire in any of it's natural forms. The resultant energy can be used to heal or recharge Mana.

“Natural fire?” Ren pondered. “I guess that means no cheating with fire runes.” He said. “Unless I light things on fire with them.” He chuckled. “Show info for Fire Manipulation.”

Fire Manipulation Level 1 (Beginner 0%):

This ability lets you change fire into different shapes, and also direct it's movement.

Higher levels will allow greater manipulation of larger amounts of fire.

“Whoa.” Ren said, and the cart came to a stop. He got out and fed Princess food and water, got back in and they kept going. It only took an hour to get back to the city, and Ren had her stop at the housing subdivision. All 12 of the houses were built.

“They finished early.” Ren said, and asked Princess to keep going. He thanked Princess as she came to a stop in front of House Neram, and Ren got off the cart. He unlocked the gate and led Princess inside.

“How's my time, Teepo?”

“You've got about an hour before breakfast.”

“Yes.” Ren said as he unhooked the cart. “I made it back in time.” He led Princess into the stable and put her crate back where it was. She got inside and plunked down on the cushion. Ren fed her and left the stable. He went into the house, crept down the hallway to the old bedroom, and went inside. There were 2 lumps again, and Ren smiled as he stored his armor and put on his Travelling Clothes for a second, then equipped the bodysuit again.

He went around to Nathalia's side of the bed and lifted the blanket. She stirred a little, and he slid in over her shoulder and settled down between Nathalia and her mother. They looked at him, and he opened both of his arms to hug them both. They snuggled down onto his chest and sighed.

Ren held them close, and drifted off to sleep.
