Lara was shocked as she watched the confrontation that Ren had been in. She had covered her mouth and stifled her scream when they threw the potion of fire on him and he started to yell. She got mad when the guy with the sword started laughing, then gasped when Ren stood up unhurt and the fire was sucked away. Lara stared as the group led Ren up the street. She closed her eyes for a moment, then opened them.

“You are such an idiot, Tristan!” Lara said, and opened the message system. “Come on, Ren. Answer!”

*

Ren concentrated on his Camaraderie Aura when he got a message popup. “Hey, guys? Can we stop for minute? I got a message.”

Emanon shrugged. “As long as you're not calling for help or anything.”

Ren chuckled. “No, it's personal.”

“Go ahead.”

Ren read Lara's message that it was Tristan, and he responded that he knew, and it was why he was going. She was surprised for a moment, then smiled as she asked to form a party with him. He sent her a party invite, and she accepted. She wished him good luck, and Ren closed the message system.

*

“Virtual Survivors, huh?” Lara said, and laughed as she walked back to the Library. “Nice one.”

*

“Who was it?”

Ren shrugged. “It was just a join party request.”

Emanon chuckled. “I get those all the freaking time!”

“Me, too.” Beltach said. “Newbs are always trying to grab on to us.”

According to my level, I'm still technically a newb. Ren thought as he smiled. The group led Ren out of the West Gate and to a waiting cart.

“That's a relief.” Ren said and climbed in the back without being asked. “We'll get wherever it is a lot faster this way.”

Emanon looked at Beltach, then at Ren. “You almost sound eager to go.”

“I am!” Ren said and grinned. “He's been after me for a while, so I figure it's about time I dealt with him.”

The sword guy chuckled as he climbed in the back with Ren. “Do you even know him? He's crazy powerful, man.”

“I heard him once say he was level 150.” The whip guy said and got on the driver's seat.

“Whoa.” Sword guy said. “How much grinding did he do in Shargon Caverns?”

“Quiet!” Beltach said as he and Emanon got in the back as well. “You know he hates it when you talk about him behind his back.”

“It's better than talking about him in front of his face.” The whip guy said. “Look at what happened to Mitchell.”

Emanon shook for a second. “Geez, don't remind me of that.” He stuck his tongue out and gagged. “I'm glad the body dissolved afterwards.”

“The squelching noise was the worst.” Beltach said. “The programmers are sick, man. Totally sick.”

Ren chuckled. “I think they're doing a fantastic job, myself.”

The sword guy grinned. “Yeah, the Jiggly Puff is awesome.”

“The what?” Ren asked.

“The Jiggly Puff!” Sword guy said. “It's a strip club in the Adult's Only section of Aurora.”

Ren shook his head.

“Aw, man! You don't know what you're missing!” Sword guy said. “It's by players, for players. For a few copper you can see the show. A few silver, and you see the whole show.”

“And for a gold, you can have the show.” Beltach said. “They only have a few outfits, though. Barmaid. Debutante. Peasant girl.”

“Yeah, but the girls!” Emanon said. “Candace is my favorite.” He said and held his hands out in front of his chest to show how big her boobs were. The other guys laughed, but Ren stayed quiet. Emanon turned to him. “You don't like them that big?”

“Hm? Oh, I like all of them. Big or small.” Ren said.

Beltach smiled. “Me, too.”

“I'm just wondering what they do with the money they make.”

“Who cares?” Sword guy said. “They make tons of gold a night. They could buy anything they want!”

The rest of the trip passed by quickly with guy banter. They talked about the last few missions Tristan had sent them on, and Ren listened intently. He knew there was another layer to everything, but this was an inside look at the underbelly of game society. Weapon running, gambling, prostitution, you name it; it was in the game.

Ren mentally shook his head. The programmers have done an even more thorough job than I thought.

A few hours later, the cart pulled up to the small shack that Elerlyth had visited, and everyone got out. The whip guy tied the horse to the stand there, but didn't unhook the cart.

“You can't leave it like that.” Ren said and undid the cart. The horse neyed at him, and he pat it. Ren looked around, and there wasn't a trough. He sighed and made a small one, nailed it tight, and poured water from his water flask into it. He added part of a Health potion, just in case the horse hadn't been fed, and turned to look at the guys he came with. They stood there and stared at him.

“What?”

Emanon shook his head. “Nothing. Let's go inside.”

Beltach knocked on the door and it opened. A sword was thrust at him, and he knocked it aside with his own sword, and punched the hooded figure in the chest.

“Aw, damn! That hurt!” The hooded figure said.

“I told you to stop doing that, you idiot.” Beltach said. “Do we look like intruders to you?”

The hooded figure didn't say anything, as the rest of them passed by. They led Ren down the stairs and into Tristan's office.

“Ha! I finally got you!” Tristan said and stood up from behind his desk. He wore full plate armor and a pleased expression. “I've been waiting a long time for this.”

“I don't know why.” Ren said. “It was all your own fault.”

“No it wasn't!” Tristan yelled. “If you'd given me my book!”

Ren rolled his eyes. “It was my book. I earned it. I used it.”

“Then I lost all my fame because of you!” Tristan said.

“Ha!” Ren barked a laugh. “You tripped me, let me fall into a nearly bottomless pit, and almost ended the mission prematurely.”

“What do you mean, 'almost'?” Tristan frowned. “We had to turn back because of you.”

Ren grinned. “Nope. I finished that mission, and we all went home to a hero's welcome. There was a parade and everything.”

Tristan stood there and stared at Ren in shock.

“The Lord Of Aurora even threw a party in my honor.” Ren said.

“You... you...” Tristan's face turned beet red; and he started to shake. “I went through hell because of you, and they threw you a PARTY!?!”

“He's gonna blow his top!” Whip guy said and waved his arms in the air. “Everybody run!”

Sword guy and Beltach started to laugh, and Tristan turned to them. Whip guy's outburst did the trick, though. Tristan calmed down, and he smiled as he turned back to Ren.

“You're antagonizing me on purpose.” Tristan said.

Ren smiled. “Angry people make stupid mistakes when they fight.”

“Ha ha!” Tristan said. “You almost got me.” He said and flexed his fingers, then smiled.

Ren glanced down at the gauntlet Elerlyth had described. That is the gauntlet I helped Issac enchant.

“I'm going to enjoy this.” Tristan said and grinned as Ren got a popup.

Notice!

You have entered PvP Mode.

“Not in here!” Emanon said, but it was too late.

Tristan lunged at Ren, who turned to the side and let Tristan almost pass, grabbed him by the chest plate, and shoved him into the wall 2 feet away. The wood cracked and Tristan leaned against it.

“Not bad.” Tristan said, then kicked out with an armored foot. Ren caught it and absorbed the impact.

Stat Change!

Block Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Tristan's eyes widened as Ren twisted the foot around, and he had no choice but to turn with it. Now that Tristan was facing away from him, Ren dropped the foot and stepped forward to punch Tristan in the back of the head. Ren's fist connected and it jammed Tristan's face into the splintered wood.

“Argh!” Tristan grunted and then twisted around, and tried to catch Ren in a roundhouse punch. Ren stepped away and took a fighting stance. Tristan smiled and pulled a sword out of inventory.

“I know you can't use weapons!” He said and swung the sword. Ren pulled out his shield and blocked the swing. Tristan swung several more times, and Ren blocked them easily, as the shield was half of his own height. Tristan stopped swinging and thrust forward quickly. Ren ducked down, deflected the sword up, and punched Tristan in the gut while concentrating on his Deep Impact ability that causes internal injuries to an opponent. A resounding clang was heard as Tristan's feet lifted off the floor briefly, and he grunted.

Tristan put his hand on the shield and brought a knee up into Ren's chest. Another clang was heard and Ren leaned back from the impact. Tristan, seeing Ren was completely open, cast Fireball and hit Ren in the face. It engulfed Ren's head completely and Tristan laughed.

“How do you like the taste of that, you little bastard!” Tristan said, and walked back towards his desk as Ren put his hands to his face.

“Uh, boss?” The whip guy said. “Um... that's not going to work.”

“What?” Tristan said, as Ren started to laugh.

“We used that immolation potion, and it didn't work. His armor has protection from it.”

Ren stood up with a grin on his face as the fire was sucked away. He held the shield to face Tristan and activated it. A gale force wind hit Tristan and threw him over the desk and into the other wall. Ren held him there, suspended above the floor, and walked over to him.

“How does that taste?” Ren asked, and Tristan grimaced at him. Ren deactivated the shield and grabbed Tristan's chest plate and flipped him over and slammed him onto the desk, then through it and into the floor. The desk shattered and sprayed everyone there with splinters of wood.

“Geezus! They're destroying the place!” Sword guy said, and tried to pick the splinters out of his cloak.

Tristan swiftly kicked Ren in the forehead, then rolled away enough to stand. Ren shook his head, and Tristan grinned.

“Smile!” Tristan said and punched as hard as he could with Issac's enchanted gauntlet. Ren saw it coming, though. He thought Dismantle Glyph, caught the gauntlet with a bare hand, and the enchantment was destroyed. The punch stopped dead, thanks to the combination of his Rock Steady, Shock Absorption, and Block abilities.

“Like this?” Ren said, and smiled as he got a couple of popups.

Stat Change!

Shock Absorption Level 4 (Intermediate 0%)

Notice!

You have learned a new rune: Damage +10.

Everyone stopped moving, and silence filled the room.

“What?” Tristan exclaimed. “How can you do that?” He asked and pulled his fist back. “No one can stop my punches!” Tristan punched as hard as he could, and Ren easily blocked it again. “No! No no no!” He said as he kept punching, and Ren kept blocking them.

“I bet that was expensive.” Ren said.

Tristan stepped away from him, and looked at the gauntlet. “It was 3 platinum coins.” He said and punched the wall. It bounced off and Tristan gripped his hand. “What did you do to it?!?”

“I've learned a few things since we met last.” Ren grinned and held his fist out to them.

“Oh, crap!” Beltach said, and braced for the lightning bolt.

Ren chuckled, shook his head, and let loose the Water Spray.

“Ahhglugglugglug!” Tristan said as the huge jet of water slammed him across the room and into Emanon. They fell to the floor and Ren turned the spray onto Beltach, Whip guy, and Sword guy. He kept it on them until the floor was covered in several inches of water. Ren stood on Tristan's chair and grinned.

“NOOO!” Tristan yelled, and Ren used his Screaming Terror ring.

“AhhhhhHHHHH!” They all screamed, and flailed in the deepening water. Ren let them suffer for a few minutes, then deactivated both rings.

“Submit.” Ren said and held his fist down to the water.

“You can go to hel- AHHHHHH!” Tristan said as Ren activated his Lightning ring for a moment. The others twitched and tried to get back to their feet in the foot deep water.

“Stay where you are, or I keep this on.” Ren said, and motioned to his Lightning ring. Emanon, Beltach and the other 2 settled back into the water. Tristan scowled at Ren, and moved his hand under the water. A portal opened a moment later, and a hellhound jumped out and landed in the water.

“You're dead now!” Tristan said, pointed to Ren, and the hellhound growled.

“Call him off, Tristan.” Ren said, and stepped down into the water. “I don't want to kill him.”

“Ha! He was born in the depths of Hell itself! Nothing you can do can hurt him!” Tristan turned to the hellhound. “ATTACK!”

The hellhound barked once and lunged at Ren, who was ready for the attack. He caught the poor beast by the throat and held it at arms length.

“Call him off, Tristan.” Ren said, as the hellhound tore the poncho he wore into shreds and revealed his gold-colored full plate armor.

“Holy shit!” Sword guy said. “Where the hell did he get THAT?!?”

“I'd say he made it.” Emanon said. “He's a blacksmith.”

“No way!”

“QUIET!” Tristan hollered. “Get him!”

The group stood up, and Ren winced as the hellhound finally realized that Ren wasn't wearing gauntlets and tore long scrapes across his wrist and hand. Ren punched it in the head and it stopped moving.

“NOOO!” Tristan hollered and threw his sword. Ren deflected it aside with his shield, and the sword stuck into the wall behind him. No one came over to attack because Ren still held the unconscious hellhound in front of him.

“So, you do care for something after all.” Ren said and tossed the hellhound to Tristan, who caught it and held it close.

“Oh, I care alright.” Tristan said. “I cared so much about getting rid of you, that I made a deal with something.”

“Ren! Tristan's sword!” Teepo said, and Ren turned around to see a cloud of shadow form from the hilt of Tristan's sword. He stepped back enough, and hoped he was out of reach from whatever was coming out of it.

“Good god, Tristan!” Emanon stared at the cloud as it formed into a 7 foot tall Shadow Demon. “You let it loose without touching the sword! It doesn't have to listen to you anymore!”

Tristan's eyes widened as the creature bellowed.

“Rrraaaawwwrrrr!”

Ren took out his hammerpick and enchanted it with a double glyph of Light (8 runes total). The demon jumped and Ren swung at it, hitting it in the head. It flew across the room and hit the wall as a blob. It slid to the floor and then formed itself into the 7 foot tall Shadow Demon again.

Now what? Ren thought. Wait... wait... I know this...

The demon ran at Ren and slammed him into the opposite wall. 2 daggers whipped by Ren's head and hit the wall.

“Sorry.” Emanon said. “It's hard to hit.”

