"She also wanted me to tell you she would be back in a few days as she got sidetracked, and perhaps more importantly, that a pseudo-Monarch Realm primordial ice dragon is heading towards you."

Ashlock assumed Stella would tell him all the details of how exactly she caused the fall of the Frozen Star Sect another day. Right now, the key details were that she was fine, would be home in a few days, and that a meal was on its way.

"Is that all?" Ashlock asked.

Tiberius and Elder Brent shared a look.

"Yes, Patriarch," the Celestial Warden bowed with his hands cupped before him, "that was all I had to share."

Ashlock dropped a spirit root improvement truffle directly into the Celestial Warden's hands, startling the man.

"This is...?" he asked hesitantly.

"A present from me for bringing this valuable information," Ashlock said, casually tearing a desolation rift that led right back to the Celestial Warden's office outside Desolark City. "It was a pleasure as always, Tiberius."

The Celestial Warden eyed the rift and then bowed once more. "If I learn anything else from the Princess, I will be sure to let you know."

"Please do," Ashlock said, and the Celestial Warden left through the rift.

Ashlock didn't say anything as Elder Brent shot off a string of excuses for leaving and scurried off. His focus was entirely on how he would welcome his new guest.

"Tiberius called it a pseudo-Monarch Realm primordial ice dragon. I assume the pseudo part means it carries the strength of one but isn't actually a Monarch Realm entity, meaning it won't count toward my ascension requirements of devouring nine Monarchs," Ashlock mused. "Therefore, turning it into an Ent is a possibility. However, what really interests me is the mention of primordial ice Qi. Devouring that would greatly increase my understanding of ice dao. In either case, I'd rather go for restraint than for the kill."

If he wanted the beast dead, Khaos would have been the pick for the job.

However, if he wanted to restrain a pseudo-Monarch without killing them, there was only one being in the Ashfallen Sect strong enough to do so.

It was time to call on General Bob.
