"He did, I just... I didn't want to risk it." Damien looked down, unable to quite meet Cale's eyes. "All this is kinda new to me, you know? I didn't think I'd be doing, um... well, any of this, really. Just, after seeing what happened with Izzik... well, you know."

He gestured vaguely, and Cale nodded in understanding. It wasn't uncommon for a mage to change their approach to magic entirely after experiencing something life-changing, and what Damien and the others had been through yesterday definitely qualified.

"Do you think it'll work?" Damien asked suddenly, fidgeting with the edge of the Cloak. "I mean, even with the Cloak, I don't know if I can attune enough of my fire mana..."

Cale hummed. "Decay and fire aren't that different," he said, giving the dreadshade a small smile. "Fire comforts and warms. It might be capable of enormous destruction, but it's also the root of many, many civilizations. I should know, I've seen it." He grinned, and Damien snorted slightly.

"I can't tell if I'm horrified by that thought," he said.

"I try not to think about it," Cale said cheerfully. "Point is, decay is basically the same. It represents rot, but that rot fuels the circle of life. You need it so the new can take the place of the old..."

He trailed off, noticing Damien deflating slightly at his words. He could feel the dreadshade trying—he'd listened to his words, and was actively attempting to apply them—but something about his words had evidently triggered some kind of deeply-buried memory.

Cale studied his friend for a moment and sighed. "I'm guessing something pretty bad happened with your mana at some point."

Damien winced. It was a small movement, but Cale was all too familiar with the defensive reflex, the way the dreadshade instantly closed up. "I-I don't want to talk about it."

"That's fine," Cale said gently. "You don't have to. But just so you know... I've made my fair share of mistakes, too. Live long enough, and you're bound to."

Damien was silent at that. The seconds ticked by as he stared out over the horizon, but eventually, he asked a quesiton so quiet Cale almost didn't catch it. "How do you live with them?"

Cale snorted. "I didn't have a choice."

Damien shot him a startled look, clearly expecting a different response, and Cale laughed at the almost comically worried expression his friend was wearing. "Not the most inspiring answer, I know," he said with a little grin, letting just the smallest hint of his weariness slip through. "But it's the truth. I don't get to run away from what I am any more than you do."

"That implies you get to run away a little bit," Damien mumbled. "Because that's what I do."

"Oh, I do," Cale admitted. He leaned back against the rock, thankful for the elemental wards that fueled the shrine; without them, the place would have been scorching hot. "All the time, as much as I can. It's hard to stop once you start."

He paused, then glanced at Damien, his tone casual. "What do you make of that? Because I know you've noticed."

Damien hesitated, like he wasn't sure if he was allowed to say what he was about to say. Then he visibly steeled himself and sighed.

"I think you should stop," he said quietly. "Just for a little bit. It doesn't have to be forever. You can slow down, or um... let your friends carry the burden sometimes."

Cale nodded. "Probably true," he agreed, and then poked Damien in the shoulder. "You should listen to your own advice."

"I—" Damien started to protest, then snapped his mouth shut, frowning. "You tricked me."

"I did," Cale said, smug.

"...That doesn't mean it doesn't apply to you too, though." Damien's gaze was worried, and Cale shifted under it, slightly uncomfortable.

"My burdens would snap your back like a twig," he muttered after a moment, folding his arms over his chest. When Damien started to argue, he held up a hand. "But I'll consider it."

"We can work on it together?" Damien offered.

Cale let out a disbelieving scoff, then grabbed Damien by the shoulders and started giving him a noogie. "You're way too nice and innocent," he said as the dreadshade yelped and started flailing. "Do you know how hard it is to say no when you do that?"

"N-no?" Damien squirmed.

"Good. Never change." Cale shook his head and smiled as he let Damien go. At this rate, he really was going to give up his secrets to his apprentices. He saw too much in them. Too much of his old friends, his best lives, his greatest regrets...

Cale coughed hard and changed the subject. "Anyway," he said. "I'll tell you mine if you tell me yours, but not here. Can you tell me what Graystalk was on about earlier?"

"What do you mean?" Damien blinked, caught somewhat off-guard. "About what?"

"He said something about credit allocations," Cale prompted.

"O-oh." Damien paused, recalibrating. "Oh! Right, we were supposed to tell you more about how the credit system works... um. Okay. Here goes."

Lucky for him, it seemed like Damien wanted to change the subject as much as he did. The dreadshade launched into an explanation of how the credit system worked, starting with the obvious—that four different Wing credits were required to make a 'complete' credit, apparently called an offering credit—and then into the reason why the Orstrahl Kingdom cared enough to give up precious magical artifacts in return for them. It was a little more than just wanting to sponsor powerful mages, it turned out.

"The Gift makes them?" Cale asked, surprised.

Damien nodded timidly. "Yeah. The Gift is meant to encourage magical study and use, so every magic academy gets an allocation of Wing credits at the beginning of each year. It wants us to interact with one another across different schools of magic and different types of mages, so it requires one of each Wing credit to make a complete offering credit..."

"Well, that's not exactly working out," Cale said, wrinkling his nose. "It doesn't actually enforce who gets what credit, does it? The professors are supposed to give out credits based on Wing, but they can give out whatever. Sternkessel basically just gave us a full set."

"That's one of the problems with it," Damien said, glancing away. "It's supposed to encourage students to cooperate and share their credits, but um, that doesn't really happen in practice."

"Feels like it's missing a step." Cale grunted, tapping a finger on the floor contemplatively. "You'd want to reward people for sharing. What are these Offering credits used for?"

"T-they're mostly useful to the Kingdoms and some of the smaller political factions in Utelia," Damien said, fidgeting slightly. "Offering credits can be used to buy... boons? Blessings. From the Gift. So if the Kingdom of Orstrahl gathers enough of them, they could buy a blessing of health for their citizens, or some sort of attunement boost. The Brightgrove elves have one for acquiring spells, for example."

Cale blinked. "Brightgroves, as in Nala Whiteleaf?" he asked. "No wonder she was so mad when I was learning spells faster than her."

Damien giggled at that, in spite of himself. "I wish I could've seen that," he said wistfully. "But, um, yes. I haven't seen high-level blessings myself, but they're supposed to be incredibly powerful. I guess that's why Orstrahl is willing to give away artifacts for them... they still cost a bunch though."

"I'd imagine." Cale hummed in thought. "We can't just use these offering credits ourselves?"

"They're only for political factions approved by the Gift," Damien said, shaking his head. "They're mostly useless to us, which is why we just trade it with Orstrahl. Technically other factions would pay us for them, but..."

"They can't match what Orstrahl is willing to give," Cale said dryly. "Yeah, that figures."

That did give him some ideas, though. Cale grinned to himself—he might have to get Sternkessel to let him pay a visit to the Golden Sands sooner than he'd thought. If he was right about the alchemical ingredients Izzik had been using, there was a chance he could strike some sort of deal there.

It would be some time before he was ready, though. He still needed to collect a bunch of credits first. Cale's mind began to whir. He'd need to convince the other Astral Wing students that they didn't need the rewards from Orstrahl's artifact vault, and somehow convince the students to work together. It would take time, and he'd need to prove himself to them—

"Cale!" Professor Graystalk called. "It's almost time. Are you ready?"

Cale blinked and looked up to see that the last few students were queueing by the Scales; almost everyone else was seated somewhere in the shrine, meditating.

The professors hadn't been kidding about the process using up a lot of mana. The air was nearly dry of it already. At the same time... he scanned the last few students standing by the Scales, then raised an eyebrow. "I thought the Haelforge students were going first?"

Professor Graystalk sighed. "It is, unfortunately, a tradition for the more competitive amongst them to go last," he said. "They enjoy competing to see who can move the Scales more, and it seems that competitive spirit has... spread."

He sounded like he disapproved, but there was a faint undercurrent of amusement there. Cale smirked. "You're just waiting for my turn, aren't you?"

"I confess to some level of anticipation for your particular brand of antics," Graystalk replied in the most impassive tone he could muster. Cale snickered and grabbed Damien to drag him along with him.

There were four students left from Haelforge and two from Brightscale. Four and four each, when he and Damien were included. Convenient.

Haelforge's students included the serpentine lady with the three daggers he'd noticed earlier, the wisp he'd caught casting enhancement spells on herself, a full suit of armor he'd somehow missed before, and the student he was pretty sure was a sentient sword.

Brightscale's students, on the other hand, included an elf Cale thought he recognized from Nala's entourage and the orc that had spoke up earlier. Orluk? Corkug?

"Orguk Fangtruth will go next!" the orc announced loudly.

Right! That. Cale appreciated it whenever he met people that spoke in third person; it made it far easier to remember their names.

"Um," Damien whispered, tugging at Cale's sleeve. "I don't know if I've attuned enough..."

Cale gave the dreadshade a once-over with his mana sense, then nodded in approval. "I think you've got more than enough in the Cloak," he said, giving him an encouraging smile. "You did great. You don't need to give the Scales a lot of mana. It's not a competition."

Damien blinked. "But... isn't it literally a competition?" he asked helplessly, gesturing to the very clearly competitive group of students.

"Well, sure. Technically." Cale cracked his neck and grinned. "And don't let me stop you from doing your best. Remember: fire and decay aren't that different. You can do this. Focus on all the ways they relate and attune, step by step. I'm just saying, if you're worried about embarrassing yourself..."

He shrugged. "Remember, Graystalk put me in play. It's not gonna look much like a competition once I have my turn."
