Tala scanned the document quickly. It outlined a statement of her own qualifications; those that were verified within the system, such as her certification as a Mage, were highlighted, while those based on her word were set apart. The wording, and the magic in the contract, would annul any obligation from the Caravanner’s Guild if she had been false. Indeed, there were steep penalties if that were to be the case. Thankfully, she’d avoided any falsehoods.

Beyond her own merit, the agreed-to payments were outlined, along with other restrictions and benefits.

She was required to have a certain level of preparedness before accepting an assignment, as well as to modify her preparations to meet any specific requirements for the given trip. She would additionally be granted food for the duration of any voyage. She had forgone the standard offerings of an attached servant, to manage the day-to-day responsibilities, and a private wagon for her personal residence while outside city walls.

Her magics, once she was reinscribed, were mostly bent towards survival, so safety shouldn’t be a concern. As to the convenience of it, she could bear a little discomfort to pay off her debt more quickly.

That in mind, she’d negotiated for greater pay in exchange for less convenience and a bit more danger.

Thus, the agreed to per-trip payment, as well as her advance, had been raised to five-and-a-half ounces gold, and she would not be limited to the high-value or longer missions. Apparently, most Mages expected a luxuriously appointed carriage and highly skilled servant, and Tala had gotten Lyn to admit that those items easily cost the guild upwards of one-and-a-half ounces gold per trip. Thus, Tala was offering them a bargain.

Everything on the contract was, indeed, as they’d agreed, and it was written with plain, easy-to-understand language, as Common Law demanded.

Tala pricked her finger on the sharp nub, and it retracted immediately after.

With an effort of will, she allowed her gate to open, and magic flickered through her body, infusing her blood just as she touched the cool stone. The drop of blood that had been building on her finger vanished into the stone, and the tablet turned a pleasant, emerald green, denoting full confirmation.

Without an inscription to direct and release its power, the magic still flowing through her left Tala with a nervous energy. She wanted to get up and run. Her keystone didn’t help, as it wasn’t meant to use up excess power.

Lyn had been watching the contract, and when she noted the change to green, she smiled. “Your consent, as well as your words, have been accepted.” She looked up at Tala. “Welcome!” Her smile spread with genuine enthusiasm. “I’m so glad that you came to us.” She tilted her head, seeming to consider for a moment. “Do you have an inscriber in the city, yet?”

Tala thought about Phoen’s friend, but she didn’t really know them well, so she shook her head. “No.”

Lyn’s smile seemed to settle into one of satisfaction. “I figured not. Now, no self-respecting inscriber would dare get handsy with a Mage of our guild, but I know of one who’s better than average.”

Tala… hadn’t thought of the issue of finding an inscriber herself. She nodded gratefully. “Thank you. Are they your inscriber?”

“She is, yes.” Lyn nodded. “Though it’s one of her apprentices that does the work on me, directly. She’ll have closed up for the evening, but I know where she likes to grab dinner. We can join her if you’d like, and if you two get on, you can have your spell-lines inscribed tomorrow.”

Tala’s eyes flicked to Lyn’s hair. Though it was held up in a utilitarian style, it was clearly quite long. Even so, Tala thought she saw hints of spell-lines among the roots, confirming her suspicion that something was different about this city’s inscribers. A smile tugged at her lips. “That sounds like a great plan.” She hesitated, her smile faltering, but after a moment’s indecision, she decided to push forward. “When would I get my advance?”

Lyn’s smile shifted, again, becoming a knowing smirk. “We can grab it for you on the way out. I’m off anyways.”

“Oh! I held you up?”

Lyn waved away the concern. “Not really. I always have to finish up my work, regardless of the time. Today? Getting this contract worked out was the priority.” She stood, smoothing out her simple dress.

For the most part, Mages’ robes had quick-release ties so that the Mage could shed the garment with speed. Most Mages expressed their power from many locations, so cloth coverings added difficulty and expense when the spells breached the cloth to escape.

There was also the danger, in more restrictive clothing, that a garment could pull the skin in an unexpected manner, altering a Mage’s spell-lines in unexpected or dangerous ways. The net result was that most Mages wore as little as they could manage while casting and covered themselves with Mage’s robes in between such workings.

Tala… well, she ascribed to a different philosophy of casting. She ensured that the manifestations of all outward expressions of power originated from her hands. It was a weakness if she were ever truly hampered, but she’d seen that as an acceptable tradeoff.

Lyn’s own choice of a simple dress spoke volumes about her life, as well as her work as a Mage. She did not expect, or have need, for quick, complicated castings, nor did she seem to have any concern about having to remain mobile. In short, she led a safe life.

“Tala?”

“Hmm?”

Lyn was standing, half turned away, seeming to be waiting. “Are you coming?”

“Oh!” Tala stood in a rush. She’d allowed her mind to wander, again. “Yes. Let’s go.”

Tala followed as Lyn led her through the now mostly empty main hall of the guild. They came to a small counter, tucked into a back corner, where an unlined clerk asked Tala for a drop of blood.

The clerk confirmed her contract and that money was owed. He frowned when he saw the amount, and Lyn was forced to take him aside for a quick, quiet conversation. Apparently, no one had received a signing bonus as high as Tala’s during his time working this station.

Finally, he was satisfied, and he presented Tala with a small pouch of coins. She counted it, at his prompting, and when she had verified the amount, he marked her as having been paid. That complete, he hesitated. “I know it isn’t my place, but may I offer a word of advice?”

Tala had already begun to turn away but hesitated at his question. “Umm… sure? I’m happy to learn, where I can.” As she responded, she’d turned back towards the middle-aged man.

“Always count your pay. No one should ever try to short you, but mistakes happen, and after you confirm receipt, even the best-intentioned pay clerks can’t give you more.”

She contemplated that for a long moment, then nodded. “I see.”

He quirked a smile. “If anyone gives you grief for counting, it is reasonable for you to remind them that you are giving your word that you received the full amount. The only honorable thing for you to do is check before so swearing.”

She smiled in turn. “Clever. I’ll remember that. Thank you.”

He gave a small bow. “Welcome to the guild, Mistress Tala.”

She gave a nod in return. “Thank you.” She hesitated. “I’m sorry, I didn’t catch your name.”

He blinked at her a few times, then looked down at his tunic.

Tala followed his gaze, then flushed. A small wooden placard was affixed on the left side of his tunic’s chest, his name clearly written out in white lettering.

He cleared his throat. “You can call me Gram.”

“Gram… A pleasure to meet you.”

He quirked another smile. “And you, Mistress Tala.”

Lyn let out a small laugh, leading Tala away, across the hall, and out the doors.
