Prologue

"The insolence! You spit upon our family's legacy with your petulant request! Who do you think you are?!"

The words flew out of Lord Patriarch Jacob Wardenfel's mouth, each one a verbal slap on his son David's face. The man's wife, Theresa, sat beside him, her face a finely crafted mask of serene impassivity.

"Father, I-" David tried to retort.

"NOT A WORD! The time and money our family has invested in you as its heir will NOT be thrown away on fleeting weakness! You have a duty to our house, and, by the founding gods, you will see to them as your lineage has always done!"

They both stared at each other. Jacob's muscles twitched with restrained violence, while David squared his young shoulders in open rebellion.

His father leaned back, his back straight against his chair. “Well?! Have you nothing to say? Have your senses come back? Whatever ephemeral madness crawled into your immature brain has run its course? Apologize earnestly, and I might be lenient in punishment.”

Straining at the top of his fourteen years, David stood against the storm of the Patriarch's rage. His voice barely cracked. “Father, I would never bring dishonour to my family! Please understand, this is not my path! I cannot be the heir!”

David held his breath, but the man only tried immolating him with his blazing glare instead of striking him down. The young heir let out the air from his lungs before continuing.

“Father, please, I haven't the heart for it. I swear on my life that I will support my younger brother with all that I am, but please assent to my request. Make Isaac the heir. He longs for it.”

The resolute defiance fled his words, his eyes lowered to the floor. “Unlike me.” He ended on a whisper.

He waited for his father's retort, but none came. He heard him get up, walk to his study's door, open it, and slam it shut. The hardwood reverberated in the hall, and through it, the muffled sound of something brittle shattering.

And then, suffocating silence.

David fought back his tears. He wished he could be the man his father expected him to be. He had tried so hard, sought to listen and retain his lessons, but... as he'd said, he hadn't the heart for it.

For the past four years, he had been made to attend the rulings in the main hall, and the hard decisions he saw his father make for the sake of the kingdom and his family made his soul scream, giving him nightmares that had him waking drenched in the middle of the night.

He had still tried, hoping it would get easier with time. He had kept a lid on his roiling heart until the ichor within spilled over.

He had woken up shaking, his nerves on fire. The thought of going to the great hall made him retch. That day, he claimed a passing weakness and excused himself from the rulings, shutting himself indoors. The walls had begun crawling inward, trapping him, crushing the breath out of him. He'd broken and fled, jumping out of his bedchamber's window and disappearing into the estate's woods.

He ran until his breath hitched, and his legs fumbled, then he walked until his feet hurt. He reached a great oak ruling over a small clearing. There, against its solid trunk, he sat down. As the sun slowly drifted away from the sky, he did nothing but exist.

He let his life ebb out of his mind. The vibrant symphony of nature flowed in, filling the void left behind. He realized that a suffocating pressure had receded from his soul.

He breathed in the night's cool air, filling his lungs until it hurt.

Everything he hated, everything he had forced himself to be, was pushed aside.

In that moment, he understood that he could never become the man his father wished him to be. To do so, he would have to stop being himself, to cut out what made him, him.

And yet, at the same time, he couldn't simply run away, leave everything behind. The burden of rule had been borne by his father and his ancestors, a mantle as heavy for them as it would have been for him. To shy away from the duty was hypocrisy that he would not bear.

A plan had wormed its way into his brain: He would ask his father to renege on his status as heir, yet remain as a faithful and dedicated member of his family. If he could pass the crushing weight to his younger brother, but help him carry as much as he could, that would be enough, surely?

He snapped back from his memories, eyes moist but tears held in check through the obstinacy of youth, and dared to look up at his mother.

She offered him the whisper of a smile; a shadow of compassion fluttered over her features, before her mask stilled once again. She stood without so much as creasing her dress and proceeded to his father's study. As she opened the door, David glimpsed his father; motionless, his hands white as he gripped the edge of his desk. The heavy wooden door closed on him with a certain finality.

He remained in the hall for an entire bell, alone, hoping for something that never came.

The next morning, he was woken by grim-faced guards who marshalled him outside the estate grounds, throwing a burlap bag containing bare necessities at his feet, before wordlessly closing the groaning iron gates.

He stood there for several bells.

No one came for him.

By the twelfth, the time at which his family would have been in the dining room, enjoying lunch, he picked up the bag, denied the tears battering at his eyes, and left.

His legs carried him to the nearby town of Wardenburg, the small settlement under the direct oversight of his family. There, he paid for a room at an inn with the few coins he had been left with.

The days passed, and still no one came for him. The innkeeper arrived on the fourth day and asked him to leave. The rumours of his expulsion from the family had reached the town, and the inhabitants wanted nothing to do with an exile, lest they attract the ire of their lord.

So he left, heading east, to the capital of Amberose, walking for most of a day. He spent the last of his coins in another inn, but here again, two days later, he was kicked out for the same reason.

They didn't want a pariah around.

He ran ahead of his reputation for a while, holding odd jobs for a day or two before having the door slammed in his face and a few measly iron bits thrown at his feet.

Every time, he picked them up and left.

The rumours caught up to him, and he found no more ears to listen to his plea.

He went south, without any plan other than surviving.

A season later, he was huddled under the overturned wreck of a wagon, attempting to shiver himself to sleep in the snapping cold of late autumn.

An old, archaic horse-drawn carriage rolled down the back-country road he was on. He peered out from under his shelter and met the eyes of the driver; a middle-aged man, wiry, with serious eyes but happy creases around his mouth. Beside him, a young man, only a few years older than David, leaned to see what his father had spotted.

They stopped the carriage. The man stepped down and walked up to the shivering boy. He asked his name, offered him a ride and a warm blanket.

David accepted.

The man brought him to his house, put a hot bowl of food before him, and then gave him a clean blanket to sleep on.

The next day, David asked for a task to do so he could repay the man.

A year later, the man formally adopted the diligent boy, giving him his name: Wayman.

David Wardenfel was no more.

In his place, over the years as he worked at his adoptive father's Waystation, David grew up to become a Free Courier; men and women who were part messenger, part investigator, and part bloodhound, who travelled the kingdom to fulfill the many job postings offered to them.

His life became simple. He chose a posting, fulfilled it, and was then on his way. The occupation was, as its name implied, Freeing. He was free to take the postings he wanted. He was free from lasting duties. He was free from consequences. He was, finally, free to breathe.

Chapter 1

SEVERAL YEARS LATER

“Samuel! Don't wander off too far!” Luke shouted at his son, Samuel, who had run ahead toward the exciting chaos of the merchant docks.

The twelve-year-old looked over his shoulder with a half-toothed smile. “Don't worry, Dad! I know!”

His father lifted his hand to try and stop him, but his kid had already tuned him out.

David, walking beside him, let out a huff. “As father, as son. You were pretty wild when I joined the family, even at twenty.”

“I know, that's why I want him to be more careful. I remember all the trouble I got into, and how many times I avoided serious injuries by a finger's width.” He sighed, looking over the packed water-side thoroughfare. “I shouldn't have let him talk me into visiting the docks today; too many traders arriving and unloading.”

The adopted brother shrugged. “That's exactly why today was the best day. More to see. His mom thought it was a good idea.”

“His mom thinks he's a sweet, quiet angel, because he's too smart to let her see anything but that, and she chooses to believe him when I say he's a little terror.”

David smiled. “I think she knows, but she trusts you to keep him safe.”

Luke blinked, blushing a little. “Ah... maybe? It's not lik-”

A rip and a snap thundered over the din. The men's eyes snapped up even as the animal crate fell from the crane's broken arm, crashing down on a stack of similar cages.

Panicked and injured animals roared, their cries mixing with the shattering wood and screaming metals of their enclosures. Before the dust had settled, the beasts burst from the wreckage; exotic animals from across the continent and further. They scattered, bowling the crowd of sailors and merchants around.

Behind the flightier specimen, one sleek shadow prowled out of the dusty haze, its slithered eyes wide with subdued panic. A kwiller; an apex predator from the far south, a scaled quadruped wielding a tail laced with venom-filled quills.

It stopped, its gaze stuck on the small form standing in front of it; Samuel, still coughing off the dust, unaware of the beast's presence.

Luke screamed at his son to run away, but the boy only looked up, squinting, trying to locate his father.

David took a few steps forward, picking up a piece of debris and flinging it at the kwiller, attempting to draw its attention. The beast instead lashed out at the closest target: Samuel.

The boy screamed as he was knocked off his feet and tumbled backward, a deadly quill stuck to his arm, pumping its venom into him.

As if satisfied with his feat, the Kwiller scampered away, soon followed by yelling crewmen with ropes and poles.

Luke stumbled forward to his son, panic in his eyes, grabbing at the quill and pulling it out as quick as he could. Samuel cried out in pain as sickly, purplish blood oozed out of the wound.

Within seconds, David was at his side, unpacking one of his magical cargo cloths and injecting a small amount of mana into it, activating its imbuements. The cloth disgorged its contents upward, the objects within floating out to its surface. He retrieved and cracked a small ampule, emptying it over the wound. He threw it away and picked up a bottle, uncorking it and jamming it in Samuel's mouth, forcing him to drink.

Luke looked to David, wide-eyed. “Wh... what did you give him?”

“A neutralizer and a detoxifier, but nothing I have is strong enough to stop a Kwiller's venom, and I don't think anyone in town will have an antivenom for something that comes from so far away,” David replied, his mind churning as he observed the darkening wound on Samuel's arm.

“What can we do?” Luke asked, his voice trembling.

David locked gaze with his brother, forcing himself calm for his sake. “Go to the healer, have them dress the wound and drain as much venom as possible. I'll run down the merchant captain. Hopefully he'll have a dose of antivenom.”

Luke nodded, picking up his sobbing son while telling him it was going to be alright, and ran toward the nearest healer.

David stood, stilled his heart and his breathing, and tracked down the merchant captain. He found him at the centre of a mass of men, attempting to control the unfurling disaster while shouting expletives and blame at the dock authorities.

Using his imposing body to bull through the crowd, David walked up to the man and gripped him by the shoulders, levelling a steely stare at him. The merchant's head snapped in his direction.

David spoke before the man could open his mouth. “No questions, no time to waste. Do you have a Kwiller antivenom? Yes or no?” His voice was solid granite.

“Wh.. I... Kwiller antivenom?” The man stammered.

“Do you have one, yes or no?”

“N.... no, I don't! Let me go, you lout!” The merchant replied, trying to shake David's hands off.

He let go with a frustrated shove. The merchant stumbled a few steps backward before looking up just to see a retreating back, David already planning his next steps.

We'll need the best antivenoms we can find, and even then, it's only going to slow down the Kwiller's. Samuel is too young to fight it back without the actual antivenom.

Gain some time first, and then scour the town for the antivenom. If nobody has it, then find the recipe and have someone brew it. Founding gods, I hope it won't be too hard to find.

While Samuel was drip-fed generic antivenoms and fortifying brews to buy time, David visited every alchemist, apothecary, brewer, healer, herbalist, and library in town. After 30 long sleepless bells, he somehow managed to find an old and almost illegible formula in a dusty and cracked tome in the personal library of a retired merchant, which he then had transcribed onto a fresh bit of parchment.

Yet his hope for a quick resolution to the crisis died quickly. Finding the more exotic ingredients of the formula was going to be difficult, and the whole brewing process, according to the alchemists he consulted, was an exacting and finicky one, prone to failure.

He spent several near-sleepless days tracking down the herbs and minerals needed, followed by a mad dash through the region to visit all the alchemists he could find, begging each one to attempt brewing the antidote.

And now, seven days later, three towns scoured for ingredients, and fourteen different alchemists who had all failed or outright refused the brew, he had two sets of ingredients left.

With Samuel barely able to breathe the last time he saw him, David had one single chance left within reach and time: Riverwall, a small town at the edge of the world, where he was hoping against hope he could find someone able to brew the antivenom.

The magitech auto-carriage trundled along the packed dirt road, its rudimentary suspension gently rocking its dozen occupants as they approached the frontier town of Riverwall. It was an unremarkable settlement of a few thousand souls that mainly subsisted by catering to the endless trickle of desperate souls seeking fame and fortune in the numerous ruins of the northern wilds.

David wasn't here for either of those things, but he was desperate.

This was his last chance, but he refused to let the flame of hope sputter out.

The auto-carriage slowed down and stopped in front of the town's gate. David paid the driver and stepped out wearily, eyes sunken from a lack of sleep.

Saint Calimir, please let my search be fruitful. He sent a quick prayer to the patron saint of Free Couriers. He needed all the help he could get at this point.

With nothing else to do, he did as his job usually called for; He took a step forward, towards the solution, no matter how far it may lie.