Solant was not the largest Champion, an honour that went to Vibrant the soldier, but neither was she the smallest, which was easily Merchant.

She was, however, the most intimidating.

In the centre of the command centre in the highest fortress of the fifth stratum, Solant was surrounded by activity. As the hatchlings watched, it became clear that Solant was more than just an individual, she was the beating heart of a vast operation that extended far beyond her. Much of it ran without her input, but if she wasn’t there, present and working, then the entire thing would instantly die.

As the two hatchlings and their Brood Tender attendant spoke to the little general, dozens and dozens of ants stood to the side, watching, waiting, impatient for a chance to pass on their messages. Scouting reports, requests for reinforcements, tallies from the field hospitals, news from the depths below, all of it waited, just for them to finish their conversation.

And Solant did not hurry them, did not urge them to speak quickly or give them anything less than a measured and thoughtful response whenever they asked a question. She simply watched them, carefully, weighing, measuring and reassessing with each passing moment.

“I’m sorry I couldn’t arrange a more private place for us to converse,” Solant said. “In the throes of the wave, this is as far as I could travel and I cannot be away from my responsibilities for long.”

She turned to Demetant.

“I understand you intend to take these two down to see the Eldest? It’s dangerous to do so at this time, but so long as you don’t stray from the shortest path, we should be able to ensure your safety.”

“That is appreciated,” Demetant said gratefully. “We think it’s important that these two get a chance to seek advice from the Eldest before they evolve too far.”

“I quite agree,” Solant said, once more eying the hatchlings who felt that they’d been put on a pair of scales. “I’m told you are taking your first steps on exploring your specialities? Flight and healing?”

“That’s right!” the first hatchling said brightly. “Flying is very useful!”

She hopped from side to side enthusiastically while Solant watched patiently.

“So far flight has proven to be largely unnecessary in our defence of the Colony. Certainly it would have some application in the fourth stratum, possibly the third, but not in the fifth.”

There was no judgement from the general as she spoke, merely honest observations and that ever-weighing stare.

“However,” she went on slowly, “there is a new opportunity in which flight may prove to be extremely valuable. I had already begun to explore the possibility of assembling a flying corps to assist with the exploration of the sixth stratum. How curious that a Champion with your particular predilection would happen to be born at this time.”

Initially the first hatchling had been discouraged, but by the time Solant had finished speaking, she was hovering off the ground in her excitement, literally.

“The sixth? I knew flying would be useful! How could it not be? It’s flying!”

“Yes. As for you,” Solant said, turning to the second hatchling. “I’m quite confident that you could prove to be quite the asset to the Colony. Fighting in the fifth stratum has strained our healers like nothing before in the history of our family. I’m also not surprised that a Champion such as you has been born at this time.”

“You mean… our births aren’t random? Does the Dungeon… produce us when we’re needed?” the second hatchling asked sharply.

“I don’t know,” Solant noted, “nobody could give you an answer to that question. I have theories. In truth, it isn’t important. You are here now and what matters is what you can do.”

“Right now, not much,” the second hatchling said.

“True… but I think you’ll be surprised at how quickly that can change. I myself knew that I was destined to be a great general shortly after I hatched. I excelled in every task put before me, but I didn’t truly understand how I was different from every other general until the Eldest showed me. That was when I was truly able to find my purpose.”

She stared at the two young ants.

“I suspect it may be the same for you two. Things have a habit of being resolved one way or another once they get involved.”

Her antennae flicked towards the many waiting ants.

“If you have no more questions for me, then I should get back to my duties. However, if there is something you want to know, then please ask, this is the last time I’ll have available for you for quite a while.”

The first hatchling shook her head, but the second stepped forward.

“What loses us the most of our siblings in battle? What do we need in order to save them?”

Solant clacked her mandibles.

“A good question. In short, catastrophic injury sustained in battle. If one of our siblings is able to make it back to safety and receive medical care, then we can bring them back from almost anything. There are very few things that can cause an injury that a monster cannot heal.”

She nodded.

“The first five minutes are the most crucial. Frontline medical care is the most important but also the most dangerous for the healers. They force their way out there sometimes, but we would rather they didn’t. Healers are far too valuable to risk.”

They hadn’t even left the chamber before the flood of pheromones overcame them, a veritable storm of noise around Solant, who absorbed it all with equanimity. To different extents, both hatchlings felt encouraged by the meeting, but also a little nervous as they looked towards their upcoming visit to their most important relative.

The Eldest waited in the depths.