“She doesn’t care nor know. Let go of me.”
His eyes bored into Fighti’s with real animosity this time. She grinned up at him with all her teeth, knowing Drakes had a smile almost as toothy as Goblins.
“Nah. You make granddaughter cry. You come or Mousebite snipes you. But her aim is worse than mine.”
She jerked a thumb at the Goblin in the gunner’s seat, and the old man’s eyes flicked up to her. Then down to Fightipilota. He glanced at Zemine, not his granddaughter, Calva, and said a word.
“Drakes?”
Fighti frowned, but the maid seized upon the question.
“From the Flooded Waters city, Lord Lanight. Far to the northeast; Rider Fighti has volunteered her time given the circumstances. I beg you, sire, your son and the entire house and the Lantocracy’s Illuminated Courts all wait for your return. If you would just come back and speak with—”
He tuned her out even as she spoke. A thousand-yard stare at the Sword Crabs…then at Fighti.
Uh oh. Fighti had a sudden, very worrying thought. Why was he giving her that look? It couldn’t be. It wasn’t as if she’d attacked h—
She’d shot him with the Thunderbow. Aspat, aspat, aspat—but Rags had said nothing! Then again, it wasn’t like any Goblins had failed the Skill before, and she was so far away—
Rags was going to kill her. She was going to feed Fighti to the Wyvern Lord. For a second, Fighti debated letting go and allowing the [Knight] ride to his death.
But only for a second. She looked at him and saw the same expression she had seen the first day when he’d ridden calmly at the Sword Crabs without pride. Without hope, raising a broken lance skywards and keeping himself up by sheer force of will.
If she had met the Lord Olvos Lanight of today, she might have let him ride until he was nothing more than bloody paste on the ground. Eh—she would have tried to save the horse.
But for this stupid [Knight]…for the things she had lost, Fightipilota pulled.
“Come on. One more day, then I’ll let you get eaten. Promise.”
He resisted a second.
“Promise by what?”
“My honor or something.”
The pilot gave the knight a smile like the sun shining down on them all. He gazed down at her, face expressionless.
 
——
 
Lord Olvos sat stiffly between the others as his granddaughter’s head swung from him to Fighti. As if both the man she had known since before she could walk was as strange to her as the Drake who called herself a ‘pilot’.
His voice was flat. Fighti’s cheerful. Maid Zemine listened intently, eyes flicking to Lord Olvos with faint confusion now and then, an expression mirrored on her retainers.
The other disguised Goblins let Fighti talk, mostly on her side.
Coldcream wondered when he’d be allowed to land and pee.
“Name your reward, flier. Gold? Potions. They may be bought. Arms.”
“Eh. Little Boss says she doesn’t want anything but gratitude. Just stop riding into Sword Crabs.”
“What…do you…want? My granddaughter shall leave for her home. Name it or the debt will be unfulfilled.”
Lady Calva spoke up, voice nervous.
“Grandfather, I—I could stay. As long as you’re h—”
Both knight and pilot ignored her. The Goblin grinned at the man again and shook her head.
“Nothing. Okay. A basket of crunchy fried fish from the inn. Is very tasty. Good for the road back.”
Silence. A rasp, like someone knocking dust off a drawing sword, and the distant tone came closer to the present.
“—I am the Lantern Lord of Lanight. My noble house controls the mithril mines of Bitorm. My armor, my weapons. Your leader knows this.”
“She does? Wow. Guess she probably does. Is very cool. Nice armor. Saved you from the Sword Crabs. Should have had more.”
“How much and to where?”
“How much what? Mithril? Uh, Little Boss didn’t say. So it’s okay. Lantocracy of Bitorm. What do you do with the lanterns?”
Lord Olvos said nothing. He kept staring, as if waiting for Fightipilota to break and reveal something. When she did not, his confused silence compelled his granddaughter to speak.
“The Lantocracy is known for our magical lanterns and the powers of their light, Miss Fighti. Across the world. The Lantern Lands of Chandrar were inspired by our ancient customs. This—this leader of your city? Of your unit? Is she a [Commander]? An officer? I am a graduate of Bitorm’s own academies. What is her name? I should like to send her a [Message] expressing my profound gratitude and that of Bitorm.”
“Her name? I—uh—well—she doesn’t like [Messages] from strangers. Hates the Mage’s Guild. Yep. Peh! Oops, sorry, Coldcream.”
Fighti wiped spit off the Wyvern’s scales. The Humans stared at her.
“At least her name, then? If I send a Runner to the city…no, we’re so far. What would be the best way to contact her?”
“Uh—uh—maybe I’ll give her your name, and she’ll do something with [Message]? Yeah, that’s a good idea. She has a Skill so we don’t need it. [Memo].”
“Oh, I see. How advanced. She must be a gifted leader.”
“[Strategist], actually. She’s very young. Her name? L-Lilbrasi.”
“Strategist Lilbrasi? Light my lanterns. I thought this entire time you were saying ‘Little Boss’.”
“Aha! That’s her nickname. Because she’s short. And bossy. Heh. Heheheheheh…”
If the other Goblins could have kicked her without giving anything away, Fightipilota’s sides would have been a mass of bruises. Even Coldcream was giving her the fisheye. However, Lady Calva fell silent. It was Lord Olvos who tried one last time, voice laden with heavy suspicion. Exhaustion.
Curiosity?
“Why did you come here?”
“Eh. Lots of people need rescuing. People like you. Sorry we didn’t get there sooner. Some fancy [Lady] hired us for the job. Why did I come? I like flying. Your people died. It’s…tragic. Very bad. There aren’t enough words to say. You can’t die yet. Not with cute granddaughter around. Trust me.”
The Goblin said all this between turning and checking the skies around her, signaling for the Wyvern to descend a bit, meeting his eyes. The knight gazed at her. Then down at something in his hand.
His eyes flickered. He turned to where the Sword Crabs still were and gave up. Then lifted the object in his hands.
A glowing, white lantern reflected in his eyes. Mithril, etched and holding a pure light that had no flame. Calva blinked at the lantern, then her eyes shifted to Fighti. Reassured, she smiled at her grandfather.
“You see, Grandfather? Everything is going to be—fine—”
She swallowed, and the lantern’s light flickered black. Lord Olvos gazed at the light. He looked at Fighti, who gave him a round-eyed, puzzled expression.
Silently, Lord Olvos hurled the lantern off the Wyvern’s back.
Both his retainers nearly leapt off the Wyvern trying to grab for it. Fighti had no idea what was up with the old guy. But she still got it.
They never found the lantern. Lord Olvos was brought back to Nombernaught, where the Drowned Folk nodded at him and a desperate man and many people were brought over via scrying orb to remonstrate with him.
He just stared at Fighti until she ducked out of sight. She had never been more grateful to hear Rags’ [Memo] in her head.
“Fighti. Finish this up and get back immediately. Don’t tell House Bitorm anything about the ‘Flooded Waters’ city. I’ll fake what I can.”
“Hi, boss. Your name is Lilbrasi. And, uh…about that. Don’t get mad! Have a nice drink first. Did wedding go well?”
 
——
 
Nothing would stop the [Knight]. He rose despite the two men posted outside his room. Urei and Maukset were asleep, despite their best efforts, late in the night. They were exhausted from healing and had help on their way to slumberland.
The Drowned Folk hired by House Lanight to watch the [Lord] had strict orders not to harm him. If they had intended to stop him, their loyalty for gold would probably not have gone further than him drawing his sword.
The Drowned Folk had their own opinions on the tragedy. But regardless, the watchers in the common room, and the rest of the slumbering inn, never noticed the man leave his rooms.
He passed over the two slumbering figures. His granddaughter might try to stop him—if she were awake, but he’d palmed the sleeping powder into her drinks too. As for the observers downstairs—they missed the flicker moving down the staircase.
Lord Olvos’ mithril armor was damaged; the [Invisibility] spell wasn’t working perfectly, and he would be vaguely visible, like a silhouette or ghost.
Ghosts, like those that had set Bitorm to all their excitement not long ago. It was a bitter thought.
The [Knight] passed out of the inn. No one noticed or stopped him. The only person who could have conceivably done so was Zemine, who had the levels and experience on even Calva to notice the powder and the illusion spells.
But she had no right to stop him. The hand of the crown should have noticed…something. Anything. She should have done something, but she, like he, had trusted to the metal he wore, to their name that was ill-known elsewhere in the world.
He saddled his horse and wondered if the Goblin was right. He should take another one—but the horse just grabbed his gloved hands and didn’t resist, though it surely knew where he went.
“Fleance. It’s time to go.”
He rode out of the gates, and Drowned Folk watched him go. Some offered him their strange salutes. He was grateful for that.
The man rode through the night towards where his love, so much of it, lay. He was grateful his granddaughter was alive. He was relieved his son had not come with them. He was…
Empty.
He had been wearier as he lifted his lance, trying to buy time for the Sword Crabs to lose interest in the survivors. He had been more desperate in the first moments.
He had been weaker as time came to crawl and reached a point where it could never go back.
As he rode, the knight simply wondered what the Goblins wanted. A poor thought. An unworthy one. The only one he had; the rest was a calm certainty and short journey through the night.
Who could really gainsay him? Who would pull him aside, look him in the eyes, and tell him he had a right to walk or sail away and call this merely a disaster, a turn of fate? He had taken his vows as a [Knight], and if they meant anything…
That Sword Crab with a mark in its chest. Of them all, he wondered if he could kill it, even if he rode at it. He knew, now, the entire horde would not die. The Drowned Folk had told him an entire Gold-rank team would hesitate to take the fight to them. They could be blown to pieces, perhaps, from afar.
Just one, then. Now, Lord Olvos was questioning himself as his horse rode across the sand.
Not this. But why he had even been set on them.
They were monsters. Crabs. They understood nothing. Day after day, and during those hours that would never cease, that eternity of setting his lance against them, he had looked for malice, for hatred. And there was a kind of malice. Hunger. Anger, hurt, pain, even vengeance.
But nothing else. No grand plan that had led them forwards other than hunger. No enjoyment besides the kind an animal had.
There was no point. Not for them.
So the [Knight] rode until he was in sight of his destination. Slumbering mounds; the entire cast of crabs asleep. They were in the same place as the last six days, though their food was long gone. They must have found regular food in this place, but there was another more obvious reason for their presence: they were spawning new eggs after the bounty of nutrition they’d received.
The thought was sickening to him, yet the [Knight] slowed and chose his approach. The crabs were alert, even in slumber they’d wake as he rode at them. The [Knight] lifted his lance and set it once.
Tilting with Sword Crabs. He nudged his horse in the flanks and began to ride. At a trot, at first, then faster. A cold breeze blowing across his armor, trying to race past time itself, backwards, waiting and waiting—
Then he heard the beating of wings and cursed. The [Knight] looked up, ready to shout and do violence this time no matter what he owed her. Or perhaps it was his armor she and her kind were after.
Lord Olvos saw two Wyverns in the air. One had a familiar figure on the back of it, sitting with a giant crossbow mounted to the huge saddle, waving at him. The waving figure had two pointed ears sticking out from under a leather flying cap and glass goggles amplifying her crimson eyes.  She was shorter than the others on the back: three Drakes in leather armor.
The second Wyvern—he tensed as he saw a figure leap from it, a dozen feet, and land. There was a cheer—then eight more figures landed.
Drakes. Their leader was shorter than the rest by a bit, but he was very clearly in charge; he waved a hand as the Wyverns flew around him. Then reached for his sides.
The Goblin in disguise drew two blades. One red, a longsword, the other a longsword as well, but crackling with lightning. Lord Olvos switched targets. Nine, plus two Wyverns and a crossbow.
He felt relief, at least. The knight waited, and he heard a chant begin. It came from the eight warriors, then they were shushed—faltered—and amended the word slightly.
“Redf—Redsc…Redblade! Redblade! Redblade!”
The Sword Crabs instantly woke up.
 
——
 
‘Redblade’ was grinning at the [Knight]. The man had stopped on horseback, sitting proud, though it seemed he had nothing left to be proud of except his posture. He looked resigned, even relieved—then confused as Redscar turned.
The Sword Crabs rose to their feet at once, alarmed by the intruders. The clacking began, a warning sound that turned anticipatory as they saw more food had come for them. They spread out, scuttling fast to encircle their prey and not let go. The [Knight] swung his lance from side to side, clearly aiming between the disguised Goblins and the crabs.
Then he found his target.
A huge crab in the back, biggest of the lot, a single, precise wound almost healed on his chest. When he saw it, the world ceased to exist for him and anything else.
“That one.”
Redscar murmured to his warriors. Each one was daubed in fresh warpaint; the eight best Redfangs still alive in his tribe. They didn’t have Carn Wolves; they were too heavy to bring on a trip like this at short notice.
It would be fine. Rags hadn’t been happy about Fightipilota’s request, but the moment he’d heard it, Redscar had known he had to go and see for himself.
He hadn’t been disappointed. The [Blademaster] thrust one sword into the sky, holding it high overhead for the Sword Crabs to see. They recognized that, and the [Knight] dragged his attention away from his foe. With his other hand, Redscar pointed.
“[You Are My Worthy Foe]. Warriors. Follow me.”
