Fightipilota decided after four days of living at Nombernaught that she couldn’t enjoy Goblinhome the same way.
No offense to Goblinhome; it was the best place made for Goblins, by Goblins, that Fightipilota had ever been to. Tremborag’s mountain had been bigger, yes, but far less pleasant. Part of that had been their dungeons.
But even with all of Goblinhome’s amenities, even with the luxuries a Goblin like Fightipilota could scrounge up, it didn’t beat a city with thousands of years of culture. Alright, fine. Fighti was also getting her rooms paid for by House Lanight, and maybe there were places in Nombernaught that sucked.
However! She knew there were rooms in Goblinhome that had sixty Goblins to a ‘bed’; they lay on a giant mat, rolling on top of each other, snoring in each other’s ears, and heavens forbid one got up to use the bathroom.
Goblins were communal, and the Goblins who liked that sort of thing gravitated towards it, especially the young, but the point was while there might be someone sleeping on the streets of this city, commensurate with how Goblins in lesser tribes lived, their heights were not the same.
Fightipilota had a small room in Goblinhome in the [Wyvern Riders] section, close to the bestiary where the Wyverns and Carn Wolves could sleep and move about. No one had reassigned her since Snowscale had died.
It was wide enough for her to lie down and stretch her arms halfway and just touch the other wall. Lengthwise, about three times her height.
Fightipilota was four foot something. It was a narrow cubicle, and Fighti would wake up, crawl over to her ‘dresser’ full of flight clothes, which was a wicker bin, grab her toothbrush, and line up with Goblins to brush her teeth and then go to breakfast. The walls of her room were grey stone, windowless, obviously; it was pitch black save for the lights flickering in the hallway beyond and a candle, if Fighti had one.
The walls were thick enough that Fighti couldn’t hear snores from outside, and her blankets were a scratchy wool with a small sheet underneath made of cheap cotton that had a bunch of holes in it, but mostly kept her from itching at night. During the winter, Fighti would roll herself into a ball or, if it got really cold, sleep next to some of the other [Riders] with their Wyverns or Carn Wolves, or just in a row in someone’s room, like cloth sausages.
It was great. It was her first room ever, and Fightipilota thought that if you had gone back to the small Goblin she’d once been in the Redfang tribe and told her she’d get her own room like that, she would have been in denial.
The problem, in Fighti’s opinion, was not stopping there but showing Goblins there could be even more. If you starved, you’d be over the moon to eat as much slightly rotten food as you wanted for the rest of your life.
But the moment some kindly [Innkeeper] with a crazy hat handed you a milkshake and you stood on a beach with the tide rushing around your ankles and Kevin playing music on his iPhone in the background—you couldn’t go back.
That was, Fighti decided, the curse of civilization. So, for her time in Nombernaught, she got a damn good cursing because if she had to have Goblinhome ruined for her, she might as well go all the way.
 
——
 
The Prawn’s Repose was an inn just off the main street that led through Nombernaught’s ‘gate’. As Fighti had observed, the city had never been meant to dock with land, so this was merely the closest street to land on the 11th level; there were seven above, ten below, the middle levels far larger than the top or bottom ones.
Nombernaught had erected a ‘gate’ of sorts, though it was more like a ceremonial portal. Two faded red pillars of wood rose, and a simple arch stretched overhead of the visitors; dangling charms, bells, and even ornamental seaweed made you feel like you were passing into a submerged city.
Which, to be fair, was reinforced the moment you saw the buildings made out of ships’ hulls, the living coral growing from the central spires, and the Drowned Folk and water passageways.
Fighti was a bit shy, so she hadn’t explored the city—much. She got butterflies in her stomach every time she walked out there and saw so many people about. She was convinced some of them might be able to pierce her Skill, so she’d barely get a few streets in, then hurry back to her rooms or leave Nombernaught.
Half the time, it was to threaten to beat up an old man; the other half was to deliver supplies to a team in the field. Since she was stuck here, waiting for Redscar, the Drowned Folk had asked if she’d deliver supplies by air and were very complimentary about her for doing so.
Anyways. The inn was half a ship placed vertically; the rounded hull had been converted into circular floors that met in the middle and joined a single stairway that went up. Each room was bigger than Fighti’s room in Goblinhome, filled with that same motif Drowned Folk found stylish: a mix of that traditional admiral look and the shipwrecked look.
For reference, some of the Drowned Folk [Captains] loved dressing up in dark, navy-blue uniforms with epaulets, those gold tassels on the shoulders, huge gold buttons on big military coats—that also looked like someone had submerged them in water for a decade. Some of the [Tailors] that Fighti had watched yesterday would artfully make holes along the edges, paint algae along the trim, and even add barnacles to the coat. Weird, but she liked the style.
They even weathered good stone and wood and encouraged algae, seaweed, and fronds to grow to get that authentic effect.
So she was staying in a themed inn. Great. Fightipilota had sent a memo to Rags after getting permission to stay and requesting Redscar and his Hobs. The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe hadn’t been impressed.
‘Flighti the Drake’ might be a welcome guest in Nombernaught and a minor hero for rescuing some Terandrian nobles, but she was a liability. Fighti and the three Goblins all had to speak in code, pretend they were from a Drake city, and refer to their comrades by other names.
Living near Liscor helped with the illusion, and Fighti had begun to refer to Goblinhome as ‘Flooded Waters’ the city. Rags was now, instead of Chieftain, the ‘Little Boss’.
And so on.
Anyways, she eventually sold Rags with her description of The Prawn’s Repose by explaining what made it so special.
Wake up, get out of your soft bed to the rocking of the city; it moved on the currents slightly, which unsettled Chickenruler to no end, but Fighti loved it. Smell the fresh sea air out the window and see the boats coming in.
Drowned Folk fished. It was their primary source of food, not agriculture. Each morning, colorful sails and ships would emerge from the sea, bearing their catches to port. It would be bustling at dawn, and Fighti would trot out of her room and begin to head down the long, central staircase.
“Morning and fair currents to ye.”
“Morning. Uh, may your tail be straight.”
Fighti nodded to a Drowned Man, who paused at the greeting, then grinned. She felt like that was a good greeting. Both of them were sniffing the air, and Fighti heard someone sizzling something hot. She smacked her lips together.
Drowned Folk did amazing things with spices that even Calescent could learn from. She paused on the first floor to watch a [Chef] in the open kitchen carefully rolling a piece of fish in a kelp-based powder filled with the spices. Once coated, he tied a little string around the tail, then added it to a full fistful of prepared fish. Then? He strode over to a pot of oil and dunked the fish inside, securing the strings to a small loop overhead.
How decadent. Fighti’s mouth began watering instantly. The kitchen didn’t throw out the cooking oil either and took great pains to preserve it with spells and Skills, so it had the flavors of hundreds, nay, thousands of meals before it. Apparently, you could buy good ‘oil stock’ for cooking that had subtle flavors baked into it.
Fighti had some kind of memory from Calescent arguing with Rags about not re-using oil, and she’d asked the [Chef] about it only to be informed that was landfolk oil. By which he apparently meant vegetable oils and the stuff used above the water. Fighti had bought a flask of this special oil from a [Merchant] who said this particular brand could be reused forever; the others had only said it was good for up to ten or twenty days with the right preservation techniques, max.
Because Drowned Folk had so little access to land-based agriculture, they used seaweed and kelp, some of the few plants that they grew, as their flour analogues. It resulted in a different texture to the food, tougher, but they loved their spices and pulled them from around the world.
However, because they fished so much, oil was in great supply, and they used it in a lot of their cooking.
So that was breakfast. Above average already for getting to see it made. But here was where Fighti sold Rags on the experience. As she waited for food to come to her—you ate what was the dish of the day or you didn’t eat at all, which she approved of—she took a seat in a jelly chair.
As in a slightly wobbly, yet firm chair filled with something called ‘thick water’, made from the membrane of a giant jellyfish. They were like deformed potatoes, and Fighti settled back, put her bare feet down as she kicked off her slippers—and felt them splash into the pool.
Yes, the pool. There was a huge pool connected to one of the waterways that ran through Nombernaught; unlike the ones that Drowned Folk used for travel, both by swimming and riding above, this one had a specific task.
It had fishes in it. Tiny little ones that flocked to anything in the water by the hundreds. Fighti felt the weirdest sensation on her feet as they nibbled at her calluses and dead skin. She lay back and relaxed as some of the other patrons did the same.
“Huh. And here I thought the fish wouldn’t like a Drake, scales and all. I guess new food’s better than none.”
Her Drowned Folk friend from the stairwell was copying the act a few seats away, his feet a Human foot and a fin foot that he massaged wearily before inserting into the water. He had a leg-brace to help him walk, Fighti realized. She responded after a moment, voice casual.
“Eh. I’m tasty, probably.”
He grinned at that. Before Fighti could say anything else, the food arrived, hot on a plate, and she tossed a crumb of fish into the water just to watch them go wild. Fighti was enjoying this inn way more than the other Goblins, who were nervous and ate in their rooms.
And a lot more than the Humans from House Lanight; one of them was awake and eating at a table. The maid, or whomever she was, had a haunted look on her face and wasn’t enjoying the feet-cleaning fish. Fair to her; her entire expedition had been wiped out, and she had problems, even now. She kept glancing at the stairs above, waiting for her mistress, Lady Calva, to wake.
She was an odd maid. Fighti had seen Magnolia Reinhart’s, and this maid wasn’t as professional looking. She ate alone, though she did run messages back and forth between Lady Calva and Terandria constantly. Maybe it was a cultural thing.
Anyways, Fighti ate with her plate on her lap as someone began to play on the huge harps in the back of the room. A server came by and handed her a non-alcoholic drink the color of amber with a dark bottom; it was bitter, but in that great way. If she wanted to, Fighti could then head to the sea where Drowned Folk swam or the markets; she could descend into the lower levels, which were still underwater, or charter a ship to anywhere in the world.
But mostly, she just wanted to ride a boat across the canals that bridged the entire city and admire it from up close. She wasn’t brave enough to do that yet—but the Drowned Man encouraged her as they struck up a conversation.
“Don’t just ride the waterways. Ride a Sea Ferry; they’ll take you down a thousand feet and show you wonders.”
“That’s a thing?”
“Oh yes. Don’t you landfolk have guided tours?”
“Eh. Land isn’t that interesting. What else can be done here?”
“Visit the Surface Scopes? Now they’re above water, the view’s different, but they’re made for people to stare up at the sky from the deeps. All you can see now are stars, distant places, and the sea from above. Or you could try wavesurfing. That’s more for Drowned Folk who live next to the air, but we all’re half landfolk, I suppose.”
“I saw that yesterday. Sounds fun.”
She’d bought souvenirs as well; the oil, several lovely fishhooks that Fighti thought she could use if she got to a freshwater source in the New Lands, some fine squid ink for Rags so she wouldn’t get mad at Fighti for using her emergency funds…
And, uh, souvenirs. Just a few! The other Goblins hadn’t been able to get mad at Fighti for buying a carved miniature of Felkhr the Flying Gnoll and his glider. Or else she would tell Rags about the Colth doll that Mousebite had in her bags. They sold Named-rank adventurer merchandise here, and Fighti had gotten one of Saliss for half-off. No one wanted a naked Drake.
Fighti sighed longingly as a bowl of popcorn shrimp was placed in front of her. And no, that wasn’t a dish from Earth; Drowned Folk had simply invented something almost directly similar to the concept. Regretfully, she shook her head at the Drowned Man.
“Sounds like fun. But I have to go beat up an old man after breakfast.”
“Uh. What?”
“Sorry, I meant threaten to shoot him. We don’t beat him up. Well, I watch. Maybe it’d be better if we broke his knees, though. But hey, not my job.”
The maid half-turned to Fighti with an appalled expression, but one that suggested that part of her thought Fighti was right. The Drowned Man just stared at her as half the guests looked over. She sipped her drink. The moment she saw Lady Calva run downstairs, Fighti sighed.
“He’s left the city again! Miss Fighti, quickly!”
Fightipilota helpfully pointed at the [Lady].
“Sorry, got to go. Threatening old men is a full-time job.”
Though she could swear that of all his people and the Goblins, Lord Olvos Lanight liked Fightipilota the least. She wondered why. She was pretty charming, in Fighti’s personal opinion.
 
——
 
A [Knight] rode towards the Sword Crabs again, panting for breath. His horse didn’t want to go; the brave stallion kept trying to turn, but he’d urge it into place and raise his lance.
A new lance. The same man. The same look in his eyes. Four days now, he’d been here. Enough that the Sword Crabs had begun to recognize him. But every time they scuttled forwards to ensnare him, he rode back, set himself, and charged again.
