It was pointless. Even if he landed a good hit—and it was by no means a sure thing since they could parry his lance—his lance would barely pierce their chests.
The blunt truth was that the lance was the wrong weapon to use here, at least alone. It was a fine weapon for killing larger monsters, but to strike a fatal blow, the [Knight] had to charge in and commit to the full strike.
He could not. The Sword Crabs would catch him and unhorse him or kill the horse before he could deal them the mortal wound. Perhaps a hundred [Lancers] on open ground would do well, but it was still a costly, dangerous maneuver.
—And the old man was not that high-level. There were sixty-plus crabs in this nest, still snapping at bones, but mostly fishing in the waters with their long claws, looking for more food, mating—
Bones and shattered dreams. He rode in one himself, white hair blowing in the sea breeze, lance raised, and struck a crab as it swatted at him.
Once, twice—the Sword Crab retreated, leaking blue ichor from its chest, and another took its place, warily swatting at the [Knight]. He could drive one back, then another, force as many as a dozen to retreat. But then his horse would slow or his hand would lose the strength to grip the lance properly.
Still, he rode. His mithril armor had taken on another layer of dents. It was a miracle his horse was alive, but the stallion seemed more aware than its master; it leapt back from a swing of a crab’s claw as the [Knight]’s lance cut the air in a miss. He turned—
And Fightipilota sighed as she flew Lady Calva and her retinue in for landing. Evilknee, Mousebite, and Chickenruler all shook their heads.
“Grandfather, stop! Please!”
The young woman ran across the sands, heedless of the danger of the Sword Crabs. Her two warriors, a [Man-at-Arms] and the [Archer], watched the crabs nervously. If they decided they were hungry…
Fighti sat on Coldcream’s back, Thunderbow casually trained on the nearest Sword Crabs. The presence of the Frost Wyvern made the crabs hesitate.
The old man was Lord Olvos Lanight of the Lantocracy of Bitorm. An important man? Fighti eyed the maid striding next to the [Lady] and wasn’t sure. He could certainly pay for the inn, and the Drowned Folk were humoring Lady Calva. They’d even searched for a ship to take her home—but the situation with Lord Olvos had sort of put a hole in their plans.
He was here again. The first day, nearly a hundred Drowned Folk had gone racing out to find him. The second day, they’d sent a party the moment he slipped out and had tried to bar the gates against his passage.
The third, they’d let him go. Today, Calva and the Goblins were the only people trying to talk the old man down. Fighti leaned on her Thunderbow as she watched the young woman pleading with him, tugging at his arm, and his gaze straying down to her.
Then towards the Sword Crabs, like a ship headed towards a distant light only he could see. Fighti grunted to herself.
The Drowned Folk got it. The only people who didn’t seem to were the Humans.
Day after day. Fighti heard the two warriors speaking quietly to themselves; the two camp servants were out of the picture. She listened in. One of them had a bow, the other a sword and a crutch.
The [Man-at-Arms] was mobile, and his legs were sort of mended, but he more slumped against the side of Coldcream’s leg, waving a sword at the Sword Crabs. If they charged, he might buy everyone a second with his body. But he kept insisting on tagging along, and Redfangs liked that kind of stupidity. The conversation between the two men was distinctly pained.
“…lost his senses with grief. Lord Arcite should give the order to have his father arrested and put on a ship north for his own good. How does he even get out of the city?”
“He bribed the Drowned Folk at the gates the first time. The next day, they let him out. They don’t care.”
“Yah, they do.”
Fighti called down to them, and the two men stiffened. One looked up at her with a flash of—the [Archer] mastered his tongue and bowed.
“House Lanight’s in your debt, Miss Drake. But please, this is a personal affair. Lord Lanight has…every right to…”
His voice broke. Fighti didn’t like it. Not the grief, but the way his voice wobbled and…it was a terrible thing to see the man’s unshaven jaw clench, see the arrow waver. The [Man-At-Arms] had his sword up, but his eyes were filled with tears.
“Amateur.”
That came from Mousebite. Chickenruler nudged the Redfang. Fighti just gazed at the old man as he went back for another pass.
Tilting. That was the word for it. His form was as excellent as Tyrion Veltras’. A grave insult, but the only reference Fighti had. She watched Lady Calva run after him, and the maid dragged her back. The [Lady] was fighting, and Fighti winced as the Sword Crab landed a blow this time.
It sent Lord Olvos reeling backwards, and he lolled, one arm dangling, holding the lance as it dragged behind him. He was definitely out for a good ten seconds as his horse carried him away. The two men groaned, but didn’t go to stop him as the girl ran to talk with the old man again.
“Why don’t you hit him over the head and tie him up?”
Fighti was curious. The [Archer] bristled.
“Strike him? That is—Lord Olvos is one of the nobles of Bitorm, Miss Fighti. His roots date back to the Hundred Families of Terandria!”
“I don’t know what that is. What’s your name?”
“Izrilians.”
The man-at-arms muttered. The [Archer] raised a hand to his head; it was bandaged. He favored Fighti with a grief-filled expression, like one of Erin’s flames settled to the bottom of a drink. Only, it was his face.
“[Master of the Hunt] Urei, of House Lanight. There stands Maukset, a retainer to Lady Calva. Yonder is Miss Zemine, in service to Lady Calva. The two men you rescued were hired help. We are all that remains of the expedition to the new lands by House Lanight.”
“A disaster. From the moment the storm sent our ship awry to the damnation of Terandria’s fleets by the treacherous [Pirates], Dullahans, and that [Innkeeper]. This entire land is cursed.”
Maukset spat. Fighti eyed both men. They both had on just ordinary clothes; they’d rushed out after their [Lord] once he’d escaped the minders set on him by his granddaughter. But even now, they both carried one other thing along with their weapons: an unlit lantern.
“The [Innkeeper]’s nice. What does Bitorm do? What’s House Lanight do? What’s a retainer? Don’t you all work for that old guy?”
She hadn’t had a chance to really chat the last few days; emotions had been high. They were still high, but at least…
A groan. Lord Olvos rode again at the Sword Crab, lance steady as his horse galloped. This Sword Crab must have been young or talented; the [Knight] went to parry the claw and received two blows to his shield arm.
It had been broken; even with a potion, Fighti guessed it was weak, and he was half out of the saddle as the Sword Crab raised an arm to hammer down on horse and rider.
“[Piercing Shot]!”
Urei shot it straight into the crab’s chest, and the crab didn’t even flinch, despite the arrow penetrating its shell. Fighti spoke and squeezed the trigger.
“[Double Tap].”
Her bolt made the crab rock; one hit it dead in the chest, the other struck the claw, and it swiveled towards her, swinging its claw in a defensive pattern. Fighti reloaded as the [Archer] gave her a shamefaced bow.
“Hey, old man. Don’t make me shoot you again. You want to die? Go without the lance and horse next time! Leave the brave horsie to live!”
That provoked a noise of outrage from Lady Calva, and the [Knight] raised his head and gave Fightipilota his attention. The first instance he had looked at anything except for his granddaughter and the crabs.
The other Goblins, the two men, the Frost Wyvern, Lord Olvos ignored. But Fighti…he inspected her face, then jerked his eyes towards his granddaughter and her maid. Then away. Fighti leaned over and whispered to the two men.
“I think he’s mad because I shot him.”
She could think of no other reason why he kept giving her the side-eye. The [Knight] rode, slowly resetting his lance. His granddaughter tried to grab the reins.
“He holds no grudge, Miss. Speak to him with some—decorum, I beg you. Lord Olvos has every right to his grief. He…Lady Minhwe’s body lies yonder. And we cannot even retrieve her remains.”
Ah. The [Man-at-Arms] was holding his sword in a shaking hand.
“The Drowned Folk wouldn’t even send a group to recover the remains. Heartless—”
“They warned you, they said. They don’t want to die for bones.”
Maukset almost attacked her. He turned, sword in hand, and Fighti aimed the crossbow at his chest. He vibrated with fury, and Urei’s voice was strangled.
“The Drowned Folk gave us no warning, Miss.”
“They used lanterns.”
Pale-faced, Maukset muttered an insult.
“Those wickless [Pirates] first declared their claim on the land in low-light signs to us. On the heels of their kind attacking Terandrian Kingdoms! Then they claimed the coast was ‘infested with crabs’. The warning never reached Lady Calva or anyone else in seniority, no matter what the Drowned Folk claim on their end. I never heard it.”
Fighti leaned on her Thunderbow.
“That was [Pirates]. They’re Drowned Folk. They have a city; good claim to me. Did they say ‘crabs’ or Sword Crabs?”
Urei broke in, his voice straining like a piece of taut rope slowly fraying.
“It was lost in translation. How were we to know—”
They fell silent, and Fighti’s voice was cheerful and direct, like a blade of glass through the ribs.
“You should have. Or gone over to ask what they meant.”
Or not tried to fight a bunch of crabs that weigh several tons each. Fighti was trying to be nice, she really was. She felt bad for the Humans.
They really were a weird lot, these Humans. Grief did things to you, but the four just sort of wrung their hands about the old knight without doing much. The [Lady] made sense; she was in shock. First time to a real battle, Fighti guessed. But the ‘maid’ seemed almost resigned to the knight trying to kill himself.
At least the two warriors had an excuse; Maukset was in grave pain as he leaned against Coldcream, his face grey from standing upright. Urei was more put-together, but he had taken a head wound and seemed not to trust his feet either. Maukset muttered to Urei, turning from Fighti.
“If only we had a light we might do aught to recover some—some remains. But our entire store of Lantern Lights is gone. Lord Lanight might have some…”
“Little good they would have done.”
“Some. Could we pull Lord Lanight onboard a ship?”
“Even in his age, he might thrash us both, Maukset. Not to mention we could be hung ‘ere we return home.”
Maukset licked his lips as Mousebite pointed at the two men incredulously. Fighti half-nodded. What was this? The [Man-at-Arms] turned to the [Master of the Hunt] for clarity.
“Not by him, surely? Nor the rest of House Lanight…?”
“The matter may seem to the other Lantern Lords as improper—”
“They’ll kill you for touching that old guy?”
Fighti leaned over her Thunderbow, and the two men jumped slightly. They turned back to Fighti.
“He is a Lantern Lord.”
“What? You can’t even slap him on the back?”
“We cannot force him to do anything, Miss Fighti. Surely you would not force a—a [General] to quit the field? Lady Calva is the only person here who may reason with Lord Lanight.”
Fighti just spat over the side of Coldcream’s neck.
“That’s stupid. I’d kick my own Chieft—my own [General]’s ass if she told me something stupid. Why would anyone trust him?”
She snapped at them, and for answer, the two men just turned to Lord Lanight.
“It’s a beautiful light he carries, Miss Fighti. You cannot see it in his grief. But it stems from his lantern to the others. One lantern illuminates an entire province. He should have brought it to a glorious city founded on this damned continent.”
Fighti just shook her head as they gazed at their [Lord] with genuine reverence. Perhaps it was because she just saw him now. He had not the look of a [Lord] of Terandria to Fighti now. He looked like a Redfang. And there was only one thing she believed was needed right now…
Fighti shifted her aim up, eying the [Knight]. This was getting nowhere. He was even less receptive to his granddaughter’s pleas than the first three times they’d gotten him back.
His cheeks looked thinner, and it wasn’t as if he’d had a lot of fat to lose when she’d first seen him. He didn’t feel the blows he’d taken, and yet he finally landed a blow on the Sword Crab, making it buckle as the lance took out a leg. The Sword Crab dragged itself back, and another moved forwards…
Yes, she knew the old [Knight]’s type. With a sigh, Fighti glanced at Chickenruler.
“Redscar coming, you think?”
“Eh. Maybe tomorrow. Long way, even with C—Little Boss’ Skills for [Fast Traveling].”
“Aspat. Fine. Mousebite, cover me.”
The Redfang climbed up, grumbling, as Fightipilota slid down Coldcream’s wing. She sauntered forwards, checking the shortsword at her side. The [Knight] was riding back to her, and the [Lady] was weeping now.
She was some kind of [Strategist], or so she’d claimed. Fighti had never seen Rags crying when lives were on the line. Lady Calva seemed young. New to battle. Her maid… Miss Zemine, was it?
If that woman was a [Maid], Fightipilota decided that she was a [Submarine Captain]. She looked too calm given her proximity to Gold-rank monsters. Which meant she might be a Magnolia-type [Battle Maid], but she hadn’t given her [Lady] a handkerchief for the boogers.
“Hey, old man. How many times are we doing this? Come back to the city. At least today. Tomorrow’s a better day to die, promise.”
At first, the [Knight] didn’t seem to hear her. Calva gasped and looked at Fighti, but then Lord Olvos’ gaze swung down. He didn’t halt, but his horse did, sniffing at Fighti, who patted it on the nose. She pulled it towards the Wyvern.
“Come on, Bravehoofies, you deserve grass…kelp stuff. Let’s go.”
The Sword Crabs were beginning to object to the presence of the outsiders. They were moving slowly, maneuvering right and left subtly, but Fightipilota knew they had time. The horse trotted a few steps, licking Fighti’s hands, before the man halted the horse with his legs.
Fighti slapped his knee, and he jerked slightly.
“Stop that dumb face. Or I’ll shoot you—again.”
“Miss Fighti, that is a Lumis Lantern Lord of Bitorm! You may not speak to him like—”
Maid Zemine spoke sharply, and Fighti ignored her. She glanced up at the old man. It was he who spoke in a voice like a reed’s whisper. Hoarse. Surprised, as if he hadn’t thought he needed to speak again.
