The leader of the Sword Crab pack recoiled when Redscar pointed at it. It snapped its pincers warily, and the Goblins let out a ululating cry. Then they tensed.
The circling crabs were closing inwards, but Redscar paid no attention to them. He turned to the [Knight] and gestured. A beckoning ‘come on’, universal to Humans as well as Goblins.
Once, he did it. The lance wavered.
A second time, Redscar motioned, and he saw confused eyes shifting from him to the Sword Crab. Then—hesitation. Incredulity.
That would do. Redscar whirled as a Sword Crab scuttled forwards, claw arm raised to slash downwards with deceptive speed.
[Crimson Whirls My Blade].
When he swung his sword, the claw fell to the ground, and the crab stared at the stump of its limb, recoiling. The other Sword Crabs fell silent, incredulous, and Redscar pivoted. His warriors charged with a single howl, and the Sword Crabs fell back, claws on the defensive. A [Knight] galloped forwards, lance levelled, and struck one in the eyestalk.
The [Blademaster] walked. The moons cast vast shadows, dancing around huge, lumbering Sword Crabs, Goblins leaping, dodging, slashing—the shadows split around him, tiny wisps, like blades of grass.
Or blades. A million blades made of shadows that reached out and passed over the Sword Crabs surrounding Redscar. Just a Skill.
Only a Skill delivered as a consolation prize by one of the greatest masters of blades to ever walk the world.
Three Sword Crabs flinched. One maneuvered an eyestalk to stare down at the thousands of cuts standing out on its shell. Not a single one was deep, but it was like someone had run flechettes across the crab’s entire body.
Two of the Sword Crabs, unnerved, backed away. Redscar let them go. If you balked at that, you were not ready.
A claw swung at his chest, and he leaned under it. Fast. As fast as Garen said—
It opened and tried to snap, and he threw himself left, leg coming down. Spinning. A slash turned the ground into billowing dust, but the Goblin was gone. The Sword Crab was fast; it had lost one of its six legs, but it attacked with both claws, swinging them into offense and defense with barely any openings.
The Goblin leapt one claw, kicking off of it as it snapped. He used the flat of his sword to push against another claw and move himself out of the way. Landed, stabbed the ground, and vanished—
Only at the end did a claw slash at his head, too fast for Redscar to dodge. So he grunted.
The Sword Crab’s claw, as wide as he was, flicked to the side as the red blade parried it, and the giant crab pulled its claw back and waved it a few times in front of its face, before scuttling back.
[Effortless Parry].
Redscar kept grinning, but he clenched his sword hilt tighter. A waste of a Skill. Sloppy. But he had seen what the crab could do.
The Goblin raised his sword as the Sword Crab scuttled left and right, seeking an opening. This time, when it stabbed with its claw, he waited until it jerked down to try and snag his legs. The crab snapped—saw the Goblin was on its claw, and tried to slash at Redscar.
Six steps and he slashed the claw off and then impaled the Sword Crab from above. Redscar landed as it flailed with its left claw. Turned, still trying to kill him.
The crab collapsed onto its side as he cut one leg off. It snapped at him, and he cut another off. Then it was dragging itself back.
Redscar let it go, exhaling. It would live if it was lucky. Then he ducked another claw and turned, parrying another blow.
He spoke no Skills. Nor did most of the Redfangs, except in necessity. They fought in careful groups, refusing to be drawn out of their close formation, watching each other’s backs. Redscar’s chest was hot, but his blood was cold.
It confused the knight, who rode forwards, impaling another Sword Crab. He wrenched the lance back and saw Redscar stride past him and point.
Two Redfangs charged the wounded crab with shouts, but the Goblin held up a hand, forestalling the [Knight] pressing his attack. He gestured; their path towards the leader was waiting.
Focused. That was it. Redscar leaned out of the way of another crab’s claw and cut it off at the joint. He didn’t look bored, but he moved from blow to dodge to parry as if unsurprised by it all. As if this were not combat, but something else. Something that mattered more than just battle. Redscar checked his companion as the [Knight] surveyed the battle.
Frost breath was keeping a lot of Sword Crabs back; the Redfangs had driven four more off, and now the [Knight] was studying Redscar.
He’d seen Redscar best the first crab. He gazed up as two Thunderbows boomed and another crab collapsed, legs shot out from under it. His eyes were roaming the confused cast of crabs—that was what you called a pack of crabs, apparently. A cast. Redscar had looked the word up.
“There.”
The man seemed confused by Redscar’s ability to speak. He followed the finger and saw the leader, advancing slowly, clacking its pincers.
“They don’t have any real intelligence. They’re crabs. There was never a point to this. Nor honor or valor.”
The man meant the Frost Wyverns blasting the majority of the crabs and keeping them wide. Or maybe the little Sword Crabs. Even ‘small’ ones reached up to the Goblin waist. They had cute little claws and snapped them as the adults kept them back.
The knight stared at them. Eyes sunken, as if he were looking into the past. His eyes sought something in the biggest Sword Crab’s strange ‘face’.
Redscar just saw a crab. But he had seen this before.
Fightipilota was a Redfang. Of course she’d recognized the signs.
In response to the man’s statement, the [Blademaster] just lifted his swords.
“True. There’s no meaning in them or the fighting.”
The knight turned to him, betrayed by the statement and almost relieved. Redscar whistled, and his Redfangs formed up.
“The meaning is in the doing. That one. Leapwolf, keep them off us.”
He pointed his sword. A Hobgoblin nodded, brushing blue blood from his face. Once more, the Goblins charged with their name on their lips.
This time—the Sword Crabs backed away. Redscar ran as the largest Sword Crab rushed at them, properly fearless. He saw that lance rise.
Neither Human or Goblin saw glory in it, but the Goblin still began to run. When he swung his sword, he cut another crab’s claw, taking off the lower half. He slashed outwards as he dove under another crab, taking its legs out. Electrified another with a single stab of his blade and opened up another’s chest—lightly—
Swinging his swords until they were covered in blue blood and the crabs backed away from him. The Goblin raised his sword over his head, brimming with silent pride, and walked forwards with the [Knight].
 
——
 
The Sword Crab deserved its place as the biggest and strongest. It kept fighting, even when the Goblin took out both its eyestalks. The deed surprised the [Knight], but it was not easy, not even between the two of them.
None of the Redfangs interfered, nor Fightipilota and the Wyverns; the man was on his feet, his horse stumbling away, when he carved open the crab’s chest, letting more entrails spill out. It kept snapping, its claws notched by Redscar’s blade leaking little blood, and tried to back away at last.
The knight hesitated. Blue blood streaked his armor, and he had dealt the mortal wound. Redscar delivered the finishing blow. He side-stepped.
Clack.
Then he brought Garen Redfang’s blade down, and most of the crab split apart, only held intact by the shell on its back.
It was done. The Redfangs didn’t cheer as the Sword Crabs backed up several paces, realizing their leader was dead. None of the Goblins had fallen. Redscar shook blood off his blade and heard an unsteady voice.
“Enough. The rest would be a slaughter. Let me…”
He was on the ground, bending over broken mithril. Gathering something in his arms. Redscar averted his gaze out of respect and muttered to his warriors.
They were not done.
When Lord Olvos rose, he saw the Redfangs had brought something out of their bags of holding. Two were fiddling on the ground as the rest created a circle of blades around him and Redscar. Then he saw a flare of light as one struck a match and dropped it on a pile of tinder.
They cupped their hands, blew, tossed some oil down, and soon had a fire going. The knight stared at it, uncomprehending.
The Sword Crabs were all about them. However, Redscar had something. He walked back and offered the [Knight] it.
It was a lump of meat, which Redscar held over the fire on his sword. He motioned, and another Goblin laid a strip of meat on a frying pan and stuck it straight on the fire. As soon as the meat had charred enough, the Goblin pulled it off his blade and, swearing since it was hot enough to burn his fingers, tore it in half.
“Here.”
He handed it to the man. Olvos had recovered his wife’s bones. He waved a hand weakly.
“No.”
He was halfway towards Fleance when a hand pulled him back. The Goblin shoved the meat in his face; charred Sword Crab flesh, without seasoning.
“Here. Eat. It isn’t for you.”
All the numbness in the knight’s body might have turned to violence. Or just a collapse. But he stared at the Goblin—then at the way the warriors took a bite of the meat. They chewed, talking quietly, eating without apparent relish as the Sword Crabs clicked.
Olvos didn’t know why he took the meat, but he tried a bite.
It wasn’t good. It tasted like, well, crab, but he wasn’t hungry, it burned his tongue. And yet he chewed and swallowed, and Redscar grilled another section.
The crabs were all watching him. And the knight. They kept scuttling forwards a bit, testing the ring of swords, but—Olvos saw the little ones at the back and almost threw up his bite.
It was Redscar’s words that kept him grounded. He began to grill another bite and spoke.
“They are just crabs. If we kill them, they don’t understand. Not like Gargoyles. Eater Goats, Carn Wolves, they’re all stupid. Smart sometimes, but stupid. They understand this. They need to know not to do it again.”
He took a bite of the dead Sword Crab he had killed, and Olvos understood. This time, he took another piece of crab and ate. The cast of crabs observed.
Predators? They watched the ten figures devouring their leader. The Sword Crabs were guarding their clutches of eggs; they would fight to the death. They should have rushed in, but they were watching him.
Redscar. Whenever he lifted his swords, they raised their claws. As if they saw him as a kind of crab with deadly claws, for all his height. There was a strange magic to it; he held the Sword Crabs spellbound for a while.
Redscar took two more bites, then tossed the rest of the meat into the fire. He pointed at the crabs as he spoke to Olvos.
“No more than this. No children. No hunting. No…”
One of the Sword Crabs had decided to resume the fighting. It scuttled forwards, claw raised, snapping, and Olvos tensed. Redscar spun and bellowed at the Sword Crab.
It was a [War Leader]’s scream, wrath and fury incarnate and warning in a single twisting syllable. The Sword Crab recoiled; scuttled back amidst the ranks of the others. Redscar turned back to Olvos.
“Is there anything else?”
The knight stared at the stranger, who, to his eyes, appeared to be a short Drake with two magical blades. He shook his head as he gazed upwards, and the pilot waved at him.
“No.”
Redscar clapped his shoulder hard. Not in respect. Nor sympathy. As if those two gestures meant nothing in this moment and he knew it. It was just a hard clap to the shoulder.
“Let’s go.”
 
——
 
The knight sat with the Redfangs on the beach, later. Far from the Sword Crabs. He swore he could still see smoke rising from that brief fire, but it had been hours.
The other Redfangs didn’t say much. They didn’t celebrate except to comment on the fighting and their own satisfaction with how they’d done against the Sword Crabs.
Warriors did that. Olvos heard ‘Garen said’ and ‘dangerous’, and other comments now and then along with expressive body language.
Redscar was silent. So was Fightipilota. She’d come off the Wyvern and taken a seat around another fire. The [Blademaster] was skipping flat stones into the sea.
He was bad at it. He scowled as Fightipilota got thirty-five skips and went to sit with Olvos.
“We tell stories of how they fought as they lived, and how they died. You don’t have to. Fightipilota…Flighti or whatever her name is, called me. You look like my people.”
“Drakes.”
The two Goblins exchanged a look as Fighti nodded energetically and with considerable relief.
“Yep, Drakes.”
Redscar just snorted. He tapped his chest.
“I’m…Redblade. I have seen warriors like you. So I came. After I go, it depends on what you want.”
“You flew all this way to do what…give me closure? To keep me from killing myself?”
Was this condescension? Kindness? The [Blademaster] just chuckled.
“To show you how it is done. How many have you lost before?”
Olvos’ head rose. He had no idea how old Redscar was, but he looked young. Lord Olvos’ hair was completely white. He had lived for seven decades, ruled as a [Lord], retired, and decided to ward his granddaughter on an expedition to lands untamed.
“I have buried dozens…over a hundred friends. Soldiers. I have mourned my siblings and parents and even—children.”
Redscar shook his head and crossed his legs.
“Not buried. Lost. Lost their bodies. Couldn’t go back. Not died in battle or in sleep. Not sickness. Died when an Eater Goat ate them. Vanished in the snow.”
The question…the [Lord]’s eyes flickered.
“Enough. Too many.”
“Yeah. Me? Hundreds. Brothers. Sisters. Father.”
He kept grinning as he laid his swords before him, sitting cross-legged. The [Blademaster] spoke to the knight as the pilot sat there.
“You come from good lands. You know death. I would never say otherwise. You know grief. I am here to show you how it is done when beasts kill us. That is what we are best at.”
“Us Drakes.”
Fighti added unhelpfully and got a kick for her troubles. She rubbed at her stomach as she tossed sand at Redscar, and Fighti looked at the knight.
“Sorry for you. We all are.”
“Thank you. And thank you for saving my granddaughter. And me.”
The man felt empty. He sat there as the sun rose, and eventually, a screaming [Lady] came galloping towards him and threw herself from the saddle. His granddaughter. She looked so lost and desperate that Lord Olvos wondered how he could have imagined…
Just a bit longer. He touched his bag of holding.
“Calva, send for a funeral barge, please. I am…not going back. Someone look at Fleance. I think he sprained a leg. These are…these are companions of Miss Fighti, was it?”
“And Lilbrasi. This is, uh, Redblade. Her best warrior.”
