“Incoming Glimmer Shards,” Calen told her, pointing out the direction.

Glimmer Shard – Elemental – level 14-21 (Light) Swarm x23.

As if the Forest Guardian and its rampant plant growth weren’t enough, the flight of more than twenty glimmer shards was arcing a curving path as their formation flew toward their fight at high speed.

Ali’s mages were all bound in the plant growth, alive only because of the furious casting of her Acolytes under their powerful enhancement magic, and entirely unable to use anything but their quick firebolts. She would need her mages freed before she could take on the flying shards, but that would leave her second healer mired in the Forest Guardian’s devastating growth spell.

Healer, she decided quickly, throwing out her barrier to protect it, without having enough time to fully consider the full implications. Her Scalding Slimes made short work of the roots, and in seconds, they cut her second Acolyte free. Just as she got it out of the plants, the glowing formation of light magic shard elementals wheeled one more time and unleashed their characteristic synchronized attack, leaving blurred streaks of afterimages both in her vision and her mana sight. Ali memorized the view of their magic in action for later as the shards indiscriminately speared everything in sight, before simply slicing through the roots on their way back into the sky.

Ali ignored the attack, distributing mana potions to her overworked Acolytes, relying on them to patch up everyone while she extracted a Kobold Fire Mage. As soon as her slimes freed the mage, she pointed his fireball magic at the skies.

“Something else is coming,” Calen called out. While his voice sounded calm, Ali caught the hint of urgency in his posture, and her heart began to race as she scoured the skies where he was looking.

Ali was still in the middle of rescuing her last Fire Mage, and simultaneously directing fireballs into the sky, trying to time their attacks and the high-speed glimmer shards. It was not nearly as easy as she had believed from her first experience with them. I must have got lucky last time, she thought, scanning the sky for whatever new thing Calen had spied.

The new arrivals appeared to be two large floating disks of glowing translucent yellow that undulated gently in the air. Down the entire length of the monster was an orange spine that ended in a glowing circular mouth at the front end and a long trailing tail at the back.

Coruscant Ray – Elemental – level 32-33 (Light) x2.

“They’re too far for my mages to hit,” Ali said.

“I can hit them.” As Calen said it, the rays both rotated, lining themselves up with the battlefield below. A bright orange-red glow of mana flared to life along the creatures’ spines, intensifying dramatically.

“Magic attack,” Ali said, quickly summoning a protective barrier in front of herself, studying the attack with her mana sight. It was clearly some form of light magic, but the formation was like nothing she had seen before.

Suddenly, the glow reached its peak, and twin beams of orange-red light fired down at the combatants struggling below, beams of such intensity that Ali winced in pain at the sight of it. One of the beams tore through several of Ali’s still-trapped minions and sliced into the Forest Guardian, eliciting a furious pained roar from the monster. The second beam burned a deep glowing furrow through the ground as it sliced directly toward Ali.

She rotated her barrier and crouched down behind it, barely in time to block the intense beam. But the beam passed clean through her barrier like light passing through a window, slicing through her ribs and into her chest with a sizzle of instantly cauterized flesh. A shadow crossed her vision as the world went dark.

Ali came to with mud and grass pressed up against her face. The awful stench of burnt flesh filled her nose. Her dizziness and disorientation faded rapidly as the holy magic pulsed within her body, rapidly repairing her wound and banishing her pain. She sat up, to see the battle still raging around her, as Calen’s intense glow slowly faded.

“Are you ok?”

“I think so,” Ali asked, running her hand across the burnt hole in her clothing, examining the unmarked skin below. “What happened to the rays?”

“I got them.”

That was stupid. They’re beams of light… Ali frowned. Beams of light magic would pass through her mostly transparent barrier magic; she could see through them after all. Lying crumpled on the ground in front of her barrier was the corpse of one of her mages, a still-smoking hole burnt clean through his chest from where he must have jumped between her and the beam from the Coruscant Ray at the last possible moment.

She sent a silent thank-you to her minion and got up to survey the battlefield. I have two Acolytes, two mages, and two slimes. Everything else she had brought to the battle had died in the crush of aggressive plant growth or been sliced to pieces by the devastating beam attacks. This is not going well.

In the center of the battle, Mato and Malika fought side-by-side while Ali’s two Scalding Slimes jetted superheated steam at the Forest Guardian.

It doesn’t seem damaged? The monster seemed entirely too healthy. Certainly, she and Calen had been distracted by the added light elemental attackers, but her slimes and Malika should have been able to at least do some visible damage. A flash of steam jetted out, ripping chunks of wood and bark from the flank of the huge elemental, and then she saw it. The soft glow of nature magic suffused the monster, slowly growing the jagged rip in its side closed.

“Is it regenerating?” she asked. Shit, I knew that. While she had never really been in combat as a child and hadn’t seen the Forest Guardians in action, her dad had certainly mentioned their regeneration magic.

“Yes, and fast!” Malika shouted.

“Calen, do you think we should fight it inside? The stone should limit its plant magic.” Ali hadn’t had her mana sight when she had her plant growth cantrip, so she couldn’t say for certain, but it sure looked a lot like her old magic skill, except vastly more potent.

“Good idea. Hey Mato, can you try bringing it into the library?”

Mato shifted slowly, roots and vines snapping under the sheer brute force of his strength. The giant elemental followed him, and Ali began to back up also. A few moments later, she made her Scalding Slimes help untrap Mato instead of unleashing futile attacks at the guardian who was just going to regenerate it anyway.

It was excruciatingly slow, moving within the area of rampant growth, but as soon as Mato crossed the threshold and into the stone-floored library, Ali’s suspicion was confirmed. The growth ended at the doorway, and within the library, they were all suddenly free from entanglement.

“It’s fully healed again,” Malika said.

But within the confines of the library, they had much more freedom to move. Even though the monster was still healing itself, and its heavy attacks repeatedly slammed Mato into the walls, dislodging chunks of bone from each crashing impact, Ali felt a lot safer.

Ali summoned her magic to do damage for the first time in the fight, sending all her barrier magic in slicing sweeping blade attacks, and firing three simultaneous Arcane Bolt streams. She no longer had any need to be defensive, so she didn’t hold back.

But after a few minutes, it became abundantly clear that they were not making much headway. How much healing does this thing have?

Ali focused on her mana sight for a few moments, trying to understand what was going on. It took her a few moments to untangle the complex interplay of magic. The growth spell was still in effect, suffusing an area of about ten meters around the monster with nature magic, only it presumably found nothing in range to grow. But below that, there were two other magic effects. One which looked remarkably like Mato’s regeneration aura, and another that flared occasionally in response to heavy damage.

“I think it has a healing spell and a regeneration aura,” Ali said thoughtfully. She didn’t have much to compare it to, other than her holy Acolytes and Mato’s skills, but her conclusion had to be close.

“It seems vulnerable to fire,” Malika said. “Your mages are doing much more damage than us. Can you make more?”

Ali looked again, this time at the attacks. Her arcane magic seemed to be doing damage just as quickly as her Scalding Slimes, but Malika may have identified something important. The firebolts were leaving smoking holes in the Forest Guardian’s tough armor of bark and wood, the smoldering edges and repeated strikes seeming to slowly overwhelm the continuous, powerful regeneration. Of course, she realized that this was one of Mato’s key skills and what made him so hugely effective as a tank – but being on the other side of it was more than annoying.

She shook away a persistent memory of her father’s interplay with these Elementals. Everything had changed. She had friends to keep safe, she needed to focus.

It makes sense that fire would work on it. Deciding that they were going to be here long enough anyway, she put down her attacks and opened her Grimoire. Summoning took a while, so she had never really had much opportunity to use it mid-combat, but this situation called for more damage than their entire group could manage. She didn’t care that the Fire Mage was below average in level, she simply put him to work shooting firebolts and began summoning another.

It took five, and nearly fifteen minutes of continuous summoning, before Malika announced that they were beginning to make progress, and by then Calen was handing his mana potions to the Acolytes. Ali summoned one more mage and then returned to her attacks, adding her Arcane Bolts and the little extra from her barrier shards.

Eventually, the Forest Guardian collapsed on the stone floor of the library amid a deluge of fractured bone pieces and dust dislodged from the walls by the force of the impact.

Your group has defeated Glimmer Shard – Elemental – level 14-19 (Light) Swarm x23Your group has defeated Coruscant Ray – Elemental – level 32-33 (Light) x2Your group has defeated Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 43 (Nature)

“Ali, are you ok?” Malika came over to check on her as soon as the notification sounded.

“I was stupid,” Ali said, feeling a sense of burning embarrassment as she recalled hiding behind her transparent barrier expecting protection from a light beam. “My barrier is transparent, and the monster shoots light magic.”

“I meant that thing,” Malika said, pointing at the enormous corpse of wood and bark. “You seemed shaken by it.”

“Oh.” Ali looked up at it, towering above her even in death, feeling the melancholy of her nostalgia once again. “This was my father’s most powerful summon. He used to let me ride them when I was a kid.”

“I’m sorry, Ali,” Malika said. “That must have been a harsh surprise.”

Ali nodded, not trusting herself to speak right then.

“If it was your dad’s minion, you should learn it,” Mato said, coming up to join them beside the corpse. “Then you can remember him every time you use it to fight.”

Ali’s head snapped around in annoyance at his joking, but she drew up short of actually saying something at the sight of his sincere face.

Is he serious? But as soon as she considered who Mato was, she realized he had meant it as a genuine tribute. Mato was definitely the sort of person who would consider battle to be a suitable tribute, and she could see him carrying a good friend’s weapon or armor into battle to honor their memory.

Besides, it’s all I have left of him. She reached out and touched the rough wooden corpse of the monster, feeling the tears well up in her eyes. She blinked them away and decided she liked Mato’s idea. If it was all she had, she would treasure having her father’s favorite summon in her Grimoire. All she needed was to find a couple more. Mom’s golden magic, Dad’s Elementals. This is so very hard.

Sighing, she channeled her deconstruction until the giant corpse vanished in a huge cloud of sparkling mana.

Three glowing green crystals dropped from the center of the cloud, clinking against the stone as they bounced.

Living Essence (Nature) x3

What is that? But Ali immediately recognized the crystals suffused with intense nature affinity mana. It had been one of the magical reagents Eliyen had ground up when she was making the Elixir of Vitality Rejuvenation, except these were quite a bit larger, and the mana denser.

“Oh, wow,” Malika exclaimed, bending to pick one up and examine it. “These are worth some real money.”

“Can we sell that to Eliyen? She can make more of those elixirs for people who need them.”

“I’m not sure we can,” Malika said, pursing her lips as she collected the other two. “They’re valuable enough that we probably need a commerce license.”

“That seems unfair. What use are they if we can’t sell them?”

“That’s what the guild merchant position is for,” Malika answered. “Weldin’s license is unlimited when it comes to anything sold by a registered adventurer. We can literally sell him anything – as long as he wants to buy it – and the town’s merchant guilds can’t do anything about it. I can talk to him – we can make sure the essences are offered to Eliyen for a decent price.”

“Oh, I see. That’s a little complicated.” A sudden thought occurred to her, so she asked, “Am I going to need to worry about that when I sell Eliyen mana-purified water too?”

“Mmm… probably. I can talk to Weldin about that too, we’ll figure it out.”
