Yet, somehow, the green beam of life continued to pour down into him with unceasing healing power. So, he struck again, and again, suddenly switching from his heavily defensive strategy to favor powerful attacks that bit deep into the Death Knight.

An enormous ball of glowing white flame descended, detonating heavily between himself and the Death Knight, but while the holy fireball sustained him, the flames flickered with ravenous hunger upon the undead flesh of his adversary.

More fire, he thought, considering asking Ali for it. But it was as if she had heard him anyway, when he glanced up and saw a veritable storm of hellfire, holy fire, arrows, and searing bolts of golden magic descending upon them.

He hunkered down, readying his Critical Block for the next Mortal Cleave.

That was the fourth elemental storm, Calen noted, as the fury of the ice storm beyond the barrier abated, retreating to a mere blizzard.

“How’s he doing?” Calen asked.

“Pretty close now,” Ali said, her brow furrowed in concentration.

Out in the icy winds, the skeleton hordes began to rise once more, replenishing the ranks of undead blasted into oblivion by the devastating magic Haverron had unleashed.

Glowing red and black bolts of magic flickered into the swirling ice, turning skeletons into shambling pyres loaded with Explosive Conflagration and Fire Vulnerability. Calen raised Cinderstrike and began his onslaught, not even bothering to wait for Ali to lower her barrier. Volley after volley, he loosed at them, flying a mere couple of feet off the ground for maximum effect. The shining magical arrows tore through the skeleton army, leaving a rippling wave of explosive power detonating behind them.

All the while, he kept his eyes peeled for any signs that Haverron was coming for him, but this time, his vigilance was unneeded. Deep within the howling storm, magic detonated with a continuous, deafening roar, and the domain of ice suddenly faltered.

“Impossible…”

The Death Knight’s dread voice rang out across the battlefield, seemingly unbothered by the howling winds and crashing explosions, and then, the storm collapsed inward, raining ice down upon the black stone pavement.

Calen’s chime sounded loudly in his mind, and the lines of text appeared like the breaking of the dawn sun.

Your group has defeated Haverron [The Devastator] – Undead Dragonkin – level 215 (Death / Ice).Your group has defeated Skeletal Warrior – Undead – level 65-83 (Ice) x781.Your group has defeated Skeletal Mage – Undead – level 71-92 (Ice) x538.Your group has defeated Frozen Wraith – Undead – level 39-48 (Ice) x124.Your group has defeated Volatile Wraith – Undead – level 42-47 (Death) x287.

“About time,” Ali mumbled.

“You can say that again,” Calen said, agreeing with her sentiment wholeheartedly. He took a deep breath, snapping off a few arrows at the last of the stragglers; skeletons stumbling around still burning with the all-consuming hellfire conflagration. A few isolated detonations of void magic, holy and hellfire, and silence finally returned to the plaza.

The ringing in his ears faded, leaving only the crunching of Mato’s paws upon the thick layers of rime that encrusted everything. “Well, that went a little better,” he said, trying to be nonchalant, but Malika’s raised eyebrow told him just how well that hadn’t landed.

It was true, though, and he agreed with Malika’s unspoken opinion. Haverron, The Devastator, had unquestionably been the hardest monster they had ever faced, bar only the Blind Lich himself. Still, as deadly as he had been, Calen felt a pang of disappointment that the sheer adrenaline rush from stealing the boss’s Devastation Rush and kiting him through the storm, balanced upon the knife-edge of his wits and speed, was now over. He was even beginning to understand Malika and Mato’s love of fighting up close after disintegrating several skeletons with his dagger at the culmination of his stolen Impale attack.

He smiled, dismissing several new situational skill offerings for kiting and ice resistance before turning his attention to his class notifications.

Realm Hunter has reached level 160 (+7).+70 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 90 (+4).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 81 (+4).Motes of Light has reached level 61 (+2).Explorer has reached level 89 (+5).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 65 (+3).Eclipse has reached level 43.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 60 (+2).Righteous Fury has reached level 57 (+3).Azrael's Wings has reached level 42 (+2).Mirage Armor has reached level 62 (+3).Cartography has reached level 30.Basic Daggers has reached level 13 (+7).

Ha! Seven to Basic Daggers! It was a skill he barely used, taken under Nendir’s advice as a holdout weapon for when his bow was lost, broken, or otherwise unusable. It had only seen action in this fight because he saw the opportunity to stab a couple of skeletons with Haverron’s Devastation Rush.

But to Calen’s surprise, his chimes continued to sound even as he scanned his more-than-welcome advances, offering an unexpected skill advancement.

Requirements met for Skill advancement. Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Arrows of Brilliance has surpassed level 80.Dexterity has surpassed 2250.Intelligence has surpassed 1500.Defeated a raid-level threat that can move faster than your arrows.Outran your arrows using a movement skill.Achieved invisibility in combat.Arrows of Brilliance has gained a new enhancement.Blinding FlashMana: Cause an extremely bright flash when your arrow hits, blinding nearby targets. Range: 10 feet.Light, Area, Ranged, IntelligenceMote of LightMana: Attach a Mote of Light to your arrow, fixing it at the destination.Light, Ranged, IntelligenceEclipse ArrowMana: Your arrows are invisible. Light, Ranged, Illusion, IntelligenceLingering BlastMana: Your magical damage is increased, but it is applied over time instead of all at once. Duration: 30 seconds.Light, Ranged, IntelligenceSpeed of LightMana: Arrows conjured from your mana travel instantaneously.Light, Ranged, Haste, DexterityChoose one enhancement.

Eagerly, he read through the offerings for the new one, but his eyes quickly found there were two he’d never seen before. He had already considered and discarded Mote of Light, Lingering Blast, and Blinding Flash, but his skill was now offering both Eclipse Arrow and Speed of Light as possible advancements.

Hmm, invisible arrows. Eclipse arrow would make Ambush trivial against monsters with high visual perception. It was a problem he remembered struggling with, and it seemed this advancement would allow him to extend his stealth invisibility upgrade to his arrows. I wonder if it will let me avoid breaking stealth while shooting? That would be… great.

Speed of Light, on the other hand, seemed far more generally useful – the only drawback being that he could only use it with conjured arrows. So, he couldn’t boost his damage with crafted enchantments. Well, I guess it takes one of my enchantment slots. But instantaneous arrows would be far harder to dodge without an advanced precognition skill, would increase his rate of fire, and allow him to outshoot monsters with skills like Haverron’s Devastation Rush. Additionally, it would not depend on whether the monster could see his arrows or not.

Speed of Light, it is, then, he decided. It seemed he would get far more mileage out of the more reliable and versatile skill, at least in his opinion. He could always take Eclipse Arrow next time.

Over at the far side of the battlefield, a slab of ice shifted, falling with a crash, and a half-crushed skeletal mage rose unsteadily to its feet, immediately conjuring ice magic from glowing bony hands. Well, its one remaining hand.

Convenient, Calen thought, conjuring an arrow to Cinderstrike’s bowstring. He drew and fired, using both Explosive Shot and his new Speed of Light. As he released his bowstring, there was a flash as the arrow connected the monster and his bow with an eye-searing beam of light and a nigh-instantaneous detonation of fire and light.

The monster crumpled onto the icy ground without a second shot, leaving only a pile of broken bones.

You have defeated Skeletal Mage – Undead – level 75 (Ice).

“Not so strong without all your master’s buffs, are you?” he chuckled.

“New skill?” Mato asked.

“Yes, Speed of Light,” he answered. He would need to experiment a little, but his imagination was already swirling with possibilities.

“Ooh, details?” Malika asked. “Wait, let me just find my notebook…”

“Malika!” he mock-snapped, before chuckling, “am I that bad? Don’t answer –”

“Don’t need to.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
