Not long after, everything came online. Above us, hundreds of behemoths tore each other apart in the kelp. Forming between us, an energized strata whirled around the city's limits. Unlike the hexagonal patterns I was used to, this shield mirrored the way a blue core looked - like the surface of a tiny gas giant. The energy clashed overhead like giant cerulean spirals, the blue forcefield being semitransparent.

Each spinning coil sparked alive with electricity when smashing into another storm. Those sparks erupted outside the city, forming a humdrum of violence on the barrier's surface. It acted as a threat to anyone coming near it, one even I feared. That fear gave way to awe as the shield's surface rippled like a living force. It was as if a colossal planet wrapped around the city, and it constituted a perpetual guardian on this hostile planet.

It arrived with a sense of lightness, a sweet breeze, and my ears popping from the depressurization. In that homey shell, I rested under the primevals, the behemoths, and the algae. This was a spot of calm amidst a whirlwind of death, an oasis in the desert, so to speak. Since coming here, I roughed it every second of every day, but I carved out a spot to relax.

After giving myself a mental pat on the back, I stood up. From my dimensional storage, I pulled out my elemental furnaces. Embedding them in my armor, I gave them flesh, and they gave energy in turn. At the same time, more of my psyches crept into my dimensional wake. They compressed, and I fed some mana into my primordial rune.

It jerked mana into itself, threatening to wobble my control of time. I shut down the furnaces, putting all of my attention into the rune while temporally accelerated. For several hours, I honed those abilities in tandem. With practice, I added one burning furnace at a time. I attained comfort with subtle time hastening via the rise and collapse of those abilities. In a way, I represented an enormous mind split into many actions, and they all fed into my latent potential.

More hours passed, and my primordial rune reached its zenith for mana absorption. Standing there, I enjoyed a few days of building up my temporal acceleration while feeding my runes. I didn't double my time's pace while feeding my runes, but I sped up the sigil's feeding and furnaces' production by a sizable margin.

Either way, it was time to move on from the exercise. I decompressed my wake before turning towards a pile of blue cores remaining from the city's construction. I had to mimic the pillar's advancement but to my golems instead. Pulling up a thrumming dungeon heart, I stared at its spiraling depths. It evolved my monoliths into unbreakable, majestic beacons on this dark world.

And I hoped it would do the same for my golems.
