Rain climbed off of the broken remains of the Plague Rat Trundler, looked around at the aftermath of the battle, and sighed. He used Detection to verify that nothing else was coming, then clapped his hands together to get everyone’s attention. “Okay, everyone. Gather around. Let’s review what just happened there.”

“We won is what happened!” Kettel shouted. “That were brilliant! Did ye see me kick that one?” He pointed. “Nice distance!”

Rain shook his head.

“Rain?” said Breggeh, “Um, I think I might be…” she coughed. “Poisoned. I don’t feel right.”

Rain looked at her, then at her health bar on the party display. It was down a few points, but he hadn’t seen her get hit during the battle. Kettel and Bosco also had lost a point or two. As he watched, Kettel’s bar dropped by another tick.

Quickly, Rain activated Purify. He used all of his modifiers, compressing it to ten meters and leaving it there for five seconds. He had no idea what the specific poison or disease was, but there was no way it could survive Purify at that level, even with the lair dampening it. When his senses returned, no sign remained of the Plague Rat that he had crushed.

“Bloody depths, that were bright!” Kettel said, blinking. “You coulda’ warned me ye were gonna—Oi! Look at that! Fuckin’ disgustin’!”

Rain looked where Kettel was pointing and felt his stomach do a flip-flop. One of the Trundlers had only been partially within the radius of Purify. The spell had atomized that half, making it look like a bite had been taken out of the corpse by some ridiculously sharp surgical tool. He could see a cross-section of its insides, leaking blood and other disgusting fluids onto the dirt.

“Ew,” said Samson, sedately. “That wasn’t something I needed to see.”

Rain looked away, reminded of the incident with the Skiffun. He turned his eyes back to the party display instead. Thankfully, it looked like the health drain had been stopped. Everyone was holding steady, having taken no more than ten points of damage. He himself was completely unharmed. Wait… He felt at the potions festooning his chest in their bandoleer, then sighed in relief. It looked like Force Ward had protected the fragile glass bottles.

“Hey, loot!” said Bosco, bending to pick up a cluster of Tel. “Dibs. I got the killing blow on this one, so these are mine.”

“No,” came Velika’s voice. “My lair, my loot.”

Rain nodded. He’d been expecting that. It was more support for his theory. The fact that Velika cared about such a small quantity of Tel confirmed that she’d been cut off from whatever resources that her family commanded. The only money she had would be whatever she had brought with her and that which she’d gotten from the awakened tax. She needed to pay her guard and buy equipment for them. That wasn’t going to be cheap. He’d yet to hear anything about a similar tax on the unawakened, but he figured that it was coming.

“Aww, come on!” said Kettel. “Ye didn’t do shit, why should ye get to say what we do with—Ow! Oi! Rain! You know yer wearing great bloody metal gauntlets, right? I’m gonna ‘ave a lump.”

“Good,” Rain said, lowering his hand. Kettel was being dramatic. It had just been a light tap. “Don’t argue with the Citizen. And wear a helmet.” He turned his attention to Bosco. “Gather them all up. Tel, Crysts, anything else. I’ll deal with the rest of the mess. Give them to Citizen Sadanis when you’re done. I’ve got a spare pouch if she doesn’t have one. If she decides to share anything with us, that’s her decision. Don’t ask again.”

Bosco hesitated, looking like he wanted to argue.

“Do it,” Velika said. “Rain is your commander, and he just gave you an order. Obey.”

Bosco nodded. “Yes, Citizen.” He set about collecting all the Tel, and Rain moved to deal with the remains of the other rats. He wasn’t about to make anyone dig through them for the tiny crystals, and the disease was still a concern. Plague Rats. It’s in the name.

“Feedback time!” said Velika, then laughed. “That was awful. Thank you, I needed some entertainment. Where do I even begin?” She whirled, pointing at Arlo. “You.”

“Citizen, it would be my honor to hear your appreciation for my skill,” Arlo said.

“Really?” said Velika “You just don’t give it a rest, do you? Your skill’s not the problem. You disobeyed orders.”

Arlo scoffed. “As if I would cower behind the shield of a peasant when—”

“Shut up!” Velika snapped. “Yes, you killed the bloody rat. Yes, nothing bad happened to the formation you abandoned.” She gestured at the others. “But it could have. Rain, overcautious though he is, was relying on you to hold that side. I’m not looking for heroes in my guard, I want soldiers. Soldiers. Follow. Orders.”

“My Lady Citizen, I—”

“Shut up.” Velika pointed at Rina. “You. Good shooting. I don’t have any complaints.” Her finger moved to Breggeh. “No complaints about you either. You need a better weapon, though. That mace is shit.” She pointed at Samson next. “You, best swordsman.”

Samson nodded. “I know. I did nothing until the end. I was following orders, though. I only regret that I was not more useful.”

Velika smiled. “Good. Orders first, glory second. I’m glad that you understand, even if you don’t like it. My only feedback for you is to not claim that you’re the best with a sword. I’m standing right here.”

Samson grinned. “I would be happy to face you in a friendly duel, once we are done with this business.”

Velika laughed. “I might just take you up on that.”

Rain, finished with the cleanup, didn’t miss Velika lick her lips as she blatantly inspected the young lord. Yikes, she is not subtle. Does this mean she’s done with Carten? Shit, what do I do if she looks at me like that? Thank you, Tallheart, for this armor. It protects me in more ways than you can know.

“Kettel and Bosco,” Velika said, bringing Rain back to reality. “You two broke formation as well, but at least you stayed on your damn side. Remind me to get you a spear, kid. The staff is fine, but without a skill to back it up, you’ll want something with a point. That brings me to…Rain.”

He inclined his head, standing calmly with his hands at his sides. He was actually interested in what she had to say. No matter his misgivings about her, she was a high-level veteran. She’d seen more combat than everyone else here combined.

“Firstly, you suck with that staff,” Velika said. “Take some lessons, or don’t bother with it. The kid is better than you are. It’s a disgrace.”

“Aww shit, Rain!” Kettel said, laughing. “I can give ye some pointers later if ye want.”

“Quiet, you,” Velika said. “Force Ward was impressive. I’ve never seen it so strong, even from a Beacon. Nobody really got hit, but if they had, it would have blocked it completely.”

“Wait,” Rain said. “You know about Force Ward? How did you even notice—”

Velika snorted. “Of course I know about it. The Empire uses it. Before you started talking, I thought you might be an escaped Beacon or something.”

Rain shook his head. “No, I’ve never been to the Empire. Also, Beacons only have the seasonal auras, like Winter.”

Velika rubbed at her eyes. “This fucking backwater. Nobody knows anything! There’s different kinds of Beacons, idiot. Warders are the defensive ones.”

“Oh,” Rain said, frowning. Huh.

“Back to the battle,” Velika said with a grin. “Nice body slam. It made my day.”

“Thanks,” Rain said. “It wasn’t really intentional, but it was…super effective.”

Velika laughed. “You are the strangest mage I’ve ever seen, that’s for sure. Was that the Velocity aura?”

“Shit, you know about that, too?” Rain said.

Velika laughed. “Of course.”

Rain sighed. Damn it. More secrets gone.

“Okay, good enough,” Velika said. “Do better next time, all of you, or you’ll die. Let’s go.” She walked away, heading deeper into the lair.

“Form up,” Rain said, then followed her.

Velika casually stepped around a sink pit as the others moved to join him. Rain felt a chill run down his spine when he saw this. There was no physical sign that the hazard was there. He’d seen it earlier with Detection and only remembered its presence after she’d already dodged it.

A sensory skill? Damn. She’s a crappy leader, but she’s got no problem with adventurer stuff. Shrewd, too. She’s got me practically figured out, just from one fight. I guess you don’t get to be a Citizen by collecting bottle caps…

Aw, balls. I’m never gonna be able to read the end of that series, am I?

It wasn’t long before they got into combat again. This time, the group did a little better. They stayed in formation, anyway. There were four swarms of the smaller rats, making closing ranks seem like an excellent idea. The rats had leapt all over them, but they had managed to get through it without any injuries, thanks to Force Ward. It had only cost him 593 mana, which meant 337 damage blocked. He’d been able to compress the spell on the fly to improve the efficiency. Again, he had to use Purify to deal with the disease.

Your party has defeated [Plague Rat Swarm]x4, Level 5

Your Contribution: 4%

20 Experience Earned

The next battle was a completely different story. There had been five Trundlers and no less than six swarms of the smaller Plague Rats. Now that Rain knew to look for them, he’d been able to warn the group of their approach. Despite the warning, their formation had fallen apart under the assault. He’d lost over half of his mana to Force Ward before Velika stepped in. She’d spattered the rats into gory chunks by smacking them with the flat of her massive paddle-sword.

Your party has defeated [Plague Rat Swarm]x6, Level 5

Your Contribution: 8%

60 Experience Earned

Your party has defeated [Plague Rat Trundler]x3, Level 6

Your Contribution: 4%

72 Experience Earned

Your party has defeated [Plague Rat Trundler]x2, Level 7

Your Contribution: 0%

0 Experience Earned

It hadn’t been pretty. Rain had needed to pass around one of his healing potions to counteract the damage that the others had taken. He had been unaffected by the plague for some reason, despite being just as swarmed as everyone else. He figured that it had something to do with his boosted Endurance.

Needless to say, everyone needed a minute. The party was currently resting in a dry spot at the edge of the clearing where the fight had occurred. Rain had just finished power-washing the area and was low on mana.

“Well,” Velika said, sitting down next to him on the grass, causing him to flinch away. She raised an eyebrow, but didn’t comment on his reaction. Instead, she addressed the group. “You’re all dead. Congrats.”

“Thank you for saving us,” Rain said, cautiously. “I might have been able to deal with them, but not without dropping my ward. They were already all over us by that point. Only Breggeh and Bosco have armor good enough to stop the bites. I didn’t want to risk it.”

“Mmm,” Velika said. “I can’t say whether you should have tried killing the rats without seeing you fight. I think we need to have some one-on-ones.”

“Wait, ye mean duels?” said Kettel. “Fuck yeah! I challenge Bluebell.” He pointed at Arlo.

“What did you call me?” Arlo shouted, clambering to his feet.

“Wha?” Kettel said, grinning. “Yer wearing blue, and ye think yer fancy, like ye’ve got bells on. Bluebell. Simple.”

“No duels!” Velika said, to Rain’s relief. “Not in a lair. One-on-ones. One of you, one monster, one at a time.”

“Can we really afford the delay?” Breggeh asked. “What if the intruder kills the blue?”

“Won’t be a problem,” Velika said. “There’s no rush.”

“Why not?” Rain asked. He’d been wondering that himself.

Velika grinned. “The asshole won’t be able to get past us to get out unless she makes it all the way to the core. We’d know if that was the case, thanks to the core panic. All the monsters in here would go berserk.”

“Right,” said Samson, “But killing the blue, assuming there is one, wouldn’t cause a core panic.”

Rain raised an eyebrow. He actually knows what he’s talking about when it comes to lairs. Has he been in one before?

“No, you’re right, it wouldn’t,” Velika said. “If she does kill the blue, though, you lot can hit two targets with one arrow by just killing the piece of shit for me. The essence should transfer, as long as it’s been less than a day.”

“Wait, what?” Rain said. “That works?” Also, could we maybe not talk about casually murdering people, thanks?

Velika didn’t answer. She rose out of her crouch and walked away slowly. “Enough chitchat. Stay there. I’ll go get a rat. Decide who wants to go first.”

“So, it’s a woman, then?” Bosco called after her. “The intruder? How do you know?”

“Just a guess,” Velika said, then sped away, kicking up globs of mud. Considerate of her to walk away from us before taking off.

Kettel’s jaw dropped, staring at the crater where Velika had been standing. “Did anybody else see what I just saw? I ain’t never seen anyone move that fast!”

Arlo sniffed. He wasn’t reacting well to being repeatedly snubbed by the Citizen. He was the only one not sitting, pacing back and forth instead.

“Look, she’s coming back,” Samson said after a moment, pointing. He sounded impressed.

Velika emerged from the trees at high velocity, towing a very angry Trundler by the tail. The muddy wake that they were leaving made it look like the rat was water-skiing, with Velika playing the role of the speedboat.

Rina laughed, clapping. “Amazing!” Rain got to his feet in alarm, preparing to defend himself. He didn’t trust Velika to not just let the thing go right in the middle of them.

“Thank you,” Velika said, skidding to a stop. The Trundler looked dazed, its feet clawing at the air. It was amazing that she’d managed to weave through the trees at that speed without it getting battered to death. She swung the rat around toward them, ignoring its bellow of protest. “Well, who’s first?”

“Me, of course,” said Arlo, drawing his rapier and moving to engage.

“Right, have at it,” Velika said, gently lobbing the Trundler away from them toward the center of the clearing. It landed with a loud splut in the mud. She retreated quickly, stopping next to Rain where he was standing on the grassy rise.

“No Force Ward,” she said as she sat. “Let him get hit. It’ll be good for him. And sit down. You’re looming.”

