“You’re sure?” Rain said, reluctantly sitting as the rat roared in anger. It had locked its beady eyes onto Arlo as the man approached. “That seems…unwise.”

“I doubt it will be a problem,” said Bosco. “Look.”

Arlo had already engaged the rat. He darted in, striking like lightning. His blade sunk deep into the Trundler’s side, leaving a bloody puncture. The retaliatory strike was far too slow, missing the man by a considerable margin. Arlo darted back in as the rat overbalanced, poking it in the other side.

Rain watched with bated breath as the rat’s health slowly but surely got shredded away, one pinprick at a time. Damn. I guess Costanza here is right. Arlo’s too fast for it. That sword has got to be enchanted. It’s doing way too much damage, otherwise.

“Well, there you go,” said Velika. “That’s a pass.” The rat fell as she got to her feet, the system’s chime announcing its death.

Arlo swished his rapier, sending droplets of blood flying. He was smiling again. “Ha! As if I could lose to such an unintelligent brute. My strength is unmatched, my technique—”

“Yes, yes, nobody cares,” Velika said dismissively. “You won. Now, shut up and get out of the way. Who’s next?”

“Me,” said Kettel eagerly. “Don’t worry, Rain, I’ve got it.”

Rain just shook his head. Arlo was heading towards the group slowly, looking like somebody had punctured his football.

Velika nodded to Kettel. “Be right back.”

She vanished into the trees. Arlo sat down, clearly upset.

“Arlo,” Rain said. The man looked over at him. “Don’t let Citizen Sadanis get to you. She doesn’t like boasting unless she’s the one doing it. Maybe tone it down a little. In any event, that was a really impressive fight. Nice work.”

“Thank you,” Arlo said, nodding slowly. Any further discussion was cut off as the Citizen returned with another rat. Kettel was already up and waiting.

The battle started off surprisingly well. Like Arlo, Kettel danced around the beast, dodging its strikes and retaliating whenever there was an opening. Unlike Arlo, his attacks didn’t have much of an effect on the monster. Other than making it even angrier, that was. It shrugged off the hits from the wooden staff, only taking damage once when he managed to poke it in the eye.

“Die, ye stubborn git!” shouted Kettel, bringing his staff down with both hands. The weapon slammed into the Trundler’s skull with a mighty thunk accompanied by a splinter of breaking wood. The monster lost a sliver of health, roaring in pain.

“Aww, hells,” Kettel said, darting back with the broken staff in his right hand. The other half of it was lying on the ground at the Trundler’s feet.

“Want some help?” said Bosco, smiling.

“No,” said Velika. “Keep going. Also, hurry it up. You’ve been poisoned.”

“He can’t win without a weapon,” Rain said. “And you’re right. I can see his health dropping. Let me help him.”

Velika sighed. “Fine. Breggeh, get in there. Rain, you can use Purify. Nothing else.”

Wordlessly, Rain activated the spell, the white light filling the air. Kettel’s health stopped falling as he and Breggeh moved to flank the rat. Fuck. Just when I was starting to feel like Velika was kinda reasonable, she pulls this shit. This is a stupid risk. The nobles all have expensive gear, but Kettel and Breggeh don’t.

Breggeh slammed the Trundler with her mace, deflecting its return swipe with her shield. It looked like the rat was starting to get tired. Wait, do monsters have stamina? They don’t have a bar for it.

Kettel did a sliding dive through the mud to retrieve the other end of the staff. He got back to his feet and flipped it around in his left hand, then started stabbing at the rat with the two pieces of sharpened wood. Wow, Kettel, that was pretty good. The thing almost stepped on you, but still.

As the rat’s health dropped, each strike did more and more visible damage. It was forced to keep whirling to protect itself from the two assailants and eventually collapsed under the onslaught. Kettel was panting from the exertion but had a smile on his face as he rejoined the group. Breggeh also looked tired, but she wasn’t smiling.

“See, Rain? Told ya I could kill the thing. Don’t need no fancy magic sword.”

“You would have died without our help,” said Breggeh calmly, walking back beside him. “I’ll count that as my turn. I’ve got no hope of beating one of those on my own.”

“That’s two fails then,” Velika said, “Though your teamwork was good. Remind me to get you both some better equipment.” She headed off into the trees once more.

Kettel snaked his arm around Breggeh’s shoulder, jostling her. “Naw, yer sellin’ yerself short, Breggeh. Yer amazin’. Ye could totally take one of em on yer own. Say, when this is over, wanna go fer a beer?”

Breggeh pushed his arm away. “No. I’m old enough to be your mother. Plus, I’m married.”

“Aww, don’t be like that,” Kettel said.

“She said no, Kettel,” Rain said, letting Purify fade away and switching back to Winter. “Now sit down before she hurts you more than the rat did.”

“It were worth a try,” Kettel said with a shrug, sitting.

Weird. I would have figured Kettel would try for Rina instead. It’s probably best that he didn’t. Somehow, I see that going even worse.

Bosco was next, and Velika soon returned with his rat. He did reasonably well at first, his spear proving even more damaging to the Trundler than Arlo’s rapier had been. The red-armored noble proved to be a bit too slow, however, and a rapid charge from the rat sent him flying to the ground. If not for his armor, he’d have been disemboweled. The Rat pounced, its teeth going for the man’s unprotected face before he could recover.

Horrified, Rain raised Force Ward, damn whatever Velika had said. It turned out to be unnecessary. The rat’s head was sliced in half just before impact, its snout tumbling away. Its brain popped free and hit Bosco in the face while its body collapsed on top of him. Velika calmly resheathed her wakizashi as Rain tried to puzzle out what had happened.

“You died,” the Citizen said. “That’s a fail.”

Rain turned to look at her, staring. Some sort of long-distance shock blade? Well, I’ll just add that to the list of horrifying ways she can kill me.

The sound of retching brought Rain back to his senses. He quickly exchanged Force Ward for Purify, dissolving the rat and freeing Bosco to roll over on his knees and spew his breakfast onto the dirt. Rain felt sick himself, partly from the smell, and partly from the lingering image of the flying rat brain. Damn it. Unsee! Unsee! Crap. Overmana. This is going to be with me forever, isn’t it?

“That spell really is convenient,” Velika said, nodding to Rain. “I’m glad I brought you along. Two more to go.” She ran off again before he could reply.

Rina went next. Velika allowed her to start at a distance, releasing the rat and darting away. The archer only managed to hit one of the beast’s eyes before it reached her. Instead of standing still to be mauled, Rina turned and ran, staying barely ahead of the rat as it trundled after her, true to its name. Velika ended it with another invisible slash when it became clear that Rina wasn’t going to be able to get another shot off.

“Fail,” Velika said.

“Not fair!” Rina protested. “If I’d started further away—”

“Fail,” the Citizen repeated. “Samson’s next, then Rain gets to show you lot what an adventurer can do.”

Rain sighed. Damn it, she’s going to make me take a turn. I was afraid of that.

Samson took down his rat in much the same way as Arlo. He had a longsword, not a rapier, and it left deep cuts in the rat’s hide as he slashed it apart. His dodges and attacks were less showy, but no less effective. When the rat fell, he didn’t try to make a long-winded speech, either. Rain was impressed. Maybe he’s justified when he says he’s the best with a sword. That looked like it was out of a damn movie. Velika’s fast and all, but she cheats. Samson doesn’t even have a sword kata. How long has he been training?

“Good. Pass,” Velika said. If she was likewise impressed, she didn’t show it. “Rain’s next.”

Rain got to his feet as Velika disappeared to get him a rat. He started walking briskly toward the center of the clearing. He wanted to be far enough away from the others so he wouldn’t have to worry about collateral damage. There’s nothing to be afraid of. I can do this. He shook his head. They’re only two levels higher than the Skiffun. I handled that thing when I was level four for crying out loud. This should be easy.

A minute passed, then another. Rain was still feeling a little nervous, despite his internal pep-talk. Velika didn’t take this long to find the rats for the others. Maybe there aren’t any left? He pinged with Detection, his jaw dropping as the spell returned. There’s tons of them. He pinged again. Not Plague Rats. Ping. Not Slimes. Ping. Shit, coming fast. Ping. Not Velika fast… Ping. An attack? What the hell are they? Where’s Velika? Ping. Of course, she’s leading them. This is deliberate. Damn.

He was out of time. Velika burst from the trees, pursued by a shrieking pack of monsters. They were small, perhaps half a meter high, but Rain immediately recognized them for what they were. Kin. Their limbs were freakishly long and their heads were oversized, like toothy melons. Where the fire kin had been red, these were a brilliant lime green. Their skin looked wet and shiny, a little bit like poison ivy.

“Found these, just for you!” Velika called to him in a sing-song voice, waving. She sped up, blasting past him as the Kin closed in. He ignored her, focusing on the threat. The Kin were making horrible shrieking tea-kettle noises as they ran for him.

“Oh fuck!” he heard Rina yell from behind him. “Kin! There’s dozens of them! Run!”

“Stay!” shouted Velika.

Rain was already moving, nerves forgotten. He’d almost died because he’d hesitated the last time he’d fought these monsters, and he wasn’t about to make the same mistake twice. He sprinted toward the Kin, activating Immolate once they were in range, boosting it with Channel Mastery and Amplify Aura. He wasn’t messing around, not with Kin. If he burned himself, so be it; he had potions for that. It would be better than what the Kin would do to him. Unbidden, but not unwelcome, the skill card for Immolate popped in the corner of his eye.

Immolate (10/10)

602-688 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 300 mp/s

Rain’s armor blazed crimson with magical interference as the metal tried and failed to disrupt the spell. A ring of steam exploded from the muddy ground, rushing outward as the magic went to work. The mud dried almost instantly, cracking as the heat baked away the moisture. All of the plants within range exploded from the rapid expansion of the water within them, then the remaining pieces caught fire. Rain chased the wave of destruction toward the Kin, holding his breath to avoid breathing the scalding air.

The leading edge of the aura blew past the monsters, setting them on fire instantaneously. After a few seconds, a sound like the popping of popcorn could be heard as their massive heads started exploding, one by one. He canceled the spell early and skidded to a stop, trusting the trailing edge of the magic to finish the job. He knew approximately how much health Kin had. He’d done the math, then added some margin, just to be sure.

Immolate had only been active for five seconds, but a good third of the clearing had been transformed into a burning hellscape. His skin felt like he’d been dunked in boiling oil and his lungs were screaming for air, but he knew that breathing in would be an awful idea. He used a blast of Purify to wipe the scalding steam and smoke from the air, then switched to Refrigerate, compressing it down to concentrate the effect. Only then did he take a breath.

The air burned, hot on his first breath, but cold on the second. Rain adjusted the settings, glancing at his health. He’d only lost 56 points, which was less than he’d expected. His cloak hadn’t even caught fire, protected from the magic by the bubble of his soul. He grinned, despite the pain, then straightened his back and turned to face the others. He strolled in their direction, not looking back at the baked mud and the still-blazing edge of the forest. Because cool guys don’t look at explosions.

You have defeated [Chem Kin]x38, Level 6

5700 Experience Earned
