Ranthia immediately palmed the stone and threw an image into the melee—not too deep—and shifted. She wasn’t surprised that whatever Skill allowed the small stone to carry the Sound [Mage]’s words went inert, but thankfully it didn’t explode or anything.

Oh well, she just needed to get closer to the nearest legionary who was important enough to get orders so they could relay them to her. Ranthia embraced her dance and carved into the shimagu ranks with a vengeance—she was ready to do everything that she could to preserve the legionaries in her vicinity.

Once she fought her way to her allies, the unit leader gleefully accepted her help and her advice. A short time later, she formed the tip of the spear for the Legion’s push through the shimagu ranks. By the time they united with the dwarves—with relatively minimal friendly fire; that guy’s leg would heal up fine—the legionaries had split the shimagu army in two.

And, in doing so, they effectively trapped half of their enemies between Remera and the hammer that the allied force formed.

The shimagu that weren’t caught between the hammer and a deathtrap didn’t even try to rescue their imperiled fellows—they began to withdraw almost immediately. The shimagu [Leader(s)] apparently decided to cut their losses because they weren’t bound for the ruins of their campsite again, they formed a disorderly mob that kept running. A few archers harried those that retreated, but the bulk of Remera’s defenders united in the slaughter of the chunk of the shimagu army that had been left behind.

As expected of the shimagu, not a single puppet surrendered. They were surprisingly content to try to inflict as much harm as they could upon the Coalition before they were seized by Black Crow.

Night had fallen some time ago—not him, Ranthia had no idea where the unfortunately named vampire had disappeared to. He’d departed sometime before the conflict even began. But, beneath the moons, the battle finally came to an end. The survivors of the shimagu army—reduced to under five thousand, according to the scouts—were reportedly still in full retreat and showed no signs of stopping. Those they had abandoned had fought ferociously, but at long last every last ogre and infected beast had been cut down. And, in the aftermath, the cheers of the legionaries and their dwarven allies were unrestrained.

The sounds of triumph echoed across the blood-soaked wasteland.
