Unfortunately, the mousy girl and/or base commander still had eyes.

“Wait! Look! At their rear lines!” The mousy voice demanded before she could leap off the stone.

Ranthia swallowed her curse and looked. Sure enough, behind the enemy lines, something bizarre was underway. A battering ram that was once a large tree—significantly larger than any that grew in the region—was being stood upright, pointy end down. While the ogres and dinosaurs struggled to keep it that way, a blur dropped from the sky and smashed into it. The sound filled the region—a crack that was rivaled only by the dwarves’ massive implement of destruction—as the force of the impact drove the battering ram into the ground. The single impact was enough to keep it stable.

And from atop it, a familiar ogre leered at her from across the battlefield with his wings flared dramatically behind him.

He was the same flying bastard that had attacked their convoy when they tried to establish Remera.

“…Oh, neat, someone I’ve been hoping to stab.” Ranthia mused out loud.

She was actively refusing to spare any mental energy over the fact that he had raised a tower to match her own and was posing atop it. It was entirely too inane to think about.

“Excellent, remain there and keep the twin in check!” The kid ordered, her tone excited.

“…What?!” Ranthia sputtered with righteous indignation.

In what universe was sitting on display somehow keeping a dangerous opponent in check!? She kept powerful opponents in check with her blades and her Skills, not her [Sexy] face!

“While you’re there, he can’t act without you being able to counter him! And vice versa! This is exactly what we hoped for! With you in position, a twin can’t affect the battle!” The voice in her ear excitedly explained.

“…This is stupid, I’m going to cut some shimagu down until I draw him to me.” Ranthia replied (pointlessly) in a dry tone.

Her body language must have communicated it just fine, because an unrequested rebuttal came.

“If you abandon your post, there’s a real chance he’ll attack Remer…,” the mousy girl paused to cough, “the base directly. Only while you’re there, he can’t! Do you really want to take the risk that he’ll pick a fight with you instead of attacking the base?!”

Ranthia froze, transfixed by the words.

…Would she effectively risk Avyna’s life if she joined the battle?

It was an absurd question. Realistically, their tent—no matter how it stood out among the Reman and dwarven tents—was unlikely to become the target of choice for a single shimagu twin. The winged ogre had shown no sign of being one of the classers that could inflict wide-area destruction.

But if she got bogged down among the shimagu forces, just how long would it take her to disengage if the twin did fly past the defenses and attack Remera itself? Ranthia could all too readily imagine just how much devastation a high-level classer could unleash given time. There were all too few people in Remera that had the levels required to properly challenge him—and every single one of those dwarves was already fighting side-by-side with their allies to cull shimagu.

Ranthia swallowed her pride and chose to remain in place.

The tides of the conflict varied throughout the day, but by the time evening fell, it was clear that the shimagu forces had borne the worst of the damage. They outnumbered Remus’ legions—by a large amount—but the siege weaponry, the archers and the [Mages] on the walls, and the higher-level dwarven combat specialists had quite effectively neutralized that advantage.

These shimagu weren’t the press-ganged civilians that Ranthia had grown all too used to butchering, but most of their hosts were still [Laborers]—brutes chosen for raw strength. The parasites had their Skills, but the Legions were well trained and better equipped. Numbers couldn’t entirely erase the disparity between the infected and the classes and unity that the Legions carried into the conflict.

Reman legionaries died, but shimagu puppets were culled.

The shimagu seemingly had exactly one individual that might have changed the equation and Ranthia had—somehow—kept him out of the battle just by standing there. She couldn’t even decide if it was more of a relief than it was frustrating.

The shimagu ground forces withdrew as night fell. Archers and [Mages] from both sides continued to fire at each other, but—as if there was some absurd agreement in place—the melee halted for the night. The ground forces made their way back into the sanctuary of Remera’s walls in an uncomfortably orderly line while Ranthia watched carefully.

It felt like a moment of vulnerability for Remera, yet there were no significant incidents.

The shimagu army withdrew further from the base and worked to form a campsite that they could bunker into for the night. After a while, the winged ogre finally bowed to Ranthia—and she had thought the absurdities were done for the day—before he turned and flapped his way down to one of the tents that the shimagu had raised. He never even looked back before he disappeared inside.

Almost the instant he disappeared, the—plainly weary—mousy girl finally told Ranthia to stand down and return to base. Her voice was quiet, but Ranthia had no idea if that was because of her fatigue or if the Skill was wearing off.

Not that she was done for the day—the base commander was holding a meeting, and her attendance was expected. She hadn’t even done anything, but she still felt worn out just from the amount of stress and incredulity that she had endured throughout the day.

War was so stupid.

“We ken still hit ‘em!” A dwarf with magnificently woven curls—seriously, that had to have taken forever to put together—shouted angrily.

“Your weapon is fantastic, and we greatly appreciate the tactical advantage that it provides us. But we should continue to make them underestimate its range and full capabilities. That army is clearly insufficient to take this base, so from here on we need to avoid showing them anything they do not already know.” The base commander used new words to regurgitate what was substantively the same counterargument that he had made last time.

The argument had been going back and forth since shortly after the meeting began. The dwarven giant archery implement was (allegedly) capable of putting one of its bolts through the shimagu command tent that the twin went into. Quite reasonably, the dwarves that managed the weapon wanted to take the shot. The base commander and some higher-ranking dwarf were united in disagreement, though they didn’t agree about why inaction was the best policy.

The dwarven leader was concerned that they would be firing blind and might not kill any of the targets they wanted to—he wanted to see his enemy’s deaths to be sure (so valid). The base commander wanted to keep the full capabilities of the weapon secret for a future element of surprise when it would be more beneficial—he believed that a greater threat would soon come.

Honestly, after so much back-and-forth, Ranthia just could not have cared less. Her frustration mounted as it became increasingly, blindingly obvious that no one was going to agree with anyone. Finally, she hit her breaking point—she held a high rank too and she was done caring about the proverbial toes she would stomp on.

“Enough! It’s clear at this point that we aren’t going to take the shot tonight and the reasons why we aren’t doing it are completely irrelevant. I say we break for the night and get a hot meal and what rest we can before we return to the killing!” Sentinel Grace cut in.

With varying degrees of enthusiasm, everyone in the room got on board with her suggestion and she was finally freed.

Xaoc bless Avyna. She didn’t ask any questions about the battle. The beautifully horned woman had just met Ranthia with an embrace and a loving kiss, then sat her down with a bowl of warm soup. A light broth packed with nutrition—and easy on the stomach—with finely diced meat and vegetables. After Ranthia ate, she knelt before her little altar and prayed to Xaoc for the sake of the men and women who died, while Avyna stood silently by and patiently waited for her to finish.

That all done, Ranthia was the ‘little spoon’ that night when they settled to sleep. Wrapped in her lover’s embrace, Ranthia’s thoughts, frustrations, and worries stilled enough for sleep to find her.

Ranthia dreamt. In a reality conjured by her twisted mind, she fought in the thick of a desperate battle. Then screams and smoke erupted from their base—behind her and beyond her reach. She fought desperately to get back, but no matter how she struggled, she failed to disengage. She was forced to kill every last nightmarish creature to get free.

Within the walls, every last tent had been smashed and, in their ruins, Avyna stood defiant. The elf carried one of Ranthia’s short swords—which were left in Remus, not that her mind cared—and stood protectively over several of Remera’s civilians. The troll shimagu twin—again, her mind didn’t care about viability—approached her, unimpressed by Avyna’s attempts to menace him.

Ranthia cried out and tried to reach them, but she was suddenly slow.

Too slow.

The dream repeated time and time again with numerous tiny variations, but the theme remained consistent: Ranthia fought and Avyna paid the price.

After an eternity of torment, Ranthia awoke exactly when she planned to. Her body felt rested and refreshed, in stark contrast to her aching head. She had also managed to sweat everywhere—both Avyna and their bedding were soaked with foulness.

Avyna woke up when Ranthia jumped as she shifted from her nightmares to the waking world, but she just groused playfully about needing a shower and was midway through making a cruder joke about it (“My love, if you wanted me we—”) when Ranthia suddenly kissed her desperately.

None of it was real.

Ranthia had finished eating before Avyna emerged from her shower. But, even if she needed to get out there before the fighting restarted, she needed to ground herself again and escape the lingering effects of the dream.

Which, as Green would have pointed out, meant that Ranthia needed to actually talk about the damned nightmare. …Even though it plainly amused Avyna to no end.

“Do not worry, my love. I have no intention of facing one of those monstrosities with a sword.” The elf assured her wryly.

“I know, it’s stupid.” Ranthia grumbled.

“I might be proficient with a sword, but I excel as an archer.” Avyna winked at her while she clarified her (terrible) point.

“I love you.” Ranthia chose to stoically ignore the weapon preference comment.

“And I you, my love. I will be fine, so go out there and show them just how impressive you are. So long as you are careful about it.” Avyna urged with an easy smile.

Ranthia stole another kiss—long and deep—before she finally allowed her responsibilities to drive her outside before anyone came looking for her.

Unsurprisingly, Avyna was far more enthusiastic about Ranthia’s participation in the war once she learned that Ranthia’s role was to stand in place and look imposing. This was—allegedly—a common strategy when the domains of powerful immortals came into play. Avyna was delightfully amused at someone below their level 768 class up claiming the same role—it was “adorable,” apparently—but she was happier knowing that Ranthia shouldn’t be in the thick of the fighting.

“Can you kneel again?” The short Sound [Mage] asked.

“Can’t you just hand me whatever it is so I can put it in my own ear?” Ranthia grumbled—ugh, she needed to get her emotions under control.

The mousy girl stared at her—wait, had she seriously never thought of that?! A small, white stone was handed to Ranthia while the young woman silently mouthed something that looked alarmingly like ‘this is going to save me so much time.’

Once again Ranthia perched atop her stone pillar just in time for dawn’s early rays to touch the ground. As the sun climbed into the sky the armies mustered and—well before either force could act—the winged ogre alighted atop his pillar of wood opposite her.

There was still no sign of the theoretical twin that had manipulated the storm, which bothered Ranthia—she somehow doubted that the winged ogre had been behind the storms. The risk that there might be a second shimagu twin in the area was like an itch in the back of her mind that she couldn’t address. All she could do was wait and see what happened.

The second day’s fighting largely mirrored the first. Ranthia’s favorite part was when the dwarven forces slipped around the shimagu entirely and set fire to their campsite while they killed the handful of shimagu that had stayed back there. Maneuvering so far around the battle had taken the bulk of the day and they hurriedly withdrew as soon as their act of brutality was done.

The downside was predictable—with the stronger dwarves absent, the legionaries suffered heavier losses. Once things even got desperate enough that Ranthia risked lending a hand. She removed the little stone in her ear and tossed it into the sky, then—while [Submind] kept that body adjusting itself as though she were preparing to catch the stone—Ranthia shifted down into the melee to cut down two therizinosaurs that were carving through the Reman lines. She was quick and managed to shift back to the pillar in time to catch the stone, but it was a close call.

If the winged twin noticed, he didn’t react.

The mousy girl did notice and treated Ranthia to a long, whiny lecture about the importance of her role. Which wasn’t at all necessary, Ranthia was… more accepting of standing there after her nightmares, but she still refused to do nothing while people died to a threat they couldn’t match.

There had to be a better balance.

The next morning, Ranthia emerged to find her still unfamiliar—okay, maybe she was just a tiny bit overfocused on Avyna—personal messenger waiting outside her tent. Scouts had reported the winged twin flying off into shimagu territory during the night. Ranthia tried not to let herself feel hopeful excitement.

The battering ram that served as the shimagu’s tower to oppose her had remained bereft of an occupant. Twice that morning a shimagu archer tried to scale it to use it as higher ground, but both ogres fell during the climb. After the second, the shimagu seemed to collectively possess just enough wisdom to give up on using it.

Finally, in the afternoon, Ranthia received what she wanted: the go-ahead to join the battle.

