Ranthia was a bit surprised that she wasn’t woken up during the night, but she was still awake before the sun rose. She carefully slipped out of bed—successfully managing to avoid waking Avyna—and hurriedly prepared some light food. Warm, mushed grains, a little honey, and two of her few remaining pears.

After quickly eating, Ranthia picked up her armor and undergarments and shifted to get them on. It was one of her spare sets of armor; her prior set had been too heavily damaged to readily repair—odds were it needed to be broken down into spare parts. Once armored, she tugged her blindfold into place and pinned her Sentinel badge onto her chest. The only issue was her arcanite; her belts’ stores hadn’t recovered much yet, but at least her armor had fresh stones that were fully charged and ready to use.

There were a few other changes. When she reflected on the prolonged battle against the shimagu army, she decided that the adamantium she had kept around her neck and ankles wasn’t working. The weight was more noticeable than she had expected. Instead, the adamantium that wasn’t used in her bracers/knives was stored in her belt pouches—in its ‘sand’ form—to better distribute the load and have it on-hand for when she needed it.

Confident that she was ready, Ranthia turned to exit their home.

“My love.”

Avyna was next to the divider curtain, still wrapped in a blanket stolen from their bed, but there was no trace of lingering drowsiness on her features. Instead, there was concern in her expression, along with a clear amount of resolve.

Ranthia rushed over to hug her. She was even starting to get used to the fact that her armor wasn’t an obstacle, Avyna was resilient enough that she could still get a delightfully tight squeeze.

“Do be careful. Remember your promise.” Avyna ordered. Her voice wasn’t quite as steady as she no doubt intended it to be.

The enemy army was near, and they would be ready for Ranthia. She had shown nearly every trick she had just to stay alive.

“I will, always. But I need you to stay inside.” Ranthia countered.

They had argued about this a few times. Avyna was confident that she could fight, but outside of three Skills—[Catch], [Return], and [Elven Experience]—she had nothing in her kit for combat. Ranthia refused to take the chance—there was a vast difference between a [Warrior] or a [Mage] and a [Merchant] with a couple of semi-useful Skills! Their home was supposedly the safest place in Remera, and Ranthia needed to trust that it would be there after everything was done.

And there was no home without Avyna.

“…I will.” The elf agreed after a long moment. She plainly wasn’t happy about it, but that was understandable.

War wasn’t something anyone should be happy about.

“I love you, and I’ll see you soon.” Ranthia offered. She had no idea what form ‘soon’ would take, but she meant every word.

Ranger Command would strip her of her badge if they knew, but if Remera looked as if it would fall… well, Ranthia had her own contingency plan. She would be haunted by it, but she was fully prepared to sacrifice the base to delay the enemy while she got Avyna—and maybe anyone else she safely could—out.

They shared a final—gods and goddesses, horrendous word choice—kiss, but Ranthia couldn’t let it linger for too long. She was half expecting to be torn away by the horns at any moment.

“As your people say: good luck!” Avyna called out while Ranthia made her exit.

Ranthia made her way to the wall through the predawn gloom. Legionaries were stirring and preparing around her. Remera was quiet in some ways—there were precious few words carried on the hot breeze—yet the base was undeniably abuzz with activity as everyone (more-or-less) efficiently carried out final preparations.

Ranthia took her position on the wall and waited.

The sun rose over the horizon and several of the legionaries keeping watch on the east cursed Solaris—because a bit of casual blasphemy against the Goddess of the Sun sounded like a great idea just before a battle. But before the sun had even climbed into the sky high enough to erase the vivid colorations its first rays had cast, the first call went up.

The shimagu army’s ranks were sloppy by Legion standards and their march was mismatched, yet they undeniably moved as one. They were barbaric, but they were a cohesive army that followed orders. Even with the devastation that Ranthia and Night had inflicted, the [Analysts] pegged the army at roughly twelve thousand.

Most towns in Remus had fewer people than that.

Ranthia was usually glad that she wasn’t the type of Sentinel that could unleash widespread devastation over a large area, but as she surveyed the approaching army—and truly got a sense for just how reckless she had been to engage a large group of unknown scale—she almost wished that she was capable of it.

Ridiculous rumors of exploding aside, Ranthia had no doubt that Remera could have used a Void [Mage] far more than they needed a Void [Warrior] at her level.

The approaching army wasn’t in range yet, though the flat terrain and larger size of their opponents seemed to mess with a few legionaries’ sense of perception—a few arrows or Skills were loosed prematurely, destined to crash uselessly into the rocky terrain. It was about then that the base commander began his speech.

He was safely ensconced within the base’s walls, but his amplified voice was hard to miss. It was the kind of speech that Ranthia expected from a career Legion officer—pompous and generic, it treated them like game pieces to be sacrificed and used at his whims. Yet, somehow, the legionaries seemed to eat it up and roared at the appropriate moments.

“Madam Grace.”

A voice interrupted Ranthia’s half-hearted attempts to listen to the generic imperialistic drivel. Ranthia turned and found the short mousy woman—girl, honestly—that was often near the base commander. A young woman with a rank that obviously outweighed any achievement she could have rationally managed as a level 304 [Mage] that was likely barely out of her teens. Ranthia had never paid the girl much attention and had written her off as the child of some general or senator that was given a cushy gig.

“What do you need?” Ranthia asked diplomatically, fully immersed within her Sentinel Grace persona.

“Orders for you, ma’am. First just let me… actually can you sit or something?” The girl requested.

Ranthia resisted the urge to roll her eyes and knelt so the tiny brunette could carefully press something smooth and cold into her ear. After several moments, the girl stepped back and whispered into one of her many polished stone bracelets.

“Can you hear me?”

Amazingly, the whisper also came through at normal speaking volume right into Ranthia’s ear.

“That’s… handy?” Ranthia blinked.

“What, you didn’t think I got promoted this fast because of my hundred or so points in [Cute], did you? I might just be the greatest genius of a Sound [Mage] in the empire’s history.” The very humble girl humbly humbled.

“Right. What’s the range on whatever you stuck in my ear?” Ranthia asked. She wasn’t about to point out just how young the empire was; she didn’t mind letting the young have their false pride while they managed to cling to it.

“Erm, not far. It’s limited to how far I can shout and be understood normally. My uncle—er, the commander, I mean—wants you on that skinny rock over there. We’ll give you further orders from there once we know the situation.” The girl explained while she pointed past the wall.

Ranthia followed the kid’s finger. It was the narrow tower of stone—the leftovers from the mesa that the Earth mages had ripped apart to make the base’s walls.

That… at least finally explained why the melee legionary forces were mustering around it. Ranthia had long figured it had been left to be dropped on hostiles. That would make sense, but apparently the Legions had abdicated sense—instead, it was left as a stage.

“So… he honestly expects me to go up there and just stand there?” Ranthia fought to keep the grouse out of her voice.

“Only for the moment, we need to see what the enemy forces are going to do. It’s tactics.” The mousy kid replied.

“…Fair enough.” Ranthia finally agreed.

With that, she vaulted off the wall and Ranthia was vaguely gratified to hear the kid’s shocked gasp ring out. The walls were tall by Reman standards, but Ranthia was far beyond anything Remus could measure. She landed easily and sprinted to the pillar of stone—a shift would have been faster, but she wasn’t in a hurry to waste mana before the fight began.

Plus, she had no idea how whatever the kid had shoved in her ear would react. Given how energetically inscriptions could fail… Well, precautions never hurt anyone—so long as they were reasonable.

The tower of stone was, at least marginally, less precarious than it had seemed from the base walls. She still could have sworn she had seen it sway in a stronger wind before, but it had endured that storm without collapsing. There weren’t any visible cracks or signs around the base that it was about to come down, which meant she had no excuse. Spikes had even been driven into it to form a ladder that was easy for her to climb.

Though she certainly could have done without the soldiers below noisily trying to look up the skirt of her armor. Seriously, she had modest undergarments—they would see more titillating sights just walking around Remera!

Ranthia was in a surly mood by the time she assumed her instructed position atop the narrow stone and glared down at the approaching shimagu army. At least she was about to be able to vent her frustrations on more deserving targets. Deep down, she knew that the legionaries were just trying to blow off steam and acting out due to their nerves, but being treated like an object rankled. She had spent her entire childhood trying to be treated seriously, she sure as fuck didn’t need to deal with the same inanity as a godsdamned Sentinel.

Soon, she promised herself.

War was ridiculous.

Two armies couldn’t just show up and start spearing each other, gods no—that wouldn’t be war. Apparently, instead, the armies had to arrive, gather, form ranks, and square off. There was pageantry involved in the prolonged process. Of course, the shimagu were rough and unpolished compared to the Legions—their understanding of war was copied from Remus’ ridiculous ideals, which, by definition, made them a crude facsimile.

The mousy teen’s voice sometimes appeared in her ear and reminded her to wait, as if Ranthia had anything else she could do. Even she wasn’t quite stupid enough to just shift down there into the midst of the hostile army and start cutting. She had learned her lesson.

An eternity later—late enough that Ranthia had eaten some of her trail rations and taken a couple of mouthfuls of water from her waterskin for lunch—the shimagu finally began their charge. Legion forces waited, a wall of shields and spears ready to break the charge from the ogres and dinosaurs that led the shimagu ranks.

Ranthia swiftly identified a few points of risk—primarily the six therizinosaurs that were part of the initial charge—and braced herself to eliminate them.

“Grace, hold! Let the first clash happen.” Insisted the voice in her ear.

Ranthia growled in reply—she’d learned not to bother to try to explain her thoughts, the idiotic Skill was one-way only. She hated to do it, but she decided to defer to the base commander—or [Analyst] or [Strategist] or whatever. She remained in position.

The sound of the clash was horrendous. A cacophony of metal tearing, bones breaking, and people dying. Yet the defensive line held and repulsed the charge, just in time for the second wave of spears to exact a bloody toll from their enemies. From there a jagged melee broke out; the survivors from both sides hacked, slashed, and stabbed at one another. Roars and battle cries waged their own auditory battle against screams and shouted orders. But the stench of blood and desperation reigned above it all, unchallenged.

Yet Ranthia still remained in position.

The dwarven forces swept out from the side and struck the flank of the shimagu forces like they were launched from siege weaponry. The dwarves didn’t do neat lines and columns like the Legion did—their forces were clustered into teams that worked well together and operated more-or-less independently. They coordinated well enough that they didn’t get in each other’s way, but the sight was a breath of fresh air. Just like Adventurers would have, they smashed into the shimagu as a hard wedge and scattered through their ranks to tear their enemy apart.

Arrows and conjured material flew into the depths of both armies. All three forces had enough sense not to fire into the heart of where their allies were, but accidents didn’t just happen—they were everywhere. Bad shots, sudden changes in the wind, arrows and Skills that collided in midair and changed trajectories, and even just defensive Skills that were a bit too unfocused. The accidents were scarcely a drop in the swamp of blood that was being spilled, but they shook the bonds between allies here and there.

Siege weaponry was fairly new to Ranthia. She knew it existed—for all that she focused on the power of a classer, even she would admit that throwing large rocks at someone was incredibly effective. She had even seen it atop the walls of major cities like Ariminum and Coalition City. But she had never seen it in use before. And she was… kind of unimpressed. The weapons were fired sparingly. It was difficult to be certain how much of that was due to the amount of preparation and pampering the things required and how much was just how indiscriminate they were.

The exception was some sort of gigantic metal bow that looked incredibly intricate and complex—a mass of moving parts that required a full team of dwarves to manage it. It took them an eternity to load and pull it into readiness, but every time they fired the weapon dozens of shimagu were torn apart by the sheer force of it. A crimson trench was carved by every massive bolt.

Even better—they never made a single mistake with their aim or trajectory. Their firing rate was worse than the other siege weaponry, but they were likely more effective than the rest of it combined.

Everywhere around Ranthia, conflict raged and Black Crow feasted.

All while she stood there, like a damned idol that the Coalition forces fought to defend.

“Yeah, I’m going in. Nice playing tactics with you.” Ranthia snapped. The mousy girl might not be able to hear her, but the snark had to flow. She had better things to do than just standing there.

