Erick did not smile as Shackle got caught up in Erick’s scheme, dragged into the flow. Into Erick’s power. Erick doubled down, putting a little more power into his voice, saying, “So educate me, little slaver. How much to get you to sign a waiver?”

The Captain’s holographic form wavered as it turned more solid, and he scoffed, not noticing the change. “Waive my rights to what? You human mutt?”

“For you to give up all you own; to show us all you could atone.” Erick continued, “I am the ultimate forgiving sorts, for all of those who are good sports.”

Shackle’s wings fluttered behind him, his scowl thunderous, the air moving at his flex, even though he was still holographic light. “You think you’ve won already? Even for dragons, that’s heady!” He scoffed. “By what right of power do you claim any end of this war game?”

Erick didn’t have him yet, but he was close. Slowly, Erick began to shrink his draconic self down, saying, “The fact that you think this a game means you have no real, true shame, and that’s a fault that lies with you; your morals are all deep askew. Like building nations upon a swamp, without checking for dragons first, the dragons have come out to chomp, and now you’re here to get versed.”

Erick was a 2 meter tall dragon.

Shackle was a 2 meter tall hologram, and then he was a person. He was Shackle, here, in the flesh, and his eyes were too focused on Erick to realize anything was wrong at all. He sneered, sweat collecting on his brow and in his armpits, a rank sort of smell coming off of him that wasn’t present in the hologram, for the man had been run ragged recently. His mouth smelled, and Erick was rather sure that he had stains on his underwear.

Shackle scoffed, “Instructed by a lowly king? I sell to emperors, gods, and Powers. I’ll peel your scales and make you sing, playing in your soul to wile the hours.”

Far away, too far for them to ever affect this Working, were Underling Chains in his many corpse-bodies. He was in the air, about a kilometer away, struggling against an impossible wind to reach for this confrontation, to yell and have his voice heard. He threw power at Erick, and that power went wide, turning to nothing under the fae rust sky.

Underling Walara and ten thousand demons poured out of the city, arriving second to Chains and with backup, attempting to reach Erick and Shackle, but none of them able to get within a kilometer before the pressure of the moment pushed them back, too.

Valkyries flew in and killed who they could, but they couldn’t get near Erick or Shackle at all, either.

The war happened all around Erick and Shackle, and Shackle glanced around himself, vaguely aware that something was happening out there.

Erick slowly increased his size, but Shackle was not a hologram anymore, and he could not adjust anything. He stared upward, becoming smaller and smaller, as Erick intoned down at the man, “I guess if you’re reduced to threats, the meeting of these minds is done. I hope you’re empty of regrets, because you’re getting thoroughly undone.

“From here to there on every world, all of your Slaver’s Dens, everywhere your Contracts have curled, here to there and back again, I send sparks through you to ages past, a simple reach, a deep broadcast, in bombs and spells this does amass, a little trick, tiny trespass. With dancing sparks defusing bombs, we weed the land that he has planted, enchant him now to give us these alms, until his evil is recanted.”

Erick was two kilometers tall, his fangs ten times the size of Shackle, Erick’s tail casually curled around the ground, below the man, his wings wrapping around, blotting out the red sky and the golden light of Yggdrasil’s Quarantine. Erick stared at Shackle, floating amid the half-light, Erick’s eyes blazing white, his mouth spilling radiance into the meeting between him and a dot of a man who would be digested like he had his demons do to the freshly captured, before they took them to Layer 1 and sundered them there. Erick wasn’t sure if he would be doing that second part, but the first part? Yes. He needed time to fully disassemble all of Shackle’s evil, to plant the seeds of his destruction deep into the man’s own past.

And Erick would take that time.

He would take all of Shackle’s Time.

Shackle had damned himself by his own participation in the magic, drawn along into depths he never imagined he would suffer. And so, the slaver watched in fear, within the dark world within black wings, where bright-eyes and white teeth and an abyssal-white maw declared the end of all his monuments and power.

Shackle trembled.

Erick spoke, “We take this soul, we bind it deep, we have a goal: to make it weep.”

Lightning ascended.

- -

The void flier known as Captain Shackle hovered in a white abyss. His four usually-hovering black wings were bound in Benevolence crystal, with more crystal stretching across his back, locking his wings to him, making sure he couldn’t move them at all. His limbs were spread wide, and each joint was similarly locked in crystal, like his wings. Crystal covered his face and most of the rest of him, and that crystal was growing. The covered parts of Shackle’s body were effervescing soft glows of various colors into the white abyss. It was in those colors that the crystal was growing the most.

There went some bright orange power from Shackle’s exposed left bicep, and crystal grew on that exposed section, locking the man down just a little bit more.

Something grey and green evaporated from Shackle’s fourth wing, and the crystal there grew larger.

The only parts of him exposed at all were an expanse of thigh and a part of his bare chest and stomach. And then something red evaporated out of a part of his chest, and the Benevolence crystal grew over that part of his chest, locking him down just a little bit more.

And then there was his eye. Shackle retained his right eye. That one eye was wildly looking left and right, and then straight ahead, as he spotted his captor. Fury lay within that mind, behind that eye, and yet, that fury was impotent. Crystal grew slowly around that eye, as something black evaporated away from that eye, and the white crystal barely grew. It would take a little while to fully encapsulate the man. His eye would go last.

And then the true dissolution process would begin.

The dissection was already happening.

Erick floated in front of Shackle, in the white abyss.

Shackle wordlessly screamed, his eye vibrating in its socket, his mouth fully covered by crystal. His covered face was serene, though.

Erick said, “You already said your last words. What were they? ‘Playing in my soul to wile the hours’?” Erick harrumphed. “I won’t cause any more pain than necessary, but since your evil is rather well embedded, there’s going to be a lot of pain. For starters, all your deeds will be erased. All your planning is falling apart. Even now, my lightning is being sent through the cosmos upon your own timeline. I’m not too sure how it’s working out myself, but I can tell that’s what it’s doing, and I’m figuring it out as it goes. You are a wonderful test subject.

“... Anyway. Every world you have touched. Every hostage situation you have created. All of it, undone, as well as whatever powers you stole and put into yourself. That’s probably the most understandable part of this. You have parts of you that are not you, grafted on to your soul, and those are easily seen.

“Those are going first.

“You feel it, right? I’m pulling apart your soul, plucking at the blessings you have, at the power you have, unthreading it and using that to… Ah. I get it now. Yes. All of it.

“That’s how this is working.” Erick nodded, then he said, “It’s all a frameshift, really. The crystal is locking you down when it touches on a part of you that has laid a deadly plan, and then it evaporates that plan through an application of resons and Benevolence.

“I had wondered why my fate prognostication didn’t work so well with you, and why you were allowed to sunder 112 million people. I thought, perhaps, that you were underneath Authority, hiding out. That wasn’t it. A much more reasonable answer was that innocents were always going to die in the process of ending you, and it was better to end your evil now than to let you bring millions and billions more people under your yoke. That was half of the answer.

“The full answer is this right here.

“Those people were sundered so that every single person who comes after you is truly afraid of what I can do, if they piss me off enough. The horror you caused leads to this horror here, which will save countless people later.

“It’s not a perfect answer. I’ll figure something better out another time.

“But for now, this is the answer we have.”

If Shackle could have screamed in rage, he would have.

He could do nothing.

And then the crystal broke Shackle’s legs as it moved his lower body for him, violently, bloodily, putting his spread-eagle legs together, into a state of repose. It was bloody, and then the blood evaporated. From Shackle’s pelvis to his toes, what remained was locked below a simple 6-sided, tapered-point Benevolence crystal. He was a bit shredded down there, with bones and flesh mostly where they should have been, but Erick didn’t feel sorry for him.

If Shackle could have screamed in pain, maybe he would have.

Erick explained, “We’re halfway to the real show now. When your wings and arms break and reform—”

The crystal around Shackle’s spread arms broke violently, whipping the man’s arms to lay upon his chest, shredding his flesh. When the red evaporated, Shackle’s body was locked down to crystal from his neck to his toes. And then his wings simply broke. Those wings were a manifestation of his aura and soul, after all. They weren’t truly physical things, so they went away.

“Nothing here is actually physical, though I’m sure it feels that way to you,” Erick said, as Shackle impotently raged. “It’s all inside the soul. My soul, actually. You’re already very dead.”

Shackle’s rage stilled.

The crystal flashed over, and now Shackle was inside of a floating white quartz-like crystal, like a fly trapped in amber. The only part that wasn’t covered was his one eye, where the crystal had a cracked hole in it, like a rift, allowing him to peer out. Soon that hole would be gone. Soon, Shackle would be a soul contained.

“I don’t like giving these ‘winner’ speeches,” Erick said, “It’s too megalomaniacal of anyone to talk like this, but it’s an important part of the magic; to explain to you what is happening, so that you are both trapped and that you know the key to your escape. Hope is important, even for people like you, Shackle. To hope is to live, and you could live again.

“And so, here:

“A carrot: You can get a [Reincarnation] and complete forgiveness in your next life.

“And the stick: This whole magic happening right here, and forever more, until you repent. You are a rug being beat for information and targets, Shackle. So accept your beating like all the slaves you have beat before now, and learn how to be a better person for it.

“That’s how you do it, right? To break a person? Yes, it is.

“When you fully capitulate, and all your plots are undone, and you never want to seek revenge, and you always want to help others for all always, to the same extent that you have damned and doomed so very many, then you will be released, Shackle.

“With any luck, you will never see me again.

“But I will be seeing you.

“Goodbye.”

The crystal sealed over.

Shackle’s one eye remained open. Could he see? Probably. Erick needed an ingress into his memories and visions, anyway, so the eye would remain open; it was the window to the soul, after all.

The real magic began.

Shackle could not scream.

The white abyss all around revealed itself as a river of power that then flowed into that prison. Where mana and reson touched, images flickered out of Shackle’s single eye. Erick saw glimpses of ten thousand worlds and more as ten thousand little sparks took ten thousand little trips through Shackle’s prison, into his past, into the present, into lands far, far away from Margleknot.

It took 100 resons to cross a Layer, and then to cross into the next one, and so on and so on, Erick’s power linking glimpses of Elsewhere to Here, so those other places could be affected by this magic. It was 1 reson to find the center point of Shackle’s industries in those lands. It was hundreds of resons to visit each side reality in those Layers, where Shackle had built his slaving empire. The numbers added up fast, but Erick had a billion resons to use for this magic.

He had gone into this war with a stock of resons for some big magic. He had thought he would be [Grand Reincarnation]ing all of Slaver’s Den. But this was a much better use of that resource. Not a [Grand Reincarnation], but a whole lot of tiny nudges here and there, to save billions of people he would never know, and who would never know that they had been saved.

A spark of Benevolence danced upon a crucial control system, spreading acid mushrooms on motherboards to eat away at nuclear warheads, disarming them forever.

A giant series of cannons atop mountains, all controlled by ten separate systems, were now useless, as ten different jolts of Benevolence cut through systems that the local slavers had no idea how to fix, because Shackle never wanted those systems to be used against him.

An army fighting off a slave rebellion was hoping for a resupply within days, but there would never be another resupply from Slaver’s Den. That was how the true empire crumbled; in pieces of lost logistics.

An array system on yet another world was disarmed by a few stray jolts of white, ensuring that the control magics placed upon the populace of that world would fail the next time they were tested. And those magics were tested hourly. Rebellions began that night and the streets ran red with slaver blood.

