Yggdrasil frowned. “All life exists in equilibrium, or it collapses. Acknowledging that the Balance is real means that you can keep life alive. The forest needs wolves, the oceans need sharks, and people need freedom of choice, elsewise the Balance asserts itself into populations in cruel ways. Without wolves, deer die of starvation from overeating. Without sharks, bloated and diseased fish pollute the waters. Without Evil being known, then even Good civilizations fall to civil war.”

Shadow said, “Or, you could have an ever-expanding world where there’s always more to be done, and more growth to be had.” Shadow frowned, saying, “Honestly, Yggdrasil. It’s quite vexing that my universe is arguably less infinite than yours, and my solution to problems-of-growth was to always grow, and yet you’re the ever-growing-tree over here in Infinity, speaking about Balance as a virtue.”

Yggdrasil raised an eyebrow at Shadow. “And which universe still exists?”

Shadow scoffed. “My universe exists. It just needs to be made again out of the corpse of the Evil that consumed it. It’ll be a Grand Reincarnation!”

Erick listened to them speak, but he was still thinking about Wraithborne versus the other Evil lands. Erick decided that he did want Wraithborne to change away from Evil.

“About Wraithborne,” Erick said, “I’m still going to pressure Wraithborne to change. The Contracts are more of a blight than slavery is a blight, because the Contracts enable truly detestable slavery.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “Moving on. I suspect these other Evil lands might put in official requests for me to adjust how their lands attach to this one—” He stopped. He looked away, and then Yggdrasil turned back to Erick. “Actually, they already are. Or at least the Dread Arenas are. I’ll fast-track those requests…” Yggdrasil asked, “In other concerns: How much mana and resons did it take to erase all of Shackle’s Evil? I need to know to gauge how far out I need to look for issues to arise.”

890 million resons. He only had a few million resons left. Erick wasn’t quite sure how much of everything else, but he was down to less than a quarter million Mana, Health, and Psyche, so that meant 3.4 billion of each of those resources, at least. Erick had done all of that magic manually.

But he could have done it Propagatively.

With [Spellsurge Weaver], if he fixed up that spell so it worked across multiple infinities, like the original spell [Infinite Imaging], Erick could… He could do a lot. Erick had purposefully made Weaver not able to work across infinities, but…

Had Nothanganathor done something like this already?

Erick saw a path that could be taken to erase an entire universe…

Well. Maybe not. That was pretty reductive. No. He couldn’t do that magic this way at all, now that he thought about it. The problem was other people, and actual defenses. All Erick had done with this latest magic was to Paradox away some problems far, far away, using Shackle’s soul as the transfer/targeting medium, and only targeting inanimate things.

Going up against actual other people would have been difficult, so this was not how Nothanganathor had done the Sundering. But it was close.

“900 million resons. Something like 3.5 billion Mana, Health, and Psyche. I’m feeling pretty tired. The more I think about it, though, this was not how Nothanganathor had done the Sundering.”

Yggdrasil and Shadow looked at Erick.

Shadow asked, “Explain?”

“I didn’t go up against other people; the Sundering did. I didn’t do this propagatively; the Sundering was a propagation event…” Erick thought a bit more, and then said, “But maybe Nothanganathor had a propagation magic that made little Malevolence dungeons on every world, and those dungeons then made mana, then those dungeons acted as lightning rods for his Primal Lightning. From there, he’d just need some Node Network magic to join it all together. He’s already got the Siphon down, too, because Malevolence eats things rather well. Tons of magic can steal mana, though. Elemental Pirate down on Veird was one. Do they have that here, too?” Erick moved on, “Whatever the case: There are a lot of pieces here that fit how the Sundering could have worked. I would like to know what sort of methods there are to prevent this sort of thing from happening. Please tell me some other time, though.”

Yggdrasil looked worried again.

Shadow seemed vindicated. She grinned a little at Yggdrasil.

Yggdrasil decided something, and then he calmed, and said, “That might be possible, but it is doubtful for a lot of reasons which I am not allowed to share right now. I can say that the Fractal is probably watching Nothanganathor through his Mark of the Fractal. Any big moves made against this universe would have Nothanganathor turned to mush as the universe began to directly lecture him. It isn’t something that the Fractal does often at all, but it does happen.”

Erick said, “And yet, the Fractal likes to speak through action, not words. Maybe we should all take a hint that Malevolence should not be an Approved Evil anymore. It’s not even really ‘Evil’ at all.”

Yggdrasil had nothing to say to that.

Shadow almost said some quips, but she decided that discretion was the better part of valor.

Erick stared at his green son, saying, “You need to purge Malevolence from Margleknot, Yggdrasil. I’m almost 100% certain that it’s blinding you and many others to quite a few truths around here. I saw at least 3 world-systems with Malevolence-backed industries that used that power to cloak people and then prey upon those world-systems. I mentioned Malevolence-mana dungeons earlier? That’s what I mean when I say that there are seeds of destruction planted within Malevolence, and you need to do some weeding.”

Shadow smirked. “Benevolence seems great as a replacement! You ended those systems!”

“Mostly I injected disruptive power to induce cascading failures, which the locals are already capitalizing on, now that nuclear armageddon isn’t looming,” Erick said, “Those systems were all too well-ingrained for several billion of any resource to take out at all.”

“Still worth celebrating,” Shadow said, with a firm nod.

Erick felt himself smile at that, but it was a tired emotion.

Yggdrasil said, “Your words are heard and recorded. We’ll talk more later, father. Get some rest.”

Shadow said, “More like ‘put up a few more cities’ and then you can rest, Erick. We’ve got work to do. Your people call you to action.”

At that, Erick managed a chuckle. “A coffee break, and then back to work. See you later, Yggdrasil. Drop by anytime, you hear? I’m gonna make an office here for you. Love you, son.”

Yggdrasil floated closer to Erick, and then hugged him, saying, “I love you. See you soon.”

Erick smiled on his son’s shoulder, feeling a wonderful connection that filled him with warmth and joy. “I think we’re calling this land Tir Geal.”

Yggdrasil pulled back, saying, “Then that is what it is, though it will take a year for your claim to be officially recognized. For now, people can leave however they want, but they can only come in on places I designate, like how you had to come into the Den on the edge. When you set up some designated entry squares, based on the allowances of the law, then the gates can start working in those areas instead…” He glanced away, then turned back to Erick, saying, “And now I have a whole bunch of lands asking to be moved. I would rather solve those requests by moving this land, instead. Can I move you closer to my trunk?”

“I’d love that,” Erick happily said.

Yggdrasil smiled. “Good. That’ll take a while to happen; a few days. Lands shuffle when they change owners, though, so it’s pretty normal. See you soon.”

Yggdrasil stepped away.

And then it was just Shadow and Erick.

Erick said, “Time to make some housing and not think about apocalypses at all for at least a week.”

Shadow added, “And roads and rivers and lakes and more dungeons and city halls and infrastructure and so on and so forth and I have a lot of fun ideas about architecture! We can do speedy roads, yes? Trains? Air cars would be nicer for the wildlife I want here, though, like horned rabbits and garms and little Benevolence slimes and such.”

Erick grinned at that.

And then he got to work.
