Erick floated in the air, his glowthread regalia glittering on his human skin like a soft whiteness, rimmed in black.

He was alone, and yet not.

The city of Anomalies lay before him; an edifice of greed and luxury a good hundred kilometers wide and built upon the backs of eons of slave trading. Physically, it resembled a rather nice utopia. Sleek silver buildings. Parks. Private gardens. Lakes and rivers. Restaurants and book sellers and bright lights and discipline in everything. Multiple levels in some parts of it. Nice houses over there on those hills. It was a city for a million people, too. Some buildings were rather more works of art than wholly useful, and sculptures were everywhere; art was in abundance.

Erick wasn’t impressed.

He had done enough to this place and seen enough to fully understand their entire business model, and that business was in producing both perfectly obedient slaves, and selling the inborn talents of those slaves to the highest bidders. None of this was made by anyone of their own free will. All of it was built upon misery and pain, and here and there, that misery and pain lay exposed beneath the thin veneer of civility that Slaver’s Den adopted like a demon wearing the body of another.

Over there was a coliseum where slaves killed each other in battle. Over there was the slave dancery, which was a theater-type place. Lots of theater and other forms of performative art everywhere, actually. Over there were the sex halls filled with slaves and some of the worst depravity Erick had ever seen since the Shades at the height of their power in Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick didn’t want to look too deeply.

Perhaps, if he had been looking more deeply, if he had been more prepared for this sort of war, he would have turned time back several days ago, when those 112 million people died to the breaking of that Contract Nexus. In the end, though, Erick knew that those people were always going to die, because this war was not going to end due to the actions of terrorists, and drawing this war out would just lead to more suffering in the end.

What would have happened if he would have ended the war, allowing them to live? They’d just go on killing and slaving. The people they had trapped in Contracts and slavery were always going to die, somehow, some way.

From what Erick knew of the stories of many slaves, they would have preferred to die than to be slaves.

And honestly, Erick hadn’t expected Slaver’s Den to do that. To wage that sort of war; holding hostages in hopes for better terms. Here Erick was, completely willing to send all of them away into new lives, in new places, as decent people, and yet they wanted to hold onto their evil powers. And so, they had displayed those evil powers, holding them up as some sort of deterrent, as if Erick would ever deal with terrorists.

Erick should have expected it more, though. These people had no morals at all.

When that Major Contract breaking had happened, Erick had finished up the war efforts on all the rest of Slaver’s Den, but he had left Anomalies alone, and so, there hadn’t been another Major Contract breaking since then… Or maybe they simply lacked the capability to do that a second time. Erick doubted that possibility. You didn’t use a weapon like that and then kept defending yourself when you only had the one weapon. If all they had was the one weapon, then there was never any use for it at all.

One nuclear bomb is a horror.

Ten nuclear bombs are a deterrent.

… Erick’s mind returned to the frantic defense that had occurred in all those other places out there in the Den.

All across Slaver’s Den, people had fought to the bitter end, even when they knew what was coming for them. Oh sure, some people had surrendered, but most had not. It was an odd culture clash, in Erick’s mind. The slaves, of course, had no choice but to fight… Which was perhaps the crux of it. The slaves had no choice, and so they fought. The valkyries always caught up to the fleeing leaders, though.

Was it a ‘lizard dropping its tail’ situation, then? Was that why no one had tried to surrender?

And they all thought that they were smart or strong enough to get away?

Probably.

Erick would have sighed at that thought, at finally having the time to think at all, but people were watching. The last few days had been hectic as fuck. Around 35 million people now belonged to House Benevolence, and almost all of them were refugees picking up the pieces of their lives that they could, which wasn’t much.

Erick had annihilated all the other cities of Slaver’s Den, quite literally. [Annihilation Dot] did well for clearing out the land. Sure, some stuff that some people could have used got destroyed, but it was better than letting some unknown horror crop up later. Better to start off fresh, and with some new lakefront property.

And so, Erick had made some cities and assorted buildings before he came here to Anomalies, to finish this. [Cityshape] did not work very well out here in Margleknot, where the spell didn’t interact very well with all the various expended powers floating around in the normal Margleknot air, but it worked well enough for hovels, for now. New dungeons were spitting out lots and lots of mana, securing the land for all those 35 million people. Most people simply sat in their designated zones, waiting for the war to end. The only people allowed to move around right now were those who actually pledged themselves to the House…

Erick’s mind was wandering too much.

He shouldn’t let it wander this much.

He was here, waiting at Anomalies, for someone to come out to speak to him.

All the rest of Slaver’s Den was destroyed and remade. Erick’s [Infinite Imaging] and valkyrie squadrons did very well for finding all the last holdouts out there, in the wastelands of the Den. The holdouts here at Anomalies were of a different problem altogether. Several million people crammed into a place meant to hold 1 million, and even the owner’s quarters —the parts of the houses where slaves were not allowed to be— had slaves sleeping in the less used hallways. The streets were worse by far, because many of the owners of this land did not like to share space with ‘those country bumpkins’ from outside the city. It was a madhouse of pain and injury. Slaves slept on the streets. Slavers killed each other over minor spats. Everyone was in a state of panic. Everyone was in a state of loss. Suicides were rampant.

Some slavers had put up signs saying that they would sunder their slaves if Erick came into the city.

More threats from terrorists.

Some slavers had their slaves out on the streets, ordered to beg for their lives at all hours of the day, and they were doing a great job of that. But their efforts were rather inconsistent. All around the city, in every part of the lands near the walls, slaves stood or kneeled on the concrete or, if they were allowed, on the grass, prostrating themselves to whoever might be looking. Only 1% of those ordered slaves were actually within Erick’s direct view right now.

This begging had gone on for days. Some of the enslaved were dead from mistreatment, and still there where they had fallen, their corpses bloating and the slaves nearby weeping over that, and because they were not allowed to stop crying out for succor.

Erick was kilometers away. He was pretty sure that the owners of the city could see him, but people down there could not.

Erick saw it all.

And he was going to tear it all down, soon enough.

All that remained of Slaver’s Den was here. That statue of Shackle and his underlings on that mountain in that lake was here, too.

This city also had a manaminer. It was the only one with a manaminer. That manaminer is why the valkyries could not penetrate the area. This particular manaminer was not like the manaminer of Da’luwe, either; it had actual power behind it. Authority.

Erick was still working out what Authority really meant.

He had heard a few different descriptions of it over the last few days. Ta’Kamoil had called Authority ‘preeminence among all’, but that was really just domainwork but stronger. Authority sort-of worked like Domains, but not really. They did share a lot of similarities, but not enough that the words were interchangeable.

Shadow had called Authority ‘the logical conclusion of one being in power in an area’, which was supposedly ‘as simply as I can explain, Erick, without lying’.

Yggdrasil had been there with Shadow when Erick had been asking those questions, and he had called Authority, ‘The setting scene for a Wizard War, begun in a particular Wizard’s favor’.

And that is what made ‘Authority’ click for Erick.

Shadow had been perturbed that Yggdrasil had managed to come up with such a good wording. Usually she was all about that. That particular moment of banter between them had been a brief spot of light in the ‘elfitarian crisis’ that was this war, because you certainly couldn’t call it a ‘humanitarian’ crisis. Humans were in pretty short supply here in Margleknot, because elven bodies healed a lot easier than human bodies, because...

Erick turned his mind back to the current moment.

Slaves cried out in the streets to be left alone, extolling the virtues of how good their masters were, and how much Erick should just go away. Some of those slaves made this claim even with fresh whip markings on their backs, though, so that sort of ruined the whole idea that their masters were ‘the good kind’. And then there were the soldiers, looking to harm people to make Erick leave, and…

And Erick was tired of waiting.

If this was to be a Wizard War, then...

Erick revealed his draconic self, several kilometers away from the city, hovering high in the air, but he was still 2 kilometers long himself. He had grown recently. His tail was as thick as a submarine, and it lashed the wasteland ground, making thunder roll across the world. His wings buffeted a hurricane briefly, and then he simply hovered, opening his mouth.

Lightning flashed across the sky, and Erick’s voice thundered overhead.

“Captain Shackle! Show yourself, and prepare for the end of your reign!”

The people of the city who could run, ran. Those who had orders to stay and call out to Erick, to plead for their lives, yelled louder, their eyes turning his way. Erick noticed a drain on his Status, and surely, beyond the turrets and the wall and the Authority that surrounded Anomalies, Shackle was trying some shit. Whatever it was, it was ultimately inconsequential. Erick strengthened his aura, his Domain, his sense of purpose, and whatever shit Shackle was trying to pull simply stopped.

Erick waited ten seconds for an answer, and then he decided he had waited long enough.

He advanced—

“Impertinent dragon,” came a voice from the city, louder than the rest. Light suddenly projected out of the walls of Anomalies, forming into the shape of Captain Shackle, matching Erick for height and width, but only because of Shackle’s four black feathered wings. He was surely inflating the size of those wings, Erick thought. Shackle scoffed. “You are courting death. You think I leave my largest powers out there, outside of my direct control? I have much more than Grand Contracts ready to deploy. Test my patience more and I will weave death far and wide, and you will be responsible for all of that.”

Erick scoffed right back at Shackle—

“Do you know how many nuclear bombs it takes to kill a defenseless world?” Shackle asked, his voice a poison upon the world. “The worlds we have raided before, and will raid again, and have prepared long in advance if we should lose ground there at all?”

Erick kept his draconic expression schooled at that horrible threat.

And then he realized something deep.

Benevolence never twinged at him about the Major Contract activation and the deaths of those 112 million people. It didn’t twinge at him now. Rather than warning Erick away, his Lightning Path demanded Erick act to remove this threat, no matter the cost.

Shackle would always have threats. He would always have people under his thumb, waiting to die instead of him.

That was why Erick’s Lightning Path had always been pointed forward in this war. That was why he did not rewind time to save those 112 million people. Ultimately, there was never any way to kill this Great Evil without a grand loss of life in this way, or that way, or some other hidden, third way.

And yet…

Was there a way to have everything? To end Shackle’s threat, and save those people under nuclear threat?

Erick rapidly thought through a few plans, discarded almost all of them, and then rapidly came upon an idea that he foresaw he would be using a lot, for this was not the first time he had encountered a bad guy holding people hostage, without a clear path forward to save them all. The first time this happened, or at least the first time that truly stood out to Erick, was that time at Last Shadow’s Feast, with that Charisma mobster with those bone bombs planted inside those children. And now, here was Erick, decades and Layers of infinity away from that time and place…

And this was a Wizard War, and Erick was a Wizard. A Paradox Wizard. A Time Wizard, who never really stepped into that application of this power… not truly. Not as much as he could have. Erick didn’t want to do the whole ‘time hopping thing’ anyway. He wanted to do the Establishment thing.

And so, here now was a Wizard War, with Erick the only Wizard present.

To all the people he harmed, Shackle was like a god.

But to Erick, he was nothing but an annoyance to be worked around.

An annoyance with a lot of power-through-Evil. An annoyance that Erick had learned a lot about during the last few weeks. From the dancery over there in the city with a sign that read ‘Captain Shackle approved!’, to the narcissism of having giant statues of oneself in his land, to the way in which he liked to break people by stealing their powers for himself because he was inadequate on his own, to how he poisoned the land all around him through Contracts, through his words, through how he needed to be sure to inflict massive collateral damage in order to be left alone to amass even more stolen power from others…

Erick Knew Captain Shackle more than enough to do what came next.

A Truth came out of Erick’s maw,

“Hey Shackle. You’re an asshole, right? A guy who isn’t very bright?”

Shackle’s image scowled at Erick, as he said, “I’m a brilliant leader! The best slaver there ever was!”

“Only when you’ve forced slaves to give you applause.”

“Of course I force them! Idiots need to be educated!”

“That can be debated. All I see is a man who’s hated.”

“Provincial idiot! Uneducated. You make me rather aggravated.”

