A bloodcurse mandala, erected upon a hidden mountain, set within the most secured castle upon the most secured world of a tri-planet system that was filled with incredibly strong powers, had a misflow of Malevolence, thanks to a jolt of white Benevolence. A very hungry white mushroom began to grow where it should not grow at all, along the edges of a formation, and then growing toward the center. That mandala kept the slavers of Slaver’s Den invisible to all the strong cultivators of that system, so that the slavers could capture and consume those who they wanted to, like plucking ripe fruit from an orchard. But now the mandala had mushrooms, and even if anyone could get in there to repair it, it was too late, and to enter that room was to die to Malevolence anyway. Within a week, an entire culture of Evil sects was revealed and rapidly annihilated by all the powers they had been preying on.

The images of other worlds kept coming, pulled out of Shackle’s eye and then punched through with Benevolence, destroying everything he had built and everything he had ever touched.

And Shackle was slowly losing everything about himself. The images began to turn hazy. Indistinct. Shackle was shrinking, his flesh fading under the crystal, his soul being used up.

He began to cry there, at the end, when he was reduced to a collection of feathered black bones and skin and a single eye.

Erick kept going.

- -

Erick was a dragon again, floating above the wasteland outside of Anomalies. No time at all had passed out here in the real world, but a whole lot of time had passed inside Erick’s soul. Days or weeks or even months, he could not tell. Shackle’s soul was almost all gone; consumed to fuel the fires of his own eradication. But he still lived, somewhat.

And the war was still on.

All around Erick Valkyries fought demons and slave soldiers.

Erick obliterated most of the evil army with a [Grand Reincarnation], signaling his return to the moment. The Underling demon Walara and the Underling abomination Chains were the only major threats of the Evil army that remained after Erick’s lightning passed them by—

The city of Anomalies began to crack in a way that Erick took a moment to understand. Everyone else took a moment, too, from the slaves on the streets to the Underlings in the air, to the soldiers and the wall guards and even a few mindful valkyries. If the mindless valkyries would have had any luck actually injuring Walara or Chains, then Erick was sure that they would have continued the assault, but they had no capability to injure those high Talents. And so, they also watched the breaking of Anomalies.

The air of Anomalies cracked, white breaks appearing midair, like rifts in the world. But they weren’t rifts; they were the degradation of the Authority of Anomalies—

The manaminer of Anomalies fully shattered somewhere far, far away, in the center of the city, and probably far below as well.

Underling Walara and Chains both turned absolutely terrified, and not of Erick or anything else happening around them. They were terrified of Anomalies.

They rapidly tried to escape, flying away as fast as they could, but Erick wasn’t about to let them leave. With a casual flick of his tail and an application of Wizardry and aura control, Erick wrapped both of their physical forms in solid Benevolence and dragged them back to the war. They screamed about no one being able to survive what was coming. Erick cut their screams short with some high-reson-enhanced [Reincarnation] in Walara’s case, and a reson-empowered [Grand Reincarnation] in Chains’s case. Both worked exactly as Erick wanted them to, with Walara stripped of all of her demonic power and being sent off somewhere to restart life as a mortal, and Chains’s 378 separate bodies all being merged into one and sent off to be reborn as a normal mortal man on some distant world.

Erick didn’t pay much attention to them. He just wanted them gone.

And then Erick turned back to the dissolving Authority of Anomalies, saying, “If my magic worked right, and I think it did, then that failsafe is disabled.” Five minutes of nothing later, and all the air all across Anomalies was clear. The Authority holding back Erick’s armies was gone. Erick commanded the valkyries, “Go, and bring them all to new lives.”

Valkyries flew.

And people turned to blood.

The horde converted Anomalies within the hour, with only a few holdouts managing to remain for that full hour. And then Erick turned the whole city into a land of craters. With that done, Erick had his valkyries separate themselves into those who would become a part of the House, and those who would move on to new lives somewhere else.

Of the 7 million people who had remained in Anomalies, maybe half of them had been slavers who had run there seeking shelter from the war. Lightning ripped through a serene part of the valkyrie horde as Erick sent 3.9 million of them away, through a [Grand Reincarnation], into other worlds. That ate up 390 million resons, as well as five times as much Mana, Health, and Psyche. Erick could not do that forever, but he was able to do that once more, if needed.

Erick was tired.

But there was still work to be done.

Shadow stepped to Erick’s side, hovering over the craters of Anomalies with him, saying, “You advanced rather far in that final battle.”

“We’ll talk about it later, and what it might mean,” Erick said, “There’s one more thing to do.”

Shadow nodded.

Erick flew forward.

Shadow followed at his side.

They arrived over a large inland sea that was less filled with water than it had been, for Erick had obliterated the coast with [Annihilation Dot]s. The sea was wider.

They flew on.

It wasn’t long till they reached their destination; a mountain-sized statue of Shackle, Walara, and Chains, all of them standing atop slaves. The base of the mountain statue was already crumbling a little, for the lake no longer supported some of the base structure, and the valkyries had already been here, eradicating the people who had retreated here. The statues were kinda beat up now. One of Shackle’s wings lay crashed on the coast, broken.

Erick said, “Goodbye, and good riddance, Slaver’s Den. Places like you simply should not exist.”

With a wave of aura, Erick sent a Black Dot at the statue.

Annihilation cloyed at stone, spreading fast, across slaver sneers and narcissistic stances, erasing rock. Where it retreated there was nothing left.

The lake of Anomalies crashed into a crater. Water frothed and splashed and rocketed into the air.

And Slaver’s Den was no more.

Erick breathed out.

It was over, for now.

Erick asked Shadow, “Name the land, please.”

“Tir Geal,” Shadow said, “Or ‘Bright Land’, if you prefer.”

So she was going with some Earth language stuff, eh? Erick turned into his human shape and tried to smile, saying, “Where’d you even hear about Earth fae and Irish stuff?”

“Ha! We fae have our ways.” More seriously, she said, “A lot of people have done a lot of digging into your past, but don’t worry about Earth; I’ve already made a claim over it since we’re courting each other. Apparently that place is rather backwater, though. No one really cares about it.”

“I’ll trust you, then.” Erick had enough on his plate, anyway. He asked, “Not ‘Shadow Lands’?”

Shadow grinned. “This land is ours; not simply mine. And besides! Shadows live best where there’s brightness to be had, and there’s a lot of brightness here to be had. I do wonder why we haven’t gotten a prompt from Yggdrasil about owner transfer, though. We have killed all the slavers and converted all the rest.” She looked into the Quarantine and Rust Cloud sky, asking, “What’s the impediment, Yggdrasil?”

“There’s still Propagation Magic active and Shackle is still alive. This land cannot be transferred while either of those things remain true, and even after that there’s a 1 year waiting period for ownership transfer,” Yggdrasil said, stepping into the air with Erick and Shadow. He looked to Erick. “And what you did with Shackle there, in the end… It has hints of what was done to the Painted Cosmology. In the Sundering.”

Yggdrasil could have said a lot more, but he left it there, for now.

Shadow lightly looked at Erick, knowing that he did not want to speak of this topic at this moment in time, but Erick could tell that she deeply wanted to speak of this topic.

Erick said, “I am aware of the similarities. I don’t believe it was the same thing at all, for a lot of reasons. But now that it is done, I am aware. I wasn’t sure what I was doing until I did it, but I’d do it again in a heartbeat.” Erick said, “Surely others have done similar magics, weaving time through a soul to pull that soul apart and send almost-Fateful levels of Establishment through the universe and time to erase the threats laid down by a departing enemy.”

Yggdrasil glanced at Shadow.

Shadow glanced at Yggdrasil.

Okay. So maybe what Erick had done was rather rare.

Erick tried, “Certainly not unique.”

Shadow allowed, “Not unique. But certainly rarer than fae. Benevolence is uniquely tuned to Time Magics and making good outcomes, so perhaps this is the true nature of what Benevolence can do.”

… Well that was a thought.

“Definitely not unique,” Yggdrasil said. “Though the scale of what you did…” His voice trailed away. “I’m not sure you understand just how difficult it is to do what you did. The fae can erase people and their works like you did, but once a person gets too metaphysically large then they can’t do what you did at all. Usually, the fae can only do that to newborns, and only a stronger-than-average fae could even attempt such an action.” Yggdrasil added, “What Lord Dakka did to the person who flipped the Major Contract switch, in order to erase them from all reality in a Hunt, was a common display of a strong fae’s ability to erase a person.”

Erick had not known that until this moment, and yet it made sense.

“I was thinking a bit about that, actually, when I went about this magic,” Erick said. And then he moved on, adding, “We’ll speak of Nothanganathor’s Sundering more later, for this is obviously how he did some of that, though the scale is off by several orders of magnitude. In smaller ways, I now recognize that this sort of thing is exactly what Nothanganathor has done to every single person he ate with Red Sparks, and what he did to Debby.”

“I’m glad you said it,” Shadow said, “Because I did not want to dance around that for much longer. Nothanganathor does this regularly. It’s a piece of how he did some of the Sundering, but not the whole story by far. Perhaps the Fae Council never truly believed that Nothanganathor could have caused the Sundering because none of them could envision this type of erasure working on the scale of a universe, and yet, perhaps that’s exactly what Nothanganathor learned to do.” Shadow looked to Erick, saying, “And now you have learned the same power as a strong fae, Erick.”

Ah.

Well that was kinda worrying in many ways.

Yggdrasil looked like he was holding back. He probably was, and for a whole bunch of reasons, for sure. From Fae Council secrets, to stuff he had learned from Aragathara, and probably whatever conversations he was having with various other powers out there right now about Malevolence. He was busy, and now there was this whole thing happening.

Erick commiserated.

“So the Sundering definitely came from this universe. 100% confirmed?” Erick asked.

Shadow said, “Pretty safe to say.”

Yggdrasil looked deeply worried about many very large things.

Erick said, “So let’s move on for now.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “Moving on. Are you going to keep Shackle?”

Erick did not have to think much, to say, “I should, because that’s what I promised him, that I would be looking over his shoulder until he repented and all his Evil seeds had been unsown. But I don’t want to look after what remains, and for a good reason.” Erick lifted his hand and expressed a fraction of his soul into the real world, pulling a crystal out of Elsewhere and into this reality. It was a white, 6-sided crystal, tapered at both ends, and with a splash of black frozen inside, like a bunch of feathers in a jumble. There were also tears inside, though Erick couldn’t see any eyes. “Didn’t know it would be that easy to pull him out of me, but here he is. He’s much diminished. I don’t think he has the mental capacity to actually repent at all since I used almost all of him while targeting his planted evils. A [Reincarnation] could fix some of that, but whoever stepped out of that magic would not be Shackle. He’d have holes in his memory the size of centuries, and that would do crazy things to a person.”

Shadow held out a hand. “Then you have done your duty to look over him until he repents in true, for an invalid stripped of Evil is not capable of knowing Evil, and that crystal is clearly crying. You have done enough. Give him to me.”

Erick handed him over.

And Shadow crushed the crystal, turning magic to dust and air, pulling out a tear-flecked black feather from the crystallized Benevolence. With a flick and twist, the black feather became white, the tears cast away, and then she released the feather into the air, where it slipped on a gust of wind into Elsewhere and was gone.

“… That’s that,” Erick said, feeling some kind of relief to be truly done with Slaver’s Den.

Shadow nodded.

Yggdrasil stared at where the feather had vanished for a lingering moment, then he said to Erick, “That only leaves the presence of the valkyries causing the Quarantine. As soon as all the valkyries are people again, I will end the Quarantine. I suggest you prepare well before you end that magic, because—” Yggdrasil pointed to different directions on the horizons, naming off, “Slaver’s Union, the Slaver’s Pit, and Slaver’s Ransom. Go far enough in those directions and you’ll end up in those lands. The Veiled Syndicate Hideout is over that way, and over there are the Dread Arenas.” He dropped his hand. “You could conquer some of those lands, but you probably shouldn’t, because Margleknot is close to being Balanced and you’re still trying to win over Wraithborne. So you can choose. Wraithborne becomes not-Evil, or you erase those other Evil lands out there and Wraithborne becomes empowered to get big, and fast.”

… Balance sucked.

Shadow said what Erick was thinking, “Balance is a terrible way to run a land.”

