Halgrave scoffed. “Hardly. Lightcore controls three layers entirely, and that’s not considering how far they’ve expanded beyond their official claim. I couldn’t guess at even a quarter of what they get up to down there, nor would I suggest you let them find out you’re feeling curious.” He reached to the side, grasping the haft of his hammer. He rocked the absurdly heavy crystal head against the floor, making it creak alarmingly.

Rain winced.

“My hammer contains a sub-core,” Halgrave continued. “Most gold-tier equipment does.”

“You’re just mentioning this now?!” Rain demanded, his worries about hull integrity forgotten.

Halgrave raised an eyebrow. “Was it relevant before?”

“It was!” Rain shouted, then paused and sighed. “At a meeting you weren’t at. Sorry. Anyway, if you’re willing to tell us who made it, maybe we can—“

“Karamaugin,” Halgrave interrupted.

“Oh,” Rain said, then muttered a curse.

“What’s the problem?” Smelt asked. “If there is a crafter who works with cores and contracts for the Guild, then maybe we can hire him to take a look?”

“Karamaugin works for the Bank,” Atyl said. “Havenheild, specifically.” He turned to Halgrave. “I don’t even want to imagine what that cost you.”

“You do not,” Halgrave agreed.

Rain rubbed at his eyes, then looked up. “It’s the same problem, regardless of whether the stealth cores are like journey cores or if they aren’t. Any crafters who could help us are going to have other loyalties. The Watch...probably has someone, but until we know who’s going to end up in charge, going to them would be dangerous. Sana, what’s the latest from your friend in the outpost?”

“Things are getting worse,” Sana said, shaking her head. “There are three factions now, and, well... I don’t think we’ve got much time left before guardians show up and start asking questions.”

“Why haven’t they shown up already, actually?” Ameliah asked. She raised a hand when everyone turned to look at her. “I’ve missed more meetings than Halgrave. Just saying.”

“The Warden left orders with Guardian Nem to leave us alone,” Rain replied. “We only found out a few days ago. That’s not going to last once he stops suspecting she’s dead and actually starts believing it. He’ll come calling. Him, or a guardian from another faction once he loses what little control he has.”

“Could be any day,” Sana said, looking down.

“Ah,” Ameliah said, putting her hand down. “I suppose I won’t bother asking why we aren’t considering just staying here, then.”

“We did consider it,” Vanna said, shaking her head. “The facts haven’t changed. Ascension needs a place we can lie low.” She gestured around. “This camp, right on the edge of a shipping lane? This is not that. If not for Halgrave, we’d have been subjugated by Birdman and the rest of the DKE leftovers by now. Whether it’s them, the Watch, or the Guild, upset about competition, we need to be elsewhere yesterday.”

Rain clapped his hands. “Decision time, then. Any objections to leaving in six days’ time?”

Tallheart rumbled. “I said four days would be sufficient.”

Rain shrugged. “I was giving you margin.”

Tallheart blinked at him. “My number included margin. I do not require more.” His eyes flicked to Vanna, then back to Rain. “My people also need to be elsewhere yesterday.”

“I take your point,” Rain acknowledged, turning to Ameliah. “How are they doing, anyway? Do they have everything they need?”

“They’re keeping to themselves,” Ameliah replied. “They won’t let anyone but Tallheart and me into the section of the camp you set aside for them, and I honestly don’t blame them for it. I’m going over there once we’re done here to try and help them feel less...isolated, I don’t know. It would help if I could tell them where we’re going. It would also help if you could get people to stop staring at them whenever they peek out.”

“Damn rubberneckers,” Rain said, digging for the map he wanted in the crate of them beside his chair. “I’ll do something about it. Not sure what just yet, but something. Smelt, how many people do we have, including the cervidians and everyone else who’s been sponsored?”

“Nine hundred and forty-four as of this morning,” Smelt replied. “Three hundred and thirty-seven of whom are members.”

Ameliah inhaled sharply. “Depths, are you serious?”

“In four days, we’ll have a hundred more if we don’t put a stop to it,” Vanna said. “Especially if the clouds don’t break or if the Empire starts moving again or if some other ridiculousness happens. People want to get off this continent, and we’re looking like a great option. We need to close our doors, outside special circumstances.”

“As I’ve been saying,” Smelt said flatly.

Vanna nodded. “We should stop new sponsorships, too, though anyone who’s been sponsored already and wants to become a member, we’ll consider. Any objection, Rain?”

“No objection, though I hate turning people away who deserve to get in,” Rain said, rising with the map and tossing it on the table before diving back down for a pencil.

“Rain,” Ameliah said slowly from above. “What did you do to the map?”

“Hey,” he protested, popping back up. He pointed at the gash right in the middle of the Empire. “Kettel was the one who stabbed it. He doesn’t even have the trope as an excuse!” He smiled, abandoning his pretended affront. “Honestly, though, I get where he’s coming from. This thing is wrong and needs to die.”

“Riiiight,” Ameliah said.

“Hokai,” Rain said, smoothing the map until it lay flat. “So here’s the Earth...”

Tallheart rumbled a warning.

Rain sighed, tapping the coast above Yelfenn. “We’re here, obviously, and the green line is our path so far.” He swept his hand across the map, indicating various spots. “Our options, as previously discussed, are Karmark near the Ter, the south side of Lendis, anchored off the coast of Rellagia somewhere, one of two spots on Bellost, and an unspecified one of the Southern Isles.” He twirled the pencil, then looked up. “Any objections to striking Karmark from the list?”

“Weren’t you the one arguing for it last time?” Samson asked, raising an eyebrow.

Rain nodded. “I was, but in light of only having two stealth cores, we can’t risk it.” He tapped the blue scribbles between Karmark and Rellagia with the unsharpened end of the pencil. “This passage is supposed to be dangerous to the point that only Goldships can survive it. It’s also not as short as it looks on this map. I stand by my position that the uncharted south would be a great place to go blue hunting, but the rest of you were right. It’s a bit wild for our first base, what with the dragons and all.”

“Is that the only reason you changed your mind?” Sana asked, looking at him strangely.

“Yes,” he replied, making the lie as blatant as he could. He’d think of a way to share the Warden’s warning about Kev later, when he wasn’t in mixed company. As few people as possible needed to know he had the ghost of a dead woman rattling around in his skull. Sana, clearly understanding what he was getting at, didn’t outwardly react, covering any expression she might have made by taking a sip of her tea.

Spinning the pencil again, Rain tapped Lendis, then drew an ‘x’ through it as well. “That shouldn’t be controversial,” he said, looking up. “It was only an option if we were going to lean on the Watch more heavily for support. Vigilance is somewhere around there, but given what Sana just told us, that’s not so appealing.”

“Agreed,” Vanna said.

Rain nodded. “How do we feel about Rellagia? That’s the only place you can get a journey core other than one made by the Foundry, which bumps it up the rankings. I know we basically ruled it out before, given how unlikely it is they’ll give us so much as a crappy island. Still, if we can work out a deal with one of the Kingdoms, we might be able to get some leads on core crafting. I’m just not fond of the idea of living on the ship long-term, even if we make another for more room. It leaves us too exposed.”

“I concur,” Samson said, reaching out to touch the map. “We can still take this northern passage and anchor in Se or Jen for a night or two. There shouldn’t be an issue as long as we don’t overstay our welcome. We can still go ashore and try to find a core crafter to interrogate.”

“Discreetly,” Vanna said.

“Right, discreetly,” Rain agreed. “But as a place to stay, Rellagia’s out, right?”

“Right,” Samson said.

Surveying the room and seeing no dissent, Rain scratched another ‘x’ across the entire northern continent. “Bellost, then, or the Isles. Our deal with Luna doesn’t get us much, but it does get us passage past Splendor. How’s his spy doing, Sana?”

“Settling in,” Sana replied. “There’s still no indication she’s realized she didn’t fool me.”

“Good, good,” Rain said. “Samson, how did her combat eval go?”

“I had to move it, but it’s scheduled for this afternoon,” Samson replied. “If she’s even a hint stronger than the level-three Swordswoman she claims to be, I’ll find out.”

“Don’t push her too hard, even if you’re sure she’s hiding her strength,” Rain said, nodding. “We want to turn her, not turn her away. We’ll chat later about what misinformation to feed her in the short term. We won’t be able to hide the fact we’re going toward Bellost, but we can still get her to lead Luna down the wrong path before we cut the corner.”

“Cut the corner?” Atyl asked.

“Pirate term,” Rain said, returning to the map to tap a finger on Splendor. “These channels are wider than they look. There are a few undersea ridges that make things hard for Whales if you have a fast ship. They need to dive every so often to restore their strength, and the ridges stop them from just trailing after you along the bottom. The faster your ship and the stronger your nerve, the more you can cut it. Bakal thinks we’ll do even better with Temerity’s stealth. Not better enough to bypass Splendor, mind, but enough for our needs.”

“Are we cutting north or south, though?” Vanna asked. “Actually, before we get to that, can we rule out the Isles?”

“Yeah, I think so, after talking it over with Mlem,” Rain said. “Too many little ships going every which way. Any islands big enough for us to get lost on are already inhabited.” Not even waiting for confirmation, he crossed them out, then returned his pencil to Splendor, making a small mark on the passage between the Bank’s island and Freetown. He paused to drain the rest of his coffee, twirling the pencil again as he continued.

“It doesn’t look like it on this map, not that it even has a scale, but this passage is long enough to make Scrying the whole thing impractical. The spot I just marked is where we’ll shake them, right in the middle. It’ll be hell for anyone to find us again once they lose us. They’ll expect us to cut north toward the Bite, but even then, that’s a lot of water to sweep.”

He traced the blunt end of the pencil that way, continuing along the continent’s edge until he reached the scribble-filled bay on the bottom between Xiugaaraa and the Drywood. “Option one. This is probably our best bet if we want to harbor Temerity and come and go without people seeing us. The Drywood is, well, dry, but lack of fresh water isn’t a problem. It’s also dead, but the toxin that killed the trees isn’t a problem either. I’m sure I’ll be able to Purify it. Every report I’ve read says it’s fading, and if not, there’s the other shore.” He looked up. “However, everything that makes the Drywood and that bay good for us is something the Bank or anyone else could work out.”

Returning to the map, he slid his finger back up to Freetown, then dragged it south. “All the more reason not to go there.” He tapped the coast by the Bloodmarsh. “Our second option, therefore, should be our first. This is where we should go, and the prep we’ll need to do will look the same.”

“Really?” Ameliah said, wrinkling her nose. “The Bloodmarsh is horrid, Rain. I’ve only seen the eastern edge, but it’s supposed to be worse along the coast.”

“Purify,” Rain said.

“There are bugs the size of your thumb, boy,” Halgrave said. “Swarms of them so thick you’d swear it’s night at midday.”

“Immolate, then Purify,” Rain replied. “I did my research on it too. The center is a ranked zone, but nobody goes there, which makes it perfect for finding a blue, albeit a weak one.”

“That’s because you can’t get to the center without being sucked dry,” Ameliah said.

“I don’t think I want to be sucked dry,“ Romer said.

“Rain’s right,” Samson said, reaching across the table and sliding the map around to face him. “If it’s unpleasant, so what? We survived Fel Sadanis during the Shift. We’ll survive a few bugs, and with the ocean south of there being impassible, there won’t be any traffic for us to worry about. We’ll tell our members we’re going to the Drywood and to keep their mouths shut about it. The plan will leak, regardless of that warning and everyone’s best intentions. If it somehow doesn’t, we’ll leak it ourselves.”

“Ameliah?” Rain asked, looking at her. He was happy to have Samson’s support, but something was clearly still bothering her. “You and Halgrave are the only ones who’ve been there. Is it really that bad?”

“I mean, no, not really. It’s just a fetid, stinking, bug-infested bog.” She sighed, idly wobbling Dozer back and forth. Her soul relaxed after a moment, then she smiled. He relaxed too, knowing she was about to tease him. “Just once, you could take me someplace nice.”

Rain smiled back, resolving to do exactly that the instant he could, regardless of whether or not she meant it. He reached out to take her hand. “All the nice places are taken. Don’t worry. We’ll make our own.”

Sana squeaked.

Samson pointedly cleared his throat. “If the Bloodmarsh doesn’t work out, we can always leave again. Head for the Drywood or wherever else. We should make that part of the fake plan. We’ll only tell the Entrusted, but the Isles can be our official backup. I don’t like lying to our members, but this will be a good test of our information control. If the spy hears about our supposed second choice, we’ll know we have a real problem.”

“Okay, then,” Ameliah said, sitting back and raising her hand. “As the newest member of the Defense Council, I formally vote in favor of the Bloodmarsh and the horrible, oversized, monster-eating blood bugs.”

