Submersed in potential, Rain floated, his avatar’s hair waving with the current as he directed the flow. Walls materialized around him in seconds, a cube of solidified soul that captured a Whale’s mouthful of the dwindling sea. With only a minor additional investment of will, the entire thing rose, lifting both him and the captured essence. Below him, he was aware of potential rushing in to fill the bite taken from the ocean. Before long, there would be none left, but that was only a minor concern. His core rested in the empty shell below those waves no longer.

A tremor ran through the liquid. The cube came to a stop, crashing into a larger structure. With an unneeded wave of his hand, the wall in front of Rain slid upwards, and potential surged forth in a deluge, roaring into the gargantuan holding tank. Space twisted, and his avatar vanished from the flow, reappearing perfectly dry in a brightly-lit room.

Here, a rapidly-running conveyor was firing newly minted refinement cells into a pile that had overtaken the collection bin. The cells were perfect cubes, no larger than his avatar’s fist and labeled with the number ‘1’. Inside each, printed directly into the structure, were yet more tubes, valves, and channels, leading to the hollow cylinder at the center. No rod drove the piston head within, animated instead by his automated will. Stroke by stroke, the cells would draw in level zero essence, flash it to level one with the pattern in the resonant chamber, then expel the result.

Designing them had been straightforward. Designing the machine that made them, however, had been a challenge.

Flipping his palm to face upward, Rain lifted his hand. Gravity shifted, and the mound of tier-one purifiers clinked ceramically as they rose. He turned, facing a yawning airlock on one side of the room, then let himself fall toward it, the cubes chasing after him in a swarm. Bursting through the shimmering field holding the simulated air within, Rain plummeted into the airless void, though the space outside was not entirely empty. A cloud of diffuse potential surrounded his growing station like a nebula—one from science fiction, not reality. Here and there, bolts of blue lightning flashed and flickered. Because it looked cool.

Guiding his charges around to the other side—for while he’d mastered space enough to teleport his avatar, he still struggled to disregard geometry entirely—he came to a gradual stop, looking at the side of the holding tank where he’d been not a minute before. He thrust his palm forward, and it was not gravity that moved the cubes this time, but his direct will. Dozens at a time, they shot past like volleys of arrows, thudding into the tank and installing themselves into the structure that awaited them. Tier-one essence began dripping through almost immediately, and with another thread of his will, Rain spun it into pipes of tier-one soul. Those, he melded into the existing network, forming the circulatory system that would pipe the potential to the next tank in line.

It had been little more than a day since the Warden’s lesson, but already, Rain was up to tier four, with automation up to tier three. He’d have progressed further had refinement cells been all he’d needed to design. Most of the potential in the tank beside him came not from his shrinking planet, but from freshly purified chaos.

Space twisted, and he reappeared in another brightly lit room beside another pile of cubes. There were even more of them this time, the numbers on the sides reading ‘0’. Annoyingly, there still weren’t enough. He needed more printers.

Or a printer that prints printers... #todo

Rain smiled, fully aware that he was losing the fight against optimization hell. He was tracking the glacial approach of several souls in the real world, and even with as slow as they were moving, he wouldn’t have time to reach a stable configuration before it was time for the meeting. That was fine. He’d designed everything here to tolerate both stall and overflow.

The real bottleneck at this point was not raw production, but his mind. In yet another room of the station, his computer core was growing. Built from rack after rack of processor cores, it was massively parallel and expandable in design.

Rain snorted, lifting the purification cores and guiding them toward the airlock.

Much better than some stupid liver.

Each core was a perfect cube, much like those for purification and refinement. Rather than any internal machinery, they functioned through intent alone. That, he siphoned from his first image—the gemstone heart now sitting in a sad puddle at the bottom of the tier-three essence tank—then forged into something new using the highest tier of potential he could muster.

He hadn’t found a way to automate processor core production yet, but he would, hard enough to make AMD cry. Each unit he installed made his mind stronger, more able to see, more able to direct his will. Inside, anyway. It was only a matter of time before he was strong enough to find the next pattern.

Having been falling away from the station for a short time now, Rain plunged through the transparent bubble that held back the roiling chaos, following spreading veins of pipework that branched out into the haze like the roots of some massive tree.

[Rain-King!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!] Dozer sent excitedly, suddenly there chasing after him as he rocketed through the swirling filth.

Rain smiled, slowing as he reached the grasping tips of the intake manifold. He flared his will to create a bubble of free air so he could guide the new cells into position without interference.

[Hi, Dozer,] he sent as the slime was revealed. [Coming with me to the meeting?]

[Rain-King! Race!]

[Really? You don’t want to clean instead?]

[Cleaning race!]

[Oh.] Rain laughed as he worked. [No, Dozer, no race, not right now. Did you hear what I asked you?]

[Yes!]

[And?]

[No!]

[You’re overdue for your nap, actually, now that I think about it.]

[No want!]

Rain smiled. [You have two options, Dozer: meeting or nap. What’s it going to be?]

[...]

Rain waited patiently.

[Ameliah-Queen meeting?]

He chuckled again, done with the install now. [Yes, she’ll be there. She’s already there, technically, from the last one. Tallheart, too.]

[Meeting!!!!!!] Dozer sent.

[Good choice,] Rain sent, warping his avatar inside the station and tucking it safely into bed. The temporary bubble of order was already collapsing, bringing chaos into contact with the new intakes. [Come on then.]

Opening his eyes in Temerity’s conference room, Rain took a deep breath, then gently squeezed Ameliah’s hand, which was clasped in his own. She stirred, having been occupied much as he had. She opened her eyes to look around just in time to catch a slime to the solar plexus.

*pop*

[AMELIAH-QUEEN!!!!!!!!]

“Oof!”

Rain chuckled, getting to his feet and laying a hand on Tallheart’s shoulder. “Time for our next meeting.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, opening his eyes. He’d been in his soul too, though under instructions to nap rather than to work. Rain wasn’t sure his friend had slept since the other cervidians had arrived.

[TALL-BROTHER!!!!!!!!]

“Stop that!” Ameliah said, laughing, launching herself after Dozer and snagging him out of the air before he could bounce off Tallheart’s forehead. “Calm down! You just saw him thirty minutes ago!”

Not from our perspective, but still.

Still smiling, Rain flipped open his visor, then walked around the table to where Vanna was reaching for the doorknob. He opened the door to reveal her grasping fingertips. She jumped back, saying something like, “Ooh!”, the exclamation smothered by the wards.

[Vanna-Princess!!!!!!!!]

[Dozer, we’ve talked about this,] Rain sent, looking over his shoulder as he beckoned Vanna inside.

[Princess Vanna?]

[It’s not the order that’s the problem. Just because she’s second in command, it doesn’t mean— Oh, never mind.] Rain smiled, sure that the corner of his eye had to be twitching. “Hey, Vanna. Dozer says hello.”

“Hello back,” Vanna said, smiling as the others followed her in.

Soon, the room was packed, the chairs all taken by the heads of Ascension’s councils and the others they’d invited. By the time everyone was seated and had coffee or tea as they wished, Dozer had calmed down from his overstimulation. Secure again in Ameliah’s lap, he’d be out within the minute.

Tarny, whom Rain had been chatting with near the door, nodded to him and pulled it closed. He’d stand guard and handle any administrative issues that came up while the rest of them were occupied.

After finding his own chair and taking a sip of his coffee, Rain cleared his throat. “Thank you all for coming. Let’s get right down to it. This meeting is classified at low-council level. As there are three non-council members in the room, Ameliah, Sana, and Halgrave, I exercise my right as captain to grant them temporary council-level clearance for the duration. However, as Halgrave and Sana are not Entrusted, I need further approval by a unanimous vote of the high council. Before that, Sana, Halgrave, please vow that you will not discuss anything said in this room once we leave.”

“I agree,” said Sana firmly, clinging to her teacup.

Halgrave grunted, crossing his arms. His hammer rested beside him, the long haft poking up above the table. “I swear to keep my mouth shut, just like I did last time and the time before that. Do we really have to do this every time you ask me to come to this stupid council thing?”

“Yes, we do,” Rain said. “It’s in the codes. Councilors, hands, please.”

Six hands went up, belonging to each of the council heads: Samson, Vanna, Atyl, Tallheart, Romer, and Smelt.

“We could fix this problem, you know,” Smelt said, wiggling his fingers.

“How?” Vanna asked, glancing at her brother. “Only Entrusted can join councils, and you know why we can’t promote them.”

“I mean change the clearance rules,” Smelt said, lowering his hand. “Formalize the exception. As head of logistics, it’s my job to point out inefficiencies. Halgrave is right; doing this every time we need him or Sana is a waste of time.”

“I’ve actually been thinking about the codes a bit,” Ameliah interrupted, taking Rain by surprise. “Could we make a formal ‘specialist’ position or something? We could make it come with low-council clearance, or at least make it so council heads could grant it to specialists as needed without a vote.”

“Is this for you, Ameliah?” Vanna asked with a straight face, though her soul was playful. “Aren’t you the opposite of a specialist?”

“I didn’t mean for me,” Ameliah said, nodding at Sana and Halgrave as Rain and a few others chuckled. “I meant for them. In my case, I was thinking of joining the Defense Council.” She looked at Samson. “If you’ll have me?”

“Of course,” Samson said, raising his eyebrows. “I thought you didn’t want any formal responsibility? What changed?”

“Nothing,” Ameliah replied, giving the now-100%-unconscious Dozer a squeeze. “I just needed time to stop lying to myself.”

Rain grinned, though what he really wanted to do was hug her. He could do that later, in private. “Any objections to Ameliah’s proposal?” He raised his hand. “All in favor of altering the codes to create the ‘specialist’ position?”

Six hands went up.

“Seems like a simple enough concept,” Romer said. “I’ll write up a draft for the change, and we’ll review it next time before we call the Entrusted to vote on it.”

“Leave that to me,” Vanna said. “I know you wrote that section, but that’s what the Administration Council is here for now. You’ve got enough work to do helping Tallheart.”

“Thank you for the excellent segue, Vanna,” Rain said, turning to Tallheart. “First on the official agenda, Tallheart has news. Go ahead, Tallheart. I wouldn’t want to steal your thunder.”

Tallheart rumbled, much like thunder, and Rain had to fight not to burst out laughing. Everyone else just looked mildly confused, but the atmosphere became excited as the smith laid out the details of his breakthrough. Some had already known he’d cracked the rune—or at least suspected from the flurry of activity around Engineering yesterday—but the longer Tallheart spoke, the more clear it became that their timetable had just been moved up. Already, production was nearing industrial scale—limited by Myth’s ability to produce argon, apparently.

“How long until the ship is seaworthy?” Vanna asked when Tallheart finished speaking.

“Four days,” Tallheart said. “Enchantment will not be necessary if I use the Adamants’ alloy. Our tests showed that the combination’s resilience has little to do with the muddling effect binding their version of it. Furthermore, the muddled and un-muddled materials are happy to meld with each other. Repairs will be straightforward.”

“Can we make the ship bigger?” Smelt asked, and Rain knew why. Recruiting was another thing they needed to talk about.

“Not significantly,” Tallheart said, shaking his head. “The stealth cores protect a fixed volume.”

“Is that what we’re calling them now?” Ameliah asked.

“Do we even need them?” Atyl asked, interrupting Romer’s response. “Normal ships do fine in charted waters. We have Shu to keep us on course.”

“Normal ships don’t carry thousands of people,” Vanna countered. “Everyone knows Whales are drawn to life.”

“And to magic,” Romer said, nodding. “We have too many mages to risk the open ocean without the stealth cores or some other form of protection. Remember, the Adamants seemed to think it needed four of them. We’re already operating at reduced capacity.” He turned to Ameliah. “And yes, that is what we’re calling them. While you were gone, I did yet another study of the runework on the pillars, comparing it to those lining the cradle in Mlem’s cart. Both networks are far, far beyond my capability to understand, but some parts are uncannily similar. Most likely, the stealth cores are modified lair sub-cores, just like those the Foundry forges journey-cores from.”

“What you say makes sense,” Halgrave said unexpectedly, and everyone turned to look at him. He didn’t usually offer up information at these meetings unless asked.

Smelt rubbed his chin. “That’s right, you’ve been in the Great Delving, haven’t you? Do you know much about the Foundry? Their headquarters is below the city, right?”

