“You know, you like to pretend that you don’t care but I think you’re using it as a shield to do what you think must be done. The Viv I know isn’t ruthless. You’re practical, and you don’t like people finding out you have a heart, but I can see the way you look after me through actions and little gestures, just like you look after Sidjin over there, or Arthur, or even that silverite hulk Solfis. It’s like this as well. When I wanted to fight, you didn’t like it but you let me do it. When I got hurt, then maimed, you didn’t abandon me to my fate, or told me ‘I told you so’ as you could have. You found a solution to help me by having Abe lend his staff. You trained me. You gave me this feeling that I still mattered and that I was still me, even when I was diminished. You gave me a position in your court in a function I could complete and though you let me take responsibility for finding a cure, once I did, you were there to help me get it. You never even hesitated. I see you, Viv. You are slow to thaw but when you do, you’re a friend for life. It is no wonder that you have gathered a collection of elites. I just want to tell you that in this case, I think it’s a collection of friends. We are all out there living our lives and building the Harrak we want to live in but you know that if you need our help, we would stand against a dark god side by side with you. With your luck, one day we will. Thank you.”

Viv huffed before she could let that treacherous warmth spill into obvious feelings. Rakan was a sly one, however, and he noticed anyway. They chuckled.

“Thank you. It means a lot to me. I will remember this moment and your words. Now come on, I’m the mighty Empress of Harrak. Our enemies fear us and so on. I need to keep a modicum of fear about me. Can’t let people know I’m half decent.”

“Your secret is safe with me,” Rakan swore. “I will tell everyone you are a cold-hearted beast.”

“Nice. In return for my service, I have a favor to ask you.”

“Is it about me wearing underwear right now?”

He was naked as a worm.

“It is about you wearing underwear right now. The evening is cold. Let’s get you covered.”

“Alright, alright.”

Viv turned to the fleeting figure of the Azure Lady, who was hanging around like an idle NPC.

“Thank you. Our contract is completed. We will be departing soon.”

No answer.

“Regarding your people, I was wondering if we could have a talk. I believe your position is untenable, and I can help. I would also like to invite Kif. Your participation — your full participation, would be required.”

“Yes. Tomorrow morning. I will be present,” a disembodied voice replied.

Viv had no idea if that was a real promise or just a perfunctory reply. Arthur would never have forgiven her if she hadn’t tried to make a profit.

***

Someone banged on Viv’s door in the middle of the night. Viv grumbled herself to full wakefulness — it was getting harder to sleep at night. Who dared disturb her slumber etc. Back in Harrak, there was always the defenestration option.

The person behind the door was a mage, and a pretty good one at that, but the way the person’s aura pulsed erratically told her something was wrong. It didn’t feel like anger. It felt like panic.

“What the fuck now?”

She opened the door with a spell ready just in case. Her brain did that little dance when it recognizes someone but isn’t sure from where, or when. Viv’s memory had become eidetic but that didn’t mean she could remember everything on demand, right now, especially when right now was past 3AM or something.

Mage, woman, dark hair, steely gaze but with deep pockets that spoke of lingering exhaustion. She’d seen that elegant, arrogant expression before. Where?

Helock, her mind whispered.

Wait a minute.

“Renea?”

“Yes,” Elunath’s little snitch confessed. “Look, I know you probably hate me…”

Most people overestimated how important they were in Viv’s life. ‘I forgot you even existed;’ didn’t feel like the right thing to say, though. Renea used to be Elunath’s creature, a fate Viv had managed to avoid so she didn’t really have hard feelings. Lana would be a different story though. All of the girls had suffered because of Renea’s condemning whispers. Fucking snitch. So that’s who Lana had been following!

No wonder she wanted to go alone.

“And you have no reason to trust or help me…”

That Viv could agree on.

“But please, please, Lana needs help.”

A distant pulse of blue magic made both of them look towards the central island.

“Speak. Fast.”

“Lana came to the Azure Lady for answers. She got many, but the Azure Lady decided that she was ready for the Trial of the Tide.”

Renea stood there like a big fat idiot, waiting for Viv to react. Viv lost patience first.

“What’s the trial? Come on.”

“Yes! Sorry. It’s my fault. It’s my fault! Lana recognized me. She came to me. I should have warned her that the lady isn’t well! She doesn’t experience time like we do.”

“The damn trial.”

“Yes! It’s an ancient rite of passage for Shaded Lands casters.”

“Renea, so help me Neriad, if you don’t —”

“Plunged in water and have to breathe through mana alone!”

Renea froze. Viv froze as well, but only for a moment.

“The Azure Lady is drowning our friend?”

“Yes!”

“What the fuck.”

Renea’s words reeked of truth and terror but Viv had to be sure, because if she started crashing down the palace and it turned out to be deception… She grabbed Renea by the collar. The poor woman yelped. She was so light, Viv had no difficulty lifting her in front of her eyes. The girl was all bones.

“If you lied to me…”

Draconic intimidation smashed into the girl with unusual fervor. Renea’s mental defenses crumbled on the spot, forcing Viv to step back. She’d expected a wall and found a paper curtain. Now, Renea was weeping on the ground.

Think fast, Viv. Wasting fucking time here.

“I believe you. Stand up. Stand up! Good. Warn Sidjin in my ship. I’m going.”

Renea painfully dragged herself to her feet. The move cost her.

“I can guide you to —”

“GO!”

Fuck. Fuck! What was wrong with the old monster? Lana wasn’t trained as a Shaded Lands mage. And she hated feeling trapped or powerless! She was only supposed to get some guidance, not go through some ancient rite of passage. Hello? What the fuck was happening?

Viv didn’t need a guide because she could feel a ritual being conducted near the palace. It was a matter of seconds to put on her battle robe. She would probably need them. She also held her focus.

Might need to upgrade that soon.

She flew through the window before her mind could remind her she might be going against an ancient archmage at the heart of her power. The compound was quiet at this hour. It wouldn’t stay so for long. The fresh wind dissipated the last wisps of sleep from her mind. She flew to the central structure, pushing the gates opened with telekinesis. There was some basic resistance, but she smashed through anyway. A shiver rolled across the interior of the palace, like someone waking up with a jolt.

There were stairs down on both sides. She knew she was supposed to go left, because Fantos’ frowning face stood in her way. The irate blademaster barred her way in an instant.

“Halt! You may not approach the sanctum!”

“Where is Lana?”

“Do not interrupt us, interloper. I said stop!”

“Piss off.”

Viv’s strides didn’t stop. Fantos unsheathed a ling saber with a curved blade. He sneered.

“I knew we shouldn’t have —”

Viv raised her knife focus just as Fantos manifested blade intent. The feeling of being cut left the aftertaste of blood on her tongue. With her other hand, Viv built a kinetic hex. This one was going to hurt.

Fantos roared. A blade of light cut through the air itself.

Solar could probably do better with his big toe.

“Cute.”

Viv’s hyperbeam dissipated the sword. With a cry, Fantos parried high, where Viv had been aiming. The blade cut through her spell.

She walked into his guard and placed her hand against his flank, releasing the push spell in a single, smooth movement. Fantos was punted across the room, through a window, and then out towards the sky with a sonorous woosh. Viv didn’t break her stride. Down the stairs she went. Another wave of blue mana pulsed from below. A thick marble door blocked her way. It was unlocked. Beyond was the surface of the water, a black mirror made viscous by the power that held it in place. She couldn’t see anything beyond. She was already below the ocean. This might lead her deeper.

Lana might be dying.

Viv stepped in. Ocean water embraced her, soaking through her robes, chilling her skin. Water wormed its way into her nostrils and she could feel the salt tickling her open eyes. Just like she hoped, the tendril of power dragged her down. It was good news. It had to be good news. The primal part of her brain just refused to believe it. It told her she was trapped, caught in the muted and suffocating depth of the moonless expanse. Her night sight had nothing to reveal except for dark water, Even her mana sight was no longer of any help, because everything was blue. Even her soul sense failed her, because everything reeked of her. The only hope left to Viv was to wait and pray that this isolation would stop.

Viv kept sinking in complete darkness.

Lana was dying. She was sure of it. Only this firm belief kept Viv going through the downward spiral, but then, her mind caught up to her. She looked down.

Faint blue lights surrounded a sunken, rectangular structure like a bunker suspended in the void by stone ballasts and the will of its mistress. Its surface was carved with runes that glowed with a soft radiance. Viv counted the seconds before the tendril dropped her at a delicately inscribed gate, the water pressing her against the unyielding stone. It was locked. Viv could see the charms keeping the hinges in place. It was time to knock.

“Excalibur.”

The void blade went through the stone and the magic as if they were not there. The structure shuddered at the intrusion. Viv’s first steps through the forced opening turned into a stumble. She wasn’t welcome here. The water soaking her dress failed to evaporate as it always had done before. Drenched, she raced to the center of the secluded room. A shimmering prison as bright as a summer sky occupied the center of an elaborate construct. It was shaped like an egg, and in it, the convulsing form of Lana struggled to stay alive. Her elegant blue dress clung to the short girl like a shroud. Agony twisted her features from shock to pain and back again when panic grew too overwhelming. A flash of lucidity let her recognize Viv. A small fist punched against the prison, to no avail. It was not just a prison too, Viv realized, but a sort of concentrated chamber. The pressure on Lana’s core had to be tremendous.

Lana was instinctively turning some of the blue mana into oxygen when she managed to regain her self-control, but it was a fickle thing. She was breathing water into her lungs with each terrified gulp.

Viv rushed forward. She grabbed her focus knife and cast the densest Excalibur of her life. The voracious spell bit into the egg.

A monstrous burst of annihilation drove into the construct. It was a stiletto plunged into fragile fabric. The blade pierced through several layers of enchantment. The reaction was instant and colossal. Blue mana flooded the room like a purifying wave.

“Deadland Domain.”

Viv saturated her surroundings with black mana, breaking the spell. The corruption spread until what had been a tide turned into just water that drifted down the clammy stone.

“Stop,” a voice warned.

“No. Release her.”

The void blade returned. Viv coated herself with her strongest armor. Scales erupted along the thick greaves, the ornamented vambraces. She pushed back against the wall that was the Azure Lady’s presence.

“STOP,” the voice warned again, louder, yet in the same tone.

That bitch wasn’t listening. Viv was going to get her attention. Her full attention, this time.

[Aspect of the Paragon.]

Viv grabbed her own soul. She pushed herself against the indifferent defense that had to be one of the Azure Lady’s many ways of managing her humans. Draconic intimidation flared to its maximum. Lana was hers. HERS. Not a toy. Not some process to be handled. She was Lana, and Lana was hers.

“I said, NO.”

Black mana bloomed, crashing against the wall, and Viv remembered the obvious. Night and the abyss had black mana too. Her presence unfurled like a flower. The soul of the old idiot receded against the black star of Viv’s will. Around them, walls cracked from the sheer pressure. The egg buckled.

Viv buried her sword in the egg. For an instant, it was pierced and she could see Lana’s shaky grasp, covered in droplets, reaching out for rescue. It closed on her before Viv could grab it.

The powers equalized. Black mana was pushed back. She was still only the second presence under the ocean. A face, then the rest of a body manifested ex-nihilo. Glacial orbs opened. They found her.

“Release her,” Viv demanded.

The Azure Lady had the audacity to blink. Only then did she find Lana’s panicked body. The blue mage had regained some measure of control, clinging to the tiny glimmer of hope Viv’s presence had brought. She was still struggling, her calm hanging by a thread of fraying self-control while salt water ravaged her lungs.

“She undergoes the Trial of the Tide.”

“I don’t care. Release her.”

“The ritual is important…” the Azure Lady muttered, seemingly lost.

“Did she consent?”

Again, Viv was losing the woman’s attention.

“The ritual is important. She undergoes the Trial of the Tide.”

