“Did. She. Consent? Is she here out of her own free will?”

Lana shook her head until black hair formed a messy halo around her head.

“The ritual is impo—”

“You will listen, or I will make you listen.”

“She must undergo the trial.”

Viv sidestepped the figure, but a wall of water followed her.

“Thou incur my wrath.”

“Fuck your feelings, you insane bitch. Release her. You don’t have the right!”

Behind Viv, the tendril delivered two confused figures one after the other. Lana’s panicked gaze turned to Sidjin and Rakan as they stepped forward. The Azure lady didn’t react to their presence.

“Water prison, advanced,” Sidjin said with a calm Viv didn’t feel.

“It smothers everything but blue mana. Colorless mana should work. I got a construct that will help,” Rakan stammered, fingers already forming a spell. “Lana, you need to cast this…”

“No. Pain management first. Here,” Sidjin said, forming another one.

He addressed Viv with a quick yet controlled voice.

“We’ll get her through this. She will need to focus with no distraction, so I need you to get the Azure lady away from here. Can you do that?”

A kinetic spell dispersed the form of the Azure Lady into a trail of droplets. A sense of foreboding doom filled the room. Viv blocked water tendrils with a transparent shield.

“Yeah, I can do that.”

She smashed through the room’s ceiling into the dark waters above, hounded by the presence of the blue elemental. The old monster’s consciousness followed her with ponderous inertia. Viv still hadn’t deserved her full attention.

Viv broke through the surface of the ocean at top speed, and the ocean followed. Viv flew up to the night sky with a geyser behind her. That geyser had a face and it was aiming straight for her, a rather stressful experience considering the size of the thing.

[Aspect of the Guardian]

She cast a shield, splitting the face in two like waves upon a rock, but the water clung to her and she was forced to abandon the spell. The split water turned into twin snakes that raced through the air, aiming for her sides, and both bore the Azure Lady’s features. Astra spells failed to do anything more than disturbing the water. She was forced to fly higher.

“Shit.”

Higher she went, hounded by an ever-rising lake of churning waters. Her attacks failed to penetrate the thick water shield. It reformed almost immediately. Lighter spells hit Viv as well but her defenses stopped them all. It didn’t comfort her, because the drain on her resources was significant.

The most annoying thing was still that the Azure Lady didn’t take her seriously. She was still facing just a facet, just a piece of the woman’s full gaze. Even children scolded by their mothers could claim more attention. It was infuriating.

The two danced higher and higher, soon leaving the bubble of calm surrounding the palace. Viv was fully clad in darkness now, a dark dot on the dark background of tonight’s storm cloud. The Azure Lady was a lake above the air, an expanse of water over a much larger one. The two fought with barrages of spells that the other either dodged or ignored. Finally, a monstrous series of frost-tipped arrows forced Viv to teleport. The Azure Lady immediately located her. How could Viv even hide when the air itself was wet and belonged to the enemy?

The sight of the hostile world under her gave Viv Vertigo. From horizon to horizon, the world was a tapestry of angry waves topped by rageful froth. There was nowhere to hide. Nowhere at all… and yet she was still alive. Still fighting.

Viv found herself upside down, a black-armored queen of scales and darkness with feet merging into the night above. Facing her was the Azure lady, all in blue and white. Their eyes met.

That bitch still wasn’t there. Time to remedy this.

The blue elemental archmage’s face split to swallow Viv, who this time approached instead. At the last moment, she paused.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[Guillotine]

Claws like tears in space raked the screaming face. The annihilation blade bit deep into the resisting face and for the first time, the face reacted. It pulled back. So did Viv. She could barely believe her eyes.

Had she wounded her foe? Finally? The two returned to being two titans floating over the water palace (Viv was just a smaller titan. A much smaller one).

Slowly, the Azure Lady reached for her cheek. She touched the black veins now marring the immaculate skin. A pensive expression washed over the indifferent features.

She frowned, such a human gesture.

For the very first time since Viv had met her, the Azure Lady looked alive. She frowned, and she blinked, and she glared, and Viv finally felt the weight of her attention settle on her soul. One of Viv’s titles kicked in, flooding her with renewed energy. It was ‘Always a chance’. It only worked when she was fully outclassed. The Azure Lady was finally here. The full force of her attention collapsed on Viv like a building. She was already surrounded. Even here, midair.

“What a naughty child thou hath proven to be,” the woman whispered.

“Release her. She is not yours to dispose of like a goddess. I will stop you.”

“No one can stop me here.”

“I have met many beings who believed that. They’re dead now.”

Viv switched to the [Aspect of the Paragon]. She allowed the lady to taste the truth of her words, but the old one remained unfazed. She was here, fully here, for the first time. Her body finally moved naturally. Her scowl was the genuine thing, this time. Viv wasn’t sure if she should feel flattered or terrified.

“Methinks thou must learn a lesson.”

Viv’s core pumped out waves of mana with ever-increasing volume. She saluted with her focus.

Finally, a challenge that might kill her.

“Bring it.”

***

The Azure Lady did. The wave she was made of turned into an icy mist, and Viv was forced to flee before the onslaught. What was the sea became the clouds, an arctic fog that turned the air around it to crystal-dust. If the Azure lady had fully been here from the start, Viv would have lost. If they had fought near the sea, Viv would have lost. In mid-air though, with Viv used to the attack patterns, she had enough of an edge to stay a step ahead. Ghostly limbs like grasping branches reached for her dark shape, sprays of water whistled past her, eager to pin her like a butterfly. A single contact and she knew it would encompass her and bring her down. It was all she could do to fly and shadow-shift her way out. She was a wasp pursued by a whale, and her stinger was entirely inadequate.

If her attacks had done little before, now they were useless. Torrents of spells that could have leveled a city hissed against the infinite surface of a living ocean. Even her most potent hexes drowned in the immensity of the Azure lady’s mass. Nevertheless, her power grew with every second of desperate combat. Beams became columns, then celestial pillars as wide as a ship. Reality wailed when they thrust at her target. Great black swathes defiled the purity of the clouds, yet it only lasted a moment. They, too, were drowned. Astra explosions sent shockwaves coursing through the cloud mist, yet it reformed immediately. She was a child beating the shore with a wooden stick.

It wasn’t a fight Viv could win. She persevered anyway. Black mana filled her body, rampaged through her limbs until she was so strong, stronger than she had ever been, and it all amounted to nothing. The Azure lady was not just on her home turf. She was also just that powerful.

It was ironic, then, that the home turf element was what ended the fight as a draw, rather than the lesson the Azure Lady intended. The cloud suddenly froze where it was between the stormy sky and the tumultuous seas. In the distance, a blur caught Viv’s eyes.

The sphere of calm where the palace stood was slowly collapsing. As the Azure lady stopped attacking, its boundaries reformed. It was slower than Viv expected. The mask that was her foe’s face turned to her, showing an expression of concern.

In the brief calm, another shape approached at good speed. Viv recognized Sidjin, who had kept a distance. The archmage was dry under a bubble of colorless mana. His voice reached them over the howl of the wind.

“Stop! Stop, it’s over. Lana completed the Trial of the Tides.”

The way the face frowned told Viv the Azure Lady was still here, and this time, she was fully human. Her voice came as a garbled declaration, like God talking through a shitty loudspeaker.

“Thou are still a child.”

Viv was going to get that lesson anyway.

“Still very much a human. Still unaware of your nature, denying its presence as you play with mortals. Thou must grow, or never find your path. Thine meager understanding will beget calamity, unless thou act.”

With all the huffing majesty of an angry cumulonimbus, the mighty lady returned, shrinking back to only jetliner size. Viv was left alone in the great dark. Well, Sidjin was here, but he was patiently waiting on the side.

This had indeed been an eye-opener. Not in the ‘I don’t know my nature’ kind of way though. The Azure Lady was completely wrong, and an idiot as well. Her way of knowing herself was contemplative as befit a blue elemental archmage. The lady liked meditation and the like because it fit her shade, just like Elunath had ensconced himself in Helock like a fossil, expanding his area of influence over the stone city.

Black was the color of change and destruction. Viv was doing a ton of both with no intention of slowing down. She was doing just fine.

No, the lesson was one of… methods. While her spell collection had done great so far, and she’d mastered each and every one of them, they were still spells designed for a human caster. Even Guillotine was just an upgrade of Excalibur, one of her older creations. She needed new spells, the kind of spells that could actually take down the sort of entities that would be a real threat. She wasn’t going to face just insane necrarchs, or juvenile dragons with no training in the future. No, she needed stuff that only she could cast, and even then fully powered by her titles. The kind of heavy ordinance that would give even Judgement pause. She was already the strategic asset for her nation. They relied on her for the most powerful foes. Viv needed to become the sword that scared even the most dangerous of opponents. She needed god killers.

Never again would an elemental archmage casually snatch Lana, or anyone for that matter.

She had annihilation, change, and the soul sense skill at her disposal, after all. It was time to get creative. But first, she would check on Lana. And have a talk with the Azure Lady on boundaries. The rest could wait.
