A quick sweep of the surroundings revealed just her and Callan in the clearing. Still, they should probably get moving soon. Weren’t a lot of ways to explain the cracked ground and the dead chimera corpse.

“Hey, you done dealing with your system stuff?” Pyre carefully maneuvered over, and yep, that definitely hurt. She had to purposely avoid warping any area near the torn off parts, but that was kind of hard to do when that was damn near half her body. Thank god she had a high pain tolerance or this would be even shittier to deal with. As it was, it was mostly just kind of inconvenient.

Callan snapped back into focus. The ghost had been hovering by the chimera corpse, staring down at its mangled body with a weird look on his face. He now cleared his throat and nodded at Pyre.

“Uh, yeah. Are you okay now?”

“Depends on your definition,” the demon said dryly, “but I can move at least.” To emphasize her point, she carefully began making her way towards the open cave. Callan hurriedly followed behind her, still eyeing the flayed part of her flesh with visible concern.

The cave opening wasn’t especially large. Pyre had to warp into a shorter, squatter shape so she could actually get in. At a glance, there didn’t seem to be much but rocks and more rocks inside. The cave was cool, protected from the brightest of the sun’s rays, and slightly damp. The sound of the waterfall was both dulled, yet also echoed more, adding to the enclosed feeling of the space.

“Do you see the crystals?” Callan called. The ghost was still hovering by the entrance, and he looked like he was debating with himself whether to go in or not. Pyre grunted in response, then moved deeper into the cave until she reached the very back. She paused.

Ah. Not so empty after all.

Stashed against the walls of the cave, various random trinkets, plants, and knickknacks lay in haphazard piles. Based on how messy it was, Pyre guessed the chimera hadn’t been going out of its way to collect treasure or anything like that. The piles of junk were simply where it discarded the “nonessentials” on its food.

Because in addition to the random items thrown about, there were bodies.

Parts of bodies, to be exact.

Ripped off limbs, a cracked skull with bits of rotting flesh falling off, piles of bloody fur, a few torn open torsos revealing curved ribs and the splayed remnants of soft organs. The chimera apparently had quite the diverse diet, considering the sheer variety here. Pyre couldn’t even recognize what animals half of the parts had come from.

The humans, at least, were easier to distinguish. There weren’t many of them—three still wearing bits of Winrow’s guard uniform, probably from when the chimera had attacked the sanctum, and one with a ripped open stomach who had probably been a traveler or another unlucky victim from the village.

And there, at the very back, lay a sprawled corpse with a familiar face.

Of all the human bodies, his was in the worst condition. His limbs were crooked and broken, and he was covered in so much dried blood and cuts and bruises that it was hard to tell what color clothes he’d been wearing. Half of his head was missing, his skull bitten clean into, but the other half was enough to recognize him by—even if the wide-open, empty stare was decidedly different from the ghost currently tagging along with her.

Pale and unmoving, this was the first of the chimera’s human kills.

“Uh, Pyre? I think I found the crystals.”

The demon heard Callan’s voice approaching from behind. It briefly occurred to her that maybe the kid seeing his own dead body wasn’t a good idea, but by then it was too late. From one of her eyes, she saw the ghost drift closer, then freeze. His eyes were glued to that limp corpse lying at the very back of the cave.

For a moment, he didn’t move or speak. He just kept staring, unable to tear his gaze away. Pyre watched him silently, waiting for him to do or say something.

A few seconds later, the ghost broke into a fit of hysterical laughter.

Pyre raised an eyebrow. The sound echoed throughout the cave, a mix of actual laughs and littles wheezes. Callan nearly doubled over from the force of the laughter, and by the time it faded, he was still hunched over, face hidden from view. After that sudden burst of sound, the new quiet of the cave stuck out even more jarringly.

“You okay, kid?” The demon’s voice reverberated throughout the space. A few seconds passed.

Finally, the ghost replied with a muffled, “Yeah.” Pyre waited for him to continue, and after a few more moments, Callan slowly straightened again.

“Sorry,” he muttered. “I don’t know what came over me. It’s just—I look so pathetic.” Another harsh laugh bubbled out of his throat, this one stinging and bitter. “I couldn’t even die right.”

Pyre gave the ghost a long look. Her grey eyes shifted over to the corpse again, taking in the array of injuries, the mangled state.

“Looks to me,” she began, “like you fought like hell. Nothing pathetic about it.”

Callan’s eyes widened. His mouth opened, then closed again. A storm of emotions crossed his face, far too complex to decipher. The demon gave the ghost another glance before focusing again on the cave.

“You said you found the shards?” she said conversationally.

Callan swallowed. “Um, yeah.” His voice came out in a mumble. He pointed to the other corner of the cave, and sure enough, nestled between a pile of bones and some broken branches, there sat two smooth, round stones that glowed with a faint silver light.

Pyre carefully extended part of her flesh, which was a lot harder to do with so much missing, and wrapped it around the stones. They were cool to the touch—almost icy. They didn’t feel all that special, but the class crystals hadn’t either. Satisfied, the demon began making her way out of the cave.

She paused, moving an eye back to study Callan. The ghost hadn’t moved from his spot. She raised an eyebrow.

“You planning on staying there or what?”

The words seemed to snap him out of his trance. He quickly drifted forward, following the demon out of the cave. “What’re you doing after this?” he asked once they were back in the clearing.

“After healing, you mean? Well, I’ve still gotta go get whatever that thing Pax wants is.”

Callan nodded slowly. He seemed to hesitate for a moment. Then, he blurted, “Can I come with you?”

That made the demon pause. Of all the things she’d been expecting, that hadn’t been one of them. Behind her, the ghost hovered back and forth uncomfortably.

“It’s just, technically this was also part of the price,” he stammered. Callan raised his wrist to show the bracelet still dangling on it. “So, uh, I figured it was only fair I help out.”

That was technically true. Pyre hummed. “You’re not staying in Winrow?”

Callan gave a wry smile. His gaze darted briefly to the cave, then to the mangled chimera corpse, then beyond the clearing to where Winrow lay nestled deep within the forest. He shook his head. “There’s nothing left for me here,” he said, voice firm.

Pyre thought about it for a long moment. “Well,” she finally began, “if you want to tag along, I’m not gonna say no. A mage is pretty useful to have around.”

The demon grinned. “Just so you know, I can hit incorporeal things now. If you get too annoying, I might just eat you.”

Callan just rolled his eyes. “Ha ha,” he said sarcastically. There wasn’t an ounce of fear in his voice.

He floated forward, moving past the chimera’s corpse with one final glance before turning away from it for good. “Do you know how long it’ll take you to heal?” he asked the demon.

“Nope.” Pyre shoved aside some bushes, albeit a bit more carefully now to avoid worsening her injuries, and quickly spotted the bag she’d left in the grass. She maneuvered the evolution crystals into the bag, then grew another bone to hang it on like before. “I know a place we can hunker down in, though. Once I’m healed up we’ll set out.”

Callan looked equal parts curious and also slightly suspicious. “Where?” he asked.

The demon shot him a wide grin.

“I think it’s time for you to meet an old buddy of mine.”
