Ranthia exited her tent to find Remera in the grip of a dark mood. The armies that rushed toward them weren’t yet in view, but no man or woman had any doubt of what was to come. Instead of properly addressing the legionaries’ concerns, [Leaders] milled about trying to maintain order—as if that was going to help anything.

It wasn’t her problem. She wasn’t in charge of these people, she wasn’t a [Leader] of men.

And yet… It was hard to feel the tension in the air and not find herself back in the mindset of the Unbreakable Image. Morale made armies into champions or sundered them long before the battle ever began. And it was hard to imagine that she could face her people ever again if she tried to ignore it.

They hadn’t been her problem either, but she chose to lead her people at the Unbreakable Image. She wasn’t a [Leader], but she was an Adventurer and a Ranger—she knew the power of a group. Ranthia rushed to the staging ground and leapt atop a weapon rack for a bit more height.

“Soldiers of the mighty Legions of Remus! Brave champions of Khazad! And the dwarves that fight for the legacy of Nolgrod! Let us present arms! May the gods and your ancestors watch closely and see the might we wield!” Ranthia roared over the din of crumbling order.

She raised her own knives as she spoke the final line. The assembled forces around her paused uncertainly, but enough followed her command that it created a momentum. Spears, swords, axes, and more rose into the sky as the crowd fell into something adjacent to silence and gave her their attention.

“Let those who watch down from on high see our valor! May the steel of our blades and our hearts serve as our prayers and proof of our right to succeed! To Xaoc, the God of Chaos, we shall demonstrate our fury and passion! To Aion, the Goddess of Life, we shall demonstrate the fervor with which we cling to the life She has bestowed upon us! To Papilion, the God/dess of Change, we shall demonstrate our limitless adaptability! To Thanatos, God of Death, we offer the lives of every last shimagu that dares to come to us—and hey, guess what, Thanatos, you’re getting two-for-one every time we kill one of those fucking parasites!”

Approval roared from the crowd.

…She didn’t want to, but it would be noted if she left the last goddess out.

“And to Seira, Goddess of Order, we will demonstrate that we are willing to tear through the shimagu forces and take back our orderly days of peace!”

It was a bit sloppy, but her heart really wasn’t in that one. Still, the crowd seemed to enjoy it well enough.

“And may every dwarf here prove to their ancestors that they are some of the best damned fighters their lineage has ever produced!”

The roars were especially enthusiastic; the dwarves had impressive volume.

“To everyone that watches over us—god, goddess, ancestor, or anyone else that chooses to witness what is to come—may our steel and our resolve be all that you require of us! May each and every one of you watch over us and bear witness to our triumph! Remera has broken one army before, and this will be no different!”

Ranthia was no [Leader], no. But she had learned the basics in the Unbreakable Image. And, at the very least, she knew how to work a crowd of fighters. In truth, in many ways, legionaries and dwarven soldiers were no different than a bawdy group of Adventurers. All she truly had to do was remind them that they were badasses and that their enemies should fear them.

“The gods have favored Remus! The ancestors have preserved Khazad! And the ancestors of Nolgrod are hungry to see those that bear their lineage cut down all that oppose us! [Bards] might sing songs of what is to come someday, but fuck ‘em! We are our own song! A song of chaos, a song of life, a song of blood! And we will be the rhythm that drowns out and erases every last parasite that dares to approach us!”

Okay, yes, the speech would have worked better had the enemy appeared in that moment. She had riled them up—their people were primed and ready. Which meant that the impromptu speech was somewhat wasted with it concluding to an indeterminate wait.

But at least she was (more-or-less) confident that she had pulled morale out of its downward spiral—for the time being. Still, she was done speaking, so she concluded things with a display of acrobatics. Ranthia jumped and kicked off from increasingly tall objects and structures until she gained enough leverage to get herself atop the wall, where she turned to face the direction that their allies—and after, enemies—would eventually emerge from.

As an afterthought, she sent an image on top of that inane tower of stone, one that was poised as if it was ready for anything, bouncing between the balls of its feet. It looked ridiculous, but it looked alive, which had to be good enough for the commander.

Left alone with nothing to do but wait, Ranthia pondered… and regretted. The whole feeding lives to Thanatos bit really was in poor taste, in hindsight. She wasn’t exactly an expert on any deity outside of Xaoc, which had kind of bitten her in the ass. She respected Papilion—change was required for chaos to flourish, but the rest of the gods—even the rest of the five—factored somewhere lower in her esteem. Still, from what she understood of Thanatos, He wasn’t a bloodthirsty god. He was more like a gentle steward of the dead. …Black Crow would be more the one who might love a pile of corpses, maybe, but she had more than mixed feelings about trying to invoke White Dove’s counterpart. They weren’t even a true deity!

But there truly was nothing like the realization that she had committed a bit of sacrilege on the cusp of a major conflict. Damnit, Xaoc was probably displeased that she even made a token effort on behalf of Seira and her stifling order.

Absent anything better to do, Ranthia sent apologetic prayers to both Xaoc and Thanatos—careful to let her mana regenerate between each. It was a bit surprising—and alarming—that Thanatos took so much mana when He received the prayer with an inscrutable snort. She was used to Xaoc hearing her, even if her god didn’t always answer, but when someone prayed to a deity that they had little relationship with—especially without an altar dedicated to the deity—she was under the impression that more likely than not their prayer would go unanswered.

Ranthia fidgeted and tried not to worry about what the attention of the—likely displeased—God of Death might imply. Especially when Xaoc remained silent and absent when He received her prayer.

The 15th Legion finally arrived—several thousand men and women in a not-quite-orderly retreat, fleeing a greater force that had bested them. It was unmistakable that their pace increased as they realized they could finally see the sanctuary of their destination, but even with their rush, there was no way to get the entire army within Remera’s walls before the sun was up.

She itched to scout—to see just how close the shimagu force was. Part of that was just an impatience to act. Ranthia had never been Pallos’ most patient woman, but just standing there, wrapped in a traveller’s cloak, felt wrong. Things were happening and a piece of her mind whispered that she was passively letting them happen to her.

Or, possibly, she was just too overfocused on the situation to try and distract herself from how much she just wanted to rush back to Avyna.

In any other circumstances, it would have been comical to watch an entire Legion—spread out in its neat 8x8 grids—try to compress itself and jam its way through the gates of Remera. But they were vulnerable—the sanctity of their base was barred only by a near-panicked press of bodies.

And the shimagu army was faster than the runner had reported. They were already coming into view.

The base commander showed up and launched into a speech, which Ranthia ignored. She doubted she was alone in keeping her focus outward—on the coming thunder of feet.

All too soon, the forerunners from the shimagu began to reach the maelstrom of flesh pressing against Remera’s gates. It was mostly dinosaurs that could outpace the bulk of the army—and the parasites that were stupid enough to throw their lives away. [Mages] and archers worked to bring them down when they entered range, but here and there legionaries that sought the safety of Remera’s walls died—a stone’s throw from salvation.

Ranthia cursed herself under her breath, but she continued to wait. She needed to counter the twins; she couldn’t let the shimagu’s trash draw her away from where she needed to be.

“From above!” One of the others shouted a moment before Ranthia could.

The clouds were grey and wispy—though they were steadily thickening—but they proved sufficient to conceal the threat until it was too late. Winged beasts of all shapes and sizes emerged, already committed to dives. On instinct, Ranthia began to hurriedly calculate their trajectories—to assess the risks—despite how many there were.

The dark of night was beginning to ease as dawn neared, but no one had been prepared for the sky to suddenly fill with blinding light—greater than a midday sun. It wasn’t mere thunder, instead a full shockwave roared across the battlefield, with enough force to jar those at lower levels. Arrows flew wildly off course and divebombing dinosaurs crashed into their peers. Below, numerous legionaries were stunned by their proximity to the blast.

But the true victim was the top of the stone tower, where Ranthia’s image had once stood. The tower had been diminished, and what remained glowed with heat: the aftermath of the grandest Lightning strike Ranthia had ever seen.

The Legion at their gates lost all semblance of cohesion. People died as their screaming comrades trampled them in their desperate rush to reach the illusion of safety. The descending beasts crashed into men, tents, and even rock formations well beyond Remera’s walls. Entirely too many arrows found friendly flesh instead of their intended targets—though far more broke uselessly upon the terrain.

It was the worst kind of chaos, one steeped in death and despair.

Ranthia’s indecision lasted just long enough to confirm that her tent—and thus Avyna—was still safe. But she had to act. She chose to assume the most logical—and least horrifying—conclusion: a shimagu twin with a Lightning [Mage] class was nearby. Every other permutation of possibilities was worse. A Storm [Mage] with that kind of power was far beyond Ranthia. A Lightning [Mage] that could do so much damage from extreme range was a base-killer that she couldn’t hope to even locate. And if just any parasite inside a bumbling, unwilling puppet could unleash so much raw devastation, Remus might not survive the war.

So, it had to be a Lightning [Mage] she could find and stop, which meant she needed to move before her adversary found their true target.

Ranthia cast off her cloak, leapt off the wall, and began her hunt.

The shimagu were still arriving at Remera in irregular waves and they had been just as staggered by the insanely potent blast of Lightning as her allies were. Ranthia’s descent was uncontested, but it didn’t take long for her adversaries to start to notice a lone ‘vulnerable’ target. Shimagu that infected dinosaurs were the first to rush her and—completely blind to the irony—came at her alone or in tiny packs.

Ranthia ran normally, but each time an adversary neared she allowed herself a brief dance. A beautiful moment of grace that lasted just long enough to allow Black Crow and her current adversary to meet. The shimagu were bizarrely caught by surprise each time it happened. Few bothered to even use their Skills, instead they came at her with the claws and teeth that they wore—the so-called might of bodies that were far below her level.

They barely slowed her down, but after each kill, she resumed running. She didn’t want to draw massive amounts of attention. Lightning was one of the worst elements she could face and the twin that was responsible for the strike that annihilated her image—without warning—plainly didn’t care about collateral damage, given how they fatally fouled the shimagu’s aerial strike. If she let herself get bogged down and called enough attention, it was all too easy to imagine dying alongside eights of shimagu.

No matter how fast she became, some elements were still in a realm beyond what was possible to react to. Lightning was, in some ways, the worst of even that group. If a Radiance or Brilliance [Mage] was stupid enough to telegraph their attacks, she could still dodge—even if she stood no chance of dodging the element. But with Lightning, dodging was almost irrelevant; something about the element innately seemed to be attracted to its target. A near miss with Lightning could still hit her, even if she avoided the [Mage]’s obvious movement. Worse, Lightning spread through what it struck. She couldn’t reliably sacrifice a limb to absorb an attack and even adamantium (presumably) wasn’t a shield against it.

Which meant that her best hope was to do what she had done against the ogress: kill the [Mage] before they ever knew she was a threat.

How hard could it be to pull off a perfect ambush on a field of increasingly chaotic battle?

Once she finally started to encounter ogres and more exotic specimens of life on Pallos, she caught snippets of orders and conversations. Tertia wasn’t her only quill pal (hey, it was cute, even if she still preferred to write with charcoal), Ranthia also kept in touch with Paulla. Her expert on the shimagu language had become a star member of the Coalition’s language team in the year and a half since they escaped the Unbreakable Image. Between her updates and Ranthia’s efforts to learn High Elvish (the languages bore nothing in common, but Ranthia finally was properly grasping just how different sentence construction could be between different languages), Ranthia’s understanding of the shimagu tongue was better than ever.

She was able to grasp the general gist of much of what she heard.

None of it was particularly helpful—and much of it was horrible—but it was somewhat novel to have such a breadth of comprehension.

And then, on the opposite side of her damaged stone tower, she finally found them—two targets that stood out like sore thumbs, in part because of how much distance the shimagu masses kept from them. A human woman somewhere in her forties, clad in vibrantly dyed robes and enough gaudy jewelry that it was practically a garish form of armor. A dullahan man—which raised serious questions about how in Xaoc’s glory a parasite managed to get inside of his natural armor—almost glowed with heat. The two stood a comfortable distance apart while they conversed in the shimagu tongue.

