“But you need to strive, to bleed, to play the Game. That’s where we are right now. That is the reality we live in. If you can’t face that fact, then this world isn’t for you.”

Ivy stepped forwards, standing over Alan on the ground. “Fine. We’re in virtual reality. Death isn’t the end. Destruction grants experience, but we’re rewarded for building too. Training can give us levels just slower. Maybe the answer isn’t to hustle more but to take the time to build something that lasts.”

“Taking will always be easier than making,” Alan replied. “If we had a century to prepare, to live, to explore, I’d agree with you. But we simply don’t have enough time. The Administrators will start Extinction Events. The Haxlards will subjugate Earth. Humans will snatch and grab whatever they can get their hands on. The only way to make a difference is power. And our best bet is to take it from those higher up.”

Ivy sighed, throwing her rifle down on the ground. She sat down next to Alan, arms around her knees. “You are poisoning the well from the start. How can you have true friends and allies, when all everyone wants is more? Where is progress? Who is creating good in this place?”

“Leave. Go build a community back in reality if you care about good and evil. Spend a few decades at the Institute playing catch up if you want to do research. In the Game, there are only levels, and I aim to gain as many as I can,” Alan said.

“I don’t even know what we’re arguing about anymore. I can’t follow your logic,” Ivy said.

“I acknowledge that we need to be smarter,” Alan said. He pulled up some grass. “No more charging in blindly. The Game rewards you the harder the fight is—but we need to take battles we can win. We need more information to figure out what is going on.”

“Do you have any close friends, Alan?” Ivy asked.

Alan closed his eyes. He couldn’t think of anyone human. He had Nu, or maybe his other self. Did they count?

Ivy continued, “You have to give too. You can’t take and take and take and expect people to give more. Allies win a war. And the path you head down will lead to isolation.”

Ordinarily, Alan would have dismissed Ivy’s statements. She was an idealistic teenager. Except, Alan 1.0’s advice was to make more connections and change the system. Fuck.

“Okay, let’s look for your brother,” Alan said.

“Oh,” Ivy said like she hadn’t expected him to change his mind. “You’re hurt, you should continue to the Administrative Center. I was going to go alone.”

“Too dangerous,” Alan said. “I’ll be a body if nothing else, and can throw a grenade or spray and provide cover fire.”

“But your wrist—“

“The pain will help me train an ability. Let’s go,” Alan said, standing up.

The pair headed back the way they came, to Isaiah and Bob’s last known location. It was, Alan mused, time to try and make some friends.
