“I wasn’t done, Boe,” he said. “That day when I got summoned from the consulate, I wasn’t ready to stop being the one who shook his head every time you talked Jeremy into a stupid bet. I wasn’t finished riding the L. I was excited to be chosen, and I thought I knew what I wanted, but there wasn’t time for me to calm down and process any of it. I didn’t get to say goodbye to anything. Not Aunt Connie. Not you. Not myself.”

His eyes burned.

Of fucking course I’m going to do this now. I’m still messed up. I should have stayed at the spa.

His voice was thick, but his mouth kept moving.

“I didn’t know I was about to lose it all. My home, the people who loved me, the dreams I had about who I was going to become—that was the last time I ever got to have those things all together and so simply. And so that was the last time I was ever going to be that Alden…I wasn’t done. But I can’t have it back, can I?”

Snot was building up in his nose.

Why did even the pre-tears stage of crying have to involve so much moisture?

“Alden…”

“I’m fine. I am. But I wanted to come back home to me. Only it turns out that I’m not here anymore. And sometimes it’s okay with me that it’s all changed. It really is. Even…even though I probably look wretched right now, I’m so happy just to be alive. There are some great things in my life that I didn’t have before.

“Kibby—I’m going to make you watch all of her videos. Jeremy did it so you have to. And I can do magic now. Not Avowed magic. Real wizard magic. I can learn all kinds of spells. Nobody knows, and it’ll be a huge mess if they do, so don’t tell. But it’s cool. I think maybe I love it.”

He missed the startled expression on Boe’s face while he was wiping his eyes.

“But even with all the amazing new things, I can’t believe it’s over. My old life being gone doesn’t make sense to me. I promise I knew better. I’m not stupid. But I think I still wanted everything to be the same here when I got home. Just for a little while. Just so I could let it go instead of having it torn away.”

Orange cloth was thrust toward his face, and he blinked down at the shirt he’d just taken off.

He took it from Boe and scrubbed at his eyes with it. “Thanks,” he said into the fabric. “Sorry.”

“You shouldn’t be,” Boe said quietly.

“Am I fucking with your empathy?”

“No, I can’t feel anything through the shield.” Then, he added in a very awkward voice, “Uh…do you…if you want me to drop the barrier, I could?”

Alden let out a choked laugh and lowered the shirt to look at him. “God. No. Why would you do that?”

Boe shrugged and pushed up his glasses. “I’ve never been openly an empath before. Maybe offering when you’re upset is like…the polite thing for me to do?”

“You don’t want in on my feelings right now. Trust me.”

“We could cry together in a manly fashion. It would be a bonding experience.”

“That’s one hell of a bond.”

“Hey, I told you I was taking my best friend position back from Jeremy.”

Alden blew his nose.

“I know you feel like crap right now,” Boe said. “On multiple levels. But, Alden…I don’t think you have to worry so much about having lost yourself. You've lost a lot. Some of the things you thought about yourself maybe. You can’t get it all back, but at the risk of sounding even creepier than I actually am—”

“You’re not creepy.”

“—I know you very well. When you came into the apartment earlier, and you were talking to the cat, I was feeling everything you were feeling. Do you remember what the first thing out of my mouth was?”

Alden thought back. “No. I’m pretty sure it was lost in my shock at the fact that it was coming out of your mouth. Right here. Where you’re not supposed to be.”

“It was, ‘You’re still the same as always, aren’t you?’” said Boe. “I remember because it wasn’t something I was just saying. It’s something I felt during that whole conversation earlier. I know how you think about things. And I know how you feel about them, which is even purer in a way…though that might just be me trying to convince myself I’m superior to actual Sways. You’re not as different as you’re afraid of being. You don’t feel like a stranger to me.”

“No?”

“You feel like you, Alden. You’re just a little older. We both are. And we’ve had a really horrible year.”

******
