Do the Artonans even need us to kill a random demon for them or is it some training thing that the Avowed-should-be-saviors faction insists on?

If giant, powerful demons were anything like the grasshoppers then they didn’t seem like something that would be particularly shippable. He understood very little about teleportation or the System’s abilities, but he couldn’t imagine that dropping a chaos monster on a specific location was anything but hell on magical resources.

A man in one of the spa employee uniforms stepped around the aquarium and took a position behind the check-in desk. A special notification below his name tag on Alden’s interface told him that the guy was non-Avowed. It wasn’t really necessary information in his opinion. It wasn’t like superhumans went around greeting each other by swinging magic swords or exchanging deadly blows.

Maybe it’s more to explain why he has to use tech for everything, so that people don’t think he’s being rude.

That did seem likely after Alden talked to him. He read his smart watch for the translation, and nodded.

A few minutes later, Alden had his own personal relaxation room. There was a heated lounge chair. Three walls were screens that would display different landscapes if he wanted, and the fourth looked out over the meditation garden. There was a “sound therapy” playlist and a mini fridge full of drinks that looked like liquefied salads.

Seems interesting. I don’t expect to enjoy it much.

He settled into the lounge chair, took a breath, and said the sacrifice half of Peace of Mind.

Yeah, yeah, I know, he thought at the gremlin. I’m a good boy. Paying my debts right away.

Alden suspected the next three hours were going to suck, no matter how great it was to be able to pay off the debt in private, in a spa.

The thing about the bad half of Peace of Mind was that it hit above its weight. The calming half of the wordchain just settled over you and took the sharp edges away, so he was sure that its counterpart only sharpened all those same edges by an equal amount. On its end of things.

But the human brain was primed to fixate on danger and negativity, so that you’d be inspired to pay extra attention to anything that could hurt you.

In practice, it meant that one wrong, slightly too magnified bad thought could spiral into something that had less to do with the magic of the wordchain than it did with your mind and body overreacting to it. Alden had taken advantage of that to fan his own fear when he was running with Kibby.

Now, though, there were no advantages to be had—only his own heart rate elevating for no real reason and a sick feeling of dread making his stomach clench. He decided to combat it by watching Kibby’s latest batch of videos. He pulled up his current favorite.

It was full of evidence that the Quaternary’s team of wizards and Avowed were spoiling her. He tried to focus on every detail, to notice things he hadn’t the last time he watched it.

“Hello, Alden!” Kibby said, a smile brightening her whole face. “This video is about scarlet ryeh-b’t females and Stu-art’h, who is the son of the Primary and the nephew of the Quaternary, and how he named one after you. I have been thinking about whether that was funny-mean of him or not.”

She looks so relaxed.

Alden had hardly ever seen Kibby look relaxed unless she was actually asleep. It was beautiful.

She was in the travel dome’s medical area, which had been turned into her room. And it was such a wonderful child’s room. She had stuffed alien critters on her bed. Except for the size, they were all anatomically detailed and realistic. Either Artonans didn’t go for cartoonish stuffies, or Kibby herself didn’t. The toys she and her sister had played with at the lab had been similar.

In one corner, a brand new learning cushion, a short desk, and a vase full of promise sticks made a small classroom for her. There was a projection on the wall that scrolled through pictures she’d chosen. Half of them were still-frames from Alden’s video messages to her. There were a lot of close-ups of Kraaa and Rrorro, and several pictures of clouds flashing with green light. They looked innocent until you realized that they were images captured from space of the lab blowing up.

She definitely has shots of the crater she made somewhere, and she’s just saving them because she hopes I’ll ask to see her work.

“First let me show you my hair,” said Kibby, angling her head and her tablet. “Rrorro is learning braiding, but I don’t like it as much as yours.”

That is just pure favoritism for me, thought Alden. He’d learned to do the French braid for her when he realized that having her hair done made her happier. But Rrorro must have been an overachiever in all things, because the healer had gone for some advanced level basketweaving with ribbons.

I could do that now that I’ve had more auriad practice. I can totally beat Rrorro. Her species doesn’t even have hair.

Kibby popped back upright.

“Scarlet ryeh-b’ts are known for their merry natures, their large sizes, and their athleticism,” she said in an instructive tone. “So maybe the son of the Primary was not being as rude as I thought at first when you told me he had tried to replace your presence in the universe with an animal.”

She paused. “It would be better if he were not being rude. It would be unfortunate for the son of the Primary and the nephew of the Quaternary to be a rude and thoughtless person.”

My next video is clearly going to need to be in defense of Stuart. She is so judgey. I think I should have explained that Other Alden is awesome instead of just mentioning her in passing.

“You are merry, large, and athletic—”

Merry? Alden shook his head.

“And your coat was red. Perhaps Stu-art’h was being funny-mean by naming such a ryeh-b’t after you. As friends do. So it may be all right for you to talk to him socially.”

She went on discussing Stuart’s behavior and ryeh-b’ts for a while. Alden focused on noticing other things about her and the room around her. She had a rolling space heater. One of the wizards with Alis-art’h must have been doting on her, or else the Knight herself was, because Kibby was wearing one of their magic rings on a chain around her neck.

On her way to being a wizard for real. I know that must make her so proud. She’s…

Oh. He’d forgotten. There was a thought he’d been avoiding every time he watched Kibby’s videos. Not…not a terrible one. Definitely not an urgent one. But here it was, jabbing at him with those unnaturally sharpened edges.

She’s going to want to be a knight.

“That’s more than a decade in the future,” he said loudly and quickly, trying to kill it. “She’ll live a whole new life before then. She might take one look at all the plants and animals on Artona I and decide she wants to be a biologist.”

She might like her authority sense so much that the idea of doing that to herself sounds like insanity. Joe told her nobody wanted to be a knight when they actually grew up.

Joe doesn’t understand her at all.

Or maybe he’d understood a different Kibby. One whose family hadn’t died in such a hideous way while she watched.

She’ll want to do it. And they’ll probably let her.

He didn’t know how the Artonans figured out the knight candidate thing. Obviously the Rapports had some private schooling going on, at least for the children of current knights. But they must have had some way to welcome in other wizards. Most likely with open arms.

He could be completely off-base, but he really doubted there were masses of qualified volunteers being turned away.

Maybe she sucks at magic too much to be a knight.

Unlikely. After all, affixations were practically the cure for sucking at magic. Aliens sucking at magic and Artonans giving them a way to do it easy-peasy was the cornerstone of the whole Avowed/wizard relationship.

Even if there’s some elitist rule about who can be a knight that I don’t know about…Alis-art’h will just smash right through it for Kibby if she decides to.

And Alden was sure she would decide to. How could you spend months living with Kibby and not think she was the absolute best?

I don’t want it for her. I want her to do magic and be happy. I want her to go to some posh school like LeafSong and show up every last one of those wizard-raised prodigies. I want her to get her own lab one day, and I want it to be twice as big as Joe’s, and I want her to have so many friends and fun hobbies that she can’t figure out how to balance them with her deeply fulfilling work as the universe’s greatest scientist.

I don’t want her to fix chaos outbreaks. I don’t want her to face whatever “the really bad kind” of demons actually are.

I don’t want her to know what the affixation feels like.

Alden knew you couldn’t make another person’s major life choices for them. Kibby was smart. She’d get smarter. She’d know so much more by the time she had to make her decision. And she deserved to become whoever she wanted to be.

But knowing didn’t change how he felt.

And what he felt was an anxiety that was rapidly ratcheting up toward panic. And with the panic came a flood of his other greatest fear hits.

It’s only six months before I’ll start getting summoned again. Something awful could happen to me. If I don’t get stronger I could be in danger. If I do get stronger I’ll have to affix sooner. I’ll have to feel that sooner. Idon’twanttogothroughthatagain.Ican’t.

Fantastic, he thought, holding the sides of the fancy heated lounge chair so tightly his hands ached. So this is what the bad half of Peace of Mind is like for me these days. What a treat.

He forced himself to breathe in through his nose and out through his mouth.

What if this doesn’t ever get better, and I’m fucked up forever?

That thought set off a whole new string of imagined horrors. The only good thing about them was that they were much less realistic and logical than the others, so he could distance himself from his own crazy a little more. It culminated with a fear that someone would walk into his relaxation room here, see the state he was in, and they would stuff him into Avowed jail.

Because that was obviously what the authorities did to upset teenagers.

By the time the three hours was up, Alden was exhausted with himself. Fortunately, he was also too tired to keep going without the little extra oomph from the chain driving him.

He could tell it was over when he had his first positive thought in a while that wasn’t immediately followed by a panic spike.

Boe’s all right. I’m all right. Jeremy and Connie are fine. Kibby’s with good people, and she’s happy.

Finally, they were all accounted for.

********

Alden was still less emotionally solid than he would have liked to be when he made it back to the dorms, but Boe had texted to say his shields were fully up. It should be fine.

It was night, and the halls in The Warren were full of people decorating their doors for a spookiest apartment contest. He stopped to compliment the guys in 912. None of them were from countries where Halloween was widely celebrated, but they’d really gotten into the spirit of things and gotten hold of paint that Alden hoped was temporary.

There were dark red stains on the floor that made it look like someone had dragged a body down the hall to their apartment.

When he stepped into his own place, the first thing that hit him was the sound of the pinball machine. He shut the door quickly. Boe was leaning over the game, and behind a new pair of brown tortoise-shell frames, his eyes were fixed and focused.

“You’d better not be beating my high score.”

“I was going to,” Boe said without looking at him. “Because I thought it would be funny if you came back, and I had put the cat’s name in place of yours. But it’s not happening for me. Why are you so good at this?”

“I have hidden depths.” Alden walked over to him. “Pumpkin fro-yo? It’s the seasonal special at the gym.”

Boe abandoned the game and blinked at the cone of dark orange soft-serve. “Did you just pull ice cream out of the pocket of your pants?”

“Yogurt. They’re brand new pants. I had to buy all new workout clothes because I fled the apartment without thinking hard enough earlier.”

Boe took it from him and bit into it.

“Please note that the curl on top was perfect. Before you ate it just now.”

“Are you seriously fishing for superpower compliments?” Boe grinned. “It’s cool.”

“Don’t strain yourself.”

“It’s very cool.” Boe examined him. “What kind of training are you doing at the gym? You look worn out.”

“Obstacle course running today.”

“Fun?”

“Actually yes. How’s your empathy?”

Boe’s face scrunched. “That sounds so wrong. I guess people knowing you’re an empath means they ask things like that, though? It’s safely muffled. You’re free to hate me freely if you want to.”

He said it jokingly, but Alden wondered…

“I’m still not mad that you read my emotions earlier. And I’m not upset anymore that you didn’t tell me about being an Avowed.”

“Technically I’m not,” said Boe.

“Not what?”

“Avowed. I didn’t agree to the Contract. Yet. I still can anytime. The System throws it in front of my eyeballs every morning exactly two minutes after I wake up. You have to give it credit for determination. But you can’t be Avowed if you never make a vow, right?”

Alden stared at him.

“Sorry. I’m being pedantic. I know most people call Contract refusers Avowed anyway.”

“I wasn’t thinking that. I was just realizing that automatically affixing means you didn’t have a chance to say yes or no to start with at all.”

