Boe took another bite of his yogurt. “Correct. So it keeps offering. In case I want to sign up and get with the program.”

“You didn’t discourage me from agreeing,” Alden said slowly.

“I seriously wish I had. So fucking much. A refuser wouldn’t have gotten that job.”

Alden let the obvious question hang between them.

“I thought Gorgon might have intended for you to be summoned more,” Boe said, “to develop the skill somehow. Since he picked Rabbit. And I thought it would be okay for you. No, not even that…I thought you would probably like the occasional trip to the Triplanets. You’ve always thought aliens were interesting. And I assumed that no matter what your skill was, even the worst Rabbit assignments wouldn’t be bad.”

Fair enough, I guess. I thought that, too.

“I promise I would have told you if I had some secret knowledge about it being the wrong choice. I would agree to the Contract myself if I had better powers for it. A high-paying job once in a while would really help me out. I was a little envious that you could go the usual route.”

Oh. “You’re a refuser because you don’t want to be asked to use your skills. At all.”

“Skill Number 2,” said Boe. “Specifically.”

“The forcing and magnifying emotions one.”

Boe nodded. “It can be dangerous. For the people I use it on and for me. Even if they asked me to do something pleasant with it, there are problems. By not signing, I have to accept some inconveniences, but it means I’ll most likely never be called unless there’s some specific emergency.”

“What kind of problems do you—?”

Boe turned back to the machine. “So. Pinball. Show me your trick.”

It does sound nasty. Being forced by the Contract to force someone else to feel a certain way. If it was helping someone calm themselves down after a nightmare, great. If it was terrorizing a prisoner while they were being interrogated or something similar…yeah, I wouldn’t want to roll the dice on that either.

He let Boe change the subject and went to stand in front of the machine.

“Behold my trick,” he said, as a new game started up.

Boe watched him. After a couple of minutes, he asked, “Did you get a lot more points in Speed?”

“Just a little. And Dexterity. But I asked the Artona I System to pay special attention to my hands.”

Boe was quiet while he finished the yogurt. The pinball machine spat out two more balls.

“I give up. I can’t think of any reason for you to do that,” he said.

“You wouldn’t say that if you saw how fast I can type now.”

“I know you must have a real reason. Is there some hand weapon you found that you liked?”

When Alden didn’t answer, Boe said, “Or we can talk about other stuff. I made it through all of your messages. Some of your insults were creative. And you’ve thrown yourself into Avowed life with ludicrous energy for someone who should be in rest and recover mode. That’s kind of concerning. But how’d the first day of school go?”

“Surprisingly okay. The academic part is more normal than I thought it would be. There’s a hero track class called Engaging with the Unexpected that’s…well, it’s not boring for sure. And I met Lute Velra in Artonan Conversation.”

“Short mopey harpist from Hannah’s funeral.”

“You bothered to remember who he was? I probably only mentioned him once.”

“I’m a good listener,” said Boe. “And it was an S-rank Velra. At the time, I was planning to follow up and see if he really did lose fingers. I thought it might be hitherto unknown proof that Chainers could guess exactly what consequences they were getting from something like a luck wordchain.”

“He might’ve lost an eye instead. I don’t know what that’ll do for your theory.”

“Really?” Boe looked intrigued.

“Might’ve.”

“You couldn’t tell?”

“He was wearing an eye patch.”

“Well, that doesn’t mean he lost it. There are all kinds of reasons to wear one.”

“He said he lost it.”

Boe’s brow furrowed. “Then why is there doubt?”

“I think he could have been screwing with me. Actually, he definitely was. He made me teach him the word <<squelchy>> to describe eyeballs popping? Do they even do that?” Alden shivered. “Anyway…I think he really lost the eye. And his sense of humor about it is pitch black. But he was having so much fun saying disturbing things that I’m not completely sure.”

“I feel like I need to meet this person.”

Alden snorted.

“Can I ask…?” Boe trailed off, and Alden braced himself. So much had happened to him he didn’t have any idea what the question was going to be.

“What should I ask about?” Boe said finally. “What’s the critical, need-to-know information about Alden Thorn now that he’s back home?”

“That’s hard.” He wanted to tell Boe things. More than other people. But also, there was something bothering him a little. “Can I ask you something first?”

He didn’t wait for him to answer. “I promise I won’t freak out. Or get mad at you—”

“I think I know what you’re going to ask.”

“Whatever the answer is, I’ll be fine with it. But if you don’t tell me either way, I’m going to keep wondering. Have you ever used it on me? The skill that alters feelings?”

Alden regretted the question almost as soon as it was out of his mouth.

Boe’s expression was blank.

“I’m sorry,” Alden said quickly. He let go of the flipper buttons, and the pinball game ended with depressed digital moan. “Please forget I said that. Now that I’ve done it, it sounds wrong. It’s like asking any other person if they secretly hurt people just because they can.”

“It is like that.”

“I know. Shit. Boe, I didn’t mean to—”

“But it’s not exactly the same. You wouldn’t have asked if I was ‘any other person.’ You don’t go around asking every Sway on the island if they’ve stuck their fingers in your brain, do you?” He sighed. “I’m your best friend. And…I kept information from you. About something major. It’s fine. No, I’ve never magically screwed with your emotions on purpose. There have been mishaps, when my own mood was so out of control that I activated part of the skill without thinking about it. But I always reined it back in as soon as I realized.”

“That’s understandable,” Alden said quietly. “I’m sorry for asking.”

“It’s fine.”

“I feel bad.”

Boe’s smile twisted. “Don’t feel too bad. I’m definitely not a saint. I actually…I ought to tell you something, and the System doesn’t want me to.”

“Don’t piss it off for my sake.”

“It’s pretty important.”

“Is me not knowing going to kill either one of us?”

“No.” Boe frowned at him. “But…Alden, that’s an extreme tolerance level for someone else’s secrets negatively affecting you. Too extreme.”

“Fine. Is me not knowing going to seriously hurt anyone?”

“I don’t think so. The thing I want to tell you about already happened. It’s done.”

Alden considered that. Then he considered Boe. His friend didn’t have a lot of tells, but there was a tightness around his eyes. “You did something you feel guilty about. Or something bad happened to you. Or you know something about the System, powers, or me that I don’t. And you think not telling me about it now, after everything that’s happened and after coming clean about other things, might be like…a betrayal?”

When Boe didn’t answer, Alden asked, “Am I close?”

Boe licked melted yogurt off of his thumb. “Yeah. You covered it with that,” he said in a tone of forced casualness.

“ ‘kay. Then don’t worry about it. Do what you need to do to keep the System happy.”

“I’ll bother it until it gives me a way to tell you.”

Alden squinted at him. “Isn’t that the opposite of what I just said?”

“Not exactly. Hey, don’t roll your eyes at me! I’m trying to think of ways to get a magical entity to let me open myself up to someone even more. Do you know how not me that is? Ever since I jumped out of catspace this afternoon, the world’s been nuts. I’m in the wrong hemisphere. You’re alive. I spent the afternoon surrounded by teenagers who are even more emotionally haywire than normal teenagers, and that’s saying something.”

“You could feel the neighbors?”

“That’s what you focus on?”

“That and ‘catspace.’”

Boe rolled his own eyes. “My range is good. Even when I’m not actively trying. I can pick up about two apartments’ worth of people in every direction. Fortunately most of them were gone for the day until just a couple of hours ago, so I didn’t have to endure the madness for long.”

“That bad?”

“…there’s a lot of longing going on around here.”

“Longing?”

“I think it’s a mix of lust and homesickness. It’s an uncomfortable combo. And there’s so much of both.”

Alden held laughter back with an iron grip.

“You think it’s funny?” Boe said dryly.

“Don’t read me.”

“I’m reading your face.”

“Don’t read my face.” Alden smiled. “Anyway, about the secret. Don’t worry so much. If you can’t say something because of magic bullshit, you can’t say it. For example—”

“Just whip off your shirt in the middle of a conversation why don’t yo—holy shit! You’re tatted now?!”

Alden dropped the shirt on top of the pinball machine.

“It’s so depressing that everyone is going to notice that before anything else. I don’t think I’ve turned vain exactly, but do you know what I had to go through to get my body fat redistributed by a god-tier healer? Do you know how much gym time I’m getting?”

“Did it hurt?” Boe was leaning in to examine the contract tattoo.

Alden lifted his arm to show off the triangle of absolute secrecy better. “No. It’s basically painted on. The Artonans like to get high as kites when they do it, too. I skipped that part.”

“I can’t picture Instructor Pa-weeq high. She’s so straitlaced.”

“She could be a completely different person outside of class. She probably gets drunk at parties on the weekends and deliberately throws food on the floor.”

“What’s the contract for?” Boe asked.

“I can’t tell you.”

“Oh. I see. That’s the point you’re making about magic bullshit.” He tilted his head. “After catching up on all your messages, I’ve got the gist of what happened to you on Moon Thegund. It sounds like it was...did you have to agree to go to that place? Did someone make you do a side quest?”

“No. I chose to do it,” said Alden.

“What was the assignment?”

“Berry picking.”

“Berry picking?”

“It’s very Rabbit, right? Marleck berries grow there. Or they used to. I assume they’re just as dead or mutated as all the other plants now.”

There was a pause before Boe spoke again.

“Did you know it was going to be dangerous?”

“The danger might have been understated, but...yes. I knew it wasn’t the safest thing to do.”

Boe's lips thinned to a line. “Was it worth it?”

“The berries?”

“I know we’re not talking about berries!” he snapped. “We’re talking about you volunteering to throw yourself at the first random heroic-sounding thing you found! Without caring about whether you were ready for it. Without caring what might happen to you! Or what that would do to the people who were waiting for you to come back home. Like a jackass!”

“I knew you’d be mad.” The edge of the pinball machine was cold against Alden’s back. “It was worth it.”

“Because of the little girl? The one you’d do it again for?”

He nodded.

Boe looked away from him. After several seconds, he said quietly, “I’m not saying it wasn’t worth it to you in the end. I’m saying in the beginning, when you first made the choice to do it—when you decided to go to what was clearly a dangerous place, probably without even knowing for sure if you were helping good people or alien serial killers—why didn’t you place a little more value on your own life?”

“I did get paid well.”

Boe’s head jerked around. “If I thought you’d actually done it for money, I would be so furious with you, Alden.”

“The pay was nice. But you're right. It was mostly me ‘throwing myself at the first random heroic-sounding thing I found.’”

He was surprised at the sarcasm in his own voice. He hadn’t meant for it to be there.

Boe frowned. It was more of a concerned frown, though. He was opening his mouth—probably to apologize since he seemed to be in an unusually apologetic mood today—when Alden said, “It’s kind of a relief that you think I was a jackass. For doing that.”

“I’m using ‘jackass’ extremely liberally, so don’t think I—”

“I’m afraid I wouldn’t do it again,” Alden said. “That I don't even want to. For strangers. I already told you, right? In the message. The idea of doing something like that scares me now. It sounds horrifying…I’m going to Celena North to get stronger. So that things can’t hurt me anymore. Perfect attitude for a future superhero, right?”

He tried to smile to lighten things up. But it felt wrong.

Boe stared at him for a long time. “You’re…are you worried that feeling that way makes you a bad person?”

“I miss who I was.”

Maybe that was at the very heart of it. Maybe it was the thing he couldn’t get over. He had been coming to recognize it over the past weeks, but there was nobody to tell. No reason to ever let the words out.

Now, in the wake of the afternoon he’d just had, he found he couldn’t hold them back.

