Roaring darkness flooded out of the space, like fire made solid, an explosion of shadows that crashed out and down to burn everything it could touch. Erick was too far away to be touched, but if he hadn’t have moved, he would have been in the thick of those flames. Where the dark fires touched, caught flame. Crystal burned. The molecular wires below burned, too. The very air seemed to turn hot, briefly, as the roaring, continuous explosion, stilled, and then shadowflames flowed together, a roar becoming a cry that fell silent, as Hollowsaur reformed in the center of the sky. He breathed heavily, as his white eyes glowed bright. He stared at the abyss below, and then his face whipped up. He glared at Erick. He almost spoke, but the masked person spoke first.

They said, “You will attempt to turn your captives back into functional people, and you will keep them safe until they can leave Kendrithyst under their own power. There will be no swindling on this deal, Hollowsaur. That you attempted to scheme at all is a disgrace; you would do well to remember this.” They continued, “In return, Erick will grant you twenty of the gems he promised, and that is all.”

Hollowsaur frowned, but he stood straight, and strong, and said, “Accepted.”

Erick had an Ophiel grab twenty of the silver gems out of his bag, then float over to Hollowsaur.

Hollowsaur, for his part, slashed the air with more shadowflames, grabbing the gems in one swoop, as well as killing that Ophiel; burning the [Familiar] to black ash. The Shade looked to Erick, and said, “Thanks.”

And then he left.

Erick had missed the departure, even though he wasn’t even capable of blinking. Hollowsaur just left, from one moment to the next; gone, as though he was never there.

He got the distinct impression that he had been lucky. He said, “Alright then.”

Undine said, “See you at the party, Erick!” as she walked away.

Bulgan said nothing before departing with the same swiftness that he had appeared.

The masked person turned their mask toward Erick, held for a moment, then turned, and walked away, slowly, at first, but after their fifth step, they too vanished.

Erick hovered in the sky for a little while, thinking, planning. Considering.

Trying not to falter.

Alone again, or as ‘alone’ as he could possibly be, Erick considered if he wanted to go and oversee how Hollowsaur was going to implement ‘soul healing’, or whatever it was he was slated to do. But he also wanted to check on the people he left at Dorofiend’s bend in the river. Doing the first would have invited reprisal, though he probably could check rather easily, if he put a [Scry] into the air far enough away from Hollowsaur’s plateau. It was still a risk, though.

So Erick put a [Scry] into the air at Dorofiend’s place, instead.

People were wearing clothes. The river looked cleaner than before; a lot cleaner. Lights had been put up to drive away the shadows, and those lights seemed to be working well enough. Erick counted eight people, some working on a perimeter, others working on the interior to turn the lair into a temporary home.

Erick came back to himself, for Fallopolis had appeared.

Fallopolis stood in the air in front of him. She said, “I didn’t think [Luminous Trap] would work on a Shade. The possibility was always there, of course, back when Tulamana Blackvoid invented the same spell. But I didn’t expect it to actually work.”

Erick said, “I didn’t expect it to work, either.”

“Hmm.” Fallopolis turned to the south, saying, “Shall we?”

“Right beside you.”
