Her aura kept one of the orderlies’ hands from her. Rags raised one eyebrow, suggesting that if someone did try to restrain her, they’d be grabbing a [Fireball]. On the other end of the phone, Rags heard a squawk of sound and a succession of voices. And the sound of someone dropping something with a crash.
Well, that caused a reaction. Rags distinctly heard a voice snap back.
“Keep her there! I’ll notify—”
Rags started walking. The Hobgoblins reached for her, then leapt back like she was charged with lightning. She glanced at them and saw their opened mouths. Which was funny, because Rags almost fell on her face; she was weak, if rapidly recovering.
“Careful…”
A hand steadied her, and Rags nodded at it.
“My armor. Where? I’m thirsty. Do you have anything to eat?”
“I—just wait there, please, Miss—this is surreal. I’ll get you something!”
One of the female Goblins ran; another was trying to explain as Rags kept walking. The hallway branched left and right; Rags went left on the assumption she’d find more things she wished to see.
“You have to stay here. Please—! Your armor? I think they had to cut it off you, and it was stored somewhere. Not burned like usual, but I remember someone trying to disinfect it.”
“Disinfect it? From what?”
“I—I mean clean it. This is a sterile area, so patients can’t wear their own apparel.”
“Ah.”
Makes sense. This was how she’d design a medical place if she had to. Rags had tuned into every information broadcast from that Dullahan people were calling the ‘Dullahan Last Light of Baleros’, and lectures on sterility and bacteria had made her try to recreate something like this.
But this—this was what you made if you didn’t only have space for a few dedicated rooms in a cramped stone fortress. This was an entire building dedicated towards…Rags frowned.
“What is this place called? What do you call what you do?”
“Me? I’m a [Nurse]. Uh—Intensive Care Nurse Callra. This is the intensive care unit…but no one’s in here but you.”
Callra. It was a vaguely Goblin name, but it could have been Human or even Drake. Rags thought of something and switched languages.
“What’s the building called?” (Pifi tum he semós mol?)
The Hobgoblin hesitated, then switched fluidly, with more fluidity than Rags.
“Verna tum he semós ‘hospital’. Fah… kem kere ‘hospital’ he mol?”
Another of the orderlies scratched their head.
“Not sure there is one. Uh, would it be…?”
They began to rattle off a few words that Rags had trouble translating herself. She caught ‘healing place’ or ‘shaman hut’, but these Goblins knew her language better than her. Rags kept walking, her heart soaring.
She acted like she knew what she was doing, and it worked. The panicked nurses and orderlies followed Rags in a rush, too flustered and nervous to put hands on her. On the other hand—Rags rounded the corner and ran straight into a dozen invisible Goblins armed and ready for combat.
They were standing in a clearly-improvised checkpoint with raised, incongruous, silver-white barricades lining the hallway. Angled shields; they slanted diagonally in the middle and were big enough to let three Goblins crouch behind them with ease.
Now, Rags couldn’t see the invisible Goblins at first; she only knew they were here because she had her [See Heat] Skill. And her [See Invisibility] spell actually failed her, so she suspected their spells were better, they were cunningly camouflaged, or under a Skill.
The blurs of heat reacted to Rags, and she wondered if it was some huge oversight that she could see them like this. Then again…she narrowed her eyes and realized she only saw the outlines of each Goblin.
Huh, I bet if you were lower-level or had a weaker version of my Skill, you wouldn’t even notice them. Her ability to sense their presences as fellow Goblins helped. Rags walked past the [Soldiers], who had aimed something at her reflexively, then frozen, much like the medical staff.
“This is mithril. Huh…I can even lift it. That feels like an oversight—oh, no. It doesn’t work if I try to move it left or right. Clever. The stand even retracts.”
She knew she was being silly, obsessing over the shields, but dead gods. Movable barriers of mithril? Light as could be, and they were actually very solid and hard to move; the stands locked into place. She bet you could still heave one out of position, but maybe this lot weren’t as afraid of melee-warriors closing?
Rhir had a lot of those crossbows, and the Goblins in the Tribe of Dreams talked about firearms. She bet that was it. Kevin always claimed the future was a ranged war, or long-ranged, with artillery weapons and flying ‘missiles’.
“I wonder who made it. Gothica. That’s twice now she’s appeared in the future. No; three times. She survived the Titan as well. I really should be nicer to her, but I don’t want her as a lieutenant. Well, if I get out of this alive, I’ll let her do all the goth things she can dream of.”
Rags was speaking to herself; she felt like it was the only way to inject anything normal into this dream world. This was surreal, and talking to herself felt like more of a [Student] Rags thing, but Chieftain Rags was the same Goblin in many ways. Besides, she felt like it was calming down these other Goblins.
The [Soldiers] were glancing at what she took to be their leader. Rags waited, then turned her head.
“I need my armor. Where is the Goblin King, and what are those thumping sounds? Fighting? I am Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe, the Great Goblin Chieftain of the High Passes. If you know me, help me.”
It was a gamble which paid off as a helmeted Goblin with a full face visor and a big-looking gun appeared. It was two-thirds as long as she was and pointed at the ground, which was nice.
Her armor was dark green, and she had two red slashes on one shoulder; no other markings. Rags admired the armor; it wasn’t like plate armor, but had some similarities. The tactical, future armor was lightweight, conforming to her body shape, and clearly enchanted.
“Chieftain…Rags, headquarters is aware you’re awake. If you’d remain here, a vehicle will be here momentarily, and someone will be available to debrief you. I am Major Tirage, Special Operations Unit 3.”
Her eyes were locked on the shorter Goblin’s face. This was a seasoned warrior, but she had that same expression as the others. Rags glanced around at the squad who hadn’t decloaked. She pointed a finger at Tirage’s gun.
“That’s a gun, isn’t it? What kind? Do you have melee weapons, or is it all guns in the future? And what is that battle I’m hearing?”
She was certain it was a battle the more and more she listened. Tirage hesitated; she was trying to do that thing that the Watch was good at. Which was not tell you anything while getting all the information they needed.
Funny, Rags had never imagined a Goblin version of Relc or Klbkch. She was sure they could be a pain in the ass. And Goblin…special operations? Probably a quasi-[Assassin] or someone who could take on odd tasks like these. She imagined this entire squad was a nightmare for the hospital medical staff.
She loved it. Tirage replied slowly, hefting the weapon in her hands.
“This is a .50 Wyvernkiss precision rifle. Magical bolt-action. A new line of rifles not widely deployed yet. You know…guns?”
Rags peered at the rifle and wanted to touch it; Tirage jerked the weapon back.
“Don’t do that—”
“Why’s it so long? I assume it’s because it means the weapon’s stronger, like a crossbow. Rifle…Kevin told me about rifles versus guns. This one does what on a battlefield?”
“It reaches out and touches someone as far as you want. Its operational range is just over three thousand feet in the open. If I use magical penetration rounds, it’s able to hit targets through walls at up to two hundred—”
The [Nurses] seemed dismayed as Rags peered at the weapon and Tirage tried to explain. The Goblin Chieftain glanced up.
“So you can shoot anything in this building? And that helmet…can you see through walls?”
It was probably classified information, but the Major gave it up anyways.
“In limited ways. Are you—? How did you get here, Miss—Chieftain?”
“I fell. Oh, you do have a shortsword. Good.”
Rags was inspecting the Goblin’s belt next. She saw some round objects she guessed were weapons and a familiar vial. Healing potions were back. Tirage tried again as Rags peered around.
“From where? Are there any factors we should be informed about? The area was re-secured until the attack, and no magical or Skill vectors could be traced. If there’s an immediate threat…”
Rags began walking again because the other [Soldiers] weren’t decloaking.
“Who’s attacking us?”
Us. She fell so naturally into the cadence, but it felt right. One look at the [Major] and Rags knew she’d had an effect on this world.
I must be alive. 
“Halt! You can’t keep moving!”
“Make me.”
It was the most childish thing Rags had said in a while, but it was fun. The [Major] strode after Rags and hesitated. She couldn’t quite force herself to grab the [Chieftain]. After a second, she moved past Rags.
“With me—headquarters, I have a situation. Improbable Guest is on the move; my squad is accompanying her. I—yes, we requested she return to her room.”
But you’re not quite willing to make me. Rags walked down the hallways, continuing to peer into various rooms. Most of what she saw was incomprehensible—so she asked Callra what they were for.
Each answer fascinated her; Rags had to assume these were like rooms from Earth, and the idea of entire suites to do things like preserve blood or precious fluids, even operate on people…
“The space. Where is this?”
The things Rags found interesting surprised the other Goblins. Callra hesitated.
“This is Oreshome, Chieftain.”
“Oreshome? Wait—is that the name you called it or was it originally called—Orefell?”
Rags ran to a window and cursed when she saw it was also shuttered with steel. She pulled at the metal, then tried to peer outside as they confirmed, yes, this was the former city of Orefell.
“They changed the name when it was taken.”
We’re at the edge of the High Passes. Rags knew this city; she’d helped fight for it. She spun.
“How many people live here?”
“How many? I, uh, don’t know. Let me look it up.”
They kept going for their phones! Well, the [Major] didn’t, but Rags saw the screen light up and return a number.
“The population is…312,505 last year. It’s a new Domed City, so it’s not very big.”
“Not very big? Hah. Hahaha!”
This was the biggest tribe in the entire world that Rags had ever heard of, save for when the Goblin Kings arose. Rags rested her head on the window. The cool glass calmed her down.
When her head rose, Major Tirage and half her squad were decloaked and standing there.
“Chieftain, I have explicit orders to escort you back to your rooms.”
The woman was now determined. Rags said nothing for a moment. The shorter Hobgoblin’s eyes glowed, faintly, in the darkened halls of the hospital under lockdown. When she raised her head, the [Great Chieftain] breathed in and out, and authority ran through her words.
She was dressed in a patient’s outfit, unsteady, unarmed, shorter than everyone here, looking closer to a teenager than anything else. Disorientated and from another time.
The [Chieftain] spoke.
“My armor. Who is out there? What are we doing?”
The [Major] answered her instantly, her mouth moving as she threw a salute.
“Chandrarian mercenaries, we think. Ten thousand of them tele-dropped into the Goblin King’s prison and engaged him. They’re forming a defensive line, and we have orders to push through and get the Goblin King to the front. We need him at the Floodplains. We have orders to get him and you to Goblin Lord Rags.”
Then Tirage caught herself and floundered.
“Authority Skill. Don’t let her—”
Rags glanced at Callra.
“My armor.”
“It’s probably in one of the laboratories on the fourth floor. They said they were going to run tests on it and your blood to make sure you were really…”
“Good. Let’s go.”
Rags began walking, and it wasn’t mind control or anything as horrific as Roshal’s deeds. She just moved, and they could stop her or argue, but she was going. Major Tirage grabbed for Rags’ shoulder; the [Chieftain] looked at Tirage, and the [Major] decided not to yank Rags off her feet.
By this point, the hospital was well aware that Rags was awake; a [Doctor] came charging down the corridor in a flat-footed run. They were set to drag Rags back to her room as well, but their shout never quite managed to manifest.
Rags kept moving; a second squad of Goblin special-forces actually got the drop on her. A glaring [Captain] with one glowing, artificial yellow eye snapped at her.
“You are to come with me back to your rooms!”
“No. I need armor. I have to speak to the Goblin King.”
He wavered, then grabbed her chest and tried to put her in some kind of a grappling hold. She grabbed his arm, and her [Ogre’s Strength] matched whatever strength he had. The two struggled for a second—then the [Great Chieftain] met his eyes.
“I have fallen through reality and travelled through time, and my tribe needs me. Help me or get out of my way.”
His boots screeched, then he went tumbling backwards as she tossed him at his [Soldiers], and they caught him. Rags’ blood was aflame. She felt it.
My levels are waiting for me. A class is. But I have to see him.
She knew who the Goblin King was, but she had to see it herself.
I have to see his face.
 
——
 
Her armor was actually mostly repaired. A team of [Scientists] had been working on it, and they’d plucked out a lot of her damn Carn Wolf fur, but managed to restore the impacts to it. Rags slid it on; they could have gotten her other armor, but there was no time to size it.
“Let’s go. If we need to breach past these forces, send me. Assuming that’s not suicide.”
“The Battleborn 2nd regiment has engaged the enemy. They’re some of the finest our people have. But you shouldn’t be anywhere near the front, Chieftain—! We’ll clear the field and send an aircraft for pickup or teleport you—”
“No. I have to see this.”
Someone clearly agreed, because as Rags was striding down from the laboratory, an escort arrived at the hospital. The Goblin Chieftain headed down through the building, and that’s when the dream truly became…
They followed her. Of course, the soldiers did, spreading out ahead of her, keeping people back, but the medical technicians, orderlies, nurses, doctors, all of them followed her down the corridors. So did the [Scientists]—and they weren’t silent.
