Her hands drifted towards her belt, and Mrsha lowered her quill and ink and realized it was the only such object in the entire camp. Withra focused on the note cards and the primitive tools of a bygone era, and then she swung herself over to a computer.
“Can I get a lookup on our databases for a ‘Mrsha’? I have her picture and data. Check the Domed Cities’ shared civilian files too, please.”
In the face of this scrutiny, Mrsha was trying to come up with a plausible answer when the results of her blood test came back. The [Doctor] received it—and an entire squad of figures in weird, stretchy, full-body suits.
Mrsha had seen plastic before, but the sight of six people in hazmat suits was unnerving. Persua froze as a barrier appeared around her and Mrsha.
“Uh. What’s going on?”
“Your passenger has a parasite in her blood, Courier Mavva. You don’t appear to be infected, but we’re going to run a full treatment course for both of you. Lord Xitegen has been notified. Please tell me you didn’t eat or drink with anyone until you got here.”
“Infection? Wait—what—oh, come on.”
Persua began typing faster and taking more pictures. #parasites #biologicalwarfare
Mrsha stared down at her chest as the [Doctors] began to fuss around her and ask where she’d been and what she’d been ingesting or doing.
Someone came over to yell at Persua about that last post.
 
——
 
Forty minutes later, a thoroughly cleaned Mrsha finished pooing in a very fancy bathroom and glared. She decided she did not like being given a laxative in candy, no matter how necessary it was to remove bad stuff from her guts.
On the plus side, she was apparently all clean. She wondered what the hell she’d eaten to have a parasite. The [Doctors] had actually saved a sample of it.
“I’ve never seen anything like it, and I studied in Baleros with Doctor Scala herself. They were practically dormant until we started the injection, then—well, I’m just glad they died fast. I have a sample in extreme isolation, Lord Xitegen.”
“Could it be biological warfare? I cannot believe I’m considering it—anything Courier Mavva thinks is correct I tend to disbelieve on principle.”
The voice was familiar, if—older. Persua was still in the bathrooms, but Mrsha sat up as someone handed her a rations bar. She sniffed the bar and nibbled at it; it had some kind of fruit paste, but her granola bar was better. She took it out, and they instantly confiscated anything edible or drinkable from her bag of holding.
Lord Xitegen looked splendid as he walked forwards. When she saw him, Mrsha noted his huge, barrel-chested form, noticeably overweight, and his one Golem leg moving with mechanical joints, and she knew he was a Goblin-hating jerk at times.
But for a moment, he walked forwards dressed in the old raiment of the nobility of the north and she felt like she would follow him over the edge of the world if he called. He wore weary leadership like a magical cape on his shoulders, and his clothes were dark purple gilded with gold, and he had a bright pink flower on his breast.
A [Lord] of old finery going to war amidst all this modern military apparel. Without a doubt, Mrsha knew he was one of the highest-level people she had ever met. Higher than Fetohep.
The Golem [Soldiers] who stood around the perimeter seemed more alive near Xitegen, the sky overhead swirled, and tiny shapes flew overhead. At first, Mrsha thought they were birds; then she realized it was a cloud of something even tinier. They formed a circling mass which sent streaks of objects across the sky northwards. At odd intervals; every minute or longer periods—streaks of flying objects would shoot northwards, sometimes mixed with glowing ‘birds’, other times just a singular mass, while the rest hovered overhead.
It took Mrsha a few minutes of staring and using a Skill to understand what they were.
Arrows. He walked under a cloud of arrows that kept materializing and flying north. Mrsha’s mouth fell open.
The Domed Cities of the Goblins.
When he regarded the screen, Lord Xitegen’s very gaze seemed to upgrade the computer—Withra objected.
“Lord Xitegen, your aura—”
“Ah, the upgrading. I keep forgetting. Apologies. The parasites?”
“I doubt it’s the Goblins. You’d know better than I, Lord Xitegen, but I’d bet the parasites spread through mucous membranes, potentially in liquid. That’s just a guess, but you don’t want that near population centers. One outbreak and an entire city would be under quarantine. Plus, why bother when it showed up on our scanners?”
Xitegen rubbed at his chin.
“I’m inclined to believe that. They haven’t broken any of the clauses of war before—that only leads to escalation. Well, I want screening of all [Scouts] and checks in the camp for these parasites.”
“Yessir. Will you see our guest now? She needs rest and a gentle touch, Lord Xitegen. If you could leave it to an expert…?”
Withra was hinting hard, but Xitegen ignored her as he strode forward. Mrsha was chewing on the rations bar as she stared at him, and he stopped. He gave her a huge, and surprisingly gentle, smile as he took a seat at the table and launched into a practiced speech.
“I am Lord Xitegen, miss, and you are safe with me. I will have Courier Mavva take you southward shortly, and if you have any family or relatives, I will do my utmost to reunite them with you. You have been exceptionally brave, and I only have a few questions for you…can I get you anything to eat? Something rather more filling than camp rations, I think.”
That was a surprising offer. Mrsha blinked as Doctor Withra protested.
“Lord Xitegen!”
“Something soft on the stomach. Chicken thighs dipped in sauce. I have some in my quarters.”
A Golem went striding off, and Xitegen twisted back to Mrsha.
“Are you alright, Miss…?”
He turned to Withra, clearly embarrassed as he realized he didn’t know Mrsha’s name. Mrsha scribbled on a notecard they’d let her keep.
Hello, Lord Xitegen. I’m Mrsha. Don’t you remember me?
He blinked at the writing as Mrsha held the card up. She could have bluffed him, though she doubted she could beat future lie-detector spells, or tried something, but she was tired. His mouth opened.
“What superlative handwriting. Have I—said that before? Mrsha? Mrsha du…”
The man’s eyes flickered. He stared at Mrsha as Withra frowned, and one of the Golem—no, robotic Golem-people of the future checked something on a smartphone. They glanced at Mrsha sharply and spoke.
“Lord Xitegen. Mrsha du Marquin was a casualty of—”
“The Goblin King. She’s dead.”
The Patriarch of House Terland, leader of the Five Families, and Supreme Commander of the Alliance of Izril gazed upon the little Gnoll girl sitting there. Withra Gemscale noticed a report she’d overlooked in the midst of all the worry about the parasite and picked it up.
“What class is…it required [Greater Appraisal] to even see? [Fatebreaker Child]?”
Persua Mavva emerged from the bathroom, clutching her stomach, and stopped as Mrsha held up a card, smiling sadly.
She wrote her [Words of Conviction] down gently as the [Lord] drew in a breath.
Once upon a time, Lord Xitegen, you went for a run with Ryoka Griffin outside of Invrisil. I know you starved during the Goblin King’s war, and you hated Goblins enough to hire Elia Arcsinger to kill them in Riverfarm. I bet that’s all stuff everyone knows, but Elia told me you paid her every coin you promised, even though she failed. And you paid for her healers. I am Mrsha du Marquin, and I am lost. I know you’re a busy man, but do you have time to help a silly, tired child?
The [Lord]’s eyes fixed on Mrsha, and they were incredulous, then suspicious, then dumbstruck, and then…hopeful? He rose slowly, and there was no more hope in his eyes than before. Not for himself. But he was gentle as he took her hand and inspected her.
“If you tell me your story, little Miss Mrsha, I shall oblige you. I could use a good story. How old are you? No—what year do you think it is for you?”
She told him. He raised his brows.
“Eight? Then it has been twenty-two years. My hair is dyed. We are at war with the Goblins of the north, and this may be the last battle in the war—or we hold and endure. Either way—”
He gently squeezed her paws in his hands.
“I could use a bit of luck.”
She blinked at him, then laughed silently and gave him a huge hug. Mrsha didn’t have the heart to tell Xitegen she’d run out a long time ago. She asked him everything. Then she saw this sorry fate.
This was the world in which a Goblin King arose.
In which a Goblin King—won.
 
——
 
Her name was Fightipilota, and it was a joke that she took seriously. She was a joke that other people were kind enough to take seriously.
She thought she was an important Hob in her tribe, but when everything mattered, she couldn’t do anything. She could only fall about like a fool when an Antinium clapped his hands—and watch her Chieftain do what had to be done.
Her Chieftain and a literal child by any species’ definition. They were gone now. Gone, and Fightipilota saw Pawn and his Painted Antinium. She saw another Rags, a brave [Student] Rags, running off to fight a Titan.
Fightipilota didn’t go with Student Rags. She didn’t join Lyonette, trying to stop this invasion from another world.
She was, ultimately, useless.
Dyeda and Rianchi were more useful than she was. Rags didn’t need another [Aeriel Flier] without a dedicated Wyvern in the fight ahead. Fightipilota knew she wasn’t a great fighter, not even on the par of other Redfangs. She could fly a Wyvern, but she didn’t have hers anymore.
She was just a Goblin, so she stayed in the [Palace of Fates]. Because someone had to.
Someone had to…look for them. Mrsha and Rags, the originals.
No one else was doing it. Rianchi and Dyeda were monitoring the whole ‘we are being invaded by religious Antinium’ thing, which was solid work. Student Rags and Redscar were fighting a horror from thousands of years ago.
Fightipilota sat and thought in the corner of a hallway far from all the action. The [Palace of Fates] was moving around her; she saw corridors change into wondrous visions of other people’s souls. People moved past her, barely paying attention to the short Hobgoblin.
A Unicorn wandered down the halls, staring at a wand in his hand, searching for every vision of what might be, the best and the worst, tears running down his face.
An old man and an undead rat hobbled past the Goblin, desperate to live.
A little Witch stood before a door that had a single, blue hat drawn upon it, a root in her hands, unable to move.
Fightipilota thought.
Mrsha and Rags had vanished. No one could find them. No door in the [Palace of Fates] led to them.
They were not dead. Fightipilota felt she should know if her [Chieftain] was dead. She rather thought Lyonette would know.
But then they were lost or, perhaps, dying. Fightipilota had to help them.
“Show me Mrsha. Show me my Chieftain Rags.”
It showed her a hundred thousand doors, a hallway of forever, and Fightipilota shook her head.
“Show me my Mrsha and Rags.”
Then there was nothing. Just an empty, marble hallway, without a single door in it. But that…was an answer in and of itself. Fightipilota got up and began walking down the hallway.
“If they are out of the [Palace of Fates], show me the way out.”
Hesitation. Then—the hallway remained the same. Fightipilota kept walking. Then she jogged, ran, and shouted.
“Show me Mrsha and Rags! Show me where they are! Show me where I’m closest to them!”
Doors appeared; she ran wildly through the [Palace of Fates], chasing something that it could not process, what it did not know. But someone did.
It was guiding Fightipilota through flashing doors, each one of different futures. As if the two were passing by countless realities, but never in any one of them. Fightipilota ran—and ran—and then came to the empty hallway.
“Where are they?”
There was no reply. The Goblin kept walking. She hesitated; she could turn back, but then she just resumed walking.
“Show me Chieftain. Show me little Mrsha. Show me…”
At first, she asked every second, then every ten seconds. Then every half minute…then every minute. When her voice was sore, she asked every ten minutes…every twenty minutes…
An hour passed. Then two. Then three and four, and Fightipilota sat down. She lay on the floor, exhausted, but she didn’t go back. She just waited.
Waited, and she knew she would turn around when this place ended or she did. The Goblin was so tired. Tired of losing her Chieftain, tired of losing friends.
She closed her eyes and dreamed she was flying over the New Lands of Izril, only with that single adventure and exploration in mind. She slept, dozing, and when she awoke—
There was a single door in front of her lined with cracked metal, armor fused together to form the frame. A broken door, slightly ajar.
Blackness beyond.
And a tiny root hanging out of it.
Slowly, Fightipilota sat up. She stared at the door and wondered who was stupid enough to enter…she didn’t remember this door having a root in it.
It was one of the ones Mrsha and Rags had conjured. The what-if about the Goblin King. She stumbled over to the door, thinking out loud.
“How? Maybe—maybe they vanished. And then they had to find somewhere else that was real. Maybe that—”
She yanked the door open and stared into it, but she didn’t see anything beyond. Fightipilota hesitated, then took hold of the root. She put her clawed hand to the door…and it did not give.
The wall was impenetrable, even with the root in it. Fightipilota stood there, and her heart began to ache.
“They’re in there, aren’t they? Somehow. Somehow, they did it. The Chieftain always does. They’re in there, but you won’t let me through.”
The door didn’t answer, of course. It was a door. Fightipilota pushed at it as if mere force would make it yield.
“Let me in. Let me in.”
It would not yield. She began to bang on the door, tried to heave herself through with the root—but it was impossible, and she knew it. It was like trying to bypass the idea of infinity; the black wall would never yield. It was part of this Skill, and even the roots of the Faerie Flowers had failed against it.
She lay down again, unsure what to do. If Student Rags came back, maybe she’d have a plan, or maybe they’d just have to stand around and wait. Redscar would try to cut the door open—and fail—
No, there was nothing to do. She doubted even Pawn could breach this. There were rules…and cheating…and this.
The system itself had decided no one should be allowed to see what was through here, and the decision stood. Fightipilota closed her eyes.
