Presumably, this was under some kind of information lockdown; every time someone took a picture of her, a [Soldier] would yell at them, but these were Goblins.
We’re bad at keeping secrets from each other. Half of them were recording, the other half following, occasionally asking questions.
“Uh—uh, what’s your favorite food?”
“Spaghetti and sausage with blue fruit juice?”
Callra glanced down at her phone and blinked.
“Oh. Oh, wow. Really? Because it says here that you really enjoy clam chowder and popshroom risotto. Drinks…uh, it doesn’t say.”
Rags wrinkled up her nose and shrugged as every eye fell somewhat accusatorialy on her, as if this was proof she was some kind of super-advanced Golem. She was sure they had scanned her a thousand times, but it didn’t matter. She knew who she was.
“Maybe my tastes changed. I’ve never had either.”
“You’ve never had clam chowder? Risotto’s weird, but you can order it…”
“How are you eating seafood all the time? I assume that’s seafood. Orefell is landlocked by over a hundred miles in every direction. Does it look like I have money to buy clams? Let alone walk into Invrisil and just buy them?”
Rags noted it down anyways. She kept moving, and then she passed by a cafeteria room being used as a shelter. Hundreds of Goblins were gathered together, peeking out the shuttered windows. Most of them were watching news broadcasts on a television, a flat-screen television, or on their devices. Some were clearly patients. When she passed by the door, all of them focused on her.
Children peered at Rags from behind their parents, Hobs, and she saw how they were of different heights.
Children. ‘Ordinary’ Goblins to her looked like real children as their parents blinked at Rags, then put away their devices.
“Keep back. There’s nothing to see—”
Major Tirage actually tried it, then gave up. Then Goblins were filling the hallways, so many that Rags couldn’t take the ‘elevators’, whatever the hell those were, but walked down the stairs. She stopped only once.
“Oh.”
A tiny Goblin baby was blinking up at her in a nursery window. Rags had seen Goblin babies all the time in Goblinhome, of course. They were everywhere, usually pretty quiet because they learned not to cry, but this one was just…wrapped up in a soft bundle of fabric. The Goblin baby wrinkled up her face at Rags, as if wondering what this stranger was staring at her for.
This child has a city. A future. Rags’ heart leapt as she glanced around, and no one understood why she smiled and did a little hop in the air, almost skipping downstairs. When they reached the ground floor and heard that distant thudding grow louder, the civilians stopped, and the [Soldiers] tensed.
“The escort is right outside. Let us secure it—”
Even the Major was so tense. Chieftain Rags paused by the steel shutters, waited for Tirage to unlock the doors, and then stepped out after a few seconds.
Then her ebullience faded as she saw the dark city, faint lights glowing in buildings locked down to conserve energy, glowing shields of magic spread over the vista.
This place was in danger. She saw a rounded section of paved street, where the [Soldiers] were spreading out, and the biggest land-vehicle she’d ever seen in her life.
It was long and wide, a boxy monster with weird wheels connected to a track of interlocked metal pieces. Rags’ first image was of some kind of bug; she stared at the armored troop carrier and saw a door unlatch and slide open.
“VIP ready for transit to safe location. Chieftain—you’re in safe hands here.”
Major Tirage gestured awkwardly at the open carrier, but no one came out to meet Rags. What did escape was a bit of haze and a smell. Rags wrinkled her nose as she caught the distinct odors of tobacco and Dreamleaf and other vaguely alchemical substances she couldn’t name.
Three dozen pairs of glowing eyes stared out of the darkness at her, and she felt the first moment of unease creep into her passage through the future.
The Goblins sitting inside this vehicle didn’t move. One growled in a higher-pitched voice than Rags would have expected.
“I am Strike Captain Leafpear of the 2nd Battleborn, Chieftain Rags. My orders from the Goblin Lord herself are to keep you safe at all costs. This carrier will escort you to our airbase and entrench with you until the attackers have been repulsed.”
Leafpear had an edge of intensity in her voice, and Tirage opened her mouth, then edged back from the carrier. Smoke made Leafpear’s eyes shimmer in a haze; Rags squinted at her.
“How many of the attackers are there?”
“Nine thousand at least, still on the field. They’re after the Goblin King. Our stationed forces should handle them…but they’re Chandrarian shock troopers. Half of ‘em are Kevlar-Hemp; the rest are made out of Manacloth or tougher materials.”
“What the hell is Kevlar?”
Boom. Whatever was going on, that didn’t sound like it was something from their side, judging by the way everyone flinched. Rags’ heart rate leapt, but she saw the barrier above the hospital shimmer and absorb something. Major Tirage glanced at the Captain, but Leafpear wouldn’t be rushed. Instead, she chuckled and flicked something glowing out of the carrier: a piece of ash.
“Some Earth material, or close enough. Stops bullets. Stitch-folk made of it won’t burn or get cut easily.”
The Chieftain narrowed her eyes. Her gaze flicked to the armored transport.
“I see. And you’re the finest of this…Battleborn group? Thirty-six of you.”
“Thirty-seven with the [Driver]. The highest-level members of our group.”
Rags saw it.
“And I’m keeping you from the warfront. If I hunker down in the base, they’ll never reach us.”
Another chuckle, dark and rich with humor.
“Oh, they might reach us. Half the group’s after you; they think you’re the Goblin King or someone important. They’ll storm the city.”
Which means fighting in the streets. Even if there are barrier spells…Rags saw Tirage catching onto what was actually being discussed and raising her phone to her mouth anxiously. The [Chieftain] made her choice.
“Leafpear. Any relation to Raidpear or Leafarmor? Nevermind that. Listen to me. I am Rags. I have left my tribe behind in my world—with the greatest purpose—and they are in danger. They might be fighting an Old One right now. And I am lost.”
Rags pointed towards the glowing horizon, which lit up every few seconds.
“A literal child is out there, one of the bravest and smartest I have met. If I die or she dies…I have to find her. I must survive. I have to go home, and I have to bring hope against what’s coming back. Do you get that?”
“Mm. Understood.”
The Goblins’ eyes winked as they blinked and breathed inside the carrier. Rags met Leafpear’s eyes.
“Good. Give me a gun. Then go straight into those Stitch-folk. That’s an order.”
Leafpear blinked. Major Tirage gasped.
“Captain! You can’t—”
Someone laughed, and an object came flying towards Rags. She caught the weird-looking handgun, and a hand exited the carrier. A thin, short arm.
The ordinary-sized Goblin, Leafpear, grinned at Rags. She was all of four feet tall, wearing magical, light armor, and she had a huge, long canister at her side. She held her hand out.
“Welcome aboard.”
Rags grabbed the hand, and more pulled her into the carrier. She heard shouting behind her, and then it was dark. Even her eyes couldn’t see; the sounds of Goblins shouting faded to nothing as the hatch sealed with a hiss. Then there was a rumble; Rags felt the vehicle turn and start moving.
“Inform headquarters of our new bearing. Get me their vanguard and step on it.”
Lights turned on, red and dim, and Rags saw Goblins sitting along benches in what was, well, a metal box. There were a few objects in the room: a box with a red cross on it, a crate or two of what might be weapons or food, but virtually nothing else.
Just thirty-six short, normal-sized Goblins, their weapons, and Rags. The vehicle accelerated, and Rags stumbled before grabbing a shoulder to anchor herself. There was nothing else to grab; just seats and people.
She had to squeeze into a seat next to Leafpear and a Goblin who was bare-chested. The Goblin hadn’t put her armor on, which was nothing more than an enchanted vest without sleeves; she was smoking on a pipe and squeezed over to make room.
It was…cramped. Thirty-six Goblins was definitely the max occupancy, and with Rags, a Hobgoblin, if a smaller one, they grunted and pressed up against bare skin.
“Careful with that. It’s loaded. Safety is here. You tic it on whenever you’re not in combat. Never point it at anything you don’t want dead. You pull this back with each shot—when you’re out, you reload by doing this.”
A circular barrel extended from the gun, and Rags saw six bullets gleaming in the cylinder. Leafpear handed her three clips of ammunition.
“I’ve only got thirty-six rounds. It’s a revolver, not a pistol; do you even know what a gun is?”
“I know the word. What’s the difference between this and a regular gun?”
“This one kicks harder, doesn’t keep firing when you hold the trigger down, and doesn’t have magical reloading or anything else.”
Rags inspected the gun, then gingerly made sure the safety was on and put it in her bag of holding. The [Captain] was inspecting the [Chieftain]’s armor.
“What is this? Wyvernhide?”
“That’s right.”
“Unenchanted. Someone get her a Ring of Arrowshields. It won’t protect you from more than one bullet at best. Keep your head down; if you can see them, they can shoot you. Don’t leave the carrier unless the driver’s dead.”
They were heading towards the battle. Rags felt the carrier swerving through the city, and the sounds of explosions were getting louder. Her nerves were thrumming. Someone tossed her a ring, and Rags fumbled to catch it. No one laughed as she bent down and had to pluck it from between the tangle of boots and legs.
They were all watching her, like the others. But this lot…were high level. Leafpear grunted after a second.
“Today’s a weird day.”
“You’re telling me? Do you need your—revolver?”
“Nope. I’m armed.”
So saying, Leafpear showed Rags the long tube at her side, which resembled a gun…if the barrel was wider than Rags’ arm. It was ridiculously wide. Rags pointed at it.
“What the hell is that?”
“Single-use Demonrocket. I point, something explodes.”
“Better than a [Fireball]?”
A grin from everyone, and Rags realized they all had one of the tubes at their side. One shot…Leafpear nodded.
“It could turn this entire carrier into slag.”
“So what if someone shoots us with one of them?”
“They probably don’t have one.”
Well, that was reassuring. But that was the nature of this group. Rags settled herself back more. She was wondering what was most important to ask, but Leafpear was as curious as Rags was.
“Raidpear’s still alive. He’s my grandfather.”
Rags sat forwards.
“Dead gods. Then—you’re from Riverfarm.”
A glow of light; Leafpear had lit up another puffer stick. She took a long drag on it, and Rags coughed; one was handed to her, and she refused it.
“Riverfarm’s gone. So’s most of what you’d remember. I’m pretty old. Aside from General Gothica, I’m one of the only Goblins who can talk about history without looking it up. Everything online is half wrong, anyways. Ask.”
“…Who am I?”
They all laughed at her, and Rags narrowed her eyes.
“I know who the Goblin King is, I think. I recognized him. Who am I?”
The laughter stopped abruptly, and Leafpear told her.
“You? You’re the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, Ragathsi.”
“Me. Gothica’s alive. How about Taganchiel?”
“Dead. Way before I was born. I don’t know how.”
The [Chieftain] exhaled, then nodded.
“Snapjaw?”
“General Snapjaw died in the liberation of Rhir. Final push for the Blighted Kingdom.”
“—I see. Badarrow?”
“Same place.”
“Prixall? Poisonbite? Redscar? Leapwolf? Calescent? Peggy…Greydath of Blades?”
The replies came from around the carrier as the smaller Goblins peered up, tying their boots, putting on armor—now there was a non-stop cracking sound in the air, a storm of metal flying. More thumping; the carrier was starting to rattle as it passed over uneven ground.
“Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. I was there when Greydath died.”
Everyone.
“Are there Goblin Lords?”
“Sure. Six.”
“Any I’d know?”
“No.”
Those eyes weren’t sympathetic. They were so…curious. But, respectful of her time and theirs, they let her ask.
“I heard something about a war, a big war.”
“Sure. This is just the warmup. The Floodplains. Lord Xitegen’s mustered the entire Alliance, and he’s taking the battle to us there. The Goblin King needs to get there. We were containing him along the High Passes. Someone in Chandrar didn’t want him showing up. Best guess is the Empire of Sands.”
“What about the King of Destruction?”
“Dead.”
Whumph. The entire carrier listed, and the lights flickered; Rags caught herself as hands steadied her. She realized that if there had been a pole or other objects, she might have slammed into them—
A voice crackled through the room. The unseen [Driver].
“Contact. Explosive rounds. I see the entire vanguard’s dug in ahead. Where do you want us?”
A display popped up with red and blue symbols; an overlay of the battle around them. Leafpear studied it as their icon, green, swerved and sped through the battle. She pointed at the tightest grouping of red.
“Right there. Get ready to come out hot. Last questions, Rags? It’s fun to see you.”
Rags sat back as high-pitched pinging sounds echoed off the carrier. Her [Dangersense] was screaming at her, a long, unending wail, and she saw the Goblins sitting, waiting—
“Do you think it’s worth it? It’s still war, isn’t it?”
Leafpear peeked up, and she grinned as she spat half of her cigar onto the floor of the carrier. Something hit it with a howl of sound, and a voice shouted.
“Djinni! They’ve got a—”
Whumph. They half-turned, and an enraged voice, bigger than anything, was roaring above them. Rags went flying, and the light went out. She landed hard; the entire carrier was tilted over. Yet she heard a terrifyingly calm voice in the darkness.
“Oh, it seems bad now. But we get leave, and the cities are safe except for the occasional criminals. This is our place.”
Leafpear had stayed on her feet; she was grinning as a roaring being of magic ripped the door off the armored carrier. The Djinni’s face was burning flames and snarling teeth in the shape of a tiger.
