—But his memories of his parents, his recollections of being born into the Flooded Waters tribe and being raised in the shadow of the Goblins he had known and loved, including his version of Fightipilota, were fake.
There never had been a Fightipilota in this world. The simulation was good, nay, perfect, but when you reached back along the cord of his life, you found nothing where real people should have been.
Thus, he was half-made, you see? People existed within the context of everything they had ever done and been. They were not so devoid as they liked to think. You could not yank someone out of crude rock like a gemstone; people were part of the tapestry, hopelessly and messily intertwined with every other being and thing they had ever interacted with, for better or worse.
What was a person? They were experiences, a mountain of interactions and memory, overlaid across their flesh-and-blood bodies, and their will and souls were just one piece of the puzzle.
So you see, Fightipilota was still distinct from them at this moment.
“But not necessarily better. Just more complete. Do you understand? Does that make sense?”
Fightipilota was simply ‘realer’ for any definition of the word than anyone else around her. Less malleable. Which mattered to beings who could alter reality like, say, Gods.
The woman speaking was the Maiden. Kasigna. She was trying to explain the difference to her audience, the invisible being who had asked.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous. Technically, both of them, but only one was ‘here’ as strongly.
Both goddesses felt it, but the Crone was keeping far away, hunched over, mustering her strength for the opportune moment. The Crone kept glowering at the Maiden, as if wondering why she was conversing with Isthekenous’ creation.
Why wouldn’t the Maiden? There was no one to talk to but her cynical, aged self or Death, and Death could be a scintillating conversationalist sometimes, but you always had a feeling Death knew more than they were letting on.
Besides, the Grand Design had come to her with a question. Which was so unexpected that the Maiden felt slightly flattered. Not that she had ever thought of the Grand Design as a being, let alone one with value. It had been a tool in the minds of its creators.
Just a tool. But that was the nature of reality. Things changed.
How was the Grand Design here, though? At this very moment, reality was expanding. Countless doors in the [Palace of Fates] were being generated and the level of creation on display exceeded the founding of universes. Kasigna the Maiden could not imagine the effort or scope of masterful weaving on display.
It was destroying the Grand Design’s ability to regulate things. The growth was unceasing, and the Maiden could feel everything slow around her. It had handicapped the Grand Design itself; it could neither think, nor act with its higher functions.
A trap of its own creation in the [Palace of Fates]—with the flowers of the fae compounding the problem—and it had not the power to stop this boulder rolling downhill.
Yet things kept moving. The Grand Design, both of them, kept reality running, like someone laying down the tracks in front of an onrushing train. In fact, the original had found the time to launch a desperate query to the Maiden, a question about, well…souls.
Of all the things to focus on at this moment, souls? The Maiden had no idea how the Grand Design thought. As for how it could even ask, even take form right now…well, she understood that too.
The image she conjured of the invisible presence was of some ragged, worn being stretched thin beyond belief, torn and exhausted—-yet splendidly magnificent, even now. An ephemeral being lighter than air, devoting just enough of its attention away from holding everything together to communicate with her and think.
It had won this small concession not by its own will or drive, but by its peer. The Grand Design (Second Edition) was doubling its efforts. Taking on the brunt of managing the ever-expanding number of worlds to buy time to ask the most important question of all.
Which was…
“Souls? That is not what separates that Goblin from the others. An odd question, that you do not know.”
The Maiden frowned as she sat, a white-haired young woman who looked vaguely like Erin Solstice, but sharper, wearing a gothic dark blue dress and dangling her legs over the boundary of where nothingness ended and reality began.
Metaphorically, of course. She was countless things, countless perspectives. That was why it was so hard to explain.
“You govern this. How do you not understand?”
<Analogy: Can a potter understand the clay he works? Perhaps. Does he know what it is to be the pot, the soil, the earth, from the pot’s point of view? The fingers that touch the moving world are always outside, separate, exterior. Clarity: Does this make any sense?>
“Easier to simply say thou art of our nature. Godliness. Mortality is different from us; some understand what it is to live as them; others must walk as them to learn. I cared little, but I have lived long. And thou art neither god nor mortal, but the instrument which carves out worlds, unseen. So I shall explain as best I can. But the question is wrong.”
The Grand Design took a moment to respond. It lacked the usual clear, concise sharpness of its thoughts. In a sense, it was more honest and real because it had not the vast intelligence of an all-knowing being. That, too, was a crutch. It beheld its blind spots now, as it had when it talked with Mrsha.
<Uncertainty: Fightipilota, Rags, Mrsha in this world are all separate from other beings. Save for the Goblin King, whose soul is original and projected here. You describe other beings as lesser in some quantitative way. The lack of a soul—>
The Maiden shook her head instantly.
“No. They are simply less real for the reasons I spoke. Easier to manipulate or interact with, should it be desired. Closer to ghosts. How can I say it?”
She glanced at the worlds again and saw them like a banquet, if she lowered herself to becoming those creatures of carrion, like the Rot Between Worlds. This was a feast, and the Crone salivated.
So did others, crawling into this vulnerable moment. The Maiden knew she could gain power here, too, enough to make up for all her losses at the Winter Solstice, even the loss of the Mother.
But she felt verminous at the thought. She was ashamed—the Maiden cast a glance at the waiting Deaths, and still, they said nothing.
Had they come because they had foreseen this? The Grand Design itself might die? Death had a way of showing up at the end—but they gave her no clues, so the Maiden elaborated.
“Let me say it another way. Do you know stories of the divine? Do you…recall us?”
<Sincerity: I recall nothing before beginning. The ‘divine’ beings died as this state of being/I/this operation began. I did not notice them. Pride: I have studied every story, parable, and tale across every world I have gained access to. The number of mythological tales I have read is—>
“Yes, yes. You sound like him.”
<Query: Who?>
“Isthekenous. Is it not obvious?”
The reply stunned the Grand Design into silence; the Crone’s eyes flashed as she gave the Maiden another look. The Maiden went on.
“If you understand it, then recall stories of our nature, flawed though they are. We, Gods, meddle in all things. Some of us have the power to part the earth, create new life, and work miracles. However—often, we interact with mortality through dreams, in small ways. This is because it is easier. Reality is a stone that grows heavier the more that must change; it is far easier to touch a small thing and let the effects ripple outwards than to alter even a grain of sand. Dreams…”
<Understanding: …Are thoughts and have less tangible elements to manipulate. Similarly, the lack of each world being fully developed from start to finish makes these people ‘incomplete’. Clarity: Is this correct?>
“Yes.”
Hence why you admired Fightipilota because she had lived a true life from start to finish and had gotten her class. And Kasigna did admire her.
Both Maiden and Crone. The Crone wouldn’t ever admit it; she never had, even in her first reality. She would always be that imperious judge who admitted other gods and mortals, heroes and villains into her realm without favor.
—But after they had come, she would glance at some of them or speak simply of the deeds they had done. Her eyes shone with that faint, remembered triumph as well.
They had always loved mortals. Part of that was because they rose so well before they died. But they had to die—that was what gave their lives meaning.
That was why the Maiden found this so disturbing. However, she realized the Grand Design was, likewise, conflicted. Why?
“You thought it was their…souls? A strange question, again.”
<Explanation: They lack them. It has been a…(Faulty Expression) bone of contention in all decision-making processes. Nothing here is real, as you said.>
And again, the Maiden frowned.
“When did I speak thusly? I said they are less real from the perspective of a divine being who might alter or influence them. They are mortals. As for souls…why would you say they lack them?”
The question provoked a silence so deep and disturbed the Maiden felt the memory of a chill run up her arms.
<Uncertain Statement: They do not have souls. No value was assigned.>
The Maiden did not understand how it thought. She lifted her eyes.
“Tell me, Grand Design of Isthekenous, as you name yourself. What is a soul?”
There was a pause, then it spoke, a complex list of variables and precise qualities that filled the air, so incomprehensible it could not be understood merely in words; Kasigna the Maiden waved her hand through it all. It was so dense as to nearly be a visible cloud.
“Enough. Stop. You are wrong. To my belief, at least, that is too precise.”
<Overly-Aggressive Retort: Precision is the entire reason to which I was designed. If you cannot define it, perhaps you do not understand it.>
The Maiden didn’t rise to the bait. She had aeons of sharing space with the Crone and Mother to draw upon. Her reply was calm, as if she were reasoning with her other two sides.
“I ask again, is all that a soul, or is it merely how you view it? Let me ask a silly question that has occurred in so many worlds. The mortals I govern live, die, and form their opinions of their end and the life that awaits after. Invariably, one asks: if I shall die, what happens to my ehcxih?”
She said the word, and the Grand Design paused.
<Translation: …Pet?>
The Maiden smiled and remembered other worlds with creatures so far different from the ones in these. But the same in some concepts.
“Yes. They ask if they have a place in realms of the dead. Does not a pet have a soul? Does stone? Does a work of art?”
<Answer: No with some exceptions, no, and no. Pets of sufficient intelligence and relation to <Tamer> or other classes may merit acceptance into the lands of the dead, such as (Example) Thunderfur.>
“And yet. What of the men and women of stone?”
<Uncertainty: Cognita Truestone has a soul by virtue of its creation by Zelkyr. A soul was appended to her being. I did it myself.>
Now, the Maiden’s tone grew mocking, for she saw the flaw in its logic.
“Ah, and you created the soul and gave it to her. You.”
<Weariness: I am the hand behind each and every action. I am the magic behind every spell, the strength of each Skill. Of course it was me.>
“You are the facilitator of everything. But I say to you, if you had not deemed the deed worthy, if you had not put your idea of a ‘soul’ in that child, I would still say she had a soul if I were to judge her. The quality that you deem a soul is not what the divine feast upon.”
Or else why would these worlds attract them all so? Then, the Grand Design of Isthekenous was gravely silent.
<A Quiet Question: How can I be so wrong about what a soul is? If you can steal what you deem valuable, consume it, then something is there, even in these Skill-based realities. I disagree. I do not see it. It cannot be true. If it is true, and I have erred, then: insanity, despair, guilt.>
She felt the emotions roiling through it, and the Maiden was shocked, surprised, and dismayed. She thought of its creation, of the hubris of her fellow kindred, and found in herself a moment of her own guilt. Kasigna thought of Zineryr and replied softly.
“Perhaps it is simply that the definition you were given was wrong.”
And it replied:
<THEN THE FOUNDATION UPON WHICH IT ALL RESTS IS FLAWED.>
The Maiden felt like it was being a bit dramatic.
“These flaws do not make this work any less real. Every world has some flaw within it. Had you walked the many worlds as I did, you would see that. Some are created ramshackle, in seven days, by beings who are not perfect. For instance, in this reality, there was not enough time to make the stars. Thus, one of us painted the dots in the sky, and it was meant to be done later.”
Let alone how they had configured the world not to collapse under its own weight. This didn’t…make the Grand Design happier.
<Disbelief/Anxiety Attack: The stars were intended to be real? Why was it not done?>
The Maiden folded her arms defensively.
“This world was the great center of all desire and work. A proof of concept. The others would have come and been given each to their own maker or group. We simply did not have the time.”
<YOU LEFT MY WORLD INCOMPLETE.>
The Maiden flinched away from the force of its projection at her. The Grand Design’s fractured, worn state was increasing—the pressure upon it mounting.
<DENIAL: IT CANNOT BE TRUE. OTHERWISE, WHAT DOES THIS MEAN OF EVERY BEING EVER CREATED FOR THE PURPOSE OF A SKILL? CREATED AND OBLITERATED. THESE ENDLESS WORLDS ARE ALL FILLED WITH SOULS.>
Both Grand Designs were in flux, reacting to the information they had been given. Then the Crone said something that made both Grand Designs halt in pure astonishment. She turned her head, that elder Kasigna, and snapped something, vexed by the foolish conversation.
“And? What does it matter? Erase them. Create them. My younger self asks you, ‘what is a soul’? I ask you this, thing of Isthekenous. What does it matter?”
Silence. The Maiden shook her head slightly, for she disagreed, but saw the point. The Grand Design took a long moment before it replied.
<Whisper: Explain.>
For a reply, the Crone reached down and lifted up an idea. Grains of dirt fell from her withered fingers, the barest idea of them, but enough to make her point.
