Fightipilota tried to sound nonchalant; her breath was coming too fast, as if she’d been sprinting. And she needed to sprint, now. She stared at the plastic object in her hands, then tossed the bottle down on the ground, which instantly earned her a post on all the social media networks and downvotes for littering—and then she began running. She passed by Goblins, even a few members of other species, ignoring traffic lights and shouts and everything else.
Her pulse was racing out of control. She was having a panic attack, which was doubly upsetting because Fighti had never had one before.
This was too much! Too insane! Too impossible! She stumbled into a group of Drakes, knocked one over, and someone threatened to call the Watch on her if she didn’t—Fighti saw a young woman, a Goblin, making fists.
“Hey, watch it! You want to go?”
Fighti drew a knife, and the Goblin teenager backed up. Fighti ran as more people began to call for help.
Impossible, impossible. Her mind was babbling, and there were tears in her eyes. She saw a Goblin pass her, riding on some kind of weird board with a stick he was using for direction.
She jump-kicked him off the scooter and figured out how to use the thing after a second, then shot down the streets. The world flashed around her, this city of dreams and magic and the future, and she didn’t want to believe it was possible. Not even in the [Palace of Fates].
Because oh—if it was—Fighti turned her eyes across the glowing screens, the glass buildings and maddening displays of wealth—
Then why were they all so poor in her time?
 
——
 
The [Beggars] saved her, both literally and figuratively. Fighti nearly slammed into one of them and went flying off the scooter. She stopped, and the Goblin with the bowl looked up tiredly; she saw there was an entire shantytown here.
“Ah.”
One look and the Goblin calmed—a bit. The people wandering around still had phones, still had things no Goblin in her time had—but they were visibly less rich than the ones she’d been around earlier. She didn’t understand it, fully, but she knew it was a thing of other species.
Cities. Rich, poor…Fighti was from a tribe. Every Goblin shared what they had.
“Spare some coins, Miss?”
The [Beggar] activated a Skill on Fighti, hopeful. She looked down at him, checked the power-thing on her scooter, and moved it towards him. Then she shrugged.
“Sorry. I have to go.”
She kept running. Then she saw how many Goblins were just—on their stupid phone-things. They glanced up and shouted at her when she grabbed a bicycle. Someone threatened to find her account and put a complaint on it. They kept tapping at their phones, expressions of frustration and dismay on their face as they realized…she didn’t have an ‘account’ to censure. The Goblin woman kept moving, the only person in this entire city without a presence online.
Freer than these strange Goblins of the future. Also, handily, off-the-grid, frustrating the Watch’s attempts to simply locate where she was via her devices.
Fighti moved so fast, in fact, that by the time an alert for a wanted individual went out, she was already at her destination.
The wounded Goblin turned out to have gone to the same place as Fightipilota after all. She stopped in front of an imposing, concrete building with a long, open space next to it, a rarity in this city of metal.
The glowing lights, the apartments of Goblins, the supermarkets full of food, and an economy—all of it left Fightipilota’s mind. Even the idea of barging in there and demanding help—
She stared to the left of the headquarters of Goblin might in the future, at a bunch of odd vehicles being wheeled out of the hangar they’d been stored in during the arrow attack.
Their wings were stubbier than modern craft, and most were made out of wood, though a few sleeker designs sat like heavy ravens next to cuter, deadlier robins. Yet each one towered above anyone on foot, paint wet and gleaming from the rain, propellers spinning as their engines revved up.
Planes. Fighter planes. The Goblin walked towards them in a dream. Then she scaled the fence. She hopped over the other side and wandered forwards.
“Oh.”
Oh my.
 
——
 
When Rags awoke, she was tired. She always was these days. She felt sluggish as she opened her eyes and wondered where she was.
Rm. She listened to the sound, then sat up, resting her feet on the floor. She coughed.
“Where am I?”
Rm. The sound came again, not unpleasant. Familiar. Even so, when she touched her chest and heard and felt the faint tic of sound, metal on metal, she still sensed that faintest sense of memory of what had been.
But her metallic right hand simply opened and closed as she flexed it. A new model…well, eight generations old according to all the techs. She hadn’t let them replace it; they always wanted something ‘better’, and she had to patiently explain that she didn’t have time to learn a new hand’s quirks. Make the old one as good as you could.
They listened to her because she was Rags. The most important and powerful Goblin in the entire world, even among the leaders of Goblins, and there were more and more each year, rising upwards. But she was the original, the heroine.
The greatest Goblin Lord living. Other species sometimes made the mistake of calling her the Goblin King, which was vaguely funny, but they mistook the role of leader for the role of Goblin King.
Goblin Kings…were no fit leaders for the world she had built.
The Goblin Lord emerged from her room without much care that she was mostly naked. She blinked around as Goblins ran up to her with clothing, coffee, reports, and problems.
So many problems.
“Lord Ragathsi—”
“Rags.”
She interrupted someone who was probably new, a fresh-faced Goblin barely more than a child, gently, and he flinched. Or…they. Someone had decided there were more pronouns to be used. Other species were making a fuss about it and some Goblins too.
She didn’t mind or care. The Goblin’s age was important. They could have been nine. But they were a child, young, new to their role.
We’re getting soft. Our children are staying children longer.
Good. But I have to win this so they can remain so young.
“Rags. Call me…Rags. Or Lord. Not my full name.”
“Y-yes, Rags. I—”
The newbie floundered for too many seconds, and someone took over, shoving them aside.
“Lord, we failed to intercept the Lightning Courier.”
“Hm. Very well. What else?”
She hated her full name these days. It meant something, but it wasn’t a name to be used so casually. Rags was fine for that. She’d always been Rags.
She was thinking of the past again. Perhaps because this was it. Because of the venue…she always thought of her regrets and failures. The Goblin Lord shrugged on a coat as her bodyguard appeared. They always did.
Rags didn’t know their names anymore. She’d gotten tired of memorizing them and warned them, sometimes, they’d die. By [Assassins], by accident, in war, or when she met the Goblin King—they would die.
They still came. Right now, she knew them by their apparel.
One was a Goblin with earphones on his head, attached by a cord to his phone. He was listening to music, bobbing his head to an invisible beat. Another was a younger Goblin armed to the teeth, a former [Commando] who looked ready to open fire even here. A third was the [Mage] you always needed, even with Rags’ own magic, making miniature orbs of fire or lightning and tucking them away in a sack at his side.
Musicsword, Scowlshooter, and Magicmarbles she called them in her head. She knew they had different names, more…natural-sounding names. But she was an old Goblin. Over twenty years old, dead gods.
Musicsword was a [Blademaster], one of the best living. Ditto for Scowlshooter and Magicmarbles, in their way. The rest of the bodyguard was newer; each one the best of the best of the presumably best.
Rags listened to reports detailing troop movements. Everything was going well. They would be at the Floodplains soon—though one report drew her attention.
“An attack?”
“Yes, Lord. On the Goblin King. There was a disturbance as well. A Goblin fell out of the skies. A—peculiar Goblin. I have their image here and details. The Goblin King wished to speak to them.”
“He spoke? He was that lucid?”
“Yes, but then a group teleported in and attacked. Almost all infantry. Nearly ten thousand strong. They tried to overrun the perimeter around the Goblin King, but he butchered the first wave, and then we engaged with all forces, and they’re tied down. We think they’re Chandrarian—every unit in the area has moved to break through their ranks. ”
“They must be trying to stop him from reaching the Floodplains. Who can breach the lines?”
“The Battleborn 2nd are there—”
Rags smiled and waved a hand.
“That will do. Keep me apprised. I’ll head there myself if I need to.”
It must have been a botched attack; they’d have woken her if she was actually needed. Their foes still thought they could just shoot the Goblin King dead with a poisoned bullet, and maybe it would work. But the other continents still acted like they had a huge advantage in every respect over the Goblins.
She liked keeping it that way. The Goblin King hadn’t rampaged across the world, not seriously rampaged, for over a decade now. They forgot what he could do, even in this era.
“Next?”
“Uh, you have a broadcast in ten minutes.”
Rags sipped from a cup of coffee and felt herself waking up. In response, her chest made that sound.
Rm. Louder; her bodyguards glanced up. She knew the other assistants were scanning her chest, but she was operating just fine.
“No, I don’t.”
“Lord—Rags—please. I know you don’t like it, but you haven’t given an address for four years—”
“I’m not doing it. Get the warplane ready; I’m heading to the front.”
The warplane was a big…big plane. Rags wasn’t a Fomirelin, a Great Goblin; she was just average-sized for a Hob, even if she knew she was a bit more imposing. The warplane could carry eight hundred Goblins; they kept making them bigger.
The skies were Goblin. The ground would belong to the Alliance; their tanks were heavier, more adaptive. It was their industry, though it was mostly…their highest-level [Engineer].
Kevin.
Today, I get to kill Kevin, if I can. 
It didn’t make Rags sad. It certainly didn’t make her happy. She was tired. Her heart was steel and fire.
Literally.
Rm. Each time it pulsed, she felt blood moving in her veins. Soon, it would roar. Then she’d feel alive. If she wanted to, she could activate it, but they were always complaining at her these days.
It’ll wear out, your body will wear out…she was over twenty years old. She knew Goblins could live hundreds of years; she’d met them. But she had been fighting nonstop these last two decades. Her heart, her limbs…all this war had worn her down. She didn’t know how Humans lived five times as long.
“Lord, please—”
“Fine. I’ll think of something. Ten minutes?”
“Eight.”
She went to finish her coffee as she sat on a wing of the vast metal bird. Someone handed her breakfast. Rags chewed on the suspiciously green eggs and suspected they’d synthesized more ‘healthy eggs’ for her. So much for asking for the continental breakfast. They just had to obsessively work on her health.
“I don’t like Goblins having numbers.”
“Lord?”
“The numbers that tell you how good or bad they are.”
“The…that’s been a part of the networks for the last three years, Lord.”
“I don’t want them. Get rid of them.”
“—Lord, I can have a meeting scheduled with the [Directors] and [Managers] of each application, but if we turn it off now—”
Rags sighed. This was why it was hard. She said one thing and they said ‘yes, but—’, and she forgot about it.
War.
“Fine. Do it after the battle. What else?”
“Ah—ah—the Lightning Courier found a child who was wandering the Floodplains. A small detail, a Doombearer. She’s with Lord Xitegen now. The [Scouts] couldn’t stop her.”
Doombearer. That brought back memories. Rags nodded.
“Take it seriously. Consult our experts. I’ll prepare for luck events. Next.”
They grew so apprehensive she’d get mad each time they had bad news. She knew it was her fault; she could get…intense. And all the old guard who’d really known her were dead. Everyone wanted her dead.
Only a matter of time. They’ll be ready, I hope, for when it comes. Just the Goblin King or me left to die. You, my King or me.
I want to see you die, first.
Her greatest weapon against the many peoples who wanted to see the ‘Goblin Anomaly’, the ‘Nation of Goblins’, the temporary experiment that had been going on over fifteen years now erased. They still thought they could reverse that.
They’d never reverse this. The Domed Cities, as they were called, were spreading. She had contracts, she had Goblins on television, even living in other cities, though persecution was still rampant.
We might lose wars, we might have feuds forever, but they will be a people now. I’ve shown them the Goblin King doesn’t end that. Then we’ll just be more bastards like the damn Drakes, Humans, or anyone else.
I did it.
The cycle breaks. Or at least, cracks. Regrets. Rags was disinterested in everything her people showed her, idly wondering what the hell she’d do for the broadcast that was going to show her off and inspire everyone. The worst she could do was look bad; it’d only matter in their minds. It didn’t change what she could do, and she didn’t need to lead them.
But then she saw a picture one of the aides held up, and Rags stopped eating green eggs and ham. Her eyes opened wide, and her heart said:
Rm. Rm. Rm!
They backed up. Rags stared at a picture so familiar to her, so alien—closed eyes didn’t matter. She blinked at herself and half-stood.
“Where?”
“We transported the anomalous Goblin to safety, but she and the Goblin King are stuck in—”
“Bring her to me. Now. The Goblin King recognized her?”
“Yes, Lord—”
“So do I. Scan her. Bring her to me.”
If she was a fake or some ploy, they’d figure it out. If not…Rags sat back down. What did it mean?
She was…a Goblin Lord. A genius—no longer a joke or exaggeration. Becoming a Goblin Lord amplified your best traits. Her class, her level, all of it improved Rags’ cognition, even in her ‘sleepy’ state with her heart beating so slowly. Rags’ eyes narrowed.
“Get me a picture of the Gnoll Doombearer.”
This time, she snatched it from the hands of the aide and gazed up.
“Mrsha.”
Rm. Rm. Rm.
“Lord, your heart!”
The temperature was rising around Rags. Her bodyguards got to their feet, and she reached for her side. She stood.
“Is she at the heart of the warcamp Xitegen is in?”
