Someone fired a gun from inside; the Djinni recoiled as a bullet tore a piece out of its face. Anti-magic ammunition. It retreated, and Leafpear jumped up and caught the lip of the carrier.
“Stay there. We’ll right the carrier. Battleborn—go, go, go!”
She swung herself up and vanished in an explosion of smoke. Rags shouted as other Goblins leapt up, exiting the downed carrier from the top. Leafpear—
Then a big figure emerged out of the smoke. A muscled being caught the flaming Djinni as it roared at her and tossed the magical creature. She was holding her rocket launcher, and the Goblin—a full twelve feet tall—grinned down at Rags.
Then Leafpear, the Fomirelin, the Great Goblin, fired. The explosion lit up the darkness, and the rest of her squad was pouring out of the vehicle—growing—
Great Goblins. Rags saw them doubling in size in seconds, developing muscles—
They were all like Tremborag. They emerged—without roars or shouting—into the middle of the enemy vanguard, firing their rocket launchers, then tearing forwards. Goblins of the future.
The carrier jerked, then righted as they lifted it back right side up. Rags slid down and hauled herself into a seat, alone, as one of them slammed the doors back into place.
“Driver, does this box have guns?”
“Negative, Chieftain. I’m taking us out of the fighting.”
“For me? What about Leafpear and the others?”
If this was their way out—the chuckle from the front shut Rags up.
“They don’t need us to withdraw. Hold on—they’re targeting us.”
Rags stared at the cracked display and saw thirty-six blue icons spreading out, erasing red dots. Leafpear’s squad was throwing the enemy into chaos—but not without cost. One of the blue dots vanished, then another.
The Goblin sat there as her vehicle left the fight, weaving, trying to turn—the [Driver]’s voice was terse.
“The Djinni’s right on top of us. Hold on!”
They went careening left, and Rags heard that booming voice overhead. She cursed as the metal of the carrier turned red and her boots began to smoke; she took her feet off the ground.
“What is—”
“Lava! It’s trying to—”
They were sluggish now, and Rags did not like being in this box of metal, which was, when you got down to it, a pre-made coffin for her. She heard another thud—a cry filled with static—and the carrier slowed.
The front was glowing red. Rags didn’t make a sound; she just drew the revolver and crossbow from Rhir and aimed both at the front of the carrier.
The Djinni ripped the metal away with a howl, and Rags fired both. The revolver nearly kicked itself out of her hand; both projectiles struck the Djinni, and it recoiled as its chest exploded, showering magical essence, but it just hurled the glowing metal aside and pointed.
Rags kicked, and the [Apista’s Jetfire] spell slammed her into the other side of the carriage so hard her vision blacked out. But it saved her from the ray of white flames that pierced the carrier. The Djinni cursed and flinched as there was a thunderous rattatatat; its form flickered, fiery motes of light emerging from its back in trails.
Someone was shooting at it, but it was all flames and magic. It pointed again at Rags, and she wished it had ripped the ceiling off.
Nowhere to run. No sword. I should have asked for a sword. Guns suck.
Rags lifted the revolver, tensing to leap straight into the Djinni. The howling being of magic, glowing Adamantium chains written with runes locked around its arms, raised its hands and conjured the biggest orange ball of fire that Rags had ever seen. It drew back to throw—then turned.
The howling tiger’s face of fury and death became uncertain. Then afraid. The Djinni pivoted—threw the fireball, then tried to fly back. Rags looked up and felt her heart rate still.
The air went quiet. Not because the battle had ended, but because the aura of that being ate sound.
She felt him coming. A presence, like the mountains moving at incredible speed.
Towards her. 
The Djinni floated upwards, throwing fire as fast as its hands could move. It fired another white-hot beam, then flew backwards. It drew a magical sword out of the air and swept forwards—then back. Rags saw it glancing at her, and then the Djinni held out its hands.
Showing someone its manacles. Beseeching. Then the Djinni raised its blade and swung, fast as the flicker of fire from a burning candle.
The fiery being vanished in a whisper of sound. A gleaming shape bounded through it, and the Djinni died, chains falling, clattering off the carrier’s smoldering frame. Rags heard nothing as she pulled herself upright, climbing higher.
She knew they were screaming—but she couldn’t hear it. When she reached the front of the carrier, she saw figures fleeing. Stitch-folk. They were running for their lives.
The hush that had descended over hearing became a blanket that smothered her consciousness. She was no longer aware of exiting the burning carrier, nor of the night’s chill on her skin or even the beating of her heart.
She…forgot her name. The girl, the child—and she was a child, grown too early because she had to—stumbled forwards, a single soul surrounded by other Goblins.
But his was a myriad. They overlapped; they were all who had ever come before and one at the same time. A gestalt of beings, each individual and separate, melded into one consciousness that had emerged again and again out of the souls of the Goblins. Every Goblin King who had ever been, combined into one ultimate soul filled with rage.
A being who crawled out of Hellste for revenge. A creature who grew with each new Goblin King that emerged, fueled by the same emotion that they all shared, which was so overwhelming it blotted out everything else.
Anger. That was it. No word could approximate the depths of that rage. Even now, the figure who stood before the Goblin did not shake or tremble with it. They were fury incarnate, and the consciousness that could form words and speak and reason was a mere lull between the white-hot inferno that would erase everything in this world.
That was who he was.
The Goblin King. She could see each part of him, every Goblin King that ever had been. And there had only been…eighty-three of them.
Ever. In the entire history of this world, less than a hundred Goblin Kings had emerged. Sometimes quickly, in moments when the conditions were right. Other times, thousands of years passed between their arrival. But so long as Goblins endured, so would they.
She knew the last one. She knew him—when she had opened her eyes, falling out of the sky, the child had known that familiar, terrible presence underneath the weight of the Goblin King’s soul. But she had to…
She came towards him, and he turned his head, breathing slowly. His armor rose and fell, like living skin on his body. He was bigger, as if the Goblin King’s soul was emanating from his flesh. No longer the hero she knew; his armor was sullied with grime and twisted with scars, wounds he had never repaired.
Still, still—she saw a tattered red cloak hanging around his shoulders, one made of cloth, not blood, but it was still him.
Rabbiteater’s helmet turned to Rags, and she recalled her name at last as he spoke. The madness lifted from him, and she heard a voice, coarse from disuse and lost. Another dreamer, this one in a nightmare from which he would never wake.
The Goblin King of Betrayal, the 84th Goblin King, Rabbiteater the Traitor spoke.
“I have been dreaming of ghosts. Now, a memory stands before me. I saw you from the veil beyond this world and called to you. There was someone else, familiar. Tell me, Rags. When will I wake?”
He spoke to her with long familiarity, as if they had had this conversation before. But the child was unable to say anything for a while. So that crimson gaze shifted, and another voice spoke through his mouth.
“Se vima o tir pava. Zehie Finri-brahnile he che o. Tok-e-tum po kan o ezan ve tak fu?”
She did not know these words. The Goblin King, the being who was first and all, spoke in the tongue she knew only fragments of in such fluid beauty it drew tears from her eyes. She shook her head, and he cocked his head slightly. Such a familiar gesture, carried across their species for tens of thousands of years until now.
He repeated the question in the common tongue. But this time, something else came with his words.
Visions. Meaning and emotion flowed through his words, projecting themselves into Rags’ mind. She understood his words, felt the meaning.
“You walk through time, child. Fae-touched. How do you stand before me? Do you…have a name? Children should have names, but so few do. They would weep to see it.”
Flashes—a Goblin [Mage] raising his arm, walking backwards in time to change fate. A squalling infant, water washing away the blood as a woman spoke and touched their head, giving them a name.
Pointed ears. A tall figure bending over the little Goblins, who gazed up in awe as she repeated the name.
Rags beheld the face of an Elf. Saw a slightly longer face, an angular chin—but so many similarities to Ceria, Falene, or—Elia. But most of all, a face that had escaped time itself. Ageless eyes and compassion, affection, and joy at the new life they saw—
The Face of Elves.
She was screaming. Clawing at her eyes as she writhed on the ground. One endless shriek of loss and rage that overwhelmed everything in her.
Kill them. Kill them for the sin of it. A voice thundered in her soul, and she wanted to kill.
Endless hatred, endless sorrow. Then the final vision of his words came into her mind like cold water, a sea of calm.
A vision of an antlered head and leaves shrouding a face, a King of Green, and by his side, a lady covered in winter’s flowers. The hint of a smile.
The Faerie King lifted a hand in silent greeting as he passed by, walking across the sky towards the waiting pantheon, a procession of his people dancing and laughing behind him, pointing down at her—and her rage and pain melted away.
The Goblin’s head rose slowly. It felt like a lifetime had passed—seconds had. Merely enough time for the Goblin King to speak.
Rags got onto her hands and knees and vomited onto the ashy ground. She had nearly been lost. One sentence and she had forgotten her name, who she was—just become a weapon of hatred. And that was just a fragment of his emotions.
She wiped her mouth, gazing upwards, and he stood there, head sweeping right and left. This…was not Rabbiteater. This was the Goblin King. He lifted something and threw it casually.
Someone died. Rags did not see what he aimed at nor where the dagger landed, but she felt the lives vanish. The Goblin King turned and drew his sword.
Then, she saw him cut the air. A line appeared, dividing the world in half, vertically, and she beheld a rift in the ground.
Hundreds of Stitch-folk [Soldiers] lay, cut in half or struck by the Skill. They gazed up and fired at the Goblin King; he stood to the side. He threw another throwing dagger, and this time, Rags saw a running figure leap left—into the blade.
That was the difference between him and every other warrior Rags had met. She had seen high-level warriors fighting. Even watched the King of Destruction’s Seven at war. They could move faster than anyone else, attack with brutal precision and the strength to rend the ground.
The Goblin King…threw that dagger at the spot where that [Soldier] would be. When he stepped to one side, it was moments before they fired at him. He raised his sword again and cut downwards towards a group of [Mages] trying to cast a spell on him.
She saw him sever the strands of magic. His blade passed through space, their barriers, and cut down the Stitch-folk again. When the Goblin King fought, it was as if the world were made of strings, not just the Stitch-folk of Chandrar. He alone could sever them—
Until the second Djinni rose, howling for her friend. She was made of lightning and flashed across the air so fast even the Goblin King seemed slow.
Fists made of pure electricity struck his armor, and the Goblin King reached out—the Djinni stepped back, a lithe dancer, a warrior of thousands of years. Her steps were thunder; she lunged forwards again, and the Goblin King missed.
Two more blows to his armor, and lightning illuminated his entire body. The mortal flesh he wore felt it; he staggered once, and the Djinni raised her arms high. She dodged a slash of the sword that left a void in the air. Stepped down like a falling bolt of lightning, pivoting, lunging—
And stopped.
The Goblin King’s hand was holding something. Not her fist; he hadn’t captured her. The air trembled as he caught the world around the Djinni. The being of magic screamed—her body flashed helplessly—
Then he tore the air and ground out of existence. Rags saw him breach the air, and for a second, there was another, confusing world beyond. Grey skies. Twisting reality—
The Goblin King ripped the Djinni out of this dimension, then caught himself. Wearily, as if that act alone had tired him. Then his helmet swung back to his enemies. They saw their two weapons, the greatest Djinni, were dead and began to flee.
The crimson gaze sparked, and the Stitch-folk burst into flames. The Goblin King swept his eyes across them, burning the [Soldiers] alive. Wherever that helm turned, annihilation followed.
There and there. She saw him point, directing the fighting Goblins, turning the battle into a rout. He moved them like extensions of his body. Then the helmed head swung down again, and she remembered he had asked her a question.
Do you have a name? So few do. They would weep to see this. See you.
It took all her courage to get to one knee and push herself up, but she did. The young Goblin faced the roaring inferno of emotions before her. Enough hatred to shatter the High Passes. But she had to know. Had to ask.
“My name is Rags. Who would weep?”
The Goblin King studied her, and she wasn’t sure who spoke. Rabbiteater channeling the memories? The Goblin King in his entirety? Eighty-four mouths moved, and Goblins, male, female, all who had ever lived, spoke the reply all at once with a single voice.
“Elves.”
The answer made her flinch, expecting the annihilating memories again. But this time, she only felt the touch of fingers in her hand. Soft—
The little Goblin looked up and saw someone holding his hand. An Elf, pointing towards a city in the forest, trailing their steps to let the smaller child keep pace—
This time, the memory rose in her chest, soft and precious, so beautiful it scarred her. Until it burst into a wave of obliterating rage and sorrow. Rags’ teeth bit through her lip, and she staggered, fighting the memory off her. It took her only a few seconds this time, but she was panting for air when she could raise her head again and look upon him.
