So this was the Goblin King. This was what it was to stand before him. If she were any lower-level, if she had not come this far and experienced everything she had, he would have swept her away. Changed her into someone who only wanted to follow him into battle and slaughter his foes, regardless of the cost.
Madness. The embodiment of Goblins’ insanity stood before her. The Goblin King was casting around, hunting for a foe. But he was distracted by her. She had so many questions, but she was terribly afraid. Afraid of him, of the truth, of his very name. Rags croaked as she swallowed her own bile and blood.
“Are…are we Elves? I know they matter to us. I don’t know why. I have looked upon the last Elf, Sprigaena, and I wept. I don’t know why. Now, I’m here. I never thought I’d meet you. I have so many questions.”
The helmet swung towards her, and she flinched—but this time, there was no rush of emotion, memory, and sensation. Another voice, the same one, but hoarse and, somehow, less spoke. A familiar, despairing tone with a hint of amusement in it.
Rabbiteater spoke.
“You said this last time.”
Then he put a hand to his head and shuddered, and she saw the Goblin King emerging, raising a broken spear to hurl and kill someone from afar. His presence washed over her again, and she understood.
This isn’t Rabbiteater at all. Who is this?
The Goblin King began to move, but she held out a hand.
“Wait! I’m not your Rags. Please, answer me! Who are we? I need to know the truth!”
His very presence kept her from approaching. She felt like she would die, dissolve away if she got too close. Once more, the Goblin King halted, and the combination-voice answered. Manifest eyes fell on her, judging, appraising, and she felt so small. But then he bent forwards and answered, like a grown-up to a child. And she was. Behind the helmet, she saw the flash of teeth lifting in a smile.
“No, girl. We are not Elves. We never were. Not a single child was ever born of Elves and Goblins. It would be anathema.”
Now, it was easier to withstand the multitude of emotions and thoughts. But still, she was an ant compared to a Giant. Nevermind she was a Hobgoblin—she felt more tears springing to her eyes. A shred of sorrow for a people who had to live as adults when all should have been children.
She forced his emotions away, tried to focus. Anathema?
“W-why?”
Crimson eyes crinkled up with amusement and sorrow, and the fires of damnation flared brighter; flames across the battlefield exploded, and firearms detonated in enemy hands.
“Because they saw us as children. When we were first created and stumbled out, naked and afraid, onto the beaches, a monstrous species made to be slaughtered, to be enemies for the Gods and their champions, they saw us. Then they emerged with gifts for the youngest species and took our hands and taught us speech and helped us live. They were always, always our greatest friends.”
He spoke the words with practice and care, as if he had repeated this lesson a million times. He had, she understood.
He had stood before [Chieftains] and [Goblin Lords], in front of brave children, desperate warriors, and armies—their faces were a blur, billions upon billions of Goblins, by the ones or by legions, and he told them who they were. Gave them a reason to make war with him.
Once, we were friends with Elves. Come with me. Avenge them.
Die with me.
That battered helmet was blurring. She was crying. The child wiped her eyes again. The helmet turned from her again, with disinterest; the battle called to him.
She had to gain his attention. Rags croaked.
“I don’t understand. They—someone I trust said Sprigaena was a terrible traitor.”
A breath caught, and the Goblin King was lost for words for a moment. Then they spoke as a hand rested on her shoulder, gentle as a leaf. A kneeling king. The first king of all.
“No. Not her. Not to me.” 
Here, Rags reached for the vision, and his words washed over her; she saw a warrior cutting down Dragons and legends, blade dancing as a small figure hid, cowering in the grass.
The sky was breaking. Vast shapes fell out of it sky. Dragons and flying machines. And Gods. All dying. It overwhelmed her; she had to focus on the words.
“I was there. I remember Sprigaena, the finest blade of her kind, and her refusal to war against the Gods. She killed warriors of every species save one, from deities to champions of legend. But not us. Sprigaena did not war with children. Even the Elves who refused to rebel merely hid us away.” 
Her ears were roaring. She had another question, and the Goblin King saw it. He focused, and now his attention split Rags into pieces. He gazed into her soul.
The littlest Goblin of the Flooded Waters tribe. A child watching her parents die. A bowl of spaghetti and blue fruit juice—a purple-eyed skeleton.
The Floodplains of Liscor as Tyrion Veltras charged. The death of Tremborag. Her greatest friend lying dead on the bier.
He sifted through her memories and her life, pulling it out of her in a moment. And his gaze was so—careless—
“You have known love. You understand.”
Something like sympathy entered his eyes. Then the all-consuming fire burnt it away.
“But they deserve no pity, nor affection. Forget that face, and come with me, child of the Flooded Waters tribe. This world requires destruction. Kneel, and rise as my Goblin Lord.”
The Chieftain struggled, but he was trying to erase her memories. His will overwhelmed her mind, and she felt her knees bending.
“No. No. She gave me hope.”
He reached into her head and began to pull the things that kept her sane out of her. Then she knew horror. The Goblin girl begged, she pleaded and struggled, and he pulled out that image of the smiling woman whose name Rags couldn’t remember anymore and held it in his fist.
The [Innkeeper] smiled, winked at Rags. Then Erin Solstice lifted a hand as pink flames burned on a mug. Blue fire of her tears. The grey of mercy and that purple flame of happiness—
The fires burned, and Erin Solstice threw a [Minotaur’s Punch]. She swung at the Goblin King and hit him in the face.
The armored figure neither stumbled nor flinched—but his grasp on Rags’ soul wavered just a second. She gasped—
Then the hand was ripping the memory of Erin out of her, ignoring that image of the Human that she loved. Her friend.
Memories couldn’t stop this being. Not even hers. The only thing that could stop the Goblin King was—
His hand jerked. Another, trembling hand, his left, grasped the right and pulled it down, and that familiar, cracked voice spoke.
“Not her. You cannot have her.”
Rabbiteater. He pulled the Goblin King back, somehow, wrestled that overwhelming presence away from Rags. She sensed the Goblin King’s wrath rising—the red light coming out of the helmet flashed—
Then the rage abated. Frustrated, he lowered his hand, and Rags backed away another step.
Almost—he spoke again, audibly annoyed. Seeking to convince her with words. Again, it was the same story he always told them.
“I was the first to stand up as my species drew breath. I beheld the treachery of the Gods, their grand plan to turn the world into playthings. When the last of the divine vanished and the world ceased quaking, I stood there, and the rage overflowed in my heart. I was a child; there were no Hobgoblins, nor any others. We were too young. But I grew into the first because my adopted parents were dead. When the other species came to hunt us, remembering our purpose, I was there. Then I scorched the kingdoms who still worshipped the gods from this world and rampaged until they killed me and scattered my peoples. Again and again—”
Until now. Tens of thousands of years of war, and he was still coming back. Now, Rags saw it. The endless cycle in her visions.
“But why? Can’t you make peace? We are still monsters—”
She cried out, and the Goblin King just looked at her, and she knew the answer. This rage—she couldn’t imagine sharing the same body with him. It would annihilate her. His reply came from the depths of his soul and roared out of his eyes. He whispered, and the world shook despite it.
“No. I am rage. I am vengeance. For every betrayed being who ever was—I will erase it all until their work is in ruins. We—they—are all playthings of the gods. This is their game, and I will shatter it.”
“You’re a monster.”
The red light shone from behind his eyes, and she saw Rabbiteater’s soul bearing all of them, fighting at times to speak, to break free. But the rage…
“So many have called me. What of it?  Velan’s dreams ended with me. Rabbiteater’s heart shattered as I awoke. I heard their pleas. I heard their wishes. It matters not. I am destruction.”
He whirled, then, as if unable to merely stand and converse. The armored figure vanished, leaving only a trail of dust behind. She saw a plume of soot and ash rise upwards—a trail, and her eyes found the armored figure leaping through the air.
After the Stitch-folk [Soldiers], who were trying to flee the battlefield. They looked up at him, some of them kneeling in ranks, surrendering.
The Goblin King opened one armored hand and swung his claws. He tore the ground apart and killed them. Surrendered, fleeing, fighting—blood covered his armor, and he ran as the Goblins around him went insane with his rage.
Only a few of them could hold themselves back. Rags saw Captain Leafpear trying to restore order. The Goblin Chieftain stood there, and something glinted at her feet.
A Djinni’s chains. Rags bent down and scooped them up, gazing at that figure rampaging forwards. His roar split the air and made her entire body shake and tremble.
“Never. I don’t want to be—never.”
The girl was mumbling as the Goblin King came back. He perched on the broken armored transport, peering down at her, for he could tell she did not fit with this world.
“You are a strand of fate wrongly placed. I see fate and the truth behind the puppetmaster the Gods created. I learned to break the strings, even though the puppetmaster has always tried to put me in its boxes and rules. Where do you come from, Rags? No, I named you Ragathsi.”
She gazed up at him, eyes filled with tears, and shook her head. Rags backed away from the Goblin King.
“You’re no hero. I thought you might be. I thought you might be something greater—but is this it? You’re just hatred and rage.”
The question stung him. Tens of thousands of years of war—and his rage was an unhealed wound. That gaze baked her skin, physically burnt the hair off her arms and charred her flesh, despite her armor.
“I was there when the Gods took everything from our people. The kind Elves. The laughing Gnomes. Brave Halflings—so many went to war to save everything. Should I not rage? Should I not wish to topple everything they did?”
Oh, Rabbiteater. Rags saw it now. She gazed at the body the Goblin King wore and understood. She screamed back at the Goblin King.
“No one knows what they did! We’re all children, and you—you’re a curse. Every Goblin who becomes a Goblin King becomes you, don’t they?”
“I am the voice that speaks throughout our memories. When Goblins rise, they will meet me.”
“And destroy. Destroy every pact, every oath, and everything we have tried to build. That’s why I—Rags—locked you away. You’re just a weapon. What did he do? What did Rabbiteater do?”
She knew. She knew it and saw the entire future that the [Palace of Fates] had created. Oh—it was right to hide it. The Goblin King’s voice faded, and someone else whispered, a Goblin trapped in a nightmare. He answered her, softly.
“I was a Goblin Lord. I knew I was becoming the Goblin King and closed my eyes. I told her to leave. But she said she would be right there so I remembered. Then I blinked. And when I opened my eyes—”
He stared at his hands, rusted armor covered in blood, and the Goblin King whispered through his mouth.
“I did what I shall ever do. Erase. Then, he went mad with grief and rage, and I slew a city. This time, I may triumph. Let it be.”
On the day the Goblin King had awoken, an inn vanished. Then the city of Liscor.
Rags saw the careless shrug of Rabbiteater’s shoulders, but it was not the broken [Champion] who moved. There was no regret nor pity in those eyes.
Just a monster. She lifted the revolver in her hands and fired.
The bullet was the finest creation of the Goblins’ armories. It pierced the helmet and part of his flesh before the Goblin King dodged, twisting out of the way of the fragment of magic and metal. One glowing red eye gazed down at Rags as a hand crushed her throat and lifted her off the ground.
“In his rage and madness, he murders his kind. In my desire for war, I have killed your guards upon me, Ragathsi. You oppose me, both of you. So vanish.”
He swung a claw towards her neck with the finality of everything behind it and halted.
It was not Captain Leafpear’s claw, nor the three other Fomirelin who stopped him, though they tried. They could barely even hold him; he could have ripped their hands off their bodies and finished his flick of the claws.
There was only one being who could stop the Goblin King, and it was the Goblin King himself.
Rabbiteater, again. He halted the strike. Forced the hand away and took control.
Somehow. She didn’t know how he could win. It was one Goblin fighting the first Goblin King and the weight of eighty-three other Goblin Kings combined into one being of pure wrath. He wasn’t even just the first Goblin King—he was all their anger, all their hatred, growing vaster with each new Goblin King.
But somehow, Rabbiteater did it. He let go, and Rags fell, coughing. The Goblin King knelt as Leafpear roared orders and a flying bird of metal howled down from the skies. They were pulling Rags away from this monster, and Rabbiteater whispered.
“There was someone else I knew, but he did not. Run away, kinder memory. Run far away before I destroy it all again.”
“I will. I won’t let this happen—I swear it.”
Rags was being hauled into the air, and the Goblin King was fighting to regain control, then giving up, turning his attention to bloodshed. Rabbiteater of Traitors lifted one hand and watched the blood dripping down his ruined armor.
“Good.”
Rags gazed down at him until the figure was a distant speck below and the aircraft was high in the skies, taking her eastwards. Even then, she could still sense him.
Rage. Lucidity between the madness. Answers to all the questions she could ask—but he had already answered the main question. She sat, sick at heart, then turned to the pilot and Leafpear.
“Take me to the Goblin Lord of Civilizations. Please. I don’t want to talk to him anymore.”
