A sketch in the Earther rooms that Erin and the others had once made. The young woman’s lectures on Earth—what was it? She’d never let Mrsha watch those ‘violent’ movies. The girl had had to sneak into the [World’s Eye Theatre] to watch them at night. Mrsha liked fantasy and science fiction more anyways, because she understood one and loved the other. But this—this—
Ah.
Tank.
Mrsha stared at the number, name, and the icon of the rolling vehicle under the domed city, stepping back.
How…far in the future is this? She gazed around, deciding that she had nothing left to do than go north. There were other bits of metal in the ground, but she didn’t feel like digging them up.
Then she saw the flare of heat across the Floodplains and froze a moment before she heard the roaring sound.
Rrrrrrrr…rrrrrrrrhhhhhhhhhhhrrrrrrrr. BrrrrrrrrrrrAAAAAAAA—
It ramped up in volume, louder and louder, and Mrsha blinked as something hot raced across the flat Floodplains. She could tell it was blazing hot thanks to her [See Heat] Skill, but without [Hawk Eyes], it just looked like a blur of—well, she couldn’t say.
Something incredibly distant was moving at ludicrous speed—slower than Magnolia’s carriage, but faster than anything but a Courier—across the Floodplains. Not just one, either, Mrsha saw.
That spark of heat was several moving dots spreading out. Mrsha figured, as they drew slightly closer, they were definitely vehicles of some kind. Vehicles being ridden by…people?
They looked like bicycles. Only, if someone was pedalling them, then they were like twice Rianchi’s level at least. Each one was heading in a different direction; there were thirty-two of them, in fact!
Looks like they’re scouts. Or something. They seemed coordinated; they were combing across the Floodplains, perhaps in preparation for something.
Or…Mrsha felt a twinge of alarm.
Or they’re searching for me? 
Ludicrous. She hadn’t done anything more than run around and stare at some metal and go to sleep yesterday. But maybe she’d done something to cause an alarm?
Or someone else had? There was no point asking questions. Mrsha began activating Skills.
[Natural Concealment]. [Peace of the Wild]. Not that the latter worked on Rock Crabs, but it’d keep Dinobirds or other, smaller creatures from noticing her presence.
Such as there were. Mrsha began stealthing away, heading towards the edge of the Floodplains, noting with dismay that the riders had come from the north. So either there lay safety and civilization if they were friendly, or she had to head south.
There were insects in the grass, at least. Crickets let her pass without objection, and Mrsha stole through the tallest tufts of grass she could use as cover, emerging with ladybugs on her fur, watching the riders streak past her now, still making that ungodly sound.
What the hell are they on? They were bicycles, but they didn’t pedal them! Mrsha remembered sketches from Kevin’s shop like them, and he’d talked about…motorbikes.
Dead gods. Automatic bicycles. The riders had on helmets and wore some kind of cloth-looking body-armor, so Mrsha had no notion of who they were, only that they were humanoid. Probably not Drakes since she saw no tails, but that told her little.
One of the motorbike-riding figures stopped suddenly, coming to a halt a thousand feet distant from Mrsha. She crouched down and saw them kick something out, letting the bike rest on a piece of metal. Now she had a good view of them…Mrsha squinted and saw the helmeted figure peering about.
They had an object in their hands. She ducked down lower when she realized it was a pair of spyglasses joined together.
I am invisible, I am a shadow in the night. I really wish I had my defy fate Skill, just in case. The figure swept their binoculars over Mrsha, then tapped something on their wrist. They gunned their motorbike forwards in a roar, and Mrsha exhaled.
Whew. She kept creeping towards the edge of the Floodplains. North or south she still wasn’t sure about; north was clearly full of some people, but she didn’t know them. South? The figures were heading south, ergo you headed north because you risked detection, and it was further if you went south…
Mrsha trudged along, caught up in her thoughts, eyes on the nearest rider who kept going away from her. She turned, though, when she heard the bang.
It was loud, percussive, with a sharpness to the sound that instantly died off, and Mrsha whirled and saw one of the riders circling around in the distance. They were very far off, but the sound was loud, and the flat ground meant Mrsha’s ears picked up the sound from far, far away.
Bang, bang, bang—then she saw what had alarmed them.
A Rock Crab. It was scuttling away from them, having tried the same ambush trick on the riders. Heck, it might even be the same one.
They were too far away for Mrsha to see what was happening, but whatever that sound was, it was definitely discouraging the Rock Crab, who fled from it. The rider stopped, then continued brrming across the ground.
I wonder what the heck that is. Pretty sure I can guess, though. They said they killed Kevin with a gun. The movies made them look cooler.
Mrsha knew the vague idea of how guns worked, of course. She’d seen them in movies, but the mechanics were, uh, not as clear. Some kind of super crossbow is how everyone described it. But it was one thing to ‘know’ all these things Earthers could tell you, or see it in a movie and another to see the polished piece of grey or black metal up close.
The cylinder of a gun was long near the tip, and in the case of some, had a nozzle with holes at the end, which might be for the sound or something. Then it became the main part of the gun, which was more like a square of metal with a lever on the side of this one, and a familiar trigger mechanism you could put a finger in, whereupon you reached the butt of the gun.
You know, it was less dangerous-looking than a crossbow. But it was still, somehow, intrinsically unsettling because you could guess at what it did. Bad end points, you pull the trigger, and bam.
Mrsha was impressed, really. She froze as the figure on the motorbike pointed the gun at her. It was a black-painted thing with a red ring at the end, probably for style. They held it in a gloved hand.
How the hell had they snuck up on her like that? Mrsha had no idea—until the figure flicked something on their motorbike and it began rrrrring again.
“Scout 3, it’s not the Courier. I have a Gnoll child, white fur. Doombearer. She was using some kind of Skills to get away. Uploading pictures now, Command.”
The figure spoke, voice muffled behind the helmet, as Mrsha held up her paws. The figure’s head was slightly cocked, as confused by Mrsha as she was by them.
“—Negative. Looks like a war orphan, but she’s got some magic on her. Survivor, probably. Though how the hell she got this far north…”
There was a click as they pulled something on their gun, and it rose. Mrsha exhaled in relief. Okay, they’re not Gnolls from the Plain’s Eye Tribe or they’d have shot her.
The figure kicked down a stand for their motorcycle and dismounted. Mrsha realized the damn thing had been camouflaged; it rippled slightly as it abandoned the magical spell that had let the rider sneak up on her.
Magic and technology. Scout 3 seemed annoyed as they raised their hands.
“Kid, no sudden moves. We’re not going to harm you. Oath on the breaking cycle. Who are you? Where are you from?”
Mrsha reached for her bag of holding to write, and the figure snapped their gun up at once.
“Don’t grab anything. Please.”
Well, Apista poo. This was a pickle. Mrsha doubted raising her wand would be helpful either, so she tried paw-signs. She pointed at herself, then drew a line over her mouth and shook her head.
Amazingly, that worked. The figure paused.
“Command, I think the kid’s mute. She’s signing at me, but I can’t read it. Orders?”
They listened, then held out a cautious hand as the gun lowered again.
“Kid, if you can understand me, put the bag of holding and wand down, then step away from it. We’ll get you some food and take you somewhere safe. Got it?”
They seemed to think she was more terrified than she was. Mrsha nodded slowly.
Food sounds good, and somewhere safe is great if this isn’t a trap. I need my bag of holding and wand…no, not that much. Exaggeratedly slowly, Mrsha unhooked the belt and wand and put them down on the ground, then stepped back.
The rider really did seem to think they were scaring the shit out of Mrsha, because they nodded and holstered their gun as soon as Mrsha did that. To reassure Mrsha, they reached up and lifted the helmet from their head.
Slightly tousled pink hair emerged as Mrsha stared at the lime-green skin and pointed ears. The Goblin—the Hobgoblin—had a pronounced underbite, so her two canines poked up from her lips as she smiled at Mrsha.
“There. See? We’re not monsters. Command, I’m transporting one back to Forwards HQ. Just come here and…”
She knelt and beckoned, and Mrsha was frozen. Again, not for the reasons the soldier thought.
A Goblin. A Goblin riding…? Mrsha stared at the other bikers, and some dots began to connect in her head.
Command? They had fancy bikes that appeared so hard to make. Communication spells in their helmets. Was this future…?
Then, before she could walk forwards, she heard that familiar sound, only it was a distant pop-poppop-pop!
Instantly, Scout 3 jammed her helmet back on her head, drew her gun, and took cover behind her motorbike.
“Get down! Shit—”
Mrsha flattened herself down instantly, not knowing what was going on. But her ears picked up a noise.
Whatever outfit the Goblin had on, it wasn’t fully sealed when they’d put their helmet on, so Mrsha’s amazingly good ears picked up the faintest voice coming from within the helmet.
“—tact! On the move! Cut them off, they’re circling north!”
“Cease fire and disengage if they make it out of the containment. Keep them away from Scout 3—there is a civilian on the ground!”
“Davra gat, she’s coming straight at us! Engaging!”
That came from Scout 3, and the BLAM sound instantly ensured that Mrsha stopped hearing anything else—possibly reducing her sense of hearing permanently if the ringing in her ears was anything to go by.
The girl put her head down, but she actually crawled forwards and grabbed her wand and bag of holding. That astonished the [Scout], but Mrsha had seen battles before. Despite the deafening blasts of sound coming from the gun, which flashed with each bang, Mrsha was still able to think and move. She backed away from the [Scout], who was shooting at…
Someone running across the Floodplains fast. So damn fast that they were leaving the [Scouts] behind, zipping forwards in trails of light.
[Lightning Run]. The Goblins firing at the figure were missing—Mrsha realized she was caught in the middle of a fight between the Goblins and this person! She kept crawling as Scout 3 shouted at her to stay put—but they kept turning so much that they’d have been at risk of firing over Mrsha’s head if she did that, thank you very much, soldier girl.
—The problem was the running figure kept coming their way. Mrsha wasn’t sure if the runner was attacking back; her ears were ringing, but she saw Scout 3 taking cover. Mrsha peeked up as she heard what sounded, dimly, like laughter? She saw a figure blurring at her. Mrsha leapt sideways, and a pair of hands grabbed her.
“Gotcha! Hang on, you little shit!”
Wha—? Nononono—
The world blurred, and Mrsha left her stomach and consciousness somewhere behind her as Scout 3 bellowed.
“Cease fire! Cease fire, she’s got a civilian—”
The blam stopped after a second, and the person holding Mrsha kept running. Each step—and she was moving fast—carried her forwards in a rush of motion. She blazed southwards, covering hundreds of feet each second.
Still laughing, insanity in her eyes as she glanced down at Mrsha, weaving in a snake-pattern to avoid the guns, then pumping her arm and legs to go faster. Mrsha gaped up at a middle-aged woman with a sharp, fast chin, compact build, wearing a flashy tracksuit covered with logos down each arm, and who had short-cropped hair dyed green and yellow at the tips.
A Courier.
In any day, in any age or time, there would always, always be a Courier. And this one outran the motorbikes of the Goblins, who had switched to blades and roared after her to try and catch her—
They never had a shot. Or rather, they had a shot, but they didn’t fire for fear of hitting Mrsha, which she certainly appreciated.
But who was her mysterious savior? Mrsha didn’t have a chance to find out for a while—the Courier just ran, and thankfully, Mrsha’s stomach acclimated to the jolting pace.
Whoever this was, they were a Courier of this age. Mrsha had seen other Couriers. Heck, Ryoka was one, but with her sprint, this Courier outpaced the Wind Runner in the air. They were out of the Floodplains and heading down a vast patch of charred earth along a semi-broken road before Mrsha realized where they were.
She turned her head right and stared at the Bloodfields—or rather, said scorched earth.
Black soot, or glass, in a straight line all the way south along the foothills. What vegetation there was was distinctly drier, tougher, thorny grass—but no red. No crimson blades of grass, no Watcher Trees, no bug monsters—just ash.
Someone had decided to put an end to the Bloodfields so completely that nothing remained, and by the looks of it, nothing had grown for ages. The road was also familiar; Mrsha blinked at the smooth, worn stones and realized it was Liscor’s road.
They had built it; it was no longer the pristine pathway, but was broken in places, the neat little side guards chipped away, pieces missing. The Courier watched her step more than the Floodplains as she ran, cursing as she kicked a piece of stone at high-speeds.
“Dead gods damnit—hey, kid, you shot? If you’re dead, Lord Supreme Commander is going to kill me. So don’t be dead.”
She shifted Mrsha with a grunt; she was strong, despite her compact frame. Lots of wiry muscle stood out as she lifted Mrsha up like a sack of potatoes.
The girl wiggled, and the Courier gave her a sparkling grin.
“Awesome. Hold on another moment—we’re almost out of their range, and I can report in. Almost, almost…”
She pulled something out of her pocket that Mrsha recognized. It was a smartphone. The smooth surface lit up as the Courier flicked several screens, tapped a series of numbers in—all while running, mind you.
Then she stared at a series of empty bars in the top right of the screen until two of them lit up. Mrsha had no idea what it meant, but the Courier cheered.
“Excellent.”
