She could actually see the ground stretching away from her in every direction, not the wavy, disconcerting hills she was used to. Even in the darkness, it was clear—the Floodplains of Liscor, if this is what they were, were flat.
She wasn’t sure anymore; it was surreal, but the High Passes did loom above her. Mrsha looked right and left, and something else occurred to her.
I can’t see Liscor anywhere. I should be able to anywhere in the Floodplains.
The hairs on her body rose, and she had that ominous feeling in her head. But it just made her exhale.
She had just met Pawn, a being of faith who believed in Goddess Erin. She had seen holes in reality opening and hugged her dead, beloved friends.
How bad was this world? She tottered unsteadily over to the stele and pulled out her wand. A faint [Light] spell illuminated the words as Mrsha read them.
 
In Memory of the Innkeeper of Liscor.
“One day, these wondrous, immortal moments shall come again.”
 
Below that simple message was hewn a list of names. At first in neat, blocky letters, then chiseled with an unsteady hand, as if by the tip of a sword, scratched into the marble. Mrsha read Erin Solstice’s name there. Then her own. Then her mother’s, and then…almost everyone she could think of.
Relc, Bird, Valeterisa, Ceria, Ishkr…
Everyone. If there was someone missing, Mrsha couldn’t think of it immediately.
The wand in her hand lowered, and she stepped back. The girl wasn’t breathing harder. She sighed again.
So, this bad. It’s the world of a Goblin King. No wonder it’s like this.
A thought occurred to her, and she checked the memorial again, running her idea down the list. Mrsha made a soft sound as she found some on it.
Numbtongue. Calescent. Fightipilota. Redscar…
So many Goblins, too. Calescent’s and Redscar’s names were hewn into the stone, not pre-carved whenever it had been put up. That answered Mrsha’s questions.
Everyone.
She walked away from it, and now she knew. Mrsha cast about the place where The Wandering Inn had once stood and tried to orient herself. Liscor should be close by…so where…
She concentrated and did the only thing she could magically, which was redirect her [Light] spell from a glowing orb that shone in every direction to a flashlight, a beam of light. Mrsha swept it around, then found it.
There.
She set off, walking unsteadily across the flat ground, a dreamer having another nightmare. But she had been here before. She marched towards the faint outlines of some rubble on the ground.
 
——
 
It was about a three minute walk without the hills and valleys to get in the way. When Mrsha stopped before the walls, she gazed up at the broken pieces of stone. They were still a proper wall for about six feet. She could walk along the edge of the walls and see over the broken tips of rubble in places.
That was all that was left. Grass had overgrown so much of it, and as the Gnoll girl walked forwards, she found pieces of cobblestone underfoot. Just pieces.
There were no buildings left, nothing more than lumps of rock. Grass and lichen covered all of it. The girl stood in the place where a city of over a hundred thousand souls had lived and blinked.
She wondered what it had been. The Goblin King? Some other disaster? She was tired.
The [Fatebreaker Child] wiped her eyes. Then she kept going. Searching for any clues.
She was hungry. She hadn’t had breakfast. And she was lost. It occurred to Mrsha, belatedly, that the root would lead her home.
—But she hadn’t seen it around the monument. Could it be somewhere else? Depending on where Dyeda had stuck it and what the door had been focused on, it could be anywhere in the world, a nigh-invisible root.
Great. The first thing she had to do was survive the night, then find Rags. Then…
Mrsha pulled things out of her bag of holding. She had some snacks, which she munched on aimlessly. Dried granola bars and water—courtesy of watching Roots Mrsha starve. Someone attacked her as Mrsha searched for a place to rest.
She spun—and the shape leapt at her. Mrsha stumbled backwards, dropping her water flask and bar, and there was an angry frrting noise, a squeak, and the creature leapt at the granola and picked it up. Mrsha aimed her [Light] spell at the thing, ready to cast [Thorn Paw] or run and—
The little Fortress Beaver flinched away from the light, but it grabbed the snack in its paws and hunched away from Mrsha, presenting its thick fur body to the girl.
A beaver?
Then she realized there were more around her. Mrsha swung her flashlight around and heard a slapping sound. A dozen beavers emerged from underhangs and nooks and crannies in the destroyed city.
Beavers. Mrsha blinked at them, then held up her paws.
The former [Druid] used her [Wild Affinity] Skill and [Natural Allies: Fortress Beavers], and the animals instantly stopped slapping their tails. They peered at her, and Mrsha rubbed at her head.
Of all the creatures to appear…her Skills actually worked. The beavers leapt down, fighting with the one who’d ambushed her for a bite of food. Mrsha got the impression they were hungry.
Well, of course they were. Beavers liked tree bark and other aquatic plants. The Floodplains of Liscor were a terrible habitat for them except in the spring. They chirped hopefully at Mrsha, and after a second, she gave them two more granola bars, tearing the food up so the beavers could devour them.
That might have been a mistake if she couldn’t find food, but someone had to be kind. The beavers were nervous of Mrsha, even with her [Natural Ally] Skill, but they led her to their den, which turned out to be a broken building you could squeeze under. It was smelly, and Mrsha got the impression from the crunching sound that they’d resorted to eating insects as well as plants to survive.
They got mad when she lit up the place with a spell, so Mrsha just lay down in the darkness. She was exhausted, and it was dangerous outside. They told her that, not in images, but ideas.
Big scuttlers, small sticky scuttlers, screeching fliers, and bad-bad roarers and thunder-things.
She could identify what they meant. Rock Crabs seemed to still be around, and Shield Spiders. Screeching fliers were…Razorbeaks.
All three would kill her if she blundered into one unguarded; she didn’t have any blue fruit cores. Better to take shelter with these guys. Mrsha felt them squeeze next to her.
What are bad-bad roarers? Thunder-things?
The beavers gave her confused images of something fast moving past them and a sound like thunder, but different in the air. Thunder-things made a similar loud sound, and you died if they noticed you…sometimes.
Well, that’s great. Mrsha closed her eyes as they curled up around her. She passed out amidst the beavers, resolving to figure out what was going on when she woke. She was exhausted.
She just hoped Rags was alright. The girl was afraid for the Goblin, even if she was a Goblin. For this world would not be kind.
There was a name that Mrsha had noticed was absent on the memorial for the inn.
Rags’.
She believed she knew who the new Goblin King was.
 
——
 
The Goblin [Chieftain] was less lucky than Mrsha. Her location had shifted due to the maddening journey through the lining of the world. She barely processed that—it had overwhelmed her mind until she’d realized Mrsha was saving her.
Then—she was falling. From high overhead, faster and faster.
A comet. She was falling towards something, someone so incredibly dangerous that Rags’ entire being woke up. She opened her eyes and felt the figure look up at her from where they sat.
Surprise. Confusion.
Rage.
Each emotion overwhelmed her, and Rags would have stood in awe, a gnat before a giant, if it weren’t for the falling part.
[Featherfall]—wasn’t working. She was plunging down so fast it wasn’t arresting her fall in time.
[Barkskin]. Rags saw the ground coming up. She twisted. She had so few Skills and spells—
[Risk Calculation]. A 100% chance of this hurting like—
The Goblin hit the ground so hard she half-buried herself in it. 
The Goblin King didn’t move. Then shouting voices and glowing lights swept across the fallen Goblin as she tried to raise a hand, tried to breathe through shattered ribs embedding themselves in her lungs. She gazed up at the Goblin King.
“I have so many questions.”
Then the Goblin passed out. Still, she didn’t level.
She had to know, first.
 
——
 
The Grand Design awarded one of the highest single-day level-ups in the history of its creation a mere four hours later as a girl woke up in a smelly beaver den in a ruined city just as dawn broke.
 
[Fatebreaker Child Level 24!]
[Skill – Immunity: Fate Obtained!]
[Skill – Defy My Fate (Daily) Obtained!]
[Skill Change – Other Me’s Skill → Other Me’s Skills!]
[Other Me’s Skills Obtained!]
[Skill – Unstoppable Half-Giant’s Push Obtained!]
[Bound Spell – Speed Obtained!]
[Spell – Orb of Air Learned!]
[Spell – Barrier of Winds Learned!]
[Condition: Manalaced Fur Obtained!]
 
Well, that was nice. The beavers woke up as Mrsha sat up and smacked her head on the ceiling of the den. She crawled out of the smelly place and wondered if the Grand Design was laughing at her.
…No, it just gave you Skills you wanted or wished you had. They were useful, but she wondered how practical a push Skill was.
Then again, [Other Me’s Skills] probably means I have a lot of free Skills.
Mrsha activated a Skill from another version of herself experimentally.
[Hawk Eyes]! And—[Speed].
She waved at the beavers as they chirped at her, then zoomed away. Mrsha dashed along the perimeter of Liscor’s walls, going for the highest spot—a ten-foot section of stone. She climbed up, smiling as she leapt with amazing speed and distance from the spell on her.
It lasted all of four minutes, which was great. Mrsha felt it wearing off and hoped it recharged hourly or something. She peered around, and her eyes zoomed in as she gazed about. The sun was rising over the High Passes, and she saw…well, what confirmed her suspicions.
The Floodplains by day were flat. Something had smoothed out the hills and valleys. Perhaps it was intentional geoforming, but Mrsha suspected it was just—
War.
Huge craters in the ground and scars of upturned earth were partly-covered by grass, but fresh enough that in most places Mrsha still saw the wounds in the earth. Her nose, no longer filled with blood, smelled a terrible, acrid odor in the air. It was foul, like the worst stuff in Octavia’s shop.
Oil and blood and death.
The Floodplains were some kind of battlefield; Mrsha saw a glint from the ground and focused on it.
Something bright and reflective over there. What is it? I can’t tell, even though I see it. A shell? Armor of a half-Giant? She spun around and saw nothing.
No civilization north or south of her. Maybe something like…smokestacks to the north? Nah. Even with her [Hawk Eyes], she had no clue.
She’d check out that shiny stuff, then head…north. North was the only way she lived. The Bloodfields even in autumn were crazy. Maybe Esthelm was alright.
Mrsha began jogging, deciding she should have used a travelling Skill from [Other Me’s Skills]. Then she realized…she could use another one.
Okay.
[Long Step]! Mrsha’s pace nearly doubled, and she wondered if this was from a Mrsha who’d learned from Wer the Wanderer. She shot across the Floodplains, heading for that piece of metal. It took a while; twenty minutes into her jog over the nearly-flat ground, Mrsha tripped over a hard, round piece of grass. She cursed silently, turned her head, and the Rock Crab burst up out of the soil where it had buried itself. It snapped at her with one claw—
The Rock Crab crunched its claw around the child to paste her for consumption, then raised its claw to its mouth. No mangled corpse fell into its maw. It opened and closed its claw, then circled around.
Huh?
A girl was jogging away in a hurry a hundred paces distant. The Rock Crab looked at its claw, then at the girl.
But it had just—
Wh—
 
——
 
[Defy My Fate] for the day. Mrsha slowed down after a while and reached into her bag of holding. She pulled out a few pieces of emergency wood—again, a lesson from Roots Mrsha—and took the time to assemble an impromptu stick. She poked at the ground with it, determined not to hit a Shield Spider nest.
Slower, then. It took her another hour to get to the metal stuff, by which point Mrsha had substituted [Hawk Eyes] for [See Heat]. That let her avoid the animals. When she reached the metal piece of…metal, she stood in front of it, perplexed, then walked around it and tried to unearth it.
No good. It was half-buried in the ground and so big she doubted she could shift it with [Lesser Strength], even unburied. Mrsha rubbed at the charred markings on the side and noticed two things.
It’s thick. Half a foot of steel wide, and it was long and slightly rounded—though the metal had been warped slightly from being ripped off. Mrsha ran her paws across the smooth metal, astonished.
It’s all one piece! Her short time in Mrell’s tribe and his occasional, annoying letters told her how amazing a feat of metallurgy this was. An entire 8-by-8 section was joined with another by these rounded…they looked like screws, and Mrsha could see the seam in the metal.
Something big, long, metallic…was right here. Well, before something else ripped that gash into the metal and left this fragment behind.
Any [Smith] of Mrsha’s time would have run out to steal this, but here it was. It wasn’t mossy; there was a bit of green on the metal, but it appeared fresh. It smelled bad, though; it had that same quality as some of Octavia’s stuff. Like her matches, but worse.
Mrsha sniffed the material, wiping at it more with her arm, and then realized there was a final detail to the metal. She’d assumed it was green because of the weathering, but no, it was painted green. And still quite reflective; it was catching the rising sunlight and reflecting off it.
There was an icon or some kind of picture drawn in paint on the side. It was mostly obscured by the ground, but with a bit of digging, Mrsha saw slashes of white, red, and blue forming an icon.
What she could see of it was…the girl tilted her head. The white letters were above some kind of symbol, which she assumed was for a city or banner. Though she didn’t recognize the city with a dome over it.
Firebark 14. Then the icon of the city with a weird…caterpillar thing with a long horizontal nose? Not an insect; that was just the bottom part. Some kind of weird-looking object.
Mrsha’s instincts said it was a vehicle, but she had no…wait, she’d seen this before. Where? She rubbed at her head, wishing she could see her own history, then she snapped her fingers.
