Shields? She saw a number reading 55%, and it decreased another several points as more arrows struck her craft. The Dragonplane fired again, and Fighti did an aileron roll right. That stupid voice in her head started speaking.
Our intrepid pilot can’t shake the enemy fighters. The clouds! I have to evade into the clouds—! Anti-aircraft fire is coming from below!
It was true; below her, tanks and artillery were lined up and firing straight upwards at the slower bombers and larger aircraft. A blazing bomber detonated, and the shockwaves threw Fightipilota around; she realized she was falling and gunned the engines, twisting, trying to regain control…
I know this. Not that way—forwards and down and up with the momentum—
She levelled out, and younger pilots slammed into the ground. When Fighti checked her six, there was no one behind her. She’d lost two of the Dragonplanes—
The last one came straight up at her, and she slammed a blue button on the throttle. The Skyshadow flashed with dark energy—
And jumped three hundred feet forwards in the air. The sudden teleportation slammed Fighti back, and she took her plane up.
“Keep activating the teleporter and let those shields recharge! Watch out—there’s an enemy ace on your tail!”
Hotwing was shouting at her. Or was it Yoza? Fighti couldn’t tell—the roaring of blood in her ears turned faint as she pulled up. The clouds…she had to get into…
She was disorientated by the speeds they were flying, but the pilot hunting her down couldn’t be shaken. He almost had parity with her craft thanks to his Skills. A pilot in a worse machine, but infinitely better—more flares of fire struck her wings, and she realized he’d switched munitions.
“Acid Dragonbreath! Spin!”
She performed a rapid barrel roll, and the quickly-decreasing shields counter equalized. Fighti could see aircraft burning around her.
That’s a damn zeppelin. A blimp of the Alliance was leaking purple gas as it came down, but it wasn’t exploding—it was shooting in every direction, and a round clipped Fighti’s plane by sheer luck. She slammed forwards, and her shields blared a warning.
No more shields. The Dragonplane was right behind her, and it fired its machine guns; Fighti took her plane in a complex loop, rising, reversing, and heading up again. For a second, she caught a glimpse of the pilot, a grim-faced Drake wearing a leather cap and goggles.
He was in an open-air cockpit! At this altitude? Fighti’s eyes widened as her fingers fell reflexively on the trigger of her guns. She didn’t have a…a clear…
“Watch out! They’re coming for you!”
Three more warplanes rose out of the fighting below, all of them enemies. Fighti jerked away, teleporting out of their sneak attack. Now, she heard voices.
“Command, I need a squadron on Fighter-1. They’re surrounded by enemy aces! Accelerate and get out of there!”
“Can’t. They’re matching my speed with Skills.”’
It was true. The enemy pilots were equalizing Fighti’s advantages the oldest way possible. Four Dragonplanes were on her tail now, and Fighti curved in the sharpest turn she could. She felt something hit her tail—but the bullets didn’t strike anything critical. That bought her more time to finally bank into the clouds.
They can follow me with radar or Skills. The Skyshadow had a few more tricks: Fighti activated an invisibility spell and slowed. Wait…wait…
They were hesitant, but they followed her in; reinforcements were coming. Fighti saw a golden plane emerge from the clouds, strafing upwards, the pilot glancing every direction. She lined up her sights with the plane and—
Her fingers twitched on the trigger. 
Her plane didn’t fire. The pilot slashed past her as another one shot over Fightipilota’s wing. This time, the pilot—the same one who’d followed her from the start—turned his head, and his eyes narrowed as he saw her. No, not he—
She. She juked away, and Fightipilota saw her reticles turn red.
Her [Invisibility] enchantment wore off, and she accelerated forwards.
“—Fighti! What’s wrong? Are your guns jammed? Activate the—”
“Everything’s operational.”
The Goblin actually checked as the Dragonplanes refocused on her. Something cut through the air, and she jerked; the spray of frozen Dragonbreath would have iced her wings and taken her mobility offline. Then crackling lightning surrounded her plane, making her craft’s lights flicker.
Lightning. They’re charging the cloud. Clever. 
She broke out of the stormcloud and then kept climbing. Two of the planes followed her; a squadron of fighters had just caught the other two, and the thunder echoed below Fighti.
She was so high up now. The Goblin was breathing harder, and she felt the air thinning. She fumbled for a mask, and oxygen filled her lungs. Her body was growing cold even through the cockpit.
One of the Dragonplanes fell away, unable to climb this high. The last one kept coming. The pilot was rising towards her without a pressurised cockpit or mask.
The rate of their ascent was making the world turn black around the edges—but the Drake was still right on her. The ace was firing, and Fighti was juking as she kept rising, but the other pilot—
“Fighti. You have a rear autocannon. The third trigger is on the yoke you’re holding. Do you see it?”
“Climbing…they can’t fly forever.”
“Neither can you. If you keep climbing, you’ll stall out and crash! You’re reaching the limits of your flying range! Fighti, fire!”
“I don’t see it.”
“The enemy? Are they using concealment Skills?”
The Hobgoblin shook her head. Her head was pressed against the back of her chair, and she felt something strike the back of her craft. Flames were burning, and she spun until they went out. The blackness was closing in.
“No. I don’t see any enemies.”
The voices fell mercifully silent, and Fighti glanced at the mirror reflecting her rear. The Drake was still climbing—Fighti hit the only button she could. She teleported up—and her straining plane motors stalled out in the too-thin atmosphere. Fighti’s plane hung in the sky as gravity finally regained hold of it.
Then the nose of her craft tipped down, and she gazed down at that distant battlefield below. The tallest mountains of the High Passes were still rising higher than her; they were the only thing. The sky was so dark and clear, despite it being day. Fighti saw the stars shining around her. And below—
There you are. The other airplane had broken when the pilot saw what Fighti was doing. It had swept low, like a hawk hunting, and now it was rising.
They knew Fighti was stalling out. The Goblin was going to come down in a dive, and the enemy pilot was going to shoot her before she could start flying.
Idiot. Fighti could hear Garen screaming at her—she swore the crackling radio was filled with voices telling her to shoot the enemies.
What enemies? Where? She couldn’t see any of them. Just people fighting for their home. They were killing Goblins. Goblins were killing them…
This isn’t my war. I’m not a warrior for these Goblins. They don’t need me.
My Rags needs me. And Mrsha. The Goblin’s breathing was growing faint, oxygen mask or not. But she forced the plane’s controls down as it began to fall. She needed speed. They were going to catch her…
Like a rock which had reached the zenith of its height, Fightipilota hovered, then the Skyshadow began to drop. Faster and faster as the whirring propellers tried to regain their purchase on the air—faster and faster until they hit terminal velocity.
The enemy pilot was rising upwards, guns waiting…Fightipilota couldn’t see them from so far away, but she sensed them.
“I’m coming, Rags, Mrsha.”
She pushed the throttle down as far as it would go and held down the teleportation button, ignoring the warning scream from the cockpit. The Goblin’s consciousness flickered.
Her plane was—blinking—downwards—faster—faster than—speedometer maxing out—
Then there was light. Fightipilota waited for the pain.
 
——
 
Her mind flickered as the Goblin dove in the seconds before the two planes met. An infinite, immortal moment. Every moment was one.
The Goblin was flying a plane.
Flying…a plane. Her consciousness was turning on and off like a match, but she was gritting her teeth as she accelerated, the Drake [Ace Pilot] locked onto her, waiting for the range to kill this mysterious craft.
In those moments, something dove with Fightipilota, faster than her plane. The voice of the world. The system of rules.
It had no name anymore. It had no purpose other than to keep things running. But she’d done it.
She’d done it, against all odds. But she wasn’t firing. She didn’t see an enemy. Was that…?
Was that right? It didn’t know. It couldn’t tell.
Too many worlds. Too many things to do. But this mattered. So the world reached out, and it—felt a function activating.
Something basic. Something even it didn’t know it was allowed to do. A necessity born out of its weakness, its inability to think and judge. Commands from the very root level of its being, written in a delicate, caring, familiar hand.
 
<CREATING UNKNOWN CLASS. ERROR. INSUFFICIENT DATA FOR [FIGHTER PILOT]. ERROR.>
<ACTIVATING TIER 9 SPELL. [THE IMPARTIAL GAZE OF ISTHEKENOUS]. BREACHING THE VEIL.>
 
Then—the Grand Design reached out of its world and opened a door. It opened it to the world called Earth.
 
——
 
A pilot was flying a training mission in the skies above Tucson, Arizona. The year was 2025, and the faint glimmer of gold out of the corner of their eyes made them turn their head as they checked their controls.
When they did—they couldn’t see anything. But they felt something—just for a moment—and hesitated. Unsure if they should call it in or just keep it a secret.
 
——
 
1918.
Skies over Arras, France. 
Men in the skies flying aircraft so different from the ones in their future that they were like chicks playing in a pond—but their vehicles still spat death.
A golden flicker ran through the living and the dying. Listening to their memories, their thoughts. Their will.
A question.
What is…a [Fighter Pilot]?
 
——
 
Breach.
An alien spacecraft in the void of space of another reality juked a line of light, and the pilot fired weapons as foreign to the last two times and pilots as could be. But that did not matter.
Language did not matter. The question ran through their heads, and the pilot hesitated, a flicker so fast it was gone in the blink of an eye.
An [Immortal Moment].
What is a [Pilot]?
 
——
 
A thousand worlds opened, and the Grand Design flitted through each one, asking the questions of all it found. It carried memories, intuition, feelings, hopes, desires, regrets with it.
Skills. Levels. Class consolidations. Tragedy classes. Redemption. Value.
Does a [Fighter Pilot] need to kill? What does that role mean? 
It asked questions, collected the answers, and began to write. And the diving Goblin…saw it.
 
——
 
Fightipilota saw the air open as time slowed, and an infinity took place between the beating of her heart. Something was flying with her, diving with her.
It looked like golden text. There was a gap in the sky—a hole straight into the fabric of everything. It was all—coming apart. She saw it writing, saw men and women, creatures of every kind, countless aircraft flying, fighting, dying, and out of the tragedy, triumph, and wonders was the ink of creation.
The Grand Design was writing her class.
[Fighter Pilot].
A ray of gold touched Fightipilota’s chest, and she screamed as it linked her to everything that her class was. The voice was thundering in her head, and the light—
 
——
 
The Drake flying up towards her had the class, but she was a copy—the class made no sense, and she just had Skills that belonged to [Wyvern Riders] and similar classes. She looked up and saw a light brighter than creation itself. The [Ace Pilot] screamed and threw up her claws as Fightipilota flashed past her.
 
——
 
A voice was screaming in the Drake’s ears. In the ears of the Goblin and every [Pilot] in the skies. It spoke to the woman who had created her class, in triumph, in judgement.
<THIS IS WHO YOU ARE. THIS IS WHAT I UNDERSTAND.>
 
[Fighter Pilot class created!]
[Fighter Pilot Level 17!]
 
[Skill – Share Resistance: Wind obtained!]
[Skill – Dodge Roll (Aileron) created!]
[Skill – Deploy Parachute obtained!]
[Skill – Superior Aerial Awareness obtained!]
[Skill – Spotter’s Eye obtained!]
[Skill – Long-Ranged Mark Target obtained!]
[Skill – Advanced Crafting obtained!]
[Skill – Flyer’s Senses obtained!]
[Skill – Blueprint: Skyshadow-Fighter Mk. 1 obtained!]
[Skill – Proficiency: Aerodynamics obtained!]
[Skill – I Can (Probably) Fly That obtained!]
[Skill – Aircraft: High Impact Rounds obtained!]
[Skill – Wing Slash obtained!]
[Skill – Sidearm: Three Reckless Shots obtained!]
 
And last of all, a Skill just for her. For the Goblin who did it, against the bets of even the world itself.
 
[Skill – She Flies On Another World’s Wings (5 Seconds) learned!]
 
The Goblin laughed. She dove past the blinded Drake, rolling her wings—taking incoming anti-air fire. Flashing out of the clouds, searching for her people. Then she’d have something worth protecting. Worth killing for. Until then, she flew.
The [Fighter Pilot] of the Flooded Waters tribe.
 
——
 
A Goblin in a fighter plane flew through the tortured skies of a battlefield where mortals lost their lives. She wove a trail through the hail of shells and enemy aircraft and never fired her guns. She was searching, searching desperately for the people she had to protect.
For a true enemy to turn all the machinery, all the wrath, all her skill and will upon. Her worth as a warrior was not in how fast she could kill, but why and how she chose to fight. When she sat in this mechanical contraption, the product of countless minds and ideas, held together with bits of metal and flying through the air, she was one of the most beautiful things in creation.
A masterpiece; an idea. The first of her kind.
Truly, the first. There were other Goblins in the air, and Drakes and other beings as well that had the class, but it was a fake class for a half-made people.
They weren’t real. They had no souls, according to some points of view. But mostly, they hadn’t earned it. These beings were impermeable to the eyes of the divine. More akin to ghosts than living beings.
Why? Well, simply because they’d been created for this Skill. Their natures in reality weren’t grounded. For instance, Major Hotwing had personality, drive, ambition. [Ace of the Skies] was his class, and he had real Skills, memories, and thoughts.
