Everything. The secrets of Goblin Kings were bare before her. The creation of the entire world starting from when the Grand Design arose—and even before that—was recorded here, if not as organized before the Grand Design had been activated.
But she was ceasing to care. It was too much. She was dissolving, becoming part of everything and nothing. A single mind could not handle even a fraction of what she saw.
Mrsha twisted lazily, sighing. One last bit of her own will drifted across her mind as she pivoted to curl up.
I wish…
Her momentum kept her spinning round and round in the air. There was no air, but Mrsha’s eyes opened wide. She had no momentum, no rule of Newton to let her move. Yet she spun.
What?
The girl uncurled, then realized she had moved. Moved…in a place where even oxygen and time held no sway?
What the heck? Mrsha touched her body, then saw it. A single line of meaning, drawn onto her character, a glowing string scrawled by the Grand Design of Isthekenous.
Second Edition.
[Fatebreaker Child]. And [Lesser Immunity: Fate]. It was like the thinnest membrane of…existence surrounding Mrsha. A force-field that let her keep thinking, even move slightly. Mrsha stopped her rotation by twisting right and turned.
Rags! Rags!
She had no voice, nor was there sound, and she shouted at the Goblin until she saw Rags was frozen. Helpless. Rags couldn’t move or react—Mrsha could.
A silly thought entered Mrsha’s head as the all-encompassing universe around her beat her down. A bit of her personality fought back and asserted control. She closed her eyes; it didn’t stop creation pouring down on her, but it helped her focus. Think like…Mrsha, a selfish child, not all of everything.
 
Game Over. Next time, don’t let Adult Mrsha come through the door!
Would you like to try again? (Y/N).
 
Okay, that was more like something Erin or another Earther would come up with. But it was enough. Mrsha tried to become…Mrsha. She lifted her paws, remembering she had them, then made a ginger, sweeping motion with her arms.
She did a butterfly stroke through the void, swimming, wiggling her body, as if she were in the water. And she moved.
Slowly, ever-so-slowly, she drifted through the void. Forwards…though that was a completely arbitrary direction. Like an astronaut, Mrsha had to learn how to orient herself in every direction and realized that each movement caused a similar backwards motion. It should have left her unable to go anywhere and at the mercy of the void, but she could intensify or lessen the bubble of existence around her.
If she concentrated hard, she began to move—then she could reduce the effect of her [Lesser Immunity: Fate] Skill and slow down, like Apista in syrup. That was the start.
How long it took for Mrsha to get any semblance of movement in order, she didn’t know. It didn’t matter; time was, after all, stopped. But now she had a mission, so she ‘swam’ towards the only other person trapped here.
Rags. Rags, it’s me.
The Goblin’s eyes were wide, her mouth open, and they didn’t focus on Mrsha at all as the Gnoll grabbed her. Mrsha wondered if she could even see Mrsha, overwhelming as all this was. Mrsha hugged Rags.
I’m going to get us out of here. I promise. This is all my fault. But I’ll save you. I swear.
Her thoughts floated up around her, pieces of the girl, her earnest heart, her selfishness, her fears, and her guilts like vast clouds of beautiful personality. Mrsha’s eyes stung as she saw her flaws and her own virtues drifting around her.
Even her pettiest traits seemed so…pretty hanging in the void. Even that was better than nothing. She hoped she would remember that forever: that beautiful realization that she was her. Then she turned and searched around with Rags in her arms.
We have to get out of here. 
Lesser immunity or not, she was dissolving only marginally slower than Rags. If they did not escape, this place would overwhelm them with its sheer intensity. But where to go?
There were actually an infinite number of options. Mrsha could, in theory, go with Rags anywhere and anywhen, but given how slowly she was moving, she realized she’d be gone long before she reached, say, that moment with Marquin in the past.
Way too far away. It was all relative here, but relative to where Mrsha had been, if that made sense. She could actually see the [Palace of Fates] and the multiple worlds around her; they were pathways of existence surrounding her.
But something was wrong. Mrsha swam towards the place where she and Rags had been, pulling the Goblin [Chieftain] with her. She reached the exact place where they had been standing, the room with Pyrite, Headscratcher, and Kevin in it.
Mrsha tried to pull herself back to the right spot, but she passed through the room, through reality itself. Why…? She saw the frozen Pyrite snarling, Headscratcher reaching out, Kevin shouting—
Time stopped. And Demsleth had gone through the door and killed the Faerie Flower root.
Oh heck. This place wasn’t ‘real’. Or if it was real, whatever parameters assigned to Mrsha weren’t letting her interact with it. Until someone used another Faerie Flower root, Mrsha couldn’t return.
Second problem—they were drifting through a timeless space. No one would ever add another root. Mrsha cast around.
I have to find another open door. The one Erin’s in. Or Brunkr.
Any of them would be fine. Now, she truly felt like an adrift particle of dust trying to draw herself into the stream of reality once more. Mrsha sensed she was fading away. It wasn’t a visible thing, but some of…her…was being lost.
It was like—diffusion. There was so much of the rest of reality that it was permeating Mrsha, causing her to drift apart and share what she was with everything else. Like how a drop of ink vanished in water, this would soon be her end. Fortunately, it wasn’t bad—yet.
The core of Mrsha’s personalities, her emotions, her memories, were the center of her being. She was probably losing what it felt like to scratch her butt on a Lundas four years ago first. But soon—
Somewhere, anywhere. The problem was that Mrsha realized her ‘reality’, the main reality, was far away from her. The [Palace of Fates] was a Skill that diverted from the main dimension; all Skills like this were contained, separate sub-dimensions you could enter.
That was why the Faerie Flower roots worked to breach into the palace from the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The three Skills were stacked on top of each other, in a sense. They were, after all, connected by Empress Sheta’s line of Skills, neatly organized and filed.
The roots had drilled down into the [Palace of Fates], seeking what they lived on: fate itself. The problem was that Mrsha was in a branch-timeline. Swimming ‘up’ all the way back to even the [Garden of Sanctuary] would pass through the palace, all the doors there, up towards reality…
Too far. Now, Mrsha was a diver without any reserve oxygen, searching for any place she could survive. It had to be somewhere in the [Palace of Fates], but even getting back to the hallways was so damn far…
She was swimming now, pulling Rags with her towards the nearest tendril of real reality she could find. Mrsha passed through it and realized it had been fake. She flailed through a timeline where Relc and Valeterisa had never met, cursing.
Where—where—?
It was hard to tell which ones had a Faerie Flower root in them! There were so many, and they looked alike. Souls or not…what was a soul, anyways?
Her thoughts were drifting. Mrsha cast around and realized she was off-course. She began to swim towards the main [Palace of Fates] again and understood she would never make it. Her struggling slowed, and she began to drift. Her paw loosened, and she and Rags were adrift.
I tried. I really did. Sometimes you still fail. That’s the thing about hope.
They were passing by one final timeline, and it was…black.
Black? To Mrsha, it seemed like someone had drawn a cloud of smoke over the entire thing, or one of the funny black lines on Chaldion’s reports. Redacted everything.
But it was just a surface-layer thing, like a curtain to keep people from staring into it. Mrsha remembered she had seen this timeline before. But where…?
Her mind was hazy, so she just glanced down at herself and read her own history. Oh, right.
When she and Rags had been trying to see the truth of the Goblin Kings. Duh. The [Palace of Fates] had decided she was too low-level to know it or view back that far, so Velan the Kind being born and that other timeline where they’d asked for a new Goblin King had been created and then redacted.
Funny. The Grand Design had to still make both alternate realities, then hide them away. That struck Mrsha as being slightly inefficient. The entire [Palace of Fates] felt pretty inefficient.
Probably why they’re stuck right now. Poor things.
It was the first time any being had ever pitied the Grand Design, but she could see them laboring away on this insane task. But what was this…timeline? Mrsha had run out of energy to swim. She and Rags were about to vanish, so she could ponder it as long as she wanted.
Mrsha was resigning herself to the end when she realized someone was moving. And this time, it wasn’t her.
It was Rags. The Goblin was still frozen, but she was being…pulled towards the hidden timeline. Like gravity was acting on her.
Goblin. The Goblin was being pulled by the presence of…Mrsha reached out and snagged Rags’ leg. She hung on, and they began to move towards that reality. But it wasn’t going to save them. It was just another door. And there was no root…
Wait. Wait. Mrsha stared at the place where the reality connected to the [Palace of Fates]. She saw a single root in the door. How? Who the—?
Mrsha read the moment it had been placed there by a panicking Dyeda, confused and unsure of what to do. She’d snuck up to one of the two Goblin King doors and—
Oh no.
Oh yes.
They were being sucked down now, and Mrsha felt something like real gravity on her. She felt her sense of being returning—she twisted, mouth open, and saw Rags blink at last. Then try to scream.
Rags! Mrsha’s thoughts streamed at Rags, then vanished as they were pulled into the created reality. The Goblin [Chieftain] was twisting.
“What? How—?”
Rags, hold on! There’s a root! We have to get back!
Mrsha’s grip was loosening. They were passing through the membrane where reality started, and it was ripping them apart with a force she couldn’t resist. She saw Rags’ eyes fix on her, and the Gnoll girl turned.
Which one was it? Which—she stared at the [Palace of Fates] behind her and read the answer in a little note card pasted to the door by her paw.
If another Goblin King emerges. Not sure who.
Mrsha began laughing hysterically, and Rags reached for her, then they were torn apart and fell back into the world. Into the future.
One of the two Grand Designs noticed the two beings reappearing and watched as it silently labored and counted every deed of every being.
Mrsha thought it smiled at her. But then again, before she blacked out, she could have sworn one of the Deaths waved.
That bastard Faerie King was definitely laughing.
And then—
 
——
 
Mrsha hit the ground. She fell straight down from about a second floor’s height, hit the ground, and suffered.
Mostly because she’d landed on hard marble. She whammed down and lay there.
Pain feels so great. Mrsha raised a bloody nose and savored how her blood ran and flowed for a while. It was so novel and wonderful and simple, despite being infinitely complex, the movement of blood vessels which in turn had followed genetic code which countless trillions of cells had organized into—with some mistakes—
That sense of infinite joy in the cosmos and her understanding of the divine plan wore off after about another minute when Mrsha snotted out a bloody booger. Then she wiped her nose and groaned.
Ow.
By the time Mrsha sat up two minutes later, she barely remembered most of what she’d seen. A few things stayed with her, like that memory of Marquin, but her head hurt, and so did her body.
I fell. What the heck happ—oh. She glanced up and guessed that she’d fallen from about where she’d been in The Wandering Inn, on the second floor, when she vanished.
That hurt. I hope Rags didn’t land on her head. That really seems like it’d suck.
Where was Rags? Mrsha knew they’d been yanked apart, and she had to guess they were thrown across this reality. Rags had moved towards whatever was pulling her, a being that could defy fate itself.
No points for guessing what that was. A Goblin King was so powerful he could mess with reality. Mrsha swore she’d read some insane Skills—but she couldn’t remember whom it was. She clutched at her head.
No, wait, that might be from hitting the ground so hard. Ow. Ow. Ow.
She wiped her nose on her fur and peeked around. As she saw—actually saw with her eyes—she realized she…might be in trouble. Because she might have been thrown anywhere in this alternate future Goblin King timeline.
Or she might be right where she’d been in The Wandering Inn.
Either way—she didn’t like where she’d ended up. Because there was no inn. There were no walls. But there was a huge slab of marble on the ground.
Real marble, the hoity-toity stuff, all one block, near pure white, in a vast, fifty-by-fifty foot slab on the ground. Some of Mrsha’s lessons with her mother had included how to tell if something was expensive or fancy. She’d always thought it was a waste of her valuable childhood learning potential, but as it happened…here she was making snap judgements on marble quality.
Thanks, Mom. I’ll see you again, I promise.
Mrsha judged this piece of marble was probably out of reach of a single ordinary [Lord]’s income, unless they were bankrupting themselves to do it; the flooring alone was insanely costly, and there was an object, a stele, a cenotaph, in the center. Just a monolith of squared stone ending at a point. It was the only thing here.
An expensive marker, certainly. Only, the value of this place had been lowered significantly by the pieces blasted out of the stone. Cracks and larger gashes had marred the polished surface.
Intentional defacement? It seemed more like the byproduct of a battle or someone would have done a better job here. Mrsha gazed around and saw little else of note.
Just the Floodplains of Liscor, dark and windswept around her. It wasn’t spring or it’d be raining, and there was a chill in the air.
Autumn, then. Or a cold summer’s day. Mrsha frowned as she blew her nose with a handkerchief from her bag of holding and tossed it aside. Then she realized what was off about the Floodplains of Liscor.
It’s flat. 
