Mrsha knew smartphones. The Earthers let her play with them, especially Rose, to earn points, and she had tapped on some of the apps and realized a lot of the functions of the devices didn’t work without the ‘internet’, wherever the heck that was. All the Earthers loved to complain about not having it.
Now, at last, she saw what a properly-working smartphone looked like, because the Courier tapped an icon in the bottom right, then hit another button. She was moving so fast that the colorful screens and text flashed too fast for Mrsha to process. The Gnoll girl’s face was still slack when the Courier stopped, held her phone up horizontally, and smiled into it.
“Smile, kid!”
She beamed at the smartphone as it clicked—and Mrsha stared up at the image of herself and the Courier on-screen.
It had just taken a picture of her! Mrsha was wearing a dumbfounded, slightly shell-shocked expression, and the Courier woman had a great smile on her face, showing all her teeth. Then her fingers danced over the screen, writing a message. Mrsha’s slack-jawed expression of incredulity grew more pronounced as she read what it said.
 
“Just saved an orphaned kid from the middle of a warzone while doing scouting work for the Izrilian Alliance! Nearly got shot, but a Courier’s gotta do what a Courier’s gotta do! I’d better get her to safety!”
#couriers #courierslife #onadelivery #couriersoutbound #stories #traumatizedchild
 
The—the Courier hit ‘post’, and Mrsha saw the image blink. Then it showed her profile picture, which was of a Courier mid-run with lightning bolts around her, and her name.
Persua “Lightning” Mavva, Courier.
The post was blinking as a bunch of little hearts and stars blipped underneath it. There was a number, and it was going up fast.
Persua—Courier Persua—alternate universe Courier Persua, the Lightning Courier—grinned happily at the hearts on her social media post. Then her smile blinked out as an ominous noise began playing from her phone. Mrsha saw an icon appear.
‘Lord Supreme Commander’ was calling. His icon was a giant steel-toed boot with spikes on it that Mrsha was almost positive wasn’t his face, but how Persua saw him.
“Uh—hey, Lord—”
“What are you doing, Courier Mavva? Report!”
The roar made Persua jump and begin running faster.
“Hey, I barely made it out of there! I reconnoitered the entire front—you’re right. They’re coming, and it’s a lot of armor. I’m inbound. Say thirty minutes? I got the kid too—”
“Get over here immediately. The [Archmage] wants to be briefed. And bring that child. If they’re a Doombearer, I need to interview them. Are they hurt? What have they said?”
Persua hesitated, glancing down at Mrsha, and she didn’t get the sign language.
“I think they’re too scared to talk. I don’t think the Goblins did anything to them.”
“They don’t harm prisoners. Just—bring her, and I’ll have a medical squad on standby. Stop posting.”
“Yessir, on my way, Lord Xitegen.”
Persua hung up, not looking too put out by the call, and then glanced down at Mrsha. The girl’s mouth was so open that she swallowed a fly at high speeds and began hacking it up. Persua slapped her on the back until it came out.
“You want food, kid? Water? Eating’s rough when I run, but don’t you worry. Lord Xitegen will take care of you. You can tell everyone the Lightning Courier saved you. Name your firstborn daughter after me.”
She winked, and Mrsha wondered if this really was the worst of all worlds. But then Persua glanced over her shoulder, and suddenly, she was really running. Sweat was running down her neck, and her armpit was damp. She muttered to herself as she glanced over her shoulder again.
“I think this one’s it. I’ll take you south myself, kid. Either that or we’ll find out whether Goblins shoot Couriers and children.”
She accelerated, and Mrsha almost swallowed another bug. But after all, Mrsha just didn’t know that there were the best of Persuas and the worst of Persuas.
Her world had one of the worst of Persuas.
 
——
 
This entire world made no damn sense. No…think of it another way. If Mrsha could take in a world ten years in the future and find it odd, but somewhat relatable and understand what had changed, this world was too advanced.
When they came to the army camp, she didn’t recognize it.
Oh, she knew [Soldiers] when she saw them. But when Persua slowed to avoid hitting a moving…car…Mrsha felt like she was watching a movie of Earth.
It was, in fact, a jeep-like device with an open roof loaded with Drakes who got out, rifles slung over their shoulders. Each one was wearing what appeared to be a cloth uniform instead of armor, but they passed by a traditional [Knight] in armor on a horse.
Or what Mrsha had taken to be a [Knight] in armor until they flipped up a visor to reveal they weren’t Human or Drake or any species.
A metal face and round ‘eye’ of glass projected a scanning beam over Persua and Mrsha. Little metal wires criss-crossed the face, sinking into the artificial body as the Golem spoke.
“Lord Xitegen awaits you, Courier Mavva. Please take the child to Medical Area 1 for immediate examination and personal decontamination and—”
“Yeah, yeah, scanning.”
The knight-golem-robot kept riding a circuit of the camp, and Mrsha passed by a group of Humans wearing heavy plate armor laden with magical runes.
They looked like Gold-rank adventurers with all the magical enchantments on their weapons, and they were armed with halberds. Currently, they were sitting around a campfire in front of tents.
There were so many damn tents. They were lined up in rows, allowing passage and organization through this vast warcamp. On the way in, Mrsha had seen and smelled a lot of people beyond, but in the middle of it, it felt like a city.
She heard a dozen different conversations with each step Persua took and saw just as many species.
Gnolls, Drakes, Humans, of course, but even Dullahans, Stitch-folk, and yes, Golems. One was sitting, hands folded together, not eating with the rest of their squad, but chattering away. It looked like a suit of armor if you put a smartphone screen on the visor; the screen was showing a Gnoll’s face, grinning before the face turned quizzical and stared at Mrsha.
“Doombearer. Lookit that.”
The entire squad of [Soldiers] glanced up, wary, and Mrsha heard the Gnoll in charge grunt. He was big with [Shaman] paint on his fur as well as those military fatigues. He had both a ‘gun’, one of the compact ones the Goblins had been carrying, as well as an axe and shield at his side.
“That’s not good. Though if she’s from the north, maybe the Domed Cities had some kind of disaster?”
“Doubt it, or they’d have a…Goblin Doombearer or something. Do Goblins have Doombearers, X1-5?”
The Golem soldier made a thinking Gnoll’s face.
“Fuck if I know. Searching…‘no Doombearers have been reported out of any other species but Gnolls’.”
A Human [Soldier] grunted and rolled his eyes.
“I could look that up on my phone. Why are you dumber than me? You’re a machine.”
“I’m good at shooting things, fleshbag. You want a calculator watching your back? I’ll go get one—”
Laughter, and then Persua was past them, still carrying Mrsha. The girl was wiggling now—she wanted to go back and ask that squad everything at once.
“Hey, kid, stop that. Just a bit further—hey, Courier on the go! Move it!”
They hit a snarl as they crossed a line of people waiting to get some food. A bunch of surly Drakes, and one turned and glared.
“There’s our bigshot Courier. Ever heard of information blackouts?”
Persua gave the Drake a charming, huge smile.
“Heard of ‘em, but I never pay attention to that kind of stuff. I just run. You ready for a fight? Because the Domed Cities are sending the big guns south. I saw their airfields were all active. And a lot of tanks, not just transports.”
The Drake [Soldier] stared at Persua as the rest of the ones in line turned as well. Each one had a yellow sash on one arm, Mrsha noted, and they were grim, even for the [Soldiers] here. She worried Persua was going to get punched—then wondered why she was worrying.
However, the Drake just grinned and spat.
“Ancestors, that’ll be fun. Those bastards already copied our designs?”
“Something just as big as the Grimalkin II’s. Not as many; they’re mostly still transports. The new ones seem like a prototype line.”
“Well, thank our [Master Engineer] for that. Don’t worry; we’ve got enough armor to hold the line, even if they take the skies. Kevin himself is going to be on the front.”
“Kevin?”
Mrsha’s began thrashing around as Persua’s brows rose.
“Sounds risky. Argh—I’ve got to get this kid to medical. Good luck!”
“Pallass remembers!”
Every single [Soldier] lifted a fist and shouted, and Mrsha felt a chill run down her spine. She gazed at them, and Persua jogged on.
The Courier was the anti-version of the tight-lipped professional. But she was not…ill-loved. She called out encouragement as she ran, doing a commentary to Mrsha under her breath.
“Crazy bastards. I’d sue for peace if I had a choice. You and I’ve seen the Domed Cities. Or at least, I have. They’ll never take the north back even if they win, but I guess they have to go, or we lose the entire south. Hey, good luck out there!”
Mrsha couldn’t tell if Persua was the rat-faced, sallow bitch that she presumed any Persua to be or a genuinely decent Courier. She was so disorientated by her companion that only when Persua plonked her down on a table did Mrsha realize they’d entered a markedly emptier and cleaner part of camp.
“I didn’t see any blood, and I’m not winged.”
They’d passed through a weird, pulsing barrier that had removed all the dirt on Mrsha’s fur. It was coming from two metal pylons, and the [Doctor], who was wearing a red cross on her uniform, snapped at Persua.
“Courier, please! Gentle! Hello, miss. Are you okay? Does anything hurt, first off? I just need to make sure you’re okay, then we can get you some food and ask you what happened. Alright?”
It was a nice-looking Drake lady, wearing more of those collared uniforms everyone seemed to like, only this one was green with the aforementioned red cross over a white square background on her chest. She had also had a badge.
 
Captain Withra Gemscale.
2nd Platoon, Alliance Army.
 
She ran a fancy scanning device over Mrsha, another piece of sci-fi technology. Everything here was glowing screens and magic; heck, even the table Mrsha had been put on was a floating gurney that auto stabilized even if Mrsha leaned over the edges. Persua began taking more selfies of herself and Mrsha as the [Doctor] glanced at the scanner and Mrsha. The girl had pulled her trusty quill and notecards out of her bag of holding.
“What’s wrong?”
Hello, I cannot speak. My name is Mrsha, and I am mute. I’m not hurt. Please tell me where I am and what is going on? I was in the Floodplains, and now I’m here.
The [Doctor] did a double-take at the writing.
“Dead gods, cursive? That’s amazing you can write so well, Miss Mrsha! Mrsha…hm, well, you’re in the Alliance’s war camp, and we’re about to meet the Domed Cities at the Floodplains. So this is not the place for you to be. As soon as we get you checked out, Lord Xitegen may want to interview you, but then you’re going south, somewhere safe. Courier Mavva, can I trust you’ll take her?”
“Duh. Sorry, how do you spell #responsibility?”
Doctor Withra didn’t dignify that with a reply. Instead, she checked her scanner and frowned.
“Okay, let me just check…wait a second. I might need a second test. Can you hold out your paw, Mrsha? I just need—”
She pulled out another object, which had a little glass capsule on the back of it attached to a long, hammer-looking device with a round nozzle of some kind. Mrsha was so interested about what everything did she didn’t realize what was going on until Withra held Mrsha’s paw expertly and the device punched a tiny needle into Mrsha’s paw.
It sucked out her blood, and Mrsha jerked and glowered. The [Doctor] held up a guilty claw as she unscrewed the capsule and walked over to another orderly.
“Sorry! I just needed a bit of blood! Can you run an all-spectrum test on this? And do we have any candy?”
Mrsha wasn’t that upset at losing some blood in the grand scheme of ‘I was nearly shot’ and ‘I was rescued by Persua’ and ‘I nearly melted in the infinite cosmos of reality’.
…But she did accept a lollipop that was bright yellow and tasted of lemon. Persua opened her mouth.
“Doc, can I go already? I need—”
Withra inserted a second lollipop into Persua’s mouth, and it shut the Courier up as the [Doctor] gave her a scan.
“You’re clear, Courier Mavva, though you need hydration.”
“Got it.”
Persua pulled out a bright sports drink and took a huge gulp of it. Then she pointed to one of the logos sewn onto her suit’s sleeves.
“Sponsored by Energywaters. You want one?”
Mrsha took the drink. It was tasty, refreshing, and sweet! The [Doctor] refused to take a drink—or let Persua go.
“I’m tested, aren’t I? I need to report to Lord Xitegen or he will kick me over the High Passes.”
“Not yet. I’m just waiting on a result for your passenger.”
Mrsha was feeling great after her lollipop and drink, and she was boiling with questions she was writing down. The [Doctor] glanced at the first one.
“What’s the year? 5243.”
Mrsha stared at her. The [Doctor] helpfully clarified.
“Five thousand two hundred and forty-three years after the Creler Wars. After Flos?”
She started laughing.
“Oh my—that brings me back. How do you know that? You can’t remember that. No, we went back to the last date we could record reliably, the Creler Wars, and marked that. No more of this silly ‘new era’ setting the clock back. Otherwise, we’d keep being in the double digits forever.”
Mrsha hesitated. That was a good answer, she supposed, but she decided to just go for broke.
When did the Goblin King emerge, please? Who was he?
Abruptly, Withra stopped laughing, and Persua glanced up from her phone. Both women exchanged a look, and Withra replied softly.
“Sixteen years ago. Who is he, you mean? Or do you want to know what we say instead of the Domed Cities? Where were you, Miss Mrsha?”
The Gnoll’s quill stopped. Mrsha wrote slowly.
You mean, he’s still alive? The Goblin King?
Withra Gemscale nodded carefully. She checked her scanner, then scanned Mrsha again. Persua frowned at Mrsha.
“I thought you were running away from the Domed Cities. How do you not know…”
Her eyes focused on Mrsha, and she put her smartphone away deliberately.
“What kind of a kid has quill and ink in this day and age?”
