The Goblin pulled the throttle lever on the side back and felt the engines begin to roar around her. The sound was muffled, but she found herself slowly accelerating as the rotary wings on the plane began to spin—the Skyshadow plane moved forwards slowly, then faster and faster with alarming speed.
“You’re almost at speed. Pull up. Pull up—”
Hotwing’s voice was echoing around her, and Fightipilota gingerly pulled the stick up as she’d practiced a million times in her head. She heard a voice, narrating to herself, and felt that familiar lurch she’d experienced when the Frost Wyverns leapt into the air.
Then she was off the ground, and she glanced left and saw the airbase falling away from her. The Skyshadow flew upwards at such a high angle and velocity that Fighti realized she was too high only when someone shouted at her. Then she depressed the stick and levelled off—and she was amidst the rainclouds.
She wasn’t breathing, the Goblin realized. Fighti tried to make her lungs work—but she couldn’t speak a word as the voices asked her if she was okay.
I’m here. I’m doing it. I’m…
Lucky? Fighti had gone into this world, and a set of ridiculous circumstances had granted her the impossible wish she’d held. A daydream; stories she’d heard from a young man from Earth that had captivated her.
That was the thing about chasing dreams. When you caught one, you had no idea what to do. When you reached a dream, part of you wished you were still chasing.
“Fighti! Fighti—what’s wrong?”
“It’s not me. I don’t deserve this.”
The Goblin was shaking. She gazed down at her claws, and her vision was blurry. The aircraft lurched, and she took her hands off the throttle. She could plunge downwards if she made a mistake. So it just—flew. Straight ahead, as someone began counting down to the battle.
“Fightipilota, you’re up in the air. That is you, isn’t it? You’re flying. You were meant to fly. Just keep—stay with Scar Wing, understand? Or circle back and—”
“No.”
Fighti wiped her eyes. She sat in her dream, and it fell apart around her, because she hadn’t earned this. She had not survived the decades of war to reach this spot; hadn’t trained. She’d just walked through a door, and maybe she’d earned that…but she’d forgotten why she was here.
She was ashamed. The Goblin, not a [Fighter Pilot]—she didn’t have the class, and she didn’t deserve it—closed her eyes, then adjusted her microphone. She hit a few buttons and set it to every channel she could find.
“This is Fighter-1. I’m looking for Chieftain Rags or a white Gnoll girl. Mrsha. I’m their way back home.”
A dozen voices answered Fighti instantly, and she listened to the expletive-filled tirade telling her to get off general frequency until a voice cut in that silenced the others.
“Fighter-1. Identify yourself.”
That voice. Fighti’s entire body shivered, and she replied automatically as she saw the lights on her screens—flicker. Her plane accelerated as if someone had injected it with more speed, and when she grabbed the yoke, it reacted even more fluidly, not unpredictably, but just—better, as if it was being controlled by her thoughts.
“This is Fightipilota. I’m in the skies next to Scar Wing. Who’s this?”
A pause.
“I am Goblin Lord Rags. Your Chieftain is reaching my position now. A white Gnoll child has been spotted among Lord Xitegen’s forces, to the rear. I cannot wait for you to land. Prepare for combat.”
Fighti saw other planes flying to her right and left, above and below her. Some of the pilots were staring at her through the window, and one raised a gloved hand. She waved back—and spoke.
“Acknowledged.”
Hang on, you two. I’m coming. She might not have been a [Fighter Pilot], but she was Fightipilota. And—the Goblin gripped the flight stick with both her hands.
She had a plane. Then she heard a voice crackling over the radio and realized that many, many miles away, the battle was beginning. She listened to Lord Xitegen’s voice as he gave a speech.
 
——
 
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations peered up from the metal bunker shrouded in protection spells where a headquarters had been set up. She stepped away from the aerial images showing the Alliance’s forces spreading out over the Floodplains.
Crisscrossing tunnels had formed in the dirt and were spreading even as the Chieftain who’d entered the room watched. Some kind of Skill—[Soldiers] were taking cover in them, but more were following the huge tanks, which resembled her armored carrier except for the big guns on top. There were armored jeeps with [Soldiers] sitting in the sides, machine guns—
An entire army to face what seemed like a single warplane’s worth of Goblins surrounding a tiny metal bunker. True, their position was shrouded in magical spells, but Rags’ group was the only reinforcements left to arrive.
She’d flown away from the mad Goblin King two hours ago; it was inconceivable that he’d make it here, let alone the Battleborn 2nd or anyone else. But Rags didn’t say that to the Goblin Lord.
It felt pretty stupid to point out the obvious. So instead, the [Chieftain] waited as the Goblin Lord inspected her from head to toe. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was metallic. Her right arm, parts of her chest were all metal. She even had an odd…cylinder protruding from her armor.
Her heart? It pumped, suddenly, and made a ‘rm’ sound. Rags swore she saw the metal glowing faintly. Aside from that, Ragathsi looked slightly older—tired—but her hair was black and had that half-cut weave that Chieftain Rags was starting to think she should adopt just because everyone else was doing it. She had no wrinkles, no grey hairs.
She was just old in different ways. The Goblin Lord’s eyes gleamed with intelligence, unrestrained intellect. She was…all of it.
She was the way Goblins were reciting callsigns and passcodes, the units of organization that let you tell what quadrant on a map an enemy was on, the glowing computer screens, the complex cities that Rags had passed over, the social media applications, and the helicopter she had just disembarked from.
Ragathsi was civilization itself, and she gazed at the Chieftain and guessed what Rags was—or at least, enough of it for her to reason out what was happening. In an instant. The Goblin Lord had a blade at her side, a submachine gun on the other, trailing paper from the magazine feed. But even without weapons of the future, she was the deadliest Goblin aside from the Goblin King that Rags had ever met. Not even Greydath of Blades…
Not even he was her level. The Goblin Lord met Rags’ eyes, then broke away her gaze.
“Hey.”
“Hey. Nice future.”
“Thanks. You’re not looking bad yourself.”
It was the most…Erin-level dialogue Rags had ever partook of. To hear it from the Goblin Lord…a passing member of the command staff slipped and stared at them, then hurried past. Every Goblin in earshot paused, and the Goblin Lord gestured.
“Let’s go up. Battle’s not beginning for a few more minutes. Did you hear I found Fightipilota? Someone spotted Mrsha at the back behind enemy lines.”
She motioned Rags to the side, and they emerged from the half-buried bunker and stood on the Floodplains. All Rags could see was a line of armor, infantry and tanks combined, waiting.
The moment they fire, everything in front of them is going to die. This wasn’t a sane organization to the enemy, not with sightlines of guns. Rags understood, now.
“This is insane. He’s lining up his army like chess pieces.”
“Well, of course he is. If he dug in and fortified positions, I’d bomb them out for weeks before going in. We control the skies. He challenged us to this. I accepted because I needed to pin down his forces.”
Chieftain Rags glanced over her shoulder—nope, still no army. She turned away from Xitegen’s last stand.
“You’re going to kill him. This isn’t my battle. Can you at least get Mrsha to come over here? Fighti’s up there—it’s her dream. But I can’t let her die.”
Fightipilota had found them. Hope—but there was something hopeless about the Goblin Lord’s shrug.
“Even if I could convince Xitegen to send Mrsha over—and he is reasonable—no. The Goblin King is rampaging around Oreshome. Every second he’s not fighting, he’ll murder our forces and try to escape. The only option I have is to contain him behind every spell and barrier I can.”
“I met him.”
The Goblin Lord paused as she leaned on her sheathed sword. She turned, and Rags realized one of her feet was mechanical too.
“What did you think? He told you what he did.”
“I shot him. He dodged it.”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations smiled mirthlessly, baring her teeth.
“I tried to kill him too. Then I nearly…I used him. Everything was gone. It was use him or watch the world wipe us all out, so I did. Mrsha. The inn wasn’t there when I arrived. It was just…erased. I looked him in the eyes, and he asked me who our greatest foes were. Then he gave me a name.”
The [Chieftain] had no words to express. How must it have felt? How had she continued? Eventually, Chieftain Rags spoke.
“Twenty-two years. You built a place for Goblins. Homes. Countless homes. Your cities are beautiful. What I saw of them—the hospital is wonderful. Goblins grow up safe, and they’re a—a people. I didn’t know Hobs were every Goblin’s adult form and we were hungry. Who could have known that? You have Fightipilota’s dream, and you haven’t just slaughtered every other species you can find. You’re going to make peace after this battle. It’s amazing. It’s incredible—”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations’ smile never changed.
“The cycle breaks. They swear by it these days. But it isn’t broken. Not really. The Goblin King lives. May he live as long as possible—no matter the cost. For when he emerges—I called him a curse upon our people.”
“So did I. The cycle is…”
A finger reached out and poked the younger Goblin in the chest. Ragathsi’s gaze contained the rise of cities in them, millions of lives. They were horrific as much as they were wondrous.
“Don’t say it. Not you. I never broke it. I failed the day he emerged. All I did was shift the system. I broke the north. I killed so many Humans and displaced them—stole their cities, forced them to flee—I have made a place for Goblins. Now, we’re a people. No one will be able to sweep the Domed Cities away this year, or even in ten years. Perhaps it will happen—but we will be a people. Like the damn Drakes. Like Humans. That’s all I did.”
But the Goblin King would one day emerge, and even if they were safe, it was at the point of a sword. The barrel of a gun.
“Maybe that’s how you have to do it—”
The Goblin Lord’s claws gripped Rags’ cheeks, and she drew her counterpart closer with gentle, impossible strength.
“No. Not like this. Keep searching. If you are from another world—keep searching. This is not the answer. I know it must seem it, but this is the answer of a Goblin who lost everything. She lost the woman who she believed in.”
Rags tore herself away, unsettled, as a figure walked forwards in front of his army. Lord Xitegen. It was starting. But the two Goblins just spoke to each other.
“Erin Solstice is not the answer. She cannot save us…she’s just one woman.”
The Goblin Lord’s eyes crinkled up, and she laughed at the silly half-lies her younger self spoke.
“Yes. The answer did not die that day. But my hope did. We were always connected to her from the start. Stay here. If we are losing, I will send you to New Celum. That’s where Fightipilota emerged. Even if Xitegen kills me and the Goblin King, he won’t be able to move on New Celum. He’ll send Mrsha. Just watch.”
She was walking forwards and stood, arms folded, a lone figure to match the [Lord]. Rags called out after her, looking around at the empty Floodplains.
“But—there has to be something! I know the Goblin King’s nature! I have beheld his madness, and I swear, I shall never let him arise! Not like that. Is that all? Give me some hope, please! It’s all falling apart in my world. Am I supposed to go back with these?”
The revolver and crossbow were in her hands. Spoils of future worlds—weapons of death beyond anything her world had. Rags shook them at the Goblin Lord.
“Is this all the [Palace of Fates] has for me!? Show me something to believe in.”
Ragathsi of Civilizations halted, and she blinked back at her younger self. Then she craned her head back until she peered at the thing they stood in the shadows of.
The High Passes. The Goblin Lord smiled, and she flicked a finger upwards.
“Madness consumes the best of us. Some have longed for it, and the Goblin King answers their wish for destruction. But not all. Tell me, Rags. Didn’t you ever read The Second Antinium War, by Krsysl Wordsmith?”
The…Rags blinked and wiped her eyes.
“That idiot? What about him?”
The older Rags tsked softly. Like a schoolteacher that she should have been, the Goblin reached out, and a worn and dog-eared book fell into her hands. She read from it.
“He was always a better writer than he knew. I wondered for ages, then found it with my own two eyes before I realized the clues were here all along. It was ever those two keys. Ah, here’s the passage.”
She read out loud.
“The sudden retreat by the Goblin forces may have been due to the Goblin King’s absence from the battlefield at that time. Confident in the abilities of his Goblin Lords to maintain the siege, he had vanished from the battlefields. Reportedly, the Goblin King had rapidly moved south with a small force, entering the High Passes. There he vanished for eight days.”
Rags knew that passage. She’d read it at one time and didn’t see what the point was.
“I know that, I mean—that’s when he hid his ‘treasure’. But it doesn’t say what that was. Teriarch told me that he helped make the keys to the treasure.”
“The Dragonlord of Flames. You’re so close. You know the answer! Think of the Goblin King, Rags. Look at him. Velan was no more the monster that the Goblin King becomes than Rabbiteater. He was a healer. A Goblin who tried to make peace! He fought for his lucidity—but it was too late. It always is. Every time a Goblin King emerges, rage overwhelms the single soul. Remember that! You need time! That is why Greydath waits. That’s why he tries to find the moment a Goblin King arises, and Kanadith is his [Herald]. The Goblin Lords are trying to find a soul who can withstand his rage.”
That was why they were hidden. That’s why Tremborag saw a conspiracy—Rags’ mind was lighting up. The rage. If there was a way to contain that rage, fight back the gestalt of souls that possessed a new Goblin King…
