He was lying in a puddle of blood; his legs were riddled with those arrows. Someone was pouring a healing potion on them, but the Goblin knocked it away.
“Get me a [Doctor]—now! Those are damn Evercut Arrows. Where is that Garen-headed idiot?”
All the other Goblins had rectangular objects out and were aiming them at Fightipilota or the downed Goblin. She stared at them, then strode over to the Goblin.
“Hold still, you’re bleeding bad. Hit an artery. I’ll stop the blood.”
“Don’t touch me, you idiot! Rip those arrows out and I’m dead! Don’t touch—huh.”
Fightipilota didn’t touch the arrows. Instead, she ripped her tunic off, tore it in half with her claws and teeth, and tied it around his legs—hard. Normally, you needed a stick or other long object to twist the cloth around to get maximum tension—Fightipilota looked around, but the street was all artificial. And the damn arrows were vanishing; made from a Skill? So she grabbed the next best thing: one of the phones a Goblin was holding.
“Hey! What the—”
Fightipilota used that to finish the tourniquet. She cut the blood flow off and performed an impromptu tourniquet for his other leg—this time with a folded umbrella someone handed her. The blood flow almost entirely ceased. It’d take his legs off if he didn’t get help soon, but it was that or he’d bleed out.
The Goblin who’d saved her had a sharp haircut, much like Student Rags—and a lot of tattoos visible, even with his suit on. He stared down at the tourniquet as Fightipilota sat back.
“Huh.”
“Medic’s coming! Hold on!”
A Goblin screamed at them, the same one who’d shouted first at Fightipilota. The Redfang warrior felt at the other Goblin’s head, then slapped his cheek.
“Stay awake. You need blood.”
He growled at her, eyes searching her up and down. He was in a lot of pain, but he seemed—confused.
“I know that. You can tie a tourniquet?”
“Yah. Duh.”
“And you’re too empty-headed to notice an arrow siren and go for cover? I’ll kill you—”
He tried to strangle her, and she fended off his hands until he lay there, panting. Fightipilota spoke after a second.
“Sorry. I didn’t know what it was.”
“You—”
He pulled himself up and then stared at her as if he’d seen a ghost. The Goblin’s mouth opened—well, Hobgoblin.
They were all Hobs standing here. Over a hundred Goblins on the street, all dressed like—like—
Like Liscorians. No, Invrisil citizens. All fancy. One Goblin had on a fluffy neck-thing around her shoulders, like a scarf, only it was a fuzzy pink caterpillar. High heels, fishnet stockings—Fightipilota stared at the most improbable and impractical Goblin clothing ever.
The female Goblin who’d been shrieking at Fightipilota wore a casual t-shirt and jeans and held her phone up—she was hitting things on her phone with one hand, typing as she spoke.
“This is so crazy. This is so crazy—everyone’s poking about this! My mom is poking me about this! I’m on the news!”
“Huh?”
Fightipilota’s head hurt. Losing all her classes probably had something to do with that. The Goblin on the ground was speaking.
“You…what do you mean you didn’t…hey!”
Fightipilota walked away, sidled over to the young Goblin and stared over her shoulder. The Goblin felt…young. Fighti gazed at her, then around and realized she didn’t see a blade in sight. No one was armed; only the downed Goblin who’d saved her had anything that resembled a weapon, and it was this long tube thing at his side with a crossbow’s trigger.
Everyone was on their phones. She knew phones from Kevin, but she had never really played with one. Fightipilota stared over the young Goblin woman’s shoulder and saw a confusing display of images.
 
Fishcat033 — Omg. She right here! so crazy Human right now. Blood everywhere! Cn u c me?
 
Next to ‘Fishcat033’ was a picture of the grinning Goblin with a backwards baseball cap on her face. Beneath the message, little icons were appearing.
A bunch of little thumbs up icons, an image of a flailing Human with noodle arms, several skulls of various kinds, all animated—and then someone replied.
 
Fishmom — ARE YOU ALRIGHT SPACICA?
Fishcat033 — IM OKAY MOM
 
When the Goblin hit the button that made the words appear on screen, a little Goblin icon appeared next to ‘IM OKAY MOM’. It was an image of a Goblin doing a spin and then pointing two fingers to the side as his head came down.
Fightipilota stared harder. Then ‘Fishcat033’, or Spacica, glanced back and realized the other Goblin was staring over her shoulder.
 
Fishcat033 — she’s staring over my shoulder rn. No illusions. so weird!
Thistletack4 — You’re famous, fishcatty!
 
The same icon appeared of the Goblin doing the twirl-dance next to Fishcat’s message, and then another one appeared next to Thistletack4’s message—a Goblin slamming his hand down on something, then shaking it out and grimacing.
What. Is. This?
Fightipilota was adaptive enough. She could at least read most of what was being written—though Goblins were not the most literate, except in the Flooded Waters tribe. But she had no idea what some of the contractions of words were.
Context made it all make sense, as did all the little icons that popped up. Every time Fishcat033 said something—or rather, wrote it—a bunch of symbols would pop up.
And then whenever someone said something they felt was important, a Goblin performing some kind of gesture would appear. It was surreal for Fightipilota to run into a social networking creation this advanced, but it was also something she could intuit and understand after a few minutes of staring.
Why? Because it was a Goblin’s creation. Some of it made sense.
Communication via text was not a revolutionary idea. Being able to send messages at the speed of whatever this was was only technological advancement. You could give a group of people who had never seen a smartphone a text messaging application and they’d be fluent with it within the month, especially younger generations.
If you gave Goblins any Earth-created social media application, they’d be able to use it to varying levels. But what if a Goblin had the time, money, and resources to make something like this?
Well, if you met a Goblin of Fightipilota’s tribe, they’d say it sounded horrible, because Goblins were such social beings that if you couldn’t see other Goblins’ body language or poke them, were you really talking?
Much of modern Goblin language was highly conditional on body language. Which did not, obviously, translate well into a digital format.
Hence all the little icons you could react with. Hence the stylized dance or moves each user had—their own personal signature. There were even options for more complex gestures.
When Fishcat’s mother began asking more questions, the irritated Goblin drew a complex shape on the screen, and a miniature Goblin appeared, thunking her head into the palm of her hand.
Which the mother replied to with a Goblin staring down at her feet, turning away—clearly hurt. A wave of disapproval came through in the forms of thumbs-downs and glaring little faces, and Fishcat, flustered, made a Goblin with her ears drooping.
Her ears drooping—because it was a digital Goblin doing all the gestures, but Fightipilota read the interplay nearly perfectly. Her jaw dropped. She only tore away from the phone when the Goblin covered the screen with one hand.
“Hey, you’re sort of staring. Are you okay? Why did you stand out there? You’re on the news, you know. Everyone’s poking about you.”
“Poking who?”
Fightipilota had never felt like an old Goblin, but the expression the young one gave her made her instantly feel like it.
“Poking online? On every app! See?”
The billboards were lighting up with the dramatic replay of Fightipilota standing in the rain, then beginning to run as the arrows came down—multiple angles, shaky recordings from people on the street—
Then the other Goblin charging out at the last moment and hurling into her, propelling her to safety.
The news was everywhere! From every angle—and Goblins were commenting on it, writing messages, giving interviews, talking—
Fightipilota had never seen this much communication happening at once. Her mind overloaded from all of it, and she focused on what she did know.
“Where this? Where am I?”
 
Fishcat033 — I think she’s drunk or on smthing fr fr. 😨
 
“Stop writing on there and answer me!”
Spacica flinched, and the other Goblins drew back. Fightipilota panted for air.
“I don’t understand. What is this…is this a city? No—where’s—there is a white Gnoll girl and a Goblin who both—do you know where they are?”
She asked the question and immediately knew that unless Mrsha and Rags had appeared as dramatically as her, it was a stupid question. The young woman hesitated.
“How do you not know about…? That guy needs help. A medic’s here.”
Indeed, some Goblins were charging across the ground of the street out of a big…Fightipilota knew cars.
Kevin had told her all about cars and airplanes, so she recognized the vehicle as they skidded towards her downed savior. They had a tourniquet and tools, but they saw he wasn’t bleeding out and began injecting him with a far more complex-looking bloodbag than the Flooded Waters Tribe Goblins used.
If Fightipilota didn’t miss her guess, she was staring at a transparent bag of holding filled with blood. One of the [Medics] was speaking rapidly.
“Major Hotwing, are you with me?”
“Yah, yeah, I am. My king-damned legs. Wait, don’t haul me off. That Goblin—that Goblin—”
He was delirious, trying to point at Fightipilota; the [Medics] were racing him to the ambulance, and Fightipilota almost went with them.
She felt like she was in trouble, but no one was hitting her. Spacica clearly thought so too.
“Um, shouldn’t you go tell a Watchman what you did? Or something?”
At least they had the Watch here. A Goblin Watch—Fightipilota slapped herself. It hurt. Focus.
“Answer my questions. Where am I?”
“Uh. New Celum. Duh. Are you on something? Hey, medics, she’s—”
Fightipilota might not have had her warrior classes anymore, but she was still a fit Goblin warrior. She grabbed Spacica’s shoulder.
“Shut up.”
“H-hey! Don’t do that! It hurts!”
It was the most pathetic response Fightipilota had ever gotten from any Hob…ever. She narrowed her eyes.
“You sound like a child. How old are you?”
“E-eight! I’m almost fully grown! Even if they raised the adult age! Wh—how old are you?”
Spacica did rally, then, and tried to yank away from Fightipilota. The other Goblin’s jaw dropped. She was four and an old woman in Redfang culture.
“I’m four.”
“You’re four? Why aren’t you child-sized?”
The two were horrifying each other. Fightipilota gasped for air.
“Child-sized? You mean normal Goblin sized?”
“Normal—you mean malnourished! You’re crazy! She’s crazy! What’s your user tag? I’m calling someone to look at you!”
Fightipilota had no idea what a ‘user tag’ was, but she suspected it was the name you had if you were using the phone stuff. She stepped back, breathing hard.
“I need to find Rags and Mrsha.”
When she said ‘Rags’, several people just peered at her and backed up more, as if she was crazy. Fighti stumbled forwards, unsure of what to do.
She was lost in a world where, clearly, you had the phone-things to get around. Everyone was walking into shops or—or buildings, and they were all Goblins.
Once the arrow-sirens had stopped blaring, all the magical shields vanished, and Goblins just went walking around. The arrows had vanished; they must have been made from a Skill. There was some damage to the ground, but the cityfolk just kept on…citying.
More than one Goblin walked towards a cafe where a [Waitress] was getting people seated. She was glancing at a phone in one hand as she did it and stared at Fightipilota.
“Hey. I need some water.”
Fightipilota was parched from, well, a lot of mental effort. The [Waitress] hesitated.
“Uh—sure? I can get you a bottle. Just scan here.”
An icon popped up, and Fightipilota stared at the number on screen.
“What? I don’t have a phone.”
“You don’t? Then how…”
The [Waitress] actually recoiled when Fightipilota offered her a gold coin, a massive overpayment.
“That’s southern money. I don’t think we take it—hold on, I can get the manager. Um—um—”
“Forget it.”
Fightipilota walked forwards in a daze. She only turned around when the [Waitress] shouted. She ran after Fightipilota and pressed a cold, translucent bottle into her hands.
“Wait! Here, just drink this.”
The Goblin stared at the bottle, then tried to tear the cap off until the [Waitress] had to show her it actually unscrewed. The Redfang drank half the bottle in one go, then wiped her mouth and sniffed the weird, semi-malleable container.
“What is this? What is this made of?”
The [Waitress] was giving Fighti much the same look as every Goblin in earshot. She replied hesitantly, poking the bottle.
“Plastic? Are you okay?”
To her surprise, the Hobgoblin just gave her a wide grin. Fightipilota downed the rest of the water and wiped her mouth.
“I’m not dead. I need to find someone. A Goblin—her name is Rags. I don’t care how funny that sounds. And a white Gnoll girl named Mrsha. Who do I talk to to find someone?”
The [Waitress] stood there, then fumbled with her phone for a second before coming up with an answer.
“I—I have no idea, but they should be in a database. Ask the military people.”
“Who, the Chieftain? Are there lieutenants? Goblin Lords?”
“Chieft—oh my Goblin Kings, you really are…no. There’s no Goblin Lord in New Celum. At least, she’s not here yet. Just ask the military people—you know, the [Soldiers]! I don’t know—here, I’ll get you directions to the Watch or their army-buildings.”
The Goblin pulled the address up, and it made no sense to Fightipilota, but the [Waitress] showed Fightipilota a map with a handy line in it, and the former [Wyvern Rider] memorized it instantly.
“Got it. Thanks. By the way, is there another Rags alive in this time?”
The reaction everyone was giving her was telling her that. The [Waitress] just stared at Fighti.
“Yeah. She’s…Rags. The most famous Goblin in ever? Someone else is actually named after her?”
“Huh. Yeah. Mine’s pretty cool too.”
