“Ah. Archmage, I can explain.”
Xitegen’s head jerked up, and he sketched a bow as Mrsha began floating upwards. The girl flailed around, then saw an imperious woman descending in a sunburst of glorious light. She was floating downwards, followed by nearly a hundred [Knights] on horseback. Their steeds were galloping through the air.
Flying [Knights]. Well, I’ll be a pig’s uncle. Mrsha blinked at them, then all her attention was drawn to the Archmage of the future. Her mouth opened, and all conscious thought left her head.
Xitegen glanced at Mrsha and made a sudden connection. He spoke quickly.
“This is Mrsha du Marquin. I had intended to let Engineer Kevin speak to her, but he is delayed and we have no time. Miss Mrsha, may I present the Archmage of Dawn? She has committed to this bloody field. It is—rather personal to her. Archmage, do you know Miss Mrsha?”
“Mrsha?”
The woman frowned. At first, she had been half-blinding; her magic was pure radiance, and she still had a nimbus of light around her. Her robes were bright white and gold, and Mrsha saw hovering spears made of light.
Zero points for guessing what kind of magic she used. Her eyes were not like flashlights or bright yellow as you might expect, though. Indeed, they were actually a pale brown, and her hair was more purplish than anything. A deep ruby red that had streaks of purple in it.
She also had spectacles, and Mrsha swore the woman was familiar. She knew this face. But she had never seen this face. And if the Archmage of Dawn had ever laid eyes on her…
“Mrsha. Mrsha? Why do I know that—oh. My sister had a child named…Lord Xitegen. Is this a joke?”
The Human’s eyes flashed dangerously, and she whirled, but Lord Xitegen merely offered her his sardonic smile.
“Not at all. Miss Mrsha, this is Archmage Vernoue, formerly of Calanfer. The Eternal Throne is no more, but she has not forgiven the Goblins any more than I have.”
Mrsha’s mouth opened as Vernoue’s head swung from her to Xitegen, and the [Princess]’ face went slack. Now, Mrsha recalled—Vernoue! The [Princess] who liked spells, the 5th Princess of Calanfer.
She had become an Archmage of Wistram? A real [Archmage]—if her entrance was anything to go by.
“Cloning? Chronomancy? How…?”
Vernoue lifted Mrsha up, and the girl waved at her and began to write in the air. Lord Xitegen cleared his throat.
“As to that explanation, it shall have to wait. Could you teleport this child to New Celum, Archmage?”
The woman re-focused and snapped at him as she and Mrsha floated down to the ground.
“Past the Goblins’ wards? In a warzone? Don’t be ridiculous! Why there?”
“She needs to go there. Very well. I am convinced that Miss Mrsha should stay. Courier Persua, you are dismissed.”
“What? No! I’m not leaving some kid to get shot, even if there’s an Archmage guarding her!”
The Lightning Courier objected, but Xitegen just talked over her.
“Persua logic dictates I am even more correct. Archmage, can you ward our medical camp? That will do it.”
The Archmage of Dawn swung her eyes from Mrsha to Xitegen, but she nodded and began casting spells. Mrsha was bursting with a thousand questions for the woman, but she could see Lord Xitegen pulling an old-fashioned pocket watch out of his jacket.
He checked the time.
“You will stay with Captain Withra. We have codes of war; the Goblins will not fire on medics behind the front lines.”
What about in the battle?
Mrsha had seen movies, and she remembered comments from the Earthers about that. Xitegen shrugged.
“No. We shoot Goblin [Medics], so they shoot ours. Don’t look at me like that. I don’t recall who started it. Courier, the girl stays.”
He offered Mrsha a crooked smile as he closed the pocket watch, overriding Persua’s objections.
“I know something about duty. Looks like the Goblin Lord is arriving ahead of schedule.”
He pointed, and Mrsha saw black shapes on the horizon, merely dots…but dots where even the largest Wyverns would be invisible. Xitegen patted Mrsha on the head.
“Chief Engineer Kevin will have to wait. It was a pleasure talking with you, Miss Mrsha.”
He held out a hand, and Mrsha shook it gently. She didn’t ask him if he wanted a way out or had thought of it. The [Lord] adjusted his jacket, slapped his behind, possibly for good luck or motivation, then strode forward as vehicles began slowing.
Persua watched him go, then backed away.
“Kid, come on…”
She reached for Mrsha, but when the Gnoll girl didn’t take her hands, she tried to snatch Mrsha and go. Which was commendable of her; a wall of light blocked Persua, and she locked eyes with the Archmage of the Dawn. Persua backed away, hesitating, then ran.
Vernoue du Marquin and Mrsha locked gazes for a second. The woman jerked her head abruptly.
“If you are my sister’s daughter, then I will seek you out after this battle. I have warded the camp. Anything short of the Goblin King will fail to harm you there. I…does this mean Lyonette is alive?”
One question. One answer. Mrsha held up a notecard.
In my world. Tell me, how did you become an Archmage? So I can tell you…if it’s something you want to be.
Archmage Vernoue’s eyes widened, and she traced a finger across her lips wonderingly. Her face—and it had lines, Mrsha realized, despite her relative youth—burst into a brief smile. Then she shook her head and turned away.
“So much more magic than Wistram holds. Me? I wish I had gained my class another way, a better way. First, I lost my sisters. Then, my kingdom. Ailendamus let me become the [Mage] I wished to be, but I should have fought for it. All of us were too content with our banal misery. Menisi, Lyonette, Seraphel, and who among them found that happy ending?”
She stared past Mrsha, towards the [Knights] with their lances lowered in the air, and began to float upwards. She met Mrsha’s eyes.
“If you should ever meet me—tell myself that I will have nothing but regrets. I would rather be Menisi than Shardele. There are far worse things to be. Tell me that.”
Then she was flying away. Mrsha’s head craned back, and she saw a flying company of Terandrians lined up in the sky, ready to charge. Below them, a line of armored tanks was spreading out as they reached the flat Floodplains, and Mrsha saw the end of a war of roaring vehicles, guns like thunder, and a Goblin’s triumph.
The Archmage of Dawn drew a glittering symbol in the air that shone like a northern star as the soldiers below her cheered. Magic and defiance and voices raised for battle as Lord Xitegen strode to the front of the line.
Mrsha felt nothing.
Dead gods, she was tired. The girl sat with the jeep driver, asking questions and watching the Human man driving, an eager smile on his face. She peered at the controls he was working with his feet, and then her eyes followed the Lord Supreme Commander of the Izrilian Alliance, Lord Xitegen Terland.
[Patriarch of the Five Families, Nemesis of Goblins]. Level 68.
When she peered up and saw the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, Mrsha knew he was outmatched.
 
——
 
The battle was going to take place in the Floodplains of Liscor at 0930. All forces were moving to the Floodplains, and the Goblin King was on the way.
Goblin Lord Rags and her ground forces were already close to the area; it was the long-range fighters and bombers who would be launching in 15 minutes or less. Due to the relative distances, they were trying to save on fuel to limit the amount of time they spent refuelling.
New Celum’s airbase was one of the areas from which aircraft could deploy, and they were launching the heavier ships into the air, whirring, roaring birds taking off, some of them vast monsters of metal laden with explosives. Sleeker, smaller fighter crafts, like sparrows next to Dragonlords, were launching last, given their speed and limited fuel reserves.
Fightipilota had a very good understanding of what was going on, including troop deployments, because the voice over the base’s intercom kept announcing all of it, which was great if you were a complete idiot and had no idea what was going on.
…She suspected that several [Soldiers] needed the reminders, like her. But that was military for you. Redfangs were stupid.
She was following around other Goblins wearing jumpsuits of bright green. The material wasn’t armor; it was lightweight, meant to keep a pilot warm in the upper atmosphere, and not enchanted because their crafts were already over-tuned beasts of electronics and magic. Similarly, enemy detection spells might catch them if they were shot down.
She’d been here for over an hour in the airbase, and thus far, no one had called her out. Which seemed improbably lucky, even to Fightipilota. But she assumed it was because she looked sort of the part, and because when you got down to it, it was easy to blend in if you looked the same.
—Mind you, this entire world still made her head explode. This city, all this advancement, was beyond anything that should have existed, even in, what, twenty years? How had it all happened?
Well, one reason might have been the glowing turbines of…well, power that she had seen elsewhere in the city. Massive, massive furnaces of metal with glass doors that held some kind of glowing energy inside. So much mana that it had made even the unmagical Fightipilota feel like she was licking an [Archmage]’s staff. She could see, in the distance, one of the giant generators and fields outside of New Celum, with giant, industrial-sized plows moving in the rain.
“Big farms. Biiiiig farms.”
She just didn’t get where all this metal was coming from, or magic. You had to mine that stuff up and it was hard as hell. Then again, there were so many Goblins around here that it was possible they just had enough hands.
There were hundreds of thousands in this city alone, Fighti guessed, an insane number. How? Even if you took into account Goblin pregnancies being shorter than average for most species, her run-in with the ‘young’ Hobgoblins spoke to years of Goblins thriving in peace.
One answer, an answer that Fighti really didn’t like, was that the Goblin children were born of mixed couplings with Goblins and other species. Three to four months to bear a Goblin child plus…
No. There aren’t enough of the other species to make that be a thing. I don’t believe it.
She didn’t want to believe it. Probably, a lot of people had just had babies. If you doubled the population of a tribe twice a year—and had enough food and supplies to build big cities—
Now, there were other species, even in the airbase. In fact, Fighti passed by a Gnoll woman who was working on one of the airplanes. She glanced over, and the Gnoll woman sniffed and frowned at her; Fightipilota sped up hurriedly, joining the other cadets.
After the wave of Goblins had passed, she had seen Humans, Gnolls, Drakes—not many, but a decent minority. Which made her feel like these cities weren’t entirely built on the bones of other people. Also, it helped explain the Goblin boom if it wasn’t all…rape.
Any kid they have will still be Goblin. In a sense…that meant that any species who lived and intermarried with Goblins would inevitably decline until they were gone. Another disturbing thought.
—The Gnoll woman didn’t seem to be mistreated. She wiped at some grease on her cheek and only got more into her fur, then leaned over.
“Hoi, Eschk. Word?”
A Goblin [Engineer] got up from a squat and trotted over.
“Is it not the propeller after all?”
“Let me show you—”
Fighti walked past, sweating, as the Gnoll woman glanced at her back. She wondered if she smelled different, but after touching her nose and whispering with the other Goblin, the second [Engineer] gave Fighti a long look.
She didn’t see him shake his head and nudge the Gnoll woman, who gave him a longer stare and a push, then nodded to one of the patrolling security personnel. The [Soldier] was glancing up and down at Fighti and the other cadets and a phone. After a moment, another Goblin ran over.
“I got a printout. I had to go into the records—”
“Shut up and give me—”
All four of them leaned over the newly-printed image, then stared at Fighti. She turned her head and waved guiltily. They started—the Gnoll woman glanced around, then waved back. Fighti walked on.
Phew. Crisis averted.
She didn’t notice the way one of the Goblins walked over to poke someone else, who began tapping fast on their phone.
 
——
 
They reached a hangar bay with no incident, save for Fightipilota getting stuck at a security gate. But after a second try, her keycard opened the door—the security guard even showed her how to swipe it. Then she was here.
The Goblin pilots, some of them junior, were lined up nervously. Turnover for [Pilots] was…fast. They were flying giant metal coffins, and if they went down and survived being shot out of the skies, even [Featherfall] spells might not slow them enough—if they managed to eject.
Fightipilota lined up next to the last nervous cadet in line. She kept glancing down at something in her hand. The reason she knew all of this stuff about pilots, and why no one was telling a civilian like her to get out of the way, was, well…
The jumpsuit didn’t quite fit her perfectly, and it was slightly smelly, but the lockers didn’t have locks. And Fightipilota had found one of the smartphones someone had put down for a second, and she was watching a video right now.
“—and this is how you turn across the y-axis. Now, I’m going to gently, gently, take the throttle, and you can see how we’re rotating—”
There was a video of someone going through how a plane moved. It was mostly how Fightipilota had imagined it, but she was hyperventilating with excitement.
…The other [Cadets] kept on glancing at the Goblin who, to them, was watching a flying tutorial right before her first big combat mission. All of them were slightly edging away from her and clearly memorizing her callsign so they didn’t have to be next to her in formation.
“Attention! Commanders on deck!”
Everyone snapped to attention, and Fightipilota stowed her phone. She snapped a salute and saw an agitated group of officers stride past with some sciency-people. They were arguing—loudly.
“I need a [Pilot] who can fly or I’m not committing the craft to this engagement! This is a prototype—”
“Well, our best [Pilot] has more holes in his legs than he has bones thanks to some idiot, so this is all we’ve got, Chief Researcher. Damn it—have they launched our bomber teams already?”
The Goblin [Pilots] listened, standing at parade rest. Hoo boy. They communicated mostly telepathically with those exchanged glances and murmurs as the officers tore around, shouting.
