She could reach him very, very fast with the warplane and her Skills. Alone, she wouldn’t be able to storm the camp, but any lesser area—Rags flicked the safety off the weapon she carried.
It was a compact submachine gun with long, paper-like cartridges trailing out of a slot on one side of it, waiting to be fired. Far, far more advanced than anything the Alliance was carrying and so expensive only a few Goblins were authorized to use it.
If she fired it, everyone she aimed at died fast.
It was probably one of the reasons they were nervous around her.
“She is at the camp, Lord. We have information from the Lightning Courier who posted on socials with her—”
Rags’ heart stopped revving up. She sat down, cursing.
“Aspat. Very well. Mark her. I want her alive at all costs. If they send her south—track her. Don’t bother with the phone data stuff. She doesn’t have one. Get that other Rags to me alive.”
They did what she said. The Goblin Lord finished her breakfast, thinking. What did it mean? So many possibilities. She always liked the old Grimalkin theories.
Grimalkin. She was remembering so many names today. Rags finished eating, and someone reminded her.
“…what? Oh, the broadcast.”
“What are you doing, Lord Rags? We can touch up—”
“I don’t know. Where are my personal possessions?”
They ran to spill them out as camera-crews came in. It was slightly raining, and they focused on her, many of the operators just staring in awe. Rags didn’t go into the cities anymore. Too many people, too young…she was too scary, they said.
She knew her body, the metallic chest, her arm, were visible even with her armor on. Rags shifted and pointed at something one of the Goblins held like relics.
“The guitar.”
It was old, worn, and not electric; just an old-fashioned guitar. Her bodyguard stirred when they saw her lift it into her hands. They knew it; they knew all the stories.
Numbtongue’s guitar. Instantly, her top aide, the fussy one who always called her ‘Lord’, spoke.
“We’ll download a bunch of songs onto your hand in thirty seconds, Lord. You don’t have to sing along—”
“What? No.”
Rags cancelled the whatever-they-were-doing to her hand with a thought. She had control over this kind of stuff. It was her nature as Goblin Lord. She was way behind the modern techs and programmers and whatever classes they had, but she didn’t have to be up to date.
She willed it; it be done. That hadn’t changed. She kept telling them that. Levels still mattered as much as firepower.
“But, Lord—”
“Anyone can tell when something is fake. I’ll play a song, and they’ll know it’s only my hand. It’s pathetic. It’s manufactured. How do you not…see that?”
She didn’t get it. The aide shrank back, and Rags relented. She was a good helper. The last one had exploded when they’d teleported a bomb onto her. This one had more metal in her than flesh, but she’d taken the job over.
“I—show me a list of all the songs you can put into my hand.”
They did, and Rags scrolled down them, sighing as hundreds of songs filled her mind. She sorted through all them.
“Fine. I’ll do this one. It’s not on the list. Do whatever you want around me. The point is…it’s not something you can fake. That’s always the point. I’m doing it again.”
So saying, she leaned back and began to strum on the guitar in a familiar motion. She was no great player like he’d been, but she’d taught herself enough.
The cameras began rolling; perhaps they hadn’t stopped, only waited for her to do something interesting. The Goblin Lord stared into the distance as she played.
This is what her people saw:
One arm of hers gleamed and shone with metal; the other was flesh. Her face was still flesh-and-bone. But you could see that unique contraption on her chest, even the place where her heart should have been. They’d tried to kill her so many times—and even her heart wasn’t her own.
The Goblin Lord seemed tired, but there she was, being broadcast across the Domed Cities. Across the world. She had broken the Walled Cities, taken the north, fought on every continent and won—
The honorary Death of Demons. The greatest nemesis of the Hundred Families of Terandria. The being who commanded the Goblin King. But she had only ever had one title, just as the system had named her long ago.
[2nd Goblin Lord of the Goblin King of Betrayal – Ragathsi of Civilization].
They still thought she was the first Goblin Lord who had pledged to him, but that hadn’t been true. She had tried to kill the Goblin King—then seen the need for him. That was when she had sworn herself. Forsworn herself.
The Goblin Lord didn’t sing, just hummed along as she looked up at the gentle drizzle of rain which passed over her. Her eyes glowed with the might of the Goblin cities.
The rain came for her, Xitegen’s curse upon the north. He loved trying to do it to her. She gazed upwards, and the shower of arrows vanished. Rags tossed her head back, and that half-cut weave she’d never gotten bored of was fitting for a far younger Goblin.
She felt old. And she played a song filled with nostalgia. Then her eyes gleamed, and the warplane’s jet engines began to roar. They became a thrumming, howling vortex of metal and fury as Goblins ran for safety—all except her bodyguard, who stood, some within a dozen feet of the spinning jet engine turbines without fear or movement.
 
——
 
The Goblin Lord pointed south and stopped playing. She handed her guitar down to Musicsword and stood. Behind her, the city she had helped build flashed with light and technology, and she exhaled.
“There. There’s your video. Move out.”
They would meet the Alliance in the field of the Floodplains by midday. Then they’d end this fifteen-year war. If Rags and the Goblin King died there—the Domed Cities would lose their two greatest warriors and an army of their finest troops and technology.
They’d have to conscript and redeploy their forces and panic and suffer and struggle. They could mobilize four times that number of troops within three months.
If the Alliance lost its forces, they would have no more armies left to stop her. Then she’d let them sue for peace.
The Goblin Lord stretched and waited for her heart to start beating again. Until then, until they found the curious Goblin wearing her face, until the moment came—
She took another nap.
 
——
 
Rags opened her eyes and beheld a dream. She sat up, wet gauze on her side, tubes hooked into her arms, soft linen sheets wrapped around her body. Her armor was gone; she was wearing a bright blue, full-body outfit with no leggings. Loose and free, so the tubes in her arms wouldn’t tangle.
There were bits of sticky paper anchoring the tubes to her arm. The [Chieftain] peeled the paper off and removed the apparatus, ignoring the twinges of pain.
Little bags of liquid bubbled, attached to a stand. Blood bags, but not holding blood. Rags stared at them, then rose from her bed.
A dream. She knew it. It was not this fancy room that made her believe it. There were curtains around this bed and cot—a machine with a lot of symbols that beeped every few seconds with the pulse of her heart. There were stickers on her chest with bits of wire anchored to her skin.
She yanked those off, too, and the machine began to make an alarmed sound, so Rags stared at it until she saw a black thing running across the ground. She reached down and pulled. Something came loose, and the machine stopped.
Then she went back to staring upwards at the real thing that mattered. This world was a dream. She knew it the moment she opened her eyes. It was the dream she had selfishly had, that every Goblin had dreamt of in their darkest, most desperate hours.
It was the light that the Goblin Lord Reiss had followed until his end, though he gave his soul to the Necromancer to achieve it. The same vision had manifested in Tremborag’s wrong mountain, the Molten Stone tribe—even the Island of Goblins, but these were, all of them, incomplete.
This was a place of Goblins for Goblins. This room could have belonged to any futuristic [Healer] or [Doctor]. That was not what proved it to Rags. She kept looking up at the ceiling of soothing, pale green plaster and the inactive light fixture. Just overhead, smiling down at her, was a Goblin’s face.
A sticker. It was slightly smushed, because the person who’d put it here, standing on their tippy toes, probably hadn’t gotten a good angle. But the sticker—no, stickers—were of a green, smiling face with red eyes winking down at her. Sharp teeth, a shark-like head of a regular-sized Goblin, all of it made out of a shiny, semi-reflective material that Rags had seen in the other future world.
A Goblin sticker with a little speech bubble coming out of the mouth that said, ‘hang in there!’
In Goblin.
“Oh.”
It was so silly, so insignificant, and it proved this was a Goblin place to Rags more than anything else. For who would have the time and energy to make an expendable piece of paper like that? A silly children’s toy—with a Goblin’s face on it?
Children, or perhaps adults, had lain in this bed, staring up at the ceiling, and then they had stood up and put more stickers on the ceiling. You could even see where some had fallen, their sticky coating having decayed.
That was all. Rags took a single breath, and her chest expanded painfully. Then she turned.
“The Goblin King.”
Just one minute of believing in this world. Then she could move, act, and think of Mrsha and all that was happening. That’s all she had wanted.
One minute and she could go a lifetime believing in the dream again.
The annoying beeping that had woken her had ceased, as had the blip-blip of the bags of liquid. But there was other noise around her. A humming—an odd thrum in the air, different from magic, from outside the room.
Distant thump-thumps! of sound, the reverberations striking the glass window of the room she was in. Rags saw the window’s curtains were drawn; she pushed them aside and saw steel shutters.
“Huh.”
They weren’t for her, or someone would be watching her. Indeed, it seemed as though great pains had been taken to make sure no one was bothering her; Rags glanced at the single door to the room and sensed people beyond.
Six. All Hobs. She knew they were Hobs. She knew they were Goblins.
She was surrounded by so many Goblins she couldn’t think. The largest tribe in existence—some of them who radiated the same authority as [Chieftains]. So many Hobs…
Rags glanced at the shutters. She could probably have pried them up if she used a spell, but she padded over to the door instead, listening. The people outside took no notice of her presence for a moment. They were whispering to each other, voices hushed, awed, and oddly—Human.
Non-Goblin, that was. Rags almost thought it, then she realized it was the fluency with which they spoke the common tongue. Even the Molten Stone tribe was different; they had excellent diction in both Goblin and the common tongue, but it was practiced, deliberate. This was the natural speech of people who had spoken this language all their lives. Rags narrowed her eyes as she put one ear to the door. A male voice breathed softly.
“—initely her. This is crazy. Should we tell someone?”
“The army’s aware. I bet everyone important knows. Or they wouldn’t have so many [Soldiers] in the hospital. Do you see the size of the guns they’re carrying? I didn’t even know we had—what are those?”
“But—but it’s her.”
“We don’t know that. The broadcast is totally different from—”
“Look at the old pictures. Look inside and tell me you don’t see—!”
“Shush! Is she still asleep?”
A mix of voices, male and female. Young-sounding. Rags ducked down and cursed, but she was saved by sheer luck: the privacy curtains around her bed were drawn.
“—Looks like she’s still asleep. Don’t check on her again or they’ll kick you from here to First Landing. Everyone wanted to see her. Doesn’t that prove it?”
“I don’t know. Who’d actually remember? Even the [Mayor]’s too young…”
“They had one of the original Flooded Waters tribe members in here.”
“Dead gods. Really? Who?”
“You didn’t see? Gothica Nightlady was here. All the lights went out. She and her people just appeared, and then—wait, I’m getting an alert. The vital signs went offline?”
Rags supposed it was the beeping machine. She thought about it, then grasped the lever on the door and pulled it down. She swung the door open, and a group of Hobgoblins rising to their feet recoiled.
They had shoes and more practical-looking clothing on. Though they did appear rather devoid of any symbols or adornments; Rags’ nose kept smelling the same weirdly alchemical scent.
Probably clean, unobtrusive clothing for a place like this. Two had cloth masks over their faces; when they saw her, they leapt back, one falling onto their backside in alarm.
“Dancing Demons, she’s awake!”
“It’s—”
One was holding some kind of object in his hands. A communications device—a phone, in fact. Rags saw him raise it to his mouth reflexively, then just stop, eyes on her. A crimson gaze with that faint, nigh-invisible pupil in the center.
She met his eyes and saw a Goblin. No warrior; he was too shocked. A Hobgoblin, but no different than she was. Standing there, gazing at her as if he had seen a ghost.
I am not the Goblin King. So I must be famous, living or dead. The Goblin King…Rags shuddered and passed a hand over her eyes. She was still woozy from whatever they’d done to heal her; she was amazed she was back on her feet so soon.
Her ribs barely felt tender, and she had smashed them so badly that she should have had pieces in her lungs. The [Great Chieftain] growled.
“Where is my armor? My sword?”
Then she recalled that Pawn had broken it. Erin’s sword, a gift to her. She’d thought it would have lasted longer…
“Y-y-you shouldn’t be on your feet! How did you even—hold on, I’m calling Doctor Rainhurst—”
The Hobgoblin orderly was fumbling with his phone, and Rags narrowed her eyes, wondering if she should stop them.
Security was nearby; this entire corridor was quiet, and this lot seemed to be healers who’d congregated outside her room. She could take them all out with her bare hands if they didn’t have some kind of Skill to nullify her.
…Rags didn’t move. She let the male Goblin with a shock of bright yellow dreadlocks call whomever he wanted.
“—She’s awake! She’s standing right in front of us! What do we do—”
They knew what to do, of course. They should have gotten her back into her bed; they were medical professionals, used to dealing with patients in general, even [Soldiers]. But not her.
