What was going on? Well, apparently, the hotshot [Pilot] that was meant to fly one of the new fighters had just gotten himself hurt on the way here. Command was throwing a fit, which meant someone else had to fly one of the new fighters.
Cold. Minimal practice, which is what the airbase’s commander was screaming at the Chief Researcher about. However, the [Researcher] was adamant.
“We have Skills that can minimize the training factor! This craft can make a difference to Goblin Lord Rags, but I need the best [Pilot] here. Someone give me the files? The files?”
“We’re sorting through who’s already in a craft and who’s here—”
The Goblin [Researcher] was close to blowing a gasket. She flipped the clipboard out of one of the younger Goblins’ hands and snapped.
“Just [Appraise] them, then! I swear, you military types get dumber every day!”
—Which was not how you talked to a bunch of soldiers, but she was stressed, everyone was stressed, and it always got taken out on the junior soldiers. A harried Goblin went running down the line, checking people’s levels and names.
“Under twenty…is below Level 20 acceptable?”
“What do you think? No! If there’s no one good enough, then I’ll fly it. Get me one damn class that’s higher than basic [Pilot]!”
“Level 16 [Promising Cadet]…?”
The Goblin [Researcher] actually threw a pencil at the Goblin with the [Appraisal] spell. The Goblin ran down the line, sweating and swearing, and then glanced up.
“Wait—I’ve got a [Fighter Pilot]!”
Relieved, she pointed at the Goblin last in line, who jumped and put her smartphone away and tried to appear professional. The [Airbase Commander] and [Head Researcher] strode over, and the [Commander] gave Fightipilota a dubious look.
“Do I know you, Cadet?”
“No, ma’am! I transferred in last week, ma’am!”
“From which base?”
“Uh, headquarters!”
“Huh. What’s your level?”
Fightipilota hesitated as the Goblin who’d seen her ‘class’ raised her [Appraisal] stone again, and the [Chief Researcher] interrupted.
“[Fighter Pilot] is the best we’ve got. You can’t get the class without flying three missions and seeing combat—do you have any experience with the Redwing aircraft, miss?”
“…No?”
The Goblin didn’t seem to know what the best answer was, so the [Chief Researcher] made an impatient sound.
“It’s fine. We have Skills—[Download Basic Familiarity]! There. Will that serve, [Commander]?”
So saying, she flicked Fighti’s forehead, and the Goblin staggered, eyes going wide. The [Commander] spun on her heel and hissed.
“Researcher Yoza, I would appreciate it if you didn’t use Skills on my people.”
“Your people fly my craft.”
“Exactly, and they’re putting their lives on the line to—”
The angry [Commander] wanted to poke the [Chief Researcher] in the chest, but she had forgotten that the older Goblin was still a Goblin. The [Commander] got a hefty poke to her cheek, then her chest.
“I designed those craft because I was a [Fighter Pilot] when you were sucking on your toes. I stepped off the front because prosthetic limbs weren’t reacting fast as flesh-and-blood, but every plane I put up in the skies is meant to save everyone’s lives. Don’t lecture me on what this job is. Do. You. Understand?”
In the face of the poking, the [Cadets] watched the [Commander] retreat, and they noticed the Chief Researcher did have a mechanical foot and hand. No wonder she was so good at poking.
They turned back to the unnamed [Fighter Pilot], and the [Chief Researcher] jerked her head.
“This way. Our best pilot, Hotwing, is injured, but he’ll walk you through the peculiarities. You are flying the Fighti Skyshadow, a prototype. Don’t worry; it’s only a prototype because it’s too damn expensive to build another one yet. It’s loaded with two Harpyfire 30mm magicannons, and—”
She was rattling off the specifications as she limp-walked out of the hanger. Planes were taking off as they exited the main hangar and headed through the rain towards a smaller one.
They must turn off the barrier spells so the planes can fly. I bet it’s tough if those arrow showers come in at the wrong time.
Fightipilota thought that, but she was mostly in a daze, grunting affirmatives to the impatient queries or nodding along. Is this happening? Is this real? Am I actually going to get in the aircraft because of my name?
…No. Of course not. Life was not so easy as that.
 
——
 
The [Fighter Pilot] and Researcher Yoza had reached the hangar of the prototype Skyshadow plane where [Mechanics] and [Researchers] were running countless tests on the sleek, blue bird.
She was beautiful. Despite her stung feelings, Airbase Commander Rejaw had to admit that Yoza was part of the reason why no one could take Goblins out of the sky. Of course, the other, bigger part of the reason was Goblin Lord Rags.
She’d designed all the original planes herself; many were still in service as patrol or interceptors in further-flung warzones. For this battle, which everyone was saying was the last one against the Alliance…they were using everything.
They had to; the ground was filled with the tanks of the Alliance, and they were monstrosities, Adamantium-plated, and many could withstand a direct hit from a missile or roll through Tier 5 spells without slowing.
Salazsar’s Adamantium mines…
Commander Rejaw was in a foul temper about Hotwing getting hurt and the attack on the Goblin King. There were all kinds of rumors going through even the brass, and she didn’t like it ahead of a big battle.
So it was really, really understandable that as Hotwing pulled himself out of the cockpit of the Fighti Skyshadow plane and people helped him down, a young Goblin ingenue was close to urination as she tapped the [Commander] on the shoulder.
“C-Commander. There’s a slight issue with our replacement pilot.”
“What?”
Rejaw turned, and her sharp teeth and big jaw, heritage from her famous family line, gritted together. The Goblin with the [Appraisal] spell gulped and stammered.
“Th-the spell didn’t malfunction, but I mistook some of the data for—”
Rejaw drew her to the side as Yoza strode for the plane, and the [Fighter Pilot]—whose name she’d never actually gotten—slowed upon seeing Hotwing.
They might be somewhat ineffectual at times, but they weren’t completely stupid. Rejaw heard the explanation, snatched the [Appraisal] stone, and stared at the ‘fighter pilot’ and saw the error at the same time as Hotwing saw the replacement pilot trying to hide behind Yoza.
His eyes widened, and his teeth bared. Rejaw had been hearing Hotwing cursing about the idiot who’d gotten him hurt by standing in the street the last hour. He’d been trying to get her to send someone to grab them.
But it seemed like fate had other plans. Rejaw stared at the stone in her hand. She stared at the name hovering over the Goblin’s head.
Fightipilota. Easy mistake to make, especially because…
The Goblin had no class.
 
——
 
“Scar-13, Watcher Tower, report entering right downwind. Runway 8, cleared for takeoff.”
“Thunderboat-4, Midriff Tower, report entering right downwind. Runway 15, cleared for takeoff.”
Voices were sounding across the base as she sat in the sleek fighter plane and…had no idea what to do. Oh, she had some familiarity thanks to the Skill, but she was not…
All she had was a name. It was a funny joke. She was waiting to be shot or hauled away by Hotwing. He had recognized her, but for a second, the Goblin sat there like a girl, running her hands gingerly over the controls and the fantastical technology in front of her.
I did it. I got to sit here, at least. But she wasn’t…really…meant to be here.
“Something wrong, Hotwing?”
Researcher Yoza glanced over her shoulder with a glare for Commander Rejaw. Fightipilota hunched her shoulders. In the movies that Kevin had played for her, on his laptop, she’d do something like gun the engines and take off. In practice, they hadn’t disconnected the fuel line yet, and she doubted it’d work out that well, anyways.
“All forces, prepare for transit in 16 minutes. Goblin Lord Ragathsi has entered combat zone. Repeat, 16 minutes to engagement.”
Everyone looked up, and Yoza slapped the wing briskly.
“Take care of the Fighti, pilot…I never got your name. When you get up there, it’s your choice. You’ll be flying with the other wings, but no one is going to be able to keep pace with you. At the very least, you can cover our bombers. The damn Drakes have their Dragonplanes gunning for us.”
Rejaw knew as well. She stopped as Hotwing uncrossed his arms. He was in a wheelchair, his legs bandaged; they had to literally stitch his flesh together because of the Evercut Arrows. Fighti leaned out the cockpit window to ask a question of Yoza that had been nagging at her.
“Why is it called the ‘Fighti Skyshadow’? This is a Skyshadow-class plane, right?”
Yoza’s brows rose, and she smiled, but it wasn’t a stupid question.
“Oh, that? That’s just a tradition with the newest model of craft. The first one’s always called the Fighti. But you’d have to ask Hotwing. He was an ace when I was a kid.”
Him? Fightipilota glanced down at the wounded [Pilot], and his eyes were upon her. Rejaw cleared her throat as a pair of [Soldiers] armed with submachine guns flanked her.
“Slight problem, Researcher Yoza. We may have to replace the pilot.”
“What? We’re sixteen minutes—it’s me or this pilot!”
Yoza lost her smile, and Rejaw met Fightipilota’s eyes. Then her gaze narrowed. The [Airbase Commander] hesitated, and one of the [Soldiers] glanced at the short Hobgoblin sitting there and, against all military protocol, pulled out a smartphone and began sorting through it. Then he closed the phone and pulled a wallet out of his pocket and gently removed a piece of paper. The big Goblin looked down at it, then at Fightipilota.
A lot of Goblins in the airbase had been doing that, come to think of it. The hangar was fairly crowded, even for an experimental plane. You had mechanics, soldiers, support technicians, even two [Janitors] all watching her.
Some were young, but most looked older, if not visibly aged because Fightipilota had never seen a truly old Goblin except Greydath—then older in how they carried themselves. Rejaw hesitated, and someone spoke up.
“…Our pilot’s in the seat. Let her fly, Commander Rejaw. I vouch for her.”
Hotwing. The wounded Goblin wheeled forward and craned his neck up at Fighti. Fighti…his eyes were focused on her face as she blinked down at him, mouth open. He studied her face, and she recognized that expression from the moment when he’d rolled over—no, the moment he’d seen her standing in the square.
Fightipilota’s heart began to pound suddenly, and she glanced at Yoza. The [Head Researcher] wasn’t blind. She turned to Rejaw, then stared at the audience. She opened her mouth to shout at them to clear her hangar, then took two steps back and peered at the picture the [Soldier] was holding.
Mutely, he flashed it at Commander Rejaw as the Goblin woman and the aide leaned over, and they stared at an image. Then at Fightipilota.
The image that she saw, that had been passed around from Goblin to Goblin across the entire hangar, was iconic. It was old as hell, from back when they still used [Magic Picture] instead of modern photography, and it was of a group of Goblins posing in front of a flock of Wyverns.
Each Wyvern had a put-upon look that said they’d been given treats and affection to get them to pose with their saddles and other flight-gear on, and even let the Goblins paint numbers on their haunches.
The Goblins wore ridiculously primitive flight gear. Nothing more than worn jumper suits, metal, and painted helmets. There were twenty-four of them surrounding their fearless leader, who was holding up a peace-sign and grinning into the camera.
Most of the people working here knew it by heart; [Pilots] kept the image in their jacket or wallets as a good-luck charm. Rejaw swallowed as her eyes flicked down, then to the Goblin sitting in the flight seat.
Identical. Her voice was hoarse as she turned to the others.
“—I have orders to call this in.”
Yoza’s chin rose.
“Well, I don’t. I have a pilot, fourteen minutes on the clock, and a promise to keep. The Fighti has always been meant to fly.”
Hotwing nodded slowly, and he was rolling backwards. He spoke up to the Goblin in the cockpit.
“Yep. Even if her namesake never made it off the ground in one of these—we can do this. Clear the hangar. Flight checks are good.”
“But…”
Rejaw hesitated, and then eyed Fightipilota. It was up to the Goblin sitting there, so she did the only thing she could do.
Fighti stuck a gloved hand out of the cockpit and raised one thumb.
“I’m ready.”
They probably weren’t a great military—the Domed Cities had existed for, what, less than twenty years? What kind of army had only twenty years of pedigree? New nations, even if they had all this military discipline…Rejaw glanced around, then barked.
“Clear the hangar! Skyshadow is cleared for Runway 13!”
Runway 13. Goblins had a sense of humor. The hangar doors swept open, and rain coated the dark blue plane. Fightipilota hit a button, unconsciously, and the cockpit began to close, an enchanted plexiglass seal locking until it was airtight. Her ears popped, and she heard a voice in her ear.
“Alright, Fighter…pilot. Taxi out onto the runway and turn right. The tower will give your launch conditions and say ‘cleared for takeoff’. When you go up, ascend until you’re at six thousand feet and keep level; you’ll be among the rest of our wings. We’re designating you as Fighter-1. Listen for your callsign. Yoza gave you enough familiarity to fly; if you crash on takeoff, I’ll laugh my legs off.”
It was Hotwing’s voice in her ear. Another voice cut in: Yoza’s, sharp.
“If you crash, I’ll shoot you when you crawl out of the wreckage. Let’s see if you live up to your name, pilot.”
Fighti flicked a button and saw a green light. She flicked two more switches as she aligned her aircraft along the dotted lines and felt the instructions Yoza had fed her making this all second-nature.
But she was…just dreaming. Fighti closed her eyes, then heard a voice in her ear.
“Fighter-1, this is Watcher Tower. Are you ready for takeoff?”
There was an edge in the air controller’s voice, and Fighti swallowed.
“R-ready.”
“Fighter-1, wind is coming left downwind at 8 knots. Runway 13 is cleared for takeoff. Good luck up there.”
“Thanks. Here I go…”
