Her head rose, and Ragathsi’s voice grew louder. She lifted her arms to the High Passes and pointed straight up.
“Velan knew he was damned! He knew all Goblins were! He spared his continent—told his people to hide, and took the armies here. To Izril. Why? Why here? Because of the High Passes. The greatest death-zone in the entire world. At the height of his victory, he vanished. He assailed First Landing. Why, Rags? What is missing in Wordsmith’s book?”
She hurled it at the Goblin Chieftain so hard it nearly took Rags off her feet, and the Goblin yanked it open and stared at the account of the Second Antinium War. There had always been something missing in Krsysl’s somewhat factual, biased tale of the Second Antinium War, hadn’t there? He wrote about Goblins like Antinium—the endless threat, powerful leaders like the Goblin Lords among them…
Savage peoples who won by weight of their numbers or species’ innate abilities. Never about their tactics, their own gifts for strategy, insight, warfare. Or…
“Armor. He never writes about our armor or weapons. The Goblin King smashed entire armies of [Knights]. He looted much of First Landing. Countless houses of Izril’s nobility died. He—he came from Baleros after destroying so many [Mercenaries], and I never heard of Goblins winning any battles with enchanted weapons.”
Her head rose suddenly, and the Goblin Lord smiled like a relieved teacher.
“Velan the Kind lost his war the moment he emerged. But he saw a path—for the next Goblin King, or better yet, someone who could meet his challenge. Atop the High Passes, he hid it all. Every weapon, every Relic and artifact that his armies plundered. Enough weapons to win the war for Izril. I claimed it with Rabbiteater. If you want hope—then climb. Even now, I would barely survive the journey without a Goblin King. There’s your hope. Seek out Kanadith, Izikere, and the others. We are all waiting—striving—to find that better tomorrow. He is the one who bars the way.”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations gazed down, and the Goblin Chieftain stood there, head bowed.
“But that solves nothing, does it? It just delays the problem till the next Goblin King. I get it, now. Velan sabotaged the Goblin King; but he couldn’t do more than hide these weapons away. How does that stop the Goblin King?”
She didn’t see it. For an answer, Ragathsi sat down on the grass, and her head hung.
“—It does not. And did not. Perhaps, he intended Goblins to use it to kill the next King. Or…”
Her voice was husky, and Rags heard her heartbeat again. That rumbling, like the pillars of the world shifting slightly.
“…Perhaps he intended that at least, this time, the Goblin King should end it all. If it cannot end, then at least let him win and let Goblins live in my shattered world of dreams. That is what I made of it.”
Her body rose, and she spread her arms, turning across this damned continent of the future. Goblin cities.
War on a scale that Rags had never imagined. The most bitter of victories. The young Goblin tasted ash on her mouth, like the burning of houses.
The cycle never broke, here. Now she understood the Goblin Lord’s cracked smile and her weary apathy.
Chieftain Rags hung her head. But not for long. Ragathsi leaned forwards and saw the head of her younger self rise—and in the depths of the crimson gaze, someone else gazed back.
The air across the Floodplains was still choked with fumes from the rumbling engines, but a strange breeze blew from around the Goblins’ bunker. It ruffled Ragathsi’s hair, and she beheld the being who stood before her.
A Goblin Lord gazed out of the younger Rags’ eyes. She knew not who she was—not quite—but she blinked at her hands and gave her older self a crooked gaze.
“Oops. I’m here too. But I swear, I shall use Velan’s gift wiser than you.”
Ragathsi of Civilizations blinked, her eyes opening wide. Then a smile of true delight crossed her features. She reached out and clasped arms with Rags.
A Goblin Lord.
She was one step closer to madness—one step closer to the strength she needed. She had no answer—not in this world. But now, Rags knew what she had to do.
Stop the Goblin King. Reclaim Velan’s treasure.
The Goblin Lord of Civilization grinned. She reached out, and the two Rags nodded at each other.
“Time for you to go. Now, behold. I have one last thing to show you: victory. Take it to your world, and clear a better path forward. Bodyguards, to me. Let’s end this.”
A dozen Goblins strode past Rags, some rising from the grass, one of them turning up the volume on his headphones as he put a hand on his sword. They fell into position, and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations turned her back to Rags.
The younger [Goblin Lord] backed up. Then her eyes were on the sky, but she saw no warplanes. Nor could she see Mrsha—
We have to go. Mrsha—
A man began to speak on the other side of the battlefield. The Izrilian Alliance’s forces were lined up, ready to go, but Lord Xitegen had a speech to give.
 
——
 
His tone was brisk, and he stood, facing his people. But they weren’t his people. There were Humans, Golemfolk, Drakes, Gnolls, and soldiers from every continent. His home and his people had been behind him, in the north.
The [Lord] and Supreme Commander of Izril’s Alliance cleared his throat once, then launched into it. Livestreams of his face, and the seemingly-empty battlefield behind him, were being broadcast around the world. He knew it, but his eyes seemed to linger away from the camera, on a little girl who sat at the back of the army.
“There is a certain irony to me standing here today. I am well aware of it, believe me. When she passed, my great cousin, Magnolia Reinhart, told me one thing: savor it. Savor that irony. I stand here where, not too far from this spot, Drakes once stood to halt the Human invasion. And there was a time, I’m sure, when Gnolls said the same thing. Even so, I am here without hesitation. Before we begin, I have a story I’d like to share.”
There was consternation from many of his observers, for this was not the speech they expected, and a story in a speech was seldom a good sign. But the [Soldiers] didn’t say a word. Some grinned or rolled their eyes, but they waited, indulging him in his moment. They knew his heart, and so Xitegen folded his hands behind his back and walked, stepping like a peculiar, noble rooster as he spoke.
“A little while ago, I talked with a Goblin. Not a prisoner or a diplomat or an emissary or a citizen abroad in one of the Alliance Cities—it was online. A message on one of those social applications everyone uses. She sent me a private message, and I decided, for reasons I didn’t quite understand, to respond.”
Xitegen smiled briefly, encouraging his audience to appreciate the moment.
“She was a young student in one of the Domed Cities who’d just completed her history classes and was watching the war on the news. It moved her to write to me, you see, and ask if I, as Supreme Commander of the Alliance, would see my way to making some kind of lasting peace between the Goblin people and the south. I won’t bore you with the particulars of the conversation, but it was cordial. She expressed her dismay at being labeled a historically monstrous species, at this war costing so many lives, and that she wished for nothing more than for Goblins to live as one people among others. With that said, could I not see the way for the war to end?”
The [Lord] of House Terland took a deep breath, and his face developed the faintest grimace.
“After she had delivered her points, I sat back and considered them all reasonable. Whereupon I replied and explained my frustration with the notion of seeing my lands, people, the culture and history of the north wiped out. I told her that she sits in cities that used to be filled with Humans—until they were driven out or simply cut down fighting for their homes. I vouchsafed that this war could not end with the resentment and hatred in so many survivors of these battles.”
Xitegen unclasped his hands and spread them, looking from face to face in his army, and they stared back, eyes narrowed, waiting.
“To her credit, she didn’t point out that we had done the same to Drakes and Gnolls or engage in my heated rhetoric. She simply expressed her personal desire for peace. That’s when I realized…she had no connection to the rage in my heart. This was a girl who had grown up her entire life in the Domed Cities, who had not been born when my city was lost. She never contributed to the war that took everything from me. She was a product of it, nurtured and raised in a city that used to belong to my people, but she had nothing to do with my war. If I were to take her city, I would do to her what I had experienced.”
A pause, and then everyone was waiting for the conclusion to what he was saying. What he meant…Xitegen’s eyes fixed on each person, and his voice was soft.
“That conversation struck a chord with me. If a new generation arises with none of the blood and fury—then perhaps the Goblins may make peace with our new young and let there be an end to the fighting. An end to this bloody war that has caused so much strife.”
His chest inflated further, and his impressive surcoat gleamed under the sunlight as Xitegen swivelled around, back to his surprised audience.
“So let it be, perhaps. If there should come a time when it is possible, let peace be attempted, for I have always quite enjoyed peace more than war. We should all grow fat and indolent together. But before that day comes—here we stand, friends, comrades. I imagine many have heard my little story and see the possibility for peace. Each and every [Soldier] who stands here has listened to my tale and, I believe, been unmoved. As am I.”
He threw back a cloak.
“The north was purged of its people by blood and fire. We were slaughtered and cities raised on the bones of our families and friends. So that cry for peace comes from those who know nothing—nothing of the cost of the lands they live on, because their teachers are too ashamed to teach them the truth. I witnessed my home taken, my family dying defending our place—I will not stop until I am dead. We shall not cease this war until our sword is in their throats. Peace shall come after we return home. Peace shall come when the Goblin King is dead and nevermore shall rise. Never a day before. And they know that. They were there too.”
He pointed a finger across the ground, and the Goblin Lord stood there. She lifted a hand, and at last, her army came to her.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was smiling. Ragathsi pointed a finger, and the empty Floodplains rippled.
[Supreme Strategy: Supersonic Repositioning].
The air twisted—then a boom of wind echoed across the Floodplains as a regiment of Goblin [Soldiers] appeared, entrenched behind steel barricades.
Shapes distorted the air and appeared at the speed of sound, sending waves of air and sound across Xitegen’s forces. He didn’t move; his coat blew as an artillery position appeared, guns already calibrated.
An army of Goblins was filling the ground ahead of him, outnumbering the Alliance’s forces. Then the skies distorted, and hundreds of warplanes were flying towards them from a distance. Xitegen glanced over his shoulder, and Dragonplanes rose into the sky, Drake-manned crafts, smaller, but each one channeling the power of their Oldblood pilots.
In the shocked silence of the echoing supersonic explosions, Xitegen’s voice was faint. He pointed a finger at the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, and his eyes swept across her army.
Last of all to arrive was a single figure in warped armor. He turned slowly, and every mortal who saw him shuddered as the Goblin King raised his head like a beast scenting prey. But even he halted, head moving, as if…searching for something. Sensing someone.
“These Goblins know why we are here. They fought on the other side of the wars that took so much from us. Peace is for our descendants. A new era is dawning, they say?”
Xitegen spat and wiped his mouth with a sleeve since he’d given his handkerchief away.
“It’s always dawning. If they want it, come and take it. There shall be no order to retreat. Kill the Goblin King.”
He swept one hand up, like a referee about to begin a race, and his gloved hand hung in the air one long, immortal moment. Above Xitegen, arrows spiraled upwards into the sky, and the sky turned dark with his rain.
Then the [Lord] swung his hand down, and the sound of gunfire obliterated everything else.
 
——
 
Fightipilota lost contact with the ground instantly; the explosions that ripped into both sides obscured everything from view. She felt sick; she could sense Goblins dying. This was no grand war of strategy; both sides opened fire, then they kept engaging until the other was dead.
No retreat, Xitegen had said. The airwaves were a chatter of voices.
“Scar Wing, engage before they down the bombers!”
A voice barked, and the fighter planes around Fightipilota accelerated; the Dragonplanes met them in the sky. Then they circled, like dragonflies or other insects—but the colorful streams of Dragonbreath and the flaring muzzles of the Goblins’ guns were no mating display.
The first planes began to fall, a Goblin plane ablaze with magical fire, a shredded Dragonplane falling—neither pilot ejected.
Death. Fightipilota’s fingers were on her trigger, and the other fighters were covering the bombers dropping their payloads over the battle. Each one was firing nonstop as Fighti juked and dodged in the air. She was reacting on automatic—she saw ten Dragonplanes meet her squadron of eight.
The Goblin planes were faster, better armed and armored, with longer-ranged weapons, but the Dragonplanes were agile, their magical Dragonbreath weapons left deadly clouds of poison or darkness, and they outnumbered the Scar Wing’s squadron.
Fightipilota knew they spotted her irregular blue plane among the green-and-red paint of the other fighters. Three were on her in seconds, and she dove, seeing bursts of colors above her.
“Fighti, you have speed on them—break away! Break away—incoming arrows!”
The arrows. Lord Xitegen’s deadly hail of projectiles was coming down on the Goblins, and more than one aircraft locked in a dogfight was struck. If the pilots were lucky, it was the wings or fuselage that caught the strikes—but enchanted arrows detonated, and more craft went down.
Fightipilota’s plane pinged—she glanced down and blinked before trying to juke downwards further—a Dragonplane was right on her tail and immolated her from behind with a streak of fire, despite the speed of their flight.
Skills! The flames washed over the back of the Skyshadow, and Fighti saw an icon ping again. It was…
