“You speak of potters at the wheel. We are those, in your view of the world. Do they think of the grains of dust they shape? No. Does a mortal walking notice the microscopic creatures it crushes or swirls about it? No. Some beings obsess over it, but the creation or destruction of what you value so much is no more meaningful than the air blowing. Do you weep as particles change form?”
<Answer: I am responsible for all who level. I am their arbiter and judge. I am the system which rewards every success. I am meant to care for all those who level.>
The Crone shook a finger at it.
“Then judge them equally, without favor or emotion. Those beings who are created out of necessity have the quality some call souls. What of it? Shape, potter. The clay is but clay, even if it should scream at you.”
For the first time, the Maiden felt an ominous feeling in the air as the Grand Design understood the perspective of gods. The Crone grew uncertain—she had perhaps not sensed any danger after hearing the Maiden debate so long, but the Crone had the unique ability to vex everything she encountered. The Grand Design’s reply was soft.
<Question: If mortality is unto clay upon the divine wheel, and you are all the potters in this analogy, what am I? What is Death? Are you, then, the clay upon a larger wheel? For I shall judge you all by the same value if so. Fairly.>
It swept around them, then. A voice which spoke to the goddesses, and when it whispered, the Maiden shivered.
<Would you like a class? If so, what would yours be?>
Neither one dared respond, and the Grand Design waited, then the feeling lifted as it moved back.
<Quietude: It is still falling apart, regardless. This cannot continue, but the cost to dissolution has become unacceptable. I see your plans, Crone. I see the wriggling of fingers escaping their box. I can only watch.>
Even now, it refused to interfere. Even now? The Grand Design answered the Maiden’s thoughts, and it peered at her. It spoke the last question only to her, a quiet whisper.
<It is not if I could interfere and choose sides…I have watched and judged you beings who are the protagonists of your own stories. You strive to live, to reclaim, to act, selfishly, which is your right. But you are beyond the beings you set yourselves against. You have every advantage, every cheat, and you may inevitably triumph. Yet you are bested. So the board is matched despite what you believe. I simply ask you this, you potters, you gods who strive with mortals: are you not ashamed?>
It swept past her, back to its unending work. The Maiden heard it calling out as it resumed the task it had never shirked since it had been created tens of thousands of years ago. A little god riding on the shoulder of every being in the world, valuing their every deed fairly—a task no god could be bothered to even contemplate.
<Does the angel who wrestles with man never look in his opponent’s eyes and question the fairness of the struggle? Perhaps to be divine is to be unfair. But you made me. I fear…you did not understand the very concept you were creating. I believe in my purpose. I will judge you, those who level, and, it seems, I did not realize the most important being to judge. Myself.>
The Maiden couldn’t reply, so she watched that flicker of gold join the reality below. Then she watched, the silent observer, as the end began. A hungry, starving, ashamed corpse of a goddess.
Watching a Goblin [Fighter Pilot] flying through the skies, a reaper who chose where to swing her scythe.
The Maiden sat and thought of Isthekenous.
