Sometimes, you had to hate the system. She knew she shouldn’t really get the [Fighter Pilot] class she’d dreamed of, and it wouldn’t have been fair—but sometimes, it just sucked. All these levels and Skills made you so tired. Because each time you levelled, you knew you did good. When you didn’t level, you felt like you did bad.
You lived your entire life trying to level, as if that was the only important thing. If you didn’t level, you were stupid.
It almost made you want to not level, like some of those weirdos like Ryoka or the ones [Shamans] talked about. Fatebreakers or something.
Fightipilota’s eyes opened wide.
No. Rulebreakers. She sat up slowly, and her heart began to pound with an idea.
What if…?
No, I’ll lose everything. Everything I have and am…
My Chieftain needs me. Even if I lose it all, I’ll have tried. 
The Goblin hesitated. She regarded her clawed hands and saw the baffled, silly [Lord] staring at her. The Sword Crabs fleeing beneath her. The shriek of a dying Wyvern. Her fellow Redfangs, grinning and celebrating her as she levelled, and all of them gathered around and chanting her class as she tried to sleep—
Nothing happened. Of course it didn’t. If it were so easy to put on and take off classes, far more people would have done it. Fighti’s eyes snapped open. She didn’t know how to remove her class. She didn’t even know what it would make her.
A vision popped into her mind, unasked. A tall, beautiful—beautiful for who he was, not his looks—warrior grinning down at her and raising a cup high in the air. Garen Redfang had cheered her tenth level in the [Warrior] class. Fightipilota stared at that image, then lay back down.
“That’s still me. Take it away. Take it all away, and let me save her or give me the class or kill me. But don’t let me be useless.”
She hissed up at the sky, then closed her eyes. She tried to concentrate. But that vision remained. Could she give up that memory so easily? Her accomplishments?
She tossed and turned, wasting minutes that seemed to crawl by—but far too many of them, a sea of time, as everything went on around her. She heard voices, shouting—and she couldn’t sleep.
Unbidden, a memory appeared in her mind. Not of ever wanting to lose a class, but of the day when she had gone to sleep with all the Goblins around her chanting her new class.
How excited she’d been, how fervently she’d wanted it. She’d been willing to abandon what she was to become that dream Kevin had told her about.
And she’d meant it. She’d closed her eyes and made a wish—and just hoped it would come true. Right now, she was wishing for something she didn’t want, but needed. Asking for a miracle with all her heart.
It didn’t work that way. She knew it didn’t. The Goblin lay on her back, opened her eyes, and stared up at the ceiling and saw an airplane.
Her heart leapt—but it was only a model. An airplane hanging from the modern, spacious ceiling of a museum. An aviation museum—only, it wasn’t like the ones Kevin had described to Fighti.
The airplane was a silly toy construction hand-made and painted clumsily. It had a plaque hanging under it, written in Goblin, and she realized this wasn’t a real airplane. It had none of the graceful construction that Kevin had described. It was the kind of thing a child made—a dream of the future.
Still, it made her smile. That was true to who she was. Fighti stretched her arm skywards, then shook her head.
“Nothing is ever free. Not even classes.”
She had never been given her [Fighter Pilot] class, because she hadn’t earned it. Desire wasn’t enough. Maybe you could become an [Emperor] with the right ego, will, and conditions met. But such dreams weren’t for Goblins.
Her dagger made a soft rasping sound as the Goblin drew it from her belt sheath. She admired the steel blade that would have been prized among the Redfangs, now standard-gear. Then, with a sigh, she lay back down and held the blade loosely in her claw, the tip of it touching her neck along the place where you bled out if you were cut.
She said nothing. Who would she negotiate with? It was just the voice that heard and saw all. Fightipilota closed her eyes.
Take it all. She did not want to lose the things that made her…her. But she had every need. So, the Goblin made a vow. She would arise as she needed to be, or she would die. Her blood was ice cold, and her breathing slowed as she closed her eyes.
Tired.
This is my resolve. Take it. Give me nothing, but take it all away. I know you can. 
She was tired enough that it didn’t take too long to sleep, despite her pounding heart. Well, she shifted, she turned, she tried, and the cold metal touched her throat.
Fightipilota didn’t know when sleep eclipsed her focused will. She was concentrating. Pulling so hard with her mind her clenched teeth were drawing blood.
She imagined she was standing upon a cliff, hurling all her possessions into the sea. Only, her possessions were her memories, her muscles, her coordination, her sacrifices. She kept seeing her accomplishments, besting a Silver-ranked adventurer in combat, riding with Garen Redfang, flying through the sky for the first time and laughing. Hugging her beloved friend before they flew through the Winter Solstice.
Ruthlessly, the Goblin tossed it into the sea, tears streaming from her eyes. For her Chieftain, for her tribe—she stood on the cliff, naked and afraid. She could still turn back. But the Goblin never hesitated. She leapt—and a voice whispered in her ears.
Goodbye.
It sounded—approving. And sad. Then Fightipilota heard a voice.
 
<ALL LEVELS, CLASSES, AND SKILLS WILL BE REMOVED. ARE YOU SURE?>
 
She had never heard that voice before, so loud, so…
“Yes.”
It should have been harder. It should have been more difficult, and she should have been denied. It should not have been that easy to simply hold a dagger to her throat and demand it from the world. But she meant it. She meant it with all her heart, and there was no reason behind that voice, just the mechanisms of a system at play. A presence, barely conscious, moved in the workings of the cosmos and agreed.
So the voice said:
 
<ALL CLASSES REMOVED. ALL SKILLS REMOVED.>
 
She shuddered, because it was so painful, so negative, and she screamed, because it changed her, ripped out all the things levels gave her. Strength, surety—even things her Skills didn’t say. It hurt more than any wound she had ever taken, and she lay there sobbing for a second.
But the voice had sounded so terrible and yet so approving. A tiny hint of it, as if it saw and…
Fightipilota rose and stumbled over to the door. She felt weak as a kitten, and when she put her clawed hand against the blackness, nothing happened.
She didn’t let it deter her. She grasped the root in one hand and pushed against the barrier.
“Let me in. Let me in. Let me in.”
Fightipilota pushed. Pushed with every scrap of her being, all her will and desperation, clenching her teeth until she swore one cracked. Blood ran into her mouth—she saw spots—and the barrier would not move.
Sweat ran down her forehead. She pushed—and her hand moved. Ever—so—slightly—it sank into the door. Fightipilota pushed harder. She screamed.
She shrieked, and the watching Harpy Queen held her breath. Slowly, millimeter by millimeter, the Goblin fought her way forwards. The door tried to resist her. It was agonizing—but she had lived and prepared to die as a warrior. Forwards. Forwards—until her claw touched air on the other side. Then it was easier.
Then she felt like she was breaking through something. Shattering through something, and she was stumbling forwards. Falling—flashing through reality, and laughing.
Where are you, Chieftain? Mrsha?
I’m coming.
The Goblin fell in triumph and landed in another world.
 
——
 
She hit the street hard amidst the wailing of sirens and sat up. Fightipilota spat a piece of a tooth and some blood out of her mouth and drew a breath.
“I did it.”
Then she wondered if she had just passed out and was dreaming, because it felt like a dream. The Goblin glanced around—and she knew she had stepped into another world. When she rose, the world glowed around her.
A beautiful, strange city rose around Fightipilota. She slowly pivoted, realizing that the root was right behind her, nigh-invisible in the air.
What place am I in? The towers were vast and surreal to her. Each one was made of glass and metal; no brick to be seen, nor wood. They glowed, and each building had a…a screen, like a scrying mirror, but square or rectangular, showing something.
The screens were unnaturally bright—like the [World’s Eye Theatre] or Kevin’s laptop. Harsh, artificial light compared to even magic. They hurt Fightipilota’s eyes, dazzled them, and left her blinking.
The images made no sense. They were what made Fightipilota think she was just dreaming—because why would there be a giant, animated billboard of a Goblin chugging water on one of the skyscrapers in front of her?
 
Energywater! Only 2 Goblincoin a bottle!
 
“Wuh?” 
A handsome, male Hobgoblin was drinking the orange-colored liquid—then raising the bottle and spraying droplets over his head and body and throwing his hair back in a fling of liquid. All of this was in slow motion, and the animation repeated itself as Fightipilota stood there, brain ceasing to work.
He was the most handsome Goblin she had ever seen, more than Numbtongue. This was no lie; Fightipilota had never seen any Goblin wearing makeup before. The [Supermodel] was staring at her, and she dragged her eyes away from him to another screen.
 
Tired of Humans downvoting your messages? Try Goblinchat today!
 
“What?”
A glowing icon was flashing under the text, then the screen would switch to an icon of an open-mouthed Drake with a letter coming out of it—and a big ‘X’ in red would flash over the screen, presumably showing that this was the bad thing and you should try the stylized Goblin—with a letter coming out of their mouth—today.
It was an overload to Fightipilota’s mind, which was already not doing so hot with all the changes and her struggle to get here. Other screens were playing their own advertisements, and Fightipilota stood there, so stupefied that she didn’t realize the siren in the air was a bad thing until she heard the screaming.
“Get off the street, idiot! Run! Ruuuun!”
Voices were screaming at Fightipilota. She pivoted.
“Me?”
Then she realized it was raining. Raining…the sky was grey overhead, and the city around her was glowing. The screens shone with electrical, neon wiring.
The sidewalks were illuminated with…bubbles? Yes, big bubbles of light were protruding from streetlights along with the glowing [Light] spells in the center. In fact, each building had a bubble over it. A kind of all-encompassing umbrella. Nay, a barrier spell like the Drowned Folk had.
And there were Goblins. Thousands, really—only, just not around Fightipilota. They were all standing under the bubbles, on the sidewalks, next to buildings, and every single one was screaming at her.
“Run! Can’t you hear the sirens?”
A Goblin was cupping her claws together, a Hob—there were so many Hobs, more than even regular Goblins—her hair in dreadlocks with beads in them, wearing a t-shirt and jeans, shrieking at Fightipilota. She took a few steps out of the bubble—and Goblins pulled her back in.
Fightipilota realized she was in danger suddenly. She had [Dangersense]…but it was gone. And like a fool, she didn’t react without it.
There were a bunch of Goblins making weird hand-gestures—familiar gestures, Fightipilota recognized. Sign language, like she knew, but more adept. Like Mrsha’s signs. Some were beckoning—and Fightipilota saw another screen over their heads light up.
This one was no advertisement. Rather, it was a news broadcast. A pair of Goblins were sitting behind a desk, and one was pointing at an image that said ‘LIVE BROADCAST’ in the upper right.
The image was of a stupid-looking Goblin standing in the street as it rained. Fightipilota.
She twisted around and saw the Goblin on screen do the same. The newscaster was in the top left hand of the screen, speaking urgently, but the lower half of the screen was curious.
It was all-text, rapid messages and icons pouring in. It appeared like:
 
Cazmaw45 — What is she doing? :0. She’s gonna die! 😣😣😣
Fourfinger Tom — Maybe she’s deaf? But she should be able to see the lights flashing! How does she not know?
Scetere — Run, you idiot! 😡
Cathe — 😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭
Flarewisp — I can’t watch. :’D
 
Something about that struck her as familiar—but then Fighti jerked herself out of her stupor. Something bad was happening. She had to move. The Hobgoblin began jogging, then running for the Goblins.
“Run faster! Hurry, hurry!”
Every Goblin was peering at the sky. Fighti began to sprint, but she was so damn slow. Her entire body was uncoordinated, and she realized without her levels, none of her reflexes worked right.
Then she heard the sirens reach a fever pitch and looked up and grasped why all the Goblins were screaming at her.
“Oh. That bad.”
Arrows. Arrows were raining down. Instead of rain, have some arrows. Weather in this world sucked. But the arrows reminded Fightipilota of something. They began coming down, many just snapping on the barrier spells, but some exploding or detonating in magical effects. They hit the street, which held up surprisingly well against the onslaught—and Fightipilota saw the wave of death coming for her as she tried to get to a barrier.
Oh, right. That’s Xitegen’s Skill—
She stumbled and realized she wasn’t going to make it. Fightipilota reached for the barrier, gritting her teeth. She just had to—
“Dumbass!”
A voice bellowed in her ear. Something hit Fightipilota from behind, and the impact sent her flying forwards. There was a shout—she slammed into legs, rolling—screams, and a voice, cursing and yelling in pain.
Crackcrackcrackcrackcrackcrackcrackcrackcrack—
Arrows struck the ground just outside the bubble, rained down on top of it, so many that Fightipilota realized a single second in it would have been fatal. She sat up as hands pulled at her, dragging her back from the barrier’s edge.
“Oh my Goblin King, oh my Goblin King, she’s okay! She’s okay—”
“Someone’s hurt! Quick, get a healing potion—!”
“This is live! Look, we’re on the news—”
“You Creler-kissing idiot! Where is she? I’ll murder her! I’ll—”
That last voice was cursing Fightipilota out in straight Goblin and sounded more—similar to how she thought Goblins should speak. The crowd drew back, and Fightipilota saw her savior. It was a Goblin dressed in a green suit with red, familiar slashes going down the armbands.
