Then, it was all over. Game over, if you wanted to be silly about it.
That wasn’t how things actually ended. Mrsha had seen life end, and it was just—gone. An old person stopped breathing at last. An arrow struck you and life vanished, not always instantly, but the moment when it fled was obvious.
Life ending was the most final thing. But sometimes it was over in other ways. Sometimes you realized your dreams weren’t going to come true, or you stood there, watching an army pour across the Floodplains, and you realized there wasn’t going to be any miracle.
Just a young woman waving a white flag, a bunch of Goblins, and death—and you hoped against hope the best things would happen, hoped for a miracle.
—It never came. Seconds and minutes passed, then hours and days, and you realized your friends were dead. You buried them. You said important things. You wept—but only in the months and surely years afterwards would you weep the real tears as the holes they left in your life grew wider.
So it was over like that. A disaster was coming, and once more, you could blame her. You should.
I tried.
She really had. She’d tried to steal some goodness out of this place, out of all the cheats and luck she’d been handed, and it had blown up in her face. She’d been so close—but she hadn’t been enough of a bastard to steal it. Now, her home was under threat again, this time from other worlds.
Maybe it wouldn’t all be so bad. Maybe good will come through. Student Rags and Roots Mrsha are good. 
She lied to herself as she floated away. This was traditional too. Until the very end, until it was truly over and you looked up and met Death at last and took their hand—you got to lie about the future.
Even so, Mrsha had to admit—this felt pretty final for her. Game over.
There was even a beautiful image to go along with her failure. It was—well.
Everything.
There was no ground, no Lyonette’s room in The Wandering Inn. Pawn had vanished; the world had vanished. Gravity had disappeared. It wasn’t blackness or white oblivion. Color had ceased. Reality had ceased.
She wasn’t dead, because there was no vacuum of space to murder her. Her body didn’t decompress because there were no rules of physics to act upon her. She didn’t die for lack of oxygen because time didn’t know where she was.
She wasn’t even nowhere, because that was a place, when you got down to it. Mrsha was…between. She had been in a world when the door closed, and then she’d been like an object in a room when the room vanished.
Where do you go? The answer was—between the cracks. You stayed the same, and the world kept moving around you. She was caught, like a speck of dust, within the fabric of the world itself. The back of it. She was in the code of the Grand Design. Part of the shifting ocean of data and meaning around her.
Trapped.
It was so beautiful. She couldn’t understand it. Her eyes and brain struggled to even process what she was seeing, and she translated it as tendrils of illumination, as if she were in a constellation of glowing stars, each one glowing with colors she had never dreamed of.
A million billion trillion stars with limbs reaching out and touching each other, like the vastest spider’s web in existence—or near-infinite flowers linked and blooming.
Then her vision shifted, and Mrsha’s mind decided they were, in fact, scenes of the world she was no longer part of. She saw a marching band of [Soldiers], armor rusted and weapons battered, following a woman as she pointed over the broken ground. Mrsha smelled their exhaustion and fear—
And the image was gone, a piece of time and reality playing itself out. Mrsha saw, in the same place, a battle-scarred, green Dragon speaking to an older version of the woman, who was bowing slightly.
While those two events were playing out, a [King] and [Queen] were having breakfast. The [Queen] was distracted, and the [King] was asking what was wrong, and she said, ‘I don’t know’, which surprised him.
Mrsha could see all three images playing at once; they were the same place geographically. The exact same. The only thing that was different was the time. They were overlaid over each other, but if you looked differently, you could separate them by the time they had occurred.
And everything was happening around her simultaneously.
It overloaded her. Mrsha went insane with the visions and stopped thinking. Then she started thinking because even insanity couldn’t keep up with this place. To shield herself from this maddening display, she focused and realized the three scenes had a meaning.
They were linked to her. Little trails of meaning were coming off her, connecting her back to the three events—to so many events across the world. She was part of the world, after all. She concentrated with all the willpower she had and understood. Then she saw the world as the Grand Design of Isthekenous did.
Smell, touch, hearing, sensation, taste—she could taste the blood on their armor as well as see their levels.
See—they were marching over rocky, broken ground, stumbling, as deafening screeches filled the air. Nineteen [Soldiers] in all, a sorry lot wearing armor scabbed with rust and dried blood, weapons chipped. A broken group of warriors from a war that already felt lost. Yet they were following a young woman, who had dull brown hair, limping forwards, holding a battered mace in one hand.
Every now and then, she turned back to look at them, and her eyes were desperate. The woman—no, she was only nineteen—was broad-shouldered and had patchwork armor, a half-broken chestplate, some salvaged leather leggings—a single potion at her belt.
She was no inspiring leader, but the men and women followed her because she was going. At the end of everything, that called to them. One last march as the air rippled with shrieks from the vast, lumbering forms like mountains perched in the distance.
Mrsha could hear the woman’s racing thoughts, dulled with exhaustion and filled with a determination that shone like gold through her being. Terror, weakness, and willpower. She could read the woman’s levels too.
[Courageous Survivor] Level 24. [Desperate Leader] Level 4. [Glassblower] Level 3.
Why did it matter? Well, because so much had begun right here. A brave girl marching forwards. From this moment, Mrsha could see the future. What-ifs, alternate threads and visions.
If she had fled or run.
If one of the [Soldiers]’ nerves had broken.
If they had died.
Even what might have happened if she’d just tripped at the wrong time.
Those pieces of fate spread out to different branches of the future. But the only one that mattered was the glowing tapestry that unveiled from that moment as the girl named Marquin stumbled forwards.
—A kingdom grew out of that moment, millions of lives blossoming from her. Connected and growing, splitting across the world in the form of citizens of Calanfer. [Knights] on crusade who touched other lives, or just people who had been influenced by Calanfer.
Then she saw it. The lines of connection touched her, for she was Mrsha du Marquin, and if her mother’s ancestor had never triumphed, part of Mrsha would never have been.
See. The girl drank in the bowing [Queen] of Calanfer as she stood, older, scarred, in the last days of the Creler Wars.
“I suppose I should be kneelin’ and whatnot, but I was never good at it, and my legs hurt, so pardon me, Dragonlady.”
To which the ancient, scarred behemoth of flesh and scales threw back her head and laughed. She was larger than Teriarch, and she had so many visible scars on her flanks and side that there was more of that than scale.
The Dragonlord of War, Mauridekash Lauthezaum Shorre, laughed in humor instead of bloodlust, the first time in eight years. Her voice rasped as she bent her head down.
“I like you, fierce [Queen]. Do not kneel to me. That time is past.”
Marquin shrugged her shoulders and rubbed at her chest. She had only one breast; she’d lost the other to Creler venom, and it still ached.
“[Queen]. Feels odd to be queen of a bunch of blasted ground. The war’s not over, and the kingdoms are celebrating like it is. The bastards are all on Rhir, and if we don’t kill them there, they’ll be back and kill us all as faster’n we can spit.”
“Agreed. I am persuading my three living kin—Dragonlords all—to join the invasion. I think they will come. Some of them are rank cowards, but they have fought well.”
“Begging your pardon, your ladyship Mauridekash—but I didn’t see your lot until we started winning. So forgive me if I’m not falling on my face in gratitude.”
The [Queen] was blunt, but her words actually belied the true and simmering resentment in her heart. Her grief for the countless dead; indignation at the Dragonlords’ seeming inaction.
“Call me Mauri. Mortals used to. I tire of long names, especially if we shall be in battle together.”
Mauri snorted. And her mind was idly amused by this conversation, focused on a being she respected, that she had deigned to grant a gift to. Eager as it thought of the final battles. And yes, weary in her own way. Whether she knew it or not, she was a warrior who had seen everything she loved die and remembered only the charge, the rush of battle. She awaited her own end and saw her image in Marquin. The Dragonlord went on.
“It was strategic. We fought in the shadows lest we be a target. Until now, there was no bastion that could stand against the Crelers. They nearly overran Dwarfhome.”
“Stubborn bastards, the Dwarves.”
“Pah. Children. The true Dwarves held that line and broke one of the Crelers’ eldest. As they always do. Hm. You should visit, ere we go to war. They might gift you armor and a blade fit for the coming battle.”
Marquin filed that information away, and Mrsha saw it slot into her head. The woman took a seat on a stump. A tree had finally grown here and been cut down to make kindling and arrow shafts. The [Queen] pulled off a boot and groaned.
“So why talk to me? Why not a real heroine? Lady Silvenia Ettertree’s marshalling every half-Elf west of us in Gaiil-Drome. She’s fought this war hundreds of years.”
“I know her. She’s the beloved apprentice of others of my kin. They love their mortals so. I suppose, in that way, you’re much the same to me. I have a gift for you. If neither of us return from this war…well, better that than giving it to the other three, who’ll do nothing with it. But here. I took this from a foe’s corpse and had little use for it. It’s filled with dust, monsters, and whatever I forgot. A gift for your new nation. May it endure beyond us.”
She placed what seemed to be a marble, compared to her body, down, and Mrsha saw into the Dragonthrone of Illuminations and beheld that contained dimension forged tens of thousands of years ago. Queen Marquin blinked at it.
“What’s this?”
 
——
 
Shift. King Reclis and Queen Ielane du Marquin sat there over five thousand years later, and the [Queen] was reading reports from The Wandering Inn as King Reclis stared at the image of a battle occurring in the High Passes.
But even his best [Spies] could only get a view of the mountain ranges. He thumped a fist on the table in a rare show of anger.
“If it’s truly that Dragon, then what is he fighting? A Titan? Ielane, do you have any more information? What could be more important than this?”
“Ushar isn’t responding. My people say that the guests of the inn have vanished.”
Queen Ielane was staring at a [Message] scroll, waiting for it to activate. And she was thinking of her daughter. And Mrsha.
Mrsha could read Queen Ielane’s thoughts, moving like razors of emotionless necessity. All for a kingdom that had been founded upon this very spot. The [Queen] was wondering what had happened and afraid for her daughter. An emotion she never shared. She was uncertain and kept it chained in her heart, for she had to be Calanfer’s blade, not in blood and steel, but in ironclad contracts and the quicksilver daggers of diplomacy.
Then. Now. Even glimpses of the future played out—not real ones, but, Mrsha realized, alternate realities.
The [Palace of Fates]. Someone was building new images—
Shift.
The images changed again, and now they looked like roads being paved. Lonely roads of existence filling the empty void. A city of lives and meaning that filled the great nothingness that was reality. Fragile edifices that created meaning in a meaningless reality.
Someone was building the roads. One—no, two beings. They labored over each one, placing lives and history down like other people might lay tracks. They worked so quickly and efficiently they created a hundred years in the blink of an eye.
But they were overworked. The roads were appearing in every direction, near on tripling the sum of…
Everything.
Possible realities. Future and past, what-ifs—reality was expanding so fast, so vastly, that it felt like the creation of the universe to Mrsha. An explosion of data, lives, glorious deeds, and possibility.
But no souls. She saw that too. In the way the Grand Design saw it, there were no souls. She could tell that Marquin, the past Marquin, had been real.
But the alternate realities where Marquin stumbled or died or triumphed in another way seemed—different. Some marker was missing. A piece of data.
So that was how the Grand Design viewed them. Fake. The girl saw it now, for she could read her conversation with the Grand Design in her own past, even though it had erased it from her memory.
Yet she saw each and every Marquin as someone she could admire equally. And therein lay the difference between Mrsha and the Grand Design…
The realization, the understanding of all this, scorched Mrsha’s being, and again, she drifted, mad, in the growing radiance of creation.
She had forever to come back from madness, so she did. Then, Mrsha realized it was over.
She was caught in a grain of time that had no end nor beginning. Infinity was contained in this singular moment; she could go mad forever, keep her sanity, it mattered not. She would watch until her very existence became everything and nothing—there was no end to this beautiful view, and time would flow past her.
No one would find her here; she was outside even the places the Grand Design of Isthekenous could look. And it wasn’t thinking; she could see it working away, its higher processes disabled due to the overflowing amount of data it had to process.
The end, the end. Goodbye.
Mrsha wasn’t even alone, she realized. Someone else was frozen in this space-between-spaces.
Rags. The Goblin Chieftain was frozen, mid-leap for the door, as she had been when it closed. Her eyes were open, and she too saw and experienced everything. Here they were.
At least Roots Mrsha and Student Rags can replace us. Mrsha’s mind was growing hazy. She was learning everything.
