Then the child just sat and wept, and the wind took her tears away. Below her, she saw a figure stretching. A lonely Goblin standing on a cold, empty beach at the dawn of creation, waiting, hoping—to see a kindly face amidst the trees. A weeping child who vowed vengeance—a trail of hatred over the course of the world’s history.
A circle. That’s all she saw.
Just a circle in blood drawn in the sand.
 
——
 
A Goblin King arose and ruined everything. It was the oldest story. The only story people told about Goblins. Until he emerged—the world had been brighter.
You pushed him to it.
That was what Mrsha wrote when Xitegen finished his tale. The [Lord] of Izril’s Alliance looked up.
“What?”
He expected to see a child awash with tears, or perhaps, someone broken by the knowledge of the Goblin King’s identity. Guilt suffused the [Lord]; this was too much to lay upon a child.
—But she took the knowledge that it was Rabbiteater who was the Goblin King, her beloved friend from the inn who had slain Erin Solstice, and herself, and damned this world to war with no great reaction.
Merely with a tired sigh. She had seen too much tragedy. This was but one future. Not hers. She was not beyond caring; her gaze was focused on something beyond Xitegen, and he shivered a second.
I said, it wasn’t all his fault, was it?
Mrsha wasn’t good at the particulars of all the history he’d laid out, battles won, the Goblin nation rising, founding Domed Cities, much less how much of it tied to her world. But she wrote with a childish authority.
Rabbiteater. He was a Goblin Lord before he became a Goblin King. And in your history, people kept attacking him.
“For fear of what he might become. Because he killed so many—”
In self defense! You made him, and the one person who was always on his side—he killed her. He killed Erin.
Mrsha’s nose and eyes were running, and Xitegen handed her his handkerchief. His voice was steady, his round face set.
“And in so doing, he proved what Goblin Kings are, now and forever.”
He didn’t get it. Mrsha was sitting on a table in the medical area, and she walked over to punch him. Her paw hurt; his cloth armor was solid, and his bodyguards shifted, but she did it again.
You didn’t have to do it. People made the Goblin King, and Rags had to put him away and make him a weapon. It didn’t have to come to this.
Everyone but Xitegen was staring at her blankly, with that uncomprehending hostility, but Mrsha turned to the [Lord].
Was there ever a chance? Before he became the Goblin King? Please tell me, honestly, and I’ll believe you. I have to know.
She sat there, her little heart about to break, and the Lord of House Terland rested his weight on his hands as he leaned over the table. He closed his eyes, and his face sagged a moment. Then he confessed.
“Was there a moment? Oh, yes. Yes, there was Mrsha du Marquin. For one brief window of time, there was the Goblin Lord, the Champion of the Inn, and that ridiculous woman. The Goblinfriend of Izril. There were conflicts, clashes, but he stood there with the weight of a species on his shoulders, and he bore it well. And I—I—”
Xitegen stared at a gloved hand.
“I lowered that guard I kept raised so high. I wavered in my convictions. Not enough to clasp hands, but to lower that sword I pointed at them. Just as last time, I listened, with one ear, to that bright, annoying voice and let myself be fooled by that vision. It is hard, you know, to see monsters weep. They look like people. If a monster can argue its case so well, sing, play the piano, why, then, it is perhaps not a monster at all, is it?”
His eyes rose, haunted, and he shook his head.
“Then he emerged and proved it was all a lie. Twice a lie, because the best example of their kind, the trust and hope all turned against the world in a moment. He killed her. So yes, Mrsha. There was hope. I regret having hope.”
He glanced away from her, and the girl cried harder. The [Lord]’s voice was cold as he spoke, distant, now, with regrets.
“Then the world tried to halt him. They could not; the Goblin Lords, Greydath of Blades, Kanadith the Herald, and then even Izikere of the Island joined his war. Then other Goblin Lords flocked to his banner. The hidden Goblin Lord of Terandria—and Rags of Civilizations. She was the one who founded the first Domed Cities and damned the north. Of them all, she is the last original Goblin Lord.”
Mrsha was wiping her tears away, but they kept coming.
There are six now?
“Six. But she is the greatest of them by far. It is she we face later today. If what you tell me is true, your arrival isn’t the fortune or doom I hoped for. You’re merely bystanders from a better time. And your Rags…is not yet a Goblin Lord.”
Xitegen was focusing on Mrsha’s situation. Someone—Captain Withra, the [Doctor], spoke incredulously.
“You can’t be taking her seriously, Lord Xitegen.”
He sat back in his chair and steepled his fingers over his stomach, then reached for a chicken wing; he had a bucket and was eating. Mrsha couldn’t. Xitegen tore the skin off the wing with some relish and chewed as he replied.
“Can’t I? I know something of The Wandering Inn. It’s surprised me over the years. This Mrsha is a direct match to the one I recall. She is a Doombearer, and her class has been authenticated. [Fatebreaker Child]. Green. You know, unique classes always show up green on [Appraisal] spells. She says there’s a magic door leading back to other realities, and I say…good. Send her back with knowledge and warnings if we can. I doubt there are any reinforcements from the past that could stop the Goblins of today.”
He reached for another wing as he tossed a bone onto a plate full of them. Mrsha wiped at her face again.
You’re going to send me back? Just like that?
“Yeah, just like that? What if we did something like—there’s no stocks back then, are there? Or lotteries. When did we invent those?”
Persua the Courier was snapping her fingers, trying to think of things to do, but Lord Xitegen was eerily calm.
“The world may have one less Goblin King if we send Miss Mrsha back. That is enough. Nor do I frankly believe we have time for this. She’s coming.”
The camp was moving around them; Mrsha saw tents going down, and the air had taken on a familiar, horrible quiet. [Soldiers] were hugging or sharing one last drink, and the rumble of vehicles filled the air. They were heading north to the Floodplains.
“Right, so what do I do? Take Mrsha south and find out where this door thing is?”
Persua saw the preparations and leapt to her feet. Mrsha wiped at her eyes.
Rags. I need to find Rags. She might have landed closer to the door, or it’s somewhere else. I don’t know. If a weird Goblin shows up…
“Weird Goblin. Uh, put that through our intelligence services?”
Xitegen made a face at one of his Golem-people and then snapped his fingers.
“There is no one for you to meet, Miss Mrsha. No one…that I would hurt, at any rate. Save perhaps one. Where is Chief Engineer Kevin?”
Kevin. Mrsha gazed up, and Withra knew that one. She drained a mug of cold coffee as she packed up her supplies.
“He’s leading the armor past Pallass.”
“Damn. No time to meet him, then. You’ll hold up the column, and we need him here. Courier Persua, you are to take Mrsha past Pallass, to safety. I shall write a briefing and entrust it to someone with sense. Someone who’s not a fool…so not a member of the Five Families. I’ll figure it out.”
Xitegen sprang to his feet and wiped his fingers on his coat, and then they were moving. Mrsha was confused.
What about Pallass?
There was a lot she still didn’t understand; the nature of the Goblin King had shaken her to her core. Xitegen smiled ruefully as Withra shook her head.
“Pallass is a quarter of the size it was, Miss Mrsha. It is still technically an enclave of Drakes…but the [Soldiers] you see are survivors of the Goblins’ attacks. This world is not the same. The Five Families are homeless. Wellfar took to the seas; the rest of us found lodging in Drake lands.”
I don’t see Antinium in the future. What happened to them?
His face went still.
“Eradicated.”
Mrsha just nodded. This was the worst of times. What else?
Did the Blighted Kingdom take over this reality too? [Heroes] from Rhir appearing everywhere?
That surprised him. Xitegen glanced at some of the others and almost laughed.
“No. I’d take that, even with all we learned of the Blighted Kingdom’s many betrayals. Rhir? That’s held by the Demons. The Goblins helped break the Blighted Kingdom’s walls. That’s part of why we don’t have aid from Terandria; they’ve been fighting a crusade to reclaim the continent for a decade. This is the final stand of the south. Ah, I see Manus has arrived. They were also lost as a Walled City, you know.”
Like the world’s worst [Tour Guide], Xitegen was pointing out groups and peoples lost in the future. Manus had apparently been also mostly overrun by the wars that destroyed the Antinium on Izril. But they were being led by a one-eyed Drake whom Xitegen waved at.
“General Lyss. Lyssander. Probably the best swordsman in his entire species. Zeres’ top [Strategist] is there. Wall Lady Werica. No, not her. The Gnoll. And Lady Damia of House Reinhart, the only one of them worth a damn with Magnolia gone. Lord Pattin. All of them fine leaders—you’d do well to remember their names. If the future’s anything like this one, and I hope it’s not, they’ll be the ones who rise to every challenge.”
Mrsha’s bowed head rose slightly as she saw a bunch of people striding around. A Gnoll Wall Lady? A pair of nobles Xitegen held in good esteem? A thought occurred to her, and she wearily began to write, because even in this world…
Twenty-two years ago, they must have been Lyonette’s age. Do you have a list of young people who became great leaders?
Xitegen’s eyes lit up. He rattled off a short list as Mrsha noted down the names.
“What else? Hm. This is a fun distraction. Uh—ah, that’s right. Invest in sea properties. The Drowned Folk are probably the richest group in the world right now. They stayed neutral in all the damn wars, and they make all their money mining.”
Mining? In the sea? That sounds stupid.
The Lord of the South smiled as he threw back his head, and they were heading towards a car waiting to take him north. He was nodding at [Soldiers] as he passed; they didn’t cheer. There was that somber note in the air, but underneath it, steel. Like a gun ready to go off, Mrsha decided; a fitting analogy for the future.
She wanted to tell him something, but she couldn’t. Not after seeing that monument and knowing what had happened.
Rags. Where are you? Xitegen called over his shoulder as Persua jogged over.
“I know it sounds ludicrous, but there’s a mineral that only germinates or forms under extreme pressure. Crystalized mana; Seith. Everything highly magic is made out of the damn stuff. If we had more of it, we’d have won this war. Oh! Watch out for the Empire of Sands, one supposes. You know about the Blighted Kingdom being treacherous as snakes.”
Jungle Tails?
“…No, I think the Dullahans swept all of Baleros. The Empire of Sands crushed the King of Destruction. The Empress is a madwoman and probably the best genius of war in this world. She even struck the Goblins for us last night. Though it seems she failed to kill the Goblin King. It was a long shot.”
Xitegen was consulting a report someone had rushed over to him. An intelligence operative or whatever their class was gave him a rapid report.
“Lord Xitegen, we can’t get anything out of the Goblins’ private communications—”
“We’re always behind their encryptions. So what is this?”
“Social media posts on Goblinchat. Two incidents of odd behavior. One’s a lookalike with Goblin Lord Rags—the posts were taken down within minutes of coming up, but there were hundreds. And the other—”
Mrsha leapt onto the hood of the jeep as the [Driver] stared at her. She peered over Xitegen’s shoulder and saw a clip of a Goblin tackling another—familiar—Goblin out of the way.
The resolution was blurry, but Mrsha’s eyes went wide as Xitegen looked up.
“Chieftain Rags?”
That’s Fightipilota! They’re both in the north! Fighti must have seen us and come through the door!
“Which city is that? Get me answers. Courier, run with us.”
Xitegen actually jogged behind the car as it accelerated, and Persua followed, protesting. Both were fast—Mrsha had to sit in a seat with a seatbelt thing on her, and she stared at the blurring terrain and the two jogging at what seemed to be a slow pace.
“Lord Xitegen, we have to go—”
“If Mrsha’s door lies to the north, then that’s where you need to take her.”
“They’ll shoot me!”
“You have a Ring of Protection. They don’t fire missiles on targets smaller than a car. Damn. We might have to send her via the exchange program. They do take in war-refugees.”
The Goblins?
Mrsha was surprised, and Xitegen waved a hand.
“Oh yes, they don’t kill civilians. They feed them, send them south if they don’t want to stay—which adds to the strain on the south’s resources. It’s very clever.”
You mean, a good thing to do.
The [Lord] grinned at Mrsha.
“Yes. And when the Walled Cities and other nations were executing any Goblins on sight, regardless of their age or if they were combatants, it made a point. Your Goblin Lord won multiple wars. Looks like it’s ‘New Celum’. My city.”
He grimaced.
“It’s not far from the Floodplains, but we have no chance of breaking through even if I were inclined to devote that many forces to this, Mrsha. Courier Persua might make it—”
“We. Will. Die. Hello?”
“—But I’m inclined to simply keep you out of the fray. Driver, slow; we’ll have you sent—”
More of the Alliance’s forces were forming that odd battle line, and not all of them were actually coming from the south. A few groups popped up, emerging from the foothills and riding down on horseback or coming in via spell. Lord Xitegen had people to talk to, and he was distracted by this.
Guiltily, Mrsha held out a card. Her fur was rippling in the wind, and the card’s ink smeared, but her face was completely calm.
Take me to the battle. I’m running out of time. My world is. I’ll stay behind the front, but I have to go.
Xitegen met her gaze, and Persua grabbed Mrsha.
“Nope! Kids don’t get to make that kind of decision. You’re going somewhere safe. I’ll just—”
The [Lord] grabbed Persua’s wrist. He hesitated, and there was another flash of light. Someone spoke in a too-cool voice from overhead.
“What, pray tell, is a child doing upon this battlefield? Lord Xitegen Terland, I had expected better of you. I will teleport her to Pallass.”
