Liao Zhu had surely seen him as well. Perhaps she could assume that he would message the Sect if he truly thought there was peril. If there was danger and she ignored it, that could reflect poorly on her. On the other hand, haring off after him could also be vainglorious like their Commander Guan Zhi had warned them off of, leaving Imperial lands and putting herself in danger for nothing.

<It’s just one guy,> Sixiang voiced her thoughts. <Could just be a hunter.>

She focused her attention on the qi trail she was following. The barbarian’s spirit didn’t taste of urgency or bloodlust, but there was a certain eagerness like an electric tingle on the wind. Through the churning cloud, she caught a glimpse of his flapping cloak in the wind. Ling Qi bit her lip, considering whether to follow him further.

As the man she had been following flew up out of the clouds toward the mountain that loomed like a godly rampart ahead, the air changed. Arriving all too suddenly like a freak summer shower that unleashed a torrential downpour from a formerly clear sky, two other presences flew down from the mountain to meet him. Two more figures in bulky furs riding golden eagles flew down from the cliffs and across the sky to meet the man in mid air, and the power of their spirits was not less than his. Although she still could not clearly sense their level of cultivation, she estimated that these two were significantly stronger, somewhere between threshold and formation.

Even as she thought that, she saw one of them stiffen in his saddle, straightening up as he turned his gaze to the clouds below where Ling Qi hid. Her eyes widening in alarm, Ling Qi immediately sank deeper into the clouds, darting between arcing threads of lightning to hide in the dark belly of the storm. Despite that, she saw the man raise a hand to the others and fly past, the wings of his eagle beating up and down as he flew toward her hiding place.

Gritting her teeth, Ling Qi focused on tightening her hold on her qi and dispersing her presence through the shadows that suffused the stormcloud. She remembered the lessons she had learned in mastering the Sable Crescent Step and the techniques that she had applied to better dodge attacks, and she vanished.

When the man flew through the storm, sparks of electricity dancing around the eye holes of his mask, he found only shadows, lightning, and a rumbling storm. Ling Qi watched him search and fly through where she was, her thoughts feeling as unfocused and detached as the qi that had been her body. It was not a comfortable feeling. It was like holding her breath as a mortal, and every second that passed sent a feeling like the burning of air-starved lungs through her spirit, and her focus threatened to crumble as her thoughts tried to float away like leaves on the wind.

Yet the moment passed, and the man flew back to his companions, departing for the mountain from whence they came. Ling Qi collapsed back into a single shape, her shoulders hunched as she wheezed in a breath of moist, storm-charged air. Despite that, her eyes followed the barbarians toward the mountain. They were definitely out of her bounds, but…

No, it wasn’t worth it. Even if she assumed that her estimation of the barbarians’ cultivation was too high, this was bad terrain. She had already put a significant drain on her reserves just by being in flight for so long, and she couldn’t even bring out Zhengui easily if it came to a fight. Not to mention, even if she did manage to sneak amongst them, she didn’t know any of the tongues of the Cloud Tribes, something she would have to rectify when she could find the time. While she could probably pick up some meaning by leaning on her comprehension of music, it wouldn’t be enough to make up for the risk.

Ling Qi shot down through the clouds, keeping her qi as restrained as she could while moving at such speeds. Better to deliver warning back to her group and the main army left behind.

As she descended, she considered what she had done in her moment of panic when it became clear that one of the barbarians had noticed her. It was not quite the same as her One with Shadow technique nor any other techniques that she knew. Even when she blinked from one place to another in combat, she didn’t quite disperse like that.

Even now, her dantian burned, and her head pounded from the strain, but it really was just an extension of what she had already learned. In dispersing her aura to blend into the background and hide herself, she was already taking the first step. Still, to do the same with her actual body…

<Are you thinking that bodies are more important than spirits? I’m hurt, Ling Qi,> Sixiang laughed, sounding flippant even though she could feel the spirit’s tension and watchful intent as they peered out at the world through her. <Well, I guess it is a big step for a meat-person.>

Ling Qi wrinkled her nose at the gross appellation, even if it wasn’t wrong.

<Obviously, someone who Momma taught would figure out something easy like that,> Hanyi said grumpily. <Big Sister should be more careful though.>

<Sister should stop picking fights where Zhengui can’t help,> her little brother sulked.

Ling Qi shifted uncomfortably even as she maintained her speed, flitting through the air back to the distant ground. <I probably would have been fine if it was just the first one or if he had just met a few first and second realms,> Ling Qi replied silently. <And I backed off, didn’t I?>

<I think it’s fine. That first guy had no idea you were there, so why not tail him?> Sixiang asked, but they seemed less tense as Ling Qi soared down below the clouds.

<I’m still worried,> Ling Qi admitted. <But I don’t think I could have gained anything worth the risk given my capabilities at this time.> Ling Qi knew that the Cloud Tribes could move incredibly quickly, many times faster than any similarly sized Imperial grouping. So escaping from them if she had been caught would have been very difficult. Maybe she could manage once she had begun cultivating the Wind Thief art, but as it was, she would have probably had to rely on using the final technique of Sable Crescent Step art again and again. Combined with the slow drain of flight, she could all too easily picture herself running out of qi, leaving her helpless and needing Liao Zhu to save her.

There was no good in second guessing herself, Ling Qi decided, listening to the chatter in her head. She believed that she had made the right choice. Liao Zhu was no doubt aware of what she had seen as well, so perhaps it was best to leave matters to him.

Moving at her full speed, Ling Qi left the impossibly high mountains far behind her in short order, descending to fly and then to run among the little peaks and valleys that were her primary assignment. Reaching her subordinates did not take long after that.

They had made good progress on their assignment by the time she had returned, being more than halfway through combing the region. Using her superior mobility, it did not take long to signal them all to regroup and meet her at the bend of a stream that lay ahead. With Sixiang keeping a wary eye on the sky, she settled in to wait for them to arrive.

It took only a few minutes for them to begin to arrive. The soldiers did not look like they had suffered much in her absence. Chun Yan was somewhat scuffed with a thin cut on her cheek and a few rips in her armor under the cloak. Chang He’s boots glistened with some kind of slime that smelled faintly of fish oil. Mo Lian was largely untouched, though mud spattered his boots and trousers. Overall, they were in good condition, showing only a minor depletion of their qi.

“I won’t take too much of our time to explain,” Ling Qi announced as they arrived in the clearing. “I spotted three barbarians in the third realm meeting in the high peaks to the south. It was close to the edge of our range, so I was not able to confirm more. As such, we need to maintain a higher level of awareness, and keep an eye out as we work our way south.”

Ling Qi was a little surprised at the reaction her words caused, or rather, the lack of it. She got three sharp nods and the usual verbal acknowledgement, but they seemed surprisingly unworried. She frowned, looking toward Chang He, the oldest of the three.

“I would like to hear your thoughts, as well as any advice you have on defensive measures,” she said politely, triggering some muttering from Hanyi in her thoughts.

Chang He raised his head, meeting her gaze with an even expression. “You have the gist covered, ma’am,” he replied. “We stay aware, but we don’t stop our mission. Likely as not, they’ll stick to their upper peaks, gathering and hunting. There are rare reagents up in the high peaks, and it is not as if we’re the only ones who want them. Even if not, we can’t outrun them. Earthworks and stealth are the best defense.”

“I have an art which may be used for swiftly creating fortifications, ma’am,” Mo Lian added. “Should a group who is beyond us arrive, we can swiftly dig in and wait for the main force.”

<Oh, I can help with that!> Zhengui chirped in excitedly.

“My spirit can help, if it comes to that,” Ling Qi relayed. “I want to inform the main force as well. I know our overseer has the communication equipment, but…”

“Master Liao has already sent off the message.” Ling Qi very deliberately did not jump at the smooth and cultured voice which spoke in her ear. Out of the corner of her eye, she caught a glimpse of silver mist, gleaming like a mirror. “Your situation is known.”

A swift glance showed that her subordinates had not heard the voice nor noticed the mist. In her thoughts, Sixiang muttered something about a show off.

“It seems that that isn’t a problem,” she said after what she hoped was not a noticeable pause. She clapped her hands together. “So! Let’s not waste any further time, and we’ll resume the survey. Mo Lian, show me the map you’ve compiled already, and we will see what I can do to speed things along.”

All they could do now was complete their job and remain aware. Ling Qi held in a sigh. It was going to be a long and tense day. She hoped that her friends were having better ones.
