We're so close to the Great Wall... Less than four full biomes away, and we've been caught now.

This doesn't change the fact that Ren's personality hasn't shifted back to their docile and cooperative state. I can still feel sharp white eyes digging into my hand where Celia's Ring rests.

It seems that despite twenty 1st Class Demonic Servants surrounding us, this is still the highest-priority target in their mind.

I grit my teeth while watching bursts of ether commands come out from every one of the Admin's hands, as I do not want to have more enemies than necessary. So, I take a chance and send a small pulse of mana-only aura through the air using my new [Whisper] skill, using the thick mana control from Ava's outburst as cover.

"The one you're waiting for... that dragon with Crimson Eyes... I know where to find him. Let's work together here, and we'll both get what we're looking for."

The fierce look turns up from my ring to meet my gaze, but saying this has not made things any better.

I let out a sigh and accept that I'll be dealing with an angry elf and twenty 1st Class guards while I watch a simulated black zone form around us, about 500 meters wide, with only the servants glowing green against the black backdrop.

Outside, I can only assume there is a glimmering mirror, making us disappear into the vastness of the black desert.

My hands heat up even more, and my eyes meet the identical lifeless expressions of each Admin, preparing for whatever they throw at me.

"Fine! I'm on your side until this is over. Then I want an explanation," I hear come out from Ren's lips, and the aggressive aura pointed only toward me fades. My ring picks up new emotions—curiosity and a burst of hope filling the white avatar—but my attention is more focused on the seven- to ten-meter-tall demonic figures surrounding us.

"Deal." I grunt out.

Then, one of the Admins speaks up once the artificial black zone formation is finished.

"Do not move if you wish to live," echoes out in the deep, default Demonic Servant voice through the dome, and pulses of basic scanning ether commands burst out from other servants in the formation.

"Two 5th Class human Lords, and a 3rd Class Goblin. All of their avatar settings are legal," comes out from the mouth in the same tone from one of the servants on the other side of the dome.

The strength of the black zone barrier around us strengthens more, then a ripple of commands waves through it, coming back into the hands of each of the Demonic Servants, and they all take a step forward.

A new servant speaks next. "Even though your scans come back legal, we cannot have rogues like you running around this wilderness disrupting our paradise without limits."

The three of us stand in a small triangle at the circle's center, and the servants begin marching in on us without explanation, speaking to each other with a nonchalant tone like they do this often.

"Honestly, I was expecting another one of those 1st Class Mammoths. Or at least a Berserker Giant...." another one comments.

"Yeah, no wonder it took so long. We were searching in all the wrong places. Humans and Goblins... I don't think I've ever seen either of these races this deep in the wilderness before."

"Almost made it to the Great Wall too. A shame, we could have made a good profit betting on underdogs like this, but none of them have registered crown cycles submitted. They could have been unique challengers for the arena."

They all stop talking back and forth as though we're not even here after closing the gap between us by nearly half.

The first Admin that spoke up, giving us the order to halt, speaks again, directing his gaze at Ava, who looks like our leader.

"We have two options for you. Either the three of you be eliminated here and now, or you come to the nearest safe zone with us and cash in one of those crown cycle coupons you've been taking from us... It's impolite to keep selling off the gifts you've been given."

He smiles and takes a step forward, but my attention is still held on one of the silent Admins.

Moments ago, he mentioned that there was an arena behind the Great Wall.

I picture the hologram of the Grand Citadel that the Admin I met on the outside showed me and question if he was telling the truth about all of that too, despite the timer that would have said less than three days remaining now having disappeared from my status.

Ava looks at the servant that steps up to her, with its long horns and premium avatar, trying to intimidate a lower-class Lord. I send her a telepathy message that makes the corner of her lips turn up.

Then, to everyone's surprise here except for me, Ava runs forward with a burning hot fist and yells, "No chance, both of your offers suck!" She punches the Admin in the chest, creating deep fractures in his avatar and sending him flying backward against the back wall of the black dome we stand in.

Ava could have easily killed this servant if she used her real ether stores or even a tiny percent of borrowed stats, but all I want is chaos for a few seconds to prove a point and ask this one admin that spiked my interest a question.

My right hand lights up with flames, and I simulate stacking dozens of fireballs and ether commands into my palm just like I've been doing to defeat premium-grade quests without suspicion.

While physically possible, a normal 5th Class Lord should not have the mana control or mental speed to comprehend so many commands at once. However, it is technically possible, and that's how I haven't set off any automated alarm systems.

Even now, as I toss the burning white-and-red ball of fire at the Admin closest to me, it underestimates its power and throws up a single hand to block without even bothering to activate any defensive ether commands.

However, the explosion—and an entire Demonic Servant's arm breaking into thousands of pieces in the air—shows the reality of what is really happening to them right now.

I let out a laugh that matches Ava's as I charge up my other hand with fire, and she sends a kick toward another guard who has pulled out a soul sword to try and block her.

My next compacted ball of fire is blocked with ether commands from the next Admin I send it at, saving their avatar from breaking entirely, but cracks in their arm show as they're sent flying backward.

The soul sword Ava slams her foot into breaks under the pressure of her kick, and her Admin is sent flying back as well.

Out of the corner of my eye, I watch Ren disappear behind a veil of light magic, yet I sense an invisible arrow fly out from their position, targeting one of the Admins running at my back. It collides with the admin's chest at a very specific weak point and paralyzes the servant, making it fall to the floor with eyes wide.

The remaining admins all begin to group together, with half a dozen closing in on me, half a dozen on Ava, and the rest converging on the position where Ren was before disappearing.

I would do a similar move to prolong the fight further, but I feel a very interesting set of ether commands activating while bursts of white light come out from all of their hands again.

[Admin Override Activated!][New Title: Rule Breaker!][Avatar Debuff: All Stats and Command Strength Decrease by 99%.]

I hear it echo in my inner ear as the commands linked to my fake avatar weaken so much that they are almost useless.

It makes me grin inwardly, and I send another message to Ava, alerting her to play along.

Ren, on the other hand, is jolted out from the shimmering veil of light magic, shock crossing their face.

Simultaneously, the three of us are surrounded by Demonic Servants with soul weapons to our necks.

Five Admins are injured, but the rest are untouched and think they have the upper hand, believing they could kill us at a moment's notice.
