“I said it was okay.” Ren said and leaned close. “You might not want reassurance that I am concentrating on you; but, I'm going to give you some anyway.” He said and kissed her cheek. “I don't know Miss Harrison's first name. I never asked for it and she didn't volunteer it.”

Barbi blinked her eyes for a moment, then smiled. “I get it.”

“I hope so.” Ren said and sat back. “Could you do me favor?”

“S-sure.” Barbi said, and her face stayed red.

“Not that kind of favor.” Ren chuckled. “Not yet, anyway.” He said and pat her thigh. “I need the bathroom. Would you ask Stella to give me a hand?”

“Of course.” Barbi said and stood up.

Ren dragged his hand down her thigh to her knee and let her go. “Thanks.”

Barbi nodded and went to get Stella, and she got out of the pool, grabbed a towel and started to dry herself off, and walked over to him.

“You need the...” Stella looked at his grin and his hands over his private area. “What? Again?”

“Sorry. I was thanking Barbi for...”

“Say no more.” Stella said and put the towel around her neck. “I think that's a fetish of yours.”

“What? Thanking people?” Ren asked as she took him into the house.

“No, people helping you and then thanking them for it.” Stella said and they went into the bathroom.

“Okay, that I think I'd have to agree with.” Ren said and Stella chuckled.

“Not even a token argument?” Stella asked as she helped lay him down on the floor.

“What for? I know what I like, and I appreciate it when I get help.” Ren said, and Stella pulled off her swimsuit. “Holy crap!”

Stella laughed. “It's too tight to pull aside for you.” She said and gave herself a quick rinse in the shower and dried off with a different towel, then knelt over his face. “I'm glad I can still surprise you, though.”

“Like I said before, no matter how many times I see... mhmm!”

“Less talking, more licking.” Stella said as she covered his mouth with her private part, then did the same thing to him.

They didn't make it back to the pool until almost 45 minutes later.
