Eager as I am for the battle to start anew, out on the exposed northern flank, my tired allies are less than enthusiastic about the process. Fatigue and melancholy hang heavy from their shoulders as they rest where they can, their morale low and courage faltering at the sight of this fresh, elite army arrayed against them. Fighting off hordes of shirtless savages is one thing, but now we face a disciplined, well-equipped army of former Martial Warriors who’ve been turned by the Enemy. Normal Defiled are tough and fearless, but they’re also reckless and impulsive which makes them simple to deal with. If the Imperials had fought this battle on an open field, we would have been overwhelmed by the Enemy’s superior numbers within minutes, but hunkered behind our defensive positions, there was only so much surface area for the Defiled to assault. The Enemy didn’t even bother to surround Sinuji beforehand, though I suppose they had to worry about Imperial reinforcements riding to the rescue or something. Regardless, as hard pressed as the Imperial forces were, we were only engaged with a fraction of the Enemy forces at any given time, while the majority were stuck waiting around for their turn on the front lines.

The field is thick with corpses of the fallen, and some of those Defiled tribesmen never even came within spitting distance of the walls, but they don’t care. They’re here because the Spectres want their pound of flesh, and they don’t care who they get it from.

This disciplined Defiled army presents a different sort of threat. Yo Ling showed the Empire what an organized Enemy force could do when led by a competent commander, and the Imperials have yet to figure out how to react. Even without knowing what I know, every soldier in Sinuji can see the Enemy not only outnumbers us, but they’re also better equipped to boot, with every single soldier clad in heavy armour or better. One could even argue the Enemy army is also better trained than the Imperial forces thanks to guidance from the Spectres, and doubly so because a large portion of our troops are little better than glorified militia, with little to no experience fighting against disciplined Martial Warriors on a battlefield.

Truth be told, I’m not entirely certain Sinuji could hold against this fifty-thousand strong army of Enemy soldiers, even without the tribal auxiliaries to support them.

Luckily, after a brief, but stressful interlude, it turns out the Enemy army has a different plan in mind. Mounted on one of the few surviving gajashias, Gen breaks away from the army and rides towards Sinuji alone, his progress slow and stately as if out for a morning jaunt. I’m surprised he’s already conscious considering I literally bashed his face in, but the Spectres are probably masking the extent of his injuries as they often do, or he has someone skilled in Healing to support him. Regardless of how he recovered so quickly, this is my chance to end things once and for all, so without waiting for him to spew his despicable lies and hate-filled rhetoric, I ride out to meet him on the fields of Sinuji.

Needless to say, Argat is not happy, but at least he knows better than to bring my morale down before a duel.

Having learned from my earlier mistakes, I reach for Balance and shut out the mass of Spectres still swirling about my Core. It’s only been a few days, but already it feels so needlessly complicated absorbing Chi this way, having to focus and keep myself anchored amidst Heavenly Energy’s bipolar personalities, the calm embrace of the Mother and the raging demands of the Father. Lean too far one way or the other and things go wrong, either rendering me slow and talent-less or turning me into a rage-filled murder hobo. On the other hand, Devouring Heavenly Energy to turn into Chi comes with neither of those downsides and is as easy as flicking a switch, because all I need to do is think about opening my Core to the world, and the world rushes in.

Problem is, Devouring won’t help me here. I’m topped up on Chi, there are no free-floating Spectres to Succ, and I need Balance to keep the Spectres in my gut from manipulating my thoughts.

Stopping halfway between the Defiled army and Sinuji, Gen dismounts and awaits my arrival, his smile far too cheerful for someone who just got the beating of a lifetime. His armour bore the brunt of the damage and remains wholly intact, but I felt muscles tear and bones break beneath my assault. I hurt him, I know I did, so why is he so... calm? It’s eerie how he just stands there with one hand behind his back and the other stroking his beardless chin, not posturing like a young noble but merely doing what comes naturally to him. Whereas he normally gives the impression of someone trying too hard to be cool, here he looks so composed and relaxed its as if he’s done this a thousand times before, like we’re old friends meeting for a chat instead of hated enemies here to duel to the death.

Most uncharacteristic of all is his silence, not uttering a single word even after I arrive. Instead, he merely watches me, studies me, as if seeing me for the first time, and I note a hint of surprise within his gaze. With the bearing of a wise old grandfather, he looks me up and down to take my measure, and I notice his fingers are still normal length and not at all sharp. It’s as if he were a different person wearing the same skin, which leads me to believe he has yet to wholly recover from his earlier beating. Not surprising at all since head wounds are tricky to fix, but I find this mute, zen Gen thoroughly unnerving to the extreme and almost wish he’d go on a rant about the Truth or something.

With Unity in hand and Tranquility strapped to my wrist, I dismount from Zabu and send him away, just in case Gen targets him out of spite. Silence blankets the battlefield as I stand across from my foe and expect him to open his mouth and speak, but Gen continues to stand there in tranquil serenity, utterly still except for his wandering eyes and chin-stroking hand. The Gen standing before me, he deserves all the wolves, tigers, and dragons emblazoned on his armour, not like the snivelling, weak-willed Gen I fought earlier.

Maybe I should’ve rinsed some of this blood off or at least put away the gourds of Chi-infused water. I look like a dirty drunkard who murdered a pig and rolled around in its filth...

Having studied me long enough, Gen cocks his head in silent question and waves me forward, a haughty invitation to attack if I’ve ever seen one. Problem is, his calm demeanour and confident attitude have me wondering if I’ve stepped into a trap, but if so, it’s already too late. Even if there are twenty mole-rat Demons lurking around us, I can’t walk away from this, not after already letting Gen get away once. Taking my stance, I opt to approach with caution instead of my standard, all-or-nothing charge, but my foe waits with the relaxed patience of a true Peak Expert, as if it were Akanai or Nian Zu standing across from me instead of the weak and worthless Gen.

Inching closer ever so slowly, I slip into striking range but continue to hold back, wondering what he’s got up his sleeve. Then, the point is moot as Gen makes his first move, a single step forward to close the distance. Reacting on instinct, I thrust out with Unity and freeze in surprise as the blade pierces through the Runic armour and bites deep into flesh and bone. Still wearing that same, calm smile, Gen wrenches the glaive out of my hands and leaves it protruding from his chest, barely even flinching as it quivers in mid air. Nodding in encouragement, Gen waves me forward and invites me to come quickly and finish the job.

Despite all my fears and reservations, the temptation is too much. Balance on Windy Leaf followed by Pierce the Horizon, and in the blink of an eye, Peace joins Unity embedded in Gen’s flesh. Locking onto my wrist with his steely grip, Gen’s smile widens even further as he looms overhead, not growing in size, but presence as he nods at my third and final weapon, indicating I should give it a try. Even though I’ve dealt him two killing blows, I still feel like I’m the one in mortal danger, not him, but nonetheless, I slide Tranquility’s dual blades between his ribs and marvel as he accepts the blow without flinching. Grabbing my left arm as well, Gen and I stand locked in this deadly embrace, and try as I might, I cannot pull free.

“Be proud, little Devourer,” Not-Gen says, his eyes twinkling in delight. “For this Sovereign has seen your potential and deems you too dangerous to leave alive.”

“...Who are you?”

Shaking his head, Not-Gen’s smile fades away as his physical forms ripples before my eyes. “Dead men need no answers.”

Behind him, a swarm of Spectres take the skies and rush towards us, freed from their fleshly constraints as the Defiled soldiers cut down the savage tribesmen as tribute to Not-Gen’s Demonic Transformation. My mouth goes dry and panicked struggles grow frantic, but his steely fingers dig deep into my flesh and hold me in place, too strong to break free but not strong enough to rend through flesh and bone. Then, all too soon, time runs out and the Demonic Ichor coursing through Not-Gen’s veins dissolves my Spiritual Weapons caught in his flesh.

The dam bursts.

The wall crumbles.

The forge breaks.

The drill cracks.

The Void shatters, and my Core, my Natal Palace, my Aura are no more. Everything within surges back out into the world, the Spectres no longer contained and Chi and Heavenly Energy no longer mine. Crippled and defeated, I fall to my knees and await death, for what else can a mere mortal do?

Chapter Meme
