“Of... of course I did! They're wonderful mechanisms!”

“Then why hurt them? What possible purpose did it serve?”

“I was... I was ordered by the King to find out what they were made of, and to make them myself if I could!”

“And you decided an acid potion was the BEST way to do that?!?”

The dwarf didn't say anything, and Ren grinned.

“You know what? I think I want to know what YOU are made of.” He said, and carried the dwarf over to the table Stacy had been strapped to.

“No! NOOO!” The dwarf screamed and struggled as Ren tied him to the table. “Please! They're just things! I'm alive! ALIVE!”

“So are they.” Ren said and picked up the vial of acid. The dwarf struggled and the ropes pulled tighter. Ren smiled as he had found a good use for his Knot Tying skill. He held the vial over the dwarf's leg, and tipped it slightly.

“By the gods, please stop!” The dwarf pleaded. “I... I can help you!”

Ren stopped with the acid near the edge of the vial. “Oh?” He asked. “How could you possibly help me to make up for hurting my dogs like this?”

The dwarf looked around the lab, breathed quickly, and nodded. “There. On my workbench.”

Ren straightened the vial and turned around to look. He saw a thick book there, put the vial down, then walked over to the workbench to read the cover.

Alchemy Of The Ages

The Expert Guide To Potions, Elixirs, and Tonics

“I'll give it to you, if you let me live.” The dwarf said.

“Why can't I just take it myself right now?” Ren asked.

The dwarf laughed. “You're an Adventurer. You should already know that if you steal it, it's just a book, and the information within will erase itself.”

That's... good information to know. Ren thought as he took in a deep breath, and let it out slowly. Stacy whined slightly, and he pat her. “Very well.” He said. “You have my word that I won't kill you over this.”

The dwarf relaxed, and sighed at the truth in Ren's words. “You may have the book.”

Ren saw the book glow slightly blue for a second, and he picked it up.

Book of Advanced Alchemy Skills

Create Elixir, Create Tonic, Create Vial, Decipher Ingredients

Would you like to learn these skills? Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said and the book glowed brightly, then the glow enveloped him.

Notice!

You have gained access to a book from the Lore Of The Ages series. Alchemy of the Ages is well beyond your Alchemy skill level, so a Boost has been granted as a reward for finding such a rare and valuable book.

Alchemy Level 1 (Advanced 0%), Herb Aura Level 1 (Advanced 0%)

The book dissolved and the glow faded away a moment later.

Notice!

You have learned the following Alchemy sub skills:

Create Elixir Level 1 (Intermediate 0%) - Elixirs grant permanent stat bonuses

Create Tonic Level 1 (Intermediate 0%) - Tonics grant temporary boosts to abilities

Create Vial Level 1 (Intermediate 0%) - Vials are more concentrated potions

Decipher Ingredients Level 1 (Intermediate 0%) - You can now determine what ingredients make up a potion, given enough time and access to the proper equipment.

Notice!

Thanks to your Hidden Knowledge skill, you have discovered a hidden sub skill.

New Sub Skill!

Ingredient Substitute - You can change out ingredients with similar properties, that don't normally go in your potions.

Notice!

You have learned new recipes: Potion of Major Healing, Potion of Giant Strength, Tonic of Speed, Tonic of Invulnerability, Vial of Invisibility, Vial of Acid, Elixir of Knowledge, Elixir of Vitality, Elixir of Life

“By... by the gods!” Ren said as he dismissed the popups, then turned to the dwarf. “You had that book just laying around, out in the open?!? Are you crazy?”

The dwarf laughed. “I told you. It's worthless unless given to someone.”

Ren shook his head and walked over to the table the dwarf was tied to, and Riley and Stacy followed him.

“Stay.” He told the dogs. “Watch. Attack if he moves.” Ren went out to the guards and tied them up, then checked the female dwarf. She was a little bloody from all of the wood splinters, but she was still alive and breathing normally. He tied her up and gagged her, picked out all of the splinters he could see, then used the Major Healing wand on her. She woke up and looked at him with wide eyes, and started to panic.

“I'm not going to hurt you.” Ren said. “I only came for my dogs.”

The female dwarf relaxed as she heard the truth, and Ren went to the door to the hallway. He took out his Book of Runes, found the Sealed rune, and did his mental trick of making the double, triple and quadruple glyphs. They appeared on the page and he concentrated on the triple glyph, then enchanted the door with a double glyph of Sealed (6 runes total). Each rune granted a 20% chance that the entryway couldn't be entered by any means, but when Ren examined it, it was maxed at 100%.

I guess there's no point in letting it be 120% entry proof. Ren thought, then went to the desk in the center of the room. He looked at the drawings the female dwarf had made, and admired them.

“You can draw well.” Ren said to her and took out a Fireball wand. “I don't suppose you know what happened to the ones they took from my dogs, do you?”

The female dwarf shook her head, and Ren shot a fireball at the desk. It immediately burst into flames and the dry parchment was consumed in seconds. The female dwarf started crying, and Ren went over to her and knelt. He dried her eyes with a piece of cloth, and smiled.

“I told you I wouldn't hurt you.” He said. “The alchemist on the other hand...”

“Mummggll!” She mumbled, and Ren took out the gag. “Don't kill him! He's my father!”

“I already gave my word that I wouldn't kill him.” Ren said, and she sighed.

“T-thank you.” She said and a few more tears came out of her eyes in relief.

“He still has to pay for what he's done, though.” Ren said, and put the gag back in her mouth. She mumbled a yell, but Ren ignored her and went back into the alchemy lab.

*

The female dwarf heard bones crack and muffled screams, and she cried and sobbed. This went on for several minutes, and then there was silence.

No! He... he said he wouldn't kill him! She thought in desperation. What kind of monster would... would break their word like that!

*

Ren came out of the lab and walked over to her. “I didn't break my word.” He said. “He's just passed out. I didn't kill him.”

The female dwarf stared at him as he picked her up, and brought her into the lab. He pulled over a chair and put it by the table her father was strapped to, and sat her in it. Her eyes watered, and she cried as she saw her father's mangled fingers.

“I couldn't let him hurt anything else, like he did with my dogs.” Ren said, then sighed. “If you think that taking him to a healer will fix them, they are already healed.”

She gasped into the gag and sobbed.

“It... it really hurt something inside of me to do this.” Ren said, his voice full of sadness. “I didn't know that I could... that I could do something like this...”

The female dwarf looked at him, hearing the truth in his words.

“I know what his life is going to be like, you see.” Ren took out a stack of platinum coins and put them on the table. “Take him away from here. Let him live a comfortable life away from all of this.”

She kept crying, and looked away from Ren to stare at her father.
