They took it better than he would have, at least on the surface. The prisoners just seemed grateful to no longer be poked and prodded by anyone, but Matt and everyone else could see it in their eyes that they didn’t really expect to ever be truly free.

Matt had faith in Melinda and even Harvest Moon, but knew the next year would be a better situation than they had left. Nothing would remove the trauma they had undergone except a mind wipe, and all of them had refused that and the rest of the populations needed to be protected.

It was only then that Melinda turned her attention to the prisoners.

By and large, they seemed resigned to their fates and none of them seemed willing to play hard ball. At the same time, they didn’t actually know much beyond their projects or when they had been recruited.

They did learn that the facility had been in Kelispo’s gas giant for only two hundred years, and it had been moved there from somewhere else, but none of the workers they captured knew where that was.

They did get some interesting information when Melinda interrogated the scientist who had been stuffing items into the spatial bag.

“What do you know about the bag that disappeared?” Melinda's question came after other more innocuous questions and made the scientist flinch.

“I don—”

Melinda glared at the man. “I’m trying to be polite but if you don’t cooperate, I will get nasty fast. Are you willing to talk or not? This is your final chance.”

The man swallowed several times before caving. “I really don’t know much. We were given the bag and told to never put anything into it unless we were raided, and in the event of such a raid, we were supposed to dump any samples and the most sensitive information into it. I actually don’t know what happened to it. It just vanished. You need to believe me.”

Melinda snorted and went into asking the man about what he had shoved in, but Matt and everyone else decided to step out and go inspect the room again.

As they were walking, Allie vanished, appearing a moment later with Zack beside her.

That would have been normal enough, but his left hand was glowing a faint blue as it seemed to leave after images in its wake as he moved.

They quickly filled him in as they reached the room.

Once more, Allie tried to find a hidden space, but nothing worked and she was completely unable to detect anything.

Esmeralda, however, threw out an interesting theory. “I've seen teleporting bags.”

Allie interjected immediately. “I’d feel if a spatial passage had been made. There isn’t one.”

The former spy nodded to Allie as she continued, “I’ve also heard of destruction bags. They are just black holes of mana that destroy anything and everything put inside, but that same destructive energy is what destroys them.”

Allie looked like she wanted to object, but eventually gave in. “That's possible and I wouldn’t be able to tell because nothing spatial is going on.”

Everyone looked to Matt, who shook his head that he didn’t feel anything with his Intent, and so they all turned to Zack, who started setting up dowsing formations to detect mana residues.

Wires of mana floated through the room and started to settle on a small singular speck of mana like flotsam.

Melinda entered the room a second later. “That's a very good guess, actually. Special Agent Thomson had a similar speculation. It would also explain the lack of some of the reports we never found in the last base we hit. The question is why use it for just those bits of information. They don’t look that different from anything else.”

Zack threw them a curveball. “I don’t think that's correct.”

Everyone turned to look at him, where he still moved threads of mana around.

“The mana signature I’m seeing has nothing to do with any kind of destructive mana. It’s time mana.”

Matt turned to face the spot Zack was looking at as everyone else took a step back to make room for Melinda and Moon.

He just didn’t see it being possible. “That seems unlikely.”

Zack nodded. “Agreed. Time travel is outright impossible backwards and stupendously expensive forward. I see no way for it to move more than a few seconds, given conventional wisdom.”

Matt pondered that and reevaluated his preconceptions. “The bag seemed to collapse on itself. Reducing size might reduce the cost.”

Zack requested access to Matt’s [AI], and when he got it, started running various simulations.

Finally, he said, “It might. It's been almost a week, correct? How much mana would that take?”

Matt didn’t need his [AI] to know the answer. “Lots.”

The more they talked, the less likely it seemed his hypothesis was correct, but the more they couldn’t explain the abundance of time mana having been used.

Finally, Melinda stepped forward. “This is good, but leave the rest to us. We can watch the room and the surroundings to see if anything appears. I wanted to give you what we found about the information framing Liz.”

Melinda wagged a small memory crystal, which Matt scanned.

Inside, all of the information recovered from the drives was collected and recreated as best as possible. The information about Liz was much newer and only a week old.

Seeing that, Matt went looking and found the section of video Melinda had provided.

Overlooked because of the choppy distortions that looking so far back in time created, they watched as an indistinct humanoid crawled across the facility appearing more or less real every other second. It spent a few seconds at a terminal that came to life before it made its way back out of the facility as silently as it came.

Matt was going to ask the obvious question, but Esmeralda had the answer.

“Son of a bitch. That's Two Step Jack. He's a freelance spy. He normally keeps his nose as clean as possible in that kind of business, but he's a damn good infiltrator. He's even worked with us a few times with the war clauses rooting out spies.”

Matt clenched his fist. A name was a great first step, even if he was ultimately independent of whoever was attacking them.

Tapping into his Ascender credentials, Matt found Two Step Jack's suspected base and smiled as it was an exact location.

Looking to Allie, who had done the same, he saw her nod.

Liz turned to Melinda and asked, “Do you need our help? We can come back once we ask this Jack fellow a few questions. I don’t like the idea of someone using blood magic research facilities.”

Melinda worried her lip for a moment before shaking her head. “No. it seems pretty clear your adversary is the one who tried to blackmail the Empire with this information, not the people behind this operation themselves. It would be best to try and find both groups of people. I also doubt they will be willing to sell the information after they decided to use it against you Liz, so it's not like we can try to bait them out that way and I want them caught. No, I need them caught. Best option is for you guys to try and hunt them down.”

Allie clapped her hands, and they appeared at a backwater Tier 5 world deep in the heart of the Empire.

Aster looked around. “I do have to wonder why you have a waypoint here, Allie.”

“Despite the world's low Tier, it's a nexus of six duchies. Romtut was originally a temporary placement as the Empire expanded and wanted to connect the surrounding areas to each other, but once it was in place, it was hard for anyone to care enough to put a higher-Tier world here. Eventually, the idea just lost so much momentum until it got stuck.” Pausing, she tapped her chin. “Actually, the Boss wanted this location to have a waypoint. I wanted to put it a few worlds over. He insisted it needed to go here and explained what I said earlier.”

Liz tsked. “How coincidental.”

Matt took that as his cue and cast [Portal], bringing them to an otherwise ordinary low-Tier apartment building.

Their target felt the move, but instead of trying to run, just stood there with her hands raised.

Seeing that, the seven of them took the stairs, choosing not to cause a scene though, all of them were ready to attack at any sudden moves.

However, the woman didn’t even flinch as Allie forced the door open with a cut from her dagger that destroyed the Tier 3 lock.

Liz just glared at Two Step Jack as they entered the room. “Expected us, did you?”

“Once I heard the news, I realized what had happened. I’m not happy to be used like this, I assure you.”

Phoenix Liz screeched at Jack, who flinched for the first time.

“I have information.”

Aster snorted. “Of course you do. Question: is it enough?”

“I really hope so.”

That last bit was candid enough it caught all of them off guard. It was, however, time to ease off if Jack was going to cooperate.

“Let's hear it then,” Liz barked.

“I actually have it recorded. Second shelf on the left. The vase is a—” Jack winced as Allie exploded the vase with a moment of warped space that also destroyed the self-destruct hidden inside. “Very expensive disguise item. Never mind, I can always buy another.”

Inside there were dozens of data crystals, each carefully labeled with a cipher.

“You want one that ends with A77.”

Instead of just absorbing the information, Liz tapped the crystal to the screen on Jack's wall. Instead of a virus or anything malicious, a first-person video of Jack walking through the Capital until she reached a subway station appeared.

They watched as tens of thousands of people poured out of the cars when it stopped and just as many people entered the spatially expanded cylinders. It took a few minutes, but eventually, Jack sat down just as the train started to move.

Nothing interesting happened until after two stops when someone sat down next to her.

A nondescript male with painfully average features that was no doubt a disguise. “Job for you.”

Jack’s voice was equally deep and masculine when she replied, “Type?”

“Infiltration and drop off. Nothing more.”

Jack seemed to mull that over for a minute before asking, “Pay?”

“Six chits.”

“That's low.”

“This isn’t worth anything more.” The man’s comment caused a sigh from the Jack standing next to them.

The video Jack, however, said, “Acceptable on the condition of further pay if the job turns out to be dangerous.”

“Done.”

“Done.”

The man stood up and left a small bag on his seat as he got off at the next stop and the recording ended just as Jack picked it up.

Jack moved to step forward, just to have Allie press her dagger into the Tier 30’s temple.

Leaning over Jack's shoulder, she whispered into her ear, “Careful now.”

Stopping her movement, Jack carefully pointed a single finger.

“That's all the video will show, but I can give you the device. I was supposed to destroy it, but I was keeping hold of it in case the job turned out to be more dangerous than described or I wasn’t paid.”

That perked Liz right up. “Okay. Now you have my interest.”

“It's not here.”

Liz nodded as phoenix Liz flew off her shoulder and landed on Jack, where she turned into her blood form that melted into Jack's hair. A clear and obvious threat if ever there was one.

“Lead the way.”

Jack cracked her neck and transformed into a different woman. From there, she led them to an orchard just outside the town they were in, but still close enough to the coast that they were within the area safe from rifts.

Once they were inside, Matt half expected some treachery, but Jack never tried anything as she led them to a water container which had a false bottom containing a number of small items.

When Jack handed Liz the device, Allie vanished without having to be asked and returned with a freshly opened data pad.

Using that, they verified the information on the device was the video of Liz performing blood magic on the victim.

Seeing that, Liz stared at Jack. “I’m tempted to just kill you.” Liz let the threat linger for a long moment. “But I won’t. However, you owe me big time. First way you can repay me is by spreading the word. The next person who is used as an inadvertent patsy isn’t going to be given such leniency. After that, we'll be in touch if we need you. If you decide to say no, I’ll hunt you down and have Allie drop you off in Harper's personal office.”

Knowing she was in no place to refuse, Jack agreed.

Allie teleported them back to the Capital, where Esmeralda took the storage device that had the video and went to work analyzing it with Jericho.

They immediately discovered the recording itself was edited, but not fabricated, which proved the things the video showed had actually happened, which meant someone out there had broken several laws to knowingly morph into Liz’s likeness.

That was incredibly illegal, and anyone willing to do so knowingly would be unlikely to be a patsy as Jack had been.

That was their next best lead if they could find her.

The recording wasn't so useful as to have a credits section.

But their methods were more substantial than that.

