I waited for a real answer. She glanced up at the ceiling then back at me, “Because the language caused the cataclysm.”

I leaned towards her, “How do you know that?”

She glanced around the room like she was looking for a way out, “It is a part of the legends told during mealtimes. The ancients discovered a language that could do things that shouldn’t be done. They opened a doorway that should never have been opened. What came through that doorway obliterated them, leaving nothing but their precious runes behind.”

She leaned onto her cane, “Their dabbling destroyed our people.”

I raised an eyebrow, “So you’re telling me you killed two seekers because of some myth?”

Her eyes hardened, “They both studied the language for ages. They ran experiments on living Eltari. On our people. They touted that they could create an Eltari immune to the corruption. They spoke lies about us being able to return to the surface safely. Our people have scraped by for many years by following our traditions. It is the exploration they so craved that caused the cataclysm.

I crossed my arms, “There’s nothing that verifies that though. You’re basing all this on that one assumption. That’s like building a castle on sand. It’s dumb.”

She coughed into her hand while the other elders shifted in their seats. I held firm.

She stared daggers at me, “We know it is true. We are not as primitive as you’d like to think we are.”

I rolled my eyes, “Come on then, let’s see it.”

She glanced at the other elders. She bit her lip then walked over towards a mat made of straw. She kicked it aside, exposing a trap door. She tapped it with her cane, “Look at it.”

I walked over, lunging to one knee and landing on a telekinetic pad. The trapdoor popped open from redirecting the force of the lunge, and I caught the doorway with a hand. Within were stone tablets and a pile of garbage, including the gas masks the seekers used. I glanced up at her,

“What is this?”

She frowned, “What remains of the ancients.”

I turned back to the piles. Inside were yellowed paper manuals. Some of them revolved around farming in desserts. Others explained how to collect water. They all revolved around surviving a desert climate. On the dozens of tablets were incomplete markings of the eldritch runes. I leaned closer, tapping the edge of one.

I clanked my teeth, “These are the tablets that Hod’s parents used.”

Jass nodded, “And they’re what caused the second coming.”

I turned to her, “The second what?”

“The second cataclysm. The sky turned from orange to red. The machines came once more.”

I squinted my eyes, “Machines…what did the machines look like.”

She bent over and took the tablet out of my hand, glancing at it as if staring somewhere else in time. She answered,

“There were three of them that came. Two of them wielded violet spears, covered in blue armor. They were covered in a blue aura and armor, and they covered their faces with masks. No eyes or ears or anything.”

I gritted my teeth as she continued, “The other was a giant with enormous hands and covered in black, except the shining steel over it. It glowed and hissed as it moved, and it would lift its hands and bend anything it wanted too with just its fingers. It had several eyes over it, and it made the sky change with gigantic squares.”

I shook my head, groping for possibilities. It had to be something else. I thought of all the eldritch I’d faced, but none of them fit the bill. None of the monsters in the books Torix gave me matched her description either. The resemblance was uncanny, from the violet spear to the dimensional shift using squares. There was only one thing that either of those could be.

I whispered, “Those machines…They sound a lot like a sentinel and overseer.”
