Erick said, “She might die through no fault of anyone’s. It’s dangerous out there.”

“If she does, then, no offense meant to you or your capability, but you will likely be dead before she is.” Lingxing said, “Nirzir is very, very good at active defense.”

Yet another tick in the girl’s favor.

Erick needed better defenses, anyway.

Ugh!

Was he really considering this?

He was, wasn’t he.

Well. Maybe keeping her around while he was in Nelboor would be fine. She probably knew a lot more about this land than he did. Maybe more than Poi, too. Yes; he could take her around Nelboor, at least.

Erick turned back toward Nirzir. “You really want this?”

“I do,” Nirzir said, “I don’t want to become a hermit, and I foresee myself going that way if nothing changes.”

“Then… I already have an apprentice, but I suppose this benefits me as much as you… You can stick around with us while we’re moving around Nelboor, at least. We can speak more of your capabilities and of magic back at the house—”

Nirzir lit up, her purple eyes glittering.

“—as soon as Poi looks you over, to see that you are who you say you are, and that this isn’t some sort of trick of some kind.”

Lingxing spoke first, “We expected this to happen, so do what you must.”

Nirzir spoke strongly, “I am ready to do what is needed of me.”

Erick glanced behind him, where Poi and Teressa waited by the door. “Poi?”

Poi stepped forward.

Nirzir nodded, and moved to stand in front of Poi.

Poi asked, “I will be checking to see that you are who you say you are, and that there are no hidden desires for traveling with our group. Do you consent to a scan as outlined by my targeted search?”

“I consent.”

Tendrils of soft blue light came out of Poi’s body to reach into Nirzir’s arms and head. No one spoke. As seconds became half a minute, then a full minute, Nirzir had lost some of her composure. She had readily agreed to the scan, but she obviously did not expect it to be like it was. Soon, the young woman was sweating bullets, and Erick wondered what Poi had fou—

Poi stepped away, saying, “She is cleared, but she and I will be having a private discussion later.”

Nirzir startled, freezing in place; she had not expected that.

Lingxing did, though; proof of that was written on her face. Lingxing knew that Nirzir wanted something more from Erick than what she said she wanted. Erick fully expected something like that to happen, though. If Poi said it was fine, then it was probably fine; he trusted his man.

Erick said, “Then Nirzir is with us for the time being.” He turned to Lingxing, saying, “I thank you for your assistance. Eralis was wonderful. I hope to visit again soon, but not too soon. Not while I’m still on the Worldly Path.” Erick stood, ready to leave. He could get all of his questions about the Void Song answered by Nirzir.

Lingxing stood, saying, “We thank you for your benevolent assistance with Terror Peaks, and with all that you have done for Songli. We will never be able to reciprocate what you have done for us, but that does not mean that we will not try. Nirzir’s assistance is only the smallest part of this debt we owe to you. Farewell, Erick.” She bowed, slight and purposeful, as a matriarch should.

“Farewell, Lingxing.” Erick bowed only his head, then he said to Nirzir, “We’ll be taking the quick way. It’s a few steps, so bear with it.”

Before the young woman had a chance to say anything, Erick wrapped his people and Nirzir in light, and then stepped out of Lingxing’s office.

- - - -

He reappeared in his temporary home in Holorulo.

Nirzir’s eyes went wide as she looked around. “That wasn’t a [Teleport]!”

Teressa chuckled. “Nope; it wasn’t.”

“We’ll talk about some of that later.” Erick said to Nirzir, “But first, some small rules. We all provide for the safety of everyone else in the group, and since you are with us for the time being, you will benefit from that obligation, as well as be obligated to reciprocate in return. We can set you up with a room, but I cannot provide for your garments or whatever; you might want to make a trip back to your permanent home to bring anything you want, but we try to travel light. You carry all of your own stuff. Poi is your commanding officer. It goes: Me, Poi, Teressa, Jane. We can figure out everything else as needed.”

Nirzir glanced to Poi, then nodded, saying, “Yes. Of course. Uh. I understand.”

“Let’s sit down in the sunroom and go over some preliminary discussions.” Erick walked past the dense air, into the house proper, “You’re keyed in to the [Prismatic Ward] now, so come on in.”

“I’ll go make some lunch,” Teressa said, as she headed toward the kitchen.

Poi eyed the young woman, then followed Teressa, saying, “I’ll help. I want fish.”

Erick waited down the hall, past the dense air, while Nirzir hesitated at the separation between the private space and the front room, but she followed fast enough, her face relaxing after she entered the [Prismatic Ward] and found herself accepted. She briefly smiled, then followed Erick in the sunroom.

When the two of them had taken their seats across the coffee table from each other, Erick said, “I need to understand how to rely on you, if at all. Let us begin with some basic capabilities that aren’t in the Open Script. Do you have an Elemental Body?”

Nirzir instantly answered, “[Greater Air Body] and [Water Body].”

“Reflective spells? Crowd control spells? Aura control? How do you fight?”

“Reflective hand-held shield. Spell denial is what I do, by trade as a Singer; not much more control than that, though. I have aura control as well as a mana sense, and I have Remade many Basic Tier spells, but not gone much beyond the Force spells. Singing is my greatest contribution to a fight and also my greatest power, with a focus on denial of enemy abilities and the ripping apart of enemy spellwork. I can even sing under-audible. You spoke earlier of being incognito, and I have prepared for this. I can fully pretend to be a Healer, as I have the full capability of one. [Greater Treat Wounds] as well as [Greater Inflict Wounds].”

He said, “A healer? Well we do need one of those. How old are you, anyway?”

“17. I Matriculated last year.”

“Lingxing did say that... I guess I didn’t believe it.” Erick said, “Well. I’ve only been at this magic thing for a little over a year, myself, so I guess it’s believable.”

Nirzir smiled, showing a true emotion for a brief moment, and then she locked that away and turned semi-professional again. She was young, but she was already accustomed to this life of power and ability. She was polite enough, too.

Erick was under no obligation to actually have her with him, but...

He needed allies. More allies. Better allies. If Nirzir was going to become an archmage, then it was probably best to know her before she became famous. A good working relationship here would also bode well for a good working relationship with High Clan Void Song in the future.

All good reasons to take Nirzir with him when he left Songli, but there was another more pertinent reason: nightly watches.

Poi and Teressa could not take on all the watches that were necessary for anyone to get a good night’s sleep. Ophiel filled in quite a lot on that front, but he was still young. He also wasn’t able to see future threats like Teressa, nor could he talk to people the world over, like Poi. Jane, though…

Erick desperately hoped that Jane would keep with the party as they moved out of the Highlands, but Jane really liked it here. She might stay behind.

… Whatever the case, Nirzir would be one more capable person able to see possible problems at night before they became real problems.

And… Nirzir was a healer. That alone made her halfway necessary for good travel. Redundancy was good. Erick still wasn’t sure about the young woman, but Nirzir seemed to be a perfect fit for a Healer-shaped hole. And… Again… If Jane was leaving…

Erick shoved that thought away.

Nirzir watched Erick as Erick thought in silence. He had only been thinking for a few seconds, but this was a large decision, and both of them knew that. And it wasn’t a sure thing, yet. But.

Yeah.

Okay.

Erick decided. Sure. This might as well happen.

“I look forward to a good working relationship.” Erick moved right along. “So let’s talk magic. Tell me what you think of Undertow.”

Nirzir smiled brightly, then happily said, “I am guessing that you went for Healing Waters to control for the uncomfortableness of Drains, and then you went down the Shadow spectrum to arrive at Abyss and then Void, mimicking the Mana Ocean of the Old Cosmology. Inspired. But what’s more impressive is this ability for your Undertow spell to drag mana into itself and sustain itself. This is unprecedented. It’s touching the Propagation Ban, but not breaking it. I had heard you were working on this [Renew] spell and thought it a flight of fancy, but now that I have seen it, I still cannot believe it. It gives me hope for my own magical goals of—”

“Sorry. I have to clarify: Undertow is not [Renew]. I’m still working on that.” Erick asked, “What sort of goals?”

“It’s not [Renew]? But—” Nirzir let that drop, and answered, “[Inviolable Defense] is my ultimate goal. I don’t want to be a hermit. I haven’t even made a [Familiar], for I know that the moment I do, I will withdraw from the world. No. What I want is an [Inviolable Defense]. Skin unmarred, like the finest jade. Bones as hard as a clan mountain. Flesh as resilient as an orcol’s and a soul untouchable like those of the strongest liches. Able to deflect a sword or a spell with a fingertip, and walk through Void without bleeding, or fall from the sky without breaking.” She came back from her dreams, saying, “I have been working on this spell since before I Matriculated. I still haven’t managed to make it, though. Every day, I try a different, lower tier combination, and every day I fail again. But I won’t give up!”

Absolute protection wasn’t that odd of a concept to pursue, but something had obviously happened to the young woman to make her feel this way about this magic.

Nirzir handed him a blue box. “This is my best attempt yet.”

Immaculate Form, instant, self, personal ward, 6450 mana

Your body becomes extraordinarily resistant to damage. Your internal spells become extraordinarily hard to disrupt. Healing effects are heightened. This spell is extraordinarily resistant toward dispelling effects.

Lasts 24 hours.

Nirzir’s [Immaculate Form] had to be one of those non-exact spells that did a lot more than what the box described. Erick wondered if such a spell would be good for him, too. Perhaps, if he had an [Immaculate Form], then he could simply be ‘immune to damage’ instead of having a 100k damage shield? Constitution didn’t work for the normal absorption-type [Personal Ward], after all, but if he didn’t have a [Personal Absorption Ward] and he instead had yet another damage mitigation [Ward]…

It was an idea, for sure. But there was a problem with this idea.

Nirzir said, “It has gotten me through a lot, but it does nothing against enemy spells. I have the Void Song for that, though.”

Well, sure; that was a problem with her spell, too. But that’s not what Erick had meant.

Erick dismissed the box, and said, “I have heard that Wizards and mages of the Old Cosmology could cast the protective magics you wish to cast, but I’ve been told more than a few times that the Script specifically removed this capability; all mages are now just as vulnerable to murder as all warriors.”

Without even a moment of disappointment, Nirzir asked, “I’ve been told the same thing, but my sources have been other people. Have you heard otherwise? From some higher source?”

A twinge of desperation tainted her voice, but that was understandable, if this was her (young) life’s goal.

“I heard it from the Shades. I think the gods implied the same, but they never outright said as much.”

Nirzir lamented, and with a sigh, said, “That is farther than I have gotten.”

Erick guessed. “If you’re trying to add in [Immortality] functionality, then that, I know, is specifically forbidden. Phagar said.”

Nirzir didn’t even bat an eye at that. “There are ways around mortality that don’t require deep magics or the mutilation of the soul. I have faith that I can learn one of those techniques later in life.”

Erick smirked. “Apparently all it takes is a good application of [Polymorph].”

“And the desire to leave everything you are behind. That is a large demand; it is a rare personality that is able to do that to themselves.” Nirzir said, “But that’s just what I’ve been told; I have no personal experience with that.”

Erick nodded—

The moment stilled.

He had a brief mental flash of Nirzir casting the Void Song at him, ripping him apart before he could do anything to stop her.

The moment resumed.

Erick winced with a tiny smile that quickly went away as he took great pains to silence the sudden shitstorm of paranoia raging in his mind. If Nirzir had noticed, then she gave no reaction.

From one moment to the next, Erick decided to take his paranoia and strangle it with as much force as he could. Nirzir would be welcome here as long as she showed no signs of something untoward, and that was that.

Erick said, “If you figure out the rest of your immaculate spell, I’d like to learn that one.”

Nirzir brightened at that. And then she calculated, and chanced, “You will have to give me something commensurate in return. I will accept [Renew].”

Erick laughed. “I would make that trade. But for now: Got any spells you want to make? I’d like to see how you make your magic.”

“I would be delighted!” After a moment, and after looking suddenly guilty, Nirzir added, “It would only be fair, for I have already watched you make some of your magic. It wasn’t… It wasn’t outright spying. But...” Her voice trailed off.

Erick smiled. “A lot of people have; I made little secret of the actual creation.”

Nirzir looked tense, as though she wanted to ask something but wasn’t sure how. So she just blurted, “Why do you make your magic so publicly?”

There was a lot more to her question that she wasn’t saying. Erick guessed it had to do with Wizardry. He wasn’t willing to speak on that subject, though; not fully.

He said, “Because I didn’t want to scare people with the magic I made, so I made it in the open, and shared the blue boxes with the people I invited to watch.”

Nirzir nodded.

She wasn’t convinced that was the whole answer.

