“Not quite. I was going to use this.” Erick shut off [Greater Lightwalk] and switched to [Physical Domain]. Nothing visibly changed, but the air for a good five kilometers in every direction was now under his power. “It might not wor— ah. You can sense that, eh?”

Nirzir’s eyes were wide as she looked around in every direction. Her skin was already white, but she paled just a bit further. “Ye—” Her voice broke. “Yes. I can sense that. Can you—”

Erick pulled his [Physical Domain] closer, keeping it at roughly ten meters radius. Nirzir stood about eleven meters away from him, so she was now out of the spell’s effect, and it showed. She relaxed, and breathed deeper.

… Erick had no idea why he didn’t conjure his new aura as a smaller size. He had done that before? Why didn’t he do that this time? Just to show off?

Erick said, “Sorry about that.”

“Thank you.” Nirzir continued, “So this is how we do it back in the temple: The attacker will cast normal [Force Bolt]s at the defender, and the defender has to Void the spells coming at them. At first, you target the spells themselves with your aura. This is the easy part. Then, you learn how to automatically target certain spells with your aura. This is slightly more difficult. The final step is working toward shutting down the casting of targeted spells by interfering in their ability to be cast correctly. Simple in design; hard in practice, because the Script does many things for people, and one of the things it does is allow them to effortlessly cast small magics. Because these small magics are so easy to cast, it is very, very difficult to automatically counter them.”

Erick inwardly smirked, because Nirzir was giving him the same lesson that Quilatalap had given him about counterspelling.

Nirzir continued, “But you’re not actually using a Void aura, are you?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “But I want to try with this aura, anyway.”

“Okay. I’m not sure how— We can do it this way.”

Erick said, “Go ahead and state your concern.”

“… Void Magic naturally interferes with any magic that is not Void Magic. The only two schools of Elemental Magic that connect to Void are Abyss and Starlight. By contrast, Shadow and Light each connect to half of everything. So if you’re trying some sort of Light-based aura, then… It won’t be able to easily disrupt my [Force Bolt]s.”

Erick pondered. Something didn’t sit right with what Nirzir said…

Oh.

He said, “I’m not using a Light or a Shadow aura, but shouldn’t a Shadow aura rip through spells as well as Void? [Dispel] is Shadow-based.”

Nirzir brightened, “[Dispel] is shadow-based, but Void is so much better at disrupting spellwork! Or at least, it would be. The Script demands a parity of cost when it comes to erasing spellwork, but if not for that, then you could Void a thousand mana working for three mana worth of Void. As it is, you have to get rather good with Void to get anywhere near that original usage of the Element.” She added, “By this same restriction, though, Void is made tamer. Under the Script, Void won’t annihilate a Singer’s body unless the Singer is completely uncaring for their own wellbeing.”

Huh. Well that was interesting.

Erick flapped a hand in the air, saying, “This is a physical aura.” A [Physical Domain], actually. “It might work to break apart your Bolts, or not. I made it in preparation for coming to Songli, but I never got a chance to use it except for shutting down some thunder birds.”

“Is it… A Force Aura?”

“No. A physical aura.”

Nirzir’s eyes went wide as she understood. “Oh!” She looked to the air around Erick. Her lips scrunched. “Some people have luck with other types of negation auras. I imagine that using a [Physical Aura] would be like using an [Air Aura]? Not sure. Not sure how to help you check your spellwork, either. Let’s try it? See what happens?”

Erick nodded. “Whenever you’re ready.”

With absolutely no hesitation, a Bolt of violet light zipped out of Nirzir’s shoulder to curve through the air and head straight to Erick’s chest, rapidly passing the edge of his [Physical Domain]. Erick reacted with a pulse of power through his aura, attempting to Discord the spell; to take what he knew of [Force Bolt] and invert that power upon the physical world.

Discord X, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Shift the physical into discordant chaos.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Particle Mage Only

The violet Bolt got all the way through his aura and struck him in the chest, feeling like a punch from a strong toddler, briefly flickering his white [Personal Ward] to visibility. Discord had done nothing.

“Hmm.” Erick said, “Again.”

Nirzir rapidly obliged.

The second and third Bolt struck true, along with the fourth and then the fifth. After the sixth failed interception, Erick switched it up, and instead of using a Discordant force to negate the mana based spell, he went for a more direct approach.

Particles were not based in Force Magic or Elemental Magic, after all, so there was bound to be some issues with getting one to work on the other. Erick had done well against the Thunder Magic of the thunder birds, but their large booming spells were a rather easy thing to stop, since their magic was attempting to vibrate the physical, and Erick had direct control over the physical. But against Force magic? It was as though he was using a spoon to cut a steak.

So, instead of directly countering and ripping apart the opposing spellwork, what if he just… solidified the natural, physical world, so that the mana wasn’t present? Oh, sure, mana flowed through everything, but it still had trouble getting through denser objects, after all.

The seventh violet spell arced through the air, entering Erick’s space, while Erick used the Normalize function of his aura to empower the natural world.

Normalize X, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Empower normal physical functionality throughout the physical world, creating a myriad of individual effects. Directly weaken some forms of magic.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Particle Mage Only

The Bolt struck him in the chest like the fist of a sleepy toddler. Erick readily noticed the change.

Nirzir noticed, too. She paused in sending out Bolts, to say, “That one worked. At a proper range, I think whatever you are doing would be enough against a Bolt.”

“Or other, lesser magics.” Erick said, “But that’s not good enough.”

Nirzir nodded, solemnly. “No; it is not. I have [Force Beam]s, too?”

“Hit me with more Bolts, first.”

“You know!” Poi suggested, “You could intercept spells thrown at a target instead of spells thrown at your self.”

Erick chuckled. “Maybe when we move to [Force Beam]s and otherwise.”

Nirzir did not like Poi’s suggestion. “The final test to become a Singer is to negate a barrage of spells coming at you, including [Stoneshape] being applied underfoot and third tier [Force Beam]s of all kinds, including Decay and Void types.” Nirzir said, “Getting ready for that day can sometimes awaken the aura of a person.”

“Sounds like a plan!” Erick said, “But maybe after I figure out this small stuff, first. Hit me with some more Bolts.”

A pair of violet Bolts arced out of Nirzir, one going right and the other going left, and then both aimed straight for Erick. This time, Erick prepared to Normalize the air around the spells, while also Harmonizing his own Normalize in an attempt to make the physical world even more solid.

Harmonize X, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Shift the physical into individualized order.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Particle Mage Only

The [Force Bolt]s struck the edge of Erick’s [Physical Domain] like they had struck water, slowing down, the air around the violet Bolts turning thick. The Bolts continued on, but they lost power much, much faster than they should have. The Bolts managed to travel three meters before petering out into motes of purple light. The effect was exactly what would have happened if the Bolts had gone past their maximum range.

Erick smiled. It worked. Not perfectly, but after a fashion, it worked.

Nirzir frowned a little; puzzled. “Spatial Magic— No. Oh. You just made the air thicker. That’s not like an [Air Aura] at all.” Her eyes went wide. “Oh. That has a lot of applications.”

“Try a [Force Beam] this time.”

Poi cringed—

Nirzir obliged.

A radiant violet light exploded from her knee and impacted Erick’s chest, eliciting a bright white flash from his [Personal Ward].

Nirzir rapidly moved the beam away from Erick before canceling it altogether, her eyes going wide as she rushed forward, exclaiming, “Oh Rozeta! I didn—” She had only gotten two steps closer, before stopping. “Oh. You’re fine. Right. You probably have some mythical defenses, too.”

Erick smiled as he patted his chest where the Beam had struck. A small [Mend] fixed a tiny cut the violet beam had ripped into the fabric, as he said, “Just a [Personal Ward]. Back up and try again, and then I want to see how your own Void Song works against my small spells.”

Nirzir stepped backward. “Ready?”

Erick readied Amplify, prepared to combine it with Harmonize and Normalize.

Amplify X, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Fill the physical with rising power, enabling a myriad of possible physical effects.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Particle Mage Only

He said, “Read—”

A violet beam of light erupted from Nirzir’s right shoulder and entered Erick’s [Physical Domain] like it was a stream of water flowing into a river. The beam was swallowed up completely, turning into nothing more than diffuse purple light that rapidly faded back into the manasphere like spellwork breaking down. It was kinda pretty.

Nirzir saw this. She rapidly moved the beam left and right, trying to find an opening in Erick’s spellwork. She found several. The beam briefly continued forward like water from a sputtering hose, but Erick moved his power around, blocking the beam. In three seconds he solved the weakness problem entirely by flooding his entire Domain with Normalize, Harmonize, and Amplify.

When Nirzir’s first [Force Beam] faded, she instantly cast another one. The second violet beam met the fate of the first one, becoming little more than purple light upon the edge of Erick’s power. And then Nirzir unleashed ten beams at once, each one criss crossing and overlapping with each other as she prowled for weakness. She found none.

Erick found it much easier to simply hold his Domain in this trio configuration than to try and counter in specific areas. Perhaps he was cheating to use his Domain instead of an actual [Physical Aura], but they were practically the same thing, right?

… No; they weren’t the same thing at all.

Erick would make a proper [Void Aura] later, though.

And besides that, Erick was pretty sure that the Void Song was actually a Domain, anyway.

But back to the current problem. Nirzir’s beams of power were still getting too far into his Domain, so he added [Discord] back into the mix, targeting Force spells, like he had originally tried to do.

Nirzir’s violet spellwork crashed against the edge of his Domain, and died. Force transformed back into broken mana. Complete protection! Complete success!

As her spells faded, Nirzir stood there, eyeing Erick’s aura. “So… I don’t know what you are doing, exactly. I can’t help you refine that into something that can help you erase other spellwork. Want to try yourself against my Void Song?”

“Yes.”

Erick decided to play around with his [Physical Domain] through Ophiel, later. He shut off that aura, and turned on his [Greater Lightwalk]… Come to think of it, with [Greater Lightwalk] and [Lodestar], he wondered if he could shift his sunform into Extreme Light, and shut down magics that way.

… He might even be able to achieve something like with an Undertow spell, too. ‘Stars in the Void’ seemed like it should be an achievable idea. ‘Stars in the Void that emit Extreme Light’ seemed like a logical extension of that idea.

He turned his attention back to Nirzir. The young woman had turned on her aura, but to his mana sense, it was barely active. A highlighting rim of pale shadow clung to her skin and extended out along the ground for ten meters in every direction. Whatever she was doing was highly controlled.

Nirzir stated, “Ready.”

Erick launched a [Force Bolt] from his chest, aimed directly at Nirzir.

The Bolt vanished the second it passed within her power. The effect was too fast to see. Nirzir smirked a little, knowing that she had surprised Erick, and then she crushed that emotion off of her face. She was a reserved, proper type of girl, for sure.

Erick threw another Bolt at her.

This time he saw as the Bolt entered her aura and vanished, for lack of a better word; like a light had simply been turned off. ‘Voided’ was the proper term, but seeing it happen was different than knowing what had happened.

Nirzir asked, “Care to try a slightly larger spell?”

She was teasing; trying to be playful. She was enjoying this.

Erick was kinda enjoying this, too.

He responded with a [Force Beam] that tried to carve across the air beside her, but the beam hit her Void, and vanished, like a magician hiding a rabbit in their hat.

Nirzir giggled.

Erick said, “That’s rather much more solid than I assumed it to be.”

Nirzir paused. “Did you never try to cast spells under the Void Song while inside Eralis?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “I didn’t spend too much time inside the city proper, either. I could hear the Song everywhere I went; it was not the most comfortable thing to hear.”

“Ah. True.” Nirzir said, “I had to live outside the city for the same reasons. I cried a lot as a baby until they moved me outside Eralis.”

Poi spoke from the sidelines, “Lunch is ready.”

Erick instantly decided, “Then let us stop here, for now. You’ve given me a lot to think about, Nirzir.”

“And you as well.” Nirzir turned serious, and bowed. “I thank you for your instruction, Archmage Flatt.”

“You can call me ‘Erick’.”

Nirzir rose, looking a bit happier than before. “I shall, Erick.”

“And during lunch, we can talk about dragons and how best to find them.”

Nirzir’s purple eyes went a bit wide, but then she steeled herself, and said, “I know of several things that I am never supposed to do, or else I will draw the gaze of a dragon. But. I suppose…” She couldn’t help but smile a bit. “Now is the time to do all of those things.”
