“I don’t mean to impose too much upon you. My questions shouldn’t take longer than twenty minutes,” Erick said, after sipping his tea and sitting down across from Matriarch Lingxing.

He had attended Lingxing in her office at the top of the remade Void Temple. The décor was comfortable Greek, though they would have certainly called it something else here on Veird. There were shiny white stone floors, walls, and a vaulted ceiling, which were undoubtedly eternal stonewood. The pillars to the sides of windows, which revealed the civilization of Eralis to the north, west, and east, were stark white and thickly made. The white furniture was likely also eternal stonewood. Now that Erick knew what to look for, he saw that stuff everywhere.

For all the austerity in the general architecture of the room, it was still comfortable because of all the violet fabrics and cushions upon every sitting surface, and in the stylized, deep purple rugs upon the ground. The room was purple and white and not much else, yet it still managed to look nice; Lingxing had done well with her limited palette.

Lingxing matched her room. She was a white-skinned elderly woman with deep purple eyes, who composed herself with a feeling of strength-through-adversity. It was not a bad look.

The young woman —the girl, really— who stood behind Lingxing looked much the same as the matriarch of Void Song, but only if you took 70 years off of the older woman. Erick hadn’t been introduced to the interloper yet, but whoever she was, she stood back and patiently waited in a way that was not like a guard at all. Lingxing didn’t seem to be in too much of a hurry to introduce the girl, either.

Lingxing set down her own teacup. “It is not lightly that we give out the secrets of the Void Song, and it is not lightly that I take to this conversation. I may be busy, but I have time for you, Archmage Flatt.” She added, “Erick.”

“Then… Thank you for your time.”

“Thank you for visiting. I do wish we could have been in simpler times. We could have shared another meal at the cafeteria downstairs, but I am equally disappointed that I never got to introduce you to some of my favorite eateries out in the city. But time streams along, and now we are here. You’re leaving Songli soon, aren’t you?”

“I am. Within days, if I can help it. Perhaps four. Preparations are complete except for a few obligations I have made, and a few magics I wish to make before I go looking for some dragons.”

“Then let us discuss the other person in the room.” Lingxing gestured to the girl behind her. The girl took three steps forward to stand beside the matriarch’s chair and bowed slightly. Lingxing said, “This is Nirzir Void Song. We are related by blood, but the family genealogy is likely uninteresting to you. She is a niece, and she is on her way to becoming one of the most gifted Singers of our age. And, according to what our Enforcer Kaffi told us, and according to what we have heard and seen for ourselves, since you make very little attempt at obfuscating your methods, she casts magic almost the same as you.”

Nirzir remained completely stoic.

Erick asked, “But I thought all Singers did that?”

“We do, but we also use standard arcane notation to parse out the deeper magics. Nirzir here has not needed to do that, at all. She is only 17, and yet she casts with the ease of an old master.” Lingxing remained stoic, saying, “What I am telling you is an open secret in the clan but which we are trying to keep quiet for now, for Nirzir’s sake. Nirzir has achieved tier seven spells. One day soon, she will be an archmage.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. He took in the slip of a girl again. White hair and skin. Purple eyes. Thin. A strong sense of purpose around her, too. Then he glanced back to Lingxing.

… What was going through the old woman’s mind? What was this introduction truly for?

Lingxing continued, “She simply needs time, learning, and patronage to get there.”

Erick felt himself pale. He desperately hoped that Lingxing wasn’t asking him what he thought she was asking of him. Was she?

Erick narrowed his eyes. “Patronage?”

“Yes. Patronage. Preferably from an already established archmage.”

And there it was.

Lingxing said, “If you do not wish to take her with you on your Worldly Path, then I will accept this decision, but since you will likely need someone to answer your various Singer questions, then this is one of the best ways I can think of to accomplish this.” She added, “As you have allowed us to benefit from your daughter, it is only right that we allow you to benefit from one of ours.”

Erick said, “You know I’m going to hunt dragons and kill outsized threats, yes? I plan to go to the Core, and to the Fractured Citadels of Quintlan, as well as deal with some uppity dragons soon enough.” Erick looked to Nirzir, and saw that the listing of Veird’s deeper horrors was... not budging the girl’s decision. Oh? This wasn’t a plot from Lingxing, was it? Nirzir had done this all on her own? This little girl had gotten one over on the Matriarch of her High Clan, somehow? Yes; that seemed right. Well wasn’t that odd. Erick faced Nirzir, and asked, “What do you want?”

Nirzir’s voice was calm, and quick, “I wish to journey with you until you leave the rest of us behind on your Worldly Path, because I have never met someone who can make magic exactly as I can make magic, and I feel that I need to make this connection while I can. I ask for no secrets except for those you are willing to give. In return, I will give you everything that is mine to give.”

… Okay?

Well. Eh...

If he said ‘no’, then this conversation would likely end before he could ever get any of his own answers. Lingxing was sitting, and Nirzir was standing, but Lingxing was deferring to the younger girl. Nirzir was in charge, here.

Erick said, “I am planning on going incognito whenever I next get the opportunity. You will have to wear commoner clothing, and you will be expected to pull your own weight, and the weight of others. I cook for my people just as much as they cook for me.”

Erick’s words had not been a part of Nirzir’s plan.

“Cook? Bu—” Nirzir changed tacks, and solidly said, “I am willing to do this. I will cook.” She seemed to find her stride, as she continued, “I have the full arcanaeum-mandated basic spell list, and have worked hard to ensure that I have as many utility spells as necessary, and more besides. I am fully capable of keeping watch with both my extensive spellwork and my own eyes, as well as following orders and acting as a group. My personal specialty is in defensive magics, though I am a Singer by Class.” She added, “You mentioned Quintlan, where necromancers roam free and soul attacks are common. I may be young, but I am confident in my ability to defend myself and others from most soul magics. I am also reasonably confident in my ability to act independently and with aplomb. I am a Scion of Focus. I can also cast all basic Healing Magics, including [Greater Treat Wounds].”

She had more things to say, more skills and abilities she wanted to mention, but she cut herself off there. Probably because that had been… a lot.

Too much for a 17 year old.

Erick listened, then he looked to Lingxing. “She’s not Kaffi, right?”

Lingxing casually said, “No; she is not. Kaffi is elsewhere. Nirzir is exactly who she appears to be. You, more than anyone, should know how quick an archmage progresses.”

“That may be true.” Erick said, “If this happens, I’m going to have Poi look her over, and if Nirzir says no to a scan, then I will not accept her.”

Lingxing said, “Nirzir will submit to this.”

Nirzir had stood silent, as if knowing what Erick would have demanded of her ahead of time. Well… He did have a track record for having the Mind Mages scan people, didn’t he? Yeah, he did.

Erick asked the young woman, “Why do you want to journey with me?”

“Because you are an archmage willing to become involved in the world. The decisions you make affect us all, and I wish to be there when those sorts of decisions are being made, even if I am no more than a guard in the background.” Nirzir said, “To put it another way: You have culled a thousand threats from my homeland, saving millions of lives, and your actions with the Mind Mages have saved countless more. I wish to learn from you, and I feel that you can learn from me, too.”

Erick frowned, not because he was unhappy with her answer, but because the young woman was winning him over.

But on the other hand, he did not need another person to tag along with him in this Worldly Path. Except... Fine. Erick had come here to ask about Void’s antimagic uses, anyway.

Let’s see what kind of answer she can give.

Erick looked to Nirzir, saying, “I have made a spell that could be cast on the border of a town, or anywhere that needs defending, which makes a wall of Abyssal Void that is basically Permanent, if it can be kept going through a modicum of maintenance that anyone with Mana or Health is able to provide. There is no need for special training to provide this maintenance. An Abyssal Void wall, fully powered, is worth millions of points of defense. This wall simultaneously Drains the Health and Mana from everyone within a medium-to-large range of one side of the wall. Monsters are Drainable—” Erick had tested that much when he was making bank last night “—and their resources count toward the maintenance needed to keep the spell Permanent. This is the spell.”

While Erick spoke about the spell, he handed out blue boxes for [Undertow’s Edge].

Lingxing controlled her surprised reaction to something smaller, but Nirzir’s eyes went fully wide. Then they read the spell. Lingxing turned politely incredulous and angry, while Nirzir seemed to sparkle with surprised joy.

Erick continued, “It’s a painless Drain if you’re far away, but it begins to hurt like any other if you get close to the wall. This spell, and others like it, is why I asked for this meeting.” He said, “I want to add Void’s antimagic effects to this spell, or another spell using this same ‘Undertow’ effect which I have already isolated into its own tier 2 working. I want to add the Void Song to this Undertow. How would you do that?”

Lingxing had already gone completely stoic, but at Erick’s question of the Void Song, she went calmer. Nirzir wanted to speak, but she did not. She waited for her aunt. Lingxing then looked to Nirzir and gave her a tiny, almost imperceptible nod.

So the Matriarch of Void Song wasn’t just a figurehead, then. Good to know.

Nirzir attempted to be calm as she said, “When an initiate is starting out, we first transform [Force Wave] with Elemental Void and Aurify into a second tier, low grade Void Song. Through sparring and combat, we learn to tune this Void Song to the magics of others and literally Void opposing magics. This skill requires precise hearing and targeting. Some people require years of experience to learn this technique. This is how the Void Song works.” Her excitement grew, as she said, “The problem most initiates often encounter when Singing is that they cannot tune properly; they cannot hear the Song of True Magic. They can still do as a true Singer can do, but these initiates end up spending mountains of mana to accomplish the same thing that a true Singer can do with a whisper. True Singers still need power, though. Every mage needs power, both for range, and for effect. Properly aligned power is what allows a Singer to cooperate with other Singers and spread the Void Song all throughout Eralis.” She gestured with the blue box for [Undertow’s Edge], saying, “And this Undertow would provide a lot of power. If you learned to Void Sing, you could even…” Her eyes went wide. “You could replace every single Singer of Songli.”

Nirzir had said the words as though gazing upon a wonder of the universe.

But Lingxing and Erick both realized the danger of Nirzir’s words.

Lingxing said, “I doubt Erick means to replace our entire High Clan with a simple spell.”

Erick said, “Of course I would not want to do that.”

Nirzir looked less sure. “But you could! You could spread this Song across all of the Highlands and bring safety and peace to everyone, and then prosperity could flow from there!”

“Nirzir,” Lingxing said, with a slight edge to her tone.

Nirzir’s eyes went wide. Ah. She realized she had fucked up.

Erick spoke, “I am going to be fighting dragons soon enough, and bargaining for trades with others, no doubt. I have spoken personally with gods of all kinds. My World Tree will connect this planet with the others of this New Cosmology in a hundred years, and I am definitely going to live that long. I have suffered and survived a dozen assassination attempts, with many of those attempts out in the open for everyone to see. Don’t misunderstand; I am not bragging. I am telling you this because these are all alarming things. My very existence has already been a cry to war from multiple nations. I don’t intend many of these occurrences, but alarmist things happen around me, because I am changing this world.” He looked to Nirzir, “So if you wish to travel with me, you will attempt to mitigate any potentially alarmist words coming out of your mouth that are not in line with the things I actually intend to do. I do not intend to move into Songli and solve every problem you have. I am not putting Void Song out of a job. I am not threatening anyone with this spellcraft, or with my desire to learn the Void Song. I just need better personal defenses.”

Lingxing was tense when Erick began his little speech, but then she relaxed, and solidified her calm when he came to the end of it.

Nirzir, however, went red with deep embarrassment. Her voice was a small thing, “I did not mean to imply… what I implied. Maybe I shouldn’t be doing this—”

“You are exactly where you are meant to be, Nirzir.” Lingxing spoke to the young girl, “Archmage Flatt is correct about everything he said. While your own experience will hopefully be lesser, your very existence as an archmage will be fraught with tribulations such as this very conversation right now. You are too bookish. You must be exposed to these things while you are not the one standing in the light.” She turned to Erick. “For Nirzir will be an archmage, Erick, and I don’t want her turning into a hermit like all the rest of them. She is too close to that already. Please take her with you as far as she will go, even if all she does is accompany you around the surface of Nelboor. Don’t let her become insular like all the rest of the archmages of this world.”

Nirzir straightened, and looked ahead.

