Chapter Nine - Saint“What the Antithesis do with the bodies of those they carry away is a matter of hot debate, debate that the few remaining governments try hard to suppress.It’s a good thing that they’re piss poor at that, isn’t it?”--Random Internet Commentator, in the comments of live footage of an active Antithesis biofactory***Nun girl was the first to react. She fell onto her knees and clasped her hands together over her chest. “Forgive me, saint, I did not... I’m sorry. Please forgive me,” she begs while bowing from the neck again and again like one of those little water-pecker bird toysThe whole thing would have been a whole lot more awkward had I not also been on my knees. As it was, it was pretty damned weird. “Hey, yeah, no, none of that. I’m no saint.”Nun girl looked up, confusion warring with something like awe in her eyes. “Are you not one of the vanguard?” she asked.I pressed a hand to my stomach, over the spot where I’d been wounded. The WoundStop was leaking out in dribbles, the rubbery material melting away only for cool skin to replace it. It looked about as strange as it felt. “I suppose,” I muttered. “Shit, this feels fucky.”The NanoRegenerative treatment will bring you back to a much better condition, though you should nonetheless be careful about reopening injuries. Also, the likelihood of cancerous cells appearing in those areas has increased by an order of magnitude.“What?” I hissed. I raised a hand. “Not you guys,” I said as I gestured to the side of my head. “The... voice in my... you know what, just pretend I’m not saying anything, alright?”“As you wish,” nun girl said.Baldy took a step back and looked ready to bolt. I don’t know what got to him, the stuff appearing around me as if by magic, or the mention of voices in my head. Either way, he was trying to do the smart thing and piss off.Nun girl got up far faster than someone wearing such long skirts looked like they could, and grabbed baldy by the arm. “You are staying here until the saint has dismissed you,” she said.Baldy didn’t seem to like that, but I had bigger shit to worry about.“What was that about cancer?” I asked Myalis.The worry is misplaced. By the time enough cancerous cells have grown for it to become a problem you will either be dead, or will have accumulated enough points that fixing the issue will be trivial.“Cat?”I froze, then looked up to meet Lucy’s bright blue eyes. They were a little teary, and her hands were held close to her chest as if she was expecting a blow at any moment. I imagined what it had to look like for her. I’d gone for a bit, and when I returned I was... well, I was still me, but a me that was also supposedly in the one percent of the one percent. “Lucy,” I said.“You were dying?” she asked.It felt as if a balloon burst in my chest. No recriminations, no accusations, no sense of betrayal. She was just worried. “I’m okay now,” I said. “I, ah, got stabbed, a bit.”“But you’re okay now?” she asked.“Right as rain,” I said. “‘Cept for the cancer, but that’s a side worry.”“Cancer?” she hissed.I waved it off. “It’s all good. I have the godlike ability to buy my way out of any problems.” Grinning, I jumped to my feet, then swept her into a quick hug. I paused next to her head. “And I can fix yours too,” I whispered.Lucy huffed and pushed me off. “Not now,” she said. “We have a lot of stuff to worry about besides me. The kittens...”“Yeah,” I said.I looked over the group that was meant to be taking care of all of those troubles. They were looking at me the same way. Damn. “What do we do?” the teacher-type woman asked.I licked my lips. Even baldy was waiting for me to come up with something. I hadn’t asked for that. Not that I’d ask for stupid powers either. “Right, right. We can’t stay here. I don’t think. Um. Myalis, can we stay here?”You could be reading stolen content. Head to Royal Road for the genuine story.I cannot observe much beyond your own body and what your gear picks up, I’m afraid. I can, on the other hand, model and simulate the likely movements of an Antithesis swarm. This one seems small. This will not remain so. If you are near to the epicentre of the landing, then your position will be overrun before nightfall as the Antithesis begins to search for biomass. By this time tomorrow this section of the city might be unlivable.“Damn. Okay, we can’t stay here. We need to leave. This building is connected to a few others. There might be ways to move out of the area on foot.”“Ma’am,” Nun girl said. “I’m registered with the church’s bus. There are seats for twenty, we can fit more.”“Where’s it parked?” I asked. “Outside?”She shook her head. “Three floors down, ma’am.”I suppressed the shiver running down my back. The girl was probably my age, maybe a bit older. She was dismissive a minute ago and, frankly, I preferred that to the awe she was looking at me with, as if I was going to fart out a bouquet of flowers and a cure to world hunger at the same time.“Okay, okay, yeah,” I said. “That’s a good idea.”“You’ll kill any aliens we come across?” Baldy asked.I swallowed. Could I do that? “I’ll damned well try,” I said. I flipped my hummingbird around so that I was holding it by the barrel, then pushed it into the hands of the jock that had rushed to my side. “Can you figure out how to link this to your gear?” I asked.“Uh, yeah, sure,” he said.“Good. Good. I’m only one girl,” I said.“But you’re a saint,” Nun girl said.“But I’m still only the one. And there are a lot of you to look after.” They nodded along, as if I was spouting some wise shit instead of trying to let them down easy before I fucked up and some of them bit it.I just wanted to keep my friends, and the kittens, safe. Everything else was a nice bonus on top. “I’ll get the kittens ready to go,” Lucy said. She squeezed my hand twice, then walked off, her crutches clicking away.“Right, okay. You guys get your groups ready to move. Nun girl, you’re with me for a minute, alright?”The two adults and the jock nodded and ran off to do as I said. Nun girl came closer. “Yes, saint... forgive me, I don’t know your name.”“I’m Catherine. None of that saint shit. I appreciate the help, but I was never one for that late night TV Christianity stuff,” I said.She nodded. “There’s no need for a saint to concern herself over matters of faith. You were chosen, that is all that matters.”I blinked. The girl was... probably pretty normal for her sort, actually. “Uh-huh. Look, I need to know where that bus of yours is. Directions to get there and all.”“We took the elevator up from the parking lot,” she said.I winced. The power was flickering already. “Was it big enough to fit all of us?”“The elevator? No, I don’t think so.”“No splitting the party,” I said. “We’ll take the stairs. Can some of your lot help those that can’t do stairs?”“It would be our pleasure,” she said.“Cool, cool. Let’s move out as soon as we can,” I said.“And the bodies?” she asked.I paused. “What about them?”“If we don’t burn them...”Then the aliens would use the meat. On the other hand. “Two, maybe three more aliens around, versus ten minutes wasted. No, we’re moving on.”“As you wish, saint.” She turned to leave with a short bow.“Hey, what’s your name?” I asked.“It is Marie, Saint Catherine,” she said.“Thanks, Marie,” I said. “And drop the saint thing.”The girl was kind of nice. Still a creep though.
