“Yet you still must be thanked for tolerating it. Are you the one who reattached my leg?”

“Yes. You came to Ri Zu in bad shape,” Ri Zu said as she rose and began examining his leg. There was a thin scar that went all the way around it, and several on his stomach when she pulled his robe open. “Everything is healing as it should be. The leg was reattached with a tincture of…” The woman went into detail about exactly how damaged he had been, and how everything had been fixed.

Though the way she casually listed off quite expensive reagents used to heal him made his guts churn.

“How magnanimous the Shrouded Mountain Sect is, to operate on a man without cultivation,” he said as he leaned his head back.

“Your cultivation was not destroyed. You were infected with a Beast Curse. Your Qi was running wild and killing you. Ri Zu had to puncture and drain your dantian.”

The words were a hammerblow to his mind. His cultivation hadn't been destroyed by the Spirit Beast, but instead the doctor?!

“Wha-bu-surely, there had to be another way?!” he demanded as he jerked up from where he lay.

“There was. But Ri Zu judged the chance of fatality being too high. Thus, this method was chosen to preserve your life.” Her calm voice grated on his ears. The world started to spin.

Preserve his life?! Shao Heng felt bile flood his throat. His cultivation was his life! He was pushing sixty already! Without it—oh, heavens without it he would die in less than twenty years!

“Preserve my life?! You’ve as good as killed me!” he roared as he grabbed her outer robe. His fist thumped weakly into her chest. The woman made no move to push him off. He tried to pull her. To shake her for what she had done, but he couldn't. She was like a rock, and he was only a mortal. “You had another method to heal me, and you chose this one?!” he roared. Small flecks of spittle hit the woman’s face, yet she remained impassive.

“You would have been dead,” Her voice was calm and matter of fact.

“Better dead than a cripple!” he nearly screamed back

The woman stared at him and raised an eyebrow.

“Oh? A cripple, are you?” she asked, her voice calm. “I suppose you are the same as a mortal who has lost a limb, or been blinded? They do not beg for death, do they?”

Shao Heng reeled from the question. He knew of the crutches mortals used, trying to get on with life and even joking about their maiming. His own mother had lost her hand before Heng was born and had a silver replacement covering for it, but she was a cutlivator. His favourite memory of her was when he had once asked for a hand, only to have the silver appendage thrown at his head—he cut the thought off.

“This is different! My cultivation—” he started before Ri Zu cut him off.

“Can be repaired, unlike most mortals’ severed limbs. Your dantian is intact, and your body and meridians remember being at the Second Stage of the Profound Realm.” Her statement was blunt and matter of fact, and Shao heng felt himself pause at this revelation. She sounded absolutely certain this was the case.

He floundered for a moment. “But it took me forty years to reach that stage!”

“So you have a wealth of experience? You know what not to do now? You know how to properly construct your foundation?” the doctor continued relentlessly. Shao Heng shrunk from her calm, brutally delivered words.

“But… How can I start again from nothing?” he whispered.

“Cultivation can be considered part of a patient’s health. Ri Zu has received special permission from Master Lishu to continue to render aid to you.”

Heng’s head snapped up again. “You… You’re going to help me?”

“Yes. Ri Zu has some ideas about repairing cultivation, especially when it is destroyed in such a controlled manner,” she said calmly as she gently removed Heng’s slack grip from her robe and held it in hers. “It will not be easy. Ri Zu imagines it will be quite hard and quite painful. But Ri Zu knows that it will work… if you have the will to continue. Ri Zu does not mean to underplay what you have lost. It is a loss of time that you may never recover. But there is a chance. A chance you can take to regain what you have lost. But Ri Zu cannot help anyone who is not willing to even try.”

Shao Heng stared at the resolute woman. Her grip was strong, but not painful. She did not look at him with pity or contempt.

He swallowed thickly. He still felt his emotions running wild. And yet… at Ri Zu’s words, he felt a bit of hope stirring in his chest.

His cultivation could be repaired. Maybe repaired quickly. The doctor seemed so certain.

“Then… I will be in your care, Doctor,” he said, grasping at the chance offered to him. After all, if it failed and he died… well, it wouldn’t matter much, would it?

Ri Zu smiled at him. ”We shall begin soon then,” she declared and rose from his bedside. “Ri Zu has to finish preparing the herbs and will be back shortly.

Shao Heng was stunned by her words. Already? She had already been preparing for this? And preparing herbs for him?

He couldn’t understand why she wanted to help him. His mouth opened as she turned to leave.

“What is your goal in life, Ri Zu? Why are you doing… this?” he asked.

The short woman looked slightly confused.

“Ri Zu’s goal? To help you. If you mean in a more general sense, it is Ri Zu’s dream to be a good doctor and help people.” Her voice was earnest.

He paused. “Not to challenge the heavens?”

“If the heavens feel challenged, they may feel challenged. Ri Zu has work to do.” Ri Zu said and turned once more to leave.

Shao Heng stared at the door, still feeling like the world was spinning.

He slowly laid back.

He didn't know what the future held… but he did know one thing.

Perseverance. The true essence of cultivation is never giving up, even against the worst odds. He was shamed for even contemplating it. For falling into despair.

Shao Heng didn’t quit.
