He cast the spell again, holding his lightform around the summon in a gentle grip, watching and feeling how the [Shooting Star] broke down when the duration was over. The spell seemed content to hover there, in his grip.

Poof! Spell over.

“Hmm,” Erick grunted.

He cast again.

And again.

And again.

Watching with all of his various Sights, and all of his various senses, including the touch of his light. Listening to the spell seemed the most important, so Erick also closed his eyes and did that a few times, too.

By the thirtieth time Erick watched [Shooting Star] disintegrate, he was pretty sure that some intrinsic part of the working vanished at the 5 second mark, and then the spell quickly evaporated, practically all at once. By the hundred and fiftieth time, his former idea was nixed. His new idea was that something was breaking down the very second the spell came into existence, and that something only held together for 5 seconds, with a precipitous drop in spell integrity occurring at the 5 second mark.

By the two hundredth time, Erick was ready to try a manual [Renew]. He tried pushing basic Light-altered mana into the cracks of the spell.

He had done this before in his attempts to make [Renew]. He had tried a lot of different, odd methods in order to extend the duration of a magic. Back then, all his Light mana managed to do was destabilize the structure of the lightwards he had been working with.

This time, with [Shooting Star], Erick also destabilized the spellwork, and the ball of energetic light broke at the 4.5 second mark. It wasn’t a very stable spell to begin with, but Erick was pretty sure that he could make it so, if only he injected his mana correctly.

There were literally no books or learning that told Erick that this would work. No Arcanaeum books Erick ever read even touched upon the ability for spells to take in their own mana and become Permanent, if they were well-made enough. This was probably a failure (purposeful or otherwise) of the Headmaster.

Or maybe this was by the Script’s design.

Spells could be made Permanent under the Script, though, if they had that working put in them, and if they were simple, balanced spells.

But [Shooting Star] was anything but balanced. It was an energetic tyke waiting for the command to tear through an enemy, to dart through flesh and evaporate bone.

Erick’s theory was that if it was possible to stabilize something so unstable, and yet so simple, that he would be able to do it with applications of learning he had gained since the last time he tried this, and, almost more importantly, that he would notice that stabilization. 5 seconds was not a lot of time. It would be a breakthrough to get 5.25 seconds. It would mean he was on the right track. So he continued.

After a few hundred more tries, Erick decided on a different approach.

What was the idea of [Shooting Star]?

Erick channeled mana through [Shooting Star] and listened to the energetic playing of bloodthirsty sprites.

This time, he cast the spell, and then channeled mana through [Shooting Star] at the same time, directing the plume of light from his hand into the ball of white light.

The spell ended at 5 seconds.

Okay!

At least he didn’t destabilize it this time! This was progress.

This was the most progress he had ever made!

Incidentally, he had already tried channeling spell-altered mana into a cast spell before, and had never gotten this far with it. This was progress. Something had changed.

Well.

Erick had changed a lot, hadn’t he? Perception and Intelligence were massive changes.

Maybe the problem here was a matter of precision?

Oh!

Was this a mechanical problem? It probably was a mechanical problem. Erick didn’t want it to be a mechanical problem, though. Mechanical problems were hard to fix, because there were a lot of moving parts to an active spell. A magical solution with a single-vector approach would be the best solution, here.

Erick wanted a single-vector approach.

Another test:

Erick wrapped the next [Shooting Star] in his lightform and channeled the appropriate mana through his light, directly into the [Shooting Star], from all sides and angles.

The spell ended at 5.1 seconds.

In the glittering death of his latest summon, Erick sat back, furiously thinking. And then he did the same experiment again. He didn’t want what he was seeing to be a trick of his own perspective; he didn’t have a clock on hand, but he had gotten pretty good at timing [Shooting Star]’s life cycle in his head.

This time, [Shooting Star] lasted at least 5.1 seconds.

To be sure, he changed his setup.

He had two Ophiel each cast [Shooting Star] in front of him. Then he wrapped the right star in light and harmonized mana through the original spell, into Ophiel’s cast.

The left [Shooting Star] decayed fractionally before the right [Shooting Star].

Erick was, indeed, reinforcing the spell and keeping it alive longer than the blue box’s listed duration.

He sat back, had a think, and then he tried something else.

He tried Mana Altering to Light, instead of through [Shooting Star], and wrapping [Shooting Star]s in that, instead. He directed Light toward the parts that seemed to be degrading as soon as the spell came into existence, and then to all the cracks that formed in the later millisecond of the spell’s existence.

He tried a lot of different tactics.

There was no change in spell duration.

“Well, fuck.”

More and more, it seemed that this simple method of ‘shoving harmonically aligned Light into a spell’ was not going to be the way to [Renew]. The major problem Erick saw was that this method was too crude. Sure, the mana he was shoving [Shooting Star]’s way sounded and felt like the correct type of mana, but it was not fully the same.

Elemental Light was not the same as [Shooting Star] Light.

Duh.

The mana channeled through [Shooting Star] was exactly correct, so that worked to extend the spell’s duration, but that was not the path toward [Renew]. That was not the path toward a general-purpose spell that anyone could purchase for 1 point, to allow them to reinforce the spellwork of others. No one else was going to be able to purchase [Erick’s Shooting Star], in order to [Renew] his spellwork. No one was going to be able to purchase [Opal’s Grand Shield], so that they could [Renew] the shield that Opal had put over Spur to protect from the Red Dot. This line of spellwork was interesting, and might lead somewhere informative, but it was not the end goal.

Maybe he needed aura control, and not [Greater Lightwalk].

He had Remade a lot of spells with [Greater Lightwalk], so that Elemental Body was clearly able to do what Erick needed it to do with regard to spellwork…

But Tenebrae, and many others, had said that aura control was the path to true magic.

A proper aura control might allow him to make an [Intent Understanding] type of ‘attack’ upon [Shooting Star], and then, through some recursive spellwork, perhaps make a Basic Spell that would automatically made the appropriate reinforcement to [Shooting Star], or to any other spellwork that [Renew] targeted.

… That seemed like the way to go.

Erick kept at this experiment, though, to be sure that he wasn’t missing something obvious.

By the time noon rolled around, Erick hadn’t gotten much further than he had in the first hour. He called it quits, for now.

“Bah!”

Erick had pounded his head against the wall of [Renew] for long enough. It was time to pound his head against a different wall. So he got up, and went to find Poi.

“I need to talk to some Doctors about their [Draining Ward]s. Can you ask Elder Varo about that?” Erick asked, “I’ll have Ophiel [Greater Treat Wounds] and take over for whatever Doctor they have on site, if that needs to happen. I want to know how [Draining Ward]s are able to work without itching. I need someone who knows how it works. Having the Class Ability is not enough.” He added, “And I need to know where that place is with the kids with the wandering soul affliction. Actually. I’ll do that, first.”

Poi set down his book and started sending out inquiries.

Half an hour later, Erick had two destinations.
