Either through execution, or Blessing, the Hunter problem in this part of the world would vanish soon enough.

“Might take weeks, though.” Erick said, “Defining the problem was easier than solving the problem.”

Jane listened, then declared, “This is good! Where can I join?”

Poi spoke up, “If this happens, I need a third to protect your father, and you’re it.”

“That’s what I’ll be doing, then.” And then Jane turned to Poi, asking, “So you’re okay with this? Silverite is okay with agents of Spur helping to bring justice to people on the other side of the globe? I mean— That’s not exactly what I mean.” She said, “I still haven’t heard any fallout about dad deciding to participate in the Chelation War. This seems like taking another step in a certain direction and I’m surprised we’re not getting pushback from… From someone in charge, somewhere. Silverite at the very least. Songli has been almost eerily accommodating, too.”

Erick furrowed his brow. He honestly hadn’t considered that Silverite would think he was doing a ‘bad thing’, or however Jane thought of current events. It was kinda odd that Songli wasn’t pushing back harder than they were, though; that much Erick could agree with. But then again, he was offering help; he wasn’t forcing his help on anyone.

So on second thought, it was perfectly reasonable for Songli to be as accommodating as they had been.

Poi said, “Spur has fought the Shades for 850 years. Silverite has been the Mayor for 550. If there’s one thing she doesn’t mind, it’s the enactment of justice against people who deserve it. That’s what Adventurers do. Believe me; if she had a problem with your father doing whatever it was he was doing, she would tell him.” He said to Erick, “If anyone had problems, we’d hear about them.”

“What about the Blessing stuff?” Jane asked Poi, “Weren’t you against that?”

Poi turned back to Jane, and was conflicted, with his mouth in a scrunch and his eye ridges narrowed.

Teressa was not conflicted. She said, “That Crystal Star was created by your father and Koyabez. Why wouldn’t Silverite want to enact justice in a way her god assisted with? Same thing as the Black Star. Gotta topple tyrants; gotta execute killers. And now, with the help of Koyabez and your father, there’s the option to make Hunters see the light. I’m all for it. Maybe then those guys can get into a good afterlife.”

“Oh yeah! That reminds me.” Jane asked, “Did anything happen to Raidu, yet? I heard that… something—” She dropped her voice, concerned, “Okay. Something happened. What was it.”

Erick had gone wide-eyed, to stare at the fish and rice he had made for dinner. Poi had a similar expression.

Teressa’s voice was low. “Something terrifying.”

“Too dramatic!” Jane declared, verging on anger. She asked, “Dad.”

Erick started with, “A lot more happened besides the face stealers. First, there was the trip to the paddy house, which…”

Erick didn’t spend much time talking about the paddy house. By the end of the recount of the day, after Erick had explained about how Raidu was ripped asunder by the simple combination of a diamond-cut hat upon a spherical grand rad, Jane’s eyes were wide, too, and dinner was over. He hadn’t even brought up Raidu’s speech, but that was his next thing; he wanted to ask everyone what they thought about that.

Jane’s anger faded pretty fast as Erick spoke of what had happened, and nothing seemed to jump out at her. When he was done, Jane scrunched her eyebrows together. “That doesn’t seem that bad. But why do you use the same term for sundering and ‘The Sundering’?”

Erick paused.

Teressa whispered, “It was bad.”

Jane said, “I am willing to accept that it was bad. But why the same term?”

Poi said, “I don’t know. They’re both awful events?”

“Bout as worse as you can get!” Teressa said, “Ya know; on an extreme macro scale and a micro scale.”

“It’s times like these when I miss the internet.” Jane asked Poi, “You sure you don’t know?”

Poi said, “Ask an open-ended question, get an open-ended answer. The simple answer is ‘I don’t know’.”

Erick guessed, “Maybe the term ‘sundering’ comes from the creation of the new out of the old. I told you the story of Xoat, right? Well, Xoat was sundered into the base materials of the First Cosmology. Today, Raidu was sundered into mana, which is practically the same thing. If we were in the Old Cosmology —Cosmology numbers Zeroth through Third— then the sundering of Raidu would have created reality. Now, in this Fourth Cosmology, the New Cosmology, a sundering just creates mana, which overlays upon this reality of particles and physics.”

“I could buy that.” Jane said, “But then why was ‘the Sundering’ that happened 1450 years ago called a ‘Sundering’?”

“For the same reason.” Erick said, “In all the uses of the word, ‘sundering’ is both a creative and destructive event. Maybe that’s the true etymology of the term. Maybe, the Sundering of 1437 years ago was just a creative event that didn’t create a whole lot.”

Jane said, “Ah. Okay. I get it now. I was thinking it was a conspiracy, or something.”

“Maybe it is.” Erick moved on. “Anyway: How’s this for a conspiracy theory? Raidu was ranting about every single god being a Dark God, and that the true age of Veird is 8500, not 1450. He especially didn’t like being sundered because it would make him ‘food for the gods’, who ‘farm us like cattle for our mana’.”

Teressa breathed out heavily, and looked away, while Poi tried to ignore Erick.

That part of Raidu’s rant had hit them pretty hard, Erick guessed. It hit him hard, too, but he needed to talk about it. He couldn’t let something like that fester.

Jane’s reaction was more clinical than Teressa’s or Poi’s. Jane narrowed her eyes, thinking.

Erick waited.

Jane said, “Nope. Don’t believe it.” She added, “Maybe, if you want to take everything we’ve seen in the worst possible light, then that might be true, but I’ve been to the churches and the places of worship and all of the other areas dedicated to the gods. The gods help people. They’ve got some pretty strict rules on how they help, so they might appear to be Dark Gods sucking the mana out of people, but I came into this rather skeptical. I’ve expected to see something Evil in some dark corner of this world, especially when it came to the gods, and I haven’t.” She added, “I mean. Except in Ar’Kendrithyst. And wherever there are monsters. Or bad people. Or— I’ve never seen a shitty god, though.” She frowned. “Except the Crown of Heaven is divine and so is the Demon King, and they interfere rather a lot. And I guess Sininindi is kinda… Not great, from what I’ve heard. People pray to her to weather the storms and the sea but it’s more of a ‘please don’t hurt me’ sort of prayer. Her portfolio used to include the mana ocean between planes, too. She’s probably the most neutral goddess on Veird, except for Rozeta.” She paused, then said, “Rozeta gives magic to evil people, just as much as she gives magic to good people, but I think Rozeta gets a pass, because she’s in an adversarial relationship with Melemizargo.”

Jane was hedging her words.

Erick saw it.

Poi saw it, too.

Teressa saw something else, though.

“I’d believe Aloethag was a Dark God.” Teressa said, “Now that one is definitely using the Rage of the Orcols to fuel her own power. Barely anyone cares about her, but she’s still a major god, and only because she’s sucking up our power for her own uses.”

Jane agreed, “Can’t forget the former goddess of the elves. Considering what I read about Aloeth, she’s a lot better than she used to be back when the elves were alive and in charge of a good quarter of the Old Cosmology. Or maybe the stories of the elves were exaggerated?”

Teressa almost glowered, but she pulled back that emotion, hard, then simply said, “The elves were bad. For all this New Cosmology is fucked sometimes, the Old Cosmology was worse. You think the Quiet War is bad, with demons and angels? The Elven Wars were worse. I heard all the stories. Most of the time, it was coalitions of races from dwarf to orc to fae and more, all against single elven houses. Single houses! Houses more like nations, with populations that spanned multiple worlds, of course. They used blood magic, everywhere.” Teressa said, “Aloeth granted her people protection from blood magic, which was one of the reasons why elves did so much of that… But back then— Well. I heard stories. Back before the Sundering, the elves had spells that killed whole family lines. [Familial Annihilation] was the big one. Propagating death, spreading throughout the universe to strike at every single blood relation from a target. The story varies, but that was their most terrifying magic, and all of it was empowered by Aloeth.” Teressa said, “Shit like that is why we don’t trust her, and you shouldn’t either.”

Erick hadn’t heard that sort of story, but he didn’t doubt Teressa. If any of the gods seemed ‘dark’, aside from the obvious one of Melemizargo, then Aloethag and Sininindi fit the bill more than most of them. Erick knew a little bit about the first, and while he had contact with both of them, the ‘trial for his life’ from a year ago, back when he met Sininindi for the first time, was a lot more personal to him than Teressa’s problems with Aloethag.

And then later, when he got Yggdrasil, and Sininindi got Yggdrasil’s clone —because Erick was trying to offer an olive branch of peace! Otherwise, he would have told her to fuck off with her Quest— it was revealed to him that Sininindi was going to try and kill him before Yggdrasil matured into a true World Tree in a hundred years.

But that didn’t really matter. Not right now. It probably would matter, though, if this conversation kept going down this path. The gods were always listening for their own names, and they seemed to pop up with some frequency whenever Erick started invoking their names, therefore it was time to stop this conversation before some stupid Quest popped up, or something.

Maybe he should have left this part of Raidu’s words to fester and die in the dark.

Erick said, “Let’s not talk about this anymore. Let’s talk about dessert, instead.” He got up, saying, “I made chocolate chip cookies! I’ll get them, and then you can tell me about your day, Jane.”

Jane smiled.

Teressa got up from the table, saying, “Then I’ve got reading to do; I’m going to try to learn aura control.”

Erick smiled as he came back into the room, offering cookies, saying, “Let me know if anything Kaffi specifically said helped you.”

“Will do, Boss.” Teressa grabbed a cookie then went to the empty front room.

Poi grabbed a cookie and headed to the library, across the hallway, saying, “I’ve got communications to sort through.”

Erick turned back to Jane, “Have you talked to Riri lately?”

Jane said, “We talked. Not today. Yesterday, and barely for a minute. She’s taken hold of a dozen different Clan businesses, trying to keep them from collapsing while taking advantage of the collapse of other businesses.” Jane picked up a cookie, saying, “I did manage to finally Remake [Fabricate], though.”

Erick smiled. “Good!

“Other than that, I’ve been hunting monsters. There’s this larger form of mist stone glutton that’s been bothering some of the border clans west of Eralis, and…”

Erick listened, happy to hear of easy successes due to hard work and skill.

- - - -

As the morning sun lifted in the east, sending warm glows through the fog that swirled across Holorulo, Erick stood on the open third floor of his temporary house, overseeing it all, like the captain on a tall ship, casting his gaze across an ocean of mist. With a cup of coffee in his hands, and wrapped up in warm robes to keep out the chill in the air, Erick decided that mornings in Holorulo were nice.

As he drained the last drop of his coffee and the sun began to disperse the fog, and after Poi joined him, Erick stood up and went to the edge of his pagoda. He had made a few spells yesterday, but it was time to make a few more. The first was the easiest.

Six Ophiel hovered in the air around him, each of them forming the point of a hexagon with Erick as the center. Erick hummed an Unmoving tune, going from Stone to Water to all the rest, and ending at Shadow, handing off pieces of the disorganized puzzle to each of his Ophiel as they, in turn, took up the tune and made it their own. A harmony emerged; a lullaby. A simple tune, of a father lulling a playful child to rest.

Erick relaxed, feeling disparate fluctuations relax with him.

He cast.

Half a kilometer out, a shimmer of white flickered then flashed through the sky, expanding out to eclipse Erick’s position at the edge of his house. There was no brightness showing the area of effect, as there were with the original six spells. There was simply… Rest.

