Erick found out a lot about the Warlord Clans by watching them from the sky with Ophiel, sussing out various nomadic tribes here and there, and also watching what happened to the face stealers being interviewed beside Warlord Niyazo’s camp, by the soldiers of Songli.

Mostly, the face stealers revealed nothing. The only one who revealed anything was the raging man, who cared not for the idea that one shouldn’t scream and threaten one’s captors, who happened to be the law, with all the ways that one usually killed people, in defiance of the law. Songli did not take kindly to that sort of behavior. That guy was destined for the chopping block, for sure, but not before all that he had said was used against everyone else in his little Hunter gang.

Erick had seen enough of that to cement his desire to help Songli root out the Hunters up here. Perhaps he would eventually help these warlord clans to hunt Hunters, as well, but he didn’t know these people that much, and so, he wasn’t going to offer them the same offer he had given Songli.

At least not yet.

Which was why he had sent Ophiels far and wide; so he could find out more about these fur-wearing tribes.

In a style similar to the orcols of Glaquin, the Warlord Clans north of Songli were almost entirely nomadic. But what Erick had seen previously, with ‘villages’ of three to four hundred traveling along the grassland, was like seeing a bird on the wing and never realizing that birds built nests, and these Warlord Clans built lots, and lots, and lots of nests.

They traveled the grass, but they lived by the rivers. The smaller the river, the better. All one had to do was go 1200 kilometers north of Holorulo to begin to see the strong hand of civilization upon the land.

The development began north of the joining of the Wanzhi River and a similarly large river from the west. Other, smaller rivers joined to both of these large waterways, and with a small lightstep forward, away from the Wanzhi, Ophiel lost which secondary river had been the main one; it was like a branch ever branching. Lightstepping backward to the Wanzhi River, Ophiel proceeded north, along the main river again, but soon, even the Wanzhi River became one river of a thousand others, each of equal size and strength.

And everywhere Ophiel looked, those waterways had been manhandled by people, along their edges, turning riverbanks and floodplains into pools and fisheries and irrigation pathways, where gardens were either in use, and full of food, or had been left to fallow. Most of the tumbled land had been left to fallow, actually. Some places had overgrown rather spectacularly with old-growth purple tomato vines and large berry bushes and whole messes of other foodstuffs, all growing over each other. Erick called them ‘stations’ in his mind, for lack of a better term, until he heard a clansman in Niyazo’s village call them ‘riversides’.

Almost none of the riversides were occupied.

The few riversides that were occupied were well tended, where people opened floodgates to pull the river water down irrigation ditches, flooding the gardens temporarily, while other people pulled vegetables and fruits out of the ground like there was no tomorrow. It seemed that no one made these riversides their permanent homes, but they certainly diverted the rivers and streams however they wished. Some small streams had been so badly mangled that there was no connection to the larger rivers downstream, for there was no ‘downstream’ to be seen.

Erick understood why Eralis had been complaining about the lowered levels of the river. Some of the riversides were dry, and kilometers away from the river itself, for the river had been moved. Sometimes tributaries just ended, their final stretch of visible water ending in a deep pool, or piddling out into nothing, right there in the middle of nowhere. A few riversides were no longer near the rivers at all; they were just bushy growths out in the middle of grasslands.

Grasslands without any trees, too, which was another odd thing. All this water, and no trees.

Erick came across a clan burning down a copse of trees, giving him a reason for why there were no trees in this grassland, but not an answer ‘why?’. A few more times, Erick came across the same thing happening, but on smaller scales.

Eventually, he formed a hypothesis.

Monsters lived in the forests, so it was reasonable to assume that some culture, somewhere, had decided to burn down the forests all around them, and then they had to keep those forests burned, so they became wanderers who lived in yurts. Maybe.

Anyway. The water, and the reasons that it didn’t reach Eralis in the quantities that it usually did.

The Wanzhi River’s tributaries were absolutely everywhere, but even with a million people all mangling these tributaries however they wanted, it was still a surprise that something like ‘less water reaching Eralis’ was a thing that was possible to occur.

Which is not really what was happening, anyway.

It was the cows that were the problem. A million people, but millions of cows. Everywhere the people went, the cows followed, forging rivers, trampling grasses, creating desolation and breaking up riverbanks. Muddying the waters and the land. And when they passed, water evaporated.

Maybe.

There were just so many cows, everywhere. All over the place. Most individual clans seemed to like individual breeds, and stuck to that one. There were blond and shaggy cows. White and black cows. Black. White. Red. Blue cows, too; those were kinda pretty, with their large glinting horns. Fuzzy pink cows that gave pink milk. Orange cows with orange milk that made bright orange cheese. Most of them mostly gave white milk, though.

There were a few major ‘cities’ along the largest of the riverways, but while they were close to water sources, they were decidedly distant from the deeper waters. There were monsters in the waters, too, so that made sense.

Erick didn’t think of them as cities in the usual sense, though, for their main features were their large, empty parade grounds, dozens of kilometers across, where anyone could pull up their yurts and set down for a while. The cows had to stay outside though, except, of course, the cows that were part of the ‘show off your cows’ contest that Erick happened to spy as Ophiel was flying through. Very pretty red cow in that show, with her hair clipped into geometric designs.

The people themselves were of all types, but in most cases, they existed along the incani-demi-human axis. There were mostly incani clans, with large horns and deep colors to their skin tones, who camped right next to human Clans. Almost every tribe had demis in them. If the Quiet War was here, then it was truly quiet.

Erick didn’t see many books, or many high-technology objects, like high-class fabrics or metalwork or glasswork, but the people looked happy and healthy. Children played in the open, overseen by the whole clan. Warriors patrolled the outskirts, keeping eyes on the tall grasses and the deep waters. It was a pleasant enough place.

Moving right along.

Some mobile clans encountered river monsters in their riverside destinations, and either killed the offending lizards or fish or hippo-like beasts, or they avoided the fight, and moved to the next riverside down the way. Mostly, the clans stayed away from the untamed, larger rivers, where the larger monsters lay.

Erick spotted a juvenile rivergrieve in the deeper waters next to a freshly occupied riverside. The clan had yet to start farming; they had yet to open the floodgate to let water into the farm. The rivergrieve had seen them, somehow, and waited just beyond easy sight of the sluice, its eel-like body, ten meters long, undulated below the surface of the water, eyes trained forward on the easy targets. The eel would barely fit inside of the watergate, but it would fit, and it would head straight for the center of the riverside to tear into the people still preparing the land for a [Grow]ing. Or something.

Erick didn’t care what the monster was thinking; only that it was obviously plotting to hunt and eat people.

So Erick killed that half-ethereal monster with a [Luminous Beam], shining down from above like a line of oblivion, carving through the water, through the unaware monster. Erick got a notification of a kill, and while the people at the riverside were still getting to ‘high alert’ status because of the major magic going off right beside their clan, Erick had Ophiel grab the head of the rivergrieve and plop it on the riverbank, making sure Ophiel was seen doing so.

The warriors of that clan had been taken completely unaware; their unpreparedness showed in their wide eyes when Erick’s light came down, and then their wider eyes as they saw and recognized the head of the juvenile rivergrieve. One of the younger guys on duty fell on his ass, completely unprepared to defend his clan. That guy’s hastily conjured sword dropped from his grip, and rolled away.

Erick said, “According to the Kill Notification, it was a Juvenile Rivergrieve at about level 57.”

And then Ophiel took off, headed toward what would likely be the main starting location for much of the search for face stealers.

The main ‘city’ of the Warlord Clans was known as Ooloraptoor.

It reminded Erick of Treehome, but only the parts without all the permanent buildings. It was a parade ground larger than all the rest, maybe ten kilometers across, and situated next to a lake ten times the size of those parade grounds.

Directly next to the lake.

Which was odd. There were monsters in those waters.

This bore investigating. Obviously, something was going on here.

The lake was not the headwaters of the Wanzhi River, but the exit point for this lake was where the Wanzhi River actually started to look like the ten kilometer wide waterway that flowed beside the cities of Songli. The lake of Ooloraptoor, which was where the city got its name, was the dumping spot for a good thirty tributaries and two separate rivers. The lake itself was a hundred kilometers across, with depths and shallows and only a small portion of it tamed by the permanent residents of Ooloraptoor.

For there were two permanent structures upon these parade grounds, where yurts and cows and people moved in and out every day.

The first permanent structure was a squat place of stone and water, built lakeside. It was the size of a rather large mansion, maybe four stories tall. Its most recognizable feature was that it was ugly. It looked like something a starting [Stone Mage] might have made, for it was lumpy in spots, and more than one doorway was crooked. The windows were all sorts of thick and thin and oddly shaped, looking like bent ovals, or squat, melted squares. If there was an architect for this place, then they were likely drunk throughout all parts of the design and construction.

There was a nice shade tree to the side of it, though, half overlooking the water. It was a perfectly normal tree, too. Normal sized. Normal everything. And it was one of the very few trees Erick had seen in these northern lands.

A few elderly people in cow skins and blankets tended a small fire between the building and the water’s edge, while young people plied the lake, pulling up fish with [Watershape]. Those fish were then sold by slightly less elderly people in front of their stone house. Ignoring the elderly for the moment, what struck Erick about the place was the shallowness of the lake, and the methodology to the fishing. The fishermen stood in thigh-deep waters that extended kilometers off shore, fishing the whole space that had been delineated by the second permanent structure of this land; a stone wall that carved off a hunk of the lake from the rest of the lake. Beyond that wall of stone, the lake was still shallow for a good kilometer more, before it turned deep, and crystal clear waters became dark blue. Even further out, abysses of black water lurked, and monsters surely roamed.

That wall in the water, which was more like a sieve that prevented the larger monsters from coming forth, had been the only wall Erick had seen north of Songli. People patrolled the top of that wall, too, watching the lake for signs of monsters.

It was then that Erick realized a fundamental difference between these clans and the civilians of Songli.

These people still warred with monsters, daily, and they didn’t shy away from that necessity. Erick bet not a single one of them was below level 40. If juvenile rivergrieves showed up with any regularity, then many of these people had Classes, too.

While the citizens of Songli hid in their homes, behind their border clans, these people fought, and while these people didn’t have much of the niceties of Songli, they had full control over their own lives.

In the ‘city’ of Ooloraptoor, people grilled fish on portable grills. They smoked meats. They butchered cows and made stews in giant pots. They laughed and joked with each other, and it seemed really nice. There were even people in white robes here and there; representatives from Songli. There were other people there, too, but Erick didn’t know the origins of the black-robed, or the other, various groups of odd people here and there. Orcols were rare, but present. Harpies, quite a few, actually, spread out here and there. Shifters with their animal masks. Goblins.

Oh.

A whole lot of goblins, actually. Whole entire yurt-fulls of goblins. Multiple tribes of goblins, eh? Neat.

Erick came back to himself.

He went and made dinner, as he kept eyes out everywhere.

When Jane came back from her daily duties with Star Song to eat a home-cooked meal, Erick filled her in on what had happened with the face stealer and of his choice to help Songli eradicate the Hunters of the area.

