When she was ready, we walked together toward the village, making for the nearest house. There was no wall around the perimeter, and there didn’t appear to be any obvious guards. “You’re sure this will last?” she asked, eying the thin cable skeptically. She gave the bow an experimental pull, watching as the metal flexed.

“Yes. Trust me a little,” I said, echoing her earlier words back at her. The cable would hold. I had made it properly.

Her reply was cut off as a shout went up from the village. We’d been spotted. I stood up tall, trying to look intimidating. The villagers would not know that I could barely move without damaging myself. Until I finished adding the enchantments to the armor lying back in our camp, I would need to leave the fighting to her. Once more I cursed my decision to invest so heavily in strength. The power that it lent to my metalworking was undeniable, but it had left me…brittle. The Endurance and Recovery enchantments on the rings that I had made were barely enough anymore.

“Shit, Jay, look at that! She makes the other one look like a joke!” said a leather-clad man, stepping out from behind one of the houses. He had a sword strapped to his belt, but he hadn’t drawn it. He was on the older side, but still athletic. Perhaps a retired adventurer or soldier.

Another man followed him, younger, but with a noticeable limp. He was also armed. “Emperor’s beard, I didn’t know their antlers could get that big,” the second man said. “They’re probably worth a fortune. Wait, ain’t she...a she? The females have antlers too?” I grit my teeth in anger, then forced myself to relax. I would let Lilly handle it.

“Watch what you say, human,” Lilly said coldly, gripping her bow casually. “Where is he?”

“Where is who?” said the second man, Jay. “Bru, you got any idea what she’s talking about?”

“Not the foggiest,” said Bru. “And you should talk to us with respect, deer.” I narrowed my eyes. Almost quicker than I could follow, Lilly drew a metal arrow and nocked it. To the humans, it must have looked like she had summoned it from thin air.

“It is you who should watch what you say, ape,” Lilly said. I winced. This would not end well. “Now, where is he? You know who I’m talking about. The cervidian.”

“Enemies of the Empire will get no answers from—hey, where’d that arrow come from?” said Bru, jumping as Lilly started drawing back on the bow.

“Bru, that bow don’t look normal,” said Jay, taking a cautious step backward.

“You have two seconds,” Lilly said. “Where is he?”

“Wait, wait!” Jay cursed as he stumbled back. “He’s down by the mill. Ambrose’s got him for the day.”

“Thank you,” Lilly said, easing back on the cable. “Come on. Let’s go,” she said to me, pushing past the humans, still holding the arrow at the ready.

I relaxed slightly. Lilly would not have actually shot the man for the insult. At least, I believed she would not have. She had come a long way since the day when she had sworn to kill every last human in the Empire, but her prejudice ran deep. I think it was only out of respect for me that she’d finally been willing to acknowledge them as people at all.

I ask you not to judge us too harshly. She was young, as was I. We would both learn in time that not all humans were evil, and that some…were. Thus, I was not prepared for the sword that swung for my neck as I turned my back on the two men. It slammed into my exposed skin with a thud of impact, though I barely felt it. If not for my Strength, the blow would have killed me. As it was, I was in no danger.

For Lilly, though, that detail did not matter. The two men were dead before I had even realized that I had been attacked. She hadn’t even bothered to use her bow, simply slitting their throats with the tip of the arrow that she had been holding, faster than they could react. Their bodies fell to the ground as I raised a hand to touch my neck. The fingers came away red, though the blood was not my own.

“Was that necessary?” I asked. Lilly shook her head and strode deeper into the town. As I followed her, I began to notice that there was something odd about the place. Each house had a sense of sameness with the others, a sense of conformity. The details of the construction varied slightly, but one thing was always the same. Every single building had a flag or a banner displaying the symbol of the Empire: two vertical black lines on gray, like the stylized fangs of a serpent. The symbol of the Empire was simple, but menacing, especially here, surrounded by it on all sides. The faces of the townsfolk staring at us from within the buildings did not look afraid. They looked alarmed, yes, but not fearful.

“Strange,” I said. “Something is odd about these people. They saw what you did to those two, but they are not reacting. It looks like they are waiting for something.”

“There must be a garrison here,” Lilly said, but before she could continue, a voice spoke.

“There is. You will die, enemy of the Empire! Just wait.” The voice was high-pitched and filled with anger. I searched for its origin. It was a child, hanging out of a window and staring at us as we passed.

I stared back. The fanaticism in the girl’s eyes was disturbing. One so young should not be capable of such hate. “Not likely,” I said, sadly. “We are very strong. We mean you no harm and they attacked us first. We will go once we have what we came for.”

“They won’t let you! Adamant Unbending!” the child screamed back. Her mother pulled her back through the window but didn’t scold her. She was staring at us with the same hate-filled eyes as her daughter. I scanned the other windows, looking at the faces watching us. Most of the stares were not as intense, but in all of them, there was no fear. As strong as Lilly was, I found their confidence unnerving.

“Come on,” Lilly said, leading the way further into the village. We reached the mill unchallenged. There was a large stone wheel on an axle in an open-sided building. The stone was being pushed along its circular track by a man yoked to the axle. He did not stop as we approached, continuing in his slow plodding circle. The two tiny nubs on his forehead marked him as one of our kind, though unawakened.

“Stop,” Lilly said. “It is time to go.” The man didn’t seem to hear her. He kept walking, pushing the millstone as it ground against the stone base. He didn’t even look up at her voice. “Hey,” she said, moving to stand in his path. Finally, he raised his head. His eyes widened as he saw her antlers.

“You’re…” he gasped, staring at her.

“Tallheart, he’s chained. Break him free,” Lilly said, looking at me. I hurried forward, reaching for the manacles binding the man. I peeled the weak metal away slowly with my fingers, being careful not to damage the man’s wrists. He looked at me with amazement.

“How?”

“Later,” I said. I looked around at the faces of the townsfolk staring at us. Some of them had come out of their houses and were watching us coldly. “Let’s go.” I started ushering the man before me. The sooner we were away from this village the better.

“No,” Lilly said. “I won’t stand for this.” She looked at the man that they had freed. “Who chained you up like that?”

The man rubbed at his wrists. “The miller. His name is Ambrose.”

“Why?” I asked. This made no sense. I had been expecting to find the man dead after I heard that he had disappeared from his home in the wilds. Only the rumor of a cervidian spotted in the empire had brought us here. The Adamants weren’t in the business of enslaving us. There was only the bounty. There was no reason for them to have done this.

The man shook his head. “They have been trading me from person to person for weeks now. They said they were going to let me be useful while they waited for my antlers to grow in. I told them that it does not work like that, but they would not listen. They started chaining me up after the second time that I tried to escape.”

I stared at the man. I was used to being hunted. My family had been killed and I had lived in hiding for years. But this… This man was being treated like an animal. He was being farmed. The ones who had done this were ignorant; his antlers would never grow unless he were to become awakened. It hardly mattered. Their ignorance was no excuse for what they had done.

Whether the whole town was complicit, or just a select few, I never found out. If Lilly had decided to execute them all, I do not think I would have stopped her. Fortunately for them, she did not get the chance. The garrison arrived not long after we had freed the man, alerted by the disturbance.

I will not go into details of the battle. It is not important to this story. It is enough to say that we survived and that the army of the Empire was much stronger than we had thought. We were forced to flee, taking Proudrock with us. We made it across the border and returned him to his family. Then, Lilly and I left. There were always more that needed our help.

Rain sat in silence as Tallheart finished his story. The fire crackled as the antlered man stared into the flames.

“What happened to her?” Ameliah asked, softly.

Tallheart closed his eyes.

“Over the following years, we would clash with the Empire many more times. Lilly grew…bitter. She was not strong enough. She would never be strong enough. She tried not to let me see. Tried not to focus on the things that she could not change. We traveled all across Ekrustia, searching for others of our kind, searching for a place to call home. We never found one.”

He shook his head. “After a long while, we decided to make one instead. We found a safe place. A secret place. We brought many of our kind there over the years. No, I will not tell you where it is. I do not even know if any of us are still there. I have not dared to go back.”

“Lilly and I lived there for several years while I perfected my armor. Those were the best years of my life, but nothing is forever. I wanted to stay and protect the community that we had built, but she wanted to continue the fight. She would never be happy living in peace while others of our kind were being hunted.

“So one day, we left. Her drive was why I loved her. I could no more have made her stay than I could teach a horse to fly. Nor would I want to. That drive defined who she was. And it was what got her killed.

“We found a lair. A powerful one, deep below the ground. Too powerful, but she would not back down. She could not. We made it more than halfway through before the dragon…She forced me to flee. To leave her behind. That is the only reason I am alive today. She died to save me.”

Rain was staring at his feet. His eyes felt hot, the pain in the man’s voice hitting him in the chest. He looked up at Tallheart as he finished speaking. “Tallheart, I’m sorry.”

Tallheart slowly got to his feet and looked off into the falling snow. “Please, do not follow me. I wish to be alone tonight. I will see you in the morning.”

Ameliah and Rain watched as the antlered man walked away into the snow until he faded from sight.
