“I made a decision in the game, Denise. It was a rash one, with a lot of consequences; but, it was my decision. I made it.” Ren said and looked at her. “I'm going to see it through, no matter what.”

Ren reached for the VR headset an had a difficult time getting it on. Denise stood up and reached over to help.

“I got it, thank you.” Ren said and Denise sat back down. He pulled it into place and got comforable.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up to see Nathalia's back. She stood in a fighting stance, her sword ready and waiting.

“Nathalia?”

“Shhh!” She said, then whispered. “There's something out there.”

Ren climbed off the bed and equipped his armor and hammerpick. Teepo?

“It can't find the tent, but it knows something is here.”

What is it?

“A giant boar.”

Ren stepped around Nathalia and activated Sneak. He slipped out of the tent and over the protective barrier he'd set up.

“On the left.” Teepo said.

Ren looked that way and saw a shape the size of a horse move through the trees. Ren stepped quickly to one of the trees that the tent was tied to and glanced around it. He saw the giant boar sniffing the ground where they'd passed earlier that night.

Dammit, I forgot to go back and muddle the scent. Ren thought, then activated his Terror ring and pointed it at the beast. It froze then turned around to look right at Ren.

Oh, crap!

The beast ran full out over the short distance and Ren rolled out of the way, just in time for the boar to hit the tree and snap it off where Ren's head used to be. The boar spun around from the impact and Ren deactivated the ring. The tent flapped a little after losing one of the main support lines. The boar looked around again, and started sniffing.

It's drawn to the terror! Ren thought, shocked. How is that possible?

“I've got no idea.” Teepo said. “This is my first giant boar.”

Ren slinked around to another tree, much farther away from the tent. He didn't want a repeat of that last encounter. Ren aimed carefully and activated his Lightning ring. The 4 inch bolt hit the flank of the beast and it yelped and jumped around. He couldn't hit it reliably now, so he deactivated it and activated his Water Spray ring. He covered the ground that the boar was jumping around on and one of the boar's hooves slipped on a wet rock. It fell down and it's legs splayed out in a star pattern. Ren ran over to it, soaking it, then activated the Lightning ring again. He hit it squarely in the eye and the bolt boiled it instantaneously and it popped.

“SQWUUEEEE!” It bellowed. Without missing a beat, Ren deactivated the rings and swung the hammerpick into it's skull. The boar shook it's head from side to side, and Ren whacked it again.

This thing is tough! Ren thought, then heard clomping hooves.

“Move!” Nathalia said.

Ren dove out of the way and Princess slammed her large horned head into the giant boar's skull. The boar stopped squealing and slumped to the ground. Nathalia climbed down from the saddle and pat Princess on the neck.

“Keep attacking it!”

“Yes, My Lady.”

Ren whacked it a few more times, Nathalia stuck her sword into it's side several times, shocking it, then Princess took another run at it. The boar rolled over onto it's side, unconscious.

“What does it take to kill this thing?” Nathalia asked. “Lightning's not doing much.”

Ren absorbed the Heavy enchantment from his hammerpick, and replaced it with a double glyph of Earth (8 runes in total), remembering the shape of Tegwen's maul with all the spikes on it. The head of the hammerpick formed a large rock protrusion covered in spikes and Ren smiled.

“Mother Earth wants you back.” He said to the boar, and with all of his strength, slammed the Earth enchanted hammerpick into the skull of the boar. A loud crack was heard and the boar started convulsing. Ren swung again and crushed the skull completely, with a sickening thud. Ren flicked the hammerpick slightly and thought, Deactivate, and the rocky end dissolved.

Notice!

The 'Spirit of Earth' has accepted your generous tribute.

Knowledge Of Earth Level 4 (Beginner 0%) - Earth affinity and resistance is now 13%

Notice!

Your party fought well and has defeated a creature far beyond all of your levels, combined.

Rewards: 5000 XP

Fame Bonus: +38%

Camaraderie Bonus: 14% (5% Base x2, + 1% Per Extra Party Member Present)

Ren wondered at the extra 2%, since he only saw Princess and Nathalia, then he turned around and saw Ruck was standing there with Teepo on his back. Then he was tackled by Nathalia and gripped in a bone crushing hug.

“I was so scared!” Nathalia said. “I've never ridden into battle before!”

“You did great.” Ren said and looked at Princess. “So did you.” Ren smiled. “Thank you all for coming to my rescue.”

“All?” Nathalia asked.

Ren chuckled. “I think it's time we were all formally introduced.” He said. “You all know Nathalia.” He walked over to Ruck. “This is Ruck.” He stepped to his mount and pat her neck. “This is Princess.”

“You named your mount Princess?!?” Nathalia exclaimed in shock.

“She named herself actually.” Ren said. “It was the only one she liked.”

“Oh... well, I guess that's okay.” Nathalia said. Ren looked at her for a moment, then his eyes widened in surprise.

“Nathalia, I didn't realize...” Ren said and stepped over to her to take her hand. “You're Lady of House Neram's daughter, which makes you...”

“A Princess.”

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Even I missed that one!”

Ren sighed. “I'm sorry.” He let her hand go and walked over to Teepo. “This is Teepo.”

Nathalia squinted her eyes. “You just said that was Ruck.”

Ren picked Teepo up and held him out. “This is Teepo.”

Nathalia looked at him like he was crazy, and Ren laughed. “I've got to get used to that look.” He said. “I've had Teepo for a long time. He's my best friend. He's also my eyes and ears as my scout.”

“You're serious? There's something there, in your hand?” Nathalia asked.

Ren nodded, Princess huffed and nodded, and Ruck gave a 'thumbs up' gesture.

“You can see him too, Ruck?” She asked, and he gave another 'thumbs up'.

Nathalia looked at everyone. “It's nice to meet you all.”

Ren put Teepo in the hood of his cloak, then stored the giant boar's carcass. “Did any of you get notices that you leveled up?”

Ruck put up a hand, and so did Nathalia. Princess huffed.

“Me.” Teepo said, and chittered in delight.

“Let's get back to the tent, and I'll give you all a crash course in what to do.” Ren smiled, took Nathalia by the hand, and led the Virtual Survivors back to the tent.
