“I'll need your help soon.” Ren said and took out enough fabric to make a half-sized Canvas Tent. He added a cloth floor, since he didn't have enough wood left. He dyed the tent grey and quickly sewed up the pieces, to finish making the exterior. Several poles were needed, and the 2 dozen springy trees he still had in inventory wouldn't do. Ren looked around, and noticed that if he had enough rope, he could use the local trees as supports instead. Nathalia helped as he got three of the top corners of the tent tied off, but then he ran out of rope.

The Spider Silk String! Ren thought and took out the string he would be using for bows, and used that for the last corner and tied it off. He put small piles of stone bricks inside each corner of the 10 foot square tent, to hold it steady, and two of the springy trees to hold up the pointed top of the tent. They weren't load bearing, so they didn't bend and sway, as the ropes held the tent steady.

“There!” Ren said and stepped back outside to admire the finished tent. “A palace fit for a king!”

Nathalia chuckled, took the Sending Stone from Princess' saddle, and stepped inside. Ren followed her, took out his bed and placed it near the wall of the tent, and left enough room behind it to walk. He took out the table and chairs, and put them just inside and to the right of the front flap.

“Is this a good spot?” Ren asked Nathalia.

“Maybe a little more to the right.” She said. “If you sit on that side, you're back will be to the flap.”

Ren moved the table over, closer to the side of the tent, and Nathalia nodded. Ren glanced outside and saw that it was getting dark.

“I better set up some protection.” Ren said and went outside. He took out Princess' crate and set it right beside the tent. He fluffed the mattress and stepped aside to let Princess enter. She stopped beside him, Ren undid the saddle and harness, then stored them. She went inside and turned around, then plopped down on the mattress. One of the seams started to tear and Ren took out his Master Tailor Sewing Needle and used Repair on the mattress. It glowed for a moment and repaired itself.

“That is so cool.” Ren said and put the needle away. He pat Princess on the neck and took out Ruck's small cabinet. He nailed it to the outside of Princess' crate and opened the door. “I know its tight, but I won't leave you out in the open.” Ren said and turned around. Ruck climbed into the cabinet and gave Ren an 'okay' gesture. “Hold on, Ruck.” Ren said as Ruck tried to close the cabinet. “I just had a really weird idea.” Ren stepped back a little. “Invite Ruck to party Virtual Survivors.”

Notice!

You have invited Ruck (RENFamiliar001NPC) to join your party. Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.”

Ruck did several different hand gestures, from 'thumbs up' to what Ren thought was 'jazz hands', and Ren laughed.

“I think just an 'okay' sign should do it.”

Ruck gave Ren an 'okay' sign on each hand. He was enveloped in a golden glow for only a moment and then it stopped. Ren reached out a hand and pat him on the head.

“I'd say you can Level up now, my friend.”

Ruck gave him a 'thumbs up' gesture and closed his cabinet. Ren stepped back and looked at Princess.

“Why stop now, right?” Ren said and smiled. “The system's letting me do all sorts of crazy things.” Ren asked Princess to stand, put the saddle on her, and sent the party invite. Princess huffed, was enveloped in a golden glow for a few moments, and Ren saw the saddle grow a saddlebag on each side, and the glow faded. He took off the saddle and she plopped back down onto the mattress. He took out her bowl and fed her some food.

Teepo? Are you busy?

“Nope.”

How far away are you?

“About 10 feet.” Teepo said and Ren turned to the sound of his voice, and saw Teepo walking along the rope to the tent.

Perfect timing! Ren thought and sent Teepo a party invite. He was enveloped in a golden glow for a moment and the glow faded.

“Thanks, Ren.”

You don't need to thank me, Teepo. Ren shook his head. I just wish I'd thought of this sooner.

“It's like Nathalia said earlier. You can't think of everything, all the time.” Teepo said.

It'd be nice if I could! Ren snorted a laugh and then grinned. I think this is the coolest Party of Adventurers anyone's ever had! He thought. I love the stuff I can do with my class!

With that done, Ren took the 4 rocks he had left and set them up in front of the tent. He absorbed one of the light concealment enchantments and tried to replace it with a double glyph. The stone cracked and crumbled.

Damn. Stone bricks it is. Ren enchanted double glyphs of Concealment (8 Runes of Warding, 5% chance of not being discovered for each rune) on 4 stone bricks, placing them in front of the tent. Then he enchanted 2 stone bricks with Screaming Terror, (8 Runes of Terror, 10% chance of fear and fleeing for each rune), then dug a little dirt to place those at an angle, pointing upwards at about 10 degrees and slightly away from each other. Ren had put them in front of the tent opening so that if anything approached, even from the trees, they'd be hit by the area of effect. He stepped behind his line of defense and thought, Activate, and Ren heard several clawed feet scramble away as fast as they could.

I better put one on each other side, just in case. Ren thought and did that. He checked his Enchanting skill and saw it was up to 10% of Level 1, and half of his Mana Pool was gone. I'm going to need some healing soon. Ren thought. I'm burning through the Mana Pool a lot faster with these double glyphs of 8 runes. He walked around the tent to make sure that it was as secure as it could be. Teepo? Anything out there?

“Nope. We hit paydirt with how clear this area is.” Teepo said from the top of the tent.

Sweet. Ren thought. Are you staying out?

“Yeah. I'll be able to warn you if I see anything.” Teepo said. “I assume you'll be staying up all night?” Teepo said and chittered in delight.

Teepo!

“What?”

I'll be on guard! I won't have time for that.

“You might want to consult with Nathalia first.”

Why?

“She might have other plans for you.” Teepo said, wisely. “This will be the first night you'll be spending with each other, alone.”

Oh. Ren thought. I... ah... don't think I'm ready for anything like that to happen yet.

“It's too soon, huh?”

Ren nodded. I'd say! As much as I'd like for someone to hold me, and tell me it'll all be okay... I still have things that I need to do.

“Well, good luck.” Teepo said. “You're not the only one allowed to do what they want before the wedding ceremony, you know.”

Ren sighed mentally, then entered the tent. Nathalia was sitting on the bed, waiting for him.

“Hi, Ren.” She said and smiled.

“Hi, Nathalia.”

Nathalia pat the bed beside her. “Come and sit for a while. You must be exhausted.”

Ren smiled. That's an old trick. He thought and walked over to kneel in front of her. “I'm an Adventurer, and I have to log out for a little while.”

Ren pulled out the pair of armor gauntlets he'd made a long time ago, and enchanted them with double Augment glyphs, concentrating on Strength. Each glove would now give her a +8 to her Strength.

“Put these on.” Ren said and handed them to her.

“Ren! What are you doing?”

“Armoring you up, of course.”

She opened her mouth to speak, but then shook her head and put the gauntlets on. They shrunk to fit her hands and she caught her breath as she gained +16 to her Strength and +44 to her Health.

“Ren... I...”

Ren pulled out a short sword, enchanted it with a double glyph of Lightning (8 Lightning Runes), and handed it to her. Nathalia's eyes widened as she took the blade.

“Wh-what's this for?”

“Just in case.” Ren said, then pulled out the full breastplate he'd made, and enchanted it with double Protection Glyphs (8 Protection runes, +10% to Defense each), and gave her that, too.

“Ren!” Nathalia said, shocked. “Where did you get all of this?”

“I made them a long time ago.” Ren said. “I never got a chance to use them until now.”

“I can't... I can't accept these things, Ren!” Nathalia said. “This is worth... a... a fortune!”

Ren shook his head. “These are just things. They aren't worth as much to me as you are.” He said. “If you're going to be near me, you will be protected.”

“Ren...”

“Please, put it on.”

Nathalia sighed and equipped the breastplate. It formed itself around her voluminous chest and covered her from just below the waist to her neck. Ren smiled and took out a medium shield, enchanted it with the same double Protection glyphs as the breastplate, and gave it to her as well.

“I'll be able to make the rest for you, once I get a forge set up and running back at the Keep.”

“The rest?” Nathalia said, surprised.

“The rest of the armor for your arms, back, and legs.”

“Ren, why aren't you making it for yourself?”

“I would have...” Ren said and held his hands out to cup imaginary breasts on himself, and grinned. “...but a breastplate like that wouldn't fit me.”

Nathalia snorted a laugh and then shook her head. “All right, I'm all armored up. Now what do I do?”

“When you swing that sword, if it hits anything, it'll shock the heck out of it.” Ren said. “If you hold it there long enough, or keep swinging for that matter, you'll kill whatever it is... hopefully.”

“Are... are you expecting us to be attacked?” Nathalia asked.

Ren shook his head. “I'm just preparing for the worst, and hoping for the best.”

Ren climbed onto the bed and laid down. “I'll be gone for about an hour, maybe longer.” Ren said, as Nathalia stood up. “See you soon.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset with his good arm, and ignored the look that Denise gave him. “Is supper ready?”

Denise nodded. “I'll go get it.”

“Thanks.”

Ren ate in silence as Denise crossed her arms and stared a hole through him. When he was finished, he looked at her.

“Go ahead and say it.” Ren said.

“You're an idiot.”

Ren sighed and rubbed his face with his good hand. “I know.”

“That's it? You know?”

Ren nodded and dropped his hands. “What else is there to say? I tried so hard to get out of the engagement when it happened by accident the first time... and then this time I jumped in with both feet, knowing full well what it meant.”

Denise sat in the chair by the bed. “Ren, I thought you loved Lucy.”

“I do!” Ren said. “I really do.”

“Then how could you do this to her?”

“Do this to her?” Ren said, nearly shouting. “You read what she wrote, Denise!”

“You just took it the wrong way...”

“She said... she said that she couldn't bring herself to look at me anymore. That she'd never... never touch me again... not even in the game.” Ren said, taking several deep breaths to calm down. He couldn't let himself get worked up, or things could get bad for him. “How am I supposed to take that the wrong way?”

“She only meant for right now.” Denise said. “She just needs time to deal with this, Ren.”

“I messaged her, explaining about the accident... and you read her response.” Ren sighed. “I should have tried to go and see her.”

Denise shook her head. “No one else is insured to take you out, Ren.” She said. “Stella's doing the course in her spare time; but that's assuming the insurance company will let you leave again, and that Lucy would open the door if you showed up.”

“What do you mean?” Ren asked.

Denise sighed. “Doctor Hobbard wasn't impressed with us ignoring the rules with you, Ren. The first thing he did was report your injury.”

Ren's eyes widened. “Well, crap.”

“We're all subject to review.” Denise nodded. “Stella, Bonnie and I are new at this... so that'll buy us a little leeway... but, there's not going to be a lot of happy people here on the hospital board, or at the insurance company.”

“Denise, I'm sorry.” Ren said and put a hand on her arm.

“It's not like it's your fault.” Denise said and smiled. “We're just going to have to be a lot more careful from now on.”

“I know what that means.” Ren sighed and took his hand back. “No more visitors for a while, no outside trips, and constant monitoring.”

“For the first little while.” Denise said.

Ren nodded and pulled over the laptop.

“What are you doing?”

“Just looking stuff up.”

“You're not going to do anything crazy, like message Lucy again, are you?” Denise asked.

Ren shook his head. “No, you're right. I should leave her alone for a while.” Ren said, and checked for a mortar recipe. He found one that was the same as the one in the game.

“What about your... fiance?” Denise said the last word with a bit of venom.

“What about her?” Ren said. I wonder... He looked up another recipe.

“Are you going to break it off with her?”

“No.”

“You're not?!?” Denise said, surprised.

“I can't. You saw the popup just like I did. It's a legally binding contract. I couldn't get out of it even if I wanted to.”

“Ren! It's just a game!”

“Yes, it is... and it's so much better than my real life, it's not funny.” Ren found what he wanted and smiled. Oh, that's awesome... and so easy!

“It's not real!” Denise said and lightly pat the arm that was in a sling. “This is real!”

Ren sucked in a deep breath and pulled his arm out of her reach.

Denise had a shocked look on her face. “I... I'm sorry, Ren. I didn't mean...”

“I know what you meant.”

Denise shook her head. “You weren't listening to what I was saying.”

“I was, and I heard you loud and clear.” Ren said. “If it's just a game, why are you so worried about it? Can't I just play it however I want? What's it to you?”

“You can't get emotionally invested in fake people, Ren.”

“Why not? Aren't there just as many fake people here in the real world?”

Denise opened her mouth to say something, then closed it.

“Right.” Ren nodded. “People act all nice and normal when others are around, but get them alone and they are completely different people.” He said. “I've had personal experience with that.”

Denise tried to speak and Ren held a hand up to her.

“I know everyone isn't like like my parents” Ren said. “But there are a lot of them who are, to some degree.”

Denise sighed. “I'm sorry, Ren.”

“For what? Trying to push on me your belief that the game is bad for my emotional health?”

“Yes.”

“People say things all the time, and then act differently when certain things happen.” Ren sighed. “I'm getting tired of it, to be honest.”

Denise looked at him in surprise.

