Ren and Nathalia kissed each other for a few minutes, until the female dwarf that picked Nathalia up at House Neram, stomped over.

“What's going on over here?” She said.

Ren turned his head to look at her, and saw that several women around them had fainted from his public display of affection. He let Nathalia go and turned towards the female dwarf when she came to a stop near them.

“She proposed!” One blushing woman said. “Oh, my nerves.” She said and fanned her face with a hand. “I've seen people kiss before... but that...” She sat down on the ground. “Oh, my...”

“I told you that having him come along would defeat the whole purpose.” The female dwarf said to Nathalia.

“Please accept my sincere apologies.” Ren said, and bowed to her.

All the women gasped at the same time, even the well-armed women guarding the caravan.

“I didn't intend for this to happen; but since it has, I'll do my best to live up to my responsibilities.” Ren said and stood up straight.

The female dwarf stared at him with wide eyes for several moments, before speaking. “W-well... see that you do.” She said and kind of wobbled as she walked away. Another female came over to help her, staring in surprise at Ren.

“That was laying it on a little thick, Ren.” Teepo said.

Sorry, but I had to diffuse the situation before it got out of hand.

“It's not out of hand now? You're back to being engaged!”

I know! Ren thought. I don't know what came over me to accept her proposal like that... after I read what Lucy wrote... telling me she'd never touch me again... I just... her over-reaction made me over-react.

“I'd say!” Teepo said. “I only wanted you to sow some oats, not buy the farm.”

Ren smiled and turned back to Nathalia. “I really do need to gather some ore and things.” He said. “I think we should stick with the caravan until we're near the convent, then veer off into the mountains.”

“That sounds good.” Nathalia said and looked down at herself. “I won't be needing this robe anymore. My training has been cancelled.” She said and laughed. “It's starting to get itchy, too. I didn't bring any spare clothes with me, though.”

“Let me help you with that.” Ren said and walked over to a clear area. He took out some wood and built a table. He set it on the ground and took out enough fabric for what he wanted to make. He cut out the pieces, dyed them to the right color, and sewed them together. Nathalia's eyes widened as he finished, and Ren turned to her.

“Your clothing, My Lady.” Ren said, and held out an exact copy of the dress her father had made for her.

“Ren... Ren, I... you really did memorize all of Da's work.” Nathalia said in wonder, and took the dress. Ren flipped the table up on it's end and draped a large piece of fabric over it, making it into a changing room for Nathalia. He held open the edge of the fabric, and she stepped inside. A few minutes later, she came out wearing the dress, and carried the robe in her hand.

“It's perfect.” Nathalia said and gave Ren a hug. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said, then stored the cloth and table.

“W-w-what are you doing?” The female dwarf leading the caravan said as she came back over.

“I don't need training anymore.” Nathalia said and handed the robe to the female dwarf. The smell of food filled the area and a lot of women's stomachs rumbled. “I'll still be coming along for a while, but I'll be with my fiance, not in a cart.” Nathalia said, and took Ren's hand.

The female dwarf looked at their hands, then at their faces, and sighed. “Fine. I hope you can keep up while walking in that dress.”

Ren shook his head. “She won't be walking.” He said and went over to where Princess was still tied to one of the carts. He tightened the saddle a little, and pat the side of Princess' neck. “My Lady will be riding in style.”

Everyone stared at him in surprise, even Princess. Ren turned to her and whispered. “It's okay. She's really light.” Ren enchanted the saddle with a double glyph, one for Enhancement (Ren chose Toughness) so the saddle could survive the enchantment, and Antidark to make anything that sat on the saddle lighter. Princess nodded and Ren smiled. “Thanks.”

Nathalia came over to Ren and looked at his mount. “You're going to let me ride her?” She said and pat Princess on the other side of her neck. “She's quite the noble mount.” Princess stood a little straighter and almost preened.

Ren smiled. “That she is; and yes, you're going to ride her.”

“I haven't ridden since I was a teenager.”

“It'll come back to you.” Ren said.

Nathalia looked down at her dress. “I think side-saddle would be best.”

Ren nodded. “We can worry about that when the caravan moves out again.” He said and looked around. “Everyone's eating at the moment.”

Nathalia looked as well. “Should we join them?”

Ren shook his head. “I've brought enough food for about a week. We can eat some of that, if you'd like.”

“I would.”

Ren took out the table and the same piece of cloth he'd used before, and set out several plates of food. He made 2 chairs quickly, and they sat down to eat. When the other women started to gather everything up half an hour later, Ren stored the remaining food, chairs, table, and cloth. He and Nathalia walked over to Princess and Ren untied her from the cart. He led them both towards the road and waited by the side. They didn't notice when the Sending Stone started to glow, until they heard Narhilda's voice.

“This is just another test. I hope everything is okay.” Narhilda said and the stone stopped glowing. Ren looked at Nathalia and smiled. “Go ahead.”

Nathalia pat his arm and touched the stone, then told her mother what had happened. 5 minutes wasn't long, and the stone stopped glowing before Nathalia could finish the whole story.

“I think she got enough of that to get the gist of what happened.” Ren said. “The next time we hear from her, she'll either be overjoyed or angry.”

“Why angry?” Nathalia asked.

“I kinda jumped the gun.” Ren said. “After I explained to her why I wouldn't, or shouldn't, marry you... and then I accepted your proposal.” He shook his head. “It was a rash decision, and I didn't think about the consequences.” Ren cupped the side of her face. “Nathalia, it might have been rash, but I did make the decision. My friend once told me that I was in this for the long haul, and with you by my side, I am.”

Nathalia put a hand over Ren's.

“You've also broken new ground by doing something that no one has ever done before. Your name will be written into the Annals of Dwarf History... right next to mine.”

“Really?”

Ren nodded and dropped his hand.

“That's... really nice.” Nathalia said and her face flushed a little red.

Notice!

Lucy (2645) has voluntarily left your party, Virtual Survivors.

Warning!

You are the only remaining member of your party, Virtual Survivors. It will be disbanded unless you invite more party members.

Invite new party members now? Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said and looked at Nathalia.

“Invite Nathalia Neram.” Ren said.

Notice!

You have invited an NPC to join your party. Confirm? Yes / No

“Yes.”

“Ren, you're inviting me to join your party?”

Ren nodded. “I want you to benefit as much as you can from being with me.”

“Ren... I... I don't know what to say.”

“Just say 'yes'.” Ren smiled.

“Yes.” Nathalia said and smiled back. A slight golden glow covered her from head to foot. “Ren? What's happening?” She said and looked at her hands.

“It's okay.” Ren said. “I think you're just getting an upgrade.”

“I'm what?!?” Nathalia said, shocked. The glow faded a moment later and she looked at him in consternation. “Ren, I don't feel any different.”

“Of course not. You're still you.” Ren grinned. “I believe all that glow did was give you access to an inventory, and probably unlocked your Level to let you gain experience, just like I do.”

Nathalia looked at Ren in surprise. “I... I can hold stuff like you do now?”

“Pretty much.”

Nathalia gave Ren a hug. “Thank you so much!”

Ren hugged her back. “I'm glad you're not angry about it.”

“Why would I be angry?” She asked.

“I didn't even ask you what you wanted to do. I just sprung that on you...”

Nathalia laughed. “Kind of like asking you to marry me?”

Ren opened his mouth to say something, then smiled instead. “We make quite a pair, don't we?”

“We sure do.” Nathalia said and kissed him.

“Ahem!” One of the well-armed female dwarfs said and they broke the kiss. “The fires you started won't go out.” She said and pointed. Several women were trying to put out the fires by pouring water on them.

“Nathalia, why don't you help them deal with that?” Ren said and smiled. “I better stay here, so I won't disturb the caravan any more than I already have.”

Nathalia smiled. “I'll be right back.”

Ren watched as Nathalia and the female dwarf went to each fire and Nathalia put it out, expertly hiding the enchanted bricks, then stored them into inventory. She came back a few minutes later and smiled.

“This inventory thing is great!” Nathalia said. “How much can it hold?”

“That depends on what you want to carry.” Ren said. “A pound of feathers or a pound of bricks.”

Nathalia looked at him like he was crazy, and Ren chuckled. “Ren, that's the same thing! They're both a pound!”

“They are; but, there's going to be a lot of feathers making up a pound. I don't know how much you can hold in each slot, so a pound of feathers will take up a lot more room, whereas a pile of bricks takes only a single slot.”

“Ah... I see.” Nathalia said. “How you store things is just as important as storing them in the first place.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Exactly.” Ren said and motioned towards Princess. “I better help you mount up. The caravan's leaving.”

Ren helped Nathalia climb up onto Princess' saddle and hooked one of her feet into the stirrup on the side her legs were on. The carts in the caravan started to move and Ren waited until the last one passed him. He glanced around the site to make sure nothing was left behind, and led Princess up the road. Ren looked at Nathalia sitting side-saddle on Princess, and smiled.

She looks like a Queen sitting on her throne. Ren thought.

“She probably feels that way, too.” Teepo said. “Everyone's looking at her in awe.”

Ren looked at the caravan, and sure enough, nearly everyone that could see, or lean out to see, was staring at Nathalia.

At least they aren't staring at me for a change! Ren thought, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

The caravan moved on for about 45 minutes and the Sending Stone glowed again.

“He did it! I can't believe he did it! You aren't pulling my leg, are you? He really said yes?” Narhilda said in a single breath. “Hold on... you asked HIM?!?”

Ren chuckled. I guess that's where Nathalia got that ability. He thought as Nathalia touched the stone. She started talking, taking up the story where she'd left off before, and finished just as the stone's glow faded. The caravan went on for another hour, and Nathalia and her mother spoke to each other again. When the next hour approached, the glow started again and then in the middle of a sentence, stopped working.

“We found the cut off point. We're about 10 hours away from the city.” Ren said and stopped walking.

“We're about an hour or so from the convent, too.” Nathalia said, and she waved to the women in the caravan. Some waved back to her, and Ren waved to them. That wasn't against social protocol, but most of them fanned their faces with their hands and turned away. Ren saw two women wave back, and he smiled. He turned Princess around and walked back about 20 feet.

“Go ahead.” Ren said to Nathalia, and pointed to the stone.

Teepo, scout for me. Ren thought. Maybe a hundred feet or so. Far enough to not be seen from the road, but not too far to get back to it quickly.

“You got it, buddy!” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood and skittered into the underbrush by the roadside.

Nathalia touched the stone and spoke. “Sorry Ma, we hit the spot where the Sending Stone won't work anymore. We've stopped here, and I assume will be making camp.” Nathalia said and Ren nodded. “We'll talk to you again in an hour.”

The stone's glow faded and Nathalia smiled. “Things have changed so fast that I didn't even ask where we were going to stay.”

“Don't worry. I have an idea about that.” Ren said.

Nathalia looked at him with her head tilted slightly. “Where were you going to stay if I wasn't here?”

“The same place, just a lot smaller.”

Nathalia's eyes widened at his words and Ren smiled. “You'll see.”

“All clear, Ren!” Teepo said. “No snakes, spiders, or even frogs!”

What about other large animals?

“Those were the large animals!” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

Thanks, we're coming in. Ren thought and led Princess off of the road and through the underbrush, careful to not leave any tracks. He went in about a hundred feet and found Teepo in the middle of an open area, with some trees scattered around, almost at random.

“This looks like a good spot.” Ren said and helped Nathalia dismount. “How are you? Is anything sore from the long ride?”

“I didn't want to say anything...” Nathalia said. “...but that saddle wasn't designed for riding like that.” She rubbed her backside and winced a little.

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “I should have made you a cushion or something.”

“Ren, everything that happens isn't your fault.” Nathalia said. “You can't think of every possibility for every situation that could possibly ever happen! You'd go crazy!”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, it's nerve-wracking for sure.”

Nathalia looked at him in surprise. “You... you've been doing that?”

Ren gave her a half-smile.

“Oh, you poor thing.” Nathalia said, and gave him a bone-cracking hug. “After everything you've gone through...” She let the hug go and reached up to run a hand through his hair. “I'd tell you to not worry so much, but you're going to anyways.”

Ren looked at her with a single raised eyebrow. Nathalia reached up and rubbed it with her thumb, just like she did the last time he'd done it in front of her, and it made Ren laugh again.

“I better get camp set up.” Ren said.

“What can I do?” Nathalia asked.

“You can watch and be pretty.” Ren grinned.

Nathalia snorted a laugh.

