Volle, maybe? It wouldn’t be her ideal choice of location, but it was a locus she knew. The runic loci she was maintaining in Aman Rak, Naia’s Dungeon, and Kezda had all failed when her mana was wiped out, but the Volle locus should work – it was far from whatever must have taken out the Myrin’s Keep locus. But when she finished inscribing the circle, it also failed to connect.

She puzzled over it for a long while, checking her runes carefully while the sounds of battle continued unabated in the background. On a hunch, she created a third circle – this one to Ciradyl. Ciradyl’s locus had been destroyed in the disaster, but she still remembered it. She meticulously inscribed the runes with her mana, but it also failed, confirming her worst scenario. She had not made any mistakes – and the conclusion was bleak and obvious; the loci at Volle and Myrin’s Keep had both been destroyed. In the same day.

The implications were staggering.

She had one more chance – her final memorized locus was the one at Vertias. It had remained mostly unused in favor of her link directly to Kezda. She hesitated.

What if it’s broken, too?

She decided she didn’t want to think about that possibility. Especially considering the unlikelihood that all the city loci she knew might have been simultaneously broken.

A few minutes later, she stared down at the fourth broken teleportation circle with a sinking feeling of dread in her heart. Somehow, against all reason, every single locus was gone. Lira’s death had ripped her heart asunder, and she had lost her dungeon, the library, and her home. Everything was gone.

All the while she had been fighting for her tiny foothold on this blasted realm, she had kept a bright spark of hope. She had sent Calen back home, and although she didn’t know what had become of her friends, she was sure they’d be alright – that they’d be worried about her back home. When this last circle failed, that spark had been extinguished like a tiny candle dropped into the inky black sea. What horrifying disaster could have taken out three cities at the same time?

Slowly, Ali sank to the ground, staring into the distance in disbelief. She was out of ideas, out of tools, and despair stormed her heart as she faced the stark reality of her situation.

I’m stuck here.

Suddenly, she was assaulted by a high-pitched, mana-empowered screech that filled the cavern and tore through her mind, driving her to clutch her head with its insanity-inducing power.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
