Right now though, they had business to discuss, and Luo-Luo let the dignified Scion take the lead. As proud as she was of her own skills, she knew she was outmatched by Xuande’s gifted talents. A former chief administrator for the Prime Minister’s office, he was overqualified to assist a mere Minister of Finance and wholly in his element as the Legate’s assistant. In the span of a few minutes, the soft-spoken man had outlined some fifteen critical matters which required Lord Husband’s attention while also suggesting the best course of action, and Lord Husband merely nodded along and agreed with everything Xuande said. Not because he wasn’t paying attention, but because the Imperial Scion was so thoroughly prepared, there was no need to deviate from his suggestions, especially since he’d given them no reason to mistrust him in their months working together. What’s more, Xuande behaved in a virtuous and genuine manner, treating everyone he met with from commoner to Colonel General with the utmost respect. The man had impeccable personal skills as well, having picked up on Lord Husband’s willingness to listen and appreciation for forthright honesty. In contrast, Luo-Luo had been with him for over a year and still treated him like a prideful noble who needed to be led to the right answers so he could feel in control. Lord Husband didn’t care about satisfying his ego by appearing self-important, and was more than happy to accept aid wherever he could find it, but even knowing this, Luo-Luo’s habits were ingrained into her and difficult to overcome.

Not so with Xuande, who in a few short days, managed to grasp everything required to ensure gold continued to fund the war effort without interruption. Now, they were discussing the possibility of introducing a minimum wage, but while Xuande and Luo-Luo both agreed with the idea on basic principle, it would be difficult to convince the Marshals of the necessity or enforce such a measure. Lord Husband also wanted to put an end to slavery, but he might as well ask for birds to stop flying or fish to stop swimming. He meant well, but his aspirations were unrealistic to the extreme and would only further alienate him from the true power base of the Empire, the nobles, Warriors, and merchants. At the end of the day, commoners simply lacked the military and financial power to enact change, even with crossbows and catapults to wield and someone like Lord Husband to champion them.

As their meeting came to an end, Luo-Luo inwardly lamented her passive part in today’s events and looked forward to playing the zither for him after dinner while he bathed in his borrowed manor. That was one of their new nightly rituals now, suggested by Lin-Lin of all people, and Lord Husband was happy to hear her play now that he believed her music might help unravel the mysteries of the Dao. There was some overlap between Luo-Luo’s evocative musical talents and Lord Husband’s ability to inspire and intimidate with words alone, and while he had yet to master the skill, he was inadvertently using it and studying her music to see if he could better understand it, but so far, there’d been no progress. Every now and then, he would simply utter a statement and it would send chills down Luo-Luo’s spine, like earlier when he spoke up to keep his council from tearing itself apart, or conversely, he’d tell Lin-Lin he loved her and her eyes would disappear into her smile as she was given conclusive proof of his feelings for her in the form of Loving Aura.

Just as Luo-Luo was about to bid Lord Husband farewell, he turned to Xuande, who was studying the war table, and asked, “Copper for your thoughts?” Smiling at their shared confusion, Lord Husband explained, “It’s an expression, meaning I value your thoughts and would care to hear them. You’ve glanced at the board more than once and look like you have something to say.”

Bowing at the waist, despite Lord Husbands repeated efforts to get him to stop without issuing a direct order, Xuande hesitantly began, “Imperial Legate is too kind. This lowly one knows nothing of tactics and warfare but... earlier, Imperial Legate declared that the Enemy’s movements were a trap.”

“Yep.” Taking this as an invitation to explain, Lord Husband pointed at various pieces on the table and rattled off a complex series of interactions which were somehow disastrous for the Imperial forces. “Long story short,” he concluded, once he noticed Luo-Luo’s eyes glazing over, “Is that Shuai Jiao and Nian Zu’s plan only works if the Defiled over-commit to chasing Central’s forces east and pay no mind to the encircling reinforcements. The Defiled have numbers enough to delay two of the three forces and concentrate on killing the third, isolated group, allowing them to divide and conquer against a numerically inferior force. Which is bad.”

“This lowly one understands,” Xuande said, in the patient tone of someone who’d heard Lord Husband argue this several times already, to which his advisors countered with what seemed like reasonable arguments. “However, tactics aside, this lowly one would note that a trap is only effective if it is not spotted beforehand. When spotted beforehand, it becomes an opportunity, for now you know what your foe expects. Could you not take advantage of this knowledge to bait the Enemy into a trap of our own devising?” Seeing Lord Husband’s bewildered expression, the soft-spoken Scion bowed again and said, “This lowly one is only speaking nonsense, and begs leave for his ignorance.”

“Kuang Biao!” Shouting at the top of his lungs, Lord Husband said, “Call for my war council to reconvene immediately.” Patting Xuande on the shoulders, Lord Husband directed the Scion to a chair and all but commanded him to sit, which he did while stroking his long, luxurious beard to hide his anxiety. Lord Husband wasn’t angry, but he was also too distracted to notice poor Xuande’s plight, utterly engrossed in moving his models around once more. When the council arrived a few minutes later, Lord Husband greeted them all by pointing at Xuande and saying, “Meet Liu Xuande, Imperial Scion and Expert of the Empire. He is now the fourth member of the council and is hereby to be included in all future discussions. I’ll give him a military rank after I have time to think of something appropriate.”

A chorus of dissent broke out, but none were louder than Xuande. “Imperial Legate, this one knows nothing of tactics and is unworthy of even the title of Expert. I’ve never drawn a weapon in anger, nor have I ever faced anyone in combat outside of gentle training.”

“You have a Natal Palace don’t you?” Xuande nodded, to which Lord Husband followed up with, “Then you’re an Expert. You have a Spiritual Weapon?” Seeing Xuande shake his head, Lord Husband asked, “Would you like one?” Again, Xuande shook his head and claimed he was unworthy, to which Lord Husband responded by waving the man’s protests aside. “Well, you don’t understand tactics but you can learn.” Pointing at his advisors, Lord Husband grimaced and said, “What I can’t do is teach these three soldiers to be less rigid in their thinking, because they’re too damned stubborn to listen. Tell them what you told me.”

Visibly shaken, Xuande stammered through his repetition while Luo-Luo watched with interest, unsure what was so significant about his contribution. It was common enough to find traps in contracts and devise methods to use said traps against their rivals, but Lord Husband treated it like sage advice, as did the members of his council. Visibly excited, Major General BoHai rushed to the table to begin planning, while Hagane and Inthavong offered arguments and suggestions of their own. Every now and then, Lord Husband would ask Xuande for his thoughts, only to berate the Imperial Scion for claiming ignorance and bully him into offering an opinion. Most were dismissed out of hand, but even Luo-Luo could tell the Scion had a good grasp of timing and troop movements, able to discern which pieces on the board were able to reinforce the others and the speeds at which they travelled. No doubt gleaned from his time plotting caravan routes and estimating where smugglers might travel to, now put to use against the Enemy.

Though feeling a little left out, Luo-Luo stood to the side and watched Lord Husband at work, her heart filled with pride for this dragon among men who excelled at everything he put his mind to. A shame he had even less time for her than usual these days, and what he could spare was always reserved for business or the animals, but there would come a time soon when he would lay his head down to rest, and his mind would be full of thoughts of her. Of this, she had no doubt, mostly because Lin-Lin’s protectors guarded her chastity fiercely, while Yan and Mila were both fighting on the front lines. Though lusty, Lord Husband was also fiercely devoted to his wives, which meant that when his bodily urges grew too strong for him to control, his only recourse would be to seek out Luo-Luo.

And when he did, she would welcome him with open arms and thank the Mother for Her bounty...

Chapter Meme
