“Heavy lies the head which wears the crown.”

There would come a day when Luo-Luo grew accustomed to Lord Husband’s moments of poignant brilliance, but today was not that day. Delivered with the solemn dignity of a troubled man as he stood over the war table, there were a multitude of complexities hidden within the simple verse and Luo-Luo was of the mind to try and capture its multifaceted meaning in calligraphy. The evocative phrase played against common misconceptions, for those without power dreamed of having it, and those who wore crowns to represent said power were only ever seen with heads held high. To do any less would be undignified, yet here, Lord Husband referenced the weight represented by those same crowns, the many troubles and duties which went hand in hand with authority and obligation. By remarking on this discrepancy, Lord Husband was noting how power in and of itself was not necessarily a reward, and that he would be much happier if he were relieved of his burden and divested of his ‘crown’, free to return to his previous station as a ‘mere’ Minister of Finance.

Heavy lies the head indeed, for the fate of the outer provinces now sat firmly upon his shoulders.

As Legate, Lord Husband could now move heaven and earth with but a single command, wielding power on a scale most people could only dream of. Unlike most, he saw this as more curse than blessing, for he was a good man, one teetering beneath the weight of the potential consequences to his actions, consequences many others would deem... not inconsequential, but acceptable. It wasn’t fear of failure which plagued his nightmares, but rather concern for those adversely affected by his choices, and he refused to proceed without ‘considering all angles’, as he so aptly put it. Though he could simply order one of the Marshals or Lieutenant Colonels to obey his commands, he preferred to rule by committee rather than the iron fist, and admirable though his intentions might be, it was thus far proving to not be the most effective leadership option available.

Take for example the dilemma before them today, a military decision which two Colonel Generals believed could turn the tides of war against the Enemy. From what Luo-Luo had gleaned while waiting to make her daily report with Liu Xuande, Southern and Northern forces were holding firmly at the second line, but Hongji’s forces were faltering along the central position, where the Enemy had concentrated over half their attacking soldiers. Colonel General Nian Zu submitted a proposal not even an hour after Lord Husband’s ascension, an ambitious gambit to commit most of the Imperial Forces to an all-out counter-attack. Initially, every other Colonel General objected to their Northern counterpart’s plan, and Lord Husband rejected it citing the wholesale opposition as his reason, but five days later, Colonel General Shuai Jiao resubmitted Colonel General Nian Zu’s initial plan with a few ‘minor’ adjustments, alongside a strong ‘recommendation’ that they go through with the plan as soon as possible, lest this ‘golden opportunity’ slipped through their fingers. Colonel General Shuai Jiao even hinted that the ‘inexperienced’ Legate would be best served by ‘heeding the advice of his most loyal servants’, a statement which bordered on insolent when delivered through written missive, rather than in person.

A calculated insult, no doubt, one designed to put Lord Husband in his place and present no target to vent his frustrations on. Colonel General Shuai Jiao likely expected Lord Husband to roll over and give in or refuse out of hand, either of which would give him the upper hand in future discussions, but instead, Lord Husband paid no mind to the condescending tone of the Colonel General’s missive and was carefully envisioning how the battle plan might play out. The table held a scale map of the Western Wall and the lands beyond, with many a miniature meant to portray the positions of thousands of soldiers or Defiled each, and Lord Husband was busy shifting them around in ways Luo-Luo couldn’t entirely follow. The plan seemed simple enough at its core, to pull the centre back from the second lines to draw the Defiled out, giving the Northern and Southern forces the chance to collapse on the overstretched Enemy offensive.

Except clearly, Lord Husband didn’t believe the tactic would play out as planned, because when he moved the Defiled pieces, they didn’t pursue the retreating Central forces, but instead turned on North and South. Shaking his head as he stood back to take in the entire table, Lord Husband sighed and said, “It’s a trap, plain and simple. I don’t understand why Shuai Jiao and Nian Zu are so eager to step foot in it.”

His declaration elicited a rude snort from one of the three Officers present in the room, Brigadier Yari Hagane, father of Yari Tetsudo whom Li-Li defeated during Shen Zhen Wu’s banquet of heroes. A staunch supporter of Colonel General Mitsue Juichi, Brigadier Hagane was Lord Husband’s Central military liaison, and carefully toed the line between blunt and insolent. No offence was meant by his gruff soldier’s demeanour, he would often plead, saying surely the Legate would understand, given his... history.

It was always said just like that, with the pointed pause to draw attention to something no one dared mention in his presence, that Lord Husband was once a slave and therefore unworthy of his Office. A small part of Luo-Luo agreed, not out of disdain, but sheer practicality, because if Shen ZhenWu had known of Lord Husband’s past, she was almost completely certain history would have played out differently. Now, a former slave had been raised to Imperial Peerage and stood higher than anyone else in the outer provinces, an ‘affront’ many Imperial Scions and outer provincial nobles would see as a direct insult to their illustrious lineages.

Well too bad for them. Lord Husband’s past did nothing to diminish his lofty accomplishments, and in some ways made them even more impressive, or at least that’s how Luo-Luo felt. No longer was he a Bekhai princeling, but a rescued orphan who took his first step along the Martial Path less than a decade ago. Not only did he also learn to read around the same time, he had since developed into a brilliant researcher and mathematician who devised his own system of numerals. Which clan, family, sect, or faction had an individual who could match even half of Lord Husband’s achievements? None of them, that’s who, and Luo-Luo’s respect for her talented Lord Husband rose several notches higher once she overcame her shock.

A shame so many people felt otherwise. It seemed so silly to fixate on a person’s past, but to some, once a slave, always a slave, and a slave was not worthy of respect, even if said former slave was brave enough to stand up to Imperial Scions and Defiled Divinities alike.

“Something to say, Brigadier?” Without turning his head away from the war table, Lord Husband answered Yari Hagane’s derision with mockery of his own. “I sense your gruff mannerisms flaring up again, so you might as well share your opinion before it seeps out at an inopportune time.”

“With all due respect, Imperial Legate,” the painted Warrior began, his powdered face and drawn eyebrows looking comically aggressive in lantern light, “Every Colonel General of the Empire has served in the army for longer than you have lived. Between Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao, they have more than two centuries of experience on you, assuming you started learning tactics on the teat. It would be best if you left the tactics to those trained for it, and simply trusted the Colonel Generals’ assessments.”

“If that’s the case, why are the other three Colonel Generals hesitant to support this proposal?” Politics was the answer to Lord Husband’s sarcastic question, but Brigadier Hagane could hardly admit as much. Neither Ryo Dae Jung nor Mitsue Juichi cared for Shuai Jiao and Nian Zu’s collaboration, since an alliance with a foreign Colonel General gave the much celebrated Shuai Jiao even more power than he already held, standing head and shoulders above his peers despite their equal ranks. If Lord Husband were to take issue with their silence, he could easily order Ryo Dae Jung and Mitsue Juichi drawn up on charges, but the polite thing to do was to overlook minor political maneuvering, and not voicing support for an opponent’s plan could hardly even be counted as such. Technically, by not voicing opposition for this plan as they had with Nian Zu’s initial proposal, the two Central Colonel Generals were tacitly agreeing with this battle plan, while only the Southern Colonel General actively voiced his objections, stating that the risks outweighed the reward and that their best course was to hold the line.

Without additional reinforcements from the South of course. Central would just have to miraculously get by on their own somehow, because the South was unwilling to sacrifice Southern soldiers while Central Warriors were resting on their laurels. Even in unity, there was dissent, and Luo-Luo saw no choice but to accept these terms and pray the South would remain true to the Empire. At the very least, if they intended to rebel, she hoped they would at least have the decency to wait until Lord Husband was no longer Legate. According to him, Shen ZhenWu had concerns that the South might withdraw long before Lord Husband donned this mantle, and thus far, Luo-Luo had yet to discern how Southern Marshal Quyen Huong felt about taking orders from someone of Lord Husband’s... humble origins.

Since Brigadier Hagane had no answer for Lord Husband, he turned to the other two Officers in the room. Major General Han BoHai and Major General Inthavong could not be any more different, the former a hulking bear of a man with porcelain cheeks hidden beneath a robust beard, while the latter a slight, slender, whip of a warrior whose dark-skinned features were entirely devoid of hair save for two thick, bushy eyebrows. Together, the three men made up Lord Husband’s war council, a term which had been met with less-than-polite disdain, for war was not conducted by council. Though barely a Warrior herself, Luo-Luo wholeheartedly approved of his actions, because there was really no winning for Lord Husband here. As Legate, his was the hand which guided the swords of the Empire, but as Brigadier Hagane had so rudely pointed out, Lord Husband’s subordinates all had more experience than he had years alive, and would hardly take kindly to his commands.

Such were the sins of pride, as they were. Though they were all on the same side, Luo-Luo admitted to taking some small measure of glee from Colonel General Nian Zu’s reaction when Lord Husband refused his proposal the first time. The Living Legend’s throat still bore a reddish line where the Confessor’s sword had opened his throat, yet he had already convinced himself that Lord Husband would be little more than a figurehead to control and command. This just showed that even close allies had to be guarded against, for good intentions could result in grave harm and any consequences would be born by Lord Husband, not Nian Zu or anyone else.

Grimacing as he stared at the board, Major General Han BoHai hesitated before gesturing at the jumbled mess before him. “Your movements illustrate the worst case scenario, a disaster for the Imperial forces, but to achieve such a thing, the Enemy would have to work in perfect coordination with no margin for error.” Silently requesting permission to rearrange the board, the bear of a Major General gingerly shuffled the pieces about until it more or less was back to where it began, as an accurate representation of their current forces in the field. “See here?” he asked, moving Central’s forces to depict a retreat, after which the Defiled pieces gave chase before splitting up to meet the oncoming Northern reinforcements. “It is unrealistic to expect the Defiled to maneuver so perfectly as to cut off and isolate large swathes of our forces. To do so, they would have to know how our forces are arranged well in advance, which would be impossible so long as we take adequate measures.”

“The Enemy coordinated a multi-province assault on the Northern, Western, and Southern Walls,” Lord Husband retorted, obviously unconvinced by the Major General’s conclusion. “I doubt keeping track of troop movements along a single front is beyond their abilities. You forget, the Enemy commander possesses skills we do not yet wholly understand, including the ability to command all his forces from vast distances, likely with little to no delay for messages. For the first time in history, the Empire faces a foe more coordinated than ourselves, and it would be best we all remember this lest they teach us a lesson we won’t soon forget.” Scowling as he said the word, Lord Husband gestured at the table and shook his head. “We have yet to see our foe take an active role in the war, but as I’ve said before, I believe it’s because he’s using the extended conflict to temper his ‘Chosen’. However, if we launch an all-out counteroffensive like this, we would present a tempting target, perhaps too tempting for our foe to let pass.”

Choosing this moment to interject, Major General Inthavong repeated himself for the umpteenth time. “Staunch spears and sharpened sabres are enough to throw the Enemy back. Central’s soldiers must rise to the occasion, for the sons of the South are not without limit.”

