Unlike the other provinces, women of the South were forbidden from fighting, and this male-centric mindset was pervasive throughout their entire culture. There was a time when Luo-Luo would have simply accepted things as they were, but now that she was a Martial Warrior in truth, she found this way of thinking overbearing and without basis. Yes, Martial Warriors were predominantly male, but female Martial Warriors were in no way inferior to their counterparts, as proven by the likes of Mother-in-Law Sarnai, Sister-in-Law Alsantset, Li-Li, Yan, Mila, and so many more. With the numbers of Martial Warriors already limited by the Heavens, it seemed foolish to arbitrarily limit them further based on gender alone, especially since the Mother Above was a woman Herself.

Luo-Luo had many a scathing remark regarding the South’s misogynistic practices, but this was neither the time nor place. Besides, Major General Inthavong had been nothing but cooly polite to Luo-Luo, the same with every other Southerner she had the fortune to meet, so she suspected there might be more to this ban on women Warriors than simple gender discrimination.

Oblivious to Luo-Luo’s thoughts, Brigadier Hagane responded to the Southern Major General’s implied criticism with predictable animosity. “There are twice as many Defiled pushing through the centre as there are on the southern flank, so I suppose it stands to reason that you’ve already met your limits while we are only now approaching ours. After all, one can hardly expect the Southern Sons to be as hardy as noble, Central Warriors.”

“How typical.” Subjecting Hagane with an icy sneer, Inthavong fired back. “A Central noble taking credit where none is deserved. Remind me, how many ‘noble’ Central Warriors are serving with Brigadier Hongji? Last I checked, the majority of officers serving on the front lines were of humble origins, toiling on the battlefield while their so-called betters bragged of honour and valour.”

“Enough.” Though uttered with casual ease, Lord Husband’s words contained more than a sliver of steel as he narrowed his eyes in reprimand, and Luo-Luo shuddered beneath the emotive assault. He did this quite often of late, infusing his voice with Chi to drive home his point, but it was clear he had little to no control over it. Offering Luo-Luo an apologetic half-smile, he turned to the chastised Officers and said, “When I spoke with your commanding officers, they assured me you three were able advisors who could offer me sound counsel, so that is what I am here for. Colonel General Shuai Jiao’s proposal presents too much risk for too little gain, because even if his plans go off without a hitch, all it does is secure the second line. However, considering the circumstances, I cannot reject his plans outright, since something must be done to reinforce our centre lest we lose the second line altogether, so I have called upon you three to advise me.” Pausing to make sure eye contact with each Officer in turn, Lord Husband asked, “Besides committing almost seventy percent of our forces to the field, what options do we have?”

For the first time since they gathered together, the three Officers united as one, trading looks of doubt and disbelief between them. Being most familiar with Lord Husband, Han BoHai was the first to speak up. “You do not understand what you ask of us, Legate. If it becomes known we spoke out against our superior officers, even if they themselves offer absolution, our comrades and subordinates will forever see us as faithless traitors. Even if I agreed with your opinion, I must stand by my superior officer, because unity is all that separates us from the Enemy.”

Snorting with his patented lack of reverence, Lord Husband rolled his eyes and said, “These days, the Enemy seems far more united than the Empire.” Scandalized by the statement, Inthavong pressed his palms together and offered a silent prayer to the Mother Above, while BoHai and Hagane merely shifted uncomfortably on their feet, no doubt wishing they were anywhere but here. Odd how so many saw Lord Husband as the man closest to the Mother Above, yet he had voiced doubts regarding Her existence, much less Her hallowed assistance. This from a man with a veritable Divine Turtle sleeping at his feet, her leathery head resting on his boot after a long day of running about with the other pets, many of whom were gathered around her and Lord Husband both.

Taking a deep breath, Lord Husband thought things through and tried a different tack. “Fine. I reject Colonel General Shuai Jiao’s proposal due to unacceptable levels of risk. Now, as my advisors, I would like you to advise me on a different course of action besides committing almost all of our forces for minimal gain. Is that enough to assuage your honour?”

Hardly, but the three Officers could hardly disobey a direct order, so they all gave their opinions one by one, debating the best course of action together which somehow led them back to Colonel General Shuai Jiao’s plan. Annoyed by the lack of progress, Lord Husband eventually made a decision no one was happy with, least of all himself. “Deploy another hundred and fifty thousand troops to the centre, two thirds of which are to be split equally between North and South, all to Colonel General Shuai Jiao’s specifications. I want the relief force marching for the second line come morning, and if they aren’t there within two and a half days, I’ll have every serving officer lashed for dereliction of duty.”

The last was delivered without heat or enthusiasm, but Lord Husband had already demonstrated his willingness to follow through with his threats. There were many arguments forthcoming from both BoHai and Inthavong, namely that Shuai Jiao would undoubtedly request the specialist soldiers each province had to offer, but Lord Husband was unmoved. “Southern infantry and Northern heavy cavalry are unmatched in the Empire, so it would only stand to reason the Colonel General would want their assistance.” Pausing to consider the numbers, Lord Husband looked up as if peering into his brain before nodding in agreement with himself. “Also, the latest group of irregulars should be done with their training, some ten-thousand total, so dispatch them to the centre as well. I’ll let you know more details once I go over the specifics with Zheng Luo and Xuande and figure out how many catapults we can spare.”

None of the advisors seemed heartened by the addition of Lord Husband’s irregulars, but Luo-Luo knew Brigadier Hongji would appreciate the extra hands. According to his missives, crossbows and catapults were inflicting massive numbers of casualties onto the Defiled forces, especially among the heavily armoured Chosen. Even Runic armour was no match for a 100kg projectile launched from over a kilometre away by one of Lord Husband’s ingenious counterweight catapults, and the Enemy had taken to targeting those ponderous weapons of war with a vengeance. There was still little talk regarding the value of Lord Husband’s irregulars, but Luo-Luo was confident historians would pinpoint them as one of the pivotal changes introduced by the young hero of the Empire, the first man raised to Imperial Peerage and a Living Legend in the making.

As soon as the room was cleared, Lord Husband plopped down on the ground and opened his arms for a cuddle. Aurie was the first to react, ready and waiting to throw himself into Lord Husband’s open arms the moment he noticed the strangers leaving. Mama Bun was a close second, bouncing off Aurie’s solid shoulder before venting her frustration with a series of lightning fast paw slaps, as if trying to dig her way through the wildcat’s fur and flesh to get to Lord Husband underneath. Beaming from ear to ear, he spent the next few minutes coddling his beloved pets, including the needy Divine Turtle who belatedly woke from her slumber. Odd for a creature of such power to desire something as simple as attention and affection, but then again, Luo-Luo knew firsthand how disheartening it was to feel neglected. Only half a week had passed since Lord Husband neatly navigated through the near disaster that was Yang Jixing and Zhu Chanzui, and so much had happened in such a short time. For starters, Lord Husband moved to the Central Citadel, where he was better located to oversee the war effort and ensure his orders were carried out with the utmost haste. Mother-in-Law Sarnai had come with him alongside a sizable contingent of Bekhai guards, led by none other than Lieutenant General Akanai herself. Li-Li and Lin-Lin were also here with them, though at the moment, they were busy sightseeing in the Citadel and scaring all the locals with Blackjack, Sarankho, Princess, and the entire flock of laughbirds, thanks to a circulating rumour that Lord Husband’s entire menagerie was made up of Divine Beast candidates.

One Luo-Luo set MuYang to circulating herself. Zhu Chanzui claimed to have killed three Divinities, but sweet Ping Ping sent him scurrying away with his tail between his legs, so even the Emperor might think twice if He believed Lord Husband had more than one Divine Beast...

Despite all the benefits sweet Ping Ping brought him, Lord Husband spent the entire journey to the Citadel complaining about the slow speed of their barge and lamenting the fact that he could no longer ride on Ping Ping’s back and travel between the Citadels at record speeds. Lin-Lin suggested they design a small boat for the Divine Turtle to pull, perhaps even with a kite trailing behind, but thankfully Mother-in-Law Sarnai convinced them to let the matter drop, since it would be unseemly to treat a Divinity like a beast of burden. Truth be told, though Luo-Luo agreed with the sentiment, she also knew Ping Ping would likely enjoy pulling Lord Husband along in a boat, since the sweet girl did love to swim, but hated having to separate from her most beloved person for long.

Despite the need to travel, Lord Husband had not been idle during their journey, and signed into effect a number of... controversial decrees. More funding for his irregulars to start with, and opening registration to all free commoners who wished to join them, as well as demanding each province either supply a set number of catapults and crossbows every week or double the value in raw materials. The Marshals acquiesced, because they had no reason to refuse since Lord Husband was paying for the war machines, which almost gave Luo-Luo a heart attack. In her panic, she reminded him out loud that printing more War Bonds required a consensus between the Minister of Coin, the Grand Marshal, and the Chief Justicar of Fraud, the latter of whom was under the purview of the Prime Minister.

Whose son had just died, arguably due to Lord Husband’s meddling, though she kept that last part to herself.

Thankfully, Lord Husband had things well in hand and never intended to rely on War Bonds to pay for this latest endeavour, and instead introduced a ‘scaling luxury tax’ on certain goods entering the Western Wall. Not only would this generate revenue, Lord Husband hinted that the Marshals would benefit even more if they were vigilant against smugglers, since this would allow them to seize entire shipments for carrying contraband. A less scrupulous person might even frame their rivals, Lord Husband had said, offering advice and threat with a sly smile of both friendship and warning, and Luo-Luo saw the Marshals each visibly sweat. Truly a devious man, one worthy of admiration, and Luo-Luo was even more certain he was destined for greatness.

All this was of course after reinstating his father as a Lieutenant General and offering blanket amnesty for anyone and everyone who took part in ‘the act of civil disobedience’, as he so eloquently put it, though how much weight his amnesty would hold without an Imperial Mandate was up for debate.

Finished with his cuddle session, Lord Husband came to his feet with Ping Ping in one arm and Mama Bun in the other, obviously struggling with the Divine Turtle’s weight and bulk but unwilling to compromise. “Sorry to keep you both waiting so long,” he said, his genuine sincerity winning him points with the all too capable but ultimately lowly Imperial Scion. “These war councils are worse than pulling teeth, but necessary. Since I don’t have an Imperial Sigil to wave about and give commands with the Emperor’s authority, I have to tread carefully and avoid upsetting too many people, lest I find myself committing suicide by way of a dagger to the back.”

Faced with this bold statement, Luo-Luo and Xuande both bowed and uttered, “No one would dare.” Even without an Imperial Sigil, Lord Husband was an Imperial Scion of high standing and the Commander of the Outer Provinces, so it would be treason for anyone, even a lofty Colonel General, to disobey his orders. It didn’t matter if the Emperor was incensed by Lord Husband’s actions, He would have no choice but to act swiftly and punish anyone who even dared to voice the possibility of disobeying the Legate, lest the Imperial Clan lose face. This was something Lord Husband knew, but didn’t wholly understand, and Luo-Luo feared he would never wholly grasp the concept of face even if he lived to be a thousand years of age. This was further evidenced by his adamant refusal to allow the dignity of his new station affect his general comfort, wearing the same, plain clothes he always favoured, though at least she managed to convince him to let her do his hair every morning and wear his armour for public appearances. This meant waking up each day at an ungodly hour since Lord Husband hardly seemed to sleep, but Luo-Luo rather enjoyed their quiet morning conversations, which seemed like the only time he ever had to spare these days, but she cherished what little she could get.

