I shrug. “Silkworms, I guess? I dunno, they’re like caterpillars or something. After they turn into cocoons but before they become butterflies or moths or whatever, you boil them and harvest the threads. Isn't this common knowledge?”

Lin giggles. “Silly Rainy, only descendants of the Royal Family know how silk is made, it’s one of the best kept secrets in the Empire. If you’re right and we produce our own silk, we’ll either be rich or branded as thieves and traitors.”

... Oh. Oops. “See, that proves my point, there’s too much wealth and power concentrated in the hands of the nobles.” Shutting my mouth, I hasten my steps, hurrying towards the surface. Thankfully, no one asks how I know what I know, since my customary excuse of ‘read it in a book’ probably won’t work this time.

Whatever. It’s not important. During my rant, I came to an epiphany. I arrived in this world a slave and was lucky enough to escape my fate. Since then, all I’ve done is survive, going with the flow while trying not to make waves. That’s obviously not working so I might as well try something new, while paying it forward. I’ve always wondered why I’m here. Maybe it was divine intervention to save Baledagh or maybe just a random twist of fate. Hell, maybe I’m crazy and my memories are the product of a ravaged mind, but either way, it’s time I did something with them. I want to contribute to the world, not for fame or glory, but to make a difference in people's lives, even if only a select few.

Things won't change too much for me, personally. I can’t give up on the Martial Path, because strength of arms is all but required to live in this era. The world is too fixated on martial prowess, as even Magistrates need strength to hold their positions. It’s ass backwards, what does managing a city have in common with swinging a sword? Whatever, I won't give up on learning Healing either, because I’m terrified of dying or losing loved ones. This means I’ll be relying on Diyako’s brain trust and spending my newfound wealth to figure out how to make my half-baked ideas a reality. If they’re successful, others will try and copy me by gathering their own academics and scholars to research new, innovative ideas. Once I get the ball rolling, I can leave the rest to greed and fate.

The school/orphanage is another way for me to make a difference without working too hard. It’s won't just be giving food and shelter to kids, but educating them and giving them the skills necessary to survive. If I instill an academic mindset into a mere handful of young minds, then that's a bonus. Maybe they’ll go on to do great things, or maybe they’ll live a life of mediocrity, but either way, I'll have done my part. Better yet, I should talk to Yuzhen about opening state schools in every city of the North. I can paint it as a way for the Empire to nurture young talents beholden to the Empire itself, using the People's system as an example. She’s a smart woman, she’ll see the benefits, I’m sure of it.

It all sounds easy, but it take years, maybe even lifetimes before progress is made, not to mention some out of the box thinking and a metric shit-tonne of luck. Still, I might as well give it a shot. At worst, I spend my fortune for nothing, but easy come easy go. I can always earn more money. Maybe I’ll die along the way and nothing changes in the long run, but if I don’t even try, I’ll always be wondering ‘what if?’. That’s no way to live a second life.

Besides, I’m tired of shitting into buckets and emptying them in the forest. I’d love it if indoor toilets became a thing, but maybe I’m setting the bar too high.

You never cherish what you have until it’s too late.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 13 -
