“The God of Tragedy is searching for a catalyst…?” I said.

“It’s the same thing as you and me,” the goddess said. “As gods, we’re limited by the influence we can exert on the world.” She lifted her garment, showing the same scar on her waist as last time. “If we try to influence it too greatly, we’ll be wounded despite our immortality. The only way to bypass this is through a catalyst. Through you, I can indirectly influence the world.”

“Hence why you chose me to do your bidding,” I said. “To stop the God of Tragedy.”

She nodded. “And you’ve done well thus far. Your encounter with Aurelius was undoubtedly the doing of Tragedy. But the mystery remains as to how his influence extends so far.”

“What other things has he done?”

The wind brushed our faces. By now, the sky took an orange tint as the sun began to set over the horizon.

“He has already destroyed a few cities—slaughtered lives, tormented them, and made them regret their very existence,” she said. “Through the hands of others.”

“Others like Aurelius?”

She nodded. “Aurelius was just one of the many people—or rather, things—that he has unleashed into this world. If Aurelius succeeded, Whale Isles would’ve been destroyed. The city was fortunate enough that you and your party were there to save them. As for the cities that have already perished… the same can’t be said.”

I leaned back against the bench. “So all of these people that Tragedy has influenced… Are they all candidates to be his catalyst?”

“We can only assume that much.”

I shook my head. “But being able to control all these people still seems like quite a lot of influence, even if it’s less than if he were to influence the world itself. Shouldn’t he be hurt?”

The goddess nodded, looking at me. “That’s what terrifies me. Summoning you into this world took a great toll on my body, but the act of him being able to control all these things should’ve killed him. Through eons, no god has ever been able to touch the world to this extent. I’m afraid of what this might entail. And… I’m afraid that the Narrative has begun favoring Tragedy.”

“Why would it ever do that?”

“I’m afraid I don’t have the answer to that. It’s impossible to predict the actions of something that doesn’t even have sentience. But you’re braver than I am, Allene. I know you’ll be able to find the truth.”

“A human being braver than a god?” I chuckled at the thought. “I never thought I’d hear that. Say, you act awfully human for a god, don’t you?”

She smiled at me, touching the back of my hand. “To be a god is to be human.”

I tilted my head. “What does that even mean?”

“I don’t know. I was trying to sound profound.”

I laughed. “Now that’s exactly something I would expect the God of Comedy to say. What’s your real name, anyway?”

“Callia,” she said. “Oh, but please don’t say that name when you return to the world.”

“Why not? Trying to keep this a secret between us?”

“Well, it’s more so the fact that you’re the only undivine being who knows my name.”

“Oh? I’m flattered.”

“Calm your flatter. The other gods knew my name long before you did.”

“Well, I see that as an absolute win considering I’m just a human.”

“I suppose it is.”

I looked around the scenery, which seemed to subtly change every now and then—likely whenever Callia became bored with the current one. Now, I saw five wolves playing a game of tag around a boulder in front of us, not even bothering to acknowledge our presence.

“So, uh…” I began. “Isn’t it about time that this realm begins to tremble and collapse? I feel like we’ve been talking for too long.”

She tilted her head. “No? Why would that happen?”

“I mean, that’s a trope, isn’t it? Talking to a god in another realm before it collapses? That’s kind of how most stories go…”

She gave me a confused look. “Nope. This realm is pretty stable. Time is also paused in the real world, so now that you’re here, you can stay as long as you want.”

“Seriously? So I can keep asking you questions?”

“I suppose.”

Well that changed things.

“Time to play a game of rapid-fire questions,” I said.

“Huh?”

“Question number one. Do you enjoy being the God of Comedy?”

“What are you doing?”

“Just answer the question.”

She sighed. “Yes.”

“Why?”

“Because it’s entertaining.”

“For someone who’s supposedly ‘entertained,’ you sure do sound unenthusiastic at times,” I said.

“I think that contrast is exactly what makes it funny.”

“Is it? Anyway, here’s question number two. Are all the gods related?”

“Yes.”

“That’s what I thought. Which one is your favorite sibling?”

“None.”

“Why?”

“Because they betrayed the family.”

“Question number—wait, what?”

I stopped, staring at her. Don’t tell me I just accidentally revealed some super important lore during a game of rapid-fire questions…

She stood, watching the wolves in front of us play. The wolves continued circling around the boulder, pouncing on one another until something frightening happened.

A cry.

One of the wolves cried from behind the boulder, out of sight from Callia and me. The other wolves howled, and in an instant, the sun completely disappeared, replaced by a glowing moon hanging above us. The trees around us were larger than ever before, and the winds were harsher. The forest became so dark that it was impossible to see through the shadows hanging between the trees. I heard whispers around us. My body shivered as I prepared a stance in case something jumped out at us.

But I had no weapons. Not Dawn Sunderer, not Starcaller, and of course, none of my friends.

“Nothing will attack you,” Callia said. “Just watch.”

Four wolves scattered in every direction, away from the boulder. Callia and I walked over to the rock. She waved a hand over it, and the boulder disappeared.

“That’s…” I began, my eyes widening.

The fifth wolf—the one that had cried behind the boulder—lay there in a puddle of its own blood. Its limbs were torn apart, and its innards were spilled across the grass.

“This,” she said, “was exactly what happened on that horrible night.”

I looked away from the gruesome sight. “Are you trying to say that one of your siblings was killed?”

She nodded.

“But how is that possible? The gods are immortal, aren’t they?”

She nodded again, waving a hand over the wolf. First, she cleaned the blood. Then the innards. She walked over to it and laid a gentle hand on the wolf’s face, causing it to disperse away with a touch.

“The one who died,” she continued, “was Gorinth, the God of Mystery. He remained mysterious down to his very last moments. None of us ever knew what he liked or what he spent his days doing. And we never would have known. His life was claimed that night, and only one conclusion made sense to us.”

“One of you killed him. One of your siblings.”

Callia nodded. “What else could kill a god? However… you see the fault in this story, don’t you?”

I took some time to come up with an answer.

“His death was a mystery in itself,” I said. “But if he was the God of Mystery, how could it be that mysteries still exist?”

“Exactly,” she said. “I came up with several theories myself. Perhaps he faked his death—though it’s unlikely, considering we saw his corpse. Or maybe someone else took the mantle of Mystery in his place. But if that was true, then who? And if that was the case, where were they? Did this new god keep themself hidden after replacing Gorinth? Was it even possible for a god to be replaced? How could an immortal be killed?”

“Or,” I said, “the gods don’t allow the genres to exist. They simply govern over them. It would explain why mystery still exists. I’m surprised even you don’t know the truth.”

Callia looked at her hand. “There are many things the world keeps hidden from us—even the gods. I’ve come to accept that long ago. But if what you say is true, then what is the purpose of us gods? We suffer. We hate. We cry. We are as human as the undivine, yet we were forced to take a divine role in this world. I see no other explanation other than we’re the reason why comedy, tragedy, romance, mystery, and all the other concepts exist.”

“Or maybe the gods were never immortal in the first place,” I tried.

She shook her head. “I’ve witnessed one of them being stabbed in the skull and surviving,” she said right away.

“Okay, never mind.”

I looked toward where the dead wolf had been. There wasn’t even a trace of blood left behind. Did she really have to show me such an awful sight to explain her story?

I rubbed my forehead. “You know what? I think that’s enough questions for today.”

“Already?”

“Uh… yeah? Every time you answer one of my questions, I get five more.”

“Isn’t that the point of asking questions?”

“No. Usually you’re supposed to end up less confused.”

Callia smiled, but it quickly faded. “Then I shall return you to the world. But do remember one thing, Allene.”

She looked at me, her eyes stern.

“Tragedy is searching for someone. Stay on your toes, even as you sleep.”

With a wave, the forest disappeared. The winds turned into nothing, and the moonlight faded into darkness.

Then, the sound of crackling fire appeared, accompanied by the voices of…

Meriel and Reina?

“Allene?” Reina called.

I blinked.

“Everyone, she’s awake!” Reina cried.

The others ran up to me—Kaelor, Talon, and Camille.

I was lying on a bed in the very room we had been in before Gal’Meth had sent me off to his realm alongside Kaelor and Meriel.

“Everyone,” I said. “I…”

I looked at Meriel and Kaelor in particular. “Did we do it? Did we beat Gal’Meth?” I asked.

Kaelor raised his hand. The Soul Anchor Ring was on one of his fingers. The demon was successfully sealed again.

“You’re the one who defeated him?” I asked.

He nodded. “I now have the Soul Transference spell we need to save Camille,” he said. “But before that… what’s with your clothes?”

“Huh…?”

I looked down at my body, realizing that all my previous clothing had completely changed. Even my shoes. Looking closer at them, I realized that these clothes were awfully familiar. It didn’t take much thinking considering I had seen these exact same clothes just seconds ago.

These were the same ones that Callia wore.

Did she really just give me hand-me-downs as a gift?

I have to say… I definitely preferred my older clothes.

[NOTICE: CHAIN TROPES DETECTED]

- THE DEMONIC TRANSFORMATION (COMPLETED)

- THE PROTAGONIST’S OUT FOR THE COUNT (COMPLETED)

- THE GOD’S GIFTS (COMPLETED)

[CONSOLIDATING REWARDS…]

[REWARD: Your Narrative Weight has been restored to what it was prior to failing the trope, “CONTRACT WITH A DEMON”.]