Sure, he’d whined a bit too much about whether they were at their destination yet—for which Orodan had simply thrown him right into a deep mud pit which had lightly venomous snakes—but Parthus was doing a lot better than the man thought himself capable of. The lack of confidence and feelings of insecurity whenever Edrosic looked at Aliya and Zukelmux were quite apparent, even to them. But this journey, Orodan felt, was critical to helping his fellow militia man develop some pride in himself.

And Wainroach? Wainroach was probably the most adaptable being Orodan had seen. The current marshes? The deep woodlands they’d trekked through earlier? The rocky hills they’d traversed before that? She had somehow known how to find food and the right path forward at every opportunity. Frankly, Edrosic who’d had a hard time warming up to Wainroach in the past, now found himself liking her the most. Her guidance in getting the group back on course and choosing the safest routes was the only thing giving Parthus a reprieve from Aliya’s mad moments of random exploration.

And the most ridiculous thing about her? She now knew the basic Candleflame spell.

Yes, Orodan had successfully and inadvertently caused his cockroach student to teach herself Candleflame due to how often he had her rolling through flames and attempting to temper her shell with fire. She still hadn’t acquired Fire Resistance, but he had little doubt she would be acquiring Fire Magic Mastery far quicker than the resistance equivalent.

And while her body was small and her mana pool meagre, Candleflame was an excellent spell to start with since the expenditure was minuscule and dependent on the body of the caster. Her flame was tiny; a human equivalent flame would be larger coming off an average man’s finger. But hers? Even tinier due to her proportions. Not useful against any human-sized foe in combat… but lethal against insects once she got atop them and burrowed the flame into their sensitive bits.

Indeed, another reason Edrosic quite liked Wainroach was due to her remaining upon the man’s shoulder and using that as a staging point to leap off and onto any bloodflies which threatened him. From there, the offending bloodfly would be cooked to death quickly once a tiny Candleflame was held in its crevices.

Just as human mages couldn’t match the scale and power of a dragon, Wainroach was also not on the level of an equivalent human mage. This, he decided, would have to be rectified. Of course, she did have a cheap way of matching a human mage, albeit at a cost to her body.

As a giant Apprentice-level crocodile burst out of a nearby mud pit, Wainroach leapt right into its mouth, naturally capable of surviving the acidic and dirty environment. And Orodan felt the pull of connection from his soul as his Blessing was used to draw power.

A flame the size of a house erupted from its mouth, instantly cooking the crocodile and turning it to ash. All that was left after… was an exhausted Wainroach who had clearly drawn a bit too much power from the Blessing. Edrosic scooped her up and deposited her upon his shoulder, but Orodan had a feeling she’d be out of commission for at least an hour after that feat of overdrawing.

Even Orodan got slightly nervous sometimes with how much power she happily pulled from him to fuel her fire magic spells. It was a natural limitation of her species that he would need to stringently work upon. But frankly, in having to teach her, he might also have to learn new things. And a small flame wasn’t a disadvantage either.

Perhaps she was capable of feats of precision a human could only dream of.

All in all, he’d forced his students to fight the worst of the worst within these marshes, gotten them intentionally lost plenty of times, and often threw them right into surprise situations which required them to fight their way out.

“We had a similar regimen on Vylrystia for the hatchlings. We had to fly ten-thousand miles across hostile territory before returning to our roost.”

That sounded like an excellent survival training exercise in his opinion. Perhaps with anti-air batteries along the way to keep their flying skills sharp?

Still, it had been a good day of training. Particularly as they exited the marsh and were now on a cliff overlooking the west wall of Anthus. The sounds of artillery, battle and the braying hordes of monsters below were indication enough that they were near the city. An energy well city was after all, always under constant siege.

Bands of monsters periodically grouped together and tried their luck at assailing the wall in the hopes of getting through. And while Orodan could understand the aerial monsters trying their luck and hopefully managing to make it into the well, he wasn’t entirely sure why the ground-based monsters would so suicidally charge the walls.

The answer came to him as Wainroach and Zukelmux both began looking and acting ecstatic.

“T-teacher… this feeling is… sublime!” the goblin uttered. And Wainroach who was giddy and had recovered far faster than he’d projected was also in agreement.

Right. World energy was addictive it seemed. Particularly for monsters and creatures who could absorb it.

Goblins—who Orodan had learned long ago possessed a dual nature as mortal and monster—would doubtlessly be affected by world energy. Same thing with a cockroach like Wainroach. If anything, it was a unique disadvantage the mortal races faced, unable to use world energy. Orodan himself had sidestepped the issue entirely by producing more than enough power of his own which fueled his growth and allowed him to do absurd things. But the fact remained that a goblin like Zukelmux had higher growth rate as a result of being able to utilize world energy naturally.

And it was this gleeful absorption of world energy that had these monsters furiously assaulting the walls of Anthus.

“Focus, Zukelmux. If it’s energy you need, I can grant you what Wainroach has later,” Orodan said, causing the goblin to snap out of it. “For now… we need to enter the town.”

“And how, pray tell… are we meant to do that? That’s an entire army of monsters!” Parthus exclaimed. “I doubt we’ll even be able to contest a single smaller group of them.”

“How else? Go in and start fighting. Hmm… that’s a nice group of minotaurs there… perhaps I should throw you int-”

“No! No! No need! Charge! We’ll slay them all!” Edrosic suddenly barked, rushing forward and desperate to avoid being thrown in.

Zukelmux and Aliya followed, and the melee was on.

With his strongest student present, Orodan had no doubts about their safety. The spear and shield wielding goblin would protect them all. And of course, Orodan’s eye was closely watching the fight as well. Any monster which threatened to strike a truly fatal blow… would be dealt with by his own hand.

But his primary attention was devoted to another form of training.

[Earthen Construct 29 → Earthen Construct 31]

If Wainroach’s magic was on a smaller scale in comparison to that of a human mage, then Orodan’s was on a scale where even dragons could not compete.

The pillar of earth, two miles tall, rose into the air. And proceeded to come down onto a large portion of the attacking monster horde.

“C-cover! Take cover!”

“What cover will help against that?!”

“Flee! The earth rises up to swallow us whole!”

The monsters ran to get out of the falling pillar’s path, and Orodan had only one declaration to make as he approached the energy well city of Anthus.

“Destartes! I come seeking tutelage!” Orodan yelled. “I’m in a time loop and will help you overthrow the Republic in exchange!”

Even Zaessythra, normally used to his antics, was entirely shocked silent by the proclamation. A diplomatic meeting? A secret letter? Who had the time for all that? Just blurt out the conspiracy these people had been cultivating for years now.

The only way Orodan knew was forward and with the old mage on his side, he could truly begin diversifying the basics.
