A good teacher also knew when to be a good student.

Orodan was now embracing this saying as Zukelmux’s ferocious barrage of thrusts came his way. And in his hands?

Nothing more than a humble spear.

“T-teacher! Your abilities with the spear are unfathomable for one who does not even possess the skill for it!” his goblin protege exclaimed in shock mid-combat.

Orodan met each of Zukelmux’s thrusts—strength and speed moderated of course—with his own counter barrage, seeking to divert each incoming stab off of its line of attack by nudging the spearhead off course.

“I’ve been told that I have something of a proclivity for martial pursuits,” Orodan replied.

“Understatement of the era,” Zaessythra chimed in.

In a sense, it was understandable. After all, where Orodan had his own System, everyone else used the standard one empowered by the Eldritch Boundless One. A system where repetition and insights were rewarded yes, but the System often functioned as a crutch, hindering true understanding. Now while a truly skilled and insightful practitioner could overcome this and solidify real understanding from the basics, most did not.

Orodan however, was one of the few that did. Even when he’d lost his System, it hadn’t affected his ability to fight in close quarters at all. Rather, it might have even improved it.

And given how much of a natural he was at melee combat, and his existing Sword Mastery and Halberd Mastery… the next System message came as no surprise.

[New Skill → Spear Mastery 36 (Apprentice)]

Saying that his spear work suddenly got better would have been a lie. Rather, his System simply caught up and recognized his existing level of skill with the weapon. A natural result since he’d been using his sword one-handed for the longest time and had Adept-level Halberd Mastery too. Using spear and shield like Zukelmux did was nothing difficult for him.

Orodan’s skill surprised Zukelmux who momentarily drew back. Of course, he received no reprieve as a familiar halberdier lunged in to fill the gap. An Elite-level spear user, replaced by a Grandmaster halberdier.

“Did you obtain the skill for it?” Adeltaj asked, coming in with his own thrusts which Orodan faced an uphill battle against. With his strength and speed moderated, facing a Grandmaster halberdier with just Apprentice-level Spear Mastery was difficult. Multiple times he had attacks collide against him, simply skittering off the ridiculous toughness of his body

[Spear Mastery 36 → Spear Mastery 37]

Difficult, but beneficial.

“I did. Apprentice-level upon acquisition,” Orodan replied.

“Good. About what I expected, slightly better even, given your existing skills and talent,” the old Simarji spoke. “But do not let it get to your head. We have more weapon skills to cover.”

“More weapon skills? Are you to make me a savant with each and every weapon now?” Orodan asked, continuing the exchange of blows which Zukelmux was now forced to make some distance from due to its high level. “Always happy to learn.”

[Spear Mastery 37 → Spear Mastery 38]

“Yes and no. You will take up the weapons best suited to your particular style of combat. Swords, axes, spears, halberds, hammers… these are best suited to you. Though I have no doubts in your ability to turn them towards your signature brutality, whips, rapiers and war fans can come later,” Adeltaj explained while continuing to press Orodan hard.

Orodan took three more blows, harmless of course, before he accepted that going toe-to-toe against a Grandmaster while limiting himself to the Apprentice-level wasn’t going to work.

Or… was it?

Last loop, in Greenvale, he’d thrown himself against the metallic gauntlet of a cocky adventurer. And what he’d been attempting to hone at the time… perhaps it wasn’t impossible.

It was utterly illogical, but not impossible. Not for him who had done the impossible enough times already.

“Ready your halberd, bring the strongest Phoenix Strike you have to bear against me,” Orodan demanded, tone sharp.

Edrosic and Aliya who’d been sparring, and Wainroach who’d been somersaulting through a brazier of fire, all took the hint and quickly scrambled into the opening for Orodan’s dimensional ring which he’d set up as a hideaway in case he and Adeltaj truly needed to cut loose.

And here, in the deep center of the Aenechean Forest where numerous dual and triple Grandmaster creatures had been frightened away by Orodan’s presence? There was no better place to train such a thing.

Adeltaj’s assault was ferocious—knowing the extent of Orodan’s power and having the time loops verified to him meant the old Grandmaster held nothing back. And while the attack of a Grandmaster was nothing to Orodan, the real challenge came from the self-imposed restriction that his power was not to exceed the Apprentice-level himself.

Insanity. It was akin to adding one and one together and hoping to get three.

Orodan had surmounted wide gaps in power before. But nothing akin to a four tier jump of Apprentice to Grandmaster. And even then it would be through amplifying himself or his attack in some manner, by making his Apprentice-level power hit harder than any Apprentice should.

But this? This was illogic personified. Attempting to hit a Grandmaster-level attack with nothing but Apprentice-level power. No power increase, no skilled maneuvers, no redirection of the force.

Just weakness against strength. It was futility itself.

No wonder he’d failed in what he was aiming for against that adventurer in Greenvale.

Indeed, Orodan’s fist collided against Adeltaj’s Phoenix Strike and the surrounding fifteen miles of Aenechean Forest vanished in a flash. However, the force of his fist was utterly blown backwards, and Adeltaj’s attack only rebounded harshly against Orodan’s raw toughness rather than because the old Simarji had lost the exchange.

“Ridiculous… how can the body of a human being be so tough? Even though I won the clash it feels as though my reward was running into an unstoppable wall…” the old halberdier muttered. “Even monsters of the depths and the deep ocean do not have such tough flesh.”

But Orodan could only frown as he stared at his fist.

There was an answer. A way to do the impossible. He refused to believe otherwise!

He didn’t know what it was yet, but as many loops as it took, he would insist on this mad experiment.

“Body Tempering,” Orodan answered. “I’ve painstakingly honed Body Tempering to a high degree. It’s also what amplifies each level of Physical Fitness that I have. Alongside Absolute Body Composition.”

“Fascinating… I can see no other way through which a human being can bridge the gap between themselves and a dragon’s physicality,” Adeltaj spoke. “Short of Bloodlines or body transformations of course.”

Orodan had no Bloodline, and the one body transformation into some sort of weird half-dragon hybrid that he’d attempted, he had rejected. His current form was forged through hard work and the sweat of his own brow.

A bell rang, and Old Man Hannegan stepped out the protected opening of the dimensional ring’s space.

“Made a right mess of things I see. Plenty of good lumber and resources you two have vaporized,” the old foreman said and then threw Orodan a chisel, mason’s hammer and wedges and shims. “Well? What are you waiting for? The time for roughhousing’s over, it’s time for honest labor now.”

Orodan nodded and picked the tools up. This was the regimen of training they’d decided upon in-between Aliya and Edrosic’s classes. Zukelmux’s tribe was still settling upon House Simarji lands but soon the goblin would also be joining an academy as well. But once classes were out for the day? Training.

Which meant training not just for them, but him too.

A warrior needed more than just battle to hone their mind, and Old Man Hannegan was in charge of training Orodan in the basics of many such crafts. How the old foreman knew so many skills, Orodan didn’t know. The man was no expert in any of them, but if there was ever a true jack-of-all-trades, it would be Gregory Hannegan.

There were none better suited to teaching the basics of crafting skills than he.

Aliya and Edrosic came out and began sparring once more, and Zukelmux received instruction alongside brief exchanges of steel against Adeltaj Simarji. All while Orodan had a decent-sized circular rock tossed in front of him.

“Cut that into a rectangular slab for me.”

His bare hands flexed, about to prepare it by carving it through brute force, only for the old man to glare at him.

“What?” Orodan asked.

“No! No cheating or using your muscle.” he scolded. “Pick up that hammer and chisel and use those wedges and shims like a proper stonecutter. I didn’t have you read that manual on the art for you to just go and act like a barbarian.”

A fair point. Better to work on the basics the intended way first. Using his bare hands, which he planned on doing eventually, didn’t remove the benefit of learning the intended way first.

Mason hammer in his right hand, chisel in his left, Orodan aligned the tools and began hitting the high points off of the rock, beginning to shape one side into a flat plane. And frankly… his existing Jewelcrafting skill helped him a lot here as the mechanics behind cutting, polishing and preparing a jewel weren’t all too dissimilar from cutting stone.

The only difference was that rocks were big. Even the largest jewel he’d worked with had been the size of his palm, whereas even this small boulder was as large as his arm. And while Orodan had no problem manually carving and evening the entire thing out, it would have been a waste of time—and from the look on Old Man Hannegan’s face, he was expected to use the wedges and shims.

And so Orodan did.

Many shortcuts he could have taken, he refused to. To truly learn Stonecutting from the ground up meant engaging in every facet of the craft like a proper stonecutter would. He used a piece of chalk to mark out the dimensions where he intended to flatten it and the hammer and chisel were subsequently used to drill small holes along the chalked lines. These holes then had shims inserted and the wedges hammered in-between them, encouraging the rock to crack cleanly along the designated lines.

Five minutes of work later…

…the rock trembled and cleanly split along the designated lines.

“Quite the time-saver is it not? Not like Jewelcrafting where wedges and shims aren’t really an option,” Old Man Hannegan chimed in, watching Orodan’s progress as he organized supplies and mixtures for polishing stone off to the side. “Getting the rock to break on its own is one of the biggest ways to cut down on labor time.”

“I imagine it would be. Given the size of the stones making up the walls of Karilsgard, I reckon stonecutters are typically working with rocks a lot bigger than mine,” Orodan said, beginning the process of flattening the rough and newly created sides of the rock.

“It’s also a more laborious process than you think. Nearest quarry’s in Scarmorrow, and they have a lot of workers toiling away from dawn till dusk to supply the county’s stone needs,” the old man said. “Lot of academy students and martial types work there too, hoping to gain levels in Physical Fitness.”

Indeed, quarries required a suitable location and much infrastructure and labor to operate. And while Burgher Ignatius, enterprising businessfolk and the county construction association had frequently lobbied to allow for the building of one along the side of Mount Castarian… House Argon had always shut it down.

Needless to say, there was no quarry or mason in Ogdenborough, but Scarmorrow did have one, and Old Man Hannegan had said that once his basic training in acquiring the skill was complete, he would go there to pursue further education.

But for now, the steady hammering and chiseling of rock was all he knew.

Alongside occasionally flicking broken off rock splinters towards Edrosic and Aliya when either of them were getting too complacent.

“I’ve got you now! Take this!-hrk!”

Aliya’s haughty monologue was cut off as a rough bit of rock hit her in the knee, causing her to falter and catch Edrosic’s shield bash to the face.

“Reserve your dramatic proclamations until after you’ve landed the blow,” Orodan chided, not taking his eyes away from his craft. “While you might’ve gotten away with that while fighting monsters, it’s a little different when facing a h.uman opponent.”

Aliya was good, very good. A true weapon savant, nearing the Apprentice-level of Staff Mastery at the age of eight. But being good with a particular weapon wasn’t the same as being good at fighting. Something he intended to teach her painstakingly.

His students continued their training, and Orodan continued his cutting of the stone. He meticulously flattened and polished the surface of the rock, continuing until at last a perfect rectangular stone plate was before him.

[New Skill → Stonecutting 17]

As expected, Stonecutting and Jewelcrafting weren’t too far off from one another. His existing understanding of how to shape, clean and polish a valuable gemstone was quite transferable to the art of shaping rock.

With this, he could not only mine rock from the earth, but also shape it, allowing for the construction of mighty stone structures. That was the realm of Masonry however, which was a separate skill Old Man Hannegan intended to teach him.

“I have it,” Orodan declared. “Started off at level 17.”

“Level 17? That’s over halfway to Apprentice… not bad at all. I see the existing Jewelcrafting helped,” Old Man Hannegan said. “They’re different skills, but ones sharing a lot of the core concepts.”

