“Teacher. Much like yourself, I too am a warrior. To face adversity, to be the shield which stands between the wicked and the weak, that is my role in life,” his student explained. “Coddling me would only cause me to feel disrespected. Now please, do me the honor of this spar. I wish to develop my self-healing abilities under true pressure. Till first knockdown?”

“Very well. I don’t think you and I have had a proper fight yet,” Orodan said, dropping his shield and hefting the club over his shoulder. It was a gesture of violence, and he could see the goblin’s eyes narrow in concentration and mental readying. “Come, Zukelmux. Let us converse in the language of warriors.”

Zukelmux was a good fighter, a measured and even one who played cautiously and liked to read situations before committing to an optimal plan of approach. If anything, facing the goblin was a nightmare for any roguish sorts or those who enjoyed using feints, subterfuge and tricks. There was no opening to exploit, no gap or weakness of the stance to target. Just a cautious, mobile wall of shield and spear whose head was on a swivel. For Aliya and Edrosic who had to spar him, it must’ve been a true exercise in frustration as tricks and ploys didn’t work at all. It forced them to improve their fundamentals.

Accordingly, the goblin lunged forward, but it was a cautious thing, footwork even while sending a probing thrust out. Such initial exchanges were entirely normal in a melee fight as warriors tested range and gauged their opponents habits and tells.

But in contrast to the cautious and tactical Zukelmux, Orodan was a berserker.

The cautious spear thrust was met by a brutal jab of the club, a crude approximation of what a sword thrust would be.

[Club Mastery 17 → Club Mastery 18]

Sparks erupted, and despite Orodan exactly matching Zukelmux’s strength, the spear with its longer reach, less mass and lower leverage at point of impact was easily forced back. But the goblin was a natural fighter, allowing the overpowered spear’s momentum to slide it along his grip as he attempted to take a step back and reset distance.

This, Orodan decided, was not to be.

“I’ll have to have you fight a Demonic Berserker or two. They certainly wouldn’t let you comfortably reset position or maintain a safe distance while you poke them to death,” Orodan instructed, lunging in and smashing his club against the goblin’s shield. A counter-thrust designed to punish his aggression came in. But Orodan angled his body—accepted what would have been a jagged cut on a regular person but simply skittered off his skin—and allowed the spear to enter under his armpit where he trapped it.

Spear trapped, Zukelmux was now in a bad position as Orodan’s right hand with club in it hung overhead. Only the goblin’s shield stood in the way. And a feral grin of savagery emerged upon his face as he looked down upon the shorter goblin.

“Let’s test that shield arm.”

Orodan's left hand held his student's spear in place while his right brought the club down upon the shield. Once, twice, and then repeatedly. Like a maddened monkey pounding a hard-shelled fruit with a rock, Orodan hammered Zukelmux's shield, forcing the goblin to drop it or allow his shoulder to eventually break.

Yet, defiantly, his student held on. He was… using this for training!

“Hahahah! Excellent! Excellent!” Orodan exclaimed. “You’ve always been the best fighter among all those I’ve taught. Hold on and weather the barrage, Zukelmux!”

And despite the grunts of pain, the goblin did. Orodan gained another level in Club Mastery with how many unanswered blows to the shield his student allowed him to deliver.

The shield began denting after the sixtieth blow, and he heard the faint sound of a shoulder joint popping as his student’s arm finally lowered, if unwillingly

“M-monstrous!” Zukelmux gasped as his face was revealed behind the now lowered shield. Yet the expression wasn’t one of unhappiness. “I must train even harder to be worthy of your expectations teacher!”

And while some might have thought that the end of it, or might have perhas expected a gentle knockdown… Orodan felt that would have been disrespectful of the goblin who had weathered the assault well. And by the look on his student’s face, the warrior wanted no less than for Orodan to cut loose.

And frankly… Zukelmux did say he wanted to practice his self-healing magic.

[Club Mastery 19 → Club Mastery 20]

A sickening crunch echoed throughout the clearing, with Aliya and Edrosic turning pale and halting their spar at the sight. Even Wainroach who was doing cartwheels across a burning brazier had stopped for a moment.

The club had left a sizeable and bloody dent upon the goblin’s skull, and Orodan had to admit he felt quite bad… but that look of excited defiance on his student’s face was still there. It would have been a fatal injury for the untrained, but having one’s skull shattered wasn’t immediately lethal for those with decent Physical Fitness.

The follow up swing to the ribs cracked them, and a final uppercutting arc met his student’s chin sending the goblin flying up a hundred metres before he finally came down.

A knockdown and the end of the spar. Evident as the bloody and crumpled goblin gasped and struggled to breathe.

Orodan immediately sat down next to him, placing a hand upon his shoulder.

“D-dont… I will not learn unless I am allowed to heal myself,” Zukelmux said as he sat himself up and began channeling healing magic. “Thank you for the lesson teacher.”

And although his own healing wouldn’t be nececessary, he kept the hand upon his student’s shoulder there all the same. To let him know that he was there.

“Are you alright? I can’t say I enjoyed breaking your head… but to hold back would have been disrespectful to you. One of my mentors would often savage me the same way,” Orodan said, thinking of how Arvayne had trained him. “Hells, even old Adeltaj here killed me once he learned I was in a time loop.”

“Truly?” Zukelmux asked, his injuries looking visibly better by the second as he poured mana into the self-healing spells. “Then I walk in your footsteps with this sort of training.”

“I don’t know if you want to walk in my footsteps exactly, Zukelmux. I’ve been through a fair number of ordeals, not all of the endings to them happy ones. My hands are stained with plenty of blood.”

“But you went through them all the same did you not? And look at you now, returned and helping those who mean much to you,” the goblin defended. “I… I aspire to acquire strength like you have. I want to protect my tribe, to guard the innocent and the defenseless. To smite evil and avenge my family.”

“And you shall. Even without me teaching you, I have little doubt you would have been strong enough to do all those things,” Orodan assured. In fact, given time and the opportunity to grow he expected Zukelmux would have surpassed even the Grandmaster of that clan of depths moles. “You are doing well.”

“Will… will you do the same with them?” the goblin asked, glancing at Aliya and Edrosic somewhat protectively. “They may not-”

“Hells no. You don’t work on clay and metal the same way. I’m aware that they’d break if put under the same sort of rigor,” Orodan assuaged. “Aliya sought out adventure, Edrosic came from a stable home. But you and I? We were shaped by violence and loss. What works for us will not work for them. Their learning must be more gradual.”

[Teaching 87 → Teaching 88]

Really? It felt as though the knowledge rune was mocking him with that gain. Though with Zukelmux fully healing himself, perhaps it had been that which caused the gain.

“I see… that is good,” the goblin breathed, relieved. “Teacher Orodan, if it is not too bold of me, might I ask a question?”

“You don’t have to ask permission to ask a question Zukelmux. It’s my role as a teacher to answer,” Orodan immediately clarified.

He found the silly notion of being cryptic to be idiotic. If he wanted them to find an answer or try something themselves, he would simply say so up front. Orodan had been blessed by mostly good teachers all throughout the loops. And although he’d learned much from Alovardo Balmento, he’d succeeded despite the corrupted madman’s eccentric teaching methods.

“Very well, thank you. Then, I shall be bold and ask about these time loops Parthus and the old craftmaster speak about,” the goblin asked. “You said it during our fight too. You taught me before.”

“I did. You have always been an excellent warrior and a student any teacher would be proud to have.”

“Teacher… I am unworthy of such praise I have not even earned yet!” Zukelmux insisted.

“But you have, Zukelmux. And I believe you have much more to learn. Especially without the silly limitation of the loop ending for everyone else but me,” Orodan said as he pulled out a familiar device.

“An… orb? It looks beautifully crafted,” the goblin muttered.

“It was made by the greatest enchanter I have ever known. But with this… perhaps our training need not be interrupted so coldly.”

The goblin could only stare as Orodan explained more about what it did and made him an offer.

He had little doubt his student would say yes. And besides him and the people he’d already collected, Orodan had one more upon Alastaia who he wanted to bring into the fold.

#

“Feel like asking if we’re there yet again?”

“N-no… no! I’ll never ask that question again!” Edrosic frantically promised, covered in mud and bites. “Why, I enjoy this journey so much!”

“Your wisdom knows no bounds teacher. Already I can see how much surer Parthus’s steps have become thanks to your constant tests and challenges,” Zukelmux spoke. “He might even acquire Venom Resistance at this rate.”

“Ugh… I don’t think Grandmaster Adeltaj would approve of this course of training…” Parthus muttered.

“He in fact would. Haven’t I told you how he killed me for the sake of training? Or how he had me training for days straight until I was forced to develop a method of squeezing more power out of the soul?” Orodan posed. “If anything, he wanted to come along but I insisted he recover.”

Recover from a titanic spar they’d had just before Orodan departed. The old halberdier had become a dual-Grandmaster after that bout, but it had surely wreaked havoc upon his body to unlock and utilize the Mythical skill.

“It’s simply good training. I don’t see you complaining about all the skill levels you’re gaining Edrosic,” Orodan said as he intentionally wandered into a particularly nasty marsh pit covered in tall reeds.

His fellow militia man grumbled but shut his mouth after that.

Zukelmux happily followed him inside. Aliya was next, a little hesitant but determined. And Edrosic looked positively miserable at having to follow the trio of mad nutcases strolling about a nasty marsh.

But it came with gains.

[Pathfinding 60 → Pathfinding 61]

Orodan wasn’t intentionally getting lost in the wildest and most savage habitats for nothing. It was for the sake of developing his Pathfinding skill even further. The deep wilds of Inuan, away from even the less-trodden roads, were completely untamed and full of dangerous flora and fauna which had lived there for a while.

And while it couldn’t quite affect him—as his body was too tough and resistant to the toxins, insects and animals—it did impact Edrosic and Aliya quite harshly.

The little girl’s hand shot out and chopped a venomous and stinging bloodfly in half. It was palm-sized and she’d suffered bites aplenty already. And while one might have expected that the child of the group would complain or be unwilling to weather such a hostile environment, it was far from the case. Aliya was gleeful as she slew the bloodfly, the grin on her face one of excited aggression. She was loving every second of this adventure away from home.

Hells, Orodan initially had to stop her from running off too deep into the wilds by herself. Of course, he then realized that allowing her to rush off for random exploration would be excellent training for Parthus and Zukelmux, so he’d made Aliya the unofficial secondary trek leader. If she ran a certain way, everyone had to follow. Orodan simply kept the group on-course.

Her mother had been less than thrilled about the journey, and even her father had seemed worried. But the amulet around her neck which verified her living status and allowed them to communicate with her at all times certainly helped. And Kalin seemed a lot more trusting of Orodan to teach his little girl after he and the man had cut stone together.

Zukelmux too was doing quite well, functioning as the primary guardian. Anything above the Adept-level which showed up, the goblin would engage and kill. Orodan had even encouraged him to briefly try a few exchanges of melee against a sapient tree at the Grandmaster-level at the deep center of the marsh. The goblin had been overwhelmed but had learned much from that encounter before Orodan stepped in, gave the tree a light smack and then apologized for coming in and disturbing its rest.

Edrosic of course, was struggling the most. It was clear to see that the man didn’t want to be here in the slightest. Even his memories from the alternate timeline were struggling to give him motivation to trudge through such a desolate place. Still, the man refused to abandon his comrades or fall behind.

