“Yes, that’s exactly so. The high-quality rock fetches a good price and the towns are always asking for this when expanding the road networks. Can’t have shabby foundations for a main road bearing plenty of cart and carriage traffic. And… is that a broom? What are-”

Orodan’s broom lashed out, the concept of Cleanliness utterly bending to his violent will for such a small task.

And all the rubble stacked and gathered at the foot of the crusher was utterly purified.

Faults, impurities, structural weaknesses. All cleansed away. Too little for a skill level gain, as expected when he was now battling over a concept with rival Embodiers.

Naturally, the earth mage and overseer froze at the sight, and Old Man Hannegan began madly laughing.

“We… we have nothing to put under the crusher anymore…” one of the workers muttered. “These are all perfect bits of rubble now.”

“These rocks are… they’re perfect…” the mage muttered, unable to find her words for a while until she finally schooled herself. “How have you done this? Even a Master-level earth mage would not be able to transform this many rocks in so perfect a manner. My Earth Mastery isn’t anywhere near enough to do to a single rock what you just did with tons upon tons of them. Are you a hidden Master from Bluefire? A secret agent of the Burgher here to evaluate us?”

“I’m no mage from Bluefire nor am I an agent of the Burgher. And tt wasn’t earth magic… just cleaning,” Orodan answered. “Now then, the next step of the process.”

“Cleaning? Cleaning? The next step of the process involves me contacting Lord Gerace… because you’ll be the end of me with these displays!” the overseer protested. “Old Hannegan, where the hells did you find this man? He’s wearing the militia uniform too, so how in the world did they ever loan him to you? What sort of weird skill is that? Who are you?”

They were acting a little too dramatic in Orodan’s opinion. And the mischievous old fogey who’d accompanied him here was having a little too much fun at the spectacle.

The conversation devolved into a bunch of hand-wringing, boasting from Old Man Hannegan and arguments about what should be done about the wealth of perfect granite rubble they had. And finally, the overseer asked him a simple question.

Could he repeat that feat with the prepared blocks of granite that the quarry had stacked away? The answer was an obvious yes.

And so Orodan walked over to the storage area, and a brief flash of Domain of Perfect Cleaning proved that claim as well.

Naturally, if his earlier display had utterly flabbergasted the unfortunate overseer, this display had her trembling like a leaf in the wind. And he could practically see the woman salivating at the sight of all the rows of arrayed and purified granite blocks.

“While I do enjoy cleaning, it’s really not what I’m here for. I gained no levels in the skill from doing that,” Orodan mentioned. “Can we get to stonecutting already?”

“O-of course! Of course! Anything you would like!” she forced out, at an utter loss for words. “S-send him to the stonecutters, have Kalin show him the ropes and have him work under Master Varnok himself!”

“Ma’am, but Master Varnok is currently busy cutting the-”

“Get to it! Do you want to offend the Master we have here?!”

He wasn’t a Master, but felt it unnecessary to correct the assumption.

And so Orodan was unceremoniously led away by a pair of supervisors who had halted their work in order to personally escort him around. With just a few acts of mining and cleaning, he had become the center of the entire quarry’s attention. Whatever he wanted to learn, from the looks of it, he would now get.

He was brought to the area where the stonecutters worked, and the entire operation was now working overtime to process the stone Orodan had purified. The crusher, whose loud slams of metal upon rock had previously echoed through the quarry, now lay inert as there was no demand for it at this time. It wasn’t that there was no need for it, but that he’d created so much pure granite that the existing workforce had now been redirected to process only that.

And throwing pure rocks, even rubble, under the crusher… was a horrid waste of excellent material. It would have to be manually processed for maximal return. Which certainly increased the workload by a tremendous amount… but from the way the overseer had been salivating at the sight, the effort looked more than worth it.

Groups of stonecutters—hard-working men and women whose hands and faces were covered with rock dust—were arranged in rows, each of them with their own workstation. And at the very center of this workspace was a raised platform. Upon it, a giant stone being worked upon by multiple assistants at its periphery, while a stout and focused dwarf delicately touched up the center.

“And now… begin.”

It was a strange sight, to watch multiple stonecutters tap away at the same giant stone. It was particularly high-quality granite too; as close to being pure as something in nature could get. And from the way the others deferred to him, the dwarf was clearly the most experienced stonecutter and leader of the endeavor.

While Orodan usually had a good instinctive read on how powerful someone was in combat, the same couldn’t be said for the relative skill level of a crafter. Still, just from the look of it, this dwarf might just have been the best stonecutter Orodan had ever seen. Evident given how far ahead in skill he was compared to the assisting stonecutters who were no slouches themselves.

It made sense that the head stonecutter would be a dwarf. The older stonework of Novar’s Peak in the Empire was done by the dwarves as a gift of friendship, and a species didn’t live underground without becoming very good at shaping rock.

And this dwarf? He was very, very good.

“You’re cutting it in such a way that the grain is aligned to resist damage…” Orodan muttered. Not magic but raw stonecutting ability. This was a true master.

“Huh? Who’s this?” the dwarf muttered without even looking back. “Kalin, deal with the visitor, I cannot be distracted!”

The assistant, Kalin, was an Adept stonecutter. And a man Orodan had met before. This was Aliya’s father.

“Your daughter is doing well at Oxhead. I’m told she gives some of the first-year students a good fight. Truly exceptional for an eight-year old,” Orodan spoke, taking a step back from the surly dwarf who seemed intently focused on the giant stone.

“Mister Wainwright? Why it’s good to see you! Aliya tells me regularly about her classes and the things you’ve been teaching her,” the man replied and then looked confused. “But what are you doing here? Has… has something happened?”

“If by something happening you mean the quarry being turned upside down, then you would be right,” one of the supervisors escorting Orodan spoke up. “All that special rock the rest of the cutters have been assigned? His doing.”

“Truly? I see Aliya is in good hands. I wasn’t aware you were an accomplished earth mage.”

He briefly thought to dispute that, but then realized that he did in fact have the Earthen Construct skill. Which technically made him a user of earth magic. Though the ‘accomplished’ part of the moniker could be disputed.

“Boss wants you to take him under your wing Kalin. Teach him Stonecutting,” the supervisor said.

“Stonecutting? Well… I suppose I can lend a hand. If you’ll come with me Mister Wainwright…”

And so, Orodan’s journey on the path to shaping stone truly began.

Though he had a feeling that getting that dwarf to pay him any heed would be a matter taking more than one loop.

#

As expected, while he’d gained a lot of levels in Stonecutting and clearly impressed Kalin and many of the other stonecutters, he still hadn’t been able to draw the eye of the dwarf Master working upon the giant rock at the center.

The supervisors had tried to inform the dwarf, Master Varnok, of what he’d down, but Orodan had quickly silenced them and insisted they not bother him. He wasn’t the sort to wave his sword or flex his power merely for the sake of getting attention. He would accept no less than time, hard work, and a few loops of effort to catch that dwarf’s eye through his own Stonecutting skill. He saw this as a challenge and a benchmark to overcome; it would be proof of his progress when he finally succeeded.

Still, cutting stone at a quarry was excellent practice. And the skill now sat at level 19 over the day of work. Yes, he could’ve done absurd things such as cleaning more rocks, using magic or bring other skills into it. But until Orodan felt he’d mastered the basics, he did not want to jump ahead.

He was somewhat stubborn like that.

Old Man Hannegan had gone off to Greenvale to meet with Lord Gerace Stenguard in order to open up some further learning oppirtunities for Orodan in this loop, and now he, Adeltaj and the rest of his students were in the same clearing they used in the Aenechean Forest for training.

And he was in the middle of a duel, though without his usual weapons.

Spears and halberds, at least tangentially, had some relation to a sword. A spear could stab, and a halberd could stab, cut and hook. There was some degree of transference between the three weapon types.

But the club was a different matter.

Yes, Orodan wielded his sword one-handed just as he was this club, but the difference in balance, handling and the fact that there was no cutting or stabbing involved meant he faced a weapon which was mostly novel.

Yes, he had existing levels in Club Mastery, but he hadn’t particularly cared for it during the non-lethal combatives portion of militia basic training. And if there was any melee skill he had where the System’s crutch was quite evident, it would be this. Without the connection to his System’s central glyph of knowledge, the club felt awkward and clumsy in his hand.

“You can swing a sword around with such deftness but a club stumps you?” Adeltaj asked while continuing to pressure Orodan’s guard with swift thrusts of the halberd. “Come now, where’s that martial talent?”

“It’s an odd weapon. And I can’t exactly bring violence to bear when I’m sparring,” he replied. “I need something to cut loose on.”

And he did, aiming not for Adeltaj but a nearby tree.

[Club Mastery 15 → Club Mastery 17]

His strike was horrifyingly fast, ruthless and violent. The club in his hand was little more than an implement of crushing brutality as the wood mangled and shattered under the blow.

He’d held back of course, but even under the shackles of self-restraint the sheer vehemence of the blow was felt by everyone in the clearing. The strike had caused all to feel the oppresion of imminent murder.

“A good strike for a warrior. A miserable strike by the standards of a club wielder,” Adeltaj praised and critiqued, and the old halberdier was right too.

If he channelled his inner violence and love for brutal combat, then the club could be used just fine. But he wasn’t really using a club per se, but a mere blunt bludgeoning tool. The handling and weight distribution didn’t really matter to his level of strength, but unless he learned and mastered the intricacies of accounting for the heft, he wouldn’t truly learn the weapon.

And although Orodan’s personal lens of savagery and aggression painted how he approached combat, it didn’t change the fact that the sword was no instrument of pure brutishness. But the club was. It was more similar to his fists in a way, and just by using it he felt a strange crossover of unarmed and sword technique.

But this… this was important. A sword was well-balanced, fluid and agile. A club was not. Just by using the club he was already learning to better appreciate the subtle weight mechanics behind his own sword. The weight mechanics behind his own punches. Adeltaj was truly a genius teacher of martial combat, forcing him to train in different weapons.

“Break. Go spar Zukelmux now,” Adeltaj directed. “An easier target will perhaps help you temper your blows and understand the club better.”

Zukelmux finished bullying Aliya and Edrosic in a two-on-one, and Adeltaj stepped in to send Zukelmux his way while directing Edrosic and Aliya to spar among themselves for a round. Whenever the time came to spar either him or Adeltaj, the goblin warrior looked quite eager.

In the Novar’s Peak long loop, Orodan had trained Zukelmux and come to learn that he was a true prodigy. An Elite that could step a tier up to fight at the peak of the Master-level. It was no surprise then that his strongest student was heads and shoulders above Aliya and Edrosic when it came to fighting. Much like Orodan himself, Zukelmux was a natural warrior and took to battle like a sponge to water. Among everyone he’d ever taught, this goblin was doubtlessly the best pure fighter of them all.

“Teacher, it is an honor to spar you again. Please hold nothing back!”

“If I did that the planet is getting turned to dust,” Orodan dryly replied, causing the goblin to stammer in embarrassment.

“T-that’s not what I meant! I mean, feel free to go all-out within the bounds of your restraint. If you beat upon Aliya or Edrosic, they might not be as capable of weathering it. But I? I welcome the challenge!”

That did seem like an interesting exercise.

“Do you know what you ask for Zukelmux? Are you sure you’re ready to be subject to a brutal beating?” Orodan asked, trying to give him fair warning. “I’m aware that Oxhead has taught you some basic spells for self-healing, but if you really want me to cut loose… it’s going to hurt.”

