Smooth granite. A rock most durable which was used in construction all throughout the Republic. And mining it were two people. One, a relatively quiet woman who was looking most irritated by the man next to her. That man, one who used not a pickaxe but a large two-handed warpick, was proudly yelling about how his pick would destroy the world itself. And hearing him Orodan could understand why the martials had been separated to a section of their own.

“Oh! We have another challenger? I Haragos the World-Splitter shall induct this rookie into the ways of-”

[Mining 35 → Mining 36]

Orodan’s first swing crumpled a fifth of the cliff face and caused a large amount of rubble to begin cascading down.

“D-damn! A rockslide! Take cover!”

Being subtle? Hiding his strength? He had no time for that.

His next swing caused a further shower of rock and rubble to rain down as he sheared right into the cliff face. He was massively holding back of course. A full-force swing with the pickaxe and he’d actually mine the entire planet down to the core like this World-Splitter was yammering about earlier.

Of course… the problem now was that with just two swings he’d caused massive amounts of rubble to accumulate at the face of their section, blocking further attempts at mining until the material was cleared.

“By the Gods! Hey get some laborers over here! Start loading this stuff into the carts!” the supervisor bellowed out, causing their previously inactive section to become swarmed with workers.

Upon the overlooking top of the cliff he could see the overseer’s mouth agape and Old Man Hannegan with an amused grin. The two Elite-level guards present as insurance were more than a little wary now too. Certainly, neither of them could destroy a fifth of an entire cliff face with just the swing of a pickaxe.

Orodan looked at the workers scrambling to load the rubble in and decided that they were too slow. Thus he began helping.

Large scoops of rubble were thrown into large horse-drawn carts at a speed the other laborers simply couldn’t match. Where they had to perhaps collect a few stones, or lift a particularly large one, he simply hurled them like pebbles, causing the carts to creak ominously as they landed.

“S-sir! You’ll break the carts!” the supervisor frantically warned.

“Shoddy craftsmanship on them. Worry not, I’ll help rectify that after the first trip.”

Loading rocks into a cart was something he’d done plenty of during his early days working under Old Man Hannegan before the loops. Yet even then, when doing it in volume and for an entire cliff face section he’d shattered? It took a while.

Fifteen minutes of labor which rewarded him.

[Laboring 57 → Laboring 58]

Every cart and horse in the quarry was now at section four. And it still wasn’t enough for one trip.

“You,” Orodan called out the supervisor. “Are there no more carts?”

“W-we have ten more carts but not enough horses my lord!”

“I’m not a lord,” Orodan corrected. “And bring those empty carts here immediately.”

As asked, they did so and those were loaded up too. He then untied the horses, attached the ropes from the carts all around himself, and began walking up the sloping path carved into the cliffside leading up.

[Towing 4 → Towing 8]

[Laboring 58 → Laboring 59]

The gains were immediate due to the sheer difficulty of the task. Not because his physical might was challenged, but because the ropes were unsteady, the carts creaking, and each cart got in the way of the other as they were being pulled along the road. It must have seemed a ridiculous sight, for a single man to be pulling twenty carts behind him, and it certainly was if the expressions on many of the workers’ faces were any indicator.

The requisite strength was of no concern to someone who could crack planets. In fact just level 40 of Physical Fitness would have been enough. But the delicate exertion of force was the tricky part. Too forceful a step and a rope might snap. Too slight a move and the cart would not budge. He had to remain aware of the integrity of the carts too while also ensuring none of the rubble fell out.

It was some fantastic training in coordinating his own strength though.

Orodan was nothing if not familiar with labor and physical exertion however. He knew his body well and could closely track each rock atop the precariously loaded piles. With each step, he minutely corrected and adjusted, tracking how the rocks wobbled and ensuring that none of them fell off during the trip.

The walk which would have taken an equivalent convoy of horses twenty minutes, was finished in less than ten. Granite was a heavy and dense rock too, so the workers would ordinarily have had to avoid loading a cart fully lest the horses struggle or be unable to pull it up the incline. Of course, Orodan had cared little and loaded the carts up entirely since he was the one doing the pulling.

And the singular trip had brought his Towing to 15 and Laboring to 60.

“Mister Wainwright! Please, put it here! Put it here! We can take over!” the overseer insisted, suddenly a lot more tolerant of Orodan and her previous distaste gone entirely. “Hey you lot! Get to assorting that rubble! Get it to the earth mage and under the crusher after!”

This was no scrambling workshop producing slop, but a well-oiled operation which funneled the county’s demand for stone. Workers immediately left their current tasks in an orderly manner. Those laborers assisting the stonecutters in their section of the quarry immediately left their tasks in order to help out, and one by one the carts were shifted. And before Orodan could wonder how these laborers with far lower Physical Fitness than even an Apprentice were going to move the rubble from cart to pile in an orderly fashion… the on-duty earth mage stepped in.

The young woman was an Adept, likely trained through the county’s local magic academy rather than Bluefire. Even then, while Oxhead was considered a poor choice for martial students, Hearthlight Academy for mages wasn’t bad and the occasional magical student from other areas would come to Volarbury County just to attend. Naturally, this meant that the county’s mages were just a step better than its warriors, and the woman proved it by summoning seven earth golems which began hauling the rubble off of the carts.

These golems moved the extracted material under a mechanism—a giant mechanical rod which struck downwards with extreme force—meant to crush the rock down further.

“Earth golems? I’ll need to learn that spell sometime…” Orodan muttered. Having golems capable of moving materials and handing him things would certainly cut down on the amount of time it took him to craft things multi-step objects.

“Y-you want to learn this?” the mage asked, overhearing him. “You just shattered an entire cliff face and got that section shut down…!”

“Perhaps, but I already have the secret to acquiring more brute force. Something which adds utility would be appreciated,” Orodan replied.

“Earth golems? Hells, you want to learn how our stonecutters and masons work? You want lessons from our miners? We’ll give you all of that!” the overseer exclaimed, in an exceedingly good mood. “You just met a bunch of our quotas for the month in ten minutes. We were already behind by a week, do you know how bad things were?”

“I do not… and I’m surprised it took me coming along to smash the cliff face. Could the Burgher have not sent an Elite or hired a Master to acquire the rubble you need?”

Then again, House Firesword had no Masters of their own, and the average Elite wasn’t nearly as physically strong as Orodan. Those that did have skills capable of immense destruction might have done a little too much damage. If anything, he was underselling the value of his own Apprentice-level Mining skill.

“What? Which other Elites have any proficiency in the Mining skill? And hiring a Master would cost far too much and cut into the bottom line,” the woman replied, knowing the existence of them. “Burgher Ignatius is busy with other ventures, particularly those related to Jerestir and his house’s expeditions into the Aenechean Forest. And as always, he’s busy attempting to find talented youth to sponsor.”

Which about lined up with what he knew from past loops. Burgher Ignatius was the only Elite in a fading house whose Grandmaster was being controlled by Agathor. With not even Master-level support, the man must have been spread thin.

“Just seems a bit careless for the Burgher to allow his quarry to remain behind schedule by an entire week,” Orodan remarked.

“He is a business partner of significant wealth but not the decision maker, that would be House Stenguard, who I work for. And believe me, Mister Wainwright, it is quite difficult to acquire the services of someone capable of what you just did,” the woman said and then turned to Old Man Hannegan. “I don’t understand how in the seven hells you’re involved in teaching this esteemed warrior. He must be a Master at minimum.”

And Old Man Hannegan of course had a gleeful and all-too-happy grin upon his face, soaking in the amusement.

“He’s my mentor,” Orodan clarified, causing many of the nearby workers and the overseer to now look at the old foreman differently. “Took me under his wing long ago when nobody else would. Even now he teaches me things I mightn’t have known of otherwise. But we are getting off course. Your stone, I wish to help cut and shape it. Whatever labor is involved in the process, I wish to participate in it.”

“You do? You’re not here for just physical training then? What am I saying? Of course you aren’t. With how easily you devastated the cliff face for section four I doubt this will even train your Physical Fitness,” the overseer replied. “Very well, let us walk you through the process of preparing the rubble we extracted thanks to you. Lot of rock you’ve given us, but this creates something of a bottleneck we hope your talents can resolve quickly too.”

“A bottleneck?” Orodan asked. “I know that this rubble’s often used patch up roads and lay the foundations for buildings, but I wasn’t aware it needed more processing beyond just that.”

“You’re learning Masonry too? Where’s someone like you even get the time for all this?” she asked, bewildered. But one look at Old Man Hannegan walking alongside him clarified things. “Right, having the old codger around helps I suppose. And aye, there’s a bit more to it than just hitting a granite cliff hard enough to cause a rockslide. Impressive as it is and as much labor as you’ve saved us, we still need to process the rock. Which involves throwing it under the crusher and having Siegwyna, our earth mage, evaluate the quality of it.”

Contrary to what the layman might have thought there was quality control involved with even something as base as the rubble and shave-off from a quarry and its associated stonecutting operations. The manuals and books he’d been reading had been quite clear on that, and on how much work went into preparing stone. Yes, quarries extracted and then prepared construction-quality blocks of stone which were the most prized product to come out of them. But the rubble too was useful in a variety of things. Road-laying, housing foundations, basic walls to keep livestock penned in, and even fortifying river embankments to prevent the erosion of workable farmland. And of course, mixing in during the process of mortar-making in order to get a stronger product.

Naturally, this required the rock to be processed. The first step of which involved the crusher, the giant enchanted mechanism which pulverized rock and saved a lot of gold on manual labor and mana costs.

“Quite shrewd. The mana simply lifts the weight up and then gravity and the heavy and dense hammerhead does the rest,” Orodan commented. “Hmm… takes more energy to control the force for lower settings than it does to deliver a full force blow, does it not?”

He was sure Fenton could have a superior device made within fifteen minutes. Hells he missed that foolish lad.

“I’m no enchanter, but the energy battery does drain quicker if we’re delivering lower-force strikes than not,” the woman spoke as they now stood directly beneath the crusher. “Now. You said you want to help? The carts unload the rubble near the crusher, but sorting and then deciding which stones need to go under the hammer takes times, and it takes muscle. We could use your might here Mister Wainwright.”

As she said, the earth mage was assessing the grades and sizes of each chunk alongside a team of laborers. It seemed a waste to have a mage talented in earth magic simply watch and assess rock—something any stoneworker or laborer with a trained eye could do. That was, until Orodan noticed mana flowing into the mage’s eyes as she picked out specific bits of rock and separated them from the pile.

Vision of Purity caught it too. These bits of rubble… were the ones which had no fault lines at all. They were durable, strong. Orodan’s pickaxe and the subsequent rockslide hadn’t caused any grievous damage to them; there was no risk that they would fracture or split under pressure. These rocks then, were high-quality rubble to be used for constructing the good stuff. Not buildings perhaps, as these weren’t prepared granite blocks. But the difference between a high-quality foundation and a low-quality one would become apparent over the years.

“So let me get this straight. Whatever rubble is left after your earth mage picks the good bits out, you then throw under the crusher for processing?”

