“Orodan? Why are you looking at me like that?”

“Huh? Nothing… nothing…” Orodan muttered, and under his breath could say only one thing. “Profound…”

With Masonry acquired, Orodan finished up the hot meal he had cooking upon the stone. And as Old Man Hannegan had said, the smell was quite nice. Enough so that even Adeltaj’s nose was visibly twitching.

Aliya and Edrosic were the first to approach after their spar, having wrapped up. The little staff prodigy had honestly kept Edrosic pressured with her skill. And Edrosic himself who had no Apprentice combat skills, had a difficult time dealing with some of her crisp techniques.

Of course, physicality mattered. Which was to say that Edrosic’s Physical Fitness of 11 went a lot farther in the body of a grown man than Aliya’s lower Physical Fitness in her tiny frame did. In several exchanges, she’d been overpowered and thrown about easily by Edrosic. She was good at fighting monsters, but against a human opponent who would happily exploit the strength advantage, she struggled to adapt. Orodan made sure to put an extra serving upon her plate. Girl needed to eat.

Zukelmux though, had done quite well in standing his ground against Adeltaj. Despite the fact that the old halberdier was holding back immensely. Still, the goblin could jump a level and fight Masters, so the amount Adeltaj had held back wasn’t drastic.

And Wainroach looked as though she was nearing the secret to understanding fire, given how she spent longer and longer bathing in it each pass.

And everyone was now sat down upon the grass, surrounding the rock plate which had a healthy amount of food upon it. Even Aliya, who had seemed positively sick at the thought of touching insects… looked quite hungry. The smell spoke for itself.

“Oh? If you cook food like this more often I might just work overtime in training you,” Adeltaj spoke. “I admit, I haven’t had this particular species of beetle before.”

“I… does it… will it actually taste good?” Aliya shyly asked.

“Teacher! The honored Grandmaster interrupted me, but I believe this could be improved with a serving of Death Roach shell boiled down for a broth!” Zukelmux excitedly suggested.

That did sound like a good idea.

“Your weird ideas used to disgust me… but then I had your Cooking.”

Orodan did feel bad about the fact that Zaessythra had no body, but that would be rectified. With the course he was on, that was his priority goal. The tome Almyra had given him, Orodan had been studying it here and there. And the secrets within were profound.

It gave him faith that remaining on the path of these concepts was the right idea.

But as for the matter of food? It was Old Man Hannegan who took the first bite.

[Cooking 48 → Cooking 49]

And the old foreman’s eyes widened. And he immediately began grabbing for another beetle lathered in astragon plant sauce.

“D-delicious!” Old Man Hannegan exclaimed.

Edrosic and Zukelmux were next and both rushed to grab a roast beetle which they popped into their mouths. Both had looks of satisfaction upon their faces. Aliya too followed and was more than pleasantly surprised. And Wainroach swiftly pounced and tackled one of the beetles, far larger than her off to the grass and began munching upon it territorially.

Which just left Adeltaj Simarji…

…who greedily yanked four beetles up and threw them all into his mouth.

“For such a normally reserved old man to act so shameless…” Orodan muttered. “I can just cook another plate up you know?”

“How often does an old man like me get to enjoy such good food?” the halberdier shot back. “Blame only yourself for making something delectable!”

“You lot… at least chew your food…”

They’d all stopped listening to him of course. With no cutlery or plates of their own, even Aliya was shoveling the beetles into her mouth now. Did they truly taste so good?

It was interesting to consider that once upon a time he’d been wanting for food; too weak to head too far outside of town to get wild stuff. And now? He didn’t even need to eat and he had a skill through which he could feed others. He was certain that the wild-eyed and desperate Orodan who had been Aliya’s age would have been fighting for every piece right about now. It would have been a sad and savage sight indeed.

Of course, being able to feed others now felt nice.

Around him, his students, Old Man Hannegan and Adeltaj weren’t so shameless as to wipe the entire plate clean without leaving him a singular scrap. And he had the last remaining beetle in his hands as he popped it in, savoring the taste.

[Gourmand 26 → Gourmand 27]

He wasn’t sure if anyone else would have felt it, but he knew his body intimately enough to detect the most brief but subtle enrichment of his cells. As though just the taste of this crunchy and hearty beetle had added a new life experience to his soul, made him cling just a little bit harder to life and his desire to savor all of it.

With Fenton’s orb in hand, with Almyra’s book containing its secrets and the people who he’d known across many loops now alongside him, Orodan too felt as though he’d gotten a new lease on life.

He truly did intend to savor and experience all of it.

#

Zukelmux had utterly smashed his way past Oxhead Academy’s entrance test. It really didn’t surprise Orodan; in fact, he’d advised that the goblin go straight to Bluefire rather than waste his time at a mere county martial academy. And among the counties, Volarbury’s martial academy wasn’t anything too special either, with Exerston and Vondarius counties having academies of renown just beneath that of Bluefire.

Of course, the real culprit had been the old halberdier Adeltaj Simarji who had wanted to get some amusement from seeking Zukelmux beat everyone black and blue. Truly… that old man had a shameless side to him.

With the Rising Spears clan settled upon House Simarji’s lands and Aliya, Edrosic and Zukelmux’s educations secured, Orodan’s current set of obligations had narrowed, and he could now truly focus on what mattered.

Which was the task of amusing this other shameless old man who was accompanying him. That and honing his stone-craft related skills.

Scarmorrow was the closest town to Ogdenborough, and the residents of Orodan’s hometown often went there to visit the local temple since theirs had none. A temple, a healing house for the poor and some minor hunting and fishing industries aside… the town’s main economy came from the procurement of construction material.

Specifically, stone. And the quarry before them certainly had access to a lot of it, being up against cliffs which were made of high-quality granite.

“A bit out of the way isn’t it?” Orodan asked as they neared the quarry, the loud noises of stone being crushed, struck and worked reverberating through the air for a good distance. “Then again, who wants to sleep near this? I had a hard enough time getting any sleep thanks to those stupid harpies.”

It had been additional motivation, back then, to increase his Physical Fitness so that he didn’t need as much of it.

“What do you care about the harpies now? You could buy yourself an entire manor in Trumbetton if you so chose. Have you gotten in touch with that coin-sniffer Esgarius about receiving a payout for your products?” the old man asked.

“Not yet, though if I have need for gold I certainly will. Although I’m not sure if I’d like to have him along in the orb…” Orodan muttered, just slightly concerned about the repercussions of letting someone that greedy loose with the knowledge of the future. “Can’t have the Republic’s economy crashing within a few days.”

“Good point. Come, let’s speak to the overseer here,” Old Man Hannegan said, leading him down the sloping path cut into the cliff, allowing workers to descend.

The overseer for the quarry, a stern-faced woman, was putting quill to paper and writing a report at her open-air desk when the two of them approached. The woman seemed to recognize Orodan’s old mentor too.

“If it isn’t old graybeard Hannegan!” the woman barked with a boisterous laugh, quite contrary to her earlier stern expression. “I thought you already had enough stone for that warehouse of yours. Got another job lined up already you industrious old coot?”

“Who’s an old coot?! You’ve been inhaling too much of this rock dust and it’s gotten into your skull!” the old man protested, but not unfondly. “And no, just here to seek work. Or rather, my student here is.”

“Student? I begged you to take me on full-time for months and now you have some nobody learning under you? The unfairness of life…” she grumbled, although her tone changed and the woman sounded more than a little intimidated when she craned her neck up to look at Orodan. “Well… damn. What do they feed you? What business have you got teaching a soldier-sort like him? Not much to learn about fighting or killing men around these parts.”

“I’m not here to fight or kill anyone. It’s stone which interests me; I’m here to improve my Stonecutting and Masonry skills,” Orodan spoke. “With maybe a spot of Mining and picking up some Prospecting too.”

“Hm… I see. You’re one of them types who comes by to train skills besides killing folk? I can respect that,” the woman said as she got to her feet. “House Stenguard has majority ownership of the quarry, but House Firesword’s a business partner. Burgher Ignatius provides the on-duty earth mage and guards for our workers, so things run rather smooth around here. That being said, if it’s the opportunity to develop your skills that you’re looking for… plenty of work to be done around here. Want to mine rock or cut stone first?”

“Mining sounds fine,” Orodan replied. It was an important skill, not just as a craft, but when he activated Combat Mastery and drew upon its insights. He’d slain Avraxas using it in tandem with a cavalcade of other skills.

“Right then, section four. The supervisor there can get you a pickaxe. Hope you’ve got a high-level of Physical Fitness because we’re behind on orders, way too many construction projects demanding construction-quality stone, especially out in Exerston County for their walls,” the overseer directed. “Section four’s also where we send people like you—the fighter types here to use this as training. Easier for you lot to work among yourselves than terrify the rest of my unfortunate miners.”

Orodan simply nodded and set off. It looked as though the old man intended to stay and catch up with this woman too.

It was a large quarry; with only Loviaston having a much smaller one, this was possibly the largest one in the county from what he’d heard. Which meant that the cliff face was demarcated into sections for quarrying rock. And his section, section four, looked to have less workers than the rest. Although the Physical Fitness level of these few ‘workers’ was a lot higher.

“Haah! Feel the sting of Haragos the World-Splitter!”

“This weirdo… will he never shut up?”

Already, Orodan could see why those who came by to use the quarry for training were kept separate. The supervisor noticed his approach too, and walked up, eyeing the sword and shield on him.

“Oh? A warrior? You’re in the right place. We’re behind on quota and Exerston County needs rubble for their roads.”

“Rubble?” Orodan asked. “Is that what this section’s for?”

“Indeed sir. It is important work to which your skills will be greatly contributing! Why, unlike a warrior such as yourself, our civilian workers simply cannot strike the much harder stone with adequate force.”

Orodan looked closely and frowned. What nonsense was this man spouting? The rock all across this quarry had the same material density and toughness.

“How about you give me the real answer?” Orodan asked. Politely.

“T-that is…! Er… look, sir. I don’t want to cause any trouble with you, but my superiors make the decisions not me. Most of you… the soldier and academy student types, don’t have the highest Mining skill. N-not that it’s in any way a criticism! It just means you have more important things to focus upon!”

Orodan could now see where the man was going with this. A glance to the side showed skilled miners striking the stone at marked points, or using wedges and shims like a stonecutter would in tandem with the pickaxe. Unlike the rubble and debris being produced at section four, the other sections crewed by professional workers were extracting solid blocks of workable stone which could be used for construction.

The rubble here in contrast could only be used to pave poorer roads, lay stonebeds or cobble walls in places where quality didn’t matter as much as the fact that a wall of some sort was there. To that end he could see why this flatterer was here, to massage the egos of adventurers, martial students and soldier-sorts like him, so that their higher strength could still be of some benefit.

And even then he could clearly sense the two Elite-level guards playing a card game on the high point of the cliffs who had their eyes on him. As expected, a quarry with significant investment which returned much profit wouldn’t simply be left to fend for itself.

Still, this all worked just fine for Orodan. They wanted him to extract rubble? Sounded like a good warm-up. And if they didn’t think him skilled enough to work the other sections of the quarry? He would just have to prove them wrong.

He grabbed one of the provided pickaxes and walked up to the cliff face.

