“Still, they do differ at the higher levels. I doubt a Grandmaster Jewelcrafter could cut and prepare the stones used to build the walls of Karilsgard, and likewise I can’t see a Stonecutter of equivalent level using their knowledge of rock to prepare the jewels needed for high-level enchantments and mana batteries,” Orodan said, getting a nod of affirmation from the old man. “I’ll need to develop both of them in tandem.”

“Of course. Self-improvement is a life long goal. But this is a fine start. We’ll have to get you working on Masonry next, and from there on you’ll visit the quarries of Scarmorrow for your training,” the old foreman replied. “For now, take some time to decompress… or knowing you, train something else. I have to get the books on masonry out. Stuffing all my belongings into this dimensional ring is convenient, but it doesn’t solve the problem of finding where the hells I put things any more than having it in my house’s drawers did.”

Orodan agreed with that, though thought the old man grumbled a bit much at the convenience of having a storage ring. Old Hannegan went inside the dimensional space of the ring, the sounds of rummaging heard. And he looked down at his finished product, the result of Stonecutting.

This rectangular stone plate, cut and polished by his own hands, would be a good thing to cook upon. A swift and casual cast of Time Reversal restored the forest he and Adeltaj damaged in their duel, prompting everyone to look at him agape for a moment before Adeltaj barked at them to resume their fights.

Following the restoration, he began picking edible roots, berries and herbs out of the ground. The Identify skill was quite useful for anyone foraging and gathering things out in the wilds. But Orodan felt it was a cheap cop out of learning how to manually identify things through knowledge and intuition. Vision of Purity too helped as quality assurance and a final safeguard to prevent him poisoning those he would be cooking for. But really, he’d gotten an education in Bluefire Academy, and Alastaia was his home, not some foreign world.

It would be embarrassing if Orodan couldn’t manually tell edible from poison around these parts.

[Gathering 39 → Gathering 40]

It had been a while since he had gained in this skill. How long had it been since he last cooked something? Perhaps he could serve Zukelmux some food this time?

Aliya stopped mid-fight, her face turning quite green as Orodan cracked the head of a palm-sized beetle and then proceeded to pry its shell off and put it to the side.

“T-teacher… are we… are we expected to eat that?” the girl asked, trembling and receiving a good thwack upon the head from Edrosic for the distraction.

“The Themrell Beetle?” Edrosic called out, recognizing the insect. “We learned to eat them during militia basic if necessary. Rather unsavory little things…”

“That’s only partially true. They do taste rather dodgy when eaten raw, but when chewed together with the astragon plant, the pungent taste is neutralized,” Orodan said, recalling some particularly harsh winters on the streets during his childhood where he’d had to try different combinations to get by. “Cooking them together only enhances the flavor.”

“H-how about we don’t eat that at all?” Aliya asked, more terrified of the prospect of eating whatever was being cooked than any harsh training.

“You’re too picky an eater…” Orodan criticized. “Besides, the shell and the astragon plants I picked grind together quite well.”

Wainroach nervously rubbed her front legs together, hesitating briefly before she made the next pass through the brazier of flame.

“What? I’m not going to cook you, that would be vile. No cooking and eating of sapient beings,” Orodan assured. “Cockroaches don’t taste too good either. Then again, from what the records of demonkind indicate, neither do humans or the mortal races. Too much bone and not enough meat, or so they say. So you can rest easy knowing we both likely taste miserable.”

“Oh? I can add a few good spices to the-”

Zukelmux’s offer was interrupted by Adeltaj Simarji who gave the poor goblin a thrashing.

Still, soon enough the food was roasting over a hot stone plate, Candleflame underneath for a slow cook, when Old Man Hannegan returned.

“Begun cooking already?” the old foreman muttered, returning with a manual on masonry. “Well, I suppose it’s better that rock be put to good use than tossed to the forest. How’s it holding up under the heat?”

“Passably… but, this rock, it’s-”

“Good Gods above, if you say something’s dirty one more time!” Old Man Hannegan chastised. “Let me guess, you’re going to turn it into a fancy jewel? Something so profound it’s suited to wiping the arse of the High Burgher himself?”

That just sounded uncomfortable and a bit painful. Why would anyone use a jewel for that?

“…I was actually going to say that it could be refined so that only one sort of mineral is present within it. The imperfections, faults and granular structure fixed,” Orodan clarified. “Maybe it could transfer heat better then.”

“Right… well if that unfair skill of yours can actually do something like that, then you’d be capable of making a lot of gold. Just purify tons of rock so that only trace bits of ore, minerals and valuable elements remain,” the old man said. “But you’d still have to pick the right sort of rock. Not all stone has every sort of ore or mineral in it. That’s the realm of earth mages, a lot of whom use the Prospecting skill, but also have an education in geology.”

“Teach me. I want to learn it all.”

“Alright, alright. Hold your horses for a moment and let’s do Masonry first. I’ll have to see if I have any instructional manuals on Prospecting…” his teacher muttered before gesturing towards the sacks he brought out. “Slaked lime, sand and water. Putting rocks together isn’t too hard, but understanding how to make the mortar binding them is the foundation of Masonry.”

Indeed, Orodan had read about how this worked. Heating limestone in a kiln produced slaked lime, which could then be mixed with sand of the right composition and water in order to make mortar, which was the binding for all construction used in the Republic of Aden. Of course, there were nuances to it, and magic used at certain parts of the process depending on the quality of the building being made and the amount of money involved, but in general, even the cheapest buildings made of brick and stone still used mortar made of lime. It was the basic ingredient, and although fancier things such as volcanic ash and other binding supplements could be added, lime was the foundation of it all.

As was the sand of course. Grains which were too large? The mortar would have a hard time binding. Grain which was too fine? Risk of weak mortar. Orodan hadn’t known until he’d read about it, but Masonry was a bit more complex than he had expected.

And from the look of it, the old man was intending on having him mix the slaked lime, sand and water himself in order to get to laying stones.

“You brought slaked lime? How do you even have such things laying around? Surely you didn’t drag all these materials about yourself?” Orodan asked.

“A graybeard like me? Not at all. I simply put Edrosic and the girl to work in moving the sacks and barrels. I’d have asked your goblin friend too, but he’s a bit strong to get anything out of it. Now get to work. You’re an Elite-level alchemist aren’t you? This part should be easy.”

And indeed it was. Expensive buildings had an alchemist in charge of mortar mixing anyways, and Orodan thought it best to learn the process from the ground up.

The slaked lime was in an easy to use dry powder form and Orodan saw no issue with with the river sand itself, although a glance with Vision of Purity told him that while acceptable… it was still of poorer quality than he’d like.

“Can I-”

“No. Tuck that unfair skill of yours away. You’ll first do it the manual way like everyone else. And after you’ve acquired the skill you can do whatever ridiculous antics you regularly get up to,” the old man interrupted. “Just manual alchemy and hard work.”

Fair enough. In fact, knowing the standard process by hand could only be a good thing for when he expanded past that.

He mixed the slaked lime with the provided river sand—chosen for its suitable grain quality—and Orodan formed the mixture into a hill-shaped pile. From there, like a volcano, he scooped a decent hollow at the center of this hill, and into that began slowly adding water.

As expected, the water began blending into the formerly dry mixture, creating a thick paste. This was it. This was the mortar he knew and had seen laborers and construction workers use all his life. Bluefire’s alchemy education had taught students in theory how to mix mortar; the concept was nothing new to him. But the practical experience of mixing it himself for the first time filled him with a sense of utter satisfaction and pride. Yes, fighting was fantastic, but something about learning a new craft, a foundational aspect of society, was almost as good as getting into a good brawl. It hearkened back to his longtime dream of reaching the Grandmaster-level in every skill one day.

The water flowed and Orodan had to use the provided shovel to gradually scoop dry portions onto the water; a cycle of thorough mixing. It was a gradual process, and he kept a close watch upon the mixture the entire way. Much like making a potion, this pile of mortar was his alchemy cauldron, and the shovel his ladle.

[Alchemy 73 → Alchemy 74]

Orodan laughed, the thrill of learning filling him. The level gain only cemented the notion in his mind that the basics were important and could truly take one very far. Here he was, an Elite-level alchemist, having gained a level for the utterly basic act of mixing mortar for construction.

Now this was training.

“Hmm… not bad! Good eye, breaking up the clumps and ensuring even consistency all throughout,” Old Man Hannegan praised.

“This is no different to mixing a potion. Even without being allowed to use my Domain of Perfect Cleaning… the basics of Alchemy do not stop being relevant,” he replied, stirring the wet paste and ensuring proper consistency all throughout. “Still, the sand and slaked lime you gave me aren’t perfectly pure. And neither is this water. I could make a truly perfect mortar if you’d but allow it.”

“And rob you of the manual experience which everyone else has to face first? Besides… I’m a selfish old codger,” the old man replied, much to Orodan’s confusion. “I want to see with my own eyes how you flabbergast the quarrymaster in Scarmorrow when we head there tomorrow. Have to keep myself amused somehow!”

This old man…

The meal cooked, the mortar mixed, and Orodan pulled some decent-sized pre-cut stones out of the sacks. Had Aliya and Edrosic helped the old man haul these? Good training.

“Now slap those stones together and use the trowel to spread the mortar evenly between them. Go on, I know you have a steady hand.”

And Orodan did. His existing Laboring and Tool Mastery helped smooth things out drastically. Even if he chose to cut the connection he had to his System’s central knowledge glyph, his raw experience throughout the loops across all his crafts made him a deft hand at manual tool usage.

The stones were put together, the mortar holding up well too. And in less than five minutes, a small pillar was erected. And with it… success.

[New Skill → Masonry 7]

“Well I’ll be… this is some decent work Orodan! Why it could even-”

“Not good enough. I need to do better,” Orodan declared. “I see all the faults and impurities with just the naked eye.”

Indeed, to him the faults were many. the imperfect stones which he hadn’t cut himself, the passable but not quite-so-good mortar and the binding of the mortar to the stone wasn’t quite as good as he’d like.

Yes, he’d beaten Calledro’s Average, but this was normal when he had an Apprentice-level Construction skill, an Elite-level Alchemy skill and was an Adept Laborer and Tool Elite. Combined with his quick mind and theoretical study? Of course that hundred hour rule didn’t apply to him. It was meant for untrained novices starting off with no other relevant skills, attributes or study.

“Was this why you had me study all those manuals beforehand?” Orodan asked, suddenly looking at the old foreman who only gave him a toothy smile. “You’re devious… cleverer than I thought. You sure you weren’t an academy teacher somewhere?”

“Who do you think taught you Laboring you fool? I know a thing or two about helping people catch onto a skill quickly,” the old man said. “Now, take a break and finish up that thing you have cooking. I never thought I’d say this… but it’s starting to smell quite decent. I deserve a bite after all that.”

And Orodan would ensure that this old foreman more than got one. Acquiring Stonecutting and Masonry this quickly while also having a foundational understanding of the basics was fantastic. Hells, why hadn’t he approached Old Man Hannegan more often?

With the time loops proven beyond a doubt, the old foreman was more willing to tag along and help Orodan with learning. Plus, the man just had a weird knack for knowing people, places and things in the simpler parts of society. While this mentor of his might not have an answer for the cosmic problems he faced… he doubted even Adeltaj Simarji quite knew where a particular town guild’s supply of ink for their calligraphers came from. Old Man Hannegan though, knew such small and ridiculous things.

And the little things when stacked up, could lead to something quite big.

