They could have just walked around the building and used the shortcut to get there; but, that would defeat the point of walking there in the first place. Ren needed the exercise, and he was going to get it.

“How are you doing?” Stella asked Ren as she heard his breath come out faster.

“I'm fine.” Ren said. “I can't remember the last time I walked this far, though.”

“It's been almost a month.” Barbara said. “The last time was while you were still at the hospital and used the walking track.”

“It's been that long?” Ren asked. “Wow, I am really out of shape.”

“Take my hand, and let me help a little.” Barbara said. “That way, you're using your arms, too.”

“Okay.” Ren said and slipped a hand into hers. He held on with a good grip; and much to his surprise, it actually was a little bit easier to walk that way. Ren's pace evened out slightly, and Stella took his other hand.

“We can't have you walking lopsided.” Stella said, and smiled. Ren chuckled and held on, and his pace went up to almost a normal walk. They entered the park, and Barbara pointed to a bench for them to sit on. The three of them walked hand-in-hand to the bench, then Stella and Barbara helped Ren sit down before sitting themselves.

“Thanks.” Ren said. “I needed a break.”

“We know you did.” Barbara said and handed him a drink container with his supplement in it. “Don't guzzle it.”

“Why would I do that?” Ren asked her and took a sip. “Sweet mother of tastiness! Is that-”

“Chocolate milkshake.” Barbara said, and Ren tried to upend the container. She laughed and stopped him from draining it in one go. “I said not to do that.”

“But, Barbara!” Ren exclaimed as he licked the chocolate milkshake off of his lips. “You can't give me something like that...”

“...and expect him to behave himself.” Stella finished for him.

“Oh, I know.” Barbara said. “I've been giving you little treats for all these years and letting you wolf it down was best; but, now I don't have to sneak them in anymore and you need to pace yourself.”

Ren sighed. “Okay, I'll be good.” He said, and she handed him back the drink container. He took a small sip and smiled at her, then tipped it upside down for a split second to fill his mouth up.

“Ren!” Barbara said. “You said you'd be good!”

Ren swallowed. “I was.” He said. “It was only one mouthful.”

Stella snorted a laugh, and they sat there for about 5 minutes. Ren drank the supplement and handed the empty container to Barbara.

“Okay, I think I can make it around that tree.” Ren said. “Then let's get back to my room. I've got a couple of visitors coming today.”

Stella, Barbara and Ren stood up and held hands, and they made it around the tree easily and left the small park. They went back to the temporary care facility and Barbara said she had to go.

“Thanks for the walk, Barbara.” Ren said. “I'll see you tonight.”

“Bye, Ren.” Barbara said. “Bye, Stella.”

“See you later.” Stella said to her, then took Ren inside to get a shower. With him feeling better than he had in a while and with Stella's help, he took a shower almost completely by himself. “You really are feeling better.” She said as she helped him dry off. “You almost didn't need my help at all.”

“I'll always need your help.” Ren said. “Even if I somehow got better tomorrow, which is never, ever, going to happen.” He smiled. “I'm always going to need a good friend to look out for me.”

“You really mean that, don't you?” Stella said.

“Yeah.” Ren said and gave her a hug. “I don't ever want you to leave.”

Stella hugged him back. “Let's get you dressed, just in case one of your visitors shows up.”

“I messed it up the last time.” Ren said and looked up at her face. “Give me a hand, will you?”

“Of course.” Stella said and took him out to the dresser and picked out a really nice outfit. “Even if it turns out that Lisa doesn't like you in real life, she'll at least like seeing you in these clothes.”

“That's all I can ask.” Ren said and held his arms out. “Dress me!”

Stella laughed and tossed the shirt on his head. “You don't need that much help.” She said, then helped him put on his pants. She tucked the half-buttoned shirt into the top of the pants and finished buttoning it. “There. Now you look presentable.”

“Thanks, Stella.”

“You're welcome.” Stella said. “Now, should we take bets on who will show up first?”

“It's going to be Lisa.” Ren said.

“Oh?” Stella looked at him. “Why are you so sure?”

“She's standing right behind you.” Ren said and pointed. Stella turned around and saw a young woman, in her very early 20s, as she stared in at them.
