“I most sincerely apologize. I wished to see you playing your best, and so I broke the rules most shamefully. Allow me to concede and tender you my deepest regrets. If you wish, we could restart and play another game fairly…”
Erin shook her head.
“No. Actually, I’d like to play another game just like we are right now.”
A second blink. This time Lady Magnolia’s eyes met Erin’s, and the girl felt a slight jolt.
“Intriguing. Why, pray?”
The young woman shrugged awkwardly.
“I think it would be sort of fun. But you are reading my mind?”
“…Yes. It’s nothing as advanced as knowing what you’re thinking; I possess a skill called [Sense Intention] and I am quite adept at using it. I can sense which pieces you are focusing on, which allowed me to play as well as I did.”
“Cool.”
“Cool?”
“That’s so cool.”
Erin grinned. She looked at the board and began moving pieces back to their starting positions.
“Can you do it again? While we’re playing, I mean. I want to see if I can beat someone who can tell what I’m trying to do.”
For two seconds, Lady Magnolia stared at Erin with genuine surprise written all over her face. And then she gave Erin a real smile. It made all of her other smiles seem fake and plastic by comparison, because it was truly, wonderfully filled with delight and mirth.
“I should be delighted. You are quite the unusual young lady, you know.”
“Really? I guess. Hmm. I guess I’ll start as white again.”
The game restarted. Erin put her pieces back in place, and wondered how to beat someone who could sense what she wanted to do. She noticed Ressa staring hard at her, and Lady Magnolia was looking at her completely differently now. With less confidence, and a lot more intently, as if she was trying to read Erin.
But Erin had learned to play chess with a poker face. She adopted her best one now, trying not to give away anything more than what Magnolia would sense. Erin began to play, in silence this time, and remembered the past.
Once upon a time, she’d loved chess. Then, later, she’d grown to hate it. She’d hated the memorization, the constant games, the agonizing over win/loss ratios, and the way chess had consumed her entire life, leaving time for little else.
She had grown distant from the game, and eventually stopped playing altogether, despite many people urging her not to waste her talents and quit. But Erin had grown sick of that small board, and she had been happier being normal.
And yet, and yet…Erin had passed through the years, and slowly she’d realized that chess had changed her. Even a casual game was different for her, because she was not an amateur, but she was still not a professional. No one in her school or even her district could challenge her, and yet the top of that strange world was still far away from her.
Too, Erin had slowly realized how much chess meant to her. Without it, she had nothing that set her apart from other people, and that was good and bad. She was tired of chess, yes, but she was meaningless without it.
And so, slowly, Erin had grown to love the game again. She’d played for fun, and then rediscovered the feeling she’d had when she first learned to play. She had begun to reenter the world of chess, and then she’d travelled into another world.
And then—
If there was a god of Chess, or perhaps, a goddess, they were a cruel, calculating god that bestowed their gifts like curses upon the people who lived to play. If there was a god.
A metaphorical god, that was. Not the actual gods and goddesses that claimed the game, but the living spirit of chess itself. Erin thought of it in that way. The God of Chess was silent and often cruel, living through cold stone and static rules that broke people across the unchanging boards. But she had touched god in her games, and when she had come to this world, he, she, it—had blessed her.
Immortal games. Opponents to teach and learn from and who loved the game as much as she did. Erin was no longer the same player she was. She might be clumsy, and stupid, and whatever else, but there was one thing Erin was good at. One thing in which she stood at the very peak of in either world. And that was—
“Checkmate.”
Erin moved her knight forwards and completed the trap. Magnolia’s king stared up at her, forlornly cornered by several pieces just waiting for him to make a move so they could dash his brains out.
“Remarkable.”
Lady Magnolia breathed the words as she gently tipped her king over. She looked up at Erin, and her eyes were full of light.
“I have seldom lost a game of chess when using [Sense Intentions], Erin Solstice. And even without it, I consider myself an adept player. But Skills matter very little against someone of your level of skill, or so it would seem.”
“It was a good game.”
That was all Erin could really say. She smiled and cracked her fingers before she realized that would be rude and blushed. Lady Magnolia chuckled.
“It was. Surprising as well; I had no idea it would be that obvious that I was reading you.”
“Well, I just have a sense with these things, I guess.”
“Indeed. I wonder, can you sense anything else?”
Anything else? After scratching her head a bit, Erin shook it.
“Not really. I’m really only good at chess because I play it so much.”
“That is readily apparent. Indeed…”
Lady Magnolia tapped her lips with one fingernail and sighed.
“I have a friend who I would dearly love to introduce you to. I suspect you might triumph if the two of you were to play a game of chess, and I would love to see the expression on his face if you do. You are certainly one of the best players in this world, I can see that for myself.”
Again, Erin felt herself turn red. Best player? In the world? That would be a complete and horrible lie in her world, but here? She wasn’t sure if she should feel happy or sad that was the case.
“A child who grew up studying a game which is…new to this world. How intriguing. But I would imagine there are least…five people who would be able to best you. Don’t you think the number is five, Ressa?”
“I would not know, milady.”
“Liar.”
Magnolia smiled fondly at her maid. Erin was happy to see that; it seemed like she was friends with her servants. But what she’d said caught Erin’s attention. The chess maniac in her raised its head.
“Really? You know other people who like chess? Can you tell me their names?”
Maybe one of them was the person who’d sent her the chess board. It could happen. Magnolia studied Erin, and then smiled again. She seemed to like the secretive smile.
“They aren’t necessarily chess players, but they have the ah, skills and temperaments to be the best in any such game. But as to their names—I would hate to ruin the surprise. Let us just say they include an old fool, the world’s smallest strategist, a reclusive mage, a miserable king and a dashing and quite charming lord. One genius on each continent—except for Chandrar, that is. I don’t imagine the young [Emperor] or the King of Destruction’s Left Hand would be quite good enough to defeat you.”
That made no sense to Erin, except the King of Destruction, and she had no idea who his left hand might be. Assuming it wasn’t literal and he had a giant left hand that played chess. She’d heard of crazier things.
“Well, I just like chess. It’s not a big deal, but I’d love to meet them.”
“Nonsense. Anyone who can claim to be one of the greatest experts in any field is worthy of note and admiration.”
Lady Magnolia leaned forwards and refilled Erin’s tea cup herself, against Ressa’s mild protests.
“That is simply another reason why I must insist you stay at my home. I would be delighted if you would act as a chess teacher, or if you simply consented to play games against some of my guests.”
“Me?”
“That is why I requested you visit me. Why else did you think you were here? For the pleasure of your company of course, but I believe it would only be right to offer you the same hospitality I have given to the others.”
Erin’s mouth fell open.
“Really? Here?”
“Is it so surprising? I believe you would quite enjoy your stay. We could put you up in a guest room, perhaps, until more permanent accommodations could be found. What do you say? Won’t you accept?”
For some reason, the offer sounded extremely generous to Erin. Of course it was, but she couldn’t take it, right?
Why not?
Because—
Erin shook her head slightly.
“No, but I—I have an inn.”
Lady Magnolia’s smile didn’t waver. She lifted the tea cup to her lips and drank a bit.
“Ah, but isn’t it terribly dangerous? Wouldn’t it be easier to relax in comfort rather than risk your life working such a difficult job?”
“I like it. I mean, it’s hard, yeah, but—”
Erin wanted to accept Magnolia’s generous offer. Part of her did. But another part was thinking of everyone she would have to leave behind. Ceria, Selys, Krshia who was in trouble, Toren, Pisces, Rags, even Lyonette. What would that girl do without her? And then there was Ryoka—
But Magnolia was speaking more quickly now, and Erin found herself hanging on every word.
“Far better if you stay here with the others. They will become excellent adventurers, and you will all be safe here. Don’t you agree?”
Erin wavered. But only for a second. Why was she even arguing about this? Lady Magnolia had been so generous to her and everyone from her world. Why wouldn’t she accept? She would be comfortable here, happy—
But it would make her friends upset. Erin knew that, and it hurt, but her desire to say ‘yes’ was far, far stronger.
So she wavered. Only for a second. But that second was an eternity upon which Erin stood, gazing out at two forks in the road of her life. She held her own destiny in her hands, and weighed each choice, remembering the past.
A second became a moment. A moment became a day, then a year. The year became eternal. And in that immortal moment, Erin realized something was wrong.
She was not in control. Because as her mind weighed the choice, every part of her pointed towards her inn. Yet…something was telling her to say yes.
Something was wrong. Erin felt it. It was a sense in the back of her head, the same thing she’d felt all throughout the conversation. Only, Erin hadn’t known it was even there, so insidious and quiet had it been. Yet now it was out in the open, exposed by her own Skill and relentless time.
One second passed. Lady Magnolia was staring at Erin intently, and so was Ressa.
“Well?”
The air smelled of lavender. Erin shook. Her mouth opened to say yes. She bit her tongue.
“Mmngh!”
Blood filled Erin’s mouth, and pain shot through her mind, breaking her out of whatever was holding her. Lady Magnolia blinked, and Erin kicked the table over, sending both drinks and chess pieces flying.
Lady Magnolia stared at the flying objects in shock. A tea pot full of hot liquid flew towards her head. She did not raise her arms to block or try to move out of the way. She simply stared at the flying pot with a look of mild surprise on her face.
A hand shot out and grabbed the pot. A body interposed itself, and the hot liquid splashed against her back. Ressa flung the pot away and reached for Erin. The girl saw the hand reaching for her throat, as quick as lightning—
“Stop.”
Ressa stopped. She stepped back, and the chess board cracked against one wall, the delicate wood breaking with the force of the impact. Chess pieces rained across the carpet and Lady Magnolia sighed.
“Teriarch did say this would happen sooner or later. But did it have to happen when I put my favorite tea pot out?”
Erin stared at Ressa. Her [Dangersense] was clanging loudly in her head. The [Head Maid] was staring at Erin, but there was nothing maid-like about the look in her eyes. She looked like she was ready to kill.
“Ressa. Your lovely rear end is in my face. Move aside please, and have someone clean up this mess.”
Ressa paused. She turned and Lady Magnolia patted her.
“It’s quite alright. Erin isn’t going to try and kill me, or so I believe. Is that right?”
“Um. Yeah?”
“Well then.”
Ressa hesitated, and then moved swiftly to one side. She withdrew a bell from her pocket and rang it. In four seconds, the door opened and maids rushed in. They stopped when they saw the mess, but Ressa began snapping orders and they sprang into action.
“Do follow me. I think we had better let them get to work, and I would hate to get in their way.”
Lady Magnolia nodded to the doors. Erin stood up and followed the older woman as Ressa stood uncomfortably close behind her.
“Ressa! Stop that!”
Two minutes later, they were in another sitting room, a larger one that lacked the intimacy—and the pink—of the first. Lady Magnolia sighed as she sat. She looked at Ressa.
“I hope you weren’t burned too badly by the tea.”
“It was lukewarm.”
“And your dress? Feel free to change it.”
Ressa glanced at Erin before replying.
“I am quite comfortable, milady.”
“Stubborn.”
Lady Magnolia sighed, but she turned to Erin. This time she did not smile, but just looked at Erin. Just looked.
And then everything came full circle. Because her gaze was like a spotlight, and it fixed Erin in place. It was the same look she’d given Erin when the girl had first come in; a searching stare that tried to strip everything that Erin was away and see her inner self.
Erin stared back. She wasn’t good at staring, but she’d gotten a lot better. And now that she knew what was happening, anger was fueling her stare just as much as anything else. Her stomach tried to roil, but even this was still better than the pure terror Skinner had brought.
It was like staring into a jet engine, or the sun. Erin felt like she was literally about to be blown away—her body was shaking just trying to keep still. But she kept staring.
And then it was over. Lady Magnolia blinked, and Erin could look away. She looked around and saw Ressa was standing far away from the two of them, looking at a wall. The maid looked back at the two of them, and Lady Magnolia sighed.
“I cannot underestimate anyone these days, it seems. First Ryoka, and now you. I thought she was rather unique, but perhaps it was she who was merely uncommon.”
Erin didn’t understand that. She stared at Lady Magnolia and wondered what to say.
“What do you want?”
“Uninspired.”
Lady Magnolia frowned at Erin.
“Excuse me?”
Erin frowned back. Lady Magnolia shook her head.
“After all that insightfulness, force of will, and commendable chess playing ability, that is hardly a question worthy of you, Erin Solstice.”
A small pit of anger had been bubbling in Erin’s stomach since she’d realized what had been happening to her. It grew a bit larger.
“I’m sorry that I’m not smart enough to ask the right questions.”
“Oh hush.”
