Lady Magnolia reached out and tapped Erin’s nose. The girl blinked in outrage and the woman continued.
“I am complimenting you, Miss Solstice. You have quite magnificently foiled two schemes of mine, which so rarely happens that I am in shock. And yet you appear quite naïve in other matters, which is why I will be extraordinarily blunt.”
“Thanks. What was all—?”
“I was attempting to persuade you to join the group of rather sorry individuals I have managed to save from being torn apart or beaten to death so that I might protect you. I confess I was also testing your ability in chess in the hopes you could be useful, but my main goal was to simply sequester you away from the world where you would no longer be able to cause any harm.”
Lady Magnolia delivered the statement in a brisk, matter-of-fact tone of voice that lacked any smiles or charm. She stared at Erin. Erin stared back.
“Why?”
“Because I believed you were not like Ryoka Griffin. Now, I believe it might be Ryoka Griffin who I must measure against you.”
“I don’t understand what you mean.”
“Good. I would hate for you to be as perspicacious in all things as you are at evading my Skills.”
Erin didn’t know what perspicacious meant either, but she bit her tongue and listened. Lady Magnolia paused.
“Tea please, Ressa. Raspberry, I think. Cooled.”
Ressa nodded, and Lady Magnolia turned back to Erin.
“When I first met Ryoka Griffin, I believed one thing. I believed I had either met the most capable and amazing young woman I had ever encountered, or that I had met someone who possessed knowledge she could not possibly acquire in this world. Possibly both.”
Lady Magnolia flicked her fingers, and Erin saw she was holding the monocle again. She peered at Erin through it again, frowning as she continued.
“I believed she was unique, but I soon learned that she was not. I soon realized she was one of many, and that led me to find the others like her and question them.”
“With torture? Did you find the others so you could—”
“No, and no. I found them because they were in danger. Two groups were dead, slain by monsters before I was even aware of the need for action. I found poor Imani nearly too late, but we saved her at least. The others, including young Rose, were far easier to locate and retrieve. And I asked them about their world, using [Charm] to persuade them to reveal more than they otherwise would, yes, but it was hardly difficult. Drink and a lovely woman or lovely young man listening attentively does wonders.”
Erin could believe that. She was trying to follow what was happening, and that was hard because she was still reeling from what had happened.
First, Lady Magnolia was nice. Then it turned out she was using a Skill on Erin, hence the table flip. But she didn’t want Ressa to smash Erin’s brains out, which the [Head Maid] could possibly maybe do. So Erin was safe. For now. And now it turned out Lady Magnolia wanted to find everyone from Erin’s world because she’d met Ryoka. Because…?
“Why? Why are you doing this?”
Lady Magnolia rolled her eyes, but Erin cut her off.
“I’m just a girl. From another world, right, but why are you so interested in us? Is it because we know things you don’t?”
“You come from another world. Of course you know many things we do not. I wished to ascertain what exactly that was, and when I realized what a vast difference in technology we possess, I immediately decided that you, Ryoka, and anyone else from your world must not be allowed to talk freely.”
“Why?”
“I wish you would stop asking me that question. You are quite intelligent enough to know why.”
Erin thought.
“Guns?”
“Among other things, yes. But merely the existence of another world would drive many Kings and fools into a frenzy and might begin a war that I am sure, absolutely sure that my world would lose. The nations of your world possess weapons far too deadly for all but the greatest magics to overcome, and the cost regardless would be far too great.”
Lady Magnolia looked up as Ressa let a maid approach with a pot of tea. She accepted a cup and Erin refused hers.
“If I intended to poison or drug—well, perhaps raspberry is not for everyone. I delight in sweet things. I digress however; even putting aside the knowledge that your world exists, any one weapon from your world would be deadly if knowledge of how to make them spread. Fortunately, not one of the children I found knew the exact details of how to make these weapons, and so my beliefs changed again.”
A hand tightened on the stem of the teacup, and Erin realized Lady Magnolia’s voice was trembling slightly.
“The technologies they so thoughtlessly spoke of would bring this world to ruin, but fortunately none of them know how to make any of what they claim is possible.”
Ressa nodded at this, one of the few movements Erin had ever seen her make. Magnolia continued.
“The few experts I know of and one…worldly confidant of mine assure me that even if this knowledge has spread, which I am sure it has, it will take years and quite a lot of groundwork to reproduce on a larger scale. And I shall search this world for traces of such preparation and quash it wherever it may be found.”
That sounded good. And it was good, wasn’t it? Erin wasn’t sure what to think.
“And so, now I find myself back where I started. I believe Ryoka Griffin is an extraordinary young woman, if only because she knows when to keep her mouth shut.”
Lady Magnolia stared at Erin as she sipped from her cup again. Erin folded her arms.
“What are you going to do?”
“Throw this tea cup at you if you continue asking such questions.”
“Fine. What are you going to do about Joseph and Rose and Imani and the others?”
“I intend to indulge their requests.  You know they have petitioned me—repeatedly—about becoming adventurers? All of the young men seem quite excited by the prospect, as young men often are. The young ladies would like to travel into the cities with pockets full of gold and shop, or so I gather.”
Erin frowned.
“They did tell me that. Joseph says you were going to help them. Give them magical weapons and armor.”
“Yes, and they are quite excited about the prospect. I have a mind to send them out with a few guides and let them enlist as Bronze-rank adventurers, with perhaps a gift of coins and a few choice items. What do you think of that?”
She didn’t even have to think. Erin replied instantly.
“They’d all die in a heartbeat.”
Ressa nodded. Magnolia smiled briefly.
“It would be amusing, or perhaps, sad, to see. I don’t believe any of them have actually killed anything in their life, or even helped butcher an animal. That might have informed their opinions. Only young Imani seems sensible and she is distraught with grief.”
Erin glared at Lady Magnolia. So. That was the plan.
“Are you going to kill me too?”
“Kill you? Haven’t you been listening to what I have been saying?”
“But you said—”
“I said I would send them out to become adventurers. But I will not let them die. I believe a few non-life-threatening injuries and a healthy dose of terror would be good for them.”
“That’s mean.”
“On the contrary, it’s quite generous considering that I do not owe them anything and I will be saving their lives in the long run.”
Erin frowned.
“You’re treating them like pawns or—or people to be manipulated. That’s wrong.”
Lady Magnolia sighed in irritation.
“I will stop treating them as pawns when they stop treating my world as a game to be enjoyed. As it is, that drunk group of young travelers below us are thoughtless, careless individuals who insult my servants, cause messes, throw up in the upholstery, and do not realize the gravity of the situation. I believe half of them are convinced this is a fictional reality, a dream perhaps, or some kind of living game.”
Erin bit her lip. She couldn’t deny that. Lady Magnolia paused, and went on.
“Not all are so foolish. Rose for example seems to understand the need to meet with others from your world, which is why I watch her in case she is called again on that…phone. And Imani is quite sensibly afraid of going out; I believe I will give her a bedroom away from the others now that you have opened her up.”
All of that still sounded suspicious to Erin. She stared at Lady Magnolia and raised a hand as if she were in school. Magnolia eyed it.
“Can I ask a question? Why I am I here?”
“You are here because I assumed you were like the others. I intended to confine you, perhaps after teaching you a few lessons about this world and the dangers therein.”
“And now?”
“I suppose you will have to go back to your inn. That is, unless you wish to accept my offer of hospitality. It still stands, and I would allow you to travel if you so wished.”
“Why?”
Lady Magnolia paused. She looked behind Erin.
“Ressa.”
A hand smacked Erin lightly on the back of the head. Erin yelped and turned, but Ressa stared blankly ahead, face expressionless. Lady Magnolia tapped her tea cup with one nail to get Erin’s attention.
“Consider my position, Erin Solstice. I have found visitors, or perhaps, refugees from another world. They know of terrible weapons, but have not the knowledge to create them. And yet, even the knowledge that such things can be created is enough to cause destruction in the long run. And these children—yes, children—are by and large helpless. They are walking magnets for chaos, and I dislike chaos.”
Erin sat in her seat and thought about that.
“Yeah. Guns would be bad.”
A hand smacked her on the back of the head again. Erin turned around, and Lady Magnolia smiled.
“I believe the young woman will hit you if you do that again, Ressa. And she has both [Bar Fighting] and [Minotaur Punch] as skills. I would be careful.”
“How do you know that?”
Lady Magnolia lifted the monocle in her lap.
“A little device made for me by a friend. It allows me to read [Skills] and [Levels] unless they are concealed. I would love to know what [Immortal Moment] and [Wondrous Fare] do, by the way. But to your point—yes, many of the technologies the others have described sound incredibly dangerous. I do not wish for any of them to become public knowledge.”
Erin rubbed her head as she nodded.
“That’s what Ryoka’s afraid of. She doesn’t want anyone to find out what we know.”
“And that is why I wish to speak with her. But, quite ironically, she is the one person who rightfully distrusts anyone like me.”
“Isn’t that smart?”
“Oh, of course.”
Lady Magnolia waved a hand. She drained her cup and placed it on a table.
“It is an excellent assumption to make. But in this case, I believe Miss Ryoka and I—and even you, Erin—are all on the same side.”
“And what side is—”
Erin looked at Ressa. The other woman’s hands hadn’t moved, but her lips twitched. Erin scowled.
“What side is that? It’s a smart question!”
Ressa shrugged impassively. Lady Magnolia rubbed at her eyes.
“I suppose it is? Erin, we are all on the side that wishes for peace, prosperity, and a lack of monsters or wars. I think that is a fair statement for me to make.”
“Right. I’m on that side.”
Erin nodded reluctantly. Lady Magnolia nodded as well.
“Most people are, but the problems emerge when selfish individuals place their own desires above that cause. Hence the infighting and petty bickering which grips both Drakes and Humans on this continent, and to a lesser extent, the Gnolls.”
She sighed.
“We waste time and resources killing each other while the true enemy grows stronger. Ah, if only the [Lords] and [Ladies] of this continent could see what I see. But of course, some do and others only pretend to. Vision is not hereditary, I’m afraid. And it is opinion which matters more.”
“So you’re afraid these nobles will cause trouble if they know what we—I—people from my world know?”
“Anyone would cause trouble with such knowledge, Erin. Anyone. But some would be more dangerous than others, I admit.”
Erin frowned. She needed a notepad, or something to write on to figure everything out. But she did her best.
“Let me get this straight. You found Ryoka, and realized she was from another world.”
“Possibly from another world. I had other suspicions at first.”
“Okay, but you found her and found other people. And when  you realized that we all know bad things—”
Lady Magnolia winced at Erin’s choice of words. Erin glared.
“—You decided to keep us all here so we don’t cause any trouble. But you’re letting me go?”
“Because you are not as thoughtless as the others, and moreover, because I believe you will do more good where you are than under lock and key.”
“And Ryoka?”
“The same, although if she would consent to helping me, it would make my life so much easier.”
“So you can make guns?”
“No.”
Lady Magnolia said that flatly. She stared Erin straight in the eye.
“I will never create these weapons. Not unless someone else has already spread them to the point where they have become commonplace.”
“Why?”
“A thousand reasons, not least of which is that it would destroy this world. Ryoka knows this, which is why she has sensibly avoided me for fear I would use such weapons.”
Erin nodded. That was what Ryoka had said, more or less, so she supposed she could believe Lady Magnolia.
“And where is Ryoka?”
The other woman paused. She looked at Erin, and then shook her head.
“If she has not told you, I will honor her discretion as a Runner. I do worry that she is well of course; but we must make gambles, and I rather like the idea of rolling the dice, especially if my die is Ryoka Griffin.”
“You’re gambling with her life?”
Lady Magnolia looked insulted that Erin looked upset.
“Of course. Every person of note and power on the continent is a gambler who plays for the highest of stakes, Erin Solstice. Except for the Antinium Grand Queen. I’m afraid she only takes safe bets with acceptable risks. But until I am sure I play against her and her alone, I must resign myself to uncertainty. And to minimize that risk, I find it is important to get to know people.”
“Like me.”
“If you like. Now, let me offer you a few reassurances. I will not harm the others from your world…unduly. Nor will I share their dangerous secrets, unless of course there is something actually valuable from your world that might be used in this one. I would quite like to taste a pizza and hamburger, you know. Perhaps you could leave the recipe with my [Chef] before you go?”
“Um—”
“Also, I am not interested in harming or impeding you or Ryoka in any way. I simply desire your cooperation and perhaps your help. Actually, I desire Ryoka for all these things, but I shall include you as well.”
“To do what exactly? Making the world a better place?”
