“If you could do that, I would be most grateful. No—in helping to defeat the one enemy that truly threatens this continent. The Antinium.”
Erin’s brain halted when she heard that. She cleared her throat, wishing she’d taken another cup of tea, and then spoke.
“The Antinium…aren’t your enemies.”
Lady Magnolia raised a finger.
“A few Antinium you are acquainted with may not be my enemy. But the rest are. Indeed, if their Queen ordered it, I would not place high odds that they would not cut you apart.”
Erin swallowed.
“Pawn and Klbkch wouldn’t do that.”
Lady Magnolia raised an incredulous eyebrow.
“Wouldn’t they? How much do you know of the Antinium? How much do you know of Klbkch the Slayer’s past?”
Klbkch the Slayer? Erin had never heard of that title. She opened her mouth, but the other woman waved her to silence.
“I am Lady Magnolia Reinhart. I have no enemies upon this continent, or so it is said. And yet I consider the Antinium Queens my greatest nemeses. Consider that for one moment, and please, think before you reply.”
Erin opened her mouth, hesitated, glared at Ressa, and then thought. Magnolia watched her, not without a bit of sympathy.
“The Antinium do battle much in the way your world fights, or so I gather.”
Erin blinked. Lady Magnolia smiled and clarified her statement.
“What I mean is, they fight under the assumption all soldiers are equal. They raise their warriors to be excellent, but no individual is better than another in their doctrine. That is because the Antinium do not level. But other armies fight differently.”
Lady Magnolia lifted her cup, accepted a refill from Ressa and drank a bit before continuing. Erin saw Ressa glance at her mistress, and something flickered across the maid’s face. It almost looked like…worry?
“In this world, an individual can change the course of a battle. A single hero can win a war. And that is because we level. Armies protect their highest-level warriors, or risk them in order to deal damage to opposing forces. But a hundred Level 15 [Soldiers] would not be worth the life of a single Level 30 [Vanguard]. So we sacrifice the many for the good of the few, that they might grow stronger. That is the difference between our worlds.”
Erin tried to imagine it. It wasn’t actually that hard. It was like…superheroes. They could fight entire armies by themselves, and that was sort of like a high-level warrior, right? Lady Magnolia nodded.
“Now consider this. What would happen if your world’s technology fell into Antinium hands? Or rather, feelers?”
Erin tried to imagine that. Her heart sank.
“Weapons of war. Tanks, these flying planes of yours, and of course, ‘bombs’. Terrible weapons that require no levels to use. And worse still, a gun. A weapon with exceptional range that can fire faster than a repeating crossbow if made correctly. Such weapons would allow even children to kill the greatest of warriors. All races would take that technology and kill with it, but the Antinium would benefit most greatly. That is why this technology must not be realized in this world.”
Again, Erin raised her hand. She lowered it when she saw Magnolia staring at it.
“Um, but why wouldn’t you just use a gun or something and not share the way the weapons are made?”
“Aside from the obvious point that any weapon can be used against its owner, I have found that nothing stays secret for long. The instant a weapon is used, it is copied a thousand times over. Have you not witnessed this yourself?”
Erin thought of her hamburgers and had nothing to say. Lady Magnolia sighed again.
“If these ‘guns’ were to become widespread, two groups would benefit most from their usage. In less than a decade, the House of Minos would fall to its ancient enemy and the Antinium would sweep across the continent.”
Another pause.
“Were things otherwise, and were I more foolish, I might even consider manufacturing these devices myself, regardless of the risk, to deal with the Antinium. With them, I could create an army capable of killing Dragons; a force that would humble even Flos on the field of battle. But I am a bit wiser than that. By the time I defeated the Antinium—and that is still not wholly predictable—the entire world would be armed thusly, and we would burn nations to the ground and slaughter entire species before the bloodletting was done. No.”
Erin was quiet for a while after that. She didn’t know what to think of Lady Magnolia. The woman herself sipped her tea quietly as she watched Erin. At last, Erin looked up.
“I still don’t think they’re your enemies. The Antinium, I mean.”
“You do not know their history. You have not seen what they do.”
“Kill people? But Humans do that.”
“And we are a wretched species. But the Antinium are sadly better at killing than we are, and their Queens attempted to wipe this continent free of every living species once before. Consider this, Erin. Even in war, [Lords] and [Generals] often spare civilians. It is a point of honor, and practicality. Not even [Soldiers] relish that level of violence, and so the few who slaughter are condemned by every nation.”
She raised a finger.
“But the Antinium have fought thusly from the beginning. They leave no survivors. And what is worse, they make no permanent peace. I believe they have simply been waiting since the last Antinium War, building their strength for the final war in which they will win and slaughter us all.”
Erin couldn’t believe it. Klbkch, do that? But—she’d seen him killing Goblins that one time. And yet Pawn—
“It is not the individuals I speak of, but their Queens. They are heartless and care nothing for other species. If you will not believe it of the Antinium you know, believe that.”
Erin could. She remembered the Queen, and the cold way she had spoken about Klbkch, her subject.
“So that’s it? You’re fighting a war and you want help from us?”
“…If you want to put it that way, yes. Rather, I simply hope you will not make things worse. I don’t expect much help from you.”
“Hey, that’s—!”
“Accurate.”
Erin opened her mouth. Lady Magnolia stared at her. Erin closed her mouth.
“Erin Solstice. A young woman who treats Goblins like people and teaches the Antinium how to become individuals. That alone makes you extraordinary, but it will not win a war.”
Lady Magnolia drummed her fingers on her leg.
“I should like nothing more than for the Antinium to all become individual. That would mean they are people, and people can be manipulated, flattered, bribed, intimidated, or threatened. A swarm simply devours everything in its way. But it will not happen, because while the Queen in Liscor is a visionary, the other Queens and the Grand Queen lacks her ideals. No, it will not change what is to come.”
“And that is?”
“War. And not just any war. A world war, as your people have spoken of.”
Lady Magnolia said it calmly. She looked out one of the windows, at the setting sun.
“Perhaps it will not begin on this continent, but it will come soon. Already the idea of it hangs in the air, whispering in every ear.”
Erin felt a chill.
“How do you know?”
“From whispers. It is hard to know everything, everywhere. The Isles of Minos, for instance, suffer few spies. Even so. A Goblin Lord has emerged in the south, and if a King should rampage again, we may all fall to the youngest species before the Antinium.”
Lady Magnolia started ticking off points on her fingers.
“Az’Kerash builds an army of the dead, and I only pray we may stop him. I would send heroes to slay him before he unleashes his madness, but they are in short supply. Between him and the Antinium, we face two major enemies, although one is far more dangerous than the other. An individual versus a swarm, you see? And then there are simply dangerous fools among the Drakes and Humans who would start bonfires over matchsticks anyways. Flos goes to conquer, and perhaps he is the least dangerous of all. He at least desires to create a kingdom rather than break everything apart. And all of this happens because of your people, Erin Solstice.”
The room felt darker, and not just because the sun was setting. Erin tried to swallow around a dry mouth.
“My people?”
“We were at peace before you arrived, Erin Solstice. A factitious, torn peace full of petty battles and squabbles, yes, but peace nevertheless. The world was slowly healing, but all too soon the truce forged of paper will burst open like scabs and war will once more ravage the people and land.”
Lady Magnolia paused. The shroud around her lifted, and she looked over.
“Mm. That was quite good, wasn’t it, Ressa? I shall have to remember that to Teriarch next time we speak. Write that down, would you?”
“Yes, milady.”
Magnolia turned back to Erin.
“I don’t mean to sound completely hopeless. There are threats, true, but I hope that my preparations will guard against some of them. This continent is strong, and I have done my best to ensure the north is stronger than it was. But that is the truth of it. War is coming. And you few travelers are caught in it.”
Erin tried to breathe and had trouble doing so. It seemed so huge when Magnolia said it like that.
“What should we do, then? I mean, is there anything—?”
“Nothing. You can help those you meet in your inn, and perhaps that will change things. But unless you know of a technology that saves lives…? There are a number of curious things the other young men and women talk about, but they are frustratingly vague on details. I will pursue that line of questioning, however.”
Erin shook her head.
“I still don’t think it’s right, keeping them here.”
“And what would you do? Let them loose?”
Magnolia frowned at Erin. Erin shrugged.
“Maybe not, but they’re not as stupid as you’re treating them.”
“Fools seldom are. But they are thoughtless, which is worse. What could they do that would not cause more harm?”
“I don’t know. But give them a chance.”
Magnolia paused as she sipped at her cup.
“A chance? As what, adventurers?”
“Maybe. But just give them a chance to do something rather than lock them up and let them be useless.”
Erin tried to explain.
“I have this annoying—this girl in my inn. She’s really, really troublesome, but if I left her alone she would die.”
“Ah. Lyonette de Marquin. Dreadful girl. I’m not sure she is the example you should use.”
“You know who she is? I mean, she said she knows you—”
“I’m sure she does.”
Lady Magnolia made a face as if the tea had suddenly gone bad. Erin looked around and saw Ressa making a similar look of disgust, which disappeared as soon as she noticed Erin looking.
“She says she’s really important and that you’d take her in. But the [Butler]—sorry, Reynold—wouldn’t let her come with me.”
Magnolia sighed as she swirled her tea around with a silver spoon.
“She certainly is…important, but I fear she overstates her value. She wrote me several strident letters demanding that I offer her the hospitality of my house. I do not wish to do so.”
“But she nearly died by herself! She was getting exiled and she would have frozen to death if I hadn’t found her!”
“A pity.”
Erin’s heart grew silent in her chest for a moment. She looked at Lady Magnolia.
“Just because someone is really…really annoying or useless doesn’t mean they deserve to die.”
“Neither does it mean that I should waste time and resources saving them.”
“But that means you’re killing them if you don’t help. That’s wrong.”
A sigh. Erin gritted her teeth as Magnolia looked at her.
“What if they are a danger? What if killing them would save thousands of lives? Would that not be the most morally correct choice?”
Now Erin was getting angrier. Magnolia was—well, she wasn’t a bad person. Maybe. But she was getting on Erin’s nerves.
“You don’t get to decide that. God—gods know everything, so I guess if they existed, they’d be able to say if that was right or wrong. But the gods are dead. Everyone tells me that. So no one gets to decide if things are moral. You can kill however many people you want, but you can’t say it was the right thing to do.”
“Fine then. I chose to let Lyonette die. I do not regret it, any more than I regret confining the others from your world. I cannot release them into the wild because they would die, and neither will I risk them spreading dangerous information as they so casually do. But they are quite a drain on resources.”
“So? You offered to take them in.”
“To save their lives. But I may soon lock them in a house and toss bags of grain inside rather than keep them here. They are not worthy of this house, or the people who must put up with them. They eat, argue, talk about games and laugh at monsters as if they were harmless, and talk to my servants about freedom as if they were slaves.”
“They do? I mean, really?”
Lady Magnolia scowled.
“One of them does, at any rate. She doesn’t seem to understand the difference between employing a family of their free will and forcing them to work.”
“I’m sorry if they’ve offended you. But—”
“I will give them a chance, which may be more than they deserve. Enough. It is growing late, and I wish to impress one thing upon you, Erin Solstice.”
“What?”
“Numbers. Or perhaps—worth.”
Lady Magnolia put down her cup and looked at Erin directly.
“The smallest of the Antinium Hives – the one based in Liscor – holds at least three thousand Antinium at any given time. More, as of late. At least two thousand Workers and a thousand Soldiers are ready to go to war at any moment; my estimate puts their numbers at a thousand more in their Hive. And that is the least of the six Hives, if there are only six. The others are larger by an immeasurable factor.”
The numbers staggered Erin. Three—no, four thousand Antinium? Why didn’t they help when Skinner attacked? But Lady Magnolia wasn’t done. She pointed at Erin.
“You are worth two Antinium Soldiers in a battle. Ryoka—with items, perhaps she could defeat a dozen. Two dozen. But I very much doubt it.”
She shook her head.
“As dangerous as you are, as unique as you are, you are only one Human. But I require an army. I seek heroes. I have children, bright and full of weapons that would shake the earth—none of which I can use now or without having them used against me in time. You and Ryoka Griffin are extraordinary in your own ways, but you are still young. And small.”
Magnolia looked towards the window.
“I will hope that you rise to the challenges you will face. If there is a way I may aid you that will encourage growth or help myself, I will do so. But I am playing a game against titans, and I am only a small Human.”
