“I’m not that mean to Luo-Luo.” Seeing the look she gave him, Rain blinked and asked, “Am I?”

“Mean might not be the right word. Cold perhaps, or distant. You treat her like a stranger, but when you treat everyone else in camp like a dear friend, the contrast is obvious.”

“...She is a stranger. We met three months ago and spent two of those months apart.”

“...Fine, but how can you bear to make her cry? Heartless cad. Callous fiend. Cruel beast.”

“Oh please.” Crouching down to let an insistent bunny hop into his arms, he showed her its adorable face and Sent, “Don’t get taken in by her deception. Luo-Luo changes moods faster than Thumper here twitches his nose. She is a master manipulator and knows exactly what to say and do to get you on her side. That’s why I’m so guarded against her, because I know she’s trying to play me. Even after I told her I didn’t want a loveless relationship, she’s still pushing for sex so she can wrap me around her little finger.”

Much as she appreciated Rain’s sentiment, Yan was mildly horrified by what he considered proper behaviour. “You told Luo-Luo you didn’t love her and didn’t want a physical relationship? Okay, now I’d say you’re mean.” Taking the bunny away because Rain didn’t deserve its sweet kisses, Yan gave it a quick nuzzle while it settled into her embrace, inwardly gushing at its adorably angry expression. “What did you expect to happen? For her to accept your words and do nothing? She’s a young woman who was thrust into a scary and unfamiliar situation, one trained in the arts of diplomacy and seduction. Of course she’ll rely on what she knows. You can’t seriously be blaming her for trying to make friends and seduce her ‘Lord Husband’, are you? What you call manipulative, I say is adapting to circumstances. Only an idiot like you would try to impose their will in unfamiliar surroundings.”

His expression darkening with each sentence, Rain’s grimace was both adorable and darling. “...This isn’t fair!”

“How so? Have I said anything that isn’t true?”

“No, but you’re twisting the facts and making me feel bad. Stop bullying me, I don’t like it. And why’d you change your mind so quickly? First you hate her, now you love her. You were jealous, but now you’re supportive. How am I supposed to keep up?”

Laughing at Rain’s childish tantrum and sullen pout, Yan decided that was enough for today. Perhaps Rain was right and Luo-Luo was a manipulative charlatan, but Yan would find out for herself. “Fine. Let’s talk about something else. What’s your secret to success on the front lines? Healing can’t account for all your accomplishments.” Over the last week, Yan made great strides in utilizing the miraculous Panacea with Lin as her teacher, and she already intended to beg Akanai to share it with Grandpa. A shame she couldn't share the secret with her retinue, but she understood why.

Half-expecting him to laugh off the question, Rain answered, “Crossbows. Want some? Talk to Luo-Luo, she’ll outfit your whole retinue with them. Your hubby will foot the bill.”

“How generous.” Wishing he’d given a different answer, Yan sighed. “Sadly, I don’t think I can accept your offer. If I armed my retinue with crossbows, they’d toss them in the latrines and mutiny.” Stupid Martial pride. Grandpa even made her give up the bow, called it a weapon ‘unbefitting’ for an Officer.

“Well, they’re super helpful. Point, fire, and a bunch of Defiled die. Armour and discipline helps too, and so do good scouts, but so far, range is king.” Having picked up an escort of cattle joining them on their stroll, Rain patted the closest one on the flank, a shaggy, reddish-brown behemoth with white patches around his eyes. “You want a couple war-bulls? They’re not all suitable for the battlefield, but wild cattle like Big Mac here are something fierce. Give Luo-Luo a few days and she’ll have them hitched to chariots, or if you’re feeling less daring, wagons.”

Though Rain claimed not to trust Luo-Luo, he certainly had faith in her skills. Suppressing her jealousy, Yan bit her lip and sighed. “The chariots I want, but the war-bulls... not so much. I think your cattle are adorable and their fierce reputation precedes them, but if I ride into battle in a modified ox-cart, I’ll be laughed at by the world over.”

“What? Why?”

“Because they’re cattle, the means of conveyance for peasants who can’t afford horses. I have enough problems with my reputation as it is without adding fuel to the fire.” And, despite their darling dispositions, cattle were notoriously difficult to train and also stank to High Heaven.

Luckily for him, Rain knew her better than to try and fix her problems or convince her his methods were better. Yan didn’t want a hero to sweep her off her feet, but a partner to support her, and Rain played his part perfectly. Squeezing her hand, he gave her a reassuring smile and Sent, “...Okay, no cattle then. Trained warhorses are in short supply, but since I don’t have to worry about public opinion, I’ll use the cattle and you can have my Guonei Chargers and Acasian Trotters.”

Yan wanted to refuse them, but she wasn’t sure she could afford to. Even Grandpa would find it difficult to purchase trained warhorses within the year, especially considering his bleak financial situation. Still, she couldn’t let Rain cripple his retinue and cast aside reputation to help her, so she Sent, “You keep them. Pretty boy Dastan won’t look quite as dashing sitting atop Moomie.”

“All the more reason to be rid of the horses. Dastan keeps making me look bad.” His troubled smile cast a pall over the joke as he added, “Don’t worry, I’ll keep enough mounts for his people and give you the extras. At this point, I have more horses than horsemen.” This time, it was her turn to support him and she did her best, resting her head against his shoulder as they wandered aimlessly around the field of grazing cattle. It didn’t feel like she was doing enough, but she knew Rain would only retreat if she pressed him to open up, so instead, she focused on avoiding the many cow turds in their path while giving him time to recover. It didn’t take long, but he quickly changed the subject. “My turn to ask questions. What’s your secret to using Chi externally? I’ve been trying for weeks and this is the best I can do.” Pursing his lips like he was about to whistle, Rain spat out a small stream of water which dissipated before hitting the ground.

Pretending to swoon, Yan Sent, “Oh such a daunting attack, I fear I will never be your match!” When she finished cackling, she kissed his wet, pouting lips and smirked. “What happened to ‘reaching your full potential by forging your own path’? Or is it do as I say and not as I do?” His pout darkened even further, but the lines around his eyes told her he was faking, shaking with barely contained mirth rather than unrestrained fury. “Honestly, what you did was fairly impressive. You already know how to materialize your Element, so now you need to focus on manipulation.”

“...and how do I do that?”

“I’m not sure it’ll help, but here’s how Grandpa explained it.” Taking a moment to gather her thoughts, Yan shared Grandpa’s lessons with Rain. “One cannot tame the wind, only shape the setting so the wind chooses to follow your will. Wind is a capricious element, and while many believe it embodies freedom, it follows a strict set of rules like any other force of nature...”

Hand in hand, they circled the field while Yan expounded on the intricate mysteries of the Divine Wind. Each time they completed the circuit, they checked in on Luo-Luo and picked up more followers until the entire herd of cattle and bunnies were accompanying them on their quiet stroll, but Yan still wasn’t finished. Rain had plenty of questions and when she didn't know the answer, they discussed the possible answers together, during which Rain had many insightful remarks to further Yan’s understanding. While they continued their discourse with their entourage of cattle and bunnies, Luo-Luo performed her dance twice more, but she seemed to have exhausted herself after the last iteration. There she sat with her mace laid neatly across her lap, while Yan and Rain circled the field three more times. As they came around the fourth time, Yan opened her mouth to chide Luo-Luo for shirking her training but before she could speak, the Imperial Servant sprang to her feet and struck an elegant pose. Arms out at her sides, her mace dangled loosely from her fingers as she arched her back and stared up at the sky, a mortal standing in supplication of Heaven above.

And then, using her body and weapon as instruments, Luo-Luo performed a piece composed by the Heavens itself.

Steps light and strikes heavy, the beautiful warrior leapt and pranced about the field, wielding her mace with spirited purpose in a deadly dance of destruction wholly unlike her previous performances. Swiping the Rushes paired with Gliding Wing, Parting the Underbrush followed by Fluttering Raindrops, Raising the Winds melded with Darting Fang, her movements announced themselves before Yan’s disbelieving eyes, the secrets of each underlying Form laid bare in these intrinsic configurations. Simple, yet sophisticated, rudimentary, yet intricate, at first glance Luo-Luo’s movements all seemed easy to learn, but each hid a myriad of complexities within which made them difficult to master.

While Yan struggled to commit each detail to memory, Luo-Luo’s performance continued unabated, her weapon gradually transforming from primitive mace to refined flail and her simple movements evolving into elaborate compositions. The flail howled as it spun through the air, one moment graceful and flowing, the next, twisting and snapping. A creature given life through Luo-Luo’s exhaustive efforts, body and weapon working in concert to strike down their foes. The weapon soared high and struck low, circling and spiralling like a serpent given wings, a formidable beast which struck fear into Yan’s heart, for were this creature to bare its fangs towards her, then she saw death as the only possible outcome.

And when the consummate performance ended, Luo-Luo stood with arms at her sides, weapon coiled about her feet, and eyes facing skyward, an arrogant warrior standing in defiance of Heaven.

“Fuck my life,” Rain muttered, thoroughly ruining Yan’s appreciation of the moment. “Why are all my wives more talented than I am?”

Chapter Meme
