“This is a complicated topic. In the case of enchanting, it is much better to use a conjured soul. In the case of bringing someone back to life, you must use the soul of the original person. Crossing these uses will cause major problems. So. Don’t use conjured souls to make a person; you have a very high chance of creating a monster that will then attempt to eat you. Don’t use sapient souls to create items. Not only is it cruel, but it is unnecessary, and you are making more problems for yourself down the line.

“Anyway. A conjured soul is what you get when you balance out the manasphere then add a spark of life in that balance with a resonant flex of your own soul, or, a tiny piece of your own soul. For the first method of soul creation, there is no cost besides a mild uncomfortableness. After this soul creation, you take the conjured soul and mold it properly to the item. In this way, what you are doing is akin to making someone else cast a spell.

“You have already achieved as much with your accomplishment of [Teleport Other], so this sort of enchanting should be within your capabilities.

“The second method of creating a conjured soul —the method where you use a piece of your soul— costs Experience to craft. You break off a piece of yourself that you are comfortable losing, that will cast the spells or cause the effects you wish to cause, and you stuff this nascent soul into an item, and then the item operates as you would.” Quilatalap said, “This second method does not usually need that much prompting in order to get the conjured soul to cast the spells of the item.

“So, you either teach the conjured soul to cast the spells you want, or you rip a piece of yourself off to then cast the spells without that teaching necessity. More teaching work in step one, or less teaching work in step two, but more personal cost.”

Erick heard and would remember all of that, but he was still stuck on one part in particular. He asked, “So… A conjured soul is... not alive?”

“It could be, if you stuck it in something that had the capability to live. A tree. A slime. Some other biological thing. You will likely end up with a monster if you attempt this. But if you stick that conjured soul in a to-be-created artifact, then the soul will grow to fill the purpose of the item, and then power that item. Some artifacts are alive in a rudimentary sense for this reason. Some artifacts made with actual people are actually alive, for this reason.” Quilatalap said, “It’s a lot more complicated than that. But that is the base idea. Ah! Don’t ever use your own soul to make something until you’ve done soul work on slimes, and such. Using your own soul is only for very, very high-level enchanting. Artifact enchanting. Enchanting where you’re not afraid of losing a part of yourself, forever, in order to have an artifact that does what you want it to do. Or, you know, when you know you won’t actually hurt yourself. Eventually, soul work gets easy, but… Not for a good sixty years of constant experimentation and testing.”

Erick was still concerned. It must have shown on his face.

Quilatalap added, “A conjured soul is a blank slate. A nothing, that has yet to become. By placing it in an artifact that already has a purpose engraved upon it, that soul becomes a working item. A sapient soul… even the barely-sentient souls of slimes, or other tiny things, are more. Real souls have personal choice in their lives. They have branching futures. A conjured soul is not that, for it has none of those things. But don’t trust me. Go ahead and work on some, and you will see.”

“… I don’t think I will be doing that any time soon.”

“Really?” Quilatalap looked at an Ophiel, flying free in the sky above. “He’s a rather good working. If I didn’t know better, then I would already think of you as a novice necromancer.” He added, “Or summoner, if you prefer that terminology.”

Erick changed the subject, “So! [Spelleport]?”

“Oh. Right.” Quilatalap said, “A niche spell, for sure, but I can see the uses. I am guessing you will have to use some combination of [Teleport Other] and [Intent Understanding]. But that might not work. Metamagic to adjust the spells of another is rather difficult. What is the goal of such a spell?”

“Defending from a Red Dot attack.”

Quilatalap thought for a second. He said, “This is just a guess, but you might want to pursue [Gate], instead. It would be rather easy to [Gate] a spell away from yourself, though I saw what you did with that Red Dot, so for such a working… You would need a heavily reinforced [Gate], lined with reflective magics, in order to have your [Gate] survive contact with a spell such as the Red Dot. But to actually [Teleport] a spell away from yourself? My first instinct with a [Spelleport] is that it is either Paradox Wizardry, or metamagic on the level of your [Renew].”

“Damn.” Erick asked, “How do you make that [Gate] spell?”

“I bought it for 10 points.”

Erick’s head drooped, as he cursed under his breath. “… Fuck.”

Quilatalap laughed. “I would never have been able to make it myself, Erick. I’m a hermit. I do know how to make it, though.

“What you do is you walk around the world, stopping here and there, enjoying yourself, then continuing on to parts unknown, or wherever your circumstance takes you. Do not use Spatial Magic to make your trip shorter, for that is an impossible task. That said, do manually cast whatever Spatial Magic you need; if it’s not as natural as breathing, you likely won’t get [Gate]. Do go into the Underworld. Do undertake a journey to the Core. Trust in the journey, for there is no destination.

“Take people with you for part of the trip, or the whole trip, if you want, but it is not necessary. Somewhere along the way, you’ll pick up some, and lose others. Somewhere along the way, you’ll step around a corner, and be exactly where you need to be. You’ll look back, and see that you passed through a [Gate], and the Quest will move on to part two, and the largest trial you will face will be right there in front of you.”

Erick thought for a moment. He said, “That actually sounds really nice. Why don’t more people know this method?”

“Because The Worldly Path is directly overseen by Melemizargo. You went on a small journey when you walked through Kendrithyst, but the Worldly Path is the truest form of the Journey into Darkness.”

“… Ah. I see.”

Quilatalap asked, “Ready for more magic, or got any more questions?”

“I think I’m done with questions for now. You’ve given me a lot of work.” Erick said, “I need to work on some of that, and then get ready for my meeting with Lapis in several hours.”

“Good luck with that. Don’t let her experiment on you. Keep up your soul defenses. Don’t use [Harmonic Counterspell] on her; she’ll notice and drain you dry, just to get you in a compromising position.” He added, “And I have a book for you about enchanting with souls. If the topic comes up, I don’t think she’d try to lie to you, but…” He paused. He said, “I have two books for you.”

Erick gave an involuntary shudder. He said, “I will gladly read those books, but maybe I need to work more on my Elemental Body, too.”

Quilatalap shrugged. “You won’t ever be able to match a Shade’s Elemental Body. The Script both helps and hampers you in this regard. You’re stuck to tier 1 or 1-point-5, if you include buffs. The Clergy has to manually make all their magic, but they’re not restricted to the lower tiers, at all.”

“Oh! That’s another question, then.” Erick asked, “How do I defend against someone turning my lightform into shadows?”

“A good soul defense will take care of much of that.” Quilatalap said, “Let us work on that, actually.” He held up a hand. Three shadow claws, each a meter long, appeared in the air. “These claws consume light. You won’t be able to defend against a Shade’s skills, but you might be able to defend against this, and the only way to defend against a Shade is to start somewhere.” He added, “[Greater Lightwalk] only. Aura only. Don’t put your body into this. Domain-work comes later.”

Erick flowed his light out to form a barrier two meters away from him. “Ready.”

Quilatalap’s shadowy claws tore right through Erick’s light, sucking his radiance into those three raptor talons like a never-ending sponge sucking up a lake. Light became tattered glows, as Erick’s aura ripped away, leaving him with nothing. He fell to his knees as cold enveloped him, like winter had come on while he wasn’t looking.

Erick shivered, whispering, “Holy crap.”

Still holding his shadow talons in the air, Quilatalap said, “Again. Soon as you’re ready.”

Eventually, Erick was ready.

Eventually, he used his Domain.

Eventually, he was able to resist some of Quilatalap’s [Shadow Talons], but all of the archlich’s attacks were glancing blows, and the 3000 year-old necromancer wasn’t even aiming directly for Erick. If he had, he would have struck, and Erick did not think he could have survived a strike from that spell.
