Quilatalap smiled. “Exactly!” He added, “In all cases of [Counterspell] and [Suppression], you’re going to want the best version of [Dispel] you can make. In some cases, that means using [Prismatic Breaker] to make your [Suppression]. In other cases it means using your [Grand Dispel].

“[Counterspelling] is a very, very large field of metamagic. But most people don’t even bother, because most people fight monsters, and monsters use skills that can’t really be countered. The only real use of [Counterspelling] is for when you’re fighting other people.” Quilatalap said, “But, by that same measure, if any death squads ever come for you, you’re going to want to know how to [Counterspell].”

“… A cheery thought.” Erick asked, “How to make a sticky [Dispel], though?”

“There’s at least ten good ways to go about that. One of the best ways is if you take your [Counterspell] and Mana Alter it into clinging Ooze or cloying Gloom, depending on your own proficiency. Another method is to link the [Counterspell] to a [Bind] spell, which is in turn made from an offensive [Conjure Armor]. I prefer the ooze version.”

“I’ve never tried ooze or gloom before. Let me… try…” Erick pointed to the side, and shot off something that was halfway between a [Water Bolt] and a [Stone Bolt], with a heavy emphasis on splashing and sticking.

Erick saw the resulting spell, and was instantly embarrassed. Quilatalap made no remarks, but then he saw Erick’s reaction, and smirked.

Since Erick’s magic was white, the glob of white stuff that splatted across the ground made a rather distinctive splooping noise, and possessed a rather distinctive look. Its resemblance to certain other physical substances was too close to not be remarked upon.

Quilatalap joked, “Green just looks like snot. Red is bloody boogers. Ooze never looks pleasant.”

Erick chuckled.

Quilatalap asked, “Would you like to try to learn counterspelling?”

“Yes! So how do we do this, with the 20 seconds between each spell, I mean?”

“Before the Script took over, it used to take multiple moments to cast a spell, so the disruption of spells was a much easier affair. And necessary, too. Counterspelling was much easier than actually casting most magic. But with the advent of the Script it takes less than a moment for spells to activate, and the pendulum has swung the other way.” Quilatalap said, “However, in the time dilation of Shadow’s Feast, those ‘instant’ cast times become something much larger.

“There’s an easier way, though.” Quilatalap said, “Counterspelling auras is the best way to learn.” A small shift took place in the air around Quilatalap. He smiled. “How many times will it take you to counter this?”

Erick gazed upon Quilatalap with the majority of his mana sense and with four different Ophiel each utilizing one each of [Soul Sight], [Blood Sight], [Mana Sight], and a secondary mana sense, just to be sure. And Erick was stumped. He had no idea what spell was surrounding the man. Quilatalap’s soul was the same as it ever was; an abyss of nothing lined with teeth. His blood looked normal enough, and flowed in most of the normal ways one would expect, while also possessing a lot more life than Erick would have expected from someone that was supposed to be ‘undead’. [Mana Sight] revealed the archlich’s aura, of course, but that aura seemed like nothing more than a shift in the world, a turn to the side, like… gravity?

“A gravity aura?” Erick asked, as he flicked a low powered, high intent [Dispel] at the man.

Quilatalap’s strange aura dissipated for a moment, before coming right back. You could do that with auras; [Dispel] only knocked out their use in that particular moment. Erick didn’t even get a blue box for his effort, likely because he hadn’t actually done anything besides a normal [Dispel].

Quilatalap smirked. “No spell?”

Erick shook his head. He offhandedly said, “This reminds me that I need to work on my own auras. Or rather, [Greater Lightwalk].”

Quilatalap nodded. “Elemental Bodies allow one to get around most of the Script’s controlling ways, since they are the basis for much of the Script’s functionality.” He added, “We can do that after you try this for a while.”

Erick cast again, aiming a 50-mana [Dispel] at disrupting what was already there. Whatever Quilatalap was casting could not have been more than 50 mana per second, and likely cost much, much lower.

It didn’t cause a blue box to appear, and Erick realized why.

“Oh. Right.” He said, “I should have been aiming at your creation of the aura. Not at the aura’s prominence.”

With some of his characteristically relaxed attitude, Quilatalap said, “I teach people how to [Counterspell] and yet every time it takes them hours before they come up with the same solution I told them. You only took a minute, though.”

“It’s tricky!” He added, “And your soul looks like an abyss lined with teeth. I’m afraid to actually touch too deeply with any sort of magic.”

Quilatalap just smiled, as he silently flexed his maw-ringed soul, knowing that Erick could see. Erick shivered.

Then he cast, aiming at the part between the archlich’s soul and the spell, where he saw mana, soul, and intent, all combined into the creation of an aura as heavy as gravity.

Quilatalap’s aura blipped off. It reappeared a full second later, which was a longer delay to reactivation than the first two times. Was that the true ‘capability’ of [Counterspell]? It might have been, because a box appeared.

Counterspell, medium range, 10 MP + Special Cost

Prevent a magic from being cast.

Costs as much mana as the spell you are trying to counter.

“Got it.” Erick said, “Basic [Counterspell].”

Quilatalap smiled wide as he clapped twice, and said, “Good job! Now that you have put the theory into practice, want to try for an automatic [Counterspell]? It’s the best way to make a [Suppression]. You don’t want to ever use the automatic [Counterspell] yourself, though, for the previously stated worst-case scenarios of trying to disrupt a too-big spell or a [Dispel]-resistant magic.”

Erick asked, “Is there a way to make an automatic [Dispel], too? One that will kill an ongoing magic, without spending excess mana?”

“… Technically, yes. But… Such a [Dispel] would hinder your ability to properly gauge the strength of a particular magic with your mana sense, because once such a spell is in your grasp, you would never need to learn how to use your mana sense to properly gauge the strength of a spell. In such a case, you could just guess at a rough cost, instead of gaining finesse in your spellwork.” Quilatalap said, “Like I said already: You shouldn’t ever use an automatic [Counterspell] in combat, and for the same reason as you shouldn’t ever use an automatic [Dispel]. But for a [Suppression], automatic [Counterspells] are the best at ensuring your [Suppression] lasts for as long as it is able.”

“Then I guess I won’t be trying that, and will instead just move right along.” Erick rapidly harmonized [Counterspell] with [Intent Understanding]. The two spells went together like an understanding discordance, as the spell flashed from Erick’s hand to strike Quilatalap with a flicker of darkness.

Quilatalap’s gravity well flickered, then came right back after a full second. [Counterspell] did work better against auras than a straight-up [Dispel]… So that was interesting.

A blue box appeared.

Harmonic Counterspell, instant, long range, 10 + Special Cost

Drains you of the mana necessary to prevent a magic from being cast.

That blue box was also interesting.

“[Harmonic Counterspell],” Erick said.

“Not too unusual of a name.” Quilatalap said, “I won’t be going further with you for any more counterspelling, though. This field of magic requires the basic spells, and then a whole lot of skill in timing, and calculation, and basic mage battling. You can practice that with Ophiels fighting Ophiels. I also feel that you should try to create some clinging ooze spells of other kinds, before you try your hand at [Suppression]. But, for now, and later, you know what to do. Good luck with that.” He asked, “Anything else you’d like help with?”

Erick instantly said, “The problems of fighting with Elemental Bodies. I’ve got most of my own worked out, but I know I could be doing better.”

Quilatalap nodded, then asked, “Have you gone through the whole list? That’s something a lot of people skip over, but I find it best to start at the beginning.”

“The… List?”

Quilatalap conjured a chalkboard that looked hewn from a quarry, and not taken from any classroom except possibly from a room in the school of hard rocks. Erick almost made that joke to Quilatalap, but it was missing cultural context, and it would have fallen flat. Instead, Erick abandoned the joke and read the words that were written upon the board’s surface, in six different columns. The first column was for Fire.

-Flame Touch, finger fire

-Flame Strike, temporary flame coating on weapon

-Inflame, make flame bigger / burn faster

-Torch, make flame stronger

-Flame Breath, careful for backlash

-Flaming Steps, run across fire

-Flame Shield, reactive shield / no defense

-Flame Weapon, weapon of flame / no defense

-Blessing of Fire, immune to natural fire damage, half magical damage

-Flame Sustain, make a flame self-sustaining

-Flame Armor, reactive flame

-Fireblend, meld with fire

-[Fire Body].

“Oh.” Erick said, “That list. Yeah. I know that.” He read the one for ‘light’.

-Glow, finger-sized light

-Light Strike, blinding flash on hit

-Empower, make light bigger

-Light Orb, a real light source

-Bright Pulse, a small damaging flash

-Light Steps, walk on light

-Light Shield, heavy defensive shield

-Light Weapon, heavy weapon

-Blessing of Light, immune to strong natural light, half magical damage, see through nearby light

-Bright Light, make a light damaging to everyone nearby

-Light Armor, heavy defensive armor

-Lightblend, meld with light

-[Lightwalk]

“Haven’t read that list in a while, though.” And he’d never really practiced with those functions, either.

Quilatalap said, “Do you know the true difference between [Lightwalk] and [Greater Lightwalk]?”

Erick had not exactly known before Quilatalap had asked, but seeing it laid out there like this, Erick had an inkling. “I’m guessing that the only true change is the ability to extend the [Lightwalk] well past the limits of my normal aura. But all of these options… I should already be able to do all of this.”

“Mostly correct. The size of your influence is the only real difference between Greater and Normal. But in that size difference, there are things like a Light Weapon not activating at larger than a tiny dagger, unless you’re at that particular level of the Elemental Body. All of the ‘Step’ abilities fall under this category, quite solidly, for to truly use the stepping abilities you must also have the blending and the range of the Greater Elemental Body in question.” Quilatalap asked, “Have you tried all of these functions with your [Greater Lightwalk]?”

“Not really… But—”

Erick took his lightform, and bent it, rapidly copying the abilities he saw on the ‘chalkboard’. His hand became a flashlight, a glowing globe flickered out damaging rays, a two-meter long sword landed in his hand, and then armor covered his body. Most of the abilities listed up there were normal enough stretches of his lightform that he just hadn’t thought to really do… Except for the lightswords. He had definitely used that one before now. Swords made of light seemed a lot more natural than armor made of light. Erick much preferred his sunform to any sort of armor, though this would prevent the necessity of spending a cooldown on conjuring armor, so…

This was good.

Erick said, “There’s just…” He smiled. “There’s just so much magic out there, isn’t there?”

“More than you or I will ever know.” Quilatalap said, “I still make new spells every once in a while.”

“I’m still not very good at enchanting. Or shadow magics.” Erick said, “Still not sure of my problems with those two subjects.”

“It’s not uncommon for a mage to develop a deficiency in one area of spell casting. My own deficiencies are with plant biologies, but I’ve never met anyone who couldn’t learn how to enchant once they actually learned how. The enchanting skills taught in arcanaeum is like approaching a sword fight with your swords attached to poles attached to arms you’ve never used before; it’s just not very good.”

“Ha! I mean… What?” He added, “I know that some of what they teach in arcanaeum is not exactly necessary, but I didn’t think it was that bad.”

“There is a certain stigma against proper enchanting, for proper enchanting is just the application of soulwork into a container that can replicate that soulwork.”

“… Oh.” Erick tentatively asked, “Necromancy?”

“No. Necromancy is a very crude term for proper enchanting.” Quilatalap explained, “There is a spell called [Greater Conjure Soul], that is the basis of all good enchanting. It is derived from [Conjure Force Elemental], but taken up several tiers and balancings beyond that Basic Spell. The general working is thus: with a [Greater Conjure Soul] in one hand, and the unenchanted item that you have carved and created in the other, you bring them together to make an actual magical item. It’s more complicated than that, but this is what the Clergy does for all of their artifacts. They make their souls manually, and you could leap far ahead in your own enchanting by attempting to do the same.”

“… [Greater Conjure Soul]?” Erick almost didn’t want to ask, but he did. “Like. A person’s soul?”

Quilatalap smiled, knowingly. “Here is where the capable necromancers are separated from all the rest. You can use a person’s soul for the vast majority of crafting soul work. Some of the less scrupulous hedge mages out there will do so, and some of them will achieve much of the same outcomes as a true enchanter, but they’re also murdering people to achieve those outcomes. This is unnecessary, and harmful to proper workings. If you use a person’s soul, you first have to cleanse it of all the impurities that is the life that person lived if you wish to use it for enchanting…

