Whatever the case, Erick couldn’t continue to accept help from the man until he knew a little bit more about him. So Erick asked, “Why are you helping me, Quilatalap?”

“I’ve got three gods that like you, and that’s more than a good enough reason to entertain the idea of assisting you in your magical career. Just to entertain the idea, though.” The 3000 year-old archlich nonchalantly added, “But my reason for helping you is that you’re an exemplary archmage, and I like teaching good students. That is my joy in life, and my reason for being. And then there’s the fact that ever since Kirginatharp called you an archmage that you’ve done nothing but good with the power that came your way. And you’ve only been at this magic-thing for a year! That’s insane! So, I will do what I can to help you in some small way, and so, I’ve decided to help you fill some holes in your spellbook. It’s not power, for I don’t often teach people how to gain power. It is utility, and the ability to stay alive, and you, Erick, certainly need some help to stay alive when the meteors start falling.”

Erick tensed. He asked, “What will happen to the people caught in the crossfire?”

“They’ll try to get out of the way. Most will succeed.” Quilatalap said, “Gods willing, if this thing ends with me in any position of power and not running for my life, I will see about reviving those who wish for such a thing, but I doubt many will. The people around here generally don’t like accepting [Resurrection]s.”

For a long moment, Erick thought.

He didn’t want to be the man who put down the monsters. He never had. But he knew the necessity of such actions. He felt that he had broken himself of his tendency to shy away from the ultimatums of life on Veird. But at the same time…

Hollowsaur took joy in killing those who came for his creations, in setting a boundary and laying treasure just beyond that boundary. He wanted to kill people who he could easily label as thieves and intruders. Was it possible to help Hollowsaur turn his desire to kill into something less destructive? He obviously cared about his little green people, and they cared about him.

Or was that thought too naive, and to what degree was it naive? Did Hollowsaur actually care about his people, or was that another layer of his ‘this is mine; you come here, I kill you’ line in the sand?

And what about Farix? He wouldn’t harm a child, and he wouldn’t harm someone if that harm would cause harm to a child. ‘Don’t kill children’ was a low bar, but in being able to pass that bar, Farix had hinted that he still had some sort of morality within him.

And yet… What of justice?

… Yeah. What of justice? Did justice matter? Or was kindness more important, when it came to guiding the powerful back into the light? Or, had these people ruined their chances at redemption long, long ago?

Even Hitler had a dog. But he deserved death.

Shades deserved no less.

And yet… Melemizargo’s insane touch might have had something to do with the decisions the Shades made when they became Shades. Before they were Shades, they were just people, looking for power and destruction, and they got it. They became powerful enough to become the law of the land. They became powerful enough to write their own laws.

But what of everyone else, and their innate right to be free of undue influence and danger?

And what of this world?

Was Erick unfairly ascribing a lenient morality to a world that could literally not support it? The only true ‘law of the land’ was you either followed the idea of ‘Polite Society’, or you didn’t. You either saved your murdering for outside of social interactions, or you didn’t. All other laws stemmed from ‘Might makes Right’.

… Even back on Earth, ‘Might Made Right’. Violence had just been turned into something that was solely the right of the State. Only the police could murder and get away with it, everyone else was forced to play nice.

… In that way, the society the Shades had built in the Brightwater was oddly similar to what Erick had grown up with.

But.

No.

They were not the same. The Shades were tyrants who killed to ‘make the world stronger’. But this world didn’t need more strength. Veird needed more compassion. More understanding. Less power, and more vulnerability.

But at the same time, the Shades still existed. And might still made right. So, like with the Black Star of Koyabez, was it better to end a threat now, or to let it lie in hopes that it could get better tomorrow?

Not too much time had passed since Erick fell to silent thought. Quilatalap graciously waited.

Erick asked, “Quilatalap. How do you deal with people that wrong you?”

He raised an eyebrow. “A philosophical conversation?”

“Not a long one. But, yes.”

“I have found that philosophy can flow rather long, depending on the depth of the problem, and I see you having some Big Thoughts behind those white eyes of yours. But that does not mean I will not oblige this detour.” Quilatalap said, “So. How to deal with someone who wrongs you: In my own affairs, I believe that everyone is their own person, out to get what they can, but limited by the circumstances around them. So I don’t begrudge people who wrong me.” Quilatalap said, “I also don’t give them the opportunity to do it again, but violence is rarely my own solution. Usually, I make myself scarce, and let time take care of my problems. It’s an easy stance to take when you’re immortal and very good at defending yourself. But at the same time, I recognized that it is easy for me to say that, when I have the power to enforce such an option. Not many can say the same.”

Erick said, “Perhaps, a better question would have been: How do you deal with those who wrong others?”

Quilatalap was quick to say, “All tyrants must die.” He added, “But in my own perspective: the tyranny of this world is a tiny, tiny thing. We are not dealing with the corruption of world-spanning cultures, or with powers rising from the depths successfully taking over society after society. We are not dealing with the wholesale murder of nations because some man in some room decided to press a glyph. Compared to the sights I have seen, you have never seen true evil, Erick, no matter what you may believe, and the Shades are far and away much more insane than they are true evil. All this world has is petty warlords, minor kings, and children playing with other children.”

A wind blew across the green fields, twisting the grass like it was seaweed at the bottom of an ocean.

Erick kinda felt like he was at the bottom of an ocean, too. Never seen true Evil? How could Quilatalap say that? Erick had seen evil when he rescued those people from Dorofiend’s lair. He had seen evil when the Halls of the Dead tried to summon a Breach Demon, and before that, when they killed Odaali with the Daydroppers. Thankfully, he had never seen Evil back on Earth, but maybe he would have been a better man today if he had seen true Evil before coming here, and seeing Evil in the white eyes of every Shade.

“Evil is not a matter of scale, Quilatalap.” Erick said, “Evil is a matter of quality.”

Quilatalap sighed, then minutely gestured to everything around him. “I am not blind to the horrors I see around me, Erick. But the Shades used to be the best of us. Their ‘Trials of Darkness’ have always been this deadly, but they used to be more… They used to be better about the process, about the journey and the destination. Less horror. More honor.

“But a lot of the people who come here... They misjudge the depths. They misjudge the power. They are young and stupid and they think themselves invincible. They think themselves ready. They try, and they fail, a great deal of the time. And it was their prerogative to try. To reach for power, and succeed or fail on their own merits.”

Erick let that percolate, for if he spoke his thoughts, he would have started to yell, and he did not want to yell. So he changed topics. He asked, “Are any of the current Shades redeemable?”

Quilatalap looked away. Then he looked to Erick. He asked, “What’s the next spell you want to attempt?”

That answered that question firmly enough.

Moments passed.

Erick said, “I will try to make this one, now.” He channeled some spells through his hands, along with Destruction mana, and harmonized the resulting sound. He cast to the left. A flicker of shadow leapt from his fingers and a blue box appeared.

Force Breaker, instant, long range, 75 MP

Trick a Force spell into breaking.

“That’s [Force Breaker]. For the next one... I think…” Erick held up a hand, and channeled mana through [Ward], but wrong, producing a shadowy glow of non-light. It wasn’t Shadow, but it was something shadow-like.

Tentatively, Quilatalap asked, “Are you going to try for [Ward Destruction]?”

“… No. Not today.” Erick considered his next needed spells. “Let me think about what's next.”

Quilatalap nodded, then said, “Let me know when you want assistance.”

While he was waiting for the global cooldown to come back, Erick decided to ask one of Jane’s questions. “Ever heard of a buff spell that makes one regenerate more mana than usual?”

“It’s not a spell, but there is a way to do this.” Quilatalap said, “Through the use of your mana sense, and flicking Meditation on and off, you might be able to see the way that mana flows into your soul. If this doesn’t work, you can try using weak mana potions to see this flow. Once you understand the flow, by using your aura you will be able to purposefully pull in extra mana into the well of your soul.

“But understand that this is a skill of last resort, and there is no resulting Blue Box for this ability. It is one of those things the Script does not automate for you, for it is dangerous, and will likely harm you when you try to force this mana into your soul. It is like when you use too many strong mana potions, and just like in that case, you cannot do this action too often, for you risk condensing rads into your body.” He added, “Personally, I think this is an unnecessary skill to learn because it promotes the wasteful expenditure of mana. Learn to cast more efficiently, and this skill becomes a waste of time.”

Erick nodded along, considering all of that.

He decided on his next spell. He cast to the left, chaining together the Destructive versions of [Mana Sight], [Soul Sight], and [Blood Sight], onto the Audio and Visual options of [Ward]. He didn’t have [Witness], yet —he’d need to be able to look a day in the past to be able to get that spell— but maybe he didn’t need to go that deeply into this particular working.

A large sphere appeared, looking like rainbow static. A blue box appeared right after.

Sealed Privacy Ward, instant, medium range, 500 mana

Disrupt all light, sound, mana sense, and life sense as it exits a large area. Lasts one hour.

When ended, Sealed Privacy Ward further disrupts all mana sense within the space.

Erick smiled. Then he stuck his head inside the space.

From the inside, the rest of the world looked normal; he could see out without impediment. Pulling his head out, and adjusting his senses toward the mana, he couldn’t see inside, but when he stepped inside, he could sense the interior, and the exterior, just fine. Good. The spell disrupted mana sense in one direction, just as he hoped it would.

He ended the spell. It collapsed in a crushing rainbow of shadow and light.

Erick blinked his mana sense into the past, and had a look. If he had done it wrong, he would have been able to see his own head, peaking into the formerly protected space. And he sort of saw that, but there was also a great deal of static and overlapping blind spots overlaid upon everything. Not a perfect [Privacy Ward], but it was close enough, for now.

Quilatalap asked, “No [Witness], yet?”

Erick frowned. “Nope.”

“Going to have to remake that one.”

“Yup.” Erick moved right along, asking, “What about a lingering [Dispel]? And [Counterspelling], too?”

“Let’s consider the second desire, first, for [Counterspell] is the spell at the heart of all lingering [Dispel]s, which is itself a new spell, known as [Suppression].

“There are three ways to [Counterspell]. Active counterspelling is when you have a good mana sense on the target and you can see how much mana they’ve put into a spell, and then you [Dispel] that spell, as it is happening. This leaves you open to spells slipping through your counters. This type of counterspelling does not use the [Counterspell] spell, and is the most mentally taxing version of the practice of shutting down an opposing caster.

“The second version of [Counterspell] is through the use of the spell, [Counterspell]. This version has a half-second window where you can cast the [Counterspell], and the enemy cannot cast whatever spell they were trying to cast. In this version of [Counterspell], you must still choose how much mana you wish to spend.

“With enough practice, and enough skill with your active mana sense, you can know, roughly, how much mana you need to spend on your [Counterspell].

“The third, and most dangerous way to [Counterspell], but also perhaps the cleanest, is instead of using [Dispel]s normal functionality of ‘spending X mana to remove a spell of X cost’, you instead open up your mana pool, allowing your [Counterspell] to automatically pull from you enough mana to automatically spend that Variable cost to fully counter whatever spell the enemy might be casting. This [Counterspell] includes [Intent Understanding], so you’re at tier 3 for this sort of working, at least.” Quilatalap said, “The problems with such a working is that you might end up at zero mana, when you try to end the enemy mage’s major spell, or you might be tricked into gutting yourself by a mage using a specifically [Dispel]-resistant magic. The most often result of using a [Perfect Counterspell] is an economically countered spell, but you must be aware of the edge cases when considering magic like this.”

Erick thought about that for a moment, then asked, “What’s [Suppression]?”

“Now here’s where things get truly tricky. [Suppression] is throwing a ‘sticky [Dispel]’ onto a target, for 10,000 mana or however much, and then that [Suppression] automatically counters everything the caster does.” Quilatalap said, “In this way, the third, automatic-version of [Dispel] is the best [Counterspell] to use when making your [Suppression], for obvious reasons.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Because it can use the mana put into the working as needed, instead of in possibly-useless discrete chunks.”

