“Why's that?” The Commander asked.

“It's within the limit of my Aura.” Ren said. “Anything outside of that, and they'll escape.”

“Understood.” The Commander said, and looked at the gathered dwarves. “I was going to say that this mission is strictly volunteer, but you're all mostly volunteer anyways.” He said and smiled. “Gather the picks and shovels you'll need. This pit has to be done as soon as possible.”

Ren took out a pair of steel squares and enchanted them with the Sending glyph, without anyone noticing. “Take this.” He said, and handed one of the squares to the Commander. “Let me know when I can start luring the giants to the pit area.”

The Commander looked at the Sending Square, then at Ren. “Where did you get these?” He asked. “I've never seen anything like them before.”

“You haven't been to the Main House at House Neram then.” Ren said and smiled.

“I may have to visit it soon.” The Commander said and pocketed the square.

“How many diggers do we have that are willing to do this?” Ren asked.

Twenty dwarves raised their hands.

“Perfect.” Ren said and took out a crate that held a suit of armor. “I've got something for you.”

“I take it those are the suits of armor you mentioned a while ago, that you have at a discount for the Garrison?” The Commander asked.

“Yeah.” Ren said. “I've been selling them out of my store in the human kingdom.”

“We'd definitely be interested in buying them.” The Commander said.

“Buy them?” Ren asked. “I own the Garrison, remember? All I'm doing is equipping a special unit for a mission.”

The Commander nodded slightly. “Why are they bare metal, though?”

“Because I haven't dyed them yet.” Ren said, enchanted the chest pieces with Protection glyphs, and dyed the armor a mottled gray, just like the regular uniforms.

“This is great!” The first dwarf to put on the bodysuit and armor said. “It's lighter and easier to move in.”

“Okay, now I want in.” One of the dwarfs that didn't raise their hands said, and the others laughed. Ren equipped 22 dwarves in armor and Protection glyphs, and they left to start digging the pit.

“All right.” The Commander said, then turned to Ren. “Get out there and stop as many giants as you can.”

“Now that I know where to look, it should go faster.” Ren said, nodded slightly to the Commander, and to the healer; then climbed up to sit on Princess' saddle again and took off at a run, with his two dogs close behind.
