"Rite of might," Shiv said to himself. He looked down at Marcus's face and tried his best to remember it as he saw it now. He told himself that some people never had a chance. With that came an understanding. "Adam, I was pretty lucky, wasn't I, despite everything?"

Philosophy 30 > 32

The Gate Lord blinked and considered Shiv's statement. "Maybe," Adam said. "Maybe we all are. Maybe we still are. We're still alive, and we're still with each other."

"Still alive, still together," Shiv said. There was a lot to be thankful for and a lot to feel burdened by. Despite everything Shiv had learned about his parentage, about his past, about what might loom in the future, he felt lucky. There was a great deal of good alongside the bad. He never regretted becoming a Pathbearer. He loved it. He loved it still.

Even if his immortality was a thing born at Udraal's hands, it was his Path, and he was going to walk it to its end, whatever that may be. He was going to use it to make this world a better place as much as he could. He wanted to cook more for people, and he wanted to hurt less. Fighting, it was still enjoyable. Destruction and power, it was still addicting.

But death...

Shiv had seen so much death. He was sick of seeing people die for the stupidest things. He was tired of murdering the weak and foolish. All those lives lost, for what? Just because some people wanted to maintain their own interests? More often than not, it was because those people were fragile on the inside. They lied to themselves. They were too weak, and so other people had to die for them, for meaningless causes fought by meaningless people.

Shiv didn't want to be meaningless. He didn't want anyone to be meaningless. He despised the System more than ever as he stood here and hardened himself for what he was about to do. He placed his mask on his face then, and he gave Marcus his final farewell. "Goodbye, Marcus. I'm gonna be taking what's left of your life now. Hopefully, you won't be too embarrassed by what I do."

"Hopefully you'll be able to maintain this cover for longer than two hours," Adam added.

"Yeah," Shiv replied. "Hopefully."

As he focused on Marcus, his body began to burn. As the flesh caught on fire, as his soul kindled, it rushed into Shiv's mask as a surging blaze. This time, he felt the full weight of Marcus's soul briefly imprint on him, and there were several skills for him to pick from.

Just then, Marcus's full set of skills loaded before him, and the Deathless took in the finer details of his Perfect Semblance's new soul. He chose everything that Marcus was supposedly good at: Fieldcraft, Survival, Surgery, Practical Metabiology.

Shiv

Name: Tanner “Shiv” Lowe

Age: 18

Race: Human

Path:

Deathless

Feats [4/5]: He Who Rises From Ash Eternal (Unique) - Allows the Pathbearer to quickly learn new Skills and advance existing Skills through repeated deaths.

Master of Rage (Master) - Allows the Pathbearer to infuse a skill with rage to increase its effectiveness. Consumes the Pathbearer’s anger.

Causal Scargiver (Unique) - Causes the injuries inflicted by the Pathbearer to be scarred upon their enemy across time and causality.

Dread-Tainted (Legendary) - The Pathbearer has left a divine being scared with terror. Gods have fled your presence. You are now a source of absolute fear. Allows the Pathbearer to lace their skills with the divine entity’s lingering terror.

Skills:

Marksmanship (Common) > 13

Baking (Common) 9

Barter (Common) > 10

Alchemy (Common) 2

Engineering 1 (Common)

Lance Proficiency (Common) 1

Acting (Common) 16

Riding Proficiency (Common) 1

Leadership (Common) 6

Rhetoric (Common) 1

Memorization (Common) 14

Physics (Common) 2

Dodge (Initiate) 32

Philosophy (Initiate) 30

Deception (Initiate) 37

Multi-Tasking (Initiate) 38

Pyromancy (Initiate) 18

Spear Proficiency (Initiate) 11

Practical Metabiology (Initiate) 43

Psychomancy (Initiate) 28

Hydromancy (Initiate) 15

Whip Proficiency (Initiate) 13

Analyze 1 (Initiate)

Portomancy (Initiate) 6

Frictionless Vector (Adept) 88

Deepest Edge (Adept) 66

Berserk (Adept) 21

Golemancy 1 (Adept) 26

Farsight 51 (Adept) 74

The Chef Unwavering (Master) 64

Strider of the Unbending Path (Master) 160

The Creeping Void (Master) 115

Plaguefueled (Master) 79

Shape of Monstrosity (Master) 139

Psycho-Cartography (Master) 93

Sticks and Stones (Master) 58

Inertial Overdrive (Heroic) 170

Aegis of Assimilation (Heroic) 116

Pillar of Orichalcum (Heroic) 255

Vitality Drain (Legendary) 122

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides (Legendary) 502

Vitaemancy (Unique) 116

Non-Sequitur (Unique) 104

Blessings:

Song of the Vigilant - Allows the Pathbearer to maintain absolute focus while the song is active. The song will expand out from the Pathbearer as a web and form a Resonant Perimeter.

Icon of the Paindrinker - Allows the Pathbearer to manifest the icon from their body. The icon will magnify the damage and pain the Pathbearer and all nearby enemies and objects suffer.

Curses:

Favored Archenemy - An orc will always be able to sense your presence, regardless of guise or appearance. An orc will always have a sense for where you are. Regardless of dimension, world, distance, or time, you are marked for an eternal war.

Hands of the Bloodied - Anything you craft and create will be stained with blood and degrade at an increased pace.

Rituals

Bloodrites of the Vaketh-Insul - Slay enemies of an appropriate quantity and tier to gain an equivalent in orc recruits from the Lone Star Orchestra

Name: Marcus Unblood

Age: 17

Race: Human

Path: Healer

Skills:

Swimming (Common) 19

Animal Handling (Common) 18

Cooking (Common) 15

Woodcarving (Common) 11

First Aid (Initiate) 40

Stealth (Initiate) 39

Observation (Initiate) 36

Tracking (Initiate) 35

Endurance (Initiate) 32

Skinning (Initiate) 28

Foraging (Initiate) 25

Climbing (Initiate) 21

Survival (Initiate) 49

Fieldcraft (Initiate) 48

Surgery (Initiate) 47

Practical Metabiology (Initiate) 45

Silent Movement (Initiate) 42

Knife Proficiency (Initiate) 41

Trap Making (Initiate) 38

Camouflage (Initiate) 37

Archery Proficiency (Initiate) 33

Toxin Resistance (Initiate) 29

Applied Botany (Initiate) 26

Tanning (Initiate) 22

Ironhide (Adept) 51

Curses:

Mana-Warped - Your connection to mana is fundamentally broken. Your corrupted ambient mana flow has permanently damaged your body.

Fleshwithered - Your cellular regeneration is corrupted. Wounds heal into thick, knotted scar tissue that restricts movement and deadens nerves. Your organs and muscles will constantly wither. Over time, patches of your skin lose vitality, becoming grey, numb, and brittle. Constant medical intervention is required to prevent creeping necrosis.

It shamed Shiv a bit that Marcus was ahead of him in Practical Metabiology, but he also noted how the unblooded boy's highest skill was Iron Hide, a Toughness skill. That wouldn't be hard for Shiv to fake at all, so he let it go. Just then, Shiv wondered if he had managed to extract one of those skills from Marcus's body, if he could bring him back to life. Part of him wanted to try, but as Marcus settled into his mask and turned to nothing but ash, Shiv let it go as he selected the Adept-Tier Skills he needed. Afterwards, he let Marcus remain at peace.

Adept-Skill Thief (5/5)

Survival (Initiate) 49

Fieldcraft (Initiate) 48

Surgery (Initiate) 47

First Aid (Initiate) 40

Tracking (Initiate) 35

Perhaps that was the one advantage Marcus had over Shiv: peace.

No one would bother him again. He would never struggle, and he would never face any pain, unless another life awaited those who died or an imperfect afterlife existed. Shiv, on the other hand, was probably going to experience a great deal of torment.

He let out a low breath. Then so be it. That was what it meant to be a Pathbearer. That's what it took to exact his revenge on the world itself. Because that's what Shiv ultimately hated: the world, the weakness in people, and the darkness it drove people to, incentivized by the cruel hand of the System.

As the flames settled around Shiv, his outer shell was reforged. He looked down at his arms and hands and found himself wearing... well, nothing. Marcus was dead, covered by a sheet and nothing more. The Deathless grunted as he looked down. "Now this is felling awkward," Shiv muttered to himself. As he looked between his legs, he saw another reason why he felt bad for Marcus. The fucking curse was a nightmare down there. It was withered. Marcus’s voice was also hoarse and weak—vocal cords atrophied. He looked to Merrielmel and Concelhaunt. "Got another favor to ask. You guys got any leftover clothes here, student-sized?"

***

As it turned out, they did have extra uniforms. In fact, they had a few thousand extra uniforms, all packaged in a set of dusty crates. They were old uniforms from decades past, but they were still more than wearable. Shiv found a Phoenix Academy ensemble and dressed himself. All students received a canvas shirt on the inside, silk leggings, and cotton socks. Wrapped over those items was a padded utility vest that was colored black and gold. It had several pouches for potions, elixirs, and other gadgets, along with a belt meant for a few knives on the side, which Shiv approved of. Then there were the leather pants, griffin hide by the feel of it. The boots were likely made from an ogre's flesh, if Helix was correct.

And finally, there was the coat. It was more cape than coat in some ways, with how the back flapped freely. Though the arms and the fabric that cascaded down the sides of Shiv's body were a bright blue, denoting him as a first-year, his back was a stripe of darkness, emblazoned with a golden creature: the symbol of Phoenix Academy.

The blazing bird held a great blade between its beak and clutched a quill between its talons. Around it, there was a faint glow, an illusory enchantment that made the symbol seem as if it were actually on fire. If one focused for long, they could also hear the phoenix screech, but since Shiv had an actual encounter with a genuine phoenix, he knew that was the call of a hawk instead.

To be fair, if a normal person heard a phoenix's screech, their eardrums would likely burst, and their insides would probably combust as well. Phoenixes were not docile creatures, and they very much did not appreciate being disturbed.

"Alright," Shiv said, "how do I look?"

"Well, the uniform looks quite nice," Adam replied, staring him up and down. "A bit old and a bit worn in a few places, but quite nice. The academy has always cared for the quality of its fabrics. But you yourself..." Adam winced slightly. "I don't know how to say this without speaking ill of the dead, but, well, Marcus is a bit deformed around the torso, but not so much the arms. It's very evident even when you're wearing clothes. You're, uh..."

"I'm gonna run into some assholes?" Shiv ventured.

"You might," Adam replied. "More like snide remarks than anything. The rules are that you always have to wear your overcoat when on academy grounds. It's recommended that you keep the pants and vest on as well, but aside from that, you can wear anything you want on the inside: armor, robes, anything. The overcoat is self-repairing, and it usually comes with… Huh… Right. No lapel yet.”

"Lapel?" Shiv asked.

"It's how the university sends you notifications. It's a Divination construct," Adam explained. "Usually, the lapel is a small mithril pin. It goes on your overcoat's collar; there, someone can scan it using their Analyze skill to see which year you're in, what classification or program you belong to, and which dorm you reside in."

"And I'm guessing poor Marcus didn't get a lapel because he's dead," Shiv guessed.

"Correct," Irons said. "He would need to be formally registered and scanned before he can get a lapel. It requires a one-to-one connection with his soul, after all." That made Shiv a little nervous. "So, I hope your Perfect Semblance works well," Irons grunted. “Otherwise, there will be questions when we resolve your registration.”

“We?” Shiv asked.

“You’re going to need an alibi and a justifiable story as to why you’re not dead, won’t you?” Irons asked.

Shiv grunted. “Got any ideas about how I came back from the dead?”

The Captain paused, and then he smirked slightly. “A few. Head trauma is a funny thing. As are certain toxins.” He shot Helix a look. “Orc, can you induce a state of toxicity?”

“Please,” the orc Biomancer humphed. “There is little I cannot do to the body. He will be in whatever state I desire.”

“Good,” Irons said. “Because recovering from a deep poison that stopped the heart is rare, but it has happened before. To make this seem proper, though, we need you to wake up where Marcus was. Which means you’re taking those clothes off again soon.”

Shiv blinked. “Oh. We’re doing a morgue-awakening-thing.”

Irons nodded. “Indeed.”

“This might be the most demented admissions scheme ever concocted,” Adam muttered in disbelief.
