Aielef’s girls were meek, and Vernoue only saw them at royal banquets; Aielef had trained them well, much like their mother. Nothing like Nanette and Mrsha, from the brief interaction that Vernoue had had.
She didn’t know quite how to bring up Lyonette to Aielef. When she tried, the 3rd Princess had been dismissive.
“Oh, all the rumors? Once I realized it was Mother’s schemes, I ignored it. She’s rehabilitating Lyonette’s image, just like Seraphel’s. At least Seraphel’s earned it. Why, has Lyonette done something else?”
Aielef was impatient, eager to get her royal duties out of the way and spend her time in her private pursuits. Likely one of her affairs—though she did seem oddly fit. She showed Vernoue a bicep with actual muscle on it.
“I’ve been practicing swordplay. It’s rather…invigorating. You recall Ser Solstice put me onto the notion? Well, that damn Vensha’s been hounding me like a dog, but I have been diligent! My daughters, Azole and Ayuse, take to it almost as much as Aumerth.”
Her son. Vernoue definitely hadn’t forgotten the boy existed. She made a polite noise as Aielef rode with her in the carriage. Little Ellet was with them, bouncing to ask about her nieces and nephew, but too intimidated by Aielef to talk. The 3rd Princess continued.
“It’s even made Ronnel chase after me. Kalivians are so…odd. Half my people seem to think the more muscular I get, the more alluring. I suppose they take after the Griffin Queen, but what if I have a body like that Sinew Magus?”
She seemed…slightly pleased by her husband’s renewed interest in her, but Vernoue didn’t say that to Aielef’s face. Certainly, Aielef the Fierce was more in character with the image she had cultivated publicly, but the mention of Menisi made her confidence wane in a second.
“What’s this about Menisi?”
“She’s not returning to court. I was wondering what you knew about, ah, Nomaudrel. Personally, Aielef.”
They all had an excellent education in the kingdoms of Terandria, but Vernoue was at a loss for anything detailed. Aielef’s blank expression clearly said the same. She snapped her fingers.
“…Ellet! This is a fine time to show us what you’ve learned in your lessons!”
“Of course, Sister Aielef!”
Ellet popped up like an excited bean, and Aielef smiled despite herself. Ellet piped up, clearly reciting from memory.
“Nomaudrel is the 2nd smallest Kingdom in Terandria, next to Tourvecall! It’s in the middle of Terandria, on the eastern side next to the Lantocracy of Bitorm. Bitorm’s on the coast then you go down to Desonis, and Nomaudrel’s to the west. Erribathe is in the middle, because it’s the best~”
She was singing one of the kingdom-songs you learned as a child. Aielef interrupted Ellet, a tad bit impatiently as the song played in her and Vernoue’s heads too.
“Less geography, more facts.”
“It has…it ships as many alchemical products as Ailendamus? It has more pleasure districts than any other kingdom, and it’s been censured three times this century by the Hundred Families for unbecoming acts within its domains!”
Ellet said that with a child’s earnestness, and it was Vernoue who blushed. Aielef blinked, as if wondering if a child should know all that.
“Er, yes, very good. It’s a major trading partner for Calanfer, Vernoue. Thanks to the deal we struck, we get plenty of goods, both useful and the kind Shardele loves to inhale. They have a reputation for, er, passions. Not like Kaaz, which is all duels and hot blood. They were founded by one of the Hundred Heroes, Mandrel the [Bard]. And Menisi is married to a Grand Duke of the realm. Lord Duke Naodin. The less said about those two, the better.”
Her expression suggested that Ellet would need to be ejected from the carriage if Vernoue wanted to go on. She hissed at Vernoue as she asked Ellet about her classes.
“Why do you want to know?”
“I was thinking of visiting.”
Aielef’s eyes bulged. She grabbed a flask from her side and chugged it madly. The liquid was slightly green as she wiped her mouth.
“Visiting? Are you mad—Menisi’s not likely to accept in any case. She hates us. You might be too young to remember her, but I still have nightmares of her.”
“Really? Why?”
Vernoue only remembered the wedding—which had been bad enough to stick in the memory. She noticed Ellet listening and recalled the girl had the [Long Ear] Skill, but Aielef’s next comment distracted her.
“She used to war with Mother. That was the only time I ever remember Ielane raising her voice. And Menisi—she was a terror. Back when we were all girls, they said she would inherit the throne, not Shardele. She could use her aura, and she was always faster than us at, well, everything. I was better at riding and physical things, and Shardele could be a better hostess, but Menisi trumped us at all else. She’d debate Father at the dinner table. You don’t remember any of this?”
“I was, uh, probably reading my spellbook.”
“Sounds like you. But don’t go looking for Menisi anymore. Don’t you remember the wedding? Griffins nesting, I’ll never forget her look—”
“What look?”
Ellet’s question made the two sisters jump. They smiled innocently, but Ellet frowned mightily.
“I want to know! She’s my sister too, and I’ve only met her once! Aren’t I a [Princess] of Calanfer? No one will tell me anything about Lyonette or Menisi! Or whether Seraphel’s alive!”
Her lip began to tremble dangerously, and Aielef and Vernoue wavered, then gave in before Ellet the Adorable. Aielef glanced around as if searching for spies even in this carriage. They were, in fact, all around them, wearing the golden armor of Thronebearers, but that was a given.
“Alright, but don’t repeat it around Mother. She and Menisi—let’s just say if you ever want to catch Mother in a temper, it’ll be by mentioning Menisi’s name. They had some grand falling out when Menisi was, oh, nineteen, I think? The palace was in uproar all day. All month, really. By the end of it, Menisi was married off to the Grand Duke in Nomaudrel, far as you can get while still establishing an alliance to Calanfer. Her wedding was so fast half the kingdom had barely heard of it.”
“And her face? What about her face?”
Ellet was drinking this in with both fascination and uncertainty, as if she couldn’t believe their mother would be mean to anyone. Aielef chugged more of the liquid in her flask and thrust it at Vernoue, who was very disappointed to learn it wasn’t alcoholic and was, in fact, salty and warm.
“She just—stared. Didn’t look at the Grand Duke, nor at the poor official doing the vows. She stared straight at Mother the entire time until the kiss. I swear, I thought she did have a Skill that could curse or kill. I’ve never seen someone appear that ready to do murder, and I’ve seen both war and people sentenced to death in Kaliv’s courts!”
Ellet did shudder then. Vernoue remembered that look as well.
“So you haven’t spoken to her since? Dead gods, Aielef, what’s in this horrid drink?”
Defensively, Aielef snatched it back.
“It’s healthy for you. Rejuvenates the body after you sweat out vital minerals and whatnot. I bought the recipe from Magus Grimalkin’s academy! Even Lady Pryde uses it!”
“It tastes like salted bathwater.”
“May I try, please?”
That took the conversation from Menisi, but it meant Vernoue was more apprehensive about this meeting. She didn’t tell her sisters she’d found Menisi’s intent to actually murder their mother. The worst and most terrible part was that Vernoue wasn’t even that surprised.
She…understood why Menisi might have done it. She didn’t even feel horrified in the sense of fear for Ielane, just horror at the deed itself. What did that say about…
 
——
 
Distractions! A [Princess] had her duty, and Vernoue’s duty today was to go and honor heroes of the Eternal Throne. In this case, it wasn’t even something her mother had ordered; it was a favor to Lyonette.
Aielef, Vernoue, and Ellet. Three royal [Princesses] to honor a single individual. Well—continue honoring as he’d already had his moment to be recognized before the Eternal Throne. But this was personal, especially to Ellet and Lyonette.
Ser Lormel had a daughter who was younger than even Ellet and hid behind him as he tried to stand and bow before them. His wife was a very flustered woman, a [Court Mage] who bowed over herself as he rose to his feet.
“Don’t stand, please, Ser Lormel! We’ve come to check on your health and bring you gifts!”
“Your Highnesses, this is an honor—you needn’t have come this far for me!”
“But I must! You defended my sister, and you’re a hero of Calanfer!”
Only Ellet could say it so earnestly that it made Vernoue and Aielef blush and try to be more official. They both curtseyed to Lormel, who was red-faced with embarrassment, especially because his fellow Thronebearers were also performing the same bows.
Hero of Calanfer. He’d have his name enshrined in the Thronebearers’ keep, and for his valor in defending a [Princess] of Calanfer from mortal peril, he would be given a handsome sum for the rest of his life. Thus, Calanfer rewarded its faithful servants.
However, Ser Lormel’s delight at being home, his love for his daughter, whom he persuaded to come out and thank Princess Ellet for visiting—all of it was somehow shadowed. It was only after Ellet announced she wanted to tour the house and both daughter and mother went to show her around so she could exclaim how wonderful it all was that Vernoue saw it.
“My sister, Lyonette, asked me to personally check on you, Ser Lormel.”
“Princess Lyonette?”
His head rose, and she realized Lyonette hadn’t visited him. Lormel felt at his arm, or rather, the stump on one shoulder. It had been lost when he blocked the Deathslayer Arrow. His face grew relieved—then pained.
“Has she—has she said if more Thronebearers have been lost in her defense? Ser Dalimont? Dame Ushar? I would have ridden to wait for Ser Sest’s funeral barge, but I was deemed unfit for it.”
Aielef spoke too loudly and grandly as she placed a hand on Lormel’s shoulder.
“Reinforcements are yet on the way. Worry not about my sister, Ser Lormel. You have gone above and beyond the call of duty for a Thronebearer of Calanfer!”
He bowed to her, but his face—was guilty.
“I missed the Winter Solstice. And more. If I had been there, perhaps—three Thronebearers wouldn’t have been enough to ward Her Highness.”
“You cannot blame yourself for that, Ser Lormel. You blocked a Deathslayer Arrow! With your shield and body!”
Vernoue reminded him, and the [Knight] half-smiled, but his eyes—they followed his daughter as she ran out of the rooms, following a giggling Ellet.
“My finest hour. Yet I was relieved to be sent home, Your Highness. I am called a hero, but I feel more like a coward.”
“Nonsense, Ser Lormel. You are an inspiration to the Order! Ser Sest, another hero!”
One of the Thronebearers spoke up, clasping a gauntlet to his breast, and the great compliment didn’t seem to even touch Lormel. He just gave the other [Knights] a half-amused glance and shook his head.
“That inn…and service to the 6th Princess illuminated me in ways I did not think possible. Your Highness. I am, sadly, ill-of-use until a magical prosthesis can be fit to me. Even then, I shall be a lesser knight. But I hope to carry some of the…”
He flexed his good hand.
“…need I saw into whatever I do next.”
What a strange thing to say. What had he seen? Vernoue remembered Lyonette and understood some of it. Aielef was clearly searching for more inspiring platitudes when Ellet ran up.
“Ser Lormel, don’t speak so! You must rejoin my bodyguard! I’ve missed you so terribly, and I’ll trust my life in your hands—h-hand! We’ll get you a new hand! And you’ll be my [Knight-Captain], and—and I’ll take your daughter into my service as a handmaiden!”
He bowed to her as she tried, so terribly earnestly, to give something back to him with all the power of a [Princess]. But the guilt…Vernoue spoke.
“Dame Ushar I had a chance to see, and she assured me Ser Dalimont is well, Ser Lormel. They are continuing the battle, and there are servants of Calanfer with Lyonette. Shall I pass on any words to her if I should see her first? Perhaps she might find a way to…call.”
He met her eyes, and that spark grew as he bowed again, deeply.
“I should be honored, Your Highness. I do wish my comrades-in-arms all the strength. It has been an honor to protect House Marquin.”
Sometimes…sometimes it was hard to be a [Princess] in the face of such earnest loyalty. Vernoue murmured her own thanks, avoiding looking at Lormel, and saw his wife’s expression of faint relief. A bodyguard-duty for Ellet was safe enough. That he had not gone back to Izril—yes, Vernoue saw the other side of Lyonette’s levels there.
And still.
She yearned to be half as bright as the 6th Princess of Calanfer. Perhaps the entire world was changing, from the New Lands, from Lyonette’s name being mentioned in a good light.
Or perhaps it was simply the future weighing on the present. For when Vernoue returned to the palace with Lormel’s assurance he’d be with Ellet once he was further healed and rested, a letter was waiting for her.
It was a pale pink, wrapped with a green bow, and pressed with a wax seal that almost seemed dirty, flecks of white wax amidst yellow and red. The note inside was simple, and that bold handwriting was again clear and precise.
 
Vernoue,
I don’t know how you found my letter. Come as you wish, and I shall host you. If this is your attempt at something, Ielane, don’t send her at all. You will regret it if it’s one of her games, Vernoue. Choose carefully.
—Menisi.
 
Well. That was ominous. Vernoue swallowed hard, then went to petition her mother for a visit to the Kingdom of Passions, Nomaudrel.
Rather to her dismay, her mother allowed it.
 
——
 
So…
Here was a question Vernoue hadn’t had to confront yet.
Menisi. 2nd Princess of Calanfer. Frightening, all but exiled, so on and so forth. Got up to—things—with her husband, who was not of good repute, and that was in a kingdom that had recently had a [Duchess] arrested for a party which had killed over a dozen servants.
Things were got up to behind closed doors, of course. You heard rumors of all kinds of fetishes or odd behaviors. Most of which was just—ignored or the subject of scandal. Who didn’t have skeletons in their closet? Ha…hah…
But Menisi had a lot of rumors about her.
