Her voice conjured a green wave of water, studded with blooming lilypads, green almost like grass, and deep, brown waters filled with muck and the images of moving fish, around Vernoue’s boots. The 5th Princess almost fell for the illusion like so many times and nearly lifted her feet out of the muck—
But it was just an illusion. Buzzing filled the air, and the [Librarian] flipped a page on the book as Ellet sat up and peered into the waters. Cindersnap leapt out of her arms to prowl the illusory swamp.
In the distance, Vernoue swore she heard swearing and shouts and an unhappy horse’s neighing. She sighed enviously—she knew this story—and Ellet hugged her knees to her chest in her dress.
“Is this a terrible story, Lorentha? I heard Oswen was destroyed! I cried all night. If it’s a terrible story, I don’t want to hear it.”
The half-Elf broke off reading, amused, and an Otterdog paddled past them, chasing fish.
“The destruction of Oswen was terrible, but Otterdogs find a way to survive, Your Highness. I very much doubt they’re all gone. Why don’t you listen and see how the swamp is so vast even a terrible event like this couldn’t destroy it.”
She was going to go on when someone interrupted. Vernoue jumped as a golden shadow passed by her, and Cindersnap backed up, yipping.
“A story shall have to wait. Princess Ellet, you are late to your [Tutors]. Your escort is in a panic. Though there is only one place they would lose you in the palace.”
Lorentha peeked up as Dame Vensha appeared, a bloodhound for Ielane beyond peer. Ellet wilted, and she began to wiggle off Lorentha’s lap, but the half-Elf merely put a finger in her book.
“Dame Vensha, Princess Ellet was in the midst of a story. And I see Princess Vernoue has come to find a book before her travels. Would the [Tutors] not wait a day?”
“Her Highness has commitments, Head Librarian. A [Princess] honors them.”
“I’ll go. I’m terribly sorry for being an inconvenience, Dame Vensha.”
Ellet sounded very meek. However, Lorentha just steadied her, and the book’s pages fluttered as she let it hover.
“A story is fitting education for a day, and the mind needs rest. Please take it as a personal request, Dame Vensha.”
“Her Majesty would not wish Princess Ellet’s education interrupted.”
Vensha’s voice was always like iron, but she seemed to hesitate as Lorentha glanced at her. Cindersnap prowled around Vensha’s boots, and the half-Elf smiled.
“Please convey my request to Queen Ielane as a personal favor. Surely I am due one or two such indulgences for a half-Elf set in her ways? Princess Vernoue, why don’t you find a seat? I know I’ve read this story to you, but it has been a decade or two since I told it. Long enough to forget a detail or two.”
The expression of uncertainty on Vensha’s face was enough to make Vernoue sit. She and Ellet peeked at Vensha as the Thronebearer bowed abruptly.
“There is no need to trouble Her Majesty. Tomorrow, Princess Ellet.”
“Yes, Dame Vensha!”
Ellet was entirely relieved, and she sat, swinging her legs, beaming as Lorentha went back to reading.
 
——
 
Her stories always made Vernoue sigh. She couldn’t count how many she’d heard in this very spot. And she wasn’t even the [Princess] who had sat with Lorentha the most! You might think it was her, but Shardele, Aielef, even Lyonette had spent so much time here, listening to stories come to life.
“I don’t know if I truly need a book, Lorentha. I’m—just going to see Menisi, and I was stressed. Everyone has an opinion about her.”
“Princess Menisi? And here I thought it was Lyonette. Chef Mexte said you’d heard from your sister and were out of sorts.”
The half-Elf raised graceful brows in surprise, and Vernoue wasn’t shocked the two had talked; they were some of the oldest servants.
“Do you remember her?”
“Of course.”
Lorentha was the oldest member of Calanfer’s staff, so it was a silly question, but she thought about the matter as she led Vernoue to some books on Nomaudrel to read.
“She may well have changed as much as the rumors say, but she is your sister, Princess Vernoue, is she not?”
“For what that’s worth.”
Vernoue muttered to her feet. Still, the [Librarian] fixed her with a calm smile as Cindersnap let Vernoue rub his belly.
“If it is the Menisi I remember telling stories to, she did care for her sisters. Go to her and don’t carry such expectations too heavily, Princess. There was a time she’d sit with you, listening to the same stories as Princess Ellet.”
That—did help. Vernoue relaxed a bit and thanked Lorentha, who waved it off and checked some books out for Vernoue to take. After rubbing Cindersnap’s head one last time for good luck, Lorentha let Vernoue go, though she asked about Lyonette.
“Princess Lyonette always did love tales of other continents. I regret…reading so many books of Izril to her before she left. Does she seem happy?”
Her eyes fixed on Vernoue as the 5th Princess thought about it.
“She looks halfway to being one of your heroines in your storybooks, Lorentha.”
Words could not express the mix of emotions on the half-Elf’s face, then. Pride, pain, understanding—she nodded simply, and Vernoue forgot about it as she rushed back to do her packing. A good impression. No matter what people said, she had great cause, and Menisi…she would simply have to meet her sister as she was.
Nevertheless, when she rode the long, but safe, route towards Nomaudrel, Vernoue did harbor worries about just what the 2nd Princess of Calanfer would be like.
The worries got worse along the way the more people talked of her.
 
——
 
Most of the ride was fast and straightforwards, even if they had to skirt Ailendamus due to the war. Terandria was no…other continent with unpaved roads. [Knights] warded most common highways, and they would escort a carriage like hers without question.
Boredom was boredom, though, and Vernoue studied her new [Invisibility] spell, which she actually thought she was making progress on the entire journey there, even if she got terribly cartsick.
The most interesting thing was, in fact, the news. Apparently, the King of Erribathe? Nuvityn? His army was halfway towards the southern coast of Terandria, but was having five hells of a time getting anywhere.
He’d first tried Ailendamus’ border, which would be the shortest shot to going south, but the Kingdom of Glass and Glory had refused Erribathe, who had taken a side opposite theirs during the Bloodtear Pirates incident. And Ailendamus was big.
Thus, King Nuvityn had passed by Dwarfhome and lingered for nearly a week apparently, before setting off. They’d headed around the mountain towards Noelictus, before, for whatever reason, being refused entry there as well.
A huge army like his would alarm most rulers, but Vernoue would have thought you’d want to humor the King of Myths. It seemed that King Nuvityn hadn’t been too upset by the refusal though; after he had detached from his army to ride and meet with the royal family, they’d backtracked and been clearly deciding whether they should cut further north through Samal and Avel to get to a coast—and it’d be damn hard to sail from Avel, high up as it was—or go the other way, around all of Ailendamus.
Well, Samal had put paid to that notion. They’d allowed Erribathe entry—if they had enough keys.
Enough keys for an army? The paradise Kingdom of Keys might not have even minded Nuvityn’s army, but they had their famous keys at even the border gates, and Nuvityn must not have brought any keys—or simply not had the right ones. So back he went, and at this point, Vernoue sensed he’d lost his patience.
He crossed through Ailendamus’ border, and there had been a skirmish—one that his army had won. Now he was storming south, and the Kingdom of Glass and Glory was clearly loath to challenge his army, but it was an affront, an affair, and a ghastly breach of etiquette.
Needless to say, everyone wanted to talk to the King of Myths and see why he was riding out and to be seen in the company of his forces. It sounded dreadfully exciting, and Vernoue hoped she’d be back in time for a glimpse of him.
His army might move fast—for an army—but he had a lot of continent to travel, and she was only bound to Nomaudrel and back for a quick jaunt. Her enchanted carriage could make the entire trip in a single day if she slept in it.
It was when they hit Nomaudrel that Vernoue looked up from her book at all, mostly because the Kingdom of Passions was, uh…interesting.
It bordered the Lantocracy of Bitorm, and as such, the mists that plagued the Kingdom of Lanterns gave a rather mysterious look to the landscape. But it wasn’t as overcast as Noelictus or as confusing as Bitorm where you needed help to go anywhere not on a main road. Rather, the mists were of different colors.
“Alchemical fumes have made some permanently more colorful, Your Highness. Notice the smell in the air?”
It smelled like a market bazaar! Vernoue sneezed half a dozen times when the window was open before the slight itching in her nostrils became bearable. They were tingly, rich, and fragrant scents—like someone had permanently opened a perfume bottle in the room over!
Mostly, though, she noticed that Nomaudrel was just less—patrolled than other kingdoms. You had this sense in Calanfer that a Thronebearer or the Watch was the law. On the roads, as she had observed, there was always a [Knight] riding about. But in Nomaudrel, it almost felt like they were resented. People glanced at the [Knights] as if suspicious that the [Knights] were here to pull something out of them.
“They do have [Knights] here, don’t they?”
“Yes, Your Highness. Several. The Crowlende Order, the Irriven Redbloods, and Pregaris all operate within or partially within the borders. But they are—small Knight Orders compared to others. Self-financed, not in service to the crown.”
“Oh, I see.”
What a peculiar nation. Certainly, their Watch seemed a bit sharper than the Thronebearers, but Vernoue had done some reading into the country, and she’d heard corruption was an issue among them! Imagine! The last person to warn her from Calanfer remarked on that.
“Bribery of a certain level can lead to a working system, if one with necessary inefficiency, Vernoue. It’s a delicate game of needs that requires reasonable people to function. The [Thieves] cannot bribe the [Guards] too much, and the [Guards] cannot be too greedy, but some of both means that crime flourishes and is more…managed than a city where it is clamped down on.”
King Reclis had an opinion about everything, and he enjoyed weird things like this. He’d called Vernoue up when she passed the border, and she protested.
“Father, how is that better?”
He sighed, almost disappointed she didn’t see the interesting facets of it.
“Because it means that the leader of the underworld has to be reasonable. He has to pay bribes and is thus disincentivized to kill the [Guards] he bribes. Truly honest and truly corrupt individuals don’t fit in well, which is a flaw, but it leads to stability. More than a kingdom with harsh laws. After all, someone driven to crime may commit it wherever, whereas here, if the crime is unacceptable, the rogues catch the criminal before the law.”
He did love his theories. But he couldn’t talk it over with her forever; instead, King Reclis paused.
“I just wanted you to remember me to Menisi. See she’s well, have your chat. I’d ask you to mention Ielane—but no.”
“Should I say anything else?”
“…No. Just that I miss her.”
He heaved a gusty sigh. Which said nothing to Vernoue, other than that the always-busy King Reclis, who had little time for his offspring, whom he did seem to love, remembered Menisi.
Just a bit of jealousy there. Then they reached Menisi’s domain.
 
——
 
The region belonging to Menisi and this ‘Naodin’ she had married was known as Cont’dvalle. Which sat midway towards the western border, bordering some smaller mountains in a long valley of sorts. It produced alchemical goods, apparently, thanks in part to forests and swamps and even caves that all had flora and fauna worth using.
The coach slowed to get directions because the [Driver] did need a bit of help, and thus, the final warnings came—from everyone.
The people who saw Vernoue were only too excited to meet a [Princess], much less of Calanfer who had been in the news, compared to their kingdom which hadn’t been featured at all. But when they heard she was bound for Cont’dvalle, they lost their smiles and grew…concerned.
“The sister of Lady Duchess Menisi? She’s not to be wed, is she?”
That was the first question an [Innkeeper] asked, and when assured that was not the case, the woman touched her forehead with two fingers.
“Passions preserved for that. With respect, Highness, I would visit somewhere else. Anywhere else. The Lord Duke and Lady Duchess of Cont’dvalle are—extreme. Oh, the city’s safe enough, but those two…”
Then she gave Vernoue such an inquisitive look the [Princess] felt rather uncomfortable.
That wasn’t the only warning. Everyone had an opinion on the ‘Lady Duchess’ or ‘Lord Duke’, none of it comforting.
“What’s done is no one’s business in Nomaudrel besides them that closed the doors…is what I’d like to say. But what if you never closed the doors? Some say they embody the spirit of the Kingdom of Passions, but I say there are lines oughtn’t to be crossed.”
“Like…what lines?”
The [Stall Vendor] serving small cups of gelato out to people gave Vernoue a long look, then glanced at some younger people in line. He cleared his throat.
“Lines, Your Highness. And that’s all that I can say about that. Thank you for your royal patronage.”
It was all just—rumors. Gossip. Overblown stories. So Vernoue told herself. Why, Cont’dvalle was actually a rather splendid little city, albeit one that shone with nightlife and humbler illumination than Eternal Calanfer. Her coach rolled through the streets, and it was abuzz with scrying orbs, hot food, laughter—all the things of a healthy city.
Only, one of her Thronebearers, assigned to her, murmured.
“Eighty-nine…ninety-three…”
“What’s that, Ser…Ser?”
Vernoue turned her head, and the man snapped to attention.
“Merely counting the number of people using a substance that would have been banned in Calanfer, Your Highness.”
