“Technically, we could have given aid to Calanfer. Nomaudrel wouldn’t, but I asked about sending a few hundred soldiers. Menisi refused.”
“She did?”
The [Lord]’s arms were folded as he inspected Menisi flirting with an adventurer, giving them the samples of the new concoctions from the alchemy lab on the condition that they reported their findings.
“She pays attention to all of you. Her brothers and sisters. She wouldn’t stop watching the scrying orb while the Bloodtear Pirates were fighting at sea. I think she’s happy to see you here. So if you wish to stay, it would cheer her—”
Menisi must have heard that, because she called out loudly as she gave the adventurer a kiss on the cheek. He ran off as Naodin’s brow darkened.
“If you’re going to tell stories, Naodin, I’ll start talking about your family. Half of whom I’ve slept with.”
That was enough to get him fired up. Lord Naodin growled about work and stormed off. Vernoue couldn’t tell if there was any actual affection there, but they did seem used to each other, for lack of a better word.
Menisi seemed to be able to manage Naodin as adroitly as she wanted, and Vernoue imagined the endless affairs Menisi got up to.
Which Lord Naodin had wished for, in part. Just not how he got it. How the crimson Skills twisted and twisted.
 
——
 
They returned to Menisi’s mansion where she retired to her personal chambers. Menisi scowled after Naodin’s revelation of how she kept up with news, but she just sighed.
“He’s ambitious. The gold and influence I pull in means the Cont’dvalle region is thriving, and while Nomaudrel is small, he has designs to own more of it. We move subtly, lest we attract too many enemies, but it is fun. I fear I’ve been over vigorous of late, though. One second while I attend to it.”
Menisi was wincing and holding some ice to her…private parts as she hobbled around her rooms.
Vernoue had no desire to see any part of Menisi’s intimate life, despite her sympathies, but her elder sister merely took her to an alchemy laboratory of all things. There she found a vial of very pale, white powder and put some on her tongue.
“Aah. That’s better. Without damn healing potions, I’ve been searching for a way to heal myself. Painkilling is far too destructive, and this does speed up recovery.”
It seemed her aches and pains were healing. Fascinated, Vernoue peered at the vial.
“What is that?”
“Selphid Dust.”
“Selphid D—this is illegal in every Terandrian Kingdom!”
Vernoue nearly threw the vial away from herself and rushed to wipe her hands, but Menisi just snorted.
“I’m well aware how addictive and dangerous it is, Vernoue. But if you ingest it in very small quantities, it has a healing effect. I’m working on the frenzy it induces, but I can control it. See?”
She had a scrape on one knuckle from vigorous activity, and by the time an hour had passed, it had scabbed over and almost completely fallen away. That…made Vernoue hesitate.
“But if it were that useful, surely—”
“I use a very clean strain of it. Most of what’s sold is tainted—likely on purpose. Nor is it easy to make; it requires Balerosian fungi among other things. I grow it. We produce much of what Terandria wants, even if most kingdoms deny allowing any of it into their borders. From the ‘paradise’ of Samal to vaunted Calanfer, Vernoue. Are you sure you have no interest in availing yourself of any of my delights? Despite what you might think, my servants are discreet. You could ruin your bridal price at least.”
That was the part of Menisi that Vernoue didn’t like, the one that prodded and poked at her to defy Queen Ielane and regarded her like some bird in a cage. Vernoue defensively held her spellbook to her chest.
“Is this drink that I’m supposed to get from you anywhere here? Is that why I was sent?”
Abruptly and suddenly, Menisi’s joy ran out, and she sagged.
“…No. No, I actually believe you have words from the future. Either that, or it’s Mother or—a dead man’s plans working through you. I’d believe the other two as readily. Who else could know? Vernoue, let me ask you something. Do you know my passion-class? Do you know your sisters?”
Passion-class. The class the others had, but would never level in hugely, because they were [Princesses] first. They were allowed one, and Shardele’s had consolidated into her [Princess] class—Vernoue hesitated.
“Mine’s [Mage]. Aielef—I don’t know, but I think she’s learning [Warrior]. Shardele…[Smoker]?”
“Dreamer. And good for Aielef. She loved to paint. Ellet is too young, and Seraphel was good at insulting people…she was actually the best [Princess] of us, in that sense. As for little Lyonette?”
“…Peon-hater?”
Menisi laughed. But Menisi had heard how Lyonette had changed and was so hungry to know more about Lyonette and her new life. Because she had never known the old one, Vernoue realized. She felt sorry for Menisi as much as her older sister unnerved her.
“Mine. Mine…was when I was still in love with Eternal Calanfer, Vernoue. Guess, guess.”
She loved making Vernoue guess, as if she prized seeing her younger sister’s intelligence. The 5th Princess tried to humor her.
“Aielef said the occult…”
“She would call it that. Close enough. What’s magic without magic, Vernoue?”
“Sleight-of-hand?”
“Close, but more adjacent. The tent next over, the wagon down the road.”
“Wagon? Tent?”
“A fair, Vernoue. One that comes to you only twice a year, filled with sights and scenes—unfit for a [Princess]. Glamor and artifice…and truth, if you look into the glass orb.”
Menisi spread her arms and twirled around, and Vernoue had it.
“[Fortune Teller]? You were someone who divined the future?”
The 2nd Princess corrected her.
“[Seer]. Or I tried to be. Our mother was all about logic, and Father was empiricism and philosophy. I longed for the pure truth that put it all together. Why not the future? Tarot cards, crystal balls, palm-reading—symbols and meaning in patterns, Vernoue.”
“It sounds…ludicrous. Nothing like real magic.”
For the first time, Menisi grew defensive.
“It has its own class! There is nothing with a class that does not have value, Vernoue. True…much of it is reading into what’s already there. But I found actual power as I rose in levels. I wanted to see the future, to steer Calanfer in a better direction, fight Ailendamus—Mother wanted me to marry one of House Shoel’s own before I rebelled. But that was never in any future I could find.”
“You saw the future.”
Then Vernoue began to understand, and Menisi grew quiet. She let her hair down and sat against one wall, shuffling an old deck of cards she’d found. She spread them out and stared at them.
“Yes. At great cost. I was nowhere near the level I needed to be to truly see the future in any way I could change it, Vernoue. So I reached out. I made inquiries, and I found a…a teacher. Mother saw through him in an instant, but I was young. He came prowling, like a leech, promising better futures—but they always had him in it. Rastandius, the greatest [Soothsayer] in thousands of years. To hear him tell it, he made the King of Destruction—though by his own failures.”
Her head rose, and Vernoue’s breath caught. Now, Menisi was cold.
“For all the things Naodin and I do to each other, there is some understanding of it, as much as we war and barb each other. I’d take all of this to undo a single old man and a girl too young to know she was being preyed upon. He brewed me a potion to see my future. I took it and saw misery in every child Ielane ever bore in so many futures. Rastandius offered me a way to make Calanfer glorious, to beat Ailendamus—if only I gave him the power he craved. I saw he’d ruin Calanfer by this salvation. So he fled.”
Vernoue sat speechless, and Menisi waved the old, tangled threads of the past away.
“He’s dead now. Sometimes, I think he’s haunting me because he could pull on fate’s strings, even if it never quite turned out how he wanted. But perhaps—he didn’t expect this. The future sent you to me, because I have what you want.”
“Your powers to see the future? So I can figure out how to become an [Archmage] and—and take control of my own destiny?”
Menisi stopped as she reached for a book, which clicked and made the entire wall of her study swing outwards. She gave Vernoue a strange gaze.
“No. The potion. I only drank half of it.”
 
——
 
Menisi took Vernoue into secret chambers that held more dangerous drugs—relatively speaking—and valuable objects. It wasn’t a massive backroom, but it was rather impressive. She spoke, idly, as she led Vernoue into a vault with enchanted Drawers of Holding.
“Since I haven’t visited, how is old Lorentha doing? Is Head Chef Mexte still around?”
She remembered those two? Vernoue was astonished, and Menisi snorted lightly as she checked drawers.
“Where is it? The servants must have put it somewhere else. Of course I remember those two. They practically raised me—and you as well, I’ll warrant.”
“You let servants in here? I thought these were your secret chambers!”
“Which grow dusty, Vernoue. I allow them in; there’re spells that monitor the entrance. Anyone going in is recorded, and if they tried to take something out, they’d suffer.”
Oh. Again, clever. Vernoue helped search for what would apparently be a half-empty crystal decanter with glowing orange-white liquid. Menisi spoke sidelong.
“If there were any reason I’d return to the palace, it would be to thank them before Mexte passes. Lorentha is likely to outlive us both—but I should like to speak to both as adults. You shouldn’t miss the chance either.”
“Menisi, I’m 25 years old.”
Vernoue wondered if she seemed young, but Menisi simply shot her a sardonic smile.
“Do you still run to Mexte as he puts a pot of tea on and ‘forgets’ to make your food? He’s in service to Ielane, Vernoue. Or did you think the Head Chef has time to dance attendance on each [Princess] who comes complaining of her day?”
Vernoue suddenly had a terrible feeling in her stomach.
“You mean he’s just humoring us…?”
Menisi thought about it, then shook her head.
“No. At least, I don’t think so. I am sure Ielane’s told him to keep us all on her diet so we’re slim and attractive. One of the habits I couldn’t break—or I get more exercise than I thought. Say, rather, he does it how he prefers things, and she can recognize a good thing and not interfere. Sometimes. He’s good at listening. He was a [Cook] for a mercenary company in Baleros. I think I’ve eaten more vegetables at that table with him than the sum of every other meal in my life.”
Vernoue did eat a lot of greens in his presence. She puffed up with outrage…before frowning.
“He gives me ice cream. I’m sure Mother frowns upon that. And she’s always annoyed the treats aren’t locked up properly in the secondary kitchens.”
“A splendid man to raise Calanfer’s [Princesses] and [Princes]. Just like Lorentha.”
“She chased Dame Vensha off just before I left. Ellet didn’t want to study.”
Menisi smiled even more broadly and with genuine affection, Vernoue was startled to see.
“Ah, Lorentha. I’ve often wondered if she and Mexte…no, that’s probably just the salacious part of my brain making up things. If there were anyone in the Eternal Throne that Ielane is wary of, it’s her.”
“She’s got no power. Mother could easily override her—”
“Lorentha’s the oldest member of staff, Vernoue. She told stories to Reclis. She can dismiss Thronebearers or even get them lost. As for her fox…I’m not sure what level Lorentha is, but she’s bound to be over Level 40. That fox is as old as I am. However, you and I—we’re children they raise. I wish to go back, thank them, and to understand the two as people, not the guardians who decided to keep us from being perfect, neurotic puppets.”
Menisi’s wistful expression was replaced by a sharp intake of breath. She drew out a bottle wrapped in old velvet, and Vernoue saw…no magic at all. Nothing, from the bottle and the liquid within, which was odd when she saw how it did glow.
“Faye’s Eyes. Not ‘Fate’s Eyes’…Rastandius swore he couldn’t make but a single draught. It was too dreadful for me to continue drinking, so I kept the rest.”
“Do you think you’d have seen more if you had?”
Menisi shrugged as she removed the cork and sniffed the contents. She handed it to Vernoue, who wondered, belatedly, if a decade and a half of aging would turn this to poison.
“It’s not like—seeing the future in one, continuous stream, Vernoue. It is rather more direct than reading cards, but you have to think of it like hints. We are all raindrops falling into the sea, and even if we can see the future, it is but slivers of falling time from our limited vantage point and position, ever-changing.”
That sounded like proper mysticism garbage, but Vernoue realized there was some wisdom to it. She’d read books on chronomancy, and even the greatest [Time Mages] always gave her the impression they only knew half of what was actually going on.
“Do I need to…do anything?”
“No. Just drink. Oh, wait—”
Menisi walked off and came back with a pillow. She held it up.
“I’ll put this under your head when you fall over.”
“Ah.”
There was no ceremony to the moment, just a dusty bottle which made her sneeze, her elder sister, who was tasting more Selphid Dust and holding up a pillow with stains on it, and…
Vernoue took a hesitant swallow of the liquid in the bottle, and Menisi seemed impressed.
“You drank that without a moment’s pause. I had a far harder time, given how I had to get one of the ingredients out of Rastandius himself.”
The 5th Princess’ face was blank, then her cheeks bulged to spit the contents of the potion at Menisi, who began laughing.
“I’m joking. I’m j—”
Then Vernoue was falling. Falling through the dissolving world as the ground fragmented away and blackness roared across the world. She cried out—reaching up, because this wasn’t a trance or anything. She was actually falling, straight down, as the world above her froze and turned to glass that broke into a million pieces.
She fell, flailing and screaming, and a voice spoke in her ears. So vast it made her a flea, and the words ran through the thrumming heart of the world.
It said:
 
<I DID NOT EXPECT THIS.>
 
Vernoue froze as the words scorched her soul. They flashed all around her, and something was falling with her. A presence. The thoughts—if they were even thoughts; they were more like concepts given form—sounded surprised.
 
<THE DOORS WERE MEANT TO BE CLOSED FOREVER. ALREADY…THEY ARE NEEDED. FATE IS RACING.>
 
