“Vernoue, are you still here? Go pack. Your father had to personally work on this invitation. If you’re sulking this much about something you should treasure, I’ll cancel the vacation and put you on touring Kaliv with Aielef.”
Ielane snapped, and Vernoue controlled her face reluctantly.
“Go where, Mother?”
The Queen of Calanfer stopped and blinked.
“I didn’t say? Ah. To the Order of Seasons’ keep. They won’t wait on you hand and foot, but your retinue will do just fine. You are to meet with the Fall’s Sentinel, Ser Venoriat, and his season for magical study. He was amenable to the suggestion, which I understand first came from a Ser Ilm of the Order of Autumn and Ser Solstice. You’ve begged for magical tutors of actual merit for ages—”
Ielane stopped and Vensha covered her ears as Vernoue’s shriek of delight deafened everyone in the room. The [Princess] rushed to her rooms, screaming like a banshee. Before wondering if this was a way to get her out of her mother’s hair. But even so—
The Fall’s Sentinel? He was one of the most famous [Knight]-spellcasters on the continent! Above Level 40—maybe above Level 50? She could learn so much—
…Wait. She recalled her offer to Ser Ilm and the Autumn Knights when she’d been in the keep under siege. Was she going to marry him?
 
——
 
The Fall’s Sentinel was a man in his early sixties. Physically in excellent shape for his years and scholarly in build, despite his muscles. He had white hair, slightly balding, but he was clean-shaven, and his armor, which ran from purple to lilac, was splendidly enchanted. He himself radiated magic, and his aura seemed to be that very image of leaves crunching underfoot on a crisp, chill day as you walked down a forest trail and felt like each path into the forest might take you into a magical glade or face-to-face with a Unicorn.
Ser Venoriat had also clearly heard of Vernoue’s off-the-cuff proposal to Ser Ilm about marriage, so he practically stood behind Knight-Commander Calirn at every moment as if the Winter Knight were a chastity device.
The dour look of Knight-Commander Calirn’s expression probably could have worked as a contraceptive. The Order of Seasons was nothing but welcoming, though; they had fought beside Calanfer in battle, and Vernoue’s awestruck face upon meeting a truly famous spellcaster made even Calirn smile.
“I-I’m honored that you’d be willing to share your magical knowledge with me, Lord Venoriat.”
“A student of magic is always welcome in the Order of Seasons, much less a [Princess] of brave Calanfer, Princess Vernoue. I and the Season of Autumn shall be delighted to share knowledge with you. Doubtless, you have much to teach us all.”
Venoriat emphasized ‘all’ slightly, and Calirn bowed stiffly.
“Our keep is at your disposal, Princess. I shall apologize if I am not able to socialize often, but know we value our allies in Eternal Calanfer. Please, inform our [Knights] of any way we may be hospitable.”
That was her first introduction to the Fall’s Sentinel, and Vernoue didn’t understand at that time why both men were so reserved. Only later did she recall and put together that the Spring’s Warden had died fighting Dullahans during the battle at sea along with many brave [Knights].
The Order of Seasons was in mourning. And she…
Well, the Fall’s Sentinel was kind to her.
 
——
 
He had a lot of spells he’d learned personally from the Archmage of Memories, gifted to the Order of Seasons during the war. Advanced spellcasting—nay, refined spellcasting.
At first, Venoriat’s fears of Princess Vernoue’s attempts at marriage meant that he only interacted with her in groups with other Autumn Knights, who were all diligently learning the new magic from the Terras Faction of Wistram. However, after a few days of Vernoue badgering him with questions, he seemed to forget his worries.
Besides, she was so clearly agog by all the new magic that romance had utterly left her mind. He was the best magical teacher she’d ever had! No [Tutor] could compare to the Fall Sentinel’s wisdom; he drew magic in the air, and could even reconstruct parts of spells to show you how he was doing it.
Nevertheless, the problem was the level of spellcasting they were all trying to study. Venoriat was only too happy to tell Vernoue about it as she gazed, dismayed, at the writing on the page in front of her.
“Not only is the magic far more efficient than modern battle-magic, the method of study is simply sublime. A single page to teach a Tier 5 spell.”
“It is rather…complex. Normally it takes, ah, pages upon pages for such spells, doesn’t it?”
“Of course, Princess. A Tier 4 spell might take twenty pages; a Tier 5 spell writ in some spellbooks? I’ve heard a hundred. This, though, is battle-magic pure and simple. Ser Ilm was studying this single page when Ailendamus was sieging your keep. I am sure he would have furnished you with a copy had time allowed.”
“Oh, I quite understand the urgency of the moment, Lord Venoriat.”
And it wouldn’t have done her any good to begin with because…Vernoue had no idea where to even start.
Tier 5 magic? She was so far out of her depth trying to understand the squiggles on the page she felt like a [Peasant] trying to learn magic. Venoriat was no fool, sadly: he noticed.
“You begin with the introductory runes—here, Princess. It is rather compacted and overwhelming, isn’t it? But if you begin here, your mind is taken through the magical path, almost like someone holding your hand. Amazing teaching. It reminds me of the Rihal Imperium.”
“I do know them! Weren’t they amazing at teaching magic?”
Vernoue was relieved and almost shouted that out—the Fall’s Sentinel was approving.
“Indeed. This is [Starfall Comet], which exceeds [Valmira’s Comet] in potency despite being a Tier 5 spell as well—if I recall correctly, Archmage Eldavin furnished our Order with it when hearing that [Valmira’s Comet] was a common spell in our arsenals. He seemed to take it personally that we use a better one. Certainly…its devastation potential is immense. The Season of Autumn has been madly at work learning such magic, but I have hesitated to teach younger [Knights] this magic.”
“Why, Lord Venoriat?”
He smiled at her sadly.
“Fall’s Sentinel, please, Princess. I am no [Lord]—or we might do away with titles altogether. We are all spellcasters in the end. Why? Tier 5 magic. It makes the Autumn Knights deadly, dangerous. Assets that Pheislant might seek to use more of. We are killers in battle when needs must, but that is not all a Knight of Autumn should be.”
Oh. Vernoue knew how rare Tier 5 magic was, even amongst Gold-rank adventurers. The thought of [Knights] casting it…they would become feared among their peers. She nodded sagely and tried to start where he’d shown her.
She failed. The Fall’s Sentinel noticed and tried to walk her through the spell, but it was abundantly clear after a few minutes she had no hope of learning it. Even a Tier 4 scroll he produced was almost incomprehensible to her. And scrolls were meant to just push the information into your head because they were one-use!
“I’ve studied magic! Truly! I just—I didn’t have time to study advanced Tier 4 spells, so I’ve studied Tier 2 magic mostly.”
She was almost in tears, and the Fall’s Sentinel stroked his chin for a moment before giving her a grandfatherly smile.
“We all learn magic at our own pace, Your Highness. I didn’t master Tier 4 magic until I was thirty. I was a haughty Knight of Summers, riding about and hitting things with a mace, until I realized I wasn’t actually as good as I thought. If you have two weeks in our company, let us make learning Tier 4 magic a goal, then.”
 
——
 
It was ambitious, but Vernoue quickly got into the idea of learning a Tier 4 spell in two weeks. That would make her a prodigy, and she threw herself into studying with the cloisters of [Knights] who enmeshed themselves in spellbooks.
They had other passions; they trained like all the other Seasons, but Autumn Knights were encouraged to be multi-discipline masters. So many were part-[Alchemists], had gardens of mushrooms, plants, or even practiced talents like [Bards] playing instruments or even needlework.
All things could become magic, after all. Vernoue’s problem was twofold and quite apparent after three days.
Firstly—she had no cross-discipline training. She was a [Princess] and could hold her own in subterfuge, statecraft, etiquette, and so on, but she had zero knowledge in alchemy, scribing, or many other fields.
Second—Vernoue’s ability to concentrate for hours on end was hampered significantly by her lifestyle. She was so used to being interrupted, she realized she could barely study for more than one or two hours before getting distracted.
Among non-magic users, this was fine and still made her studious. In the company of a group of spellcasters, even hybrid spellcasters? It was so embarrassing to falter and see [Magic Squires] passing her in their studies.
Especially because this was all new magic from the Terras faction in Wistram! The Order of Seasons was, in fact, hugely favored by them because of their connection with the Archmage of Memories, and he had given them all kinds of new magic. Efficient teleportation, techniques to shape mana and even create it, high-level spells—
This was like being at Wistram, a resurgence in magic, and Vernoue couldn’t read or use any of it.
She started hiding in her rooms, feigning sickness, rather than have to go out and waste the kindly Fall Sentinel’s time. Even worse was when Queen Ielane called her and clearly had been told that Vernoue was overwhelmed.
“I half-expected you to try to seduce him.”
“Mother, he’s sixty-two!”
Vernoue shrieked into a speaking stone, and Ielane’s voice was cool.
“You didn’t seem to have a problem suggesting it to Autumn Knights directly. Normally, I would veto any such idea, but he is poised to become an even more exceptional spellcaster thanks to his bond with the Archmage of Memories. Is he interested?”
“No! He’s polite and kind and—”
The 5th Princess almost felt like crying. Ielane hmmed.
“Single, without a habit of casual relationships as I’ve been informed the late Spring’s Warden and Summer’s Champion were fond of. I had an intelligence report pulled for you—he doesn’t attend brothels. Likely, you’d have a shot if you made it abundantly clear you were interested in him purely for passion.”
“Mother!”
It was hugely embarrassing to think of doing that to the Fall’s Sentinel. His genuine kindliness had upbraided Vernoue’s usual instincts, but not Ielane’s.
“If I thought you had a chance, I would put your name forwards with the Archmage of Memories. Regrettably, I think there’s too much competition, but I will keep it in mind. Consider the option, Vernoue. I give approval for you to have sex with him—that would make it rather permanent, as the Order of Seasons takes their codes of honor seriously.”
That—shut Vernoue down on so many levels she didn’t really have a response. Her mother giving tacit approval was something Vernoue didn’t need, and also—it hurt. It hurt, because Ielane had done some calculations and clearly thought that Vernoue landing a match with the Fall’s Sentinel would be worth the use of a [Princess] of Calanfer.
Is that all I’m worth? Vernoue knew she was difficult and had refused suitors, but she’d always assumed that if Ielane found a match truly worthwhile…she’d force Vernoue into it. And with respect to the Fall’s Sentinel—wasn’t Vernoue worth more?
 
——
 
She peered at him during their study-session on the 5th day, when she went back to trying to learn magic. Vernoue was trying to learn [Invisibility], a staple spell she’d never learned because, well, it was damn complex, even for Tier 4 magic. Two weeks was insanely ambitious, even with Venoriat, who knew the magic, teaching her.
He wasn’t…unhandsome. And he was a splendid leader of his Season of Autumn. Even in grieving, he seemed aware of the younger [Knights]’ moods, especially those of the Season of Spring. She’d seen him talking to the angry [Knights], and rather than counselling pure calm given their grief over losing the Spring’s Warden, he’d given them quests.
Hard quests, to slay monsters or to achieve personal goals, and if they succeeded, he had promised the next ship to reinforce Ser Greysten in the New Lands would have them on it. He spoke well, and she imagined he wouldn’t be…bad.
Not as bad as some matches could be. She’d heard stories. None of her sisters were happy in their marriages—not happy like a storybook marriage. If she could live here in this keep, surrounded by magic…
“Fall’s Sentinel? Are you sure you should spend so much time on me? I’m sure Ser Ilm or—another [Knight] could teach me.”
He smiled at her kindly as they worked under the steady glow of a [Light] spell. His study abounded with books, and they sat next to a heatless fire he’d conjured. His room was filled with magical items or trophies he’d taken, and Vernoue stared at a frozen shard of ice he’d taken from Cenidau and wondered about his exploits. He was very humble.
“Ah, but for a [Princess], I believe anything less would be an insult. And you are a good student.”
She flushed and ducked her head.
“I’m not nearly as dedicated as even your [Squires], Fall’s Sentinel.”
He chuckled, and she feared he was making fun of her until he shook his head.
“Your Highness Vernoue. You say that so shamefaced, and it is true that you may fall behind them in some ways. But we do not measure ourselves against other people fairly. You are a [Princess]. Which confers many blessings of status and rank—and disadvantages. Has any one of my [Squires] ever had to study magic after a day of giving speeches, preparing oneself in makeup and finery, and performing the affairs of state? How well might they fare then?”
That—cheered her up. Vernoue smiled shyly and brushed at her hair. She glanced at Ser Venoriat and saw him almost glowing. To her eyes, and to her [Detect Fame: Magic] Skill, he glowed more brightly than anyone except Archmage Viltach, and she’d only met him once at a ball.
“Have you…done much to advance magic yourself, Fall’s Sentinel?”
He chuckled ruefully as she fiddled with her dress.
“Me? Hardly anything. I have studied it intensively—after my youth as an ambitious Summer’s Knight, of course. But that is merely, what? Thirty years. Merely thirty years for a Human. I took some training because I had the gift as a younger [Knight], but I did not do much beyond learning spells.”
“Surely you did something—”
