How…how accurate were they? Because rumors, well, everyone said Seraphel was cursed, and it was just bad luck with her. They said all sorts of things! Like the King of Shades, Nicte Allorev, slept with spiders and that was why one of his daughters had mandibles. Or—or that the Queen of Morein was so unfaithful she had a dozen suitors in the royal bedroom each week!
Which Vernoue had heard was true. Scandalous.
But she’d never really seen the truth behind gossip before. As the day of her departure loomed, it felt like everyone in her life was determined to make this as ominous as possible.
The first bad hint was Shardele approaching Vernoue of her own accord. Shardele never did anything of her own accord. She’d happily smoke Dreamleaf while wandering through art installations in the Eternal Throne or sit in a hammock in her chambers and just swing and stare out a glass ceiling. But she came to Vernoue, smelling so much of Dreamleaf that the 5th Princess coughed.
“Vernoue! Are you visiting Menisi? This is a terrible, dreadful…you mustn’t! She’s a depraved woman. The things she and her husband get up to—terrible!”
Shardele was rather vague, and she was fluttering her hands so much that Vernoue had to seat her.
“Shardele, whatever they do in the bedroom is their—”
“Bedroom? It’s all over the mansion! With servants! And objects! And strangers, and I think animals!”
“…What? You don’t mean sex—”
Shardele took a pipe out from her dress and inhaled, and then her face vanished in a plume of smoke that made Vernoue cough. She was distressed.
“I visited her once after the wedding. To see…it was depraved. I saw it with my own eyes, Vernoue. She’s mad as ten vipers, and he—they’re violent in Nomaudrel. Crimes on the street sometimes. They don’t have Thronebearers, and their [Knights] don’t maintain the law. The Grand Duke was accosted by some footpads.”
“Oh dear. Well, I’ll have my Thronebearers—”
“Vernoue, listen! He was accosted and beat three of them to death with his bare hands! Crushed one man’s skull, and the other tried to cut him with a sword, but he’s so—and she’s cold. She was always sharp, but now she’s as cold as Mother. She said that if I ever came back as an agent of Mother, she’d take me to one of their ‘playrooms’ and—”
Shardele was shaking so bad she had to take in three more puffs of smoke before she calmed. Vernoue was unnerved. This sounded like it was rumors. You know? Not as bad as it could be, but Shardele swore up and down it was true. All Vernoue could say was—
“I have to see her, Shardele. I’ll be very careful.”
The 1st Princess left, shaking her head, and then Aielef came back to deliver the same warning, if not in the same terms.
“So, I hear you’ve been searching for magical instructors, Vernoue. Here’s what we’ll do. You’ll cancel this trip, and we’ll go to Kaliv. The Griffin Queen has [Wild Mages] in court. You could learn from them, maybe even adopt a Griffin.”
Vernoue saw a gaggle of noblewomen behind Aielef, who chimed in what a wonderful idea this would be. The 5th Princess folded her arms.
“Did Shardele put you up to this?”
“Damn, has she already come by? Listen, Vernoue, this isn’t a good idea.”
Aielef paced into the room, presumptuous as always, but her words made Vernoue pause.
“I didn’t believe the rumors about Menisi either. She was always very…proper. If she had any affairs, no one knew of them except Mother. So I looked into the Nomaudrel rumors. Paid for local intelligence. It’s…accurate. I have people there who swear some of the rumors are very true, and even if we discount half of it, the other half is reason enough not to go.”
“I have to know something.”
“What? About magic? What could Menisi teach you? She was always into the occult, but not magic.”
Aielef made a mistake as she tried to dismiss the reason Vernoue had for going, but that made the 5th Princess sit up.
“Occult? You mean, arcane?”
“No, I mean—oh, damn. Vernoue! This isn’t a joke! Her husband’s killed men! They live in a part of the kingdom known for being—extreme. Even for the Kingdom of Passions! Believe me, you know the most scandalous court gossip of being found in each other’s beds we have? They call that ‘light’ over there!”
No matter what Aielef tried, Vernoue refused to budge, so the 3rd Princess stormed out of the room, only returning to demand that Vernoue send Lyonette to her if the 6th Princess should reappear with her ‘magic communication spell’.
“I hear she’s calling herself a mother. Hah! Well, if she’s at all serious, she’ll need some instruction and [Nursemaids]. Dead gods, I can just imagine her rearing her children all wrong.”
“They seem well-adjusted to me.”
“Hmph. Just you wait until it’s your turn.”
With that helpful reminder that Vernoue had yet to do her part for the crown, the 5th Princess elected to research something of her own. A quick check of the royal family tree revealed that no, Menisi had not borne any children that would have Calanferian royal blood.
Was that good or ill, considering her relationship with the Queen…? Well, the last voice of dissuasion came from the crown.
 
——
 
Dame Vensha was Ielane’s right hand and often educated [Princesses] or took them to task in Ielane’s place. She was as fearsome a woman as any Vernoue knew, but common enough in this role.
Briefings. She’d tell a [Princess] what they needed to know about the court, local politics, or what they had to do and drill it into their heads until they wouldn’t mess up.
Vernoue had worried this would be the ‘interference’ Menisi had written about, but to her surprise, the opposite was true.
“Princess Vernoue, when you are in Nomaudrel, you will refrain from communications with the palace, except via your Thronebearers. You are not to send [Messages] back to the kingdom except for urgent matters. Any needs will be met by your Thronebearers. You will not interfere in any political events taking place in the Kingdom of Passions. Nor has your escort been equipped with any [Spies] or [Infiltrators] of any kind. Your servants have been strictly ordered to perform their duties without investigation of the city or household, and the Thronebearers will merely guard your presence, not secure the mansion of Princess Menisi.”
This was the opposite of what Vernoue expected. She blinked.
“Is this a trick, Vensha? Normally, you don’t even mention whether I have spies in my retinue.”
Vensha gave Vernoue a serious eye.
“I am informing you of this so you avoid any hint of possible action on behalf of the crown, Princess Vernoue. The letter was explicit.”
“Menisi wouldn’t…do anything to me, would she?”
The Thronebearer’s silence was a hair too long, and then she glanced at the map of their route.
“Princess Menisi has, over the course of her time at Nomaudrel, removed 54 agents of Calanfer installed in roles in her mansion, city, and even further afield. Sometimes permanently.”
Vernoue swallowed hard. That—was even more alarming than Aielef’s comments. Vensha continued, brisk.
“We are not hostile with Princess Menisi. The crown leaves her region alone, and the Kingdom of Passions is largely removed from Calanfer’s interests due to its size and—strengths. While you are in her presence, Princess Menisi has considerable power. A fact you would do well to remember.”
She glanced at Vernoue, then lowered her voice.
“Her Majesty is allowing this trip as a sign of trust between you and Princess Lyonette. You would do well to communicate that to your sibling.”
She was allowing this because she thought Lyonette was the one who wanted it? Vernoue was stunned. If Ielane knew this was Mrsha’s hint—well, her sense of foreboding was already high enough, but the pressure of so many warnings made her begin to dread the upcoming trip so much she couldn’t sit in her rooms and let her servants pack any longer that night.
So she went to the library.
 
——
 
It was natural for Vernoue to visit the library, since her love for books and magic was greatest amongst all the [Princesses]. Even in the evening, the rather magnificent shelves of books that went up four stacks high made her smile—but her restless pacing over the ancient, green-and-gold carpets made her vanish into the rear stacks.
There were glass windows looking out over the royal garden that were aglow with orange light and places to sit and read—some servants and even some of the nobility sat there, reading or talking quietly, but the [Princess] didn’t want them to talk to her.
Princesses could not talk to even lesser nobility as equals. They had no one to treat as their own aside from other royalty, and they could not trust them openly. As for family…
The royal library of Calanfer wasn’t quite a maze, but rather, the bookshelves were placed such that you wouldn’t know there were alcoves to read in, small rooms for a visitor to stumble across in pursuit of a good book, unless you looked. Indeed, with six entrances to the library, more than one person had gotten lost in the rather sprawling building, but it wasn’t vertically as tall.
The main room with the windows, yes, but the book stacks were only up to four shelves high even there—elsewhere the ceiling lowered down, and [Light] spells would hover between the stacks, signs of someone browsing for a book.
Vernoue paced through the shelves she knew so well, sorted as much by age as the names of the writers—after all, with so many eras in time, that was often the more valuable metric to collate books by. She pretended she was trying to find a good book for the road, something to read when her head hurt from studying magic, but in truth, the moment she saw a small, furtive shape flitting from shelf to shelf, Vernoue chased after it.
“Cindersnap. Cindersnap! Where are you, you silly fox?”
The ink-black fox ambushed Vernoue from behind, and she squeaked, then reached down to stroke its face as the library’s fox, a permanent fixture that wandered the shelves, rubbed its head on her legs. She sat down and buried her face in its fur.
“There you are. I’ve had a terrible week—and I’m going to Nomaudrel tomorrow! I should have brought you something from the Order of Seasons. One of those stupid salt crystals from Pheislant. Cindersnap, why does everyone hate Menisi so much?”
The fox was a fox. If it was intelligent, well, it never spoke to her, and she’d known it since she was a little girl. It just wrapped its huge, bushy tail, white at the tip, around her neck and made curious mrrrk! noises, then licked her ear.
Vernoue expected Cindersnap’s owner to appear at any moment, but when she didn’t appear, Vernoue went to find the [Librarian] who presided over this domain.
Following the fox, who flicked his nose to show her where to go, she found the half-Elf—and one of her sisters—near the back of the library. The librarian was a half-Elf with brown in her hair, not a hint of white, and she looked far younger than Head Chef Mexte, despite being over twice his age.
Head Librarian Lorentha came from Gaiil-Drome. She didn’t age. She’d served in Calanfer for over a century, and Reclis du Marquin often joked to his children that Lorentha had written half the books in the library under different pen names.
Certainly, she was always reading a book that hovered behind her on a magical stand, ready for her to turn to it and pick up where she’d left off. But she was also fairly frail of constitution; something about her skin, so that she wore bandages of cloth over her fingers—she’d cut herself on even the pages of books.
Despite that, she could find any book you needed. Of course, Vernoue knew her well, as did the [Princesses] who often came here to play or escape their guardians, often incurring either her wrath or favor.
The scene Vernoue came across was familiar. Not in the exact look of it, but the nature. It was of a red-haired girl squatting down in a corner of the bookshelves, hiding her face as Lorentha bent over her.
“Princess Ellet? I thought I saw you. Your Thronebearers have been searching all over the library for you.”
“I’m hiding. Don’t tell them I’m here, Lorentha. Please?”
Vernoue stopped, and Cindersnap jumped from her arms to sniff at Ellet’s dress. The girl clung to the fox, and Lorentha glanced at Vernoue.
“Don’t you have evening lessons?”
“I don’t want to. Read me a story, Lorentha? Please?”
Ellet, normally sociable and cheerful, looked put-upon and tired, possibly from visiting Ser Lormel and then a full day of her studies or socializing or attending a gathering with some of her peers or—it could be any reason. She was thirteen. The half-Elf hesitated.
“Certainly, Your Highness. Did you read the book I gave you about brave [Beast Tamers]?”
“Yes. I liked Orric and his Otterdog the most. Do you have more stories like that? Mother says a pet should be useful if I want one.”
“Her Majesty said that, did she? And you wanted to have an Otterdog so badly. Why don’t we read another story then? About the Marshes of Oswen? That’s where they came from, you know. I have stories about Veltras folk who first lived there, hunting in the Great Swamp, Oswenia.”
“You mean the Great Swamp of Oswenia, Lorentha. That’s not good grammar.”
Ellet corrected the half-Elf as Lorentha escorted her to some soft couches by a window. The half-Elf sat down, smiling, as Ellet curled up next to her, still stroking the fox.
“Not in this case. The Great Swamp was once a living being. Oswenia, the terrible and wonderful place, filled with magic and deep bogs, Swamp Trolls, Dryads…and Humans! The first Veltras folk mixed and mingled with the strange Drakes and Gnolls who had already lived there. Shall I read you the tale?”
She already had a book in hand, and Vernoue watched, hands on her hips, slightly jealous, as Ellet sat up. The half-Elf turned a page, and when she spoke, it happened.
“The marshes buzzed as the first frosts broke. Dragonflies fluttered upwards in spirals of magic not known to the ken of cityfolk or plainsfolk, and the swamp, Oswenia, awoke. She opened her eyes from her winter slumber as the World’s Tree shed a single leaf to the ground, which landed like distant thunder. On that day, the first Humans rode into the marsh. Quite by accident. A horse’s hooves splashed into the muck, and before the riders knew it, they were up to their necks in mud. Which amused the Great Swamp greatly, and she focused on the strange intruders who smelled of steel and sea, who had come so boldly—and unwisely—into her domain…”
