Half the people they passed were whispering almost furtively, faces aglow with excitement. But they pretended to normalcy the moment they saw the carriage—or a Thronebearer.
“I wonder what’s going on? I can’t hear anything, even with [Long Ear].”
Ellet was patently curious, but Vernoue was far better at this. She handed something to a Thronebearer.
“Here. Drop this behind us.”
It was an ordinary-looking stone that Vernoue turned into a one-way speaking stone. She did have magic…just magic convenient to her, not [Fireball], like those odious Tourvecall nobles asked about. The two listened as, after half a minute of silence, the stone was dropped covertly next to a stall where people were buying ‘baking powder’.
“…swear you can see it’s true. Next time the 6th Princess appears, notice how she’s less well made up than the 5th and 7th Princess? And she appears publicly so seldom! Think of it! When’s the last time you saw Princess Lyonette around the capital?”
“True…Her Highness always enjoyed the latest sights. But I can’t recall the last time I saw her about. And she’s far less, ah—strident than before?”
“Less shouting, you mean? She called me a peon to my face once, which, of course, was just the most shocking thing—”
“Quite understandable given her passions!”
“Yes, yes—but don’t you see? No peons, no riding, no—anything! Just look at her and listen to her voice and you’ll see.”
“So where is she then?”
The two [Princesses] exchanged an alarmed glance as the [Shopkeeper] lowered her voice.
“Izril.”
“Izril? Surely not!”
“I have it from a [Bard] who saw her in Invrisil—taking tea with Magnolia Reinhart, no less. And they have stories—is the royal escort still there? No? Well, you won’t hear the truly interesting details on the streets. There’s this pub, though, and they’re apparently telling stories past midnight. Here, I’ll write down the address. Don’t tell anyone, and of course, nothing’s proven, but I heard someone brought in a truth stone…”
“Dead gods. What pub? And you’re sure…?”
The speaking stone got too far away, and they lost the rest of the conversation. Vernoue cursed. She should have used [Royal Casting] to make it! But she could only do that once per day, and they’d gotten enough.
“Tail those two. Find out where that is.”
Vernoue snapped at a Thronebearer, who took two more of their number to shadow the pair. Vernoue bit at one fingernail before catching herself.
“This is bad, Ellet. Someone’s spreading rumors or…let’s hurry and find Mother.”
“Did Lyonette really fight monsters in Izril, Vernoue?”
Ellet’s face was curious and wondering as they rode, and Vernoue scowled.
“Lyonette? Can you imagine her doing that? No! I think. She—I don’t actually know what she’s done. I sent my Thronebearer to help her, and Ushar did say they were in a war.”
“A war?”
Ellet’s eyes grew round, and Vernoue preened slightly at knowing more.
“Yes—but she wouldn’t have been participating in it. I think. She has this Gnoll girl she’s looking after, and she does practice with a sword every morning…but so does Aielef! And she—did—meet a Wall Lord. And Magnolia Reinhart. It’s exaggeration, Ellet. But there’s some truth to it.”
Strange. Had Vernoue ever met a Drake Wall Lord? They didn’t leave Izril often, and meeting Magnolia Reinhart—even Vernoue knew her name. The 5th Princess felt a twinge of jealousy for a moment, then focused on the urgency. Her mother had to know—!
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin was actually with Lady Rouslin, and the two were speaking to the family and loved ones who had lost people during the war. The [Queen] and [Lady] had glowing flowers they handed out, and Ielane’s face was a mix of compassion, grief, and guilt—a masterful act.
Ellet and Vernoue hovered impatiently, trying to not take away from the moment, because they knew it mattered. Only when Ielane excused herself did they rush to some rooms and burst out.
“Mother, Mother! There’s a rumor about—”
“Mother, I’ve got my Thronebearers tracking the sources, but it’s all over the city—”
In private, Ielane du Marquin was far more straightforward and direct. Also, she liked to smoke, which no one knew—she lit a puffer stick and turned to Lady Rouslin.
“That makes three. Aielef beat you two, but I believe she was in Calanfer’s northern cities for an affair, so it might have been chance. Shardele is disappointing. My sons are not.”
“No expectations of them, Your Majesty?”
“They never took to dissembling in the same way.”
Vernoue and Ellet’s panic faded. Ielane knew? Of course she knew. Even so, Vernoue shot Lady Rouslin a distrustful glance; the woman was all smiles and made you feel like you wanted to trust her, but Vernoue knew better than to trust her instincts.
“Mother, it’s all over the city. I heard people speaking about private stories in pubs! If you want to stop it—”
Ielane did offer a rare smile, then. She turned to Lady Rouslin, who wore an almost mannish jacket and trousers of all things! Some Izrilian style, Vernoue was certain, adapted to be quasi-military. She did look splendid in it—Ielane nodded to Rouslin.
“One of your finer ideas, Rouslin.”
“Thank you, Your Majesty. Gossip is all very well and good, but nothing arouses the mind like being in a conspiracy. It is even more delightful to be opposing the crown—in little ways like this! Subversion of the law is a quality people enjoy, in a patriotic sort of way in this case. There are commonfolk as far as Solmenoi who are sneaking into barns at night to host these stories—some are quite artful about it.”
“More than root cellars?”
Queen Ielane raised one perfect brow as Vernoue’s mouth fell open again. Rouslin nodded.
“Some of them found some hollowed trees and used them to whisper to each other at night.”
“Hah. That is inventive. A good way to find more prospective [Spies]. Which is why I want the [Body Double] to perfect her acting of Lyonette. Vensha, tell her that there’s a rumor she’s fake. She’ll do her best, but nerves will betray her. If she doesn’t make a mistake in the next…week and a half, reward her after arranging a slip-up yourself.”
“Done, Your Majesty.”
Vensha, the right hand of Ielane, wrote in a scroll, and only then did Vernoue explode.
“You’re organizing this?”
Ielane sighed.
“Vernoue. Think of something other than spellcasting for once. A rumor this accurate and widespread had to come from the palace itself. Of course I approved Rouslin’s rumors. If you’d heard the rumor alone, you should have understood…well, you still passed Shardele.”
She seemed displeased at that and puffed harder, which made Vernoue think that Shardele’s Dreamleaf money would be cut this month. That small bit of schadenfreude was nothing to her shock.
Ellet asked the obvious.
“But why, Mother? Surely knowing Lyonette is fake will harm her suitors and the crown’s reputation?”
Vernoue nodded. Ielane was big on the reputation of the crown. Every member of the royal family was a piece to be used, and Lyonette being absent…they saw Queen Ielane’s face shift slightly. She frowned, took a puff of her stick, but didn’t immediately exhale. Instead, she spoke as wisps of smoke escaped her mouth.
“Circumstances change. It is better to use the truth to enhance a reputation, especially since the truth will out eventually. Suitors…can be swayed by a rare gemstone, however oddly marked, more than a plain, respectable stone. The truth is our asset, which Lady Rouslin is using.”
“Oh, like Lyonette fighting a Raskghar?”
Vernoue scoffed, unable to contain her amusement—and slight annoyance at how Ielane was talking. A smile from Lady Rouslin made Vernoue hesitate.
“That is a rumor, isn’t it? Or did she survive one of those…what is a Raskghar?”
“It is the utmost truth, Princess, as far as every agent I have assures me. In fact, Dame Ushar is another witness to at least one encounter. With that said, we are working our way up to the bigger truths; this skepticism and intrigue is precisely why it works, Ielane. If you have time, you should listen in on an ‘introductory’ meeting. The crowd knows Lyonette, and the [Bards] must win them over, but it happens each time.”
“Fascinating. I can attend tonight.”
Ielane flicked some ash from her stick onto a tray, and Vernoue hesitated.
“But she didn’t fight a…”
Rouslin’s eyes glittered.
“To my understanding, she didn’t kill a Raskghar, but it is amazing what I can put on a truth stone or against a truth Skill and have it work. I can, for instance, state that she has killed Crelers, Your Majesty. Or that she faced the Goblin King. [Factual Statement] allows me to guess, and what I guess—is so alarmingly true!”
“That I find hard to credit.”
“Difficult, but true. Whatever happened of late—”
Ielane swished the air with her puffer in a cutting motion, and Rouslin fell silent. Now, both [Princesses] were, like the folk of Calanfer, suddenly agog to know more. But Ielane’s face showed nothing.
“You have a break from suitors, Vernoue. Use the moment well. Oh—and if you should hear anything from Dame Ushar, report it to me. If you should speak to Lyonette, for instance—she has means to communicate—do so.”
Vernoue blinked. Speak to Lyonette? She hadn’t truly felt the need, but Ielane’s eyes lingered on her a second before turning away.
“Wouldn’t Ushar or Lyonette simply report to you, Mother? You are in contact with her.”
“Yes. I’m simply seeking alternate perspectives on their thoughts.”
That made sense—Vernoue supposed. She glanced at Ellet, and then both backed out of Ielane’s presence. Mostly to begin getting ahold of some of these rumors themselves.
 
——
 
Three days later, Vernoue experienced a rare feeling.
Not-jealousy.
She was not jealous of Lyonette being talked up across the kingdom. No, definitely not. Especially because half the rumors about her had to be fake.
“Oh come on. She did not fight Draugr. Those are Gold-rank monsters. I don’t want false rumors—and dancing? She’s a decent dancer, but with a Wall Lord? She can’t stand most Humans, let alone other species! And don’t you dare repeat that other—one!”
She threw a lap pillow at one of her servants and didn’t miss how the [Maid] gave her a searching look. Lyonette-rumors were all over the palace, and even the Thronebearers and servants seemed genuinely unsure which were fake and which were true.
Some had to be fake. Especially that last one! Vernoue’s ears were red, and she was used to hearing…
“Sleeping with an Antinium? Eternal Throne, that’s close to treasonous talk!”
“I am so sorry, Your Highness! But the rumor—”
“My mother’s not clamping down on that one?”
Each story was more insane than the last. Lyonette had slain a Daemon of Luck in the Meeting of Tribes. She’d charmed a [Lord] from House Veltras into proposing to her on the spot. She’d met the King of Destruction, learned how to perform an Oldblood Drake’s breath attack—oh, and they had pictures as proof.
Images of a certain red-haired young woman during notable events that had taken place at that inn where Ushar said Lyonette was. Usually just glimpses of her, still frames or moments where she very visibly ducked out of frame.
It was titillating, exciting, and the fact that the crown was denying everything and parading around the fake Lyonette to quash the rumors—unsuccessfully—meant everyone was in a frenzy about it.
In fact, no suitor had come for Vernoue for the last week, except to briefly court her, and then, after a rejection, go and introduce themselves to Lyonette! She’d had no less than sixteen, all of whom seemed keen on trying to prove the rumors false!
It was genius of Ielane and made Vernoue hopping mad with not-jealousy. She’d written to Ushar to get to the bottom of this four times, but the Thronebearer just kept saying things were a mess right now and she had no time, with greatest apologies, to even speak.
Even Ellet seemed a bit put-out by Lyonette-mania. She was a good-natured [Princess], but when a bunch of plushies of a certain white Gnoll girl started being sold—and bought—by [Ladies] her age along with dolls of Antinium, she developed a rather familiar, narked look. On a hunch, Vernoue investigated…and found one of the sellers was a [Royal Merchant] of Calanfer doing all the production and sales. So this Lyonette-mania was also bringing in gold to the crown, wonderful.
Or maybe it was because Ielane had less time to tutor her—she always instructed the younger [Princesses]—and she was spending more time in her study, plotting something.
All this to say that Vernoue was so heartily sick of the Lyonette-fever in the capital, when the best moment of her life came, she thought it was her mother trying to get rid of her because she was in the way.
 
——
 
“Shardele, you are to stay with Lyonette and tamp down on these rumors as much as possible. Public appearances daily. Sober. Ellet, I’ve arranged for you to tour Gaiil-Drome. You do enjoy visiting the royal family there—it will be a four-day visit. Vernoue, you’re bound to Pheislant.”
Shardele wore a sullen expression as Ielane gave out orders to the royals in the palace. She still hadn’t actually caught on that this was all an act and bowed her head with ill-grace, probably thinking this was necessary given the rumors. Vernoue and Ellet traded glances.
“What? Pheislant? Do I have to meet with some [Prince] for my hand?”
“No.”
Vernoue’s heart did a weird leap-flop at that, and she scowled as Ellet bounced on her heels, a bit excited to visit the half-Elven kingdom despite it feeling like Ielane wanted them out of her hair. With a quill, the [Queen] made a flicking motion at Vernoue.
“Pack for two weeks. Riding and travel clothing and your best spellbooks. You are to be on your finest behavior, and if you disgrace the royal family, this will not occur again.”
“Two weeks?”
Vernoue didn’t enjoy travel unless it let her find more magical books, but two weeks—she scowled.
“And where am I staying? Pheislant’s royal palace? The salt air will ruin my hair!”
“Don’t you have a spell for that?”
Shardele sniped, and Ielane silenced her with a look. She began to reply when Vensha spoke.
“Your Highness, another report from Liscor. Ushar.”
“I’ll take it.”
Then Ielane was standing and speaking into a stone—Vernoue couldn’t hear anything due to the advanced [Silence] spells. She was so outraged she remained as the other [Princesses] left. It was all about Lyonette! Lyonette! When had Lyonette become so…important?
