Mrsha nodded, looking very concerned as she glanced at Lyonette, who gave her a lot of teeth in what might be charitably called a smile. She held up a notecard.
Yes. This is hard to explain, Princess Vernoue, but I have a message to you from the future. From yourself, rather. I know this sounds weird, but hear me out.
She had incredible handwriting and diction—no, these had to be pre-written cards Lyonette had helped her with. Vernoue stared as Mrsha tried to explain.
A message to myself from the future? She managed to sit through three notecards as Lyonette nodded along seriously before Vernoue couldn’t help it.
She began laughing and waved a hand as she stood. Vernoue grabbed a pitcher and was relieved to find wine in it. She needed a drink.
“Oh, this is too much. Lyonette, please stop coaching your ‘daughter’ to tell lies. And Ushar, tell me how much of this is real? I have had a rotten week, and I’m in no mood for this. Get to what you want, and no games.”
She threw herself back in her chair, slopping wine over the cup’s rim and wincing as it hit the carpet. Mrsha faltered and grew wary. Lyonette’s eyes narrowed.
“Vernoue, this is no game. I realize it sounds bad, and I know what you must think of me—”
“Ushar?”
Vernoue ignored Lyonette and stared pointedly at her trusted servant. Dame Ushar hesitated, gave Lyonette an apprehensive look, and then bowed.
“This is all true, Your Highness. All of it. I pray you listen—”
“Ushar!”
The 5th Princess glowered at her trusted servant. Really, was Lyonette bribing the Thronebearer? Had she suborned Ushar’s loyalty? Then—the bead of suspicion became outright paranoia and hurt as she saw Ushar glance at Lyonette for direction. With uncertainty, at Vernoue—
Vernoue was too good a dissembler, too much Ielane’s child to not realize when Ushar’s loyalty had been shifted. She’d noticed signs, but had put it down to the speaking stone, distance, and hadn’t wanted to believe. But seeing Ushar turn to Lyonette for guidance—
Was the last straw. Then Vernoue went still and silent, in ways her sisters had learned to fear. Lyonette saw it and raised a placating hand.
“Vernoue, I realize how this all sounds. Ushar saved my life. I am eternally indebted to you, Ellet, Seraphel—we have survived a terrible event here. The Goblin King…is only half of it. Please, hear Mrsha out. She is my daughter, and I am her mother. I would die for her. I wish I could—but please. Listen.”
How Mrsha flinched at that, and Ushar. It almost made Vernoue believe she was misinformed, but if she believed that—her eyes flashed, and she said the first thing that came to mind, the most hurtful magic she could cast.
“A girl you’ve known, what, a year or two at best cannot be your daughter, Lyonette. I survived a throne-damned war. Don’t feed me the same lies about a Goblin King. Hundred Heroes take it, give me straight answers or I’ll let Mother deal with you! You have no idea how bad my week has been and—why is she writing on a card? Is she dumb as well as white-furred?”
Mrsha peered up and stopped writing. She gave Vernoue a wide-eyed look, not of hurt, but more of alarm. She began shaking her head—turned around—then ran for it. So did Ushar.
“Vernoue, be quiet.”
Lyonette stood there, blue eyes flashing, practically glowing, and her own hair had come out of the bun and was rising behind her. A stupid trick. Vernoue’s hair could float, and she sneered.
“Or what? I knew the rumors about you were false. Mother wants to repaint your image, but you’re still telling lies, Lyonette. You know your sisters can see right through you. If Mother doesn’t want you to bring back another stray, I’ll talk her into it, but drop the ‘Level 39’ act before I—”
“Vernoue. Stop. Talking.”
The words were accompanied by Lyonette’s hand rising and clenching into a fist. Vernoue’s smirk vanished. She felt a weight on her chest and gasped. She knew what it was—
Aura. She’d had limited training, but Ielane had taught her to resist—Vernoue scrambled to try and hold it off, but it was so—
They were a continent away, weren’t they? What was g—
Her winecup sprayed her with wine as it crushed inwards, as if under a gravity spell. Vernoue screamed and shot to her feet. Then she realized the feeling of pressure on her chest wasn’t just—an idea.
“Your Highness!”
The Thronebearers had heard the scream and leapt into the room, only to stagger and stare at the objects being hurled around the 5th Princess. Vernoue screamed.
“Lyonette! Stop this! I’ll tell—I’ll tell Mother on you! What stupid prank is—”
“Take it back.”
Lyonette’s eyes. Vernoue was jerking away from meeting them. She longed to slap the 6th Princess, like when Lyonette was throwing things and insulting everyone. Lyonette was the bratty disgrace of Calanfer! But it felt like—Vernoue made a mistake.
“I’m not apologizing for insulting that stray dog you found! Stop using your aura and—”
Lyonette’s face went blank. The aura pressing against Vernoue vanished, and the [Magic-loving Princess] caught herself, her heart pulsing in her chest. She smiled half-triumphantly.
Then her chair exploded. The rain of splinters and wood bounced off a Thronebearer’s shield as they threw themselves forwards. But even the superlative bodyguards couldn’t shield Vernoue, and without her tiara, the splinters peppered her. She screamed—then Lyonette spoke.
“Dame Ushar, I’m not going to kill her. Take Mrsha out of here for a moment. Nanette may stay. It shall be a lesson.”
Nanette? Vernoue was shrieking as her Thronebearers shouted in alarm—but Lyonette pointed.
“Move aside.”
They did. She stood there, apron blowing in the wind, and her smile was—Vernoue searched around for her tiara.
“L-Lyonette. Calm down.”
“Vernoue, do you remember our lessons on auras? We can throw them at anything we can see, even with the [World’s Eye Theatre], apparently. Do you remember how aura clashes work?”
Ridiculous. She was bluffing. She couldn’t have an aura like this—Shardele didn’t have an aura like this. Vernoue’s teeth were chattering.
“Lyonette, what’s gotten into you?”
“I met Marquin the First. I met the Goblin King. I’ve fought Raskghar. My only regret is that I didn’t know how to fight properly back then. I will, if I ever meet one again. You are going to listen to Mrsha and believe everything she says. I’ve seen Elder Crelers with my own two eyes.”
“Ridiculous.”
Lyonette’s eyes were glowing now, more like beacons of light in a black outline of her. The air was trembling. Vernoue felt breathless. She tried to suck in air. She was—blacking out—
 
——
 
Something is coming.
The air is howling. The 6th Princess of Calanfer is smiling like a Hell’s Warden.
Your heart can’t beat fast enough. Your lungs are filled with hot ash.
A Giant’s hand is holding you tight. Your younger sister is standing there. It feels like there’s an army at her back. Her eyes are blazing like dying stars.
She’s pulsing with authority. 
“Believe me,” she says. She wants to show you something. You’re screaming. A Thronebearer is being pressed against a wall. Another chair explodes. It cuts your skin.
She reaches for her heart and taps it. She’s filled with…determination. Grief. Loss. Will. Her heart pulses, and you go stumbling back.
“All of this isn’t enough. Not even a fraction of what I needed.” Her eyes lock on yours, and her smile looks broken. As if she’s lost something greater than you can imagine.
But her heart—thuds again. She’s stronger than you can imagine. Stronger than your Mother? Almost.
The door crashes inwards as a Summer Knight appears, sword drawn. He takes one look at the 6th Princess and gasps.
“Her aura—”
Her eyes swing to him, and flames shower down as that glowing soul clashes with the heat of summer. Another [Knight] emerges from the other door. A Winter Knight, whose shield goes up. Frost encircles her boots, and the [Princess] speaks.
“My daughter is the little, tragic heroine with a message for you, Vernoue. Listen to it. Or I’ll make you regret it. You’re one of her heroes. Live up to a thousandth of it.”
The aura lets you go, and you stumble, choking, crying, and the [Princess] stands there, blazing with her aching heart. Then she sits down and looks at you.
“I’m sorry, Vernoue. I lost my temper.”
Her heart beats again. The entire Order of Seasons hears it.
 
——
 
The 5th Princess of Calanfer, Vernoue the Enchanting, said not a thing for a long time afterwards. Her room lay ashambles. She had cuts on her skin from where splinters of wood had struck her, and her servants, Thronebearers, and the Order of Seasons’ [Knights] were utterly astonished.
Lyonette? Lyonette was ashamed. She stood like she had when she was in trouble, head bowed, studying her toes as she clasped her hands behind her back.
That…was all Vernoue recognized of her. The rest was completely changed. She felt like a fool, for Lyonette’s level and authority had quite literally knocked the wind out of her. It was hard to say who felt smaller, though.
Neither [Princess] broke the silence for some time. Dame Ushar kept clearing her throat, but she had no real floorplan to work off of either. The [Princesses] of Calanfer fought, viciously sometimes, and had destroyed rooms this effectively before, if not with sheer auras. The part where they made up…neither one knew.
Time would eventually see two feuding sisters tire of their hatred and return to politeness, or Ielane could crack the whip and put an end to this kind of thing. But Vernoue could count the number of times on one hand she’d apologized to Lyonette for any reason. Once. When she’d accidentally cast a spell that had turned Lyonette’s hair bright blue when they were twelve and six, respectively.
It was almost inevitable in the pained silence, then, that the Gnoll girl came creeping back, accompanied by a girl with brown braids and the ugliest mismatch of clothing that Vernoue had ever seen in her life.
She had found some kind of grand but old woolen cloak, russet brown, and paired it with a polka-dotted blouse. The dots were green, and the rest of the fabric was white. She was wearing purple pantaloons with moons on them.
“Hello, Princess Vernoue. I’m Nanette, Lyonette’s, um, second adopted daughter. I’m terribly sorry on her behalf. Things have been very tense here. I’m a former [Witch], and Mrsha’s a [Druid]. Lyonette often speaks of you fondly.”
“Ah…indeed. Hello. What unique clothing you have, Miss Nanette.”
Vernoue was afraid of saying something that might set Lyonette off, but a compliment about the clothing actually wedged itself in her throat. Your younger sister might be intimidating you with the threat of an aura clash, but war crimes against fashion were still hard to condone.
Thankfully, Lyonette seemed to have eyes, because a full-bodied wince passed over her face, and Ushar’s eyes rolled up, showing the whites. Nanette seemed quite pleased with herself.
“I got these from an antique store! It’s certainly eye-catching, isn’t it?”
She did a twirl, and Mrsha edged away from her. Vernoue stared at Lyonette, and the [Princess] spoke, avoiding her eyes for once.
“I—they’ve been through a hard period, and Nanette is a young woman who can make her own choices.”
“Except in fashion.”
Nanette jumped as Vernoue muttered that. Lyonette half-smiled, then glanced at Mrsha and Nanette. The two made encouraging motions, and Lyonette ducked her head again.
“Agreed, Vernoue. I, ah, I’m quite sorry about what I just did. I lost my temper. Again. I’m becoming something of a Yvlon, aren’t I?”
Only a bit, Mother. If you get cool new arms, we’ll call it even.
Mrsha wrote in the air with the same flowing script on her cards, and Vernoue blinked.
“Wait, that is her handwriting? It’s splendid! And is that a wand?”
“Oh, yes, Mrsha can cast Tier 2 magic. And she has her own wand—Mrsha, show your aunt, please.”
Aunt. Vernoue put the incongruity out of her head as Mrsha conjured some grass, then blasted the spot with a [Stone Dart] spell. Dead gods. She couldn’t be more than…nine! Vernoue was fascinated despite herself. She glanced at Lyonette.
“That’s incredible. She’s talented for her age. I couldn’t cast Tier 2 magic until I was twelve—remember the hair incident? I’m…sorry about my comment, Lyonette. Clearly, I was misinformed about the—the rumors. They’re all over Calanfer, you know.”
Lyonette’s smile was relieved, and the tension in the air ratcheted down slightly.
“The hair incident? I remember being so upset, and it didn’t change back for a month. I’m sure the rumors are overblown. Half are probably misattributed to me when they should be about Erin. My [Innkeeper]. My…boss, my friend, my—”
She trailed off, then pushed Mrsha forwards.
“And you are apologizing to Mrsha for calling her a dog, aren’t you?”
“Of course. I’m terribly sorry, my dear.”
Flustered, Vernoue bent forwards, and Mrsha nodded at her.
Don’t worry about it, Princess-Aunt Vernoue. I call Humans ‘monkeys’ all the time when I get mad. Equal racisms for all.
“Mrsha du Marquin! You do not!”
Lyonette scolded her, and Nanette giggled. Vernoue watched as Mrsha handed Lyonette a few notecards to verify her racism, and Lyonette’s scolding intensified.
She realized—both girls were eying her and Lyonette. Were they managing the two sisters? Lyonette’s expression became a look of chagrin, and she traded a glance with Vernoue. Then they began speaking, and despite the blow-out fight, it was like when the sisters would team up against an older sister and put aside their grudges and be, well, family.
“Does Lyonette really say nice things about me? You can be honest.”
Vernoue leaned over to whisper to Mrsha, producing a hand-fan that was amazingly unscathed to wave some air into her face. She was flushed and clammy from sweat.
She says you’re the ‘best of the lot’. Way better than Shardele and Aielef, and Seraphel’s gloomy, Menisi’s never there, and Princess Ellet’s a kid. By process of elimination, ergo and therefore, you’re the best. Especially because you leave her alone and you do helpful magic.
That was actually quite flattering. Vernoue smiled.
“Well, Lyonette and I shared the same interests. Our four older sisters were always the ‘grown-ups’. Only Seraphel would play with us, and she was mean.”
Lyonette sighed as Mrsha’s ears perked up, which was very cute.
“The meanest. Seraphel the Sharp Tongued. Dead gods, I can’t believe how—distinguished she is now. She’s hardly petty at all!”
“You’ve spoken to her?”
Vernoue was distracted, and Lyonette hesitated.
