Bananas? She could get a thousand bananas if that employed a truly great magical teacher! As for the others—well, they weren’t Terandrians, by and large, which really surprised Vernoue. What about Archmage Feor, Viltach, or…any number of [Grand Magi] or famous [Mages] in Terandria itself?
The only ones even on that list were ‘Tserre’ and ‘Visophecin’, and the latter belonged to Ailendamus so that was probably out. Regardless, Vernoue organized inquiries into all of the non-scary members of the list. In fact, by the time her carriage arrived back in Calanfer, she had already sent missives asking if any of them would be so inclined to be her teacher.
Which was the problem, of course. Archmage Vernoue of the future giving advice to herself in the past presupposed she was any good at advice to begin with. Or that the world would be the same—or that Vernoue would act like her future self imagined.
By the time Vernoue reached her rooms in the palace, she’d been rejected by all but two of her candidates.
 
——
 
Grimalkin the Fist and Leireit the [Sorcerer] accepted her as their pupil! Vernoue grabbed the [Message] scroll the moment it was proffered to her and her face fell.
Grimalkin declined to visit Calanfer, but did offer her admission in his academy on a merit-based trial, assuming she made the journey to Pallass. He also listed supplementary exercises to ‘begin her fitness-based magical training’.
Sorcerer Leireit was far more personable, actually responded, and knew who she was! However, the rather slapdash writing looked like he’d personally cast [Message]. It read:
 
Utterly charmed by such a gracious invitation! Magical students are a delight. I haven’t had one since the last four ran off years back. A [Princess] would be a thing, and I do like bananas! Not sure about accepting them instead of gold, but we could work that out. 
If she can make it to me, I’m in the New Lands right now to see what’s what. I wouldn’t say no to a royal escort! And a [Cook]. And toilet paper. I forgot to pack any. Just have Her Highness pop by with those bananas, and we’ll talk it out! Kisses,
—Leireit, [Sorcerer] extraordinaire, etc. etc.
 
Archmage Valeterisa declined as she had one apprentice already; Viscount Visophecin’s people informed Calanfer that they were at war and he was indisposed, and wanted to know why he had been so honored by the privilege of being a magical tutor.
No good there, either. As for two of the people on the list…Rylev and Lareina weren’t in any records she could find. Not that she could ask broadly, but a few Mage’s Guilds didn’t have Rylev on the books in Baleros, and she tried three different countries and there was no Gold-rank adventurer named Lareina…they laughed when she asked if they could check for all their Silver-ranks across the nation.
Dead ends there, too. She could do a more in-depth search but Vernoue was hoping for an easier teacher, not one she’d have to hunt down. Unfortunately, Larracel sent her disinterest; and as for Gaxiela of Wistram…there was a note at the bottom of the [Message] scroll.
 
We have been getting illusory [Mages] harassing our diplomats in three cities for the last six hours about how you know that name. If you wish for a magical tutor, one of a higher level will be arranged. I expect a full written report of what your sister said to you by tonight.
—Queen Ielane.
 
That made Vernoue’s heart sink. She sat there in her rooms, then convinced herself that she hadn’t tried to reach out to the magical masters directly yet. She’d investigate the first clue…
Right after she lied a bit.
Just a bit in her report. Talking about future Vernoues was too crazy—even if her mother believed her, Vernoue wanted it to be her secret. So the 5th Princess lied the easiest way to Queen Ielane: by omission.
It was too simple to accurately describe the aura clash and even elements of the talk, like Mrsha handing her a list of potential magical advisors—Vernoue simply scribbled the reason down as ‘intelligence from The Wandering Inn’, which she rather suspected was vague enough to square with all the insane rumors coming from there.
She turned the report over to Dame Vensha, who gave her a rather thorough interrogation about what Vernoue had seen. Oddly, the Thronebearer wanted to know most about Mrsha and Nanette. Were they healthy? Hurt in any way? Exactly how did Lyonette look, health-wise?
That was hard enough, thinking that the older Thronebearer was merely interested in Lyonette and her daughters. But when Vensha turned her attention to Vernoue, it got worse, somehow.
“So you have learned no new magic during your two weeks with the Fall’s Sentinel?”
“I-I’m learning [Invisibility]!”
Vernoue defended herself with a sinking feeling and saw Vensha’s cold, grey eyes scrutinizing her.
“Any practicing [Mage] of Calanfer would have mastered a Tier 4 spell with Ser Venoriat’s aid. Your mother will not be pleased.”
“Not true! He says I did splendidly! I was over halfway there—”
“With all his guidance Skills active?”
“H-his what?”
The Thronebearer’s look of reprove was enough to send Vernoue spiraling. She spelled it out slowly.
“The Fall’s Sentinel is a masterful guide and teacher. He, and his Season of Fall, are quite able to empower students to learn magic. I trust you will complete your studies of [Invisibility] to prove their time with you was not wasted. Your mother expected your passions to be backed up by more effort.”
Vensha closed the binder, and Vernoue sagged. Then spiraled into hysteria; Vensha ducked an orb of light that splintered on the doorframe above her head.
 
——
 
Vernoue’s tantrum in her rooms lasted for sixteen minutes of wild spellcasting. Then she fled her rooms as her servants re-emerged from hiding, not sobbing, because that would ruin her makeup, but furious and hurt and doing what [Princesses] often did when upset in the palace.
There were two places you went. Library or kitchens. Or your rooms, of course, but you were never alone there.
The kitchens were the haunting ground of every [Princess] except Ellet. They all stole sweets and treats from the secondary kitchen where they were usually placed, or went to the primary one for food. There, Vernoue fled, but not to the main preparation area.
Most places in the Eternal Throne were converted from the magnificent Dragonthrone it had used to be, but the spacious rooms had been bare of actual objects until repurposed. Thusly, there was an original set of kitchens far humbler than the massive ones which could churn out food for banquets.
Like an inner courtyard, hidden by a side-door to the massive tables where dozens of [Chefs] could be working at once. They glanced up when Vernoue entered in a storm of bright eyes and red cheeks, but no one was surprised when she kicked her way into the side rooms.
“Head Chef! Head Chef, I’m back from my trip, the worst trip ever! I want—gelato! Make me a sundae, with—with eight scoops and covered in that whipped cream stuff and cherries!”
Vernoue practically screamed at the top of her lungs. Most [Princesses] were on a diet of some kind or other, and an affection for treats ran hard in the family, be it sweets or otherwise.
However, they knew they could bully the ‘Head Chef’ of the kitchens, an old Balerosian man—Human, but so wrinkled up and hunched with age that he sometimes resembled a different species altogether.
Head Chef Mexte hobbled out from the workroom where he wrote down the meal plans for the night’s menu, rubbing a cloth over his hands and smiling.
“Princess Vernoue! Oh my, oh, it is so good to see you! How was the Order of Seasons? You look terribly upset, young woman.”
She threw herself into one of the older chairs that creaked, but supported her weight around the far older, ancient wood table where the original kitchens had prepared meals for…well, nearly a thousand years to hear tell of it. It probably wasn’t the original table, but it was so scarred with knife cuts and food from countless centuries of preparations that like Mexte, it resembled something entirely different from the shiny, steel tables in the other kitchens.
“Sundae, Mexte.”
“Don’t I get a ‘please’, Princess? My, oh me, oh my, eight scoops of gelato and cherries? The first cherry harvests haven’t reached us yet…I’ll have to find them in the stockpiles. You look terribly upset. Were the [Knights] rude to you? I’ll write a letter, having our [Princess] of spells in such a state.”
He moved at a snail’s pace. Vernoue huffed as she folded her arms, wishing she’d had one of the lesser [Cooks] make her treats—but that would hurt the old Head Chef’s feelings. He personally served any [Princess] who came down here.
“Ser Venoriat wasn’t the trouble. He was perfectly charming. It was that hag, Dame Vensha.”
“Oh dear. Vensha again? What did she say? Let me just prepare that ice cream, Your Highness. How many scoops?”
“Eight! And hurry up, would you?”
Vernoue was crimson with shame and glared as a pottery cup, glazed so it looked like bright, multi-colored scales, was placed before her. He was putting on tea. He always put on tea, but at least Mexte waved some red teabags at her.
“Cherry-flavored tea, Princess.”
“And the cherries, Mexte!”
But now he was making tea, and she sighed and fidgeted, then spoke as he peered into shelves, searching for ingredients his [Sous Chefs] had put away.
“She—she said that I hadn’t learned any spells and that Ser Venoriat was using all his Skills so I’d improve better. Any regular [Mage] could learn [Invisibility] in two weeks, she said! I thought I was working hard, Mexte. But then I met Lyonette—”
She swallowed as her voice went wobbly, a terrible thing for a [Princess] to show weakness that way if it was actually genuine. Vernoue held the old teacup in hand, and some rye crackers appeared on the table with huge seeds embedded in them. They had an almond paste she scraped onto them as Mexte tsked.
“Dame Vensha is often unkind, Princess. I don’t think just any [Mage] could learn [Invisibility].”
“She said—”
“Perhaps any palace [Mage], but you know Dame Vensha is never happy. What did Ser Venoriat say?”
That made Vernoue think.
“He—he said I had made wonderful progress for someone who doesn’t normally study Tier 4 spells. Which I don’t! I know it was slow since he was learning Tier 5 magic, but I was working hard! I was!”
The Head Chef was nodding along, straightening his high, poofy hat importantly as he found a pillow for her to sit on.
“I believe you, Princess Vernoue. It sounds like Dame Vensha wasn’t correct.”
“She wasn’t! And—and I tried, but I couldn’t focus because I wasn’t used to it. The Fall’s Sentinel was…very kind. I almost married him.”
“Married him? My young Princess Vernoue marrying him? Outrageous!”
He sounded so appalled she rolled her eyes.
“Mother said I could. And he’s only sixty.”
“Sixty! My dear Vernoue, I’d be more fit to marry the Fall’s Sentinel than a blooming flower like you.”
The wry comment made Vernoue nearly snort her drink out her nose. She coughed, then glowered.
“Well, who else am I supposed to have? That’s not even the worst part of it, Mexte. Lyonette appeared with some Skill!”
“Lyonette! How is she doing?”
Vernoue spilled the meeting out to the old chef as he finally found some cherries and then laboriously picked out several bowls. When she reminded him she wanted the ice cream now, he protested.
“But Your Highness, what about supper? I have a fine meal prepared just for your return.”
He looked so querulously upset she relented.
“Oh—fine! But I want—”
“Mexte, Mother’s banned me from using Dreamleaf again!”
Shardele threw the doors open, and Vernoue jumped. The old man instantly found another cup.
“Your Highness Shardele!”
She threw herself into a chair, makeup running—Vernoue glowered and sipped at her tea.
“She said I was unobservant. And it’s all Lyonette’s fault!”
Vernoue realized that Lyonette-season hadn’t ended after two weeks of absence. If anything, it was getting worse. Not only that, but it seemed Shardele was being taken to task just as Ielane had threatened.
“Why don’t you tell me all about it, Princess? Your sister has returned from her trip.”
“Oh, hello, Vernoue.”
Shardele barely seemed to see Vernoue at first, but then sniffed, and he had tissues for her to blow her nose and begin to complain, which soured Vernoue, because she had come here first! She was opening her mouth when two scoops of ice cream appeared before her, with several cherries on top.
“Mexte! I said eight!”
“Not to worry, Your Highness! I’m just finding the other flavors. We have some lovely banana flavors I made up with some fruits from home. Where is it?”
She groaned as he tried to find other flavors of ice cream which were somehow not right next to the scoops of vanilla. Meanwhile, Shardele was begging for something, anything that would ‘take her mind off things’.
“Don’t you have something, Mexte?”
“Why don’t I check, Princess. Where’s your darling boy? And Vernoue was just telling me she talked to Lyonette!”
The Head Chef was so easy to sidetrack—both [Princesses] groaned as he began to check for two ingredients, getting the recipes confused. Shardele nibbled on a tray of freshly-cut tomatoes, which had appeared next to the crackers. Vernoue tore through her ice cream, but she was so hungry she munched on some braised carrots.
Commoner’s fare and far too simple, but the old man served the same snacks to everyone. Shardele listened with half an ear to the tale about Lyonette.
“It’s her fault I can’t have any Dreamleaf.”
“Why don’t you visit the countryside with your son, Princess Shardele? It’s a lovely time for it. The way the sky clears up, and it’s so cool and breathtaking—nothing like Baleros.”
He always complained about Baleros too. Shardele rolled her eyes.
“It’s not the same without Dreamleaf! Though I did find the most wonderful forest to walk in…I wonder how it looks regularly?”
“Maybe you could admire the sights. Her Majesty has been stricter of late, not that I would say a word against her, not Queen Ielane, Eternal Throne preserve her health. It must be her worry over your sisters. You mustn’t compare yourself to court [Mages], Princess Vernoue. Aha! I’ve just found the cream. Now, to make it whipped…”
Vernoue kicked her heels under the table impatiently, like she had since she’d been a girl.
“It’s not fair, Mexte. Lyonette’s getting all the special treatment.”
Shardele nodded along, chewing on lettuce like a very unhappy bunny wearing mascara, but Mexte just looked amazed.
