Naodin’s head rose, and his eyes locked onto the suddenly-galloping Bechaur’s backs. The Lord Duke began running after the fleeing manservant, who was now screaming and riding for his life.
Lord Naodin was still running even after six minutes, full-tilt through the city, and his howling for Bechaur’s blood was audible. Vernoue heard Menisi laughing to herself.
“And that is why I don’t bother with the Watch. Most get away. Some do not.”
She confided in Vernoue, then whirled. Her eyes were aglow with dark malice and delight, and before Vernoue could process what was happening, Menisi strode over, kissed a [Maid] on the lips, and breathed.
“We have time before Naodin returns. To—wherever.”
The [Maid] was stripping her uniform off so fast that Vernoue almost screamed as she backed up.
“But she’s—she’s—she!”
Menisi started laughing at her until Vernoue fled twice as fast. Then she knew Menisi was mad.
Strangely, of all the things Vernoue said or did over the next few days in the time they spent together, this was the first and only time Menisi got truly annoyed with her.
 
——
 
“You’ve never even had the notion in your head? Has Calanfer’s courts grown that soft or are you truly in your books all day?”
“It’s immoral!”
Menisi tapped Vernoue on the head with her own spellbook after snatching it from her hands, seeming genuinely annoyed.
“Don’t be a fool.”
When Vernoue brandished her wand, Menisi rolled her eyes.
“I don’t ever recall squabbling with you growing up since you were too small, Vernoue. If you’d like to learn how I fought with Shardele and Aielef, go ahead. I wasn’t the one who went crying to Ielane, ever.”
So saying, she raised the book with clear intent to bring it down spine-first on Vernoue’s head. Vernoue did have a pointy stick and the ability to cast Tier 2 magic. She weighed the relative impact a heavy spellbook would have if swung with sufficient force and got to the same conclusion most [Mages] faced when they decided to quarrel with a [Warrior] within arm’s reach.
“B-but it’s so—I know some other odd species do it, like Stitch-folk, I’m no idiot, Menisi! But no decent species—”
“Vernoue. Our regal mother has probably kissed more women than you’ve kissed men in your life. My guess is she was involved with Dame Vensha, either that or it’s something else. She’s certainly experimented, and I know Shardele has. Aielef…who knows, but if you think half the Calanferian courts haven’t experimented—at least, the female half—you’re blind and foolish.”
Menisi dropped a Tier 6 spell on Vernoue in an instant and followed it up.
“They call them ‘Turnscales’ in Izril. A whole host of names here, but never as catchy. Lanceswappers and so on. Consider this as a question: why does it matter?”
“Because…it’s not natural? You can’t produce a child—”
Menisi waved Vernoue’s startled reply away.
“Most of the acts I can do with Naodin won’t produce a child. Have you ever seen two male animals rut? Consider the question of why it is illicit, disturbing, wrong. Because, in some ways, it might challenge culture? Especially in set cultures like we and Drakes have, where marriage is so much more than an expression of love, but financial as well.”
“Wh—financial?”
“Because income is shared between married households. Father has the theory that Turnscales challenge underlying principles in that way—I think it’s a mix of that and simply the aversion of people to what makes them uncomfortable. What is new is hated. He and I discussed it, and from your expression, he has never done so with you. A pity. You should ask him if he’s ever kissed a man or tried more. I never did ask; I wonder if he’d put his mouth where his ideals go.”
She smiled, and then she was like Reclis, thinking a thousand different ways, but Vernoue had never imagined Reclis would be discussing something like that.
“S-so you’re interested in women? Is that why you and Lord Naodin fight?”
That would explain everything, but Menisi waved this off.
“I don’t think I am. Rather, not more than men, and I think I enjoy the company of men more. Or women who act like men. I find enjoyment in both, and I often wonder if that is possible for everyone, if they weren’t so set-fast in their ways. In my case…I get bored.”
She touched her chest, and her eyes glittered. They were sitting in Menisi’s study, which, Vernoue feared if she shone the right spell around, might illuminate exactly what substances had covered…everything.
“Bored?”
Menisi stretched out.
“Bored, Vernoue. Twice a day, at least, or more. I’ve tried everything, from toys to partners—male, of course I tried female, other species—don’t give me that look. Have you never eaten the same food, again and again, until even your favorite grows tiresome? That’s just what this is. A constant chase against boredom. Although…even the same food is quite decent.”
Another smile, but this time, Vernoue thought it wasn’t so happy. Menisi’s head rose.
“Have you figured it out? The pact Lord Duke Naodin and I have sworn? Or did you come here purely on your own mission?”
The 5th Princess had come here just to get answers she sought, and she flushed.
“I—I—let me think. You weren’t like this growing up. Aielef told me that! You hated your marriage, and you plotted…to kill Mother. I read your letter. Mother found it, and she said she’d never found the knife, but she didn’t look surprised when she saw it.”
“May I see it?”
Vernoue passed over letter and dagger, and Menisi inspected the edge as she read her own letter. She closed her eyes a moment and held the dagger loosely across her chest.
“I was prepared to do it. Even now, part of me wishes I’d realized Vensha was onto me and moved my plans up a day early. Ielane deserves nothing less, but she won and married me to the suitor with the highest bid who would also take me far, far away from Calanfer. She won, and my sisters never called because I was the legend they learned to fear.”
Vernoue hung her head. Then it rose slightly.
“Shardele said you threatened her when she came—”
Menisi’s eyes opened, and an expression of regret passed her face.
“I was angry. I regret that. I should have…what’s done is done. You have half of it. Now, tell me the other half. Come now, Vernoue, you and I are sisters, and I have longed to know what my magical sister is capable of.”
She stood and paced around Vernoue, almost hungrily. Faced with such expectations, all the 5th Princess could do was think.
Kingdom of Passions. Her condition? Vernoue’s eyes flickered as she opened them, and she swallowed.
“I have a thought—but it can’t be. Blood Skills?”
Menisi clapped in approval, a smile on her face.
“Splendidly done! The member of the Hundred Heroes who founded this land was Mandrel. Mandrel the Red; such an unassuming name—unless you understand what it means. It’s strange how much it seeps into nations, the founders. I’ve heard they do something like this in Noelictus, and of course, there are nations that embrace this, but it’s rare these days, even in Nomaudrel. Skills born out of frustration, madness, loss…I hated Naodin. I still despise him, though we’ve become intertwined terribly. I think he’s come to regret marrying me, but like a bee to nectar, he cannot resist. We hate each other, and thus Skills emerge.”
Her smile. Vernoue’s entire back was crawling as Menisi sat back, like a [Teacher] excited for the student to come to the right conclusion.
“Guess what my Skill is. Go on.”
“I—I don’t know them well enough. Something like…[Infidelity Unchecked]? And he might have—[Rage of the Cuckold]?”
Menisi began laughing so hard at that second Skill she almost fell out of her chair.
“Vernoue! What Skills! Ah, no. No…those sound actually like regular Skills. It’s not twisted enough, Vernoue. It’s not dark enough. Think far, far worse. What can any man, any partner do to the other? How do you ruin someone’s life? Then think how to make their life worse than even that.”
She got up and wanted to cup Vernoue’s cheeks with her hands, but the 5th Princess shoved her back.
“Menisi, Sister. I think you’re slightly mad. I’m sorry that Ielane forced you into this marriage. Just tell me. What’s your Skill?”
The 2nd Princess of Calanfer sat there. Then she made a gesture between her legs, vulgar, simple, and spoke.
“Why—[Mutual Condition: Depraved Intellect], of course. What I crave is what he wanted of me, Vernoue. Brilliance and insatiable hunger.”
Vernoue’s skin crawled, and she backed away from Menisi.
“That’s—you have to divorce him! Annul your class! Ask Father or—Menisi!”
The [Princess] sat there, smiling. She tapped one ear.
“Listen to what I said, Vernoue, and then understand. Before our classes changed, the first one we received was [Toxic Lover]. The both of us.”
Listen…Vernoue’s eyes widened.
“Mutual?”
Menisi chuckled.
“His is what I chose. [Mutual Condition: Barbarous Loyalty]. He was not always so huge, you know. Not nearly so strong. Loyalty…I think I chose well. I do as I wish in my fits of passion, and he is ever-loyal, though he curses me. Don’t you see?”
It was like two thorny roses digging their points into each other. One got something they wanted, and the other…
It was horrific enough to Vernoue, and she said so, but Menisi just shrugged.
“It was horrific when Ielane told me I could stand and be married or go through it drugged or prisoner of a Skill. It was horrific when we were children and her first lesson to us was to have us kidnapped for trusting someone unguardedly. I tried to murder her: you didn’t even ask me why, so you understand. We are strangers, Vernoue. I haven’t made up my mind if I want to help you. I feel sorry for you, because I know exactly how you’ve lived. Now you know me, and I know a little about you. Explain to me how the knife came into your possession.”
She leaned her head against one fist, and Vernoue sat there a moment, vibrating with—what? Horror? Sympathy?
Envy? Surely not for how Menisi lived, but perhaps at least for someone who was well and truly free of Ielane. Here, in her domain, Menisi was untouchable by even Calanfer’s long arms, and her husband might be no Tyrion Veltras nor a great [Lord] of a mighty kingdom, but he had more than enough force—and loyalty—to repel anything short of a full army.
Freedom, such as Menisi had found, but so entirely dark. Menisi’s eyes, those dark coals, were long extinguished. Until for one moment, she sat up—and Vernoue saw a spark.
“Take it to the owner and ask for a drink. That’s all you need. Prepare for suffering.”
Then she put her head down on one arm and began to laugh. Laugh, until she wiped at her eyes and gazed up at Vernoue. The 5th Princess realized she had no idea who Menisi had ever been. But now she was curious.
 
——
 
[Depraved Intellect] meant exactly what it sounded like. Menisi was simultaneously held hostage to her libido—and possibly more intelligent than even Ielane, though she claimed it was relative.
“Say, rather, when others wane with hunger, distraction, tiredness, and so on, I retain my intellect. Not all of it; I would wager it’s about 70-90% of my best. Yet I am always that sharp. It’s a tiresome condition. You may think Naodin got the worst of it, since I imagine he is slower on the uptake with his [Barbarous Loyalty], but he inspires a weird loyalty in others, and his is obvious to see, despite his reputation and mine in the royal courts. Regardless—sometimes I have trouble keeping up with my desires, damn him.”
“I still think it’s awfully monstrous.”
Menisi wore an amused look as she gave Vernoue a tour of her holdings. She turned and airily waved a hand past a bustling laboratory that held no less than five [Alchemists] and countless apprentices running ingredients to them. The air was thick with multiple scents, and Vernoue coughed as she wore the mask that Menisi had given her to even walk into this place.
“You think so, Vernoue? Perhaps it is to you, but to me, it was a trade I engaged in. I could have killed him.”
One of the [Alchemists] nearly slipped at his station cutting up Sage’s Grass. Vernoue was worried, but Menisi just raised her voice above the chopping sounds.
“It would have been far worse had I stayed in Calanfer. Look: this is just one of the alchemy workshops I set up that makes my little estate far more productive than the other regions of Nomaudrel. I don’t even own all of them. Once I implemented the first one, the other [Alchemists] copied the system.”
“And you did this because you had your Skill?”
Menisi smirked as she led Vernoue on, taking a bunch of sample vials that one of the [Alchemists] offered her and tucking them up her sleeves.
“What, you think I was that intelligent? No, I copied it from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Vernoue.”
“You visited Chandrar? Why? For business?”
Another amused look.
“I convinced Naodin to go with me. I’ve travelled to Chandrar, Izril, Baleros, even the House of Minos—though they kicked me out for indecency. That’s freedom, Vernoue. Here, Ielane can’t do anything to me. Here, I am a wealthy [Lady] with influence. If I cared to do it, I’d amend my reputation, but I chose this. I could have killed Naodin and fled, but I saw the opportunity, and so did he.”
“So you made him wealthy. Is he that happy with your…indiscretions?”
Vernoue was only too happy to put her mask away after the tour; she needed a bath. The laboratory was very impressive and organized, since multiple [Alchemists] could combine Skills and work on recipes they knew with little risk of the alchemical explosions so common to their craft, but it wasn’t for her. She liked magic, which was usually cleaner than powders and tubes.
Menisi just shrugged at Vernoue.
“You’d have to ask him. I think he, like me, has taken the good with the ills. He wasn’t feared before we wed. He was shorter than I was and no great warrior. Cont’dvalle has always had a reputation for lawlessness, and the nobility have walked wide of the underworld. Now, the underworld walks wide of him.”
She sounded satisfied with her choices. It still made Vernoue’s heart hurt to think on the Skills, but Menisi seemed to regard Calanfer as the worse of the two fates—and thus, Vernoue as the [Princess] with the worse bargain at the moment. That was an odd feeling.
Even Lord Naodin shared that experience, which was very jarring.
He seemed actually civil when Menisi wasn’t working him up into a fervor. After returning from his rampage, he’d found them and made polite conversation for a few minutes, mostly about the war.
