“Somewhat. She’s in Baleros, and she can never speak long—they have anti-scrying spells up, which partially block this theatre. It makes everything rather hazy and static-y. Did Ielane tell you where she was?”
“Baleros! Dead gods, no! I thought she was at sea or in the New Lands!”
“Dullahans are hunting her and her company, apparently. But she’s in the company of R—Ser Solstice and Hundredlord Cortese, among others. They’re trying to find civilization to leave the continent.”
Vernoue swallowed. She’d been so envious of Seraphel going off on an adventure. Now?
“Eternal Throne. Mother told me none of this. This Skill is so powerful, Lyonette. Can you talk to anyone in the world?”
“It can be warded against. Apparently, it’s altering an anti-scrying spell, so well within capacity for most decent [Mages]. It’s just that few people have an ability like this, so no one was guarding against it. And it’s not mine, again. It’s Erin’s. She’s the real source of all these rumors, Vernoue.”
The name triggered a memory, and Vernoue thought, before gasping and hiding her face with her fan.
“The…[Innkeeper] who killed Prince Iradoren?”
Instantly, all four women began clarifying that statement. Ushar, Lyonette, Mrsha, and Nanette spoke over each other—or waved a card about.
“Actually, Vernoue, she’s nothing like rumors say! She saved my life, and even if she knifed that [Prince], she was doing it to save—”
“Your Highness, I can personally attest to Miss Solstice’s bravery and generosity. If you would allow me to compile a report on her before listening to court gossip—”
Erin’s great! That dude had it coming! She also killed the Bloodtear Admiral! And [Slavers]! She’s three-for-three!
“Princes Iradoren was attacking Ser Solstice first, which I point out was a betrayal, and, if you’ll excuse me, Princess Vernoue, he even attacked your sister—”
The babble of voices made Vernoue blink, then smile in disbelief. Lyonette going to defend anyone so vehemently? She waved her fan.
“I’ll take your words for it. Truly—it’s only politics.”
She didn’t know Prince Iradoren; she’d seen him at a few banquets, but he hadn’t been interested in her, only her parents. He might have been inspiring and the hero of Erribathe and whatnot…but if Lyonette was so convinced, Vernoue would accept it.
Reassured, Lyonette smiled, and they went back to trading gossip. Then—well, it was rather like Venoriat and coming to the Order of Seasons’ keep. Lyonette tried, but the gossip Vernoue and she had were not the same.
 
——
 
“The Archmage of Izril is staying at your inn?”
Vernoue squealed, and Lyonette wore a dark expression.
“She is…but her continued tenure here is conditional upon how much trouble she makes for us. She has these dreadful experiments—the last one drew in a swarm of Acid Flies and a giant Acid Fly Queen! She casts magic, gives it out far too liberally—she enchanted Ekirra with [Levitation] when he asked.”
“Who is—”
“He’s a nine-year old Gnoll cub. And she raids rooms for underwear.”
“That’s disgusting.”
Vernoue was appalled and entranced by this frank picture of Archmage Valeterisa, which did meet the rumors about her. Mrsha and Nanette stood rather proudly.
“That’s why loincloths are better!”
They high-fived, and Lyonette shot them a dark glance. Then she began listing off other spellcasters.
“Magus Grimalkin and Lady Pryde were here until a day ago—they’ve gone into Pallass, but I see them all the time.”
“Magus Grimalkin? The Fist Magus? Is he as imposing as he looks on the scrying orb? And is he single?”
Mrsha opened her mouth, and Nanette shook her head fast as Lyonette bit her lip, clearly remembering Vernoue’s focus in life.
“Er. No. He’s quite taken.”
“Damn. Really? I heard he was…how about Glasiaad the Tome Magus? Named-rank in Pallass?”
Nah, Saliss is the only Named-rank who hangs out here, and he too is leaving for the New Lands.
Such names. Such—Vernoue’s heart ached. My sister’s an important woman. If not the most important, she was meeting people as equals, not a [Princess] in service to Calanfer.
“It sounds quite amazing. I should love to visit, if only to see you, Ushar.”
The Thronebearer appeared guilty, but at this point, Mrsha began trading looks with Lyonette and Nanette. The other two seemed apprehensive, but they nodded at her, and she stepped forwards as Lyonette cleared her throat.
“Perhaps that might be arranged, Vernoue. However…we do have an, ah, a message for you.”
“From the future?”
Vernoue smiled, because she doubted things could get more incredible. However, Mrsha wore a strange, serious expression, and when she gazed at Vernoue…it was like she was staring at someone else. It was an uncomfortable look, and the 5th Princess fidgeted. She had never had someone staring at her like they expected great things of her. With awe, reverence, respect, but always for her title and crown.
Never like they thought they might look up in the skies and see her swooping down to save the day. Suddenly uncomfortable again, Vernoue glanced around at the re-vacated rooms.
“Well, let’s hear it then, child—Mrsha. What could ‘future me’ have to say that’s so important?”
She tried to smile, and the girl pulled out a notecard and stepped right up to Vernoue. She held it up.
I know it sounds crazy, but I did meet a version of you that was…amazing. She helped save my life, and she sent a message back for you to hear. If you wanted to master magic, that is.
Strange.
What a strange day. Vernoue felt angry again, mystified—that frustration and shame that Venoriat and the Order of Seasons had conjured was warring with shock and awe. From seeing Lyonette and the depths of her convictions.
She’s almost aglow. She can’t even see it, but I can. She looks like those paintings of Queen Marquin the First. How does one become that? 
It felt like passion was burning out of Lyonette, a motivating force that Vernoue had never seen in a mirror—only observed in a few people. The Lightherald, Ser Solstice, even her older sister, Seraphel, when she’d ridden onto a battlefield.
Like an envious moth flying towards deadly light, Vernoue longed for it. So she bent her head, expecting some claptrap or generic advice. What she got was…
 
Fifty-two paces west from the midway point in the Mirror Hallway. Turn and it’s the fourth brick from the left, fifteen up. Take it to the owner and ask for a drink. That’s all you need. Prepare for suffering.
 
Vernoue blinked at the cryptic clue—and Lyonette studied the missive itself. Mrsha held up another card.
I don’t know what it means. But the other you said you’d understand it. Also, she had a list of names. Here.
She held up a list of a dozen names that Vernoue did recognize. Most of them were, well, spellcasters. It was obvious that Vernoue would know them, but such a list…her heart began to pound because some of the names were a bit—sacrosanct.
“And this is it? Are those—notes?”
Yep. I wrote down all I could remember. Actually, she said it so fast that I had to use a memory spell to recall what she said.
“Clever. Um. Ah. Could I have a copy of both notes? Let me write this down…”
Vernoue fussed with a sheet of paper, then folded it up and slipped it into her pockets. She stood there, utterly confused, as Lyonette’s eyes fell on the first note.
“That’s…I thought it would be more advice, Mrsha.”
Advice ain’t worth much, Mom. Ham sandwiches last until you poo. So you should ask for that instead, and drink more water so you’re hydrated.
“…That’s not a quote I taught you. Who told you that?”
Coach Joseph.
Lyonette’s eyes narrowed in a familiar way, and Mrsha seemed relieved as she turned to Vernoue.
“You…did meet me in the future, you said? What was I like?”
The longing 5th Princess of Calanfer gazed at Mrsha, and the girl tilted her head. Again, she glanced up.
Well, you could fly. You were pretty [Archmage].
Because she was writing, Vernoue’s eyes widened. She saw Lyonette’s pained face and Nanette’s guilty hunch of the shoulders. Dame Ushar met Vernoue’s eyes, and her lips quirked, as if to say, ‘you’d never believe it, but it’s true.’
Vernoue would have asked more, but that was about when Knight-Commander Calirn and Ser Venoriat interrupted the meeting, requesting to know what that aura clash had been. They took one look at the visitors from The Wandering Inn, and Nanette swept them a bow with her cloak.
“Hello, Knights of Seasons! We’re terribly sorry about the mess. The Wandering Inn has come calling upon the 5th Princess of Calanfer. Might we introduce you to the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice if you have time?”
She looked so immensely proud of herself, and it was so cleverly done. Except—Calirn hesitated as he laid eyes on Mrsha, Lyonette, and then glanced at Vernoue. The 5th Princess just had to whisper from behind her fan.
“Lyonette. That is the ugliest outfit I have ever seen. Please tell me you have actual clothing for her to wear that doesn’t make her look like a [Jester].”
Lyonette smiled and whispered loudly back.
“I do, but she thinks she’s being unique. She didn’t learn it from me or her first mother.”
“Hey!”
 
——
 
What a to-do. What a mess. Well, not really; Vernoue had the servants clean it all up, and the Order of Seasons was understanding about the entire affair.
“An aura clash between [Princesses] would have been worth seeing. We study it, as you well know; I sensed the 6th Princess’ aura from all the way across the keep. Incredible presence to throw her ability across the world. She must have experience.”
Venoriat was as agog with Lyonette as everyone else. He was so distracted, in fact, that Vernoue’s attempted seduction of him had completely fled his mind. For her part, Vernoue was suddenly itching to return to Calanfer.
That message…
It was obvious to her what it meant, just like Lyonette. So she was all too willing to head back to Calanfer straightaway, even though she hadn’t mastered [Invisibility]. Venoriat invited her to study again, which was gracious of him, but now Vernoue was on the hunt.
Advice from the future? A future [Archmage] Vernoue? The thrill of the idea ran through her veins. She thought it was just like herself.
 
——
 
Consider the psychology of an Archmage Vernoue of the future for a moment. This would be the Archmage of Dawns in an alternate timeline where she was poised to battle the Goblin King, perhaps to the death, in an ill-fated last stand against a superior foe.
Thrust into such circumstances, she had seconds, perhaps minutes if you were generous, to formulate advice to give to herself at an unspecified younger age that would change fate in such a way that allowed her to master magic earlier.
A tricky puzzle. Very tricky, and generic platitudes wouldn’t have worked. Nor would have personal secrets or anecdotes ‘only Vernoue’ would have known; she would have suspected a trick or her mother’s hand in things.
The solution was actionable intelligence. Hence the list of twelve names and the cryptic clues. Now, both made sense to Vernoue; the odd directions corresponded to a certain corridor in the Eternal Throne.
The Mirror Hallways were the huge, silver mirrors that spanned an entire corridor. Clearly, she was meant to find something there; it was conceivable this could be a lie, but the rest of the clue was cryptic enough to arouse Vernoue’s interests.
As for the list…she thought she knew what it was for as well. Each spellcaster on the list was famously powerful in magic; Vernoue knew almost all of them. But—her heart was thundering in her chest.
Was she supposed to find and apprentice herself to one of them? Was that what this meant? Because if so, this was crazy. 
This is what the list said:
 
Ranked in Order of Success %, Best Candidates:
 
Izikere, Goblin Island — Bribe with honey. If they laugh you’ll live. If not, run away. (This is Mrsha, I’m writing down the notes exactly like older-you said; this is really weird, I know.)
Leireit, First Landing — Good for magical force. Accepts bananas as an offering. Get a thousand.
Rylev, Baleros — Likes foreign food…so Calanferian stuff. Get Mexte to give it to him. Hug Mexte for me. He’s either a Lizardfolk or turned into a Lamia. Gravity magic expert.
Cognita Truestone, Wistram Academy — Beg repeatedly. Grovelling and abasement might work.
Larracel, Izril — She might make you sweep up or charge a lot. (She’s also sorta grumpy. Lots of you magic-users are, huh?)
Tserre, Erribathe — A bitch. Tell her where her granddaughter-niece-whatever is and she might take you in. Ceria. (I know Ceria! Wait, is this right? Note to self: ask who Tserre is.)
Lareina Becerra, Chandrar? Adventurer. — Try to get to her before she hits Gold-rank. Could do Amerys, but she’s also a bitch. She’ll make you fight in wars. Make the King of Destruction laugh and you’re in.
Archmage Valeterisa, Her Island (she’s not there anymore, she’s in Liscor at our inn!) — Find Magus Montressa if the Archmage is dead. Don’t learn [Parallel Thoughts], it’s a trap.
Viscount Visophecin, Ailendamus — Not sure how you bribe him. Might be unpleasant.
Silvenia, Rhir — You’ll probably die, but she would teach you. Bribe with Earth boba tea. (Uhh…this sounds like a bad idea. I can help make boba tea, though! It’s nasty, but Mother likes it.)
Gaxiela, alias: ‘Galei or Taxiela’, Wistram Academy — Annoying. Worse than death. Just keep asking about their real name and it’ll bug them.
Grimalkin the Fist, Pallass — Too much exercise.
 
If there was anything that would convince Vernoue she was reading an actual message to herself from the future…it was probably the commentary. But insanity. The first and best option was on…a Goblin Isle? A quick check of a history book then revealed the truth: it wasn’t just any random Goblin.
Izikere was a Goblin Lord. It stunned Vernoue, until she thought about the missive.
“It’s probably how I’m thinking about it. I’d choose the fastest route to success. Not the one that I personally did.”
Vernoue liked, uh, giving advice she hadn’t always tried out. Like, ‘take a shortcut down that alleyway! I’m pretty sure your carriage will fit, and in theory, it’s the fastest way to get to the Merchant’s Guild’.
She’d never given herself advice though, and she began to think this was something she could work on. Even so, Vernoue’s mind was racing.
The Goblin Lord was obviously out. Although she was first on the list. Why…? No, but Leireit? Wasn’t he some powerful [Sorcerer] from First Landing? She had one of her servants look it up.
