Venoriat paused, then, embarrassed, stood and stared out the window, hands folded behind his back.
“Well, when I realized where my gifts lay, I was truly embarrassed. So, as Autumn Knights do, I quested in search of knowledge. In Kaaz. The Eternal Dungeon was my haunt for half a decade; it spawns spell scrolls, you see. Random treasures guarded by monsters. I made something of a name for myself, hunting for spells. Two of them were unique, and I sent them back to my Season and established a name for myself. As for the rest? I participated in hunts for magic or traded it. I have been to Izril, Chandrar—I never quite managed Baleros, but I thought it was a waste. Drath, though they were sparing with what they traded—”
“So you’ve been across the world. I wish I had done anything for magic half as grand. I—I rather confess I admired the idea of you, Fall’s Sentinel. But in person, you are also someone I wished to befriend.”
He smiled, eyes on the courtyards ablaze with candles of mourning and [Knights], training even in the darkness, auras burning with their seasons.
“I thank you for that, Princess. In truth, I was somewhat hesitant to invite you to the Order of Seasons, despite our newfound bonds. Ser Ilm related an amusing story to me in the keep which I’m sure you recall. An offer greatly appreciated by my ego, but inappropriate—for you, you understand.”
He half-turned, and Vernoue blinked at him. Her riding dress had somehow slipped, exposing her bosom.
“I can’t imagine I would be at all offended, Fall’s Sentinel. I may have meant what I said in jest, but surely it wasn’t that unpleasant a suggestion? In fact, after meeting with you in person, I stand by—Fall’s Sentinel? What are you—?”
He did stare at her chest for a moment, which she found gratifying. Right up until he unlatched the window and jumped.
Vernoue rushed to the window—they were on the third floor of the keep—and saw him [Featherfalling]. She cursed and buried her head in her arms.
That night, Ser Venoriat offered her his condolences on his sudden emergency visit to the privy, and thereafter, they conducted their study sessions in the library or public spaces. Second, and even more harrowing—her mother sent her a step-by-step instruction on how to succeed a second attempt.
The worst part was that Vernoue was actually considering it a week into her stay at the keep when the call happened.
 
——
 
Nothing Ielane du Marquin did was ever wrong. Sometimes cruel or painful for those involved, but it worked.
If Vernoue wanted to tie herself to the Fall’s Sentinel, she just had to do a few things. Like, say, show up to his rooms and demand to know if she was that repulsive—not drunk—and then disrobe herself in his presence. Speed was essential at that stage since he’d run away.
Then…well, there was a multi-step guide that was designed to manipulate his sense of honor and make it very clear Vernoue was serious.
The [Princess] was sitting in her rooms in the keep, which were quite pleasant, and thinking about it. Just…envisioning a life here.
It could be worse. It could be far worse. You could be married to that old man that Seraphel had to bed. Or shuffled off like Menisi, or married into some miserable fortress in Kaliv. He’s kind. He’s not unattractive, and he knows magic. You might not do better.
Ielane du Marquin, who knew her daughters and sons so well, would never see that blank-faced expression of someone calculating her own worth and her future happiness on a set of scales that Vernoue wore in this moment. Someone who knew the odds of actually getting better. So—she was calling for her best dress and a few potions when the call came in.
Skrtz.
Vernoue jumped and thought it was a bug at first. She stopped re-reading the seduction instructions and looked around. Then it came again.
Skttz. A weird, static-y sound that made her glance around. Then feel at her head.
Every Princess of Calanfer wore a magical tiara that protected them. Aielef’s had been stolen, but Vernoue always kept hers on. It was like her glasses: part of her body and forgotten. Until now. It was slightly…warm.
“Your Highness?”
A Thronebearer had noticed the magical artifact reacting as well and poked his head in. Vernoue spoke.
“Eavesdropping or something. I actually configure my circlet, unlike my sisters, so it’s been set to block a wider range of magic. I’ll inform you if it gets more annoying.”
“Very good, Your Highness.”
That was it. Vernoue went back to lying down and thinking—until the door opened.
“Your Highness, it appears someone wishes to speak to you from The Wandering Inn, Liscor. They have requested a formal meeting via Dame Ushar, who wishes you to take the meeting if you are available.”
“What?”
She sat up, surprised. Did they even have [Scrying] spells there? Mage’s Guilds were everywhere, but she’d heard Liscor was—
“Lyonette?”
The Thronebearer paused.
“Her Highness—yes. But I am also to understand that a ‘Mrsha’ is desirous of your time. They request a sealed room conversation. We are prepared to set one up.”
A sealed room conversation? Vernoue hesitated, but then she rose to her feet.
“I’ll take it.”
She waited impatiently for the Thronebearers to make her dressing room ready. And she was stressed about her future, jealous of Lyonette, unhappy with her magical studies—and all of that was mostly unconscious.
But it meant she didn’t really put together how Lyonette might be feeling at this moment, after the Goblin King had emerged in Liscor.
 
——
 
“Vernoue!”
The moment Vernoue walked into the sitting room and tapped on a gemstone set in her tiara, she saw the slightly-transparent image of her younger sister appear. Vernoue stared.
Lyonette looked older. So much older—she was almost a stranger to Vernoue’s eyes. Her hair was tied up in a simple bun, and she was wearing commoner’s work clothes! Some things were the same: she still had a [Princess]’ posture and poise, but dead gods, she seemed far older than—nineteen?
As old as Vernoue, if not more so. But her eyes, which had seemed weary, lit up, and she spread her arms up and dashed over.
“I’d hug you, but the World’s Eye Theatre won’t allow that. Vernoue, you look just like I remember! Where are you right now? This isn’t the palace! And you survived a siege and a war!”
“Lyonette. This is incredible. No [Scrying] spell could do this. You appear different. Is that an apron you’re wearing?”
Lyonette glanced down and brushed at her apron, smiling slightly embarrassedly.
“I was just helping our [Chef] make a bunch of bread in the kitchen. Training, rather. As for how we’re talking, this is the [World’s Eye Theatre]. The owner of the inn I’m working at—Erin Solstice—has it. It’s a Level 40+ Skill and exceptionally powerful.”
“Level 40?”
Lyonette said that so casually. But the younger woman was still speaking.
“Vernoue, I’m so sorry I haven’t—called. But I was afraid to because of Mother—Seraphel was the only person I talked to, because she was in danger. I should have contacted you. Dame Ushar has been nothing but a credit here. Without her, I think I’d be dead twice over. At least!”
“Ushar. Is she with you?”
Somewhat in shock, Vernoue sat down. Then Ushar appeared, and she jumped; the Thronebearer bowed.
“Your Highness, forgive my inattention to you. The situation here has been somewhat—troubled.”
Lyonette’s face fell, and she nodded.
“The Goblin King and…events. But let’s not talk about that. I have someone to introduce to you, Vernoue, but shall we catch up first? Where are you?”
“The, ah, Order of Seasons’ keep. I’m studying with Lord Venoriat, the Fall’s Sentinel.”
Vernoue mumbled, and Lyonette’s eyes opened wide.
“The Fall’s—! Rabbiteater met with him! Sorry, Ser Solstice. Vernoue, this is wonderful! You’ve always wanted to study magic! How is it?”
“Enlightening. I might marry him.”
Something was wrong. Vernoue’s heart had leapt upon seeing Lyonette before sinking into her shoes. Now, each passing sentence felt like a burning coal was being placed in her stomach and flaring upwards. Jealousy.
The Skill? Ushar being there instead of here? Lyonette didn’t notice. She was speaking so fast, as if trying to distract herself—
“Marry him? Isn’t he elderly? What would Ielane say about that?”
“Only sixty. And she approved it.”
“She did? You don’t—have to do it if you don’t want to, surely. Unless he’s that pleasant?”
Then the 6th Princess grew concerned, and Vernoue scowled.
“She’s given me the option. What, didn’t she mention it when you reported to her?”
Again, Lyonette’s face grew troubled, then hostile.
“I’m not speaking to her at this moment.”
Ushar bit her lip as Vernoue’s head came up incredulously.
“To Mother?”
“Not to Ielane, no.”
That’s all Lyonette said, but the mere fact of it—! Vernoue gave Ushar an incredulous glance. No one said that to Ielane. But Ushar just half-nodded, and that’s when the anger really began to hit. Vernoue wore a half-smile as she settled herself back.
“Well, I have, and Calanfer’s abuzz with rumors about you, Lyonette. Exploits of your time abroad—all rumors.”
“Oh dear, I would have thought that I’d have a body double and my absence would have been hushed up. Is it a problem?”
Lyonette frowned, but absently, and Vernoue’s smile widened icily.
“It’s not anything serious; Mother has it well in hand, you know her. But some of the tales—they said you fought a Raskghar and that you’re dating a Wall Lord. And that you have Tier 4 magic. I’m learning Tier 4 magic here, by the way.”
She threw that last one in purely out of spite. Lyonette blinked, and then she laughed before covering her mouth.
“Fought a Raskghar? Ilvriss? Those are funny! The first one’s true, only insofar as I survived that—the second’s purely false. I know a Wall Lord; he’s a great friend of the inn. As for the last…no? Unless—hm.”
Vernoue’s face went slack as Lyonette frowned.
“Ah. Well, I don’t actually know. No, it can’t be Tier 4. It’s just a Bound Spell. [Summon the Throne]. Actually, you wouldn’t happen to know what it does, do you? With all that’s happened, I haven’t even experimented.”
She chuckled again with that pained expression, and Vernoue’s mouth opened.
She has a Bound Spell ability? I don’t have one! Vernoue forced another smile.
“I could…look it up. You must have levelled, then, Lyonette. Capstone? Have you hit Level 20?”
Ushar. Ushar knew. The Thronebearer was glancing at Lyonette and Vernoue, and she could read her former mistress’ warning signs. But Lyonette was distracted, genuinely happy to talk to her sister, and Vernoue was too focused on Ushar and too far to be talked down.
“Level 20? Oh, no. I’m—well, I can’t say exactly, but I’ve passed that, Vernoue. I am hoping for another capstone—but not yet. I haven’t done enough yet, especially of late.”
Again, that hard-set look. And again, a shock rippling through Vernoue as Lyonette glanced to the side.
“Yes, I’m going as fast as I can, dear. Why don’t you come over and introduce yourself? Vernoue, I have someone I want you to meet.”
“Um. What level are you exactly, Lyonette?”
The [Princess] turned as someone padded into frame, and Lyonette was also a victim. A victim of The Wandering Inn, because she said this next part too casually with the air of someone who met with Named-rankers and legends of this world every day.
“Above Level 30. Ah, well, that just says I’m Level 39. I think I might get the next one soon. Vernoue? I’d like you to meet someone very important to me. This is…my daughter. Mrsha.”
She introduced a Gnoll girl with white fur to Vernoue, but the [Magic-loving Princess] wasn’t listening. She just sat there, stunned, hurt, furious—and then she began to giggle and laugh.
“Vernoue?”
Lyonette stopped, because at last, she noticed something was wrong. The 5th Princess’ face was pale, and her hair was floating as it did when she enchanted it—or when she was really angry. Her glasses were flashing, despite the light in the room remaining constant, and she held the armrests of her chair with trembling hands.
“Now I know you’re making fun of me. Enough games, Lyonette. Ushar, how much trouble is she really in? I’ll cover with Mother for you, but please, enough lies. And what is this? A Gnoll girl? Who did you steal her from?”
Lyonette’s smile winked out, and Mrsha, who had been shuffling some notecards and seeming apprehensive, glanced up at her mother’s face.
Hello, Princess Vernoue, I’m Mrsha, Lyonette’s daughter, and I’m very pleased to meet you. I have something important to say to you, and I hope you’ll listen and hear me out, please.
She held up that pre-written card, but what the girl did was edge away from Lyonette, whose smile had suddenly turned harsh. Lyonette took a breath, then relaxed and held out her hands.
“Vernoue. I’m sorry if I’ve sounded insane this entire time. Let me try again. I know this all sounds—incredible. Truly. I hear it myself, now. But I am working at The Wandering Inn, in Liscor. My level…I have levelled insanely fast due to the things I’ve survived. And this…Mrsha? This is my daughter. The most precious thing in the world to me. Along with Nanette!”
She brought the Gnoll girl back and hugged her to her chest, and Vernoue’s lip curled. Great, she’s found a puppy just like last time. No wonder Ushar can’t get her back.
However, she knew better than to say it like that. So Vernoue glanced at Mrsha, casual.
“Where are the girl’s…parents? Her tribe? Did you find her after an accident? Wait, isn’t she a Doombringer? I saw her on television.”
“Doombearer, Your Highness. Princess Lyonette, I can see that not all the information has reached the rest of the royal family…”
Ushar interrupted, sounding even more nervous, and Lyonette’s head rose slowly. However, she was mastering her breathing as if Vernoue were being objectionable.
“Her mother is right here, Vernoue. She lost her tribe, and I adopted her.”
“Er…you did what?”
“I adopted her. This is Mrsha du Marquin, and she’s my daughter.”
Lyonette’s voice was patient, and Vernoue’s—more so.
“Lyonette, that’s insane. You’re royalty. You can’t adopt a Gnoll girl. Mother will have a fit.”
“Mother doesn’t have a say in this. Nor have I heard any objections.”
The 5th Princess was getting a headache. She rubbed at her forehead, then adopted a bright, fake smile.
“Alright—I can see this matters to you, so I shall drop it. Hello, child! I am Lyonette’s older sister, Vernoue! Did you have a message for me?”
