“Has she? Didn’t we celebrate Princess Shardele’s magnificent new class last year? And I remember working on that four-layer cake for your last level myself, Princess Vernoue!”
“It’s not the same!”
They complained at him, and he bustled twice as fast around the kitchen—so at a regular walk—entirely dismayed by how things had changed, clearly for the worse.
Vernoue was so upset—and distracted by Shardele and the snacks—that by the time he found another flavor of ice cream, her stomach was already full. Eventually, she decided she’d wait for the promised dinner and started to slip away. Mexte beamed at her as he patted Shardele’s arm; she was still sobbing about her allowance being cut.
“Surely Your Highness came away with something more than your studies? Some new spell to show your old servant, perhaps? Or a friend in the Season of Autumn?”
She was going to say there was nothing—until she recalled the instructions she’d been given. The dismay over being upbraided by Vensha and all the refusals had nearly knocked it from her head.
“Maybe…something. I have to go, Mexte. I’ll be back for the six scoops of ice cream later!”
“Six! Oh my.”
Another expression of dismay before she was dashing off, spirits partially restored. She had more to do to prove she could become a great [Mage]! Although—getting to the Mirror Hallway would be harder than she thought. Because there were servants.
There were always servants.
 
——
 
Even when she ordered them away, they were around. Vernoue usually ignored them, but after six attempts to try and get whatever was hidden in the Mirror Hallway, she actually resorted to, well, magic to get her way.
If only she’d mastered [Invisibility]! Or had her Cloak of Balshadow. The entire family was supposed to have one, along with the tiaras, but these days, only a few [Princesses] inherited them from their big sisters. Lyonette had owned one, and Vernoue as well…it had been confiscated after Shardele, the traitor, had outed Vernoue for stealing desserts.
Without proper concealment magics, Vernoue poured over her spellbooks and selected spells, doing a few trials in her rooms to make sure it would work, then set out on her task.
She had enough money to have huge spellbooks, and she might not know Tier 4 magic, or even that much Tier 3 magic, but she knew 400+ Tier 1 and Tier 2 spells that she only needed to refresh herself on to cast.
There was a spell for anything, even if most were, um, slightly useless.
For instance, there was a spell called [Conjure Haze]! It created a shimmery haze effect that didn’t really hide you in a cloud of dust—that was a higher-tier spell. It was mostly just annoying. Or what about [Hover Curtain]? You could hover any curtain you wanted to see if the colors matched. Or, uh—[Stiffen Fabric]? Yep. If you ever needed to make cloth as hard as weak cardboard—Vernoue was your spellcaster.
As a master of weak spells, Vernoue did know how to combine them fairly well. So she cast [Hover Curtain], [Stiffen Fabric], and [Magical Pin] on one end of the mirror hallway, then ran to the other and cast [Conjure Haze], [Foul Scent], and [Spray Color: Brown]!
The net result was on one end a hovering ‘wall’ of a bedsheet that blocked anyone from entering. On the other? A fairly permeable haze of brown that smelled like, well…poo.
That’d keep servants off her for a tiny bit, if only to get something to mop up what they probably thought was a sewer leak. However, Vernoue couldn’t do more with the magic. She’d once tried to make a flying carpet with some of those spells—only Dame Ushar diving out a window had saved her from breaking her neck.
It bought her all the time she needed. Vernoue heard a few servants running into the magical cloth barricade and exclaiming. On the other side, someone gagged.
“Oh dead gods. It’s a cloud of—! Quick, get a mop and water!”
“On it! Wait, this is Her Highness’ magic.”
“…So it is. Ah, Your Highness? Can we do anything for—?”
“No, go away!”
Vernoue’s vexed scream made the servants retreat. As it turned out—well, it still bought her time. Furiously, Vernoue paced to the center of the mirror hallway where a slight join showed where the mirror was, in fact, two placed together.
“Fifty-two paces west…[Magical Compass]—aha! And then fifteen up from…drat. [Conjure Footstool]!”
That was a Tier 3 spell and left her panting a bit. All this rapid spellcasting. Six Tier 2 spells and a Tier 3 spell in rapid succession! Vernoue didn’t know how adventurers did it.
The brick that was fifteen up from the ground and four to the left was hollow. Vernoue knocked on it and then, to her delight, heard an echoing sound! But it wasn’t…her fingers slipped on the stone, and she realized to her frustration it was really jammed in there!
Even with her wand and a belt dagger, she had to drag on it to get it to shift outwards—it truly was too high and too slyly emplaced to spot, even for the cunning Thronebearers. Normally, they’d find anything within regular reach, and they were hell on spies.
Who had ever hidden something in the Eternal Throne so well? When Vernoue finally pulled the brick out, panting, she stared at the trio of objects, swept them into her bag of holding, and hurried to replace the brick. Then she dispelled her distractions and swanned back to her rooms, fanning her face, as the [Servants] asked if they could help her with anything.
Mission accomplished! Fine work, [Spy] Vernoue! She felt like she was sixteen again and giddy with delight. Then she returned to her rooms and her ebullience became…
Well.
Archmage Vernoue’s message to her younger self. The advice that might change the quietly miserable 5th Princess’ life around and make her the great spellcaster that Mrsha had met.
Did you really think it was so easy? Did you think you’d find a Djinni in a bottle? This is about family, Vernoue.
It’s always about family. And you don’t even know what that means.
The 5th Princess of Calanfer found a dagger, a bottle, and a letter. The dagger was long, serrated along one edge, and sharp—so sharp that even unenchanted, she nearly cut herself with it in her haste. The bottle was stoppered and sealed with wax, enchanted, clearly, for strength. A crawling black liquid moved along the glass. The letter—
The 5th Princess saw it said:
 
To Father.
 
She began to break the seal and realized—it was a royal golden seal, like the royal family used in Calanfer. The paper wasn’t so old. It—
Dame Vensha snatched the letter out of her hands, and Vernoue screamed as the aged Thronebearer took the bottle and dagger in the same motion. She hauled Vernoue up by one arm.
“Your Highness.”
“Vensha! How did you get in—let go of—”
“Your mother will see you now.”
 
——
 
Queen Ielane du Marquin lifted the dagger up and spun it on one finger—by the hilt, not the point of the blade. The little trick fascinated Vernoue, but she was trembling with nerves. I need that! How—how did Ielane—?
The Queen of Calanfer sighed.
“Vernoue. If you are going to sneak around, try to be less obvious than the Eternal Throne itself. Shardele is far more cunning when she’s desperate. Your servants reported you staring at a pair of notecards, and your antics with spells—if Vensha hadn’t been following you already, you might have harmed yourself. With that said, this is nostalgic, so I am minded to let it slide. Vensha?”
The Thronebearer proffered the bottle and letter. Ielane glanced once at the bottle, and her lips quirked darkly. Then she broke the seal.
“Mother, I need that! I was told to read it and—”
“By whom? Lyonette? I wonder how she knew this was here. Perhaps that [Garden of Sanctuary] or…perhaps she’s been speaking with the rest of the family. Odd. Note that, Vensha. Hmph. Well, this is simply intriguing to read after so long. I had wondered where this was.”
She put the letter aside after scanning it once, and Vensha bowed.
“A mystery solved, Your Highness. Very cleverly hidden.”
“Yes. Unlike some of my daughters…take this away.”
Ielane handed the bottle to Vensha, and Vernoue protested.
“I need that, Mother!”
The Queen of Calanfer raised her eyebrows.
“Do you? I rather doubt you know what that is, or you wouldn’t have been so cavalier about handling it. Nor do I think Lyonette intended you to poison yourself.”
“P-poison?”
The small jar of black liquid sloshed in Vensha’s hands, and Ielane nodded.
“Rather deadly poison. Creler’s Bite. Even inhaling it wouldn’t have done your lungs good. Add it to your collection or that of our agents, Vensha.”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
The Thronebearer bowed, and Vernoue, utterly confused, stood there. Her mother knowing what poison it was didn’t exactly shock her, but a dagger, a jar of poison, and the letter…? Ielane sighed.
“You have no idea what this was in aid of. Hm. My daughter is playing a game more canny than I took her for, or she has no clue. Or else it’s that child…how intriguing.”
“Mother, please. I need that.”
“Yes? And why?”
The [Queen]’s gaze fixed Vernoue, and she squirmed in place before the words forced themselves out.
“I—I have to return it to its owner.”
That did make Queen Ielane blink. Then she smiled, almost rueful.
“That is entertaining. Very well. Take the dagger and letter. Neither one is worth much, though they are consigned to the crown as secrets of state. Do not let anyone see the letter, Vernoue, except the owner. Now go, and if you don’t wish to return to the Fall Sentinel’s tutelage, make up your mind about whom you would like to study magic with.”
She waved Vernoue away, and the 5th Princess stood there, confused, before snatching the dagger and letter. She read the opened letter on her way to her rooms, and then she stumbled inside. Dismissed her servants.
Sat with her face white and hands shaking as she understood something—that an older Vernoue had one day found out.
The letter was marked down in crisp, clear words. Not like how Lyonette or Mrsha wrote, but bold letters that anyone could read. Reminiscent of how Reclis wrote, actually; good penmanship, but divergent from the elegance of a [Princess]’ hand.
The moment she had seen the words on the front of the letter, Vernoue’s subconscious had begun to piece things together, but now she understood. The dagger, the poison. The letter was simple. It read:
 
To Father:
If you are reading this, I hope she is dead. Either she or I is slain, and I hope no one else except perhaps her bodyguards. Mark me, however it turned out, that I did this for my sisters and brothers, even the ones as yet unborn.
You speak of lofty principles, of the fate of nations and the duty of monarchy. She is the will behind your words, and betwixt the two of you, the royal palace has become a twisted and painful ground for any child to grow up in.
I learned the lessons well. Better than poor Shardele or terrified Aielef, and I am sick unto death. Agenote escaped, but no one else will. I will not wait to watch her grind down Seraphel, Lothen, young Vernoue and Kanmis, baby Lyonette, or whomever comes next. For the good of the Eternal Throne, I have done this deed. Pray consider what led your glorious kingdom of Eternal Calanfer to this moment when the finest act of a [Princess] is to slay her own mother. Is she the monster for being too perfect to your will, or is it you?
I only know which one I hate more, and a kingdom needs a head to hold the crown. So that is why.
—Princess Menisi du Marquin, 2nd Princess of Calanfer.
 
“Menisi?”
Vernoue felt lightheaded. Her hands shook so badly that she nearly knocked the dagger aside—then she sprang away from it as if it were the poison.
Creler’s Bite poison and a dagger that looked as though it were meant to inflict terrible wounds—poisoned wounds. An unenchanted dagger, because nothing enchanted would ever get close to a member of the royal family without scrutiny. But if you were well-placed enough, literal royalty, and you got close enough for a single stab…
This is insanity. Menisi plotted on killing Mother? Then this letter was meant for her corpse! But—
Vernoue read the letter again.
When I was a child and Lyonette was a baby? It had definitely happened. Ielane had said it was a missing piece of the puzzle. So this—this plot on her life had failed, and she’d never found Menisi’s dagger.
If Vernoue needed proof that Mrsha truly had a message from the future, or at least had knowledge unbeknownst even to the Queen of Calanfer, this was it. But such a letter.
Vernoue felt sick. Sick and shaken to her core. She had been led not to some great grimoire of magic, but to Menisi’s hiding place where she had stashed a blade to kill her own mother.
Why?
Then Vernoue remembered what she had been told.
Take it to the owner and ask for a drink. That’s all you need. Prepare for suffering.
Then…Vernoue began to feel truly afraid. Because that would mean paying a visit to the 2nd Princess of Calanfer, the dark horse of the family.
The one who never came back to court.
Who was never spoken of.
Menisi the Watchful.
Vernoue had limited memories of Menisi as a child. They’d been so disparate in ages…but she recalled attending Menisi’s marriage and the few times the [Princess] had ever returned to court. And the rumors about her and her husband…
The 5th Princess’ hands began shaking terribly. She licked her lips and started to compose a letter to her sister. It took her eighteen tries and four hours before she mustered the courage to send a [Message].
She wasn’t sure which was more terrifying as she lay abed that night. That Menisi would refuse to answer and crush her dreams and leave her to contemplate bedding Ser Venoriat as a happy outcome for her future…or that Menisi would meet with her. Vernoue had to fish out a map and trace a route east until she reached the coast. Then up, past Desonis, past the Lantocracy of Bitorm, and then slightly west. Nestled above the great Kingdom of Glass and Glory, a speck of a kingdom on the map.
Nomaudrel. The Kingdom of Passions.
 
——
 
“Nomaudrel? Why would you mention that kingdom, Vernoue? Why? Is M-Menisi coming to court?”
Few things scared Aielef visibly, but the 3rd Princess of Calanfer, on a visit to court two days after Vernoue’s discovery, was paling.
Aielef the Fierce. She certainly was bad-tempered, and she had a hawkish attitude about her. She was also one of only two [Princesses] with children; Shardele had toddlers, but Aielef had started on one of her royal duties the moment she’d been wed. Well, three now; Lyonette had two daughters. What a surreal thought.
