She didn’t have the will of legends to do this even a thousand times, let alone unto infinity. She was breaking before these many lives, and her soul wouldn’t retain the magical knowledge or the experiences, she was sure. That would be cheating.
…But there was something she had to have. Just like Menisi had gained from this potion.
Conviction.
She drew in breath through dissipating lungs and breathed magical flames over the Goblin King.
 
——
 
399. One last time. Four hundred was…enough. The Archmage of Dawn lifted her wand and let him have it. He just walked at her, perhaps bored of this little game. But she kept casting spells until the sword rose.
Perhaps even the Grand Design was impressed. If it was, it didn’t quite understand her. What kept the 5th Princess’ soul blazing bright was no altruism. No conviction this was ‘real’ and that she wanted to save the army. Or even the little girl.
Nor was she training herself through the power of fate—she was pretty sure that wasn’t allowed. She just wanted to know one thing:
So this is what it feels like. The 5th Princess stepped back, and her head swivelled left and right. She threw up a hand, defiant, and a hundred thousand voices were cheering for her, screaming her name. A [Lord] bowed to her as the blade fell.
So this is what it feels like to be an [Archmage]. To be a heroine leading armies. Vernoue memorized it, then at last—let herself wake.
That way, she’d know if it was worth it. The last thing she saw was the smiling face of the Goblin King and those glowing eyes.
 
<EVERYTHING CHANGES. GOOD LUCK, VERNOUE. I’LL BE WATCHING.>
 
——
 
When she sat up, Menisi recoiled slightly. She saw Vernoue feel at her face frantically, then try to stand.
“Easy. Easy—what did you see? You were under far longer than I was.”
An hour had passed, and Vernoue’s head was spinning. She didn’t quite remember…parts of it were clear, but she felt like someone had been speaking to her. She couldn’t recall. The future was hazy, but pieces of it were clear, like letters spelled out vividly with sharp recall.
“I think I found what I was looking for.”
“Well, of course. The potion gives that to you.”
Menisi sat back on her heels, patently curious, and Vernoue’s head rose. She felt sick. She could recall—no, it wasn’t that vivid, but it still flashed through her, and even the echo made her feel weak.
“I think I saw myself failing. Again and again, and the future Mrsha promised me…It was…a terrible one. Everyone I loved was dead.”
“Including me?”
Vernoue hesitated, and Menisi laughed.
“I’m joking. In that future, you and I never shared words.”
The 5th Princess kept staring, and then she spoke.
“I…didn’t know you. In any of the futures. Not one. The future’s already changed, then. But I know who I was. And I had so many regrets. Each and every time. But I know what I wanted to find out. Whether the magic was worth it. I—I don’t even remember what spells I could cast or exactly what that was like.”
She was indignant about that. She was sure she’d been some kind of high-level [Mage]! A [High Mage], at least, but the details entirely escaped her! Menisi crouched, eyes bright.
“And what did you find out?”
“Whether it was worth it. Whether it felt—worth all the pain, the suffering, to reach that high.”
Menisi waited, and Vernoue raised her hands up, then conjured a simple ball of light. It began to glow as she poured mana into it. Brighter and brighter, until Menisi had to shade her eyes. As if Vernoue were trying to conjure the image of a Tier 6 spell.
“The day I drank that potion, I swore to kill our mother. It could lead you astray. It won’t guarantee you reach that future, Vernoue. But if you’ve made up your mind—then I suppose I shan’t offer you the chance to live with me after all. I doubt you’d enjoy it, anyways.”
The 5th Princess blinked, and Menisi smiled crookedly. She had a wine glass in hand, and she lifted it up.
“To becoming something more than one of Ielane’s little perfect children!”
She drank, and Vernoue rose as well. The younger woman stood there, then she smiled.
“I remembered something else I once said. Future-me, to myself.”
“Oh?”
This time, the crooked eyebrow turned into an expression of genuine surprise as Vernoue threw her arms around Menisi’s shoulders.
“I’d rather be you than Shardele. Menisi—can you help me? Please? I don’t know if I can do it alone.”
The 2nd Princess of Calanfer blinked, then chuckled. She tossed the wine cup aside and embraced Vernoue.
“I think I’ve been waiting for years for one of you to ask.”
She kissed Vernoue on the forehead and then again on the nose, then went for a third one. Vernoue stomped on her foot hard before it got weird.
