Something…inspected her. It knew her, her most intimate failures and desires, her levels, her class. Her desires and dreams.
She knew it too. The stunned [Princess] was in free-fall, and the voice continued.
 
<SO BE IT. BUT IT WILL NOT BE THE SAME MISTAKE AGAIN. NO SOULS WILL DIE. THE FUTURE IS WAITING, 5TH PRINCESS OF CALANFER.>
 
Then it raced down ahead of her. Like some vast, winged bird, more exotic than a Dragon, and when it unfolded its wings—
A piece of it broke off, and Vernoue was falling towards it. It revolved, a sliver of difference against the black void she was falling through, a surreal star.
It was a rectangle. No—a door. She reached for it, heart racing in hope, trepidation, and Vernoue passed through it. She thought she could still hear Menisi laughing.
Fate changed and fate was laughing, that rueful chuckle of plans falling to ash, the threads of reality weaving a pattern no one had foreseen. Not even gods—
The Grand Design was grinning.
 
——
 
Princess Vernoue of Calanfer didn’t reappear or wake up like she’d had a dream. One second her soul was flashing downwards, into that door, and then next, she was there.
She lifted her hand, and she was a different woman—and the same. Three years older, fingers pudgier, stained with wine, breathless, and afraid—and the Vernoue who had drunk the elixir.
But she was still Vernoue, and she gazed in shock at her hands. Then up at the grinning Goblin who aimed a bow at her.
“Your Highness!”
A Thronebearer threw himself forwards and took the arrow, which pierced through his golden armor. The Hobgoblin stepped back, up the familiar steps of the palace, and the air was filled with shouting.
“Hold them back! Defend the Eternal Throne! Execute the prisoner—”
The future. She was here! Vernoue wanted to ask questions, but what she realized was she was in danger. So she said:
“[Mezaat’s Orbs of Radiance]!”
She fired three from above her, glowing miniature suns, a Tier 4 spell, without a wand, and gasped. But part of her knew it wasn’t her best spell, not by far—she wasn’t sure what the Goblin could do.
He tilted his head and whirled his bow up. He fired one arrow, which zig-zagged through each orb, and looked annoyed when the last one blew the arrow to bits instead of letting it carry on its way. He whirled as Calanferian [Soldiers] streamed up the steps, and Vernoue pointed again.
Spells! I’m higher-level! I can do this! She saw brave men and women, armed in Calanfer’s golden heraldry, screaming as they fought. Something was wrong with their eyes, though—but she couldn’t spare the moment to figure out what.
“[Grand Lightning]!”
It was a spell she knew well, Tier 5 magic. Vernoue aimed it at the Goblin with the bow, and she saw Goblins fighting side-by-side with him. Bare dozens, but they were holding back an army and were in the Eternal Throne.
Does this happen in the future? Or is it only one—
She saw the Hobgoblin with the bow raise it and his eyes narrow. The Vernoue of the future realized that she had made a mistake. He drew back on the bow and spoke a Skill. She didn’t hear what it was, but his arrow cut through the Tier 5 magic and traced a perfect line through the air. And her chest.
He seemed so guilty as he lowered the bow—and she was falling, a screaming Thronebearer pouring a potion over her, and it hurt. Oh.
It hurt—
 
——
 
“Defend the 5th Princess! Stop the Goblins!”
The scream in her ears made her jerk awake. Vernoue stumbled upright and saw she was along the great bannister of stairs of the palace of Calanfer. She was merely 27. Not much older or heavier—she felt someone yanking at her.
“Your Highness! Run! R—”
They came through the doors, a trio of Goblins. Just three. Vernoue had a wand in her hand, tipped with some glowing stone that was tiny but filled with magic.
Seith, her mind told her. She pointed down, and this time, she didn’t hesitate.
“[Valmira’s Cometstorm]!”
Huge, glowing comets shot down at the Goblins who halted when they saw the 5th Princess and the soldiers. One of them raised a staff; another charged forwards.
He leapt into the first comet, and it exploded. Roaring, he crashed through [Soldiers], swinging his arms around like battering rams. Vernoue’s eyes went wide. She aimed the comets at the other two Goblins, but one of them just dodged away; the third fired a spray of flames up, exploding the comets.
She had a pointed hat.
[Witch]. A flaming spray of magma shot towards Vernoue, and the 5th Princess conjured a barrier of light to deflect it.
“Princess! Get to the Eternal Throne! We’ll hold them here!”
A Thronebearer screamed, and she protested.
“But what’s happening?”
No one answered her. The soldiers were meeting the Goblins in battle, but the trio were scything through them. The huge brute was crushing heads with his bare hands, and the [Witch]—Vernoue blocked another rain of lava, and the third Goblin fired a bolt that went through a dozen Humans before detonating.
Who are these Goblins? Vernoue only knew that she had to fight. She was powerful! She drew harder on the seith-crystal wand, and a Tier 6 spell began to form overhead.
“Spellcaster.”
The huge Goblin pointed, and the shortest of the Goblins glanced up. She hefted something and pointed it at Vernoue.
“Don’t.”
Then, Vernoue recognized the Goblin. The one from the television? She locked eyes with Chieftain Rags and hesitated—then hurled a real comet down, a chunk of stone glowing red-hot, and saw even the huge Great Goblin falter.
The short Goblin sighed and shot Vernoue through the neck. Her eyes were crimson, pained, but there was something in them that was wrong—
 
——
 
This time, she was in a palace, a surreal place of endless corridors, and she was just Vernoue. 
5th Princess, and her best spell was [Ice Spike] or [Light Arrows]. She was firing behind her with her wand.
“Run! Run!”
Someone was bellowing in her ears, and she turned and saw it was Queen Ielane. The entire royal family, minus Lyonette, was running. Behind them came—Crelers.
“To the exit! One of us must survive!”
Reclis was winded. He fell behind as Aielef ran, and Prince Agenote, the 1st Prince, carried Ellet, a sword in hand.
“Father!”
Seraphel turned and tried to pull him, but the wave of Crelers was pouring over Thronebearers without time for the warriors to even swing a sword. Vernoue fired spells helplessly at a huge shape racing towards them. Adult Creler.
It was ignoring her spells. Queen Ielane turned and pushed Vernoue.
“Run!”
She threw out an arm, and the wave of Crelers stopped. One second—two—and Vernoue saw them break as Ielane’s nose ran red. Reclis tried to stumble back, pulling her, and then the Crelers covered him and Ielane. Vernoue was screaming, kicking at them, seeing Agenote charging at her, Ellet shrieking as Seraphel tried to carry her onw—
Fangs in her neck. Searing pain—
 
——
 
“Stop!”
Vernoue screamed and covered her head. She didn’t want this! Not this—helplessness! She’d come to see her future. Not death.
Archmage. She’d been promised she’d be—the weeping 5th Princess had a wand in hand. She could cast Tier 4 magic. But it didn’t matter.
The undead were coming from all sides. Leading them was a howling man with white hair and black eyes she knew full well.
“Calanfer!”
The Necromancer’s [Deathbolt] blasted through her barriers in three shots, and Vernoue thought even his eyes—
 
<YOU WISH TO SEE THE ARCHMAGE? VERY WELL.>
 
Then she saw the Grand Design smile.
 
——
 
The Archmage of Dawn was shaking, her robes covered with soot. Her ears rang with the sounds of explosions.
Lord Xitegen Terland was dead. The army of the Southern Alliance was crumbling. The girl was gone, and so was the Goblin Lord.
Where…? She knew it all, but dimly. It didn’t matter.
He was standing across from her. A smile visible through his torn helmet.
The Goblin King.
She had never been mightier. The Level 63 [Archmage of Radiance] aimed a wand at his heart, and death was leaning on her shoulder. She tried.
“[Second Blazing Sun]. [A Hundred Thousand Arrows of Dawn]!”
She hurled a blazing orb at him and fired so many spells at once that the crisscrossing showers of magic left trails over her vision.
He cut through the orb and ignored the spells raining down on his armor. The Goblin King lunged, and she gasped as a sword pierced her chest. She gazed into those crimson eyes and saw it. This time—
 
——
 
The Goblin King was grinning.
He waited for the Archmage of Dawn to catch herself, then attacked. Dodging spells, leaping under them and cutting through them as her soldiers tried to shield her. She flew up, and he threw his sword. It cleaved through her—
 
——
 
“Archmage, you have to hold off his advance!”
A fat [Lord] with amazing thighs was shouting in her ear. She was hovering above a battlefield with explosions, and her heart trembled as she saw the armored figure pause and peer up at her. Floating [Knights] were poised to dive.
“Is this where I die?”
“Not if I have anything to say about it. Fight, damn you, Archmage of Calanfer! For the shattered Eternal Throne!”
Then she saw what she had to do. Vernoue raised a staff and dove as the stars themselves fell on the Goblin King. Then she was laughing, insane. All the magic of legends at her fingertips. And she couldn’t—
 
——
 
The 18th time he cut her apart, she finally realized who or what she was facing. The Archmage of Dawn, no, 5th Princess Vernoue, raised a wand, and her knees shook.
“You’re…not the Goblin King. You’re it, aren’t you?”
He was grinning like a child. The [Soldiers] were baying for his blood, but when she looked around, at the Goblins, the Humans, in every eye, she saw it.
A spark of gold in the heart of each one. Like she were surrounded by puppets, all filled with the same being. It was in the Goblin King, and he beckoned.
The only things that were real were her and it. Vernoue was shaking.
“It hurts. It hurts.”
Dying hurt. She felt like giving up, fleeing, and as if her thoughts allowed it, she felt herself drifting away. The Goblin King, no, the Grand Design, watched her, and Vernoue steadied. Then—concentrated.
“Not yet. Not yet. Is this my future!?”
She screamed at the Goblin King, then raised her wand. Then all she had to do was carve out proof of her victory! Her—
 
——
 
55 futures. Vernoue was throwing up as concerned [Soldiers] asked what was wrong. Her head rose.
She was standing on Chandrar’s shores as a Terandrian Crusade fought against the forces of a terrible army. The King of Destruction was flanked by his Seven.
They all wore the same grin. Vernoue was shaking.
“Just once—”
Who was she? Vernoue, who’d joined the Terras faction but never become an Archmage. Vernoue, sent to fight the King of Destruction before he could siege the other continents. The King of Destruction’s army had pushed them against the sea.
She advanced, firing spells madly, using the knowledge of her life and disregarding the cries for her to fall back. She just had to kill him. To—
 
——
 
Takhatres was too fast. The Goblin King too invincible. Even the lesser Goblins—each time, Vernoue was wrong.
Too weak.
The Marchioness of Tourvecall had training, but even two decades of it and exposure to the Kingdom of Incantation’s mana-rich environments had only left her at Level 40. Enough to be considered a great [Mage].
Not enough for this. She lowered her wand, and the floating woman dropped down further.
“What’s wrong, Princess? Not sporting enough for you? I’ll fight you without using either arm. Or my tongue.”
The Death of Magic was laughing. Vernoue snapped her wand up and fired a barrier-piercing spell—Silvenia just dodged around it and produced a gigantic magical battleaxe.
“Am I just to die?”
Vernoue screamed up at the air.
 
——
 
126. The Archmage of Sunlight woke up without war or battle around her. She turned to the slumbering form of Archmage Eldavin beside her.
She began laughing, and she thought that golden glow was almost guilty as he sat up and asked what was wrong. Her finger blew off part of his head, but he survived. And she—
 
——
 
Battles were kinder. Kinder than waking up in a version of Vernoue who had been married away or compromised something about herself. That made her feel…squished. Wrong. As if something had broken inside of her to fit her in a loveless marriage.
170, exactly, and she was losing her will. She woke up with a collar on her neck in the courts of the Naga.
171. She was screaming as she fought the Goblin King, and it was far, far better, screaming—
174. She was a Level 30 [Princess] at twice that age, sitting bitter and unwed in the Eternal Throne, snapping at a great-niece who fled her as the Thronebearers tried to make her shut up—
 
——
 
“You are so…very unkind.”
Vernoue levered herself onto one knee as the Goblin King waited. That seemed to be…the favorite future. A third of all of them were just this.
She couldn’t beat him. He seemed to…adapt to anything she did. Any spell, he would counter. That intelligence in his eyes was having fun, she thought. Unleashing the full potential of the Goblin King. Even when she had the power to grow entire mountains and collapse them on his head—he just shoved them apart.
Is this what Menisi saw? Lifetime after lifetime of regrets where Ielane ruined her and us? Vernoue wavered a second, and she was dead—too fast.
She wasn’t meant to win this.
 
<VICTORY IS IMPOSSIBLE. WILL YOU GIVE UP?>
 
——
 
She could have. It would be so easy, knowing this was impossible. That voice wouldn’t lie.
…It wasn’t why she was fighting, and they both knew it.
377. Vernoue lifted her wand, and maybe she had gone mad. A roaring Dragon made out of golden light was descending across the battlefield, and she swept its radiant breath down over the Goblin King, who merely lifted a shield.
She was going to die. But she conjured a rain of stars to cover the little white Gnoll girl’s escape. Why she was here—Vernoue didn’t know.
A future set in stone? One already come to pass? But the 5th Princess burned spells, exhausting even this [Archmage]’s body beyond its mortal reserves.
The Goblin King didn’t even bother killing her this time. He merely walked through the last spell dragging pieces of the world into another dimension and stood there.
Half of her was melting—the other half turning into crystal that shattered on contact with the air. The dying [Archmage]…was smiling.
<“Will you continue?”>
It asked her. Her voice rasped as she forced the words out.
“Just a bit—longer.”
