Only then did Vernoue turn and sense weird streaks of mana in the passersby, signs of their usual mana supplies being distorted. Or notice too-bright smiles or the manic intensity of some. She began to feel a sense of foreboding, and the knife with the serrated edge felt heavy in her bag of holding before she saw the mansion set in the heart of the city, lacking for gardens or a huge wall separating it from the hoi-polloi—it merely had tall fences and barely a dozen feet of clearance from one wall to the building next to it. It was tall, circular, like a domed platter that someone had put a twist in, made of modern brickwork as opposed to old, enchanted marble.
The servants were expecting Vernoue’s company and admitted them without question. The [Princess] thought they were normal until she realized that either they had different fashion here or something was wrong, because the pants on one of the [Manservants] were far too tight. It showed—she averted her eyes, and one of the Calanferian servants squeaked faintly. Some of the female [Maidservants] wore skirts far too short, and another was strutting around without the upper part of her uniform, just undergarments.
“Oh my—”
They were halfway up the red carpets in the main entrance where the banisters curved upwards around a statue of Barelle the Bard—for some reason—when Vernoue finally saw her older sister.
It had been so long that she had forgotten Menisi, much like Lyonette. But in this case, Lyonette had changed entirely, and Menisi…
Menisi was the same.
She’d inherited Ielane du Marquin’s expression in many ways. Her face, when she appeared, was too severe, and where Aielef went to warlike, Menisi just seemed cold. Her eyes were coal blue, dark, and they had the piercing intensity that warred with her hair. It was the brightest red of the family, Vernoue remembered after seeing it again, more orange than red. They curled down in locks as she stood there, book in hand, reading spectacles on her face.
“Vernoue. How long it’s been.”
Menisi’s voice was also charming, for she’d gotten that from her father. It was inviting, the kind of tone that made you want to talk, like dipping your toe into a warm pool to find it was welcoming. All told, she was a contradiction; she appeared as though nothing would please her more than you exiting her presence, but her voice was an invitation to make a fool of yourself and try to win her favor.
She was wearing a single, long dress that was pale white, had Calanfer’s sigil on it, and a cut down both legs. It was rather rakish, and Vernoue blinked.
She wasn’t nearly as terrifying as Shardele seemed to believe. Vernoue half-curtseyed to Menisi.
“Sister! Thank you for accepting my invitation. I know this is somewhat odd, but I have a request.”
“So I gathered. And not one Mother put you up to?”
“N-no. Actually, it came from Lyonette. Her daughter—I mean—”
Vernoue was off-guard and stumbled before realizing Mrsha was a handful to explain, but Menisi’s eyes brightened.
“Ah, her adopted Gnoll daughter. Fascinating. You’ve been speaking with her, and you claim Lyonette treats her like true offspring. I truly couldn’t understand how anyone found my knife. I told no one. Well, come in, then. Has Ielane given you any—”
The doors blew open behind Vernoue, and her Thronebearers whirled, hands on their blades, then backed up as a man strode into the room, screaming. The illusion of normalcy shattered as Lord Duke Naodin appeared.
For a man who had apparently once murdered three other men with his bare hands—he was not what Vernoue had expected. She had assumed he’d be imposing and huge and had imagined a great, bluff man like Ser Greysten of the Order of Summer, if not so courageous and valorous.
She hadn’t imagined…well, when you heard of a [Lord] who was like a thug, huge, imposing, what did you expect? A hulking brute of a man, so wide across the chest he was three times Vernoue’s size at least? Huge hands, even, dare one say it, a knuckle-dragging Ogreishness to his bearing?
Because that was the image in your head of such a man, and it was almost one-to-one what Vernoue saw. He wore the attire of a [Lord], but she would have thought him some [Mercenary] or barbarous adventurer if not for that! His features were surprisingly sharp, though, at odds with the rest of him, but his manners—
Well, he had come in screaming bloody murder. And he had a sword in one hand.
“Where is he? Where is that rat-tailed bastard? I’ll cut his heirlooms off and feed them to him! Tell me where he is, woman!”
He shook the sword at her, actually shook it, and Vernoue heard a peal of laughter from above. Menisi hugged her stomach, laughing down at Naodin, who turned even redder with fury.
“He’s gone, Naodin! Left the city, and he could be across the border by now! You’ll never catch him, nor even know what he looks like. You may imagine him, though. I certainly shall remember how often we spent abed. Add him to your list of men you’ll not best in bed or battle!”
Vernoue’s mouth was open in horror as Naodin made a sound of inarticulate rage. He came up the stairs three at a time, and all the servants were out of the way. The Thronebearers had closed ranks around Vernoue, but were clearly hesitating. They seemed uncertain, for this might be a tragedy, and if they did nothing—
“You slut! You whore! You’re the ruination of my life! I’m the laughingstock of the city! Tell me where he is!”
“My lips are sealed.”
Menisi mimed the motion. Then she spat in his face. Vernoue saw Naodin wipe at the spit slowly, and then he grabbed her, picked her up by the waist, and stormed towards the nearest room, tearing at her dress.
“Are they—”
The mocking laughter became a shrill cry, then a bellowing voice followed by a tearing sound. The [Princess] and her escort stood frozen as the door slammed open, and one of the Calanferian servants waved a finger.
“W-we should let the Lady Duchess and Lord Duke discuss their issues privately. Our rooms?”
The [Servants] pointed, seeming not nearly as fazed by this alternation. In fact, half seemed amused. Vernoue saw a [Maid] whisper to one of the others.
“Took him three weeks to figure it out this time. He won’t let her out of his clutches half a day, I think.”
“She’s wound him up like an overfilled bottle. How long until she’s cursing him to death?”
The Calanferians were hurrying to get Vernoue settled, with that classic Calanferian tact that made them so famous. But whatever their training—Vernoue had once seen a [Lady] come screaming out of her bedrooms to slap her husband while dead drunk in the middle of a ball and not let her emotions show.
She was, still, not prepared for the echoing grunts and moans coming from the—
They’d left the door open. The Calanferians had to go onto the second floor to their wing and practically sprinted past the open door where Vernoue swore she could see half of the white dress on the floor. She was rushing past, hands over her ears, when it happened.
Menisi du Marquin, 2nd Princess of Calanfer, Menisi the Watchful, crawled to the opening of the door. She had part of her dress clinging to her shoulders; the rest was ripped. A Thronebearer tripped and went crashing over the balcony as Menisi’s frame shook in place as behind her—
“So, Vernoue. How did—you find—my knife? And—how did—Lyonette—get in—touch?”
She spoke breathily, smiling up at Vernoue who froze like a rabbit before the fox, then ran for her rooms. Menisi’s laughter followed her down the hallway as Vernoue threw herself into her rooms and realized whatever she had been told—the truth really was the truth.
Just like Lyonette. Only where Lyonette glowed with triumphs and regrets in equal measure…Menisi’s dark luster was utterly different. Like an unused knife and a vial of poison sitting with a dusty letter decades old.
 
——
 
Lest Vernoue think this was some masterful ploy to keep her off-guard, she quickly realized that it was not. Princess Menisi du Marquin and her husband, Lord Duke Naodin…really were that promiscuous. Nor did they hide what they were doing.
Two times on the first dreadful night of staying in Menisi’s mansion did Vernoue come across them. Once, while she was asking for food from the kitchens because they hadn’t had a welcoming dinner—she heard the two coming and thought they’d stop at the kitchen or stop or something—only for the two to burst in and for her to go screaming outside as the two naked couple decided to consummate on the cutting board.
The second time, she heard an odd sound outside her windows and realized they were outside. In the very narrow gardens.
The next morning, a very sleep-deprived Vernoue was glowering at her food when Menisi appeared. She had a bowl of chopped fruit in yogurt she was eating from. Vernoue dropped her fork when she saw Menisi.
She was sweaty, red-cheeked, and her hair was disheveled. She sat down, wincing slightly, and there was no question what she had been doing bare minutes before appearing.
“And that was Naodin. If he interrupts us, we’ll continue in a bit. He’s been pent up with frustration and just realized I had an affair for three weeks behind his back.”
“Wh—wh—when are you two separating?”
That was all Vernoue could think to ask. Menisi smirked.
“Mother didn’t tell you a thing, did she? This isn’t like Aielef’s agreed-upon deal with her husband. I cheat on him with servants, with anyone who catches my fancy—and he rages and loses his temper. If he were cleverer, he’d stop me, but he can’t.”
“And he doesn’t want to divorce you or…?”
“Kill me? I wonder if he could do either. Perhaps I’ll push him to it, one day. Or he’ll drive me to off myself. That would wipe the smile off his face forever, or so I hope. Only the thought he’d move on makes it less appealing.”
The thought seemed to amuse Menisi. Vernoue tried to steer onto any other subject.
“Sister, I came here to ask a favor.”
Menisi laughed in her face as she fumbled with her dress. One arm of her dress slipped, exposing her chest. She had no undergarments on. Vernoue almost climbed out of her seat.
“Ielane has taught you well. You’re not even going to ask the obvious? I suppose only Seraphel’s that brave—or used to be before three husbands beat it out of her. Then again, she must be brave to defy Ielane and Reclis enough to leave Calanfer. Here’s to her dying before coming home!”
So saying, the 2nd Princess plucked a glass of wine up and drank. Everything she said filled Vernoue with such stupefaction—Menisi knew? She seemed to be aware of everything that was going on with the royal family.
The 2nd Princess sat, eating breakfast, watching Vernoue like a hawk. Much like Ielane did, though her expression suggested urbane amusement rather than pure calculation. Amusement…and sympathy. But not much of either. Menisi eyed Vernoue much like someone watching a rather unfunny joke they’d seen before. Possibly in a mirror.
“I have plenty of time to chat after Naodin is done with his little outburst. He has duties—but my condition means I’ll be antsy in his absence. Get used to interruptions. Or you may watch, but I don’t think you have the stomach for that. He’s woken up. Make it forty minutes.”
She twiddled her fingers as a loud voice came from upstairs. Vernoue sat there, trying to eat food and think about what was going on, until she heard thumping from above and decided she needed a walk.
 
——
 
It transpired that everyone knew about Lady Menisi and Lord Naodin. Anyone on the streets could turn to you, know the rulers of their region, and say, confidently, ‘yep, those two are depraved, even for our city’.
They were infamous. For what? Everything. After half an hour of asking, Vernoue clapped her hands over her ears because she didn’t want to know her elder sister had done everything possible, with everyone, everywhere you could sit or stand or lie, and some of the acts—!
She had to get answers from Menisi, which, as it transpired, wasn’t actually the hardest, because the 2nd Princess was rather forthcoming—when she wasn’t engaged. Actually, when she was engaged too, but there Vernoue drew the line.
But what astonished Vernoue was that when she worked up the courage to enter the mansion again, she found Menisi and Lord Naodin engaged in firing a servant.
For…theft.
“Bechaur, this is gravely disappointing. You’ve served this mansion for three years, and to realize how much you’ve been stealing is truly disheartening. I placed my trust in your honesty, and this is the result?”
Menisi was slightly less disheveled, but she sat, annoyed, exasperated, and slightly upset at a very nervous man who had been divested of his uniform. Lord Naodin stood behind her as she sat.
“Very disappointing.”
“Your Highness, I can explain—”
“Explain what? We have observed each theft and even traced it to the pawnshops who took the items. By rights, I should have the Watch arrest you, but severing your employment and refusing to issue you any recommendation will do. Do not seek employment or I will be forthright about why you were fired.”
Bechaur was caught dead to rights. The man squirmed and twisted, then blurted out.
“I wasn’t the only one! Other servants have been stealing from you as well, Your Grace, Your Highness!”
“Who?”
Naodin’s glower intensified, and Bechaur rattled off a series of names. Naodin’s eyes narrowed, but Menisi held up a hand. She smiled at Vernoue as she put a hand on Naodin’s chest.
“Interesting. Then…Nattie. What did she steal? When? Furnish me with a list of dates and items, Bechaur, since you were there.”
“What? Well, she stole some silverware on the—the—two weeks ago, and—”
Menisi began quizzing the man intensively on exactly who had stolen what and when and how he had observed this theft if he himself hadn’t been part of it. She cut him short after a few minutes.
“I believe you are lying, Bechaur, because you are so very uncertain about events you should know more about. Spite almost makes me want to summon the Watch—will you leave without more fuss or shall we involve them?”
She walked him to the door with several servants, and Vernoue was impressed by that display, despite herself. At least Menisi knew how to run a household. More or less. The disgraced servant apparently had a horse which he was on and riding away from the mansion with little more than his belt pouches when Menisi cupped her hands.
“And just so you and Lord Naodin are aware—I am doubly hurt for all the moments when you and I licked each other—all over—in the library, my bedrooms, the stairs—let alone our delightful trysts while Lord Naodin was a-bath! Did it mean nothing?”
