Getting up groggily, he turns to face me once more. Arms up, fists clenched. No more charging it seems. At least he learned his lesson. Might as well join him for some boxing. Loosening my shoulders, I take the same stance, as we slowly circle one another, step by step. My head rocks back from a punch too quick for me to even see, like a hammer to the face. A second and third follow, but I duck both and send a fist into his gut. He doesn't even flinch, grabbing me by the shoulder, and he unleashes a gorilla of a punch into my face, the impact ringing my brain like a bell. It's almost unfair how strong he is. I feel the crunch of my nose breaking as he punches me a second time. Fuck this, I'm done playing nice. I headbutt the next punch I see, and am rewarded with a crack and a groan. He releases my shoulder, cradling his broken fist. Grabbing him by the collar, I cock my right fist back. Let's see how he likes getting punched in the face.

“Enough.” Akanai intercedes on his behalf, ending the spar. What the hell? Playing favorites? I didn't see her step in for my broken nose. Taduk walks forward, looking at Huushal's hand, who stands trying to hold back tears. Ya, hurts, doesn't it, bitch? Dragged away by Akanai, she turns to me once we're alone. “Why?”

A bit more information would be useful. “Why, what?” My voice sounds nasal and flat, odd since my nose is broken.

She crosses her arms and looks at me. “Where to begin? Why did you let the fight progress like that? The initial charge, you held back the palm strike. It should have knocked him unconscious. He grossly underestimated you, and you should have made him pay for it. You could have cracked his ribs after countering the tackle, but instead you only struck him once, then stepped back, allowing him to get back to his feet. Finally, you approached an opponent who is larger, stronger, and faster than you, in order to trade blows equally. The worst of it is, you got angry at being punched. You practically asked for it, boy. Why get upset?”

I roll my eyes. “It's sparring. It's for practice. Not brutally beating each other. He broke my nose.”

She stares at me, intensely. “Sparring is a substitute for true combat, between two opponents. When one is more skilled than the other, however, it is a teaching opportunity. You should have taught Huushal, instead you gave him false confidence and broke his hand.” She pokes me on my broken nose. “Reflect on your actions.” That fucking hurts you know.

Wincing as I set my nose, I settle down to heal. Strengthen my nose. That's something I didn't think of. I hope it doesn't swell up and look ridiculous. I don't get the big deal. So what, I was supposed to brutalize him at the beginning? How can he learn from that? Besides, she said it herself, he's bigger, stronger, and faster. Why am I the one who is supposed to teach? Okay, so maybe I lost my temper, but he wasn't holding back those punches at all, hammering away at my face.

When I open my eyes, and Mei Lin is crouching in front of me. She smiles and hands me a bowl she'd been carrying on her lap. Jattuya noodle soup. It's still hot and steaming, a second bowl used as a lid. “Thanks, Mei Lin, you're the best.”

She flicks me on the nose. “Silly. I keep telling you. Call me Lin-Lin.” It's still broken, stop doing that. Ignoring my look, she settles back on her heels. “You're too nice to people Rainy. Even during fights. That's dangerous, it can get people killed.” The no mercy attitude. I get that, I do. Kill or be killed, I learned my lesson in the city.

“It was just a spar, Mei Lin.” I slurp my dinner, chewing on the tender meat. “I didn't want to hurt him.”

“But you did, Rainy.”

Turning to spit out some bird-bone shards, I reply, “His hand wouldn't have broken if he wasn't punching so hard.”

“Not the broken hand, Rainy.” She looks solemn. “You let him think his approach to the fight was a good one. He thinks he was winning, and that you got lucky. That he's tough enough to go charging at his enemies, without worry.” She watches me eat and think on her words. Damn it. She's right. It's the same thing Akanai was saying, but I tend to disagree with her just on instinct. If Huushal does something like that against an enemy, he'll die in a heartbeat. I guess I'm not doing him any favors, by going easy or losing my temper. Four mistakes on his part and he didn't learn anything from them.

“I guess I should go apologize? And what, fight him again?” I have no idea what to do now.

Giggling at me, she replies. “I knew you'd understand. No need to apologize, and you can't fight him again, his hand is broken, silly. We have another spar lined up for you, this time, against Ghurda. Show Huu-Huu how strong you really are, ya? He won't listen like you do.”

God dammit. Ghurda is probably going to be angry about the broken hand. She's gonna make me throw up again. Sighing deeply, I set the rest of the soup aside and stand, walking forward to take my punishment.

I should have just knocked him out. This is what I get for trying to be nice. “Hey, don't let the twins watch, okay?”
