

“M'lady, please don't fret.” Ren said. “The situation is not as dire as you believe.”

“Wh-what?” Yllana blinked her eyes at him. “Why would you say that?”

“I can feel how anxious and angry you are.” Ren said. “Thank you for worrying about me.”

“B-but...”

Ren let her hand go and made an Amulet of Interrogation, then turned to look at Lord Tathalyn. “Why do you want the tower made?”

“I told you.” Lord Tathalyn said. “I want my name on the world's tallest tower.”

“That's the obvious reason.” Ren said. “I was actually going to let it go at that, but a friend pointed out a few things.” He smiled. “I want you to tell me the real reason you want it built.”

Lord Tathalyn looked at the amulet in Ren's hand, and sighed.

“What is it?” Yllana asked. “Why aren't you saying anything?”

“He identified my amulet.” Ren said. “He knows what will happen if he speaks a lie.”

“Luberos, you tell him right now.”

“It's always been my dream.” Lord Tathalyn said. “Ever since I saw my first building, I wanted my name on the biggest one there is.” He said. “I've worked all of my long life to achieve this goal, and nothing I've ever done can compare to that dream.”

The High Elf took in a deep breath and let it out. “I made a deal, centuries ago, with... someone.” He said and looked at the amulet. “They agreed to help me become powerful and successful enough to build the tower I've always wanted.”

“But.” Ren said, and the High Elf smiled.

“But, once I was powerful and successful enough, I discovered that the resources needed for such a thing were far beyond anything I could ever hope to buy.”

“That's why you didn't ask me for money.” Ren said, and he nodded.

“I could have dipped this tower in molten gold, and still not come close to touching my wealth.”

“What does this... someone... get when you do build your tower?”

“Something they have always wanted.” Lord Tathalyn said.

“...and that is?” Yllana asked.

“Me.”

“NO!” Yllana exclaimed.

“It's all right.” Lord Tathalyn said. “I've lived a long and prosperous life. I've designed everything I've ever wanted. I've done everything I ever wanted to do... except for this one thing.” He looked at Ren. “Please, help me complete my life's work.”

Notice!

You have been tasked to finish a famous architect's life-long work. It is a herculean task, and both it's rewards and penalties reflect that.

Difficulty: A

Rewards: Fame throughout the High Elven Kingdom; Maxed Honor Stat will be Locked (no gains or losses possible); 100,000 XP; XXXX

Penalties for Failure: -100,000 Honor loss; Automatic Derision from High Elves; XXXX

No time limit has been set for this quest.

Wow. Ren thought in amazement. That's a risky proposition.

“I hope your cheat works.” Teepo said.

Oh, it will. Ren said and smiled. “Lord Tathalyn, I accept your request.”

“Excellent!” Lord Tathalyn said and turned to his workbench, scooped up all the parchment paper designs placed there, and tossed them aside as if they were meaningless. “Let's get to work designing it right away!”
