Eyes wide and brimming with tears, Luo-Luo sports a pleading gaze while clutching her cloak tight. To compromise, I send Sarankho and Jimjam over to Lin and hug Aurie close, giving her a pointed look to tell her this is as far as I’ll go. Steeling her nerves, she circles around so I’m sitting between her and Aurie, but her caution backfires as her fluttering, furred cloak catches my sweet floof’s attention. Pupils going from narrow slits to wide wide saucers, Aurie turns on his Disney charm as he struggles out of my grasp, and Luo-Luo yelps in fear and backs away. Again, this works against her as Aurie’s instincts to chase kick in, pouncing over me to land neatly on Luo-Luo’s cloak. Caught by the adorable predator, Luo-Luo tumbles to the sand with a shriek amidst Lin’s peal of laughter, and Sorya, Anrhi rush over to help, but I wave the twin handmaidens back since Aurie is content to rub his face against the fur.

While waiting for Luo-Luo to calm down, I stand ready to intervene should I be needed, though I’m more worried about Luo-Luo hurting Aurie than the other way around. Flailing about in a panic, Luo-Luo struggles to scramble away, but her cloak is fastened around her neck and Aurie has the other end pinned down with his weight. Long seconds pass by as Luo-Luo wails and cries to no effect other than to draw a crowd. Not just my retinue, but even the animals are concerned by my concubine’s actions, though their interest seems tempered with a hint of bloodthirst. It’s not the smartest thing in the world to appear injured in front of a predator, but Luo-Luo is the dumbest smart person I’ve ever met.

Finally unable to stomach it, I shoo Aurie away and help Luo-Luo up. “It’s okay,” I say, feeling guilty for letting it go on for so long, but I honestly didn’t think it’d be this bad. “You’re safe and unharmed. There’s nothing to be afraid of, Aurie just wants to play. Shh, it’s okay, come on now, lets go inside and I’ll make tea.” Ten minutes later, Luo-Luo sits huddled at my table while sipping a cup of tea while my instincts scream at me to comfort her. Through sheer force of will, I remain rooted in place with hands folded atop the table and ask, “So, what did you want to talk about?”

Taking a deep breath to centre herself, Luo-Luo begins, “This one has certain concerns she hopes to bring to Lord Husband’s attention, beginning with sir Daxian’s treatment. Though this one is sure Lord Husband has his reasons, antagonizing a man like Sir Daxian is ill-advised. Even if Lord Husband has nothing to fear from him, others will see this treatment and look down on sir Daxian’s strength. There is nothing to be gained from Lord Husband’s outright hostility.”

Oh. So it’s another critique. Ugh. “Noted. Anything else?”

Cringing at what I thought was a neutral tone, Luo-Luo continues, “Perhaps Lord Husband could enlighten this one to his intentions? Whatever the goal, there might be a different way to accomplish it without alienating sir Daxian.”

“Perhaps, but you don’t need to know why.”

Okay, it’s verified. I am terrible at cheering people up. The less people who know about Pong Pong’s true nature, the better, but Luo-Luo takes my denial poorly. Hunched over her cup of tea with tears spilling from her cheeks, Luo-Luo looks so pitiful I could almost cry, but I remind myself to stay strong because she still might be an Imperial spy. Even if she isn’t, who knows where her true loyalties lie? She says she’s loyal and devoted, but how am I supposed to take her at her word? “Look,” I say, trying to sound as kind and gentle as I can. “Like you said, I have my reasons but I can’t share them, okay?” I’m not even supposed to mention GangShu’s existence to anyone, because apparently it’s an unspoken rule. Ancestral Beasts and Divinities are treated with respect, but you’re not supposed to tell anyone about what they are, because they don’t like to be reminded of the vast gulf between them and the rest of humanity. They’re doing their best to fit in, and pointing out how different they are only exacerbates their already difficult positions.

Boo-freaking-hoo. Wouldn’t want to hurt the walking nuke’s feelings.

Pouting despite my efforts, Luo-Luo blurts out between sobs, “W-why does Lord Husband hate Luo-Luo?”

This again. “I don’t hate you.”

“Then why do you treat Luo-Luo so coldly?” With an adorable hiccup, the teary beauty sips her tea and waits for an answer, her pleading gaze tugging at my heartstrings.

“We’ve been over this before. I don’t treat you coldly, I treat you like I treat all the other strangers in my life, and make no mistake, you are a stranger.”

Another hiccup. “Luo-Luo is not a stranger!” she declares, with fire in her eyes and steel in her voice. “Luo-Luo is Lord Husband’s concubine.”

Finally, she shows her true self once again. Not the mousy, obedient servant she tries to portray, but a pampered little princess who throws a tantrum when she doesn’t get her way. “Both are true. You are my concubine and also a complete stranger, because you refuse to put down the act and be yourself. Who is Zheng Luo? What is your goal here? Your real goals mind you, because only an idiot would believe you’re enamoured by my manly charms and aching to warm my bed.”

Her scarlet cheeks show she at least has some shame, but it soon turns to naked rage. “So you did notice my efforts! And you ignored them? What sort of man are you to refuse a woman’s desperate advances?”

A stupid one. “A man who doesn’t want to be entangled in a loveless marriage. Is that the life you want? To warm the bed of a man who uses you to sate his lust?”

“I am an Imperial Servant,” Luo-Luo snaps, finally dropping her annoying habit of referring to herself in the third person. “My life was given in service to the Empire, and it was decided I would serve as your concubine. You are my Lord Husband, and my goal, nay, my purpose, is to please you, but what I desire is for you to love me as you love your other wives. Is that so terrible?”

... I am so turned on right now. I also feel terrible, but mostly, turned on.

Pulling back from the brink of madness before I lose myself to lust, I clear my throat and pray no one outside heard her rant. “I’m sorry if I’ve treated you poorly, but in my defence, I don’t understand your mindset. How can you be so willing to serve? Why are you not upset about being given away as a prize?”

“Such is life,” Luo-Luo replies, and her eyes drop in bashful self-consciousness. “Though to be Lord Husband’s concubine is no trial or tribulation, but a blessing in this one’s eyes.”

Oof. My heart. “Err... I’m not... displeased by you, just confused.” Way to go Romeo. Sweep her off her feet with your silver tongue. “You’re a huge help and I empathize with your apprehension, but I’m not going to sleep with you just to calm your nerves.” No, I’ll do it to sate my animalistic lust. No I won’t. Stop it. “Look, I said this before, but it’s going to take time to get used to this.”

“How long?”

Her plaintive tone is almost too much to bear, especially since I’m unaccustomed to being... wanted. “I dunno. A year? Nine months, at least. If I sleep with you before Mila, she may fly into a jealous rage and pound us both into meat paste.”

Blinking in wide-eyed confusion, Luo-Luo asks, “Mila is a....”

“Yes.” More or less. “So is Lin. It’s Bekhai custom not to engage in intercourse before marriage at the age of twenty. Not everyone adheres to it, but Mila and Lin were adamant about it.” Not so much for Yan, bless her warm heart and round, juicy ass. “So... er... yea. That’s all, I guess.” Please leave before I lose control. Quick, think of grim dark thoughts...

Comforted by our little chat, Luo-Luo fixes her makeup before sashaying out to rejoin Lin and the handmaiden twins. Thankfully, it appears as if no one overheard our little chat and Lin-Lin isn’t the jealous or inquisitive type, happy to sit beside me instead of in my lap and not ask questions why.

Well, one more thing to add to the list, but I can handle it before going to bed. Then again, to be fair, I was probably going to masturbate regardless.

Chapter Meme
