“Would you accept it any other way?” Artemis joked.

“No... but if we are equals, then you should also accept being more casual around the Viper,” Jake said. “If the two of us are equals, then so are the two of you.”

“That... is something I’m genuinely not comfortable even considering,” Artemis sighed. “Perhaps one day, but not now. Especially not when I feel that I owe the Primordial so much.”

“I just wanted to mention it,” Jake said, knowing when not to push the subject.

“I understand,” Artemis said with a smile as she looked toward the ceiling for a moment. “The notion of you considering the Malefic Viper your equal was something I found ridiculous. That the Malefic One should even share this sentiment was even more of an impossibility. Why would a being like him view a mere mortal as his equal? However... now I kind of get it. I reckon others will also view our relationship as equally absurd, though most will definitely assume it isn’t actually as we represent it.”

“I don’t give a damn what others think of our relationship, and that goes for both the one with the Viper and you,” Jake shrugged. “As long as the people involved know the truth, the opinions of others are irrelevant.”

Artemis chuckled and shook her head. “That simplistic view of things is truly part of your charm.”

“Overcomplicating things never leads to anything good,” Jake insisted.

“Perhaps not,” Artemis sighed. “Alas, I would love to stick around, but I should really be going. Ah, but don’t worry; I won’t be too long this time around.”

After saying this, she walked over to Jake, who easily read what she was going for as she got a nice goodbye smooch on the way out.

“Don’t let those two bully you,” Jake said with a smile.

“Oh, please, they’re way more likely to celebrate,” Artemis chuckled. “See you later, Jake.”

“See you,” Jake said right before she teleported away. As she did so, all the barriers she had placed around the palace also disappeared, allowing the King and Jasper to once more be aware of what was happening inside.

Neither of them did anything, though, almost as if they hadn’t even noticed something was amiss.

Mental magic really is bloody scary, Jake thought to himself, once more extremely happy he had an overpowered Bloodline that would allow him to shrug off that kind of magic.

Looking around the cleaned-up living room, Jake couldn’t help but consider the last twenty-two hours or so as he went to sit down. He also thought about the conversation they had just had and all his past relationships. He thought about Madeline and Andrew and all that had happened back then.

He genuinely hadn’t thought about those two, at least not since returning from the Tutorial. It really felt like everything with them had been an entirely different life, perhaps because it had been. Back then, Jake had suppressed his own Bloodline and hadn’t been himself. He had just been a bored passenger in his own sucky life.

Now, he felt like he was truly alive. As if he were living in a world where he actually belonged, surrounded by people who understood and respected him for who he was, even if they did admit to finding him a bit unusual. But hey, all the strongest people were weird, so no shame in that.

People like Andrew or Madeline weren’t even worth thinking about. He had heard about neither on Earth, meaning they weren’t people strong or influential enough for him to care about, assuming they were even alive. Neither deserved the scarce Records of him even acknowledging their existence, and if they met on the street one day, Jake doubted he would even bother recognizing them, though he doubted the two would even dare act like they knew him either.

Having thought about it, Jake felt better. He liked Artemis, even if things had turned serious a lot faster than he’d expected. Jake did feel a bit weird about officially having a girlfriend again, but he was looking forward to what it would all entail.

And honestly... going from a cheating ex-girlfriend studying for an art degree with no job prospects to a wood elf hunter Godqueen was quite the upgrade, if he said so himself.
