Ren thought about asking if he meant serving drinks or working for the customers; but, he had wisely kept his mouth shut because the woman in question came out through an employee only door not far away.

“Billy!” Jennifer said and wrapped her arms around his neck. She wore a see-through wrap and a set of green bra and panties; both of which Ren sold at his store. “How come you're back so soon?”

“I just couldn't stay away from your sweet lips.” Billy said, and she laughed.

“Where are you sitting?” Jennifer asked.

“Party booth out back.”

Jennifer squealed and kissed him. “I'll go get the girls!”

“We'll be waiting.” Billy said to her as she went back through the employee only door.

“That's two women that reacted when 'party booth' was mentioned.” Ren said. “Why is that?”

“Party booths have a reputation for giving out the highest tips in the place.” Tommy said. “But, oh boy! Do they earn it!”

“I'll say!” Hank said as they went through the curtains into the back. “I hope the cute one is working today.”

“That's a little vague.” Dillon said and laughed. “Half of the women in here are cute.”

Tommy laughed. “Ain't that the truth!”

The waitress showed them the middle booth, and it had a 5 foot wide, 1 foot tall dancing table in front of it. The circular booth was divided into sections by cushions, and each guy sat down between the dividers. Billy, Hank, Dillon, Clint, and Tommy all sat like they'd been there quite a few times before like it was assigned seating.

Ren sat on the end by Tommy, because he didn't know what to expect; and he also didn't want to be caught in the middle of the seats if something happened that he didn't want to be a part of. He looked around and saw that they were the only people in the back at the moment. He also couldn't make out what kind of music was playing in the background and was tempted to ask about it; but then, he remembered the look on Clint's face when he had mentioned the decor.

*

The curtain opened up and 5 scantily-clad women came in. They froze a moment later and stared at the booth because there was 6 customers waiting for them. They gathered together in a group and talked for a minute.

“What do we do?” One of them asked. “The other girls are busy.”

“I don't know.” Jennifer said. “Billy's only ever had 4 friends come with him.”

“The new guy's kinda cute, and there's... something... about him.” One of them said.

“Yeah, but... he's new. We don't know what kind of tips he'll give.”

“We've never actually switched around, have we?” One of them said, and the other women looked at her.

“What?”

“Jennifer always goes for Billy because he spoils her. I always go for Hank.” She said. “I like them strong.”

“I always take Dillon. He's so sweet.” One said.

“I like riding the cowboy.” Another said.

“Tommy's always respectable, and never takes it too far.” The last one said.

“So... what do we do?” One of them asked, and then no one spoke because they still didn't know how to handle the situation.

*

Ren had heard every word that the women said, and he looked at the other guys that sat in the circular booth with him. None of them had any idea what the women were actually discussing, or the dilemma Ren had inadvertently caused. He was about to say something to them, when the waitress came in with a big tray overloaded with full tankards of ale.

“Here we go.” The waitress said and put the tray down on the dancing table. She handed each of them a tankard, and smiled at them. “That'll be 1 silver and 20 copper.”

Clint handed her the money and gave her a 10 copper tip, and she put the money in a badly-made coin purse.

“Will there be anything else?” She asked, and Ren had a stroke of inspiration.

“Actually, I believe there is.” Ren said and his Etiquette skill activated. “I think you're quite pretty, and I wonder if you'd like to spend a bit of time with me.”

The waitress blinked her eyes a few times in surprise, then looked at Ren curiously. She'd stopped dancing herself months ago, mainly because it was just too hard to keep up with all the younger and prettier women that seemed to show up constantly. Her tips hadn't been great at the time, either. She made more serving drinks exclusively than she ever did working the room and serving drinks on the side.

“Um...” She looked at the other girls as they stood near the curtain, and wondered what they were talking about. “I used to do that; but, I mainly serve drinks now.”

“I'm okay with that.” Ren said. “You'll be close at hand to take our orders when we need you, and I'm sure we'll keep you busy.”

“Well...” She looked at him again. He wouldn't have gotten in if he wasn't legal age. She thought. “You are kinda cute, even if you are a little young.”

Ren chuckled and held a hand out for her to take. “I like to cuddle, if that can sway you at all.”

The waitress smiled and put her serving tray down beside the circular booth. When she took his offered hand, Ren gently pulled her close and kissed the back of her hand lightly.

“Oh, my.” The waitress said and sat down on his lap. She slid her arms around Ren's neck and he slid his arms around her waist. Her face started to turn red because she wore a really short skirt that had hiked up to the top of her thighs when she had sat down.

Ren felt like she didn't really want to flash the room like that, so he ran a hand down from her waist and along her hip, then across the cheek of her ass. Her breath sped up, because he was being so brazen right off the bat; then she caught her breath when Ren grabbed the bottom edge of her skirt and carefully pulled it down her legs and back into place without anyone else realizing what he'd done.

Stat Change!

Etiquette Level 7 (Expert 0%)

All anyone saw was Ren as he got a very good feel of the waitress and her reaction to that feel. Only he and the waitress knew the truth. He hadn't groped her. What he did was save her modesty.
