Jake could only stare in disbelief as the lake was gone, and all he saw was the destruction left by the enormous monster that he unfortunately knew he wouldn’t get much out of punching.

“Whoo, we made it!” a far-too-familiar voice echoed through the area as the large creature wriggled with joy, the surrounding space quivering and shaking in response. “Oh, hey Jake, fancy seeing you here. Okay, that’s a lie. I kind of knew you would be here and wanted to catch you by surprise, and wouldn’t you know it, I found a hole I could use to break into this place and popped right through it!”

“Sandy...” Jake muttered. “You ate it... the damn way out of this place.”

He barely registered the giant space worm, as all he could think about was the disappearance of his only known means of escape.

“Hm? Wait, it makes so much more sense now why there was a hole I could use! I should really ask Tom for advice before just making decisions like this... I did make sure he also became an Administrator to enter with him, and it would be such a waste not to make use of one so brilliant,” Sandy said, going off on a tangent. “But! In my defense, it wasn’t my fault. I was just following directions, I swear! So blame this guy instead!”

Sandy proceeded to open their mouth and spit out a small creature that fumbled through the water, waving its small paws around before disappearing, only to reappear on top of Sandy’s body, covered in a bubble that seemed to keep the water away. The little guy looked toward Jake and raised his two paws into the air in greeting.

“Hello!” Jasper said, waving happily.

Jake stared, doing a quick double-take as he used Identify on both.

[Cosmic Genesis Worm – lvl ?]

[Shimmershroud Planeswarper – lvl ?]

He couldn’t see their levels, but he felt both of them were higher than his. That really wasn’t his biggest question right now, though.

“How the hell did you two end up as a team?” Jake asked, wondering if they’d met outside the Central Domain or had stumbled on one another inside. Okay, that maybe wasn’t the biggest question, but it was Jake’s first thought when he saw Sandy spit Jasper out.

“Is that really important right now?” Sandy asked. “I believe dealing with our pursuers is much more pertinent, but that’s just me.”

“Pursuers?” Jake asked, and just then, from right below where the lake had once been, where space was still unstable, he felt new, powerful distortions, as if someone were trying to force their way through, following the destructive wake left by Sandy breaking into this place.

“Yeah, would you believe this Jasper guy? He totally stole this super important-looking thing right under the noses of a bunch of dragons, beastkin, humans, elves, beasts, undead, robots, elementals, and a variety of other monsters... really nasty business overall. They were so mad at him that they didn’t even notice I took all the other stuff they’d been arguing over!”
