Only a glimmer of light snuck into Rain’s bedroom from beneath the door, but thanks to the six Perception accolades he was using, he had no trouble seeing the mundane details of his surroundings. The mundane was not his focus, but rather, the riot of color and sensation pressed against his senses.

Through that haze, he watched as Ameliah scrunched up her eyes, then opened them, yawning like a cat. “Still at it, huh?” she asked muzzily, her soft voice booming in his ears.

Rain relaxed Detection and lifted his chin from his steepled hands, then shook his head in an attempt to clear the hallucinations. The tiny swirls of gold that might have been Ameliah’s soul—or might have been brain damage—began to fade, leaving an overpowering scent of cinnamon and a prickly feeling across the soles of his feet. He sneezed, practically knocking himself out with the sound, then fell into an uncontrollable coughing fit.

Ameliah sighed. “I get it, you know? But trying to master Reading in twenty-four hours?”

Rain grimaced, getting his diaphragm under control and replying in a whisper that seemed to rattle his skull. “I didn’t think it would be this hard.”

“Dummy,” Ameliah muttered, probably not expecting him to hear, then let herself fall back on the bed with another enormous yawn. “Did you at least sleep?”

“Full eight hours,” Rain said. He sighed, then gingerly transferred himself from his chair to sit beside her on the edge of the bed, summoning a progress report.

Progress Report

marker_1: grannybrain [3061 Seedlings 31 00:32]

marker_2: reading_rainbows [3061 Seedlings 32 06:02]

Span: 1.2 days

Skills

Ethereal Aura: +3,024 exp

Synchronization

Endurance: 29.5 -> 30.3 (+0.8)

Perception: 26.9 -> 38.9 (+12.0)

I think I might have overdone it on the Perception, given that I got Endurance sync too, but pushing through the pain works wonders.

He shook his head, then dismissed the window.

She’s right. I am a dummy, aren’t I?

With a grimace, Rain lifted his hands to his helmet. They began to tremble as they got close, but he pressed them firmly against its sides until they stopped. Twisting sharply to unlatch it from the rotating collar, he pulled it free, grinding his teeth, but not from the sudden increase in light.

There was a sound of shifting covers.

Rain froze as Ameliah’s weight pressed against his back. Gently, she draped herself over his shoulders, wrapping her arms around his stomach. Her cheek brushed his beard, and she recoiled for an instant, but then nuzzled against it.

“Scruffy, I know,” Rain said with a tight smile. His hypersensitive skin was screaming at him, pleasure mixing with pain. “I need to shave again.”

“You took off your helmet,” Ameliah murmured in his ear. “That’s good.”

“It’s easier...” Rain began, then swallowed heavily, his fingers tightening against the helmet in his lap. Once more, he found himself struggling with the memory of hot blood spurting from his carotid artery. With great effort, he pushed it away. “It’s easier...when it’s just you. I’ll get there.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said, kissing his cheek. “You don’t need to rush.”

“I do,” Rain said, shivering at the fireworks her lips had sent exploding through him.

Ameliah hummed skeptically, ruffling her fingers through his hair. “Some things are better done slowly.”

Rain smiled, then angled his face to kiss the side of her neck. He groped for one of her hands, the shadows deepening as he pressed three Perception plates into it. “Here, then.” He kissed her neck again. “Some things are better shared.”

Velika leapt to her feet, or rather, tried to. Her muscles trembled in agony, and she cried out as she tangled in the sheets, falling to the floor with a heavy thump. Something tugged at her arm, a sharp pain, as if she’d been hooked by a stinging nettle, except no mere nettle could have pierced her flesh. Still, it hurt. The sharpness was striking, even against the backdrop of the grinding ache that spread from her heart to the centers of her bones.

“Lana, get help!” a male voice shouted, cutting through her hurt.

“Hnnget away,” Velika slurred, struggling with the blankets. Managing to rip herself free, she looked down at her arm, seeing that the tug had come from a long metal needle lodged in her inner elbow. A smooth cord ran from it, strapped to her arm with a strip of cloth before trailing away to tangle in the torn bed sheets.

What?

With clumsy fingers, Velika grasped the needle and ripped it out, tearing the cloth in the process. She held the metal object to her bleary eyes. Its disproportionate weight told her it was adamant.

What?!

“It’s okay, calm down,” the male voice said, closer now. “It was just giving you water.”

My sword!

The needle clattered heavily to the floor of the tiny metal room, forgotten. Velika had spotted her naked blade propped against the wall in the corner. She lunged for it, but again, her body disobeyed her, and she cried out wordlessly, collapsing in a tangled pile of limbs.

“Watch it!” the voice shouted in alarm, its owner scrambling back.

Velika stilled, panting on the floor. She touched her elbow, her fingertips coming away crimson with her blood, though it was just a tiny drop.

What did...they do to me? Why is it...so...hard to...

Her eyes widened.

The Warden! She took the Mantle, then...

Then...

“Lady Vekuavak, can you understand me?” the male voice asked, close again.

Velika looked up, squinting in the lamplight. The man speaking to her was one of Rain’s people. His servant, as she remembered.

She reached for a Perception accolade to get a better look at his face through the shadows, but...

Her soul was empty. There was nothing there.

She inhaled sharply, choking on her own breath. “Urk!”

“Lana!” the man called again. “Hurry up!”

Gasping for air and thrashing like a fish, Velika queried her interface. It responded sluggishly. Pulling the time into her mind felt like wading through a bog, but eventually, she pushed through. It was the 32nd of Seedlings.

It wasn’t just her accolades that were gone, but two days as well.

Her health, though...

...Full? But why do I feel—

A deep rumble filled the air.

Velika managed to raise her head again, then hissed as the lamp’s brightness was drowned out by one of those magical bulb things. “You,” she slurred, recognizing the antlered cervidian in the doorway.

“Oh, good, Tallheart,” Rain’s servant said in clear relief. “Lana, did you find Rain and Ameliah?”

A woman coughed, then answered from the hall as Tallheart negotiated his antlers inside. “Yes, but they’re busy.”

“Busy?” the servant demanded. “What do you mean, ‘busy’?”

“I mean busy,” the woman responded, emphasizing the word.

“What could possibly be more important than—?”

“Calm yourself, Tarny,” Tallheart interrupted, crouching beside Velika as she struggled to control her limbs. The grinding pain was growing worse, centering on her heart as pins and needles began spreading from her extremities. The cervidian rumbled, fixing her with a granite-eyed stare. “This one will not cause trouble. She knows to whom her life is owed.”

With immense effort, Velika drew her knees to her chest, hugging them tightly to prevent their escape. The pain in her heart was unbearable. Hot tears welled up in the corner of her eyes, and she released a low moan. The world was growing dark again despite the glowing bulb on the wall.

Distantly, she was aware of herself being lifted by strong hands—aware of being gently laid back into the bed.

Someone spoke, but the words were nonsense, a distant buzz.

The pain, mercifully, was fading, but not her anguish.

I...lost.

“Down there!” Rain called over the wind, pointing at a damp-looking depression in the scrubland, moderately sheltered from outside eyes by the natural geography. He felt Ameliah tighten her grip around his waist, and then there was a jerk as she changed their direction through the air.

“How long are you going to need?!” she shouted. “If she wakes up again, I want to be there!”

“Tallheart can handle it!” Rain replied, the wind slowing. “You heard how well he did the first time! Besides, we’ve got Halgrave!”

“I think he’s more likely to kill her than just restrain her,” Ameliah countered as she set them down in the mud with a squelch. “He hasn’t come out of his room since the Warden spoke to him. It has to be more than just her breaking through his defenses that’s upset him. What could she have told him, do you think?”

“No idea,” Rain said, again reminding himself to work on that whole ‘therapy’ thing. He shook his head, kicking off a full sweep with Detection. “I need to solve the problems I can solve.”

“Fair,” Ameliah replied, then summoned her bow with her new skill. “Are you going to unlock a skill tree first? It seems like a shame to waste the experience.”

Rain shook his head. “The experience is just a drop in the bucket.” He pinged a few more times with Detection, then shrugged. “I’m still not happy with my paling integrity, and I’ve got enough to be getting on with without any other distractions. Once we’re done here, I’m going straight back to Reading practice. I’m only bothering with this at all because it’ll make my spells work better aboard Temerity, especially since I can decouple occlusion resistance and output.”

“Again, fair,” Ameliah said with a shrug, giving her bow a few half-pulls, then lowering it to her side. “Do your thing, then. I’ll keep watch.”

Rain rubbed his chin through his visor. “Though, now that you’ve brought it up, there’s nothing stopping you from unlocking stuff.” He gestured to her bow by way of example. “Sana gave you a clean bill of health, so we don’t need to worry about that hiccup you experienced when the Incarn detonated. If you’re willing to unlock Utility Auras for me, I’d—” He stopped, seeing she’d raised her hand. “What?”

Ameliah lowered her arm. “I already unlocked a tier-four after I finished straightening out Ranged Arsenal yesterday, and it wasn’t exactly pleasant. I was going to mention it last night, but you were busy, and then I forgot.”

“What?!” Rain gasped, almost slipping on the mud in his haste to rush over to her. “Forgot?! Are you hurt?! You didn’t do it alone, did you?! Was Tallheart there?! What happened?! Did you—”

“I’m FINE,” Ameliah spoke over him, laughing. “Thank you for your concern. It wasn’t any worse than the first time I unlocked a tier four, so it’s nothing to worry about. It was just a little uncomfortable. The skill didn’t answer any questions, so it slipped my mind.”

Rain shook his head violently, grabbing her shoulders and inspecting her as if he’d be able to see the damage. “If it hurt—if you’re hurt—why didn’t you tell me?!”

“I said it was uncomfortable, not that it hurt,” Ameliah said, looking down at his arms before meeting him eye to eye. “I’m fine, Rain. If you want to compare it to something, it was like getting poked in a bruise.”

“A bruise on your soul!” Rain said, pulling her into a crushing hug. “You need to be careful!”

“Which is why I’m going to give it a few days,” Ameliah said, a note of irritation seeping into her voice. She dismissed her bow, then snaked her arms inside his and broke his hold with the unrelentingly smooth strength of a hydraulic jack. “Don’t treat me like I’m made of glass. It’s cute, but it gets old. You’re the one that broke yourself, fluff brain.”

Rain sighed. “Point.”

“Damn straight,” Ameliah said, crossing her arms and leaning backward in imitation of him when he’d taught her the expression.

Rain smiled, grateful to her for diffusing the tension.

Ameliah’s expression broke with a chuckle, and she stepped forward to rap her knuckles on his breastplate. “Now, do you want to know what I unlocked or not?”

Rain’s smile widened. “Is that a question?”

She grinned at him. “Silly me. Tier-four Psionics. The capstone is called Mind Flay, and it just does piercing Mental damage, shredding random memories as a side effect. Nasty, but not mind reading.” She summoned her bow again, holding it tightly as if seeking solace. “The more I learn about Mentalists, the less correct it feels to call Vatreece one. It’s like comparing a world-renowned painter to a monkey smearing its shit on the wall.”

“Nice image,” Rain said with a smile. “Apt, though.”

Ready to begin, Rain caught himself, having been about to ask Ameliah to step back. That would have been a mistake in light of what she’d just said about treating her as fragile. Even without her helmet, there was no way he’d be able to get through her resistances with environmental effects, and that was without even taking IFF’s damage mitigation into account. That didn’t mean he wasn’t going to warn her, though. “Here we go. Starting with Immolate in a five-meter radius, max power short of Aura Focus, but with only ten percent environmental output.”

“Don’t drain yourself dry,” Ameliah said. “We’re out here alone, remember. We might need to defend ourselves.”

Rain nodded, configuring his ring and macros. Caution was warranted, though with five hundred extra Clarity and maximum Winter at his call, he wouldn’t stay empty for long no matter what he did.

The game has changed.

After one Detection pulse and a visual scan of the horizon for good measure, he finally let loose, simultaneously upping his interface’s verbosity to maximum.

Ethereal Aura (9/15) Exp: 17,697/29,600

User may exempt the aura from environmental effects at will

Aura gains 45% resistance to environmental occlusion and absorption

Environment receives 10% aura output

focusboost.sh: 600 points shifted to Focus from secondary stats

focusboost.sh: Focus: 870

modmon.sh: ['amplify aura', 'extend aura', 'aura compression', 'channel mastery', 'ethereal aura']

autocompress.sh: Target: 5 meters

autocompress.sh: Compression Applied: 168.4 meters

iff2.sh: offensive aura detected

iff2.sh: foes: none

iff2.sh: friends: !foes

iff2.sh: ignore: none

iff2.sh: friends non-empty, power target doubled

autopower.sh: Target: 2e+06 dps

autopower.sh: Target not met

autopower.sh: CM Setting: 200%

Immolate (15/15)

98251.65-112287.60 heat (fcs) damage per second to foes

49125.82-56143.80 heat (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

9825.16-11228.76 heat (fcs) damage per second to environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Aura resists 45% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

