Instantly, everything within five meters caught fire. That included himself and Ameliah, though the energy cloaking them was of a different nature and did not burn. At this level of power, the inverted effect of Immolate clung to their armored skin like crimson faerie fire. Rain’s armor was further girded with swirls of a slightly muddier red, evidencing the sloppiness of his high metamagic cast. The light show didn’t end there, either, the interior of his helmet lit up in blue as his eyes blazed with mana use.

“Bit warm, this,” Ameliah observed as the last of the fires died. It had only been a few seconds, and all that remained was ash, swirling in the burning air.

“Right proper toasty,” Rain replied, but he was distracted from trying to make a British accent work in common by an ominous rumble. Looking down, he observed the growing circle of baked earth beneath his feet, the rising steam growing to a hissing torrent before his eyes.

“Woah,” Ameliah said, hopping upward to land upon a platform of air. “What the—?”

“It’s the reduced occlusion!” Rain called over the growing roar. “Immolate can’t usually spread through solids!” He looked down again through the steam, the dry circle expanding even faster now. “Without that limit, it’s taking less and less time to—”

*WHUMP*

Rain cried out, finding himself tumbling as he was launched into the air. Scalding steam and dirt brought the already low visibility to zero, preventing him from stopping his fall with something other than his face. It didn’t hurt, though, and he scrambled back up quickly, feeling the earth slumping beneath him as it settled. As the steam carried away the last of the dust, he found himself standing at the center of a shallow crater, Immolate still running.

Well then.

“Gah,” Ameliah coughed, spitting to clear her mouth as she alit on the bone-dry earth. “Since when did you learn Fireball?”

“That was a steam explosion,” Rain said, wiping a hand across his visor to clear the dust. His mana being close enough to half, he dropped Immolate in favor of an empowered blast of Purify, quickly followed by Winter.

accumulate.sh: Used Immolate for 21 s

accumulate.sh: 50400 mana used

accumulate.sh: 139 mana passively regenerated in 21s

accumulate.sh: 2063285-2358040 Heat damage

restore.sh: Secondary stats restored

focusboost.sh: auto-disabled, non-scaling spell

focusboost.sh: 0 points shifted to Focus from secondary stats (non-scaling spell)

focusboost.sh: Focus: 270

modmon.sh: ['amplify aura', 'extend aura', 'aura compression', 'channel mastery', 'ethereal aura']

autocompress.sh: Target: 5 meters

autocompress.sh: Compression Applied: 168.4 meters

Purify (15/15)

Purify poison, corruption, and contamination

Aura resists 45% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Environment receives 10% aura output

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 4800 mp/min

accumulate.sh: Used Purify for 1 s

accumulate.sh: 80 mana used

accumulate.sh: 7 mana passively regenerated in 1s

macroset winter_solo_passive

Using Winter with:

Amplify Aura

Channel Mastery Multiplier: 2.00

Compression Range Reduction: 173.40m

Winter Multiplier: 269.86

Winter Adder: -11520.00 mp/day

Winter Range: 0.00 m

mregen.sh v0.3

Mana Regeneration: +1,787.98 mp/s

Base Regeneration: 6.626157 mp/s

Clarity: 830

Winter: 26,985.67%

Winter: -0.13 mp/s

Mana: 183,612 / 235,250

Full: 28.88s / 0.48m / 0.01h

Okay, perhaps that’s an overabundance of verbosity. Let me tone that down a bit.

When Rain finished waving away the windows blocking his vision, he saw Ameliah wearing an amused expression.

Seeing he’d come back to her, she made a rolling gesture with one hand. “Okay, why was there a steam explosion? And why did Purify look so faint? Did you use Ethereal Aura on that too?”

“Yeah,” Rain said, noting that they were both spotless. He sucked his teeth for a moment, considering. “Right, so here’s what I’m thinking. Immolate’s maximum temperature tracks its damage, yeah? It’s not linear, and I haven’t fully pinned down the number, but water will boil at around five thousand dps sustained. Not instantly, mind you. It takes time to heat up. The actual boiling takes even more energy, the so-called ‘enthalpy of vaporization.’ I remember because I failed the quiz. Point is, when water boils, the water itself never gets above one hundred degrees Celsius at sea level. If that’s below where Immolate wants the temperature to be, the spell gets occluded.”

“And Ethereal stops the occlusion,” Ameliah said, nodding. “I think I see where you’re going with this. So all the water in the ground boiled at once?”

“Exactly!” Rain said, getting really excited now. “I must have hit a breakpoint! I was using max power to burn mana, so even with Ethereal Aura cutting the output by 90%, it was still hitting the environment at the damage limit! With 45% less occlusion, that’s forty-five hundred dps! That’s on the low side, sure, but once everything was preheated, and with the direct effect still coming from the middle...” He raised his arms sharply. “Whoom!”

It’s like microwaving a hotdog! No, more extreme than that! It’s like every atom is getting heated individually! Where in the name of Maxwell’s demon does it get the energy to do that?!

He dropped his arms.

What would happen if I used this underwater?! Holy shit!

“You went quiet,” Ameliah said, laughter in her voice. “Even with your visor down, I can tell you’ve got that look on your face. Should I be concerned?”

“Very concerned,” Rain said, sitting down hard. “I think I broke thermodynamics. Please hold.”

Slipping into his soul, he woke in his pajama-clad avatar, lying on a cushion beside Dozer’s box-bed. Without waking the slime—without even sitting up—Rain left his avatar for his core, then used his immaterial senses to check his essence level. Reading it off the graded stick he’d left protruding from the ocean surface took but a moment, and converting radius to volume took but a moment more. Well within the minute he’d promised Ameliah, he had his answer. He returned to his body to look up at her with a shake of his head.

“Still broken?” she asked, a smile playing at her lips.

“I’m about 100 KESS down after those two tests,” Rain said as he clambered back to his feet. He began to pace, too excited to stay still. “I hadn’t checked the level since yesterday, but it’s clear enough that the conversion was one-to-one, purified essence to mana, just like always.” He ran his hands across his helmet, the sensation feeling a bit on his scalp through the helmet. “Water has a high specific heat capacity! I shouldn’t have been able to do that! The energy has to come from somewhere!”

“Well, you burned up a thorp’s worth of Heat mana,” Ameliah said with a shrug as she looked around. “It’s like we’re in a Cold zone in winter. It’s like a vacuum out here.”

“Oh,” Rain said, stopping short, then slapping himself hard in the forehead with a clang.

Right! Environmental mana!

He gestured hurriedly at Ameliah to wait, then dashed for a fresh patch of earth. Once he was sure the five-meter radius wouldn’t overlap that of his previous test, he skidded to a stop and activated Immolate with the same settings as before.

A good scientist never changes more than one variable at a time.

Immolate (15/15)

98251.65-112287.60 heat (fcs) damage per second to foes

49125.82-56143.80 heat (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

9825.16-11228.76 heat (fcs) damage per second to environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Aura resists 45% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

Again, the fires appeared immediately, but those were an explicit secondary effect of the spell, not really related to the temperature increase. After a good ten seconds, only ash remained, but it wasn’t flying around, dampened this time by the still-muddy ground. There was barely even any rising steam.

Rain switched off Thermal Regulation, just to be sure, then pressed his hand to the ground. It was getting warmer, but slowly. Very, very slowly.

“See?” Ameliah said, having followed him at a much more sedate pace. “You’ll have to wait a while if you want to do that again. Plenty of other mana types, though. Do you want to try Refrigerate?”

“Yeah,” Rain said distantly, still feeling the ground as he watched his mana. When it fell to around two-thirds full, he dropped the spell, leaving his macros to do their work.

mregen.sh v0.3

Mana Regeneration: +1,787.98 mp/s

Mana: 177,809 / 235,250

Full: 32.13s / 0.54m / 0.01h

Rising, Rain picked a spot diagonal to his first two test craters, then hustled in that direction. When he got there, he turned, then did a double take, seeing that Ameliah hadn’t followed him. He spotted her watching him from what would soon be the center of his triangle of test sites. Smiling, he flashed her a thumbs-up, then activated Refrigerate without waiting for his mana to fully regenerate.

Refrigerate (15/15)

98251.65-112287.60 cold (fcs) damage per second to foes

49125.82-56143.80 cold (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

9825.16-11228.76 cold (fcs) damage per second to environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Aura resists 45% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

Instantly, the air froze, exploding into snow. The scraggly bushes in range detonated, their sap freezing and ripping them apart as a tortured, cracking groan rose from the ground. Rain soon found himself stumbling again as the earth heaved upward, but it was hardly the bomb-blast eruption Immolate had provoked.

Just to be sure nothing like that would happen with more time, he gave it a good thirty-count. When he finally gave up and terminated the spell, he was left standing not in a crater, but upon a domed mound, pocketed with pucks of ice and dusted with snow and frozen, shredded plants.

mregen.sh v0.3

Mana Regeneration: +1,787.98 mp/s

Base Regeneration: 6.626157 mp/s

Full: 45.28s / 0.75m / 0.01h

“That’s it?” Ameliah called.

Rain turned, then shrugged, his boots crunching across the frozen earth as he walked toward her. “Guess so. How about the Cold mana?”

“All used up,” Ameliah said, waving a hand. “But then, this isn’t a ranked zone, or even an aspected one, so there wasn’t much to begin with. With Heat and Cold gone, all that’s left around here is Force, really. Maybe a little Light. Do you want to try Radiance?”

Rain shrugged as he reached her, then turned to look again at the dubious winter wonderland he’d created. “How would we even notice a difference? Radiance is already instant. No, it’s probably better if I just get on with it. We haven’t even gotten to what we came out here for, and I’m already distracted.”

“I’m not in a rush,” Ameliah said. “It’s nice here. Well, other than what you’ve been doing to the scenery. It feels good to get away. Good to just...not think about it. It’s quiet.”

Rain nodded, reminded of his responsibilities and the ticking time bomb in his head. “I know exactly what you mean.” Suppressing a sigh, he set a marker, then triggered an Essence Exchange.

Progress Report

marker_1: reading_rainbows [3061 Seedlings 32 06:02]

marker_2: quiet [3061 Seedlings 32 13:39]

Span: 7.6 hours

Skills

Ethereal Aura: +162,072 exp, 9 -> 13 (+4)

“Got it to level thirteen,” he said, pulling up the skill card.

Ethereal Aura (13/15) Exp: 14,969/63,200

User may exempt the aura from environmental effects at will

Aura gains 65% resistance to environmental occlusion and absorption

Environment receives -30% aura output

“Does it go negative?” Ameliah asked.

“Mmm, it does,” Rain said, having been looking for exactly that. “It just says ‘Environment receives -30% aura output’ though. I’m gonna try Immolate. Wanna take a guess what -30% actually means?”

“Well, making it cold would be the obvious thing, so obviously not that.”

Rain chuckled. “Let’s find out.”

He activated the spell, again using a range of five meters, though now intersecting all three of his previous test zones.

Immolate (15/15)

98251.65-112287.60 heat (fcs) damage per second to foes

49125.82-56143.80 heat (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

-29475.49--33686.28 heat (fcs) damage per second to environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Aura resists 65% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

Despite using full power, nothing happened, save the usual light show. Reading the dialog to see why that might be, Rain’s eye twitched.

Two negative signs in a row with no spacing? Disgusting. Gotta fix that...

Ripping his eyes away with some effort, he raised a hand, watching the chaotic swirls of energy. The mitigation was just as strong as ever, but as he looked closer, he realized the interference had actually faded.

Decreased absorption at work.

“So...nothing?” Ameliah said, looking around.

“Nothing dramatic, anyway,” Rain said, then pointed at a dust-coated bush. “Think you can nail that with a Fire Arrow?”

“I swapped that out.”

“Sorry, Firebolt Arrow. One of Tallheart’s enchanted ones. Same difference.”

“Have I ever told you your language is stupid?” Ameliah said, drawing an arrow with a reddish head from her quiver—which she was only wearing because she hadn’t leveled Ranged Arsenal yet. She drew and let fly with casual grace, and the arrow streaked unerringly for its target, though whether she’d used Seeker Shot to help it along, Rain couldn’t say. When it struck, the woody bush exploded in a puff of flame, sending burning splinters and leaves flying every which way.

“One ex-bush, as ordered,” Ameliah said. “So still nothing?

“It wasn’t in range,” Rain said, then released his grip on Aura Compression, letting the spell expand to a fifteen-meter radius. The fires went out instantly and without any fanfare.

“Oh,” Ameliah said. “So it does do something. They’d love you on the fire brigade.”

Rain grinned. “Now I just need a Dalmatian.” He glanced at her. “That’s a white dog with black spots. It’s traditional for—never mind. Not important.”

“I’m trying again,” Ameliah said, drawing and aiming at another bush. “Make sure it’s in range when it hits this time.”

Rain nodded, holding the aura steady, and this time when the arrow struck, there was no explosion. Leaves flew as the arrow tore through the bush to bury itself in the earth, but that was it.

“Very interesting,” Ameliah said, lowering the bow. “Mitigation for the environment, maybe?”

“Maybe,” Rain agreed, resolving to test it further with the assistance of an actual Fire Mage. “Refrigerate next. Mana first, though.”

