Not wanting to wait a whole ten seconds, he looped his arm through Ameliah’s for support, then activated Aura Focus.

mregen.sh v0.3

Mana Regeneration: +25,062.95 mp/s

Mana: 125,155 / 235,250

Full: 4.39s / 0.07m / 0.00h

“Woah,” he said, finding Ameliah holding him up as his senses returned.

“You overdid it, didn’t you?”

Rain licked his lips as she released him, fighting off the shivers. “I feel like I just got mugged by an Altoid.”

Ameliah arched an eyebrow. “Is that a monster? You’re not going loopy on me, are you? What’s your Clarity/Focus ratio right now?”

“Not important,” Rain said, clapping his hands together. “Refrigerate time.”

Refrigerate (15/15)

93381.28-106721.46 cold (fcs) damage per second to foes

46690.64-53360.73 cold (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

-28014.38--32016.44 cold (fcs) damage per second to environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Aura resists 65% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 15 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

Yuck, there’s that double negative again. Let me just—NO. Ameliah’s got a point. I need to focus, or else the Clarity will win. Ha. Focus. Clarity.

...

Damn it.

Dragging his thoughts back, kicking and screaming, Rain peered through the swirling blue haze surrounding him toward his frozen test zone.

“It’s not melting,” Ameliah said, following his gaze.

Rain nodded. “No, it’s not. Try an Ice Arrow—sorry—an Ice Bolt Arrow.”

“Way ahead of you,” Ameliah said, a blue-tipped projectile already nocked. Her shot hammered into the same bush as before, but again, nothing magical happened, the only casualty being a few more leaves.

Rain released the spell, letting Winter return but disabling the dialog. “More evidence for mitigation,” he said, rubbing his chin. “Reverse Refrigerate clearly prevents Cold damage, but it doesn’t seem to undo it. It won’t melt stuff, but it might...stop it from freezing? Hmm. Did reverse Immolate cool down the fires, or did it just stop them from burning directly? If I hadn’t waited so long, would they have spontaneously reignited when I released the spell? What about superheated—” Rain stopped, seeing Ameliah’s expression. “You know what? Never mind. You’re right about the Clarity.”

“Told you,” Ameliah said in a singsong voice.

“Don’t worry, I’ll go quick through the rest of them. Fulmination first.”

Fulmination (15/15)

93381.28-106721.46 arcane (fcs) damage per second to foes

46690.64-53360.73 arcane (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

-28014.38--32016.44 arcane (fcs) damage per second to environment

Sufficient damage causes paralysis

Aura resists 65% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 15 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

“Nothing!” Rain said over the crackling hum of the energy now limning him, which wasn’t even the most distracting thing to be seen. Damn double negative sign.

“Hey!” Ameliah shouted back, her shoulder-length hair standing completely on end. “Cut it out! You’re making me look like Cloud!”

“Oh, whoops!” Rain replied, grinning.

She really does look like him!

Quickly, he set IFF to completely exclude entities rather than hit them with the inverted effect. The hum faded to almost nothing, Ameliah’s hair falling slightly along with it.

“Nobody told me I’d need to bring a brush,” she said, the soft crackle of static electricity accompanying her fingers as she ran them through her hair, trying to flatten it the rest of the way. “Stop laughing.”

Rain covered his mouth, doing his best. “Do you need help, or—?”

“Just do the next one. I think it’s best we get you back as soon as possible so you can have a quiet lie down.”

“Oh, come on, Cloud, I can see you smiling underneath all that floof,” Rain said, unrepentant.

Ameliah rolled her eyes.

“Fine, fine,” Rain said. “Here’s Radiance.”

Radiance (15/15)

93381.28-106721.46 light (fcs) damage per second to foes

Banishes light from the environment (fcs)

Aura resists 65% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 15 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

Like a switch had been flipped, everything within fifteen meters went utterly, completely black, so much so that Rain couldn’t even distinguish the silhouette of the testing bush. Everything except him and Ameliah, that was. She was lit normally, while he was glowing gold with disrupted Light mana.

“What the hells?” Ameliah said, looking around at the seeming hole in the world in which they were now standing.

“It’s like we’re in soulspace,” Rain said, turning to inspect the perimeter of the spell’s effect.

Ameliah bent, feeling around on the ground, then picked up a rock. The moment it was in her hand, color blossomed across its surface, and she held it up to demonstrate. “Huh.”

“Huh,” Rain agreed. “This would be great for interrogations. I could really freak someone out if I did this in a small room. Do you think I should try it on Velika next time she wakes up?”

“Absolutely,” Ameliah said with a smirk, tossing the rock away. “I’ll watch from a safe distance.”

“Smart,” Rain said, dropping the spell. “Last but not least, Shroud.”

Shroud (15/15)

93381.28-106721.46 dark (fcs) damage per second to foes

Banishes shadows from the environment (fcs)

Aura resists 65% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 15 meters

Cost: 2400 mp/s

Light and color returned to the world as abruptly as they’d left, the golden glow surrounding Rain replaced with a malignant black haze. Surveying the restored surroundings, it took him a moment to notice what had changed. It was just as the skill card suggested: all of the shadows had vanished. Every last one.

It’s unsettling, actually. Like a cruddy video game without ambient occlusion.

“This is bizarre,” Ameliah said, lifting a foot and looking at the fully illuminated ground beneath it. “It’s like the sun is shining right through me.”

“And yet I can still see you,” Rain said, his thoughts spinning.

Would this zone stop, say, Ray of Eclipse? That’s LITERALLY a beam of shadow. Would it ‘banish’ it? It didn’t banish Ameliah’s arrows, but those are impact triggered. What about the skill version, Fire Arrow? That burns while it’s in flight. Better yet, Firebolt. Would that work as normal? It shouldn’t damage the environment, but if it hit an entity, would it do damage? It would have to CROSS the environment to get to—

“Hey,” Ameliah said, snapping her fingers in front of his face.

Rain blinked. “Did you unsummon a gauntlet just so you could do that?”

“Maybe,” Ameliah said. She wiggled her fingers at him, her loose rings jingling before she dumped them into her opposite hand and resummoned her gauntlet. She began replacing them one by one as she continued. “Are you going to answer my question or not?”

“Sorry, I must have missed it,” Rain said, letting go of Shroud. He knocked on his temple. “Lots of stuff going on in here right now.”

“I’m not so sure about that,” Ameliah said with a smirk. “Anyway, I asked you if you thought this would stop a spell in flight.”

“That’s exactly what I was thinking about!” Rain blurted out. “Great minds think alike, and yeah, no idea! I’ll have to recruit Val or someone to help me test it when we get back. Unless you swapped in a spell without telling me?”

“Just Ranged Arsenal and the prerequisites, which I still need to clean up. Nothing that would help here.” Ameliah shrugged. “I guess we should head back, then. You max Ethereal yet?”

“Should have,” Rain replied, setting a marker, then triggering the exchange.

Progress Report

marker_1: quiet [3061 Seedlings 32 13:39]

marker_2: dozer_forgive_me [3061 Seedlings 32 13:58]

Span: 19 minutes

Skills

Ethereal Aura: +121,831 exp, 13 -> 15 (+2)

“Yup.” He waved the window closed in satisfaction. “But we’re not quite done, though. There’s one more spell to try.”

“What—oh.” Ameliah’s face grew pale, and she took a step back. “Oh no. Don’t you dare.”

Rain’s face split into a juvenile grin.

Purify

Purify (15/15)

Purify poison, corruption, and contamination

Aura resists 75% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Environment receives -50% aura output

Range: 15 meters

Cost: 4800 mp/min

At that exact instant, he realized he’d fucked up.

The aroma of steaming-hot garbage rammed itself up his nostrils like a speeding semi plunging into a too-tight tunnel. At the same time, a horrid, wet, splattering noise filled his ears, putrid sludge manifesting in mid-air and falling to the ground in an upsettingly chunky deluge.

It was a literal shitstorm.

“Reverse it!” Ameliah yelled, then retched, missing her step with Airwalk as she attempted to escape. It had only been a few seconds, but the filth was already pooling gloopily above Rain’s ankles. He scrambled for his metamagic, but before he could flip the spell back to normal, Ameliah landed hard on her back with a wet splat.

Purify!!!!

Like a blessing of the divine, white mist exploded from Rain, wiping the vile sludge from existence as if it had never been, though the expanding shell stopped just past Ameliah. He’d compressed the spell, partly for added potency, but mostly because his Clarity-addled mind was urging him to get a second look at what exactly it was that he’d summoned.

Ameliah clearly had no interest in getting a second look. She threw herself backward from the glowing boundary, jumping lithely to her feet and shoving a finger in his face. “You pigeon-headed ASSHOLE! I don’t care how loopy you are! Did you even THINK?! Full power?! Are you kidding?! You tested it on yourself with IFF, and that was barely a trickle, but you remember what happened! You should have known that—!”

*pop*

[⟬FILTH⟭!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!]

The instant Dozer touched down, he launched himself forward like a gelatinous ballista bolt, disappearing through the magical bubble holding the conjured sewage at bay.

“Dozer!” Ameliah shouted after the slime, then whirled back to Rain. “Clean up the rest, right now!”

“But then I won’t get to see how long it lasts!” Rain protested. “It’s conjured matter, so—”

“We’re leaving!” Ameliah said, grabbing him by the collar. “I need a bath, NOW! So do you!”

“But Purify already—” Rain began, fumbling open one of his thigh compartments only to yelp as she hauled him into the air.

[⟬filth⟭! ⟬filth⟭! ⟬filth⟭! ⟬filth⟭! ⟬filth⟭! ⟬filth⟭! ⟬FILTH⟭!!!!!!!!]

[Get back inside!] Rain sent, frantically extracting his sole remaining Detection anchor, then tossing it behind him. [Leave the filth! It will go away on its own, and I need—]

[No! No leave ⟬filth⟭! ⟬clean-need⟭!]

Like Rain, however, Dozer had little choice in his retreat. Since becoming an Essence Slime, he couldn’t travel as far from Rain as he once could have, whether in the real world or in soulspace, and as Ameliah hauled Rain toward the ocean, his spiritual leash ran out. The slime vanished with a pop, reappearing in his box-bed. His dismay at the sudden scenery change didn’t last, replaced by something Rain hadn’t thought the blissfully simple creature to be capable of experiencing.

The anguish of betrayal.

[RAIN-KING!!! NO!!! ATROCITY!!!]

Dangling from Ameliah’s hand and with an aerial view of the entirety of his crime, Rain came to a crushing realization.

Dozer was exactly right.

Gods, what have I done?
