But for now, the young woman had crashed out for a different reason than ‘overwork’. With how much all of them drank last night, none of them would be waking up for several more hours. Poi might be awake in a little while, but everyone else had partied hard. Erick didn’t want to be awake at this hour, either, and it wasn’t a full bladder that had woken him, though there was enough pressure down there that he could probably just get up and take care of that while he could.

But...

Something had woken him...

He checked himself and his Status.

His Shroud was healed. Mostly. He was rested, for sure. His Mana Regen was still a bit broken, but it was at 90% of where it should be; and that would have to be enough. Maybe he had woken over the anticipation of the spells he had unlocked and bought in the last few days? He hadn’t had much experience with any of them outside of initial usage since he was still healing and he truly could not afford to set his healing back any longer with any experimentation, but his new spells would prove useful, soon enough.

Witness X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana

See the past.

Future Sight X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana

See the future.

True Sight X, instant, medium range, 25 mana per second

See through all falsehoods.

But that anticipation had not woken him.

Why… ?

He gasped. He realized. He mentally checked the day, and knew what was coming, and what had happened. The Converter Angel wasn’t the only thing looming on the horizon.

An event a year in the making was scheduled to come to fruition, soon. Right now?

Today? Yes. Today.

Any second now.

As though summoned by his thoughts and fears, a blue box appeared, unbidden. A thrill of excitement and apprehension coiled up and down Erick’s spine, for the blue box was blank.

And then words began to populate that blue field, as though typed by a godly hand, directly to him.

Particle Magic is now a part of the Script.

Details to follow for concerned parties...
