Ameliah’s mind had very little room for thought, entirely focused on navigating her way through the forest of Squid Kata tentacles attempting to tear her from the sky. As the battle had dragged on, the Incarn only seemed to be growing stronger, the Hydromancer’s constructs increasing in size and quantity, though mercifully not dexterity. He’d also begun using additional attacks such as Pressure Jet and Drowning Sphere, the latter clearly Overcharged and directed by Guide Sending. Dozens of the liquid orbs were chasing her around at this point, more persistent than Fireball would have been with the same modifiers and no less deadly for the lack of direct damage.

The Incarn himself was currently below the surface at the nexus of the forest of tentacles, his burning eyes locked onto her as she dodged and weaved, occasionally managing to loose an arrow in retaliation. He had stopped trying to evade—the sheer mass of water under his control limiting his mobility—but it scarcely mattered. None of her shots made it through the jelly-like bubble of his defenses when he was like this. She kept it up, though, trying to be as efficient as possible and hoping that the damage was grinding away at something, even if only the Incarn’s mana pool.

Ameliah wasn’t close enough to see her opponent’s face, but she knew glowing fissures would be spreading from the corners of his eyes, carving through his flesh. That image was common to all the stories about Incarns she’d ever heard. Those cracks would spread, and when the enchantments holding him together ran low, they would split open, tearing apart his skull before his entire body detonated not long after.

Come on... Come on...

A pair of tentacles ponderously curled toward her, too slow to catch her but fast enough to cut her off, so she had no choice but to dodge straight through one of the Drowning Spheres. She took a huge breath just before impact. The spell burst as she crashed through, then adhered to her armor, running upward to gather into a bubble around her head. She could feel it trying to force its way into her lungs through her nose, but she tightened her throat, denying the water entry. Her armor would already be working to leech away the magic animating it, but it would take several seconds for the spell to lose its cohesion. In those seconds, breathless and with her vision obscured, she would be much more likely to be struck again.

Again finding herself hemmed in, Ameliah launched herself straight up through a second Drowning Sphere, then began to climb, using Airwalk to get out of range. She couldn’t stay up for long, she knew. She rolled, avoiding the needle-like spray of a Pressure Jet as the Drowning Spheres rose from the tentacle forest to chase her. She’d tried to abuse her range advantage at first, but that had just resulted in the Incarn turning away from her. Indeed, that was exactly what he did now, retracting his tentacles to a protective shell and rising from the water. His burning eyes lingered on her a moment before he turned away, a wave rising to carry him as he began to Surf toward the retreating ships.

Damn it.

Her armor almost seventy-five percent saturated at this point, Ameliah clawed at the water surrounding her head as she made chase. The Adamant vessels were still surrounded by their glowing domes, the shadowy outline of Temerity still ahead of them. The barriers were visibly undiminished, which meant Halgrave and Velika were struggling too, probably against an Incarn of their own. One per ship seemed likely, and there were the ships themselves and their artillery to contend with. Letting her opponent rejoin the fray could tip the balance, or worse, Temerity, in a very literal sense. She hadn’t forgotten the massive wave the Incarn Hydromancer had summoned to begin his assault.

Fine, it’s close enough to full. Mana Vent.

Ameliah’s armor vibrated as the hidden skill, revealed by Mana Manipulation and Draining Plate, forced it to rapidly discharge the Force Mana saturating the metal. Her stamina dropped by a flat thousand, but the cost was well worth it. The ability would run until completion, in other words, until all the captured mana had been expelled. Any additional mana absorbed while it was active wouldn’t be affected, but that was fine.

As her armor’s saturation plummeted, it became more effective at breaking apart the Drowning Spheres trying to invade her airways. Soon enough, the water trembled, then fell away. Ameliah coughed, blowing as much water from her nose as possible before sucking in a huge gulp of salty air. She leapt over the sluggish Drowning Spheres and began pelting the retreating Incarn’s shell of tentacles with arrows. As expected, the wave he’d been riding quickly subsided as he retreated below the surface, the tentacles unfurling again to grasp at her.

That’s right, asshole. Get the annoying fly. Buzz buzz buzz.

Ameliah grimaced, then flung herself to the side to avoid being swatted. The comparison was apt, really. She had no business winning this fight. There was a chance, though. Squid Kata didn’t change the fact that the motion of the tentacles was ultimately driven by Hydrodirection, and that took mana. The more she could get him to spend, the better her chances became.

Dodging another Pressure Jet, Ameliah checked her distance, then activated Energy Well. She was currently spec’d martial, so she theoretically had the advantage in staying power, but her stamina wasn’t infinite, and her mana was almost depleted after repeatedly replenishing it. She’d already stopped using Endless Quiver to copy her enchanted arrows, judging the token elemental damage to be a waste. It still cost stamina to duplicate an unenchanted arrow, but there was no helping that.

Finding herself hemmed off again, Ameliah cursed, then used Multishot to blast her way through one of the tentacles rather than turtling another Drowning Sphere. With her momentum stolen by the falling water, a Pressure Jet managed to catch her when she burst through the other side, pushing her off course. She corrected quickly, just in time to avoid another tentacle, then let gravity take her to dodge a Drowning Sphere. Catching herself before the Incarn came within range of Energy Well, she leapt up again, sending another arrow at him as she darted to the side.

Ameliah again let her thoughts fall into the bizarre meditation of battle, every reaction, every dodge and counter, blending together into an unbroken string of actions, keeping her just one step ahead of death. Her heart hammered in her chest, but her breathing was even, her stamina fueling her body and holding the fatigue at bay. The occasional hits she was forced to take began driving her armor’s saturation higher again, but she fought on, buying time, hoping that it would be enough.

She felt it before she saw it, Mana Sight revealing a hurricane of energy as it blew away the chaotic tatters left from her protracted clash with the Incarn. At the same time, she felt yet more mana begin to rush into her, blue rings forming around her feet as a chill ran through her flesh.

He’s alive!

Relief washed over her, her suppressed worry shattering like glass. She ducked a Pressure Jet, then spun herself around to look, and...

A vessel was bearing down on them, shining brightly to Mana Sight. It was a construct, clearly, made from what looked like planks of hardened water. Not ice, though, just water. There was no Cold mana involved, only Force. The design wasn’t anything impressive, a boxy, low-walled platform plowing its way through the waves, but it was large, even compared to the enormous figure standing at the rudder. The Barge King. The pirate blazed with power, spreading out through the construct and extending behind it to explain its rapid motion.

The source of that power was obvious. Rain stood beside Bakal, glowing with a solid, steady light. She could see the tether of Essence Well connecting him to her, as well as another link between him and the Barge King.

Vanna, Samson, Mereck, and Stint were there too, along with the horse, Dust. Thrast stood at the bow, the eyebrowless silverplate pointing his sword forward like he was the ship’s figurehead. Beside him was a woman Ameliah had seen at the Guild but whose name she couldn’t remember. All of them, even the horse, were tethered to the barge by tentacles of water wrapped around their waists.

The reaction from the Incarn at the new arrivals was as immediate as it was extreme. Ameliah knew, then, that the Hydromancer had been conserving his strength against her. He burst through the surface of the ocean atop a mighty geyser. The tentacles emanating from his body rose with him, rearing back and swelling larger, their former target forgotten. The magic in the air grew denser, pushing back against Rain’s, which was more than just Essence Well and Winter. There was Suppression in there too, and the Imperial soldier clearly wasn’t happy about it.

Shit.

Ameliah took aim at the Incarn’s back as she dashed after him toward the barge. Her arrow blasted straight through the mass of tentacles to stab into the Incarn’s flesh, but she might as well have done nothing for all that the Hydromancer reacted. Frantically, she reached out to Rain with Message, then swore at the spike of pain as it told her the block was still in place.

Her allies, though, needed no instruction. The barge cornered sharply, a great wave rising and tilting the deck to almost forty-five degrees as it banked to avoid the onrushing Incarn well in advance of entering tentacle range. Ameliah drew and loosed as quickly as she could, her arrows hammering into the soldier’s scarcely protected back as the Hydromancer nevertheless bore down on her friends.

No!

The Incarn brought his hands forward, sending a Pressure Jet spraying across the Barge’s deck, and Ameliah’s heart lurched as she saw it cut a line across the occupants, none of them wearing armor. Ripples formed in the air, and when they cleared, her friends were unharmed.

Force Ward!

Her fear fading, she didn’t slow, loosing another arrow at the Incarn as she passed him, then lowering her bow to concentrate on sprinting for the barge. The woman at the bow gestured, and wasted Heat and Force mana billowed around her. The sloppy cast didn’t stop the Fireball she summoned from streaking toward the onrushing Hydromancer, detonating behind Ameliah with a roar. Stint loosed an arrow that curved past her, but Ameliah didn’t turn to see it splash against the Incarn’s defenses. Thrast had ignited his sword and was flailing it about excitedly, but it didn’t seem likely that he’d get a chance to use it. The barge was moving fast, now surfing atop an enormous wave. Glancing over her shoulder, Ameliah saw the tentacled Incarn riding atop one just like it. He wasn’t gaining on them anymore, which meant...

Same skill, same level.

Ameliah smiled, looking forward, then stumbled as her boots made contact with the barge’s deck, sinking into the surface. She realized her mistake at the same instant the Barge King bellowed at her, his voice almost lost beneath the rushing of the waves.

“NO ARMOR ON MY SHIP!”

Already back in the air with Airwalk, she prepared to shout out an apology, but motion from Rain caught her eye, and she looked to see him waving to her. Another Fireball from the woman at the bow detonated behind her, creating a flash of light, but she didn’t need it. The mana flowing through Rain’s fingers was more than enough for her to make out the signs as he spoke to her in hand code.

“I can feel him. His soul is screaming.”

“What?” Ameliah signed back with one hand, jostled as something struck her from behind. A Drowning Sphere, she realized, but the magic had already dissipated, blocked by Rain’s aura.

How is he using so many? Did he make a breakthrough with Prismatic Intent, or is he doing that switching thing?

“Catch me,” Rain signed, and that was all the warning Ameliah had before he jumped. The tentacle holding him to the barge broke. The Barge King looked at him sharply, but Ameliah was fully occupied juggling her bow into the crook of her arm, managing it just in time to receive his flying hug.

“Oof!” Rain said, his face slamming into hers as he wrapped his arms around her back, clinging like a monkey.

“What are you doing!?” Ameliah demanded, struggling to land on a platform of air with the added burden. A Pressure Jet struck them, but it was blocked harmlessly by Force Ward.

“Get me close to him!” Rain yelled back. “He’s barely holding on!”

“Okay!” Ameliah yelled, deciding to trust him, though the amount of spiritual soot she saw in him now that he was this close told her that he was barely holding on himself.

“Using Aura Focus!” Rain yelled, then went limp.

Ameliah launched herself backward, stumbling as she adjusted her grip around Rain’s midriff, then kicked the pair of them toward the onrushing enemy. She shuddered at the thought of bringing Rain closer to the Incarn, with him not wearing his armor. She also acknowledged, though, that with Force Ward running, he was just as well protected as she was, given the elements the enemy had shown. As long as his mana lasted, her previous tactic would serve just as well for the pair of them as it had for her alone.

It turned out not to be necessary. Before they even entered tentacle range, Suppression won out over whatever the Hydromancer was using to push back against it. The amount of power Rain was pumping into it was frankly excessive, far more than he should have needed in an unranked zone. The Incarn screamed as the tide of power pushed away the last of his influence, engulfing him completely. His unearthly howl rose higher and higher, the air vibrating with pure agony, agony that he wasn’t supposed to be able to feel. The blazing fire of his mana flared even higher, burning hotter than the sun to her vision, but she didn’t look away, watching as Rain’s magic mercilessly crushed it down, packing the Incarn’s light tighter and tighter into his chest.

The Incarn exploded.

Ameliah’s vision went white, and her foot missed the platform that she’d expected to find waiting for it. In shock, she reached for Airwalk to make another, but the skill didn’t respond. Opening her mouth to shout in alarm, she tried again, and this time, her foot found solid air, and the impact made her jaw click closed.

Rain convulsed in her arms, screaming almost as loudly as the Incarn, but his yell cut off abruptly.

Fearing he’d broken himself again, she clung to him, struggling to steady the pair of them in the air. “Rain! Rain, talk to me!”

“I’m...fine,” he coughed, his voice a dry rasp. “You don’t need to yell.”

“What did you do?!” Ameliah demanded, looking around, then leaping back toward the barge.

