Halgrave felt another rush of Healing Word hit him as one of the other people who’d come with the Barge King laid a hand on his shoulder, outing himself as another Healer. All this while, the cervidian had continued to work on him.

The Vanna woman stepped forward after Rain didn’t respond, slowly shaking her head. “Dead. Rain found his body, but it was too deep.” She gestured to the Barge King, who’d slumped to lean against a pile of wreckage, the blue rings still rising around him. “We barely caught up as it was. This ship is fast. Even faster than Rain said it would be.”

Rain closed his eyes and took a deep breath before opening them again. “It’s okay, Vanna.” He stepped forward, addressing the speaker who’d asked after the dead man. “The sharks won’t get him, Belson. I made sure of that.” He cleared his throat, his expression becoming hard. “We’ve got Whales coming, maybe, and who knows what else, so the rest of this discussion will have to wait.” He nodded to Halgrave, then to Velika in turn. “Thank you for your help, both of you.” He returned his attention to the group. “Brace for mana.”

Halgrave shivered as a powerful wave of magic washed over him, chilling his blood as his mana regeneration soared. He looked down at his near-mended arm, pins and needles rushing up it as the cervidian continued to hammer at his shoulder. He tried making a fist, and fingers that had stopped responding twitched, then began to curl.

“Dad!” his daughter yelled, rapid footsteps from the stairwell telling of her approach.

His fist now fully closed, Halgrave grunted, no longer having any doubt about who had crafted Mahria her new staff. It seemed he would be keeping his arm after all. Blue rings had started rising around both of the Healers, just like those surrounding the Barge King, and the two men had rallied under whatever spell it was, pouring more and more health into him by the second. Halgrave looked up from that just in time to receive a flying hug from his daughter.

Looking down at the top of her head, he wrapped his repaired arm around her, pulling her close as she did her best to crush the life out of him.

I think I am beginning to see why she wishes to stay.
