Was that interference from the Incarn, or...?

“I just nudged him,” Rain said, coughing again. “I’ll explain later. Doesn’t matter now.”

Ameliah grunted in begrudging agreement, dismissing her armor as she and Rain touched down on the magical construct. She released him, and he stumbled before catching himself, magic still billowing from him as he relentlessly filled her mana pool.

“Oh!” Thrast shouted, turning to her. “There she is. Hey there, beautiful!”

Ameliah glanced at the bald eyebrowless man dismissively, then turned to greet Vanna and the others. Before she could say anything, the Barge King’s voice boomed.

“Where now, Captain Rain? To the ships? To battle, blood, glory, and the spoils of war? Or back to shore with our tails between our legs?”

“The ships,” Rain said, shaking his head and straightening himself up. He pointed to the empty water to their right. “But first, a small detour.”

Halgrave’s chest heaved, his remaining functional lung pumping like a forge bellows as he stood on the rolling deck. A massive cleft was riven from his shoulder to his side, his metal flesh parted to reveal the shattered ends of ribs. Silver-blue blood spurted with every beat of his metal heart, pattering to the decking. His arm on that side dangled by a thin strip of twisted metal, his collarbone completely severed. Lesser gouges and cuts covered him from head to toe, hardly worth mentioning in comparison.

Living Armor was still active, of course. No creature of mundane flesh and blood could have survived such a wound, however deep their pool. The skill synergized with Regenerative Plate more than one would expect from the skill descriptions, massively multiplying the recovery rate of his durability. Combined with a host of physical skills designed for health recovery, the bleeding was already beginning to slow. Whether it would be enough for him to keep his arm, he couldn’t say.

It had not been a clean battle. The upper deck had collapsed into the one below in a twisted forest of broken metal ribs, not unlike his own. Most of the damage had come at the start of the battle, before he’d stopped dodging for fear of the vessel being destroyed completely. After that, things had quickly devolved into a contest of endurance, both he and the Incarn standing their ground and exchanging blow after brutal blow. The damage to his arm was not the result of one clean cut, but many. The Incarn had worked on him like a woodsman felling a tree. He had done much the same, sure that he could outlast her, which, in retrospect, might have been slightly overconfident of him.

The tide had only turned when he’d shattered the woman’s bardiche after it had become tangled in his ribs. With her weapon gone and most of her skills unusable, the Incarn had no defense against his at-that-point one-handed onslaught. She hadn’t given up, though, coming at him with fists, feet, and teeth. All of those, he’d broken, smashed into pieces with ruthless efficiency as the Incarn raged, never so much as showing even a flinch of pain. Even when she’d had no intact limbs on which to stand, she’d tried to wriggle for him on her stomach, only stopping when his hammer finally pulverized her spine. Shortly thereafter, she’d exploded. Now only a few shards of blackened bone remained, the rest of the body reduced to nothing but dust, now washed away by the rain.

Slowly, Halgrave’s breathing began to even out, his lone lung beginning to gain ground despite his low stamina. He’d fought countless berserker-type monsters in the depths, so such relentless determination wasn’t strange to him, but to see it from a human—one without his defenses—was something else.

Carefully, he set his hammer down on a fallen tangle of girders, watching as the weight twisted the metal beams like they were no more substantial than strands of thatch. Once he was satisfied that his weapon was sufficiently supported so as to not punch through the deck plating, he took his hand away. Whatever metal this ship had been built from, much like the Incarn, it was stronger than it had any right to be.

Reaching across to his dangling arm, Halgrave ground his teeth in pain as he gripped the ruin of his severed shoulder. He pulled, causing a great shriek of tortured metal as it bent. Slowly, the rift in his torso began to narrow as he agonizingly folded himself closed. Spots swam before his vision as the shattered ends of his ribs tangled and ground against each other, but he didn’t stop.

Got to line them up.

“By Dystees’ Light!” someone shouted.

Halgrave looked up from his arm to see metal wreckage shift in the darkness, light spilling out from the ruins of a stairwell and outlining the figure of a person staring at him.

“Healer!” the man was yelling, looking over his shoulder. “Tahir! Someone get Tahir!”

Halgrave grunted, then spat a glob of silvery blood as he released his side, abandoning his efforts. It was useless. The ribs would not meet cleanly, their ends shattered and broken with countless shards lacing his metal flesh. Whatever low-level Healer Ascension had wouldn’t be able to change that.

Resigning himself to a future as a cripple, at least until he could seek proper healing, Halgrave straightened, moving to a rent in the wrecked hull to look out at the waves. It would be worth it if it meant his daughter would live. The Adamant Empire ships had fallen back, still surrounded by their barriers as they battled the Whale that had shown up around the same time the Incarn’s weapon had broken. He watched as the colossal monster breached, rising high in the air, then mightily slamming itself down atop one of the enemy vessels, driving its barrier down into the waves. All the while, a constant barrage of fire flew from both vessels, sending up great plumes of steam as the spells hammered into the creature’s hide.

Halgrave grimaced, watching the dome surrounding the Adamant ship pop back up like a cork, the vessel unharmed as the Whale slid back below the waves. It would only be a matter of time until the creature fell, weakened by the lack of ambient mana and the constant assault. The question was what the Adamants would do after.

Or what any of us will do if the rest of the pod appears.

Scanning the dark horizon, wishing not for the first time that he had Mana Sight, he saw a smudge of motion in the corner of one eye. Before he could turn, the chipped point of a sword appeared a hand’s breadth from his eye, as if it had popped into reality fully formed in that instant. A blast of wind shook him moments later, and a woman’s voice spoke in a cheery tone.

“Hi there. Don’t fucking move.”

Halgrave turned anyway to see a youngish, black-skinned woman staring at him, herself looking the worse for wear. In the dim light from the Adamants’ battle, he noted that she was entirely naked, her hair looking singed as she perched atop the wreckage. Her flesh was smudged by rain-streaked soot, yet it was smooth and unbroken but for the mass of burn scars covering her left leg. Those were old, though, not something sustained in this battle, in which there was no doubt she’d been involved. Even before the Whale had come, it had been clear that someone had been occupying the Adamants. Someone fast.

“You.” Halgrave’s fingers flexed, wishing for the haft of his hammer. He’d seen this woman before, standing beside Westbridge above the crater they’d left in his city.

“Me,” the woman said confidently. “Are we going to have a problem? Because if so, we need to work that out before Rain gets here and starts making a fuss.”

Before Halgrave could respond, there was motion from the stairwell. “Where’s— Gods, his arm! Wait, who’s—? Fuck, that’s—! That’s—! Citizen Sadanis! Everyone get back!”

“Do I know you?” Velika asked, glancing toward the stairs before returning her attention to Halgrave. “Well?”

“Cease this posturing,” a deep voice rumbled, accompanied by heavy footsteps. “Come, Tahir.”

Halgrave flinched as a hand fell heavily on his shoulder. He attempted to move away reflexively but found himself easily held in place. That was unexpected. White spell-light blossomed, allowing him to see that the man gripping him was no man at all, but a cervidian, the same one he’d noticed before. At the time, he’d been more focused on the armor than the antlers, but now, viewing them up close, he’d suddenly realized just how broad they actually were. In fact, they were quite possibly the broadest he’d ever seen.

“Do not move,” the cervidian said, his eyes closed. There was a rumble from his chest, deep and reverberant. “Hmm. You truly are metal to the core. This should work well.” He rumbled again. “Probably.”

“Hey there, big guy,” Velika said, greeting the antlered newcomer. “Nice to see you here in one piece.” Her gaze shifted to one of the others who had emerged from the stairwell. “Not you, dumbass.” It was a black man in a dark jacket, also the caster of the light by the way it hovered over his head. That was enough for Halgrave to recognize him as another Guilder from Fel Sadanis. It wasn’t like there were many Light Mages in this part of the world.

“This will feel odd, but know that it should help,” the cervidian said, ignoring Velika. He proved his words moments later. Halgrave grunted, grinding his teeth as an unknown force began pushing his bones back together. It felt like high-level guided healing, but also not. So bizarre was the sensation that he missed the cervidian’s motion, it coming as a shock when something heavy impacted his damaged shoulder. There was a clang of metal on metal, but rather than taking damage, his durability rose by over three thousand points.

“Hmm,” the cervidian rumbled, lowering the smith’s hammer he was holding.

“Are you seriously trying to hammer him back together?” Velika asked, only now lowering her blade.

“Tahir,” the cervidian rumbled, ignoring the question and releasing Halgrave’s shoulder to reach for a pouch at his waist.

“Right,” another of the gathered Ascension members replied, stepping forward and glancing nervously at Velika before placing his hand where the cervidian’s had been. An instant later, Halgrave felt the familiar rush of a low-level Healing Word. Considering the possibility that he might have sustained a few more blows to the head than he remembered, he closed his mouth, content to wait and see.

“I am surprised you chose to reveal yourself,” the cervidian said to Velika, sprinkling a generous handful of Tel from the pouch into Halgrave’s open wound. He slammed his hammer into his shoulder again, restoring almost twice as much durability as the last time.

“I think we’re well past that at this point,” Velika said, looking unsure of where to put her weapon now that she was no longer brandishing it as a threat. “Will someone get me a damn cloak? It’s raining, and it’s fucking cold. My nipples are harder than my sword at this point.”

“Why—no—how are you here?” the Light Mage demanded of the ex-Citizen, his hands raised toward her defensively. The man’s caution was comical given his opponent’s slim frame and current state of undress, but if anything, he wasn’t being cautious enough. Appearances were often deceiving.

“Oi!” someone suddenly shouted from the stairwell, and Halgrave looked to see another vaguely familiar face, sporting a bushy black beard.

Ah. The loud Shield Turtle is here too. His name, I remember. Carten.

“Oh, no, not the clinger,” Velika said, apparently recognizing the bearded man as well and giving him a name of a different sort. She raised her free hand to rub at her eyes as if she suddenly had a headache.

The cervidian struck Halgrave’s arm with his hammer again, restoring a full 9,999 durability this time. The deer man rumbled to himself in satisfaction, reaching for yet more Tel as if they had no more value than the grains of rice they resembled.

“Heads up!” a voice shouted unexpectedly from above, and moments later, a pair of figures dropped out of the night.

“Rain!” the Light Mage yelled. “Ameliah! Where the fuck were you?! No, never mind that.” He pointed angrily at Velika. “Did you know about this?!”

“Oi, yeah!” agreed Carten, marching up to stand beside the shorter man. “Why don’t any o’ ye look surprised? An’ where’s Vanna?”

Rain’s response was interrupted as the entire ship rocked, struck by a wave. Halgrave flinched, going for his hammer as tentacles like those of the second Incarn rose above the deck. The cervidian yanked him back, again with unexpected strength. “I said do not move.”

The tentacles touched down around them, depositing several more figures on the deck before they broke apart under the influence of the metal, sending a huge crash of water sweeping over everyone. Two of the figures stood out from the rest. One was an enormous man, roughly the size of a charcoal kiln and significantly rounder. The other was, well, a horse.

“Oh,” Carten said, water running in streams from his drenched beard. “There’s Vanna.”

“Fuck!” Velika swore, swishing a wave of water from her sword and glaring at the fat man, who had stumbled, clearly suffering the effects of magical overdraw, though the blue rings rising around him told a different story. She turned to face him, wringing water out of her hair. “Did you really have to do that? You’re that Barge Asshole, aren’t you?”

“Velika,” Ameliah warned.

“What did I miss?” another of the figures said in a flippant tone as he rose dripping, holding a dagger in one hand. He was just as naked as Velika but for a soggy cloak, which he wasn’t making much effort to hold closed. His hair was patchy as if it had been burned away on one side, with pink skin showing beneath—a clear sign of recent healing.

“Telen!” someone yelled. “You’re alive!”

“Of course I’m alive,” the dagger-wielder said with a scoff, then gestured at the others who’d arrived with him. “As if a puny Fireball could kill the Quickhand. That’s nothing. Now, these magnificent idiots, they survived a damn Meteor!” He began laughing to himself, but his amusement became a yelp as he spotted Velika, and he flung his dagger at her, inadvertently dislodging his cloak from his shoulders in the process.

The naked Swordswoman deflected the blade with a contemptuous flick of her own. “Really?” She made a show of looking her equally naked opponent up and down, then turned her head away with a sniff.

Carten barked out a booming laugh.

“What about Kip?” someone else asked. It was quite crowded on the deck at this point, so Halgrave didn’t mark the speaker until he spoke again. “Rain? Rain, what about Kip?”

