Initializing Unconfirmed Legendary Skill Evolution: The Brittle Unbreakable

Blood ran down Shiv’s chest and neck as an explosion of self-directed outrage tore through him quite literally. He tried to fuse his fissuring flesh shut with his Biomancy, but it kept spreading across him as his emotional shame spiked.

I’m a fucking, godsdamned idiot. Shiv shook. He looked upon Adam, restored but still suffering, and fought to constrain his frustration. I should have—No, the Harbinger told me to be efficient. I can feel these things. I should feel these things, but I should make actual use of the feeling instead of just abusing myself mentally.

That understanding aligned his mind and heart just the slightest bit, and likewise did the many wounds stretching across his body begin to scab. “Yeah. Bad tactics. Got… got carried away by the skill potentials. Feelings are… I need to keep track of my own feelings. My mind needs to stay ahead of things, and I need to make sure Adam’s protected. That’s the only real goal—not experimenting with my skills or anything like that. Everything comes second to his survival. Everything.”

Shiv took a moment to consider his Legendary Skill Evolution and paused. The first encounter had yet to start—the Delve was giving him a chance to consider altering his Toughness Skill. Shiv gave it some genuine thought.

It was a good Skill. Adaptive physical immunity was a powerful thing to have against any enemy, and Shiv could see The Brittle Unbreakable making him all but unstoppable against most Sub-Legendary Vanguards. Or so it seemed. Yet, it felt like there was something missing from the skill—the flexible economy that Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides provided, or even the all-encompassing and absolutely devastating potential of his Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin.

“Why can’t I choose how you transform?” Shiv asked the skill. He tried to trigger an alteration, but his Toughness remained dormant. “I think I get why you feel wrong. All my other skills give me a bit of choice. Creativity. You’re just purely reactive. Absolute defense, but I gotta take a hit first.” He thought about the skill a bit more. “Which makes sense—you’re a Tarrasque Skill. Not much creativity needed for them aside from being unstoppable and hard to kill.”

Then, his thoughts went further, and he decided to test something.

Shiv speared his fingers into a nearby wall and ripped out a chunk of orichalcum. Its edge lit up, casting waves of cutting aura, and he casually began slicing open his forearm, waiting to see how his Toughness would adapt. He didn’t slice too deeply, as this act of harm was only meant to trigger a transformation. After a half-second, his body flashed bright—and his flesh turned into a dense layer of Orichalcum.

But he carved through that all the same.

He sliced himself a second time, and a subsequent transformation followed. This time, his body was comprised of an exoskeleton of dense orichalcum on the outside, while he had a kinetic-displace shell of crystal make below. But his cutting aura tore through all that like they weren’t there, and the only thing that managed to stop it was a deployment of Shapeless Tides to direct magic resistance against Shiv’s evolved Vitaemancy.

“Okay, this is going to be a problem,” Shiv muttered to himself, feeling increasingly less impressed with The Brittle Unbreakable. “Adaptation and immunity’s all well and good, but we got problems: You can only handle a few types of physical harm at the same time; maybe two. Certain transformations replace others. I can’t trigger you at will. And you got nothing against Unique Skills—or maybe my Severed Shadow’s just that dangerous… No, no, wait. My Severed Shadow can’t cut through the Red Rider’s Hand—at least it can’t right now. And it can’t cut through my Last Morsel either.”

Shiv’s mind screamed to a sudden halt. “You know what? Never mind this whole perfect immunity damage adaptation thing. Why don’t I just skip that and go straight to evolving… Narrativium Aegis or something? Huh, System? Or is that for Myths only?”

He was about to split himself open a third time when he felt his Toughness Skill burst and blossom once more in accordance with his wishes. Shiv felt his lips press together as he waited in anticipation of what new Legendary Skill adjustment he was going to get.

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 111 > 113

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things 122 > 124

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 306 > 307

Vitality Drain 204 > 211

Tactics 13 > 15

Initializing Unconfirmed Legendary Skill Evolution: This Flesh of the Invincible Sacrifice

Once more, Shiv’s flesh came aglow with silver-resplendence.

The only difference this time was that it never truly faded.
