Man, the Scorn guy's really into shitting inside Adam. He just won't let it go. Shiv grimaced. As the fight went on, he noticed part of the surrounding walls sloughing, the Nihilist turning even Orichalcum into edible materials. He ripped out a strip and placed it in his mouth, chewing and grinning as a glowing layer of orichalcum skin grew over him, further augmenting his already considerable Toughness. Shit, that's a useful Unique Skill. A lot more than just Pyromancy. And it would be even better if I had my Last Morsel. Wish I had the chance to eat my hollow flame. That might have been real useful right about now.

But as his mind got to this point, he realized his thoughts were too narrow. His surroundings could still be weaponized. He wasn't using nearly enough skills at the same time. Even without his toughness, he had his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. Furthermore, he had another, more dangerous means of retaliation on top of his magic.

Reaching out, Shiv sacrificed a few of his Shapeless Tides as he tore jagged chunks free from the surrounding walls. He then wielded these blades as his namesakes, their edges glowing with Vitae as he unleashed his cutting aura into the onrush of Vultegs. His slashes swept through their bodies, slicing into their mana, piercing their magical resistance, and causing them to flinch back in displays of pain and surprise. Already winnowed by his Unique Pyromancy, the first among the Urris lost one of his head tentacles, severed clean under his jaw by a crescent wave of vitality.

And suddenly it was Shiv on the offensive. He slashed and gored, stabbed and carved. His blades were imbued with the might of his Severed Shadow, and though it still treated Magical Resistance as if it were armor, mere matter was regarded as less than butter, serving no protection at all.

Shiv focused on one of the Urris in particular—reached out and caught a rival brood in a collar-tie clinch as he rammed his orichalcum blade into the Vulteg's throat over and over again. Through it all, Urri threw wild hooks that slammed against Shiv's ribs. It dented the orichalcum skin that served as Shiv's outermost layer of protection, but everything within remained unburdened, unbothered. In fact, every punch Urri landed caused ripples of displaced kinetic energy to shudder and crack the surrounding door frame, driving the other Urris back.

As Shiv chiseled away, trying to open that Urri's throat, a memory came back to him: the Undying Tarrasque had layers of adapted armor as well. Its shell was on the outside, but within were further structures of reinforcement. It shrugged off Legendary blows as if they were nothing. A jolt of understanding coursed through Shiv. This was a Tarrasque skill. This was the very same Tarrasque skill that the Undying Tarrasque possessed.

Never gonna let me forget I'm partially a monster, are you, System?

Then, to Shiv's delight, he felt his blade breach through Magical Resistance and split through flesh, bone, and neck entirely. With a casual flick of his blade, Shiv beheaded the Urri with all the difficulty of someone cutting through air. It took an entire group of Legends and Heroes to pin Urri in the academy’s teleportation anchor, and even then, Shiv had to drain the vitality out of him to accelerate his demise.

“Not nearly so difficult for me now,” Shiv muttered.

But then something materialized in front of him. It arrived in a blur and gave off a pulse of dimensional magic. The Culturist emerged, teleporting where Urri's corpse once was—swapping places with the body to ambush Shiv.

Once more, Shiv was taken by surprise, and once more the Culturist struck. This time, however, he didn't start with a palm, but instead, drove two fingers under Shiv's elbow, a casual touch that rendered the limb numb and useless. The blade Shiv clutched went flying out of his spasming fingers, and his arm began twisting against his will, trying to unlatch from his shoulder, its muscles twisting and stretching, attempting to rip free from his skeleton. Shiv bit back a growl of pain and annoyance and tried to bash the orc with his compromised limb—but it refused to listen to him.

Godsdammit!

Shiv shot in low, tried to secure an underhook to keep the orc close and drain him barren of vitality, or tear him asunder in a direct competition of strength against strength. But the Culturist anticipated Shiv's attack and slammed his index finger between Shiv's eyes. A flaring burst of pain spread from the top of Shiv's skull to the base of his feet. His stomach churned and swelled, threatening to rip itself apart from the inside, but he didn't care. Shiv was prepared this time. He wielded his Aegis against himself, ready to rip his biology asunder and reconstruct what was missing to keep fighting.

But before such a necessity came to pass, Shiv's Toughness transformed again. Its alterations were drastic this time. His exoskeleton changed. His vibrating plates were gone, and in their place was a thick nest of writhing nerves. Shiv realized he was coated in a messy jungle of tissue, and for a moment, he wondered why. His answer came when the Culturist struck him again, and nothing happened. Instead, Shiv felt his outermost layer break free from his body, bursting off of him like expendable chunks of flesh. A hurricane of impacts slammed into the Deathless. He was struck all across his body, and the Culturist blurred and blinked, appearing from point to point as he tried to hammer every single meridian he had an angle on.

But though Shiv found himself stymied and frustrated, unable to clutch the orc, grasping at afterimages and fading echoes, the Culturist's attacks were also feeble. Shiv's flesh-coat suffered deformity and exsanguination on his behalf. Parts of it ripped free from him, tumbled off in sloughing chunks. The ground was covered in blood, but though it felt like someone was peeling layers of skin off of him, Shiv's limbs obeyed him again. Shiv's organs refused to rebel and sunder. It was like he had an expendable layer of outer meridians, or however the Culturist's Striking Proficiency worked.

Shiv sent a mana hydra head coiling around, trying to encircle the Culturist, but he simply teleported, vanishing from sight as he left a telepathic message behind. “What a vexing Toughness Skill you have. The Brittle Unbreakable—Durability befitting an apocalyptic monster indeed. Yet it is titled brittle for a reason. You are nowhere near invincible, Deathless. Not nearly.”

Shiv wanted to chase the Culturist down using the Harbinger, but remembered the skill was still fractured and needed to recover. His attempts to harass the Culturist socially were further distracted as another wave of Urris crashed down on him. Their fists fell. The last bits of orichalcum lining his outside were shredded. The Vultegs tore through his outer coating of nerves, exposing the crystalline shell below. And the moment they did, the Culturist returned, teleporting in with a thrusting knife hand.

A hand that Shiv caught with a scoff. “Predictable. The real Culturist would be embarrassed.”

As the orc tried to pull away, Shiv did the unexpected. He stepped forward and let the orc land his strike instead. He felt a traveling force gliding through that kinetic, displacing Aegis until it arrived where his softer insides were, passing through his deepest skin into his organs, into his bones and meat. Then Shiv began ripping from the inside, but instead of trying to fight it or waiting for his toughness to adapt, he used another of his skills. As his body burst apart, he didn't die; instead, he transformed as the hallway was filled by a flood of debris and injury.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things had come into the fray and changed the equation once more.

All the Urris and the Culturist were caught off guard. The Uvas did not need to be regarded, as they had already fallen to Shiv's conflagration. Even now, his Pyromancy continued to burn, and some of the Vultegs were actually starting to cook, their armored skin charring, their eyeballs turning red and bursting from within. The Culturist attempted to teleport, but Shiv slammed his Overflow Tides down upon the orc, pinning him in place both physically and magically. At the same time, he compressed his wounds and ruins, clutching the Culturist in a fist constructed from pure devastation.

He squeezed the orc, physically draining his vitality, and channeled a blast of concentrated flame directly into his abdomen while also slicing and lashing at him using bladed whips and his mana hydra. Furthermore, as the Culturist tried to wriggle free and punch through Shiv's ruins, his fists bounced off, for Shiv's new Toughness Skill seemed to infest even his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. Every one of his injuries was preserved in a crystalline cage—like the damages that made up the garden were collector's items set to be displayed in a museum.

“Well… played…” the lesser Culturist gasped as Shiv wrenched his remaining life force away. His flesh cooked; his body was crumpled into a ball, and finally, Shiv turned his attention on the struggling Urris as he began butchering them one after another.

Should have done that to start with, Shiv thought to himself. But honestly, I didn't realize my Toughness Skill applied here. Pillar took too long to build up for the Garden, and with how it grows stronger through damage, didn’t seem worth it. Now though… Actually, now there's a problem. If my Toughness Skill lets me adapt to almost any damage, that means that the Garden is not going to get nearly as many injuries from me. And also, where the hells is the fist?

The absence of the Red Rider's Hand filled Shiv with a dark sense of foreboding rather than any kind of relief. It should have been here. It wasn't equipment. It was supposedly grafted onto him, but the System seemed to deem that otherwise. Or perhaps it simply didn't want him to use the hand for this challenge.

After all, if Shiv had the hand, his strategy would have simply been to place the hand in the doorway, thus blocking anyone from approaching Adam at all.

Shiv flowed like a landslide, and, as every piece of rubble or joint of laceration was technically part of his eldritch physiology, he used that as tactile points to drain away the vitalities of his remaining foes. The Urris went silent, one after another, and in the end, Shiv felt more supercharged than ever. Again, I should have done this to start with. Keep forgetting old lessons. Jessica told me to think in twos. A need to keep thinking about how to use different skills together, especially after they evolve. Synergy and all that.

He briefly considered returning to his natural state and taking a few bites from the cooked Vultegs, but his hesitation cost him. The simulation reset as the encounter came to an end.

Once more, he was returned to where he stood in front of Adam's doorway. The hallways were clean. Shiv was no longer a landslide of wounds and rubble choking the insides of the structure.

“Time to change that.”

Shiv tore himself open and allowed the Garden to spill forth once more. He flooded all available space with his ruins and came to a dead halt right in front of the gate. He waited for the next encounter to start and preemptively set all of himself on fire.

The results were as dramatic as they were effective.

Any and all momentum his adversaries could have had was stolen from them. The moment the doors opened, the Uvas were set ablaze and killed outright. None of them managed to take a single step into the hall they were supposed to occupy. The few of them that lasted more than a second were subsequently swallowed by Shiv's lacerations and rendered less than mangled flesh.

The Urris fared better. They crashed against forking fingers of jagged rubble Shiv used as a tripwire barricade against them, and then they continued smashing through his garden. They made it twenty meters before they realized they were actually pushing into a blazing encirclement. It was also around then that Shiv's Toughness triggered once more, and that crystalline shell, which caused kinetic force to flow off of him like water would run along the slopes of a tin roof, materialized over every aspect of his garden.

The Vultegs' rampage turned impotent. Their fists rebounded and skipped off of Shiv. He struck at them without fear or impunity, quite literally drowning them using his unique physiology and tearing at their life force directly, no longer interested in engaging in a struggle.

Shiv's heart burned with a roaring flame of triumph and delight. This Delve was teaching him new lessons and reinforcing old ones as well. He needed to use all his skills in concert with each other—especially his Unique Skills. His Legendary Toughness alone took time to adapt and could only grant him immunity to a scant few threat vectors at once. Leveraging his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things, however, he could have the best of all worlds at once.

Shit, between these two skills, I might just be entirely invincible—

“Ahem.” Bleeding gashes and detritus that made up Shiv's physical form went unnaturally still. He turned and found the Culturist standing by Adam’s bedside—with the Paragon’s head already clenched between his thick fingers. “Very good improvement in terms of tactics. But your sense of strategy remains utterly abysmal.”

Oh, fu—

The Culturist sighed. “Something to remember for your next attempt.”

And then he closed his hand, and promptly turned Adam’s head into a spill of red paste.

Shiv felt something inside him rip open as he exploded toward the orc in a tsunami of destruction—

But the simulation flickered, and Shiv found himself returned to the doorframe, having failed once more.

Encounter Failed

Resetting Delve

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

