Redflame nodded. “We’ve got three so far. Two have already been taken by their families to their homes. If you wish you can disturb their reunions, for I am sure they would not mind. The third’s family perished two hundred years ago, but they secured their son’s [Stasis] for long after their deaths, or at least until I found a viable method to transform him without turning him wyrm. Since there is a viable method now, the third patient is healed, and currently alone with the doctors.”

The enormity of this transformation of Ar’Cosmos society hit Erick again, and then he moved on, saying, “I’d like to see the third one; no need to deal with families at the moment.”

Redflame nodded, then he turned to the note-taking mages. “Bring Erick to Hizogard.”

A woman stood up and promptly bowed, then gestured to the side, saying, “This way, Archmage Flatt. Or would you prefer to be called ‘Wizard’?”

Erick tried to smile, and wave away his sudden, nervous laughter, but it probably came off a bit deranged. He said, “None of that Wizardry nonsense, please. ‘Archmage’ is fine.”

The woman bowed, then walked toward a closed door in the side of the large room. Erick followed. Fairy Moon followed closely behind, but only after saying some small words to Maid Maria, telling her it was okay for her to stay. So Maid Maria stayed behind. Erick could tell, as the woman stared up at the tank, but also took in all the runic designs of the thing, that she was highly interested in the magic happening.

Erick still had no idea how good Maria was at magic, or not, or what she did besides ‘be a maid’.

As Erick passed beyond the door, he glimpsed Maria beginning to talk in a friendly way to Redflame which only inflamed his curiosity more, but then the door closed behind them, and Erick’s destination lay ahead.

- - - -

The room was appointed like a hospital room, but a little bit nicer; a dorm room, perhaps.

A nice large window to view the forest valley outside of Redflame’s castle. Some books and warm tea sitting on the bedside table, within easy reach. A doctor and a nurse, both silently standing to the side of the room, while Erick walked in, followed closely by Fairy Moon. A single bed, larger than most and able to fully fit its occupant.

Hizogard was a human man of about 30, with pale blue eyes, blonde hair, and pale skin. He was conventionally handsome, and through mana sense, Erick saw that he was physically fit. All his body parts were where they needed to be to mark him as fully human. If it weren’t for his current state, he looked like he could hop right out of that bed and go work on a farm, or put on some armor and hold the line against a horde of monsters.

But he was distant. His eyes gazed to another place and time. He had briefly flicked his eyes toward Erick, but there was no recognition. When he recognized Fairy Moon, though, he mentally resigned himself to whatever terrible truth the doctors had already told him. It had probably been less than ten hours since he was decanted, realized he had a new body, and then slapped with the knowledge that the people who had paid to put him in that [Stasis] were long dead. His people were gone, and they were not coming back.

The half-vacant stare in his eyes as he looked at the ceiling was a good indication of his mental state.

“I understand your name is Hizogard,” Erick began.

The man gave no response.

“I understand you’re in a lot of emotional distress right now over the loss of your people—”

The man sat up violently, all trace of passivity gone, as he yelled, “How the fuck would you understand anything!”

The man was angry. This much was obvious.

And yet, Erick could not help but be stricken by the sudden reality that this guy had no fucking clue who he was; that he had lost his whole world. Erick should have expected this dearth of knowledge on Hizogard’s part, he realized, but he had not. And besides that, while he had lost Earth, he still had Jane, which was more than enough.

Hizogard rapidly realized that his outburst had probably been a bad idea. He had no idea if Erick was a doctor, or a person in charge, or what, and so, Hizogard fell backward, back onto the bed, turning his eyes upward as tears fell.

Erick could see that the guy’s soul was fine, and that all he needed now was emotional healing. That would take time, though, and that was not why Erick was here. Erick wasn’t even sure why he was here, actually, until he was.

Now, Erick knew what needed to happen.

Erick said, “I’ll keep my words brief. You have lost everything, but you have gained a new lease on life; a reincarnation. I am working to heal all the other people in your own situation and to expand the walls of Ar’Cosmos. I’m also working to ensure that everyone who wants it will be able to leave Ar’Cosmos and find homes out there in the world, for I plan to leave this place when it is convenient. You can still find a home out there, if you wish to find one, and if you cannot find one, you can make one. Now that you are healed the power of your destiny is once again in your hands. If you wish to be a part of House Benevolence and the recovery and expansion efforts going forward, find me and let me know; my name is Erick Flatt.” Erick said, “Good luck with your recovery, Hizogard.”

Erick turned and left. Fairy Moon followed.

Quiet sobs echoed out of the hospital room.

Erick hoped he had spoken what needed to be said. Everything seemed to be happening too fast right now, and there was not a lot of time to ensure that everything got done 100% correctly.

- - - -

Erick reached the enchantment hangar just in time to see the guy in the tank being decanted.

The patient had been an orcol with a mutated half-dragon body, with one oversized arm, one oversized leg, and a scattering of haphazard and thick scales across his entire body. Now, he was just an orcol with deep green skin. A bit thin. A bit haggard. But maybe all he needed were a few good meals to set him right. Orcols were rather resilient like that.

He was completely comatose, too, but his soul was solid and he breathed fine, and as they set him down in on a floating bed, his mother, bawling this whole time, touched his chest and his arms and his legs and his face, making sure he was real; he was. Redflame stepped in and stopped the mother from picking up her son and hugging him right there. The boy needed rest, for now. The mother contented herself with a light hug and resting her head on his chest while he lay there, sleeping.

Soon, though, the doctors pried the mother off and began carting the boy on a floating platform bed, toward Erick, toward the hallway that led to the hospital wing. Erick stepped to the side, letting them pass. The mother rapidly pursued, pausing only briefly to kowtow to Erick three times, before rushing to catch up.

Erick went to Redflame.

He began, “So Hizogard looks physically healthy. The rest will come with time, I assume.”

“Massive soul changes often lead to temporary mental issues, but this system seems to minimize those because...”

Soon, they were discussing [Renew], and how the Renewal Tank worked, and targeted healing, and how Elemental Healing worked outside of the Script. The conversation was a welcome reprieve from the haste of the last few hours, but the conversation was still quick because time was a resource in short supply. Erick did manage to speak of his own time learning a few healing spells back in Songli, and of how a targeted shift in the use of [Healing Word] had been enough to get him [Greater Treat Wounds] and a few others besides; that the Script had created his healing spells without much input from him. From there, he asked after how healing was different here in Ar’Cosmos.

“Those spells mostly still work here in Ar’Cosmos as they would on Veird, but their effectiveness is almost halved. All the spells the Script imbues into a person are like that.”

To be sure he was understanding Redflame correctly, Erick asked, “So the spells the Script makes are purposefully limited, or is something else going on there?”

Redflame shook his head. “The Script does not put purposefully harmful spellwork into a person; no. What is actually happening there is that the Script can no longer assist you with your spellcasting here in Ar’Cosmos, and so some of the more nuanced spellwork which requires active Script assistance to work properly, cannot find that active assistance, and simply errs on the side of caution. Spells that deal with the body in all ways have a great deal of these cautions built in, and so does everything over 500 mana. Simple stuff, like [Conjure Weapon] works perfectly fine. [Conjure Flying Scalpel], though, or anything with a great deal of nuance to it, will feel clunky, because the Script is no longer there to help. Health cost skills are particularly hard hit by this nuance.”

“That reminds me: Do you know how to get Class Abilities to activate in monster form? I have Blood Mana but it’s not active in my other form.”

Redflame casually said, “You’ll best wait to do that back on Veird, for the process is a lot simpler over there. There are two main ways, and a rarely used third option. Take hold of a Point you have gained from leveling through accretion and then find the part of you that is the Class Ability you want to activate, and then you select that Class Ability. It sounds a lot more difficult than it actually is, for the Script does the rest. The second option is to accrete for a pseudo-Point, hold it in your aura, and then spend it on the Class Ability, though this requires a fair amount of personal mana saved up. The third way is to go to a Registrar and have them turn it on, though that will cost you a Quest and you will be revealing yourself to be a dragon to the— Ah! Apologies. Reacquiring Class Abilities is a common question I get from our advanced students all the time… Uh. You won’t be revealing yourself to be a dragon… Nor would mana concerns matter…” Redflame digressed, “I don’t know if you want to reveal yourself as a Wizard to a common Registrar, though, or accept another Quest for what you’ve already acquired and just need activated.”

Erick smiled a little. “That’s a good answer; I’ll take it.” He gestured back to the Renewing Tank. “Time to make version four?”

Redflame stared at him, blinking a bit. “Already? Some haste is good, but too much is too much.”

Erick gestured at the piles of magical machinery shoved to the side of the room, like bars of gold shoved into a trash heap. “I want to make something, there’s lots of parts we can recycle, we’ve gone over all the larger parts of the puzzle, and news is spreading fast.” He finished with, “I can already tell that either someone is going to try and stop this, or something big is going to happen which prevents me from helping past today, so I want to help you make this reincarnation machine while I am able to help.”

Redflame had a lot of thoughts about all of what Erick had just said, but he quickly picked out the concern that rose above the rest, asking, “I have heard people using this word before today, and here, too. ‘Reincarnation’. I believe I understand what it means, but I do not know its exact meaning, and its link to the shadelings of Candlepoint worries me. Enlighten me, if you could?”

“Back on Earth, reincarnation is the belief that when you die you will be reborn as a new person, or plant, or animal, or some other living thing, and that you will have no idea what you were in your previous life, but that doesn’t matter, anyway. What matters is what you do with the life you’re currently living.” Erick could have elaborated more on Earth sensibilities, but those didn’t really matter. The nuances of the word reincarnation had changed with the word’s introduction to Veird. “Here, the word ‘reincarnation’ has become conflated with high-tier Summoning Magic and putting dead people into new bodies with necromancy. But that’s not what reincarnation is at all. Reincarnation is... a clean Status. A new life, and a new journey. I think a lot of people are taking the word to be synonymous with ‘forgiveness’, but that’s not really what it is, at all. The idea is that the person you were is dead, and now you’re a new person. It’s very much not [Resurrection].”

Redflame listened cautiously, then he said, “Different than [Polymorph], but not a high-tier summoning either. It seems that you’ve skirted the [Resurrection] problem, too, by simply accepting that the person that comes out of the other side is someone else than who went in… Well that’s a philosophical conundrum for another day.” He glanced up at the renewal machine, then he turned back to Erick, and said, “I changed my mind about not including English words in the inscription. You should include that one. ‘Reincarnation’. What is it, like 8 letters? That’s a bit long for an inscription, but it will have to do.”

Erick chuckled. “It’s 13.”

“Oh! Then, no. That won’t do at all… Perhaps a smaller variant might work. Perhaps using the runes for [Renew] and soul and… Maybe just that? The Script is not fully present here in Ar’Cosmos, but the Ancient Script is still felt throughout all that the Script touches, and cobbling together new words out of old words sometimes works quite well. This is especially true when dealing in high-concept, multitudinous-effect magic.”

Erick asked, “Maybe [Renew Soul]? Sure. That can be the word for [Reincarnation]. So how about we get on with the reincarnations and turn a rat into a fish? I notice the smaller trial tanks in the pile, but I don’t actually see any rats. You did speak of rats earlier, didn’t you?”

Redflame waved a hand at a far door, saying, “They’re in that room, on loan from the arcanaeum. I don’t keep them around, normally, but when experimenting with souls it is always better to try on smaller, less important souls first— Pardon me.” He looked away as a tendril of thought connected to his head. After a moment, he came back, saying, “You are correct about the necessity of moving fast. Bright Smile has known you were here for a while and keeps trying to get me to get you to discuss the future of your House Benevolence, but I have secured your time for today. By this time tomorrow they will likely ask you to stand before all three houses and give an accounting of your desires.”

So many things, happening all at once.

