Erick could barely take his eyes off the guy. He watched, transfixed, as scales sloughed off of the man in the water. The twin tail broke apart, both ends falling away, leaving exposed bone to hang out in the water, leaking blood. None of the blood or bone remained, nor did the water cloud at all, for as parts fell away, the water swished, and cleared, removing the evidence of the man’s disfigurement.

And it wasn’t just his body that was transforming. Erick stepped forward, close enough to catch the guy in his mana sense. The guy didn’t have a core, his soul filled out his body, matching his flesh like souls usually did. Except, little by little, the [Renew]ing waters soaked into his soul, chipping away at his mutated Dragon Essence bloodline, erasing every part of him that wasn’t a normal orcol. And then the flesh fell away next.

The guy was clearly being selected for an orcol body, but Erick wasn’t sure how that worked exactly. He had thought that a user would have to transform into their selected body first, and then his [Renew] ring would work. But Redflame was doing everything, all at once.

Erick had had no idea of how —in practice— the nuances of Familiar Forms would have worked, but apparently Redflame figured it out. Or someone here had. Erick glanced around the room and noticed quite a few of the mages who had helped set up Redflame’s [Renew] presentation ten days ago. Some of those people were just watching the transformation along with the rest of the crowd, but a few were writing down observations and having small discussions with each other.

Maid Maria, almost absentmindedly, walked up to step nearer to Erick, but she wasn’t paying any attention to him at all. She gazed up at the person in the pod, tears flowed down her face. Her breath was shallow. This was a miracle to her.

That thought suddenly hit Erick like a train.

He looked around the room. This was a miracle to most of them.

Fairy Moon took notice that Erick was finally back from his own short reverie, and stepped forward, speaking into the otherwise silence of the room, “A minor miracle of magic. A wonderful wonder to be sure. So what happens now that a known nadir looks like to pass by without preamble, or preparation?”

Redflame spoke, as though reading from a script, which, perhaps, he was, “I look to our savior Wizard Erick Flatt for that pronouncement. How do you wish Ar’Cosmos to repay you for this priceless kindness?”

Not a single person in the audience looked surprised at the use of the word ‘Wizard’.

They wanted answers. Direction. Security. Only one or two expected and hoped for benevolence, for that was all Erick had ever shown anyone. Most of them expected some sort of price paid in blood. The woman who stood beside the man’s pod looked ready to lay down her life for Erick…

Which was a big deal that Erick wasn’t ready for.

He wasn’t ready for the cat to be out of the bag, either, but here they were.

Well.

Okay.

Erick rapidly organized his thoughts, then said, “I plan on opening up the Crystal Forest to habitation, and for now, that opening will happen near Candlepoint. Eventually, I hope to spread civilization all across the desert, pushing back the crystal mimics and replacing the desert with forest and plains and rivers, like it used to be before the mimics poured out across the land. I am not looking for a place of power among the people I help, for all I want is to be the support of any and all who need support.

“Currently, Ar’Cosmos needs some support, and so I am here to lend that support. I wish to help this land and its people expand past its borders, and get back out into the world.” He turned toward the pod, saying, “And it seems like the [Renew] ring works. It seems like the people who use this won’t have any dragon essence inside of them anymore, so therefore, you’re just normal people, and you need homes. I offer you those homes.

“But, I am a Wizard… apparently.

“I don’t wish to bring my problems to you, but if you would stand beside me, together, we can weather any storm.” Erick tried to end on a bit of levity, “For I can control the weather, but I can’t and don’t want to control people.”

A moment passed in breathless silence.

By the worried, yet hopeful faces of the crowd, Erick could tell that he had hit on a lot of their dreams, and yet, he had not promised them what they had actually wanted to hear.

Erick added, “To that end, I will be founding a new House of Ar’Cosmos, using the Element I created the other day, and which I am sure all of you saw. It will be House Benevolence, named after the Element of the same name—” Suddenly, an idea came to Erick. One that spoke to his heart, and all of his experiences on Veird. A culmination. He spoke, “But benevolence without the power and will and action to cause good and prevent evil is not benevolence at all; it is just wishful thinking. And to that end, I will be helping Redflame create many more of these pods—”

People started to break down in joyful tears.

“—and to help him ensure that this healing goes well. So.” Erick stepped toward Redflame—

He took in several facts rather quickly.

Redflame’s hand touched a specific point upon the large apparatus, and that point was where Erick’s own runic [Renew] ring had been embedded into the larger structure. That ring appeared to be the ‘Null’ ring. The woman on the other side of the apparatus had her ring on a blank spot that was surrounded by runic inscriptions. The woman looked exhausted, but was still putting mana into the machine. Redflame looked tired, too.

He had likely stayed up all night to create this machine.

Neither Redflame nor the woman had [Renew], so both of them were putting in bare mana to try and get an effect out of it. As Erick glimpsed the sight of red mana flowing out of Redflame’s hand, into the machine, and through watching how much transformed into white mana versus how much simply disappeared, Erick guessed that the rate of proper conversion had to be… 25%? Maybe 35%?

Erick offered, “I have [Renew]. Want me to cast it into the machine?” He turned back to Fairy Moon. “Is Ar’Cosmos healed yet? Can I take Ophiel off of that node?”

Ophiel perked up at his name.

Fairy Moon said, “In four hours you may move Ophiel, and not a moment before.”

Redflame was relieved anyway.

He raised his voice and spoke to the crowd, “All unapproved people may leave; you have your answers. Healing will proceed as fast as it can and with as quick of an organization as we are able to create. There will be a list, and you will be on that list or you will not get healing, and the list will be organized as I have already discussed.” His voice took on an uncomfortable edge. “Get out of this room. Now.” He rapidly added to the woman on the other side of the apparatus. “You will stay.” He turned to the mages taking notes. “Stay.” He turned to everyone else. “LEAVE. NOW.”

People rapidly vacated the room, rushing out of the door or being hurried along by the mages who had been dismissed. In less than ten seconds, the doors to the room had been slammed shut.

Time seemed to relax a bit, though that could have been Erick’s imagination.

Redflame sighed out in relief, his head drooping a fraction. Then he lifted his head, stared at Erick, and said, “I did not intend for your affairs to be so vastly spread, or so quickly, Erick. Apologies for that. Tell me how I can make it up to you and I will.”

Erick shook his head lightly, saying, “It’s fine. It was going to get out, anyway.”

“I do not accept that answer, but I will accept an answer at a later date.”

Erick smiled at that, and then he gestured at the tank. “So that works, huh?”

The woman on the other side mumbled about miracles and saviors and reincarnation, trying to keep silent but silence was impossible, so she contented herself with quiet reverence. Erick did not miss the use of his own word that he had put out into the world, ‘Reincarnation’, but he let it pass unremarked.

Redflame began explaining, “It works. The runic devices you gave work on their own, but they do nothing to heal an unconscious person, unable to select their own Form. The rate of mana loss is too great, too. I think, somehow, you made your machine to work better on people with a core, but not everyone has a core. No one died in those first experiments because we’ve seen practically every failure of mutated essence transformation, and we prepared accordingly, but we did go through a lot of rats. Your ring itself was not enough, though, for the stated reasons. So now we’re here.” Redflame glanced up at his creation, saying, “This, then, has been enough. But it could be better.”

Erick looked back up at the gradually-transforming man in the tank. “I did expect the user to have a core, and no, I did not foresee this level of… remaking. I can already tell where I went wrong, and I can make a new system for you that will work better for this… I think. How much mana are you spending right now?”

“Good. Yes. I want a new system.” Redflame said, “I’m hardly using any mana to do this, though, for I’m mostly channeling Mystical which takes well to [Renew]-type magics. With that gained efficiency and a loss of efficiency through not actually having [Renew], I believe I’m powering the system at a 1-for-1 rate of mana-into-[Renew]. You could likely quintuple my current rate using the actual spell, but as with most Soul Magic, this is a delicate operation and excess power is not the answer. The next machine I make will be less finicky; more throughput.” He corrected himself, “The next machine we make together.”

Erick nodded. “I see you’re using the Null Ring. What happened to the Replacer Ring?”

“Burned out.” Redflame said, “Had high hopes for that one but it melted the very first time we tried to use it. This Null Ring works well, though. Hasn’t burned out at all. Just seems to be getting more and more solid. Strips out every single bloodline a person has, though; no [Dragon Body] for any of the people who go through this process. Which is fine. But it means no easy [Greater Lightwalk]s, either.”

“Huh.” Erick said, “Well… That’s disappointing about the Replacer Ring. Perhaps it does need to be made out of Light Essence?”

Redflame shook his head. “Unknown. With any luck, the actual problem there is simply my personal lack of the spell, [Renew].”

“I’m going to try for a Benevolence Ring.” Erick said, “[Benevolence Body], I think.”

Redflame’s eyes went a bit wide. “I heard your speech there, but I did not believe that you would actually found a House Benevolence—” He caught on fast. “It won’t be Draconic Benevolence?”

“You are correct. It won’t be Draconic Benevolence.” Erick said, “Should be functionally the same as [Greater Lightwalk], though… But I don’t know. Benevolence is strange. Not like Lightning at all, even though that’s what it looks like— That’s something I’m still trying to understand.” Erick gestured at the [Renew] machine, asking, “How did you arrive at this design?”

Redflame looked up at the machine in front of him, saying, “It’s about ten different theories all crushed together, taken from a hundred different projects over the years, and then stripped down to their bare essentials before being strung through your Null Ring. Your ring accounts for about 25% of the workings you see. In the tank itself, there’s a targeted [Cleanse] and a [Baleful Polymorph] keeping the body intact and healthy throughout this process, while also choosing the body that the boy will end up with, for your ring doesn’t seem to have made any attempt at doing that. The larger ring, in which I have embedded yours, combines a [Healing Rain] and the Null Effect from your ring in order to produce the transformative waters. There are more spells to hold the boy in place and keep him comatose during the procedure.” He paused, then said, “I’m manually targeting the boy’s soul and body in order to transform him in a stable and smooth manner, so he doesn’t end up temporarily without a heart, or some nonsense like that, but that’s about all I’m doing. Your inscrutable ring is pulling a lot more weight than my own attempts at this magic.”

Erick stared up at the man in the waters, watching as the guy’s single large fang broke off, floated away, and disintegrated. The guy had a nice face once that was gone. “So you’re saying there’s a lot of room for improvement on my part.”

Redflame said, “For starters, some runic designs done in Ancient Script would be great so that I could actually diagnose what in the abyss your ring is actually doing."

“Sure.” Erick said, “I can do that. I only went with my own language because… Well the enchanting books from Inferno Maw said it was an option to have a personal language that one uses when one converses with the mana. Do you not believe this to be useful?”

Redflame paused, pulling back a bit as he reorganized his thoughts. With a partially scrunched face, he said, “Well. That… Might actually be for the best—” He shook his head. “No. I take it back. Those books are correct when dealing with nuanced magic that doesn’t fit with normal Script Magic. But your ring here is not something that you will only use yourself. The whole point of this working is to use this magic on other people, and a shared language does wonders for such magic. More than that, though, your [Renew] is a part of the Script and it already has a specific rune that is unique to that spell, and you are using that rune in this working, but your Earth-language doesn’t have runes, does it? I might not be able to read what you have here in this runic artifact, but I can tell that these aren’t actually runes; they’re words.”

“… Well. Those are all… Very good points.” Erick glanced back up at the guy in the tank. “How long till he’s healed?”

“Twenty minutes,” Redflame said. As the woman on the other side of the runic tank gasped out a laughing, happy sob at that short of a time frame, Redflame continued, “So I’ve got to be here for that, but then afterward I wish to discuss the theories behind your own workings, and then we can make machine number four. In the meantime: Do you desire to see the other patients?”

“Absolutely!” Erick asked, “I heard there were three?”

