Erick had been debating on whether to ask Redflame this next question, or not, but he decided to go for it, since he had brought up the possible-calamity’s name. “Ah. Well. Speaking of politics… Do you think it is possible for Bright Smile to understand that war is not what I want? Because it certainly seems like she wishes to go to war with the world, if she has to.”

Redflame paused, turning his eyes to Erick, and then sliding away off to the side. He thought, then he turned back, saying, “Bright Smile is an asset, for there will be some sort of battle. Ar’Cosmos has tried to expand out onto Veird multiple times before, but every time we openly expand there is always at least one battle, or maybe even a small war. It’s not always the Dragon Stalkers or Kirginatharp’s forces, or the Shades or the wrought, who drive us back into Ar’Cosmos. Sometimes the people on the other side are just the Free Dragons who have found our outside lands, or who go insane from their Dragon Curse activating. But we always need more resources, and so we have needed to content our dealings with Veirdly matters to side-markets and even black markets, on occasion.” Redflame said, “And so, there will be a war. I didn’t want to bring it up today, but since we’re here…

“This Renewal Tank project is cauterization of our population problems; it is not a [Treat Wounds] at all.

“Land ownership outside of Ar’Cosmos has been a dream for a lot of people, for a very long time, and so when it happens there will be a war, regardless. But!” Redflame added, “I can surely tell you that Bright Smile won’t go looking for war, but at the same time, she won’t let our people be cows to the inevitable slaughter, either. She will attempt to strike a balance that is in Ar’Cosmos’s favor.”

Erick heard and understood that some sort of war was inevitable, and yet, he didn’t think he was being understood, either. He elaborated, “That’s fine. But I don’t want Super Large Area spells targeting any civilian population centers. Do you think that Bright Smile will abide by that particular request?”

“Oh.” Redflame frowned a little, as though he hadn’t truly understood Erick until then, and that lack of understanding had caught him off guard. He said, “Bright Smile has never targeted people who have not deserved her ire. There will be no [Grand Fireball]s targeting markets, if that is what you are thinking. What I expect to happen is that Ar’Cosmos will create a new city and populate it ourselves. We will attempt to be neighborly, or hermits, and yet we will be targeted. Bright Smile and others will retaliate. Escalation will happen, which includes assassinations from all sides, and then all of our people will either be dead or in retreat, or all of the aggressors will be dead. Before, we have always needed to retreat. But now...

“With this Renewal Tank, we will have a great deal more soldiers than usual, and all at high levels, and with true knowledge of magic running through their cores. And, we have you. And! I suspect we will try to link up with Candlepoint, too. Kirginatharp and everyone else have avoided going to war with them, so I suspect they will make good allies… Maybe.” Redflame shrugged. “As long as they are people and not mouthpieces of Melemizargo, Ar’Cosmos and Candlepoint might get along truly well.”

All of that was rather…

Par for the course.

The last part about ‘mouthpieces for Melemizargo’ almost had Erick freaking out, though, because Rozeta had said that that was exactly what the shadelings were. Sure, they were people, too. But if Melemizargo decided to, he could take over any of them, turning them into a tool.

Erick decided not to tell Redflame that, or at least not here, in this open area with other mages present and awaiting orders from Redflame.

So Erick moved on, saying, “I hope we all get along well. Cooperation and civilization is the best security against monsters and chaos, and I wish to have a lot of cooperation going forward. I already expect my own Wizardly nature to turn a great deal of people against me… And for that information to have already gained wings and flown to pretty much every part of the world, by now.” He breathed deep, and then did not sigh, though he felt like he needed to. He said, “So let’s make some Renewal Tanks.”

And so they did.

- - - -

Two hours later, Erick had cobbled together a small Renewal Tank fit for a rat. He had used Redflame’s designs, and kept his own thoughts of improvement to himself, for now. Erick simply began channeling mana —not [Renew]— into the prototype.

Over the course of 570 mana, the rat transformed into a bright red fish that promptly churned away into nothing as a result of the [Cleanse] functions of the tank. The fish had been absolutely filled with cancers and wrong bones and a backwards-facing digestive tract. There was brain where the tail muscles should have been, while those tail muscles were simply missing. That rat was dead on arrival, so the [Cleanse] functions erased it.

Redflame explained that Erick had fucked up on the manipulation of mana inside the machine. He used nicer words than that, but Erick had heard what he heard.

He tried again. It took a lot of concentration, and a lot of delicate aura control, but the next 480 mana turned a rat into a proper fish. The new red fish swam around in its tank, flicking its tail like it was drunk, but quickly came to terms with its new body. The rat’s soul now fit the fish, and the fish recognized itself as a fish.

Redflame stood back, frowning, saying, “You’re… Very good at this.”

Erick laughed, then suddenly stopped. He said, “Apparently it’s all Wizardry, though.”

“No. I mean…” Redflame paused, then decided to just say what he wanted to say, “Wizardry merely means your mana responds how you want it to respond. This is actual skill, too.”

“Oh. Well. Then I appreciate the compliment.” Erick moved on, saying, “So I was thinking of trying a different design for the next prototype…”

An hour later, Erick’s prototype was ready. The largest change was the inclusion of the runes for Renew and Soul, combined and together as though they were one word; it wasn’t ‘[Reincarnation]’, for that spell did not exist. But it was a close approximation, and Erick felt like it would work well.

Redflame was less hopeful, for he still wasn’t sure about how Erick had exactly included that ‘new word’ into his runic design, but he was willing to indulge Erick’s curiosity. The bad outcome was just a corrupted rat, after all.

Erick put the sleeping rat into the tank and then began to channel [Renew] into the ring; not just simple mana. Iridescent white waters began to rain down into the glass container and soon the rat was floating, suspended and sleeping and calm, inside those waters.

Erick increased his rate of [Renew], channeling comparatively quickly into the runic machine.

120 mana and three seconds later, the rat was now a fish, still sleeping inside its waters. Erick cut the channel. The mana faded. The water remained. The fish woke up. It lazed around the tank, looking rather bored.

From what Erick could tell, there was zero soul or body dysmorphia. Not only had the [Baleful Polymorph] taken hold, but the soul now recognized the given form as the correct form. It had worked.

Complete success.

Redflame’s eyes were wide. “I had not expected your… minimalist design to work so well.”

“And all I did was channel [Renew], too, so this form will work later, and at volume.” Erick said, “No aura control. No special control at all. I imagine for a person the amount of mana required will be a lot more, but the basic design should still work. The Null option, anyway. This is just a basic fish. I don’t think we can give someone an Elemental Bloodline body with this methodology. And yet…” Erick gestured to some parts of the machine, saying, “We could at least give people the option of selecting a new species. We could replace this part here that can flip between ‘rat’ and ‘fish’ with some sort of slotting system, and have the [Baleful Polymorph] be able to select from various Familiar Forms.”

“But the way [Baleful Polymorph] works best is when it merely shifts a target along a pre-prescribed path, according to the person’s innate predilections.” Redflame said, “Attempting for a base-orcol to select a human Familiar Form requires more normal [Baleful Polymorph] costs, and while that is more in line with what the spell normally does, it means our mana costs go up by 10. I don’t feel that this is a proper solution to the problem of removing half-dragon essence from a person.”

“Okay. Well. That is a good point, and I can see that I’m getting ahead of myself. But what if a person doesn’t want to fall back on their original Familiar Form? Like that one guy you let me see, Hizogard. People like him might want a truly fresh start, away from their base species. It would be easy enough to implement, anyway.” Erick said, “Like, we could put that selection part into a key, and then we can put different keys into the machine, and thus create a Renewal Tank that is capable of making different selected forms, and not just the forms we preprogram into the runic machine, or the base Familiar Form of the person undergoing treatment.”

Redflame thought for a moment, then he said, “It’s time to involve Inferno Maw. He’s a Necromancer and he knows souls a lot more than I, and what you are thinking of doing is more than the scope of the problem we are trying to solve.”

“Oh? Well…” Erick supposed he was ready to talk to Inferno Maw again, though he was not looking forward to the dragon man’s coming disdain for all things Wizardly. “Sure.”

Redflame nodded, sending off a tendril of thought as he said, “He was over earlier to inspect my work and inspect the first transformation, but he’ll want to be here for this— Ah.” Redflame turned away from Erick, to talk to whoever was on the other end of the line. Probably Inferno Maw. Redflame turned back, “He’s on his way.”

Erick nodded, and then he flipped the fish/rat switch on the machine over to ‘rat’. “Time to see if this works in reverse.”

The Renewal Tank did just as fine a job of turning a fish into a rat, as it had turning a rat into a fish. The groggy, wet rat got dried off by an assistant and put back into its cage to wake up on its own time.

- - - -

Inferno Maw ended the call with Redflame, then turned his attention back to the delegation from Stratagold.

The main antagonists of this particular evening stood strong on the grasses before him. The meeting itself took place in the vast, open Twisted Vision of Outer Ar’Cosmos. No one had been willing to stand within fifty meters of each other, or allow any deeper ingress than this, and Stratagold had sent unknown lackeys instead of actual diplomats who could make actual decisions, but that was fine by Inferno Maw. All this was preliminary talk, anyway. Posturing was important in these sorts of conversations, though, and so, since Inferno Maw had finally gained a proper reason to bring this farce to a close for today, he took no small amount of joy in doing just that.

With monochromatic Death licking out of the depths of his cavernous maw like the fires of The End, Inferno Maw reared up to a suitable height. This caused a minor panic in the diplomats on the other side of the Forest Path. A particularly flighty wrought even held his shield up in front of him, like that would have saved the young tyrant from Inferno Maw’s true fury.

Which was all well and good, because things had honestly gone rather well, so far, all things considered.

“The time for talking is tomorrow, young tyrants; our time is up for today.” Inferno Maw would have frowned at Fairy Moon’s meddling of his speech, wherever she was, but he moved on, not letting his brief annoyance show. Apparently his alliteration was terrifying, though, if the faces of the opposition were to go by, so this was fine. “As our honored guest has done for countless others, he has apparently created something new and exciting and I need to go investigate.”

The wrought gave their final, most succinct threat, “You will not be allowed to control Elemental Benevolence, Inferno Maw. Do not try. Return Erick Flatt to us, and you will be allowed to continue as you have.” And then they added an enticement, “We are willing to allow actual trade with one of our cities if you return him to us now; intact and uninjured.”

Inferno Maw shook his head, and then, on a whim, and in the spirit of Erick’s own possibilities, he spoke softer, “You will have Erick when we are done with him, and only after suitable recompense for all the injury and unjust treatment you have visited upon us all these centuries. Trade is a starting offer. We also desire the secret of [Duplicate], and for Kirginatharp to come to the table with regards to removing his Curse.” He offered, “You could even remove that Curse from him yourselves! This would be fine with us, too.”

“[Duplicate] is not on the table.” The diplomat lied, “But we could talk to Kirginatharp and see about actually removing the Curse. There might be a new way to remove it with Erick’s help, but you must return him to us.”

“See. Now.” Inferno Maw said, “That was a lie. You’re not going to actually talk to Kirginatharp about what we need him to do at all.”

For his part, the diplomat did not flinch, or give away any tell at all that Inferno Maw was right.

Inferno Maw continued, “Bringing lies to the table of peace talks is no way to run a world, but I suppose tyrants wouldn’t know any better. We’re done for today. Try again tomorrow. You have ten minutes to vacate Outer Ar’Cosmos before I release the monsters and drive you out.”

The diplomat simply nodded, then said, “We look forward to more talks tomorrow, and urge you to reconsider your adherence to the idea that we are tyrants, or I might have to start calling you a belligerent wyrm.”

Inferno Maw balked a minor laugh, and his own delegation of four Death dragons laughed with him. And then he stopped laughing. The dark forest went absolutely silent. One by one, Inferno Maw’s own delegation vanished into the gloom of Outer Ar’Cosmos, and then he followed, his voice lingering in the dark air, “Five minutes till monsters.”

The delegation of wrought retraced their steps back out of the Twisted Vision, but they were slow about it, not actually leaving until exactly 4 minutes and 59 seconds after Inferno Maw’s threat. When they were finally gone, Inferno Maw moved that particular exit. He would give them a different exit to find tomorrow. Perhaps at the bottom of a bog?

That seemed suitably petty.

