Then a massive creature with a thick shell smashed through another part of the wall, opening a second front. Sahin reacted immediately. Pinpoint strikes from the yries catapults covered that opening. Meanwhile, the army advanced, with the witchpact leaving their improvised towers behind.

“What the hell is he doing?” Viv wondered as the humans marched towards the approaching — and still intact — hulk.

As they were about to make contact, Abenezigel unleashed a mighty spell. Black threads appeared over the undead creature like so many strings to cut, which he did with the help of some solid marksman work. Every time a thread snapped, the undead creature stumbled, parts of its body crumbling to dust. It died before making contact.

After that, the formation smoothly moved around the carcass like water flowing around a rock. Sahin sat the One Hundred at the second gap while the line breakers climbed the walls, going to work on the crawlers still there. Once they were covered, two of the liberators advanced to create a kill zone on every approaching street. Shortly after, the witch pact scaled the walls as well so they could take potshots. The entire Harrakan formation was now a turtling fortress using the houses and walls as natural anchors. The only dangerous creatures were easily taken out by Abe before they could cause much damage.

It went like this for ten minutes. The tide turned into a wave, then to a trickle, and the tired and wounded were given the time to rest.

Viv wondered if bringing Abe was cheating but to be fair, most armies this size had dangerous elites more or less on his level.

Ah whatever. The New Harrakans had plenty of strong individual fighters. It made sense to use them like this. And the main point, which was that strategists allow formations to move as if linked by their mind, had been made. With Sahin only on the second step, still, this was an auspicious development.

Now she only needed to pay one more extremely valuable addition to her cause. Ugh. It never stopped. With a sigh, she lowered herself next to the command group and the meditating form of her strategist. He had an array of far speakers arranged in front of him, but wasn’t speaking right now. She took it that it was a good time to talk.

Nobody was surprised when she softly landed. The only weird element was how exhausted Sahin seemed to be. His skin was pale and clammy despite the chilly weather.

“Well, you are certainly proving yourself. Now I would like to ask what your experience is so far?” Viv asked.

The sweat on Sahin’s brow redoubled. He blinked, and Viv wondered if she had distracted him at the wrong moment because he looked ready to keel over.

“Good. Excellent. On the army side, that is. The vast array of forces at your disposal and their capabilities is simply unheard of, especially for a young and small nation. I am genuinely impressed. Yes. I will also say…”

He vacillated and Viv approached, ready to pick him up. He waved her concerns away.

“I will say that they perform exactly as requested on the field. Between their discipline and those wonderful ‘radio’ spells you have come up with, I believe we can take on a force several...”

He breathed in deeply.

“Several times our size. Ugh.”

Sahin grabbed a piece of soft cloth which he used to wipe his soaked face.

“However, do I have a complaint? Request?”

“Hmm?”

“You let the others know about my recruitment, did you not?”

“What do you mean? Yes, I told them I was going to see you.”

“Not… this. The… test of patience?”

“Eh? Errr, no, not me, but perhaps Rollo did?”

She was confused.

“Why?”

“Because we have been practicing for several days, as you know, and on the first day of exercise, someone snuck into my house and, despite many alarms and the presence of my majordomo, managed to steal all the socks. All of them. I found them bundled outside.”

“Ah.”

“On the second day, all of the water in my tent was frozen solid. I had to request a mage for warm water, or I would not have had any tea.”

“How dreadful.”

“One of your golems accidentally stepped on my favorite pair of shoes.”

“That wouldn’t help.”

“They’re soles now. And on the third day, I kept seeing shadows at the edge of my field of vision.”

“That would be the Hadals.”

“All day long. It made me quite nervous, as you can imagine. The next day, I found that my metal chair was slightly bent, so that only three feet would touch the ground at any time unless I leaned forward which would set the chair on its last leg, so to speak.”

“The Heavies do pride themselves on their strength.”

“I eventually made a remark and the yries came to me to apologize in the name of the others.”

“Oh dear.”

“They seemed friendly.”

“They hold grudges.”

“Engineer Lak-Tak brewed me a pot of tea as a gesture of appreciation. He shared it with me.”

“Uh oh. Did it taste sweet?”

“It was sweetened with honey, yes.”

“Damn.”

“Very sweet. The honey was a potent hallucinogenic. So I have gathered.”

He blinked back tears.

“I need to ask. Are there really dragons flying over the field right now?”

Viv looked up without alarm.

“Hm? Oh yes, that’s Arthur and Gale. They’re probably just curious.”

“Oh, good. Good. That is good. I was not sure. And the tentacles on the horizon expanding into infinity?”

“Most likely the honey. Or you might be seeing the yries god.”

“This is not a comforting thought.”

“Don’t worry, it’s not hostile. For now.”

“Very reassuring. Now, what was I saying? Ah yes. The request. Please ask your people to stop.”

“Right. I’m not really in favor of hazing so I’ll ask them, of course. Errrr. Carry on.”

“Please please please do.”

***

The life of a thrall was a difficult one. The girl, specifically, was one of the lucky few learned thralls. That meant that she was mostly left alone by the men of the tribe and she had food pretty often. Scraps from the table of the chief-of-chiefs, mostly, but it beat being used as Scalehound bait. Or laboring in the fields until you dropped. Today was a good day as well. The raiders had returned from the lands of the pale imperials with shipments of slaves. The thrall was not sure why the unpainted ones had broken the uneasy truce they had with the chief-of-chiefs, but she knew the chief-of-chief had gathered his best warriors to teach them a lesson.

The thrall girl didn’t like lessons. The warriors were first, then the hunters, then the laborers, then the thralls, and then the slaves or prisoners. The shamans and chiefs stood above in their own world. This was how the world worked. The tribes raided the lands of the unpainted children of the fallen king. If the fallen ones offered tribute, there were less raids. If they didn’t, well, cages overflowed with the women and children of those they’d slain. Such was the case now, though the prisoners were still few. It was only the beginning of the time of harvests, after all. More would soon follow.

She approached the throne on soft toes. She had the right to be here, she had to tell herself, even as mighty warriors eyed her with haughty disgust. She had to be on hand in case the chief-of-chiefs needed to understand the babbles of terrified prisoners. Sometimes, some of them held worthy secrets that could be used to plan juicy raids.

There, next to the throne, she found what she wanted. There was the leg of a fowl with a lot of the meat still attached. If she could just sneak in a little closer…

The thrall girl almost barred the way of a shaman apprentice. The taller girl gave her a dismissive glance through the slits of her bone helmet before moving on. She had muscle, a hale skin, slightly tanned from the summer heat. The thrall breathed now that the danger had passed. She grabbed the fowl leg and turned away. from the warriors standing around the throne.

In the chaos of the feast, she stood alone, her side to the monumental stone where the chief-of-chiefs sat. She was at the heart of the tribes yet so very alone and so very exposed, safe because the eyes of the beast were turned outward. She bit down. It was greasy and delicious and the juice almost dripped from her lips when her teeth bit the tender flesh. She swallowed the meat too fast. The ball hurt her throat on the way down, making her crave water but her mouth was already gnawing on a piece of crispy skin forgotten near the end. Delicious. So good it was almost enough to cry. So hungry.

[Attention to the master] picked up the Chief-of-chief’s displeasure an instant later. Her class instincts let her regretfully place the bone on the ground. Maybe she’d find it again before the hounds got to it. She hurried her way through the crowd of curious retinue for fear of punishment, should she delay. The room was mostly silent now, and the tables at the side of the longhouse were filled with gasping warriors, their eyes struck with disbelief, because there was a stranger in their midst. A man, with wavy black hair and a scar on his cheek. The thrall found him very handsome, and his clothes were finer than anything she’d ever seen before. Metal glinted under his cloak. With wealth like that, he might have been a chief himself.

The stranger strode in the monster’s den, perhaps unaware that he would leave without his gear or without his life. To the thrall’s side, the chief-of-chiefs leaned forward with the predatory smile of a Rakath. Meanwhile, the shamans moved. They didn’t look too pleased. She heard a few say he was a shaman as well.

It was exciting, but also terrifying. The chief-of-chief’s anger seeped to her, making her tremble. Her spine stooped through the rough shift, moved by the [meek] skill to protect her from aggression.

The foreign prince walked with a confidence that made her heart beat faster. He was either very brave or a fool. Maybe, if the chief-of-chiefs didn’t kill him, she could sneak a visit in the thrall cages so she could talk to him. His skin was so dark! The novelty of it all was enough to chase the fear away. She didn’t want this moment to end. She didn’t want reality to catch up with her hope for something better… but fate didn’t wait. The stranger reached the throne, stopping at a distance. The shamans hissed in the ears of the chief-of-chiefs, who stood. He was a massive man, and the thrall cowered again.

The foreign prince was not afraid.

“Where’s that little mud rat?” the thrall girl’s master roared.

She moved forward at a quick gait. The chief-of-chiefs didn’t like to wait.

“Ask him what he wants,” he said, and the tone was the calm that heralded punishment.

“Hmm,” she said in the tongue of the fallen nation, “My master… inquires as to the reason for your visit?” she asked.

The stranger breathed deeply. She felt his anger thanks to her skill, even as he masked it well.

“I am Sidjin of Harrak. I would like to know if I am addressing the leader here, and the one who ordered the raid on our land,” he replied with a smile that mirrored the chief’s own.

It was then that the thrall knew this would end in violence. A shame, because the chief would kill the handsome stranger for that, but maybe she could find a way to talk to him beforehand.

“I will convey your words.”

Now to be careful.

“He wants to know if you are the chief-of-chiefs, and warlord for our tribes.”

“Hah! Tell him yes, and ask him if he has come to buy back his people.”

The chief-of-chiefs guffawed.

“But tell him it won’t come cheap.”

All humor disappeared from his cruel face.

“We do not forget the blood debt so easily.”

The thrall turned again.

“The chief-of-chiefs is willing to negotiate the return of your prisoners in exchange for ransom, but he warns you that the attack on the village last year will be reflected on the cost…”

The handsome man tilted his head to the side as if he could not believe his ears. His cloak parted to reveal very elaborate armor. Slowly, he grabbed a helmet from his belt which he placed on his head. The tribesmen frowned. He was getting very close to breaking the truce of the feast and the laws of hospitality. The thrall girl paled. This was… very unwise.

“Tell him I haven’t come to negotiate.”

“The, ah, visitor says he does not wish to purchase.”

“Hah! What then? A duel?”

The most powerful shaman, Gray Vela, whispered in his ear but he pushed her away.

“Who is the fool who comes here to die? Are you a king or a madman?”

“The chief-of-chiefs would like to know your name,” the thrall girl uttered with a shaky voice as she refrained from stepping back.

No one would stop blood from being spilled today.

“Oh, I’m not a king, no. I am merely her paramour. She’s busy right now and you might say… I’m an expert at culling unruly neighbors.”

It happened very fast.

“He’s casting!” Gray Vela screamed.

The thrall jumped to the side, uncaring about those who could stab her for leaving without permission. Warriors and shamans rose to their feet. Spells smashed into a transparent, elaborate barrier made of interlocking parts like shells on a war tortoise. A hole in reality tore open at the back of the visitor, surprising everyone, and fighters in thick metal armor charged through it.

So much metal!

Gray Vela cast her own barrier but another tinier portal opened and something went through it. There was a hell of colorless barbs and a lot, a LOT of blood. One of the warriors with a flaming sword clashed with the chief-of-chiefs. The thrall crawled on her knees. Over here, a tall southern woman with a spear and a smile skewered a warrior. She was wearing steel too.

