The thrall found the wall, her feet, and she ran. She ran to the backdoor as more imperials poured through the portal. They had broken the truce of the feast! No, they were killing some of the best fighters of the tribe right now! No, there was a pale woman like her with a spear and a lot of metal. Could it be done? No, she had to get out of here. Now!

She raced as the battle unfolded. The warriors of the tribe were not wearing their bone armor and the metal-clad invaders were cutting them down as they pushed forward. A monster with metal horns stepped out, with blue eyes! He roared in the old tongue, but the thrall could feel in her soul the truth his words carried.

“You have sinned! You have allowed yourselves to grow fat and weak on the weaker. You have grown complacent. You have mired yourselves in your certitudes and the easy ways.”

The thrall girl reached the door, finally. It slammed open. The edge smashed into her arm. It hurt. More warriors poured in. Outside, there was fire at the edge of the distance. The girl fled. There were warriors and laborers running and screaming. One of the hunters on the roof fell, and the girl saw a steel tip jutting from his skull. Steel on arrows! How rich were those foreigners?

A fight had begun at the edge of the village as well. Archers, mostly, but she could see more metal glint at the edge in the fires. There were people flying like birds overhead.

The strangers were winning. The warriors were too dispersed, too caught off guard. The thrall girl’s world was collapsing and she was loving every second of it.

“There you are,” a voice said.

It was the spear woman. She smiled. She was missing one tooth. Other soldiers with the same sword and shield on their tabard approached as well.

“Sidjin said you can talk our language! We need someone to translate threats, girl. You’ll be rewarded. And freed, also.”

“Can I have a spear like you?”

The tall woman laughed heartily, while the other warriors nodded with approval.

“You can, girl, if you train hard enough. Name’s Koro. I can teach you.”

“Yes please!”

The warrior winced and moved her shoulder again. Suddenly, the thrall girl was concerned.

“Ah, don’t worry. Breasts hurt. Gotta head back to feed the little monsters before I erupt.”

“I volunteer to relieve the pain!” one of the warriors offered with a sideways smile.

She socked him in the helmet. The rest laughed.

“So what’s your name?”

“I am Bird Tongue. Yes, I will translate for you. And I have another question.”

“Ask away.”

“The handsome prince. Is he spoken for?”

Koro winced in a way that said yes.

“Ah, yeah, about that. I think you’ve got some serious competition.”
