‘Forsooth! Only idiot wizards rely on one school of magic, one means of incantation! I will crave their coming so I can make their gods weep in shame, their children disown them, their familiar quit on the spot!’ Tim added, using Beta’s words as momentum for his own logic.

Alpha eyed the purple orb but decided he had said enough to get the mood back on track. Delta stared at them and then she looked at Gamma who had remained quiet.

“Hey, I don’t kill people. People kill people,” Gamma said, barely turning on the spot to show their lack of agency.

‘Thou art the treacherous blade of which the ancient tomes do speak! Thou art known to have wrought wars and sown discord wherever thou dost wander, driven by greed, malice, and envy most foul!’ Tim said as if he discovered the library now inside his head as he looked for less ‘boom’ spells.

He had access to the Network so he was well aware of who Delta considered important.

“Fake news,” Gamma said easily.

“Gamma, is okay, I trust you,” Delta said gently and the sword was quiet for a moment.

“Terrible mistake, really, but you do you,” they said back with a casual tone that hid some emotion Delta couldn’t figure out.

“I have a lot of forms that eat swords,” Beta added as if this was something she casually dropped into conversations.

“Careful, Betty Boop, I was designed to help kill you too,” Gamma rebutted. Okay, feeling sorry for herself is over now.

“Enough,” Delta said softly and she didn’t mean to pulse but all four beings aside from her paused then awkwardly mumbled to themselves.

“Yes, miss,” Gamma said, sounding meek for the first time.

“Beta, don’t eat your family. Gamma, I know you’re a sword, but stop being edgy, Tim, it’s your first day, you can improve, and Alpha,” she turned to the waiting teen who looked a tad bit nervous.

“You’re perfect and I’m glad you’re here,” she finished.

‘Question, my mistress,’ Tim asked slowly and Delta looked at the purple core, finally taking in his core room which looked to be at the top of the tower, exposed to the air which wasn’t the case. They were actually inside a room that projected the image of the outside which was impressive on Tim’s part, but the items he absorbed were still ‘digesting’ so it was nice to spend mana frivolously right now.

“I insist you call me Delta,” she said back and Tim stutttered, struggling to get the name out without a title or suffix.

“We call her Miss D,” Gamma offered, perhaps as a peace offering to the group for their earlier actions.

“Basically,” Beta nodded.

Tim exhaled, sending mana out in a puff.

‘Miss D,” Tim tried and then gasped as if discovering some secret. ‘Miss Destruction!’ he declared.

Wait, no-

“Miss Delight,” Alpha added.

What-

“Miss Defy?” Beta shrugged as if she had no hat in this ring.

That was-

‘Miss Deed,” Gamma suggested slyly.

“Then let me be ‘Miss Direct’ and say this bluntly-... wait no, wait!” Delta said as everyone shared a knowing look even Tim who didn’t have damn eyeballs!

“What was your question, Tim?” Delta waved a hand in his direction.

‘Ah, verily. Who is ‘Foodie’ and why are they throwing terribly salty mana at me in anger for upsetting you?’ Tim asked bluntly.

Oh, the first two dungeons she recruited weren’t off to a great first start. Delta’s eye twitched as Foodie threw some very creative and very… foul sailor talk at Tim.

Forget direct, she had to be Miss Fortune at this rate.
