Each attempt to infuse Lesser Primeval Energy into a mixture required intense concentration, and even the slightest misstep could cause the entire process to unravel. This assumed Jake had added the “right” amount of energy, too, as if he added too much, it would explode no matter what Jake tried, while if he added too little, the Lesser Primeval Energy seemed to just disappear before Jake could make it do anything.

Weeks passed with Jake attempting to make his Lesser Primeval Energy do, well, anything, really. Besides exploding or dispersing into nothing, that is. He had tried pouring the energy into potions, poisons, elixirs, and even a few mixtures that he just put together because they consisted of incredibly stable ingredients. The result was the same no matter what, with Jake failing time and time again.

Still, he kept trying, despite his failure, because Jake felt he was learning. There were times when he felt a bit of the Lesser Primeval Energy start merging with some parts of the mixture before everything turned chaotic and exploded, giving him hope that what he was trying to do wasn’t impossible. It was just that Jake was completely and utterly unable to control the process as it currently stood.

Frustration didn’t deter him, though, as each failure revealed subtle nuances about the interaction between the volatile energy and the ingredients. Jake mentally noted down every minor success or point of failure, hoping to spot patterns. With every attempt, he refined his approach, adjusting his method as he searched for any semblance of balance that would allow the Lesser Primeval Energy to do its job in a stable manner.

Yet despite his attempts and how much he felt like he had learned, he didn’t feel any closer to actually successfully crafting something. He started realizing that the problem intrinsically seemed to be that whenever he unleashed any level of Lesser Primeval Energy into a mixture, it would fuse with whatever was closest to it, creating an instant imbalance that went boom.

The energy didn’t have any issues merging with some parts of the mixture... which gave Jake an idea.

Taking a step back, Jake questioned why he had jumped straight to wanting to infuse Lesser Primeval Energy into an ongoing mixture, and hadn’t started with what was meant to go in the mixture in the first place?

What if he instead altered the ingredients before he even started? Made it so all the ingredients were empowered, so that some parts weren’t far more potent than everything else? He would have to ensure that he only amplified the parts of the ingredients he wanted to see amplified, though...

And to do that, chances were Jake would have to do something that many would definitely argue was long overdue:

Address the biggest blemish on his stat sheet, and the one and only inferior rarity skill Jake still had: Alchemist’s Purification.
