As to the copies that were between the portals and the edge of the cell?

They were blown apart.

More accurately—as Tala’s enhanced perception and threefold sight gave her incredible detail and minute insight—they each had a hole blown clean through them, the parts of their body that had been in the hole forced out and back, laden with so much heat and force, that the copies were blown apart, the bones and other hard bits becoming shrapnel that shredded those around them as the debris expanded in a vertical ring perpendicular to the tungsten’s flight—though it was biased backward making the zones of destruction more like cones than flat planes.

This was as obliterating to the vegetation as it was to the other copies.

Speaking of which, to call what remained of the near area a ‘forest’ was no longer accurate. To be generous, one could call it a wasteland clearing in the middle of a bedraggled forest.

Regardless, as the shock of her final salvo faded, and the copies finally noticed the absence of the breach, Tala was able to see them raging, crying, and consoling each other as they tried to deal with the wounded or scrabbled at the ground where the breach had been.

In this case, ‘deal with the wounded’ was simple, quick execution. Even those with only minor wounds were summarily killed.

Efficient, I suppose? Dark, though.

As curious as she was about what would happen next, she didn’t want to risk discovery, so Tala withdrew her bloodstar clouds after that point.

Ideally, the prisoner would think that the cell was already resealed, and the myriad copies would believe that their unexpected chance was over.

Thus, Tala no longer had any battles to fight. So, she kept a close watch around the underwater breach until, finally, Alat signalled that they were done.

-See? Underwater is better.-

…Well, you might have been right, but there is a good chance that if this was the first point of connection, it would have been noticed.

-I guess we’ll never know.-

I suppose not. Still, excellent work.

-You too.-

With a grin of triumph, and an effort of authority and will, Tala forced the water back and out of the tunnel, and Alat worked with Kit to twist, fold, tie, freeze, or otherwise manipulate reality to seal the cell once more.

And that was that.

Tala brought Terry back out to her shoulder, opening a small portal for him to flicker through, and he trilled contentedly before hunkering down and closing his eyes.

She stood before the block of obsidian, which was the physical component of the cell’s anchor.

She was exhausted, and as such, she didn’t actually return her threefold sight to her location for a few breaths. At the moment that she did, however, she saw the leader of the Defender unit standing at the entrance to the atrium, mouth agape and building fire in her eyes.

Well… that’s unideal timing.
