Venith rounded on Nawal. Before anyone could say anything else, Flos turned.
“I had hoped to make the Sorcelled Blades from the Naq-Alrama blade and give it to your tribe, Takhatres.”
He named his ability to make a unit, and the Lord of the Skies nodded heavily. He was unscratched, but looked—tired. He was drinking a stamina potion, the eighth so far.
“Are we dead, then?”
Teres felt a note of despair in her chest. Flos just shook his head. He looked back towards the gates. His voice became…dreamy. Resigned.
“I told you, I fought them six times, Teresa Atwood. Six times. Three times they humbled me. Twice, we won in massed battle. Once, I fought a Djinni with as few as this. That time was the last. I know how to best them. It will be—at the greatest costs. Venith, Esiela, you will have to guard me. Takhatres—the other two Djinni. You can’t kill that one.”
He pointed at Drenir. The Lord of the Skies looked like he wanted to object. Then he met Flos’ gaze.
“I’ll do it. I need the Grand Mage.”
Flos just nodded.
“Done.”
“Your Majesty. What strategy is this? I’ve never heard of it.”
Even Venith Crusland looked uncertain. Teres saw Flos’ head turn.
“I need to fight Drenir close up. We must bring him down. My aura will let me touch him. However—”
He looked up as a shadow passed over the city. Flos stared up and met the eyes of the Djinni as lightning flashed. He sighed.
“—I am a [King]. Not Mars. For once, I fear I might be outmatched. Still.”
The King of Destruction looked at Nawalishifra and shook his head.
“…There is no other choice. To battle.”
 
—-
 
Fetohep rampaged through the living like he had when he lived. His halberd spun, and he cried Skills aloud which he had not uttered in battle since he had drawn in breath with his lungs.
[Spear Art: Sands Fly Apart]. [I Fought Against Five Alone]. [Like a Lion, He Leapt]—
Humans, half-Elves, even the few Garuda and other species cried out as the King of Khelt activated his Skills. A rising slash that cut through ranks in an explosive shockwave.
Suddenly, for a moment, five Fetohep were whirling, bringing down [Knights]. Then the primary one exploded out of a melee trying to encircle him. He landed like a comet, slashing through a [Hunter], flinging a dagger through another [Mage]’s throat, the piercing weapon passing through the barrier.
Terrible combat! Even the [Knights] drew back, realizing here stood a legend of old! Fetohep made to draw breath to roar—
And suddenly realized he had gone too far. He had reached for the reservoir of adrenaline, fury, and it was missing. He was still dead. His rage at losing his subjects, the crusade, was enormous. But—intellectual. There was no biology behind it, and thus, the King of Khelt realized suddenly, he had made a mistake.
They had baited him into this! Now, the mortals were closing about him. Fetohep looked around the battlefield and felt—uneasy.
Too long. Too long since he’d fought like this. Not in battles, but in an offensive battle far from Khelt’s lands. He had always guarded his border, but this? He had forgotten his experience on a campaign outside of Khelt.
Now, even a slight mistake might cost him everything.
“To me. [Lesser Teleport].”
Fetohep touched a ring on his finger. His undead closed ranks and he—flickered—
The undead king felt a pull, then a snap against something. He stayed where he was, jerking with a sudden impact. Fetohep realized what had happened with long experience.
“Lock down teleportation! We have him! Close in!”
One of the [Hunters] shouted. They’d cut off his retreat magically! Like he had inadvertently done to whomever Az’kerash had tried to send his way, the adventurers—Fetohep turned. He saw mortals between him and the safety of his army.
The King of Khelt charged with a furious cry. The [Knights] not embattled broke away.
“Strike the King of Death! With me, sons and daughters of Terandria!”
Fetohep saw a glittering line of [Knights] form up into another lance. They were coming in, and this time…he swung his halberd furiously, but he had to ward himself from all sides!
They were coming for him. Not just one or two Named Adventurers. He didn’t fear the Falcon of Medain alone, or Three of Arms.
Yet the [Keybearer Knight] who wielded one of the heirlooms of her kingdom? The [Undead Hunter] whose automatic crossbow laid low the greatest of his soldiers one after another?
And worst of all—the Herald of the Forests. Fetohep thus counted five. And for all he had a Skill that could fight five-on-one…
The [Knight] charge threatened to do the job even without five high-level warriors. They streamed forwards at the gap—and then Fetohep heard the horns. The charge of Terandria’s finest wavered. They slowed, and then began to turn.
He saw all this with his mind’s eye of the battlefield. Fetohep’s perception turned. He saw another force break into the battle, racing in. Just as they had one time before, covering distance at desperate speed.
Jecaina of Jecrass. She led the last of Jecrass’ [Riders] in a desperate assault from the side. Arrows of sand landed among Medain’s forces, blinding them, but the narrow two thousand were aimed at the [Knights].
“To the aid of Khelt! Ride! Fetohep cannot fall!”
The Arbiter Queen did not lead the charge, but she was amid her [Trick Riders] and veterans. The Terandrian [Knights], outraged, turned to meet them.
“No. No! I told you to stay back! I will humble these arrogant enemies. Do not risk your life, Jecaina!”
Fetohep howled. Yet he had no time to reach for his speaking stone. He sought among his army for another artifact to come to her aid. He did not fear the death of undead, even himself! That was what it meant to serve—but the living? Not her. Not the girl.
He found so few artifacts left. He had taken an army’s worth of scrolls, armed his people in artifacts. He had not brought Khelt’s irreplaceable relics; they were not his to wield in the name of conquest. They had to be saved for the last defense. For—
The [Knights] thundered at Jecrass’ [Riders]. They actually outnumbered Jecrass’ forces, and that was a dire thing to imagine. The lighter, faster force of Jecrass began to swerve, having abated the charge. They turned, but they were not [Lancers], like the [Knights] in heavy armor, and the [Bicorn Riders] lay dead. Was this suicide? Or…
“Now! Rush backwards!”
Jecaina peeled away, and her forces galloped desperately, to evade the charge. The [Knights] came on and they had momentum, and fury. They wouldn’t let this foe provoke them and leave! They would—
Something snapped. Two dozen [Knights] in the front went down, and the rest nearly collided with the first rank. The others swerved. What the hell was—?
Jecrass’ famous, ‘elite’ cavalry was known as the [Trick Riders] of Jecrass. Every nation had one, and they had fought Mars, bled in every battle. They were fast, well-trained, but they had never shown their true potential. Because it wasn’t in slaying great warriors or being the hammer upon an anvil. It was this.
Two [Trick Riders] raced ahead of a group charging at the backs. The [Knights] had speed, but they suddenly collapsed, the horses going down. Why?
The [Knights] right behind saw what had happened. One leapt, swearing, and landed back in the horse’s saddle. More tried to cut at the thin line in the air, but the chain was iron.
It was tied between two thick poles of wood, and the [Trick Riders] had planted it in the ground, drawing the trap out of bags of holding! The impromptu clothesline knocked more [Knights] off their saddles.
In another spot, a [Trick Rider] dumped caltrops onto the ground, something the Wind Runner of Reizmelt would have been familiar with. He also proved she was not the first to come up with the tricks she used; he tossed a bag of black dust into the air, blinding the [Knights].
One of the [Trick Riders] whistled, and half the horses began to follow her. The [Knights] were in chaos! Not a single one actually died, but they devolved into confusion as Jecrass’ forces beat a retreat, harrying them with traps and tricks. One [Trick Rider], caught by a [Knight] hacking at her, did a hand-stand, hopped, and kicked the [Knight] out of their saddle before claiming the horse and galloping to safety.
The sudden intervention lifted Fetohep’s spirits. Of course, Jecaina was no fool.
“So Jecrass humbles the riders of other continents once more!”
He actually laughed. His heart…his soul felt lighter.
“Fetohep, we’re coming. We can pull you out—”
“No. No, Queen Jecaina. You have done enough. Stand back. I have erred.”
It cost him something to acknowledge. Fetohep spoke into the stone as his army fought around him. How much Medain, the Claiven Earth, and the Terandrians had spent to reach him. But they had surrounded him, charge or no, and were keeping his forces back. A diminishing knot of undead slowly drew around Fetohep. He spoke, in that moment, swinging his halberd.
“You must not die, Jecaina. This day. This day, let them come to the ruler of Khelt. I shall remind them of their hubris.”
He strode forwards. Five. The [Hunter]. The [Keybearer]. The Herald.
The Falcon of Medain landed, aiming a shortbow at him. Fetohep leaned out of the way of the arrow. He saw the Three of Arms aim a wand at him and flicked a dagger towards the Named Adventurer.
“You have come all this way for me, mortals. Now—regret that we met. To me, guardians of Khelt! Defend the throne!”
The Herald of Forests and the remains of the 4th Light saw glowing warriors rise, summoned like the Dagger of Serept. Fetohep brought down his halberd, and locked blades with the Keybearer. To death? He pressed the halberd down, down, as the [Knight] cried out and activated the magic. It was not Relic-class, it was his weapon of old. And the enchantment was simply, like many, utilitarian. Not fanciful, just—
Weight.
The mortals saw the [Knight] collapse. They cried out. The High King stared. The other [Knights] shouted, but all saw the halberd drive down. Fetohep rose, golden eyes flashing.
“Four left. If you would take my head, bleed upon these sands.”
He was laughing. The Named Adventurers, the Hunter, the Herald—hesitated. Then they came at him. At the end of it, Fetohep saw his mistakes.
Ah, I grew too enamored with the idea of living again. They made me feel young, these children. 
How foolish.
The first blade pierced his armor as the Herald ran him through the arm.
The King of Khelt fought.
 
—-
 
This was the end of his long flight. The King of Destruction turned to meet the Djinni just outside the gates of his city. Hope of an easy turnaround gone. The promised blade had never been.
So they fought. The Djinni swept in, but Drenir saw the danger. Hisaille, Seemutor—they were still careless.
The King of Destruction’s first blow struck Hisaille so hard he nearly cut her essence in half. She screamed and Drenir bellowed.
“Stay away from them.”
He conjured another pillar of fire as Hisaille fled. He could slay Seemutor and Hisaille by himself! With his two hands! Drenir and Flos locked gazes, and knew their opponents. Yet the Djinni refused to come low, as Flos beckoned. He flew up and disgorged a rain of acid, a river’s worth.
“Damn.”
Flos Reimarch swore. Drenir assailed him from above as Seemutor dueled with the [Archers] and [Mages]. He took aim at the King of Destruction, but each time, Venith was there. Blocking, the [Shield of the King].
Drenir pointed, and the very same lightning that Reim had unloaded from the towers now blasted into the city, picking off the mortals who tried to help their [King].
“Fall back! Leave the Djinni to us!”
Flos ordered his subjects. Many stayed, dying to distract them. The two younger Djinni laughed. Enjoying blood, enjoying war.
Hisaille crept forwards. She was going to stab that [Lord] in the back! She was wary of the King of Destruction, but—
“There you are.”
The Nightair Djinni had materialized to strike at Venith. She had to; her mist-form could not be sustained indefinitely. She had to have a form, unlike the other two, and her weakness was needing the daggers she carried. You could see where she was by how they hovered, although she could strike with them while incorporeal, for a time.
That was what he had seen. The Lord of the Skies had been busy defending his slow companions, his liege-lord. Now?
Takhatres stood in front of the gates, thirty paces away from Hisaille. He had been so…still, she had missed him! Had the blurring, incredibly fast Garuda lost all his energy?
Certainly, he looked tired. Sweat matted his feathers. The Lord of the Skies looked at Hisaille. She whirled, grinning. He had cut her time and time again, but his daggers weren’t specialized for killing air, but flesh. She sprang forwards.
Takhatres slashed her head off her shoulders. Hisaille never even saw him move. Her head floated off her body, and she cried out at the line of pain.
“You—!”
She dissipated. He was standing back at the gates. Hisaille held the mist-form, darted away, and reformed. She growled, preparing to call out to Seemutor or Drenir to help—
A blade severed her head, plunging through her neck and twisting. Again, the Djinni felt her head separate. She cried out.
“How—?”
She fled, mist, then had to reform. Her magic wasn’t infinite, and each time she became mist, she burned it faster. She formed and saw him.
He was standing right there. Breathing her. He—
Beheaded her. So fast! Hisaille screamed. Then, she heard a voice.
“Djinni tactics. [Fireball]. And—detonate.”
A glowing orb flashed through her mist-body and detonated. The fire ate at Hisaille in cloud-form and she shrieked. Grand Mage Esiela was aiming at her! Hisaille fled, but she could not maintain the mist form for more than a second. And when she came to, she—
—Was beheaded. The Lord of the Skies had her! No matter how far she tried to flee! He was too fast!
Terrified, now, Hisaille tried to call for Drenir, but he was battling the King of Destruction, and Seemutor was under attack! She saw the Grand Mage tracking her, able to see her even as mist. Now, the [Grand Mage] spoke, lips cracked and bleeding, injured, but intent.
“[Magic Null].”
This time Hisaille shrieked as part of her vanished. A true wound, worse than any before, tore at her. Drenir heard it.
“Hisaille! Sister! Flee!”
That was how Djinni died! Their bodies came and went, but their magic was them! The Grand Mage pursued the mist-cloud, but looked up and threw a barrier up—a storm of boulders thundered from the sky, striking at her, sending up dust-clouds.
Hisaille fled, sobbing in terror. She didn’t want to die! She stumbled, running for the carpet. Calling it to her. She…
Saw Takhatres, standing with one foot on the carpet. The Lord of the Skies looked up.
