“I was only ordered. I am a servant. I surrender.”
She lifted her hands, pleading with him. The Garuda looked at her.
“You want to surrender after you’ve slaughtered so many?”
Drenir dove. Too late. Hisaille breathed.
“Please?”
The Djinni stared down at her body. Her head, floating, became mist. The expression of fear became resignation. Despair—
She disappeared. Unable to hold on any longer. With a sigh. Takhatres waited, but Hisaille would never come back. Somewhere, her masters cried out in horror, and realized their servant was gone. The treasure that had kept their family fed and wealthy, even if poor, was destroyed.
Hisaille was…
The Lord of the Skies looked up. Two Djinni fell upon him, screaming fury. He tried to dodge. He evaded Seemutor, as the Djinni exploded into scything fury. He ran—straight into the air itself. Drenir reformed and lifted him up. The Lord of the Skies blurred, stabbing him, hurting Drenir, but the Djinni cared not at all.
“Do you feel proud, childkiller?”
That was all the Djinni said. Takhatres reached for his belt.
Drenir became lightning. A pure ball of it. Ten thousand tongues of electricity struck through the air. Takhatres fell, alive or dead, Drenir cared not. So long as the body remained, his fury would not end. He created a pillar of stone, to crush the Lord of the Skies beyond all recognition. Grind him into less than paste!
“Save him!”
Flos Reimarch bellowed, and Venith, Esiela, and the others tried to shield Takhatres from Drenir’s wrath. They could not stop him. However—the cry from Seemutor could.
“Brother! Argh! Brother, help me!”
Drenir turned. Seemutor, even Seemutor was wounded. Fleeing—bleeding his very essence. How? Hisaille was weak enough for blades to damage her alone, but Seemutor?
The answer was a flash of gold and other colors not part of any rainbow. An arrow curved through the air and the Djinni, desperately trying to evade it, tried to spread his essence out, form a gap.
It was no good. The bit of metal still exploded as it touched him and magic died there. Drenir stared as Seemutor screamed with real, deadly pain. He looked and there she was.
Maresar stood on a tower of Reim’s palace, bow in hand. She was loosing arrows—but no ordinary ones. Each one was an ungainly projectile, unbalanced, because of the shard of metal quickly tied to them.
Naq-Alrama steel. The broken pieces were being shot up in a shower! Not just by her; [Archers] were loosing bits of the metal.
Every time one touched Seemutor, both metal and Djinni’s essence were lost. The reaction of the two was of pure magic versus one of its nemeses, meeting.
“Brother!”
Seemutor could not evade this, not from all angles. He tried invisibility, but Maresar had hunted invisible foes, and the Djinni was not used to weapons like this!
Drenir turned. He dove, as a chunk twice the size of Maresar’s fist flew from a [Power Shot] arrow. The largest piece of Naq-Alrama metal struck Drenir in the chest. A fatal blow for Seemutor. The Djinni’s chest flashed as the metal exploded.
The greatest Djinni staggered in the air. Then—the wound closed. Teres, who had been cheering, stopped in horror. More arrows struck him, a rain, using up the costly metal that Nawalishifra had said was flawed.
“No. No.”
The [Blacksmith] groaned on the ground. She had her head in her hands.
“Flawed! Flawed! It breaks! It can’t touch one such as he! Only if it were made—”
Drenir was a giant in the skies. His form was dark blue, like Hisaille; he even seemed to be taking her shape, albeit as a huge cloud. His eyes looked down at the defenders of Reim as more Naq-Alrama arrows struck him.
Vaporizing bits of him. Wounding him, yes. Drenir bled his essence.
It could not kill him, though. Now he understood; a blade of such metal would have been his death. The rare weapons of Clan Tannousin would have ended all three if the Lord of the Skies held them.
Seemutor was screaming, unable to staunch his flow of essence. He looked as afraid as Hisaille. His confidence gone.
“They’ve wounded me, brother. Brother—Hisaille is dead.”
The cat-Djinni gasped. Drenir looked at him. Then, down at the archers, who had slowed their fire, unwilling to waste the few arrows left. They could kill him, Drenir knew. So he looked at Seemutor.
“Brother. Does your master summon you back? He must, if he sees you wounded. Flee. Flee, and tell him you are dying. Or will die. That is no lie.”
Seemutor’s eyes widened.
“You will stay, though?”
“I fear not that metal. Go, brother. Live.”
The cat-Djinni hesitated. Then, he fled, racing off into the skies. A few arrows pursued him, but Drenir caught each one, letting the burn tear at him rather than his little cousin. Then he turned back.
He was tired of this. Tired of seeing his people die. He had never rejoiced at this task like the other two; he was tired of blood. Even theirs.
“King of Destruction! Come forth!”
He turned. Let it be done. The Djinni boomed, and from one hand, he plucked a vengeance in kind.
Maresar dove from the tower as a comet hit it. The people of Reim stared up and screamed as more comets began to land across the city. Drenir threw parts of himself, caring not at the vast amounts of magic he expended.
“Djinni! Enough! Enough!”
The King of Destruction emerged. He shouted up as Venith, Esiela, shielded him. Drenir stopped his assault. He pointed down.
“You have slain one of my kin and wounded the other, King of Destruction. I could lay your city to waste from above! Choke them with poison; throw down lightning from the skies. That is not what my master ordered. Nor what I wish. Yet I will do so, unless you face me. Single-combat, as when you struck the King of Duels down. Take whatever you wish, but swear to face me upon your crown or I will slaughter your citizens without end.”
He should have done this from the beginning. However, Drenir saw Venith protesting, all of the King of Destruction’s subjects.
“Your Majesty, that would be suicide! This isn’t a mortal foe. If the Djinni is threatening, he knows he could be killed!”
“I know. And yet, Venith, he might fulfill his promise. I told you: I have beaten them. This? This is a better chance than not.”
Flos Reimarch was breathing heavily. He looked up at Drenir. Venith put a hand out.
“I cannot let you do this.”
The King of Destruction looked at him. He reached up, and slowly moved the hand.
“No more, Venith. Trust me. I can stop this Djinni. But at what cost?”
He stood there, and then called up to Drenir.
“You have your duel, Djinni. I need no more artifacts than what I carry. Come down and let us end this. I swear by my kingdom no one shall interfere if you will do the same!”
Upon hearing this, Drenir laughed. He laughed, bitterly, long and loud. He descended, as the King of Destruction strode forwards, alone. Because of all he had seen today, this was the most laughable. The funniest.
“Mortal [King]. You have made a mistake. I so swear. Now—let us finish this.”
King of Destruction or not—Drenir took a final form. A towering figure, taller than Flos by two heads. Six arms holding blades, skin like Hisaille’s in honor of her. Flos wavered as Drenir opened four eyes.
The Djinni spoke to him, as Flos readied his sword and shield he had borrowed from Venith. Contemptuously, humorously—and even sadly.
“You may have fought half-Giants and their kin as now walk this land. You may be one of the greatest mortals to live. The greatest of [Kings] in a thousand years. You are still arrogant. The strength of a [King] is always in his kingdom. And I?”
He lifted six blades, each made of him. The Djinni exhaled through corporeal lungs, staring at the sky. How tired he was. Yet he looked down, and smiled grimly.
“I have killed Dragons. So let us end this, King of Destruction.”
He advanced, blades singing, as the King of Destruction fought for his life. In the first clash of swords, Teresa Atwood, [Bladeswoman] far below both though she was, could see it: neither had lied.
Flos Reimarch was outmatched.
 
—-
 
Fetohep tasted steel. Pain, running through his body. Lances of disruption to the magic that animated him. He whirled, and drove one of them back.
Four on one. The others held back; they couldn’t even join the melee. They were too slow, too weak. The four though—
The Herald was best. She matched him, blow for blow, but she was older. A [Commander]. He was a [Warrior] born, and she fell back. If it were just the two of them, he, with his undead body—
A sting from the side. The [Undead Hunter] whirled back as Fetohep swung at her. She fired the crossbows she held again, one in each hand. Keeping wide.
“Pests.”
He struck at her, but Three of Arms conjured barriers, slowing him, trying to constrict him, cast spells to slow or blind the undead king.
They were resisted by Fetohep’s armor, his Skills and artifacts. He lashed out, but the Falcon of Medain had taken over for the Herald. She fought, swore as his slash nearly did the same for her as the [Keybearer], flipped backwards.
Fetohep stepped forwards and struck her mid-flip. The showy move cost the Named Adventurer a stab through the stomach. She cried out, falling.
“So long as I live, Khelt shall never fall. You cannot slay me with half-hearted blades! Come. Die.”
He struck around him, in a fury, but—bled. Not actual blood, but took blows from all sides.
Jecaina was trying to get to him. His subjects were fighting fiercely, but he had told them to hold back.
Not one more living soul of his would die! Fetohep staggered as the Herald pierced his side again, flowing like the woman of stories to strike from all angles, graceful.
It would end like this. He knew it. He…sighed.
“Fetohep!”
Jecaina screamed. She had gone in too far, and High King Perric was coming after her. That was his weakness, wasn’t it, these days? The living.
A wave of undead surged forwards, saving the Arbiter Queen, pushing Medain’s forces back. Fetohep’s concentration wavered.
The Falcon of Medain’s shortsword took him through the neck. Fetohep stared at her as the battlefield became still. His subjects, watching from afar, screamed. Even the undead froze. Jecaina choked and Fetohep whispered as the sword pierced him.
“Who…are you?”
 
—-
 
The King of Destruction was strong. So strong, Drenir couldn’t believe it. His strength exceeded his body, and Drenir had known Dragons who were weaker.
In the clash of swords, Flos could push Drenir back. He was a veteran, as skilled as the best, if not in perfect form and artistry, a seasoned warrior.
He could also wound Drenir; he had cut the Djinni twice and Drenir bled essence. The King of Destruction’s aura, the royal power, let him touch Drenir, knock him back.
Flos Reimarch was still losing. Drenir had six arms. He was faster. He was taller. He fought like a Djinni.
The King of Destruction charged, and Drenir flowed around him like mist, stabbed from the back. Flos Reimarch’s armor had taken too many blows, and Drenir’s swords were not relics—but they were sharp as anything. The King of Destruction bled.
Venith was tensed. Maresar, even Takhatres, on his feet, were all watching. Would they interfere? If they did, Drenir might win.
Flos had sworn by his kingdom. He might lose his class. They watched as he bled.
He had a healing potion in his mouth and drank from it as they dueled. He had known he would be injured; so why had he fought? That was his one big advantage; no potion made by mortals in this day and age could heal Drenir.
“Strong as Giants. But your flesh is too thin.”
Drenir slashed and Flos saw two arms descend; he blocked them, but the other two scythed horizontally. His shield blocked one; Drenir cut him with the last.
Unfair? Oh, yes. The King of Destruction cried out, and his subjects shouted in despair. He let go of the shield, dropping it, and Drenir pressed down.
“I have you!”
He dug a sword into Flos’ side. Then—hesitated.
The King of Destruction had his arm. Flos Reimarch clung to it with a bloody hand, grinning. He had…dropped his sword? Now, he held Drenir, and the Djinni felt his aura dragging at him. The fingers tore into his very essence. Flos spoke around the healing potion clutched between his teeth.
“We have each other, Djinni.”
Drenir stared. So this was his plan? To tear apart the Djinni with the strength of a [King]? He saw Flos straining and felt his limbs being pulled down. Unable to fight back against that strength, Drenir acknowledged Flos’ last gambit. Then he laughed again.
“You have me, King of Destruction. Yes, indeed. Hold on.”
Then he turned his body to living flame and Flos screamed and burned. Yet he did not let go. Teres saw him drag the Djinni down for his last, desperate gambit.
 
—-
 
“Who are you?”
Fetohep of Khelt looked at the Falcon of Medain as the sword ran through his throat. Straight through her. She—she was not whom he was addressing, for all she thought it.
He was speaking to what lay beyond. To…a strangeness.
Always. Always they were there. In this moment, when he had reawoken to find he ruled Khelt…always.
Eighteen stood there. Eighteen glorious figures of old, rulers of Khelt! His queen.
Khelta herself. They always spoke to him.
Live! Serve. Protect.
They were bound by sacrifice and the land. The weight of the same crown Fetohep wore. They always said the same things…
“Listen. Know. Look.”
Fetohep stared. In that flash of time, he saw the eighteen. Only—what had changed? They were looking at him. Pointing. He looked—
And saw the young woman. So strange. Not dressed at all like them. She waved at him.
“Um.”
“Who…are you?”
He asked her. The [Innkeeper] waved harder.
“Erin Solstice. Hi—”
The sword moved. Fetohep felt it slice—and his body fell, headless.
The lights in his eyes went out. The golden flames vanished. The Falcon of Medain lowered her sword as the King of Khelt’s head fell. She sheathed it with a flourish, breathing hard.
“Frieke of Medain.”
She spoke to the body, as the Herald of Forests raised her spear and the cheering began. The undead held still.
Khelt’s citizens wailed. They screamed at the sight. High King Perric laughed as the Arbiter Queen wept.
“No. Fetohep!”
His body lay on the ground, head next to it. Already dissolving. The King of Khelt was dead.
 
—-
 
Flos Reimarch burned. He screamed, as Drenir became flame—then an inferno. His skin burned, and healed, mid-burn, as the potion fought against the fire.
He would die unless he let Drenir go. Did he have the strength to tear Drenir apart before he burned away? Drenir doubted it.
