Strange. As Drenir killed the [King] by fire, he waited for the terrible pain. The King of Destruction might well damage him so much it took decades to recover, yet he felt none. Oh, the strength, yes. But he was being dragged down. What was he doing?
Teres saw Flos, in the flames, pull the Djinni low. He was screaming, shouting in pure agony, but his fingers were fumbling. Searching for something.
He knew how to fight Djinni. He told her he had fought them personally once. Just…once. How would he win?
The young woman saw Flos find what he was looking for. What he had seen, and aimed for all along. His fingers touched the one thing on Drenir that had never changed, for all the forms the Djinni had taken, even as cloud, as meteor.
The collar around his neck. The King of Destruction gripped it with both hands, letting go of Drenir. The Djinni stared at him. Teres stared. She heard a voice from Esiela.
“He can’t be thinking of—is he mad?”
The Djinni felt the [King]’s grip on his collar. His prison. He looked at Flos as the [King] burned.
“Fool. You cannot break this. I could not.”
The King of Destruction ignored him. He was screaming, potion gone. Pulling at the artifact.
He was too weak. This had been made to hold Drenir. It was thus, stronger than Drenir was. Only a Djinni stronger than he could have removed it, or a Dragon, or…and hope might be dead.
What chance did a mortal man have? Yet, he was pulling.
That…strength. Drenir was still fire. This had all happened in less than a second. Flos was burning.
He felt something uncertain in his very being. A…strain. The Djinni’s eyes widened.
“Impossible.”
Flos howled. His arms tried to channel his strength. Not a fraction, heedless of whether it would hurt him! The fullest extent of it.
[A Kingdom’s Strength]. Once, it had stretched from shore to shore. Once—
He was going to die. Every part of Drenir saw the king burning to death. He felt the compulsion to end him. He—
Ended his flames. The command spells in his being tore at him, threatening death, forcing him to reignite. Drenir fought it. He met Flos’ burned gaze.
The King of Destruction screamed. One sound that tore through the air. His fingers tore, flesh down to bone.
He pulled the collar apart. The relic of millennia, forged to capture Drenir, his bonds that had never been broken—shattered.
The shockwave of the artifact breaking exploded around the two. Teres was thrown so hard she hit the walls of the city. Every person in Reim was knocked down, by the magic as much as the blast of air.
Impossible. They were made never to be broken! Drenir stared down at the pieces of metal, lying next to the prone [King]. And he realized.
“King of Destruction.”
Such a fitting name. Drenir looked down at Flos.
The man was barely alive. He was burned on every part of his body; he might have been blind from the heat and fire. No hair remained. He looked up, though.
Waiting.
Drenir could have slaughtered him. Killed every person in the city. He could have.
Yet his chains were gone. The Djinni reached up and felt nothing. No collar.
Free.
Horror struck all those who watched as the Djinni rose up slowly. The scrying spells reflected the nightmare of it; the freed Djinni of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Emira Sulaake of Aeresuth had gone still. She looked at Drenir as he floated over the King of Destruction’s body.
Madness. The King had freed a Djinni? No one could speak.
Drenir looked to the left. To the right. Up, and down. He breathed, in, and out, and tasted something. Then he looked at the [King].
There was too much to say. Hisaille was dead. Drenir had killed so many. Even now, his vassals rushed forwards, to guard him. The Djinni could have killed him. But it was his choice.
So Drenir rose. He bowed, slightly, and then rose higher.
“Thank you, King of Destruction.”
Then he turned. He flew higher, into the sky, like a bird, like an arrow. Streaking back the way he had come. When he spoke next, it was a roar. A bellow that was surely heard in every part of Chandrar. It wasn’t Cinaelu. It was technically the day after.
Drenir didn’t care. Nor would the Rebel of String. He bellowed the word.
“FREEDOM.”
Let all those who held chains beware.
 
—-
 
Khelt was in chaos. The citizens were prostrate, wailing. In a blind panic, or just numb.
Fetohep of Khelt was dead! Already, the treacherous armies were celebrating—but pulling back. The undead had thrown themselves forwards in a frenzy and they were fighting to escape, job done.
This was the doom of Khelt. The direst day in six hundred years. Who could but walk when the earth had collapsed inwards? Who could see for tears in their eyes?
Only one person could. One person of Khelt…a young woman. She was a [Potter], though she was one of the rare sorts who had lived beyond Khelt. She had been born to a family who had left—and then pleaded to return. They had been allowed back in, and thus, the young woman had known the outside world and this paradise, if strange.
She was remarkable for reasons only she and the ruler of Khelt knew. He had summoned her, one day, and asked her to tell him the full story. She had thought little of the honor beyond the honor itself until the day he had summoned her back and told her.
If I should die before naming another heir, you shall take up my crown. On the day I perish, sit upon my throne. It is a terrible burden, but you are my heir of this generation if another is not found.
A terrible, horrifying honor. She had hoped it would not come, and he had reassured her that he had centuries left. He did need to name his successor, though. So—on this day, she ascended the steps to the palace.
The servants were wailing inside as out. The undead guards let her pass. She could walk anywhere in the palace; Fetohep had shown her enough to ensure that if…
If…
She was numb. She would have fallen, but she had to obey. Khelt could not endure without a ruler. The undead would descend into their madness. Her eyes were dry. She hesitated on the doors of the throne room, as two of the greatest protectors of Khelt, undead armed with magnificent relics, watched her. She was terribly afraid.
But she had to know. So she walked forwards, opening the doors to the throne room.
“Your Majesty?”
The young woman’s voice trembled. She looked to the throne upon which nineteen generations of Khelt’s rulers had sat. The terrible weight of time rested there. A burden beyond belief.
The nineteenth King of Khelt slowly raised his head. The golden flames reappeared in the sockets as Fetohep’s body, his true body, raised its head.
“Yes, child?”
She fell to her knees, weeping. Fetohep rose. He felt…disorientated, from his journey. From what he had heard. Nevertheless, he was aware precious time had passed.
His feet strode from the throne. His carefully-wrapped, bandaged flesh, more like a mummy from Earth, was more fragile than the Fetohep that had fought in the north. A six-hundred year-old body was far too much to risk. He was much too much to risk.
“Rise, child. Did you doubt me? Send word to the citizens! I live! Restore order. And—breach the vaults of Khelt. I call for my relics of war!”
Fetohep’s voice rose. The young woman rose as the guardians stirred. The relics? Fetohep’s eyes burned brighter than they ever had before.
This was how you humbled your foes, incidentally. The great strike to Khelt’s army, at such cost, to the [Keybearer] of Samal, all the blood lost to kill the King of Khelt…
Fetohep was dead. He was always dead. High King Perric stared at the scrying orb as Fetohep emerged from his palace to the cheers of his citizens. His army faltered and looked at Khelt’s army, advancing.
Their morale broke. Even the Herald of Forests and the other half-Elves stared, dull-eyed. They hadn’t known the Ruler of Khelt could do that! Some secrets had been kept even from their memories. How many times had one fallen in battle, though?
The answer: never.
Fetohep held the speaking stone away from him and Jecaina screamed at him.
“I will return as soon as I am able. There is a mission I must attend to. Stop weeping, Arbiter Queen. It does not become you.”
He turned, and his golden eyes of flame swept his palace.
“Listen. Know. Look.”
The rulers of Khelt called to him strongly, shouting to him now his soul had returned home. Fetohep?
He listened.
 
—-
 
The great crusade in the north was just starting. The thousands of [Knights] were all needed, for Khelt had not been broken in a single strike, and the ruler was angry.
In Reim, meanwhile, Flos Reimarch was carried by magic; no one could even touch him. He was so badly burned that even healing potions could not repair the damage in seconds. Every [Healer] clustered around him, but at last, Takhatres had to thrust his way through the crowd.
“Flos. Nerrhavia’s taken advantage. Your army is returning here.”
“You cannot speak to him! He cannot even move! We must find more healing artifacts. A’ctelios Salash! The damage—”
One of the [Healers] tried to stop the Lord of the Skies, but Takhatres, wounded as he had been himself, pressed on. He could see the eyes staring at him around the charred skin.
“Flos. They’re heading north. More armies are coming, but they’re heading north. They intend to liberate Ger, Hellios. Cut us apart and surround us. I can stop the ones headed here, but we give up both nations back to their people.”
And neither ruler might easily bow again. Especially Hellios. Yet Reim was in danger. Takhatres waited.
He could not move. He was wounded beyond belief. Nevertheless, the King of Destruction spoke, and it was not what they expected.
“Gnolls.”
The Gnolls? Takhatres recalled they had been given land to the north! Hellios’ land. Flos spoke.
“Go.”
“Are you sure?”
His army was in tatters. Takhatres’ tribe could return, but to guard the north…Flos spoke.
“I will not be forsworn again. Go.”
The Lord of the Skies bowed and left. Nerrhavia’s armies covered the border, advancing on Reim now the King of Destruction was so wounded. Towards the capital.
 
—-
 
That didn’t matter. Oh, it was war. A technical breach of peace—who was going to hold Nerrhavia to account? Flos had enemies who wanted him dead at any cost.
It still mattered not. Not right now.
The only news that mattered was that a Djinni was on the loose. The same kind of calamity that struck once a millennia, always a disaster, especially if they were powerful. And Drenir was almost as powerful as the last one.
Chandrar reacted to the news as if a Goblin King had emerged. No—perhaps more so. For this mattered to them.
A Djinni. All those who held chains trembled. Yet the response was immediate.
Other Djinni were summoned. From the Shield Kingdom of Merreid to Roshal, masters unleashed their own Djinni with one command: slay Drenir. Or chain him once more, if an empty vessel could be found.
That was what must be done. Even if they had to sacrifice other Djinni, not one would escape. From the instant he was freed, he was hunted.
Drenir knew this. Worse—he knew he could not easily flee Chandrar’s shores. He was wounded from battle, exhausted, and Djinni would hunt him from all directions. Some could teleport.
He did not want to kill his kin. They would have to fight him with all their strength and he likewise. Drenir dreamed of fleeing the shores. He had almost done so, but he knew he would never make it.
So he flew the way back he’d come. Straight into Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
His kin sped to meet him, with nets and chains and weapons. They shouted at him to run, even as they were compelled to fight him. They cheered his freedom, sobbing as they struck at him.
He never answered their blows. Drenir flew, letting himself be wounded. [Mages] struck at him, unleashing spells; he answered them as he flew, but speed was all.
They all knew where he was going. If he did not flee and hide—there was only one place to go. So fast Drenir flew! He burned his very magic away for speed. To get there in time.
She had to know he was coming.
Emira Sulaake of Aeresuth and her family hid, begging for protection from Queen Yisame and the capital. Some fled on horseback, but how fast could they run? Their servant—
No. Their slave was freed. And while they might call themselves ‘good masters’, the truth was that none would ever want to be judged while at the mercy of those they had imprisoned. They knew what would happen.
 
—-
 
The glorious city of Aeresuth, a jewel even among Nerrhavia’s many cities was below him. Lit up. Defensive magics and other Djinni fought him.
He was bleeding.
Dying. Drenir’s essence leaked into the void and his kin were crying out. Some of the Emira’s cousins, the scions of Aeresuth, were running. She was probably hiding in the vault he had built to withstand all.
Drenir cared not. He fell, like a comet, and landed in the center. Buildings were blown away, the people lamented and fled. He called up at his cousins as they circled, throwing down weapons and magic.
“Brothers and sisters! Flee! My vengeance is at hand and I will never be chained again! Dream of freedom! Another can break our bonds! Go!”
They fled, as their masters realized what Drenir was going to do and ordered them back in panic. He waited until the last was speeding away.
Emira Sulaake, her family, were all running now. A few fools tried to attack him. Drenir didn’t care. He looked at the streets he had swept for over two thousand years, the bricks he had laid. Farmland he had made prosper.
All things he enjoyed doing, for the craft of it. If only he had been able to do it himself. Choose.
“I will not be chained again. Sister, I’m sorry I could not join you. I’m just tired, and they are so many.”
Drenir whispered. He sat, sighing, and reached for his heart. It was already torn, the very core of him dying. He tore it open, gently, even.
All the magic in him released at once. Those who watched, seeing Emira Sulaake flee on enchanted carriage, the others leaving the city, the city itself, and this entire region—saw the light.
Aeresuth vanished. The Djinni’s last vengeance left nothing. Not even a crater. Only sand and dust. Drenir’s last thought was regret. If he could have fled and lived…and freed the others, he would have.
But now they knew. Someone could break their chains, though he was mortal. Now, the world knew the King of Destruction’s great secret power. Let them tremble.
Let them hope again.
