So many things were wrong. It should not have been in sunlight! That ruined the metal if it wasn’t finished forging! And worse—
It was still in an ingot form. A block of metal.
“What is this—”
She began furiously, outraged. Until her eyes saw the obvious. The—crack running down the pure ingot. The flaw in the prepared materials.
Nawalishifra’s eyes held tears. But she had wept them all. She had helped make this—but helped. This was the last act of her father, the great [Naq-Alrama Smith] of Clan Tannousin. His last action had not been a great one, his legacy for his people.
Flaw. A single flaw, perhaps more. That was enough. No one could make anything with this.
It was…worthless. She had been prepared for the King of Destruction’s understandable fury, after all he had lauded and hosted Clan Tannousin. That they would rely on the missing blade?
“You said nothing.”
That was all Maresar said. Nawalishifra stared up at the [Bandit Lord]. Maresar looked at the other ingots, sitting hardened, worthless in the sun. No one had helped Nawal carry them out here. Clan Tannousin was hiding.
“I—I was making another. I gathered the ingredients, enough. I was making more, to replace what was ruined.”
Nawal said quietly. Almost hesitantly, unlike every other time she had ever spoken. She looked up at Maresar, pleading.
“I thought I could do that. I didn’t know it was needed.”
The [Bandit Lord] just looked at her. She stared at the ingot. It was something. Use it. Her mind babbled at her. Flos was returning and without a weapon—
“Can we at least use that? It’s still Naq-Alrama steel, flawed or not! It should be hard as diamonds!”
The [Blacksmith] gave Maresar a broken smile.
“It is.”
“Then—”
The young woman dropped the ingot. It landed, tumbling, striking the ground at an angle. And—cracked.
Maresar saw it break, like a gemstone. No—like a diamond. Hard as a diamond. Without any of metal’s strength. The pieces landed on the ground and Maresar looked at Nawalishifra. The [Blacksmith] turned.
In the distance there was lightning. A cloud like darkness, spreading after fleeing figures. She heard shouts, cheers, even. Cries.
He was coming, fleeing the poison cloud, the three Djinni. Maresar dismounted from her horse. Nawal?
She began to walk, slowly. To meet the King of Destruction.
 
—-
 
The [Knights] struck Khelt’s lines like a hammer. There were no members of the Order of Seasons in this first wave; only Spring Knights had been sent, and a paltry few at that. These? These were the best.
Pregaris Knights, the Order of the Kingdom of Keys, a paradise like Khelt’s. They wore strange armor, with markings like actual keyholes on the metal, the obsession of their kingdom.
Yet they fought with all of Samal’s strength! Doors and keys—one slashed the air with an heirloom, walked through the door, and appeared out the other side. It was just a dozen feet of space she covered, but it allowed her to bypass the first rank, begin carving back out!
The Sothbound, fur-armored [Knights] who brought cold with them. They hurled javelins, fought with axe and shield in small bands, overpowering even Skeleton Knights, their theoretical cousins, with ease. One saw a half-Giant skeleton lumbering towards him and bellowed.
“[Summon Allies: Wolves of the North]!”
Bounding, furious grey-white animals appeared out of a sudden blizzard of snow. The snow melted; the animals did not. They were not as large as Carn Wolves, but they fought in huge packs, surrounding the half-Giant skeleton and letting the Sothbound assail it as it was brought down.
Other [Knights] came, champions of their orders, some the only representatives, others, small knots. One blew apart undead with vials of alchemical fire before coating her bardiche with flaming liquid. Others formed lance-tips, striking and pulling back like they were jousting.
The last group in full force were the enemies of his kind, for all they came from a land like his.
Noelictus, Kingdom of Shade! Fetohep snarled as he saw them, walking among the [Knights]. Hunters! Hunters with crossbows, lighter, leather or cloth armor, their distinctive hats, calmly loosing enchanted bolts from cover, doing the most damage without risking their lives in the melee!
“Curse you, spawn of Noelictus! How soon do you forget what you were made of? The very kingdom you serve would turn against Khelt? Hypocrisy! Treachery—”
Fetohep slashed and an enchanted bolt blew apart on the tip of his halberd. One of the [Undead Hunters] had taken a shot at him, the bolt passing clean through the shieldbearer in front of Fetohep before phasing out the other side.
The [Knights] took the center as Medain surged around them. Now the Golden Ranks were coming out, and the Named Adventurers. They pressed in on one side, but the real threat was still above and on the flanks.
The two half-Elves. The orb of water was pounding the Jaw of Zeikhal, and for the first time, Fetohep saw the cracks appearing in the great monster’s skeletal frame.
Meanwhile, the Herald of Forests was cutting in with her band of legends, scything through unguarded flanks. Hunting his people.
They knew him. Fetohep had not snarled, not raged even when thousands of undead warriors perished in the volleys. He had not cared when they destroyed his riders, the Herald of the Forest ruined his advance. Even the Jaw of Zeikhal barely gave him pause.
His Scourge Forerunner was dead. Jeirra Akreen. He knew her name. As a girl, she had petitioned him to bear the right to lead undead. She had even debated leaving Khelt.
His head turned. Fetohep’s command of the battlefield was everywhere, but it was devoted in one place. Undead surged forwards, running, striking in from all sides, feinting—forming an elaborate formation, trying to stop her.
They could not. The Herald of the Forests bore down on the second living officer, who tried to get behind the undead rushing to protect him. She swung her partisan down. Fetohep saw Khelt’s blood run onto the sands.
“Your Majesty—”
In another place, he saw a Tier 4 barrier explode. The countless million tons of water struck the place where another living soul had been. He saw nothing, even when the waters rushed away.
Death. He felt them die. His subjects! The Herald, Ierwyn, and the old [Mage] both watched Fetohep as he began to rage. They knew his weakness.
“My subjects, to me! Khelt shall unleash fury! You impotent wretches! You arrogant Humans, who deride the undead! Khelt has not made war on Terandria for eons and still you come, prancing your ideals upon every other kind and nation! Damn you! I shall strip you down to your bones and scatter your remains across Rhir! I shall topple every craven tower in your kingdoms, and break your conceits on Chandrar’s shores! Gilded, spoiled bratlings! Die!”
His counterattack came as the living lieutenants, even some of the undead, began unveiling scrolls.
“Evade! Spells incoming! [Army: Evasive Dodge]!”
The [General of Bows] shouted. Half-Elves looked up and saw the sky come to light.
Over a thousand scrolls activated in the first counter-volley. [Fireballs], [Lightning Bolts], and other spells of that caliber flashed across the air, blasting the living caught unawares. The Herald spun her partisan, as the Fables of the Forest came under fire. Even the [Knights] fell back; spells were neutralized, blocked—but some of them still fell, overwhelmed by the barrage.
That was the first wave. Fetohep, furious beyond belief, had his army activate the others they carried, unleashing a storm of magic made of pure gold, each scroll bought, saved for battles like these.
Hundreds of spells blasted the barrier around the old half-Elf. He cackled as Fetohep’s army earthed its fury uselessly towards him. The High King and [General of Bows] were both intimidated by the sight. Well they should be, but the old half-Elf wasn’t in charge of winning the battle. And—he remembered something they had not.
“You were great in your time, Fetohep of Khelt! Not the greatest. You just lived long. I remember when they told me you died! Hah!”
However, it was true that death had granted the King of Khelt more power. More experience. More tricks. He pointed, and the skeletal warriors embattled with the [Knights] drew back.
Half of them, rather. The other half suddenly—collapsed. Fetohep spoke to his officers in the area.
“Fall back. Uncontrolled undead emerging.”
The Kheltian officers looked up, paling. They fled backwards, more terrified of this than the mortals. The [Knights], seeing the skeletons collapsing, hesitated. One of the [Hunters] swore as he reloaded a crossbow.
“Back up! Greater undead spawning! That’s—”
The first giant of bones rose out of the sacrifice, not a proper Giant’s skeleton, but an amalgamation of bones. A Bone Horror on a far larger scale. The Abomination of Bone charged at the living—yet it had none of Khelt’s grace. It was a savage, uncontrolled undead being.
The nightmare of places like Noelictus and Khelt. The [Knights], adventurers, and [Hunters] targeted it, as more began to rise out of the remains of Khelt’s lesser undead.
Fetohep was venting his fury, unleashing Khelt’s weapons one by one. Yet the [Knights] came on, and there were thousands. They began mounting charges, pushing in, ignoring the rest of the army. Now, the vast undead legions were working against what needed to be done; they could overwhelm, bog down foes, but not the Herald of Forests. And the mortals had one goal.
The Falcon of Medain took flight. Three of Arms sallied forth, joining the [Knights]. They had one goal. It was so easy for them. They didn’t need to rout the army. They just needed—
To kill him. Fetohep saw them driving in, lances of petty vengeance against him. He formed his vanguard, even as his army moved to protect him.
Then it happened. He heard a terrible crack. An explosion, but he felt it. Fetohep looked up and saw the last of the great spell, the water, blast open the Jaw of Zeikhal’s frame. The undead giant wavered as magic poured out of the breach.
The mortals cheered. Cheered. Fetohep saw his greatest asset on the battlefield waver, the many legs, the scorpion-like legend from the Great Desert, begin to collapse. He pointed.
“No. No. If you would do this, mortals, you living fools and cowards—reap the entirety of it!”
The Jaw of Zeikhal froze. Then, it began to lumber forwards in a final charge. Fast—faster! It ignored its dissipating bones, the furious onslaught of binding spells and damage. It collapsed, halfway among the living and undead forces. Again, there was a cheer, but too late. The old half-Elf and the Herald had both turned.
“Get back! Get—”
“Vengeance!”
Fetohep roared. The Jaw of Zeikhal—exploded. Bone, and a wave of dark, half-invisible magic shockwave blasted out, knocking mortals down. High King Perric, seeing the explosion, felt the wave even from here, but laughed.
“That was his last trick? That—fool! Press in, press—”
“Your Majesty, look!”
One of the [Strategists] pointed in horror. Perric’s glee faded. He saw Fetohep’s true plan all along. The half-Elves stared in horror. Medain’s citizens, the [Knights], likewise.
The shockwave of death magic had killed the [Soldiers] around it. They had gotten to their feet—but as their friends realized they were not alive. They had become undead, zombies and ghouls and Draugr. That was one thing, and horrific enough. The worst?
The Jaw of Zeikhal had marked the area nearly two thousand feet around where it had died. The sand, the arid ground, and the few plants—had all withered. Turned ashen, grey. It had changed the very land itself.
“Deadlands. He’s—he’s converted it into lands of death!”
The [General of Bows] whispered. It was the very thing the Claiven Earth feared. Pure death magic emanated here, worse than even Khelt itself. The undead began to fight around it, animated by the legacy of the great undead. Even if Khelt was wiped clean, every body burned—Fetohep had poisoned the land here, and the stain was already spreading.
He had to die. The Jaw of Zeikhal’s death still weakened the army. Push in. Hold the rest of the undead legions back! Just—kill him. Fetohep began to advance himself, leading riders to meet the [Knights] and warriors spearing towards him. His living officers called on him to retreat! There were vast legions of undead still! Not even a third had fallen, and more could be revived! Yet they saw Fetohep advance, swinging his halberd to bring down the first [Knight] who struck at him.
The fearsome warrior-king, who wiped even the smiles from the greatest [Knights] as they saw him attack. Yet he was suddenly at the forefront.
He had simply lost his calm. While it was clichéd, the Herald of the Forests had to admit as she struck towards him—
It was going just as planned.
 
—-
 
Flos Reimarch rode through the gates of Reim, coughing. Poison burned his lungs, though he had imbibed an antidote. He saw Nawalishifra walking towards him.
“Your Majesty.”
He knew. The instant he saw her face, he had to know. Nevertheless, the King of Destruction slowly dismounted. His brave horse collapsed.
“Save her. She bore me here.”
He spoke to one of the [Soldiers]. They bent for the laboring animal. Flos looked around.
“Where is Clan Tannousin, Nawalishifra? My blade? Maresar?”
She gave him no answer. Just a look that told him everything.
“I tried to replace it, King of Destruction. I—”
Her voice trembled. Flos Reimarch looked at her. The King of Destruction spoke slowly. His red-and-gold hair was as stained with battle as Maresar’s skin and armor had been. Yet no blood touched him. He had not even scored his opponent’s blood.
“You said nothing? I would have forgiven it. Yet in pride, you hid a secret. As we rode, you did not dare to tell me? I have ridden through fire and smoke, left thousands of my people to die fighting the Djinni. All for a blade that is not here.”
There was nothing she could say that would appease him. Nor did the King of Destruction unleash his wrath, though it would have taken a single swing of his sword. He just turned away.
There was no time. Behind him came the others. Teres, Takhatres, blurring away from another arrow of fire, Venith, Esiela.
“The blade! Where is it? Give it to me!”
The Lord of the Skies met him at the same time as the others. Flos shook his head.
“It never was.”
Horrified, Teres slowed. She too was coughing with poison, terrified of the Djinni following after. They were dodging lightning unleashed from Reim’s towers, but the barrage could not last forever. What had humbled an army could not kill Drenir; he was blocking the lightning bolts as Seemutor and Hisaille rushed forwards.
“Clan Tannousin failed? How is this possible?”
