“But if it is, I’m calling it a war crime. Like [Poison Cloud] spells in Ailendamus, Noass. If they’re doing it, it’s not ‘seems like war crimes’, it is. This is Drassi. Possible war crimes from Nerrhavia’s Fallen if the Djinni attack. How’s that for news?”
The two Drakes began bickering. Fetohep of Khelt turned, as if he could look back the countless miles the way he had come towards Reim. Djinni.
“It seems you face a challenge, brat.”
Then he kept riding forwards.
 
—-
 
When he got word of the Djinni, High King Perric felt like opening a bottle of something expensive. Djinni. Of course, it was a war crime.
No nation on Chandrar condoned the use of Djinni in war! Not for moralistic reasons so much as practicality. If one was lost, it was a finite resource, already rare, gone forever, and if two Djinni fought, that was the likeliest outcome.
More importantly…if someone started using Djinni, the other side would use their Djinni and that got—nasty.
If he had a Djinni he thought could slay the King of Destruction, or that damned Revenant, Perric would have given serious thought to using one. He hoped they’d kill Flos of Reim for him. That would be the good news among the sandstorm of misery.
Speaking of Djinni…he spent a few hours among his concubines. Stress was eating at him, and the High King did not let it fester. He consulted with an expert who would know more.
As in—another Djinni. Just not one who could kill Fetohep, or even give the undead ruler a good fight.
High King Perric had made it a goal to have a concubine or wife of every species in the world…excepting Selphids. And Antinium, he’d added to the list, if there even were females among them. The Djinni in his company of dozens—he didn’t stop at one per species—was among the weakest of her kind. Barely able to shapeshift and fly, and still stronger than any Silver-rank adventurer in existence for all of that.
“What kind of Djinni are coming after the King of Destruction? Do they have a chance?”
She blew a cloud of blue smoke at him, and he looked away from her pulsating, somewhat insectile worm-like form.
“Change back to a proper form at once!”
She sulkily obeyed, but still took another draft from the blue smoke drug she enjoyed. The Djinni Maef replied.
“I know one of my kin flying. That one.”
The Djinni pointed. Medain saw the image of the three Djinni, two carrying enchanted weapons, and focused on the one flying highest.
“Drenirkessun.”
“And? His capabilities?”
The High King was impatient. Maef smiled sweetly. He’d made a mistake in the rules binding her; she couldn’t hurt him, but he’d allowed her too liberal use of her tongue.
“He could reduce this palace to ash, your Golden Ranks or not. Only your Named Adventurers could give him pause. Drenirkesun is mighty. Kill the King of Destruction? I think he can, army or not. No blade made of mundane metal could touch him, even if he took form and lay still on the ground. Even the [Grand Mage] is a child without enough magic; he can shift forms, and fights with the experience of millennia. He is older than Fetohep of Khelt. He would be a fine addition to your seraglio, your Majesty. I wonder if you’d have the courage for the ‘Scepter of Medain’ to rise in his presence? He can be quite beautiful, but true power turns men off, or so I observe.”
High King Perric didn’t even dignify the insults with a reply. He simply turned, curiosity satisfied, and strode from his chambers.
He had more important business to attend to; the defense of his realm. To that end, High King Perric did not meet with his worthless [Generals], who shook in their boots at the size of Khelt’s army or that behemoth; he met with the truly important people, who could do something about it.
 
—-
 
Even a [High King] met with his guests respectfully. He offered them all refreshments and courtesies, but they were brief. They were familiar, but he would have accepted that even if they weren’t important.
Perric respected adventurers. Thus he had named Medain, unofficially, the Kingdom of Adventurers. The three magical dungeons of the kingdom were its lifeblood and he had been a Gold-rank before taking the throne.
At any rate, Perric cultivated his adventurers’ loyalty, not least with gifts of land and lavish prizes to any of Gold-rank. Let alone the two Named-rank Adventurers sitting before him.
Medain had two, and their presence was because they had made their names delving into the dungeons here—and because he gave them all they could want if they stayed within his kingdom and aided him. Neither had gone against Khelt yet, but it was time.
“One battle, friends. One battle. If the Revenant dies—his armies fall apart. If I offered you the right battle, I trust you’d remember our long friendship and take it?”
Both adventurers gazed at each other, appraisingly. They were in a bind. On one hand? Neither one wanted to fight Khelt. On the other—it was a bad look for them to run, especially Named Adventurers. Also, Medain was where a lot of their wealth was, and if they sat back and let Fetohep win…
They were respectively male and female. Human and, interestingly enough, Dullahan, although you thought it should be reversed based on their…characteristics.
One was a slimmer man, known as Three of Arms. Not because there were three in his team, but because he was sitting, two hands on a cup of something, and the last feeding him some of the snacks.
He was Human. A [Spellblade], although he ran more towards [Wizard] these days. In his career, the Three of Arms, Requiel, had stumbled across a strange object. A prosthesis of magic which had attached itself to him, giving him a third, strange arm.
Even now, Perric glanced at it. It looked tattooed all the way down, or ‘painted’ with shimmering light, a lighter tone than Requiel’s skin, glowing with magical spells that could activate at need be. With it, he could cast spells with three wands at a time, or fight with deadly strength in close-combat if needed.
“Even if Fetohep of Khelt dies, the army doesn’t fall apart, your Majesty. You know that. All those undead…”
“They’ll break on walls, unled. You know what I mean.”
Perric interrupted and the Three of Arms nodded. He eyed his companion.
“It would have to be the right battle. Frankly, even if you marched every [Soldier] garrisoned here…I wouldn’t care to make an assault on him directly. You, Falcon?”
The Falcon of Medain had a personal title he’d bestowed on her, which had stuck, much to Perric’s delight. She nodded.
“You need to give us a better battlefield. Your Majesty. Sorry, but we’re taking the risks.”
“Of course, of course, Lady Frieke.”
He soothed her. He knew adventurers and they weren’t being unreasonable. He wished they’d fought earlier, but they were right in that Fetohep might go for them—and he hadn’t pushed the matter since he needed them for this to work.
Frieke of Medain was known as the Falcon because of the huge bird, the Seahawk, which was gnawing on a bone. Bigger than a normal eagle naturally, this one—Konska—was as famous as its owner.
The Falcon of Medain was an interesting mix of classes. No normal class for her; she was a [Hawkmaster] and a [Dungeon Conqueror]. It came of her desires; she hadn’t come to be an adventurer, but had been a [Treasure Seeker] first.
Anyways, she was able to fight with bow and blade, a superlative skirmisher and solo-fighter. However, like all adventurers, her strength wasn’t always…direct.
One of her trump cards that only Perric knew about was the Ring of Emergency Recall on her finger. The twin was on Konska’s talon. At will, either could teleport to the other. Frieke could appear high overhead and shoot arrows down at an enemy from hundreds of feet before using a [Lightweight] spell and having her hawk spirit her away.
Or escape from a sticky situation.
Two Named-ranks versus Fetohep. If they got him alone, Perric was convinced they had better-than-not chances of killing him. But Named-ranks didn’t get to their position by liking such odds.
“A proper battle. If I offer you that, I have your word?”
He repeated himself. The two adventurers exchanged another reluctant glance.
“We’d have to agree, your Majesty. We’ll bounce if it’s not to our liking.”
“Then I will ensure it is.”
That was all he wanted, The two Named-ranks eyed him, looking even warier, but they’d agreed and he intended to hold them to it.
[Royal Promise]. One of his Skills that ensured no one double-crossed him. High King Perric left them to their refreshments and hurried to his next meeting.
He wished he had time to visit his prisoner, but visiting would take too long and might leave him in a temper, when he needed to be at his most diplomatic. It was a shame, but Raelt was still defiant. Perric had even been forced to stop his people ‘working’ on Raelt. Just in case the worst came to pass.
Not torture. Not exactly. Perric was not a savage monster. Rather, he’d been trying to persuade Raelt. You did need to wear them down, but no breaking bones or anything savage. After some isolation, some hunger, you sent for female company and gave them the right things to drink. Perric wanted an ally and the King of Duels would have been a damned good one if his daughter wasn’t such a fool.
In another month he’d have had Raelt back on the throne and Jecrass under his thumb! Damn Fetohep and that girl!
Perric kept all of it off his face as he smiled and greeted the [Emissary]. The half-Elf rose and nodded to him, bowing slightly. She was a representative of the Claiven Earth, and had come at his behest.
“Friends.”
She twitched at that and even Perric had the self-awareness to bare his teeth. The Claiven Earth and Medain had often fought.
“Friends in this time, when all seems at its darkest.”
He smoothly went on. She just folded her arms. He knew Valesent Areis; she was one of the regular diplomatic contacts between them. She had also refused his offer of marriage both times he’d made it, as a young man and more recently.
She might be over a hundred years old, or eighty at least, but she looked like she was in her thirties or forties at most. If that; she was striking, and Perric would have loved to exchange pleasantries…but he had a case to make.
“Your Majesty, I have come at the behest of the Speaker of Trees and the Claiven Earth to hear your petition.”
He gritted his teeth on the word ‘petition’, but nodded graciously.
“You do me credit, Areis. I know you spoke personally for Medain and this chance, and I shall not waste it. I say to you what I said to the Speaker of Trees: we must come to an accord and stand against Khelt.”
She studied him. The Claiven Earth was somewhat like Khelt, but both would have resented the comparison. An exceptionally strong nation of half-Elves that often kept to themselves. However, they had made war on Flos of Reim and they would leave their borders.
“We did not commit many of our own to die against the King of Destruction. You wish us to spend more lives saving Medain?”
She stressed the kingdom’s name. Perric smiled.
“Ah, I understand the reluctance, Areis, but I’ve offered a ceasefire for fifteen years!”
Which he didn’t want, but it was one of his cards. She nodded at that. The High King pressed on.
“Moreover, this isn’t about me or Medain.”
She tilted her head.
“Not the King of Duels? That undead claims that if you release the King of Duels, he will retreat his dread army.”
A good sign, her referring to Fetohep thusly. Perric smiled.
“Areis. If the positions were reversed, would the Claiven Earth accede to the threats made by a foreign power? Let alone an undead Revenant?”
She frowned. High King Perric studied her.
The one advantage he had in convincing the Claiven Earth was that they were half-Elves like people thought of them. They had come to Chandrar long ago from Terandria, and created a forest along the coast. A verdant land that was death to attack—as he’d learned to his cost.
However, that also meant they loved nature, kept those ancient villages, practiced the bow…and hated necromancy, like most Terandrians. In this case, it was mostly that death magic killed life-magic and nature, hence the issue.
“Even if I were to surrender and make peace, Khelt is now on our borders. Consider the effects of so many undead seeping into the land over centuries? Moreover, do you wish to be next if Medain falls? Say you offend the King of Khelt.”
“Khelt is traditionally passive.”
The High King made a rude noise.
“Oh, yes. Which is why they are marching on Medain for Jecrass. Khelt may be traditionally whatever it wishes to be. Fetohep has broken with all precedent. I say again: the Claiven Earth could be next.”
She studied him, narrow-eyed. She knew exactly why he was asking and so desperate. In truth, Areis would have loved to tell the odious High King exactly what she thought of him and let Khelt sack his capital.
Unfortunately, she had been sent to this meeting for more reasons than Perric knew about. The Claiven Earth were afraid of just what he described; not immediate action, but all the death magic seeping across the border through the ground.
Khelt taking more land alarmed them. It reminded them of times when Khelt had expanded, and half-Elves had long memories. Most importantly of all…Fetohep being Fetohep was presenting problems Perric had no idea about.
 
—-
 
So long as thou dwell within my borders, you shall never want for baser needs. Nor shall anything harm you.
 
That was the edict of Fetohep of Khelt, each ruler. A promise made with their people, inviolate. More than anything else, that was what they lived for.
The problem was…well, the promise.
The Claiven Earth were not at war with Khelt. They were battling Orthenon in the north, and still at war with the King of Destruction. They had started this war and they would not relent.
Unfortunately, the [Steward] was a deadly, cunning foe with speed unmatched. They could tie him up, though. Half-Elf [Archers] were among the best in the world and even he was in danger if caught alone.
So it was running battles, skirmishes—attack and retreat. Nothing static like they had done when fighting with Jecrass.
Elven [Outriders] streaked across Belchan and the embattled lines, striking supply lines, liberating cities, sniping officers or [Soldier] patrols and vanishing. The Steward gave chase, but he couldn’t be everywhere. It had been going well, and they had been forcing his army back with minimal casualties of their own as parts of Belchan revolted.
