The flight of the King of Destruction and desperate battle filled the news. It was not the only event of significance taking place.
Fetohep of Khelt was closing on Medain. Days away from the final siege, but for some reason, Medain’s armies were beginning to sally forth. It was impossible for them to hide, for all they did their best.
They were going to meet him in battle? Fetohep instantly grew suspicious. Perric was an arrogant man, but hardly a fool in battle.
“Scourge Forerunner. To me.”
One of the living lieutenants, a rare member of Khelt who trained for battle, rode forwards. A cluster of Khelt’s undead riders followed; they could move without rest and needed no food.
“Your Exalted Majesty?”
The woman waited. Fetohep’s head turned.
“Scout to our west. Send more riding bands north, unled, with orders to sweep and engage any hostiles.”
It was crude to use undead without living direction; they made terrible mistakes like Golems, but it could still work with vague instructions like that. The Scourge Forerunner hesitated. She wasn’t sure, not having served with Fetohep before. He stared at her.
“Speak your mind.”
“We have deployed forces to the west, your Majesty. Have they fallen?”
They already had watchers there. Fetohep nodded in appreciation of her question. He inspected the woman, making sure she was adorned with enough artifacts…he counted six, the maximum she could carry. Well enough.
There were less than a thousand of Khelt’s citizens fighting among the undead, and many had already been stationed to the rear; each one carried at least three artifacts.
“They see nothing, nor have any been destroyed. I remain unconvinced our flanks are secure. Watch for ambushes. Fall back at the first sign of contact. I suspect the Claiven Earth; they will strike you from afar. Keep two Shieldriders with you at all times.”
Her eyes widened.
“By your will, your Majesty!”
She took off, speeding westwards. Fetohep turned.
It only made sense. The Claiven Earth? He recalled the border incident.
“The arrogance of half-Elves.”
Fetohep sneered, in a rare display of a pot insulting the kettle. Even so, his intuition bothered him. The Claiven Earth and Medain both were more of a threat if they combined forces, but he had an army to match both. Something else…
He got his answer by nightfall. The Scourge Forerunner had not yet met half-Elven forces, but he knew they were on the way.
…Because the roving undead bands to the north began to vanish. They had run into something. Fetohep began diverting his attention to the north as his army slowed.
What had landed on the coast? That was the real question.
 
—-
 
The first indication of the event taking place occurred at sea, days before. A minor movement. A significant one, but one only communicated to House Veltras from their allies.
The House of Wellfar. They attacked no one. However—the great ship, one of the few remaining warships of its class, The Pride of the Wellfar, took to sea with a smaller fleet. It was notable in that it even asked the Velistrane, patrolling far to the south in Drake waters, to be advised of a possible collaboration.
Nothing occurred. The Pride of the Wellfar engaged no ships, as the other vessels in the water kept far away from the warship. It queried one target and after learning the destination was not Izril—escorted them for quite a number of miles before turning back.
The second incident occurred with the House of Minos. Prince Khedal, the great Minotaur who had clashed with the Drowned Fleets, even the greatest [Pirates] in the pitched battle at sea with the [Strategists] from Baleros a while back, took after the second trespass in the House of Minos’ waters.
“They will not evade us again! [Captain], begin loosing warning shots!” 
The Minotaur [Captain] didn’t wait for further orders. He bellowed and a catapult hurled a stone with astonishing accuracy, crashing into the water off the bow of the fleeing ship skirting their borders.
“Oars down! [Row With All Your Might]!”
The Minotaur warship had both sails and oars for this exact moment. They picked up speed, pushing past the limits of the wind—even enchanted sails—as they sped towards the vessel.
“Hold! Hold! We’re not looking to quarrel with the House of Minos!”
One of the [Captains] bellowed on the other ship, having already raised a white flag of truce. Prince Khedal didn’t care; his blood was up.
“No one trespasses on the House of Minos, least of all bearing warriors! Tell your ships to skirt the House of Minos’ waters—or prepare for battle! Your ship will stand to and be boarded for inspection!”
The fiery [Prince] demanded. He received a reply after a moment’s wait as the two ships continued to draw near. That was when he spotted the second vessel in the waters approaching…and the third.
“We are on a mission that cannot wait, Minotaur [Prince]! We must refuse.”
Prince Khedal stood on the deck, and the [Captain] saw his eyes begin to slowly turn red. More warships were being scrambled from the House of Minos, but it was three versus one…four versus one.
Not one of the Minotaurs cared, and the ship was still coming on. It was the Humans who were in trouble; Prince Khedal was ready to sink all four. And yet—the [Captain] checked the numbers, saw the clear danger to the [Prince], despite the glorious battle, and was forced to voice his dissent.
“Your Highness. Conflict at sea would risk our forces and a larger war. They are barely trespassing.”
“You would have me let them go with insult, [Warship Captain]?”
Prince Khedal growled at the other Minotaur, but the growing fury in him slowed slightly; the [Captain] was an honorable Minotaur with the experience to override even Khedal in matters of marine combat and the affairs of the ship. The [Captain] narrowed his eyes.
“It sits little well with me either. The House of Minos has suffered an insult, but the King is best able to reply. We could bring them to battle…but the Month of Strife is upon us. The old enemy draws near. We need every axe for that. I am not refusing you. Simply cautioning.”
Prince Khedal hesitated. He paced the deck, growling—then swung his hand.
“Let them go. Stay clear of our waters or the next vessel will be struck down!”
The other ships were already peeling off, staying further away. Prince Khedal returned, venting his fury with practice. The House of Minos was preparing for war with another enemy. He looked back once, and saw more ships all clustering together. Worthy foes. But a greater one waited.
Goblins. Their island was drawing near. Khedal spat into the waters as he watched the others come on in a fleet; the first trespass had already occurred, though. A smaller, nimbler grouping of ships.
 
—-
 
They made themselves known as King Perric of Medain marched his armies forwards. The Claiven Earth appeared at the same time, wiping out undead scouting parties to the west.
The last group came from the north, from the coast itself. The declaration was writ across every headline in Chandrar and all four other continents.
Rémi Canada was trying to balance both events. War in the north and the Djinni attack. The [Journalist] looked at the headline he was printing.
‘Nerrhavia’s Fallen sends Djinni to assassinate the King of Destruction; a crusade is called against the Kingdom of Khelt!’
More news at eleven. He shook his head. They were already announcing it, faster than the slower newspapers.
 
—-
 
A crusade. From distant Terandria, the words echoed.
An old term. An…antiquated term, in many senses. A word as old as the people who used it.
[Knights]. The Knight Orders of Terandria alone still sailed from their continent, to do battle against evil as they saw it. This was more than a single band of [Knights], though. This was…war.
Against evil. Undeath. It might be that Chandrar suffered such things to exist. Not so Terandria. Not for any who remembered the Necromancer’s depredations.
Not after the Village of the Dead had shown just how evil could fester and grow.
The choice had been, frankly, binary. Either Izril and the Village of the Dead; purge the village after the adventurers had failed, or distant Chandrar.
It had been easier to choose Chandrar. Izril was the home of the Five Families and they zealously guarded their fiefs. Permission would have to be arranged. Chandrar?
King Perric of Medain had petitioned the Human nations of Terandria for help against the undead scourge. Of course, many spoke out against helping the same man who had abducted the King of Duels. It might have been he would be refused, but for the genius of Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus.
It was he who pushed the crusade. Stirred up sentiments in many Knight Orders against the undead. Ailendamus would send countless [Knights] and even fund the expedition. And in doing so, the other Orders would band together against a common threat…away from Terandria itself.
The trick was that Ailendamus was sending more [Soldiers], more [Knights], investing more gold in it than any other nation, even the most anti-undead. Who could doubt their commitment, then, if they would sacrifice most if the crusade was lost?
A nation which could afford it. Could replenish faster due to its simple size than the others. And…which had most to gain if combat-hardened troops returned with new levels. Either way. Ailendamus won, and to stand idle was to embarrass oneself. Faced with Rhisveri’s calculation, what were Knight Orders to do publically, even if they harbored private doubts? They had to contribute or be seen not to.
Of course, the actual implementation was of many diplomatic members persuading hot-headed [Knights] to swear fiery oaths that could not be easily gainsaid, presenting it as a case of undead expansion, even playing on Eldavin’s lessons about Az’kerash.
But for Greysten, the Order of Seasons might have well committed a number of its [Knights] to the effort as well. As it was, Knight-Commander Calirn sent barely a hundred Knights of the Spring.
The other Orders all contributed numbers of their own. The result? A navy was bearing down towards Medain. The first elements had already arrived.
The Four Winds of Teral, the famous Sea Courier ship had led the first [Knights] to Medain, and they were already disembarking. Fetohep listened to the news in silence.
“Four ships, including the Courier’s ship, have disgorged the Orders Pregaris, the Sothbound, Hunters of the Kingdom of Noelictus…”
He drummed his fingers on the saddle. Of course. The most militantly undead-hating [Knights] were leading the charge. Pregaris came from further north than Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat’s conflict; their nation was at peace. Samal, the Kingdom of Keys, had time to let its bored [Knights] fight.
The Sothbound likewise came from Cenidau; the [Knights] of the tundra also had fewer targets to fight at the moment, and they too specialized in undead-slaying among other things. After all, a zombie eventually rotted away; the ice-bound corpses in the north could last forever.
Noelictus’ [Undead Hunters]…it was still a small force, mere thousands strong from the four ships. More would come. This group intended to be the lance-tip on which Medain and the Claiven Earth struck.
“Four ships. Of course, The Four Winds of Teral can only fill the sails of four at most.”
Fetohep mused. He took in the news as his army stopped. They were already digging in; it was a fight at last.
And treachery. Terandrian Kingdoms had declared a crusade. Fetohep listened to the fiery speeches, the condemnation of the taint of undeath. They would purge Chandrar of this plague and…
He’d heard it all before. Fetohep’s response was simply this. He turned to the communication spell keeping him in touch with his capital. The worried ‘advisors’ he had installed to manage the Kingdom listened as the King of Khelt spoke.
“Mark The Four Winds of Teral. For all future endeavors at sea, be it delivery, correspondence, and so on, Khelt shall not hire the ship, until four millennia have passed. Assuming the ship survives until then.”
“It—it will be done, your Majesty.”
Fetohep nodded. The most important task taken care of, he turned his attention to the war. It was no longer a simple case of overwhelming Medain with superior forces, numbers, and so on.
This would be a battle to remember. Fetohep would have smiled, but he was growing—
Vexed.
 
—-
 
Both battles did not take place concurrently. There might have been overlap, but chronologically, while the Djinni might have struck first, it was a running battle that had intermittent breaks. Similarly, once the sides had met, Fetohep of Khelt engaged in a protracted battle, such that the coverage was flickering from one event to the next.
A field day for a reporter, in short; the kind of day when you wished you had more time, rather than needing to fill it. That was every day in this world for Rémi Canada.
Nevertheless, he wasn’t placed to attract the world’s attention. Well—he had some small bearing on what happened, which pleased him.
Drassi was interviewing Queen Yisame as the Djinni first sped over the border, their purpose clear.
“…So, your Majesty. They’re clearly attacking the King of Destruction. What does Nerrhavia’s Fallen have to say about this Djinni-assassination? Under the rules of engagement all nations of Chandrar should adhere to, assassinating someone via Djinni is a war crime.”
Queen Yisame had graciously agreed to accept the interview about the actions of the Djinni. She smiled, face made up as she occupied the left side of the ‘screen’, Drassi, the right.
“Reporter Drassi, I was as shocked to hear of this—brazen act as you were. Rest assured, and I swear on truth spell, that I, nor anyone in Nerrhavia Fallen’s seats of powers condoned this action. It is Emira Sulaake’s action of her own initiative among the other Djinni owners; even now, she has been summoned for questioning. Moreover, while they claim to be attacking, Flos Reimarch is in possession of his army and we are at war.”
She stressed the syllable. Drassi nodded, taking a few seconds as there was a bit of lag in the communication spell. She shuffled her notes; glanced down at them.
She hadn’t had much time to prepare for this, but she’d gotten the interviewing opportunity over Noass and Sir Relz, much to their palpable disappointment. Wistram had decided Drassi was most well-liked. She had notes on Chandrarian rules of war, Djinni, Nerrhavia’s Fallen—all the kind of things a [Student] had for a test.
And one more thing. Drassi got so much correspondence these days the Mage’s Guild had to sort it for her. Normally you couldn’t reach her; however, she had a lot of time for a personal [Message] from—
Rémi Canada.
