…Right up until he ran them into the new borders. Half-Elf riders had been scattering away from his advance and practically slammed into undead rising from the ground. When they’d tried to flee around them, more rose, cutting them off. Not one part of Jecrass’ long, long border could be trespassed! Orthenon had boxed them in.
Half had tried to flee across the new border into Jecrass, to escape, not harm anyone! The undead had cut them to pieces, and Orthenon had gotten the rest.
The Speaker of Trees had lodged a complaint with Fetohep. The conversation had been amicable as both sides attempted to disguise their hostility for each other. It had, however, been unfortunately short.
“Your Majesty. The demands of war dictate a mobile force may inadvertently trespass as it evades the enemy. I would have each of my people swear to harm not a single soul in your lands, but they must be allowed to move wherever they must.”
“And you expect me to allow a pitched battle in my land, where I have promised the war-weary people of Khelt respite? If a single arrow were to fly astray, a single spell, one of my subjects could be hurt. I suffer no trespass, Speaker of Trees. As well you know.”
Fetohep had not told the Speaker of Trees another reason; a lack of discernment among his guardians. However, even if that were not the case…the Speaker of Trees had done his best, as vexing as it was to plead.
“We would be willing to offer you remuneration for the—right—to move across the border.”
“Thus pitting the Steward against my forces, as you would strike from my lands. No.”
That hateful Revenant hadn’t even listened to the offer. He had simply fixed the Speaker of Trees with his condescending gaze and given a very Fetohep-like answer.
“There is no sum the Claiven Earth could muster that would interest Khelt, Speaker of Trees. Unless, perhaps, you were willing to part with one of your Hearts of the Forest? No, I thought not. Khelt is not to be so easily trespassed against. Take your [Soldiers] to other fronts, where they might ‘skirmish’ against a nation less able to reply to insult immediately.”
 
—-
 
How that boiled. How that irked the half-Elves. No—irked was too small a word. This was why Areis considered Perric’s offer.
They had all seen the Village of the Dead’s raid. They had seen the horrors of the undead, and now one of the only nations in the world where necromancy ruled in strength was on the attack. Fetohep was too strong. If he did turn against the Claiven Earth and they stood alone…
It was about horror. Undead! The half-Elves were unable to simply let nightmares slide. Perhaps when they were buried farther off, under sand, sleeping. Now?
She met High King Perric’s gaze and sighed. If it were just Medain, she would have happily let him rot. She never told Perric that the reason she had been assigned the posting in Medain was not because she was a high-level [Emissary]. She hadn’t even gotten the class until she’d been posted here.
Areis had simply…gotten in trouble…for a habit picked up over decades, well, nearly a century of being a [Vintner]. Part of her punishment for numerous crimes of disorderly intoxication had been diplomatic duty to the most-hated [King] in the region. Even if they had the class, few half-Elves could tolerate the insult that was Perric unless ordered.
She really needed another drink. But first—she gave Perric his answer.
 
—-
 
The instant the King of Destruction received word the Djinni were on attack, he broke off from the pleasantries with the String Folk [General] on Cinaelu.
No questions were asked whether this was a trap; Teres thought the [General] looked stunned. Nor was there time.
“To the horses! We ride for Reim. Get the army moving!”
Flos roared. He looked as intense as she had ever seen him. Teres scrambled into her saddle as Takhatres disappeared, sprinting to warn the camp in person.
“Flos! How do we know it’s an attack?”
“Three Djinni, just happening to fly our way? Seems like an attack to me! We’re dead if they catch us alone, your Majesty.”
“Takhatres can speed them. So can I. I’ll join the army and catch them—your Majesty, [Rapid March]. We’ll meet you. Teres—guard him with your life.”
Venith looked at Maresar, and then was galloping after Takhatres. Teres found herself riding with their small escort.
The King of Destruction and Maresar had movement Skills and they could make the ground blur beneath them, but the Djinni had apparently crossed most of Nerrhavia in hours.
“Are we certain they’re after you? I thought you told me Djinni aren’t allowed to be used to assassinate people!”
“I did, but I have known many who break the laws of war. They are used in battle—rarely. As for how I know? Here!”
Flos tossed his little scrying…marble…at Teres. She caught it, fumbling, and realized that whomever had sent the Djinni had worded their instructions poorly.
Three flew through the air, two carrying magical weapons, the last a flying cloud shaped like a Garuda, only with multiple sets of wings as well as their normal ones. The other two looked like exotic Humans, augmented with animalistic parts.
Like demigods from some kind of myth. Teres’ blood chilled, but then she heard the shouting.
“We fly to slay the King of Destruction! So ordered! So commanded by our masters!”
The female Djinni shouted happily, brandishing twin daggers. The largest kept silent, but the other, a Human with a cat’s face for some reason, bellowed as well.
“Merchant Almon, Emira Sulaake of Aeresuth, and the Escrite family order us to kill the King of Destruction for their glory! If you want quality goods, consider Merchant Almon’s Roads of Jade, which provide excellent service across Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
The female Nightair Djinni flipped over; she was riding a flying carpet, unable to keep up regularly with the other two under her own speed.
“What was that last part?”
The cat-Djinni grimaced as Drenir laughed.
“I have to mention that every time…”
People looked up in awe and fear as the Djinni flew. The three great beings of magic ignored them, intent on their mission. Occasionally, one would repeat the names of their masters.
The Emira had standing clauses forbidding Drenir to invoke her name unwisely—the other two did not. A classic mistake. Now, they were happily shouting the perpetrators of this incident to the world.
If they had already succeeded, no doubt their masters would be happy to lay claim to the credit. However, they probably didn’t want all the attention on them now.
A bit of revenge, that was all. The Djinni ignored the eyes of the world on them. They could feel the distant scrying spells like pinpricks on the skin.
Three. Their forms were mutable. They could take on a hundred identities, a hundred thousand forms over their lives. The same with names. However, some things mattered, for reasons petty or grand. So, for battle, each one took a form that mattered.
The first, the Nightair Djinni, a weaker spirit riding on the carpet with no fear of crashing, carrying two enchanted daggers looked most Human of all. Humanoid. Her skin was closer to onyx and the deepest blue of the night sky, though, and her eyes were white. Her hair was dark, and she sprouted two horns from her head. Hooves, cloven.
She took the form of an old species long dead. Her name was Hisaille. She had been born in captivity and named by Lizardfolk.
The second was the cat-faced Djinni, Seemutor. He always kept the face of a house-cat on his head, for all his lower body now seemed to be that of some kind of elephantine beast. He too carried a weapon; a glowing shortbow from which he could loose arrows of terrible destruction. He flew, easily keeping pace with the carpet, the most boisterous of the three. Powerful; above average as their species measured such things.
Time alone did not make Djinni stronger. Some were born more deeply into magic, others in a certain element. Seemutor, for instance, was not the element of darkness and air like Hisaille. He was closer to fire and logic, hence his superlative abilities in calculation.
They could still grow, both younger Djinni. It was possible for them to deepen their bonds, increase their very being to certain limits. In time, if they were free, they might have done so.
It was doubtful either would match the last of them even if they had five hundred years. Drenirkesun stood above both. He flew, a vast cloud that took the shape of that six-winged Garuda. So huge he could have engulfed a ship.
It seemed, to the distant forces of Reim, that a cloud was flying at them, albeit shaped so. Two eyes flashed with lightning, and the air grew thick and charged as Drenir flew. He did not shout. He did not mention his masters’ names.
He…was simply prepared. And Drenir cautioned his kin.
“Do not take them lightly. They are the greatest mortals of their time. Leave the King of Destruction to me. We fight against Venith Crusland and Maresar, the Grand Magus Esiela, and Takhatres, Lord of the Skies.”
The Djinni knew his foes. The younger two were impetuous, which worried him. Especially Hisaille.
“I have killed scores of mortals. I know how to dance away from enchanted weapons and spells, Drenir.”
She laughed up at him. Then—quieted at the look from the vast Djinni.
“You have never fought a [King]. Stay away from him. Watch the Garuda as well. Of all of them, they can injure you most. Seemutor, the Grand Magus?”
“Done. It will be a fine battle.”
The cat-Djinni laughed. Drenir just sighed, and thunder rolled through his body. Both little Djinni looked up at him.
“Don’t you rejoice to be set free, Great Drenir?”
Hisaille swept up to him, hovering her carpet higher. One eye of lightning blinked at her, discharging electricity that swept through his being.
“To do battle in another person’s name? I wearied of that long ago, Hisaille. Nor is the King of Destruction my enemy. It only is.”
She dismissed that, shaking her head.
“If there is nothing to take enjoyment from, then it is a pale life indeed, Great Drenir. You will see. When we shake Chandrar, at least they will remember how we can touch this world!”
For a moment. Drenir knew. Then they would quarrel over the Djinni, scheme and fight to hold the leash. He reached up and touched something.
Each one bore a marker. Most Djinni did. It was not enough to have a vessel they were chained to. They needed a bond to enforce the magic written into their souls.
On his neck was a band of metal, a collar. Hisaille had two cuffs on her wrists; Seemutor, two dangling earrings. They could change to any number of shapes, but that remained.
“Let it be done.”
A [King] was no easy opponent, for all they boasted. Even so—the storm cloud began to grow larger as he crossed Nerrhavia’s borders. The clouds thickened, growing darker. Even his two kin looked up in awe as Drenir grew.
 
—-
 
“Bloody hell. What is that?”
Teres thought she saw the storm cloud reflected in the scrying orb rolling in. It was so large it was a speck on the horizon, and getting bigger with each moment. Flos Reimarch turned his head.
“Faster, Maresar. It’s a day’s ride to Reim, even at our speed.”
“They may catch us, Flos.”
Maresar replied. They were at full gallop, the land speeding past them as if they were going as fast as a racing car. Maybe they were; Teres stared back. Still—it seemed like the cloud was slowly gaining.
“Why are we running? What about the army? It’s three Djinni! You’re the King of Destruction! Haven’t you fought them before?”
Flos glanced at her. He looked back and bared his teeth.
“Six times, Teres! Which means I’ve faced them more than most beings living or dead! Only six times, though. In battle and alone—they’re a rare sight!”
“So? Are these ones worse?”
He shook his head.
“Whatever is making that cloud is dangerous. The others? It’s not fear that drives me, but the danger! We can’t touch them with regular steel or even weak enchantments! If Amerys was here—! Or Orthenon, Mars, we’d have more of a chance!”
He growled, and Teres felt a surge of apprehension. Was that why they’d waited? For his two vassals to stay in the north?
“Takhatres has his tribe—”
“Useless.”
Maresar and Flos said it at the same time. Flos glanced at Teres.
“Takhatres can fight them, and maybe his warriors who hold enchanted weapons, but as I said, his tribe would be struck from the skies by lightning even getting close to that one. Six times I told you I fought Djinni, Teres…twice in huge, pitched battles! If I have a great army, they’re a threat, but can be slain. Once, one was sent to kill me, like this, and we slew it.”
He looked back and cursed.
“Three times they sent us fleeing in defeat. Crushed entire armies until we stopped them, or slew their masters or sent other Djinni to do battle. That was when my empire was vast. I don’t care for those odds! What did you call it? Statistically, it’s not a good ratio of wins!”
Teres stared at Flos and suddenly apprehension was in her belly. She looked back, towards the whipping landscape and sand and dust. At least Nerrhavia’s army wasn’t going after them; they were marching north, a glittering line of metal disappearing fast as the wind picked up, turning the world hazy with sand and dust.
A storm preceding a bad battle. She shivered.
“Is there any hope?”
“Yes. With Drevish’s towers of lightning, yes! I wouldn’t risk my people to that alone, of course. We need weapons. Hence—whoever sent those three miscalculated. After all, it was Trey who delivered a weapon, a perfect counter into my hands. Don’t you remember, Teres?”
Now the King of Destruction grinned. Teres looked at him, mind whirling, then remembered. Her eyes opened wide and she smiled in relief.
“Nawal! Naq-Alrama steel!”
“Exactly. With one blade we can fight them like mortals. Takhatres or I can threaten even that one quite easily. Assuming she’s finished it—no, even a half-done product will do. Maresar, send word! We require Nawalishifra’s weapon and anything the Tannousin Tribe can muster!”
The [Bandit Lord] nodded and reached for a [Message] scroll. Flos turned back to Teres, and she saw why he was intent.
“It only matters if we can reach the capital before they catch us—or the army. No more talk. Ride, Teres!”
They rode, galloping ahead, towards the capital in the distance. To claim the great weapon promised to the King of Destruction.
They had no idea…that the metal had not been forged. That the alloy had been bad.
There was no weapon. When Nawalishifra heard the desperate demand, she could only laugh until she wept. She had feared the truth coming out soon, when the King of Destruction visited.
This?
This was disaster.
 
—-
 
