The tavern owner's name was Perry, and he was absolutely thrilled to have me. He was a very old man, but genial. Barro set us up so that people could come by in groups based on where they lived. A schedule was posted on the door and bread would be provided based on that. We ran six half hour sessions over a six hour period. When the session was going on there was a strict access list as to who could come in, and how much bread they could take, but during the breaks all were allowed to come and enjoy themselves. I had a generous plenty of time to recharge, and while my neighbors got less, it was at least very equal.I gained insight into why the push to get me to heal people was not too hard either. Just a couple of days before the snows began a priest arrived in town. It would seem both the mayor and Orin had called in every favor they could to bring the man, named Rosk, to stay with us for the winter.Rosk was in an interesting situation. Even though he was helping the army, an action that had made the mayor astoundingly unpopular, he seemed welcome everywhere. He was even allowed in the tavern at all times. He always raised his voice to help me summon more bread, but pointedly never took so much as a bite of it. He often gave me kind smiles while there too.These things eventually led me to speak to the man."I like your necklace." I finally called out one day. It was a weak excuse for trying to start a conversation.He looked down, fingering the medallion that hung to his chest, bearing the symbol of a shield. "Ah, the symbol of my order. It does bring me some comfort as well.""My teacher mentioned orders a few times, but didn't tell me much." That much was true. Mystien had mentioned them in passing a few times, but never given any real info on them. I'd assumed they were either unimportant, or he was waiting until later."I would imagine you don't interact with any of the orders too much in a town this small, so that's not overly surprising. Did you have some questions?"Giving me a blank check on asking questions was just too much, "Oh tons! So... what does your order believe?""That's an excellent place to start. We believe in protecting the weak, and providing them what shelter we can.""How so?""Well, for example we run most hospitals, orphanages, and the like, and also promote some rules and laws.""So your order has lots of healers?" That was news to me."Every order has lots of healers, mine is just more willing to put ourselves in danger to aid others.""Huh.""The military uses our services extensively, and the armies of most nations won't attack us or our patients.""Really? Why?""Firstly, because while we stay out of the fighting, if they did, our priests would turn their magic against any attackers." That was no joke. I knew priest type magic specialized in dealing with living things. I didn't know exactly what it could do when turned to combat, but I imagined it would be nasty. "Secondly, because we refuse to work with any army which makes flagrant violations of certain rules.""What kind of rules?""We have rules about the treatment of prisoners and conquered people, hospitals, and child soldiers.""Child soldiers?" I asked, that seemed a weird one."Yes, we believe that those under the age of majority shouldn't be forced into wars or hard labor.""Orin said something about only my parents being able to make me work." I thought that had been a weird statement at the time, if a very forward thinking one."He is not a priest, but he holds tightly to our beliefs. That would fall in line with them, your parents might assign you chores or work to help, but having a government force you to do so would be unacceptable." He gave me a pat on the head at that."In war as well?""Quite forbidden by our rules." His voice was a bit hard on that. I now understood why the young men had been passed over while the old ones were taken."Those are quite good rules," I mused."I think so, do you have any other questions?" He asked with a hint of amusement."Um... this might seem a bit odd, but why did you come here, rather than Hazelwood. They need a healer badly too.""We had a small enclave in Hazelwood, but the baron there harassed some of the young women under our protection, so he will do without." That was harsh, they were not playing with the leaving people high and dry threats. I made a mental note not to cross them without good reason."Similarly," he continued, "this village might be considered either prisoners due to war, or conquered people. By being here I can assure there is no misbehavior. I doubt Orin would do anything, but my being here protects him from accusations of it.""Should I know what the rules regarding us are?" I asked."Mostly that he cannot actively cause harm without reason, and that he must make and allow reasonable attempts to fulfill the needs of those he is stationed over.""So that's why he's allowing..." I waved a hand to indicate the tavern at large.

"Yes of course, may I ask one in return?"I nodded, he'd been amazingly nice to answer me so thoroughly."Were you forced or pressured into doing this? It's a very large amount for one so young. I was initially concerned when I heard about it, but you seem in good spirits and well taken care of."So that's why he spent so much time in here, he was keeping an eye on me."No, I was doing about the same for my neighbors before we were all ordered into the village. It seems the right thing to do."That got me another pat on the head.For the rest of the winter he and I would have light conversation whenever he came by. It was nice to have someone who I knew would not try to work me to the bone to wring out every benefit they could.
