“Not yet I haven't.” Ren said and activated his polymorph helm. All four of the succubi stopped breathing at the sudden transformation happening in front of them, and then they gasped as Ren became an Incubus, the male counterpart to the succubus. “I think it's finally time that you got what you deserve.”

Seldanna was enraptured by him when he stored his clothing, then he stalked towards her. The other succubi slid off to the sides in fighting stances to try and encircle him, and he grinned at them. They stopped moving when his hand darted out faster than they could see and he grabbed Ellaria by the wrist.

Incubus Ren pulled her in close. “You smell... really tasty.” He said and licked her cheek. Ellaria finished just from that and fainted. He eased her down to the floor, then disappeared.

“Wh-where...” Chenoa tried to turn around and suddenly Incubus Ren was there and held her tenderly.

“So soft...” Incubus Ren said and gently kissed her on the lips. Chenoa gasped and finished, then fainted. Katori stood up from her fighting stance and waited for him. Incubus Ren laid Chenoa on the floor and walked over to Katori.

“I can feel you, My King.” Katori said and touched her heart. “You can't give me what I...”

Incubus Ren made a dagger appear and quickly slashed his own throat.

“NOOOO!” Katori yelled and caught him as he fell. “No, you... you shouldn't have...”

“T-take... my lifeblood.” Incubus Ren whispered. “Be... be what you... what you want.”

Katori cried as Incubus Ren's blood covered her hands and her legs, and she lifted her bloody hand to her mouth and sucked on it. She moaned as she felt the power it gave her, and her eyes turned blood red as she bent low to suck on his wound. She stayed there for several minutes, much longer than it should have taken for the blood to end, and then she shoved Incubus Ren off of her lap and screamed.

Katori's whole body glowed red and she stared at herself. She was covered in blood and she lifted her hands to the ceiling. “Please! I beg you! Take this worthless body and make it whole again!”

“AS YOU WISH.” A booming voice said.

Katori was engulfed in a golden glow and her body started to shake and convulse, then it sounded like several bones were broken and she screamed again. In the next moment, her hands and feet curled up into small balls of flesh. Her wings withered and fell off, then two loud snaps were heard as her horns were broken off by some unseen force.

“Katori!” Seldanna yelled and started to run to her, and Incubus Ren was suddenly there.

“No, she needs to finish it.” Incubus Ren said, and Seldanna saw that his neck was healed.

“But... she... she...”

“It's what she really wants.”

They watched as Katori's hands and feet regrew to look normal and were no longer the claws and talons of the succubi. The blood that had covered her disappeared with the golden glow, and she collapsed to the floor, unconscious. Incubus Ren let Seldanna go and she rushed to her friend.

“Katori.” Seldanna said and picked her up. She brought her over to one of the many beds in the roost and laid her down on it. Incubus Ren did the same to the other two succubi and put them on nearby beds, and he walked over to Seldanna.

“She's fine.” Incubus Ren said, and Seldanna turned on him.

“How could you do that to her!” Seldanna said and punched his chest. Incubus Ren let her, and she punched him over and over, which caused bruises and damage. When she became tired and realized what she had done, she started to cry. “I... I didn't mean... I never wanted... I'm sorry I hurt you!”

“What, this?” Incubus Ren waved his hand over his very damaged and bloody chest, and the damage disappeared instantly. “You didn't hurt me.”

“But... but...”

“I am your King.” Incubus Ren said. “Nothing you can do will ever change that.”

“R-Ren...”

“I'm going to give you what you deserve.” Incubus Ren said. “Are you ready?”

Seldanna looked down at a very normal-looking Katori on the bed, then looked at Incubus Ren. “Yes, My King.”

Incubus Ren took her hand and led her over to one of the free beds and laid her down on it. He asked her for her Vampiric Blood Sword and she gave it to him. He held it at arm's length and cast a portal on the floor below it, and the exit portal appeared over the bed on the ceiling. Seldanna stared at the portal and didn't know what he was going to do, then Incubus Ren let the sword go and jumped onto the bed above her.

“NOOO!” Seldanna screamed as the sword fell out of the portal and skewered Incubus Ren right through the heart and the end of the blade slid into her chest and skewered hers, too.
