Yona had mentioned somewhere called Rushah, or something like that, but she had never heard of such a nation, and she had learned a bit about mainland geography. The name of the nation didn’t sound the least bit familiar. Maybe she had misheard? Or more likely, Yona was lying.

The fact that she didn’t have a Profession was equally strange. For her to be so strong, she should have had her Class for quite a while, and she should have been at least near the peak of Tier 3. Not having a Profession was extremely strange.

It wasn’t really Lauren’s place to pry, but she had an important opportunity here. Yona was powerful, clearly, since she had managed to take out not one, but two Named monsters one of which even Lauren struggled with. If she could secure the beastwoman’s help, she would no doubt reach Platinum by the end of the year. A competent Dungeon teammate was invaluable.

But depending on Yona’s origins, doing that could also be dangerous. Odd people with mysterious backgrounds usually had something to hide, or something to hide from. Yona didn’t seem much like she was in hiding, but Lauren could never be too sure.

As she finished up with her bath, she shook her head to clear it. Suspicion towards suspicious people was healthy, but too much was poison. Yona had done the world a great service by taking out the Named monsters, and so far, she was pleasant company. It wasn’t fair to suspect her too overtly or treat her unfairly unless she had stronger evidence beyond Yona simply being strange.

She got out of the steaming tub, dried herself off, and dressed in a set of comfortable nightclothes that she had prepared. It had been a week since she got to wear them, since she had been sleeping in her armor in order to be prepared for any potential attacks. She welcomed the change.

She didn’t see Yona anywhere on the bottom floor, so she assumed that the catwoman had found a room to sleep in. She did mention she would when she got out of the baths, so that made sense.

Guess I’ll have to wait until morning to ask her more.

Lauren went up to the fourth floor toward the nice room she had been staying in, but when she tried the door, she found it locked. She didn’t remember locking it before she left. Would she have to pick the lock again to get in?

“Go away!” came Yona’s voice from within. “This is my room!”

Lauren blinked in surprise, and then for a moment, considered barging in and throwing the catwoman out. Then, she took a deep breath and settled down. It wasn’t that big of a deal. It was just a room. A temporary room that they would be leaving in the morning.

It didn’t matter. Lauren didn’t care. She wasn’t at all annoyed that the room she had grown accustomed to was taken without warning. Or that she would have to settle for the lower quality beds in the other rooms. Or that some of her dirty clothes were now trapped inside where she couldn’t reach them. She wasn’t at all angry.

She took her hand off the handle and found that she had accidentally dented the metal slightly.

Oops.

“Alright,” she called back. “I’ll come wake you up in the morning for breakfast.”

“Okay.”

Lauren trudged away, a half-scowl on her face. She settled for one of the rooms on the third floor. It was clean, but significantly smaller and less comfortable. But she didn’t care. Not at all. This was nothing.

Oddly, as she lay in bed trying to sleep, she found her mind drifting to her ingredient pouch. She recalled something that she had gotten as an import from the northern mountains not too long ago. It was a bit expensive, but tasty, and it was supposed to be a highly acquired taste. Many people couldn’t handle it at all, not able to eat more than a bite or two of any food that contained it. And it was relatively unique to Elyria, so people from the mainland wouldn’t have much experience.

A smile crept along her face as she thought of a few dishes she could make with it.

I’m not being petty, she thought. I’m just trying out a new recipe.

Still, the smile grew wider as she drifted off to sleep, imagining what Yona’s face might look like at breakfast.

Yona’s current stat sheet:

[ Name: Yona ]

[ Age: 0 ]

[ Species: Yona, the Gastronome. Tier: 2. Level: 18. ]

[ Class: Wannabe Vivitect. Tier: 2. Level: 1. ]

[ Profession: --Select-- ]

[ Titles: Second Lifer, System Breaker, Named, Taker of Names I ]

[ Traits: Cat-like Reflexes, Gluttony, Spatial Affinity, Nimble, Fire Affinity, Custom Namecard ]

[ Stats ]

[ Power: 4003 (+2755) ]

[ Finesse: 7069 (+4863) ]

[ Resilience: 4816 (+3314) ]

[ Memory: 5664 (+3897) ]

[ Willpower: 5696 (+3919) ]

[ Sensitivity: 7594 (+5224) ]

[ Skills: Spatial Slice, Stomach of the Glutton, Bite of the Glutton, Snatch of the Glutton, Blink, Ember, External Mana Manipulation - Anatomical Constructs of the Glutton, Meditate of the Glutton, Perfect Disguise, Anatomical Analysis, Internal Mana Manipulation - Fleshbender ]
