Not the way the threshold stone sang -- not the geological voice, not the four-thousand-year-old frequency of limestone at full resonance. The carried stone's voice was human. Warm. The quality of a grandmother holding a stone in her palm every evening for forty years, and her daughter holding it after her, and her daughter after that. Four generations of hands pressing intention into limestone, and now the pulse was energizing that intention the way sunlight energized the dawn vibration. The carried stone was remembering being held.

Wren felt it through the bond's periphery -- not a direct signal, not the [Foundation Stone]'s mediated voice, but a warmth at the edge of the signature's radius. The carried stone was small and quiet and its voice was the voice of human hands, not geological patience. But it was there. It was adding its warmth to the threshold stone's geological identity. Not amplifying. Accompanying. A human note in a geological chord.

Maret was counting.

Wren could see her in her peripheral vision -- standing at the stone's east face with the counting rod in both hands, her thumb moving from notch to notch at intervals, her lips moving silently. The oral tradition's version of measurement. Body, rhythm, memory. Maret was counting the duration of the holding the way her grandmother's grandmother had counted it, with the tools the builders had used before the System existed.

Brecca's hands were on the retaining wall.

Not pressing. Not reading. Holding. Her palms flat against the dressed stone, her body angled toward the wall the way it angled toward every wall she had ever touched, her weight committed. The wall did not need her to hold it. It had held for three hundred years. But Brecca needed to hold it, and the act of holding -- hands on stone, full attention, the genuine material care that the System had been watching for two weeks -- was exactly the posture the builders had described. Not a bond. Not a class. Listening.

Theron was at the gap.

She felt his absence from the fire circle and knew where he had gone the way she knew where the drainage channel ran: by the direction of his attention. He was standing at the gap's edge, watching. Counting. The second pulse he had witnessed at Varethen. The first time had been anomaly. Twice would be pattern.

The pulse ebbed.

Gradually. The wave's energy dissipating north through the basin, the corruption withdrawing from the settlement's margin, the ghost-elms' bark-shimmer loosening by degrees. The threshold stone's expanded signature contracted to its normal radius, the [Foundation Stone] presence settling back into its steady heartbeat. The triad's song faded from its full-chord resonance to the quiet relay that ran beneath Wren's awareness at all times.

The carried stone's warmth lingered.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Varethen -- Triad Network (Second Pulse)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Resonant: At Known depth, the triad's corruption-to-
  information translation operates at higher fidelity.
  Signal discrimination improved -- the triad can
  distinguish corruption-source from corruption-path,
  identifying directionality and intensity gradients.
  Defensive utility of the bond network has increased
  with anchor depth.

  +52 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1941 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 67 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

One discovery. One notification. The pulse that had lasted over an hour, that had five people standing at a stone in the dark before dawn -- and the System's response was a single discovery about signal discrimination.

She let the notification settle. She did not calculate the gap to Level 6. She sat at the stone and felt the substrate quieting beneath her and the bond network holding its Known-depth chord and the carried stone warm at the threshold stone's base and she breathed.

---

Theron returned from the gap at mid-afternoon.

He walked to the threshold stone where Wren was sitting and stood beside her. His face held the quality she had learned to read as Theron processing something he was not ready to say.

"Well?" she said.

"Six degrees."

She looked at him. "It was seven this morning."

"It is six now." Theron's voice was steady. The voice of a man stating a measurement, not an interpretation. "The southwestern boundary has moved. Not much. One degree of arc. But the gap is smaller than it was before the pulse."

One degree. The corruption had retreated. Not dramatically -- not the reversal of a hundred years of advance. A single degree of arc, the boundary shifting inward by a distance Theron could measure with his eye and his knowledge of the terrain.

But it had retreated.

In all of Theron's years at the forest's edge, in all of his father's years, in all of the Rimfolk's collective memory of living beside the Crying Forest -- the corruption had never retreated. It advanced or it held. It did not go backward.

Until now.

"Twice the gap has held," Wren said. "And this time it moved."

"Yes." Theron looked at the threshold stone. At the carried stone at its base. At the retaining wall where Brecca's hands had been. "Something changed."

"The bond is deeper. The triad is stronger. The carried stone --"

"The carried stone," Theron repeated. He looked at the small dark limestone resting against the threshold stone's east face. "My aunt's stone."

"Your great-great-grandmother's stone."

Theron was quiet. His hand went to the drainage channel's edge, where the stone lining met the earth, the automatic gesture of a man whose hands needed to touch stone when his mind needed to think.

"One degree," he said. "That is not nothing."

"No," Wren said. "That is not nothing."

---

Maret came to Wren at the fire that evening with the counting rod.

"I counted the holding," she said. "From the silence to the first sound." She meant the first insect voice -- the moment the forest began to recover its counting. "One hundred and twelve notches. Each notch is the length of a slow breath." She held up the rod. New marks, fresh scratches, near the rod's far end. "The holding lasted longer than the first pulse. By approximately one-fifth."

Wren processed this. The first pulse had lasted forty-five minutes by her estimate. One-fifth longer would be fifty-four minutes. Nine minutes of additional holding.

"The first pulse was at Familiar depth," Wren said. "This one was at Known. The bond is stronger."

"The carried stone," Maret said. "It sang."

Wren looked at her. "You felt it?"

"Not through the ground. Not the way you feel it." Maret pressed her hand against the counting rod. "I felt it through the stone I was holding. The carried stone. Its twin." She looked at her hands. "My grandmother's stone. It was warm. During the holding, it was warm. And then it was warmer."

Wren remembered the carried stone's voice during the pulse -- the human warmth, the four generations of held intention energized by the pulse. If Maret had been holding the counting rod, which was wood, she would not have felt it. But if she had been touching the carried stone --

"You touched the carried stone during the pulse?"

"After the first notch. I moved to the base of the threshold stone and placed my hand on it. On the carried stone. Both hands -- one on the counting rod, one on the stone." Maret's voice was careful. "I wanted to know what my grandmother's grandmother felt. When the stone remembered."

"And?"

Maret was quiet for a long time. The fire crackled. The insect chorus was beginning to return -- faint, scattered voices, the forest's counting restarting.

"Warmth," Maret said. "Not heat. The warmth of being held. I am sixty-three years old. I have held my grandmother's stone ten thousand times. It has never felt like that." She set the counting rod across her knees. "The stone remembered being held. During the holding, the stone remembered."

Wren sat with this. The carried stone, energized by the pulse, expressing its four generations of human intention as warmth. Detectable not through the bond, not through System-mediated perception, but through simple touch -- a woman's hand on a stone her family had carried for three hundred years.

The System had a word for what Wren felt through the bond. Discovery. Notification. XP. The System had no word for what Maret felt through her palm.

"The insect chorus is coming back faster," Hadley said from across the fire. He had been counting -- not with a rod but with his attention, the way he counted weather patterns and trail conditions and the things most people walked past without hearing. "Last time, after the first pulse, it took until the next morning. Tonight I can already hear three voices."

Three voices. The forest's counting restarting hours earlier than after the first pulse. The settlement's holding was not just defending. It was making the recovery faster. The resilience was growing.

Brecca was sitting against the gathering hall's wall. Her hands were in her lap, palms up, the clay-stained fingers open. She had not spoken since the pulse. She had not moved from the wall. She was looking at her hands the way Wren sometimes looked at a bond site -- with total attention, as if her hands contained information she was learning to read.

Wren did not ask her what she felt. Some things announced themselves in their own time.

The fire settled. The stars appeared through the canopy gaps. The threshold stone hummed its Known-depth heartbeat in the substrate, steady, patient, unchanged by the pulse that had tested it. The ghost-elms' shimmer was expanding, slowly, the bark-light returning to its pre-pulse radiation. The gap was six degrees. One degree less.

Maret touched a notch on the counting rod. The new notches, the ones she had carved today, were rough and fresh, the wood pale where the bark had been scratched away.

"One hundred and twelve breaths," she said. "I will remember that number."

"Write it down," Hadley said.

"I do not write." Maret touched the notch again. "I carry. The number is here." She pressed the rod against her chest. "And here." She pressed her hand against the earth. "And here."

The fire burned down. The insect chorus added a fourth voice, then a fifth. The forest was counting again.

Wren opened her journal. She wrote:

*Day 36. Eighteen. Zero.*

She paused. Then:

*The gap retreated one degree. The holding lasted 112 breaths. The insects returned in hours, not a day. The carried stone was warm. Maret counted. Brecca held the wall. Theron measured the gap. Hadley heard the insects first.*

*Five people held.*

She closed the journal. The margin number was zero again. Tomorrow it would be one. The count would restart, the way the stone's greeting would restart at dawn, the way the ghost-elms would unspool their shimmer, the way the insect chorus would rebuild its counting voice by voice until the forest was full again.

But this time, the number going up did not feel like counting away from crisis. It felt like counting toward something.
