With yet another bombardment of arrows, Jake finished off the critically injured Elite Guard rather quickly, using another Primal Gaze and what little Hunting Momentum he’d built up, before turning back to the final remaining one. This guard was the strongest of the bunch and had been saved for last on purpose.

Still not in the mood for wasting time, Jake opened his mouth and spoke two words.

“Event Horizon.”

He once more got a glimpse of a world far beyond his own reach as the Elite Guard was marked as his Event Horizon. The guard was temporarily confused by Jake’s skill, buying the hunter enough time to land the first arrow.

Stumbling back, the Elite Guard tried to defend itself while advancing, but Jake’s assault was relentless as arrows filled the sky, coming from all directions, yet always finding their target. The B-grade didn’t even manage to reach Jake before spiraling toward the ground, getting pelted by arrows all the way down, dead prior to even landing.

You have slain [Aginian Elite Guard – lvl 361] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

Jake confirmed the final of four kill notifications as he put away his bow. However, he didn’t deactivate his boosting skill but instead turned around and rushed straight back to where he’d come from.

He didn’t hold back from spamming One Step as he teleported through the Grand Labyrinth for a little while before finally reaching his target. Landing on the magic circle, Jake quickly got a prompt, which he readily accepted, teleporting him back out of the dungeon.

Minaga was waiting on the other side, but contrary to nearly every other time they met, the Unique Lifeform didn’t say anything. Instead, he just gave a knowing nod as Jake shot toward the teleportation station, quickly activating it, taking him to Haven.

With Unseen Hunter already active, no one disturbed Jake as he rushed back to his lodge. He landed right in front of the porch, and after giving the small eels in the pond a quick look and confirming someone had stolen some of his bananas again, Jake went inside.

Only now did he deactivate Arcane Awakening, but even as the wave of weakness came from doing so, Jake didn’t care. Instead, he walked into his bedroom and took a seat on the familiar bed he only sat on for very special occasions.

This being one of them, as that final kill notification hadn’t come alone, but had brought what Jake had waited for with it.

Race Evolution Requirements Met
