From city to city, village to village, I tore apart the entirety of Giess. A globetrotter unbounded by distance or time, I ripped the whole of their new civilization apart. When I began my bombings, we only had nine days left on Giess before the scheduled glassing. Including our own evacuation time, that gave us only a week to dish out damage.

And I culled them all.

Torix planned better once he learned the full extent of my abilities. He lined the cities closer together, saving us travel time. It exhausted the portalists less as well. They still suffered intense mental exhaustion, each of them nearly delirious after the first few days. They ended up only willing themselves through twelve more cities.

After the warpers needed rest, Spear and I went onward, slower than before, but still blistering through cities compared to before. Even at this newfound pace, I gained levels on top of levels from that night alone. I got into a flow of destroying a city, placing my points into endurance, and then moving on.

It became routine as all things do. Spear and I trekked through Giess's landscapes on our own. The sheer repetition involved with both bombing the cities and traveling made the evenings drag together, like a night that never ends. Never needing to sleep exacerbated that issue, and it was like living two lives, one of destruction and the other of creation.

Those nights, they wore me down. Even if I held myself together through them, that kind of mission still haunted me. Even Spear tired himself out after a few days, though the indomitable protector refused to show it. All the strain from portaling made Helios's mastery all the more impressive. Spear held his own in that regard, however, so we pushed forward and hard. After all, each city we destroyed showed an impact, both in levels and in any reports I read.

The Emperor was the primary source of that information. Within the first three days of my attacks, fewer Hybrids attacked Obolis's cities. Each crater I left in my wake meant fewer blighted ones covering the skies on the Empire. Even the countrysides of Giess cleared out some. By the time a full week passed, I had destroyed forty-three cities, settlements, and hive clusters.

Some of them weren't as large as other settlements, and they gave me fewer levels as a result of that. When it was all said and done, I rested at a comfortable level 15,000, the same level as an entirely capped out Fringe Walker. This rapid progress showed itself in my form and stature. I outsized Spear by quite a bit now, and my general aura seemed to match my increase in levels.

It wasn't as if I changed, though I had. The main difference was in what people believed of me. Before, I was the killer of Yawm and a walking army. Now I tread onto the path of a world-destroyer, a being to be whispered of and feared. It happened quick, something I didn't expect but appreciated.

Well, destroying dozens of cites single-handedly tended to do that.

It resulted in what Schema branded as the seven-day harvest. According to Torix during our mental battles, our number of recruits from other guilds over doubled. It was complicated getting them admitted into the guild considering our security concerns. It did give us an influence exceeding Giess and Earth, however.

Regardless of the details, my fame rose by orders of magnitude, at least based on what Torix told me. Time would tell the validity of his claims. It gave me a lot to think about between the cities I culled.

I mean, my increase in levels bolstered Schema's claims. After all, a sentient's levels showcased their worth in Schema's society. Showing my rise despite being a classless, backwater savage, well, it was inspiring to many. It also painted the war against the Adairs as a feeding frenzy rather than the brutal bloodbath it actually was.

Schema milked that illusion for all it was worth. To me, that idea was a bad joke, one without a punchline or any bite to it. For me, those nights passed like bathing in a sea of blood. Killing. Rubble. Fire. The massacres all blurred together, a living fever dream that never seemed to end. Despite the burden of it all, the rise in levels and popularity was...nice. I wasn't void of an ego after all, and being appreciated livened me up regardless of the mass-murdering context.

It was better than being looked down upon, that much was for sure. I could just imagine how much Helios was chewed out by the Emperor for how he treated us early on. Karma had a way of catching up after all.

We even gained a few offers for allyship from other guilds besides the Empire. It was mainly from alien factions offering to join us and our effort. It turns out, being painted as a hero acted as a fantastic method of getting people excited for a cause.

It was all very strange to me. On the one hand, here I was, killing millions of people. On the other side of the equation, everyone was showering our guild with praise and adulation. It showed a rift between reality and perception, one that Schema actively exploited. The AI was beyond ruthless, and Schema commended my guild for our mass murdering methods.

Those thoughts unnerved me for many reasons. At the same time, I was doing my best with the knowledge I had. At least my progress with my golems kept me sane during all the madness.

I found that programming minds could only take me so far, even with very advanced schematics. At some point, teaching them was required for progress. A day or two into teaching, and suddenly writing new cipher inscriptions seemed better. This push and pull went back and forth during the seven-day harvest.

When I hit that wall with cipher runes, I turned towards teaching. When I stalled from training, I wrote out a few new codes for them to follow. This pattern made my progress steady but never too quick nor slow. In the teaching aspects, I went to Torix for help. He patiently drilled in the basics of teaching via a long lecture with questions.

Was it boring? Well, kind of. Was it useful, though? Absolutely.

Using his techniques, I gained further insight into how learning took place. For instance, one aspect of teaching was to use a student-centered model rather than a teacher-centered one. The idea was surprisingly simple - focus on learning what the students know rather than what they didn't.

For example, a lot of students struggled with math. They used a particular method for solving a problem and came up with the wrong answer. A short-sighted teacher would assume that the student's approach must be completely wrong, so the student should discount their own thinking entirely.

This disengaged the student, mounting their frustration and wasting their time. They could've been almost correct, but a teacher's laziness stopped that progress from being recognized. This style of teaching focused on imprinting a teacher's thoughts onto the students, and it stifled critical thinking.

A wise teacher worked to understand the student's knowledge set. Once known, they could revise the errors and build from that base of knowledge that the student already had. After all, you can have 90% of the process right but still come up with a wrong answer in something like math. Scrapping a method that's so close to correct was like throwing away a house that's 90% built. It would be a huge time and effort sink, one most people couldn't afford.

Especially these golems who had the intelligence of cloth.

The tricky part of this new teaching method was designing a course that enabled this kind of learning. It required challenges that were approachable, challenging, and rewarding. If I did that and let the golems develop themselves, their knowledge would go deeper than the surface level regurgitation my previous teachings resulted in.

It was complicated as hell, but I found much better results from this method of instruction. When it all clicked in my head, this new teaching method was far less complicated than what I did before. Instead of carrying out courses, I just carried the golems to a dungeon. Once inside a cavern or the like, I watched them struggle on their own. As they fumbled against monsters much weaker than them, they learned tactics against certain enemies. If they stalled, I nudged them in the right direction through a few mental conversations.

The tactics they learned proved simple in practice, like how to fight stone gargoyles. If the golems swung at random, they ended up being attacked between their swings. If they waited until after a gargoyle committed to attacking them, then they could land a killing blow as it swooped down. It sounded obvious, but it wasn't to these knuckleheads.

Either way, we made reasonable progress within a week. It wasn't as if these golems could use something like language. As for beyond basic fighting, they comprehended a bit more than when we started. The progress from these tactics slowed down as time passed despite my efforts, so I shifted focus back towards mind magic.

It wasn't anything too grueling, but prodded them from certain mental angles. It was kind of like there minds were spheres, and you could attack from anywhere to crush them. My goal was to get them to guard against an attack from any angle. Multiple attacks or sophisticated tactics were out of the question, but that basic defense would do wonders given their vast repositories of willpower.

These days of cultivating a few quiet, unassuming golems made a world of difference for me. I wasn't changing the universe or anything, but it was a personal, long-term goal that kept me centered. As we finished up our efforts on Giess, I resolved myself to continue studying and researching methods of expanding these golem's minds.

I believed I was onto something here. If I could mass produce these things, people wouldn't have to fight for their lives in dungeons anymore. It was a purely good thing that I didn't have to think too hard about whether it was right or wrong. Instead, I could just dive in with focus and creativity like crafting armor or designing a training schedule.

I looked forward to spending more time on it as I finished my last city slaughter. City wasn't quite the right word. It was more of a facility center, something similar to a power plant underground. I used a sharp stone I developed during my attempts at destroying cities. A simple coating of metal let any rock go far deeper into the ground before reacting kinetically.

It left a cauldron in the ground, the deeper explosion underground causing less annihilation at the surface. Magma pooled at the pit's bottom, glowing orange and red. The dust settled a while back, and now I waited along a stripped hill for Spear's return. A dimensional rip appeared beside me, and Spear hobbled out.

Leaning onto a spear, he suppressed the urge to vomit. I went and picked the guy up, and we headed towards Elderfire. The Sentinel exhausted himself during the last seven days, his constant warping in and out of city ranges taxing his mana. After several hours of travel, I hovered him with a gravity well. He kept his head down as I turned to him,

"What about using portals is so tiring?"

Spear murmured,

"There is a sense of exhaustion similar to motion sickness that takes place. Different individuals carry different tolerances for this kind of transport. Mine vastly outweighs those portalists that Schema sent us. Helios's vastly outweighs mine."

"Aren't you using the spear for it?"

"The spear is a tool. Using it to warp is like using a hammer to smash nails into wood. If you smash a thousand nails in a row, then you're bound to hit your hand at some point. Continue doing so, and your hand will lose function. One's concentration during warping is similar, and it can only continue for so long."

He stared down, sounding sick,

"And...this gravitational travel is not helping."

I rolled my eyes, "Don't stare down then."

Spear murmured, "Please...Flip me upward."

I did as the guardian asked, and he sighed with relief. Sailing into Elderfire, we floated over a city full of movement. Dozens of crates, sleds, mana driven platforms, and even storage rings were being dispensed. On these carrying devices, food of all kinds was crated towards the center of town. Personal belongings and other possessions stored into the dimensional rings. As for the necessities, those took up the bulk of the physical space fitted into each warp.

Torix stood at the center of Elderfire, peering at the flow of traffic with the intensity I expected from the lich. Unable to help himself, he dispensed timely advice,

"Keep your distancing orderly. Calm yourselves. Time shall pass. You all shall leave...eventually."

Torix lifted a hand, projecting an image of a human woman and man, "Though tempting, do not eat this species. They are the origin species of our guild leader, and eating them is forbidden, as is to be expected."

He grumbled, "As is experimentation, but that too, is to be expected."

The gialgathens kept their telepathic conversations open as they moved, letting others listen in. Several of their conversations entered my mind all at once.

"That's the species of the Harbinger? I thought they were metal."

"I believed them beings of pure energy, manifesting as physical monsters."

"He comes from humble origins. Surprising. I expected more from them, though perhaps they're hiding their potential. Their species spawned him after all."

It was about the response I expected. Even when humbled, the gialgathens hadn't lost their haughty natures, at least not entirely. It wasn't outright derisive, however, so I took their responses as a net positive. Torix kept them all in line as I floated up to the guy with Spear tailing not far behind.

Reaching beside them, Torix looked me up and down,

"You seem rather well considering you spent the entire night causing various explosions. Spear seems far more affected. Perhaps he should've invested more into willpower, hm?"

