I shook my head, "He has some kind of portal sickness."

Torix facepalmed, "Ah, of course he would. It's a common problem. Perhaps we may garner more portal support from different members that have joined us recently. I'd completely forgotten about it."

Torix sighed, "Gah, I need an AI to automate some of my tasks. Details are beginning to slip from my grasp. Those details may one day equate to lost lives."

I peered at Spear, "How does portal sickness work?"

Torix raised a finger, "It spawns from two diverging issues. On the one hand, shifting perspectives and scenery over and over creates a motion sickness in certain people. Just as well, portals require a measure of visualization."

Torix raised both his hands, "Imagine immersing yourself in a different place while being in your current one. It creates a difficult dichotomy, one where your consciousness almost splits. As it comes together, it creates a refocusing that can be difficult to withstand. This is why many struggle with it. Think of it as a very talent oriented field of magic."

Torix put a hand on his chest, his chin raised, "As a lich, I do not suffer from said motion sickness. It's a part of how I organize my senses through my body. These limiters give me a measure of resistance to portal sickness that many warpers lack."

Torix coughed into a hand, "Though my distance abilities are low."

Torix turned towards the crowd of gialgathens being warped from Elderfire, "Despite those very abilities, it will be difficult to manage everything given our now splintered operations."

I raised an eyebrow, "Splintered, huh?"

Torix glanced at a warp-drive as it fired off, "The issue is in partitioning out our base of operations. As is, Lehesion assaulting Mt. Verner would decimate our guild. Therefore, the security of information is absolutely essential for our continued survival. I've issued basic mental screening along with a few technical checks that John Mcsmitty enacted. For now, it shall suffice."

I scoffed, "Man, I can't get over that guy's name."

Torix shrugged, "He works well for what we need him to do. I assume he's the reason that several Empire scouts discovered Mt. Verner's location. Regardless, he hasn't harmed us yet, and we've allied ourselves closely with the Empire already."

Torix winced, "As is, it's only a matter of time before the Adairs uncover Mt. Verner's location from the Empire. Our trading with the Emperor has already ceased due to their rebellions. Though they may not uncover our exact location, they shall uncover the planet we're nestled on in time."

My eyes widened, "That's bad. Real bad."

"Indeed. They may find us yet."

I shook my head, "That's not what I'm worried about. The issue is they might just blow us up completely. The earth that is. I mean, the Hybrids and espens haven't evacuated Giess. If anything, they've expanded operations across the planet. That means they have confidence Giess won't be glassed."

Torix shrugged, "There's little we can do here that haven't already done. Glassed or not, our time here has already come to pass."

"Yeah, but the thing is-" A loud set of flapping wings interrupted me, so I turned towards the desert skyline. Chrona and Krog flew up towards us. Torix lifted his hands to them,

"Ah, it is good to see our generals alive and well. I assume you've saved more gialgathens then?"

Chrona grinned, "We did. I saved fifty-six while Krog over here only saved forty-eight." Chrona turned to the red and orange gialgathen, "Perhaps fighting in the Harbinger's shadow has made you soft?"

Krog grumbled, "Your stasis is the only reason you saved more, and you know it."

Chrona lifted her chin, "Ah, discounting earned skills, I see? I understand. Being humbled is a harrowing process."

Krog frowned, "We've all been humbled."

Chrona grinned, "Some more than others."

I rolled my eyes, "Come on, guys. Let's focus."

They turned towards me. The gialgathens paused for a moment as if frozen before they jolted upright. Both of them met my eye, and their heart rate spiked. They both kept their composure, but some kind of invisible pressure left them on edge. I looked them over, and it popped in my head.

They were afraid.

I looked back and forth at them, "Uh, you guys okay?"

Chrona nodded, "Of-of course."

I scoffed, "Did a Hybrid pull your tongue out?"

Chrona shook the wave of fear off, "As if they'd ever catch me."

Krog peered at me with reverence, his eyes distant. He shook his head while staring down,

"In our long history, we've never seen a hero of such renown. Incredible."

Hero? Me? Pfff. I was a killer with a few good points.

I scratched the back of my head while looking away,

"Uh, thanks, I guess."

Blood rushed to my face, my face brightening red. Wait, my blood looked like silver, and my skin was gray. Maybe they didn't notice. Yeah, I'd just act like they didn't notice. Torix caught on, however, so he nudged me with an elbow,

"Ho, ho, it looks as though even the great Daniel Hillside can feel a measure of embarrassment."

I glared at him, but he stood his ground. It felt good that he still acted as my equal. I turned towards the two gialgathens in front of me, each resting their wings,

"Guys, just treat me like you always have. Nothing has changed between us."

Krog shook his head,

"That simply is not true. Lehesion carried us out of the dark ages. You have done more, carrying us out of extinction. For that, you've earned my gratitude."

I blinked, "Uhm, I'm glad to hear it." I waved a hand, "But, er, how is the transition towards Mt. Verner going?"

Chrona peered down, "Poorly."

I raised an eyebrow, "How so?"

Chrona sighed, "We...are large creatures, and while your planet is lush with life, it is incomparable to Giess. We need large volumes of food, and I don't believe our kind can feast on the deer and cows nearby for much longer."

"Why not just eat eldritch?"

Chrona's tail whipped behind her, "It is possible, though few dungeons carry edible animals. The issue is that Mt. Verner is not large enough for a population of several thousand gialgathens."

Torix clapped his hands, "Perfect. We shall use each of you to establish a control zone in our city expansion plan."

I raised my eyebrows, "City expansion, huh?"

Torix turned a palm to me, "Indeed. It involves opening several more bases, similar to Mt. Verner. They shall remain secret and controlled by trusted individuals I've carefully curated. They shall increase the guild's income tremendously, and our reach will expand as well."

I frowned, "I don't know about that. Our guild is easy to defend since it's all in one place. We also have a tightknit community that we can trust. Accepting everyone would mean our guild loses that elite feel it has."

Torix nodded, "That is precisely why I've set up a specific protocol for joining, a ranking system of authority, and a reward system based upon merit. I intend to maintain a respectable organization but on a larger scale."

Torix leaned towards me, "After all, we cannot fight an interplanetary rebellion unless we can fight on many planets. As is, our guild has struggled to maintain a battle on even one."

I bit my lip before letting my hands flop against my sides, "Yeah, you're right."

Torix stood upright, "Thank you for listening to my reasoning. Now, I don't know if you're weary from your journeys, but perhaps you may assist with moving supplies towards Mt. Verner? You own by far the most dimensional storage space out of anyone in the guild, and your gravitation magic may help us as well."

He coughed into a hand, "And you may also move goods that are...less legal in nature."

I gave Torix a thumbs up, "Smuggling, you don't say?" I turned towards Chrona and Krog, "It wouldn't be my first time. We'll definitely work something out as far as the food situation is concerned as well. I mean, I can make animals to eat like we did here."

Chrona raised her eyebrows while sticking out her tongue,

"The creatures here...they lack taste."

I shrugged, "When you can feed an army with your own mana, then you can complain. Until then, eat the magic tofu without whining."

Chrona sighed, "Yes, sir."

I waved an arm in a circle, "Alright, let's move some gear."

Torix pointed in the right direction, and I went to moving stuff. Most of it was necessary, though a bit of it was fluff. It was good the gialgathens were keeping their culture, though, and I wouldn't want them to stifle themselves just to fit in. It was better they spread their wings and fly, both literally and metaphorically.

Those thoughts drifted through my mind as I picked up a massive haul of produce. Taking an absurd amount of goods, I shoved crate after crate into my dimensional storage without end. Millions of pounds later, I lifted more containers with gravity and moved towards the warp. As the ionization commenced, a mild, vinegary scent wafted in my nose, the air sterile. When the transport ended, I took a deep breath while looking around.

Yup. Things changed around here.
