Valok pointed up at the tree, at the myriad of fruits growing from the boughs. He said, “That’s a lemon. The green one looks like a lime, but it is not. I know my citrus, and those are unknowns. This tree is either a gift from Erick, or something else is going on there.”

Justine perked up. “What!” She saw the tree in a whole new light. “Oh!” And then she lost that light, muttering, “Oh.” Whatever she was looking at, would surely elicit a response from Bulgan. It would be violent, and swift, and someone would die.

Or maybe not?

No. That was wishful thinking. Justine steeled herself for what was sure to come. She asked, “What sort of gift do you think it could be?” She looked up. “I don’t see Ophiel, and no one reported the [Familiar]. But he’s been experimenting with Spatial magics, so… [Teleport Tree]? For what reason?”

“I don’t know about any of that.” Valok said, “But that Myriad Citrus is a magical plant. It’s almost a [Tree of Light], but not. It’s something different. Stuff has obviously happened since I’ve been away from Spur, but I don’t think Erick is the type to accidentally make a magical plant. Not after what he saw happen to Odaali, with the Daydropper.” He added, “So this would have had to have been made on purpose, to fulfill a function.”

“He’s an archmage, Valok.” Justine was not sure of anything, right now, but she had more than enough history and contact with more than enough archmages to draw at least one conclusion between every single one. “They make accidental shit up all the time. That one more than most, and just to see if he can.”

Valok hummed, then nodded, adding, “True. I could be wrong.”

“But you’re right about the Daydropper scare.” Justine thought. She said, “I doubt he would make a plant like that, though.” She declared, “Only one way to find out!” She walked forward, across the turned soil, toward the mysterious tree.

Valok asked, “What are you doing?”

“I’m going to get me a fruit.”

Valok called out, “Lemons are sour!”

Justine smiled, but did not reply. She stared ahead at the seven-fruit tree. Knowing she was about to die was a rather liberating thought. Death by intentional poison or bad fruit or incoming Bulgan, wherever the man might be, it was all rather preferable to what was possible, and the tortures she had experienced long before today. This, right here, might be a way to get a message to Erick, right now, or soon enough.

She walked up to the tree, and said, “Hello.”

The tree did nothing.

She asked, “I would like a sweet fruit, if you have one.”

The tree did nothing.

Justine turned back, calling out, “Any suggestions?”

Valok, standing amid the other farmers, called out, “Yellows and greens are sour!”

Justine turned back to the Myriad Citrus, feeling that she should have paid more attention to the fruits and vegetables Erick had created, but the man had created a lot, and what he created was already being passed around the world through a thousand different vectors. The adoption of the potato by the Greensoil Republic was surely more important than whatever these citruses got up to; no one even cared about lemons. But maybe Justine should have cared.

She looked upon seven different options, up in those branches. Pale yellow, orange, white, yellow, red, bright green, and blue. Each of the fruits were slightly differently shaped and sized. Now, if these colors were the normal Stat colors, then Justine might have had somewhere to start her guess. But they were not.

White was the color of Erick’s magic? Might as well start there.

Justine lifted her hand up toward the nearest white fruit. She touched it, and the tree let it go. She fumbled the fruit for half a second before securing her grip. And then she breathed again. That had been a tense moment. The tree seemed to be watching her, as old growth forests sometimes surveyed their domains. If she had dropped this white fruit, that could have been bad.

… If she picked wrong, and she died, that would definitely be bad. But knowing she was about to die anyway was rather freeing. This event had happened right in front of her, and there was a connection to Erick, and Bulgan was already eager to kill her. So, what happened from here was a foregone conclusion.

Candlepoint would be okay without her. She had made sure of that, long before today. She had guided people to self sufficiency and raised the dretches from full darkness. She had secured rain for Candlepoint, and that was huge.

Honestly, she should have died long before today.

Justine smiled. She sniffed the fruit.

It smelled sour. For sure. A hundred percent a sour fruit. She had picked wrong, but that was okay. She would try it, anyway. With a fingernail, she dug into the flesh— Oh. Right. Citrus has rinds. This is how this works. Ah. Good. Discard that. Segmented fruit? Yes, it comes apart easily enough. Seeds inside. Justine’s fingers did not fumble in this peeling. Not a single segment broke. But as she held up a segment and lightly pressed it between her thumb and forefinger, this fruit seemed more like a juicing fruit than an eating fruit; it was very squishy.

This was okay. She had done rougher things in Ar’Kendrithyst, and had tasted nastier things back when she was alive and working as an alchemist.

She downed a segment of the fruit.

Yup. Sour.

Justine’s face contorted as she tasted, and swallowed more than chewed. When it was down, and her mouth tasted of sour sunshine, Justine laughed to herself. It wasn’t bad, actually. Kinda refreshing. A real kick to it, too. She popped the seed out of the second segment and had another—

The tree moved a bough downward, revealing to Justine a full assortment of fruits. Justine smiled again, and happily picked the six other options, transferring them to the front pocket of her farmer’s dress. She tucked the peeled white fruit back into some of its peel, and began smelling each of the other fruits. All of them smelled sour, but the orange and red ones smelled good. Ooh, she wanted to try the red one, for sure.

She looked to the tree, and said, “Thank you.”

The tree was more than a simple tree, but it said nothing. Had it been, perhaps, an attempt at an Arbor? And then gifted to Candlepoint? If that’s what this was, it was an odd choice. Justine turned to rejoin the farmers. She stopped, once again thrown from her normal course of events. She was a girl who rode a boat too far out to sea, only to find that storm on the horizon came to harbor much faster than it had any right to come.

For Bulgan stood at the edge of the field, his dark countenance full of malevolent light. The farmers were gone, but one remained; Valok, his neck and face pressed into the dirt by Bulgan’s booted foot. Valok did not struggle, but Justine saw him hold his hands in fists, also pressed down into the dirt. To struggle was to die, right now; Justine had taught him well.

The Shade asked, “What have you got there, little Justine?”

Privately, Justine was rather sure of Melemizargo’s plan for Candlepoint, though she had never been fully aware of any such plan. This bully of a former man, standing before her, was obviously set up to fall. To be taken down by someone greater than himself, and in doing so, lead the shadelings to a proper place in society. For Bulgan had to be an example of all that was wrong with the Clergy. Melemizargo must have wanted the Clergy to be cleansed by Bulgan’s bloody, painful passing.

Hopefully this much was true! But it was hard to say.

Her Dark God was not an easy, loving God. He did not grant [Cleanse], to ease the burdens of daily life. He did not grant Spatial magic, either, for exploring the world was meant to strengthen one’s self, and hone one’s power; people were meant to tame the world, not hop around, ignoring the monsters all around them.

Too many gifts bred weakness, and Melemizargo did not suffer weakness in his presence, for he made fools of all he could, including those who knew him best. Justine knew these facts more than most.

Hopefully, today, the fool would be Bulgan.

- - - -

The experimental garden was a mess. Good dirt had been scattered all around by the exploding lemon trees, leaving great holes in the garden, while the two trees that remained had been chipped by wooden shrapnel, their boughs broken by stray flying trunks. But that was all window dressing. The main fact remained obvious for all with eyes to see.

“The Myriad Citrus is gone,” Erick said, standing on the spot where his creation had once been. “The dirt’s not even disturbed.”

Erick gazed upon the ground for a few moments. Then he reached out toward the two remaining trees, and with a bit of Ophiel oversight on the other side of the house, he [Teleport Tree]’d them over into their new spots, alongside the other surviving citrus. Also through Ophiel, Erick imbued the moved trees with [Tree of Light]. As they both glittered with neon hues, their barks and their branches repaired themselves, swift as magic. They would live a long and fruitful life, unless any Flare Couatls or otherwise came knocking.

Erick turned to Poi. “Can I get a meeting with Irogh?”

Poi nodded, then looked to the air. He looked back, and said, “Yes. Right now, or in three hours.”

Erick smiled. “Right now, then.” He asked, “You ready?”

“Yes. Uh. Let me just...” He looked askance for a second, then added, “I cleared the way for a [Teleport].”

Erick smiled, then put one Handy Aura hand on Poi, and one on Ophiel. The world flashed white, changing from orange land and dark garden soil, into tall, white stone hallways and pillars. A blue door stood open, and inviting, not four meters away.

An unknown guard down the hall yelped at Erick’s intrusion, while a few people in suits, holding papers, startled. Looks of recognition rapidly passed from one set of eyes to the next. Another guard rushed into the hallway, saying calming words. In moments, everyone went on their ways, including the first, mollified guard, as soon as they saw who it was who had blipped into the Courthouse.

Erick strode into Irogh’s office. The handsome orcol man sat on the other side of his counter, gently smiling.

“Welcome, Erick.”

Erick said, “Helloo, Irogh.”

Irogh flipped his hand up, and the blue door closed. Once it clicked in place, he asked, “How can I help you?”

Excitedly, Erick asked, “[Gate] quest! Do I have it? Do I qualify?”

Irogh paused for a brief moment, looking unsure if he had heard Erick correctly. The moment passed. Irogh looked to the air and typed out on an invisible, intangible keyboard. Seemingly surprised himself, he said, “Yes. Yes you do.”

A blue box appeared.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path 0/1

OR

10 Points

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

Erick read. And then he grumbled, “That’s rather vague.”

“Yes. It is.”

“Did I qualify for any other Class Abilities since last time?”

Irogh looked to the air. “… No.”

“Hmm. Hmm...” Erick stood, as he said, “Okay. Thanks, Irogh.”

Irogh lifted his hand, and the door to the room opened. “Anytime.”

- - - -

She wasn’t dead yet.

Justine stood a respectable distance from Bulgan Shadoweater, and the citrus tree.

Bulgan stood under the tree, looking up at the boughs, inspecting the low hanging fruit with a gentle caress of fingertips, or an upturned nose and a sniff. He had smelled and touched all seven types of fruit, as well as placed his hand against the trunk, and tested a slight grip on one of the thicker branches. Justine watched the whole thing, and wondered at the thorns she now saw along the branches, that dappled up the gnarled trunk. Those thorns had certainly not been there before. They had grown when she wasn’t watching. The tree might not have eyes, but it certainly sensed what kind of person was touching it, right now.

Bulgan’s gentle grip turned solid around an orange fruit. The harvest did not drop into his hand, like how the fruits had dropped into hers. Bulgan did not care for the tree’s reluctance. He pulled anyway. The fruit came off. The bough went up, and then slapped back down, further than it had been before. Bulgan’s hand was still there, and still able to receive the long thorn that it did.

The Shade laughed as the thorn broke against the darkness on his skin; his godly raiment was more than a match for some young, misbehaving plant. He smiled as he ripped the rind off of the orange fruit, breaking segments, scattering juices as he tore, before he enjoyed his meal. Justine almost watched, as orange juices slipped down Bulgan’s chin, but she averted her eyes before he could see her spying.

He saw her anyway, his eyes tracking her aversion. He asked, “A two in seven gift, perhaps? Do you feel we should pay Erick back in kind?”

“My humble opinion is surely wrong, Master Shadoweater.”

Bulgan turned and stared at her. “You weren’t even startled to hear that this came from Erick, were you?”

“It is my job to know such things, and the man you pressed into the ground informed me of this possibility, before you arrived.” Justine said, “Lemons were a variety of citrus not known to the accomplished farmer until after Archmage Flatt came along and created them.”

Bulgan scowled at nothing in particular, then turned to Justine, unerringly hitting her faults, as he said, “Lies. You didn’t know until minutes ago. You’re supposed to know more about your assigned archmage than most. Why did you not know this until now?”

She had been found out.

Oh well.

If she thought that answering truthfully would help, she would tell Bulgan a true answer; that Justine was not allowed to venture outside of Candlepoint in search of any real sources, Erick hadn’t spoken about lemons in any of the short times he had been here, and listening to the shadows of the Temple was rather hit or miss and a deluge of information all at the same time. Her God kept track of quite a lot, all at once, but Justine was not a god, nor even a Shade. ‘Lemons’ had likely come up once or twice before, but understanding the stream was not a perfect magic.

But Bulgan would not want to hear any of that. He likely didn’t want to hear anything that wasn’t groveling.

Justine dropped to her knees, dirtying her farmer’s dress further, as she put her hands on the dirt, saying, “Please forgive me, Master Bulgan. I try, but it is difficult to hear of every major thing.”

To call the existence of lemons a major or minor thing would, in either case, draw Bulgan’s ire. The Shade was wild and unpredictable in most ways, save for how he dealt with imagined slights against himself.

