“It’s not an insult, Shiv,” Adam replied. “But it is a problem. Marcus got in on the Wild Card Program. Those can be rescinded if the student does not perform up to standard. And considering Marcus is not a martial Pathbearer, you’re going to need to perform well academically… And that might be a bit difficult without some… assistance.”

“What kind of assistance?”

“Well, you’re probably going to be taking Helix with you in your cape, right?” Adam asked.

Shiv sneered. “I don’t think he’s going to take no for an answer.”

“Well, I suspect you’re going to need his help for more than just Biomancy. I don’t usually condone cheating, but if you botch Gen-101’s basic coursework, you’re going to be examined for brain damage first, and then up for probation after. We can’t have that.”

“You want my orcs to do my math and language schoolwork for me?” Shiv asked, slightly offended.

“I simply ask that you ask them in case you run into anything you don’t know,” Adam said placatingly. It was a funny way of saying “cheat”, in Shiv's opinion. The Gate Lord pushed through his discomfort and continued. “Have you thought of what else you wish to learn?”

Shiv’s first instinct was to go for a cooking-related class, but then he reminded himself that Marcus didn’t have any skills for that. Despite this, Shiv was still interested in seeing how developed the capital’s culinary arts were. Even if he couldn’t study cooking in the open, he was going to refine and improve himself in the shadows.

That left Marcus’s main skills. Surgery. Practical Metabiology. Skills related to Biomancy; things that would help Shiv’s development as a Biomancer.

Finally, a chance to actually learn some felling magical theory, Shiv thought. The idea of not needing to brute-force everything was—His heart almost skipped a beat. Don’t fuck me over now, System. Not when I’m this close.

“You know anything about medical or Biomancy courses?” Shiv asked, scrolling through the vast array of choices. “Because I’m thinking about filling my time up with that.”

And it was like a lightning bolt had struck Adam. “I do, in fact. Medic-301. You need that. You’ll love that. And it’ll let you do a little good for the people of the capital as well.”

Shiv liked the sound of that. “What’s it about?’

“Oh, it’s just the most hands-on medical experience you can have,” Adam said, “because the students who pick that course get slotted into the Phoenix Academy medical apprenticeship program. Residency, I think they called it. Start with that.”
