Rue nodded. “Mana Sense is not a skill to be bought in the Script, but a personal ability, like knowing how to read a language, or understand the stars.” She said, “[Detect Magic] is useful as a starting point. If you have not done so yet, try to Aurify your [Detect Magic], and then activate the resulting ability.” She looked completely embarrassed for a hot moment, her eyes darting to the ground then away, as she added, “Uh! But you probably already have?”

“I have not.” Erick said, “I just know a bit about stuff you all don’t know, and have gotten a leg up on the path of the mage. That’s all.”

Rue smiled softly.

Erick held out his hand, channeling mana through—

“What are you doing?” Rue asked, eyes alight.

Erick said, “Ah.” He stopped channeling mana through his hand, and said, “You channel mana through your Stats to produce a Stat item, but you never tried channeling through the skills themselves?”

Rue’s eyes sparkled as she said, “The people of the Songli Highlands of Nelboor have a rich tradition of using harmonics to influence their spell creation. This method is known, but not widely used, because not many people are able to gain anything from this method, except to get closer to their Mana Exhaustion limit for the day.” She said, “But it helps you? That’s wonderful.”

“It does.”

Erick channeled mana through [Detect Magic], producing a sound of resonance. Like an echo, far removed. That made quite a lot of sense, considering [Detect Magic] was, well, all about detecting magic, or rather, about detecting intent imbued within the mana, which was another way to describe ‘magic’. From there, it was a short jaunt to Aurify the spell.

Detect Magic X, instant, medium range, 10 MP

Detect ongoing magical effects.

Became:

Detect Intent Aura, medium range, 8 MP per second

See the control imposed upon nearby mana.

The mana per second was high, but lower than what Erick thought it would have been. He barely had time to register that nuance, though, because when he used the skill, the world transformed.

This wasn’t how Meditation revealed vague impressions of intent in the manasphere.

The very air around Erick was alight with magic. His [Personal Absorption Ward] was a white haze on the edge of his vision. The areas around Kiri and Poi were deeply influenced, with Kiri layered in pale green and Poi layered in blue, while Krigea was a brilliance of almost-teal. Ophiel, sitting on the balcony, was a splash of white, tangled upward, reveling in the rush of thick-air mana and regular air breeze flowing up from the harbor. Rue’s own magics were red, and wrapped around her like a second skin.

Even from his seated position, Erick saw that the city outside the balcony was prismatic; a deeper, more vibrant color to complement the rainbow pastels of the roofs.

Rue smiled to look at him, saying, “Looks like you got a good version.”

“I guess I did.”

He did not say that his Meditation empowered regeneration was enough to keep his mana full, even with the 4 mana per second drain of [Detect Intent Aura], but it was nice to know he could keep this up all the time, if needed.

But there was a problem. Everywhere he looked, his sight was tainted with white; it was like looking through a snowstorm. In fact, having had the skill active for longer than a few moments, Erick realized he was seeing the [Detect Intent] aura itself, like he was truly in the center of a snow storm. He was effectively half-blind. This would not do at all. He cut the aura.

Erick said, “I can also see a problem.”

Rue nodded. “The color of your own magic, blocking half your sight.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Everything is white.”

Rue said, “This is why people do not use this skill save when necessary, but this spell is a good basis to begin to understand Mana Sense.” She said, “Those highest skilled in Mana Sense are able to see around corners, and understand spells as they are being cast. You will be able to see the mana inside of monsters, and understand the flow of fights against such creatures on an instinctual level. If you have any warrior inclinations, this will help with that aspect of your repertoire as well.” She said, “You will also be able to see those who hide with [Invisibility], or in other magical ways, like with [Lightshape] or [Shadowshape].”

“That’s what I’m hoping for.”

Rue nodded. “A properly developed Mana Sense will accomplish this.” She said, “It is best to be completely devoid of all ongoing magical effects while engaging in understanding the mana, but dropping your [Personal Ward] and your rings would be a bad idea in an unfamiliar location such as this. So you will simply have to make do, and try to learn the skill anyway.” Rue breathed deep, and relaxed, saying, “The order of steps to achieving Mana Sense is similar for everyone. Three steps, each more monumental than the last.

“To begin: empty your mind of all thoughts. This is the largest hurdle, that most people are never able to achieve. Then, you must become a clear vessel for the mana to flow through you. When you have achieved this second step, you will begin to ‘see’ the world as mana sees the world, where the airy spaces are full of movement, and the solid spaces resist the transferral of mana. You will not be seeing with your eyes. You will be seeing with the mana. The last step is making sense of this shift in perspective.”

Erick smiled softly, saying, “I have never been good at having zero thoughts.”

“Not many people are.” Rue said, “It takes time, and practice. But know this: even if you were completely blind, be it in darkness or as a result of losing your eyes, a well developed Mana Sense will never leave you.” She added, “Some cultures in the Underworld even purposefully blind their children so that they may develop this other sense, for life down in the dark requires many different kinds of sight.”

Erick almost laughed, but couldn’t. Blinding children, even with the prevalence of [Greater Treat Wounds], seemed like a harshness that he was glad to never have experienced, but this was his world now. He still wasn’t going to blind himself, though.

Erick began to empty his thoughts, and instantly failed.

He thought of Caradogh and trade with Portal. How were Valok and Apogough handling the problems there? How was Krakina?

How was Krakina? Erick hadn’t talked to her recently. She was avoiding him, for sure. Should he force the issue, and confront her? Probably not. How was Jane? Likely killing fire monsters and eating them, no doubt.

Erick tried for a minute to empty his mind, and failed miserably. He looked around. With Kiri, Poi, Krigea, and now Rue, all around him, even if most of them were looking away, he would never be able to accomplish an empty mind; at least not right now.

“Thank you for the instruction.” Erick stood up from the pillow, a knee popping as he straightened out.

Rue lifted gracefully from her own seat, saying, “Of course. I hope I was able to help.”

“In time. Probably.” Erick flexed his knee out, saying, “See you at the lecture, tomorrow.”

“Tomorrow.” Rue bowed, then left the room.

She seemed nice.

After she left, Erick turned to Krigea, and said, “Time to head to the Manor. Thank you. See you tomorrow, too.”

“Tomorrow,” Krigea said.

Erick held out his hands to Kiri and Poi. “You two ready to go?”

Krigea bowed as Erick joined hands with Kiri and Poi. With a firm grip, Erick blipped out of there; a crash of white following them out.

Ophiel, still enjoying the breeze on the balcony, gave a surprised trill of cellos and flutes, before also blipping away in a much smaller white sparkle.

- - - -

Before Erick knew it, it was time to rain on the farms. From 12,500 kilometers away. Maybe more, maybe less. Erick still wasn’t quite sure about the distance.

He was able to get Ophiel to the farms, though!

Ophiel, three meters tall, with wings outstretched and eyes alight, hovered above the Harvest Temple. Erick channeled mana through his connection, to lift silver clouds from the ground into the sky. Platinum rain fell right on time. He watched as Valok, standing down by the temple, waved at Ophiel then walked away.

Erick came back to himself sitting in the living room across from Teressa, and promptly puked on the floor. Teressa eyed him, but after nothing else happened, she yawned, and went back to reading her book. Poi just squeezed a lemon in the kitchen, then poured the fresh juice into his tea; not coftea, just tea. Erick expected that Poi had had enough of that bitter drink.

Kiri watched him from the kitchen, situated right next to the living room, stirring the round-bottom pan with a wooden spoon, searing the meat inside; she was making dinner. After Erick’s accident, she immediately asked, “That distance is pretty rough, eh?”

“You could say that.” Erick wiped his mouth, then cast a brief [Cleanse], cleaning up his mess as his mana drained away into Ophiel, 12,500 kilometers away. He felt a sense of vertigo as he funneled mana across the distance. He looked at his Status, and saw his mana tick down, briefly, before Meditation filled it back up. Usually, his mana bar never drained for his auras, but Erick had to increase the flow to make up for the distance. He could already tell that the spell would turn splotchy if he lost concentration. “That’s a hefty drain, too.” He felt woozy, but he could manage this much.

Poi grunted, nodding as he sipped his lemon tea.

Kiri frowned a little, as she stirred sizzling meat in the pan. She said, “I think…. I’ve decided on Scion of Focus.”

Erick smiled, and almost laughed, but a puke threatened to crown. He shoved that feeling down, saying, “It’s a good choice!”

Kiri paused. Then she blurted out, “What’s your— Sorry. Nevermind.”

Poi glanced at her, before walking out of the kitchen, to exit the living room through the door, to stand outside on the lawn. He liked watching the sun go down over the ocean, or maybe he liked the ocean itself; sunset was still hours away.

Erick sat back in his chair, funneling mana across a vast distance, wondering if this nauseous feeling would improve, or if he could acclimate. He glanced over at Kiri. She was staring at the meat in the pan, stirring it with all the furor of someone whose mind was somewhere else, entirely. She was purposefully not asking him something.

Erick said, “Just go ahead and ask, Kiri.”

Kiri blurted out, “Does Particle Mage have access to reduced mana costs?”

Teressa grunted a tiny, quiet disapproval.

Erick smiled at Teressa. He chose to answer, “Yes.”

Kiri smiled softly.

Erick added, “All cost reduction, 5 percent. All magic reduction, 10 percent. All Particle spell cost reduction, 20 percent. Can only take one, of course.”

Teressa set down her book, saying, “What!”

Kiri whispered, “Wow.”

Teressa mumbled, “20 percent is crazy.” She added, “You shouldn’t tell people which one you have, though. Sir.”

“I’m happy with my Class.” Erick said, “I don’t know how easy it’ll be for others to get, though. If Jane’s Polymage Class Quest is anything to go on… Particle Mage is going to be very difficult.”

“I’m just a basic Healer,” Rats walked into the room, yawning, saying.

“Juggernaut, here,” Teressa added.

“Good morning, Rats,” Erick said. “I’ve heard of Juggernaut before. But what’s a ‘Healer’? It sounds very basic.”

Teressa giggled.

Rats eyed her, as he said, “Healer is basic. Some Classes start off basic, only to be upgraded later after you’ve decided your truth.” He added, “Most non-religious healers you meet are ‘Healers’ because advancing to a final healing Class means picking a god.”

Teressa chuckled, eyeing Rats, asking, “Still can’t pick a god, can you?”

Rats said, “I could just get ‘Doctor’.” He mocked himself, “Doctor Rats! Has a nice ring to it.”

Erick smiled, as he channeled mana across the ocean, to Ophiel.

He suddenly realized that there was something vital here; something important that needed to be understood. How, exactly, was he able to channel so much mana across such a large distance? Why the increased cost to keep the spell working like it should work? Was it a function of the physics of magic, or a restriction of the Script?

But that was a problem for another day; one where he wasn’t so new at the process, and wasn’t about to puke every time he breathed.

Teressa said, “Your bedside manner is terrible, Rats. You could never be a Doctor.”

Rats laughed, saying, “I could try! I can carve off a leg as well as the next guy! With [Greater Treat Wounds] I could even regrow it.”

Teressa said, “[Regeneration] is easier to get, you know.”

“Yeah but that spell sucks," Rats said. "The recuperation time is abysmal."

Erick channeled mana, listening to Teressa and Rats talk about doctoring, as he blinked and concentrated.

Rats looked at him. After a moment, Rats asked, “You don’t look so good, boss.”

“Channeling over 12,500 kilometers will do that.” Erick added, “It seems.”

Rats nodded, silently watching him. Now Teressa was watching him, too. Even Kiri was glancing his way.

Erick changed the subject, asking, “What does everyone know about [Gate]? I think channeling mana this far is a part of the spell.” He added, “Probably.”

Rats hummed a little, then sat up, glancing away from Erick. “Sorry. No idea.”

Teressa said, “It’s a portal that takes you from one location to another, anywhere in the world. Distance doesn’t matter.” She added, “That’s all I know.”

Erick said, “Yup. Me too.”

Kiri spoke up, enthusiasm coloring her bright voice as she chopped vegetables on a cutting board, “[Gate] is an advanced form of [Teleport], though it’s not available in the Script.” She said, “I looked up the history of it, and almost every person who was able to produce such a spell found either great success in the Wayfarer’s Guild, or the patronage of a country. All of them were Spatial Mages, though, and were at the top of their careers when they achieved [Gate].”

Erick listened, but mostly he channeled mana across an ocean and half a continent, thinking about the tunnel-like sound he heard from Yetta, and Atunir’s, [Gate].

