Ryoka stared at the pool of acid. It was easier to stare at the unidentifiable green goop instead of the dead bodies of the Ghouls. She felt queasy, but tried to force it down. They’d won. The Ghouls had been easily dispatched. Almost too easily. But then, Ryoka hadn’t done much. She hadn’t done anything, really.
But next time she’d fight. Once things were serious, she’d play her part.
She was sure of that.
 
—-
 
The group travelled on for twenty more minutes before they were attacked. Pisces was just explaining how his patented spine-snapping spell was a product of a more advanced spell of [Necromancers] that he’d repurposed when he looked up and shouted a warning.
Fifteen undead, a mix of zombies and skeletons, surged out of an open doorway and ran towards the others. Again, Ryoka nearly froze as she saw their rotting frames and the burning lights in the eyes of the skeletons.
Pisces cut down several undead, but this time there were too many. Erin delved into her pack and threw something—a rock. Ryoka expected it to miss or not do any damage, but the stone cracked into the head of one of the skeletons, shattering part of the bone and sending the skeleton spinning to the floor.
And then they were on top of the group, clawing, biting, trying to kill Ryoka.
The girl saw Ksmvr lashing out lightning-fast with his swords and Toren charging into the center of the group before a zombie lurched at her. She raised her fists as the mostly-rotted woman approached, rotted teeth gaping as she grabbed at Ryoka’s arm.
Kick it. All of Ryoka’s instincts told her to kick, and she did. Clumsily.
It was no devastating roundhouse kick that hit the rotted woman in the stomach, but a pushing kick, meant to keep the woman away. But even that failed, because when Ryoka’s bare foot struck the woman in the stomach, it tore and caught in the rotted flesh of the woman’s intestines.
The feeling was horrible. Slimy, squishy, and lukewarm. It threw Ryoka off balance, and the undead woman seized her.
Punch her. Knock her away. Throw her to the floor. Ryoka had a thousand options, and she took not one of them. She stared into one ruined eye and felt the putrid breath of the zombie woman on her skin. And she couldn’t fight back.
She froze up. She couldn’t help it. It was a dead body, a dead human come back to life. This was reality. It wasn’t a monster, and this wasn’t a game. This was real.
And it was trying to eat her.
The zombie opened her jaws impossibly wide and bit at Ryoka’s face. Ryoka shouted with horror and hurled her back. A bit of dead flesh fell off the woman’s face and landed on Ryoka’s cheek, near her open mouth. Ryoka flung it away, but then the zombie was over her, reaching for her. The zombie was going to kill her—
A frying pan crashed into the zombie’s face, breaking what remained of the nose with a crunch and sending it sprawling to the floor. Erin bashed the zombie to the ground and hammered it on the head as it lay prone on the floor. When she lifted the frying pan it was slightly deformed and bits of hair and skin were sticking to the side.
“Ew, ew,  ew!”
The girl didn’t take long to complain, though. She whirled and bashed another skeleton down. From her position on the floor, Ryoka saw the skeleton fall and then the lights go out as Erin kicked the skull right off the rest of the body, sending it crashing down the long corridor.
The last zombie fell down, Rag’s sword in his gut and one of Ksmvr’s daggers still cutting through his throat. Erin looked around and sighed in relief. The other undead were gone.
Which left her with adrenaline still pouring through her veins and her frying pan. Erin stared at it. She’d killed three zombies and one skeleton with it. That was good, but now parts of each dead corpse were sticking to the side of the pan.
“Oh god. That’s gross.”
Erin turned green as she shook bits off of her frying pan. She took several deep breaths, trying to get the stench of rot and death out of her nose. She tried not to vomit and looked at Ryoka. The other girl was still staring at the zombie Erin had killed. Her face was white.
“Hey, are you okay? That zombie didn’t bite you or anything, did it?”
Erin held out a hand to Ryoka. The other girl stared at it, and then at her. Ryoka’s eyes travelled to Erin’s pan, and the nameless substance dripping from the side.
“Oh, right. I’ve gotta clean that off. Um. Good thing I’m not using it for cooking, huh?”
The barefoot girl stared at the frying pan, and then at Erin. She ignored the offered hand and stood up slowly. She looked around at the dead bodies, the sliced corpses, and inhaled the scent of death. She looked at Erin. Her face was deathly pale.
“Ryoka? Are you okay?”
That was when Ryoka threw up.
 
—-
 
“You know, it’s not like just anyone can go into the ruins and fight undead monsters. You’ve gotta be pretty brave to do that, let alone barefoot.”
“Right.”
“And you were trying to fight with your bare hands. That’s like—double brave, right?”
“Right.”
“And we all think you’re brave, isn’t that right?”
Erin glanced around. Ksmvr and Pisces both nodded obediently.
“Indisputably.”
“That is correct.”
“Besides, you ran through the High Passes by yourself. And you survived giant wolves and evil goats and gargoyles. You’re not a coward. You know that.”
Ryoka sat on the ground, shaking. She knew she should say something. But she couldn’t. Her throat was still too tight.
Erin was trying to comfort her. And her words were actually helping. But they didn’t take away what had happened.
“I froze up. I couldn’t fight back.”
“Hey, it happens to all of us.”
“Did it ever happen to you?”
Erin had to think about that.
“No. But it’s nothing to be ashamed of. Anyone would freeze up if a horrible zombie tried to eat their face.”
Ryoka stared up at Erin, and the innkeeper smiled encouragingly.
“Come on. We’ve got to keep going.”
“Of course.”
Ryoka was on her feet so fast Erin blinked.
“We can’t stop. We’ve got to get there in time. Let’s go.”
She started walking. Erin exchanged glances with the others and hurried after her.
Ryoka slowed to let Erin catch up, and even more so Ksmvr and Toren could move ahead again. After all, she’d proven she couldn’t do much if she got attacked.
Erin sidled up to Ryoka and kept pace as they walked further into the ruins. Ryoka could feel Erin glancing at her.
“You’re uh, that’s a pretty quick recovery, there. You feeling alright?”
“No.”
Ryoka was being honest.
“We could stop if you need more time—”
“We’ve got to get to the Horns of Hammerad. I’ll live. I’m just—I’ll be fine.”
Ryoka smiled bitterly.
“After all, it’s not like you need a coward to fight anyways.”
“Hey.”
Erin grabbed Ryoka by the shoulder.
“You’re not a coward.”
“I couldn’t fight back. I nearly got myself killed.”
“You were fighting with your bare hands—”
“I took martial arts lessons since I was eight. I’m a certified martial artist and I’ve been in fights countless times before this. I’ve seen monsters. But I couldn’t kill that zombie. Why? What’s the difference?”
Ryoka stalked on ahead. Erin thought as she hurried to catch up. After a few minutes, she offered the only answer she could think of.
“I guess it’s because you’re not a killer.”
She saw Ryoka stop in her tracks. The Asian girl stared at Erin, face shadowed in the light of the floating orb hovering next to her face.
“What?”
“It’s just a thought.”
Erin shrugged awkwardly. She couldn’t really explain it that well.
“It’s just—fighting, martial arts? All that stuff’s self-defense, right? And it’s like a sport.”
“So? It’s meant for combat.”
“But not for killing. Right?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“It’s not the first option, but if it comes to that…”
“But it’s never come to that, right? I mean, have you ever killed someone? Ever stabbed someone or broken their neck with a karate chop or anything?”
Ryoka thought back to the Goblin she’d kicked, long ago. She remembered the horrible way his neck had crunched and shuddered.
“Maybe. Once.”
“Well. I uh, I’ve killed a lot of things.”
Ryoka looked at Erin. The shorter girl looked away from her, into the darkness.
“The first thing I killed was a Goblin. A Chieftain, actually. He was huge and evil and he wanted to kill me—I burned his face off with boiling oil.”
It was as if Ryoka had taken a step that was no longer there. She stared at Erin as the other girl continued.
“I killed some other Goblins too, I think. Well, they were stabbing me so I hit them—and I killed some Shield Spiders, and then some undead. It’s not as if I’m an adventurer and go around killing things, y’know. But I had to. And the thing is, everything screams when it dies.”
She looked at Ryoka. There was a hollowness in Erin’s gaze. A cold void.
“Everything. I don’t enjoy it. I hope I never will. But I can kill things. Other monsters, or even people. Not just dead people either. If it came down to it, I could kill someone trying to kill me.”
“I…I see. But I’ve fought people too.”
“But you’ve never killed them.”
“No. No, I haven’t.”
The pieces fell into place. Ryoka got what Erin was trying to tell her.
“I guess that’s why I became a Runner. I don’t have the—”
“Stop.”
Erin pushed at Ryoka, and the other girl stumbled. Ryoka looked back at Erin, and saw the other girl was shaking her head.
“It’s a good thing. It’s a good thing you can’t kill people. Even dead people.”
“But I nearly died. If it comes to it again, I might have to fight. Or kill.”
“And if you have to, you probably will. But I think not killing things is good, don’t you?”
“…Yes.”
After seeing the look in Erin’s eyes, Ryoka had to agree.
 
—-
 
“So, you don’t have a class? That’s so weird.”
Ryoka was getting used to Erin’s wide-eyed looks of surprise. There was something inescapably innocent about Erin’s curiosity. It just drew answers out of Ryoka that she had no intention of giving. That was the problem; it was easy to talk to Erin.
And worse, Ryoka enjoyed it. After the fight with the zombies, the undead presence had vanished for a time. Ksmvr and Toren had run across individuals and small groups which they dispatched without bothering to inform the others of, which left time for talking.
And suddenly, talking was something Ryoka wanted to do more and more with Erin. She had depths. Not like an onion or a cake or parfait or something stupid like that. She had depths like a puddle you stepped into which turned out to be as deep as an ocean.
But she was still refreshingly shallow in areas like this.
“It’s a uh, it’s a choice I made. I know it seems stupid given this world—”
“Oh, what? No. No, I don’t think so. I’m not judging. You do you, and all that. I was just wondering how you did things without skills.”
Ryoka was beginning to wonder that herself. But she had a theory, and she’d come too far to abandon it just yet. Maybe…but she changed the subject to keep the conversation light.
“You’re um, good at fighting.”
“You think so?”
Ryoka knew so. She’d seen Erin fighting with her frying pan, and despite the other girl’s lack of any kind of martial training, she was wickedly dangerous. And strong. Ryoka knew that was probably because of a Skill, but it amazed her even so.
“Why are you using frying pans, though? And what’s with all the rocks?”
“It’s all part of my master plan.”
Erin grinned at Ryoka as she brandished her new frying pan. She’d abandoned the old one a while back, claiming it stank too much.
“See, I’ve got this [Bar Fighting] skill, right? It only works when I use objects I could find in a bar, or in this case, a kitchen. If I pick up a sword I don’t move nearly as well and it’s harder to hit things. So I thought a frying pan would be perfect!”
“And the rocks?”
“I’ve got [Unerring Aim] and [Lesser Strength]. I can toss those things hard enough to kill some zombies.”
“That’s…actually impressive.”
Ryoka had to admit it.
“Yeah, well, I thought if you have the skills, why not use them, y’know?”
“It’s creative. I think that’s more the point.”
“What do you mean?”
“Well, let’s assume this is a gaming world.”
Ryoka paused, and looked behind her. Pisces stared at her, and Rags yawned and looked around, clearly bored. She knew she shouldn’t be saying anything, but Pisces had heard most of their conversation. And Erin trusted him, and he’d fixed her leg. And there were others in this world anyways, so it wasn’t a big a secret as before. Maybe…
He’d probably already guessed something was up if he had half a brain, anyways. Ryoka turned back to Erin.
“Well, I’m no expert. I never played board games when I was younger.”
“Me neither. I mean, I tried D&D once or twice, but I like chess more.”
Another surprise. Where did they come from? Ryoka liked chess. Maybe she could play Erin a few games. Hopefully Erin wasn’t a sore loser.
“What I’m trying to say is that creativity always seems to be a hallmark of those kind of games. You can’t do the same thing in video games, but instead of fighting your way through a dungeon, why not collapse the foundations? Or—or if you’re fighting an angry Minotaur, why not teleport him into molten lava or something?”
“Because that’d be really mean? I get it, though. You’re saying it’s possible to mess with the system, right?”
“Or at least take advantage of certain features. Assuming you want to follow the system, that is.”
Ryoka frowned to herself but stopped when she saw Erin looking.
“So like what did you have in mind?”
“Nothing in particular. But you know a lot of things from our world. It’s possible you could incorporate that into your inn, somehow.”
“Like how?”
“I don’t know.”
Ryoka had never put her mind to it. And now, trawling through dusty corridors below the earth wasn’t a good time to think of new ideas. She suddenly looked at Pisces, struck by a thought.
“Well, how about him?”
Pisces looked startled.
“Me?”
Erin frowned.
“What about him?”
“Pisces is a [Necromancer], right? He made that skeleton.”
“Toren.”
“Exactly. But have you ever made an undead that isn’t human? Or humanoid?”
Pisces frowned at Ryoka.
“I fail to see what you’re asking. I have raised many forms of zombies, ghouls, skeletons…”
“But never anything else?”
“Such as what?”
“A zombie bear, perhaps.”
“A zombie bear?”
Erin stared at Ryoka in horror. Ryoka shrugged.
