“It would be far more powerful than a human zombie, I’m certain. Or if not a bear, what about a spider? Have you ever tried reanimating things without bones? How about undead mice? Could you turn them into spies? Or—undead birds? Can they fly?”
Pisces sniffed and drew his robes around himself defensively.
“You ask these things as if it were a simple matter. Nothing is further from the case, I assure you.”
“Oh yeah?”
Erin raised one eyebrow skeptically at Pisces.
“What’s so hard about reanimating a bear? It’s got bones.”
“Ah, but the alignment is completely different. The skeletal structure of a bear throws off every spell, making specialization in such a creature far too complex to be worth the effort.”
Erin looked blank, but Ryoka thought she understood what Pisces was saying. The mage adopted a lecturing tone and his customary sneer as he explained.
“Necromancer spells aren’t simply a matter of reanimating dead matter with a bit of magical power. If it were that simple anyone could become a [Necromancer]. No, it requires an intricate knowledge of the way each body works to get spells animating dead flesh to move right, let alone restore what was lost.”
“Yeah, but can’t you just read a book on how to do it? Someone must have made legions of undead bears at some point, right?”
Pisces shrugged.
“Even if they had, where would I read such a tome? Necromancy might not be outlawed in every nation, but it is frowned upon almost universally. Even Wistram had few books on the subject, and what spells I did uncover were standardized incantations for humanoids only.”
“Oh, so no one likes being a necromancer? That’s sad.”
Pisces sniffed.
“Yes, well, it is a rare form of magic. There were no teachers at Wistram I could study under. I had hoped to find one accomplished practitioner, but he had long departed and his findings were equally non-existent. And the only other authorities on the subjects tend to be crazed madmen or cults who practice inferior quality mass-summoning…”
He realized he was losing his audience. Pisces sighed.
“Suffice it to say, proper reanimation requires several factors. Necromancers use dead bodies because bones are ideal vessels for storing magical energy and spell bindings, whereas mere chitin decays too rapidly to sustain a long-form spell.”
Erin and Rags looked blank.
“What?”
Ryoka translated.
“He’s saying that he needs bones to properly animate a corpse. Spiders and other creatures without bones wouldn’t last very long since there’s nowhere to anchor the spell.”
“Oh.”
Pisces lost a bit of his swagger as he stared at Ryoka.
“That was…quite well said. I see you have some knowledge of the transmundane yourself Miss Griffin.”
“I’m no mage. But I understand bullshit quite well.”
Erin laughed as Pisces turned red.
 
—-
 
“So…you’re a Runner, huh?”
Ryoka nodded. She and Erin were alone again. Pisces had retreated with Rags to the rear, and they were still talking. It felt good to talk, and besides, the undead had been amazingly scarce. Suspiciously so.
“What did you do back home? I mean, did you have a job or anything?”
“I, uh, didn’t need to. My parents were pretty rich. I was going to be a Freshman in college when I disappeared.”
“Oh, really? I thought you would have already been a student. I mean, I’m twenty, but I took a gap year because I wanted to play chess and earn money for tuition. What about you?”
Ryoka cleared her throat awkwardly.
“I uh, took a gap year as well.”
Several, in point of fact.
“I suppose I just needed a break from High School.”
“That’s cool. I totally get that.”
“And you’re…an [Innkeeper]. How did that happen?”
Erin shrugged.
“I don’t know. I just wanted to find a place to be safe, you know? And I found the inn and it was really dusty.”
“Dusty?”
“Yeah, really dusty. So I tidied it up a bit and by the time I woke up I was an [Innkeeper].”
“Huh.”
“What about you? Why’d you decide not to get a class? I imagine you would have gotten one, what with running around all the time and all.”
“Yeah. I had the opportunity, but I refused. I didn’t think it was a good idea.”
Erin looked at Ryoka curiously.
“Why not?”
The other girl shrugged.
“This system – leveling, and gaining Skills seems too much like a game.”
“Yeah, it does. But why not play the game? I mean, without my class I would have died several times over. So what’s wrong with playing?”
“If we’re in a game, then there are rules. And someone who made the game. The question is: who? And what’s the way to win?”
“Not die, I guess.”
“Maybe.”
They found a long passage that seemed to slope downwards forever. Ryoka stared into the darkness and looked at Ksmvr.
“Is this the way down to the second floor?”
“It appears so.”
“That’s where all the adventurers never came back from, right?”
Erin shuddered as she stared down into the pitch blackness.
“And where that thing came from.”
Ryoka had never seen the thing Erin and the others spoke of, but she got the vibe from the way the others shifted. But still.
She looked at Pisces.
“You’re sure the message said to go down there?”
He nodded.
“I was told they were hiding on the second floor. More than that I can’t say. I’ve cast the same spell to ask for more details, but Ceria must be out of mana. Or…”
He didn’t say the rest. Ryoka nodded.
“We’ve got to go down there.”
Erin nodded, but she still peered into the darkness uncertainly.
“What if there’s a second one?”
“We run.”
“Oh. Good plan.”
It was probably the only plan that would work, too. Erin had no desire to fight that skin worm a second time, and without an army of Antinium to back her up, she wasn’t going to try.
Although now that Erin thought about it, Ryoka was definitely the fastest out of all of them. It was probably a good plan for her, but Erin really hoped it wouldn’t come to that. She’d never liked gym class.
They descended into the darkness, one by one. And found….
Nothing.
 
—-
 
Nothing. Not a zombie, not a skeleton, and not even a severed Ghoul hand. The group of six walked through the empty second floor of the Ruins, alert for any movement and finding none.
They came to an empty chamber and saw where the Horns of Hammerad and other adventurers had stopped for a rest. Erin looked around at the few dead bodies that hadn’t gotten back up and sighed sadly when she found Hunt lying still in a corner.
“Poor guy. He was just lying here with the others. I guess he must have been wounded or something.”
Ryoka stared at Hunt. She thought she recognized him, but his face was badly decayed. She shook her head.
“Whatever got these adventurers must have gone through quick if they couldn’t move their wounded.”
“No.”
As Ryoka looked at her, Erin explained.
“It was the monster. The skin monster. He—projected fear. So much that you couldn’t even move when he looked at you. Even if the adventurers were ready, I don’t think they could have countered that.”
Ryoka’s stomach twisted as she looked at the dead adventurers, butchered where they lay.
“But this is only a few of them. Where are the rest?”
They found out soon enough.
 
—-
 
“Oh god.”
Erin stared down the corridor where Skinner had first appeared and wondered if she was going to throw up this time. It was a horrible sight. Ryoka had thrown up again, and even Rags and Pisces weren’t looking too happy.
The place where the Horns of Hammerad had fought their last and the open doors where Skinner had first emerged was still a scene of blood and death. Dried blood and rotted flesh, but carnage it remained. Erin walked down the corridor, trying to skirt the worst of the bloodbath.
The bodies stank of rot. Erin felt her stomach heaving even from this far away, and she was only glad that they were too far down for insects to have begun eating the bodies. Or rather, what remained of the bodies.
Skinner had passed down this corridor, and he had not left much in the way of identifiable features or even features for that matter.
Ksmvr beckoned Erin at the end of the corridor. He and Toren were unmoved by the death and he pointed to a set of huge, double doors at the far end of the corridor. The blood and guts were particularly bad over there.
“This must be where it came from. Look at those doors.”
Erin looked. They were massive stone doors that had been opened wide to let someone, or something out. She could tell that was where the skin creature had come from. Not just because of all the carnage, but because of the doors themselves. They had carved rune-things decorating the fronts, and more than that, they looked like the door to the final boss’s room.
Ryoka stopped heaving long enough to move closer to the doors. She stared down at a bent and broken piece of metal. Sharp teeth stared up at her around bits of white skin.
“Looks like the remains of some kind of trap. Didn’t work if that’s what it was.”
Erin stared at the ground. It was just…bones and muscle and organs. No skin, no way of knowing who had been here. She remembered all the adventurers who’d been in her inn that night. Some of them could be here. She could be staring at them, and she’d never know.
Her heart hurt. But then Erin saw something glinting in the light from the mage’s sphere. She bent to pick it up.
“Oh wow. A crossbow!”
Rags looked around as Erin dragged the heavy, black thing out from where it lay. It was one of the few objects not drenched in gore. She lifted it, marveling at the weight and sleekness of it, and then her face fell.
“Broken.”
Ryoka walked over to look at the crossbow. It had been a magnificent weapon, once. But something had shattered the wooden base and it was so much string and metal, now.
“Too bad. That thing might have been useful. I could have used it.”
“Yeah, but it’s no good now.”
The Goblin’s eyes followed the mangled weapon as Erin tossed it back down on the ground. She darted over as Erin and Ryoka inspected the vault from where Skinner had come from.
“Now this is a treasure room. Isn’t it?”
“It looks like it.”
It was hard for either girl to be certain. On one hand, the room Skinner had come from looked like it fit the bill. It was large, cavernous, and filled with stone racks holding objects and crates. But the problem was that none of the things in the room looked particularly important.
“What’s this?”
Erin pointed to an urn. It was nice to look at, carved deeply and enameled with some pretty green stone that sparkled in the light. Ryoka peered at it and shrugged.
“Some kind of vase. Possibly ceremonial.”
“And this?”
“An amulet.”
“It’s made of stone!”
“Well, it’s probably valuable culturally.”
“But not, you know, magically?”
“…Probably not.”
Pisces looked up distractedly as he pawed through rows of goods on the stone shelves. He glared at Ryoka and Erin as if this were somehow their fault.
“None of this stuff is magical! It’s all—mundane! This isn’t a treasury. It’s a storeroom of antiquities and keepsakes!”
“Really? But this looks like a valuable spot. Where’d all the important stuff go?”
The mage sucked in his cheeks angrily.
“I don’t know. But numerous magical artifacts were here, I can tell you that! I can sense their auras, but they’re gone.”
“Darn.”
Erin sighed. But this wasn’t why they’d come here, was it?
“Well, the Horns of Hammerad aren’t here. Or if they are…”
Ryoka shook her head.
“They’re not here. I’m sure of it. Pisces, that spell you got. Did it say…?”
He made a face.
“No. It was very faint. It just said ‘Ruins. Second floor. Inside. I don’t think Ceria had enough mana for any more than that.”
“Damn.”
Erin turned to the others. Toren had found himself a new sword, and Rags was busy lugging the broken black crossbow around. It was nearly as large as she was and Erin was sure she’d never get it back to the surface. Pisces stomped out of the treasure vault and Ksmvr waited patiently as he watched back the way they’d come. Erin looked at Ryoka.
“Where to? The other direction?”
Ryoka nodded.
“It’s the only place they could be. Let’s hurry.”
 
—-
 
The giant room full of tombs was the last place they came to. Ryoka’s feet were hurting from the cold tiles, and she had layers of…death coating the bottom of them. She didn’t want to think about that.
Her feet were hurting anyways from all the searching. They’d been to every room, checked everywhere for signs of life. But they’d found nothing. And this, the last room in the Ruins was no more promising than the rest.
After a quick run through the cavernous room, Ryoka could see there was no one hiding in the room. The stone coffins were the only things in the room, and most of them had been opened to let their occupants out.
She jogged back to where Erin and the others were waiting and shook her head.
“Nothing.”
Erin’s face fell.
“You’re sure?”
“They’d have to be the size of that Goblin to hide in here, and they would have heard me moving around. They’re…not here.”
It hurt Ryoka to say. But they’d checked everywhere and this was it. She shook her head. She didn’t feel sad. She just felt empty. Hollow. They’d come all the way down here, for what?
Surprisingly, it was Pisces who resisted Ryoka’s statement the most. He shook his head vehemently and snapped at her.
“I don’t believe it. Ceria is down here, somewhere on this level. We simply must have missed her. We have to go back and check!”
Ryoka glared at him. She was tired and exhausted and knew he must be too. But she tried to be the voice of reason.
“We’ve checked everywhere. If they were hiding, why didn’t they come out when they saw us? And if we linger down here, more undead might come.”
“I don’t sense any. I barely sense anything in this area.”
“You said there were hundreds of undead in the Ruins.”
“Well, they’re not here. And I refuse to leave without finding Ceria!”
“But where could they be?”
This was the loudest conversation the group had had so far, and their voice echoed through the vast room, quickly swallowed up by the vastness. Erin pushed between Pisces and Ryoka as the two glared at each other.
“Okay, okay, let’s think. We can’t give up just yet, but Ryoka is right, Pisces. If we don’t find them soon…”
He turned away from her.
“Ceria is alive. She wouldn’t have cast the spell, otherwise.”
“But you can’t contact her again, can you?”
“No. But there are a hundred reasons why she might not be able to reply. Imminent danger perhaps, or simply…starvation. Without food or rest, her body would not be able to recharge her mana.”
