“Right, I get that. But then where would she be? How could she hide from all the undead and that skin thing? Does she know [Invisibility] like you do?”
Pisces shook his head.
“No. She never learned…she is alive Erin, I swear it. We must find her.”
“I know, I know. But if we don’t find her soon…”
Ryoka turned away as Erin talked with Pisces. She felt like kicking something, or screaming, but she was afraid to make noise and attract attention. Even if Pisces said the Ruins were empty, it was disconcertingly quiet.
She looked around. Besides the three humans, the other three members of their group seemed less interested in the fate of the Horns of Hammerad and more in getting out sooner rather than later. Rags was squatting in a corner of the room, staring intently at the splinted crossbow she was still dragging around. Ryoka was surprised she’d still hung onto it, but the Goblin was tenacious.
Ksmvr glanced hopefully at Erin every now and then. He was guarding the entrance to the tomb room, alert for any undead. He was probably just hoping they’d call it quits so he could stop protecting Erin.
And Toren? Toren was peering at one of the stone coffins. Inspecting it as a possible resting place, perhaps. Ryoka shook her head. This was pointless. She’d had such hopes, but the Horns of Hammerad…maybe it had just been a fluke.
Or maybe they were too late. Pisces had gotten the message nearly a day ago, now. Maybe it had been too late even when he’d gotten it. Perhaps the magic had taken too long to get to him. Maybe Ceria had died waiting for them while they were still arguing with Zevara.
It hurt Ryoka, but she had to face facts. Her friends had been good adventurers, but not miracle workers. It had been likely that they all died, and it was only her foolish hope that had convinced her they had survived where everyone else had not. After all, not even the Horns of Hammerad could cheat death—
Ryoka’s eye fell on Toren again. The skeleton was peering inside of one of the coffins. And then it clicked.
“Wait a second.”
Erin and Pisces broke off as Ryoka turned to them.
“What is it?”
“I think I know where the Horns of Hammerad might be. They’re still hiding down here.”
“Where?”
Pisces was suspicious. He glared at Ryoka.
“We searched everywhere. If you’re suggesting they made it out somehow—”
“No, they’re still here.”
Ryoka began looking around the room as she spoke. She was looking. Most of the coffins were open, but a few had been closed. A few.
“What if…they were hiding somewhere no undead could get at them? Somewhere they’d never go back to?”
Erin and Pisces stared in the direction Ryoka was looking, and then at Toren. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Inside the coffins?”
“It’s possible. If they left some room for air—”
“Let’s check. Rags! Ksmvr! Toren!”
Erin called out as Ryoka and Pisces ran towards the coffins. There weren’t many in the room that were still closed. But there were hundreds of stone resting places. Ryoka ran from stone lid to stone lid. She heaved at each one, shifting it just a bit so she could see inside. Dead bodies, rotted remains, bits of cloth…
Nothing.
She heard the others doing the same. Ryoka tried another coffin and stopped. This was stupid. If the Horns of Hammerad were there, why wouldn’t they hear her and the others? Why hadn’t they come out yet?
“Ceria? Calruz! Gerial! Sostrom! If you’re here, answer me!”
Ryoka shouted it into the empty room. Her voice echoed loudly as the others continued moving lids. Ryoka closed her eyes and listened. Nothing. Of course. It had just been a foolish idea. No one could ever—
“…?”
She froze. It was the faintest of sounds, at the edge of hearing. She looked around.
“Ceria?”
“…r…a…?”
There. There it was again. She hadn’t imagined it. Ryoka ran in the direction of the sound. She crashed into a stone coffin and froze, ignoring the pain in her shin.
“Ryoka…?”
That one. Ryoka charged towards the coffin, vaulting an empty one. She ducked her head down. It was faint but…yes! There was a tiny sliver of darkness, enough for sound to come out of. And a voice. It was one Ryoka recognized.
“Ryoka?”
“Ceria!”
Ryoka shouted the word, and Erin and Pisces whipped round. Ryoka heaved at the stone lid, pushing it as hard as she could. It was heavy, but then Erin joined her, and then Pisces. They shoved the lid to the ground where it cracked against the stone. And there, inside the coffin was someone they recognized.
Ceria Springwalker smiled weakly up at Ryoka, blinking hard in the light from Pisces and Ryoka’s orbs of light. Her face was pale and she looked gaunt, skeletal from starvation. But she was there. Alive.
“Ceria!”
Pisces reached for her, but Ryoka got there first. With Erin’s help they pulled Ceria out of the stone coffin. She was impossibly light, even more so than Ryoka remembered. She slumped to the ground, and Erin had to lift her to keep her upright.
“Ceria. We found you.”
“You did. You did.”
Ceria’s voice was a murmur and a whisper. She coughed, and suddenly everyone was fumbling for a water flask. She accepted a gulp of water from Pisces’ flask and coughed most of it up. Ryoka tried to steady her.
“You…got my message. I’m glad. I was afraid I’d be trapped in there forever. I couldn’t move the lid…”
“Is there anyone else with you? Any of the other Horns of Hammerad?”
Ryoka looked around. There were other coffins nearby, also closed. But Ceria just sighed. She looked at Ryoka, and shook her head.
Part of the world went still. A little less remained in it for Ryoka. Ceria shook her head, eyes shining with unshed tears.
“No, no. They’re all—all gone, Ryoka.”
She sighed, a ghostly puppet held up only by Erin’s hands. Even now, starved and half-dead, Ceria still looked like a creature caught between immortality and life. Especially now.
“It’s just me. What’s left of me.”
Then Ceria raised her hand, and Ryoka saw with a jolt that her right hand was gone. All the skin down past her wrist had died, and what was left was just white bone and sloughed off flesh. The parts that did connect to the half-elf’s healthy arm were blackened, almost like frostbite.
Ryoka stared at Ceria’s ruined hand. Words failed her.
“I—I don’t—Ceria.”
“It’s the price I paid to live. They’re all dead, Ryoka. All but me.”
Ceria whispered the words. Her head was lolling and Ryoka realized she was on the brink of unconsciousness. The half-elf muttered the words.
“It’s just me.”
“And me!”
Stone shifted. Ryoka and Erin whirled around and saw Toren and Rags pushing another lid away. A very thin, very dusty Drake sat up and smiled at them. He had light blue scales, and he staggered as he half-slid, half-fell out of the coffin.
Erin stared at the Drake, mouth working. She finally found her mouth.
“Olesm? You’re here too?”
“That’s right!”
He grinned weakly at her as Rags and Toren propped him up. Erin stared at Ryoka and then slapped her head as Pisces and Ceria looked at her.
“Oh. Right! I totally forgot!”
