"Those are all good points, Magnus," Ashlock said, "and I have a proposition if you aren't too exhausted after your ascension."

"Oh?" Magnus said, sounding intrigued.

"I've got a very durable General that I've also wanted to test the capabilities of, and he would give you a perfect target to practice using your domain on."

Magnus looked down at himself. "Besides needing some new clothes, my Inner World, Star Core, and Nascent Soul all seem filled with Qi."

Ashlock realized that, as Magnus was the first cultivator to experience a normal ascension, besides absorbing a pocket realm, he would be the best example of what a normal Monarch's soul should look like. Obviously, none of his summons or his soul space was a good example.

"Would you mind if I take a look at your soul?" Ashlock asked.

Magnus nodded. "With pleasure."

Ashlock's Evil Eye manifested in the sky above, and he peered down at Magnus.

First of all, he confirmed that Magnus was very much no longer human. While appearing humanoid, his body lacked any organs. He also didn't really have spirit roots anymore, as his entire body was made of fire, and while Magnus claimed to be calm, Ashlock felt a little concerned about having him inside his Inner World now that he'd seen just how much raging fire Qi was trapped within him.

Getting past Magnus's body, or 'vessel' as higher-being cultivators like Senior Lee would call it, he peered into his soul space. Much like Ashlock, it was a non-physical spiritual space that housed one's soul.

Inside, he found a small Inner World—a volcanic planet that reminded him of Mars. Its surface was a sea of flame, with volcanoes that looked ready to erupt at a moment's notice. His attention was naturally drawn to a massive volcano that dominated half of the planet's surface and seemed to be the source of the Inner World's ego. Apart from a few broken moons that orbited the Inner World, two blinding suns hung above the massive volcano and scorched the planet's surface.

They were Magnus's souls. The brightest and oldest of the two was his Star Core, while the other, a slightly smaller and younger one, was his recently formed Nascent Soul. While both could technically be referred to as Star Cores or Nascent Souls, Ashlock could see that they were ever so slightly different, so he decided to differentiate the two.

"Things are getting complicated now," Ashlock mused. It had once been simple enough to refer to a cultivator's Star Core or Nascent Soul, but with the addition of an Inner World—and in Magnus's case, even tiny moons—he needed a term for the entire system, since every part contributed to a cultivator's strength. The Inner World was the physical manifestation of a Monarch's immense dao comprehension and allowed them to manifest a domain, while the Star Core and Nascent Soul supplied the Qi that powered their techniques.

While pondering the name, a system message popped up over Magnus's soul space.

[Magnus Redclaw's Soul Cosmos]

"So it already has a name. Interesting," Ashlock mused. After inspecting it for a while longer, he was very curious about how much firepower Magnus could unleash now, seeing how violent his Inner World seemed to be compared to his.

"Your Soul Cosmos seems to be in good order," he said, casually slipping that terminology in as if he always knew it. "Let's go see what you can do against my General."

Ashlock tore open a desolation rift and quickly went westward toward where he had left Bob two days ago to set the rift's anchor point.

He expected to find Bob quietly guarding the massive dragon corpse, perhaps even sneakily biting off a few pieces. What he hadn't expected was that upon his arrival, he found Bob engaged in battle.

With another dragon.
