Julia wordlessly adjusted her position with a silent flap of giant wings.

The Stopped thunder bird zipped right past the party.

It recovered itself into a Slow when it was well past the point of being a problem. With a single caw and a small blast of power aimed at the party, which was dissipated by the [Discord Aura], the thunder bird flew on. They weren’t monsters, after all, and animals tended to react to danger smarter than monsters. They knew when a meal was too big to be trifled with.

Tadashi had watched the Stopped bird fly past. He had stood in his basket, his face pressed to the port hole, watching the bird fly away in search of easier prey. And now, he sat back down, out of direct sight, but not out of lightsight.

Ezekiel flew next to the basket, but not too close, as he said, “As I was saying: Blood treatments to cure the Antirhine Elixir could—”

“Doesn’t work.” Tadashi spoke while out of direct view, “The Antirhine Elixir is not a simple case of Antirhine poisoning. The Elixir bonds to bone unless you get it out of a person before they’ve had time to digest and... I’ve had time to digest.”

Ezekiel listened, and then he tried, “How about blood treatments to get rid of all non-bonded antirhine, and then when all you got is what is in your bones, you might be able to cast through the aura over your stomach, for instance, since that might be far enough away from your bones.”

Tadashi shook his head, exasperated. “But... Eh.” And yet, there was something there in the glints of his eyes. “Eh. No. I mean… Maybe that would work… A little.” He shook his head. “No. The aura poisoning of Antirhine is very thorough.”

“Does it actually poison the aura? Does it make you have an Antirhine aura?”

“… No. That’s just what the effect is called.”

Ezekiel said, “You won’t know until you try, and it might not work, but maybe it could work at least a little. You won’t be able to [Cleanse], or take in healing magics, but you can still cast. Maybe.” Ezekiel said, “During any possible blood treatment you would have to pay special attention to infections. One of those would likely kill you well before you got anywhere close to being able to cast from your belly.”

Tadashi laughed, a sick sound, and said, “And I’d have to eat enough to regain a stomach, too!” He lamented, “Bright gods, but I am terrible at aura work.”

“Another thing to learn!” Ezekiel said, “I’m not that great at it myself, but there’s time.”

“That’s right…” He stepped up in the basket, saying, “You said you were here to learn from the Songstresses… but your spellwork seems to easily negate the Thunder Birds. Are you really here to learn from them?”

Ezekiel gave a genuine smile, as he said, “I know a few tricks and some of my magic resembles some of what I heard that they do, but I never had reason to come to the Highlands until events recently conspired to bring me and my retainers to Eralis. My hope is to return home, triumphant, with more than a few new insights into what I can already do.”

“… Yeah. That makes… Sense.” Tadashi glanced around, then sat down. He instantly stood right back up, and with strong eyes, he looked at Ezekiel, as he said, “I wish you good luck in your endeavors, and I thank you deeply for the rescue. Clan Diligent Scribe will most assuredly offer great recompense and I can even introduce you to some…” He paled. Softer, he said, “I could have introduced you at the Void Temple. But… I cannot go there anymore. Apologies. I… I don’t know what I’m good for, anymore.”

“We’ll get you home, Tadashi.” Ezekiel said, “Everything beyond that will happen when it happens.”

“… Thank you, Scion Ezekiel.”

Ezekiel asked, “Do you have a preference who you’re returned to? There are three names on the Quest: Elder Mirizo Star Song, Enforcer Sikali Song, and Elder Doniro Diligent Scribe.”

Tadashi’s eyes went wide. He sat down in his basket, saying, “Ah… Can I think for a while?”

“… Of course. I didn’t think it would be a big question, but by your reaction, I can tell that it is. Take your time.”

Tadashi gave no response. He just curled up into his spider silk comforter, wrapping himself tighter in his white-walled basket.

After a few minutes of flying at a relatively quick, but non-damaging pace, and every visible and known crisis seemingly dealt with, for now, Julia sent to the four of them, ‘What was the story you were going to say, Tiffany? About the person giving out swords?’

Tiffany’s thoughts took on the tone of a practiced bard, ‘We call her the Woman Of The Grotto, though that is but one of her many names. Sometimes she lives in a small hut in the lee of a large tree, or down a deep well. Other times she is the woman who is everyone’s aunt, who lives past a specific bend in the summer home’s game trails. Sometimes, she is not a woman at all. She is the one you go to for potions of fertility, or to find out where the monster lives…’

- - - -

They flew, fast enough, magenta wings of light and air carrying three of them to the east, and snow white wings carrying the other two. Julia’s powerful claws and her threads helped to keep Tadashi’s basket secure in her powerful grip.

The Alchemist quickly found enough comfort that everyone else soon found him asleep in his spider silk container, slumped into his comforter. He was exhausted, and no one could blame him; he was as thin as a rail with hints of bruises here and there on his pink skin. They had made plans to stop at a town Ezekiel had already scouted, and get Tadashi, and themselves, some good food with the little money they still had. They could likely buy Tadashi some real clothes, too, or at least some supplies that could be [Fabricate]d into decent clothes.

While they flew across misty mountain ranges, Tiffany spoke of legends and fact as though they were campfire tales, and she herself was a bard. She certainly showed off a knack for knowing history and culture, and the trip was better for it.

Time passed.

The [Prismatic Ward]s cast on clothes, or on top of Tadashi’s basket, helped to keep everyone’s Health and Mana high with its Restful air.

Thunder Birds occasionally turned their blue eyes toward the party, waking Tadashi with their rumbling, but then Ezekiel would deploy his [Physical Domain] and turn a terrible encounter into an easy passage. Except for that bird that tried to dive bomb Julia, none of the other flying Thunder Birds attempted to do so, once their flow of shockwaves met Ezekiel’s perfect defense.

(His Odin didn’t find anyone in the blast zone of that one spell he allowed to get by.)

The mist ended first.

Buffeting winds and easy outflows for the sea of mist allowed the full grandeur of the Tribulation Mountains to come into sight. The world dropped away another five kilometers before rising in front of them, causing them to fly higher, only for the world to drop away ten kilometers down, or in one case, twenty. And then the surface came back up, but never as high as it had been before. The size of the mountain range began to lessen.

Still, they flew.

Skyscraping mountains became merely mountains, which then gave way to hills.

Rivers mirrored the passage of the party, winding through those mountains and hills to join into tributaries of the Wanzhi River. These rivers certainly had names, but whatever they were, Ezekiel did not know.

They found the village that Ezekiel aimed for.

And then they went past the target, and flew to a second village that was more of a minor city.

They did this because as soon as they had passed into the hill lands, a man claiming to be ‘Elder Doniro Diligent Scribe’ had sent to his group a certain message, and thus it was intercepted by Paul.

‘To the unknown people carrying my lost Alchemist: Come to this Border Clan city here, or you will be executed and your prize taken from you before you make it anywhere near Eralis.’

After they woke him up, Tadashi had been ambivalent about the change of plans, saying, “It’s for the best. Elder Doniro is a good man, and ending the Quest as soon as possible will prevent any possible interference from a third party.” With dignity, he said, “Thank you for the rescue, Scion Ezekiel Phoenix. With your skill and power you have delivered me from evil. Thank you.”

Ezekiel looked at the man, and saw behind the obvious mask. Tadashi was breaking inside and barely holding it together.

Ezekiel asked, “Do you mind if I check up on you in a few days?”

Tadashi allowed himself a small grin, as he said, “I would appreciate that. If they will not allow you into the Alluvial District of Eralis on your own name, then a message might be gotten to Diligent Scribe through the guards at the bridge. I am not sure what will happen to me, but I suspect I will be within Diligent Scribe’s Potion House for quite some time…” His brief cheer eroded, but he kept his stoic speech, and said, “I will be somewhere in the Alluvial District— Er. The Noble District, whatever the case. I look forward to seeing you again under better circumstances.”

“And I, you.”

A moment later, Tadashi added, “I would keep up whatever Thunder negation you have running when meeting the Elder.”

“… Noted.”

- - - -

With magenta wings curling the air around them, three members of the party landed onto a land of bare, grey stone, outside of the unknown city. The fourth flapped her wings and came in for an easy landing, setting her precious cargo down upon its legs, and then steadying herself upon her perch atop the basket. With an easy motion, she transformed into blue light, and stepped down onto the grey stone. As her temporary form receded, she was once again a young woman in peasant clothing, and dark blue armor. The rest of the party was similarly attired in their own armors of grey, blue, and bright magenta. Magenta Odins turned from wings to shoulder-riders, and while most of the party got one, two settled upon Ezekiel’s shoulders.

Odin was being rather good right now about only having two eyes; he knew this meeting was important.

On the other side of the field, not thirty meters away, stood the dozen people they were meeting. To the left and the right, and further away, stood even more people, all of which likely invited themselves to this meeting, as was the prerogative of powerful people. Most of the extras were likely Scions or young masters that Ezekiel had screwed out of the day’s Quest, who had come to see who, exactly, had fucked them over.

Some of their sneers were worn rather openly.

Ezekiel briefly wondered if he had fucked up somewhere along the way between his arrival in Eralis and this moment, here. But… Oh well.

Best walk in with full power active, and get it done as politely as possible. At least all of the people here looked to be somewhere between human and incani, with only a few which looked truly human, and a few which clearly swung the other way. There’d be no obvious Quiet War stuff going on here, which was kinda nice.

And then he heard whispers of ‘adventurers’ and ‘upstarts’, which was cause for another kind of concern, while some of the gathered people were no doubt thinking of how best to jump the four of them and to take Tadashi—

The alchemist in question stepped out of his basket, and a blue box appeared.

Special Quest Complete!

As the leader of your party you may determine how to assign your <5> points by thinking at this message at any time.

Ah. Good. There’s one issue settled before it began. He dismissed the message, for now.

Everyone saw Ezekiel look to the air. They all knew what that meant. A few laughed, but some just grumbled, and others blipped away, not wishing to bother with whatever else was going to happen. In seconds, the battlefield was half as occupied as it had been. The people Ezekiel was delivering to, all remained, straight ahead.

They had been on the ground for ten seconds, so far. Tadashi walked forward, covered in his comforter like it was a robe without arms.

Ezekiel and his party walked behind him.

The four of them could have left! Right then and there; bug out before things got too hairy. It was an option. But it was the option of cowards.

Tadashi stood before his people, and spoke, “Greetings, Honored Elders.”

The older man, in front of the reception party, wore blue and black robes, while his skin and horns were a dull magenta, and his hair solid black. “Our wayward Alchemist returns to us. What have you to say regarding your negligence in getting captured?”

“I have no excuse, and can only thank you for the Quest to rescue me from the barbarians who had the audacity to attack the power of Eralis, and of Diligent Scribe. I will, of course, work to repay the 5 points that were spent on securing my recovery, Elder Doniro Diligent Scribe.” Tadashi bowed in the sunlight.

Elder Doniro narrowed his eyes at Tadashi. Then he raised his eyes, toward Ezekiel, flickering his sight to Tiffany, then Julia, then Paul. He returned to Tadashi, saying, “Rise, Alchemist Tadashi, and tell me about your appearance and your saviors.”

Tadashi rose. “I apologize for my appearance. My rescuers are highly competent, but they did not expect to find me, and we raced away from the site of my containment with all possible haste from several antirhine-based attacks. The rest of the journey was spent fleeing from the monsters of the skies.”

Several members of the audience scowled deeply, but at which part of Tadashi’s words, Ezekiel could only guess. Maybe they were jealous they missed out on the points? There was certainly some undercurrent of deepening distrust when Tadashi said, ‘did not expect to find me’, but the rest of the disdain he was seeing was likely due to jealousy.

A pair of people to the right of Elder Doniro were eyeing Ezekiel with a lot more barely-restrained bloodlust than he was comfortable with, though. One was a woman of pale skin in black armor, without her helmet on. The other was a tanned man with bright red robes. They stood together.

At Ezekiel’s gaze, the pair of people returned their own.

Ezekiel smirked, and gave a half-nod.

The woman in black smirked back, along with her partner in red. Their bloodlust became almost palpable.

… Ezekiel returned to watching the confrontation between Tadashi and Elder Doniro.

Tadashi stepped to the side, gesturing behind him to Ezekiel and his people, saying, “Scion Ezekiel Phoenix, his two retainers of Tiffany Phoenix, the orcol, Paul Phoenix, the dragonkin, and also his daughter, Julia Phoenix. I have only known them for the four hours since they found me.”

