Tiffany tilted her head backward to see her new set of wings. Odin fluffed at the attention, a few small eyes appearing here and there, to look back at Tiffany. She smiled, and poked the feathers near an extra eyeball, eliciting guitar thrums from her new ‘wings’.

Paul reached back and touched his ‘right wing’, including everyone in the conversation as he sent, ‘This is different.’

‘Just for show, of course.’ Ezekiel smiled.

‘Too angelic, dad.’ Julia sent, ‘But I like it.’ She added, ‘Odin’s gonna have to provide some wind shear protection, yeah?’

‘Yes, and also help reduce weight and strain for you. They’re all in sunforms. And— Here.’

The Odins each cast small [Prismatic Ward]s either upon the clothes of their person, or upon their perch, and Julia’s perch, too. The Restful air would provide much needed stamina for the long journey.

‘I like it.’ Tiffany touched the solid light braced against her chest and torso, and the light that came up under her feet as she lifted her leg. She stepped onto the light, half a meter into the air. ‘Feels secure, but still loose enough to move.’

‘Hopefully!’ Ezekiel sent, ‘Let me know if it’s uncomfortable. Or. Actually. Let Odin know?’

Paul sent, ‘Let’s not experiment with telepathically contacting your [Familiar] and risk all that False Damage, please. We all have our own flight spells, anyway. If we fall, just don’t leave us behind.’

Tadashi watched, with rapt attention, from the tiny portholes of his basket.

‘Of course not. So!’ Ezekiel said aloud, “Here we go!”

Tadashi gasped, big, as he held onto the grab bars in his basket.

With a trill of violins, Odins raised into the sky, taking their cargo with them, giving Julia an easy way to take off, fast, from a bit higher than ‘ground level’. Julia cackled a little, obviously happy, as she unfolded her massive wings and her entire snow-white body glimmered with dark blue magics. She beat her wings, and they moved—

Tadashi screamed a little.

Julia slowed down; slowly, easily. In a moment, she simply hovered in the air, supported by her own light, as she peered down into the basket. “You okay, Tadashi?”

“I’m fine!” came the strangled cry of the alchemist. He righted himself, bracing his arms against the basket, saying, “My hand slipped from the handle! Sorry!”

“Then we go again!” Julia said, “Let me know if something is wrong!” She opened her wings and took off from midair, increasing her speed slower than the first time. “You okay?”

Ezekiel, Paul, and Tiffany followed on magenta wings. They were all fine. Tadashi, though?

Tadashi called out, “I’m good!”

Julia chirped in happy owl sounds, as she flapped her silent wings and gained speed. Unoccupied Odins happily repeated her noises as they chased after her. For a brief moment, Ezekiel was simply along for the ride.

The dark tunnel was behind them. The deadly Red Man was out of sight. And they were flying over some of the most beautiful land Ezekiel had ever seen, with his daughter up ahead, and his people beside him.

And also: Flying never got old.

The full weight of the moment seemed to hit him as the world rushed under their feet, the mist ocean dropping away, the mountain-top islands becoming smaller, and smaller. This was dangerous, sure, monsters everywhere and all that, but it was also exhilarating. Yesterday had been Hunters. Today had been bandits and then a rescue from a swarm of monsters, and yet, the day had barely even begun.

They were still in danger, right at this moment.

Ezekiel was still running [Hunter’s Instincts].

And yet…

Julia raced forward. Odin raced to catch her with all of his bodies, but she was faster than them by far, and wasn’t that a sight to see! Ezekiel had known that she would be better at flying than him, just as she was better at fighting, but to actually see his daughter surpass him never got old. She barely beat her wings, and the heavens flowed over her snow-white feathers faster than the light could move, for the light was being rather buffeting, at the moment. No real aerodynamics for this light. Not when they had a Tadashi to protect from the elements but without touching him.

Ezekiel smiled wide as they ascended, high into the sky, the wind barely touching them, the cold barely seeping into their armor. This was fun. And look at that land below! Majestic.

Julia flew faster and faster, into the eastern sky. Odin tried to keep up, but it was rather apparent that he could not. Julia kept pouring on the speed—

Tadashi appeared through the holes in the basket. He called out, his voice failing on the wind, but still heard because of [Hunter’s Instincts], “We are going too fast!”

Ezekiel spoke through the Odin on the basket, “Are you injured?”

“I am taking injury, yes! That’s a hundred Health so far!”

At that, the party slowed, greatly. Julia relaxed her flight. She hadn’t been jumbling him around, but without a way to heal except for naturally, every point of Health was a precious defense that didn’t need to be wasted needlessly.

“Ach! Sorry about that, Tadashi,” Julia said through the light, near to Tadashi.

“Quite alright! Thanks for the rescue!”

Odins caught up to Julia. Tadashi relaxed into his basket.

A sudden bubble of blue light expanded from the mountaintop on the left—

And here came the expected attack from the expected Thunder Bird.

“Nope-nope-nope!” Ezekiel said, as he reacted.

The rest of the party followed, preparing for what was to come. They had been briefed on how Ezekiel wanted to handle this, and they agreed with his assessment.

The party stopped, midair.

Tadashi poked his head up, confusion writ large on his face, and then came dawning realization, and horror, as he saw the blue bubble growing on the mountaintop below.

Ezekiel set up his seven-part reaction because he wasn’t sure what, exactly, would be the best defense against the sound-based attacks of the Thunder Birds; the main predator one needed to watch for when flying through the Tribulation Mountains.

Unoccupied Odin lightstepped into the air between the mountain and Tadashi and the party. The intervening space was a good five kilometers away, and though the Thunder Bird was nesting down there, the species also hunted and mated and lived high above; it was an even chance to get attacked from above or below, when traveling these skies.

[Airshape] took control of a section of air, making it Odin's own, while a [Prismatic Ward] of 6000 points of defense took control of another airy space. [Quick Wall]s covered another part of the sky, layered like the scales of a dragon. A [Normalize Aura] took control of another layer, behind all the rest, for Ezekiel had no idea if that would actually work against a large-scale sound-based attack. It probably would, but better safe than sorry. A [Discord Aura] took hold of the air beyond the [Normalize Aura], for that would surely work against the sound-based attack. The final line of defense was Ezekiel himself, lightstepping into the space between the attack and Tadashi, prepared to unleash a full sunform of his own. His [Animadversion] likely wouldn’t do much, since the attack of a Thunder Bird was spoken of as wholly physical, but he still had that silver shield strapped to his wrist. Hopefully, the bird’s shockwave spell wouldn’t get that far—

Tiffany stepped right in front of Ezekiel. With a massive forward shield held in both of her hands, she cheerfully chided, “Let the tank tank, please! Mages always out of position, I swear.”

The bubble of blue light around the entire mountaintop island—

Super Large Area. Thunder Birds go big, it appears.

—rippled, all across its surface, building in power, in waves. The entire space became like an ocean’s surface, that then peaked in only one direction; the direction of the party. The cresting wave of the blue dome shifted like an eye moving in its socket as it took aim directly at Ezekiel and his people.

This was why the party had stopped flying forward; Unless they were going at speeds too fast for Tadashi to handle then the heavy ordnance of the Thunder Bird would have tracked them, anyway.

The entire blue eye blinked, the pupil tracking them as it sent out waves of concentrated power, cascading in the party’s direction.

Thunder roared.

[Airshape] was the closest spell to the shockwave, and that was utterly useless. The shockwave tore right through that flimsy excuse of a spell, and then continued right through the 6000 points of defense that was the [Prismatic Ward], popping that dense air like the shattering of a glass ornament. [Quick Wall]s held, but the shockwaves merely flowed around them, their power barely reduced by that defense.

As he watched the power of the Thunder Bird, Ezekiel was reminded of watching the Aerie explode, back in Ar’Kendrithyst, during Shadow’s Feast, except smaller, and more concentrated.

[Normalize Aura] turned shockwaves into something smaller, but still present.

Shockwaves struck the chaotic layer of [Discord Aura] from a nearby Odin, and died, completely.

The shockwaves never reached Tiffany, the party, [Animadversion], or a to-be-deployed sunform.

A few more seconds passed to the great shock of everyone present, as the spell continued on past the party.

Tiffany laughed a little, as she said, “Look at the size of that magic! Never seen anything like it!”

Ezekiel gave a good chuckle at that joke, while Julia gave a single, loud caw.

The blue bubble on the mountain island flickered and died.

Paul brought everyone back to the moment, shouting, “Let’s get going again before it recharges!”

Ezekiel laughed as the party resumed racing through the sky. “I can negate the Thunder Birds just fine!”

Tadashi’s head appeared in the portholes. “You didn’t know if you could?!”

“Don’t worry, good alchemist!” Ezekiel deployed his [Physical Aura] into the sky, but only as the barest bit of [Discord] about half a kilometer out, saying, “I made a new spell recently and it works better than I thought it would against Thunder. I’m always making new spells, though probably not as much as I could. Gotta study how they all work, first!”

Tadashi’s eyes went wide, and then he disappeared back into the basket. “Always new magics...”

“Ah. Shit,” Ezekiel whispered, understanding that he had just made the man rather sad. Tadashi's magic days were over, weren't they? Ezekiel raced forward and called to Tadashi, “Sorry!”

A half-hearted wave came out of the basket.

Ezekiel tried, “Hey! You heard about that new Particular Magic, right? Maybe antirhine is a particular that you can extricate from the body! With alchemy! There’s a good lifelong goal for you.”

“… Yeah,” came Tadashi’s sad voice that tore on the wind.

Paul sent, ‘Really.’

‘What! I was circumspect.’

Paul mm’hmm’d at him.

Tiffany flew beside Ezekiel and shook her head a little, though she was still smiling from the thunder bird ‘fight’ and her joke of only a minute ago.

Julia’s head rotated all the way around to stare straight at her father, as she sent, ‘Particular Magic. Eh?’

Ezekiel smirked, as he sent to all of them, ‘This whole incognito-thing is just to be able to see the world as it actually is. We might have seen enough of the Highlands at this point, so I’m willing to give up this facade if necessary if it means helping someone. I don’t want to actually announce myself, though.’

Julia turned her eyes forward, and beat her wings, sending, ‘Ah. The ‘old wise man handing out swords in caves,’ shtick.’

‘Oh?’ Tiffany sent, ‘Is that a story from Earth? We have a similar one, but it’s about an old woman in a grotto handing out swords.’

‘I’m not that old!’ Ezekiel sent.

Julia ignored her father’s rejoinder, and exclaimed, ‘Ha! You tell yours first, then I’ll go next. We got a long ride and I could use a story.’ She looked down, then returned her eyes forward. ‘Looks like Tadashi trying to sort out something amongst himself, anyway. He’s shaking his hands at the air and mumbling to himself.’

A cause for concern?

“Tadashi?” Ezekiel flew closer, cheerfully asking, “Are you okay in there?”

“… How would you remove antirhine from the body?”

With a sudden seriousness in his voice, Ezekiel said, “I have no idea, but I would start with blood treatments. Maybe there’s a way to gradually weaken the amount of Antirhine in a person—”

The sky above and to the left, three-ish kilometers away, erupted in a kilometer-wide blue bubble. Waves crested on that surface, forming an eye that aimed at the party, releasing shockwaves in a torrent of physical power as the blue bubble collapsed inward, onto the sparking blue bird at the center. This time, the attack consolidated and came much faster, and the party never stopped moving forward. Just like he had been told, the Thunder Bird’s attack tracked them through the sky, spilling shockwaves across the moving party like it was was directing a laminar flow of breaking sound.

[Discord Aura] completely negated the attack.

They were a calm 500 meter center to a kilometers-wide flow of vibrating power.

What didn’t hit them kept on flowing, to the mountains below. Mist exploded. Rocks shook. But the attack had been mostly dissipated by then.

Ah. Hmm.

Ezekiel decided to extend his aura out even more and completely block the next attack, should something like this occur again. No need to accidentally send an attack at whoever might be below them. He sent an Odin back to where the bird’s attack struck to search for people—

Tadashi had poked his head up just in time to see the negation of the attack. “We’re too close and that one is hunting. It will attack us.”

Ezekiel had been prepared to ignore the bird, since the mountain-bound one had not giving chase, but—

This flying blue bird was sized to Julia; easily five meters tall, and twice that wide. It was shaped like an eagle. Lightning crackled across its feathers as it let out an ear-piercing screech, dive-bombing the party. The screech was completely negated, just as the shockwaves had been, but Ezekiel could tell what the bird had tried to do; it had tried to hit Julia, for whatever reason.

Maybe it didn’t like other birds?

When the bird was close enough and not seeming to want to change course, and with Tadashi screaming in the background that they were all dead, Ezekiel intercepted the bird with a lightstepping Odin that blasted the bird with a thousand mana [Slowing Bolt]. Not Ezekiel’s thousand mana; he needed his mana for the full escort. Odin’s thousand mana was more than enough.

A pink cloud-puff inexorably struck the speeding bird well before the bird could get anywhere near Julia and her wicker basket cargo.

