The crowd was silent as the singular moment of battle came to an end, and everyone saw the various ways in which it could have gone much differently had either side aimed to kill.

With an easy grace despite the sword touching his gut, Ezekiel asked Caina, “May we call it a draw?”

Struggling to hold to her strength, and succeeding, Caina said, “Retract your insults to High Clan Devouring Nightmare.”

“They are retracted. I honestly do not know any of the people here, and that made me unwary and uncouth.” He looked over to Scion Nightmare, who was in clear shock, and said, “I apologize for calling you a child. That was beyond rude of me, and I should not have done that.”

“A— Apology accepted,” the white man said. “I command you both to end your hostilities. It is a draw. No further action is to be taken.”

Ezekiel did so. Molecular wires vanished. His [Flying Striker] returned to his side as he stepped away from Caina. Her swords remained where they were for a brief moment, then she dismissed them as she righted herself.

Ezekiel gave a small bow. “Thank you for your instruction. You were incredibly fast. I am impressed.”

Caina glowed with a violet light and the little grimace she allowed herself faded with each passing heartbeat. She stepped backward. “Your spells are more potent than they appear. Thank you for the spar.”

Ezekiel said, “I am reminded that weapons can do quite a lot. That was at least a hundred thousand points of damage even with my mitigation, was it not?”

After a moment of consideration of her opponent, Caina said, “I am reminded that the variation of magic is never ending.” She acknowledged him, “Scion Phoenix.”

“Scion Small Scare.” Ezekiel turned and asked everyone, “So what happens now? Drinking and feasting and talk of nothing important? Or shall I and my party depart and find our own sustenance?” He added, “And if anyone happens to know a good tailor, I could use one. I arrived in the Highlands without much to my name, but I am willing to work for it.”

Caina looked to Scion Nightmare, who stared at Ezekiel with something in his eyes between wonder and contempt. The whole congregation seemed to wait on the white man’s words.

Scion Nightmare suddenly recalled where he was, as he said, “Treat our fair nation properly, and it shall treat you properly in return, Scion Phoenix.”

Ezekiel bowed, then raised his head.

Scion Nightmare and Scion Caina Small Scare both blipped away under their own power. The rest of the audience rapidly began departing as well. No one here used anyone else as a [Teleport] buddy, it seemed. The green-armored man saluted Tiffany with a fist planted over his shoulder and a smile on his face, before flickering green and vanishing.

Soon enough, the only people standing on the grey rock were those of Ezekiel’s party.

He turned to his people, and said, “That went better than I thought it would!” He almost conjured a chair because he felt a great need to sit down, but he did not. [Witness] was a spell that existed, after all.

Julia stepped to his side and tapped him with a dark blue hand, worry in her eyes as she quietly asked, “Are you okay?”

“I’ll be fine.”

It was true. He would be fine.

Julia eyed him for a moment, then accepted his words. She glanced toward where her father had almost been skewered right in front of her, her heart still beating hard. She asked, “What sort of attack was that?”

“I’m okay, Julia.”

“… I know.” Julia sighed. “I would have liked a calmer introduction to the Highlands.”

“Me too.” Ezekiel smiled, then said, “Cania’s [Dual Strike] was Elemental Void. I think her Elemental Body was of the Void, too. Her attack drew me into her swords just as much as she tried to plunge those swords into my torso. Void does that; it creates openings that allow two things to easily come together.” He added, “Well… That’s one of the things Void does.”

“I haven’t worked with Void much, yet.” Julia cracked a smile, saying, “So? Clan ‘Small Scare’, eh?”

“Oh yes! Aptly named.” Ezekiel touched his breastplate, where Cania’s sword had chipped past the exterior layer. “My heart beat hard, for sure.” He looked to Paul, asking an unsaid question.

Paul sent, ‘Surprisingly, none of them suspect anything that is close to the mark, which could be a problem in an entirely expected direction. I can’t really talk about it, though, since there’s no immediate danger to your life.’

‘That’s fine, Paul. Thank you.’

Ezekiel breathed deep, savoring the moment. There was just something about being in life or death danger that was… kinda fun. If nothing else came from this, then he at least understood his daughter a bit more. Julia certainly looked happy for the moment.

Ezekiel asked, “Any of you want these points, before we find some food and clothes?”

The atmosphere of danger seemed to evaporate, even more.

Julia looked to Paul, then up, to Tiffany. Paul looked from Tiffany to Julia. Tiffany stared down at both of them.

Paul suggested, “Wizard’s Towers? One win, one point?”

Tiffany and Julia both scoffed.

Julia said, “And have you get them all? No! How about some duels, instead?”

“No.” Tiffany laughed.

Paul said, “No way! Then you’d get them all.”

“That’s not a hundred percent certain.”

“One point each and then we flip some coins for the other two,” Tiffany suggested.

Julia said, “Eh. Fair.”

“Fair and fine,” Paul said.

Ezekiel instantly handed out three points, then tested the waters, “And two for me!”

Tiffany mocked, “What! You hardly did anything at all!”

Ezekiel erupted into laughter.
