Elder Doniro gestured away, saying, “Welcome back to Eralis, Alchemist Tadashi. Loremaster Xue Star Song and Enforcer Sikali Star Song have prepared a sky boat for the rest of your journey back home. You will be questioned. Cooperate.”

The black-armored woman and the red-robed man gave a half nod to Tadashi. Far behind the greeting party stood what was likely the ‘sky boat’; a pale-wood medium-sized boat that was mostly flat, open space, but with a cabin in the center. The boat was intricately carved from stem to stern with red runes.

Tadashi acknowledged the red man and black woman, then turned to Ezekiel, and said, “Thank you, once again, Scion Ezekiel.”

“Good luck with your endeavors, Alchemist Tadashi. I’ll check up on you in a few days, if that is to your liking.”

“It is. Thank you.” Tadashi turned and walked to the side of his escorts, though he kept himself away from them, and they kept themselves away from him in turn.

Doniro turned his attention to Ezekiel. “Alchemist Tadashi called you a Scion, but you are no Scion I have ever seen. I have just now been informed that ‘Clan Phoenix’ does not exist in our records, either, except for our first entry which entered the Records Office just yesterday.”

A ripple of intrigue passed through the collected audience.

Ezekiel affected an easy attitude, which seemed to be the best course of action here, and said, “I was worried that my Clan would already have a record, for I would have no idea what it could have possibly said. I am glad to see that the Record Office has such tidy operations, though. I have been pleasantly surprised about your whole society down here, ever since we came here yesterday, and I like to be surprised in the ways I have been.”

“Oh?” Elder Doniro asked, “What has been the most surprising?”

“I know someone must have noticed by now, but I do have a Silver Star. I appreciate that if there’s to be war, that it’s not over such distasteful things such as prejudice and promises of experience.”

The black woman and her red man seemed to be reevaluating Ezekiel with every word he said, as did everyone else, but at his latest words, several people lost their scowls and gained some grins. Most of those grins were clearly of the ‘look at the country bumpkin’ kind. A few were truly appreciative, though.

Ezekiel continued, “I’m not sure, exactly, how you do it down here, but I am eager to learn. Which is why I came to the Highlands in the first place. I am interested in your magic. It was for this reason that I came to the Highlands with my retainers, and my daughter.”

Doniro’s mouth remained shut. Then he glanced to the side, toward an older woman of deep purple skin and bright white hair. She was obviously incani in a large way, but she had no horns. Doniro stepped back, but was he satisfied? Maybe.

As the woman stepped forward, the rest of the audience seemed to stand taller, or stiffer.

The woman named herself, “Elder Arilitilo Star Song. You may call me Elder Ari, if I may call you Ezekiel, Scion Phoenix.”

“Elder Ari. It is a pleasure to meet you.”

“I thought I knew all the important Scions of the continent, but your presence is an anomaly. Your timing is suspect, as well.”

Ezekiel nodded, and spoke plainly, “Neither I nor my people had anything to do with Tadashi’s… anything. I did see the Quest this morning, but we decided against going for it unless the man happened to fall into our path. Which was exactly what transpired.”

Some of the people in the audience did not like that. One even called out about luck being too good.

Ezekiel asked, “Do you need me to speak under truthstone? I did see a lot of that at your Teleport Squares and with a few guards here and there. Can’t say I appreciate those things brought out at every occasion, but I understand the need for them in certain events, and especially when unknown powers rear their unexpected heads.”

Elder Ari pleasantly said, “There will be no need for that. I am satisfied. Feel free to contact me if you wish for another chat. We could even discuss magic. I was a Loremaster before I became an Elder, so I have had my hands in all sorts of specialties. What is your specialty?”

“Right now I am interested in matters of song and magic.”

“That would be appropriate, wouldn’t it.” Elder Ari stepped back, and said, “Welcome to Eralis, Ezekiel.”

Doniro said, “Then we are done here. Good day, Scion Pho—”

A voice came from the side. “You all may leave, but we are not done here.”

The speaker was a young man of white; white hair, skin, eyes, and horns. Even his clothes were white, save for black trim and black threadwork.

Elder Doniro and his party, each and every one of them, bowed slightly to the interrupter.

The Elders rapidly departed with Tadashi in tow. The red man and black woman guided them to the sky boat, which hovered in the air but a scant centimeter. There was already a stone set of temporary stairs leading upward, and into the cabin in the center. For half a minute, everyone who was not interested in the white boy’s words, watched as Tadashi walked up the stairs on his own and entered the cabin in the center of the sky boat. Everyone else lightly flew into position atop the craft. Soon enough, with its cargo secured and its complement of Elders and Enforcers standing by the railing, the sky boat ascended upward. It took off toward the east, toward Eralis.

The white boy did not like that Ezekiel was one of those who watched the departure, instead of him. He spat, “You dare to not give me your focus, Foreign Clansman?”

“Clansman? That was not how I was introduced.” Ezekiel gave the boy his focus, and then asked everyone else, “Is this boy the manner in which the rest of you compose yourself?”

It was the wrong thing to say, which is exactly why Ezekiel said it. The collective attention of the audience went as wide as their eyes.

The boy exclaimed in a suddenly nasal voice, “I am not a child!”

“In addition to your face and your words, the growth plates on your bones have yet to fuse. You are 19. Maybe less. You are a child.”

The white kid went silent as he stared; terribly angry.

And then Ezekiel felt embarrassed for himself.

The kid was a kid. Why did he engage with him on his level? It was unconscionably rude to say what he said, and also beneath Ezekiel. And yet… Every single face in the audience was silently weighing him against their own, deciding if he was trash, or useful. The very idea that he could be stronger than any of them did not register, because not a single one saw him for who he was, which was by design, yes, but also rude of them.

One should treat others how they wished themselves to be treated, after all.

But everyone here saw him as a toy. The boy had definitely seen Ezekiel as a toy… That was probably why Ezekiel had said what he said, and also why the boy had started this confrontation. Was Ezekiel an easy target? He certainly wasn’t in his element.

… And honestly, maybe they were stronger than him, in certain ways.

And there was something to be said of giving deference to those whom other people gave deference.

The white kid likely had none of these thoughts in his head. He was simply angry.

A large, dark-skinned woman on the other side of the field stepped forward, wearing heavy violet armor, and said, “You can’t expect to be treated like a Scion in a foreign land without being run through your forms. That is all Scion Nightmare was doing. But you took your rebuttal too far.”

That was also true.

The violet woman continued, “Now, I will challenge you for the sake of honor.” She turned to Scion Nightmare, asking, “If it pleases High Clan Devouring Nightmare.”

Ah. A ‘High Clan’. Hmm.

Yeah. He should have taken the verbal beating from the kid, and not said another word. Oh well!

“Thank you, Scion Small Scare! It does please High Clan Devouring Nightmare!” Scion Nightmare declared, “A simple demonstration of the power of the Highlands should remind all foreigners who is in charge around here.” He sneered. “Or, Ezekiel can post another 5 point Quest and hand over what he stole from us.”

Scion Small Scare half-bowed to Scion Nightmare. Then she turned to Ezekiel, and waited.

Ezekiel was already happily saying, “Oh? Well. Sure! Why not. Pardon my ignorance, I didn’t know this was actually a shakedown—”

Several people openly laughed, but Scion Nightmare just scowled. Scion Small Scare held her ground, patient.

“—Let me just—” Ezekiel turned to his people. “Do any of you want the points, before I do this? Just say yes, and I will have a spar instead.”

“Kick her ass, dad!” Julia exclaimed.

There were a few odd looks between a few people at the word ‘dad’.

“Please refrain from lethal blows, Scion,” Paul said.

“Can I get in on a spar, too?” Tiffany happily asked, getting into the spirit of the moment.

A man in green heavy plate stepped forward, cheerfully saying, “Yes you can, fair giantess!”

Tiffany scowled behind her helmet. “I’m gonna have to pound you into the ground for that insult, you know.”

Scion Nightmare interrupted the laughter of the group and the green plate man, saying, “We have but one bout at the moment, and it is between Clansman Phoenix, and Scion Small Scare. Clear the battlefield.” He glared daggers at Ezekiel, saying, “When you lose, I want those points. Don’t try [Teleport]ing away, either.”

“Why would I want to [Teleport] away? That seems rather unsport—”

“Clansman Phoenix,” Scion Small Scare interrupted the verbal jousting for she clearly wanted less of that. “State your rules.”

Ezekiel said, “We are in your lands. What are the customary rules? I assume no lethal attacks, at least.” he waved back toward his people.

Julia, Paul, and Tiffany, each got the message; they moved backward, clearing space. At their movement, the rest of the gathered audience also moved backward ten more paces. Soon, it was just Scion Small Scare and Ezekiel, ten meters from one another.

Ezekiel said, “I also do not know your name.”

“You may call me Caina.” Caina said, “The rules are as follows: No attacks above the neck. We fight to first lost limb greater than a finger or toe, or first weapon planted in the heart; whichever comes first.”

Ezekiel tried to control his face from paling. He failed.

Scion Nightmare’s smile was a ragged, awful thing.

Sensing Ezekiel’s confusion, Caina asked, “Is this not how they do it where you are from?”

“We mostly fight monsters where I’m from so we try not to injure each other that much. How about we fight to first blood, instead?”

The crowd did not like that. Several scowled.

Caina asked, “Do you look down upon me? Or is this the trick of a Blood Mage? I do not appreciate the insult, either way.” She lost a fraction of her cool demeanor, as she upped the ante, saying, “Rest assured, we will heal any injuries received, but should you lose those rings on your fingers due to a lost hand, you will not be getting them back.”

Ezekiel pivoted his verbal position, saying, “Do I get those daggers hiding behind your back if I win? They are quite shiny.”

“I will not be using those in a spar.” Caina gently nodded, saying, “But since I have set my sights on your rings, then I will accept this additional wager.”

Best to get through this ordeal as fast as possible.

Ezekiel said, “Let us spar in the way of your land.”

Caina summoned a pair of identical violet longswords, one for each hand, as she said a prayer to someone, “Goddess guide me to greater heights.”

“Activate your [Defend]s!” Scion Nightmare shouted, “Begin!”

Ezekiel stood still, casting and also prepared to cast more from the Odins on his shoulders. Caina’s swords glinted with violet void as she stepped to the left—

Spells were cast, attacks were met head on. Anyone not looking would have missed it, and those who were looking also had trouble keeping up.

Just like that, the fight was over.

But understanding what had happened took a moment or seven.

Caina’s first sword had dipped down low and come up from below, chipping into the magenta Force breastplate covering Ezekiel’s stomach, breaking through that surface and digging into the woven Force underarmor below, but not getting far. His [Physical Domain] was wrapped tight around himself in order to prevent any Thunder-based attacks so he didn’t have his [Lodestar] active, but his [Greater Lightwalk] had still likely done its fair share of dulling her damage.

Due to that portion of Caina’s attack, his 110,000 point [Personal Ward] had dropped below half power.

Cain’s second sword had attempted to impale him directly through his breastplate, to his heart. Instead, that half of her [Dual Strike] landed upon a magenta shield made of reflective spikes. Power rebounded.

Caina went completely still as her attack struck into her entire self and blood poured from every gap of her armor, for she had seen the other magics that Ezekiel had done in that impossibly small instant between the start and the end of the battle, and she knew she would not survive moving in any manner save for a Spatial extraction. Her next Script Second was still a second away.

For molecular wire shimmered on the air like lazy spider webs frozen in time. She had passed through several of them to get to Ezekiel, breaking them, and parts of her own violet armor in the process. She was lucky he had used his lesser spellwork; [Hermetic Razor] was certainly not [Hermetic Shredder].

Hermetic Razor, instant, medium range, 500 mana

25 molecular wires stretch through a medium-sized space, at your command. One wire does a maximum of 100 points of damage before breaking.

The remaining wires now scratched against her violet armor as Caina held still. One gently sliced against her left forearm, where her armor had been broken entirely.

But the thing that truly stopped her from moving was the [Flying Striker] positioned at her back, over her heart, like a fragment of magenta Force waiting for the command to dive right in and eviscerate. Ezekiel gently moved the Force weapon to press into Caina’s violet armor, but no further.

Caina likely had room to continue her [Dual Strike], to press her weapons further into Ezekiel, but her momentum was gone.

And the fight over, of course.

She had a shadow-adjacent Elemental Body active, which Ezekiel guessed as a [Void Body], or something, and she could have escaped that way. But in the same way that Ezekiel did not deploy his full lightform because [Lightshape] exists and is a hard counter to that ability —without a [Domain] to back it up— Caina likely did not wish to open herself up to a full counter through the full use of her own Elemental Body.

