Mostly, their advice boils down to keep the quins hungry, a practice I find horrific and inhumane. How can anyone bear to deny those adorable floofs a full belly?

Though I should never say this out loud, there are two recent additions who I value above all others. At first glance, nothing about Jigari or Abjiya really stands out. They don’t have Orgaal’s dependable composure or Ulfsaar’s silent confidence, nor are they large and intimidating like Chu XinYue or dangerously attractive like Maral. Clad in their light, summer robes, Jigari and Abjiya could even be mistaken for commoners if not for their Chi-Perfect features and bulging belt pouches overflowing with herbs, poultices, bandages, and anything else they might require.

Yes. It’s true. I, the Undying Falling Rain, finally have a Healer in my retinue. Two no less.

I was pretty surprised to find two healers in addition to the fifty Khishig newcomers, but apparently if it weren’t for Tokta putting his foot down and limiting it to two, I would’ve had more Healers than actual warriors coming to join me. Not because they’re my fans, no, but because they’re fans of Medical Saint Taduk. As sweet and goofy as he is, my teacher’s quirky behaviour makes me look like a social butterfly with charisma up the wazoo, and a chance to learn from him was too enticing to pass up for newbie Healers like Jigari and Abjiya. Personally, I think Tokta is an exceptional, if overly sadistic, instructor, but regardless of their intentions, I’m glad to have them both aboard and hope they’ll be enough to keep everyone alive.

Even though I know it won’t.

After months of patrols and battles, the prairie grass no longer restricts our view and the Defiled army jogs into sight from four or five kilometres away. The grass is still tall enough to hide in if you were to crouch, but the Defiled aren’t big on hiding which is why we have so much time to prepare. Not a second goes wasted as my people follow through on their training, but we’re ready long before the Defiled are even close to bow range, giving me plenty of time to study the Enemy. Once again, these Defiled are primarily of the desert-dwelling variety, and while they appear more professional than the ones we fought last time around, they’re still nowhere close to what I would call appropriately armed. Their weapons are largely improvised and what little armour they have is ragged leather or crude bone. They have no cavalry, no scouts, no standards, and no formations, pretty much nothing to differentiate them from an unruly mob. It doesn’t make sense. The first few groups I can understand, but how did a three-thousand strong tribe of Defiled fail to find even a single piece of armour or weaponry during their long trek through the Western Province? They’re murderous, not stupid. They wouldn’t leave serviceable gear to rust on the battlefield, so it begs the question: where has all the gear gone?

Personally, I’m hoping they used it all in some grotesque sculpture or macabre totem or something, because the alternative is too bleak to think about.

When the Defiled are a kilometre away, Sai Chou scores the first kill with her new Bekhai bow, a double recurve composite longbow taller than she is. The draw strength is too much for me to handle more than once or twice, but the grungy woods-maiden stands high on her wagon and fires off three more shots without slowing, each one finding its target true. As the Enemy speeds up their pace and more archers find their range, a symphony of bowstrings sound out, the Khishigs atop their quins and the protectorate atop their wagons letting loose at the encroaching sea of Defiled. There will be no organized duels today, no quiet exhibition of blades, for we are fresh and well-rested and they are close to their destination. With a series of mechanical clicks, hundreds of crossbow strings ratchet into place and add their quarrels to the hail of arrows, while the Defiled dead disappear beneath the unclad feet of their comrades, like raindrops disappearing into the ocean.

When the Defiled charge into the readied polearms of the Death Corps, their three-thousand strong horde is already at half-strength, if not less. Already in motion, XinYue raises his hammer and thunders into the fray, crashing into the mass of bodies and carving a swathe deep through their lines. On the southern flank, Moomie leads a similar charge pulling a hundred kilos of iron and more than double that in half-bear behind him. The angry bull flattens everyone in his path, and those lucky enough to avoid him are cut down by spinning, meter-long blades affixed to the wheels, leaving precious little for Ulfsaar to do. Accompanied by nine companion vehicles and dozens more of their mounted brethren, Ulfsaar and Moomie are barely slowed as they trample unchecked through the Defiled tribesmen, moving so quickly XinYue is forced to turn his cavalry around retreat back the way they came lest his cavalry fall victim to the stomping hooves and scything blades of my cattle-driven chariots.

Note to self: Give Moomie more scritches, and maybe a helmet and breastplate. He’s fucking worth it.

Also, leave a clear path for the chariots. Cattle aren’t great at cornering.

Less than a minute has passed since battle was joined, and already we’re in the endgame. While Wang Bao strides forth to join the fray with his mangy marauders and Bulat leads the voracious quins to encircle the Enemy, I open wide and Devour all the delicious, delectable Spectres before basking in the sensation of a job well done. Honestly, I don’t understand what all the fuss was about. So what if there are more Defiled? I’ve got soldiers, cavalry, armour, crossbows, healers, most importantly, cattle. Forget the chariots, I should just let the cows group together and fuck the Defiled up while we fill the survivors with arrows. If cattle are peasant animals and bows are peasant weapons, then it won’t be long before the peasants usher in a regime change. Who needs a wall? I’d rather arm every one of those poor labourers with a crossbow and all the bolts they can carry. Let’s see how many Defiled remain after getting hit with a million bolts every ten seconds.

...

I wonder if I can train cattle to Lighten and launch them at the enemy using some sort of cow catapult...

Chapter Meme
