“None of your soft-hearted, girlish ways, I still know what’s best for you. Soon enough, I’ll have no time to teach you anyways. Without my rank, my enemies will grow confident and I’ll be forced into hiding. Don’t worry, I’ve not lost my wits or my strength, I’ll show them Situ Jia Yang is not a man to be taken lightly.” With a grimace, Uncle Yang hesitated before continuing. “Be honest now, I won’t fault you. Have you made peace with the little savage?”

“Sort of.” Clasping his uncle’s forearm, Zian explained the entire situation with Yo Ling’s treasure through Sending, having practised with Jukai the entire journey home.

When he finished telling the tale, Uncle Yang shook his head in disapproval. “You take after your father. An unstoppable warrior but a bumbling diplomat. Should have asked for more or refused to go along.” The words stung, especially since Zian knew little about his father, and Uncle Yang noticed his mistake, quieting for a moment. After a consoling pat on the cheek, he continued. “Well, this is fine. The Bekhai are experiencing a meteoric rise in power and you cannot afford to antagonize them, not anymore. Forget the brat’s accomplishments, the wolf's already being hailed as the next Nian Zu, here to defend the province for hundreds of years to come. Doesn’t even deserve it, owes all his success to luck and coincidence.”

After some more grumbling, Uncle Yang’s voice dropped to a whisper. “About your father... It’s no secret we never got along, but he loved your mother. More importantly, she loved him and there was nothing I could do about it.” A small chuckle escaped his lips and for a second, Uncle Yang looked twenty years older. “Then he died, doing stupid things for stupid reasons.” Wrapping Zian in his embrace, he whispered, “I’ve never had a son, but I’ve always thought of you as one. I envy him you know? Seeing you fight and earn glory in his style, you’ve done him proud. You’ve made me proud. Never forget this.”

Choking back his tears, Zian snarled and said, “Stay alive uncle. Give me a few years and I’ll become strong enough to protect you, I swear it.”

“Ha. That’ll be the day. The great Situ Jia Yang relying on a profligate dandy to protect him, I’d be better off dead and burned.” The mocking tone was softened by Uncle Yang’s smile. Dismissing Zian with a wave of his hand, Uncle Yang said, “Begone now, go write a letter to your mother before she marches down here to chew you out in person. Neither of us will survive if that should come to pass.”

“Yes uncle.” Pausing at the door, Zian turned to see Uncle Yang already gazing out the window with a forlorn look. Swallowing his words, Zian stepped out and closed the door behind him. It’s likely the clan would disavow Uncle Yang before the court-martial even took place, and without the Society’s protection, he was in more danger than he let on. It disgusted Zian to see his uncle abandoned so readily, half the enemies looking to kill him were made carrying out the Society’s interests.

Complaining won’t change anything, the only way Zian could help was by seizing more power, both personal and political. Gathering his thoughts, Zian abandoned his plans to renounce his place as young patriarch and focused on drafting a letter to his mother. If he wanted power, the quickest and easiest method would be an alliance through marriage. If the Situ Clan wouldn’t stand behind Uncle Yang, then perhaps someone else would, someone stronger. With the Bekhai’s growing power, Sumila, daughter of Akanai would have been a perfect choice, but she was already betrothed to Rain, the lucky bastard.

No matter, there were plenty of single, attractive, well-connected women in the empire, who weren’t betrothed to Falling Rain. In fact, he quickly picked out a second possible candidate, a beautiful, talented, rising young dragon in the central province, with ties to the Bekhai and the Du family: Du Min Gyu’s Terminal Disciple, Du Min Yan.

...At least, Zian prayed she wasn’t betrothed to Rain.

Be reasonable, how lucky could one man be?

Chapter Meme
