They made way for him and he gripped Martin's head in his hands and twisted the man's face up, ignoring his pleas.

“Hold still Martin. For fuck’s sake. We are trying to see your ugly mug.”

“Yeah, me too Captain Y.”

Looking to President Westley, Yosef asked, “The stitches are still there, and there’s a small scar? Is that normal?”

The President pulled out a small tablet and started poking at it before handing it to Yosef. “Should be. This is just a magical tool that can heal, where a real healer can do so better. I watched as Marcus Daltor’s finger was regrown, so I know it's possible.”

Yosef took that in while holding a hand out to the empty air. “Knife.”

His single word had a dozen blades removed from various hidden locations and he picked the one that had the best shape for what he was about to do.

“Hold still Martin, or I might accidentally stab your eye, and then we can see just how good the healing magic is.”

Martin bitched as Yosef cut and removed the stitches, but he never even flinched.

Yosef then turned his attention to the magic wand along with everyone else, including President Westley. “Can we use it again?”

“No, this one is drained. While it can refill on its own, that will take a few days, and I don’t have enough mana to charge it myself.”

Thankfully, President Westley had a case full of the rods. “I have a dozen for the Ravens to share.” At the protests, the President's eyes hardened and the men shut their mouths. “These are mostly getting passed around to hospitals. A few countries were… Reprimanded for trying to hoard them for the military. Out of our initial shipment, this was considered an acceptable number for the Ravens and your upcoming mission.”

All of the Ravens got serious as President Westley explained the riches available on the other continent, and how the Communists of the Greater South Plains had failed to land a beachhead and lost an entire unit of people in the attempt.

Yosef would scoff at the average GSP soldier, but the Barebacks, the special force equivalent of the Ravens, were just as good as them. And when it came to amphibious landings, better. Maybe. The Ravens specialized in airborne entries but they were no slouches in the water. If they had failed, things could not be simple or easy.

Here there be monsters was once just a saying, but it seemed all too true now.

President Westley explained that because of the JPT’s distance to the foreign continent, they needed to get in there early and secure valuables fast before safely extracting. If they could set up a secure landing zone somewhere, all the better, but their main job was to use some of the new magic tools to find and secure valuables while gathering information about where the greatest threats were.

The Ravens were never given easy jobs, but this was one for the record wall.

Letting his gaze travel from the box of metal rods which would be their lifelines in this hostile land, Yosef pulled one out.

“Kepler, get over here.”

Corporal Kepler nearly teleported over to Yosef’s side, vibrating with excitement. The man had pulled his back a few years ago, and it was only daily stretching that allowed him to move, but they had all seen when Kepler hadn’t been able to do his stretches and turned into a eighty year old man.

Poking him with the rod, Yosef felt a small click and then a pulse of light washed over Kepler.

Kepler dropped like a rock, and Yosef immediately moved to catch his screaming Raven as he clutched at his back, even as his legs spasmed widely.

Just as Yosef was starting to prepare to knock him unconscious with a blood choke, Kepler stopped moving and screaming as if a switch was thrown.

Instead, he started laughing. “Oh, by the Founders! Ha! I love this magic shit! Sign me the fuck up!”

Twisting out of Yosef’s grip, Kepler popped to his feet and without bending his legs put his palms on the ground.

“It doesn't hurt!”

Yosef contemplated punching Kepler in the mouth, but he refrained with great effort. If President Westley wasn’t still there, he might have. And he still might later.

“Get up idiot.” Turning to President Westley, Yosef continued, “You said we could get this magic ourselves sir?”

“This way. They set up a temporary awakening center. From the instructions, it seems as simple as pushing a button and so far it has been exactly that simple. Really interest—”

They traveled to an aircraft hangar, and when he saw what was inside, Yosef whistled.

The contraption took up about eighty percent of the available space and nearly reached the struts that held up the ceiling. How was it in any way shape or form, temporary? It looked more solid than the building it was in!

President Westley must have read his face as he gestured. “They said the permanently installed ones are four times the size, but more efficient. Still, this should work for our needs.”

There were a dozen technicians crawling over the device, and Yosef studied them.

“Like ants crawling around.”

He was about to turn around to glare at Boisie, but President Westley nodded. “Less effective than ants as well. We were told not to break anything, but we can’t even open the device. It's basically a black box. Shame, as I’m sure we could learn a ton from it. But at least it works. Take a seat, gentleman.”

There were twelve seats. For all their bravado, Yosef could feel that most of his men were nervous.

“NCO’s with me.” Yosef ordered as he stepped forward and took the closest seat. He was just as nervous, but he didn’t let it show. And if they died in whatever this was, his lieutenants could keep everyone else in line.

Why did magic need such a large device to be given?

The screen was next to his chair, and he read it as it started telling him about the process.

It was a lot of magic mumbo jumbo, but he tried to follow it. One interesting bit was that all the information about his ‘Talent’ was confidential, and no one could read the screen except him. Looking around to test it, Yosef saw that even though he could see the other screens, he couldn’t read anything on them. They simply looked blank.

After a few minutes of explanation that stated in a dozen ways that he really shouldn’t share about his Talent unless he was very sure he wanted the information getting out, he felt a pulse of something.

Yosef would have likened it to a shot of coffee, but that was a lie. It felt like warm water was spreading through his body. It was like pissing oneself in a dream and deeply uncomfortable. He wanted to twist and squirm even as he couldn't help but look at the crotch of his pants as he made sure he hadn’t just pissed himself in front of everyone.

Thankfully, the feeling passed almost immediately, and the screen next to him told him to wait. As he sat waiting he couldn't help but feel…something. The faint breeze sharpened on his skin, his blood pounded in his veins, and he felt the faint sweat on his brow, and the way in which it beaded and would drip down his face if he let it be. If he really pushed himself, it almost seemed like he could feel the touch of the breeze on his chair.

What… what was happening?

Yosef tried to figure out what was going on but it was like he had a new limb and it was unwieldy at best and uncooperative at worst. A few minutes later the readout pinged and provided an explanation.

Tier 1 Talent: You know how fluids near you will act.

Primary effect: Your spiritual sense directly enables you to sense fluids.

Secondary effect: Innate Understanding of how fluids you sense will act.

As soon as he read it, things clicked. Now that he knew what he was looking at, it all just made sense, in more ways than one. He wasn’t entirely sure what ‘spiritual perception’ was, but he could tell that it was letting him feel the air itself within a few feet of him. Beyond that, he just instinctively knew that the slight motion of air within the room would break against the chair, and the ways in which that air would deviate, just like he knew his eyes were open.

It was like he had a sixth sense of an air tunnel.

But it wasn’t just air. As he grabbed his water bottle and took a drink to wet his newly-dry mouth, he knew the exact way the half-full bottle would slosh in on itself on its way to his mouth, then the way in which it would splash around once inside his mouth, how it would travel down to his stomach.

Martin stood up and walked about the room, passing inside Yosef’s newest sense, and as he did so, Yosef got a sense for the water inside the man’s bottle. With some focus, he tried to focus on the man himself.

The feeling was weaker, but noticeably there. Trying to sense the fluids inside of Martin’s body felt like he was trying to listen to what was happening in a neighboring room that also happened to be sound proof. When he tried to do the same to the men who hadn’t just been awakened, he still met resistance, but far less. It was like living in a shitty apartment again. You might be in your own space, but you heard every bump and scrape in the neighboring unit.

After hitting accept that he really understood not to share what his Talent was, Yosef stood up and looked to President Westley, who held up a hand. “Officially, I can’t ask, and our new overlords have made it clear we can’t institute it as a rule. But if any of you would like to share, we are still trying to understand a lot about these Talents. We would be grateful.”

Yosef had to think about it for a moment, and while the military knew everything about him down to how often he shit, this felt different. Not because he didn’t trust them, but because this was an advantage unique to himself.

Also the fact that the machine which had just given him said magic powers had made him type out that he shouldn't tell people his Talent. Twice.

If the people who were able to give out such powers felt they were better kept to oneself he was inclined to believe them.

Even now, he knew one of the techs working on the machine behind him was walking behind him thanks to how the air shifted around them. He didn’t need to see or hear them, but he knew.

If he told anyone, he’d lose that advantage.

He also knew his decision set the tone for the rest of his men, and to that end, he looked directly into the President’s eyes. “For operational security, I feel it's best we keep our Talents to ourselves.”

One of the hanger-ons one made to say something, but President Westley stopped them. “Don’t. We asked and they answered, which is all we can do. I won’t risk falling into the bad graces of our new overlords for this. They made it clear they take this seriously, and when I asked about it, the administrator said even some married couples don’t share the full details of their Talents. Let us assume they have good reasons for this choice and not rock the boat so to speak.”

As the next set of men went into the vacated chairs, Yosef tried to project an air of confidence for them, even as his mind raced to their upcoming mission.

Only one man decided to share his Talent, Lance Corporal Muz, because of how obvious it was.

A small jump sent him nearly thirty feet across the room, and when he made a vertical jump, he easily caught the strut forty feet in the air.

Yosef was half sure Muz was going to snap his ankles when he dropped, but he landed like he took a single step which implied the power was more than a simple increase to jump height.

That was… useful.

The next week was a blur as they were kitted up with new magic stuff in addition to their old gear, before they entered a rift where they got to experience fighting monsters.

They moved through it easily, but all of them noticed how more power flooded into them.

Yosef tried to direct most of the power to his physical core, but between his sloppy control and the warnings about going too far in one direction, he went with something like a sixty forty split instead of a seventy thirty.

His new Talent proved quite useful, and as he trained with it he found that the sense it granted wasn’t only limited to sensing fluids. Other magical things had a certain kind of presence to them, and as he practiced with one, they both improved. But the main thing was that it was now impossible to sneak up on him. Nothing could approach him from behind without moving air, and no matter how quiet they were, he knew when it was approaching.

He understood that he might not be able to react to something like a bullet before it hit him but the increase in senses gave him a boost in confidence to making it out of even the worst disaster alive. Of course, with magic, there probably were things that could approach him without moving air and he tried not to forget that.

It was a new sense, but one that felt like a limb that he had always had, though it would be incredibly easy to turn it into a crutch.

He warned his men about that, but he could only hope they would heed his warnings.

And how easy it would be to fall into that habit. His new sense changed everything. As they were parachuting down to a small rocky high point along the edge of a mountain range, Yosef’s body subconsciously adjusted his pull cords to better catch the winds and dodge the turbulence. It took some concentration to sense things at any particular range, but once he had sensed it, it was second nature to account for it.

The moment they landed, Yosef cut himself free from his chute and raised his rifle as he scanned their surroundings. They had been briefed about how much stronger and more dangerous these monsters would be.

Seven seconds.

It only took seven seconds for contact to be made.

A creature like an armadillo and a porcupine had a baby galoped at them from one of the cracks in the nearby mountain.

