The monster crossed the few hundred feet between them in record time, racing down the mountainside with a shower of small rocks tumbling down in its wake. With no time to waste, Yosef called for open fire.

The cracks of rifles was like popcorn and the smell of cordite was heavy in the air, but the creature hardly seemed to be bothered by the armor piercing rounds that should have shredded it.

Given the sprays of dust and stone in the area around the creature, his team had either drastically decreased in accuracy, or the creature’s armor was deflecting the bullets like armor plating.

Calling for his men to shift left as a unit, they did so and spread out.

Hundreds of rounds traveled down range, and while most did nothing, some were effective.

Blood started to flow as some of the heavy rounds found their marks, and the monster began to stumble.

Taking a moment, Yosef gathered himself and concentrated on his weapon and the air around them.

Even without his Talent directly making the assessment entirely trivial, he could feel the cross wind and use that in conjunction with twenty years of practice to account for the deflection, and dialed in a shot that would hit the monster head-on.

Yosef kept both eyes open as he looked down his scope and put the chevron on the creature's eye.

He caressed the trigger and grinned as the creature reeled back, head shaking. Its angry roar turned into a pained cry.

With the creature turning its side to them, their shots finally started penetrating the hide and blood started to flow. But even when Yosef’s experience expected the creature to run, it turned back at them and started its lumbering run once again.

It died less than a hundred feet from them, and Yosef was about to call for a perimeter to be set when he felt a rush of essence stronger than he had felt from the lizard rift they delved earlier spread to him and his men. Apparently its toughness came from it being some kind of extra magical creature, and that meant its essence was that much stronger.

It was thick and heavy like syrup, and the feeling of increased power that flooded into his limbs as he sent the essence to his physical core was incredibly additive.

Yosef wanted more.

He wanted this every day when he woke up, and another before he went to bed. He was starting to understand how people drove themselves to kill monsters to reach immortality.

It felt good.

Really good.

It was like… the tide rising and carrying him along with it. There was a momentum in the surge of power that almost made sense. Part of him wanted to explore that feeling more, delve into it, languish in that feeling like soaking in a hot tub.

He instinctively felt there was something there. Something he wanted to reach out and connect to. However the larger part of him knew how dangerous their current location was, which was only reinforced when one of his men called out.

“Contact left. Two miles.”

Yosef turned and started barking orders. “Alpha, eyes on contact. Bravo, watch our six. Charlie, start scanning for high magic concentrations. I want to know what is around us before this next monster arrives.”

That feeling of understanding was just under the surface, begging for a few hours, a comfortable chair, and a good whisky, but Yosef pushed it down. He’d deal with that later. There was a mission to handle first and this place was more dangerous than the briefings had stated and if he didn’t want to go out like the Barebacks he needed to be locked in and not distracted.

And another monster meant more essence which meant more power and Yosef was more than happy to grow stronger if it felt this good.
