“Strength doesn't make you an adventurer. Right now, you are arguably already doing adventuring work. Preparation and knowledge should keep you in areas and doing jobs suitable for your power. There are surprises and there is bad luck for sure but most people who die out there do so due to overconfidence, greed, stupidity, lacking preparation, and not enough rest. And you would be surprised how many of those people claim to simply have had a bad day. Those who make it past a few years are the ones who can learn from their mistakes.”

“Any general pieces of advice for a new adventurer then?”

“If any jobs or offers sound too good to be true, they are. Walk away. If a monster seems too dangerous or strange to approach, walk away. Never work alone. If any of your team members rub you the wrong way, kick them out when you're back in a town, and if that isn't possible,”

“Walk away,” he finished.

She gave him a smile. “Everything else, you will learn on the job.”

“Including when to ignore those rules?”

“Including that, yes.”

Veron thought about her words as he followed her, Ivera soon stopping to set up her ritual to absorb the creature’s essence. She worked alone, didn't she? Or does she not count what she does here as adventuring work? Having seen her fight, he assumed she knew what she was doing.

Was she an adventurer once? She mentioned her time at the Guard of Sor, whatever that is. Just a city guard or is it more?

Ivera didn't leave the corpse after the ritual was done, instead binding it around her shoulders and taking it with her.

She told him they were nearly done for the day, and that the pelt, bones, claws, and teeth would fetch a reasonable price. The meat would be tough but it was fine for a stew.

“The ritual you do with the candles and the prayer... I assume that's to absorb its essence?”

“Yes. Every Path has a different way to absorb the essence taken from another. I am of the Devotion Path, which requires a ritual of sorts. Far less intricate than what a Runic Path would do but the focus for Devotion Paths is in the heart and the belief.”

“Do you have gods that you pray to?”

She gave him a long look and then shook her head. “I no longer send them to the gods. For the creatures I kill, I honor the life they have lived and I thank them for the life they have now given me.”

Veron didn't ask more questions. A ritual to honor the dead, or to honor the life that they have lived. With his own Path, he would return the dead to the elements, taking a part of them with him. He felt it was similar in thought, simply different in execution. But then, perhaps he just liked Ivera and the way she explained her ways.

They encountered a few deer like creatures on the way back but neither group seemed particularly interested in disturbing the other. He was surprised that the beings didn't flee, simply staring at them and continuing their meal of grass and leaves.

“They are calmer with you in my presence,” Ivera said once they had passed the group of deers.

“You sound surprised at that?”

“Elemental Paths are not very common amongst fighters. And many I have met have not been what I would think as true examples of your Path. But maybe you are the outlier.”

Veron didn't reply and simply considered her thoughts. He supposed that humans remained humans, no matter their Path. But then, the thought posed an interesting perspective. How much of who he was was determined by his Path? Or had he gotten his Path by who he was in the first place?

Perhaps a bit of both, he decided and felt content with the conclusion.

The sun was low on the horizon when they returned to the fields before the Holt farm. Veron felt both relief and exhaustion washing over him. Maybe she was right and this really marked his first day as an adventurer.

It had certainly been exciting, here and there. Mostly, it had been quiet, calm. It had also been tense but mostly because he felt unfamiliar with everything. One thing he was pretty sure about was that he wanted more of it.
