She grew an eye on her “tail” to keep watch over the room, but the fact that humans didn’t have darkvision meant it was fairly easy to stay in the shadows and inch out. It took a fairly long time to get all her flesh through the window, but finally, she made it outside the barracks and dropped into the bushes.

Pyre paused for a moment, listening for the sounds of the guards. In this snake-like form with her entire body touching the ground, her [Vibration Sense] was stronger than ever. She still couldn’t make out exact shapes or details, but she could tell from the faint tremors of footsteps that the guards weren’t on this side of the building right now. With the coast clear, she flattened out her body some more and slithered on over to the patch of trees by the wall.

From there, it was easy enough to follow the perimeter of the garrison to the back of the dining hall. The trees here were indeed dense enough that she could probably shift back into a full humanoid form without being seen, but frankly she didn’t see the point when she was going to have to get back into the barracks.

Up ahead, a faint, silvery mist hovered by the wall behind one of the larger trees. Once she got closer, she could make out Callan, the ghost’s brows furrowed as he tried his damnedest to not hover-pace around.

“Yo.”

The ghost shot backwards, phasing through the tree and releasing a half-strangled noise as he attempted to keep quiet. Pyre snorted.

“What, did you forget what I looked like or something?”

“I thought you’d show up in human form!” Callan hissed, gesturing at her current flesh-snake appearance. The demon waved her body in a motion vaguely resembling a shrug.

“I had to get out the window. Keep the cover and all that.” As she spoke, she extended the other end of her body, snaking it up one of the tree trunks and into the canopy where she could grow an eye and keep it hidden among the leaves. This gave her a nice view of anyone who might be approaching their patch of trees, just in case [Vibration Sense] didn’t work out.

Callan frowned and continued in a softer whisper. “Uh, speaking of that, no one’s figured out who you are, right?”

“Nope.” She popped the ‘p,’ albeit a little more quietly than usual.

The ghost nodded slowly. “Has Lord Bellhein shown up again? Is training going… well?” He sounded genuinely curious.

Pyre decided not to mention the sparring incident. It wasn’t like it had blown her cover or anything, and she still didn’t know what to make of it herself.

“I haven’t seen the guy around, but it’s the first day. Training’s been smooth sailing.” She chuckled. “You should see some of the other cadets. It’s not gonna be hard to stand out once the Bellheins decide to show up.”

She gestured to Callan. “What about you? Find anything interesting?”

The ghost immediately brightened at that. “There’s a huge library in the middle of the city,” he said, his voice already starting to pick up speed. “I was doing some digging in the magic section, and I think I’ll be able to bind the curse to the horn without a problem. I went through some of Magrath’s historical records, too. It looks like the Bellheins’ve been around since the city was first built. They own pretty much all the major buildings, even the city sanctum.” He frowned a little at that, looking put out.

“I tried to visit, but the guards said the place was closed for construction. Honestly, I know it’s not uncommon, but I don’t think the Bellheins should be able to own the sanctum. That ichor should belong to the city. It’s crazy that they can just shut the place down on a whim—”

“You find anything on the horn’s location?” Pyre interrupted the ensuing rant, amused. Callan blinked.

“Oh, right.” He cleared his throat. “I didn’t find anything about the horn outside of those store records, no. I think it was a private purchase. It does sound like the Bellheins have a history of collecting rare artifacts, though.”

“Yeah, that tracks.” The demon hummed. “That means they’ve probably got a display room in the manor or something. Should make it easy to find the horn once I’m inside.”

Callan nodded in agreement. “I’m going to do some more research. Maybe I can find the manor’s floorplans.”

“Cool. I’ll keep a lookout for anything over here too.” Through her “watch eye,” she could see the patrol pass by the trees, their backs to them as they made another circle around the barracks. If she wanted to sneak back in without getting seen, now would be the time to do it.

“Alright, I’m heading back before the guards circle around again. Meet me here in two days.” She turned to begin slithering back to the barracks.

“Be careful,” Callan called. The demon just snorted and gave a flick of her tail.

“You too, kid.”

Getting back into the building was easier than slipping out. She just did a quick scan with an eye appendage, then slithered through the window and under her cot’s curtains. She could hear snores around her, some soft and some very loud. It didn’t look like anyone else was awake right now.

Now that she was inside once again, her first order of business was to morph back into her humanoid shape and rewrap the bandages. As she began to do so, she realized she hadn’t absorbed her hair and eyebrows when she’d gone into “snake mode.” Or her mouth. And her horns had popped up at some point. That might explain Callan’s reaction more.

Pyre absorbed her horns and mentally began the face face face mantra again. She used [Skeletal Recall] to start growing the skeleton, then activated [Flesh Sculpting]. A notification flashed across her vision.

[The skill [Basic Flesh Sculpting] has leveled up! Lvl 4 —> 5]

Nice, the skill was leveling fairly quickly now that she was actually using it more often. She might even hit a point where she no longer needed to use the bandages at all once the duration was long enough. For now, though, she grabbed the roll to begin coiling around her freshly-formed limbs.

The demon was just about to wrap her neck when a sudden, sharp pain coursed throughout her body. She grunted, the bandages slipping from her hand. A sudden wave of fatigue fell like a heavy wave over her. Pyre looked down.

There, sitting innocuously on her chest, the inky black branches of the mark had begun to grow outwards.
