“Probably because news is just spreading today. You’d hear of it later. But Krshia’s been having a hard time because the Antinium are backing her, and there’s this jerk who’s running against her. He’s a Drake.”
“Lism. If it weren’t for Olesm joining him, he would have no platform. And his arguments make sense, yet they play on fear! And we’re tied to the Antinium now. He stole my platform, my ideas—I have a plan to make the city expand! And that tailless—”
Krshia uttered the word like a curse. Erin hurried to speak over her before the Gnoll could begin a rant.
“Sure, sure. And Lism totally loves Humans, Dullahans, and Garuda. And Pallass. Liscor should build itself and all that! You know what? He’s probably like the Protectorate, isn’t he? He went to Pallass to ask for funds to build Liscor. So you’re paying for it.”
She eyed the owners of Tails and Scales meaningfully. Lasica folded her arms.
“I didn’t hear about that. Liscor’s getting our tax money? When the Antinium would give the money instead? That’s not going to be popular when word gets out. And, oh, it will get out. Believe me. Tonight it’ll be shouted from the rooftops.”
She gave Rufelt a significant glance. He felt a huge smile spreading from ear to ear. Erin was nodding.
“But that’s not all. Since Pallass is having an election, and Liscor is too—I was thinking, why not bring up that Pallass is backing the non-Gnoll candidate? I’m sure that’ll go over really well. Especially with that jerk [Senator].”
“Errif Jealwind? That would bother his voters.”
Lasica drummed her claws on the table, thinking fast. Rufelt, meanwhile, was catching onto more of what Erin wanted. He eyed Krshia.
“And what if the Unitail faction were to propose a trade deal with Liscor? Closer ties? With, say, the provision that Krshia Silverfang were on Liscor’s Council? Is that what you want, Erin?”
“Maybe…look, I’m just an innocent [Innkeeper]. I don’t know about politics. But it just occurs to me that Krshia might get a lot of support from Gnolls in Pallass. And Pallass might benefit from allies in Liscor.”
“From liking Liscor, you mean. And Liscor would certainly value its Humans and Antinium if they see how valuable our one Human is, yes? With pizza, ice cream, plays, and so forth.”
Krshia folded her arms. She looked at Erin and shook her head.
“This was your plan? It is cunning beyond belief.”
“Hey! I just thought it’d be nice to open up Pallass. Impress them with Liscor. And I knew Maughin was cool. I met Grimalkin…I forgot Belgrade was going to upgrade the inn, and I knew Lorent…our cities should like each other, right?”
Erin spread her hands. Then she looked around.
“It’s like playing two chess boards at once. Except I’m taking pieces off one side to use on the other. Simple, right?”
She waggled her eyebrows. Rufelt looked at Krshia. The Gnoll gave him a slight shake of the head. Lasica just laughed. She glanced at her husband, and they shared an unspoken question. Rufelt broke the gaze by nodding slightly. Lasica stood up.
“I’m for it. Krshia, let’s have a talk. Tell me exactly about this plan, and I’ll tell you about the Unitail [Senators] we know. Maybe we can have you visit Pallass tonight? Or send a few [Messages] at least. I need to know about your campaign—ah, Ancestors—how are you managing this election? I’m no expert, but I know experts. We’ve been doing this in Pallass forever.”
“I’ll help over here. Listen—sway a few minds.”
Rufelt got to his feet. He looked at the crowd as Lasica stepped to a free table with Krshia, and slid behind the bar in a moment. He checked the alcohol, found a glass—Erin had a very small variety of liquor. None of it particularly good!
He made a note to have a word with her about her selection and eyed his crowd. He saw that Elirr and another Gnoll who looked like a [Blacksmith] were talking to the crowd. They turned as Erin trotted over and blinked at Rufelt. He raised a paw, smiling.
“Let me get you all a drink. Erin, I’ll borrow your bar. Hm. Blue fruit juice, huh?”
Rufelt filled a mug with the sweet juice and tasted it. He frowned, grabbed another cup, and filled it. He splashed a shot of rum into the blue fruit juice and swirled the drink.
“Not bad. But let’s add something to it. What’s it like cold? [Chill Paws].”
The glass frosted over as he touched it. Erin whistled—Rufelt just eyed the slushy. It needed a straw in his professional opinion. Or a spoon. Too much sweet as well; he’d normally cut something bitter with the sweet. This would be good for anyone with a sweet tooth. But it would do. Rufelt looked up at the admiring crowd, who’d stopped to watch him work. He winked.
“Barkeep from Tails and Scales of Pallass. Rufelt. If you have a drink, shout it out! I can mix anything—provided Miss Erin’s got the liquor. This is on the house for…”
He paused, searching the crowd. Let’s see. Who needed a shot of the silver tongue? Ah, of course. Rufelt muttered a word. Then he flicked the drink. The frozen slurry shot across the bar at Elirr, who blinked as it landed in his open paw. The [Beast Trainer] raised the glass almost unconsciously, and Rufelt nodded to Erin. She nodded back. He winked.
“Not a bad plan, Miss Solstice, not a bad plan at all.”
“It was just vague. And it came together with luck. But I like to think I know people. It’s not about the plan. It’s about tossing the right people together. If you do that—hey! You never know what’ll happen next.”
Erin laughed. Rufelt just shook his head in amazement. He mixed another drink, casually doing a trick where he kept two different liquids separate with the aid of a spoon. No Skill there. Then he snapped his fingers and lit the top of the drink on fire. That was for the show.
Heads turned, and the [Barkeep] saw the flow of the inn divert towards him, another eddy in the swirl of attention. And if Erin saw the ‘right people’ and how to mix them, he was a [Barkeep] who saw thirsty people and the right drinks to serve them…at the right time. You could do a lot with a drink made right or made wrong.
The [Barkeep] smiled. As his hands blurred and he fixed drink after drink, weighing, assessing, and talking, he saw a small, white shape crawl behind the bar next to him. Rufelt paused in the middle of searching for Erin’s drinks and stared down at a small Gnoll cub staring up with wide eyes at one of his flaming drinks with awe. She sat on her hindquarters and waved at him. He blinked.
“A white Gnoll?”
She froze. Rufelt remembered what Erin had mentioned to him once. So he bent, smiled, and offered Mrsha a cup. Water mixed with blue fruit juice.
“Hello. My name’s Rufelt. Want to help me mix drinks?”
She nodded eagerly. So Rufelt lifted her up, and he looked at Elirr. The Gnoll was speaking with twice as much eloquence as he had been a few seconds ago, and it wasn’t all liquid courage. The [Beast Trainer] paused for a breath as the crowd around him applauded, and Rufelt gestured at the Gnoll child blowing on the flaming drink.
“Something tells me that you know her. Mind telling a [Bartender] a story?”
Elirr looked at the white Gnoll. She looked at him, and then Rufelt. And the [Barkeep] thought of all the old sayings. But he was a City Gnoll. And he’d always wanted a child. He and Lasica were thinking of one. So Elirr nodded and leaned forwards. And Rufelt found out the Gnoll’s name was Mrsha. Of course, Erin had told him that already. But suddenly he wanted to know more. All he could about this strange inn. When he got a chance to talk with his dear wife, he was sure Lasica would agree:
They’d underestimated this place.
 
——
 
Circumstance. Coincidence. And careful planning. These were the elements of Erin’s grand plan. Her improvised mess. But it had worked. She knew she could do it, and she did it.
Rufelt hadn’t called it a lucky event. He’d said it was because she had manipulated everything exactly as an [Innkeeper] did. As he could. Erin wasn’t sure if she believed that. Then again—she could sort of tell what he was talking about.
It wasn’t all intentional. It was just what she’d told him. People meeting people. That was all there was to it. When Erin had been mad at Olesm and searching for a way to kick his tailed behind and Lism’s, she hadn’t come up with one. But she’d had an inkling.
Maybe if Maughin were here, people might see that non-Drakes and non-Gnolls were cool. Grimalkin hadn’t been part of it, but Erin had wanted to meet him. And the weight-lifting? That was just being cool to a new friend. It tied in with Maughin too.
As for attracting attention in Pallass? Well, Erin had known they were snooty to Liscor for a while. So why not make Liscor look good? The real stroke had been getting Lasica and Rufelt here. And honestly, it was the least-involved bit of Erin’s plan.
She looked over and saw Krshia and Lasica still in conversation. Erin hadn’t had to do more than introduce them, make a few suggestions—it wasn’t nearly as hard as getting the people in Pallass to watch a play while Antinium worked in the background. But that was what would matter.
If Erin was only concerned with the election. But she wasn’t. If she could play two games of chess at once, well, she could also play three. The young woman smiled as she saw a green figure peering down the stairs. She beckoned, and Numbtongue hesitantly walked down into the crowded inn.
“Numbtongue! Great to see you. Don’t run off, please? I want you to meet Rufelt and Lasica at least.”
The Hobgoblin hesitated. But Erin grabbed his hand and towed him across the inn. Past Liscor’s citizens, who looked up at a Hobgoblin. Some recoiled, some didn’t. And Erin coincidentally passed by an open magical door, and a huge crowd of people who broke out into a furor.
“Is that a Hobgoblin?”
“Dead gods, it’s—why is she holding its hand?”
“Hobgoblins in an inn? Bad as Antinium if you ask me.”
“What? Where? Move out of the way, I can’t see the play!”
“And do you have anything else to eat?”
Erin ignored the voices. She looked back at Numbtongue. He was peering at the door.
“Sorry. Just showing people my totally awesome Hobgoblin friend.”
She shouted back at the door. Numbtongue smiled, and that was all Erin wanted. She heard a clamoring from the door and pointed at a Gnoll rushing by.
“Popcorn! Ishkr, pass a bucket through. Anyone who wants it has to be okay with Hobgoblins.”
Lyonette grabbed a fresh bucket of buttery popcorn and shoved it through the door. The [Princess] shouted, practically beaming with how much gold she was making tonight.
“Two silver! Someone pay up!”
The Pallassian citizens looked appalled as Erin brought Numbtongue to Rufelt. The Gnoll nearly dropped his cup. Numbtongue eyed a flaming drink and reached for it.
“Disgusting. Is this really—”
“Shh! What’s going on stage now?”
One of the Dullahans on Pallass’ side refused to be budged. She folded her arms, glaring through the doorway at a few of Liscor’s citizens who were people-watching.
“So your city lets in Hobgoblins too, is that it?”
The citizens of Liscor looked at each other. They glanced at Numbtongue by the bar. And then at Erin. And the Antinium. And yes, at Grimalkin, chatting about weights with some interested Gnolls and Drakes. At Maughin, towering over the others. Lorent, selling his Skills. And back through the door to Pallass.
City of Inventions. A Walled City. And Liscor was tiny compared to it. But not inferior. Thanks to her.
This is what you have, and this is what we have. Who we have. So the Drakes and Gnolls smiled. One of them shrugged, toasted the group with a drink that seemed to appear in his claws at the right moment, and downed it.
“Hey, we’re open to fresh faces. What, you scared of a single Hobgoblin too?”
And for a second, they were proud of Numbtongue. Just for a second. And how was that for a day of work? Erin thought about it. And in her head, another few pieces clicked together.
 
——
 
They were travelling down a forest road when the door opened. Noise and light spilled out. The sudden outpouring of sound and energy nearly gave Jelaqua a heart attack. She flailed as she woke up from her nap, rolled reflexively, and would have fallen off the wagon had Moore not caught her. Seborn jerked to wakefulness, grabbing at his daggers. He looked up and into a smiling face.
An old friend. But perhaps—not so old. Erin Solstice looked up at Moore, who had been guiding the mule-pulled wagon.
“Moore! Seborn! Jelaqua! Hey! It’s been too long!”
The Halfseekers stared at Erin. The young woman had to shout; it sounded like there was a wild party going on behind her. Jelaqua sat up, brushing dirt off her scales. She was wearing a female Drake body. She blinked blearily at Erin.
“Wha—Erin? What’s this about? Is there trouble?”
“Nope! I just wanted to say hi! I knew you had the door! How’s it going? Are you at Invrisil yet?”
Jelaqua frowned.
“Erin, we’re still nearly a hundred and fifty miles away yet. We don’t exactly run, and we had this adventure that—are you having some kind of celebration?”
Was that a half-giant behind Erin? No—Jelaqua blinked.
“Wait. Is that a Dullahan behind you? Where did you meet a Dullahan? He’s half the size of a War Walker!”
Erin looked over her shoulder.
“Oh? That’s just Maughin. He’s an [Armorer]. And I know you’re not there yet. Buuuut—I am having a ton of festivities! Food, drinks—there’s this amazing [Barkeep] who’s helping me out, and a [Chef]! And there’s an election in Liscor. It’s this huge thing. Anyways, want to come through?”
“Wh—now?”
Jelaqua turned to her companions. Moore scratched at his chin.
“But we’re so far away. And we are on the road…we said our goodbyes. Wouldn’t it be premature to come back?”
He said that, but Jelaqua saw him craning his neck, searching for Mrsha. Erin looked blankly at him.
“So? What’s stopping you? I have all kinds of new things. And I miss you. Come back, just for a little bit. We’ve got tons of [Mages]. And I’ve got blue juice. And some acid jars I’d love to sell you.”
She gave Seborn a hopeful glance, checking his reaction. The Drowned Man pulled some hay out of his clothing and scratched his chin with one claw.
“Acid what?”
“Acid jars, Seborn. Really nasty. Perfect for a [Rogue]! Tell you what, come on through, and the first two drinks are on me. Please? I can’t keep this door open too long or the guys in Pallass will kill Kel. And that’s probably a bad thing.”
She held out a hand. Seborn stared at it. Jelaqua looked at Moore. He wavered. Seborn chose for them. He grasped Erin’s hand and let her pull him up. He nodded at his teammates.
