“Magic and engineering, sir. You see, it’s all about these water wheels one of our [Engineers] came up with. That, plus this system that allows us to convert magical energy into a pushing force that powers these gears—”
He launched into a technical explanation that Selys could only half-process. She was still staring. Then someone collided with her back and she nearly fell forwards.
“Whoops. Sorry. Can you move? I’m dying to see.”
An aggressive Gnoll pushed past Selys and stepped forwards. Too far—hands and claws pulled him back towards the semi-circle surrounding the magic door. Selys looked around. The crowd in Erin’s inn was a hundred strong and growing by the second. She looked at Erin, who was beaming and nodding along with the explanation.
“Erin. Hey, Erin.”
The young woman looked up. She stepped back, and Selys fought clear of the crowd. Panting, she joined up with Erin and looked back. Erin had moved her magical door to the side wall to allow as many people as possible to look through. But the inn was packed, and Selys saw more people crowded by the door—and peeking through the windows! Erin looked miffed as she gazed at them.
“Oh, so now they want to check out Pallass. They didn’t all the other days it’s been here!”
“No one really took it seriously, I guess. I mean, walking through a door and going to Pallass? I didn’t know it was so huge. Even when I visited, we just took an elevator down. But this view—”
“Cool, isn’t it?”
Erin smiled. Selys gulped. That wasn’t her word for it. The sight was daunting. Terrifying. It made her feel insignificant. She had known Liscor all her life and thought of her home city as fairly big. But now—it would fit on one of the lower floors!
To distract herself, Selys pointed at the door as she looked at her friend.
“Erin, what’s all this? You said you’d help me with Krshia’s election! Is this part of your plan?”
“…Sort of?”
Erin narrowed her eyes. She frowned at the crowd and shrugged.
“It’s a work in progress. We’re still waiting on two more parts, but it’ll do.”
“How? This isn’t helping us. I mean, it’s a distraction from Lism, which is what we need, but what can Pallass offer us? That’s more of Lism’s campaign—they’re promising to help pay for the expansion instead of the Antinium.”
“I know, I know. But—trust me, I think it’ll work out. I just need to get some stuff from the kitchen.”
Erin grabbed Selys’ claws, smiling reassuringly. She turned as a harried young woman appeared.
“Lyonette! What’s the word?”
“Erin! How did you attract half of Liscor to the inn?”
The [Princess] looked delighted and close to baldness as she yanked at her hair. Behind her, Ishkr, Drassi, and a dozen of the inn’s staff were rushing in and out of the kitchen and behind the bar. Erin smiled.
“Don’t worry about it. No one’s hungry—yet. Just get that ice cream ready and have the ovens working, okay?”
“We need four more ovens and twenty more hands!”
Lyonette bit her lip. Erin just shrugged. Both Lyonette and Drassi eyed her and both had an incredible urge to poke the smiling [Innkeeper], if only to get rid of that relaxed grin.
“You have a plan.”
Selys folded her arms. Erin nodded seriously.
“I do. And—wait for it, Lyonette. You’ll get a chance to sell stuff. But wait. Are the Players of Celum here?”
She looked at the stage. Lyonette stood on her tiptoes, and then found a chair and stood on it to look over the crowd. Selys was the tallest of the three, so she could see by craning her head that there was a bunch of very nervous [Actors] on the stage at the far end.
“They arrived this morning like you wanted, Erin. But I don’t think they’re ready to perform in front of a crowd like this.”
“They know Juliet and Romeo. If they can put on a play, it’s fine. I’ll talk to them. What I need from you, Lyonette, is one of our pizzas. Hot and fresh.”
“I have six in our two ovens baking—”
“The old ones are good. Can you warm one up? I’ll talk to Temile. That’s all I need. Selys, you just wait. I think I know what’s going down. Tell Krshia not to worry—I’ve got this on lock! I think.”
The Drake stared as Erin pushed through the crowd, who parted almost unconsciously for her. The [Receptionist] looked back at Lyonette. The [Princess] gave her a harried look.
“She says she knows what she’s doing.”
“Right.”
They stared at each other. Lyonette sighed.
“I’ve got healing potions, and if we sold to just a tenth of the people here, we’d make a small fortune! Selys, if you see Mrsha, please make sure she stays back from the crowd. I don’t want her getting trampled. I warned her, but—”
Selys looked around and spotted a flash of white balancing on one table. Mrsha and Apista craned to see over the crowd. She pointed mutely, and Lyonette frowned.
“I suppose that’s fine. Pallass, huh?”
She looked at Selys. The Drake nodded.
“It’s something. Compared to Liscor.”
The [Princess] gave her a look.
“Compared to anywhere. My home kin—my home isn’t as impressive in a lot of ways. A Walled City is impressive. I should visit. I took it for granted too, really.”
“Yeah.”
Selys looked back at the doorway. But not just the doorway. At the soaring Garuda, the Dullahans. Species she’d only heard of before, never seen in any numbers. And Grimalkin. Selys remembered his performance, and Maughin. Even Relc seemed small beside Grimalkin as the [Mage] reclaimed the weight bar. And that bothered Selys more than she could say.
“I’ll get that pizza.”
Lyonette hurried off. Selys drifted back to the crowd. She looked to Krshia, thinking to reassure her, but the Gnoll was entranced by the conversation happening at the door. Pallass’ citizens were no less curious than Liscor’s, and now that a dialogue had been established, the questions were turning to Liscor as much as Pallass.
“So your city’s the furthest north. What do all of you do? I know your army fights abroad—we had them, oh, three years back on contract for a nasty campaign against some Gnoll tribes who were raiding our trade routes. But what do the rest of you do?”
A Pallassian citizen dressed in casual velvet—which was a contradiction in terms—looked interestedly through the door. She looked and felt richer than anyone Selys knew. Saving herself, perhaps. A Drake volunteered the answer, patting at his somewhat stained jerkin.
“Well, there are a lot of regular crafts folk, [Farmers] in some of our villages, artisans—you know how it is. [Miners] too, since we do have some deposits. Come spring and the rains, we’re all [Fishers], of course. But I’m a [Hunter] by trade. I’d say there are at least a hundred or two of us in the city. There’s a lot of good game on the Floodplains.”
“Really? Hunters?”
The rich Drake lady had a blank look on her face that said that she’d never picked up a bow, except of the ribbon variety. Some of Pallass’ Gnolls looked interested, as did some Garuda, though. A Pallassian Gnoll raised a paw and shouted to be heard.
“But I hear your city’s got lots of monsters about! How do you handle it? The area around Pallass is good for game and sport, but serious hunting?”
“Well, we do have Hollowstone Deceivers—”
“What?”
“Rock Crabs? Big, scuttling monsters. But you can scare them off with a bit of luck, or outrun them in most cases. They’re not exactly stealthy. Sometimes, I have to abandon a kill, but the real problem is Shield Spiders. We’re lousy with them—it’s actually our annual culling season for them. Prevents them from digging too many pit traps.”
Pallass’ citizens were appalled. The Drake woman spoke slowly as she nervously fondled a velvet sleeve.
“Shield Spiders? You have actual monsters living that close to your city?”
“Well, not in it—”
There was a tentative laugh from both sides. Selys wanted to, but she felt a constricting feeling around her chest. The curious Pallass Gnoll folded his arms.
“Lots of spiders, huh? I wouldn’t mind coming through to Liscor. Bag a big one for my mantle, maybe. It’d be a unique…experience. Right?”
He looked around. Some of the people in the crowd nodded with grins. Liscor’s people looked mildly offended. The Drake [Hunter] coughed.
“There’s plenty to see. Not just our monsters. True, we don’t have, uh, as much space as Pallass, but we have a few wonderful spots.”
“Like what?”
“Well—we’ve got an indoor park. Terrific fun for the children. Enchanted, of course, by Wistram [Mages]. And we have public bathhouses—the best for a hundred miles! The Human cities like Esthelm and Wales don’t even have them. And we get [Merchants] from the north—”
“Really? We don’t see many Humans. A lot send goods by way of Zeres, but it’s generally Drakes or Gnolls who make the land route. And a public park? We just leave the city if we want to run around. There’s a lot of nice space to run.”
The Gnoll smiled. He gestured at the walls.
“It’s just a few minutes’ walk, tops. Our lifts are very efficient. As for bathhouses—well, Liscor might be the best in a hundred miles. You should come and try ours.”
“Thanks, but ours are fairly famous, you know?”
Another Drake chuckled in The Wandering Inn. The Gnoll on Pallass’ side just shook his head. He pointed down at a lower floor at a large, circular building.
“See that? That’s one of our bathhouses. We have five. Each one can hold thousands of people at any moment. We even have pools to swim in. Fed by our river.”
Pallass’ citizens nodded. On Liscor’s side, the Drakes and Gnolls fell uncomfortably silent. The Gnoll glanced over his shoulder.
“There’s the other one. They’re themed, you see. In the style of each continent? I personally like the Rhir architecture myself, and they’re all cheap—”
His pointing pa w was blocked for a second by a flurry of movement in the air. Selys frowned. What was that?
“Are those birds?”
She pointed at a bunch of dark shapes, a flock or something, that had blocked the view for a second. The Gnoll glanced over his shoulder. The Drake in velvet laughed. She shook her head.
“Birds? No, no. Oldblood Drakes in training. We might not have Oteslia’s winged corps, but we do have hundreds of fliers in the city.”
“Hundreds? Wow.”
Someone muttered behind Selys. Selys felt the same sentiment. But she refrained from saying it out loud. One look at the Drake lady’s face said too much. She smiled—politely—and stared back through the door at Liscor’s crowd.
“What else does your city have?”
And there it was again. That same wavering in the stomach and heart that Selys had felt looking upon Pallass’ forges the first time. Liscor’s citizens drew back a step unconsciously. And no one spoke. Of course, their city had lots of wonders. Tons! The—the dungeon for instance? True, that wasn’t exactly a plus. And it had lots to see. Wishdrinks, for example. Great bar. Or how about Market Street? It was always bustling?
Or—or Stonesong Boulevard? That was where all the aspiring [Singers] or [Bards] were exiled. Liscor didn’t have many high-level musicians, but it was a good place if you wanted to hear some nice music and a few duds.
It had plenty, thanks. Only, it was hard to say that to Pallass’ expectant, almost—no, definitely patronizing—crowd. With their stupid five bathhouses. So what? Liscor wasn’t as big.
And that was it. That was the thing. Liscor wasn’t as big. And if you lined them up like this, with an open door so you could see their city and yours, it hurt. It might have hurt more if they were on Liscor’s cobblestone streets, wonderful, but—narrower. Humbler. Selys looked around desperately. Wouldn’t someone say something?
“Well, I’d like to visit. Just once or twice. I didn’t see the need, especially with that five gold entry fee. But maybe a visit or two? But later—I think your side should come through and have a look. Shame that you can only do, what, two per day? But come on over, by all means! It’s a wonderful thing, this door. For both cities.”
The Pallassian Gnoll looked around, to murmurs of agreement from Pallass’ crowd. Selys opened her mouth, but no words came out. She felt in her bones that she had to defend her home! But what could she say? What could she point to? The citizens of Liscor looked on as Pallass’ citizens started to drift away, looking so smug—
And then a cheerful voice rang out. A familiar scent caught Selys’ attention. Erin Solstice walked through the crowd, and they parted for her. The young woman beamed, stepped through the door, and lifted what was on a large serving platter.
“Hey! Anyone want a pizza?”
Pallass’ citizens turned. They blinked at the strange, round object that Erin was holding. A pizza. Selys recognized it at once. Just a pizza. She must have eaten at least ten already, so it was no surprise to her. Big, round crusts, warm, melted cheese, and slices of salami—it looked good. Even if Selys wasn’t hungry. But for some reason, it stopped Pallass’ crowd in their tracks. The [Smiths] arguing over weights looked up. So did Grimalkin.
“Pizza? What’s that?”
Erin innocently raised it over her head, waving at Maughin and Bealt and the [Smiths].
“I thought I’d bring some out. As a thank-you. Come on over and have a slice! You don’t need a plate, but I do have napkins.”
The [Smiths] looked bemused, but some of them who knew what was what by now pushed forwards, including Bealt. Maughin had to edge forwards slowly so he wouldn’t crush any toes, but Relc wasn’t so restrained. He dropped the weight bar at once and punched a fist up in delight.
“Aw yeah, pizza! Grimalkin, buddy, get over here. You have to try this.”
He towed the [Mage] forwards. Erin offered the platter, and Relc pulled off a gooey slice, crowing in satisfaction. He lifted it up and took a bite.
“So good! Erin, I love you. This is free, right?”
“Free for my friends! Don’t you dare take another slice! Grimalkin, want one?”
The [Mage] looked bemused as she watched Relc holding his slice on his scaled palm.
“You don’t use a plate? Ah—like Lizardfolk walking foods. I had something like this on Baleros, but they were skewers.”
“I’ve got a napkin if you don’t like greasy palms. Here.”
Erin expertly flipped a bit of cloth onto Grimalkin’s hand and offered him a slice. He took it, bit into it, and his eyes widened.
“Hm! Better than that sugary stuff! Fascinating. And quite good!”
“Right? Can I have another slice, Erin? Please? Please?”
“I’ve got one pizza! No! Maughin, here.”
