That stung. The [Receptionist] lifted her head and retorted angrily.
“Just like you live with Gnolls—or Garuda or Dullahans! They’re not a threat!”
Her words provoked a ripple of incredulity, and outrage from the Garuda and Dullahans in the crowd. Someone actually shook a fist at Selys. The Gnoll [Chef], who’d been revived, got to his feet, shaking his head.
“Just as mad as I heard. Liscor. Really? Even those Drowned People that visit Zeres have to be better than Antinium. By far.”
“Madness. They’re touched in the head!”
Someone else agreed. Selys gasped. She looked around and saw Krshia had gone stiff. Elirr frowned, his normally kind face turning dark. And they weren’t the only ones. Every Drake around Selys stiffened, and the Gnolls bared their teeth. As one, Liscor’s citizens felt the same thing.
Outrage. A Drake with a scar on his chin leaned forwards, putting his head through the door to snap back.
“We’re mad? Says the lot who can’t tell a Worker apart from a Soldier and run screaming at the sight of two!”
“Who needs to tell them apart? Who would let them into a city? Or walk down the same street as one?”
“Anyone who has a Hive in theirs, that’s who! They don’t just attack people out of the blue! They’re our Antinium. And I’ll have you know that we haven’t had any incidents with ours in years. The last Aberration that appeared—”
“Aberration? Dead gods. What do they even do? Collect refuse? Dig?”
“They build.”
Selys snapped back. The Pallassians scoffed—Selys wanted to curse at them. She saw Belgrade moving back around the side of the crowd, and Lyonette hurrying over. The Worker bobbed his head deferentially.
“Excuse me, Miss Lyonette. We need to take down this wall to finish repairs on the side of the inn.”
“What? Really? Uh—”
“Do it!”
Erin shouted over the heads of the crowd. Belgrade nodded. He turned his head and signaled with three of his four arms—and the far wall came down. Two dozen Antinium Workers ­pulled the wall out as Soldiers positioned pillars of wood and scaffolding under the ceiling, which creaked but didn’t fall in. The move was so sudden that even Liscor’s citizens recoiled.
“Dead gods!”
Belgrade walked past the crowd as they drew back from the sudden opening. Selys blinked into the sunlight now shining into the building. Even Erin’s jaw dropped. But the Antinium didn’t hesitate. They took apart the far wall as if there was nothing to it. And of course—they’d built it. But it was incredible to see them just bring it down. But more Workers were already rushing forwards. Belgrade stood in front of the new construction area and raised his voice.
“Excuse me. Stand back, please. We are going to begin construction in this area. Anyone in this area may suffer the risk of death. Thank you.”
After one second to digest that, the Gnolls and Drakes on the perimeter moved back. Selys saw some of the people outside watching the Antinium work, or peering inside to finally get a glimpse of Pallass. And around the wall and inn, the Antinium began reconstructing the inn.
Temporary support beams were already in place, and the Antinium were swarming on the second and third floors. One of them was pulling up floorboards to get to a damaged beam with a few cracks in it, while another was already messing with the stone foundations of the inn below. And more—they were digging up earth in a huge flurry, Workers and Soldiers, and behind them, Antinium were laying stones down, creating a larger foundation.
Selys stared along with Krshia and Elirr. It was all so efficient. The Antinium had no concept of personal space or the need to verbally coordinate or get on the same page. They had Workers replacing floorboards, refitting a cracked windowpane, while below them their comrades began replacing parts of the ceiling of the common room, replacing a support beam.
And only when they needed to do the swap did the Antinium on the second floor disappear—and then only for a second while Soldiers held up the roof with temporary supports and their own strength and the Workers replaced the crucial pillar of the inn in a moment.
“It is just reconstruction of the existing inn template for now. We are performing foundational work, but the expansions you requested will not come until later. Revalantor Klbkch also mentioned the issue of payment in installations.”
Belgrade calmly informed Lyonette. She nodded, staring as a Worker emerged from a hole in the ground, and another piled in a crude cement and more stones. Selys saw the Antinium abandon the replaced support pillar and jumped.
“Ancestors. Are they building the wall back right there?”
Every head turned. The wall was going up piece by piece within seconds. The Antinium, having completed their work, were putting it back just as fast as it had gone down. Selys turned her head to stare through the door when she heard someone mutter an oath. The Gnoll [Chef] was staring in awe and fear at all the black and brown bodies.
“They can build that fast?”
The Liscorian [Hunter] snorted. He pointed at a Worker with a hammer striking nails into the wood with two or three strokes at most. Copper—Selys noted that with a frown.
“Of course. They’re our Antinium. Fastest builders in the world. I’ve seen them put a house up in the time it took me to have my lunch break. We have this plan, you know, to expand Liscor. With Antinium Workers, we could have a new section of the city done before next spring, and cheaply too!”
“What? You do?”
Selys jumped. She looked around and saw Krshia’s head turn fast enough to crick. The Drake nodded. A Gnoll by his side tapped him on the shoulder uncertainly. She coughed, and then growled, looking at the Antinium.
“That’s not all set in stone. If Lism wins, he’ll have us build the city ourselves. Jobs for everyone. And there’s what he’s said about the dangers of the Hive—”
The [Hunter] rolled his eyes. He pointed impatiently back at the wall, which was nearly completely whole again.
“Come on now. How many high-level [Builders] did we ever have in the city? How many does Pallass have? The Antinium are like thousands of Level 20 [Builders] who work for copper where most Drakes would charge silver. Look at that!”
The last part of the wall went into place, and the Antinium Workers calmly walked out the door while more headed upstairs with boards of wood. A few people whistled—the Gnoll looked uncertain. Someone else in front of Selys leaned over and conferred with the Drake next to her.
“Makes you think, doesn’t it? But hey—I can tell this was planned. It doesn’t mean that Lism isn’t right—”
“Yeah, but look at them. You think we could get a crew of Gnolls and Drakes to build a bunch of houses that fast? The lazy slugs I work with? Not a chance. And I mean, they’ve been here in the city for ten years, right? When have they done anything, aside from the odd Aberration?”
“I’m just saying, I don’t trust the Grand Queen. They’re our Antinium, but—”
Heads turned back to Pallass. The velvet Drake was shaking her head.
“Appalling. Just appalling. Imagine living in a building built by one of them? I need to have a lie down.”
That was it. Selys opened her mouth to snap, and someone beat her to it. The Drake with the chin scar.
“Aw, eat your tail. They’re better than any [Builders] you have, I’ll bet! And our Antinium work fast and cheap!”
“That’s right!”
Liscor’s citizens shouted agreement and insults through the door. Pallass’ people just looked incredulous, but Selys wasn’t the only one to proudly look over her shoulder at the Antinium. For the first time in her life, perhaps. But if there was any time to be proud, it was now. They might be Antinium. But they were Liscor’s Antinium, damn it!
Selys felt vindicated just watching the stunned looks on the faces of the Pallassians as three Soldiers carried a replacement support beam in and inserted it into place in less than a minute.
“Mad. Don’t keep talking to them, Miss Volpel, just leave them.”
The Gnoll [Chef] was urging those around him back. Already, the edges of the crowd were marching away, tails stiff with disgust. Selys welcomed that, but again, Erin slid into the conversation from the side. She waved, smiling in that fake-innocent look she’d been putting on since this morning.
“See you! Come visit the inn if you want to! Don’t be strangers! Hey! Lorent! Why don’t you come into the inn to work on those knives? You can talk to your clients. And Maughin, Grimalkin, Relc, and Bealt! Get over here! I want you to watch one of our plays!”
Four heads turned in the crowd, against the flow of bodies away. And like stones in the way of a river, they halted the flow of traffic. Especially Maughin. He looked uncertainly at Erin. She waved at him.
“Come on! Hey, have you ever seen a play?”
“A…children’s game?”
The Dullahan [Armorer] frowned. Erin winked at Relc. The [Guardsman] was pulling Grimalkin forwards.
“No, a play. By the Players of Celum! Temile! You’re up! Go for it!”
Erin turned her head. And on stage, the Players of Celum, who had watched the drama while waiting for their own, sprang into action. It was Temile himself, dressed as Benvolio, who strutted out from behind the curtain and delivered the opening lines of an iconic play. One Selys had seen three times, incidentally. She could have recited the words by heart.
 
“Two households, both alike in dignity, In fair Verona, where we lay our scene, From ancient grudge break to new mutiny, Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean!”
 
Perhaps it was nerves, or perhaps it was Temile’s own burgeoning sense as an [Actor] that made him bellow the lines. But it worked. The crowd in Pallass looked back. You could hear the Shakespearian verse, the iambic pentameter in the air. You could practically see it. Maughin stepped forwards, frowning.
“What was that?”
 
“From forth the fatal loins of these two foes A pair of star-cross’d lovers take their life; Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Do with their death bury their parents’ strife!”
 
Temile shouted the second sentence, face somehow conspiring to be both red and white as the Dullahan stared at him. He delivered the rest of the prologue and turned, walked straight off the stage, and then a very nervous Sampson and Gregory, both Drakes, entered from stage left. Erin just smiled up at Maughin.
“It’s a play. A story told on the stage with [Actors]. Haven’t you seen something like it?”
“On Baleros. We have something similar. Among Dullahans. But I’ve never seen anything like it in a Drake city. What did he say? The language is—”
Maughin wavered at the entrance. Grimalkin had already gone through. Grimacing, the [Mage] put a hand on the door and grunted—Relc clambered through along with Bealt. Behind Maughin, all of the Dullahans paused and turned their heads back to look. The Drake lady paused.
“What? What about the language? And what did that Human shout?”
“He’s blocking the view. What is he looking at?”
Curiosity killed the cat. Or Drakes. And perhaps just Pallassians in general. They were residents of the City of Invention, after all; if they didn’t love new and interesting things, they’d be Salazsar’s folk. A Drake woman called out loudly, waving a claw around Maughin’s armored body.
“Oh, that. Just a play. We have them all the time in the inn. My nephew’s one of the [Actors], you know. He’s playing Mercutio. But I’ve seen Juliet and Romeo about a dozen times now.”
“Playing? [Actors]? Wait, explain this.”
“Coming?”
Erin teased Maughin. The Dullahan hesitated. He looked over at the crowd, who seemed to be wavering between staying or leaving as well. Erin pursed her lips, eyed them, and then grinned.
“It’s a great play. Promise. Oh. And Selys has the Heartflame Breastplate. You wanted to see it, right?”
Maughin froze. He stared down at Erin. She smiled at him, then glanced over her shoulder.
“Selys?”
The Drake jumped. She’d nearly forgotten her role! But now was the time, and what a time for it! Selys reached into her bag of holding, felt the warm metal, pulled it out, and there it was. The glow prompted a gasp from the people around her.
Maughin’s head fell off his shoulders. He caught it before it hit the ground, gaping. Erin laughed.
“Don’t be surprised! I told you that you could see it! And I didn’t lie! Selys owns it. And if you want to see it—the Heartflame Breastplate—come on through!”
Her voice was perfectly pitched to be heard all down Pallass’ streets. And if there was any line to pull them back, it was that. The Pallassians—Drakes especially—flooded back around the door in a moment.
“Wait, what?”
“Did she say—”
“Who’s that Drake? Does she know General Shivertail somehow? How would she have—”
“The Heartflame Breastplate.”
Someone pointed. Selys heard a gasp from the other side, and then a susurration. She held it up, her arms trembling with the weight of it. Maughin looked from side to side. Pallass’ City Watch still had their weapons ready. They gazed in awe at the armor, and then uncertainly at Maughin. The Dullahan bit his lip, but decided himself in an instant.
“Excuse me. I’m going through. I believe I was invited.”
He stepped through the doorway. Kel, the angry [Guardsman], half-tried to stop him, but no force on earth could have halted Maughin. And indeed, the glow of the legendary armor as Selys put it on a table was hypnotizing. Almost as much as the words rolling off the stage as the Players of Celum shouted their lines, vying for attention.
And Erin? She looked from Maughin, reverentially approaching the armor with his head under his arm, to the Pallassians, their objection about the Antinium forgotten for a second, and then to the people in the inn. She raised a hand and pointed.
“Hey! Can we move the door so they can see the play? If they want to, of course. Ishkr! Get some popcorn for the people of Pallass. Anyone who wants food? We’ve got food! We’ll put some chairs here so we can chat between Liscor and Pallass. And then—”
“Quiet offstage!”
Relc bellowed at Erin. She winced. He was sitting at the front with Grimalkin, pointing at the [Actors]. She lowered her voice and stage-whispered to Pallass.
“Well? Anyone leaving or staying? Did I mention we have blue fruit juice? And I could make a milkshake!”
