“You walked into that, Keldrass! So Erin, how many acid flasks can we buy here? Lyonette says she only has forty-three—can we have all forty-three if we pay more per flask? What if I come out and endorse Krshia’s campaign?”
“Hold on, Bevussa, you can’t just take them all!”
Keldrass spluttered. Erin’s eyes went round.
“You want all of them?”
“It’s called storing up. Bags of holding don’t let most things go bad. And yeah, I want that acid stuff myself. Seborn will kill me. So—sorry guys, Erin and I go way back.”
Jelaqua elbowed in between the two captains. The Selphid smiled at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] held up a hand.
“Hold on! I can’t give you all priority! I told Selys I’d sell them at the Adventurer’s Guild. I just wanted to advertise them here.”
“Aw, come on, Erin!”
“…What if I sold you all twelve?”
“I’ll take it!”
Jelaqua reached for her coin pouch at the same time as the other two Captains. Ceria, who’d missed the discussion entirely, only saw an acid jar as Erin began handing them over and practically froze her way across the room to get to Erin. Jelaqua was cackling as she stowed the jars in a bag.
“If this works well, Erin, you are going to be rich, and I’m going to be one happy Selphid. Imagine using this on a Troll, guys?”
“I want to see if it works on Stone Starers myself.”
Bevussa nodded. Jelaqua grinned, turned her head towards Ceria to offer a teasing remark—although Erin had already set aside some of the jars for her friend—and froze. Her eyes locked on Grimalkin as Yvlon let him examine one arm. She fumbled with the acid jar, and both Keldrass and Bevussa swore and leapt clear. Jelaqua caught the jar, absently put it in her bag of holding, and then grabbed Erin’s arm.
“That is the most muscular body I’ve ever seen in my life. Who is that? Erin, you have to introduce me.”
“To who? Grimalkin?”
“Is that his name? Please.”
Erin didn’t want to go back just yet, but Jelaqua practically towed her across the room. Grimalkin looked up from a cursory conversation with Pisces and blinked at Jelaqua.
“Hey Grimalkin! My friend really wants to meet you. She’s a—”
“Selphid. Of course. A pleasure to meet you, Miss.”
Grimalkin smiled and held out a hand. The Selphid shook it gently.
“Hi. Jelaqua.”
Erin eyed her from the side. Was she—was she blushing? Jelaqua was staring at one of Grimalkin’s pectorals. The [Sinew Magus] sighed and whispered to Erin as he stepped back.
“I got a lot of stares on Baleros. And I have a number of bids for my body when I die. It’s flattering, I suppose.”
“Uh—”
“Can—can I touch your arms?”
“By all means.”
Grimalkin struck a pose. Jelaqua sighed. Erin looked at her face, edged back, and then waved her friends over.
“Grimalkin, meet Keldrass and Bevussa! Hey Seborn! Moore! Get over here!”
“I know you two. Keldrass. Oldblood elites. Didn’t I train your unit once? You’re an adventurer now?”
The muscular Drake looked at Keldrass, who seemed to have inhaled his tongue. Bevussa shook his hand, laughing. And then Seborn appeared and stared up at Grimalkin. He looked at Jelaqua and towed her away without another word. She was still staring. Grimalkin looked around—and then he saw Moore.
“I’m very pleased to meet you. I apologize for my captain. She—”
“Dead gods, man!”
Grimalkin roared, making Moore jump as the half-Giant held out a hand to shake. Mrsha, perched on his shoulders, leapt free in alarm. Bevussa caught her. Grimalkin stared up at Moore and then strode around him.
“You! Sir! You! Do you understand what you could be doing with that body of yours? You should be turning it into a work of art! This is a criminal waste of your potential!”
He pointed at one of Moore’s arms, which, while large, didn’t ripple with muscle like Grimalkin’s. The Drake clenched a fist and leaned in to Moore, speaking urgently as the half-Giant backed up in alarm.
“You could be the finest [Mage] I’ve ever taught. What do you say? Join me, Magus Moore, and by the time we’re through, you could punch a hole in a Wyvern and rip out its heart!”
“I’m not one for exercise. I’m large enough as it is. Thank you, but I’m really—”
“You have talent! Young—half-Giant, you could be a legend! I’m past my prime, but you’re barely, what, in your thirties? Come with me, and I’ll pit you against Feor himself and watch that old half-Elf crumple under a single blow! First the Gecko, now you—this city is a breeding ground for unused potential! At least hear me out! Listen—I’ll sponsor your training. You want to learn magic? I happen to know a variety of Tier 5 spells, even a Tier 6 spell! Stick with me—”
Moore tried to retreat. Grimalkin pursued him. Pisces, wide-eyed, followed them both.
“Tier 6 did you say? Moore, hear Sir Grimalkin out. I happen to have newfound appreciation for his philosophy…”
He disappeared into the crowd after them. Erin, laughing, leaned on Ceria for support. The half-Elf whispered urgently to her.
“Can I get some of those acid jars too, Erin?”
“Sure, sure! Just let me check on my guests. I’ll save Moore from Grimalkin in a bit. Or—Mrsha, you do it! Protect him so he doesn’t turn into Grimalkin!”
The little Gnoll nodded and raced into the crowd. Erin turned around.
“Let’s see. Where’s Maughin? I want him to get on this thing Rufelt and Lasica are discussing. Is he still with the armor? There he is! Maughin! Hey! Maughin!”
Erin waved at the Dullahan. He was sitting alone, drinking from a large tankard and watching Hamlet, which was now being shown on stage. There were still [Smiths] gathered around the Heartflame Breastplate, trying to activate it, but he seemed to be done for a moment. The Dullahan looked over as Erin walked towards him. Bevussa, however, was shocked. She grabbed Erin with one wing-arm and steered her backwards. The Garuda opened her beak and whispered into Erin’s ear.
“Erin! That’s Maughin! Our best [Armorer]! In all of Pallass! His work is so good that you can buy his stuff, take it to an [Enchanter], and have it enchanted with practically anything you want! His metal is good! How in the name of the Ancestors do you know him?”
“Eh. We met? Hey Maughin, how’s it going? Are you bored? Do you need anything? How’s the armor?”
The Dullahan stared down at Erin. He shook his head slowly and looked around. He hesitated, then shook his head again.
“I’m—fine, Miss Solstice. Truly. The armor is exquisite. I can’t even tell what metal it is, but the detailing, the craft—it’s magic and metal, seamlessly blended. Beyond my craft. I wish that I had the gift for magic. But perhaps if I were Level 40, or Level 50—Pelt might know what it was made of. I am not that much of a master yet.”
He laughed hollowly for a second. Then he bowed his head.
“But I am grateful. Truly, for this opportunity. And these sights. This food…I am simply enjoying myself.”
“That’s great. And, oh—this is Bevussa. She says she’s a big fan of yours.”
Erin introduced Bevussa. The Garuda colored—although with her feathers, it was impossible to really see.
“Master Maughin? An honor. I bought my blades from you, do you recall?”
“Of course. The Wings of Pallass are an illustrious team. We share a common friend. I will remember that.”
Maughin inclined his head. Erin beamed, missing the Dullahan’s polite nuance, and Bevussa bowed.
“I am honored, sir. I don’t want to interrupt you, so I will remove myself.”
She tugged at Erin’s arm tactfully, and the [Innkeeper] caught the message and decided to introduce Rufelt and Lasica to Bevussa and Lyonette instead. Maughin sat alone at his table, watching them go. After a moment, a Selphid staggered by, downing two shots of whiskey in quick succession. She was following a shadow in the air, which eluded her. Maughin watched with curiosity.
“I wasn’t going to insult him! I just wanted to touch that body! Seborn! You—you jerk! Do you know how amazing a body like that is? Even Level 30 [Warriors] aren’t that incredible. That’s Level 40 or something. Beautiful—come back here!”
Jelaqua sighed; she’d lost Seborn. She looked around and saw Maughin’s table was one of the only empty ones. The Selphid sat down and raised an unsteady hand.
“Sorry. Sir. I just need to catch my breath. I was blown away by—and I think I had five or six shots in the last few minutes to steady my nerves.”
“It is fine. Take your time.”
Maughin ducked his head politely. He thought about taking it off, but someone might knock his head to the floor by accident. People were everywhere. Jelaqua swayed, and then glanced up at Maughin. Her eyes widened.
“Oh, sh—sorry, for the interruption, Mister, uh, Dullahan. I’m not trying to be rude.”
Blushing, she stood up. Maughin held up a hand, and Jelaqua stopped.
“No offense taken. Truly. Tell me, are you a regular? I saw you speaking with Erin Solstice.”
Maughin felt comfortable enough to use her name. Jelaqua sat with a smile.
“Me? I know her. I stayed at this inn for a long while. Sorry. Adventurer. Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers. My team was trying Liscor’s dungeon until we decided to stop. We were on the road, but Erin’s magical door…”
She waved an unsteady hand at the doorway. Maughin nodded.
“So you know her well. Tell me. Is it like this here every night? Is it always so…busy?”
His head still spun from all of the events of this morning. He had been in his forge. And now he’d been to another city, had a bunch of new orders for weights, had gotten involved in Liscor’s politics, seen Antinium and a friendly Hobgoblin…
And Raekea was married. Maughin sighed. Jelaqua shrugged as she looked around the room.
“Nah, but this is an Erin classic. Like it? I know it’s crazy, but no one gets hurt at one of her parties. Much. Erin’s great at throwing them; the only time I’ve seen more people just fill a room was back home. Lizardfolk.”
Maughin smiled nostalgically.
“They do enjoy their parties. But theirs are spontaneous. I cannot help but feel this was entirely organized by Miss Erin herself.”
“True! She’s cunning. But I swear, she could make a Centaur get off his high horse and laugh!”
Jelaqua punctuated that sentence with a laugh of her own, and Maughin chuckled with her. Even though she was a stranger. Then his brow furrowed. He leaned forwards suddenly.
“…Excuse me. Did I hear you say you were from Baleros?”
“Who? Me? Yeah! I’m a Baleros native! Born and raised! I haven’t been home in ages! What about you?”
“I’m from the north. One of our—that is to say, my people’s—capitals.”
Jelaqua held up a hand. She squinted at Maughin.
“Don’t tell me. The biggest one? Invictel? No? Cephalium?”
“Invictel.”
“Of course! Your armor’s got that color pattern.”
Jelaqua drunkenly waved at Maughin’s armor, which did indeed look mostly white to the untrained eye. But it was the slight flashes of color on the armguards and parts of the armor that told you where to look. An old Dullahan tradition, so their warriors could hide in the snow. Maughin smiled.
“And you are? I didn’t think most Drakes came from Baleros.”
Jelaqua paused. She looked down at her body and laughed.
“That’s just because you see me like this! Sorry, scales hide the obvious.”
“Selphid. Of course.”
Maughin felt like a fool. In fairness, Jelaqua’s current body had dark, almost magenta scales. But if you looked at her eyes, the way she didn’t breathe as often as everyone else—he shook his head.
“My apologies, Miss Ivirith. It has been a while since I went home.”
“You and me both, Master…?”
“Maughin. Forgive me. That was an indiscretion.”
Now the Dullahan did turn red. Jelaqua just laughed good-naturedly.
“I insulted you by sitting down unwelcomed. We’ll call it even! And it’s great to meet another Balerosian! I suppose there are enough from Pallass—”
“Too few. Many lived in Pallass before I came here. We have a community. And those that came here didn’t live back home as long as I did. I spent nearly thirty years there, and not just in my city. Coming here, I have made a life for myself for this last decade. But…”
“Home is home. Bugs and all.”
Jelaqua raised her empty glass. Maughin raised his half-filled tankard.
“From north to south, to frozen earth and humid soil. We call it home.”
They clinked glasses softly. Jelaqua laughed, but it was quieter, more pleasant. She leaned back in her chair, sobering a bit or perhaps just telling her liver to do some work. The orange flush in her cheeks died down a bit. She leaned forwards.
“Do you get much news from home? I’m starved myself.”
“A few [Messages]. Mainly politics from Invictel and among my people. But the topic on every lip was Daquin. Did you hear about the latest game with the Titan?”
“Hear it? Dead gods, I would have paid a hundred gold pieces to see it! It had all the action you could want for, or so I heard. And Tulm the Mithril? The Iron Vanguard? Seriously? I couldn’t see a thing, but you bet I flipped every table in the inn when I heard it was being broadcast! Live of all things!”
Jelaqua slapped the table, groaning. Maughin smiled hugely.
“It was a sight to see. There were people of every species—Cameral of Lord Astoragon’s students, Yerranola—they teamed up together, you know. They might have won, but for Tulm the Mithril himself intervening at the last moment.”
“You mean the feint? What happened? Wait, how did you see?”
Agog, Jelaqua scooted forwards. Maughin took off his head so he could place it on the table and speak without having to lean all the way down.
“I have an acquaintance with a scrying orb. I was able to view all of it. Are you aware of how the game ended?”
“I heard it was a trick! And there were two winners!”
“Close. You see—actually, I think I could persuade my friend to lend you the scrying orb if you are in the area in the next few days. He bought a—a recording of the entire game. From Wistram. It was exceptionally expensive, but—”
“I could watch it? Really? I’ll pay you for that honor, Mister Maughin.”
“Maughin, please. But if you’re willing—”
“No, tell me more! I have to know. I’ll watch it again, hells, three times! Who won? And how? Hey—is that blue juice with rum? Two drinks for us! Don’t bother with shots. Just fill up that mug!”
