Even so, it was about connections. Rufelt and Lasica, who both went to their bed, smiling, delighted, and remembering the name of a Gnoll in Liscor. Krshia Silverfang, who slept reassured that victory wasn’t a pipe dream. The hundreds and thousands of citizens in Pallass and Liscor who thought of Goblins and Antinium in perhaps, perhaps a different light. And thought of another city as close by rather than far away.
But the effects ran deeper still. To Relc, and Grimalkin, who had struck up a friendship, if only beginning. To Temile of the Players of Celum, whose performance had attracted a Walled City’s attention. To the [Smiths] of Pallass, who lifted weights in their dreams. And to Watch Captain Zevara, who woke up with a hangover sitting next to the furthest cell in her dungeon and found there were worse places to be.
And lastly, to a Selphid. Jelaqua woke up with a hangover the next day, when the sunlight blasted her true body through the nerves of her eyes. They were fresh, and she was connected, so she groaned in agony. The one good thing about rotten bodies was not feeling a hangover. But the pleasures of a new body were the ability to get drunk, feel—and, of course, feel awful.
Right until she disconnected the hangover sensations to the rest of her body. Jelaqua sighed and rotated her neck. Strange. She felt larger. And furrier. What body was she wearing? That had been some drinking—
And then the Selphid remembered last night. She looked down at the large, beyond [King]-sized bed she was lying in. She whistled softly and half-grinned.
“Wow. I felt that.”
Then she rolled over and saw a head looking at her. Maughin’s face stared at Jelaqua from the bedside table. The Dullahan’s body was lying on his back in his bed. Next to her. Jelaqua’s stifled oath made the Dullahan blink. Once.
“Grandmother’s tits, I—sorry, I forgot that I—”
Jelaqua tried to move her legs, but she, the inner she, was still drunk. And she belatedly realized she was wearing a Raskghar body. Female. Which, given what had gone on last night…
“I’m sorry. I mean, uh—last night—”
She stared at Maughin. He was clearly awake. His head stared back. His body seemed content to lie on its back.
“I enjoyed last night.”
“Oh? M-me too.”
The cold cheeks of the Raskghar warmed a bit, and the pale skin beneath the fur turned slightly orange as Jelaqua blushed. She looked around for some clothes. No—wait—did this Raskghar even have clothes? She spotted something that looked like a loincloth and grabbed it. It would do.
“I’ll get out of your hair! Just give me a second—where’s my belt and bag of holding? Don’t worry, I can get out through a window unless there’s a drop. I’m an expert at covert exits—”
Flustered, she grabbed for her possessions. Maughin blinked at her.
“Why?”
“Well, because—”
Jelaqua turned, a host of things on her tongue. Because she was a Selphid. Because it would really look bad if she went out his door and people put two and two together. Or even one and one. Because she knew alcohol did things, and she really appreciated him not expelling her once he came to his senses—
“Because, you know? This?”
She gestured at her dead body. Maughin stared at Jelaqua. He stared up. He stared down. He blinked.
“So?”
And Jelaqua stared. She looked back at Maughin, and then a huge smile spread across her face. And his lips moved slightly up in return. Jelaqua sat on the bed. This was a first. And then, well…
It was all about chance. People meeting people. You never knew what would happen next.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 38!]
[Skill – Inn: Partial Reconstruction obtained]
