“I’m tired of sleeping on carts. We can say goodbye twice.”
Erin beamed. Jelaqua laughed. And Moore was just as fast to put the door on the ground and clamber through—after responsibly hitching the mules to a tree. They walked into the inn and stared around. Erin changed the door back to Pallass to hear a roar of fury from the door.
“What was that?”
“Door change! Sorry!”
“We missed part of the play!”
“Well, you can watch the rest! Look!”
Erin pointed at the stage, exasperated. One of the Gnolls on the other sides of the door drew in a breath to howl, and then he broke off. He pointed with one paw at a new group standing by the door.
“Is that—the Flamewarden’s Captain, Keldrass?”
“Maybe? Hey! Keldrass!”
Erin wandered away from the door. She laughed as she saw the Oldblood Drake talking with a few more adventurers. He looked up, and his jaw dropped as he saw the Halfseekers. He immediately grabbed Bevussa and towed her over.
“Jelaqua! I thought your team had left!”
“You know how it is! Magical doors! Bevussa! Erin just appeared and dragged us through! What’s this about an election? And why’re you here?”
“Erin called us over. To talk about acid flasks. Not that I would have missed this for anything. In fact, we’re lucky she called for us; there’s a line outside the inn, and no one can enter!”
Bevussa pointed a claw at the door. Jelaqua looked outside and did a double-take. Erin rubbed her hands together and gestured to the three adventurers. Seborn was already sitting at the bar, and Moore was sneaking up on Mrsha, who was sniffing the air with wide eyes.
“Hey! The more the merrier! And I called you all here today to unveil my latest product. Which is really my oldest product. Hey Lyonette! Acid flask?”
“Coming!”
The [Princess] hurried over, albeit watching the green bottle in her hands very carefully. Erin took it from her and showed it to the adventurers.
“See this? Acid flasks. Or jars. We’re selling them at twelve silver coins a flask. Extremely cheap given what it can do. And the price is going up—”
“Wait, that’s all acid?”
Bevussa recoiled from the jar. Erin nodded.
“Pure, uncut, Acid Fly juice. You know, the stuff they explode with when you swat them?”
“I’m not familiar. How corrosive is this? I’ve bought [Alchemist] acids before, and I haven’t been too impressed. This stuff can’t be too potent or it would eat through the glass, right?”
Keldrass eyed the green liquid sloshing about inside. Lyonette smiled and took the bottle back from Bevussa, who was tossing it up and down experimentally in one claw.
“Well, I’m told one can kill a Ghoul in less than a minute. And Erin took down the boss of Liscor’s crypt with one. It melts through organic material in seconds. Not glass or metal. If you want me to demonstrate—”
Jelaqua recoiled when Lyonette dosed a sausage in it, and the liquid practically melted the food. Lyonette turned a bit pale herself; Erin looked over and made a face.
“Ooh yeah. That’s as bad as I remember.”
“You let me toss that in the air? I could have killed myself!”
Bevussa was horrified and delighted. She looked at the melted remains of the sausage.
“That’s fast! You only have a few seconds to neutralize it before you’re dead, huh? Maybe water would stop it. But against a monster? One without hands? If my team had a dozen and threw them—”
“If you’re hit on the wing, you’re dead. Absolutely not.”
Keldrass was pale as he edged back from the acid. Jelaqua poked the sausage remains with one claw and frantically scrubbed it on her tunic. She eyed the damage to her claw and shrugged.
“Store it in a bag of holding and don’t drop it when you throw. Seborn! Look at this crap! You can stop moaning about your old acid dagger—this stuff is worth gold!”
Lyonette’s eyes gleamed. Erin laughed as she turned from the group to Rufelt at the bar. Seborn sighed and got up. As he passed Erin, she turned to him.
“You have to tell me all about your story, alright?”
“It’s not much of an adventure, but I’ll stop Jelaqua from exaggerating. Is there a room for us tonight? I’m sick of bugs eating me alive.”
“Sure! The third floor’s probably finished by now. I’ll get someone to make you a bed! And a bucket of water so you don’t get dehydrated!”
The Drowned Man smiled. Erin turned past him to Moore, who was hugging Mrsha very gently. Past him, Rufelt was serving drinks while talking to Lasica.
“…not sure about this Antinium thing, but definitely sounds better than this Lism fellow, yes? Why not? We can use tonight as proof that Liscor deserves our consideration. If we don’t have a few hundred people from Pallass clamoring for a visit—”
“Erin!”
A voice bellowed in Erin’s ear. She yelped and spun. Grimalkin grabbed Erin by the shoulder. He looked down at her and nodded.
“Outstanding! I didn’t get a chance to thank you. But this weight bar? Your ideas about the smaller weights? This will revolutionize Pallass’ training regimen. No—the world! I can’t believe I never thought of it! It just never occurred to me. Weights? We’ve had training weapons and lead-filled objects forever—but who would think to make something so useless in any context but this?”
“Um. Thanks?”
Erin smiled up at Grimalkin. The [Mage] shook his head.
“Thanks? Thanks? Give yourself more credit! This is the kind of tool that will go down in history. And you—you invented it. Or did you? You said it came from your homeland? Where in the world do you come from? I’ve never seen the like.”
“Uh—uh—well, you know. Terandria?”
“Where in Terandria? I’ve travelled across any number of kingdoms. And no one’s even breathed a word of this to me—and believe me, I would look! Is it something in your village? Some concept no one’s thought of in a military context?”
Erin panicked. Normally, people left it alone when she hinted she was from Terandria, but Grimalkin was excited. And he had a death-grip on her shoulder. She looked around, searching for a lie.
“Well, my home town’s called Grand R—”
“Ah! Grimalkin. Just the Drake I was looking for.”
A smooth figure interposed himself between Erin and Grimalkin. The Drake let go as he turned to Pisces. The [Necromancer] gave Grimalkin an oily smile, and Erin vowed to be nice to Pisces for at least a week. The muscular Drake raised one brow as he looked at Pisces.
“Ah. The [Necromancer]. Did you see my performance in Liscor?”
“I did indeed, sir. And I’d be delighted to learn the spell you cast. [Lion’s Strength]? I myself am something of a generalist [Mage] despite my main class being, ah, [Necromancer]. If you’d care to exchange spells or perhaps I could offer you remuneration to learn that spell in particular—”
“Not interested.”
Grimalkin turned his back on Pisces with a snort. The [Necromancer]’s face fell.
“I assure you, I can fully compensate you for your time. I happen to be in possession of a large quantity of gold that—”
“I don’t train [Necromancers]. Or [Mages] I’m not personally training. If you were my apprentice, that would be another matter. How about it? I sign my students up for a year’s course. If you can meet my basic physical tests, I’ll teach you my basic repertoire of magics. As fine an education as you could find in Fissival, with an added physical core component!”
Grimalkin flexed one arm for proof. Pisces’ face fell.
“Ah, well, I happen to be a graduate of Wistram myself—”
“And? You think that qualifies you? I see a rapier at your hip, but can you use it?”
Grimalkin poked a claw at Pisces’ side. The [Necromancer] narrowed his eyes.
“I assure you, I was considered a very proficient dueler in the academy during my tenure there.”
The Drake rolled his eyes.
“Against other [Mages] with more body fat than bone? I don’t doubt it. But you don’t have a [Fencer]’s muscles. And believe me, a bit of skill won’t save you against anything with a stony hide. Muscle is the only thing that will pierce that! Or raw magical talent. Again, my classes train both.”
He folded his arms, and his disparaging gaze said it all. Pisces’ eyes flashed.
“And if I said that I had more magical talent in my left hand than all your muscles could possibly—”
“Okay! Pisces! My turn.”
A half-Elf slid into the [Necromancer], bumping him to one side. Ceria smiled up at Grimalkin as the rest of her team appeared. The Drake eyed Ksmvr, but didn’t comment—he was watching Erin slowly edge away with one eye. And worse, he was no idiot. Ceria offered her good hand, smiling nervously.
“Sorry about that. Pisces can be rude.”
“Arrogant is the word I’d use. The half-Elf [Cryomancer]. Want to join my school? You could both use the effort.”
Ceria wavered.
“Well—I was hoping we could just learn some spells from you. I’m not one for, uh, physical exercise—”
“I noticed. You’re lucky that half-Elves have strong metabolisms, or you’d weigh more than you do. It’s not often I see overweight half-Elves, but give it five years at the offset, and you’ll notice a change.”
Grimalkin pointedly eyed her stomach. Ceria turned beet-red.
“I—we’re adventurers. We can’t spend the time training. My team, Yvlon and Ksmvr, can’t wait for a year or even months.”
“I see that too. Worker. Missing an arm—funny, I heard your people could regenerate limbs.”
“Not without the right substances. Hello, Sir Grimalkin.”
The Drake ignored Ksmvr. He looked at Yvlon and then dropped his arms. He bent and stared at her arms.
“What in the name of the Walls did you do to your arms? I sense—”
His head spun towards Pisces. The [Necromancer] gulped. Yvlon jumped in.
“My arms were damaged by a fire elemental. My bones are fused with metal.”
“Damn.”
The expletive made heads six tables over turn. Grimalkin struck his thigh, looking disgusted.
“That explains that. I’m sorry, Miss…?”
“Yvlon.”
“Miss Yvlon. No wonder. And no wonder you’re paired with…”
Grimalkin thoughtfully looked at Pisces, then he shook his head.
“You know what? I take it back. Perhaps there are good uses for [Necromancers] in this world after all. Not that I’ve met one that wasn’t half-weasel or necrophiliac.”
“Necro—”
Pisces’ outraged shout was stopped by Ceria’s hand. He tried to speak, but she gripped his mouth. His face turned slowly red as he tried to shout at Grimalkin. The Drake ignored him and went on.
“Still, I can see that my training won’t do you any good, Miss Yvlon. A shame. I was looking into bone-grafting and the like at one point, but I had no desire to be a [Flesh Mage] or dabble into real necromancy. That’s your best shot. I can help you regain your muscle mass if you were to find a way to regrow your bones—with these weights, I’ll be able to do it twice as efficiently as ever! But I can’t help you until then.”
Yvlon smiled crookedly.
“That’s fine. Really. I’m searching for a cure, but I do have a backup until then. But about the spells. Are you certain you won’t think about teaching my companions one spell? We could pay you. I’m not sure what the going rate is, but a few thousand gold coins…?”
Grimalkin’s shake of the head was no less brisk.
“Truthfully, Miss Yvlon, that’s an insulting offer. [Lion’s Strength] is a Tier 4 spell, but it’s an enchantment, which you could call Tier 5 since it’s not as simple as, say, [Grand Fireball]. If I were selling my knowledge of the spell and time it would take to train your companions—which I am not since I’m rich enough—I’d ask for at least nine thousand gold pieces. Minimum.”
“Nine thousand? For a spell? I could buy a good magic sword for that!”
Yvlon was aghast. Grimalkin just heaved his shoulders once.
“It’s a seller’s market. Spells that are rarer or harder to obtain deserve the cost. And my time is valuable. And your friends could tell you—most [Mages] burn through gold like a bonfire does wood. These weights are the most cost-efficient devices I’ve ever come across. Non-magical. Just metal? Brilliant. I have my own inventions and concepts for training, but they’re not nearly so good.”
“Really? You dabble in magical theory yourself, Magus Grimalkin? I would have thought your pursuit of physical perfection consumes your time.”
Pisces, still flushed, sneered at Grimalkin. Ceria immediately slapped the back of his head. The [Sinew Magus] frowned down at Pisces.
“Wistram isn’t the sole bastion of magical knowledge. The last time I visited the academy, I presented a collaborative dimensional sphere—you’re aware of the ancient contained worlds, aren’t you? Wistram is technically one such area, albeit not portable… my fellow Drakes and I succeeded in creating a pocket dimension of fifteen feet by fifteen feet in a six-and-a-half foot sphere. Not ideal, but it was a prototype. If we just had access to the true magics of old, or we could call upon the world’s foremost experts in diverse fields like enchanting, dimensional magic, teleportation, and so on…”
Pisces and Ceria’s jaws dropped. Pisces, suddenly sounding much more respectful, stammered.
“You. Created a working sub-dimension artifact? In this era? Without relying on any sort of pre-existing blueprint or materials or relics of an older time…? Er, Sir Grimalkin?”
“For a training room. Why? Isn’t that what they teach you at Wistram? I could teach you. And if you take my class, I’ll waive your fees, boy! Now that I think about it, anyone who can mend all the broken bones my apprentices come down with would cut short their recovery time immensely! And ice is sovereign for bruises—healing potions just reverse muscle damage, which stunts muscle growth! Think on it—I’ll be sure to come back if only to talk to Miss Erin. Who has run off before she could answer me about her home town, I see. Perhaps she’s…hm…”
Grimalkin looked around and spotted Erin. She’d made her escape and was being cornered by Keldrass and Bevussa. The Drake was distractedly addressing someone from Pallass.
“What? Support for Krshia Silverfang’s election? No!”
Heads turned to look at the Oldblood Drake. Keldrass hesitated.
“I mean, I’m not against it—I’m here to look into acid flasks. I, uh, well, my team isn’t eligible to vote for Liscor’s new Council, obviously. But we do like the idea of an expanded Adventurer’s Guild. Which both candidates are offering as far as I understand.”
“Yeah! He’s just in my inn! To buy from me! A Human! Vote for Krshia! Lism’s a jerk!”
Erin cheered over Keldrass’ shoulder. The Drake bit his tongue and turned to her. Bevussa laughed.
