And she had them cold. The Drakes stared at the armor of their people. The Gnolls sniffed the air hungrily and eyed the stage. The Dullahans looked to Maughin and the armor. The Garuda looked at the blue fruit drinks. The residents of Pallass looked at the Antinium workers. At the stage. At Maughin, and the brilliant, flame-gold armor that was the center of attention from Liscor’s own crowd. Then the Gnoll [Chef] raised a tentative paw. He gulped as every eye turned towards him, but met Erin’s gaze. He grinned weakly.
“Can I come through?”
 
——
 
Half an hour had passed since someone got word to Rufelt that the young woman, the Human [Innkeeper] from Liscor, was up to something. He didn’t get much from the Street Runner who’d been paid in silver to relay the gossip. Only that Erin had gone to Liscor with Maughin and Grimalkin, then returned, and she was causing a fuss.
Even with that heads up, it still took twenty minutes for Rufelt to grab his wife from her shopping at the bazaar on the first floor and make the trip up to the eighth floor and the magic door. They took the elevators, of course, and Rufelt, mindful of what might be going on, urged Lasica into a run. But even then, the panting [Chef] and [Barkeep] duo were still far, far too late.
Or just in time. Because the furor around the door to Liscor hadn’t died down. If anything, it had grown larger. So large that it took five minutes just for the married couple to push into the crowd and see what was going on. And then? They stopped and listened awhile.
On a stage, a Gnoll dressed as Romeo stood with a Gnollish Mercutio. In the background, a fabled piece of armor was being inspected by a Dullahan who held it as carefully as a wounded dove. Gnolls and Drakes circulated the tables with food, all unknown even to Lasica. And some stopped by the door, exchanging their food for coin with the audience. In the background, black-bodied Antinium occasionally trooped up and down the stairs, with tools in hand, or paused to stare at the play.
And in the center of it—Rufelt’s eyes found Erin Solstice at once. He could feel her, in an eddy of attention and emotion. She had caused this. He pointed her out to his wife. Lasica leaned on Rufelt’s shoulder, wondering.
“Is this really the same young woman we met, Rufelt?”
“She looks the same, dear. But she did this. I’ll bet my teeth on it.”
“By herself? No—look at that armor. Maughin, Grimalkin—I can see how, but even then—could you do this?”
“If I had to. But I would have to try hard. Look. She even has Watch Captain Venim eating at one table.”
“Incredible.”
Lasica shook her head as she saw Venim sitting at a table. He seemed equal parts annoyed and confused, but he was there. Rufelt met his wife’s gaze. They both started for the door, but a spear blocked their path.
“No entry to the inn. The door’s nearly out of magic.”
A tired voice and surly Drake confronted them. Rufelt eyed Guardsman Kel, and instantly felt someone push at his back.
“Hey!”
He turned, annoyed. A shorter Drake glared up at him.
“Hey yourself! Move! We’re trying to watch the play!”
The crowd voiced their annoyed agreement. Rufelt hesitated. He saw Erin’s head turn, and the young woman locked eyes with him. Her face lit up.
“Rufelt! Lasica! Just the last two people I need for my pl—er, my best friends! Come on through! Kel, they’re with me.”
“What? You can’t just—”
“Can and do! My door! My guests! Sorry folks, they’re VIPs.”
“What? Can you eat that?”
“Let me through! I’ll pay! I’ll—”
Rufelt took Erin’s hand and stepped through the door. Lasica followed, and the door suddenly went dark behind them. Erin sighed. There was a murmur of protest from the seats around her. Rufelt saw a group of Drakes and Gnolls were sitting with drinks and foods, staring through the doorway with as much intensity as the Pallassian citizens had been. Erin waved a hand in apology.
“Sorry, folks. We’ll get a [Mage] to fix it! Rufelt, Lasica, this way—hey, Grimalkin?”
“I have it.”
The [Sinew Magus] pushed himself up from a table and walked over. He slapped the door tiredly and it flickered back to life. Grimalkin winced. He rubbed at his back, looking uncharacteristically tired. Rufelt just blinked at him. He knew Grimalkin, of course, but what was he doing here? Erin’s smile of gratitude was accompanied by a slap on the back.
“Thank you! Sorry about asking for it so much.”
“This is for the weights. I’m not doing this twice. I have my limits, you know. You still need to show me these dumbells.”
Grimalkin sighed. Erin nodded rapidly as he went back to sit down next to Relc. Rufelt turned around and saw a bunch of Pallass’ citizens arguing with Kel on the other side. Watch Captain Venim got up from his table.
“Everything alright, Guardsman Kel?”
“Can’t you get someone to add more magic to this door, Watch Captain?”
A Garuda demanded as she flapped up from the crowd. She pointed at the door as the crowd voiced their agreement.
“You’re a Watch Captain. Aren’t we allowed free passage into that city? We have hundreds of [Mages] in the army and City Watch! Call some over here! It’s a public service!”
“The door is extremely mana-intensive—”
“Well, we’re missing the play! And food! Miss Innkeeper! Why haven’t we been allowed to use the door before now?”
She glared at Erin, snapping her beak. Erin shrugged.
“Hey, you know, it’s not my fault. I was totally for people coming through. But no one wanted to, from Liscor or Pallass. Weird. And I had no idea you had to pay fifty gold or something to go through. But that’s what your Assembly of Crafts came up with, right?”
“They did?”
Erin winked at Rufelt. He blinked, amazed. Lasica was still just looking around. Erin led them away from the door and towards the kitchen, which had a steady stream of people coming in and out. She turned to them, her expression radiant.
“I’m so glad you guys made it! I was thinking you wouldn’t notice!”
“It’s fairly hard to miss when a Human spirits away our best [Blacksmith]. This is fairly incredible, Erin. But what’s this all about?”
“Oh, just helping out a few friends. Hey, Lasica! Welcome to my inn! First time, huh? Like it? The Antinium just rebuilt part of it. Sit down, sit down! Anything you want’s on the house, for all the times you invited me to your inn!”
“Erin.”
Lasica opened her mouth. She leaned back as Erin waved, and a Gnoll scooted over with two bowls of…white, solidified cream? Rufelt took it and bit into it. His eyes went wide. Lasica took her bowl, put it down, and then looked at Erin.
“I take it back. You’re no magical innkeeper. You’re an expert on crowds. I feel silly treating you like an amateur. This is incredible.”
“Aw, Lasica! It’s good to see you too.”
Erin reached out to hug the [Chef]. Lasica blocked her with a claw. She looked at the bowl.
“And what is this?”
“Ice cream. Told you I could make it.”
Erin proudly puffed out her chest. Rufelt nearly choked on the sweets. Lasica just blinked.
“You made the dish from Terandria that we couldn’t get the recipe for? Just like that.”
“I told you I could.”
“And I didn’t believe you. Ancestors. Alright.”
Lasica blinked at the bowl, eyed the melted bit of ice cream at the bottom, then stuck a spoon into her mouth. She didn’t immediately scarf the sweet food down like Rufelt—he loved it and was trying not to lick his bowl clean. Lasica’s brows shot up with the clinical detachment of a food connoisseur.
“Geh. You Humans really do like sugar in everything. But it’s good. Yes. Hard to pair with most dishes, though. Definitely a dessert. Rufelt?”
“I can put this with a drink. Or maybe in a drink.”
The Gnoll eyed Lasica’s bowl. Silently, she passed it over. He savored the next spoonful, but then grew thoughtful.
“It would make a fantastic mix-drink. With something spicy? No…something with some impact to counteract the powerful sweet and milk flavor. This is a milk product, right?”
“You two are so smart! And yeah! This would be a perfect root beer float! …Please tell me you have root beer.”
Erin beamed at Rufelt and Lasica. They caught themselves, looking at her. Rufelt let out a breath he felt like he’d been holding since he saw the inn through the door; Lasica blinked around and rubbed her eyes. Then they started over.
“Erin, this is simply incredible. Confusing, but incredible. You have to explain what happened. In order?”
“Well, I just decided I needed to help out my friend. So I thought—hey! If I grab Maughin and bring him to Liscor, something’s going to happen. I actually planned for you and Rufelt, but everything else is just me winging it.”
“Doing what exactly? And how can we help? You seem to have stirred up a huge amount of guests for your inn by yourself. Is that your bar? Mind if I have a look later?”
The Gnoll leaned over the table. Erin matched his grin.
“Be my guest! And I have some blue fruit juice I want you to take a look at! Lasica, you need to try my pizza, hamburger, uh, french fries…it’s not gourmet stuff like your cooking, but it’s good!”
“And you pulled in all these people with those plays you mentioned. And the Heartflame Breastplate.”
Lasica looked at the radiant piece of armor that Maughin was still poring over with a crowd of [Smiths]. The young woman shrugged.
“I don’t do subtlety. I tossed everything I had—okay, nearly everything. Hey Lasica, want to try it on after Maughin looks at it?”
The [Chef] had been trying very hard not to be swept away. But this time her jaw dropped. Erin twinkled with delight. Rufelt looked at her, leaning back in his chair, and got the definite impression this was payback for his first whirlwind tour of Pallass with her. He nudged Lasica.
“I’m sure she’d be delighted. But Erin, why is this happening? Don’t tell me this was a lark. I can feel your intention in this inn. From [Barkeeper] to [Innkeeper], what’s our place in this?”
He met Erin’s gaze over the tabletop. She paused. And then jerked her head.
“This way. I want you to listen to this.”
She led the Drake and Gnoll from their table at the back to the bar. It was overflowing with people along with the rest of the common room, but the crowd around the bar wasn’t one of the groups watching the play, the armor, or the door to Pallass. This group seemed intent on a cluster of Gnolls in the center. One of them, a female with a striking jawline, gave Rufelt the definite impression of command.
Joy. A Tribal Gnoll. Female too. Probably a local pack leader. Rufelt controlled his grimace and nudged Lasica, pointing out the speaking Gnoll. Lasica picked up on some of Rufelt’s unspoken commentary and turned her head to listen to the Gnoll as Erin led them through the crowd. The Gnoll’s voice reached them, half-shouting just to be heard over the background noise and the play.
“This is proof, yes? Proof that what Liscor has to offer is our bond with the Antinium! Do you really think anyone but them could build part of the city as quickly as we need it?”
“I hear you, Krshia, but I’m still not sure on the safety of the city. It seems like we’re making a lot of concessions to the Antinium we don’t need to. I admit, the sight of those Workers doing their job so well gave me something to think about. But don’t you feel bought and sold?”
A Drake was debating with Krshia at the bar. The Gnoll turned to him, and Elirr jumped in, smooth as could be.
“Bought and sold, Mister Deik? How do you mean? The Antinium want something, and we could use their gold. This is an exchange if anything. A transaction. And like any transaction, there is room to negotiate. What bothers you the most? Just the fact that the Antinium would get something for defending our city? Are we really exposing our city to that much danger by allowing a few guests in? Expanding the Hive? Allowing Painted Soldiers to serve on the Watch?”
“Huh. Well, I think expanding the Hive is my biggest problem—”
“If we curtailed their expansion to a few hundred feet, would that do? What’s the problem? The Antinium are willing to offer more for less. It’s good faith. Or is this just Lism’s paranoia we’re all believing here? What will satisfy? Or is it just fear that holds us back?”
Krshia looked around. The crowd murmured thoughtfully. There were just as many Drakes as Gnolls, but Rufelt, picking up on the dynamic, thought that the Gnolls were mainly on Krshia’s side. He saw her look up and bare her teeth at Erin as the young woman approached. Then she looked at him, sniffed, and lowered her head in an authoritative nod.
Definitely a Tribal Gnoll. Rufelt tried not to let that color his judgment. He waited as Erin introduced them.
“Krshia, these are two great people you have to meet. Rufelt and Lasica. They will want to hear what you’re saying.”
“Really? Oh, and pleased to meet you.”
Lasica raised her eyebrow at Erin as she held out a claw to shake. Krshia politely shook hers and then Rufelt’s.
“A pleasure. But these two are from Pallass, unless my nose betrays me, Erin. What can I offer them?”
All three looked at Erin, perplexed. The [Innkeeper] shook her head as if it were obvious.
“You’re all in the same boat, of course! Don’t you see? I figured it out when I was thinking of how to help you, Krshia. Think about it. Well, actually, I’ll explain. Lasica and Rufelt here are part of the, uh, Unitail group. You know how Pallass has elections? They want to vote out the Protectorate and make Pallass more open and friendly.”
“Not necessarily friendly. But more open. We disagreed with how they handled the Siege of Liscor, and they don’t support free trade. As businesspeople, we object to that.”
Lasica quickly clarified. Krshia nodded.
“I’m a [Shopkeeper] myself. I value goods sent Pallass’ way. But you two aren’t [Senators], are you?”
That made Rufelt and Lasica grin. He shook his head.
“Call us the people who back [Senators]. They get our support and we get them to vote the way we want. That’s how a democracy works.”
Erin nodded.
“And guess what Liscor’s going to have soon? An election for the Council.”
“What?”
That threw Rufelt. He blinked at Erin, and then his gaze narrowed.
“So you’re—”
“I suggested the elections, yes. And if I win, which is not so likely, I might be the first Gnoll on Liscor’s Council.”
Krshia bared her teeth. Lasica’s eyes widened. She looked from Rufelt to Krshia, and then to Erin. Then she snapped her claws.
“The first Gnoll? Democracy in Liscor? Why haven’t we heard of this?”
