Alrric gestured to the documents, and Ilvriss supposed the matter of the black eye was dropped. Gnolls did police themselves, and if it wasn’t an incident Alrric was willing to speak on, he could handle it himself. He nodded absently, paging through the document.
“Don’t send word I’ll be along; call it a surprise inspection. Hm. Are the reports…?”
“Left side of the desk. You also have a guest waiting on your pleasure.”
The Wall Lord signed with gratitude and pulled the papers over.
“Ah, efficiency. I have missed it. In that case, I’ll review, touch base with you on the holdings that have been underperforming in my absence—I think my Skills should improve efficiency just by my return, but we can review the [Manager]’s performances. And…did you say I had a guest?”
“Wall Lord Brilm. He’s waiting in the guest room. Not for long; I will send him in directly. It’s good to have you back, Ilvriss.”
“My pleasure, Alrric. I couldn’t leave my affairs out of place for too much longer either. I know you had it well in paw. Even so—it’s good to be home.”
The Gnoll smiled. He went for the door and opened it smartly. Ilvriss sighed. It was good. Managing his investments in his city, seeing to staff, enjoying his home—it had been too long. First a pointless campaign against an alliance of cities and fighting with Zel Shivertail in a bloody conflict, running up against the Goblin Lord, tracking down Ryoka Griffin in Liscor and staying there for—Ancestors, months—before returning home. It truly felt like years. Ilvriss was inspecting the first report in his pile when the door opened. Another Drake, pinkish-beige of scale and somewhat heavier than Ilvriss, but the same age, thrust his way into the room.
“Anyone home? Ilvriss!”
He spread his claws. Ilvriss got up. He walked out behind his desk and the two clasped claws.
“Brilm. A pleasure. To what do I owe this?”
The heavier Drake chuckled. To call him heavier really was mean; he wasn’t exactly overweight, just with a bit of extra flesh. And he cut a very dashing figure in his red-and-orange conflagration he called an outfit. Brilm was as energetic as Ilvriss reserved. He paced to Ilvriss’ desk and hurled himself into the chair.
“Visiting my friend after he’s been back for less than a week isn’t an occasion in itself? Ancestors, Ilvriss, but you haven’t called, and I’ve been remiss. Can’t you take a break from all this for a day or two and savor being back? You’ve been on the road for ages! This must be the height of luxury compared to what you went through.”
“It was hardly me camping out with a handkerchief held over my head. I had my command.”
“True. But it can’t have been easy. And after losing Periss, your best subordinate—ah, I’m sorry.”
Ilvriss’ face froze for a second as he sat down. He cleared his throat.
“Thank you. I’ve spoken to her family, but it’s…a blow. Yes. I regret it.”
“Damn Zel and his army. We might have been at odds with his cities, but he cut apart our army. No love for fellow Drakes, is there? No wonder he threw us over for the Humans at the end.”
“It wasn’t like that.”
“No? Tell me what it was like. Ah—never mind. I’m sorry. I shouldn’t speak ill of a war hero. And you were in the same spot as him, weren’t you? Tell me when I’m in a better mood.”
Ilvriss glanced up at Brilm’s sour face.
“Problem?”
“Only your Gnoll, Alrric. He showed me in without so much as an ounce of courtesy. Used my name and everything. I can’t fathom why you keep him around—it was hard enough dealing with him when you were gone. I know he’s efficient, but dead gods, there are limits to value, Ilvriss!”
The Wall Lord sighed. Suddenly, he remembered all the little issues that came with being home. Such as squabbles like this. He carefully avoided looking at his old childhood friend.
“He’s a busy fellow, Brilm. An [Administrator] cannot be expected to genuflect at every moment to a Wall Lord, can he? Let alone my [Gemstone Administrator] and executive director in command of all my affairs.”
The other Drake made a disgusted sound as he picked up Ilvriss’ monocle and stared through it.
“One step below a Wall Lord and you choose a Gnoll for your second-in-command. I’m not questioning you, Ilvriss. I just think it’s odd.”
Ilvriss leaned back in his chair, frowning.
“Really? Do you want to know how to light a fire under the tails of your Gnoll workers and have them try to outperform their Drake counterparts without actually lighting a fire, Brilm?”
“Enlighten me.”
“Make a Gnoll your top [Administrator]. And give anyone who works for the opportunity a chance to advance. I have six Gnoll [Head Miners] on my staff, each of them the best I could ask for. They came to me because they knew I’d give them the positions they earned. You might consider it yourself.”
“I employ many Gnolls.”
Brilm waved a claw, looking mildly offended. Ilvriss corrected the edge of his papers against the desk.
“How many working in your offices?”
Wall Lords controlled holdings, particular mining areas, or just enough wealth to finance the various sectors that kept Salazsar alive. They were, in truth, the hearts of the city. From their businesses, smaller shops, operations, and so forth flourished. And so each employed individual owed their allegiance to one particular Wall Lord. One…house of Salazsar. That was how the city operated, with efficiency unlike a democracy like Pallass. A Wall Lord had to actively manage his affairs or hire someone to do the job competently.
Brilm ignored the question. He eyed the reports Ilvriss was holding and abruptly changed the subject.
“Heard about the mining crew down on the old Creler-nest shaft? I hear they declined an offer to work for Wall Lady Tielma. Are you going to snap them up? I’ll make them an offer, but if you want another crew as good as they are—”
“I did make them an offer already.”
“Damn. How much? Mind trading me a [Foreman] or two?”
“I’m afraid you misunderstand. I was rejected. Flat out. I fear this team might try to finance themselves and work independent of any support. We might be seeing the growth of an independent mining operation soon, Brilm. Doesn’t that worry you?”
Brilm laughed incredulously.
“And how would they finance all their supplies? Tools? Guards against monsters? I hear rumblings like that every few years, Ilvriss. It’s nothing to worry about. To succeed in Salazsar you need a vast amount of wealth.”
“Or to strike a lucky vein.”
“True…”
The two fell silent. Mining was more expensive than a lot of people thought. Even if you dug up a lot of riches, processing and selling your goods was work. Protecting yourself against monsters who loved magical stones was a huge risk. And feeding miners, making sure they were well-equipped, defending against [Thieves] or the unscrupulous who might raid a mining site…it was why the Wall Lords were the founts of all industry. But Ilvriss had read of Drakes and Gnolls who’d created their own magnates from nothing in Salazsar’s history. He wasn’t as sanguine as Brilm.
“We’ll talk it over if it’s a problem later. At a dinner party. Mine this time. I’ll have my [Chef] put out a proper spread. Something to make you forget about any privations you may have had.”
The Drake smiled warmly. Ilvriss smiled as well, but he shook his head.
“It was hardly as arduous as you might think, Brilm. I was at Liscor when I wasn’t on campaign, and it’s no Salazsar, true, or even a Manus. But it has its strengths. For all its rustic qualities, I found myself enamored with the—the spirit of Liscor’s inhabitants. And there were a number of interesting diversions, for all it was trying at times.”
“Really? You’re saying this? Ilvriss? Ancestors, you have changed! I thought I’d hear nothing but a litany of complaints from you! I was prepared to hear you out and everything—I even brought a gift to cheer you up! I thought you didn’t tell us all about the horrid food and disgusting customs—not to mention the Antinium—because you were trying to spare us at your dinner party! Which was a hit, I might add!”
Brilm slapped the table. His rings struck the wood, and he adjusted one absently as he spoke. Ilvriss smiled.
“I wouldn’t let polite company hold me back from my real objections. But you enjoyed the dinner party?”
Brilm blew a kiss with his claws into the air.
“Magnificent. New dishes, fascinating conversation, tales of a Goblin Lord’s defeat, Antinium to worry over, even you pulling out a Pallassian [Captain] into your service out of nowhere—brilliant stuff! And that—that condiment you served with those potato wedges! Wonderful stuff. What did you call it?”
“Mayonnaise. A Human invention, but my [Chef] managed to make it quite palatable. I only regret that I couldn’t bring back more souvenirs of the journey. Some of the things I encountered were quite valuable.”
“Ah. Yes. The magical door.”
Brilm nodded seriously. He looked at Ilvriss and shook his head.
“That’s a treasure. We could use it. Not least to transport our miners from the lower veins to the surface! Or facilitate trade; a shame you couldn’t steal it. But I suppose with those damned Pallass fools trying to obstruct your travel back home, it was hard enough getting back. Congratulations on giving them the slip, by the way; we were leaning as hard as we could on them to let you through, but they weren’t budging. I was worried they’d sent their people after you.”
“I prepared for that. And the magic door did assist me in my escape.”
“It did? All the more reason to make a bid for it. But—later, later. And speaking of trinkets, I brought this to cheer you up. I might as well show you ahead of my dinner party; have a look at this.”
So saying, Brilm put a small object on the table. Ilvriss eyed it. It was…a gemstone. Quartz; common, fairly worthless until he noticed the shimmer of pink inside the cut crystal. Then he identified it.
“Hm. Pure quartz. Clearly holding a spell. Not a powerful one, though. Some kind of single-use spell? A charm?”
“Charm? Do I look like I use charms? Please, Ilvriss. Give me some credit. No, this is a recording. Listen. It’s a song.”
So saying, Brilm rubbed the quartz and spoke a word. Ilvriss heard a garbled sound, and then a blast of beating drums and a loud, Human’s voice. She was singing—well, shouting something out of the stone. He covered his earholes reflexively.
“What is that racket?”
The sound cut off. Brilm looked offended.
“It’s music! Don’t scowl! Listen!”
“It’s horrendous is what it is. You call that music? Are you on some kind of drugs, Brilm?”
“You have no taste, Ilvriss.”
“I’ve listened to more forms of music than I can count, Brilm. And that is worse than Dullahan love songs. Or Garuda scream-songs.”
Ilvriss grimaced. Brilm glared at him and then, grumbling, reached into the bag of holding he’d pulled the first stone from.
“I should have known not everything would change. Picky, picky—okay, try this one.”
He pulled out another quartz, this one glowing faintly blue from within. Ilvriss ignored the color; that just told him the stone was slightly magical. He watched as Brilm whispered the activation message for the second stone. At once, a soft melody began playing. Ilvriss tried to place the instrument—and then he heard a voice.
It was the same voice as before. A female Human’s voice. Ilvriss braced for a cacophony, but the words that came out were slow, sonorous, spoken with a slow melancholy. And the song—
Brilm smirked as Ilvriss’ eyes widened. Then he looked at the quartz. His own face softened, and his eyes closed. Ilvriss stared at the stone as the song played on. The music swelled, and horns and flutes accompanied the sad, slow song. But it wasn’t just pained. There was a triumph to it. A…passion that the female singer captured. And yet—the words could have come from Ilvriss himself.
The female voice sang on, as soulful as if she were in the same room as the two Drakes. And the words spoke to Ilvriss, in a way few songs had before. Because this was no [Bard]’s melody, certainly no tavern song. And the instruments, the composition—Ilvriss was a studied connoisseur of music in many forms of art. But this was a new style to him. You could feel it in every line. And yet, the song was polished.
And when it ended, Ilvriss felt himself exhaling a breath he didn’t know he’d held. The last notes of the horns and stringed instruments faded out with the young woman’s voice, and Ilvriss stared at the crystal. It stopped playing music, and he looked at Brilm. The Drake raised his brows silently.
“Hm. That’s…genuinely impressive. What’s the name of this song?”
“I believe it’s called My Way. Originally performed by…Frank Sinatra. I have no idea who that is. Look, it’s written here. But the song itself is being performed by the—the Queen of Pop.”
“Who?”
Brilm waved a claw.
“That’s what she calls herself. There’s no country called Pop—don’t bother looking for it. I already did. It’s a nickname. She’s known as the Baroness of the Beats. The Queen of Pop. The Siren of Songs. The [Singer] of Terandria.”
“All that for one Human?”
Ilvriss raised a skeptical eyebrow, but he was rattled despite himself. He looked back at the quartz. Brilm nodded.
“After listening to that song, I’ll call her the Countess of Catchy Music. She’s growing in popularity. And these song-stones are hers. A [Merchant] brought some to me, and I brought all three.”
“There are more?”
Ilvriss was interested. Brilm held his claw up, protecting his bag of holding.
“Not so fast! I have to show my guests something. You’ll like the last song. It’s good too. But I only have three of these crystals. They’re rare. Obviously; it’s a magical recording of a performance. I had to pay dearly for it. I gather it’s only really catching on around Terandria, where this Queen of Pop is based. But if she puts out more music like that—she’ll get my business.”
Ilvriss nodded absently. It might be good to look into. He eyed Brilm.
“You are a hawk for the newest trends, Human or not. You’re planning to back this Human financially, aren’t you?”
“You make your businesses prosper, Ilvriss. I respect that. I find new business and invest in it.”
The other Wall Lord studied his claws, looking pleased with himself. He gestured to the first crystal.
“Sure you don’t want to give the first song a try? I had the same reaction as you, but after a few more listens—I like it.”
“Have some taste.”
