Erick showed her a spell that had been fully and carefully recorded, called ‘Alter the Candle’, where the practitioner would take a red candle, and turn it blue. More advanced forms of the skill would alter the color of the flame from red to blue. Erick left her with that book while he went onto another. Soon enough, it was time for dinner. Poi had cooked fish again, to the surprise of no one. Erick and Poi brought two boxes of leftovers to Teressa and Rats, who were back at the hospital, and then Erick and Poi went back to the dungeon for a few more hours. Ten hour days weren’t so bad.

When they got home, Kiri was standing beside a table with a red candle, a pool of water with a leaf floating in the center, a coiled piece of string, and a feather, while she went back and forth through the black tome, looking for answers. Sweat dripped down her forehead, but she was careful to keep it away from the book.

“No luck?” Erick asked.

Kiri yelped, noticing Erick and Poi in the house for the first time. She sighed out, saying, “I don’t think I would have been a good mage in the Old Cosmology. There’s a whole collection of ‘mage tests’ in the back of this black book that any prospective mage should be able to do without any training. I couldn’t do any of them.”

“Oh?” Erick said, “Show me.”

Half an hour later, Erick couldn’t do any of them, either. The mana didn’t even move under his intent. It hadn’t moved under Kiri’s intent, either, but Erick had expected something.

Erick set down the candle, declaring, “Can’t cast without the Script.” He quickly added, “Well. Obviously you can. Can’t make new spells if you couldn’t. But all the old ways broke.”

“Yeah…” Kiri said, “I was just hoping for… something. I’m not sure.”

“There’s a lot here to work with, even if the old ways are broken.” Erick looked around at the large books, scattered on the couches and laying atop the coftea table. “A lot of it looks rather familiar to how I was thinking of solving this [Particle Scan] [Polymorph] problem, too.” He gestured to the black book, saying, “Especially this guy's thoughts on [Alter Fate] and that woman’s book with the harmony plucked from this universe and imposed upon the people.” He added, “But I’ve got to make this other spell, and to do that, I have to go to bed and get up early again tomorrow. Are you going to keep reading?”

“I would like that.”

Erick said, “Good night, then.”

“Good night.”

Erick went upstairs and got ready for bed with a short [Watershape] and soap bath, and a nice even [Cleanse]. The soap was nice; it made his skin feel good. He would have to get some extra to take back to Spur. By the time Erick was ready to sleep, Poi’s door was already closed, and Rats had walked into the house only to silently fall atop his own bed and zonk out right there, with his door open. Teressa sat in an alcove on the second floor with her eyes closed, training her Mana Sense, while Kiri burned the midnight oil, reading from historical tomes sized for someone much larger than even an orcol.

Erick crawled into bed. Ophiel crawled onto the covers beside him. The little guy turned a few times then sat right down against Erick’s hip.

- - - -

The morning sun fully rose over the eastern ocean. Light scattered across the lands east of Oceanside’s mountains, where Erick had created three original spells not too long ago. The land here was still damaged from that hydrogen explosion, and from all the other spells other people had used this place to test since long ago. Rocks and pits and shallow, dry stream beds were cast in dim shadow.

The experiment sat fully exposed on a boulder two hundred yards away. Erick was aiming for Super Long Range with this spell. Anything smaller than that was begging for disaster.

In preparation for just such an unhappy occasion, Erick had five Ophiel each cast a full strength [Prismatic Ward]. One of those dense airs was a simple dome for Erick, Kiri, and Poi to stand in. The other four were layered like onion petals around that central dome. It should hold, and they were 200 yards away from the experiment, anyway. As a measure of the potential destructive power of the potential spell, Erick had erected a variety of stone structures to the sides of the experiment; stone poles, people-shaped rocks, a few walls, nothing that extravagant; it was all intended for destruction.

The experiment itself was a bright yellow sponge Erick had conjured, then soaked through with seawater, courtesy of a small trip to the nearby ocean. It was not the perfect target. It was just a proof of concept. Whatever happened today, whatever came out of this experiment, would likely have to be remade and attempted against a living target; probably a crystal mimic back in Spur.

The problem, though, was that none of the starter spells worked at the range Erick needed.

Purge Water X, instant, close range, 25 mana

Draw out the water in a medium or smaller target, dealing <damage>.

Catalyst X, instant, medium range, 50 mana.

<Enables easier reactions in a large area>.

Battery X, instant, medium range, <500 mana>

<Electricity flows>. Lasts for 1 minute per spell level.

Condense Hydrogen X, instant, close range, 25 mana

<Collect all ambient Hydrogen in a medium area, into a small area>. Lasts 10 minutes.

Condense Oxygen X, instant, close range, 25 mana.

<Collect all ambient Oxygen in a medium area, into a small area>. Lasts 10 minutes.

Incandescent X, instant, 1 minute per level, medium range, 25 MP

Heat a small area to brilliance, dealing <damage> per second. <Effect increases with multiple castings>.

He could use his [Withering] for the Super Long Range aspect of the spell, but the resulting spell, according to Erick’s napkin-math of the Expected Cost, was already looking to be way too expensive for him to cast.

Withering X, instant, super long range, 500 MP

Purge all water from all monsters in super large area, dealing <damage> every second. Cleanse the land around every monster killed in this way. Lasts 1 minute per level.

Particle Mage Only.

Yeah. That was going to be an expensive spell if he made it that way. He had another tactic prepared, though. Erick conjured another Ophiel, and sent him out toward the yellow sponge. For now, he’d combine the spell with Ophiel, at range. Maybe that would work, maybe it wouldn’t. This was an experiment, after all. When he got the actual spell, he could use some Mana Shaping to up the range to SLR so he could cast it himself. Maybe that would work, too?

He had a rhyme for the spell prepared that might do everything all at once, just like he wanted, of course, but he wanted to see if this concept would work like how normal mages combined normal magic.

Erick closed his eyes, inside the dense air beside Kiri and Poi, and opened them to see through Ophiel, hovering above the yellow sponge. The sponge was about the size of a person, and the top part was drier than the bottom. Water soaked out from the stiff yellow structure, coloring the grey and tan stone under it into darker shades.

Erick held all 6 spells in his mind at once, like touching six buttons on a keyboard.

He pressed them in order, attempting to combine them into one spell.

Over a single second, several things happened.

Water poured out of the yellow sponge like a burst water balloon, ripping apart the sponge and turning the conjured item into ambient mana. This was the first failure. The water that hung in the air flashed white, then flickered with blue sparks. Bubbles erupted out of that suspended liquid, further scattering the experiment, and thus the condensing spells gathered almost nothing. This was the second failure, but it was also a part of the third failure, as during the whole process the sparking from [Battery] constantly prematurely ignited the gathering hydrogen and oxygen before those elements could gather into a critical mass.

The result was a plop of water that became fizzy air that became gentle pops.

Erick said, “So that was a failure. No new spell, either, thankfully. I can try again, right now.”

Kiri said, “Plenty of ways to improve this scenario. The original experiment took minutes to prepare. Maybe the resulting spell will take minutes to activate, too?”

“Would be a useless spell in that case,” Poi said.

Kiri said, “There are combo-mages that do great things. It’s possible this is just a combo spell.”

Erick said, “I heard about those… But an hour to kill something?”

“Exactly.” Poi said, “Parasiteers, for example, are accomplished strategists, but actual fights are almost always tactical. If a fight requires you to set up your spells, you’re going to die before you get to your combo.”

“Well that’s just simply untrue.” Kiri said, “Poison is a great example of a strategic and tactical weapon. The strategy is winning the fight against a massive monster, but the tactics of that might require you to inflict a wound that continues to kill while you run away for your life.”

“This isn’t a strategic poison.” Poi said, “This is a tactical explosion.” He pointed across the long distance toward the boulder where the sponge had been. “That was a failure.”

Kiri added, “Well. The failures of combo spells are mostly limited to the speed at which the pieces can be deployed, and what will reasonably interrupt that deployment. According to the previous experiment, the end result is impressive enough to pursue, but that did take… what? Eight minutes?”

“Something like that,” Erick said.

Poi said, “Eight minutes is an eternity.”

Kiri said, “In the tactical moments of an unexpected fight, yes, it is. But running is always a good option.”

“I’m okay with a strategic spell, but that is not the aim.” Erick said, “I just didn’t want to do this in pieces because it’d take days if the higher tiers don’t work. But I guess that’s how it has to be.” He added, “And I need a real target. Like a watermelon, or something. A conjured sponge is not stable enough.”

“What even is a sponge?” Kiri asked.

“They sell them in Portal.” Poi said, “Before they blacklisted Spur you could get some. They’re used to scrub the body for people without scales, but primarily they live in the ocean and clean the waters by eating tiny things that drift in the ocean.”

“Oh? Eww.” Kiri said, “You’d use some filter feeder to wash with? Weird.” She said, “Just [Stoneshape] a foam matrix for a target. Like a volcanic rock.”

Erick said, “That’s a good idea.” He peeked through the Ophiel still on the scene and rapidly deployed [Stoneshape], [Airshape], and [Watershape]. He picked up the seawater soaking into the grey and tan stone and swirled an orcol-sized hunk of rock into position, bubbling the rock with both water and air, creating a statue full of fluids and air pockets. He came back to himself, saying, “There we go.”

Poi helpfully added, “If you want to craft statues of those three gods you talked about, I think you should improve your skills, first.”

“It’s not that bad.” Kiri peered into the distance, asking, “Is it supposed to be someone?”

“It’s a hunk of rock!” Erick said, “I’m not going for perfection here.”

“I can tell,” Poi said.

Kiri smiled.

Erick ignored both of them and gazed through Ophiel, on the scene. As he looked down on his rather lumpy sculpture of some random orcol-sized being, he thought. He concluded that a spell in parts wasn’t that bad. It often took more than one spell to take something down, because Erick didn’t have the base mana to do the major spells like the Scions of Willpower out there. He’d likely never get [Comet Swarm], or [Grand Aberration], or even be able to [City Shape] without Favoring it first. But he could certainly combine enough spells together to give any monster a bad day, like how he had drowned the Queen Daydropper of Odaali in a sudden storm of ice from above.

He totally could have killed that monster if Tenebrae hadn’t interfered.

Eh. Whatever. Back to the problem at hand!

He came back to himself. He began channeling mana through his skills, to see how they might like to combine into one harmonious song. [Purge Water] was a rushing sound. [Catalyst] was near silence, but when he channeled through [Purge Water] at the same time, [Purge Water] became cleaner, like a rushing sound turning into a laminar flow.

Now that was interesting.

[Battery] was a flow of a different sort. It was the roaring, crashing, breaking sound of [Call Lightning], and also not, because it was constrained to a direction, to a goal. [Battery] was looking for an outlet and a circular connection. It was the sound of a slow ring; a mortal hand tracing around the edge of a metal bowl that sang out a deep connection to the universe.

Erick let that sound echo for a little while, in the palm of his hand. It was a nice sound. All magic had a nice sound to it, but this one was nicer than most. In the deeper echos of [Battery], Erick imagined a resemblance to how humanity on Earth had strung together wires all across the world, just to be able to connect with everyone else.

He went back to Ophiel, still floating above the stone sculpture. He harmonized the spells in his mind, and he cast through his [Familiar].

Water sprung out of the stone statue in rivulets, but it did not fall to the ground. It held to the statue and connected with other rivulets, like roots grabbing each other, or lightning branching and stretching in veins across the stone. The water pulsed with glitters of sparking light, but it did not grow much beyond—

