Veron connected to his chest piece and molded the stone, opening it up enough for the tail spikes to rip out. Stumbling forward, he watched the creature swim and turn, then jump up straight at him. Chains slowed it down but it crashed into him nonetheless, his shield and arm raised high to stop the jaws from crushing him. Stone cracked and crumbled as the creature bit down, its tail lashing out somewhere behind him before the bear came and tackled it again.

Silvie stabbed with her sword from the side, cutting past its yellowish right eye and then digging deeper with the second hit. This time, the bear locked the monster down, more chains catching it and pulling it up from the water and into the mud, Veron still pushing against the strong jaws, his shield the only thing that kept his arms and head from being crushed. He focused on a chunk that was about to break off and charged it, sending it straight into the mouth of the monster.

It gurgled in response, and bit down harder.

Veron used his connection to the stone on his arm to get rid of the shield, stumbling back when he saw the monster crush the remaining rock. He looked for his spear when Hayden rushed past him, his shield glowing before he crashed into the charging creature with a shout, their momentum canceling each other out. More chains caught its tail, Silvie piercing into the flesh near its neck and shooting a blood lance into it while the bear punched and clawed its left side.

Hayden raised his shield and hammer, striking at the monster as its movements slowed.

Veron found his spear, holding it with both hands before he approached, aimed, and stabbed, the three of them and the bear cutting and slicing into the struggling Vereltir, blood soaking the mud and their weapons, their attacks slowing, all of them breathing hard while the monster still tried to bite at them, wheezing as it pulled and pushed against the chains, breaking a few with a strong motion before another two stopped it again.

Veron’s spear pierced into the flesh but even the unarmored skin was tough, his weapon and strength just enough to inflict shallow wounds. Another few cuts and strikes from them and the massive monster finally slumped down, its tail twitching a few times before it stilled.

They held their blood and mud covered weapons at the ready, facing the now dead creature. Flies buzzed around them, a bubble of putrid gas popping in the nearby pool as the three of them caught their breaths.
