“This is insane,” Ali muttered, cursing inwardly at the power of Nathaniel’s raid-level domain-enhanced mana pool, allowing him unbelievable freedom to summon monsters. The Theuronic Crystal’s dense cluster of mana formations made it appear like some geometrically perfect purple quartz crystal with a deep glowing core. It instantly vanished with an arcane teleportation spell, leaving behind a shattering explosion of arcane magic that cracked Ali’s barrier and knocked her off her feet.

I need to do something about him, she thought, but her minions hadn’t quite arrived yet.

“Nendir, you must go all out,” Lyeneru said, the seriousness in her voice carrying easily to Ali’s ears down below.

“We would destroy Ciradyl,” Nendir said.

“It is already being destroyed,” Lyeneru said. As if punctuating her words, a massive detonation from the Theuronic Crystal hundreds of meters away was followed by a ground-shaking splintering crash as one of the majestic Ciradyl trees slowly toppled. Even from this distance, Ali was tossed into the air by the shockwave of its vast bulk hitting the ground.

“Do you think we are sufficient to stand against the Blind Lich? Surely you have seen the power of this Avatar?”

“I see it. I cannot even identify him this time,” Lyeneru said, and her mouth formed a twisted line. “But I cannot assist you; I have still not recovered my full strength. I could not even equip Lunaré’s Lament if you gave it to me. I beg you to put aside your vow and take up your bow once more. Ciradyl is dying. The Elves need your strength.”

“Very well,” Nendir said, his voice wracked with grief and sadness.

The bow that appeared in Nendir’s hand instantly overwhelmed Ali’s mana sight with an immense aura of nature magic that vibrated with pent-up power. When he opened fire, Ali screamed. The noise was deafening, and her mana sight burned with the most intense searing magic she had ever seen. She scrambled about on the shuddering ground trying to block her eyes, but that did nothing for her mana sight – she didn’t use eyes for that. As she fumbled about in her blindness, she felt Mato’s aura healing her, and slowly the intensity faded. She stood up to the sight of an unbelievable onslaught.

“Regroup!” Lyeneru screamed, her voice somehow carrying above the noise of Nendir’s destruction. “Gather on the tree, get everyone through!” Elves that had been gathering the defenders in trickles scrambled to carry out her orders.

As vision slowly returned to Ali, she found her hands resting on one of the purple crystals grown by the dungeon, pouring mana out into the surrounding area, and pushing Mato’s aura back slowly but surely.

This… this is something I can do, she thought. She might not be able to attack much, but she could deconstruct anything the rogue dungeon made. Wielding her barriers widely, she deconstructed the crystal and then searched for more.

Something heavy landed beside her with a ground-shaking crash, and Ali startled, looking up.

“I have come, Seeker,” Tol’brekk said, bowing his head. Behind him, two Ice Mages landed, their frost familiars circling overhead.

“Kill that Calhedron,” Ali said, pointing at the giant glittering arcane elemental that stood protecting Nathaniel’s dome with a continuous barrage of Arcane Bolts.

“At once, Seeker,” he said, swinging both axes and leaping into action.

Now, let’s see what we can do about that shield, Ali thought, cracking her knuckles as she summoned her mana. Tol’brekk and the Ice Mages would provide a fantastic diversion, and more trolls were coming. Time to shift the tide of this battle.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
