All this was a matter for the future though, so he instead focused on the task at hand. These three Divinities were not the strongest of his allies, but they were the most loyal ones Zhen Shi could call upon, and they were also the least likely to be noticed on the journey to collect Falling Rain. Though he would have preferred to have a fourth Divinity come with them, he could not afford to pull too many away from the front lines, lest the hateful Imperial Clan become tempted to disregard their own treaty and strike without warning. The Behemoth had power enough to overcome any threat the Divine Turtle might present, given how it had only recently ascended and would also be sorely lacking in comprehension. Shih Yang was there to keep Vyakhya honest, or at least as honest as the snake could be, while YuKon would deal with any unpleasant surprises, like the possibility of a fully recovered Abbot playing the pig to eat the tiger. Having long since identified most of the Divinities guarding Falling Rain, Zhen Shi was confident the boy would have two with him at most, with the others dead, injured, or guarding the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains and Western Border. Even if Falling Rain had more Divinities to protect him, it shouldn’t matter too much, as the greatest threat lay not in their destructive prowess, but rather in the speed with which they could bring the runt away. Killing Falling Rain was easy enough, so long as Zhen Shi was willing to sacrifice another Divinity, but if that were the case, he would much rather sacrifice Vyakhya than any of the Divinities loyal to his cause.

No, the Divinities were only there to ensure Falling Rain couldn’t escape and keep his own Divinity Protectors from breaking the Treaty without retribution. If all went well however, not a single Divinity would even lift a finger in battle, for Zhen Shi was loath to unleash such destructive power upon the lands he intended to conquer, even if the destruction could be contained to the Arid Wastes. Instead, the success of this mission largely depended on the Wraiths and Chosen of Heaven, one thousand hand-picked Warriors whose strengths ranged from notable Expert to Half-Step Divinity. This was the definition of an Elite force, packed full of the strongest Wraiths at his beck and call as well as the most powerful and disciplined Warriors of the Mataram Clan, all of whom were clad in various sets of Runic armour. According to Vyakhya, the Brotherhood monks were largely pacifists, but Zhen Shi had seen one such monk dispatch two powerful armoured Transcendents in a single move, so he refused to leave anything to chance. Unless the Brotherhood comprised of nothing but Peak Experts and Half-Step Divinities, then victory was all but assured, but death and destruction was not the goal here today, a fact he repeated once more, just in case.

“Remember,” Zhen Shi said, fighting the urge to look at any of the Divinities lest they think his warning for them, “Falling Rain must be taken alive, no matter the cost.”

“Hmph.” Cutting a stately figure in his flowing Western robes, Mataram YuKon seemed like nobility personified, right down to his superior, holier-than-thou attitude. “The Warriors of the Mataram Clan are second to none, but only those of the royal blood may command them.” An odd stance to take considering YuKon himself was a branch clansman, meaning his ancestors had likely been inducted into the Clan at some point or another. These days, YuKon’s kinsmen claimed they were descended from the blood of Kings, but the true Mataram Bloodline had been ended by YuKon himself, when he ascended to the role of Patriarch and had the relatives of his rivals all murdered, right down to the last man, woman, and child. Even the chickens and dogs had not been spared, as Zhen Shi remembered his pointed amusement at how YuKon had interpreted the common idiom as a literal command.

And now this uppity, low-born pretender had the gall to look down on Zhen Shi, just because this Natal Soul was inhabiting the body of a peasant. “Though this Sovereign has changed in form,” Zhen Shi Sent, while graciously apologizing out loud for overstepping his bounds, “I am still your Mentor and benefactor, so you would do well to mind your manners, little worm.”

Pride and disdain flashed across the Divinity’s eyes, a pretender like all others who dare lay claim to the title. Others would call Zhen Shi himself a Divinity, but he cared not for the appellation, for it reeked of falsehood and needless pomp and pageantry. No doubt chosen for that very reason, to flatter and fawn over those who Shattered the Void, yet failed and faltered at the final step, only to plummet from the true heights of the Heavens above back down to the mortal world below. Though they stood above all others, these so-called Divinities were still mortals at the core, subject to the rigours of time and the laws of this world, just like any other.

“No offence taken, Junior Brother,” YuKon said, replying to what was said out loud and ignoring Zhen Shi’s Sending. “This Senior has been remiss however, for surely the future Emperor should have more substantial ties to the Mataram Clan. I shall speak with my family about finding you a suitable wife, one with the requisite prestige to lift you from your otherwise humble origins.”

A concession followed by a backhanded insult, YuKon’s peevish attitude vexed Zhen Shi to no end, for young Gen deserved nothing less than a bride from the so-called Royal family. YuKon’s talented grandson YuChun had two sisters, and even if he had more, they would still be beneath Gen’s notice, for the future Emperor would have his pick of the most eligible ladies of the Empire, and neither of YuChun’s sisters were Martial Warriors.

Take the higher road. YuKon is but a junior in the esteemed Zhen Shi’s eyes, and this merely a bit of harmless banter.

Yes, yes, of course. Zhen Shi was above such mundane trivialities, and what did it matter if YuKon insulted Gen? The peasant deserved it, for he was nothing without Zhen Shi, and though the boy was merely a pawn and puppet, he would still be rewarded greatly for his service. That was deserving of gratitude, if nothing else, for Zhen Shi would be well within his rights to simply kill young Gen once he was no longer of any use.

No, such a time will never come. Young Gen was a vital piece on the board, and his loss would spell defeat for the cause.

Putting his grievances aside, Zhen Shi studied his forces once more, this time turning his attention to the Half-Step Divinity Wraiths, a rare breed to be sure. Only fifteen survived the arduous creation process, of which three lost their lives in the Northern Citadel during the ensuing chaos following the assassination of Yang Jixing, a costly investment that failed to profit in anyway whatsoever. As Legate of the Outer Provinces, Falling Rain continued to be a persistent thorn in Zhen Shi’s side, perhaps even more effectively then he had as a mere Warrant Officer. The various Districts were especially concerning given how quickly the runt was turning his sizable militia into passable crossbowmen, to say nothing about the alarming speed with which the military was coming around to the usage of catapults and bolt-throwers. Though Zhen Shi yearned to follow suit, the Western Province lacked the necessary lumber and iron required to mass produce those deadly weapons of war, especially now that the hateful Rang Min had closed off all smuggling operations out of the North.

No matter. Falling Rain would soon be in hand, and Zhen Shi would uncover the secrets hidden along the savage runt’s Path, and soon enough, he would have the means to create as many Half-Step Divinities as needed.

Lastly, rounding out their party was Wisdom Vyakhya himself, a senior with a hunched back and frail demeanour unbecoming of even a false Divinity. A sign he ascended late in life and had yet to truly understand the Dao, else he could have easily undone what the ravages of time had wrought upon his aged and ailing body. This former Wisdom tried to excuse himself from this excursion and send another monk in his stead, but Zhen Shi insisted Vyakhya come along in person. Though bringing four Divinities might seem excessive, the Brotherhood was not the only threat they needed to defend against, for there was no place more dangerous than the Arid Wastes. The lands outside the Empire were harsh, barren, and inhospitable, but outside of the tribesmen who inhabited it, hardly hostile. In contrast, most of the creatures inhabiting the Arid Wastes seemed tailor made to murder every living thing that crossed its path, with more Chi-capable creatures per square kilometre than anywhere else in the world. Thankfully, these ruinous beasts were either unable to cross the scorching desert dunes or confined to them by the nature of their existence, so the rest of the Empire was safe so long as they steered clear of the Arid Wastes.

Thus, in order to navigate these hostile lands, a certain set of skills was required, or at least such was the case according to Vyakhya. To facilitate their safe arrival, accompanying them was none other than Rakshasa, a Spiritual Tiger larger than even the king of all warhorses with an appetite to follow suit. Day after day, the man-eating beast dined on human flesh, most times while his meal was still screaming, and his targets chosen with little rhyme or reason. Despite the nuisance of losing Experts, Chieftains, and more, Vyakhya vehemently defended the tiger for many months, and for good reason. Rakshasa possessed the requisite skills to traverse across the Arid Wastes unharmed, so Zhen Shi was pleased he tolerated the beast’s presence for the last year or so, instead of slaughtering it to craft a Spiritual Weapon for one of the Mataram Clansmen.

Vyakhya’s Disciple Sayan was conspicuously absent, the Peak Expert monk with the ridiculously long eyebrows still recovering from his injuries. Mitsue Hideo had been given one simple task, to capture Zheng Luo alive and bring her back for interrogation, but the fool lost a thousand elite Warriors and Vyakhya’s Peak Expert Disciple almost died. Those damnable weapons were a menace to behold, those Spiritual Launchers crafted by the fiery red-headed Sumila, and Zhen Shi sneered at yet another sign of Falling Rain’s fear and weakness. Why else would he go to so much effort to bring mundane ranged weapons to the battlefield? Because he had no faith in the strength of arms of the Imperial Army and was desperate to try and balance the scales.

An annoyance, nothing more, for even though his ranged weapons were fearsome, they were still based upon a flawed premise. Might made right, and not even a million crossbows would change that, as Zhen Shi could easily avoid so unwieldy an army to strike at easier targets elsewhere. The Spiritual Launchers were concerning, but not only were they limited in number, they were largely in the hands of insignificant Warriors of piddling strength and of limited effectiveness in the overall battlefield. Besides, Spiritual Weapons in and of themselves were flawed to begin with, as over-reliance on borrowed strength only weakened the user in the long run. As for monk Eyebrows, his injury was life-threatening, but easily Healed if not for Vyakhya’s insistence on using this near-death experience as a stepping stone to future success. Zhen Shi himself had long since tested and discarded this method, for the risk far outweighed the reward, for even success limited the future of one’s Path. What sort of Divinity ascended through near-death? A disgrace, that’s what.

Which was exactly what Zhen Shi considered the faithless Goujian, who turned coat more often than others bathed. Where he once was to be Zhen Shi’s own Disciple, the Bloody Confessor had now thrown his lot in with Wisdom Vyakhya, and the results were telling indeed. Though not quite as imposing as the Behemoth, Goujian’s powerful new physique dwarfed Gen’s and stood head and shoulders over most. Where the Ancestral Beast was covered from head to toe in shaggy, unkempt hair, Goujian’s exterior was completely hairless save for his lustrous, black eyebrows, which stood out against his smooth, porcelain white skin. What’s more, while other Warriors of giant stature had a tendency to appear too lanky or too thick, Goujian’s body was chiselled to perfection, lean and muscular with immaculate proportions perfectly symmetrical in every way that mattered. At first glance, one might think his appearance had been sculpted by the Heavens themselves, his handsome and masculine features neither aged nor youthful, but timeless and without flaw. Clad in plain, Runic robes and standing with hands clasped behind his back, Goujian emanated power and poise in equal amounts, a human Emperor standing amidst his subjects rather than a mortal among Divinities.

The Bloody Confessor had succeeded where so many failed, and impressive though the results might be, it was nothing more than a fluke in Zhen Shi’s eyes. As noted earlier, though Goujian could now be considered a Half-Step Divinity, his Path was still riddled with unacceptable flaws, which made it unsuitable for adoption by the masses, which was Zhen Shi’s end goal after all. Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, Goujian would have died from his wounds and would not be standing before them today, and while it was impressive to see him make it this far without needing to draw from Zhen Shi’s limited supply of usable Heavenly Energy, a flawed Path was still flawed, no matter the outcome. This was the limit to Goujian’s Dao, for how could his ‘Human Path’ ever lead to Divinity, especially when borrowing so much from the inferior Beast Path?

