And thus, all of Zhen Shi’s forces were laid out for this attack, a piddling force compared to what lay ahead. Though supposed pacifists, the Brotherhood’s values were malleable at best, and though they did not seek strength for the sake of battle, their mastery of the Dao made them formidable foes to be reckoned with. Alas, he had no more readily available forces to call upon, because even though there were plenty of tribal Chieftains to call upon, Zhen Shi needed the savage runt taken alive, a task the crazed Defiled were ill-suited for. As for Transcendents, they were little more than fodder for the Devourer now that he’d wholly merged with his Elemental Spirit to become the Predator in truth, and Zhen Shi had precious few Chosen strong enough to be of any use, most of whom could not be spared from their posts. While Gongsun Qi, Huanhuzi, Mao Jianghong, and various other formidable Chosen would be most welcome in this endeavour, the war effort would falter and fall apart without their leadership to guide their efforts.

Would this be enough? Despite the presence of so many formidable heroes, Zhen Shi was still not wholly certain of victory because there were just far too many variables to account for, the greatest of which was Falling Rain himself. The hateful worm was just full of unpleasant surprises, managing to somehow avoid death and defeat at every turn and emerge triumphant time and time again. First Sanshu, then twice in Sinuji, and even in the Citadel and during the withdrawal from Castle JiangHu, Falling Rain played a pivotal role in foiling so many of Zhen Shi’s best laid plans. Now, despite all his meticulous efforts and careful preparations, he was still unsure if his forces were strong enough to deal with the unpredictable savage, for who could say what he would do next? The Wraith attack should have been more than enough to deal with the cripple, yet somehow, he managed to not only reforge his Core, but his Spiritual Sword as well, which he used to then slaughter his way through the host of improved Wraiths sent to capture him alive. Even now, having reviewed the scenes of battle time and time again, Zhen Shi was at a loss to explain the savage runt’s prowess, his Martial might having risen to the pinnacle of Peak Expert without touching the line that crossed over into Half-Step Divinity. The Mountain Collapsing stomp was the least impressive of his exploits that night, as not only was he able to see through the Wraiths’ improved Concealment and Shadow Image abilities, but he also wielded his sword with supreme skill as he danced atop their bloodied corpses, taking grievous injuries in exchange for dealing deadly blows time and time again.

And now, he had his Spiritual Shield in hand as well, making his capture all the more difficult...

Even Goujian might not be Falling Rain’s match in single combat, not if they wanted to take him alive, so Zhen Shi was uncertain if it was wise to continue along this path. Better if they just killed the runt outright, but then all his secrets would die with him, at least until Zhen Shi had time to unravel them through blind trial and error. How long would it take to replicate the Devourer’s Path? First the Talent, then the Elemental Spirit, and who knows what else, taking Falling Rain alive could save centuries, if not millennia of experimentation, even for someone as brilliant as Zhen Shi. The risks were well worth the reward, even if Vyakhya, Goujian, Gen, and all the Chosen and Wraiths were to be sacrificed in the attempt.

But Gen would not die, not with Zhen Shi in control. No, Gen’s life was perfectly safe, for he still had his uses.

There was nothing else for it but to set forth, and Zhen Shi Cloud-Stepped along in Vyakhya’s wake as the monk sat cross-legged atop Rakshasa’s back. The Spiritual Tiger was surprisingly adept at utilizing Chi, blessed as it was with extraordinary intelligence, and there were times when Zhen Shi almost suspected the beast was capable of cognizant thought beyond what it’s instincts demanded. The creature was no tame pet like those of Falling Rain’s menagerie, but rather a partner to Vyakhya here of its own free will, a powerful ally to be sure. Moving with effortless grace and agility, it bounded through the sky in eager haste as its tail lashed back and forth, Concealing its presence by erasing invisible marks as it scented the air in search of prey. There was no caution to its movements, no wary hesitance one might find in others of its kind, for Rakshasa was an Emperor of tigers who stood at the pinnacle of bestial might, a true paragon unlike anything Zhen Shi had ever witnessed before. Between this and the Divine Turtle, he’d already made a note to study other such animals in depth to see if there were more examples of these paragon creatures, but the war efforts demanded too much of his time and attention to spare any for leisurely research. No matter though, for this was mostly to satisfy his academic curiosity anyways, as there was no chance a beast could ever ascend to True Divinity. They knew it as well, which was why their Path culminated in starting over as an Ancestral Beast, so that they might tread a different Path, one with an actual chance of sucess.

Following the tiger’s lead, Zhen Shi’s party arrived at the Arid Wastes without incident, though few knew how much effort had gone into making this happen. Simple Concealment was far from enough to hide four Divinities and a thousand combatants from watchful eyes, as they only made it this far because Gongsun Qi was currently launching an all-out attack on the Central Citadel. A costly distraction, but again, one well worth the cost once they had Falling Rain in hand, and an even trade without the runt. Useful as maps and diagrams might be, it was a poor substitute for first-hand experience, which Gongsun Qi’s army sorely needed. The war effort was for the Colonel General to manage however, so Zhen Shi focused his attention on the dangers around him, for their party was now slowly descending to the sands. “Razor shrikes above,” Vyakhya sent, in reply to Zhen Shi’s wordless question. “Small, fast, agile, and fearless, meaning they are best avoided if we wish to arrive in full strength. Even this monk would not survive the attentions of a crazed razor shrike, for their favoured method of attack is to hurl themselves into soft eyes and throats in order to burrow deep into their target’s innards.”

Scanning the skies for this threat, Zhen Shi saw nothing, but he sensed the presence of the deadly birds once Vyakhya drew his attentions to them, for they could not be seen because they were all Concealed. The realization sent a chill down Zhen Shi’s spine, and he vowed to set time aside to study more of these beasts in-depth sooner rather than later.

Once the danger passed, they followed Rakshasa’s lead once more, who was no longer so prideful now that he was back in familiar territory. Every few steps, the formidable tiger froze in place, its head swivelling and nostrils flaring as it sensed a nearby threat. Minutes passed in tense silence and Zhen Shi sweltered beneath the oppressive heat, the sun shining bright overhead as they made their way through the endless sea of sandy dunes. The further they progressed, the slower the tiger moved, until finally, it stopped in place and curled its lips in a silent snarl, its body hunched, hackles raised, and claws unsheathed.

“What is the problem?” Zhen Shi Sent, only belatedly noticing the tremor in his voice. Ridiculous is what it was, Sending was a function of the mind, so there should be no reason for his voice to shake, but his anxiety bled through all the same. There was danger here, a threat he could barely sense and couldn’t perceive, a subtle -

And then the desert faded away, and Gen was back home in bed, with sweet Qing Qing nestled in the blankets beside him.

Panting as he came to, he blinked the sleep out of his eyes and studied his beloved in the morning light. “What’s the matter, beloved?” she asked, stroking his chest in tender concern. “Did you have a nightmare?”

“Yes,” came the admission, before Gen could stop it. “It was horrible.” Wrapping his arms around his sweet, precious Qing-Qing, he trembled in her warm embrace. “You were dead, and so was Da, and Ma, and everyone else.”

“All dead by your own hand, no less.”

“...What?”

Unable to understand what Qing-Qing just said, Gen leaned back to study her beautiful face, only to see her familiar soft smile waiting to greet him. “You don’t remember?” She asked, in that same playful tone she used to use to tease him when they were younger and the best of friends. “You killed them, Gen. Beat your Pa bloody, you did, with your own two hands no less. How did it feel?” There was no mockery in her tone, as if she were asking how his day went, but Gen recoiled in terror all the same.

“You’re not Qing-Qing.”

“Of course not silly.” As she sat up in bed, the sheets slipped away from her naked body to reveal the injury that killed her, a set of ugly, rotting lacerations that went deep into her belly and oozed pus and blood as she ran her fingers against them. “And these? Did you forget these too? You didn’t do this, but you might as well have.”

Leaping out of the bed with a strangled cry, he bolted out the bedroom only to find Pa and Ma waiting for him in the living room, their bloodied, bloated features exactly as he last saw them. “Why, son?” Pa asked, his single working eye unable to focus with half his skull caved in, and cheeks purple from lack of air. “Why’d ye kill us? Were we bad parents?”

“We loved you so,” Ma said, raising her mangled hands to stroke his cheek, and he was unable to tear his eyes away from her array of injuries, cataloguing how she’d been beaten and abused by Laughing Dragon’s Firebrands before they roasted her alive on a spit. “We still love you, even after all ye done.”

“I’m sorry,” Gen sobbed, reaching up to take his mother’s hand only for her to wince and jerk away, for his bladed, metallic fingers had inadvertently severed what was left of her maimed hands. “Oh Heavens above, I’m so sorry.”

“Sorry ain’t gonna cut it now, is it?” The baritone voice came from behind and Gen pivoted to see poor Bei’s father laid out next to the stove, while Bei herself carved strips of flesh from his chest. “Sorry ain’t gonna bring us back,” the butchered body said, watching him as he lay there helpless and afraid. “Not a single one. We’re all dead thanks to you.”

“Dead because of your weakness,” Deng said, as his twisted, broken body dragged itself through the front door.

“Dead because of your failures,” Kash chimed in, and Gen remembered how the three of them had always been inseparable until he killed them both with his bare hands.

“Join us, son.” Pa said.

“Join us.” Gingerly taking his wrist with her remaining hand, Ma pulled Gen close for a hug.

“Join us.” Bei and Qing-Qing completed the circle, and Gen could not bring himself to move away from their warm embrace. “Join us.”

Surrender.

A rumbling growl sets his bones to shaking as it pierced him to his core, and his metallic hands chimed as the world came into focus around him once more. Gone were his parents and everyone else he’d just seen, and instead he was surrounded by familiar faces he could not quite place, all of them glancing around in disoriented confusion so similar to his. The massive tiger emitted yet another raspy snarl, and Gen felt the sand shifting beneath his feet, angered by this challenge to its authority. The old, decrepit monk appeared in his sights, studying him with a curious expression. “Nightmare Wurms,” he Sent, with a shrug that wasn’t quite an apology. “Quite deadly, and one of only a few invertebrates capable of utilizing Chi. To devastating effect, as you no doubt experienced first hand, able to incite dread, horror, and despair in their prey through the use of mental illusions. They weren’t always so vicious, but they developed a taste for darker Heavenly Energy and learned how to best develop it. Yet another mis-step along this monk’s Path, though the Abbot is not without blame, for it was the development of his Spiritual Garden which led us down this unfortunate track.”

Unable to understand half of what the monk was talking about, Gen tried to find his bearings and understand why he was out in the desert with so many strangers, but for the life of him, he couldn’t –

FOOLISH WORM...

Glaring at Vyakhya, Zhen Shi studied the crafty Wisdom for long seconds before deigning to speak, his words chosen with the utmost of care. “You were unaware of the threat?”

“I knew of the nest,” Vyakhya replied, with yet another half-shrug. “But they are usually dormant this time of the year. Someone must have recently passed by and roused them from their slumber, or perhaps our group was too tempting a target to pass up.”

Lies and deception. The monk wanted to see how Zhen Shi would react, and now he knew this form was susceptible to these insidious mental attacks. The tiger was more than capable of warding off the threat, but it didn’t act until Vyakhya allowed it to. The weakness was Gen’s, not Zhen Shi’s, but he was vulnerable all the same, a shortcoming with no simple solution in sight. Unwilling to fall out with the Wisdom here, Zhen Shi feigned acceptance and gestured for the monk to continue on. There would be a reckoning in days to come, but until Falling Rain was in hand, Zhen Shi had no choice but to tolerate Vyakhya’s insolence.

