She frowned, “You kill Yawm then have to fight in an endless war forever. Life still sucks.”

I shrugged, “Eh, I disagree. Once we kill Yawm, there’s a whole galaxy out there to explore. You think this food is good? Wait till we go somewhere in space and have a chef make us something. Or, or, what about finding a developed world, where Schema has been around for ages. They probably already have the dungeons and stuff sorted out.”

I turned to her, “Not everyone has to fight there. I’m sure there’s plenty of people who would love having a chef cook them delicious food. You could be that chef. You could open a restaurant, start a family, whatever you wanted.”

My eyes turned harder and less hopeful, “But you have to want it, and I mean really want it. Not some half ass kind of want, I mean a desperate, ravenous, all-consuming kind of want. Right now, we’re trapped on a dying planet called earth. Either we kill Yawm, or we die here. I know you hate fighting. I know you hate endless war. Hell, I know you want to live out a peaceful, calm life. I understand that. I really do.”

I turned back to the meal, “But peaceful days and meals like this are numbered unless we stop that festering sore named Yawm.”

Althea nodded, glancing down. She sighed before looking back up at me, “Yeah…ok.”

The first word was meek, like a half resolution. Her words gained strength as she spoke them, like something was pushing her. It was like she saw a light at the end of the tunnel, something to aim for. She nodded,

“I’ll make a plan with Torix. Maybe set up a schedule for training with Kessiah or something like that.”

I stood up from my seat as the timer went off, “Sounds good.” I walked over and pulled out the glass from the stove. Turns out that venison cooks the same as pork, so I grabbed a few dishes from the boulder pile. After that, I set them on the tent floor, setting up the meal with reasonable portions.

The conversation turned lighter after that, Althea asking questions about my cooking. The light chat was a pleasant contrast with lead laden conversation from earlier. The entire time we talked, I hoped my words went through to her. Getting Althea to train and use her powers with all her might was damn near necessary to beat Yawm.

A combination of Kessiah’s blood arts and Kessiah’s assassination was our best method of killing a follower. Sure, Torix and I could hold the line against an army with his summoning and my tenacity, but we’d falter eventually. We needed Kessiah and Althea to get their heads in the game. Either I pushed her to change, or this world would eat us alive.

After how many speeches I’d given Althea, I was getting frustrated with her. Coming into a messy room, lounged in for weeks, then seeing her waste her time on wearing pretty clothes…I won’t lie, it tested my patience. After this, I wasn’t going to spend any more time convincing her to try. Either she and Kessiah killed Yawm, or I would dive into another dimension with him. Fun times for all.

Wiping away those cynical thoughts, I chatted until the meal was finished. After that, I said my goodbyes. As I left, Althea almost said something. She didn’t finish her words though. Maybe it was something to try and restore my confidence in her. Maybe not. I couldn’t tell.

What I could tell was that I needed to finish the rifle I was making her. If she wouldn’t improve herself, I would do the job for her. Getting Kessiah to improve herself was simpler. I just had to nudge her in the right direction with a bit of competition and good faith. Torix needed a reminder of how serious the situation was. Althea…well I don’t know what she needed to get off her ass.

Before Yawm came out of his world tree, I needed to find out. We had no way of knowing when Yawm would come out. My intuition told me along with a sinking feeling in my gut that it wouldn’t be long now. The forest grew closer to the quarantined wall every day. The eldritch evolved as Yawm’s minions fed them. As I gathered ingredients for this lunch, I even came across an eldritch or two.

Interrupting my thoughts, a small earthquake shook the ground for a few seconds.

We were running out of time.
