Both human Liz and phoenix Liz nodded vigorously in unison, “What happens if it's pulling in fire essence rather than neutral essence and if that can give someone a fire inclined spirit? Yeah, me too.”

Matt opened his mouth but lacked the words to reply. He hadn’t considered that now glaringly obvious point at all. His mind had gone to accelerating the trees' growth in her terrarium orb to quickly increase production but her idea derailed that train of thought well enough that he nearly missed the official start of the auction.

Taking one of her free hands, Matt gently kissed the back, playing up the act a little but meaning every word. “I hadn't even thought in that direction. I’m glad you are there to cover my back.”

“Always.”

Aster, having extricated herself from a tangle of limbs on the couch, joined them at the bubble as Meadow brought forth one of the trees.

“With the upper bounds known, let us start the auction with the lowest Tier tree. Starting at fifty Tier 45 mana stones. Gooooood luck everyone!”

The price immediately jumped up to eighty four before slowing down as it broke ninety, then one hundred before picking back up.

Looking to Liz, Matt questioned, “Do we want to buy the lowest Tier one or wait for the second?”

Chewing on her lip, Liz flipped the question to Aster, who shook her head. “I get where your head’s at, but I don’t think the second lot will be any cheaper. Let’s wrestle for the lowest Tier tree and hope we are right.”

Not that confident himself, Matt nodded to Liz, wanting to establish their upper limit, but she’d already made a bet.

“Are you really willing to walk away from something like this?” Her grin asked everything her words didn’t.

“You’re right.” Matt didn’t argue, though they did have a fairly firm limit in the two Tier 47 mana stone area. Not because he couldn’t eventually pay back any over extension on their finances, rather that it would open them up to scrutiny they didn’t want or need.

If the price got that high, it would be much less hassle to beg, bribe, or bully Manny until he coughed up a seedling. However, Matt doubted the price would reach that height, if only because without the other Ascenders fighting them, few ducal families beyond the royals could expend as much liquid capital as they could, even if their backings were technically wealthier.

As the price reached two hundred and twenty, they seriously entered the bidding, adding another fifty Tier 46 mana stones to the price at once, taking top bid.

Seeing their reserve be chipped away one mana stone at a time, Liz tapped the air five more times, increasing their reserve further.

As the visible price ticked over to five hundred Tier 46 mana stones with a changing of the top bidding identification number, the atmosphere subtly shifted. That didn’t stop the price from rising further and breaking into the Tier 47 bracket.

With that barrier broken the price once more surged and it quickly reached one hundred and eighteen Tier 46 mana stones in addition to the Tier 47.

Then two hundred.

Liz tapped the air five more times.

Two hundred and fifty.

Then, all the sudden, the number jumped to two hundred and eighty six, finally unseating them.

Mid exhale. At the end of their dominance, the crowd was forced to catch themselves as Liz reclaimed the podium, forcing the current bid to two hundred and ninety seven mana stones.

Whispers and speculation about their identities abounded, but Matt and everyone else in the room were focused on the countdown time. For the first time since the auction had started, more than five seconds passed without a higher bid, leading their room to mirror the crowd.

Their copying was a little too good as, after the fifth second, the price increased all the way up to three hundred Tier 46 mana stones with their identification back on top.

Grasping at both Aster and Liz, the three of them waited, not breathing or even moving too much as they watched the countdown tick downward one agonizing second at a time.

When they passed the ten second mark the crowd started to murmur but it wasn’t until they reached the five second countdown that Matt started to shake.

Or it may have been Aster shaking him. Or Liz shaking Aster which shook him. Or maybe he’d started it in the first place?

Matt didn’t know and didn’t particularly care as the countdown reached three.

Two.

The timer reset as the bid incremented twice in quick succession before stopping once more.

Matt interpreted that small increment as someone trying their luck but upon seeing their reserve higher than the two additional mana stones they were willing to bid, they gave up.

One Tier 47 mana stones along with three hundred and eighteen Tier 46 mana stones.

Three.

T—

Once more the price jumped but the second time it was pushed all the way to three hundred and twenty mana stones without their name disappearing.

Three.

Two.

One.

Zero.

Matt almost couldn’t believe they’d won after the several close calls and it took a moment for his brain to catch up with everyone else.

Unwilling to wait, they dissolved the privacy bubble for the first time. Liz stepped onto the balcony commanding their tree to rise with a wave while the room took firm notice of their identities.

At the same time, she disabled warding on the tree, allowing everyone a first glimpse.

Having just spent a considerable portion of their combined fortunes, Matt was even more careful with his inspection than everyone else, looking for any issues or flaws. After a thorough scan down to the molecular and spiritual level, his conclusion was: the tree was perfect.

It was only Tier 6 but it was as close to a prime specimen as anyone could expect of something that had grown in the wild. Only after being assured their investment was good did Matt look at the tree’s bounty, ecstatic to see thirteen pears ripe, or close to it, waiting to be plucked.

With both reveals combined, the crowd burst into a loud chatter but Liz only held up a hand to silence everyone after a dozen people unveiled their booths and started shouting offers for the next generations of trees at her.

“Once we have an orchard going, Titan and myself are more than willing to sell, but we don’t intend to make promises or plans based on speculations.”

Her words silenced everyone until a new bubble near the bottom opened up and a thoroughly mussed Leon and Mara flew out of their room and into Matt and Liz’s top floor suite.

Mock glaring at the two where no one else could see it, he almost immediately broke as the two shamelessly started looking at the tree as Liz reengaged the privacy bubble. As fast as she was, she wasn’t fast enough to stop a single grain of sand from sneaking its way inside and expanding into a familiar, if smaller than normal, dragon.

“Well, that is pretty. When can I expect mine?”

That prompted Mara and Leon who immediately started blinking as if they were going to cry at the thought of not getting a seedling. The act might have worked but they couldn’t commit to the bit, as their attention kept being drawn to the young tree.

Seeing Liz getting protective as Mara looked like she wanted to perch on one of the branches, Matt stepped forward, “Everyone can get their tree in due time but Liz wasn’t joking about not making any plans right now. The first thing we need to do is get a caretaker. In fact…”

Stepping through the barrier, Matt spoke to the still chattering crowd, having seen Meadow was giving people time to gather more funds for the next tree, so him speaking out wasn’t interrupting. “For entirely unrelated reasons, Our duchy will be hiring a few botanist specialists. Both Talented and non-Talented of at least Tier 15 with the relevant skills should apply to the application I’ve set up.”

Returning to their suite, he continued, “We’ll talk to the experts before we decide anything.”

Having reached an agreement that everyone could live with the conversation turned into speculation about the potted tree.

Aster was almost immediately proved correct, as the second tree sold for just over two Tier 47 mana stones. While the third reached a staggering two Tier 47 mana stones and five hundred and seventy Tier 46 ones, it set a new record. However the other buyers hadn’t wanted to advertise their identity.

Though that streak of two was broken almost immediately in the fourth and final auction. Not because of anything illegal, rather it was due to Peter Wyatt disabling his privacy bubble and calling out to Ingrid Oberg to team up mid-auction. With her last minute assistance, he was able to secure the win, but his very public move ended up costing him almost four Tier 47 mana stones, draining both of the duchies finances in a grand finale.

As the celebrations kicked off, Matt quietly pulled Leon into one of the side rooms.

“What’s up, kid?”

Smiling at his father-in-law, Matt didn’t beat around the bush. “I need a pep talk. I know there is a fairly large chance that when JR goes to take the me out of me, I’m going to panic. I was hoping you could give me the talk now and I can remember it later.”

Sniffing, Leon forced out a smile. “Ye—. Yeah. I can do that.”
