Once he arrived next to Meadow, his haggard appearance stood in sharp contrast to her vibrance. Without preamble, he launched into an explanation while dropping his spiritual protections. “Two weeks ago in a delve I was struck by a spiritual attack which caused moderate damage that has since bled into my physical body.”

Smiling, Meadow withdrew an ornate preservation container from a slit in reality, opening it to reveal two vibrant pears.

The first was Tier 22 and slightly smaller, but that didn’t stop everyone’s interest as they scanned it and the Tier 7 fruit beside it, trying to gleam what made the pseudo natural Treasure so valuable as to be sold as the final item on the final day.

Meadow didn’t keep them waiting. “As per the inter-Great Power exploration treaties relating to unique resources, only ten percent of the stable specimens were harvested, which is why there are only four available for auction today out of seven they brought back. However, all of the ripe fruit was harvested by the team who stayed at the location and observed enough to give us a clear picture of the tree’s properties. Alexander you may begin whenever you are ready.”

Finally given permission, the injured man grabbed the pear and tore into it while looking at the ceiling, careful not to let any of the juice go to waste. He even went as far as to eat the core and seeds, to the lower crowd's audible distress.

Mid-observation, Matt had to duck as he nearly caught a foot to the head as Melinda jumped over the couch to get a better view of Alexander as the energy in the pear started repairing the physical damage his body had suffered.

With most healing methods, such as spells, that relief would have been temporary thanks to the underlying spiritual damage remaining untreated and requiring repeated applications.

That was, in fact, the main way to heal spiritual damage in most cases: relying on the spirit slowly matching the flesh. Directly healing spiritual damage was far too rare of an effect to be widespread. In Alexander's relatively light case, that would have meant hourly healing spells unless he could self-sustain a strong healing spell for the five or so years Matt estimated it would take his spiritual wounds to recover. The third option was resorting to waiting in agony for a few centuries to allow his spirit's natural healing process to take its course, but few could handle that level of pain.

Except, contrary to his expectations, the spiritual damage was being healed right along with Alexander's body. If he wasn’t wrong, the fruit was using his body as a method to affect his spirit, making each pear a supremely valuable healing treasure. And that was before any refinement, which might find untapped potential of immense value.

As Liz excitedly slapped his thigh, he knew they’d be doing their best to buy one of the trees and started tabulating the total amount of money they had in all of their accounts.

However, the pear wasn’t done expending its energies.

In Alexander’s case, the energy in the Tier 22 pear was exactly enough to fully repair his body and spirit in large part thanks to how recent the injuries were. That explained why he’d been chosen out of the other random people suffering from spiritual damage just within the Capital. The shock value of the demonstration alone had been worth the cost of a single pear, and Meadow hadn’t tried to hide the team's harvest of fruit. They probably had two or three dozen pears at the lower bound, with the upper limits reaching into the hundreds ready to be sold the moment the auction ended.

Though, Matt doubted that the trees had such an abundant harvest, given the normal trends among pseudo Natural Treasures. They were famously infertile, slow to breed, and the fact they’d only harvested seven trees out of an entire planet reinforced that idea.

Meadow let the wash of comments from the various attendees wash over her until she raised the second pear. “Our next applicant was a random civilian from the Capital but their identity is being protected. Please respect it.”

As she said her final words two Tier 46 aura’s rippled out threateningly, guards from the venue, but they were almost instantly dwarfed by the Tier 50 presence that loomed over everyone. Then, as if the invisible pressure had never existed in the first place, it vanished, allowing everyone to breathe again.

Clearly surprised by the additional backup, Meadow recovered well and waved forward a Tier 5 woman wearing thin cloth clothes and a high Tier mask with a smile. “A lower Tier pear would have a similar effect, but the effect takes much longer and seconds matter on this stage more than most.”

Not that anyone rushed the Tier 5 as she sat down directly on the stage, though many surely wanted to. Clearly prepared beforehand, she ate the entire pear in a near identical display to what Alexander seed’s and all.

Without an injury for the pear’s energy to be spent on, Matt didn’t know what he expected, but it wasn’t seeing her body's ‘impurities’ being expelled in a fleshy goop. It was a very familiar sight and one he didn’t need his spiritual sense to tell him smelled foul.

No, Aster did that for everyone as she excitedly described their run in with the Tree of Perfection and its triplicate effects.

While she retold the story to their friends who were only observers at that point, Matt and everyone else in the audience who were interested in buying a tree tried to put the two displays together. Where it was possible that the pears had two powers it was incredibly unlikely.

Having used the original, Matt realized the differences faster than most of the others, though Melinda was a close second with her medical background.

The Root of Perfection had given Matt a body similar to what a peak Tier 14 could achieve, locking him into a state of peak physicality and granting an increase in physical capabilities. The pear hadn’t done that to the girl, despite repairing a lifetime's worth of wear and tear her body had accumulated; its effect was a one and done thing, with no shield from future injuries and damage that life would bring.

Despite that, the effects of the pear put her well ahead of her peers who would only begin to start the process after Tier 10. Where they would need to dig away at a fully compacted pipe of sludge, she would only need a quick spring cleaning before going into ‘maintenance mode’.

If the pears were true Natural Treasures, such a limitation would have killed their value. As a pseudo Natural Treasures, something whose production could be expanded, that limitation became its saving grace.

With a flick of a finger, Meadow cleaned the girl, though Matt knew from experience she’d feel dirty for days, even after showers, until she got used to her new bodily sensitivity. “As everyone saw, the lower Tier pears have a side effect of purging the body of impurities. While that effect isn’t too applicable for the higher Tier variants, there is one more effect— the true effect if you will. This is the primary effect with everything else being a ‘side effect’.”

Looking down at the masked girl, she gently smiled, “Same as you practiced, don’t worry about any mistakes, just go through the steps.”

Nodding the Tier 5 closed her eyes and took several deep breaths. While seconds in reality, the auction's higher Tier participants were wishing the auction house had picked a higher Tier who could have moved a tiny bit faster.

Thankfully, they didn’t have to wait long.

While the Tier 5 started going through a mana control exercise, a time stamped recording of her going through the same movements only ten minutes ago froze everyone in their seats as they spotted the differences. Far from a massive improvement, the girl’s mana control was only a fraction of a percent better than in the recording, but the amount wasn’t what had Matt and Liz next to Melinda at the bubble.

With each swirl of mana, they watched as the pear’s energy improved the girl's spirit, making it slightly stronger and more robust. The effect was only as great as her mana control, less than a full percent, but that lever was all an alchemist would need to make potions with a stronger effect.

At least in theory. Though such a foundational increase in power would be desired by anyone with the connections for their scions even without improvements.

With a wave, Meadow sent the girl backstage, returning to Tier 25 speeds.

“I’m sure everyone has more questions, but before I release the prepared information, I have a few more things to say while I have everyone's full attention. First, the seller has full AI recordings for the entire find, along with the discovery process. They submitted it to the auction house and three independent entities who all confirmed our initial verification: They harvested seven trees as per the ten percent rule at the time of their arrival. They also gathered pollen samples of all existing trees, returning with far more genetic stock than what the trees might indicate. As part of that, with each of the trees being sold today, you are also purchasing the four most genetically diverse trees that remained behind. That will allow everyone to self-sustain their own orchard, should they not desire to trade externally.”

Seeing the reaction she wanted from the higher balconies, Meadow smiled encouragingly. “As for the trees not being sold here, one has already been sold to the Emperor, one is being reserved for the Minkalla auctions, while the final tree is being kept in reserve by the seller. We will release the information and give everyone a moment to review it and get your accounts in order. Additionally, the trees will be sold relative to their Tier in ascending order but the trees will remain obscured, leaving the exact Tier unknown. The bidding for all lots will start at fifty Tier 45 mana stones.”

Finally getting the additional information about the tree, many of Matt’s suspicions were confirmed.

The unknown team were self aware enough to acknowledge that they’d gotten lucky finding the trees between breach bubbles, having checked a random and out of the way Tier 37 world choosing not to enter the breach bubble in the third layer after with the likes of Lila and other various other higher Tiers.

Thanks to observing harvesting team realizing the pear’s value almost immediately, they’d studied the trees for over a decade before eventually returning to settled space with their prize. In their natural habitat, almost anywhere on that world as befitting their pseudo spiritual nature, the trees produced anywhere from five to twenty pears every three year cycle. That put them slightly under average for tree pseudo Natural Treasures but given the power of the pears that was hardly a surprise.

He’d been prepared for far worse.

Better yet, the reproductive rates of the trees seemed surprisingly strong. According to the information the tree’s had a one percent chance of having a fruit bearing a fertile seed per cycle. In nature with the local Tier’d wildlife feasting on the fruits without care or distinction, most special seeds were eaten the same as the other seeds. They followed a more traditional fruit bearing pattern with offspring being only semi-related to the parent trees with none of its mystical powers.

In settled space none of that would ever be a concern. That meant on average, a new tree could be bred every century. That which was fantastic as few if any trees should have problems reaching Tier 15 under constant supervision and care.

Doing so wouldn’t be cheap but the costs would eventually cover themselves.

In fact… The more Matt strategized, the more he realized that he wouldn’t necessarily mind the lower Tier trees. If rapid Tier advancement wouldn’t be required it further lowered the expenses. A pyramid of trees across the Tiers would make for a better orchard, able to cater to everyone, which had more long term value than fewer higher Tier trees.

Most non-hereditary nobles wouldn’t be willing to invest quite so much with such a long return of investment, but they were.

Especially if potions could be made to better leverage the pear’s effects. Though even with Titan’s Torch at his disposable, Matt wasn’t confident in a potion being developed in the short term. Pseudo Natural Treasures were notoriously hard to wrangle alchemically speaking but he was confident someone would figure it out. He’d be more than happy to buy any such patent given the pear’s effect.

Meeting Liz’s eyes, he saw mirrored excitement as she rushed out. “You call Lila and get her to bow out. I’ll try to find out if Aiden really hasn’t returned yet or is hiding and waiting to snatch this.”

Allie squealed at the implication she and Zack didn’t need to be bribed to not bid but no one paid her any mind as everyone else in the room finally understood Matt and Liz were actually going to bid for one of the trees.

Not wasting any time, Matt initiated a voice chat with Lila directly, speaking as soon as she accepted the link, “We’ll get you in the first generation of offspring trees if you don’t fight us for it. Deal?”

“Fine! But you need to help me kick Wun’s ass for not pointing us to this planet. He leads us to fucking sponges when there were money trees sitting in the middle of nowhere?! I—”

Matt rolled his eyes as he dropped the link. He wasn’t going to tell Lila what she already knew, the sponges were far more reproducible. She’d win or at least break even in the long term through volume alone and nothing was stopping her from putting cuttings up for auction. He knew that wasn’t what she cared about, even if that was what she was complaining about.

Looking at Liz, Matt nodded at small copse of trees still on the auction stage. “Are you thinking what I’m thinking?”

