Sternkessel had helped them. He didn't seem like the type to do something like that without reason, and if Cale had to guess what that reason was, it would be that the professor was less confident about being able to protect them while they were up here than when they had been down there.

"Well now," Sternkessel said. He sounded pleased, but there was definitely an undercurrent of tension in his voice. "I will say that I had not expected you to get quite this far. I wish you the best of luck, Cale Cadwell Cobbs."

Like that wasn't ominous. "What about my friends?" Cale objected.

"I wish them luck too, of course," Sternkessel said smoothly. "Do not believe what my colleague tells you. I do not favor or disfavor any of my students."

Leo blinked. "What does he mean by that?"

"Akkau said Sternkessel didn't like you two," Cale said with a shrug. "I think he might've lied to make me work harder this class."

"I don't think Professor Sternkessel treats us any differently," Damien offered quietly.

"Good, otherwise I would've needed to have words with him." Cale peered up at the sky threateningly, though all he got in response was a sense of vague amusement. Seriously, how was Sternkessel doing that? "Now come on, let's get to work."

"What do you mean, work?" Leo asked. "What are we supposed to do here, exactly?"

"Investigate," Cale said cheerfully. "There's something here that doesn't want to be seen. Whatever it is also doesn't like that we're here. It's not attacking us so long as we don't break its rules—yet—but that doesn't mean it's going to do nothing. We don't know what it is or why it's here, but I bet you anything that if we find out, we'll learn exactly why the Inverted Spires are the way they are."

He raised his voice. "Professor! If we reach 24 points, can we get another Wing credit?"

There was a short pause before Sternkessel replied, his tone amused. "I suppose I can allow it, if you are that confident," he said. "Very well. One extra credit for each multiple of twelve you reach, and bonus points if you uncover or resolve the true cause of the Inverted Spires and its anomaly. Be aware that the other students are on their way, so that task may be more difficult than you think."

Cale waved a hand dismissively. "I'd rather they were here, if anything," he said. "Not everything has to be a competition. Maybe they'll see there's more to being a mage than just being able to cast the spells from the Standard Array."

"It's not that easy to overturn a lifetime of thinking that's the only way forward," Leo muttered half-heartedly. Cale shot him a sly grin.

"We might also be the first to find out what happened to the Loomweavers," he said. "Remember, their symbol was all over these buildings."

Leo paused. "That's... true," he said carefully.

"They might even have left details of whatever their secret magics are behind," Cale said.

Leo swallowed, unable to stop the gleam in his eyes from growing. "Also true," he said.

"So..."

"I get it, I get it," Leo groaned. "I'm in. Not like I was going to stop here anyway."

"Just wanted to be sure you were appropriately enthusiastic," Cale said cheerfully. "This is your field of interest, after all. No offense, Damien."

Damien blinked. "None taken?"

"Anyway!" Cale spun in a circle to examine their surroundings, then nodded to himself, satisfied. "Damien, Leo, I need you both to take a step to the left. Now."

"What?" Damien said, confused. Leo grabbed him and yanked him to the left a second before a massive spike of domain magic punched through the ground and into the space they'd been standing in just moments ago; Cale followed suit, dancing out of the way of a third spike just before it punched through him.

"Looks like there's a new rule," Cale said. He could sense mana distortions growing beneath them like little wells of potential. They faded away when he moved, but if he stayed in place for too long, something about the magic locked into place, and a new spike of domain magic erupted from the ground. "Don't stay in place for more than five seconds."

"Wha—we've been standing here for minutes!" Leo protested.

"And whatever's here isn't above making new rules for us to contend with," Cale said, pulling them along. "Stay alert. Never assume things will stay the same forever. Adapt to changes and figure them out faster than your opponent can make them. That's how you survive as a mage. Now, you're the scholar here. Which building's going to have the Loomweaver records?"

Leo cast a panicked gaze around. "This isn't Loomweaver architecture," he said, trying to think quickly. "But they were famous for keeping records on massive tapestries they would hang as banners along the halls. I think—it should be the longest building? Something that could have a really long hallway?"

Cale nodded thoughtfully. "That one, then," he said, pointing. He'd seen it in his brief glimpse of the grounds when he looked up, a building that looked rather like an enormous spiral. That was the perfect place for a long hallway if he'd ever seen one. "Come on! Before this thing makes up any new rules for us to deal with."

With that, he sped off. Damien and Leo exchanged brief, panicked glances, then followed, carefully not looking at the ground.

They were here.

The thing with no name itched, which was a new sensation for it. This was a day of new sensations, it seemed. It could feel those little mages crawling around above it, their magic prickling and searing into its skin. One in particular burned, like a miniature star had found a way to anchor itself into the Inverted Spires.

It didn't like the feeling. It wanted to get rid of them, and yet every time it thought about doing so...

Pain. Something reacted and constricted, making it writhe in agony.

No. It was a thing of rules. It was nothing more than a thing of rules. It existed to enforce and challenge, not to think. Not to be.

It had to be a good thing-of-rules. That was the contract that commanded it. That was its nature.

But...

New rules. That was possible, wasn't it? Nothing in the contract said it could not make new rules, only that it had to enforce them.

It had to be fast, so the Many-Ringed Anchor couldn't stop it. The Anchor visited it sometimes, spoke to it in soft words it couldn't understand. Even now, the Anchor whispered to it, trying to help it calm.

It didn't want to calm. Emotion was strange and new, but even in the panicked buzz of its discomfort, it couldn't go back to feeling nothing. It wanted to feel.

It just didn't want to feel this. The little mages crawling on it, making it itch. It needed them gone.

Especially the star. The mage whose gaze felt far worse than all the others, whose eyes felt like they burned. It needed him gone most of all.
