Matt took dozens of wounds, some self inflicted, as he lashed back out at his attackers. But all of his wounds healed almost instantly, and the monsters started cheering at his supposed damage. Instead of stopping, Matt continued attacking. He was determined to keep pushing forward, as once Liz killed the reflector, he could use his position to inflict lethal attacks.

The mages tried to heal and purge Liz from the angel's flesh, but their golden magic wasn’t a match for Liz’s golden ichor. In just seconds, she had consumed the angel from the inside out. A Liz freed herself from the confines of the angel’s body with a spear leading the charge, which took one of the mages in the gut, spreading ichor like a plague.

With the reflector dead, Matt cut down two of the melee angels in quick succession, but he was still slower than Allie, who teleported in close to finish off the remaining angel mages.

“Not a single feather? That's bullshit.” Allie’s complaint struck a chord, so Matt tried to lighten the mood.

“You know, according to legend, the pre-Shattering Everlasting Kingdom of Prosperity managed to de-aggro the angels. Th—”

“I bet they were just trying to bang them.”

Matt paused at Allies comment. She probably wasn't wrong, but that was weird. Humanoid monsters were still monsters. The ethical issues with such an action were numerous, but at the same time, it fit with what he knew of the Everlasting Kingdom royalty and their habits of elevating themselves above all such criticism.

“No matter their relations with the angels, there are a few surviving recordings about winged humanoids that match the description. That’s part of what makes the rift so unique. Because no one since has managed to get the angels to breed without the all consuming rage of rift monsters. But there aren’t any new rifts with angels, and you know what that means?”

Aster shook her head. “No, actually. What does that mean?”

Matt put on his best spooky voice. “If all of that is true, and the theories on rift monsters becoming sentient are correct, that means, there is a population of angels somewhere. Possibly lost to chaotic space in the war that saw the Everlasting Kingdom dismantled. But it's impossible to know. Officially, there were no planets with angels lost, but there were close to a hundred that are recorded to have been cut off and lost to the vastness of chaotic space.”

He was interrupted by Allie blowing a very loud raspberry. “You read too many crazy theories. This is what science does to the brain. Better to fill it with shitty movies and bad novels.”

Matt raised an eyebrow. “Care to elaborate?”

Instead Liz answered, “I think I agree with Allie on this one. I did my own research after you talked about this rift. Depending on who you listen to, it’s absolutely known that angels were the original dwarves, that they are still secretly living in the Corporations, and that they were actually just bird bloodlines with wings in their human forms. Give me a couple weeks and I could have wings just like them in human form. Honey, at least like half the stories about this place are outright lies and the other half are just wrong. Nobody knows what’s up with all this, and if anyone does, they aren't sharing. Hmm… maybe we should ask Aunt Helen and see if she’s heard of the rift?”

Zack shook his head, clearly still contemplating Matt's theory. “Better answers than being lost to the void. That is a fate possibly worse than death. To the immortal, unable to pierce reality to chaotic space on their own, it’s condemnation to a single universe until eventually their essence cores Tier them up on its own. Or ruining one's foundation by absorbing lower Tier essence in the hope to advance enough to exit. To the non immortals, it's possibly worse. They might die and find release that way, but any descendants are trapped there and stuck with whatever Tier of planet they have. It's not a fate I would wish on even my greatest enemy.”

Allie shook herself like a wet dog before kicking in Matt's direction. “Ok, that's a dark thought. I’d never get trapped like that, so I definitely don’t need to let my mind start imagining the awful possibilities. Fuck you, Matt. It would have cost you nothing to not share that.”

“It would have cost you nothing to not stab me when you came to pick me up.”

“Physical trauma isn’t nearly as bad as mental.”

“It's both for me, damn it!”

They continued their bickering for almost half an hour as they cleared the surrounding islands of angels.

The topic of the angels still being out there somewhere, possibly locked on a single planet circling around in chaotic space came back up a few times, eventually with Allie deciding that she was going to grab a chaotic ship from Lila and go exploring the depths of chaotic space once she was Tier 30 or so.

Aster and Liz correctly– at least to Matt– argued that it wasn’t exploring if Allie just teleported back to the Empire every few hours for snacks, but Allie argued that the only important detail was what she saw and not how she saw it.

It was an interesting idea though, and Matt decided that he’d probably go on an adventure like that at some point.

Chaotic space was said to be a nigh limitless whirlpool with the Great Powers at the metaphorical center, and from the stories Lila told from her guild, things could get weird the further you went away from the collective Great Powers.

It wasn’t entirely clear why the Great Powers were in a comparatively tame section of Chaotic Space, as they weren’t tethered to anything except each other, but one branch of speculation had it due to the presence of high Tier individuals, especially Tier 50s. None of the theories for why the Tier 50s made local Chaotic Space calmer agreed in any way, but it was a sensible enough guess by Matt’s estimation. It was a known fact that no cultivators above Tier 45 lived outside the Great Powers, and while there were some planets that strong, they had no inhabitants.

A fleeting thought made Matt smile. If they were able to get Allie to establish a waypoint on a high-Tier planet deep in Chaotic Space, they could build a secret base way, way out from civilization, and Matt could create a readily-farmable Tier 48, 49, even Tier 50 rift with none the wiser.

He could see half a dozen issues with the idea, but it was something to consider. Issues that could possibly be solved weren’t really issues.

Matt’s musings sadly were put to rest when they approached their first city.

Despite being a flying city that had no need for walls, the golden city had thousands of soldiers marching on its massive, two hundred foot tall walls. They also had archers and anti siege equipment, cannons, and ballista at the ready.

The mana cannons predictably shot pillars of light, but the ballista were more ordinary, which gave them a degree of danger not present in the purely mana based attacks.

Zack was able to pick apart the mana cannon spells, but they still needed to assault an entire coordinated city with just the five of them.

Matt led the charge through the rain of arrows and ballista bolts, while Zack dispelled every magical attack sent their way. Aster thankfully kept most of the dispelling spells from landing on [Bulwark] while also counter spelling the debuffs and traps.

Allie had tried to teleport inside the city, but there was a ward around the edge that even she found difficult to pierce. Matt made a note to try and learn something from the city’s wards if enough of them were still standing at the end of the fight, but he doubted that would be possible.

Things got a lot easier once they landed on the city walls.

They were suppressed and locked down with a litany of debuffs that even Aster couldn’t dispel, but that was standard in a siege. And if they were so easily countered, they wouldn’t be so widely used. The largest issue were the rows of heavily armored angels trying to repel them from the walls.

Matt and a Liz ran forward to a guard tower, fighting through the phalanx of armored angels. Liz spread out over his body while Matt forcefully killed his way to the mages and what they hoped was the reflect angel of the area.

In their killings, they noticed those angels had a distinctive silvery sheen that, while subtle, was noticeable if one looked carefully.

When Matt arrived Liz slithered forward, down, and over his blade, digging into the angel even as Matt stood his ground over the writhing angel, protecting Liz from the attacks sent her way.

Even a crystalized [Bulwark] started to falter under the barrage of blows, which forced Matt to block with just [Cracked Phantom Armor]. The spell quickly adapted, but that didn’t stop the ballista bolts from trying to send him flying off the battlement.

It got so bad that Matt had to lock himself in place with his Intent, but everything changed when Liz finally killed the reflect angel.

A [Mana Beam] cut a swath out of the attacking angels, but Matt didn’t let that stop him and continued to play the beam across until he was met by a light beam.

Not wanting to get caught in a pointless duel with so many enemies around, Matt dropped [Mana Beam] and instead let out a deep breath empowered by [Cracked Dragonflame]. The solidified mana turned into a wall of mana almost as protective as [Bulwark], but Matt was already swapping spells to [Cosmic Pressure].

A thousand times increased gravity wasn’t lethal for a Tier 28, but it threw off the monster's sense of balance as Matt varied the mana he sent into the spell, seemingly at random. It was actually a tactic from Team Zero that they’d never used, but it was still useful against the angels.

Their slaughter of the city's defenders brought out a mini boss. A stunningly attractive angel who stood close to ten feet tall, along with the correspondingly large wingspan.

The moment they appeared, Zack sent a flurry of metal aspected [Mana Bolt]s at them, forcing them to defend themselves with their wings instead of attacking.

Matt and Liz moved in to support them, even as Allie started slipping through the rubble of the city until she got into a decent position behind the mini boss.

Together, Matt and Liz threw themselves at the mini boss.

The boss’s shield glowed with power before it rocketed forward, shield leading the charge.

Liz met the blow with her own shield, and the resulting explosion caused the remaining half of the city to collapse. It would have been worse if not for Liz’s growth shield absorbing more than half of the physical force, but that energy was sent right back a moment later when she activated the shield's effect.

Aster countered a rage filled roar, that tried to buff the mini-boss, with a cage of icicles.

The angel stumbled back, which was the only opening Matt needed to cut a deep wound into its flank under its armor. Ducking, Matt avoided Liz’s spear and followed its attack up with a fully charged [Tribulation Strike]. The lightning damage spell scorched armor and flesh alike, but Matt didn’t stop and chain cast the spell with as many hits as he could.

His damage was amplified by Zack driving a dozen small metal rods into the angel’s back, letting the lightning dance from location to location.

The smell of burnt angel was caustic in the air, but just as the monster looked like it was going into a second phase, Allie appeared on its shoulder and drove a dagger into its eye.

Its head exploded, sending blood and essence everywhere.

The death of the mini-boss signified the end of the fight for the city, and the start of the clean up to look for feathers.

Eleven more cities like that one needed to be cleared out, with the final having a larger fifteen foot version of the boss. But it posed no additional challenge to the five of them. The real challenge was finding the remaining feathers.

It took them close to two days, even with Allie teleporting to search every nook and cranny of the rift, to get all 777 feathers. But when they did, they were able to complete the statue, which opened up a hidden area.

Inside was a scholar type angel who, despite fighting valiantly, died under a flurry of irritated attacks.

The room, however, had exactly the prize they were looking for.

The wings of an angel.

The item wasn’t just rare, it was damn near unique with how rarely it showed up on the market. Most people who got the drop chose to use them themselves for good reason.

At its most basic state, the item could let anyone fly for a minimal amount of mana. Secondly, it had the ability to increase mana regeneration by absorbing starlight. And finally, the wings had the ability to improve the damage of any light spells cast with them equipped, similar to the angels’ own ability.

That would only be moderately useful, as light wasn't the most common mana type, but there were several known methods to change the mana type to whatever the wielder wanted, which made them a very valuable drop.

“Score!” Liz immediately grabbed the bundle of feathers, immediately casting [Feather Armory] on them. “Damnit.”

She pouted as the pseudoskill refused to take, and Matt patted his wife on her shoulder, “It’s alright. Once we’re back in the Empire and have our tools, we’ll tinker with it and get it working.”

“I know, but like… it’s feathers! I wanted them to work right away! Come on, they’re totally close enough.” She shook the rift drop like that might change the result somehow.

“Oh noooo,” Aster teased. “Your super-awesome custom skill doesn’t work on things you just found lying around. How truly awful, that you need to make your weapons like some peasant, like an archer who can’t just use a random twig they ripped off a tree as an arrow.”

Phoenix Liz just blew a raspberry at Aster in response, even as human Liz kept trying to get the spell to take.

