Or not, dependent on how the system handled things. Either way, Jake felt in no position to complain after receiving a stupidly overpowered skill like this. In flat stats alone, the skill gave him +2505 to all stats just right off the bat, with all of his percentage bonuses coming on top. It was a little annoying that it didn’t give him a flat 2500, but level 350 was naturally within B-grade, giving him +15 to all stats rather than just +10.

Shaking his head, Jake just had to float there in the void for a little while, the system also giving him a moment of lull before it continued. He had felt a bit disappointed that his variant race hadn’t manifested in any way so far outside of allowing him to skip Race Evolution Quests, but now, it had really come in with a fury. The skill was so good that he already knew now that Villy would tell him to shut the fuck up about it to anyone and everyone.

Thinking that, Jake also realized something else. He’d feared actually becoming a variant race, as the Identify skill – or anything adjacent to it – would allow a powerful god to potentially see Jake wasn’t a regular human, raising a real fuss.

With a skill that wasn’t anything to fear. Jake felt like he had essentially gained the full benefits of being part of a more powerful human race without any of the downsides or risks. Sure, there was still some danger that someone could notice some of the effects of Jake’s new Primal Hunter’s Spirit of Man, but something like that would have far more plausible explanations than Jake being a first-in-the-multiverse superior human variant.

Jake had many more thoughts about the skill, but for now, he forced himself to move on, in part because he felt the system’s intent to finish the evolution. He’d barely gotten started on this round of evolutions, and he still had a long way to go, and honestly, he wasn’t sure if he wanted more twists or surprises like the Primal Hunter’s Spirit of Man.

Unless they were as awesome as this skill, in that case, Jake could magnanimously accept a few more surprises.

--

Within a small private bar, a male and female god sat, the man with a mug in his hand, and the woman with a half-empty bottle of wine. They were leaning into each other, enjoying one another’s company while discussing recent matters of the multiverse.

“There are a lot of good seeds in this batch, and any faction would be remiss to underestimate us,” the woman said with a smile, looking at her partner.

“Aye,” the man nodded, emptying his mug in a single mouthful before continuing. “Still, we didn’t get everyone we wanted.”

“There’s still a chance; if not, simply maintaining a good relationship is acceptable,” the woman shrugged. “Valhal will prevail no matter what, as long as this binge-drinking oaf is here.”

She said those words as she hugged the man’s arm, making him belly-laugh. “Would be a lot more fun with all the interesting ones on our side, though.”

“I can’t deny that,” the female god, better known as Gudrun, said with a smile.

“That lass is pretty good, but compared to Vilas’s Chosen and some of those other monsters, I’m not sure she can entirely keep up,” the male god said, waving his hand as the mug was full again instantly. “Then again, we also didn’t expect her to do that well with the Runemaiden Ritual either.”

“I’m all for surprises of the pleasant variety,” Gudrun said.

The male god, who was naturally Valdemar, looked down at his dear wife as he simply enjoyed her company for a moment. She kept him updated about multiversal happenings and politics, but in truth, these meetings were just an excuse for the pair to have some alone time away from the prying eyes of their faction.

Valdemar was lifting his mug, about to take another swig, when he stopped mid-movement, frowning.

Gudrun looked at him with confusion for a moment. “What happened?”

Slowly placing down the mug, Valdemar kept frowning as he brought his hand to his heart while he looked to the side, seemingly peering through the void. He didn’t speak for several seconds before calming down, letting out a sigh.

“I just felt something... not sure what,” Valdemar muttered before just shrugging and moving to take another drink. “I guess I’ll figure it out if it’s anything important.”

--

“How intriguing,” the Eversmile said, his mood good that day. He watched Primordial-4 as he felt the disturbance. He knew immediately the hunter had evolved to B-grade, yet the result still surprised him.

In a pleasant way.

All beings of a particular race shared a karmic bond, simply due to their shared Origin and Records. An extremely faint connection that few gods in the multiverse could even begin to detect, so feeble it may as well not exist... but it did. And it mattered.

As a social race, the innate bond between all humans was stronger than that of, say, elves, though it still fell massively short of the connection between ectognamorphs; it was noteworthy compared to other enlightened races.

This connection meant that, in a near-undetectable and minuscule way, the actions of one human affected everyone else. The growth of one helped every other human in an infinitesimal manner. Only a select few humans had the opportunity to have a greater effect on their race due to their overwhelming Records. People like Valdemar and Aeon. Due to their power, they affected the Records of all other humans, over time forming a powerful connection with the very Origin of the race itself.

The larger a race, the harder it became to have such a profound connection with the Origin, as the requirements were dependent on the total power of the race. As for why people like Valdemar or Aeon would even care about such a connection, as with all karmic bonds, it went both ways.

While they benefited the human race, they also benefited from the growth of their own race in return. It was a synergistic relationship, one of mutual progress and improvement.

Eversmile was aware of all who had such a connection, as it became strong enough for him to detect it, and that day, he felt the karmic bonds of every single human in the multiverse echo with change. A singular bond, shared by the entire race, had been strengthened, fundamentally changed, and had become reminiscent of the one possessed by Valdemar and Aeon.

Yet, it was different. Perhaps because the one who’d formed it wasn’t a god. As for how it differed, Eversmile couldn’t tell. All he knew was that it was unlike anything he’d ever seen... and wasn't that interesting?

His smile broadened further, curiosity and interest filling him. The Chosen of the Malefic Viper was truly the greatest object of intrigue Eversmile had seen in so many eras, and he couldn’t wait to uncover all the mysteries surrounding the new B-grade human.
