Instead of waiting for one of them to reply, the person continued, “Need get inside. Fast. Get fire. Protect yourselves. Light banishes the shadows! Protector! Seven nights!"

Just as quickly as the ‘person’ started speaking, they turned and fled into one of the houses, carefully locking the door.

The scene repeated itself as all fifty of the villagers returned home from wherever they were just to sit there silently.

With little other recourse, each of the seven went to their houses and inspected them.

Rah’s was exactly like he explained it in his retelling, with his building being little more than a clay and wood shack, but clearly well-maintained and clean.

Seeing the tassel hanging from the open doorway, Rah sighed as he inspected it.

“Shame. I had been hoping this was doing more than pulling from my memory. Sadly, it's unlikely. I could never remember the third word of Bfa’Sula and our proposed family's motto. I forgot it one day. It took a long time for me to forgive myself for that, but it’s still empty here.”

Turning the braided grain-like rope, Rah showed them two painted on characters and a messy third, completely illegible one.

Susanne exited her house carrying a weapon, a nearly perfect copy of her sword. The only reason it wasn’t a perfect copy was the fact it was made out of real metal instead of her Concept made manifest.

Inside their house, Matt and Aster walked around memory lane for a few short moments.

What Matt found interesting was how the strange area had taken his Minkalla’s alternative life’s apartment, rather than his real life’s parents’ apartment. Given this was his shared life with Aster, and the one that he considered real, that only mildly surprised Matt.

He had never forgotten the truth, but the life with Aster had been everything he ever wanted and he wished it were true. Or, he wished the early childhood they experienced was true.

There were two things, however, that didn’t belong.

Inside on the table was a slightly-too-big longsword and a tiara.

Handing the tiara to Aster, Matt picked up his blade and tested its weight.

There was no magical effect and Aster shook her now crown laden head. “No magic yet. Give me that stick.”

Having claimed his stick, Aster walked back outside to join the others and he followed her out.

The moment they did so, they found the path they had followed to the village swallowed by shadows.

Not just any shadows, but humanoid shadows which tried to grasp at them but were restrained by the sun overhead preventing them from fully manifesting.

Matt really hoped he was wrong, but he suspected they truly had found the source of the creatures swarming the world and system.

Allie, returning with her own dagger, grumbled, “Even my dad’s stash of old weapons was gone.”

Her complaint was cut off a moment later when she was attacked by a shadow creature that tried to grab her from a building’s shadow she strayed a little too close to.

Her blade cut through the shadow, dissipating it, but more importantly sending a stream of darkness into her.

Perking up, Allie exclaimed, “Ohhhh, so that's how it is!”

Liz, who was exiting her own childhood home, came out in time to see Allie toss her blade into the back of one of the shadows that was still forming.

“Hurry up and kill as many as you can. They strengthen your spirit when killed and return a little of your power. Seems random what skills you unlock, though, if you don’t direct it. I got nothing back-to-back so don’t bother, guide it where you need it. It's not that hard.”

If that was truly the case, it meant it was a simple enough strange realm.

Not being severely out-Tiered, the seven of them quickly killed their first creatures.

Aster, the cheater that she was, summoned an ice golem from her tiara after she bashed the first monster to death with her stick, redirecting her energy to the crown instead of herself. Her giant ice golem then lumbered off and started smashing the newly forming shadow monsters, further empowering Aster, who followed behind.

Not wanting to be left in the dust, Matt moved to an elongating shadow cast by Allie's house that already had three creatures forming inside of it.

His blade passed cleanly though the first apparition, feeling a rush of power flow into him almost like essence. Except it wasn’t, it was far more oily, though it didn’t carry a negative impression, just slippery.

Matt wasn’t sure what it was, but instead of directly empowering him, Matt felt it release some of his locked up power. It did strengthen his spirit, but that seemed more like a side effect than the main purpose.

What that main reason was, Matt had no idea, but he was more than happy to find out.

If they were going to have to protect the village, and more importantly its people, they would have to start acting quickly.

A modicum of power returned to Matt and he raced over to where Zack was shooting tiny [Mana Bolt]s at the still-forming creatures.

Matt called out, “I’ll cover you, start carving a flame barrier formation around the village.”

Zack nodded, but instead of creating a flame barrier, he went a step further and created a full on light wall.

Rah, Allie, Aster, and Susanne roamed the village, while Liz went to the edge and started glowing slightly. Unlike the creatures in the outside world, the creatures inside the strange area were damaged by the light instead of feeding on it, making Liz a walking death trap.

They raced at her only to die to her spear or under her long-unused but not discarded fire mage guise.

Her efforts kept a good portion of the creatures away from the village, which bought Zack precious time to carve runes into the hard-packed dirt.

Instead of creating a complicated full encirclement, Zack created smaller ten foot sections that glowed with a soft but non-physical light.

Thankfully, the creatures themselves weren’t too strong and were destroyed by the light wall with little effort.

Matt, however, hardly had time to pay attention as it was taking everything he had to keep Zack free of enemies.

It wasn’t so much that the enemies were difficult to kill, they were still shadow creatures, but rather so many were forming so quickly it was hard to keep up.

His lungs burning, Matt controlled his breathing as he thrust forward his blade, hitting the nearest creature.

For all his magic returning, Matt noticed a very specific thing not coming back.

His physical cultivation remained absent despite his skills returning as he strengthened his spirit.

Liz laughed as she called out loud enough for them all to hear, "It's not only strengthening our spirits, it's growing our spirits in size! This strange area is possibly going to give us more skill slots.”

That immediately sent all of them into high gear.

Skill slots weren’t exactly rare at the higher Tiers, with most having more outer slots than they knew what to do with, but inner and core skill slots were still limited enough no one would complain about having more.

Matt personally hoped his Minkalla-created flexible innate skill slot would also be expanded upon, possibly allowing for two or more innate skills, but that seemed unlikely. The expansion started from the outermost edge of his spirit and went inward, not from the center outward. Not to mention that there were no records in the entire Realm of anyone getting an innate slot outside of Minkalla or a Talent.

They’d have to kill a lot of shadows if they wanted to do anything more than give themselves a few otherwise unnecessary skill slots they would never use.

That outermost region of their spirit was usually left to non-combat skills, along with old skills they didn’t want to get rid of but no longer used. That limited selection hampered everyone except Liz, who was more than happy to use fire and her older blood spells once more. She hadn’t been forced to do so since before they finished the Path, but that didn’t make her any less familiar with the disguise.

Unlike his wife, Matt was left using [Side Swipe] rather than [Mana Slash]. It was a skill that he normally used to chop vegetables, not opponents, but it was at the edge of his spirit and easy to unlock first. Thankfully, while he used the skill for cooking, it was still a combat spell.

It made a copy of his blade at a set distance, making it a very bad skill normally, but instead of having the blade a few quarters of an inch away, he was able to overlap the magical cutting edge over his own blade, empowering it.

Matt hardly had any amount of control over the additional blade beyond that slight nudge, but with the monsters starting off as little more than mundane creatures, he was confident in his raw skills to carry him through any weird resistances to physical injury.

Being in such a unique state, Matt forcefully centered himself and tried tapping into his Power. Restrictions were sometimes helpful in understanding oneself and Matt jumped on the opportunity.

Contrary to his expectations, he found it surprisingly easy to harmonize, but advancing any further seemed utterly impossible.

Pushing up against that seemingly unnatural barrier, Matt tried a hunch before he called out, “I don’t think we can access powers we don’t fully understand. I can't access the second stage of my Power at all, nor can I feel for my Aspect.”

That spurred others into calling out the small oddities they had noticed and slowly they put together an understanding of what was going on, even as they fought.

Things became much easier when Zack finished the first encirclement around the town. If the beings around them had been real people instead of rift approximations, Matt was sure they would have come out of their houses to see the spectacle.

A steady stream of energy drifted into them as the creatures killed themselves trying to extinguish the light wall so they could get through to the people inside the village.

Matt smiled as he felt his spirit slowly start to unlock more and more skills as the energy permeated deeper. Following Allie’s earlier instruction, he deliberately guided the energy to the most useful skills in his outer skill slots.

It also passively had the consequence of giving him access to more of his cultivation, which meant his mana pool.

That increase in mana generation let him take over more and more of the wall's operation as they fought, allowing the others to kill with fewer interruptions. At the going rate, he would be able to start producing mana stones in a few more hours.

Matt fought on into the night, the shadow creatures growing larger and larger until suddenly the numbers reduced to near nothing.

When the next creature arrived, it was obvious why: the thin humanoid shape had filled out and doubled its power.

With the light barrier, the seven of them were still able to defend the village, but it took effort once more. Now, even a single one of the monsters attacking a single spot for too long meant it might shatter the projection runes and could enter the village.

Leaving the surplus mana stones Matt had managed to make so far on the formation charging station, he sprang forward and into the barrier of light, skewering a creature by casting [Extend Arms].

It was a rare skill they picked up from some random person they looted in Minkalla that was considered legendarily useless, as it almost required the Rubberfruit Natural Treasure he had used if the caster didn’t want their limbs shattered. Matt had absorbed it on a whim, but kept it near the outermost part of his spirit.

Here, where he was still cultivation limited, the nigh-uncontrollable ranged extension proved useful because of where in Matt’s outer spirit the skill was.

Pulling his arms back, Matt kicked the ground while casting [Earth Spear] at the next shadow that raced at him.

The first projectile didn’t dissipate the creature, but the third did, and Matt sighed as he finally got access to one of his proper channel spells.

He had long since outgrown his original [Flamethrower], but had never fully pushed it out of his spirit, given his emotional attachment to the skill.

The wave of flame lit up the night even more so than the wall of light, and the shadow creatures screamed as they recoiled.

Matt grinned as he continued to cast with his left hand while brandishing his weapon with his right. The creatures correctly identified him as the threat and ran through the flames trying to get at him.

At first, Matt easily killed the shadow beings with his flames, but it still took time for them to be burnt away. And in that time, they were able to land two or three blows onto the light barrier before being replaced by the next a moment later.

Matt darted in closer, thrusting his sword, but found the bodies of the shadow creatures growing tougher. It was the difference between an early morning mist and still-wet concrete.

Retracting his blade, Matt finally redirected the energy into his weapon which unlocked some of its features.

Matt found he had a modicum of control in what he selected, and so chose his weapon’s enchantments.

His sword pulsed with light as mana channels were carved into it in a flash.

Sending his excess mana into the blade, Matt’s second strike was far more effective and he once more overtook the shadow creatures’ growth speed.

That positive trend ended when the moon, now high in the sky, pulsed red and the shadow creatures both stopped giving any energy to reveal new skills or cultivation, as well as grew shadowy plate armor that seemed to give an energy resistance to the creatures.

With his fire ineffective, Matt changed his mind about the skill he redirected the last of his unlocking energies into.

[Create Water] was immediately chilled by Aster and they split the quickly forming ice, using its physical presence to smash through the shadow creatures, bypassing their new armor.

