Even with that additional ability, they were still running into issues and the barrier was finally breached.

With only seven of them, they couldn’t be everywhere.

Liz saved the day by having gone for one of her older blood skills: [Blood Body]. With her physical form transformed back into her normal liquid state, Liz multiplied herself and was able to reinforce those otherwise undefended areas.

That barely let them hold, and while they had to retreat to fighting in the streets, they managed to outlast the red moon.

With the moon’s enchanting glow gone, the monsters returned to how they once were, gaining their essence back as well as losing their armor.

Energy attacks once more proving lethal, they quickly cleaned up the village and confirmed all the villagers were still alive.

They were about to celebrate when the monsters grew stronger once more.

Thankfully, their group was growing stronger faster, and, with Matt unlocking [Create Blood], he was able to help Liz create fifteen full clones of herself.

Without a proper clone skill to take up some of the load, that was all the independent minds she could keep going at once.

As the sky started to brighten and the monsters began evaporating, Rah cried out, “In the southeast! Look!”

Matt kicked off the ground, jumping fifteen feet into the air and landing on one of the buildings.

As he looked where Rah indicated, he saw the massive black tower forming out of the forest's shadows.

When the sun's rays hit it, unlike the monsters, it wasn’t destroyed, but instead seemed to phase out of existence, becoming translucent.

The threat was clear but unavoidable.

Trudging over to the others, Matt promised himself he’d add a few copies of his most-used skills into his spirit’s outer layer in case he ever encountered this type of situation again.

He could really use [Endurance] or any other physical boosting skill in his outer core like so many others kept them there.

With his physical cultivation only at around Tier 8, Matt was exhausted and wanted to nap, but knew that was an awful idea. Instead, he looked over everyone and made sure they were okay. They all had a few wounds but there was no serious damage.

The moment he was about to speak, all at once and in perfect unison, the villagers exited their huts and started walking around mindlessly.

Shaking himself free from the spectacle, Matt looked to Zack and said, “We need a better barrier for tonight. It was good but the timing screwed us.”

Zack nodded but Susanne offered an alternative. “Why don’t we just grab all of the villagers and shove them in a single, well-reinforced house.”

Matt was going to say that was a cruel punishment but, after reviewing his memories of how they simply sat in their houses quietly instead of sleeping or quivering in fear like real people, he couldn’t muster up the effort.

She had a point and so they got to work.

Without dedicated skills, it was brutal work to cut a cellar into the granite they discovered a few feet into the ground, but they managed thanks to Liz’s growth staff, which let her control any of the six level one elements with [Blood Manipulation].

If there was one skill Liz had more than any other, it was [Blood Manipulation]. In her experiments with her Talent, she had created hundreds of copies of her most basic skill, hoping to stumble on a rare variant of [Blood Manipulation] from a plethora of [Water Manipulation]s sacrificed to the effort.

Most had been failures, but some had been interesting enough to keep but not use, which saved them. Between Liz breaking up the stone and using Aster’s golem to haul it around, they managed to create and then enchant a bunker in half the day, allowing them to get some sleep.

There was a risk being underground was more dangerous, but it was a risk they would have to take. Even after they did their best to enchant the bunker.

When night arrived for the second time, they gathered the people as carefully as they could and put them in the bunker. The people didn’t fight back and quietly seemed to accept the relocation.

Not having to cover so much ground, the seven of them were able to work together, which greatly increased the rate at which they killed the shadow creatures.

If the tower in the distance wasn’t sending a steady stream of monsters at them, Matt almost wouldn’t have minded.

Under constant waves, they eventually decided they needed to send an expedition to the tower.

Liz, Susanne, Rah, and Zack went in a group while Matt, Aster, and Allie waited and protected the strange realm’s humans.

That left them even more outnumbered, which made the defense harder, but they managed thanks to how small of an area they now needed to defend.

Just before the moon turned red, the distant tower crumbled and the shadows pulsed, growing noticeably weaker.

The four returned twenty minutes later, much stronger and jubilant.

Liz grinned as a copy of her split off and kissed Matt. “You need to do the next one. When we killed the mini boss in there, we got to modify a skill in a direction as if we had a hundred years to do so. I tested it on [Blood Cunning]. The modifications are a tad simplistic but decent enough I’ll be using any other such rewards on my best skills. I hope we get at least one a night and it wasn’t only one usage per or I’ll be pissed.”

Matt was happy for Liz but was also a tad jealous. Given the mergers he wanted to make, having an extra hundred years of modification would be really convenient.

Thankfully, at the end of the second night, two towers were created, ensuring the second team could claim two skill modifications with the night indicating how many towers would appear.

As it turned out, the tower fight wasn’t hard at all. Whatever they had done by refusing to give the strange area a baseline of their power, combined with their efficiency in killing creatures, ensured they were well ahead of the danger curve. The three of them ended the fight with no injuries at all in less than ten minutes.

Once the bosses’ energy rushed into him, Matt felt himself put under another illusion and he became filled with regret towards his spells. When he focused on any of his skills, he was able to directly specify his regret and then the illusion would have him spend one hundred years time adjusting the skill in question with a final mental confirmation.

Across the next few nights, Matt spent five of his modifications on making [Mana Beam], [Bulwark], and [Gravitic Bolt] better able to handle his current mana generation by reinforcing their skills structures via the regret method. With his mana doublings growing larger, it was becoming a greater and greater issue, and while he was still happy to have it done for him by the strange realm’s reward, he was considering more long-term solutions.

That, and he didn’t exactly love all of the choices the dream him made.

Aster modified her Talent-granted Innate [Ice Manipulation], given how important it was to her build, but picked an interesting second option by choosing [Deathly Cold] to reduce upkeep costs, letting her run it longer should she need to, even without Matt being there.

Allie was simple and put both of her usages into [Teleport], making her free innate skill even better. Like Aiden, she honed her singular thing until it was the best it could be.

Matt quietly bet Aster that Allie would use every opportunity except one on her innate skill, figuring she would use at least one to finish the [Home] modification she was currently working on.

Aster disagreed and assured him Allie would use every one of them on [Teleport]. She would turn out to be right, and Matt owed her time as a taste tester, but Allie truly had gone all-in on her main skill.

It wasn’t the wrong call, but Matt intended to branch out and adjust other skills he normally couldn’t justify modifying over others.

When on the third day they started unlocking their inner core skills, their combat abilities skyrocketed, and they quite easily finished the seven day requirement, everyone getting fourteen mini boss kills and thus adjustments.

After their initial testing, Matt, Zack, and Rah devised a method which they hoped would be able to personally modify the skills without the dream state taking over, and they actually succeeded. Given so many additional subjective years to tinker with his skills, Matt wanted to modify and merge [Mana Slash] and [Mana Charge] for their eventual merger into [Tribulation Strike] but couldn’t, as he could only work on a single skill at a time, and so could only get them ready for the first merge.

It was quite the challenge, but he hoped he managed to keep the best parts of each skill, improving the final skill’s overall efficiency, but he would have to wait until he did the merge himself to find out.

Matt spent all eight of his final attempts manually modifying [Cracked Phantom Armor] and [Archmage's Presence], getting them ready to merge in the same way. Unlike the simpler two skills, they still weren't fully ready to be merged. Matt needed far more real world feedback for his most important skills.

They easily defended the village until the seventh day, and when the sun fully rose over the horizon, the world faded away and the strange realm ejected them. As it did so, Matt found his core spirit grew by not one but two skill slots, his inner core expanded by five, and his outer core expanded by fifteen.

Finding himself back in reality, Matt found the seven of them nearly crushed by the shadow beasts falling on top of them.

A thought destroyed the oncoming wave and they all opened up as they waited for the ship to arrive. Unlike their strange area brethren, the shadows never responded to their destruction, falling onto the seven of them endlessly for even using any spell that produced light.

When the Unsparing arrived, Liz informed them of the strange realm and how it worked before letting them figure out who wanted to go inside. It was risky, but few explorers, even the auxiliary ones, were true non-combatants. That went doubly so for elite groups like Lila’s guild.

After discussion and a review of their [AI] recordings, all of the crew entered together. The seven of them decided to kill the Tier 29 variants of the shadow creatures that were congregating around light sources, collecting the shards as they went for the seven days it took the crew to complete the strange realm.

Matt was relieved when the entire crew came out of the strange realm one core slot richer and without serious injuries. Things could always go wrong, even for experienced crews, and he was glad to see it hadn't this time.

Amusingly enough, through their experience they learned that if they had attacked their shadow selves, they would have started with some of their cultivation and that single skill unlocked.

Matt felt dumb at that, but it seemed like a trap and they had come out fine even if they had chosen incorrectly.

As they reentered the ever-dangerous second layer of chaotic space, Allie sighed. “I really should have put down a waypoint. I liked that world. My first proper strange area and filled with monsters that print money that don’t fight back. I could vacation there. Set up a spotlight with a zapper on it and dance as the resources rain down on me. Ohhh! Aster, hear me out. That could be a fun night club idea.”

Aster rubbed her shoulders, ignoring the latter half of what she said. “It's okay. We didn’t really have time if we wanted to keep ahead and we’ll find even more cool stuff deeper in.”

Sadly, her words proved prophetic for the wrong reason.

Before they could even reach their next world, they started picking up transmissions from behind. They were spotty bits of signal that somehow managed to cross impossibly vast distances through chaotic space and were too garbled to understand, but they were indicators of how much everyone else had caught up.

They still had a lead, but it was down to a planet or two before the worlds became congested with other explorers, and they wanted to check out the next notable world before the others arrived.
