The temple shook. A distant rumble rolled through and loosened dust from the ceiling. Isaac held his hand up, stopping the column of Azure Guards.

A short moment later, another shake, this one more drawn-out, like cascading thunder. He didn't bother wondering too long what was going on.

David and Niala. Has to be.

He looked back and spread his hand out. “We need to locate the source of that rumbling. Groups of 5, spider-web pattern.” He instructed. The soldiers behind him split into smaller groups. They resumed their progress, the groups branching out where the path split, leaving a single soldier at corners and entry ways.

If any group found something, they'd call to the next soldier in sight. The message would be relayed down the line.

Another rumbling travelled up their feet, this one closer.

And then another, closer, straight ahead.

The last one was really close. Isaac looked at the wall ahead of him and suddenly had a very bad feeling.

“GUARDS! SPLIT TO THE SIDES!” He shouted, throwing himself to the right, nearly dodging a shower of stones and debris as the wall exploded toward him.

The rubble pelted his armour and knocked him back on his ass. Thankfully, he'd only caught the edge of the spread, and the guards behind him had reacted by activating their Quick Steps.

He got up to his feet just as a house-sized shadow fell on him. He looked up to find Leviathan's giant head a hand's breadth away from him and back-stepped.

“L-Leviathan!” He yelped, on guard, before closing his eyes and letting out a breath. “Where is your master, beast?”

Instead of answering, the serpent turned his head to look behind him. Through the dust, David's form, with Niala in a princess carry, came bounding out of the new door, with Jordo on his tail.

David slowed his gallop just in front of his brother, a relieved smile drawing on his face. “Brother! You're alive and safe!”

Isaac glanced down at the new dents on his battered armour, then back up at his brother. “Yes... safe.” He squinted. “You appear in good health yourself? And Niala?”

David nodded. “Yes, but, huh, we should get out of here as fast as possible.” He looked at the Azure guards who had formed a loose defensive circle around them. Quite a few were stealing glances at Leviathan, in both awe and worry.

“Are the workers safe?”

Isaac dipped his head. “Yes, we left them with guards outside in the forest. Why?”

“No time. Call everyone back, and follow after Leviathan.” He said, nodding at his aspect, who parted his jaw in a caricature of a smile and aimed himself at the next wall between him and the outside.

Isaac cursed under his breath. “Sergeant Merton! Send the word down the web; rally on position, then follow the blown walls out. Meet outside, on the double!”

The wolfkin saluted and barked orders just as Leviathan smashed his head against the wall like a sinuous ram.

The wall didn't even look like it tried stopping him. A new sea serpent-sized hole appeared, and the giant blue beast slithered through. Isaac followed after his brother, with the guards forming up behind them.

Within a few minutes, the final wall was breached, and the sun's light shone on them once more. They waited outside until the last of the Azure guards caught up, and distanced themselves from the temple.

Before doing so, David looked up to Leviathan. “Buddy, think you can make the outer wall collapse? Maybe it'll slow it down a bit.”

The serpent bowed its head. “As you command, my Lord,” he rumbled, turning back toward the temple as the humanoids retreated to the tree line. He looked the structure up and down before coiling and slapping his giant fin-spiked tail at supporting columns.

A few well-placed and savage hits had the temple's facade crumple inward. Chunks of stone slabs piled up, blocking the way out. Leviathan surveyed his work, nodded, and followed after his master, crushing the trees in his way.

He burst out into the small clearing where the workers were hiding. Already alerted by the sound of snapping trees and worried by the returning guards coming in at a run, the appearance of his giant head sent most of them in a frightened scramble away from the beast.

It took a few minutes to reassure everyone that the creature was friendly.

Isaac walked up to his brother as he set Niala down. Without breaking his stride, he collided into him, throwing his arms around in a brotherly hug. A few manly slaps on the back, and the display of sentimentality was done.

“Brother, I am glad you are fine.” He turned to look at Niala. “And you as well, Niala.”

The catkin smiled. “And you as well, Isaac! Angeline is going to be really happy to see you back safe and sound!”

Isaac froze and blinked. “...Yes, Angeline. Well, that is for later. Now.” He looked at David. “Why were we in a hurry?”

The man looked back the way they'd come, toward the temple, and back to Isaac. “I think we're still in a hurry. We need to get away from here.” He took a look at the workers. “Can they walk? Run? They look exhausted.”

Isaac held his gaze on David for a second before sighing. “They're suffering from mana exhaustion. I gave them sips of mana potions, but we're out. If we give them a few bells, they should regenerate enough.”

The sound of cracking stone bled through the trees, coming from the temple's direction. David glanced back. “...Would a few minutes work? I don't think we have more than that.”

His brother shot him an annoyed glare. “Stop with the mystery. What are we running from? The bald ones?”

David scratched the back of his head. “Not them. It's hard to describe.” He looked at his wife. “Niala?”

“Hmm?” She turned her head back toward him, having been observing the assembled workers, looking out for injuries.

“The... thing we're running from. How would you describe it?”

She squinted, her ears twitching. “...Hungry blob.”

David shrugged and looked back at Isaac. “Yeah, sounds accurate. Hungry blob of rampaging magivore flesh.”

His brother's eyes caught at the mention of a magivore foe. “Then, we need to fight it. The only magivores are the corrupted, the fels.”

David and Niala shared a glance. “Right, huh, more on that later. I respect your sentiment, but Heartsong could only hold the blob back. Forget about defeating it with what we have. We gotta go and meet up with the coming airships.”

“The air- When? How many?” Isaac asked.

“I don't know, and I don't know. At least a day.” The dull crack of large tumbling stones sounded from the temple's direction. David looked back once. “Isaac, we have to go.”

The younger brother held his gaze on David before nodding and turning toward the guards, relaying orders to get everyone organized and moving away at best pace.

Niala stepped closer to her husband. “I don't think the workers will last a whole day of marching. Even less without food or water.”

His expression and feelings coming through the link did nothing to reassure her. “We have to. Do you have any potions left?”

“A bunch, but not enough for a hundred people. Though...” She retrieved a small red phial from her belt and handed it to David. “Healing potion. You need it.”

He looked at the offered phial and shook his head. “I'm fine. Keep it for wh-”

“Don't lie to me, David, please.” She said with serious eyes. “You've been hiding a limp ever since we got out of that room. Drink.”

He held up her gaze before his features softened. “Right, sorry, kitten. Still not used to admitting weakness.” He smiled and took the phial. “Thanks for reminding me.”

He leaned forward and planted a kiss on her head along with a slight ruffle of her hair, which she pushed into with a content smile.

Uncorking the phial, he downed its contents in one gulp and handed the glassware back to her.

He turned toward Leviathan, took two steps, and folded in half, teeth gnashing, and blacked out from the firestorm of pain engulfing his body.

A gently undulating dark sea and the sound of wood being crushed greeted him back to consciousness. It took him a few seconds to understand he was being carried by Leviathan and that it was night. He looked around and realized that everyone else was also being carried by Leviathan, save a few guards jogging alongside the serpent.

He looked up to find Niala gazing down at him, a relieved smile on her face. “Hey, trumpet. You really scared me. What happened?”

He groans. “I don't know. Took the potion, and then my everything hurt.” He meets her gaze. “I didn't know the inside of your eyes could feel pain, but there you go.” He took a look at the back of his aspect's head. “I guess this settles whether Leviathan is a materialization or not. If he was, he'd have disappeared when I went unconscious.”

With a grunt, he righted himself up to a sitting position as Niala helped him with a hand on his back.

She kept her sight on him, trying to catch the first signs of... anything. “...Is it your mana pathways? The evolved fel took a lot of mana out of you.”

He stared at his hands. “I don't know, maybe.”

She shuffled forward and pulled him into a hug. He wasn't saying anything, but the link tasted like shame.

Tasted?

She whispered to him, ears tucked down. “I'm sorry I made you drink the healing potion.”

He leaned into her and shook his head. “No, it was the right call. Couldn't know it would do... whatever it did.”

She gave him a tired smile. “Do you think you can go and feel out your pathways? See if there's something wrong with them?”

He frowned. “Maybe?”

“I don't want you to push yourself. If you think it might be dangerous, don't do it.”

His hand reached up to cradle her head. “I'll just take a look. If we need my mana, I want to be able to provide it.”

She pulled back, worry in her eyes, but nodded. She kept his hand grasped in hers as he closed his eyes and sent his mind back-flipping into nothingness.

And landed in a heap in his mana sea, a ripping headache threatening to knock him out.

He remained unmoving until some of his senses came back to him, enough to know which way was up, and willed himself back to the surface.

What he saw when his head broke through didn't make sense.

The mana siphons, though diminished in size and numbers, were still there, still draining his mana away.

But to where?

He needed a second pair of eyes. His projection floated toward the door that linked him with Niala. He pulled at it a few times until it opened on his wife, a puzzled look on her face. “What is it?”

He stepped aside and lifted an arm toward the spouts of mana lazily roaming his mana sea. Her eyes widened in surprise as he explained. “This. They were there when the fel was draining me. I figured they'd be gone. Something is still draining my mana away.”

She glanced at him, then toward the siphons, ears wiggling. “I'm not a manalogist, but... maybe those aren't mana siphons. If you had, huh, holes poked in your pathways, like drinking fangs, and you blew everything up...”

He narrowed his eyes. “...Then these might just be holes left behind?”

She nodded.

He scratched his cheek. “That would mean I'm leaking mana.”

“Yeah... we can test for that, I think. Any small magic tool should trigger if we get them close to you.”

He looked at the siphons. “If they're holes, why didn't the healing potion plug them up?”

“I don't know. Maybe they're not just holes. Maybe the fel left his fangs behind, and the potion tried to close the holes on them. Kind of like pinching the flesh around a splinter?”

She sighed. “Just a supposition. I really have no idea, I'm sorry.” She said, ears drooping in defeat.

He smiled and hugged her. “Don't, kitten. You said it yourself, you're not a manalogist.”

“Hmm-hmm. Still wish I could help you more.”

He pulled back and looked her in the eyes. “You and I both. Let's go check if I'm a mana fountain.”

She nodded, and they both returned to the outer world.

Niala fished out a small light stick, David's first success, which she now kept on herself at all times, and brought it close to David.

The light stick fizzled and turned on. She looked up at him. “Theory confirmed.”

He grimaced. “Yeah... and not good.”

“Of course it's not good! You're leaking mana!”

He shook his head. “Yes, but worse than that. The magivore blob, if Leviathan is still moving, I'm guessing it means it's chasing after us?”

She nodded, her eyes widening as she understood what he meant. “You think it's seeking you out?”

“Maybe, probably. It might be smelling the group as a whole, but it probably means it'll ignore other large concentrations of mana to chase me down.”

Niala furrowed her brow. “Then... we have to plug your holes.”

“That's a given. Got an idea how to?”

“Not... any that feel safe.” She admitted.

He sighed. “Yeah, me neither. For now, I guess we hope that Leviathan can outrun it.” He looked at the serpent and raised his voice. “What do you think, buddy? Still good to go for a while?”

Leviathan replied without turning his head. “I will go for as long as you need me to, Lord. I only wish I were faster over land and through these trees.”

David squinted. His aspect sounded... winded. “Leviathan, be honest. You're getting tired, aren't you?”

The answer didn't come right away. “...Are thoughts and body getting progressively more sluggish a sign of tiredness?”

David sighed. “Yeah, buddy, those are good signs of getting tired.”

“Then, I am sorry, my Lord. I am getting somewhat tired. I can still keep going, however. I will go until I stop.” The serpent's voice rumbled with determination.

Niala gave David a worried look. “Isaac has had Azure Guards run back now and then to keep tabs on the blob. So far, it's kept pace with us, more or less.”

He glanced toward the blob's direction. “But as Leviathan gets tired, it'll catch up.”

“Yes.”

“Then... we'll have to delay it, somehow.” He looked at his wife. “Can you weave something? A pit, or a trap?”

She looked at him. “I'm not sure.”

Seeing his expression, she explained how she had “blockage” in her mana.

He frowned. “But you managed it back at the temple.”

“With a small amount of mana, yes, and it still took me ten minutes. If I try something big enough to trap the blob... I'm not sure I'd have enough mana, nor how long it would take me, or if I'd be able to keep that mana in a single place while I purify it.”

“... That's not good.”

She shook her head. “No, it's not good. I'm sorry.”

He was about to tell her it was fine when a gust of wind ruffled their clothes and blew dust into their face.

Before he could speak, a familiar voice, sounding like shattering glass, interrupted him. “What's not good, girl?”