As for the taste? It... wasn’t bad. The problem was, again, Jake compared it to his own version of mushroom soup, which was just moss and mushrooms thrown wholesale into a bowl of water, sometimes even still with a bit of dirt mixed in for extra flavor.

After watching Jake eat, all eyes were on him for his reaction. Keerla and Solana were full of hope and expectation, while Artemis looked mischievous as hell, not even trying to hide that she’d been the one to plant the idea of serving him mushroom soup.

Alas... Jake truly didn’t have much of a choice in how he reacted. His mom had taught him too good table manners for that.

“It’s delicious, definitely better than the usual mushroom soup I sometimes eat,” Jake said, being completely honest while not seeing the need to mention he despised eating mushrooms in the first place and would never do it if not for Palate.

“I’m delighted that the Chosen of the Malefic One has such praise for my cooking,” Solana said with a big smile as she also motioned for the others to dig in.

Of course, they all added their antitoxin to the soup first, in order not to poison themselves. However, Keerla chose to be brave and didn’t fully detoxify her soup, giving the food a little extra kick.

Again, the level of toxicity wasn’t at the level where it could harm C-grades. As the crafter of the meal, the potency of the toxin was limited to Solana. Considering that, it was only to be expected that she wasn’t capable of crafting anything that could truly hurt those at or around peak C-grade.

“Who doesn’t enjoy a good mushroom soup once in a while?” Artemis said after a little while of silence. Jake guessed their two dinner hosts had purposefully given them time to truly enjoy the special meal.

“Not part of my usual palate, but certainly a novel experience,” Solana said, Jake getting the vibe she personally wasn’t a huge fan.

Keerla just nodded as she ate in silence, Jake unable to tell if her distorted face was a result of her disliking the meal or because she was purposefully poisoning herself.

Jake, feeling pressured to do so, finished his mushroom soup like a good dinner guest, consoling himself that this could technically count as training. When he was done and Jake believed he was in the clear, Artemis looked over at his empty bowl.

“Done already?” she asked, a sense of dread flooding over Jake, as he already knew what was coming next. “Perhaps you could ask for seconds, seeing as you enjoyed it that much?”

“I do have more in the kitchen,” Solana said with a big smile that Jake couldn’t refuse as he internally sighed while handing over his bowl, with Artemis full of glee beside him.

“Yes, please... and if you could also bring another bowl for Diana, I’m sure she would appreciate it,” Jake said, unwilling to go down alone.
