It was up to me to align those disparate pieces. And so, I did.

They lacked uniformity, and that prevented it all from synergizing as it should. In many ways, I was merely the captain of a large vessel, and I happened to be lucky enough to have my body. While I couldn't build more onto any of the shared work involved in my body, I could take the most broken parts and piece them together.

Over time, I pulled the shifting sands into a castle of stone. I continued crushing down, the stone crystallizing. In time, it sheened from luster, and I was made new. By the time Althea grabbed my shoulder, I almost forgot who I was or what I was doing. It took several minutes of her shouting, but I regained my senses.

Around me, light beamed down from my golem creation facility. I rubbed my eyes before shaking my shoulders. Althea gazed at me, her eyes as piercing as her rifle. After a while, I peered at her, and she took a step back. She frowned.

"I'm sorry. I know you said we can't interrupt you, but I couldn't wait anymore. You...You looked like you'd died."

I blinked, feeling at peace.

"In a way, I kind of did."

Althea blinked.

"Huh. That, uh...That sounds bad."

I smiled.

"A piece of us dies every day, making room for change. That change is life, so life is death."

She put her hands on her hips.

"Did you get stuck reading some of Torix's books about space religions? I'm letting you know right now that they get weird, and not in a good way."

I stood up before slapping my cheeks.

"Ah, man, forget what I just said. I was in full-on mantra mode."

I dramatized a chant.

"Hummmmmm."

She made circles with her fingers.

"I am zen as well. Hmm. Hawm. Hoom."

I pursed my lips.

"Him Hawm Hoom?"

She raised her brow.

"Hoom him hawm."

I nodded in profound understanding.

"Hawm hoom him...Haw."

We laughed as mana glowed over me. I grabbed one of my wrists, inspecting my arm.

"For real, I was actually working on a skill."

She brightened.

"Oooh, did you get it?"

I rolled my shoulders.

"I think so."

She flipped onto my shoulder.

"Soooo, what's it called?"

I peered at her, the many minds swarming within.

"Infinity."
