I gave it a tight smile.

"How about no."

"Hm. You haven't even forgotten that singular attempt at your life? How petty."

I tilted my head.

"I guess warping people into black holes isn't even a big deal, really. And for the petty thing, it's how people get by. I'm no different in that."

"Perhaps that is the case with other people. You, however, are no person. You are a thing."

A bit of anger rose in my chest, but I held it down. The AI bobbed about.

"Ah, was thing an insult? Perhaps I will call you Harbinger. That uniquity is part of why your requested legendary skill is so utterly difficult to compose. Matter Conversion is a common component of many legendary skills. Your usage of A Manifold Mind isn't nearly as common, but it isn't necessarily unprecedented. Temporal Dilation or its derivatives are also a commonly fed component."

The AI created a Venn diagram of three different circles by tracing an outline using its body.

"Yet your method of applying Temporal Compression is entirely unique. It shares more in common with an unknown skill than a mythical one. Despite that faucet of its existence, you wish to fuse it together with other skills. It will require the further donation of resources."

I frowned.

"Such as?"

"The unknown compendium."

I narrowed my eyes at the AI.

"So you're here to rob me? You should've just said so."

My runes glowed.

"I can just leave if you want to handle my situation like that. The unknown compendium isn't something I want to waste on a skill like this. I'll carve the path on my own."

The AI trembled before a strange presence overcame the little guy. A cold, calculating pressure descended, and the familiar voice of Schema arrived from the little guy.

"Daniel. It's good to see you're progressing so nicely. Also, I'm sorry about your father. I wish the situation played out more in your favor."

I clenched my jaw and spoke through gritted teeth.

"Ah...I love the spying and personal comments about my family life. You really do know how to cheer someone up."

The AI trembled, but not from my words. It could hardly contain a tiny fraction of Schema as it spoke.

"I wish I could argue, but perhaps it's better to let the issue rest. I do mean what I've said. To be torn down by your creator is difficult. Even a cold, unfeeling AI understands that conflict of interest.

I frowned before letting my animosity go.

"Then...Then thanks. I'm hoping your issue wasn't as volatile."

"That would be a matter of perspectives. As for this compendium-related issue, the AI isn't lying to you."

I relaxed before crossing my arms.

"If you think about it, that kind of sounds like something an AI would say. A lying one at that. Hm. Are we two for two now?"

"In scoring terms, you have zero points in a competition that doesn't exist. Tell me, Harbinger. Do you only speak with sarcastic jabs now? Should that be the case, it's quite the downfall in your communication skills. I enjoyed your directness."

I took a breath and calmed myself down.

"I reserve sincerity for the sincere."

"In a world where all chose that path, then all would be inauthentic. To receive what you covet, you must oftentimes give before you will get. In that way, the world reflects the one who views it due to their perspective."

I mulled over his words. I let out a sigh.

"Alright. I'll need to use both compendiums for this skill, then?"

"Yes. It is required."

"Can you at least tell me if the skill is worth the investment?"

"This will be your most powerful skill by far, so I would argue yes. Ultimately, that decision is yours to make."

I let my hands flop against my sides.

"Ok. I'll do it then."

"Good luck, Harbinger. Also, this counts for your yearly visit with me."

I reached out a hand.

"Ah, then wait one second. What the hell did you mean in that note during my tree upgrade?"

The AI's presence left its puppet, and reality decompressed. I shook a fist in the air.

"Oh, ok, you lecture me on giving before I get something. Well, what about telling me what the hell's going on, you damn hypocrite."

The AI swirled back to the ground like a falling airplane. It whispered.

"That was a distressing amount of data usage. I think I might shut down. I...I can see the end of my hard drive."

I rolled my eyes.

"A hard drive? How would that signal your death?"

The spark fizzled back up.

"It's a matter of growth. If you understood your final limits, would that not be a kind of death?"

I smiled.

"Emphasis on only being a kind of death, not the real thing."

"Tomato. Toe-mah-toe. It's somewhat proximal, so I'll just lump them all in together. See? That's what you mortals do, and it's frustrating."

"Are we ever starting the training?"

"Fine, fine."

Do you wish to use your unknown compendium?

Y/N

I winced while selecting yes. As I did, the area around me rematerialized back into the golem creation facility. The AI whirled around.

"I am now at full power. Feel the wrath of my might."

It gave me a series of oh-so-effectual zaps. I pointed at the AI.

"I'm renaming you Spark."

It shook in outrage.

"How dare ye. Anywho, how about we begin?"

I cracked my knuckles.

"Let's."

Wielding the altered area, I remade my my golem creation facility, the place like an office for me at this point. Once within, I sat cross-legged at its center once more.

"I'm ready when you are."

Spark hummed.

"Begin by immersing yourself in your internal world. It should prove simple given how empty that head yours is."

I made circles with my fingers.

"Almost as empty as your hard drive."

It was a sick burn, trust me.

Lining everything up, I submerged myself into channeling my elemental furnaces, slowing time, and having many minds set on the task. The sheer amount of mana within me exploded into a coursing, writhing river. My stillness eliminated the burden of the rifts I hauled around, and I wielded Baldowah's Dimension as mana to amplify the furnaces and establish the temporal dilation.

This opened up all my mana for the task at hand. Taking a breath, I dove my psyches into my dimensional wake. My minds writhed. Having so much of myself dispersed in my dimensional wake left me as a mere shell of myself, and I hated it. As the power flow settled into my cipheric augments, I held down the desire to escape the time magic.

Instead, I leaned into the discomfort and alien perspective. I forced down my natural inclination to fight the sensation of loss, and I fell deeper into a meditative state. My psyches operated in tandem, all of them specializing in certain aspects of the process. Through specialization, I garnered greater gains.

Three minds refined my mana, making it pure and clean. Another three minds channeled the energy into the runes with accurate, precise direction. A set of psyches contained the flow, preventing even the slightest leak. Another two Daniels even helped direct the flow of improvements, further enhancing efficiency.

Two more minds operated on another angle of progression by investigating the elemental furnaces. They dove into how I siphoned mana from ancient relics. By feeling out the process of burning matter, they gained an elementary understanding. We were unable to sense the splitting of atoms, but we could sense the smallest milligrams of my body being swallowed by the incantations.

I explored the depths hidden within, and it gave me an extensive appreciation for the intricacy involved. This was no simple thing with a step or two involved. The elemental furnaces took several seconds to splinter the matter within generated subspaces before containing and redirecting the resulting kinetic energy into usable, pure mana.

They reminded me of windmills churning a breeze into power using turbines. However, the energy conversion defied anything I'd ever done. The intricacy required an atomic level of precision to master, and it awed me while lighting a fire in my chest. If I mastered this ability, I could turn my regeneration into far more energy than I currently did.

Diving into that process, I found the secret rested in my perception and boldness. If I could perceive materials at an atomic level, then I could begin the process of tearing atoms apart. The ensuing chain reaction could fuel the right setup. In that case, I'd become a walking nuclear bomb at worst or have a star's energy at my disposal in the best-case scenario.

The process of nuclear fission would be my next goal, though it's difficult to even imagine that kind of precision. Honestly, I'd need to talk to Torix about the science behind everything. He could enlighten me as to how it all takes place because my generalizations wouldn't work on something this specific and precise. Besides, the necromantic lich loved researching various sciences since his mind was like an ever-absorbent sponge. Alas, I dreaded having to pass one of his classes.

As for the boldness part, I could also carve the elemental furnace's runes onto my skin. A part of me understood that prospect as obvious madness. Lunacy. In many ways, it was a crazy, passing thought. Another, far stranger side of myself found a path to power nested within the insanity. The truth likely lay somewhere between those two opposites, like a delicate dance of genius between sanity and absurdity.

Having Matter Conversion and a Manifold Mind operating at full blast, I had one last piece of my legendary skill's puzzle: time magic. The other nine minds left wallowed in my dimensional wake, holding no definite form. Despite the difficulty of the undertaking, I found a feeling of peace during the magic that I never experienced before.

That stemmed from the weeks of Shalahora's training. Having danced the edge of life and death many times, I fully understood what a true psionic death was. My time magic was far from it. Though changed in form, the minds in my wake reflected my soul-changing form. In that way, they mirrored entering a new body, but instead of a physical rework, this was a mental remodeling.

That's why it was terrifying. It changed me to my core, and that, in and of itself, felt like dying. However, I never passed away from the process. I changed, and becoming comfortable within that discomfort could create enormous, sweeping gains. I had to let go of being only a physical being and perspective. I had to be more.

And I'd still be me. It was the same as whenever I liquified. I didn't feel fear. I simply changed with the assurance that I could return to my preferred form whenever I pleased. It was a temporary state I used to achieve my goals. In that regard, my blended psyches weren't any different.

By accepting the disharmony and chaos, I achieved a similar kind of confidence in that blurred mental state as I did in my everychanging body. As I settled into those realizations, my altered form exposed me to profound depths. I swam in dark waters I'd never seen but always wanted to find.

Within the sea of blended minds, I began understanding lines of coherence. They danced in and out of existence, holding creativity and secrets I couldn't create using a normal human mind. In that same regard, the ethereal brilliance left me the moment I returned to normal. I'd have to find a way to keep those epiphanies.

While I altered my mental form in my wake, I found better control of my time magic using those strange, sparking lines of thought. Though unfocused and misaligned, having any sense kind of sapience gave me a sense of where and when time-shifted. Instead of only compressing time, I gained the ability to thin it into a diluted form.

This process slowed my experienced time, leaving the outer world moving faster. After a quick chat with Spark, the AI-generated a holographic world around me. When slowing my time, the world hastened, causing sounds to elevate in pitch and objects to shuttle past me in a blur. People walked by at running paces, their forms shaky and jittery. The clouds flowed by at an accelerated pace above my head.

This gave me an appreciation for time itself. If I were to achieve temporality's sheer magnitude and grace, I'd need to find my own harmony as well. As the days turned into weeks, I came closer and closer to that rhythm, and my channeling changed. I molded the area around me, my wake able to enact its will onto space itself.

Hauling the dimensional anchors gave me this ability, my spatial weight overwhelming a tiny zone around me. It was as if I pushed onto the laws of spacetime. As I did, spacetime bent to what I willed. This deepened my mastery of time. It wasn't enough to even move pebbles off my will alone, but it gave me a kind of pressure.

That force counteracted the constant constraints bearing down all around me, from time to gravity to all aspects of nature. As I deviated from the laws around me, I was able to deepen the impact my magic had. To touch this ineffable concept, I had to accept the blended minds within my wake.

I uncovered hidden meaning in the chaos, and I meditated on what shifted in the ether. Instead of fighting the experience, I relished my good fortune to happen upon it. This was more than a simple skill. It was an opportunity to see the universe differently. Exposure to that shift elevated my perspective instead of taking away from it.

As the weeks turned into months, I didn't move an inch. I remained in my sanctuary, sheltered from the worries of the world. I gained a resonance, my thoughts flowing from mana to matter to mana again. Using the lessons learned from Schema and Spark, I found the flaws in my form. My personal AI guided me in correcting the Frankenstein my body and mind had become.

From misaligned mana flows to disparate densities to incongruent thoughts, I honed them all down. It was a result of my rapid and utter progress. Over time, I had become a messy hodgepodge of many upgrades. Schema's augments, Baldag-Ruhl's carapace, and the implanted knowledge from Old Ones all raised me up, but they chose different paths to do so.

