Sheom owned an orange coat of smooth skin, yellow streaks embroidering her joints. She wore no armor, most metals melting in magma. She wasn't as lean as Chrona either, her limbs more muscled than even Krog. She shifted with a sense of power, something driving her beyond the desire to fight.

She was here to prove a point.

"Here is the returning champion, Sheom Makarath!"

I analyzed her as the gialgathens roared in applause.

Sheom Makarath, the Living Landshark(lvl: 12,419 | Species: Gialgathen) - Sheom has a long and vivid history as an activist. She believed the most of anyone that the espens needed the guidance of gialgathens during their development. She was pivotal in forming policies to share more advanced magics and educational texts with espens before they were fully freed.

Sheom assisted with the war effort as well, showing her skills as a warrior of great renown. Using a flowing, winding style of fighting, she used her own mana reserves to melt stone for magma to flow through. She would dive and dash through the ground, erupting earth magics of all kinds to pepper her opponents.

This was distinct from her impressive offensive prowess. She tutored Krog Borom as well, his flowing style reminiscent of hers.

Be careful of her attacks, and you should be able to defeat her given time.

She stepped over the liquid magma, walking over the liquid with ease Along her back, her horns grew to massive size, mimicing a sharks fins. As she stepped onto the steel, she lifted her head and roared out. A pulse of fervor rippled across the gialgathens, my own adrenaline spiking. There was a bit of magic in her noble voice. I was sure of it.

"Now that's how you make an entrance!" Kiki shouted. "As for her opponent, we have someone who needs no introductions - The Gray Giant."

I jumped forward, stone cracking under my heels. As I shot through the air, the crowd roared in applause. Landing onto the arena with a dull thud, I stood up tall, my arm raised in triumph. I took a deep breath, rolling my shoulders while staring at Sheom. She met my gaze, cold fury in her eyes,

"It's good we meet, murderer."

I grimaced, remembering Delilath. I wasn't going to argue with her before the fight, so I stayed silent. She continued,

"I imagine you believe this battle will be a simple war of attrition as your others were? I fear not. I learned from them. I'm not underestimating you just because you walk on two legs. I will face you with all my might at once, filthy dirtwalker."

I glanced back and forth at the lava, "Don't you swim through dirt?"

She lost all the bite in her voice, my retort quieting her. She glared at me, "You'll pay for that."

I took a deep breath, rolling my fingers in my hands, "I won't. This won't take long."

I meant it too. I took a bit of time to think about a way of shortening the duration of this fight, and I figured it out in spades. Sheom glared at me, unconvinced of my tactics.

"We shall see about that. Gods give me strength to trample this defier."

Kiki rubbed his hands together, a grin on his face from ear to ear. He took a deep breath and announced, "Now this is how battlers should speak with one another before a big fight. There's nothing wrong with a healthy rivalry after all. Now, are both combatants ready to battle?"

I gave him a nod, welling mana into my palms. Sheom did the same, preparing to dive into the magma.

Kiki raised a hand, "Begin!"
