“Maybe we just got used to the ones we used on the trip to—”

Sirens broke their conversation and the peacefulness of the night. One screamed from just overhead on the rooftop of their building. In an instant, the Robertses were down the hall in Irina’s room, and Ekaterina was wrapping her arms around the little girl, who was covering her ears with her hands and howling her own confusion and fear back at the sudden noise.

“What is this?” Ethan asked, as they stood there staring at each other over their daughter’s head.

Disaster messages started to roll in, only to be interrupted by a more personal one.

[Emergency teleportation to a safe location is recommended for your child. Teleportation will be available shortly. The Triplanetary Government urges you to accept. Caretakers and comforters, bound by contract to their duty, will be on site to greet children as they arrive.

When you are ready to consent to the teleportation of your child, please select ‘yes.’

YES]

“Yes.”

“Da.”

They were both silent for a single second.

“I’ll…I’ll get some things packed for her,” Ethan whispered. “In case it doesn’t mind sending them with her.”

While he rushed around the room, stuffing a couple of beloved toys and favorite clothes into a small green backpack, his wife sat on the edge of the bed, consoling Irina with pats and whispered words. Explaining what was about to happen.

A few minutes later, the little girl was gone.

Her mother stood on a turtle rug that covered a scarred patch of floor, her arms suddenly empty.

“This is the right thing,” Ethan said. “We both definitely know an emergency teleport isn’t something you say no to.”

“Yes. Our boys…”

“They’ll be fine. We’ll find some way to call. But the CNH campus should be safer than almost anywh—”

He stopped speaking as his interface flared a bright red.

[EMERGENCY ORDERS ISSUED. No summons incoming. You are already at the location of your assignment.

ORDERS: Persuade Avowed inside Nilama Apartments to follow Contract orders and evacuate. Do not use force or threats of force against other Avowed for the purpose of completing this assignment. Do not leave Nilama Apartments until all Avowed are evacuated or new orders are issued.

Refusal is not allowed. Payment will be…]

“Ethan…you have a red ring of light over your head.”

“You do, too.” He was still reading the assignment. “I have to persuade our neighbors to listen to the System, without using force. Most of them will do it on their own, but how am I going to make Mr. Wei leave? He hasn’t left 509 since before Lexi was born. What kind of order is—?”

“You just have to talk to the neighbors?!”

“Why? What do you have to do?”

“I have to rip a bunch of equipment out of a boat in the marina and then run with it across the city!” She looked down at herself. “All right…I can…it’s not too hard. But I should probably put on some pants.”

******

******

Lawrence, aka Skiff, polling as the number one most popular hero on the Chicago team since February and enjoying a contract-stipulated raise as a result, had recently bought a historic six-bedroom house near Montrose Beach. He’d thought…hoped…that the promise of a ton of space and spare bedrooms would lure his parents or his older brother into more frequent visits.

So far they hadn’t come. Christmas could happen, though. Maybe.

Saturdays were always crammed with events, so he had to wake up hours before dawn if he wanted a little personal time. He ate a cold beef sandwich in his new formal dining room and watched a recorded broadcast from Madrid on his interface while he answered fan mail. Chicago kept telling him to let an assistant do this, one who would PR the letters to death. And the Anesidoran government funded a service for high profile Avowed that would also do the job—better, faster, and more subtly—if he wanted his fans PR’d to death in a slightly different way.

But no. Emails and hand-written replies from the real Skiff were going to be a thing.

Even though he was behind by a few months.

“Look at him,” he said in annoyance as a familiar face appeared on the broadcast. The man was modeling one of Madrid’s new hero ensembles. It was hoopoe inspired. So fun. “Sebastian, you dumb jerk. SMILE. They gave you a feathered cape and a headdress, and you look like you’re at a funeral.”

His old roommate swished the cape half-heartedly, and Skiff rolled his eyes before shutting his interface off so he could focus.

That reminds me, he thought as he turned his attention back to the letter he was writing, I have to talk to that company that wants to sell ‘Skifflops’ about renaming them if they want me to take them seriously.

He finished five letters, writing quickly. As he was approaching the end of the sixth, there was a loud banging on his door. At this time?

It was way too late, or way too early if you looked at it that way, for it to be for normal job reasons. Something had to be wrong.

Why didn’t they just call?

He stood up, but before he could leave the table, a wash of false red coated the room, courtesy of his interface, and he dropped his pen in surprise.

[EMERGENCY ORDERS ISSUED]

“Fuck.”

It had happened. He was going to another planet. And not for an awesome money-making adventure with some wild wizards like a couple of years ago. Emergency. The real deal. They were going to make him fight something. A demon. An evil wizard. Or de-flood something awful like a chemical plant full of toxic magical fumes.

I’m wearing board shorts. They have to gear me up for emergencies, don’t they? If there are fumes I get a gas mask? That’s their responsibility.

Now Mom will be sorry she didn’t come see the new house when I begged.

[Summons to Nilama Family Neighborhood, F-City, Anesidora

Teleport in 9s…]

“Huh? I’m going home?”

Nine seconds later, he was gone.

The letter he’d left on the table, almost done, was in reply to a little girl whose sister had died in a car accident.

“Why,” she’d asked, “didn’t the System save her? Why didn’t it send you to stop the other driver? My Mom says it doesn’t work like that, but my Aunt says it could if it wanted to.

“I hope my letter doesn’t bother you. I went off the high dive at the pool because I saw you talk about how not to be afraid of that on Skiff Says. Please write back.”

***

Dear Tanwyk,

I’m proud of you for going off the high dive. And for being brave enough to ask hard questions.

And I’m so sorry about your sister.

There aren’t any answers that will make you stop missing her and feeling sad about what happened. And I’ll probably only be able to tell you things you already know.

The System is a very amazing part of our planet. It allows us to talk to the rest of the universe, and it gives us a way to learn about people we would never in a thousand human lifetimes be able to meet without it. You may have heard of the Artonans using it to help during serious disasters. Or you may have heard that on Anesidora, where most Avowed live, we use it the way people here in Chicago use ambulances—to get to the hospital when we’re hurt or get to safety when we’re in trouble.

Because of agreements with the Triplanets and the System, Earth gets teleportation allowances for humans to use in all kinds of different helpful ways. Anesidora has a larger allowance than most places, but even Avowed can’t always teleport whenever we’d like. There have been times when the allowance was used up, and there was no more left for people who needed help.

That’s always very hard.

A hopeful thing to think about is the fact that the teleportation allowances have been growing ever since the System first became a part of Earth. On Artona I, II, and III, they have teleportation centers and alcoves all over the place.

Someday, Earth might be like that. And you may be able to use the System for a trip to the other side of the world yourself, just because you’d like to travel. And we’ll be able to save more people who need help.

But for now, I try to remember that the System isn’t strong enough to fix everything, everywhere. And it’s not meant to do that for us. It has important jobs to do that we can’t always imagine…

******

******

[OFFICIAL ORDER: Apply Life Jacket spell impression to designated human beings. Not objects.]

“Are you sure? If I make a sunken boat float again a lot of people can ride on it.”

[I am sure.]

“It’s sure,” Jeffy reported to the others who stood in the warming room that had been set up in the TC for cold, wet red halos who were in between tasks.

“Does he get paid extra for every individual order it has to issue?” a man murmured in Chinese.

“Is that the most important thing right now?” someone else said in the same language. “He’s actually good in the water.”

[OFFICIAL ORDER:  Rescue people from flooded location and direct them toward shelter. Follow instructions from assigned partner.

Teleport in 6s.

Teleport is directly into water.]

“Yesenia!” Jeffy said to the woman beside him. “The tel—!”

“Yes, Jeffy. We’ve got this,” she said, winking one aquamarine eye at him.  “Brute divers go!”

******

******

It was a summer night at LeafSong, and the hungrycup flowers were feasting on the members of the klerm swarm that hadn’t been repelled by the spells coating the campus. Their staccato screeches were almost loud enough to drown out the conversation of two wizards who strolled a pathway between darkened buildings.

“An ancient Sinker Sender, almost certainly driven by half-witted humans feeding it nonsensical directions, fragmented into minute particles and ejected into the ocean of a foreign planet by a shield built on reversal theory rather than nullification…”

The speaker clicked her throat in a mix of interest and disapproval.

“It sounds like a problem from one of Exalted Master Gyako-tim’s proving tests,” her companion said. “Do you remember how we set aside a room just for moaning that year?”

“The screams. The stress sweat….I think discussing the response of the nascent Contract will be a good topic for the winter meeting.”

“Maybe. We’ll see when it’s over. Right now, I’m just hoping that this somehow leads to the loosening of summoning restrictions on the species rather than even tighter ones.”

One of the campus’s automated carts approached from behind them and then passed. The lone first year student riding in it didn’t look their way.

“Wasn’t that…?”

“Yes.”

“Where is he going in such a hurry at this hour?”

******

Sina Stu-art’h stepped off the cart and headed toward the domed, windowless black stone building. He didn't pause to properly straighten his student uniform, and when the door opened for him, he didn’t hesitate to head around the curved hall that formed the hot lab’s perimeter.

“Young Stu-art’h,” said Worli Ro-den, looking up from his desk as the Primary’s son entered his office. “You must have so many questions about your class’s recent exploration of the fourth bowel of—”

“You aren’t answering your messages in a timely manner,” Stu-art’h said in a rush. He leaned over the professor’s desk.

Ro-den’s eye flicked behind his monocle. “The last message you sent was a mere four—”

“And I don’t think anyone else on campus will come deliver news to you when that news might help you to shed a portion of your great shame.”

“You are such a charming conversationalist. I’ve missed an opportunity by not chatting socially with you before.”

“Something is happening on Earth that puts many Avowed at risk,” said Stu-art’h. “A large magical spill of some kind in their ocean. Volunteers are gathering in the Grand Senate’s inking hall now to be sworn to task. If you head to the summonarium immediately, you will arrive in time to join them.”

Ro-den froze.

“It must be difficult for you to commit highly visible acts of service to the Triplanets while monitoring student explorations of fourth bowels,” Stu-art’h said, staring at him.

“Well…that’s not untrue. But why would you—?”

“I brought you a cart.”

*******

*******
