Jake knew he would eventually have to make the Legacy of the Malefic Viper more his own than it was right now. Sure, one could ascend to godhood while riding on the coattails of a far more powerful god. In fact, it was easier to ascend that way, but it also nearly always resulted in one never being able to ascend beyond the god one initially followed. Jake was fully intent on not only matching but one day surpassing the Malefic Viper, and had always planned to fully lay claim to the Malefic Viper’s Legacy.

But... going full Harbinger of Primeval Origins felt like a step too far. Primeval Alchemist of Malefic Origins was still taking a noticeable step away, making the Legacy more his own, but it was far less extreme. A middle ground between simply staying with the status quo and going with Harbinger.

One day, Jake would have taken everything worth taking from the Viper’s Legacy and fully assimilated it into his own Path, but he wasn’t sure that day had to come quite yet.

Everything else being equal, even if Jake was selfish in most things, he did consider the effect on those around him capable of tipping the scales. He also had some qualms about Harbinger that made him reluctant to take it.

He feared the leveling would make it incredibly difficult unless he went on a spree to spread his Primeval Origin Energy across the multiverse. Jake knew there were a lot of factions who would want him to do precisely that, but Jake didn’t feel like it fit who he was.

It was weird to say, but he wanted every instance of him creating or helping evolve another living being to be special. The only exception to that so far had been the Demon Prince, and out of all the times Jake had used his Primeval Origin Energy, that one still felt like the most questionable from a personal perspective.

Sure, Jake technically didn’t have any inherent karmic connection to the creatures he helped, but that didn’t mean he wanted to splurge out Jake Juice all across the multiverse irresponsibly just to level up fast.

With Primeval Alchemist, he could instead focus more on regular poisons and being Villy’s Heretic-Chosen while still making all his Primeval Origin Rituals special.

Also, deep down, Jake wanted to stay an alchemist. Harbinger would slowly take him away from classic alchemy, and while Jake could probably force it to remain a core part of his Path, he didn’t want to force it. He liked alchemy. It was fun. Challenging.

A fundamental misunderstanding many still had about Jake was that he lived only for combat. That wasn’t even remotely true. Jake lived for the challenge. He loved facing difficult challenges and overcoming them. That’s also why the Puzzle Box remained the greatest gift of his Chosen Ceremony by a landslide.

Alchemy was challenging, and Jake liked seeing the fruits of his efforts when he finally finished a good concoction. The satisfaction only grew when he then took that hard-earned poison and used it on an enemy, also taking down a challenging opponent.

One more concern Jake had about Harbinger before not long ago, was that choosing Harbinger would make it harder to see more of the First Sage, but now he believed it was possible with both professions. Primeval Alchemist would likely be better at it, though, due to its connection with Villy.

Again, Harbinger of Primeval Origins remained a fully valid choice, and if Villy wasn’t a factor, Jake could legitimately have ended up just flipping a coin.

Jake took a deep breath and walked over to the pond. He stood there for a few moments and looked down at it before sighing. His instincts were silent, leaving the choice entirely up to Jake, and in the end, he ended up selecting the one that would disappoint most major factions in the multiverse, but also the one that Jake believed was best for now.

Oh, yeah, and one really important thing also pushed Jake to this choice... one he had neglected to even mention before now:

Primeval Alchemist of the Malefic Viper gave Perception. So was it ever really a choice in the first place?

’DING!’ Profession: [Primeval Alchemist of Malefic Origins] has reached level 350 - Stat points allocated, +125 Free Points

After making the choice, Jake immediately felt a wave of calm as he stopped questioning himself. The decision was made, and he would now just focus on all the goodies this new profession would bring as he was already looking forward to seeing the skills it-

Jake’s eyes opened wide as he felt something weird. Something off. He instinctively looked up, towards the direction Villy was observing from, as he vaguely felt whatever was happening had a connection to the god. Yet it didn’t.

He had planned to wait until after he was done evolving to talk with Villy, but this weird feeling made Jake speak up immediately.

“Hey Vil-“

’DING!’

Jake was interrupted by the sound of a familiar notification he’d just heard moments prior as he stared, and before he could even fully comprehend what had happened…

’DING!’

’DING!’

’DING!’
