“My lord! He’s burning up!” One guard took a water skin, spilling it atop him.

Lord Hallen pursed his lips, climbing to his feet and walking over. He knelt down, inspecting his guard.

“He is quite warm. Say, Kairon. Do you have any shade around here? Somewhere more cool?” He looked around again at the wasteland, nothing more than corrupted dark trees devoid of any leaves or brush in all directions. Then at the blazing sun in the sky. “This one’s served me well. I’d hate to lose him to the heat. It would be a favor to me, personally.”

Kairon put his claws on his hips, considering. It would also taint our lovely meal. A corpse is not what I want our new customers to remember us by.

“The only shade we have is in the citadel… I suppose there are the camps too, but my workers are a bit… territorial.” He sighed. “Frankly, I’m not willing to allow an entire squadron in our walls. Not until we’ve finished our discussion. But, as a sign of goodwill, I will permit your injured man and perhaps one other if they leave their weapons behind.”

Hector thought for a moment. “And you guarantee his safety?”

“I guarantee that no imp will harm him,” intoned Kairon, giving his troops a meaningful look.

“And the big one?”

“Vorathrex? Will you abide?”

The big demon huffed, a small pile of charred bones at his feet. “I do not consume the weak.”

“See! You have nothing to fear. Let this be a… sort of olive branch. From my claw, to your hands.”

“Alright. Aldous! You take him.”

“My lord? I hardly—”

“As my most trusted servant, who better could I ask to go?”

The old man stuttered, before wiping the sweat from his forehead. “O-of course, my lord,” he said, gaze locked on the imp warriors.

“Good! It's settled.”

Kairon slid away, before kneeling down next to Boney. “I want you and… say half a dozen warriors to go as escort. Remember, the vault can only be opened if I will it, but I still want you to watch these humans very carefully. Understand? If they try anything, subdue them,” he said only loudly enough for the warrior to hear.

“Hmph. Yes master!”

Minutes later, Kairon and Lord Hector Hallen watched the limp form of Elson being carried away atop a horse. In tow, seven warriors and one very distraught human followed.
