If he created the skill, it would become a top priority to see if the Empire could recreate the skill in a rift. The only issue was that she suspected the skill would be at least Tier 38, which meant creating a rift for a specific skill was basically impossible. The price was simply too great to repeatedly destroy perfectly good rifts for. And no higher Tier planet would sacrifice one of their proven useful rifts to test the theory, even if the Emperor covered the cost himself. Essentially, they would need to find a new high Tier planet which was unpredictable at best.

It was a well-known fact that most new skills were copied by the rifts after humans and beasts had made them. If the skill was viable, it was perfected, and made a possible reward after the cultivator entered any rift afterward. The oldest records from before the last great shattering and subsequent political unification's had noted new skills coming from created rifts, but they seemed to have plucked most of the lowest hanging fruit already. And with the general lack of mana for the Great Powers, it was considered a fool's errand.

That was the commonly accepted truth, at least. But Matt’s own [Copper Skin] called that back into question. The skill had literally never been seen or heard about before, and while someone in another Great Power might have made it, it seemed unlikely that someone above Tier 15 bothered to make an inferior [Iron Skin]. Of course, there might have been some low-Tier prodigy that managed it, but she and Manny were hopeful that they’d stumbled across a new way to make new Skills.

Luna decided that she'd help Wrangle with his Aspect while she was here. He was going to be fixing his spirit for the next few centuries, since he rightly chose to save the spirit healing plant for when he made his next attempt at creating the skill, so he might as well advance in other avenues.

Luna saw Kyle fall, and used a fraction of her power to ensure that the boy would land safely in the sludge.

Seeing how the sun was beating on her charges, Luna also flexed her will to slightly remove some of non-visible light in the surroundings. Not enough to be noticeable, but she'd increase that protection as the day wore on, so they avoided the worst of the heat.

She was going to force them to do mana manipulation training as a break after this. They needed to hydrate, and the break would make the next workout harder.

Luna got a reply on her damned AI and smiled.

Purrfect.

Erwin had finally answered her, and was willing to suspend his own research for a while to see Melinda and Matt.

That would be a good break after this, where they could all reach the peak of Tier 6 and then start delving Tier 8 rifts.

Luna wanted them fighting up three Tiers by Tier 9, and they had a lot of work to do to reach that point.

She was also limited in the time she had with Melinda’s team before her influence started to do more than bend the rules. So it was good that he was available, and she didn't need to go track him down and rip him out of whatever hole he found himself in. Erwin could get lost in a rift for decades if it was interesting enough, and him replying within a year was already a good sign.

Luna noticed as Sam started to try and use her burgeoning Concept to stop the insects' attacks. How she convinced herself that they were poisonous enough to slightly affect the projectiles Luna wasn't sure, but that was good lateral thinking on her part.

Things were going surprisingly well.
