Even with Melinda trying to give direction, the two teams were unable to effectively coordinate an impactful defense. With that lack thereof, the mass of beetles soon flanked them, and they were quickly surrounded, fighting back to back.

To everyone's horror, even Sam’s poison was unable to affect the beetles for long. The most effective method they had was her and Aster teaming up alternating their elemental attacks. The beetles were killed as they changed back and forth, but after a few successful skirmishes, the beetles turned a blue and green mix. Then, neither attack was particularly successful in killing the monsters. The best either of them could do was slightly weaken them.

Matt wanted to yell, but he didn't have the time to do so. With the nine of them, they had more than enough elements to rotate through and kill the beetles, but their attacks all landed in separate locations. Or worse, they attacked the same monsters twice, which just wasted mana.

Melinda had started an AI group to coordinate their attack. It helped, but they were still getting crowded, as the two teams failed to anticipate each other's actions. Matt, Liz, and Aster were used to doing their own thing in a battle, and completely failed to react to Melinda’s rapid orders. Even in the war, orders were more big picture and not individual.

They had researched both normal summoners and the elemental beetles last night.

A normal summoner used the Tier 14 skill [Summon Mana Monster], which created a copy of a monster they had killed before from its corpse. That monster was then recorded in the skill structure for future use. The base number of recordable monsters was five, while the skill could summon three monsters at once unless it was modified.

Since they were able to damage the constructs, Matt assumed that Wrangle was lowering the Tier of the monsters that they were fighting somehow. But he hadn't seen that listed in the information pact they bought.

The packet detailed a skill called [Barrage], which was a meta-skill that only affected other skills, and was cast in conjunction with them. It increased the number of effective casts by a multiplier, based on the skill it was coupled with and how that skill was expanded with mastery. The example given was [Barrage] cast with [Fireball]. Instead of one fireball, you could have five for a minimal, percentage-based increase in initial mana cost.

The skill was incredibly valuable, and the more they learned, the more they were impressed with Wrangle's achievement of creating the skill for himself early.

But the fact that there were thousands of monsters boggled the mind. Wrangle shouldn’t be able to summon that many monsters, unless his custom [Barrage] allowed him to create more than the normal skill would have. Even if he could summon them, he shouldn't be able to control that many. Summoners rarely went for numbers because of the mana cost to summon an extensive amount was untenable. They also needed to split their concentration for each cast of the skill.

The fighting continued, but they were eventually overwhelmed. One by one, they fell.

Matt’s armor helped him last the longest, but eventually even it was overwhelmed. When a beetle clamped its pincers around Matt’s actual leg and shook him, he found himself sitting with the rest of his friends, off to the side next to Luna. She was looking down at a watch on a chain.

She tsked as she put the watch away in her breast pocket. “Seven minutes and eleven seconds. Two hundred and fifteen kills against Tier 7 summons.”

The short woman met their eyes one by one. “That's far worse than I expected. Clearly, we need to back up a bit and work on our basics.”

Luna gestured up with a single hand and an obstacle course rose up from out of the sand. Or at least, what Matt thought was an obstacle course.

“We will be working on this for the next few hours, before we start a lesser program.”

She pointed imperiously and commanded, “Start climbing.”

Matt and everyone else turned and started walking, but it was apparently too slow for their trainer. From Luna’s fingertips, a small bolt of lightning zapped them all.

It went right through [Cracked Phantom Armor] and thoroughly shattered the skill in his spirit, while also locking up his muscles. To his relief, it didn't actually hurt. It was more of a tingle than any real pain.

Matt scrambled to run with everyone else.

They reached the front of the course to find ropes hanging over a pit of some kind of sludge. Whatever it was, it smelled gut-wrenchingly awful.

The smell was so bad, Matt’s eyes watered. As he hadn't reformed [Cracked Phantom Armor] in his spirit yet, he couldn’t protect himself from it either. Luna’s attack destroyed the skill structure far more thoroughly than Keith’s skill had when he trained with Liz’s brother in law.

Mathew reached out and grabbed one of the two ropes and handed it to Sam, who was closest to him.

Liz hooked the one next to Sam and swung over with Aster in her free arm. To all of their surprise, Aster appeared back on the other side. They turned to see Luna filing her nails in the air next to them.

The message was clear. No assistance allowed.

Aster just cocked her head back at Luna, and then to the still swaying rope.

Everyone paused as the difficulty of a fox with no hands crossing a pit of sludge with a rope was pondered.

No one answered, but Aster didn't seem bothered. She sent Matt a picture through their bond.

He grabbed the rope, allowing Aster to create a platform to stand on with [Create Water] and her bloodline. They looked up to Luna, who still seemed to be ignoring them, so she jumped over while standing on the platform.

She didn't reappear on their side, but the ice platform vanished as soon as Aster was off the rope.

So they could help each other, but couldn’t directly carry each other through the obstacle course.

The rest of the course was a child's playground twisted to a sadistic level. They climbed over and under swinging logs, and traversed balance beams only a finger's breadth wide that were suspended over pits with chains. There were areas that they needed to climb with only their fingers able to hold on to a ledge, and a ladder with only one rung that they needed to use to climb over thirty feet up and back down. The hardest obstacle was a section of poles sticking out of the ground five feet apart from each other. They needed to jump from pole to pole, but since they weren't in a line, they needed to stop and pause between jumps.

All the while, failure came with the threat of falling into the pit of foul sludge.

Still, the course wasn't that difficult to complete. They were Tier 6’s and well beyond mortal limits. Completing each obstacle was more tricky than hard. Particularly for Aster. The fox was faced with a new puzzle to solve for each of the obstacles a small beast couldn’t possibly complete normally. Whether through ice constructs or clever schemes with Matt and Liz assisting, the fox was expected to complete the same challenges as everyone else.

Despite taking time to work out Aster extra challenges, the whole group finished in just over a half hour, with nobody stumbling into the sludge once. Matt wondered what the point was.

Luna sent them through the obstacle course twice more. With each pass, their speed increased. Even though the armor made the dexterity focused parts of the course unwieldy to navigate, it mattered less each iteration. After their third repetition, Luna told them to strip into their under-armor clothes.

Then she tossed them each a wrist band and told them to put them on.

When Matt did, it felt like his cultivation vanished in an instant. His cores slowed their rotation until he felt like a mortal before his awakening.

Matt activated [Mage’s Retreat] to alleviate his weakness, but looked up to find Luna’s piercing, slitted eyes staring into his chest.

She met his eyes and warned, “No cheating.”

“I'm not cheating…”

All he got for his protests was another zap from her finger.

“I should have expected it, but I didn't plan for the restriction bands not working on your mana.” Luna paused for a moment. “Hmm. It must be because your mana core has nothing to do with your mana generation. It makes sense. No one else can use their mana, and it would defeat the purpose if you could. No skills or anything. Not even AI. Don’t even think about using that blasted thing. You know I’ll see it.”

Matt reluctantly dropped the skill and felt the weakness take back over.

Luna gestured once again, and a track rose from the sand.

“This is physical training. You’ll get more out of this if you don't have any cultivation—” She glared at Matt, “—Or skills to lean on. Split into pairs.

Luna nodded to the track. “That track is a one-mile circle. One person will be running a lap while the other will stay here doing burpees. When the runner arrives back here, the partners switch. As soon as any pair completes twenty laps, they’re done, and can rest until the final group is done. The last group to finish will get only a five-minute break.”

Matt looked down to Aster, who had refused to leave his side, and after finishing a count, he pointed out, “We have an extra person.”

Luna seemed unbothered. “That's fine. You three can just have two run together.”

Matt regretted opening his mouth. Instead, he moved over to the side of the track and stretched a bit. Burpees sucked, but the running was only ten miles per person. That was practically nothing.

While they stood around, Luna asked, “Do I need to start zapping you to get you running?”

Everyone started moving as Matt dropped down. He extended one leg before the other and started to do a push-up when he was zapped. Again.

As he spasmed, Luna’s voice sounded in his ear, “Both legs need to extend and retract at the same time, Matt. Don’t make me tell you again.”

Matt didn't miss Kyle, Tara, and Mathew, all also spasming.

Matt twisted until he was back in a push-up position and went to do a push-up, only to be zapped again. “The start of a burpee is the standing position. Return there to begin.”

With a growl he stood, then dropped. He flexed and did as perfect a push-up as he could manage, before bringing both his legs into his chest with one motion and jumping.

In mid-air, another shock hit him and he crumpled to the ground while Luna said, “You need to explode out of the push-up position as high as you can. Less than your full effort will not be accepted. That doesn’t just apply to burpees.”

With great concentration, he did two perfect burpees before he glanced to the left to check on his teammates. Finding them only a few hundred feet away, he wanted to curse.

How were they so slow?

Matt was wheezing hard as he finished the thirtieth burpee. A quick glance confirmed Liz and Aster were only around the quarter-way mark. His turned attention earned him a zap, which redirected his focus.

With heavy breaths, Matt focused on his form until he heard Tara ask, “How are we supposed to do this with our cultivation gone?”

The complaint wasn't what caught Matt's attention. It was Luna’s reply.

“Your cultivation is about 99.8% sealed up. That is only a seal. With practice and the right technique, you can force your cores to spin and break through the restrictions. If you can manage that, I won't stop you at all.”

They all earned a zap as they pondered that and went back to their burpees.

It felt like a year later when Liz and Aster returned. They panted heavily, but Liz’s damp shirt was nothing to Matt’s sweat-soaked one.

The desert heat was brutal, but the night's chill hadn't completely vanished, even though the air was increasing in temperature by the second.

Matt stood from his place and panted, “Can break restrictions. Something with— spinning core to— return cultivation.”

Liz panted back, “She told us as well. The faster you run, the more the restrictions slow you.”

Noticing Luna’s gaze turning to him, Matt took off on the track. As Liz said, the faster he tried to run, the more the resistance increased. It was like running into a strong wind, but without the cooling effect it would have had. Running flat out was still faster than jogging, but not by much.

He then understood the method behind this exercise. The slower you went, the longer your break from the burpees and Luna’s zaps, but you left your teammate to suffer longer. All the while, if you tried to run faster, you were resisted, and your break was no break at all.

What an evil combination.

Unwilling to let his friends suffer, Matt put his head down and pumped his legs with everything he had.

He was panting heavily as he rounded the final corner, and saw a water station set up at the end of the track.

Another break for him to make his friends suffer more. Not stopping, Matt reached Liz and Aster and saw them in different spots of the burpee. Under other circumstances, it would have been funny to see a fox doing a push-up and jumping as high as she could, but Matt was too tired to laugh.

They switched off, and Matt started to do his burpees.

By the third lap, Matt was more jogging than running. By the seventh lap, he was tasting blood in his mouth, and was forced to stop at the water station to get a mouthful of the refreshing liquid.

Their team was the second to finish, with Vinnie and Kyle finishing their lap only moments before them. The five of them were directed to a second water station under the shadow of the flying house. The shade was an enormous relief.

About ten minutes later, the final four finished up, in near unison.

Luna followed behind, and as the last four got and drank water with shaking hands, she addressed them. “Five minutes. Then we go back to the obstacle course.”

