Matt was actually thankful. The course was far easier than what they had been through.

Everyone sat quietly, sipping at a small amount of water until Luna called for them to get moving.

Matt really didn't want to get up. He hurt in ways that normally never happened, except in the few battles he had fought in that lasted all day. His arms trembled from the experience, and he was looking forward to getting his cultivation back, so his Regeneration portion could combat this fatigue.

He weighed trying to sneak a use of [Endurance], but Luna would surely be able to tell. Another part of him didn’t want to have an advantage over his friends. But the largest remaining part of him was enjoying the training.

This almost felt like when he was back in Benny’s Inn, working all day while training during any free time he could find.

He enjoyed the challenge, despite the pain.

Luna followed them to the start of the obstacle course and met their gazes with a smirk.

When Vinnie silently proffered his arm with his cultivation reducing band, Luna raised an eyebrow in question, daring them to ask.

Liz spoke up as Matt was about to. “Are you going to take them off?”

Luna’s smirk grew into a full-blown grin. “Oh no. I'll only remove them when you’ve negated the band's effect. These are staying on until then. For now, start going through the course.”

The short woman floated in the air with a cackle.

“Oh yes! I almost forgot. Wrangle here will have some ranged summons attacking you as you try to advance. Good luck. This challenge won’t stop until you complete the course twice. Though if I think you’re taking too long, I’ll add some extra incentive to get you really moving.” Luna pulled out the watch and checked the time before slipping it away.

Aster yowled and yipped, and Matt understood. She had struggled with the obstacles when she could use her ice, but now, even that was taken from her.

Mathew pointed to their right. “There seems to be a second path for you, Aster.”

They all crossed the rope, and wobble bridge for Aster, without incident. But as they reached the over-under pillars, they heard a chittering, and found an insect on a post. Once discovered, it shot out a glop of slightly acidic gunk.

To test it, Matt carefully poked the gunk on the ground. It felt like getting hot sauce on his skin. It hurt, but it wasn’t dangerous. Still, that didn't mean that he wanted to get shot with it, particularly when it was already this hot out.

Matt lunged forward. His lack of cultivation made him almost miss his jump, but he managed to save it with a desperate extension to grab the log. He pulled himself up, and immediately needed to jump again to avoid a shot from the insect on the side.

The following bar was situated nearly at his head height. Despite having easily cleared it last time, the distance was now a daunting proposition. Bracing himself, he jumped and wrapped his arms around the log. He was hauling himself up when a caustic glob hit him from another side that he hadn’t seen an insect on.

In surprise, Matt lost his grip and fell into the pit of sludge below.

The substance was like black oil, heavy and sticky. He vomited from the stench as it pervaded his senses. The taste was awful, and caused a second retching fit. Luna called out, “Climb out and start over.”

Matt worked his way through the waist-high liquid with slow steps. The only upside was that the stuff seemed to neutralize the goop from the insect’s attacks. His skin no longer burned.

After wiping off as much of the sludge as he could in the sand, Matt rejoined the others. They fared no better.

Aster got the worst of it, as her method of cleaning herself was licking. Even her hatred of her fur being dirty wasn’t enough to overcome the awful smell and taste.

Tara was the luckiest one, and made it through the logs without getting hit. But she wasn’t so fortunate on the rope climb, and was knocked into the sludge to experience it herself.

They found out that they wouldn’t be attacked on obstacles they’d already completed. So if they made it to the third obstacle, they wouldn’t be shot at for the first two on the next attempt. But when Vinnie fell at the second one, he was attacked when crossing that one once again. So long as you made it to the same place each time, you didn't have to deal with the insects. The downside was, with their tired muscles and sludge-covered hands, they hardly were able to make it past the second obstacle more than three times out of five.

The rope climb was impossible with the black sludge covering it, and Luna refused to acknowledge that. No matter their grip strength, they were unable to hold on as they had in their earlier attempts, when they had access to their cultivation.

Eventually, Vinnie had an idea. He ferried over handfuls of sand, which gave them enough of a grip to complete the challenge.

Only three obstacle sets in, they were each incredibly smelly, and not a single one of them had a muscle that wasn’t in pain.

***

Luna watched as her team struggled.

Harvest Moon's team was doing just as well, but she didn't miss the lack of vital drive in them. She might just be able to bring it out of them, as they had a good potential from everything she had seen so far. Even without Melinda’s Talent, she could see them reaching Tier 17 before they fell off The Path. With the girl's Talent, she expected them to be asked to quietly step off around Tier 22, unless they started hitting well above their Tier.

The only question now was if they could find that part of themselves that was willing to push forward. And she needed to break them down for better training in the future.

Still, it was different for everyone.

Some, like Matt, liked the challenge. She could see it in everything he did. He cracked poorly hidden smiles more as she pushed him harder. He would continue to delve into stronger Rifts because he enjoyed getting stronger and advancing.

Others were like Liz, and drove themselves to prove something. Whether it was to themselves or others didn't matter, it could be a powerful driving force. That drive was subject to more outside influences than she liked, but Luna could already see Liz transferring that will onto Matt, which would ensure that they motivated each other.

Aster was more an extension of Matt, and also loved to improve, even if the little arctic fox cared more about her looks and ice cream than the actual delving. Luna didn’t think that she would need to do much more than reprimand Aster when she started to flag. Her bond with Matt should be enough to drive her forward, if only to keep up with him.

That was an instinctive aspect of the bonds. Few that weren't beast bonds understood, but Luna knew it all too well.

That had been her own driving force, but it always came down to what drove you.

Some were pushed from behind, and some ran towards something. But you always needed a goal and the will to push through the monotony.

Most of Melinda’s team didn't have it.

That wasn't entirely true. They didn't have the amount of drive needed to truly complete The Path. Anyone who wasn't Matt needed to be delving up a full Tier by Tier 7 to keep pace with the regular schedule. A team that size would need to be pushing up yet another Tier, until at least Tier 10 rifts, where the essence per monster increased substantially. While Melinda negated the second biggest impediment of being injured, and thus having longer and longer healing cooldowns, Luna didn’t think that they had the drive to delve back to back. They’d have to do it over and over, and would have to delve many Tiers above their own for decades.

Time would always be against them.

That was why the early Tiers were the best place to get ahead, rifts were plentiful, and the cooldown time wasn't too long.

Still, Luna believed that she could force them to find that drive to advance. They were willing to improve and haven't complained too much yet.

That in itself was already a point in their favor. The only one who had complained so far was Aster, and that mainly was grumbling about how it wasn't fair since she didn't have hands. Even then, she would cut such a young child a smidgeon of slack there.

Luna wouldn't admit it, but she had messed up. She had just recreated the last obstacle course she had used, which didn’t have a portion for a beast. A stupid mistake that she had rectified, but it was an embarrassing lapse in judgment. At least the little girl got some basic creative thinking exercises out of it.

She had been out of the game too long. Too much of her focus had been on sending messages and trying to find old friends who owed her favors. That had taken up most of her attention for the travel time, and if she finished the list, the next few weeks as well. But she stopped, because while she demanded everything from her charges, she would give them an equal amount.

Besides, she had the time in which they slept.

She judged their progress and saw that they were struggling with the sludge and its slickness while climbing the obstacles.

If they didn't complete the course at least once in the next hour, she would clean and reset them. That would hopefully let them finish it in a reasonable time. She had fifteen hours of training that they needed to get through today. The first weeks would be about carefully breaking them physically and mentally.

It was why she gave out the bracelets. They sped the process up tenfold.

The cultivation suppressing bracelets were a particular type, and gave her incredibly detailed biometrics of anyone they were attached to. The design she was using was usually used for prisoner transport, as they prevented the prisoners from making their bodies smaller to remove them, but she didn't need that function.

She didn't expect them to be able to push through the restrictions of the bands. While they were weaker versions, the technique to do so usually took someone centuries of practice to even touch on, but they might be able to find the right direction now.

Even if one of them did figure it out, it was only an anti-restraint technique, more so than a boost to cultivation. Without the band, if you moved your essence manually, people maxed out at a 5% increase in power for a short time. Afterwards, they would need to let their essence recover its power.

She watched as their bodies flagged with the stress they were putting them under, and nodded slightly. The training would lose its effectiveness to a degree in the next week or so. But for now, they would make significant gains.

When they went to sleep later, she would deactivate the bands so their bodies could recover faster. Plus their need for sleep would be reduced, which would give them longer to train.

She debated increasing the strength of Matt’s band, but decided against it.

The Tree of Perfection was showing its benefits with his nearly perfect body. He was doing the best out of all of them, with the fewest minor fractures and stress tears. Melinda, who had the effects transferred over, but hadn't had the time to fully complete them, was in the next best shape. Liz and her advantage from having Tier 48 parents was a close third.

Luna knew that Melinda would be kicking herself over not finishing that conversion when they had the time, during their three month travel to this planet.

When this training was over, she wanted to see if Melinda shared that change. If she didn’t, Luna would have Moon suggest it to the girl. If his hypothesis was correct, Liz and Aster might be able to receive the same benefit, even though they had taken another aspect of the tree into themselves.

It was the magical properties that changed the soul, which couldn't work twice, but Moon believed that Melinda’s Talent could get around that restriction.

That would be a good trade.

She checked her team's help meter and frowned. Matt would need to pay more mana to counter the amount of help he was getting at this rate, if the growth was as she predicted to keep the path challenging. She hadn't expected Matt to not be affected by the band, and it meant that his mana was truly unlimited, and effectively worthless to him. The Path was meant to challenge the person traversing it. Matt was giving up something effectively worthless to himself for the help of a Tier 24, which would become invaluable in the coming weeks and months.

She didn't know how she could make the training feel expensive, and didn’t have a ready answer.

Seeing that the kids were only one more obstacle further in, Luna resisted the urge to sigh. They were going about this in the most complicated way possible, which was precisely why she had removed most of their strength.

When you could lift your body weight with a pinky, you didn't worry about the fundamentals anymore. It was a rope climb. They should be using their legs to brace themselves, not dirt.

She started using [Earth Manipulation] in the distance to modify their following training scenario. She wanted them to have to defend against Wrangle's hordes in different locations.

Luna looked to the man who was carefully aiming his summons’ shots at anyone who stalled. He was quite good at this, even if it wasn’t a passion for him.

He was impressive, and she now understood why the Empire had noticed him. Creating a skill was amazing, but the man's ambition was nearly matched by his ability. They had talked when the children had gone to sleep yesterday, and he had given her a detailed report of the skill he was trying to create.

He wanted to make a skill to permanently merge his summons into stronger variants.

The fact that he had almost succeeded was mind-boggling. If she hadn't seen the damage to his spirit, she wouldn’t have believed the story second hand.

