They had longer horns than most other Umarii that rose into sharp points, but not quite like the ones the Oracle had, which were thick and curved back around her head. They wore dark silver armor that covered nearly all of their bodies, and long cloths hung from their helmets, hiding their faces, yet there were eyes painted onto the cloth as if that were supposed to be their faces.

Were they male or female?

Luke sniffed but couldn’t tell. He normally could tell by the round things, or lack thereof, on an Umarii’s chest, or from their voices, but the thick armor and how silently they stood there made it impossible to tell. However, there was one more way Luke had of telling the difference if he could get a little closer.

Themiel made a gesture that told Luke to stay back as Serithe approached them. She folded her hands and bowed her head. “I have brought Themiel and the Hell Hound, as requested by the Oracle. I was told you would know of our visit.”

Everything seemed tense for a moment, until, without a word, the two guards stepped to the side.

Serithe looked back at Themiel and nodded, and then they came forward to follow her.

As they passed the guards, Luke couldn’t help sniffing toward one of their crotches. He huffed out. It was a male. Females had better smells there than males.

“Luke, no,” Themiel chastised and grabbed his scruff to make him come through the door before he had a chance to sniff the other one.

They entered a short hall that immediately opened into a much larger chamber. Unlike Serithe’s room, there was nothing scattered across the floor or piled up on tables. Everything looked quite orderly, and unlike anywhere else in the fortress, the ceiling was very high.

Along the walls, this room had things of fire as well, but they were very different. They were thick stone bowls with purple flames inside of them, giving the room an unnatural glow.

A single low table stood at the center of the room, surrounded by cushions. Several strange objects had been arranged upon it. At the table’s center rested a flat square board divided into many smaller squares. Tiny figures stood in two orderly rows along either side, each army mirroring the other as though they were waiting to charge across the board at each other.

Then, Luke’s gaze lifted to the far side of the room, past a bed that was much bigger than Themiel’s and had purple curtains draped around it, and out to the rear wall that opened onto a large balcony. There, the Oracle stood with her back turned to them, perfectly still.

She was dressed differently this time. Her clothes, while a little thicker than the last time Luke had seen her, draped around her more loosely, tied high near her chest with a black sash as Serithe’s was, but it was a thinner thing holding up her clothes and only loosely knotted together.

Her hands spread wide over the balcony railings, and as Luke examined her strange legs that looked more like prey’s, he noticed a thin tail poking out from a hole in her clothes, which was just as black as her skin.

“Oracle, it is Serithe. I have brought Themiel and the Hell Hound as request—”

The Oracle’s head suddenly whipped around to look over her shoulder, and Luke instantly thought she looked like a predator. Purple glowing eyes peered through black hair messily draping between her horns and over her face. And she just stared at them. But that purple of her eyes, it was so bright, and it even illuminated the white vertical lines across her face.

Themiel and Serithe both flinched, freezing in place, and Luke’s hackles began to rise, thinking they really were going to fight her after all.

“Oracle—” Themiel began.

“Ssshh,” Serithe hushed him. “She’s in her visions.”

Themiel remained tense, but crouched enough to hug Luke’s side and whispered over Luke’s growl. “Luke, quiet. Stop it.” The Oracle just continued to stare at them, completely motionless, those haunting purple eyes set on them. Themiel whispered up to Serithe, “Does she see us?”

“I’m not sure.”

“I’ve seen her have visions before,” Themiel whispered. “It wasn’t like this.”

“It’s a different kind. She gets like this when searching ends. Just wait.”

Themiel continued to rub Luke’s side softly, reminding him not to start growling again.

But Luke was nervous. She didn’t move, and that made her scarier, because he couldn’t tell what she might do. If she suddenly lunged at them, he felt he wouldn’t be ready for it, and he had seen how she was capable of killing from a distance.

But he realized she didn’t actually seem to be looking at them, more like looking past them.

Themiel whispered, “How long does this last?”

“Quiet, Themiel,” Serithe chastised in a louder whisper.

Then, finally, the Oracle blinked, and then blinked again. The purple light of her eyes slowly dimmed, and her shoulders sagged. She turned towards them, partially collapsing against the railing as her eyes became somewhat normal again, though still glowing.

“Oracle?” Serithe asked carefully as she approached. “Please, let me help you.”

“I’m fine,” the Oracle said, pushing herself off of the railing, her hooves clopping against the ground on nearly staggering steps, and despite what she had said, when Serithe offered her an arm, she took it.

Serithe guided her over to the table and helped her down against the pillows. “I will grab your potions,” Serithe said, and hurried to the other end of the room.

The Oracle remained seated but let herself lie back, her chest rising and falling with her heavy breaths. Her black hair still hung messily across her face, but her eyes moved over to Themiel and Luke. “So you came.”

“Yes, Oracle,” Themiel responded dutifully, and Luke noticed how he kept his gaze lowered, deferring to her.

“Sit.” She gestured her hand across the table.

Themiel did as she asked, obeying her just as Luke would obey him. Luke wasn’t sure he liked to see that. Luke never saw Themiel obey anyone, not even the High Council, not really. If Themiel ever did something they asked, it still was with the air that it was what Themiel was choosing, and it just happened to align. This was different.

The Oracle didn’t say anything, so Themiel cleared his throat. “As you see, Luke has had an evolution. I know it is outside of procedure, but I’d preferred to have shown you directly, without the ears of the High Council. My apologies if I’ve overstepped by taking this action, but—”

“Ssshhhh…” The Oracle raised her hand, and Themiel stopped speaking. Her lips quirked into a smile. “I’d seen this path, and had hoped it would come to pass. You going to Serithe, Serithe bringing you here, and with Luke.”

Her eyes then settled on Luke; there was a slight pulse of purple as she seemed to be looking into him. It was the same way Themiel would look at him, particularly after a strengthening, but this was different. Luke got the uncomfortable feeling that the Oracle was seeing far more.

“In any case,” she finally said, lifting her gaze from him. “I’m glad you are here. This may very well be the last time we ever get a chance to speak.”

As she was saying that, Serithe came over and placed a vial with purple liquid on the table in front of her. Serithe’s smooth motions slowed, her hands setting it down uncertainly upon hearing the Oracle’s words.

“The last time? Why is that, Oracle?” Themiel asked.

“In many of the paths before us…” Her lips rose into a faint smile. “One of us is soon to die.”
