This ring continually provides its wearer with life-sustaining nourishment. It refreshes the body and mind as well, and the wearer only needs to sleep for 2 hours per day to gain the benefit of 8 hours of sleep. The ring must be worn for a full week before it attunes to the wearer's needs. If it is ever removed, it must be worn for another week to attune it again.

Bonus: +10 to all stats

“Where can I get a ring like that?” Xuunah asked.

“Ren made it.” Frikara said. “If you ask, I'm sure he will make you one if you want."

“I'll do that.” Xuunah said and kept eating.

*

Ren had talked for almost 2 hours, and he had just finished telling Zetaya about the ghoul invasion that he wasn't invited to.

“Ren, I hate to say this; but, we should probably finish the outside walls.” Teepo said. “If we want to be done before we have to head back to Aurora.”

Ren sighed. “I guess you're right.” He said and looked at Zetaya. “I've got a really crazy plan that I'm going to start soon, and I'm going to need your help.”

Zetaya perked up and it's head stub pointed to his face.

“You might not like it, or you might really love it.” Ren said. “I'll come back tomorrow and explain everything, once I get everyone moved out here.”

The crackling fire was really loud, even with the roar of the flames all around them.

“That's right. I'm not going to be so far away anymore.”

Zetaya's head stub poked his face several times all over, and Ren laughed as it pushed him over and kept doing it.

“I'm... haha... going to counterattack!”

Zetaya didn't let up, and Ren reached down and started to tickle it's belly. It twisted around and the sound of crackling fire increased, and Ren felt an increase in happiness. Zetaya tried to bury it's head stub in Ren's neck, and he held on to the fire elemental and rolled over to get a better attack angle.

“I got you now!” Ren said and tickled it's belly.

Zetaya flailed it's limb stubs around; but, it didn't try to attack back or try to get away. Ren eased the merciless attack and just rubbed Zetaya's belly.

“You're amazing.” Ren said and picked Zetaya up to give the fire elemental a hug. The crackling fire sound faded away and was replaced by a constant low twig snapping. “Thank you for not being angry at me.” He said and kissed it's head stub. “I love you.”

Zetaya's arm stubs hugged him back, and he felt that Zetaya loved him, too. It was pure and unrestricted, and it filled Ren with a feeling so warm that it brought tears to his eyes... and the tears evaporated immediately in the intense heat of the forge. Zetaya let him out of the hug, and he reached out and rubbed the sides of it's head stub.

“I need to go, but I'll be back tomorrow.” Ren said.

Zetaya nodded and he walked over to the side of the forge and left through the big door. Once he was outside, he picked up his pet spider and looked at the forge. He remembered the huge hinges that were needed for the large main doors he had made for the county, and made the proper-sized mold for them. He poured out the proper amount and let the system make the hinges, since there was no point in making them by hand.

Ren stored the giant hinges and ran across the street to get Princess. She agreed to help once again, and with the rest of the afternoon and evening to work, they went out to the Main Gate and attached the large iron doors to the walls, then went around the rest of the county to cover the 40 foot tall walls of dirt with walls of iron.
