

The dwarf closed his mouth.

“Exactly.” Ren said and took out the large cart he'd made. He picked up the tied up dwarves and tossed them in the back. He climbed in and tied them to the side of the cart, and hopped down. He went to the spot with the cart, and looked around. There was a bunch of tracks, so leaving her there to preserve the crime scene was pointless. He picked her up gently and took her to the road. He laid the body in the back, then sewed up a cushion for her to rest on, then put her on it.

“I hope you all can get a good look at her.” Ren said. “Look at what greed and stupidity has done.” He walked around to the front of the large cart and made a handhold for himself. He sat down on the ground and wiped the tears away, then thought of Nathalia.

“My... My Lo... v... e...” Ren's voice broke up as he tried to speak. “I'm... I'm going to be a little later than I thought.” He said, and told her what had happened.

“I'm so sorry, Ren.” Nathalia said when he was finished. “What are you going to do?”

“I'm taking them to the Main Keep first, to get their identities and to register the crime; then I'm taking them to the Garrison.”

“If they really are one of the Garrison's units...”

“I know.” Ren said. “The Commander didn't order this, though.”

“How do you know that?”

“They aren't wearing their uniforms.” Ren said. “It's against regulations to take it off, even while at home.”

“So that's why you always wore it.” Nathalia said, then caught her breath. “I'm sorry, I'm distracting you.” She said. “Get going. You might catch them before they close the gates for the night.”

“The mood I'm in right now, I'll just smash the gate down and go inside anyways.” He stood up and started pulling the cart. Once he had it moving, he picked up the speed and kept a good pace going.

“We'll wait here for you.” Nathalia said.

“You can go to bed, My Love.” Ren said. “This could take a while.”

“We'll go to bed, but we're still going to wait up.” She said. “See you soon.”

Ren ran through the main part of the city and along the main road towards the Main Keep. They arrived there 10 minutes later, and Ren pulled the cart right up to the gate.

“You can't take that inside.” One of the guards said.

Ren concentrated on his Command Aura, and connected his Screaming Terror ring. “Open. The. Gate.” Ren said through gritted teeth. “These men murdered a young woman, and I am taking them to face justice.”

“Only Jogloch did. We were only there.” One of them said. The guard went around and saw the bundle of men in the back, and froze as he saw the young woman's body, laid out regally on a soft cushion.

“Open the GATE!” The guard yelled, and the gate was opened. The guard escorted Ren and the cart inside, and people leaving the Main Keep stepped aside, and gasped as they saw what was in the back. The main doors of the Keep were opened as the guard and Ren approached them, and Ren pulled the cart into the lobby. Everyone stood still as they saw a sight they never thought they'd see, a large cart in the lobby, that hauled the body of a young woman and her killers.

“Get the Scroll Mage.” The guard said to the receptionist before she could state the departments. She touched a Sending Stone and asked for the Scroll Mage to come to the lobby right away. The guard turned to Ren.

“Her main ability is Identifier.” He explained. “She can't remember any spells at all because she knows all of this information and there's no room for anything else.”

“So she uses scrolls for everything.”

The guard nodded slightly. “She even has a scribe to keep writing her spells out for her.”

Ren took the opportunity to give the guard all of the weapons and things his assailants had on them, and a minute later, he saw the Scroll Mage come down the hallway on the right side of the lobby. She was 4 feet, 5 inches tall, and had a 4 foot tall girl following her.

“What is it?” The Scroll Mage asked, and the guard had a tear in his eye. “A young woman's body, and her killers.”

The Scroll Mage gasped, and ran around the cart. “Oh, no!” She said, and hugged the body. “Poor, poor Gellian. Her father is going to be devastated.” She looked into the pile of men tied in the back. “Jogloch! You are a horrible man! She hadn't even gone for her training yet!”

“See? We didn't kill her.”

“Ren is right! You were there! You didn't stop him, or even object when it happened!”

Ren saw the scribe writing everything down. “Ask who told them to attack me.”

“It was the Lord of House Lodur, the piece of garbage.” The Scroll Mage said to Ren. “Your book brought to light how corrupt the Council has been, and he wanted to get back at you the only way he could.” She looked back at the men. “You're not going to get away with saying the orders were illegal and you weren't at fault.” She said. “You all knew exactly what you were doing.” She shook her head. “It was all for only a few platinum coins.”

Everyone gasped.

“Her life was worth a lot more than a few measly platinum coins.” Ren said, and held the tears back.

“It definitely was.” The Scroll Mage said. “She was a member of the Royal Family.”

Everyone froze, and the men in the cart started to plead for mercy and their innocence.

“Shut up!” The guard said. “You hurt us with all of your lies!” He turned to Ren. “Tell us what happened.”

Ren glanced at the Scroll Mage, who smiled, and Ren told the story of what happened, and how he came to find the body.

“If I had come across that scene...” The Scroll Mage put a hand on Ren's arm. “...I'd have killed them and not thought twice about it.”

“I wanted to.” Ren said. “By the gods, I wanted to grind them into the dirt!” He exclaimed, then took a deep breath. “But if I did that, then there wouldn't be an end to them coming after me... or justice for Gellian.”

“There will be both justice and an end; for these men and for the Lord of House Lodur.” She said. “You have seen to that.”

Ren nodded slightly, and put a hand on her hand. “Thank you.”

She shook her head. “Don't thank me for this.” She waved at the mess in front of them. “This is going to shake the very foundation of our culture.”

Ren nodded slightly again. “Exposing the corruption of the Council was easy, compared to this.”

The Scroll Mage whispered into her scribe's ear, and the scribe took out a fresh piece of parchment and wrote something on it. She rolled it up, sealed it, and handed it to the Scroll Mage. The scribe wrote something else on another piece of parchment, and handed it to the Scroll Mage as well.

“Give this to Lady Neram.” The Scroll Mage said, and handed Ren the sealed scroll. “It will destroy itself if anyone but her opens it.”

Ren stored it and the Scroll Mage handed Ren the second piece of parchment. It was a Spell of Major Healing.

“You're going to need that.” She said, and turned to the cart. “You can leave the cart and it's contents here.”

“Shouldn't I...”

She shook her head. “The Garrison isn't equipped to handle this.”

“Ma'am.” Ren said. “I will leave this in your more than capable hands.”

“No, I can't give you any more spells.”

“You sound like...”

“I'm not a Sage.” She said and walked over to him. “I'm an Identifier. I can identify everything.” She leaned in close and whispered. “Prince Charming, the Father of Fire.”

Ren's eyes widened, and she stepped back.

“This situation will be dealt with.” The Scroll Mage said.

“If you will excuse me.” Ren said, and bowed slightly. He heard several gasps, and ignored them.

“It was a pleasure meeting you.” She said, as Ren walked away.

*

The Scroll Mage smiled. “It was quite a pleasure indeed.” She turned to the guard. “Get the shackles.”

*

Ren left the Main Keep and walked out through the gate. Once he was on the road, he ran for all that he was worth. Teepo didn't say anything, though. Ren didn't stop at the spot where the cart of sand was, but continued to run home to House Neram.
