Ren ran to the workshop and went inside to find Tee-one was hammering a piece of metal for one of the braces. Ren laid out some stone bricks to make a 20 foot long mold for the metal of the bow. He poured it out to the proper thickness, leaving a little extra for the folding process. Ren didn't stop at 12 folds this time; because he wanted to make sure this was the strongest metal he'd ever made. After 20 folds, Ren finished the bow part, then made the cable to keep the tension on it. He hadn't made an actual steel cable before, but he knew it was wrapped just like rope.

After setting out several long molds only an eighth of an inch wide, he poured out the molten metal and absorbed the heat from it to recharge his Mana Pool. Ren picked up the long strands and dipped the end into the smelter for an instant, to make the end solid; then used Iron Grip to twist the strands together to make a steel cable. Once he had it twisted tight for the entire length, he dipped the other end into the smelter to hold it together, then smiled.

“That came out better than I thought.” Ren said, then he and Tee-one built the main wooden body (with the wheels and horse hookup) in the main workshop, to attach the metal pieces to. “Okay, here we go.” He said, then enchanted the bow with an Enhancement glyph (8 runes total) and thought 'Springy' and 'Tough', enchanted the moving parts with Smoothness, the trigger with Strength, and increased the Durability of the wooden body. The cartridge didn't have to be enchanted, as all it did was hold the 6 foot long bolts. The springs inside he added Toughness and Springy to, though; then loaded it with the 20 metal tipped bolts Tee-one had made, and slipped it into the mechanism of the Ballista. Ren had used his Artisan skill the entire time, so the thing looked like it was made of solid gold.

“Isn't that beautiful?” Ren asked.

“It's shiny, that for sure.” Teepo said. “And you didn't even polish it.”

“Right!” Ren said, then polished it. When he was done, the Ballista gleamed in the reflected light from the open door of the forge room. Ren stored it, and smiled. “I bet the Commander is going to be impressed.”

“If he can stop staring at it.” Tee-one said. “You're giving them a weapon they've never seen before.”

Ren laughed. “They've seen it.” He said. “It just wasn't this big.”

“What do you want me to make next?” Tee-one asked.

“How about you make a nice house for yourself?” Ren suggested. “There's lots of room behind the workshop.” He said. “Just don't build on Princess' track.”

“I don't need a house, Ren.” Tee-one said. “I'm a Dedicated Servant Crafter. All I do is build.”

“That's not true.” Ren said. “You wouldn't have weapon proficiency, otherwise.”

Tee-one nodded slightly, and Ren handed him copies of the books he'd made.

“For now, build your knowledge.”

Tee-one looked at Ren in surprise, then smiled. “That's a good idea.”

“I'll see you in the morning.” Ren said, left the workshop, and went to the house. He went inside and touched the Sending Stone for the Main House. “Hi, Ereka, this is Ren.” He said. “Can you order a thousand more bolts of tight weave fabric tomorrow? Also, I haven't talked to the people in the houses, but I'm thinking you should order furniture for them all. Tables, chairs, and beds, anything they would need.” Ren said. “For yourself and Croggart, too.”

“You're spending more money than you have coming in.” Ereka said. “That's not a good way to run things.”

Ren chuckled. “I expect to run at a deficit for about 3 years before turning any kind of profit from all of this.”

Ereka laughed. “You definitely have the deficit part down pat.”

“I never did see that sand.” Ren said. “Was there a problem ordering it?”

“No. It should have been there by now.”

Ren frowned. “I better run down the road and try to find it.”

“I can do that.” She said. “You enjoy your supper.”

“No you can't.” Ren said. “You will not go out at night alone. Your brothers would never forgive me if anything happened to you.”

“I'm a big girl, Ren.” She said. “I can take care of myself.”

“I'm not questioning your abilities, I'm questioning your safety.”

“I walk home alone every night.” Ereka said. “Well, almost every night.” She sighed. “Okay, once. I actually sleep here on the couch, now.”

Ren laughed. “I know it's comfy, but you should sleep in a proper bed.”

She nodded slightly, forgetting he couldn't see her. “I'll go home soon.”

“And I'll run down the road.” Ren said. “Talk to you tomorrow.”

“Goodnight, Ren.”

“Goodnight.” Ren said, then went into the kitchen and Nathalia and Narhilda sat at the table, waiting for him. “I need to take a quick run down the road. If I don't see anyone, I'll be back in 10 minutes.”

“And if you do see someone?” Nathalia asked.

“It'll be 15 minutes.”

“How can you be sure?”

“Because no matter what happened, I'll deal with it quickly and be back here to spend this time with you.”

“Oh.”

Ren went to Nathalia and kissed her on the lips. “I'll be back before you know it.” He went to Narhilda and she looked at him expectantly. He smiled, took her hand and he bent over. Her face fell for an instant, as she assumed he was doing the normal greeting, then he kissed her cheek.

“Be right back.” He said, left the kitchen, then the house.

*

Narhilda sat there with shock on her face, then reached up and touched her cheek where Ren had kissed her.

“What is it?” Nathalia asked. “What happened?”

“He... he made that an Honor ritual.”

“He WHAT?!?”

“He just gave me 50 Honor.”

“50? How in the...” Nathalia shook her head. “He must have registered it.”

Narhilda nodded. “I joked about it too much.” She said. “He took it seriously.”

*

Ren ran down the road all the way to the city, and didn't see anything. “I thought for sure the cart would have broken down or something.” He said and turned around. He started to run back and Teepo hollered.

“On the RIGHT!”

Ren rolled left, and ended on his hands and knees as several crossbow bolts whizzed by his head. He saw several dwarves get up out of small piles of dirt scattered by the road. He activated his Screaming Terror Ring and pointed it at them, then equipped his bodysuit and armor. Most of them started hollering and running around, and he concentrated on his Fear Aura.

“Behind you!” Teepo exclaimed, and Ren tried to roll out of the way, but a sword came down on his back and made a clang against the armor plate. Ren grunted from the impact and felt the sword slide off the armor.

“Another one!” Teepo said.

Ren fell to his side and sprayed his assailants with his Water Spray ring.

“Ha.” One of the dwarfs said. “Your little tricks won't work.” He lifted the sword over his head and Ren kicked him in the groin. He let the sword go, and it fell onto his own shoulder and slid down his back.

“ArrggghhHH!” The dwarf screamed, and knelt as he tried to clutch his groin and shoulder at the same time. The other dwarf ignored this and swung a large maul at Ren's head. Ren caught it, absorbed the impact, and used Iron Grip to crush the end. The dwarf let the mangled weapon go, and Ren threw it at his face. The dwarf was stunned immediately, and fell onto his back. His face was quite mangled from the crumpled metal. Ren stood up, smashed his fist into the other dwarf's face, and heard bone crunch. The dwarf didn't pass out, but he wasn't trying to fight, either.

“Bolts!” Teepo said, and Ren took out his shield and turned to deflect them. He enchanted it with his Grip of the Earth enchantment, and it caught the bolts as they impacted the surface. He saw the 6 dwarves try to reload quickly, and Ren stood up to face them.

Let's see how they like a blast of light. Ren thought, and concentrated on the ruby enchanted with Illuminate runes he'd placed on his chest plate. Activate!

A searing beam of red light, the size of Ren's head, shot out and hit the closest dwarf in the arm. Ren had expected a bright flash and not a beam, but the result was something he hadn't expected. The dwarf's arm burst into flame and started to crisp immediately.

“AHHHHHH!!!” He screamed as he dropped to the ground and grabbed his arm, and screamed again when he did.

“Whoa!” Teepo said. “Turn your chest to the others, Ren!”

Ren didn't need to be told twice, and turned quickly to give each of the dwarves a taste of, what Ren assumed, must be a laser of some kind. He caught a couple of them in the face, and they fell to the ground clutching their faces. Ren got one in the chest, and the last 2 in the back. They all fell to the ground, and hollered in pain. He deactivated the beam, turned to the two dwarfs closest to him, and grabbed them by their clothing. Ren picked them up easily and carried them over to the 6 crossbowmen and dropped them in the middle. He proceeded to gather the others, and piled them together to tie them up. After searching them and removing their weapons, he didn't find anything that said who had sent them.

“Who sent you?” Ren asked one of the burn victims.

“By the gods, man! Get us to a healer!” One of them exclaimed.

“As soon as you tell me who sent you.”

“We don't know!” Another dwarf said. Ren sighed and took out his hammerpick.

“I'm getting tired of being ambushed.” Ren said. “And just so you know, I only need one of you alive to question.” He lifted the hammerpick slowly over his head and aimed at one of their heads. “Who's first?” He started to swing.

“STOP!” One of the dwarfs shouted.

“Shut up!” Another dwarf said. “They'll kill us if we say anything!”

“Do you want to die later, or right now?” The dwarf asked. “They didn't tell us he was crazy!”

“Kill me!” The dwarf with the crisped arm said. “By the gods, the pain is unbearable!”

Ren took out a wand and pointed it at him.

“He's really going to do it! Aahhhh!” One of them said, and tried to get away; but Ren had tied their feet and hands together, so the dwarf just rolled around on the ground as he couldn't get away from his companions. Ren used the Minor Healing wand on the dwarf's arm, and the dwarf sighed in relief. He used another 15 charges, and the arm looked a lot healthier. Ren shot a couple of Minor Healing spells at each of them, just to stop the constant moaning.

“It was House Lodur.”

“Ren! 20 feet to the left!” Teepo said, as a dwarf stood up and started to run away from them. Ren stored the hammerpick and wand, then took off after him. He caught up to the dwarf easily, and tackled him to the ground. Ren punched him in the lower back twice, right where his kidneys would be. He heard two low grunts and the dwarf gripped his sides. Ren picked him up easily and carried him back to the others.

“You know, I think I'm insulted.” Ren said and dropped the last dwarf in front of the tied up group. “I single-handedly defeated an entire Battalion of troops, and this time they sent only 9 of you?” He shook his head. “I really hope you aren't an elite troop of fighters.”

One of them laughed. “We thought we were.”

Ren tied the last dwarf up. “Where's the cart of sand?”

“The what?”

Ren sighed. “The cart of sand.” He said. “The one you stopped to set up this ambush.”

“We told the driver the order was canceled.”

Ren had been looking at the dwarves, and saw one of them wince. He picked up the dwarf who spoke, and dragged the others to half-stand with him.

“What. Did. You. Do.” Ren shook him, and the other dwarves were shaken as well.

“Nothing!”

“What part of 'I don't need you all alive', don't you understand?” Ren growled at him, then turned towards the road and dragged the entire group behind him. He heard several of them beg for mercy as he easily pulled them onto the paving stones. Ren let the dwarf go and he fell to the road.

“I don't like doing this.” Ren said. “Fighting like this is stupid.” He knelt in front of the group. “Apparently some of you don't mind dying.”

“I don't want to die.” One of them moaned.

“Then tell me what happened.”

“We stopped the cart, but the driver wouldn't give it to us.”

“Tell me you didn't...”

“It was him.” The dwarf motioned to the dwarf that Ren had dragged everyone behind. “He was supposed to only tie the driver up.”

“The orders were 'no witnesses'.” The dwarf said.

“They meant for the assault, not for everyone we met.”

Ren took a deep breath. “Where?”

“About a hundred feet that way.” The other dwarf said, and pointed off the side of the road. Ren stood up and walked into the underbrush.

*

“Okay, he's gone. Let's go!”

“How are we supposed to go anywhere like this?”

“Stand up and walk, you idiot.”

“Anyone got a knife?”

*

Ren ran for about a hundred feet, and found the cart. He slowed down when he saw the body, and fell to his knees as tears came to his eyes. The young woman was quite pretty, and at least her clothes were intact. Her lips were a dark blue, and he saw hand prints on the woman's neck. Ren clenched his hands into fists and stood. He ran as fast as he could, and saw the group trying to walk away. He jumped in mid-air and kicked the dwarf closest to him with both feet, and hit him in the back. The dwarf smashed into the group and they fell to the ground in a heap.

“You.” Ren walked over to them. “You killed that poor girl!” He grabbed two of them by the chest and picked them up. Since they were tied so closely together, he ended up picking them all up. Some of them yelled because the ropes cut into their bodies, but Ren didn't care. He lifted them over his head, then let them drop onto the paving stones. He didn't even feel bad for the ones on the bottom as their faces smashed into the stone. Ren heard bones break, and looked at the group. He found the dwarf that one of them had said did it, and grabbed him by the neck.

“How do you like it, you piece of scum?” Ren said and squeezed his hand. The dwarf choked and his eyes bulged out of his head as he stared at Ren. Ren stood up, dragged the dwarf with him, along with the others.

“I could break your neck so easily.” Ren said, to the dwarf's shocked face. “But I won't, because you need to be alive for them to hang you.” Ren said and let the dwarf go. “I hope you all enjoy your last few hours of life.”

“We didn't kill her!” One of them said.

“You were there, and didn't stop him.” Ren said. “You also didn't help her afterwards.” He shook his head. “You left that poor girl out in the middle of nowhere.”

“We'd have told-”

“Who?” Ren said. “Who would you tell that would bother to come out here and deal with this?”