 wanted to ask if her dad had an autobiography to read. She imagined it would be called 'The one that got away' or 'In love, In hell' or something. It would be so juicy and filled with stories."I swear, next time you all come. I'll have my water level fixed!" she promised and Ruli looked excited."More fish?" she asked and Delta blinked.She hadn't shown Ruli the upgraded Fourth Floor yet!That was going to be awesome."Way more fish," she promised, making Ruli pump her fist and rush everyone out so Delta could get to work.Everyone bid her farewell, even if they all couldn't exactly see her.Delta grinned. Without the fear of the hell portal opening or Fairplay coming in tonight, she had plenty of time to brush up her 'Fishgeon'."So much to do, so little time," Nu said and the screen looked rather relaxed. That was suspicious."Nu, where have you been?" she asked as the screen just wandered off with an amused expression.---The Trinity Dungeon"Proposal is for exploding frogs with internal acid." Florida heaved."Interesting design, but exploding tulips could work," Herb argued."Living consuming acid pile," Carnage hissed.They looked to the empty seat of Nu. There was only a mana-sign left that changed its wording every few minutes. It currently read as 'I agree with Herb' but seconds later it switched to 'I agree with Carnage'."THE ACID OOZE IS ACCEPTABLE!" Carnage howled."UNACCECPTABLE!" Herb frothed in rage."All will become mold," Florida said sagely.---"Nothing serious. I just set up a proxy to do all my work for me in a good enough manner," Nu explained with out providing details. Delta narrowed her eyes but didn't ask. Nu was allowed secrets while doing his own thing, she supposed."Hey Nu, what comes after summer?" she asked as Nu turned to her."Autumn," he said as Delta shoved him into Waddles' lake with a smile."Fall!""Water doesn't actually affect me," the screen said as he floated back up."Yeah, yeah," Delta grinned and nudged Nu."Why did the fish not play the piano?" she asked and Nu made a noise like a sigh."Because it couldn't tuna piano?" he offered. Delta stepped into the lake and floated to the massive Moon Catfish."Nope. Because I haven't created any fish monsters to play the piano," she said as they teleported into the 'floor 1.5' which was the dungeon inside the catfish. A little mini-gauntlet so to speak. The inside space was squishy and fleshy as before but now that she was here, she focused and pulled up the menu. Even with her spending, she still had so much mana and DP to throw about.'Catfish Mini-Dungeon: Yeah, it's that level.A gauntlet of rooms in between the first and second floor which allows adventurers to skip the first floor by taking this alternative path. Walking on the floor is like sinking into cotton candy, if the candy was fish guts. The walls are warm and huggable, if they liked hugs that were veiny and wet. The ceiling is concave and ribbed but, not for their pleasure.Upgrades:The Walls have Eyes: The fleshy walls swallow people who touch them for too long, suffocating them in their folds. If their name is Kaori, this attack is extra lethal. 40 Mana.Wishbones: Stepping in the wrong place causes bones to snap like a bear trap. Lethal but if they break it, they get a wish. The wish is also a trap. 50 Mana.Acid Reflux: A rising tide of-"Wait, this is all wrong," Delta insisted. She brought up the menu and flicked through different screens until she came upon the issue. The 'between' floor rooms had been set to ultra violent due to a 'precedent'."What precedent? The only other between floor with a between room is the-" Delta began, confused, then clamped her mouth shut."Ah the consequences of your own actions. How nice to see them," Nu said brightly."It wasn't my fault I left the room on auto and it turned into a death room of evil deathness," Delta complained. She tapped on the screen with a finger."I won't mess this one up. I'm going to make this work, I'm going to make this fun... and I'm going to do it on purpose," she insisted, tapping the screen harder with each statement. She turned to see the confirmation of a purchase in the 'Misc' section."Nu, why didn't you stop me?" she asked simply."Boredom, mostly."Delta flicked to her purchase history."Caramel coffee. Caramel coffee. Ice-cream. Frappichino. Slippers...aha here we are," Delta said and brought the item up for inspection."Should you really be using mana to make unreproducible products to simulate the taste of home?" Nu asked and Delta nodded."It's economical. Somewhere," she said distractedly as she read. The more she read, the more she was relieved.She had only purchased a critter."Crimson Minnow: A lively little fish that can extend the life of anyone by ten seconds. They taste so bad no one wants to eat them. Rumor has it they can transform into a dragon if they overcome a waterfall."The room began to shake."Nu?" she called out, concerned. Nu floated over and zoomed in on her purchase. There was a little box in the corner she hadn't seen.You have bulk purchased 1000 Crimson Minnows."That seems fishy," she said as the fishgeon opened its maw and inhaled a wave of crimson, drowning Delta and Nu in a scent so bad that Nu cracked. The fish were excited and lively as promised, but the smell...Delta retched and tried to cover her mouth.It was like a dead person had been set on fire then rolled in garbage then soaked in old gravy then marinated with raw sewage.Congratulations! You have now experienced the worst taste in the world (Gutrot) and the worst smell (Crimson Minnow). You have an air of sophistication.In the midst of the swarm of crimson, a single golden streak was just seen as it vanished.
