“I didn’t know that anything was wrong until I talked to Natalie,” she said. “You might know her as Lily. One of the other vampires. My memories of being turned and the one who turned me are foggy, which I thought was a natural result of being forcibly freed, but Lily’s memories are gone. Entirely. Like they were erased. I think that mine were supposed to be erased too, but since something went wrong while freeing me, and we had to finish the process later, the memory erasure didn’t fully take.

“I don’t remember everything, but I do remember her face. I remember some of the things she said. I remember how powerful she was, and I know there’s not a chance that she would have died in that raid. Which was strange, because Ostra claimed to have killed the vampire who ruled the organization. I wondered if they had somehow managed to do the impossible and slay her. Then, Otto found the initial report from Ostra to the Jelorian kingdom about what happened. They still claimed to have taken out the leader, but do you know who they claimed the leader was?”

“Who?” asked Penelope.

“Me,” said Kaia. “‘A vampire named Rose’ was what the report said, and it even included a physical description. Blonde hair. Green eyes. They said I was ‘a monster hiding behind the face of an innocent young beauty.’ Of course, they tried to destroy that report after the fact, and those particular details never made it public, but that report did exist, and according to what Otto found, it existed too soon. I was still… wherever that changeling kept me, and no one but us knew what had happened to me. Nearly everyone else in that room was dead. There were no witnesses and there was no body. But they confidently declared me dead, and that I was the ringleader.”

“We think that she was intended to be the scapegoat,” said Maia. “And the initial report was pre-made. It came out too quickly and with too much detail. They tried to rescind it when they realized she was still alive, and every report after that has a fake vampire whose name neither Kaia nor Natalie recognize and who doesn’t have a physical description.”

Penelope took a moment to process their words, then took a deep breath to calm the anger bubbling up from within.

“So that confirms it, doesn’t it?” she asked. “It was all a setup?”

“We thought so too, but Otto is trying to look deeper,” said Maia. “It’s technically possible that it’s not a setup. They had spies in the Blood Syndicate long before they took it down, and Kaia was a known face, and was often used by the true founder to carry out her will. It’s feasible that they actually believed Kaia was in charge. Not likely, but feasible. Kaia wasn’t around for that long, but the founder wasn’t human, so shapeshifting isn’t off the table.”

Penelope doubted that explanation, and clearly, the twins did too.

“Or, the more likely alternative explanation is that only one or a few people within Ostra were involved,” continued Maia. “We know that, at the very least, the average member was not aware of this. We confirmed with Hans and a couple other Ostra members that Otto is familiar with. Ostra as a whole was not aware. The main question is whether it was the entirety of the leadership, or just one or two near the top. Regardless of what the truth is, though, it’s too big for us to act recklessly.”

Penelope nodded, and silence fell over the room. She wasn’t entirely sure what to do. Her secret mission wasn’t over yet, but she was suddenly stalled. Her only source of information was already looking into what she needed. All she could do was wait.

She and the twins talked a bit longer about some of the more specific details, like where Otto was looking for information, and what Penelope knew about the different factions and their opinions, but the conversation quickly ran dry. It was a bit of a depressing situation, being caught in the middle of such an issue, and knowing they couldn’t do much about it only made it worse. But the fact that they couldn’t do much about it raised a very important question in Penelope’s mind.

Why me?

Why had that woman chosen to speak with her of all people? She had connections, but none powerful enough to cause the trouble that such a revelation would potentially create. There were much better ways to cause panic. The woman could have announced it publicly, or she could have gone directly to Penelope’s commander. And if that woman knew about Penelope’s connection to Otto and the twins, that clearly wasn’t why she was chosen to receive the information. The information broker was already looking into it, even without Penelope prompting him.

Then, her face fell as a new idea dawned on her. She was somewhat uniquely poised with her connection to Otto and the Jelorian knights. She could both raise the alarm among the highest ranks of the kingdom, and verify her information through Otto. That connection was certainly important, but there was one more connection Penelope had that she realized would tie it all together: the Grays.

Nick had been captured by the Blood Syndicate too. He had spoken with undisguised rage about “the Lady” multiple times. He knew what she looked like. He knew that Rose wasn’t the Lady. But he didn’t know about the false report. And with how Otto and the twins were keeping it to themselves, he never would have known until they found the truth. Except now Penelope knew. And by talking to him after talking to the twins, she might be able to get the full truth. Not to mention the fact that they had a direct connection to Ostra through Snowberry and a literal dragon living in their house. And Penelope was close enough to them to get the truth.

“What is it?” asked Maia, seeing Penelope’s face.

“Have you contacted Nick?” asked Penelope.

“Not yet,” said Kaia. “And we don’t plan to. Not yet, at least. Nick was kept locked up the whole time. The only information he has is what the Lady looks like, which I also have. And he has too many eyes on him. He got too famous. Talking to him would alert too many people.”

Penelope frowned. Kaia’s words made her realize that Nick wasn’t the true important connection she had. He was no better than Kaia when it came to information. But she was still certain that it had to have something to do with the Grays. Bianca wasn’t any more knowledgeable than Nick, and Sophie had been stranded on an island the whole time, leaving only two options. The dragon… or Snowberry…

Either way, someone wanted Penelope to make those connections, that she was sure of. Everything was far too convenient for it not to be set up. And that raised another, possibly more important question. Who? Who could possibly have set this up? And why?

At that moment, the door to the office opened, and Otto entered.

“Penelope!” he said jovially, not at all surprised to see her. “I’m glad you’re here! What brings you to my humble shop on this fine day?”

Penelope gave him the quick rundown of her situation and what she had discussed with the twins, and the mood once again turned somber.

“I see,” he said. “Well, that saves me some explanation time. I am actually very glad you’re here because I’ve hit a snag in my own investigation, and I think you’d be able to help. Have you ever done any undercover work?”
