I tell Lauren about the flavor before she cooks, and she seems confused as well, but does her best with the basic spices she brings with her into the Dungeon, and the end result is definitely better than the seared flesh I just had, but it’s still weird. The others all agree that it’s an incredibly weird meat, but Lauren brings up that if all the meat is like this, we might be able to get a really good price from some gourmets and chefs looking for some special novelty dishes. While many Dungeons can recreate Named monsters, Lauren read the guide book for this Dungeon pretty extensively, and she says she’s never heard of anything like this one, meaning it’s new, and therefore valuable. And as much as I hate giving up perfectly good meat, there’s more than enough that we can sell off at least some of it.

With that settled, we double check all our stuff, and as soon as Chad is able to walk again, Lauren, the Party Leader, accepts the prompt to leave the Dungeon. My vision goes dark, and I wait a second, expecting to reappear back in the room that we entered from, but a few seconds pass, and the darkness remains. I’m only confused before a second before I realize what’s going on.

“Ah, it’s you again,” I say.

“Yes, it’s me,” says a woman’s voice that seems to come from all around. “Congratulations on reaching Tier 3 in your Class and Species. You’ve earned me enough divine power that I can offer you another Quest and reward again. But before that, I think we should have a little chat. What do you say?”

“...Nah, I’m good. I’ll just take the Quest and reward.”

Within the Dungeon of the Glutton, Abby was hard at work. She wasn’t lying when she told Yona that the level design was a lot more work than she anticipated. What she failed to mention, however, was the reason that it was more work than she anticipated.

If Abby had done as she initially planned, and created a simple challenge with some roaming monsters in the distance, it wouldn’t have taken long at all. She would only have needed a couple days for the Dungeon to absorb the mana of the monsters Yona fed it so that its size would be sufficient, and then she would be able to get it up and running. However, when digging through the different types of creatures she could set to spawn in the Dungeon, she came upon something too good to pass up: NPCs.

While friendly or neutral creatures and characters were mostly found in Story Dungeons, there was nothing stopping them from existing in other types. And while Dungeons could not create Enlightened Races, they could create homunculi that looked like Enlightened Races, and they could give these homunculi set personalities and memories that made them act like Enlightened Races too. Well, mostly like humans. No matter how well they were set up, they would still always be NPCs.

But that didn’t matter. The programming was more than enough for what she wanted to do. And she was grateful that she had managed to give Yona the impression that Dungeon creation was boring and technical so she wouldn’t check in. If Yona had heard Abby cackling as she worked, she would never be able to get away with it.
