For dissolving a significant quantity of physical matter, you have shown your dedication to the void. There can be no filth nor disorder when there is nothing at all. Gain massive bonuses to matter dissolution, with all type restrictions removed. As the Devourer, consume even the light that would illuminate your ever-growing form.

Do you want to be a Void Slime?

Easy. No want. Have been in void. Very much boring and scary same time.

Dozer moved on quickly, and the world was, perhaps, spared.

He turned his focus to the delinquent panel that had arrived after the others, prepared to dismiss it and return to the puzzle between Princess and Queen.

Essence Slime Progenitor

Rare, Hidden, Unique

By condensing sufficient essence to anchor a soul to the physical world, you have discovered a means of procreation. Your offspring will inherit this capability, that they may continue the cycle. As the progenitor of a species, gain near-absolute command of your descendants and the ability to shape their instincts.

Do you want to be an Essence Slime Progenitor?

...?

It took a few minutes, but eventually, Dozer realized that he’d been dumb all along. Three or thirty of threes, the Crystal Slimes were not enough to clean all of Bug-Home on their own. This, though... This changed everything! With this, he could make himself helpers! Just like Rain-King had made him!

Thoughtful wobbling became excited tremors that became an all-out jiggling spasm that sent him hurtling toward the panel.

YES PLEASE!

Class selection applied.

Evolution complete.

Debug interface terminating.

?

Dozer landed outside the tree with a splat, not feeling any different. All of the panels had vanished, providing no insight.

???

Further self-inspection provided no clues either. Slowly, he began to wobble again, then to shake with fury at the stupid, late, re-un-forgiven panel. Just before he churned himself to a literal froth, he noticed something. The Tel bumping against each other in his insides felt...charged. Ripe with potential.

He was experiencing something new. Not an emotion. An instinct and...an ability?

As if in response to the realization, he felt it activate.

⟬divide⟭

Dozer began to swell. He instantly panicked, fearing that he was going to become large after all, though the class panel had not said anything about size. Mercifully, the swelling stopped almost as soon as it began, the Tel within him vanishing all at once. Then something else happened, triggering a whole new level of distress. It felt as if Ameliah-Queen was giving him one of her hugs but had forgotten she was stronk. No, this was like being hugged by Tall-Brother. No. This was worse. The squeezing grew tighter and tighter until—

*pop*

Dozer wobbled dazedly on the ground, back at roughly his original size again and feeling like he’d been sliced in half. As he regained his senses, he became aware of...another him.

Another him! A smaller him! Actually, a her, he decided! Until she decided different, maybe!

⟪ ⟬clean-need⟭? ⟫ the other sent. The signal was crisp and clean, not fuzzy like that of the Crystal Slimes. ⟪ ⟬order-need⟭? ⟬divide-need⟭? ⟫

⟪ ⟬clean-need⟭, yes! ⟫ Dozer sent back to the smaller slime. ⟪ ⟬divide-need⟭, yes! ⟬order-need⟭, meh! Also, hello! I am Dozer. Who are you? ⟫

⟪ ??? ⟫

The response was confused. Not unclear. Just confused. She had understood the instincts well enough, but the rest had gone past her. She did not know who she was or how to speak. That was okay. She was baby.

Dozer sent back feelings of comfort. ⟪ No worry! You will figure out! I am Dozer. ⟬progenitor⟭. You are Zero! Rain-King says is best for lists to start from zero! ⟫

⟪ Zero??? ⟫

[Okay, Dozer, I’m done. What was it you wanted to ask me?]

Rain-King’s voice was so unexpected and well-timed that Dozer leapt straight up.

And up.

And up and up.

The panel hadn’t said anything about physical prowess, but clearly, it was just something it had forgotten to mention.

[Woah, Dozer, thinking of joining the NBA?] Rain-King said. Moving with speed that shook the air around him, he used his magic to rush forward and snag Dozer out of the air before he went splat. [Oof. I keep forgetting how heavy you’re getting. Hang on, are you smaller?]

[Rain-King, careful!] Dozer interrupted, horrified by the waves of panic and alarm Zero was sending. ⟪ Calm! Calm! Rain-King is friend! Rain-King is ⟬king⟭! ⟫

“What...” Rain-King said out loud, tilting his head as he did sometimes when listening. He blinked, then blinked again, then turned suddenly and stared straight down at Zero.

[Zero is!] / ⟪ Rain-King is! ⟫ Dozer sent to both at once.

There was a long pause.

Rain-King stared. Zero listened.

⟪ ⟬king⟭! ⟫ Zero sent, getting over the surprise first. Tentatively, she tried to ooze forward, but was clearly unsure how.

Dozer quickly wriggled out of Rain-King’s arms, landing with a plop and rushing to show her.

“Dozer...” Rain-King said, licking his lips. “Detection says...it’s...not a monster? An Essence Slime...but...also an animal? How—? What did—?” Rain-King’s mouth kept moving after that, but no more sounds came out.

[Not animal!!!] Dozer said, wriggling with unimaginable pride as he gently guided Zero forward. He knew the right word for what Zero was, even if Rain-King could not think of it. [Daughter!!!]

There was another long pause, though as they neared, Rain-King knelt and extended a finger.

Zero happily glommed onto it, needing no encouragement to investigate.

“Hello, Zero,” Rain-King said, gently shaking his finger up and down. “It’s nice to meet you.” He shifted his focus back to Dozer. “Congratulations. She’s adorable. Now, can we maybe rewind a bit?”
