I fled my way to safety once more. In doggy form, Skeleton Lady herself was not the only threat I had to be concerned about. Everything else in this damn city seemed to want to kill me if I didn’t look like one of the locals! Talk about a seriously prejudiced community!

But luckily, I was fast. I had an easy time zipping past the other random skeletons until finally finding another ruined house to duck into.

This one had two stories, and though the back wall had collapsed, it otherwise seemed structurally sound. I put my paws up on the nearest windowsill to look outside and make sure Skeleton Lady wasn’t coming down the street, and she wasn’t. I went over to the other wall and did the same with a window there, once again confirming I was safe, at least relatively, and then I decided to look around and explore this building a little more.

There were some steps that I padded my way up, bringing me into another hallway with three doorways, one with a wooden door barely hanging on by the hinges and the other two simply being empty door frames. I peeked into one of the rooms and saw a skeleton lying down in a corner, a sword on the ground inches from its skeletal fingers.

It looked dead, but I wasn’t going to be deceived by appearances alone. I padded up, slowly, watching its hollow eye sockets suspiciously.

Suddenly the sockets lit up; it jerked upright and screamed.

AAAAH!

Startled, I batted at its head, knocking its skull off its neck.

The skull went rolling across the floor, eyes alight and still screaming as the body reached for the sword.

Oh, no you don’t!

I dove on top of its arm and clamped down right at its elbow joint, then tore back, ripping it free from its socket.

The head that was now lying near the doorframe continued to scream at me, its eyes alight and jaw wide open.

“Shut up!” I barked at it and slashed my claws at it, knocking it across the floor once again. It spun in circles, continuing to scream as the armless, headless body rose to a stand, its one remaining arm swatting blindly at the air.

Crap, how do I even kill these things when I don’t have opposable thumbs to drive a sword through their faces?

I looked at the sword on the ground, then had an idea that instantly made me think, “Oh, hell yeah!”

I dove for the sword, got my teeth around the hilt, and then whipped my puppy body towards the screaming skull with a spinning slash that impaled its eyes, cracking the bone around its socket and finally silencing it.

The stumbling single-armed body then collapsed into a heap of bones almost instantly.

Undead Vanquished! Skeleton Level 12

Experience Gained!

I grinned with my mouth still around the sword hilt. I imagined an evolution path where I could get good at fighting with swords like this. I had a sneaking hope for such a giant, sword-wielding-pupper Path.

Achievement! Bark Souls

Defeat an undead using a sword held in your mouth. Try not to think too hard about why this feels strangely familiar.

Moderate Bonus to all stats!

Huh… come to think of it, that whole scenario did feel somewhat familiar. Maybe it was one of Lisha’s memories creeping up on me? I tried to focus on it but couldn’t quite place it.

Then I heard a sound that instantly perked my ears. Thankfully I had such a high Sense stat, or I never would have noticed.

There was a slight creaking sound from downstairs. Each step slow and careful. There was something trying to sneak up on me!

Could it be Skeleton Lady again? Already?

I carefully set down the sword—now wasn’t the time to be trying to learn new tricks—and I prowled carefully towards the stairwell and activated {Veil of Shadows}.

As I came to the top of the stairs, sure enough, I saw her, creeping up one slow step at a time.

Come on, Skeleton Lady! Can you like, get a hobby or something? A hobby that doesn’t involve hunting me?

But what could I do? I was cornered once again.

She stopped. She seemed to be thinking? Listening?

Then her eyes snapped right towards me, clearly seeing through my Veil of Shadows, and her legs shot into motion as she bolted up the steps.

I scrambled backward, spinning around.

Crap! What do I do!? I’m cornered!

I retreated into the back room where I’d at least have a little more room to fight, and as I spun around at the far wall I saw her running through the doorway, daggers poised to start slashing. She wasn’t playing around this time; she was going for the kill!

I dove at her leg and clamped my jaws down.

{Crippling Bite}!

I managed to pull the leg out from under her and throw her to the ground, but I didn’t hear the snapping of bone that I was hoping for; she was clearly too strong for that. And a moment later, I felt my side get slashed.

I let go and spun away. She was already on her feet, and as I tried to move around her, she brought a foot up, kicking under my chest and flipping me backward into a wall.

Before I could recover, she was coming at me again, both daggers stabbing downward.

I didn’t even bother with a counterattack as I dove between her legs, feeling another slice rake across my back and nearly to my tail.

I bolted out of the room, down the stairs and out of the house, feeling the exhaustion of blood loss, as well as the pain of my many wounds at this point.

I reactivated {Veil of Shadows} so I’d be less likely to get ambushed by any of the other random skeletons milling about, and I looked back to the house I’d just fled from.

Skeleton Lady came out of the door, and this time I knew something was up because she looked right at me. From this distance and how dark it was, Veil of Shadows surely should have kept me hidden, and it was obvious why.

Pulse Sense.

I knew that ability wasn’t unique to me. I was fairly sure the Black Prowlers from the forest of the Vale had it as well. Not to mention Genzo having abilities to block it, which he wouldn’t have bothered with or even had a likely opportunity to obtain if it wasn’t common.

And it made sense she would have it.

She was a stealthy killer, just like me. And since I was quite possibly the only living thing in this city with a proper pulse, I realized there really would be no escaping her.

I’d either have to take my chances out in the surrounding wastelands, or take a stand here.

But checking my HP, I didn’t like my situation at all. I was in bad shape before, but now my situation was quickly approaching critical.

I couldn’t beat her in a straight fight, even at full strength. Not with this path. That was clear from our few exchanges already. But I couldn’t change Paths for maybe another seven hours or so.

Could I survive until I got one of the stronger Paths active? Even if I did get that far, I was already wounded, and I’d be well over 24 hours without sleep at that point. I’d be exhausted and might just lose the fight anyway.

So I needed to find another way to beat her, and I needed to do it now. There was no time to wait for her to just come along and finish me off.

I gave her one last look, and she raised a dagger to her throat and sliced it across her neck in a threatening gesture, still staring me down.

She was definitely intelligent. And she was definitely messing with me. Definitely enjoying the hunt.

But frankly, that little taunt made me realize she really was a monster. Not in the literal sense, but the same way I’d think of some humans.

She was causing me pain and enjoying it. She wasn’t just enjoying the act of hunting itself. She was enjoying what it did to her victim.

I was entertainment for her. She wasn’t even hunting me out of necessity. I wouldn’t even treat these mindless skeletons that way. Dragging out the kill for no good reason.

I glared one last time, and slinked into the shadows around a corner.

She’d be back, I knew she would, but I’d need to set up a trap. And if Pulse Sense is what was allowing her to keep cornering me like this, I realized there was an obvious way I could set her up.

I checked my stat page and skimmed down to a certain skill I had thought was useless but might be the key to my survival tonight.

Play Dead LvL 1

Suppress heartbeat and breathing to feign death.

I walked along another street, watching the meandering skeletons, groaning and shuffling along, dragging their weapons across the ground.

I spotted one with a rusty dagger, and figured that’s the kind of weapon I’d want to use for a sneak attack. It wasn’t anywhere near as nice as Skeleton Lady’s daggers, but I could jam it into her eye socket all the same.

But how to convince her that I’d been defeated by skeletons without actually getting swarmed by them? If I just laid down and used Play Dead somewhere, she would be suspicious.

If I attacked some skeletons first, they would just swarm me and even if I used Play Dead they were so mindless they would probably just keep hacking away at what they thought was a mere corpse.

I hunkered down as an idea crossed my mind. I focused on one skeleton walking shortly behind another, then my paws started moving. I had to set this up quickly, Skeleton Lady was probably already on her way to stalk me from the shadows again. But she was confident, and had all the time in the world, so she wasn’t in a hurry. That would provide me the few precious minutes I needed to set up my illusion.

I hoped.

My paws ran faster across the ground, still cloaked under Veil of Shadows, and I pounced on a skeleton, but only with the soft pads of my underpaws. As soon as I struck him I zipped into hiding, only looking back to see if I succeeded once I knew I was out of danger.

The skeleton I pushed stumbled and crashed into another, who stumbled in turn. The second skeleton turned, and just as I was hoping it would, its eyes lit up and it let out a scream. It raised its sword and swung at the other, hacking off an arm. That first skeleton screeched in turn, and soon, swung its own sword at the other, and they got busy hacking each other to pieces just as I intended.

Perfect!

But this wouldn’t be enough.

I quickly sought out my next victims, ran through the shadows and pounced, knocking a sword-wielding skeleton into another dagger-wielding one. They screamed and started to fight, and I did it again, and then a fourth time!

Soon, the entire street turned into a violant brawl! There were skeletal scuffles getting started that I wasn’t even directly responsible for!

Achievement! Sower of Chaos

Why get your own paws dirty when you can quietly plant the seeds of violence among the locals? Now they’ll tear each other apart and never come to know who was really to blame.

Major Bonus to All Stats!

Seriously? A major bonus for that? More and more, I was starting to believe the System was some kind of villain.

But it was time for the final part of my illusion. I used {Veil Form}, transforming into a naked skeleton once again, but I did it in hiding, then carefully crawled out into the middle of the brawl erupting around me and snagged a dagger off of one of the fallen skeletons. Then I lay down amongst the chaos, skeletons still hacking away at each other over top of me.

To really sell the illusion, I gritted my skeletal teeth and sliced the dagger across my own chest, causing the rib bones to bleed. This way Skeleton Lady would see a fresh wound, just in case she was that observant. Then I took my best death pose while keeping the dagger in reach and activated {Play Dead}.

If she was watching my heartbeat, and I suspected she was doing exactly that, then she would have seen me flee, then heard all the screaming skeletons and hopefully assumed I’d screwed up while trying to transform and blend in. Then she would have seen my heartbeat disappear, indicating to her that I had died.

I had one fear. If she had a high-level Analyze skill like Rin, then she’d know I had the Play Dead ability, and therefore all I was accomplishing here was just setting her up with an easy way to finish me off.

But I had to believe that wasn’t the case. Frankly, if this didn’t work, I was as good as dead anyway, because I couldn’t see any other path towards beating her.

I waited patiently, several brawling skeletons above me still going at each other.

Then, finally, I saw Skeleton Lady make her appearance.

She came around the corner unhurriedly, daggers low at her sides, and she set her gaze right on me.

She looked around at the other skeletons, and if I wasn’t mistaken, she almost had a sort of disappointment in her posture.

She brushed her cloak back with a flourish and then returned one of her daggers to the sheath on her hip. The other dagger remained out, and as she walked through the chaos, she stabbed one skeleton in the eye, and then another, pushing them away into a collapsing pile of bones as she passed by them. Casually, completely without drama. Just taking them out because they were in her way.

Huh, so she didn’t exactly treat these things as allies, huh? I had kind of assumed that’d be the case, so this surprised me.

Once she cleared her way, she resheathed her dagger and then knelt over me, looking down at what she hopefully believed to be my lifeless corpse.

Okay, this is it, I thought. I tried to remain completely still and not give anything away. As soon as I felt the moment was right, I would snatch up my own dagger and put it through her eye!

I felt my adrenaline rising, the anticipation of this strike overwhelming.

I’d only get one shot at it, I’d only—

“Piece of shit,” someone muttered.

What the hell?

Who said—

It was her!

Skeleton Lady fell back, sitting on her bony butt and propping a hand behind herself. “Damn idiot, dying so easily like that. I was actually starting to have some fun,” she muttered, then placed a skeleton hand over her mouth as her jaw cracked open and she yawned.

Wh-What in the devil!? She can talk!

I nearly dropped {Play Dead} from the shock alone.

It wasn’t just that she could talk, either. It’s the way she talked. She sounded… I don’t know. Human? Normal? Irritated, and a little bored? Nothing at all like some ancient guardian of a cursed city!

“Finally find something interesting in this dead fucking city, and it gets itself killed. What a bummer…”
