Heavy armored plates grew across its hunched back like the segmented carapace of a beetle, glistening from the slimy ichor secreted from hidden pores. It had four giant arms, the top pair ending in powerful, crab-like pincers with glittering, interlocking serrated blades that looked wickedly sharp. Strong enough to slice through mithril with the ease of a butcher carving up his favorite fillet. The second pair of arms was only marginally smaller, ending in gently curving, scythe-like blades. Its broad, angular face was split by a t-shaped maw, already opened into a wide, triangular pit of razor-sharp teeth, seeking to feed on the downed Devastation Knight. Waving antennae sprouted from its forehead, and three pairs of vertically aligned, savage-looking red eyes were fixed upon its prey.

Ali wasn’t even in the same cavern, and she shivered. She had never seen anything like it, nor had she expected a monster that could take out a level one hundred and sixty Death Knight in three strikes. And, it’s invisible! What the heck is this thing? The monster was still invisible; it hadn’t revealed itself even after attacking.

In the eyeblink of her hesitation, the Frozen Skull Sentry reacted according to its instincts. It immediately cast both Frozen Doom and Mark of Frost upon the intruder and then vanished, teleporting three nearby Devastation Knights and a Spectral Warrior in to take its place. While the great demon clearly resisted being frozen, a scintillating aura of frost appeared, outlining its invisible form.

Ali had a dozen eyes fixed on the monster, and still, she failed to see when it moved. It vanished from where it stood, and the next moment, its sword-arms had passed through the space occupied by the incorporeal spectral warrior, leaving eddies and ripples in its form, and impaled the death-affinity Devastation Knight through the chest. There was no magic for her to see; the monster was just that fast.

But viscous gouts of black demonic blood shot into the air in a spray that splashed against the ceiling, and Ali suddenly realized her Devastation Knight had succeeded in casting its Damage Reflection curse. The unwounded incorporeal Spectral Warrior managed to stab it in the back, its ghostly sword piercing through the heavy, natural armor plates as if they were not even present, leaving an ice-encrusted gash behind.

Then, two Dark Souls drifted across the boundary from the spirit realm and unleashed their lightning bolts, striking from their own invisibility with Ambush. It still took far longer than expected, revealing the hulking demon assassin’s enormous health, but eventually it succumbed to the combined mob of Ali’s minions, collapsing to the floor with a great crash. Only when it died, did its invisibility flicker and fade, and the shimmering outline of Mark of Frost filled in with the sight of the black, demonic armored corpse.

Your minions have defeated Agraxx Assassin [Blooded] – Greater Demon – level 223 (Blood).

Blood magic! All her blood magic users had ridiculous health values by virtue of them using their wisdom attribute to power health instead of mana, and this demon was well over level two hundred. It made sense, too; the demon god had blood and hellfire as primary affinities. But the combination of health, speed, and an invisibility that persisted through combat was rather terrifying, especially given her prejudice against stealth and assassins coming to kill her.

I need one of those, she thought, reaching through her domain and deconstructing the corpse. More than one. She cleaned up the remains of the earlier battle, too. But first, I need more sentries! She had known there to be true monsters lurking in the demon god’s domain, and although her minions had performed admirably, without the combination of True Sight and Mark of Frost, this one assassin would have been able to wipe out her entire area, and she would never have seen it coming. Especially considering how high a level it was. Needs a new design. First, she doubled the number of Frozen Skull Sentries. Then, she added dozens of her highest-level bats – Spirit Nightwings – primarily for their echolocation skill, and, still not fully satisfied, she summoned a glut of Rot and Slush Oozes. The nature-death and ice-water dual-affinity oozes would thrive in this area, bringing their singular tremor sense to the table and ensuring that nothing like that demon could sneak through the passageway undetected.

Unless it flies. But that’s what the bats were for.

Quickly verifying that her domain had respawned her dead Devastation Knight with appropriate armor and gear, she decided it was time to head back. She still had an unfortunately long to-do list to take care of. But right then, her chime sounded again as the slow, background trickle of experience earned through her domain and diverse minions tipped her over the threshold.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 186.+10 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 111 (+2).Martial Insight has reached level 116 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 96 (+2).Domain Mastery has reached level 60.

Oh, nice timing. It was rare for her class to outright level up from the distributed efforts of her minions and tithe, but the steady accumulation definitely added up. She split her points the same way as last time, three each to wisdom and perception, with the remaining four going to intelligence. As she finished distributing her earned attributes, her class reacted one more time.

You have learned a new Domain Magic: Natural RestorationNatural RestorationRequirements: Nature affinity. Domain Mastery has reached at least level 60. Source: Class.The boss, any minions, and summons gain Natural Restoration – a nature-affinity buff that provides healing over time. If the buff is dispelled or removed, it is automatically recast. Skill – Domain Magic

Oh, I haven’t had one of these in a while! Allowing her minions to fight for her within her domain was presumably the normal way dungeons earned experience. A rare few probably did it with dungeon breaks. It was a great way to level up, provided the invaders were not too strong. She didn’t have to risk herself, and her dungeon minions respawned in hours, but it was terribly slow.

Worse, Ali had never been able to control the level of monsters or people wanting to wipe out her dungeon. Every time they had been of high enough level, Ali had been hurt, wiped out, stranded, or worse.

No. I still need to become stronger. She pressed her lips together firmly and refused to rescind her orders to her Skeletal Frost Dragon. Sometimes, risks needed to be taken, and if she was able to learn to make a monster like the Agraxx Assassin, it would prove to be worth it. Already, her spectral troll warrior and one of the Dark Souls had leveled up, improving the quality of her imprint.

“This is it. Kryostria’s cavern,” Calen sent, pushing his thoughts into the short-range telepathic communication amulet hanging around his neck, one procured from the auction house at extreme cost. It turned out that having a large-scale war wracking the southern half of the continent meant that the demand for certain items had skyrocketed. He’d had to pay nearly ten times what Giddy Clicksprocket had said it was worth. Although the Gnomish jeweler had rubbed her hands and let out an actual, honest-to-goodness cackle when he’d promised to let her study all the items he’d purchased after the mission. He sighed inwardly. Call it an investment, I suppose.

“Looks like a walk in the park,” Devan sent back. The demon hunter assassin had been his first pick for this mission, her competence and stealth skills already well known to him.

Calen stood on the threshold of the dark, icy tunnel, studying the way the strange poppies moved back and forth on the repeating chilly gusts that wafted up from below, a rhythm uncomfortably like that of the dragon herself breathing. Standing beside him were three of the guild’s best scouts, sporting multiple cloaking, stealth, or illusion skills.

His second pick was a mage named Brielle, an extremely introverted girl who was such a prodigy with illusion magic that she had been banished to the Adventurers Guild at level twenty as a punishment by her family when she had been caught breaking into the bank, circumventing guards more than three times her level. She hovered silently beside Calen, even her mana cloaked to most forms of mana-sight.

“Third tier, you said? This will be a challenge,” Hadlis said. He stood beside Calen, his form indistinct, shimmering for a moment before shadows wreathed his leather-clad body, hiding him and his bow as effectively as any assassin. The Shadow Hunter was one of the most successful trackers in the Pathfinders guild, and Calen had picked him on nothing more than Lyeneru’s confident recommendation. His passives were already incredible, but he saved his most potent and resource-hungry skill for critical moments like this.

Illuminated as he was by the soft glow spilling from his wings, all three of them were visible to Calen, but only thanks to his recent True Sight advancement – before that, he doubted he would have known they were there, let alone seen the nods of acknowledgement they gave him. Every single one of them had been chosen for their advanced stealth and scouting abilities; they were here for a single purpose, and that was to gather intelligence. To learn what lay beyond the cavern and attempt to locate the Blind Lich’s phylactery.

Maybe even steal it. But he kept that thought to himself; it wouldn’t do to be greedy, given that whatever lay beyond would likely be the Blind Lich’s most powerful underling. Besides, the Lich might just decide to come fetch it – with all his force. We aren’t ready for that.

But first, they would have to successfully navigate the lair of Kryostria, The Frozen Scourge, a legendary Dracolich that had survived the Breaking, now serving as the Lich’s rift guardian. A third-tier monster.

It was hard to convey the sheer immensity of the presence that lurked in the cavern before them. He just hoped his companions did not break. He hoped he did not break. “Keep your eyes and ears open. Even the smallest detail may prove to be the key.”

“Right,” Devan answered.

Calen took a deep breath. “Let’s go,” he said, stowing his wings to make his invisibility harder to break, and then he led them down the tunnel on silent feet, sharing his location through their connection via the amulets.

The cavern, when it came into view, seemed pitch-dark and silent, lit only by the soft glow of the rift itself. Only his dark vision and his mana sight provided any clues as to what lay beyond the tunnel. Quiet though it was, powerful waves of unbound mana billowed around the rift as if torn from the very air by the infinitely sharp wound in the fabric of the realm. In the lair behind it, a vast abyss of ice mana condensed with a concentration and density that threatened to overwhelm his vision.

Kryostria. He winced at the impact of her presence as he entered her lair.

The four of them entered the cavern at the same time and immediately fanned out. Without any light magic to activate his True Sight, he felt like he was entering Kryostria’s lair entirely blind and alone, but he knew where the others were and trusted them to follow the plan.

He padded across the ice, carefully controlling his breathing to minimize any visible condensation in the frigid air, his feet not even disturbing the snow or the poppies. Relying entirely on his memory of the cavern, he angled straight for the plain expanse of ice and rock at the far end of the chamber, and the powerful work of illusion that he knew was there, obscuring the exit.

“Sneaky pests. I smell you.”

Crap! Calen froze as the vast mass of ice mana lurking in the lair behind the rift stirred, rising above the glittering rip in the fabric of the realm as an oppressive aura of ice and fear billowed out into the cavern.

“Fuck, it’s me,” Brielle’s frightened thoughts trickled through his communication artifact. “She’s looking right at me!” The thoughts bore a distinct feeling of panic, even though all of them were using the powerful mental fortitude elixirs that had allowed them to bypass the mind-warping effects of Baaoht Yll’shuum. Still, the Dracolich’s aura was immense and pressed down upon him like a mountain of ice.

“Remember the plan,” Calen said, putting as much calm into his words as he could, a task not nearly so easy in thought as obscuring his spoken voice.

Kryostria roared, suddenly unleashing a focused cone of pure ice that rocked the cavern, blasting into the opposite wall like an avalanche unleashed. Near the edge of the storm of ice, a flash of light sparkled briefly; the flickering flash of unbound mana as an illusion failed. Brielle appeared, floating high above the ground, her body visibly shaking from the near miss as she turned to face the terrifying maw of the undead dragon.

“F… fuck you… bitch,” she stammered, her entire body wracked with palpable fear. From the palm of her outstretched right hand, she fired a beam of blinding light, a pitiful defiance against the might of a third-tier champion-level boss. The beam struck Kryostria on the cheekbone under an eye socket, and a small wisp of smoke rose from the inconsequential scorch mark.

Suddenly, a thousand copies of Brielle appeared, spread across the back half of the giant cavern, a feat of magic Calen couldn’t even hope to match. The ice dracolich let out a splitting roar, and the vibrating pressure from her aura burst the illusions in a rippling cascade of popping mana.

“Enough tricks.”

That entire side of the chamber was flash frozen as she breathed on it. A thousand tons of ice shattered and fell, a great rumbling crash, unable to find enough purchase upon the wall to defy gravity. As the powdered ice and snow settled, Calen could find no sign of Brielle. For several long moments, Calen feared the worst, his eyes frantically searching the rubble, but then he caught sight of the wisps of her mana – the remnants of her teleportation spell – and sighed softly in relief.

“Now, where are the rest of you?”

“You guys go, I’ll draw her off,” Hadlis sent.

“Ok,” Calen said, agreeing immediately. “Be careful.” It was a smart plan, one of multiple backups they had already discussed. If Kryostria was certain there were more of them, then sacrificing one as a distraction to allow the others to proceed was a good strategy. There was only one problem, though.

