Finding herself, surprisingly, with a little free time on her hands, Ali gathered her minion escort and headed for the Abyssal Realm armed with a plan, a few fresh imprints, and a half dozen brilliant ideas just begging for a proving ground. She had awoken to the sight of four fat frost dragons laid out neatly beside her shrine: a gift from the nocturnal efforts of her favorite necromancer.

Seth always kept an eye out for her whenever he went hunting, and his favorite method was to leave the corpses for her to find when she woke in the morning. Mato had taken to comparing him to a cat that brought dead mice home, but what cat could deliver four three-mark dragon corpses with barely a scratch on them? Her protégé would, of course, gain substantially from Ali’s ability to provide him with endless bodies for his army, but she already had plenty of ideas for how best to use them herself.

Ali waved at Mok’freja in the rift chamber and deconstructed all the dead demons before she stepped through into the Abyssal Realm, eyeing the pristine realm of her Devouring Consumption. Not a single corpse in sight. The massive ooze kept a tidy shop. While she was happy with her Devouring Consumption and the Mage of Piercing Frost as guardians for either side of the abyssal rift, there had been several incursions from demons with evasion abilities that had bypassed them entirely: stealth, flying, or illusion skills mostly. A few had even forced their way into the jungle under the ruins of Dal’mohra – a challenge she couldn’t afford if she wanted to ensure the safety of the library. Especially with the Grand Library’s skyrocketing reputation among the premier academic circles across the continent. All it would take was a single accident, and the influx of unique books and fresh knowledge brought by the non-combat visitors would evaporate.

So far, she had maintained a healthy distance between her domain and the Lair of the Demon God everywhere except under Azryet’s direct protection. Long winding passageways and many large caves separated them, but all that space could be far better used as an early warning system, and a way of flushing out incursions, whittling them down by attrition so that when they finally challenged the powerful guardians, they would be weakened. Narrow tunnels restricted flying monsters and increased the distance traveled, providing chokepoints for ambushing, and she had a few new tools in her repertoire.

Landing near the edge of her domain, she wrestled her feelings back under control as she stepped out into the tunnel where she had first met Maalgaroth. Once, this had all been the Demon God’s domain, but killing Maalgaroth and her difficult lessons with Azryet had pushed the dungeon back dramatically, leaving all this space just waiting to be claimed.

“Keep your eyes open,” Ali said, but her minions were already on alert.

“Yes, Seeker.”

Satisfied that she had sufficient protection, Ali opened her Grimoire and began to summon plants.

The ubiquitous, springy Verdant Moss spilled out across the ground beneath her feet in waves, providing a backbone for her nature-affinity mana to seep into the rocks. But here, she deviated from her usual structure. With a wave of her hand, Crypt Poppies sprang up, swaying slightly as they filled the tunnels. Death magic was not exactly her favorite affinity, but she had fought against so much undeath and necromancy that it took up a substantial portion of her Grimoire, now. To ignore her advantages out of icky feelings wasn’t smart if she wanted to survive; a principle she was only now learning to fully embrace.

Her wings hummed cheerfully as she pushed further into the labyrinth, claiming tunnels and filling countless chambers and caverns with her poppy field. In the larger spaces, she mixed in Deathcap Mushrooms, Grave Moss, and the occasional tree.

She didn’t have to wait long before her domain steadied, pulsing with the power of ice and death affinities. This should be strong enough, she decided, scrutinizing the flows of mana closely. Flipping through her Grimoire, she summoned several Frozen Skull Sentries, the cornerstone of her plan. She bound them immediately to her domain so that the ice elementals would be properly supported. In several of the larger caverns, she augmented them with a Malevolent Oak or two, doubling down on the True Sight perception skill. She nodded with satisfaction: nothing was coming through these tunnels without her noticing.

All she needed now was some power to defend the area. She grimaced a little, but regardless of her feelings, she knew this was the right choice. Lyeneru will just have to deal, she decided. With her mind made up, Ali began summoning enough Devastation Knights to protect the entire new range of tunnels and caverns she had claimed, mixing up the three affinity styles she knew for better versatility.

With the area now flush with her domain, she leveraged her Domain Mastery to do a bit of remodeling. She removed some tunnels, widened others, and redirected a few, creating a far longer path connecting her domain to the domain of the demon god. Nothing like a few good bottlenecks to improve her strategic advantages. Obviously, if he sent something as powerful as Maalgaroth, walls might only slow it down a little, but for the rank and file, the discards of the demon god that she had to contend with, it would be perfect. Right in the middle of the connecting path, she merged several caverns to make a far larger one, and then she really got stuck into her task. Her theme for this area was death and ice, obviously, and she had disturbingly many choices.

Firstly, she removed all the Abyssal Bloodstone and extra rock and rubble, deconstructing it all in moments, and earning herself a few more mundane variants for her stone imprint. Then she replaced all of it with chunks of ice-affinity magicite and lined the giant cavern walls with Azure Ice Queen orchids. Nestled among the poppies, she planted patches of the tiny blue Alpine Forget-me-nots.

This looks pretty, she decided, surveying the cavern. Snow was already drifting down from the walls and overhead crags now covered with orchids, and the magicite embedded into the walls glittered with blue radiance in the otherwise pitch black of the cavern.

Leaning into the wealth and weight of ice and death mana in this zone, Ali carved out a large lair in the back wall of the cavern and summoned a Crypt of Kings Skeletal Frost Dragon. With a glance through her options, she gave it an amplified breath attack, an ice-affinity aura, and the ability to summon any draconic imprint in her Grimoire that possessed an ice affinity. That included her old Frost Dragonets, but also her brand new – and far more powerful – Frost Dragons, courtesy of Seth, making it the raid boss protector of the chamber of ice and death.

And poppies and orchids, she thought, still surprised at just how beautiful and whimsical a landscape she had made. She spent almost an hour backtracking through the new winding passages and caverns, inscribing Frost Nova traps at most of the tight turns, entrances, and exits. She was so enjoying her work that she barely even glanced up when her minions took care of the occasional eldritch eye summoned to spy on her.

Ice and death were a great counter to the demonic blood and hellfire of the powerful dungeon, but although she had many choices, she had fewer that were high enough level to really make an impact. However, if she played her cards right, this might become a phenomenal location to level them all up. With some care to create proper crevices and cracks for them to hide in, Ali summoned a whole colony of Frost Weavers. She imagined the ice-affinity spiders filling the tunnels with webs to slow down invading demons when their skill grew high enough. She trusted that the enterprising scouts in the guild would quickly discover her changes and that higher-level ice web would become a lucrative trade item. In places with enough space to fly, she summoned hordes of her low-level swarm Icicle Bats and beefed up their power with several Frost Dragons. The ones she had found flying about the icy spires of the Fangs of the Frost Wyrm had been intimidating, and that was precisely what she wanted to create here.

Taking a quick break, she reviewed everything in her mind, just to make sure she hadn’t missed anything obvious.

“What do you think?” she asked.

“Needs more axes,” Tol’brekk rumbled.

“More bats, and a haunting!” Kir’vella offered. “Insanity!” She waved a suddenly conjured, smoking concoction in the air, leaving trails of smoke that made Ali cough.

“Oh, right. The Spirit Realm,” Ali said. She had made a point of populating the spirit realm with her domain-propagating plants, creating a robust redundancy to hopefully avoid a disaster like the one that had wiped out her entire dungeon and stranded her in this abyssal realm. But the spirit realm was far more than just that.

With her witch doctor’s help, she cursed herself over into the spirit realm and retraced her steps, planting arcane trees, ghost mushrooms, and enough Crypt Poppies to ensure that anything wiping out her plants would not also take out the monsters that relied on her death and ice affinities. But then, an idea popped into her head. They had faced monsters back in the Temple of Aman Rak that she had committed to her Grimoire and then mostly forgotten because she couldn’t summon them back then.

But now… She summoned an assortment of Spectral Mages and Warriors from her troll imprint, attaching the specters of the Telim Gor delegation to her domain. Both the mages and the warriors used ice affinity, making them an ideal fit for this space. To round it off, she supplemented them with Dark Souls.

Ghosts and specters could freely travel to and from the spirit realm, making them ideal ambush monsters in these narrow caverns, and while she didn’t really want to pollute the theme with too much lightning, a couple of lightning affinity Devastation Knights and the Dark Souls would provide a much-needed alternate affinity, just in case there were ice or death immune demons.

Besides, the Dark Souls’ damage output was simply insane.

Finally happy, she dropped in on her Skeletal Frost Dragon boss.

“I want you to summon a few dragons right now, and send them into the domain out there,” she said, articulating the draconic syllables carefully with vocal cords ill-suited to the harsh language. The skeletal frost dragon simply cocked its giant bony head, clearly listening to her instructions. “Whenever you are healthy and not busy, I want you to find a few demons and lure them into our defenses. Draw them in here and wipe them out. Just make sure they do not get past your lair.”

The Skeletal Frost Dragon let out a deep rumble of acknowledgement, a sound that was all the more surprising since Ali could see through its hollow ribcage and knew it had nothing even closely resembling lungs. It immediately wielded its domain magic for summoning. An azure, blue-scaled Frost Dragon appeared in mid-air, let out a roar, and sailed off down the tunnel with lazy beats of its huge wings.

Wow, that’s magnificent, Ali thought, watching as the dim light gleamed off those gorgeous blue scales. Seth, you’re awesome!

Ali hollowed out a nook behind the Skeletal Frost Dragon, blocked it off with a strong barrier, and hunkered down to observe, tapping into the perception skills of the entire cavern system she had just built. She did not have Naia’s hive mind, but with her prodigious intelligence attribute making light of the thousand-way attention split, she could fake it well enough. Her mind aggregated the deluge of information, sorting and correlating it, until a sense of the entire area gelled into a seamless composite; a single living, breathing whole. She didn’t have to wait long before the majestic Frost Dragon came swooping back with glittering droplets of black blood frozen to the corners of its mouth like jewels and several imps and wargs hot on its heels. She studied the reactions of her minions to the invasion like a commander overseeing a battle from a distant vantage point. Not a whole lot happened along the first stretch of winding tunnels. The wargs breathed hellfire to try to set her domain alight, but as they rounded the first bend, one of them tripped her first Frost Nova circle.

A loud crackling pop rang out through the tunnel; not the popping of a bubble, but the popping of a glacier shifting. The narrow tunnel was instantly filled with a vicious squall of ice, freezing several imps in mid-air and locking two of the wargs in place. Taking full advantage of the sudden incapacitation of their foes, a half dozen Frost Weavers crawled out of their crevices, casting thick blue nets of ice magic and moving in to bite their prey. It was all over too soon, and Ali’s pretty spiders retreated into their hidey-holes again.

Well, that just proves the power of Frost Nova in enclosed spaces, Ali decided. Not that it had ever been in doubt. None of the invaders had even bypassed the first corner and reached her stronger defenders, but right as she had that thought, something deeper into the cavern ripped an arm off one of her Devastation Knights. It happened just like that. One moment her undead Knight was patrolling the edge of the cavern, and the next, a mithril-armored arm hit the ground with a clank.

Ali glanced down at the fallen arm a second time, but it stubbornly and inexplicably remained on the ground. There was no blood, of course, but the Devastation Knight was already searching for his unseen attacker with his sword grasped in his left hand while his other arm lay on the floor, incomprehensibly severed with an exquisitely clean cut that sliced through both the undead flesh and the mithril plate armor.

What just happened?

A leg suddenly went flying, bouncing off the wall, and the Devastation Knight fell to the ground, seemingly unable to defend itself against the unseen monster. Then, with a loud crunch, its head went flying to roll down the tunnel, clanking loudly as it went. But it rolled right beneath one of her Frozen Skull Sentries.

As the sentry spun to see, Ali borrowed its elemental sight. The entire tunnel lit up, clear as day, mana and mundane objects all standing out brightly in the monster’s True Sight eye beams. Crouched there in the tunnel, nearly the size of one of her berserker trolls, was a monster of truly demonic proportions.

