An arrow trailing shadows slammed into Kryostria’s gaunt ribs, warping the light around it. The great Dracolich roared in fury, smashing the ground with the great bulk of a single paw, causing it to buck and crack as Calen was forced to rely on his exceptional dexterity just to stay upright. Blue radiance kindled deep within Kryostria’s throat, signaling a powerful gathering of dragon breath.

A shadow-wreathed elven form sprinted frantically across the ice, zigzagging around boulders and leaping across crevices, looking for all the world like an insect scurrying away from a predator. Something shimmered, and his form grew blurry. Another spell flickered with dark mana, and the shadows twisted around him, growing deeper, perhaps even ominous.

An immense breath of ice shot out from the throat of the dragon, rapidly overtaking the sprinting Shadow Hunter as he almost hurled a potion down his throat. Calen had studied his abilities extensively before the mission, and he knew Hadlis had an evasion skill similar to Malika’s, and he had a way of combining gear, potions, and his own skills to push his dodge chance to almost perfect. However, that only worked when the monster was the same level as he was; here, he was taking an extraordinary risk.

Calen sprinted for the exit, but he did not breathe until Kryostria’s icy apocalypse faded, and he saw the dark, shadowy form emerge from the aftermath of the breath weapon, still sprinting. Another arrow snapped off, clipping the Dracolich on the snout. Mosquito bite! he thought inanely. Yes. No way we’re ready to fight this beast toe-to-toe.

An incoherent roar of fury was followed by a vast swarm of summoned skulls that shot off toward Hadlis, all screeching and trailing ice crystals. An uncountable array of ice lances materialized in the air, launching after the skulls, and then the angry dracolich took a deep breath to unleash her breath weapon, yet again.

Hadlis simply vanished, finally taking the smarter approach and using his escape skill. The sheer volume of ice that smashed into the far side of the cavern would have buried Myrin’s Keep from the western battlements to the river.

Calen dove for the wall, trusting his memory, but he still flinched right before his head passed through the illusion, dumping him instantly into a dark, icy tunnel.

Ouch! Still, I rather fancy being alive. Time to make the most of this.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
