It was a couple of minutes before Stuart spoke again. “One of my brothers came home last night. I was excited when I met him in the kitchen this morning. I wanted to tell him about you, but I’d hardly started before he said a wizard and an Avowed couldn’t be friends. That was why I forgot the tea.”

“What’s the brother’s name?”

“Jozz,” Stuart said reluctantly.

Alden snorted. “The cool knight in the painting? That’s so disappointing. You should have told me he behaved like a gokoratch.”

“He doesn’t usually,” Stuart said. “I never thought so before today.”

He was still fidgeting.

“I’m going to ask Healer Yenu if she’ll let me think about confidence tonight on the inward path,” said Alden. “I had this thought about how the confidence I’m building now is realer than what I had before, and how it’s enough even if I don’t usually feel like it. If I sort my ideas well on the path, can I tell you about them?”

“Of course.”

Alden looked down at the klerm again, perfectly preserved in his hand.

“Do you want me to put it back?” Stuart was already reaching out with the wooden box as he asked.

“Not yet, my soon-friend. This is one of the nicest things anyone has ever given me. And what you said made me feel the beauty of my skill, which is myself, and I…really appreciate that. So I’m going to hold it a little bit longer.”

They sat there after that, until they both knew the silence between them was more contentment than worry, and then as evening fell, they went together to see Yenu-pezth.

“You know,” said Stuart as they walked down the road to the House of Healing, past the Sdyelis Branch, “meatpetal is harvested from the wild. So it’s not hypocritical for you to enjoy it. When you eat it, you’re removing a carnivorous plant from the universe, not contributing to their cultivation, if that’s what you thought.”

“Is that true?”

“Do you think I would lie about a plant?”

“What a magnificent vegetable.”

“I had to stop Evul from sending you a live one.”

“Why?”

“She thought it would be funny.”

“I mean why did you stop her?”

“Have you ever seen a whole meatpetal?” Stuart asked. “The one she wanted to send you might have eaten you instead.”

******
