Confidence in parts of yourself that had never been challenged probably wasn’t a bad thing…better than assuming you were stupid and incapable. But it wasn’t solid. Alden followed that thought like he was on the inward path.

“There’s untested confidence, and then there’s the kind you have because you’ve actually done something and learned what you’re capable of. The first type is really just a wish for yourself that feels like something true because you don’t know any better.”

Of course I wouldn’t freeze up if someone else was in danger. Of course I’ll be the bravest, most level-headed, least whiny person around if there’s ever an emergency. I would never waste time crying for myself in a vault when there was survival business to attend to and a recently-orphaned child to take care of. A guy who would do something like that sounds like more of a selfish wimp than me.

“After the wishful thinking took a beating, what was left must’ve been my real confidence. And how much of that was there? Not a lot. People sometimes describe high confidence as ‘towering’ in English. If I had a tower before, then now I have just a few bricks. A knee-high brick wall? So, I’ve got a lot of building to do. But at least I can make sure every brick is solid instead of an illusion… ”

He frowned. “There might be advice buried in here for me instead of Stuart. I don’t know what he needs to hear, or if Rel-art’h is even right about how he feels. But I know that it isn’t okay for them all to treat him like he failed at growing up just because he didn’t turn out like they were expecting.”

He fell backward onto the foot of the bed and switched to texting again. [I mean seriously…if they think he can’t make it, after everything he’s been through, knowing how hard he tries…if they think he can’t make it with years of preparation and with all of them beside him…then what would they think of my long-term chances?]

“I think I want someone to tell me a few bricks are enough to build any future with. As long as they’re real. Maybe he needs to hear that, too.”

She didn’t reply, but he hadn’t exactly wanted one. He watched sunlight creep across the triangular ceiling tiles for longer than he should have before getting back up and returning to the table.

He took a seat on one of the soft cushions and pressed the tip of the ceramic spiral to his earlobe until he felt it pierce through. Then, he closed his eyes and listened while the study guides were read aloud to him. Having the information delivered at a set speed was safer than reading and getting hung up on details.

Falling into a knowledge-absorbing trance was still so easy. He listened for about two and a half hours before taking the earring off. He examined it. It was developing a stain from the drop of blood it absorbed every time he put it on.

“I’m done studying for finals. Already.”

He was going to be so sad when the earring wore out.

“Hey. Do you think there’s enough fruit on Earth to persuade Olorn-art’h to give me another one of these?”

******

When Stuart came back that afternoon, Alden was sitting in one of the chairs outside. It was comfortable, sunny weather, and he’d already dressed respectfully for his meeting with Healer Yenu. He had his tablet in one hand, and a foot-long twig he’d taken from the forest floor was in the other. He’d smoothed it and wrapped the middle with cord. He’d been twirling it for so long his fingers were sore.

“What are you doing?” Stuart asked. He looked genuinely curious.

That’s more like his usual self!

“I’m learning to take advantage of my dexterity and finger speed,” said Alden. “I found a feature on the tablet for measuring. It can draw an image for me on the screen to show where the ends of the stick would be if it was different lengths. I’m trying to make it hit specific points. Like this.”

He twitched his fingers to make the stick point at Stuart.

“I was trying to move it really fast and have it end up pointing directly at your chest, but this shows me it would be going past your shoulder if it could extend that far. My sense for things like this could be very good, I think. But it’s currently not. I want to develop better control.”

Stuart thought for a minute. “If you could position your tripping string more quickly and accurately, you could have chosen to kill the demon in your nightmare instead of barely getting your weapon in front of it in time and injuring it.”

“I did think of that. And when I’m not spinning this stick, I’ve been thinking about this.” Alden set the tablet down and picked up the study journal from the arm of the chair. “I read everything you wrote. It’s great, Stuart.”

A small smile. “You liked it? Is it easy to understand what I mean? On page four, the story about the two leaders of the warring countries who swore to tell each other of nine dreams and nine griefs wasn’t going to lead to a suggestion that we have an agreement like that.” He came over to stand right in front of Alden. “I’d just started that part. I was going to use it as an example of how relationship oaths can develop over the course of years.”

“I did wonder where you were going with that since we aren’t commanding our armies to attack each other’s villages,” said Alden. “But I liked all of it. I knew I would. I liked your other study journals, too, remember? And I couldn’t even understand what those were about. This one’s going to be about how important the companions you go through life with are, and how you hope I might be one of yours. And you write so…honestly and bravely. And that doesn’t surprise me at all.”

Stuart held his hand out for the journal, and Alden passed it to him.

“I’m glad you like it! Would you like to know how it’s made?” Stuart asked, looking from his face to the cover and back. “There’s a spell for <<impressing>> signatures that we learn to modify when we start making our own journals. I used that to stamp the mark onto the front, and then I… ”

Alden listened to Stuart talk and show off all the study journal details, watching him grow more animated, and then when Stuart had finished, he said the next thing he knew he needed to say.

“There are some choices I have to make before I know what friendship oaths I could swear to you. Is that all right?”

Stuart had taken a seat in the chair beside him. “What kinds of choices? And of course we don’t have to rush. We shouldn’t. I’m enjoying learning about you.”

“I’m not even brave enough or honest enough to tell you what the choices are,” Alden said. “I’m sorry…I’m enjoying learning about you, too.”

Stuart laughed. Quite merrily.

Alden frowned. That’s not the right response. My stomach is in knots from admitting this much.

Stuart met his bafflement without an ounce of concern or distrust on his face. “Then it must not be something you need to share.”

Alden blinked. “I’m sure there are some things you might like to know that I haven’t told you yet.”

“I’d like to know many things about many people,” Stuart replied. “If it’s something I need to know, I believe you will tell me.”

“Don’t believe a thing like that just because! I want to be the best friend you’ve ever had, but I just admitted aloud that I’m not as brave and honest as you. I have secrets.”

Stuart’s smile faded. He was serious now.

Yes, that’s right, Alden thought nervously. I’m trying to tell you I’m hiding things that aren’t minor. And whatever you’re imagining…it isn’t big enough.

“I want to be the best friend you’ve ever had, too,” Stuart said solemnly. He started patting the study journal in a satisfied way, like he was ever so pleased with it. “You’ve either positioned my character too high or your own too low if you don’t think your bravery and honesty are enough for me.”

“No, I—”

“I’ve brought you something.”

While Alden was trying to figure out how his revelation that he was full of secrets had gone awry, Stuart took a wooden box from his school bag and pulled the top back. He thrust his hand inside quickly and then held his fist out. “Will you take this with your skill?”

Alden nodded. He felt a small, cool weight on his palm, and then Stuart’s hand drew back to reveal a frog-like creature with a shell protecting its back.

Alden stared at it.

“You…” he said quietly. “You brought me a klerm.”

“I rescued every one I saw from the carnivorous plants today. Fifty-seven. This was the last.”

Just an alien frog.

Just a tiny life held safe by his authority.

“We don’t know everything about your skill, but we know it protects,” said Stuart. “Haven’t you told me that’s your favorite thing about it? Kivb-ee lived because you held her. Zeridee-und’h lived because you held her. You held me once, though I was at my worst, and protected me from pain and further harm. The klerm you hold is exhausted from its attempts to escape a prolonged death. And yet…it’s now as safe as it has ever been. This is <<profound>>, isn’t it?”

“Yes.” Alden’s chest was tightening. The emotions weren’t bad or unfamiliar, but they were a lot.

“I don’t think you owe what you have protected anything once you release it from your skill, but if you ever feel that you do, who could argue that it isn’t a reflection of yourself? If something like the klerm happens again, you already know you will say no. And if that isn’t enough, say it’s <<antithetical>> to your use of your skill. Or call me, and I’ll tell them so myself.”

“I can’t call the Primary’s son for the sake of klerms and laboratory animals.”

“You may call the Primary’s son for the sake of the most insignificant bacterium in the universe, if doing so is important to you. And… ”

Stuart hesitated for so long, after such an impassioned speech, that Alden finally looked up from his klerm.

“What is it?”

“The Primary’s son is sorry that he can’t help with some of the much more significant things you will care about. Kon repaired that wand so efficiently, using what sounded like a very old type of chant. And he’s young. And as strong as a human his age could be if I understand your ranks right. And…Olorn Mom gave him a gift she makes for our family’s knights, to provide them with a home comfort when they’re traveling. They take their favorite drinks and make them last a long time with those cups. She recently finished the last few for our younger knights, and she gave him one of theirs.”

Stuart swallowed and fidgeted. “While I was agonizing over various troubles in class today, it occurred to me that it all fits together best if that skill was specially made for working on the Sdyelis Branch. If you asked me to stop them from summoning him for that, I couldn’t.”

Alden’s thoughts blanked. Konstantin plus the massive unfinished spaceship that would be bound for the new major battlefield the Primary, Esh-erdi, and Lind-otta planned to be on…it wasn’t computing.

Stuart kept talking. “The oasis ship will be important, and Kon’s job would be important. The good thing about it being important is that they most likely asked Earth to arrange for that power to be given to an Avowed with the best potential and personality for the assignment. They would expect to oversee his skill development for years. Nobody wants to spend years teaching angry people or working in space with them if they don’t have to. It would make sense for him to be someone intelligent, easy to get along with, and willing to be away from home for long periods of time.”

An oasis ship. Not a battleship. A rest place near the battle. They’re trying to stick Porti-loth on it, too. And thousands of other people. It’s not small.

“Alden?”

“That describes Kon,” Alden said. “He is…he was…the word ‘was’ hurts there…he was planning to be a famous superhero. So he’s not someone who wanted to stay home. And he’s the most social person ever, so he’d find a way to fit in with a multi-species crew faster than almost anyone else I know. And his talents…are they mostly for repair, after all? The Sdyelis Branch is being built weird, so they don’t want to patch it however they can. They want it put back together as close to how it was originally made as possible. Using something similar to an old kind of magic. Is that it?”

“I don’t know, but that’s what I suspect. If I’m correct, he wouldn’t be the only person given that ability. There should be several others. Enough Avowed so that they don’t have to be onboard all the time and so that anyone who doesn’t develop well can be replaced.”

Alden looked down the slope toward the stream. And across it. He remembered Stuart staring off in this same direction on his first invited visit, while he considered Alden’s question about whether he would ever summon Alden without permission.

Currently, that same person was squirming in his seat like he expected Alden to yell at him.

“Are you worried I’m mad at you?”

“Yes. If you are, I will understand.”

“If I was mad at you for this, you shouldn’t understand. It would be unreasonable of me. It’s not your fault chaos is a problem. Or that some things about being an Avowed are very far from perfection. For example, it seems wrong that Kon doesn’t know this. Maybe it’s the Contract’s decision based off of what’s best for him, but unless someone explains why that’s necessary to me, I’m going to tell him as soon as I get confirmation.”

