“Damn,” Tabitha audibly curses, pulling her sword back. There was a faint scratch mark on the door from where she tried to pierce it, but that was all. "These doors are worse than the bricks," she audibly grumbles. “I even used a few of my skills with that strike.”

Even with most of the enchantments dead, the doors could still stop an attack from somebody above level 100. Impressive, but not unreasonable.

“I don’t think we’re getting in with brawn," I say, stepping up next to Tabitha and pressing my hand on the massive stone doors.

"Can you open them?” Tabitha raises a questioning eyebrow.

“I’m going to try,” I struggle to hold back my giddy expression. The runes were overly complicated, and though I couldn't copy them, they'll be a good reference for the future.

"And if you can't?" Tabitha smirks challengingly.

“Then I go with plan B, destroy the doors," I grin back.

"And how are you going to do that?" Tabitha looks at me skeptically. She probably thought I couldn't do anything if she couldn't, but I had a way in that she didn't.

"Yep, all I need to do is compromise the still-working enchantments. If I did that, the runes would go out of control, and the material would turn to dust." Or at least I hoped they did, but I don't mention that possibility.

“Then why not just do that first?” Tabitha sheaths her sword and crosses her arms in front of her chest, knowing how I would answer.

“Obviously, because I want to have a chance to examine the runes,” I playfully stick my tongue out at her.

“Figures,” Tabitha rolls her eyes and sighs dramatically. “Please don’t take too long.”

“Got somewhere to be?” I chuckle as I raise my other hand and channel my mana into the stone doors.

"Funny," Tabitha dryly remarks, not sharing my sense of humor.

I know I tease, but I wasn’t planning on making Tabitha wait long. If I couldn’t figure out how to open the doors by the end of the day, I would destroy them; the runes be damned. We are on a time crunch, after all. That said, I don't waste any time and jump right into trying to decode what each rune does.

An internal locking mechanism ran along the seam where the two doors met. If the mechanism were metal, it would've rusted by now, but instead, it was made from the same grey stone as the doors themselves. Every component fit perfectly together like the world's most complex jigsaw puzzle, and the doors were sealed so tight the only thing passing through them was mana.

There were countless runes to look through, but I focused on the ones on the locking mechanism. Since there were no handles, the doors had to be opened another way, and I was betting it was magic.

Of course, a skill might be required, but that would limit who could gain access to the chamber, hence a magic key.

Not literally, though magic keys might be a thing; I suspected the runes had to be activated in a particular order or a specific way to get the door to open on its own.

I spend the first hour examining how all the runes of the locking mechanism link to one another, and then, after two more, I figure out which rune I’m supposed to start with.

Hours go by, but it feels like nothing more than a few minutes to me because I'm having fun. But by this point, I'm rethinking the skill requirement idea because this is difficult even for me and my skills. Unless everybody used to have skills like mine thousands of years ago, I don't think many could've opened this door—

Or sealed it.

Each rune was a puzzle needing to be solved; they reacted differently to each other whenever mana was channeled through them and continued to change as more runes were incorporated. That meant I had to start with the first rune, decode my way through it, and press on to the next without losing control of my mana. If I stopped applying mana, the runes would shift back instantly, and I would have to start again.

It took me some time to make it two-thirds of the way through the lock, pushing my control to the limits. But on the flip side, I was getting better at decoding the runes.

The trick was observing the enchantment as a whole rather than getting hung up on each individual rune. After much trial and error, I could guess how the next rune would function based on the previous ones.

I could only imagine how ridiculous I must look standing in front of the doors with my hands stretched out for as long as I have, but thankfully, Tabitha didn't see fit to ridicule me. She probably recognized how hard I was concentrating; that, or she was waiting for me to finish.

It was also possible she was standing guard. If the doors opened suddenly, Tabitha was close enough to react in time but far enough away that she wouldn't bother me while I worked.

"Twelve's done, four more to go," I say under my breath as I work.

From there, my progress slows down a bit as things get progressively more difficult, but I continue until I'm just about done with the last rune. "Ready?" I ask over my shoulder. "I think this is it," I tell Tabitha with a smile.

"Really?" Tabitha raised a single eyebrow, the only sign that she was surprised that I had succeeded.

“Let’s see," I turn back to the doors and finish channeling my mana through the sixteenth and final rune. As soon as I do, colorful lines appear all over the previously featureless grey doors, and we can hear a rumbling from within.

The doors opened. We were in, but the question remained: What were we going to find on the other side?

It was time to find out.
