“Alright, who is it? I told you, no one’s allowed through no matter how much they’re paying unless—oh! Hey, I remember you! Grimalkin! I need a door charge!”
Erin turned and bellowed across the room. Amid the roar of protests from the door crowd on both sides, a muscly Drake turned his head and grimaced. Grimalkin was sitting in the inn with Relc, doing some workouts with some barbells and other weights Erin had helped him come up with. He sighed but came over to the door as Relc took the barbells from him.
“I told you, I’m not your walking battery, Miss Erin.”
“Yeah, but—please? I helped with the weights. Maughin made a bunch, right, Maughin?”
Erin waved at a Dullahan who was sitting with a Selphid in a corner of her inn. The Dullahan jumped and looked up. He raised his head and looked around blankly.
“What? Am I needed?”
“Nah, it’s just Erin being Erin. Sit back down.”
Jelaqua laughed next to him. The Halfseekers were in the inn, having been derailed from their journey towards Invrisil for two days now. Moore got up and cautiously made his way towards the door with Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] was arguing with Erin as he leaned on it.
“It’s not that easy. We don’t regain all of our mana in a single night’s rest, Miss Solstice. And yes, I generate mine efficiently thanks to my muscles, and I have a larger mana supply than most, but this is taxing. I appreciate Mage Moore’s help, and the other [Mages] have pulled their weight, but you need a better system in place for this.”
“I know. But…one more person? Please? I helped you with the barbells! And I think I remember this weird bar with curves in it you could make!”
The Drake sighed. But he put his hand on the door.
“One charge then. Moore? I appreciate the help. No more than that, though, Erin. We have to send ourselves back, remember? Who’s coming through?”
“Him! Hey! No one else comes through! Kel, keep them back!”
Erin shouted into the doorway. Numbtongue watched her waving her hands as he silently came back downstairs. He’d taken his pack off, and now he had the nugget stuffed into one of his belt pouches.
He had only a few pieces of equipment, although he carried an adventurer’s compartmentalized belt. Two healing potions, a stamina potion, a Tripvine bag, a few carrying compartments…Numbtongue irritably shifted the belt to adjust for the weight of the gold nugget. He missed who came through, but Erin bounded over with a smile on her face and found the Hobgoblin.
“Sorry! Busy as usual. Say, Numbtongue, have you had breakfast?”
“No. Got any food?”
The Hobgoblin saw lots of people eating a late breakfast. He smacked his lips as Erin nodded rapidly.
“I’ve got some food—sorry, you missed breakfast! But I’ve got bits and pieces you can nobble on. Just one sec!”
“Nobble?”
The Hobgoblin stared at Erin. She entered the kitchen, bypassing the lines of her staff moving in and out, and came back with…two slices of pizza, one of her experimental crispy chicken wings, a bowl of eggs covered in ketchup, an entire carrot, and a fluffy bread roll filled with raisins. Numbtongue stared at the food, which Erin had all heaped in a bowl.
“Sorry, it’s a mess in there. Lyonette’s cooking, and Ishkr’s helping, but we really need a dedicated [Cook] at this rate! I’ll pop in there after I greet—”
“What’s nobble?”
Numbtongue selected a slice of pizza and began eating. He liked all the food Erin had given him and began chomping it all down. He was hungry enough to eat it all too. Erin shrugged.
“Nobble? Nibble and nosh. You know? Eating?”
She mimed what Numbtongue was doing. The Hob frowned, chewing with his cheeks full.
“Is it a word?”
“Well, it is now!“
Erin beamed at Numbtongue, purely unaware that the word ‘nobble’ was, in fact, taken and was the sort of thing the [Enforcer] in Celum might use in parlance with his job. Numbtongue just stared at her. Then he dug in his belt pouch.
“This is what I found. See?”
He offered the nugget to her. Erin’s eyes went wide.
“Ooh! Is that gold? Can I see?”
Numbtongue nodded, smiling. This at last was what he wanted. As he ate, he handed it to Erin. She marveled at the weight, examining the curiously smooth nugget.
“It’s so polished! Did you do that? No, wait, did you find it lying about somewhere? Is…is that really how gold’s mined? It’s heavier than I thought it’d be. And it’s not as shiny!”
She accusatorially held it up to the light. The sparkle and her repeated use of the word ‘gold’ attracted some heads. A passing Drake blinked at the sparkle and wandered over. He missed Numbtongue at first; his eyes were on the nugget Erin held.
“Where’d you get that? Are you handing out gold? Is that what the theme of today is? Ancestors, it is gold. Where’d you—dead gods!”
He spotted Numbtongue at last and recoiled in shock. The Hobgoblin paused in the middle of chowing down on the carrot. He hadn’t been doing anything, but the Drake still backed away before catching himself. He warily stared at Erin, who’d lowered the nugget with a frown.
“I, er, oh. That’s the Goblin. Uh—and that’s gold. Can I see it?”
“No. Numbtongue dug it up. Or…found it. Numbtongue, where’d you get it?”
“I found it—”
“Hey, is that gold?”
Another Drake spotted the nugget. A crowd immediately turned from the door to Pallass and stared at Erin. And at Numbtongue. She looked at him.
“Where? Oh, and no one touch! This is Numbtongue’s!”
She handed the nugget back to him. All eyes were on the sparkling bit of metal. Numbtongue opened his mouth to tell Erin and then noticed the stares. He looked around at all the faces. Half were staring at him, the other half at the nugget and at him. All had the same expressions. Wariness, caution, avarice…he dropped the half-eaten carrot in the bowl.
“Erin. Want the gold?”
“Uh…sure? I mean, maybe later. It’s, uh, a bit—”
Erin waved her hands as she looked up at him. Numbtongue nodded. The crowd sighed as he put the gold away in his belt where it sagged heavily. The Hobgoblin kept eating, but the Drakes and Gnolls didn’t exactly disperse. They just stared at him. So he crammed the rest of the food into his mouth and tapped Erin on the shoulder.
“I’m going.”
“Oh? Back to mine?”
“Where exactly? Er, I mean, this Goblin has a mine? Somewhere in the mountains?”
One of the Drakes leaned forwards interestedly. Erin glared at him, and he drew back, but his eyes flicked to the magic door. Numbtongue just sighed.
“No. Out.”
He pointed to Erin’s actual door to the inn. She nodded and followed him as he walked to the doorway. There were people coming in, making the short trek from Liscor to the inn. Like the others, they focused on him. Numbtongue stared around the busy inn. Liscor’s citizens and a few of Pallass’ filled it. Celum’s [Actors] were on stage—it was full to the brim. And it wasn’t even midmorning. He shook his head and turned to Erin.
“I’m going. Be back later.”
The young woman looked up at him. Her expression, which had been excited earlier and annoyed as she shooed back the crowd, became concerned. She grabbed Numbtongue as he went for the door.
“Hey.”
He turned back. Erin hesitated and pointed up at the stairs where a few Workers were trooping up with wood and nails.
“You…wanna have dinner tonight? The third floor’ll be fixed by then. I figure we can turn one of the rooms into a dining room for a day. Lyonette’s already talking about having private rooms. We can go up there and eat. You, me, Lyonette, and Mrsha?”
“Sure. Sounds good.”
Numbtongue nodded. Erin smiled and patted his arm. But she wavered as Numbtongue put a hand on the door.
“Numbtongue? Exactly where are you going?”
He paused, his back to her.
“…Out.”
“You mean, around the inn? Or the Floodplains? Or…you know we had a talk.”
“I know.”
Numbtongue didn’t look at Erin. He could sense her sidling to his left, watching his face.
“You’re just going out. You’re not going to go there, are you?”
“…No?”
“I know you want to. But look, I’m trying to get Zevara to agree. But until then, it is dangerous. I can’t let you get hurt. You know that, right, Numbtongue?”
“I know. I’m just going out.”
“Okay then.”
Erin was clearly unconvinced by Numbtongue’s lie. But she forced a smile onto her face.
“Dinner tonight. With the family. Alright! See you then!”
She patted Numbtongue’s arm, and he stepped out the door. He walked through the door past a pair of Gnolls, making them freeze, and out of the inn. A few stragglers coming up the hill pointed at him in shock. Numbtongue looked around and felt thoroughly miserable. Slowly, he descended the hill and walked towards Liscor.
Her inn was full. It held Gnolls and Drakes, Dullahans, Garuda, even a Selphid and half-Giant. But the one Goblin was going. He couldn’t stand it in there, and he didn’t like to think of another day with the inn full of…people.
He was glad for Erin, he really was. But he felt out of place in her inn when everyone was filling it and she was at the center of it all. Especially when half of them recoiled from the sight of him. It wasn’t just tiring, it annoyed him. He knew it was natural; his heart skipped a beat whenever he saw an adventurer he didn’t recognize. But he didn’t like it. Nor did he like being stared at all the time.
So he left. He walked down the hill from The Wandering Inn and towards the city in the distance. No one stopped him. As he neared Liscor, no one blew horns or raised the alarm. And that was…wonderful. A miracle. He could walk in the inn, even go near the city, without being hunted. Like a monster. It had been his dream since being a child.
When he was young, he used to dream of entering a city and walking around, seeing what Humans did when they weren’t hunting his kind. Greydath used to tell him stories of marvelous cities, of sights few Goblins had ever witnessed. So Numbtongue had dreamed of it.
Ironically, it had been Garen Redfang who had taken that chance; he could pass as Human while Numbtongue had been far too fat when he’d become a Hob. So Garen had been first and had learned so much more than Numbtongue ever could. Funny, when you thought of it, that they were both of the same generation, children during Velan’s war.
But Numbtongue had always felt older than Garen, if only by a few years and experience. Perhaps it was how they—Numbtongue blinked and missed a step. He slid down a hill, catching himself before pitching into the muddy sludge at the bottom. The valleys were still filled with water. Numbtongue cursed, dug his feet into the side of the hill, and climbed before he could take a bath in the mud. He stomped over the next hillock, pounding his forehead with the heel of his clawed hand.
Pyrite. It was Pyrite who had spoken to Greydath and dreamed of being in Human cities, not Numbtongue. He, Numbtongue, had grown up in a Human city in his youth. In the sewers, before the Humans had eradicated all Goblins living there.
They had both dreamed of walking a city’s streets in peace, though. Both dreamed of a day when they could see the cities that they could never approach in person. Human cities, full of wonders and lights. An enticing, deadly dream. And now it was true. Only, in reality, it was a Drake city that Numbtongue could walk near without dying. While they didn’t shoot him with arrows, their stares sometimes felt as painful.
For this privilege, Numbtongue knew, the price had been tens of thousands of Goblin lives. Over a hundred thousand. It had been his brothers and his Chieftain. A Goblin Lord and his people. All dead to win one Goblin the right to be stared at in peace. Numbtongue bowed his head as he walked, and he remembered a time when five Goblins had stayed at Erin’s inn. He liked to think he was happy, now. But he wanted to believe he had been even happier back then.
The memories. Sometimes they hurt. Pyrite’s or his. The Goldstone Chieftain’s memories didn’t hit Numbtongue as frequently as before, but they were always there, waiting to be tapped into. And sometimes Numbtongue felt so similar to Pyrite…the [Bard] shook his head. Pyrite’s memories weren’t the worst. He remembered his four friends. He thought of Headscratcher. Of Shorthilt, and he touched the steel sword at his side.
First had gone thirteen. Then six had remained. Then five. And then…was it three? Or one? Numbtongue didn’t know. But here he was alone. He remembered the fallen. Here, at Liscor, on the battlefield. Then against the Eater Goats. And then at Esthelm—his brow wrinkled in confusion for a moment.
Hold on. He remembered Headscratcher and Shorthilt vividly. And Bugear, who’d fallen fighting the Eater Goats, when they’d met Erin. And before that had fallen…
Grunter. Orangepoo…what were the other names? Rocksoup? Yes. Rocksoup, Leftstep, Bitefly, Patchhelm, Justrust.
Numbtongue breathed out, reassured. But for a moment, a terrible moment, he’d forgotten the nicknames of his comrades. If he’d forgotten—what would happen? How could he forget? Numbtongue bit his lip, remembering the names, hitting himself with them.
“Patchhelm. Justrust. Bugear. Grunter. Rocksoup…”
Each one hurt. Memory hurt. Because it hurt, because he couldn’t forget, because he was alone, Numbtongue walked. He walked across the muddy floodplains past valleys of sludge, past green grass and flowers blooming. Away from the inn. Towards the walls looming ever higher.
Towards Liscor. Towards the gates. And then his walk turned into a jog. Then a run.
 
——
 
The gates of Liscor stood open. The City Watch on duty were active, guarding all four cardinal entrances to the city. There was less traffic, at least from foreign travellers, at this time of year, but the [Guards] checked everyone exiting and entering with more zeal and attention than Celum’s sleepy City Watch.
With more efficiency too; outside of caravans led in by [Merchants] or travellers whose belongings amounted to more than a single pack or who had a bag of holding, the [Guardsmen] let through everyone with barely more than a cursory question or two in the case of foreigners.
Faces were checked against descriptions of criminals by the [Guards] manning the gates without the need for a scrum, and those with Skills singled out individuals to be questioned. It allowed for smooth travel, and while it kept the [Guards] on the northern gates hopping, the other three gates were quieter. Usually.
