The southern and eastern gates usually saw traffic from a few villages or from the south, but with the Bloodfields active, only the locals would come through, which made it a cushy job. The western gate was even more infamous; the road going north led to the northern gate, which meant that very few people at all ever used the western gate.
Normally, it was a nice place to be, but recent events had made it the least-popular spot for [Guards] to be posted, even more so than north gate duty. Which was why Tkrn, Gnoll [Guardsman] and one of the four [Guards] posted on the ground, resented being put here for the fourth day in a row. He had to check all of the people going to The Wandering Inn and back to make sure they were locals, and worse, he couldn’t relax on the job with regular inspections and tests of the security at the gates.
Speaking of which…the Gnoll looked up as two of his fellow Gnolls on duty waved through more people heading to the inn. He sniffed the air, frowned, and then swore as he saw a green shape charging towards the gates.
“Aw! It’s him again!”
He bellowed at his fellow [Guardsmen]. They looked up, and the Drake [Guardsman] with them spotted the distant figure at the same time Tkrn did. He must have taken a different route because he was closing on the gates fast this time. The Drake bellowed up at the battlements.
“Hey! Close the gates! Close the—”
The huge, metal doors of Liscor, pure metal to contain water during the spring season, slammed downwards as Tkrn blocked the path of two alarmed Drake ladies. On the walls, he heard shouts—not exactly of alarm—and then a voice as one of the Drakes shouted down at the figure who’d stopped a couple dozen feet away from Liscor’s gates.
“Hey! You! We told you, you can’t come in!”
Tkrn listened to the Drake shouting angrily, a peeved note in his voice. The Gnoll growled and shook his head as he turned to the female Gnoll [Guardswoman] explaining to the frightened old Drakes what was going on.
“This is the third day in a row he’s done this. Doesn’t he get tired?”
She growled at him, vexed.
“Maybe it’s fun for him. Here. Escort these two to the Southern Gate, will you? And warn them the Goblin’s here again. He might try going to the other gates like last time.”
“Aw. Bersa—”
“I did it last time. Your turn.”
Tkrn sighed, but he gestured to the two elderly Drakes. One of them quavered as she stared wide-eyed at the gates and craned her neck at the shouting from above.
“What is it? An attack? Are we fighting Shield Spiders this time? Moths?”
“No, ma’am. It’s just a Goblin. The Goblin.”
“Oh. That Goblin?”
Tkrn sighed as he led the two away. Outside, Numbtongue stared up at the walls of Liscor. The gates were closed; they’d shut them faster this time. He hadn’t been able to even get close. A Drake poked his head over the battlements and shouted down at him.
“You can’t come in. Understand?”
“Why?”
Numbtongue folded his arms. He knew the answer, and the Drake sighed.
“We told you yesterday. And the day before that! No Goblins are allowed in Liscor. The Council voted on it! You’re a public threat.”
“I won’t hurt anyone. You can stab me if I try.”
“That’s not how it works. We can’t let in a security risk. And we have orders.”
“I’m not a threat.”
Numbtongue repeated himself slowly. He could see the Drake, a male with a helmet, looking exasperatedly to one side. Some other members of the City Watch were on the ramparts above the gates. The Drake nodded tiredly at Numbtongue.
“Sure, I believe you. But we’re [Guardsmen].”
“[Guardswoman] over here.”
“I’m a [Watchman].”
The Drake sighed.
“Right. All that. And we have orders. You can’t come in. It’s not our decision—it’s the law. Got it? Will you please go away? You know we’re not opening the gates. Please don’t make us close the others.”
He looked helplessly at Numbtongue. The Goblin reached into his belt pouch and pulled out a folded bit of parchment. He unfurled it and waved it at the Drake.
“Read this.”
The Drake hesitated.
“I can’t see it from here.”
“Come down and read it. It says I can come in.”
“I know what it says. You showed it to me yesterday. The answer’s still no.”
Numbtongue ground his teeth. He stared up at the tiny head dozens of feet above him. He pointed furiously at the parchment, as if the Drake could read one of the names signed on it.
“Your Watch Captain. She signed this. It gives me…permission. To enter this place. Understand? It says I am an adventurer.”
“I know. But I can’t read it.”
“So open the gates. Your Watch Captain—”
“I’m sorry, but Watch Captain Zevara gave the orders. You can’t enter.”
The Drake tiredly cut Numbtongue off. The [Bard] ground his teeth. He looked around.
“I’ll get Erin Solstice. She’ll make you open the gates.”
The [Guardsman] hesitated. He glanced towards the inn and shook his head, a touch wary.
“…She can’t make us open the gates. And she agrees with the Watch Captain. The magic door’s off-limits too. And if you do enter, we’re allowed to arrest you. So don’t try.”
Numbtongue knew that. The [Guardsman] clearly knew that was the case as well, which was why Numbtongue hadn’t tried the door. He’d had…conversations with Erin about this. He folded his arms.
“I want to go in.”
“Sorry, Mister, uh…Hobgoblin.”
“Numbtongue.”
“Right. Sorry. But you’ll be in danger if you enter the city.”
“I don’t care.”
The Drake sighed. He glanced at someone on the battlements and then looked down and shook his head.
“Well, believe it or not, I do. It’s my job if you get in, and that Human [Innkeeper] will probably gut me. If Captain Zevara doesn’t turn my face to ash first. You’re not getting in. And you can try the other gates, but they’ll just close too. And if you keep standing out here…”
“You’ll shoot me?”
“No. But we are authorized to call Erin Solstice.”
Numbtongue glared. The [Guard] gave him a tired look. The Hobgoblin paused. He looked back at the inn and clenched his fists.
“Goblins died for this city.”
The pause that this statement provoked was longest yet. The [Guard] on the walls hesitated. But at last, he shook his head.
“Right. I’m sorry.”
Numbtongue stared up at the Drake. He stared at the closed gates. He heard the whispering from above and looked up bitterly.
“For what?”
“Excuse me?”
The Drake on the walls frowned. Numbtongue gestured up at the city.
“We all died. But that doesn’t bother you. It’s a good thing. Less Goblins. Too bad one survived.”
He turned and stomped back the way he’d come. Numbtongue heard no reply from above, but after about fifty paces, he heard the gates slowly begin to rise. The Hobgoblin was tempted for a moment to run back and run for the entrance, but he knew they’d close the gates before he even got there. Staying in front of the gates wouldn’t work either. They’d get Erin. And she wouldn’t help. At least in this.
The Goblin walked back towards the inn, head bowed, feet padding through the dirt and growing grass. He was banned. From Liscor. After his first passage into the city, he’d tried going back again, but the City Watch had forced him back through the door after bare minutes. And, to Numbtongue’s shock and hurt, Erin had agreed with Watch Captain Zevara’s reasoning.
Numbtongue was in danger in the city. More than one member of Liscor had vowed to kill the Goblin if he entered again, people who’d lost relatives or loved ones during the Second Antinium War or to Goblins in general. More than that, though, it was the fact that Numbtongue’s arrival brought the city to a standstill, caused arguments, even fights.
Zevara had refused to let him back in, and Erin had backed her, if only because the City Watch had orders to halt Numbtongue entering their city, via door or by the gates, in any way short of killing him. If he went through the magic door again, Zevara had warned Erin, it would be removed from the city.
Numbtongue would have taken that risk if he didn’t know that it would inconvenience Erin. And he would have entered the city, danger or not. Even if he was attacked. It was his right. It was what Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Grunter, Justrust, Rocksoup, Butterfly, Orangepoo, Patchhelm, Lefstep, and Bugear had died for. They had died for Liscor. He had to enter it.
It was like a compulsion. No—a sickness. Numbtongue felt it. Ever since Erin had told him he was…family, his life had been overturned. When he was in the inn with her, having breakfast, he was deliriously happy. When he realized his four friends—no, twelve friends would never share that moment, he was crushed more than any blow could ever do to him. And when he stared at Liscor in the distance and knew he couldn’t enter it, even though he had a piece of paper signed that said he was a person—that he needed the paper at all—
Up and down. Happy and sad. It was the cycle to Numbtongue’s day. He mined, practiced with his sword, upheld Redfang tradition and tried to combine Pyrite’s memories with his, and grew stronger. He enjoyed being around Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha. Even Apista. He learned from her, ate, and lived every Goblin’s…it was beyond a dream. But he couldn’t be part of the rest, of anything else. So he went off by himself and remembered. When it got to be too much, he came here. To a city he wasn’t allowed to enter.
That was how it went. What could Numbtongue do besides all of that? He couldn’t wander far from Liscor. Adventurers, travellers, anyone who wasn’t immediately part of Liscor or in sight of the inn might kill him. The mountains were equally dangerous; Numbtongue was wary of going higher than the caves he’d entered, and Pyrite’s memories told him to take it slow.
The inn was…nice. But it was still too small these days. Numbtongue was restless there. Lyonette, Mrsha, Erin, they all had things to do. They couldn’t be with Numbtongue, who had every day free, all the time. So that often left him…
Alone. But that was only part of the time. Then he was with Erin with so much love he felt like his heart was bursting. And then to loneliness again. Staring at a city that wouldn’t even let him through the gates. If he could only be in there or—or if Shorthilt were here. Rabbiteater, Badarrow. Numbtongue.
“They’re alive. They weren’t there. They are alive. Somewhere.”
Numbtongue clutched at his head as he stopped. He looked back at the city. At Liscor. It was his dream. It was Pyrite’s dream. The city taunted him. He had walked its streets once. But once was never enough. Numbtongue stared at Liscor and then at the inn. For the first time, it felt like the inn was a cage. One made of kindness and good intentions. But a cage nonetheless.
Happy and sad. Together and alone. Numbtongue was sick of it. He wanted to enter Liscor even if it meant being hurt, even if it meant dying. He wanted people to see him and not stare when they visited the inn. He wanted to meet the people who tried to avoid him, who pretended he didn’t exist. He wanted to be there. Or he wanted to leave and give up on that dream. The worst thing was being caught in the middle of it. Of Erin giving him everything he wanted and Liscor holding it out of reach. Again and again.
It felt like a…pattern. A cycle. Numbtongue wished it would stop. Because otherwise, soon, either the cycle would break or he would. Slowly, he walked back to the inn. This was his life now.
He…hated it.
 
——
 
A lonely Goblin walked across the Floodplains back towards the inn he called home. And he realized he was miserable. In Celum, a trio of Humans who were accustomed to a different world than most knew finished off a quiche and waited for something to happen. An [Alchemist] sat in her shop and counted her coins. Pure misery awaited all and each in their own way. The quiche was off.
Yet it was all backdrop. These were the lives of the inconsequential. The small. They did not move the world, even in small ways. They were in the wrong place, the wrong time. But in The Wandering Inn, part of the world shook and moved and changed. In the inn and on the streets of Pallass, crowds were gathered as the morning progressed.
They were back. In fact, the inn was even more crowded than yesterday. Erin had opened Pallass and Liscor to each other. Now, the two cities couldn’t get enough of each other. Already, the ripples Erin had splashed were turning into waves.
Rufelt and Lasica were standing in the inn with a trio of Gnoll [Senators] from the Assembly of Crafts. Even Errif Jealwind, a member of the Protectorate group. But he was a Gnoll, and he looked very uncomfortable in the group consisting of the Gnolls from Liscor, the Pallassian Gnolls, and Lasica. He might have been a [Senator], but in the Gnoll hierarchy…
Across the inn, Jelaqua was practically glued to a certain Dullahan. And the implications of that had every Dullahan who’d seen them today spinning their heads on their shoulders. Moore and Seborn, stranded in the inn with their Captain suddenly on vacation, were a mix of happy and irritated. Mostly irritated after watching the two hold hands or talk to each other while ignoring everyone else.
The Players of Celum were performing their second play of the day. Temile, the [Stage Manager], was giving the new cast and crew the workout of their lives, and the new [Actor] Drakes and Gnolls and Humans were performing until their throats needed healing potions. But no one complained; this was their moment, and they all felt it. Eight of Pallass’ citizens were already on the roster to come through this week and learn from the cast up close, rather than having to watch through the crowded door. And what might that lead to?
Some things were predictable, like Grimalkin and Relc happily devising workouts with Erin’s new weights. Wing Commander Embria had joined them this morning, and Erin was tickled to see that she and Grimalkin were getting along like a house on fire. Possibly because Embria seemed to hold Grimalkin in some esteem, or because she was as enamored by the weights as they pertained to her soldiers as he was. The [Innkeeper] was about to circulate past them as she helped load some freshly baked pizzas onto plates with Drassi.
“Say what you will about pizza and how bad it is for you, but it’s fast food!”
Erin nodded to the crowd percolating the inn. Drassi only smiled. She was having a great time listening to the debates around the elections.
“It’s easy to serve! I’ll get the plates out, Erin. You have someone looking for you!”
She pointed. Erin sighed. Someone was always looking for her.
“Do I care? Who is it this time—”
