TOWN OF SANSEAU, ANSBERKEL MANOR

The messenger had arrived in the early morning hours, out of breath, wielding a hastily written letter from one of his compatriots in Bellharbour.

Lord Vernel sniffed at the poor penmanship, but he guessed Lord Pannerassi had been pressed for time. Some leeway could be afforded.

The content was concerning, but not too alarming. He had long expected the money laundering scheme to be uncovered, and he had prepared the necessary contingencies. Given how quickly he'd received the letter, he estimated he had at least a week before an investigator arrived in town. Even then, they would need time to begin their audits.

Plenty of time to enact safeguards and befuddle the tracks.

He retrieved writing papers, picked up his plume pen, and began wording his first letter.

Someone knocked at his door before he'd had time to finish the first sentence. With a heavy sigh, he put down his pen and looked up, speaking loud enough for his voice to carry through the wood. “Yes, what is it?”

His majordomo stepped in, his brow furrowed with worry. “My Lord. There are a group of town clerks, accompanied by a small band of guards, at the front door, requesting your presence.”

Vernel scoffed. “They are requesting my presence? They are clerks, Raymond. They cannot request anything from me. Tell them I will be down once I am finished here.”

He turned his sight away and back to his letter, picking up the pen and resuming his writing. Only a few scratched words later, he turned his eyes up at the majordomo who was fidgeting in place.

“I said, let them know I will see them later, Raymond,” he repeated with more emphasis.

The majordomo swallowed. “Ah, my Lord. They have a Crown-mandated order. You... I mean, my Lord, ignoring their request under the circumstances could be ground for censure, if not more.”

Vernel turned his head up, blinking, his thoughts spooling up.

A Crown-backed mandate?! Is this an unrelated matter? There is no possible way this could be about the laundering. The House of Nobles would have needed at least a seasonal to assemble.

With a frown, he put his pen back down and got up. He would find out what this was about, and plan accordingly.

As he approached the small delegation waiting for him, his stomach began to churn. Why was this troubling him so?

Angeline watched the last of the requisitioned avilems depart, carrying urgent orders to the farthest corners of the kingdom.

Up until now, she had still been mostly acting as she had always done; in the shadows, below the surface, like a hidden current that swept things along in the direction she wished.

Her family, while recognized and powerful, wasn't a noble house. She couldn't use brute force, coerce the kingdom's policies or bend the rules to her needs.

But now, as a Wardenfel, and the main family at that, a noble house that was considered among the top three powers in the kingdom and had the king's ear...

She felt as if her cage had been opened, and her cuffs removed.

Following the passing of the wartime motion in the House of Nobles, the orders she had prepared had been dispatched, and the waves began beating to her rhythm. It was exhilarating.

She could only picture the nobles' and merchants' faces as small armies of clerks and town guards assailed their houses and manors, stealing away precious, incriminating documents under their wide, panicking eyes.

All done within a week, when they surely thought they had several to prepare for the coming storm.

Like all good generals in a war, however, this was merely the first wave. Even now, elements of the Royal army were mobilizing toward every port, airport, and border crossing with clear orders not to let any noble through unless they had a signed waiver from the Crown.

A wide, expectant smile splayed across her face. The little rats and roaches would scurry, thinking they could hide outside of her reach, not knowing that they were running straight into her net.

The thought was fanning a heat in her belly that made her look at Isaac.

He froze and stared back at his wife, her eyes making him think of a hungry panther. “Dearest, is anything the matter?”

Angeline jolted. “Ah, no, nothing, my love. I was simply observing your delectable dedication to the cause.”

He blinked. “Right, moving on... Are you certain we need to mobilize the Navy? The clerks and army should be enough to collect the information we need and contain the fleeing suspects.”

She smiled and walked up to him as he shifted papers in his hands. With one hand, she retrieved them and put them down on the desk. With the other, she reached around his waist, pulling him in until their bodies pressed together.

Her head leaning forward, she talked directly into his ear. “Isaac, my heart, the navy is the most important part of this. Once we have caught all the suspects, as you call them, we will need to collect them.”

He quirked a brow. “You aim to arrest all of these people?”

She slowly spun around him, to his back, her arms laced around his waist, resting her head on his other shoulder. “Not arrest. That would be gauche. We will strongly invite them to a retreat. I hear the Alwarden mountain mansion at the edge of the Spireridges is lovely this time of year.”

“The... Angeline, that place is nearly cut off from the rest of the kingdom.”

She nibbled his ear. “Yes... far away and secluded. A perfect place for them to meditate on their actions, and for our Wardens to keep them safe and talkative.”

He turned his head to look her in her molten green eyes. “Woman, you can't possibly be thinking of putting a prison camp in our family's mountain retreat to interrogate all of these people! There will be massive political repercussions!”

Angeline purred as she squeezed him closer and let her tongue taste the nape of his neck. “Isaac, my light... don't use those words, please. I can barely contain myself even now. We are simply offering these stressed people an occasion to confess their crimes and lighten their conscience.”

With a chuckle, she pushed herself off of him, tugged the wrinkles out of her dress and picked up a stack of orders that still needed to be sent out. “As for the repercussions, do not worry. Allies soon turn to hungry predators when what was peer becomes prey.”

He turned to face her. “What- what do you mean?” Was the room getting darker?

Her lips parted to reveal rows of perfect teeth. “All nobles are loyal to the crown. It is their duty to eradicate those who work against it. Commoners and merchants are easy meals. Other nobles... They need to be tenderized first, but they are the juiciest of meat. You know this.”

Isaac stood ramrod straight, the hair on his neck rustling.

Using this widespread scandal, she was going to upend the political landscape of the kingdom. An event that noble houses dreamed of; to have enough acumen and presence to single-handedly change the playing board.

A dream, yes, but out of reach; none of the houses existed in a vacuum, and to attempt such an event was to expose your own neck to the rapacious opportunists.

Except, here, this time, she had coerced the nobles themselves to sign on it. He wasn't certain just how many favours and debts she had called in, but by making the House of Nobles support her actions, and the King agreeing to having Isaac and his wife lead the investigation, she had bound their hands.

They would have to watch as she pointed her finger and made nobles be swallowed whole. In exchange for their foolishness, she was going to dissect their holdings and offer them back as tasty morsels, whipping up a feeding frenzy.

Of course, many of them would balk at the heavy-handed process at first, but some would only see opportunity to expand their domain. Once those few began eating up the buffet, the rest would jump in.

His wife was planning something impossible.

And once she pulled it off, it would brand her existence in the mind of the kingdom's elite.

A person who had found rot and excised it with a butcher's knife, cutting with the precision of a scalpel.

He understood all that. The woman before him scared him. She scared him, and yet his body knew a single truth; she was the most attractive woman he would ever meet, and he was her husband.

An electric shiver ran up his spine.

Angeline's plan went on as smoothly as it could in the following weeks. There were some hitches; nothing ever went perfectly, but they were minor and easily dealt with or ignorable.

Rivers of documents surged toward the capital and into the prepared data analysis rooms, where specially trained clerks pored over the papers under Isaac's supervision.

Proofs were collected, and files were filled. Throughout the kingdom, over a hundred nobles, from both minor and major houses, were found to be involved in the money laundering. Another hundred merchants were added to that list.

Complaints by the affected houses poured in, as expected, asking for the release of their members kept captive at the Wardenfel mountain retreat.

Angeline ignored them, instead focusing on disseminating the allegations throughout the peerage, along with a clearly worded Royal decree that any noble found guilty would have their domain stripped and redistributed.

The angry letters mysteriously stopped coming, soon replaced by lavish praise about their honourable efforts to cleanse the kingdom of less-than-virtuous individuals. She wouldn't be involved in those deposed nobles' wealth reassignment; that was the purview of the Crown, so these attempts to scurry her favours amused her greatly.

She smiled. On second thought, she could make some suggestions to the Crown... This wouldn't be a bad way to replace some of the favours and debts she'd spent on the whole operation.

Yes, things were going splendidly.

Until they weren't.

“Isaac, dear, summarize that report for me again?” She asked, sitting with her back straight and her hands laced over her knees.

He looked up from the paper, sighed, and re-read the document once more. “A small group of suspected nobles fled to a fortified position near the southern border, rallying troops and mercenary elements. Agents abroad have also reported troop movements in the Tavergunn principality to the south, heading north, presumably toward the barricaded nobles.”

She frowned. “Why would they do that? It serves nothing apart from delaying the inevitable and worsening their crime from laundering to rebellion.”

“You quickened the noose around their neck, dearest. Cornered animals will not always act rationally. My guess is they are hoping the troops coming from the south will allow them to break through the border.”

She leaned back into her chair, eyes lowering to her hands, thinking in silence. Her face crisped for a moment, her eyebrows flexing in irritation. After a few deep breaths, she sighed and looked up at her husband. “Isaac, my love. Military affairs are... still somewhat beyond me. What is your opinion on the matter?”

A flash of excitement rolled over his visage before he cleared his throat and schooled his emotions. “Hrrm, yes. As with most military matters, the main enemy is time. The elements we have in position and ready to act before the Tavergunn troops reach the border are not enough to ensure victory, and even then, at great cost.”

He dipped his head and marched to a bookshelf, retrieving a rolled-up map and unfurling it over an empty desk. He placed a few weights in the corners to hold it flat, and used stationery to indicate friendly and enemy forces.

Angeline got up and approached him, gently placing a hand over his shoulder and pressing her body onto him. A corner of her mouth quirked up as she felt the slight shiver roll up his spine as she did, yet continued to focus on his task.

A warmth of her own bloomed in her belly, but she pressed down on it.

Later.

Isaac pointed at the various erasers, paper clips, stamps and fasteners strewn over the map. “Even if we mobilize within the hour, we can't get enough force to the border for them to hold against two flanks at once. The alternative is to mass against the rebel redoubt, but we will need at least a week before we have enough manpower in place to surround them and prevent a sortie.”

He tapped at the relatively short gap between the enemy stronghold and the border. “Further, we aren't looking at an entire force trying to escape; the rebels would certainly prefer to bring their men with them, but I believe they will be just as content to escape themselves and leave their troops to cover their flight. If they are smart, they will wait for the forces to amass to the south, then send several small groups racing there along different paths, hiding themselves within those groups.”

Head resting on his shoulder, she watched as he used strings to identify possible escape routes through the wilderness and countryside.

She had to admit, it was nice to simply lie back and watch someone competent work. That was one of the reasons she had fallen for him, after all, back in Riverwall, with many hours spent observing his meticulous planning.

And, once again, she was reminded that her husband wasn't a fool in the least bit; when presented with hard facts and numbers, he was probably a grade above her own capabilities.

It was only when pressed against the chaotic and slippery nature of people that he faltered, and only because he expected them to act and think as he did, not as the slippery snakes that she knew they would.

She shook her reveries aside and concentrated on the map, and especially what Isaac had just said about how the forces present were misleading...

“Victory isn't about defeating all the troops, then. It's just about capturing the leaders,” she surmised.

He glanced at her and smiled. “That's correct. If we can find a way to force the nobles out, intercept them, or retrieve them from the fortress, we can ignore the troops.”

Turning his attention back to the map, he scrunched his brows. “However, it's easier said than done. They took over the Sangliore fortress, which is a regional stronghold meant to coordinate supplies and defence in the region, and they did so with a strong force; almost a thousand men from initial estimates.”

He put a finger on the upside-down teacup representing the fortress. “There is an extensive bunker and trench network, heavy weapon emplacement, and heavy anti-air defence in the form of siege strum cannons. Even the heaviest airships won't survive more than a few direct hits, and the navy is currently dispersed all over the kingdom, retrieving more nobles.”

She winced. “It appears I might have been over-eager with machinations.”

He turned his head to look at her. “Worry not, dearest. Such things happen in war. You cannot predict everything, and for what it's worth, I think mobilizing the fleet as you did was the right move; yes, this dozen or so nobles might ultimately escape, but without the fleet, dozens more would have slipped through.”

Angeline blinked before a melting smile took over her face. She put a delicate kiss on his cheek and sighed. “Thank you, my love. You put your wife's troubled heart at peace with just a few words...”

Pulling up his collar to hide his flushing neck, he returned his gaze to the map. “It still leaves us with this impasse. We either commit an insufficient force and suffer high casualties with an uncertain result, or we wait and try to intercept them when they escape.”

Angeline narrowed her eyes. “Or... we deploy our kingdom's super weapons.”

Isaac quirked a brow at her.

She smiled back.