"That’s because most chefs aren’t very good martials, and most martials usually don’t want to risk their lives trying to hunt the most exotic monsters for consumption purposes.” Matlock spat onto a map, the globule vanishing to somewhere unknown. “Cowards, the lot of them. As such, Monster Mystery Meat is both a mercenary group and a restaurant. They go out, they find the oddest creatures they can fight, they slay them, and they bring them back, offering the flesh as fine meals. To eat there is at once an adventure and a triumph in the pioneering spirit of humanity. The flavors are unparalleled and unique." Matlock sighed, shaking his head as if he were reminiscing on better times. "However, sometimes the kitchen is chaotic. Sometimes the ingredients… they get free."

Now Shiv's interest was completely captured. "What do you mean, the ingredients get free?"

"I mean, sometimes it's hard to slay certain creatures for good. Have you ever tried killing a Legendary Lobster?" Matlock picked the lobster he'd been waving around earlier back up. "This one isn't dead. No, it teleported out of its shell. And while I was distracted, while I thought I'd claimed its life..." The instructor suddenly lifted his left leg and slammed it on the table. "...it came out of the sand behind me and hacked my limb off in a blink!”

Shiv's eyes widened. "A lobster did that to you?"

"Not just any lobster. The lobster. The single most feared duelist across the Atlantic and Pacific both. Silverclaw.”

Shiv stared at the gem-encrusted lobster shell. "So, Silverclaw is, what, an Awakened Lobster?"

"Oh, he's far more than merely awakened. He's more cunning than most men can ever dream of being. He's quicker and deadlier than a Hero of Swordsmanship. And to top it all off, he was never meant to be. Do you know what it takes for just a meager lobster to rise to the level of sapience, to survive the wrath of beasts the size of mountains—the kinds that can displace the ocean?" Matlock's gaze went somewhere distant. "My first encounter with Silverclaw was right near the port of High Harbor. For three nights and three days, me and the rest of the crew of the Whore Princess fired our cannons, launched our skills into the waters, and for three nights and three days, they bounced off the hide of the Ragged Ahab."

The professor realized Shiv didn't know what he was talking about and did a double-take. "The Ragged Ahab, the Piledriver of Ships, the Suplexer of Mountains, the kraken-whale-wyrm bastard with incredible abdominals? The Seducer of the Duchess of Minlo."

"What?" Shiv said, utterly lost.

"Ah, ah, you northern boys, always cut off from the rest of the Republic. It's a big whale that's also a part kraken, a part wyrm, a part elf. It's also the single greatest grappler you will ever face. And we almost had him. We bombarded him for days, but finally, as his strength was flagging, we were holding him down, preparing to cut his heart open and offer it back to the Ascendants as part of our return tribute, SILVERCLAW!" Matlock cried aloud, shaking the lobster in his hand. "He emerged. He came. He cuuuuuuucckkkkked us! Have you seen a lobster behead a monster the size of an island with one stroke?!”

“...No,” Shiv whispered, unsure if Matlock was insane or just screwing with him.

“Well, Silverclaw did. He exploded out of the water and cut the Ragged Ahab in half. We were offended, of course, and we tried to strike him down. But he disarmed us. And then, he cut our clothes off and took our ship hostage.”

“Why did he cut your clothes—”

“The lobster spoke his manifesto to us first, and I was the only one able to resist his charm. He took me as a true challenge, and he brought me down to the captain’s quarters for personal interrogation.” Matlock leaned in and sprayed spittle all over Shiv’s face. “Sexual interrogation.”

Shiv's breath hitched, and he took an involuntary step backward.

“I resisted valiantly, but his refractory period—”

“Professor, I think I’m going to just tick Monster Mystery Meat,” Shiv quickly said, now absolutely certain he didn’t want to deal with this man. “It’s almost lunch, right? I’ll do three hours right now to start. That sounds good, no?”

Matlock ignored him. “—was absurd. I was a veteran of both bed and battlefield, but, by the Ascendants, I was being worn down. I cried out to Longinus for support, and the Wanderer gave it to me. The tides of the struggle shifted! And just as I was about to assert my dominance over the lobster—”

Shiv stopped thinking or listening and just ticked three hours for lunch under the Commis role. “Yeah, so, here. I’ll do this.”

“—he cut my leg off to distract me! And then he used that to make me spill other fluids aside from blood.”

Psycho-Cartography: There must be some combination of bleach and other poisons that will induce short-term memory failure. We can spend some time discovering that specific combination after we leave this place. Death is of no consequence, but there are some things that really shouldn't be known.

“So, uh, wait, didn't you say he took your leg off when you were trying to ambush him on a beach somewhere?" Shiv stammered, his intrusive thoughts getting the better of him before he could get the professor to confirm the schedule.

The instructor paused. "Well, no, that was the third time he took my leg. This was the first. But I bested him in lovemaking on the beach, I’ll have you know. I grew wise to his ways, and there’s a skill that makes you faster and more durable at—Oh, you chose Commis!” Matlock chuckled, lifting up the chart. "You're a brave one. You're entering dangerous territory. Student, harden yourself and remember to make sure the ingredients are dead. And if you find yourself in bed with a crustacean, remember to tug on their hind legs. It hurts at first, but they like it. You’ll see.”

Psycho-Cartography: What the fuck?

“Uh, uh, eh, uh,” Shiv said, doing his best interpretation of a bear trying to pass a kidney stone while solving a math equation.

“Don’t do that. Don’t make those noises. It’ll invigorate Silverclaw if he knows he has you.”

“I—I—I,” Shiv said in a loop, “I think I want to work now, Instructor! Work is good. I need to go—uh, directions and—”

“Just check your pin,” Matlock said, waving his hand. He suddenly gripped Shiv by the collar of his uniform and pulled him close, his voice dropping three octaves as he whispered into his ear, “And remember: you wanted this.”

He let Shiv go, who immediately took a step back again. And then another. Matlock chuckled. “But don’t be ashamed if you need to tap out early. No students have died working at Monster Mystery Meat so far, but a few have been bitten in half by a dragon-sized duck. Surprisingly vicious when they’re that large. Javelina was very unhappy about that, but the giant duck soup was quite unique.”

“Giant duck soup,” Shiv said, nodding as he rapidly backed away from Matlock, avoiding maps as he walked without showing the professor his back. “Got it. I’ll be careful, and… avoid giant ducks… and stuff.”

“And remember what I told you about Silverclaw,” Matlock said, dead serious. “He goes to Monster Mystery Meat sometimes. He enjoys their Long Pig. Don’t seem too unique, or you’ll awaken his urges.”

Psycho-Cartography: Leave the room. Seal the door. Set the tower on fire.

“I, yeah, I get—I have to go.” Shiv threw himself out of the doorway just as a notification loaded.

Volunteer Hours Assigned: 11 AM - 1 PM

Directions Gained for: Monster Mystery Meat

Broken felling Moon, what kind of elective class did I pick for myself? Shiv lamented.

“Marcus!” Matlock said. “Close the door, if you don’t mind. I don’t need another student falling across the world again—especially now that it will get Harlock angry at me.”
