"Can we join in?" Solzimort whispered, ignoring how he was already a part of this impromptu group hug either way.

"Yeah, sure," Shiv responded dryly. "The more, the merrier."

After they detached after a few seconds, Adam gave a report. "I have eyes on Cripple again. It's moving inside a special cube, coming right at us." Shiv saw Cripple's reactor glowing on Adam's hip. The Gate Lord fired his shot, and a few moments later, Cripple’s Avatar appeared through the rift.

But it didn't come alone.

Cripple’s current Avatar marched out, still missing its left arm, still eroded by entropy damage, but standing upon its right shoulder was a small, suitcase-sized automaton. It had two antennae sticking out of the top, and its body was practically a head as well. Its torso had a glass screen, and projected upon it was a simplistic face locked in a perpetual frown.

"Really?" the little automaton snarled. "I'm going with these clowns? Seriously, boss-man?"

"These are the conditions of your release," Cripple's words radiated from its present Avatar, and Shiv did a double-take.

"Wait, that's a prisoner?"

Cripple's Avatar turned a glare upon Shiv. "I'm not going to spend an actual Avatar for this matter. This is more of a reserve. More suitable for our needs.”

"Alright, sure," Shiv said. He considered that for a moment and then accepted it. "Yeah, you know what? That's fine. That makes sense."

"I'm glad you could accept my pragmatism," Cripple replied.

"Do I get any say in this?" the suitcase-sized automaton complained. "That one's the Deathless. I think the big bot over there is glaring at me, pulling out my systems using... What is that, a Binaric Sovereign Skill? God, shit. I don't want to be a brain-slave. Don't! Stop it! Stop it!"

"Radio," Cripple said. The Ascendant's voice fell heavily upon the small automaton. "I will brook no defiance on this matter. The terms of your release have been made clear."

"The terms of my extended death, more like," Radio muttered. "Fine." It hopped off the larger automaton and skipped over to Shiv. It was barely up to his knees and held up a hand that was barely more than a few wires. Shiv winced as he wondered how fragile this Avatar was. "Well, I guess we're gonna be going together. You're the Deathless that everyone's trying to kill, and I'm Radio, Former Chief Secretary to City Lord Hanson of District Columbianus."

"Sounds like you had a pretty important position. How'd you end up here?”

"Yeah, so, maybe I might have stolen someone's identity to get my position," Radio began, "and then maybe I might have shifted a good amount of mithril out of my accounts to do a couple of favors for my friends."

"You flatter yourself if you think any of them consider you anything more than a piece on the board," Cripple spat scornfully.

"Come on, boss-man. You already got me under your shiny boot. You don't need to spit on me as well."

The moment Shiv realized he was dealing with someone corrupt rather than outright vile, he let out a breath of relief. "Hey, Radio," Shiv asked. "What's your Toughness? What's your Magical Resistance?"

Radio paused. "Um, Adept?"

"For which one?" Shiv asked, feeling his disappointment start to grow.

"Uh, yeah."

He scowled at Radio first and then turned his scowl on Cripple. "Really?"

"I promised you an Avatar. I did not have much time to prepare one. Its safety is now your concern. Should you let it be destroyed, the onus is on you, not me. Besides, it is meant to be a conduit between us, not an enduring combatant."

"But what happens to communicators?" Radio said, turning to complain at the Ascendant. "They die, boss-man."

"If you die before you serve your purpose, then I will mourn you appropriately."

"So, not at all," Shiv and Radio said at the same time. They looked at each other, and a low drone came from Cripple.

“For two seconds,” it corrected.

"One of the most noble Ascendants in the Republic, everybody," Radio said with a drawn-out sigh at the end of its words. "Fine. Hey, Deathless guy, how high’s your Toughness?"

"Heroic," he said flatly.

"Your Magical Resistance?"

"Legendary."

"Alright, alright, so maybe not so bad for me. You know what, things might be looking up for old Radio. Tell you what, I do have a few pretty good skills. I'm a real people person, as they say, if you catch my drift. If you need anyone to do the talking—”

“I'll still do the talking," Shiv cut the press-ganged Avatar off. "I want to make one thing clear. I feel a bit bad for you, but I don't much trust you either. I'm not going to abuse you or anything if you don't give me a reason to. Do I find you talking to someone behind my back? Well, knowing your history, I'm going to come up with a few assumptions. So don't give me a reason to pull your arms off."

Radio looked down at its twig-sized arms and vigorously nodded at Shiv. "Alright, very clear guidelines, boss-man. I'll be sure to not give you any reasons. Yes, sir."

Shiv and Adam shared a look. The Deathless extended his Psychomancy over to his friend. “Yeah, so we're probably going to want to keep an eye on this one. I'm getting a slimy taste from it. Slimier than Siggy by a godsdamned mile.”

“I'd be inclined to agree,” Adam said. “Well, Five is a member of Aviary, isn't he? Why aren't you so worried about him?”

“Because we already know he's probably going to betray us the very moment he gets a chance. This one, the waters are murky about who it might betray us to, or what might trigger that.”

The Gate Lord grunted. “We have quite the little ensemble with us, don't we?”

“Yeah. Hells, I miss Valor. Shit, I can't believe I'm saying this, but I might even miss your dad.”

A pang of exhaustion came from Adam. I do too. Let's get this done and try to find them wherever they are. “I'm tired of this place. I'm tired of being here.”

"Alright, Radio," Shiv said. "Get in the cape."

"The what?" Radio leaned past Shiv and stared at his billowing cape. "Ugh, that looks pretty fancy. Dimensional, is it? What do you got in there? Special pocket? Those are pretty rare, especially stable ones." Radio made it two steps before it halted and spun around. "Hey, uh, Cripple."

"Not boss man anymore?" Cripple asked, sounding more than a little indifferent.

"Yeah, I just wanted to say that I always found you a self-righteous prick who couldn't tell the difference between its charging port and its waste disposal. Since you're selling me off to a new owner and using me as a receiver, I just want you to know that I'm not looking forward to your heavy-duty soul ramming itself into my red little systems so you can talk to the free-range male here."

Shiv squinted at Radio. "What the hells do you mean, 'free-range male'?"

"I mean, do you see the size of you? You gotta be free range. What did they even let you graze on?"

"Mouthy automata, believe it or not," Shiv grunted. "Now get in the cape before I make that statement real."

"Alright, new boss-man! And goodbye, trashbag!" Radio said to Cripple. Then it bounced off behind Shiv and, with a less-than-impressive leap, dove into the billowing sheen of Dimensionality. A second later, it cried out in alarm. "Boss-man, is there something you forgot to mention? Like, why is this cape filled with orcs?"

"What's this?" Mortar bellowed. "Insul, are you giving us a new friend?"

"Don't break it," Shiv called out. "You can do anything else, just don't break it."

"Oh, we would never." Mortar laughed loudly. "It looks so adorable. Come here, little one, there's a spot for you right on my left shoulder."

"Ah, shit! Cripple! Cripple, boss-man, I'm sorry! I hate it here! This is a godsdamn vacation straight to hell! Take me back, take me back!"
