His mind screaming with danger and having death breathing down his neck was nothing new. If anything, it helped Zac get back into gear. The Left Imperial Expanse kept filling his head with its mysteries and plots, becoming anchors that slowed him down. The defiant Void Rivers helped him remember the defiant essence of his path and discard all the unnecessary thoughts, focusing solely on the present.

Zac solemnly observed another explosion in the distance, waiting for the perfect moment to conjure a vortex. He barely had time to appear in the epicenter before aftershocks of unstable Void Energy descended on his position. A golden barrier emitting powerful lifeforce blocked a section just long enough for Zac to sneak into a third gate that brought him another mile further down the line.

The protective talisman failed just as the gate closed, becoming kindling for a secondary Dao extinction. Zac didn’t spare the destruction a second thought as he kept going, his eyes gleaming with excitement.

The warzone wasn’t just the key to breaking out of containment, it was the perfect training ground to get hands-on experience with [Earthly Dome]. Opening two vortices and connecting them was only the most basic usage. Managing the ability while using items, skills, and controlling Haro was a challenge.

The distances and dimensions didn’t work the same when it came to the Void. It was like Zac had to calculate the coordinates in four dimensions when combining the two systems. While taxing on the mind, it came naturally as part of his heritage, especially while infusing himself with [Void Mountain].

Still, the randomness created unavoidable delays, forcing Zac to zigzag back and forth. It took hours of trial and error before Zac realized the commotion was calming down. The further he moved from the surface, the more overwhelming the Void’s advantages were. With nothing to threaten the reivers, they remained stable.

Shortly after, Zac spotted the end of the open space—more stone, scarred and battered until it had been turned into a beehive. Zac snuck into the closest tunnel and was immediately struck by a wave of vertigo. His senses were giving him contradictory information. He’d staunchly delved deeper, yet somehow down had become up.

Had he failed to overcome the containment in the end, causing him to circle back to where he came from? No. The call of the Void was still there and closer than before. Furthermore, the fundamental affinities had been reversed. From stones infused with faith and Inverse Dao, Zac was surrounded by stones emitting stable fluctuations of the Void.

Zac drew a deep breath, relishing the novel experience. The ambient energy was like poison to normal cultivators, gradually extinguishing their energy. Space itself wouldn’t make sense to them since the paths were based on concepts of the Void. Zac was like a fish in water, to the point it took him a while to even realize something was different about his surroundings.

Everything seemed normal so long as he kept [Void Mountain] running. As for running out of energy? Almost impossible. He was surrounded by Void Energy, and he could already sense dozens of Void Treasures in the area. At the same time, Zac realized his bloodline had lost most of its unique advantages when in a world ordered around the Void.

[Void Zone] had no effect on its surroundings, and [Earthly Dome] was suddenly under the same restrictions as normal skills. He almost got himself killed when trying to open a vortex to avoid a streak of Inverse Dao, only to realize he couldn’t open an exit on the other side of a wall.

While annoying, it didn’t really endanger Zac’s life. The currents of Inverse Dao and Faith Energy were few and far between, and nowhere near as overbearing as the Void currents he’d faced before. Most of them didn’t require Zac to move out of the way. He just braced himself as the gusts of D-grade energy passed by.

Judging by the large caverns and a few withering Natural Treasures he stumbled upon, it should be a recent development. Fuxi Halls’ sources of Inverse Dao and Faith had been more affected by the tribulation than its source of Void. Zac made a mental note not to overstay his welcome. As the Dao replenished, the war at the boundary would only grow deadlier. If he was not careful, he would be forced to escape into the dimensional tears with their decaying death.

A month of exploration should be fine unless the world’s recovery rate drastically accelerated. Zac felt like a child in a candy store as he weighed his options. Only one dimensional tear triggered a reaction from the Primo’s feather, but it was the only solid clue he’d found so far. It was precisely what he’d hoped to find.

Secondly, there were plenty of normal Natural Treasures growing in pockets of lingering Dao. At least half of them were Faith-attuned treasures. If he stayed close to the warzone, Zac had a decent chance of stumbling upon something that could help with Ramses’ condition. Ultimately, Zac kept going, deciding to indulge his gnawing curiosity. He’d entered a mirror world based on the Void, and Zac wanted to see what awaited on the surface.

With no energy streaks to cause trouble, Zac reached the surface quickly and without issue. He stopped in place, gaping at the scene. Wherever he looked, Zac found himself facing towering, pitch-black peaks covered in scripts of gold. He’d stepped into a world of Void Mountains. Above it all was a boundless sea of Imperial Flames holding countless memory lanterns.
