“We've already wasted too much time with this whole thing.” Ren said. “You need to send people out to look for Talon.”

“I'm sure that...”

“I am ordering you to deploy your considerable resources to find Talon.” Ren said and pushed with his Command Aura. “After you set that in motion, then we can discuss the trade routes.”

The king frowned at Ren, but turned to the man at the door. “Send word to the Messenger Guild. Find Talon, and report his whereabouts and activities.”

“Right away, Your Majesty.”

“That's all?” Ren said. “That's your resource?”

“The Messenger Guild has people all over the city. They will find him, or at least where he's been.”

“I could have done that myself.” Ren said. “Railyse? Let's stand by the doorway and question everyone as they leave.”

“Of course, Ren.” Railyse said. “We will root out anyone else who would plot with Lord Eddlemere to keep our two peoples at war.”

Ren led her over to the door and told everyone that the meeting was over and that they could leave for the day. As the people passed, Ren asked them questions and Railyse offered alternative questions for each person, depending on the answers they received. Out of the 200 people, 30 of them hated the sea dwellers and didn't object to Railyse being assassinated. Of those people, only 3 of them had known about the plot against her, and one had offered to help.

The three of them were detained, relieved of their duties, and sent to stay in the holding cells beside Lord Eddlemere in the dungeon.

“Now we can go and talk about the proposal.” Ren said, then he, Railyse, King Alamast, Lady Eleanor, and Crown Princess Diana left the meeting room and went to the king's private meeting room to discuss the proposal. Ren hadn't known that the first meeting had been just for show, and that the people there wouldn't be voting on if it would be accepted. All they had the power to do, was change some of the conditions of the pact. The king himself was the one who decided to accept it or not.

“I could just order you to accept it as is.” Ren said half an hour later, and the king looked at him.

“I wouldn't like that.” King Alamast said.

“You wouldn't have much choice in the matter.” Ren said and smiled, because the king had said something similar to him about spending time in the dungeon.

“My main point of concern is this.” King Alalamst said and touched the enchanted design etched into the wall. He indicated the largest conflict area, and it also had the largest proposed safe zone in the pact. “I know the shipping firm that uses this route exclusively. They are not going to be happy that they can't do what they want in their own waters.”

“Excuse me?” Railyse said.

“I'm sorry.” King Alamast said. “I meant open waters.”

“It's our water.” Railyse said. “We only let you use it.”

The king looked at her. “You believe that?”

“It's the truth.” Railyse said and tapped the amulet around her neck. “The only reason we haven't destroyed you completely there, is because we're afraid to damage the precious coral reefs under the surface.”

“WHAT?”

“We aren't willing to scorch where we live just to stop you from taking our food.”

“You live there?” King Alamast asked and studied the area.

“My people live everywhere there's a large enough body of water.” Railyse said. “All these places that you land dwellers believe is yours just because you used a boat to cross it and survived, is really ours.”

King Alamast looked from the design to Railyse, then back again. “I don't know if I can convince them of that.”

“You don't have to convince them.” Ren said. “They'll never accept that they don't own the water. All you have to do is tell them to move to here.” He said and pointed to just outside the safe zone and past the coral reefs. “Tell them it's too dangerous where they are, or that if they stay there, they won't have ships that work for much longer.”

“What?” King Alamast said. “Are the sea dwellers going to attack?”

“No. They aren't going to attack.” Ren said. “What they will do is stop the ships from moving through the water.”

“They can do that?” Diana asked, surprised.

“They can now.” Ren said. “That's why they are making this proposal. If you don't accept to shift the routes slightly, none of the ships will work anymore.”

“Are you blackmailing the entire Human Kingdom?” Lady Eleanor asked.

Ren chuckled. “No, Your Highness.” He said. “I'm telling you that the sea dwellers can't take the ships moving over them anymore, and they will be moved aside or stopped without having to fight.”

King Alamast sighed. “That is blackmail.”

“It's not a threat.” Railyse said. “We're telling you it's going to happen no matter what. All this proposal does is give you the option to save your shipping before it needs to be saved.”

“When will it go into effect?” King Alamast asked.

“Next month.” Ren said. “That was the longest amount of time that I could convince them to wait.”

“Only a month?!?” Diana asked. “It... it might be possible to contact all the shipping lines by then.”

“It should be.” Ren said. “A ship can only hold about 2 weeks of provisions for the crew. They should all be back in time to get the new routes.”

“Well, I guess you're right.” King Alamast said. “I don't have much choice.”

“You could choose to ignore the proposal.” Ren said. “Then try to recover the crews from the stranded ships.”

“No, I won't do anything like that.” King Alamast said. “The Human Kingdom accepts the proposal from the Ambassador, and I'll implement it's policies as soon as the Gathering votes on it.”

“I order you to order them not to add any addendums to it.” Ren said. “Take it as it is, or not at all.”

The king looked at Ren, who knew that the king resented the order, and the king nodded.

“Good!” Ren said, grabbed the king's hand and shook it vigorously. “Now if you'll excuse us, I have some parts and supplies to pick up before we head back home.”

The king nodded again, and Ren let his hand go.
