Redwood paused. She said, “We always suspected that their rads were their horns. When they get this big, that is.”

Jane said, “I don’t believe that for a second. But I noticed that you arrived without my team.”

Redwood sighed. She looked to the air.

Blips of purple and teal rippled the air a few meters from Jane. Marric, Bett, and Scallion.

Scallion said, “Holy shit you really did kill—”

“How much did you eat, Jane.” Bett stared at the corpse like it was the juiciest steak in the world. “I can feel the dragon essence in there. Like it’s calling to me.”

“Not a lot.” Jane said, “Most of it burned up. I’ll be shitting my guts out next month.”

Marric just sighed with a small smile. He was obviously, deeply relieved.

Redwood said, “This was a highly unusual kill. Aside from all the rest of what just happened, we scouted a twenty meter tall Ancient Unicorn, but that is no twenty meter Ancient Unicorn.” She added, “I would love for all of us to leave here tonight, not thinking that something evil is going on.” She turned to Marric, “You’re a Mind Mage. Tell everyone if I’m lying, please?”

Marric frowned. But he schooled his face as a gentle teal light threaded through his dark hair. He said, “Go ahead.”

Redwood spoke with authority, saying, “I have killed nine Ancient Unicorns before. One a year for the last decade.” She added, “I missed a year.” She continued, “They have never spoken before. I have no idea what the flip all that was about.”

Marric said, “All true. She’s trying to be truthful, too.”

Redwood continued, “I would dearly like for you four to continue helping us with unicorns. To come back next year, if you could. All of these horns are yours for the taking. This entire kill is yours. We’re fine taking nothing for our trouble. We only do this to help our people.” She quickly added, “We cleaned up all the straggling monsters while you were fighting her, so… You got some time here to gather what you want from the body, but not a lot of time. Dragons do live in this Forest, you know.”

Jane looked up at the dead Queen. Blood dripped out from its tentacled mouth, growing small trees and flowers up through the face of the monster. The Forest nearby was cooled and calmed at Jane’s discretion, but fire still raged in the distance, all around.

Marric said, “Let’s grab the horns and go.”

Bett said, “Holy Hell. We can’t just leave it here! Those bones. That meat. The blood.” She added, “This is a million gold, staring us in the face.”

Redwood said, “It’s only a million gold if you can sell it.” She spoke quickly to the group, and to Jane, seeming like she was trying to wrap something up quick. “You’re all nobles now. Talk to the King or his Steward. They’ll get you started. We might even see each other again around the castle. From there, you can build a stone house and dress the part and the people will treat you the way you deserve to be treated. The people will know that you killed an Ancient Unicorn, too, because we’re telling them all about it. Maybe not all of the details, but enough.” She stressed, “We’re packing up and getting the fuck out of here. My suggestion is that you do the same. Fast. Now.”

The Forest was a jumble of noises, mostly of roaring fire and cracking trees, but as Jane listened, she heard a far off roar. Something bigger was out there, and it was coming here.

Jane said, “The horns, and then we’re gone. Who can cut them?”

Redwood said, “Cut through the skull. Don’t cut the horns themselves.” She lifted her head. She said, “I gotta go.” She dropped into shadows; gone.

Bett said, “I can cut ‘em.”

Scallion said, “I can, too. You two stay on lookout.”

Bett, as a water slime and twice her normal size, cut through the skull with precision water blades. Scallion used beams of force. Soon, they had the main horn and five more cut from the skull. Jane scurried up the Queen’s body, to stand on her back, to keep an eye out for incoming threats. Marric did the same but he stayed on the ground.

Soon, the full horned crown of the Queen had been cut off. The brain laid right there.

Bett called up to Jane, “You already ate the heart. Maybe Ancient Unicorn is an actual different species?”

“It’s not.” Jane called back, “Didn’t you get Participation? I only got 69 percent.”

Bett continued to cut horns loose, saying, “Nope. I killed her parade. I couldn’t risk getting any Participation on such a high dragon essence monster. I’d gain some. Too much, I think.” She added, “You need to worry about that now, too.”

Jane said, “I guess I do.”

Monsters in the Forest roared, louder than the fires, closer than before.

From her perch atop the Queen, Jane spotted a flying, serpentine figure in the sky, kilometers away. It was not a wyrm; it wasn’t chasing anything. But it was coming this way. It had to be a dragon.

Jane dropped to the ground, transforming into a human and conjuring clothes, saying, “Time to go! Dragon spotted in the north. Big golden thing, too.”

Bett kept cutting on her current horn, muttering, “Fuck fuck fuck.”

“I’m not fighting a dragon and gaining essence.” Jane put her hand on the largest horn. “We need to GO.”

Bett dropped away from the final horn, transforming back to a person. She conjured clothes as she put her hands on her nearest horns.

Scallion touched two of the smaller horns; they were still both three meters long, and half a meter thick. He said, “See you back at base.”

Marric grabbed his own two horns, saying, “See you.” He blipped away in a teal flash.

Bett and Scallion touched their four horns, and blipped away in purple light.

Jane grabbed the nine meter long, main horn. A crack ran through it, but it was still one of the largest, prettiest things Jane had ever seen. She held it tight, and blipped away.

She blipped three times more, landing beside their mountain base, next to her teammates and their own haul of horns.

Bett and Scallion shouted gratitude to the sky as they held each other tight, jumping up and down for joy. Marric laughed loud and happy. Jane just sat down on her horn, and sighed. The moons cast a gentle light across the mountainside and the fields of flowers down below.

Jane said, “We should move base.”

Scallion smiled, joking, “I think I love you two fuckers, too, but we might never see each other again, and we’re certainly not spending the night here.”

“Yeah, sorry.” Bett said, “We are done in the Sovereign Cities. Killtree can kiss my ass.”

Scallion grabbed Bett’s butt, holding tight, saying, “It’s such a beautiful ass, too.”

Bett laughed at the sky and pulled Scallion in for a deep kiss. She broke away to say, “Oh my god.” She looked to the base, then said, “We could spend maybe five more— No. We can’t stay here.” She turned to Jane and Marric, saying, “I’m not the overly paranoid type, but that was a fucking nightmare. I don’t know what the fuck you even did out there to make that happen, Jane. But if you ever get down to the Archipelago, I want to buy you a beer. We’re going to be—” She winced. “Fuck.” She asked Scallion, “Where are we going? Did we decide, yet?”

Scallion said, “We still haven’t decided.”

Jane said, “Drop me a message. Jane Flatt, of Spur. My dad’s got a home there. You might get some trouble getting him a message, but you might be able to leave one with Liquid, the Quartermaster for Spur’s Army.”

Bett turned to Scallion. “You owe me a grand rad.”

Scallion said, “I owe you a lot more than that,” as he pulled Bett back into a steamy hug.

Jane averted her eyes, looking to Marric, who was looking at her. Jane lost her train of thought.

Marric smiled, saying, “My post is in Vindin.”

Jane found her words. She said, “Uh. My post is in Spur. Maybe we’ll see each other around?”

“I’d like that.”

Bett said into Scallion’s ear, “Let’s clear out.”

Scallion pulled away from Bett long enough to say, “I got mana potions. Who needs one? I know it seems like I’m rushing, but that’s because I am. We should leave this place and never come back.” He turned to Jane, saying, “I’ll leave a message in Spur when we figure out where we’re going.”

Jane stood up from her horn, saying, “I could use a potion.”

“Me too,” Bett said.

Scallion went to the wall next to the door to the base and [Stoneshape]d a box out from the carved wall. He opened the box, revealing blue potions. He tossed one to Jane, and one to Bett. They both easily caught the blue bottles. He offered to Marric, but the orcol shook his head.

Marric held up his hand, saying, “Let’s just pretend I’m drinking one. To glory!”

Scallion smiled as he held up a bottle for himself, saying, “To a successful hunt!”

Bett held her own potion, saying, “To killing unicorns!”

Jane said, “To killing monsters, and a safe journey home.”

The three of them downed the bottles, while Marric went though the motions, smiling the whole time. Jane felt her mana begin to tick upward from near empty to good enough. She chuckled.

Scallion asked, “Anyone got anything inside the base? I’m taking it down.”

“Oh yeah.” Jane quickly said, “Just a few things. Almost everything of value is already somewhere else.”

Bett said, “Me too.”

“And me.” Marric said, leading the way inside.

It didn’t take too long for everyone to collect the various little things that they had accumulated over the past two weeks, that they hadn’t already stashed elsewhere. Jane just picked up her clothes and the small horn from her first unicorn kill. She tucked them all into a conjured bag. She was second to last out of the base. Marric was already on the mountainside, waiting beside Scallion. He carried an even smaller bag than Jane. Bett came out last, carrying a rather large bag.

Scallion gestured, and the mountain rumbled. The base folded into itself, turning into a natural-enough crack in the mountainside. It only took Scallion five seconds to erase everything that he had added to the place since they came to the Sovereign Cities. Jane had lived there for two weeks in a room she had felt safe in, with people she had liked, going out on adventures to kill monsters that needed killing. And now it was gone, like it never happened.

Scallion and Bett gave one more goodbye, then left together, both of them taking two three-meter long unicorn horns with them.

Marric nodded to Jane, saying, “See you later, Jane.”

Jane felt a tug as she said, “Bye, Marric.”

Marric grabbed his own horns, and blipped away.

Jane stood there for a moment. Then she took one final look down the mountain, across the land, at the dark horizon far away. She had a lot of opinions about this place.

Killtree was a shithole. The people were awful. The monsters were terrifying. But it was still a good experience. Jane had made a lot of memories here. She had uncovered something weird, too. Something that either had vast implications, or none at all. She would have to talk to people in Spur about what had happened here. Anhelia, the wrought information broker at the Mage’s Guild, she might know something.

Maybe there was a vast conspiracy here in the Sovereign Cities, and Jane had barely scratched the surface.

Whatever the case, Jane reached down and touched the nine meter unicorn horn. She blipped to a nearby destination on a different slope, taking the horn with her. After making sure the horn wouldn’t roll down the slope, she [Stoneshape]d out a hidden box, from her own hidden place in the mountains. She opened the box, revealing the rings her father had made her. She smiled at them, then took them out of the box and put them back on her fingers. She checked herself. Badge. Check. Rings. Check. Horns and clothes and other junk. Check. Her Status? Hmm.

She had gained a lot of points today so she threw a fair number of them into Focus. She had run rather low on mana in the fight with the Queen. As those points settled into place, Jane felt a calm balance take hold. She had evened out her mental stats. It was a good feeling, exactly how her father said it would be.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 71, Class: None

Exp: 8,413,987,598,468,659/49,845,401,187,926,400

Class: -/-

Points: 11

HP

1802/3000

3000 per day

MP

1567/4200

4200 per day

Strength

30

+20

50

Vitality

30

+20

50

Willpower

50

+20

70

Focus

50

+20

70

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

There were so many more points to get, though. She could easily do what was suggested in her father’s Oceanside Entrance packet; just make junk spells to unlock the accomplishments for higher tiers.

Whatever the case, it was time for a break! Maybe she’d even visit her father in Oceanside. That’d be fun. Maybe.

Jane could make it be fun.

Jane stood straight and sighed into the night air. She was already missing Marric, Bett, and Scallion. They hadn’t even gotten a goodbye drink. A mana potion didn’t count. Not that there was much to be had in Killtree, anyway. They still could have gone to the guildhouse for a round.

Ah. But Scallion was right. Time to move on, and quickly; before whatever nonsense happened in that fight with the Queen caught up to them.

Jane put her hand on the Queen’s horn, and blipped away.

Blip, blip, blip, all the way home, to Spur.
