She crawled into a hole in the ground, hurt more than she had ever been hurt before. She was a small thing, glossed over in the flame and the fire of the burning forest. But she would not remain ignored and unknown for long. Her inner instincts screamed at her to do something to change her dire situation.

She was hungry. She needed to grow.

But something else, a higher reasoning perhaps, took iron hold of her needs. She needed to cast a healing spell. She could cast magic? Right! She could! She could get away with [Telep—

No.

She needed to kill the monster walking over her, ignoring her, thinking her dead and gone. If she was a real ooze, she would have been. But she was not.

She was Jane Flatt. She could do this.

Jane nestled further into the roots of the tree. She was in a tree! She recognized where she was! That was an improvement. But she was still so blind. Almost all of her was gone. She could barely see a foot in front of her goo, but she could see the tree roots. She knew her immediate surroundings.

As the world shook from heavy footfalls, and twisting wyrms crushed treebark up above, and so many smaller feet danced in merriment, Jane knew what she needed to do next. She [Stoneshape]d the dirt under herself into a hollow, dropping down into roots, into darkness.

Darkness was her friend. Not too long ago, a fallen god helped her learn a bit more about the darkness, and now, Jane vibrated his song, recalling a deep memory she hadn’t touched in months. Shadows flickered to dim life, then solidified. Jane touched upon a truth.

She saw everything.

Marric, roaring in the center of a treetop far away, yelling obscenities at reluctant people wrapped in black leather. They were safe in their forward base, while Jane was out there dying or dead.

Bett, staring out into the night, standing on a branch larger than herself.

Scallion, screaming ‘I told you so’, as he floated in the air.

Redwood and her mages, all of them wrapped in black leather, stood in their forward base, watching the horizon and the Queen’s procession, from so very far away. They were under a hundred layers of mental protection. None of them were in danger. But Redwood’s mask was off, showing her sad face and tired eyes. She spoke platitudes in the face of a roaring Marric. She said it was all over. Their archmage nearby spoke of his best spells already used. This Queen was abnormal. This Queen was a threat unlike any other.

Marric yelled at them. Tears fell down his face.

Jane came back to her surroundings. She looked at the Queen.

The Queen stopped. The procession stalled.

She spoke without moving her mouth, “Who is this, that calls the ancient magic at me?” Her voice filled the Forest, from edge to edge. “Melemizargo? Are you here, now?” She instantly said, “No. That is ridiculous. But who...”

[Greater Treat Wounds].

If Jane had a heart, it would have pounded out of her chest. She funneled healing into herself, in that hole in the ground, surrounded by roots and dirt. Her bubble of dim goo became a splash of bright red. Orange light ignited in her center, spreading out to the rest of her, flashing yellow as dark blue light caught here and there, healing, restoring what had been lost.

“Oh. The flame survived?”

Jane called to the darkness, and the darkness responded.

Far away, her voice reached her team and the Elites of Killtree. “Commence attack.”

Jane burst out of the ground, a flame reignited. The Forest was a mess of blackened trees and new growth. Reachers surrounded their Queen, reaching for Jane, heedless of the flame. Her generals, each a wyrm of immense power, each cast their own magics. Dense [Ward]s expanded through the trees, like bubbles of protection and fire-extinguishing cold, as light carved knives toward Jane, and the very ground reached up to smash her to bits. A hundred beams of red light rushed toward Jane’s rising, oozy form.

[Shadoward].

A spell she hadn’t used since killing Porter, now scattered a dozen paths of shadow in every direction. Jane rode the path toward the red, eyebeam wyrm, dodging the beams and the knives and the smashing rocks. She dove into the wyrm’s open maw, healing herself, burning fast and quick, racing toward the monster’s heart. She would have been crushed if she was a human, but she was not. She was fire incarnate, and that was enough. She found her target. She wrapped around the glowing red rad at the center of the eyebeam wyrm, and pulled it into her shadow. She vacated the wyrm with a side hop through darkness.

The eyebeam wyrm unwrapped from its tree and fell to the forest floor, good and dead.

The Queen screamed, “My General! How could you!”

Jane dropped the glowing red rad into the Forest, then went back to the battle.

Meteors began to drop from the sky. The Queen slashed the dark paths of shadow with her horn, killing the spell, but Jane had already plunged into the open wounds of her next target; the [Lightshape] wyrm. Jane ripped through the [Lightshape] wyrm, and when the darkness inside the wyrm turned to light, Jane rode the light. She found the wyrm’s rad and ripped it out. The wyrm slumped to the ground.

Jane went back for the Queen.

The Queen was already right beside her. She slashed with her horn, severing Jane before she could dodge. Jane [Blink]ed up at the Queen’s eye. With all her might, she yanked at the dark and the light inside that eye.

The Queen smacked her away, a gentle action that splattered Jane against a tree. The Queen laughed, and the Forest laughed with her. “You cannot control me, tiny ambassador!”

Jane burbled against the tree, dim for a second, but as dark blue light flashed inside of her, her fire returned. She grew back to a better size. Jane laughed, and the darkness laughed with her. This was fun.

Jane spoke through the night, “You can’t control me, either, Queen of the Forest.”

“An ancient battle rejoined, with new players!” The queen shouted to the sky. “Let us have at it, then!”

Jane hummed a dark song, ripping shadows into the omnipresent light. She rode that darkness, back to the wyrms who were trying to sneak up on her.

Pluck. Pluck. Two dead wyrms!

The Queen flickered through the Forest to appear directly beside Jane. “Not very sporting of you.”

She slashed with her nine meter long horn, severing a burning tree in half, almost catching Jane.

Jane flickered away through darkness, saying, “I’m tiny. Give me a break.”

Meteors crashed from the sky, one after the other, catching the Forest on fire, turning night into apocalyptic day. Jane helped the fire along. Moon reachers and shroomlings died. The Queen chased Jane, as Jane flared fire at her. The fire barely scorched her pristine white body, but she was trying to avoid the larger patches of flame. This was an increasingly more difficult problem; almost everything was on fire. The Queen’s fifty meter tall body flickered around the trees, in and out of the light. She tried to stomp Jane to death and to make sure she got her this time, but she couldn’t seem to land a blow. There was more than enough fire all around for Jane to [Fire Body] anywhere she wanted, now that the cavalry had kicked into high gear.

Still, the sky rained meteors. Trees burst from the inside out; turned to bombs and shrapnel by the heat. Birds fled, or died. Shroomspawn, covered feet to cap in flame, raced to get away, but only served to spread the fire.

Reinforcements arrived for Jane in the form of tiny birds. They cast green and blue spells around the Queen, exploding the air with frying lightning and slashing force.

The Queen roared, “What is this—”

Jane flickered directly into her open mouth, flowing down her distorted, strangely non-tentacled maw, flaring fire just as hard as she healed herself. She was down to a third of her mana. If she didn’t end this now, it wasn’t going to end well.

The Queen flickered left, leaving Jane to hang in the middle of the air. The Queen slashed—

Jane sunk into fire, flowing away to another part of the battlefield.

“Argh!” The Queen yelled in frustration, “Melemizargo! Why must you humiliate me so! You’re forcing me to fight an ooze! I am due the courtesy of my station, Melemizargo. Not—” She moved her head left, deftly avoiding a falling meteor. “Not whatever this is!”

Jane’s not-heart beat hard. There was a lot to unpack in the Queen’s words, but she was having a lot of fun right now, and the Queen needed to die. Jane flickered through the fire, rushing toward the Queen.

The Queen turned, her dark eyes full of anger.

For some reason, Jane stopped in her tracks, fully exposed beside a fallen, burning tree, and a meteor crater. She needed to move. She needed to attack, or hide. She could not just stand there, bubbling orange and yellow in the light of the fire all around.

The Queen stared down at Jane. “What is this about?”

Jane felt her mind release a little. She still couldn’t move, but she could think. She could vibrate the darkness, but the darkness was a slippery thing. It did not respond like Jane wanted. Her voice was small, as she asked, “Do you enjoy eating people? Sending your progeny out into the world to eat children?”

The Queen paused. “Of course I do. They are meat, and I am Queen.”

“Melemizargo would like you to stop.”

“… Stop? What? No. No.” The Queen said, “It is my right as the Crowned Queen of the Forest to do as I wish with those around me. The Dark God has never seen fit to interfere before. Why now?” She immediately said, “Don’t bother answering. I want him to answer me directly.” She yelled out into the sky. “Melemizargo! I know you are there. You are always listening for your name.”

Jane watched the dark sky, high above the fires of the Forest.

Nothing happened.

“That old bastard.” The Queen said, “Whatever. I will continue to do as I wish, and whatever this is—” She turned her huge eyes and massive horn toward Jane. “I do not wish to participate in this farce for one more second.”

The Queen’s horn pointed directly at Jane as it began to fill with an inner radiance.

Jane almost panicked. She couldn’t move. She thought to blip away, but for some reason, and in a way that was both terrifying, and made perfect sense, she didn’t want to leave the Queen’s presence. As the Queen’s horn turned from radiant, to incandescent, Jane wondered if—

Light, as though from a thousand suns, unleashed.

[Pure Reflection Ward].

Incandescence turned on its owner. Power strong enough to light a world blasted away from Jane like she was a disco ball, slashing through kilometers of trees, cutting up the clouds and the sky, slicing through falling meteors, dazzling through the Queen’s skull.

The light instantly ended. The Queen rocked to the side, her fifty meter tall body swaying as rivers of glowing red blood poured across the land, extinguishing fires and blooming grasses and trees wherever it touched.

The Queen’s coat flashed from white, to black. A crown of horns appeared around her swaying head, each of the horns almost as large as her central spike. Her face drooped with tentacles. Her legs locked. She stood tall, as blood poured.

The night returned in a sudden rush. Light failed.

Jane rushed upward, riding the returning darkness, plunging deep into a hole in the Queen’s chest. Jane healed herself as she burned deep into the Crowned Queen. Finding the heart was easy enough; it vibrated the entire body with its thumping, pumping motions. Jane plunged into that organ, burrowing and burning, killing the Queen from the inside out. Blood poured in, threatening to put out Jane’s light and fire, but Jane sunk that blood into her shadows; it was pretty damn dark inside a body, after all.

Jane ate the heart out of the Queen of the Forest. It took a minute, and she burned a lot of the tough, stringy meat, but what were oozes good for but to eat everything in sight?

Somewhere in the middle of all that, there was a notification. The Queen was dead and Jane had killed her. Jane had also gained a lot of levels. She would look at all of that later in more detail, but for now, she healed herself with [Greater Treat Wounds], restoring her glow and her mass, as she extricated herself from her enemy.

Jane burst out of the side of the Queen; a glowing orange tendril of goo reaching into the night. She followed up with herself, finding herself hanging from the side of the Queen. Without the Queen’s life powering her [Aura of Freedom], Jane easily held on to the burning black fur and scorching skin all around her.

She plopped thirty meters down to the forest floor. A lot of everything was still on fire, but the meteors had stopped. Jane stood alone under the still standing corpse of the Queen. Jane flopped forward, toward the Queen’s front. Her head had dropped to the ground. Her horns, all ten of them, dug into the ground, while her tentacled face lay splayed across the Forest floor.

Her horns still glittered with an inner radiance, though Jane’s reflective attack had burned holes in several of them, and cut two in half. The main horn looked mostly intact, but it too, had been damaged. Half of it was buried in the forest floor, but a massive crack wound halfway down the center of the horn.

Jane held her fire close as she picked up a rock with a pseudopod and tapped the main horn.

A faint ring held in the air. Jane tapped the horn again. She tried to match the vibration of the ring with her own oozy vibrations. Nothing happened.

A voice called out from twenty meters away and up a burnt tree, “Yo!”

Jane had seen Redwood the second she showed up in her black leathers and her black mask. Considering everything that had just happened, Jane was on high alert for treason right now, and though she might be low on mana, she had enough to keep [Greater Shadowalk] running; this was one of the many reasons Jane had Favored that spell.

But still, it was nice that Redwood took the time and effort to appear harmless and quirky.

Jane used [Prestidigitation] to speak, “Good show with the meteors. I was expecting a bit more backup. You didn’t really stick to the plan.”

Redwood leapt down from her spot on the tree, landing gracefully on the ground. With a gentle nudge, Jane pulled down the fires around the Queen, preserving the body from further damage.

Redwood said, “Thank you kindly for taking down the fire, Jane.” She took off her mask, saying, “Now... I don’t mean ‘ta be a spoilsport, but what was all that talkin’? The Queens never talked before, and certainly never about That Guy.”

Jane said, “The Queen also didn’t have a rad in its heart, unlike all her progeny. So if they never talked before, then it was through their own volition.” She added, “If indeed, you ever truly killed one before.”

