Scallion breathed. He looked up and away. He stayed like that for a moment, before facing the group, and Bett. He said, “Fine. And when this turns out to be a trap, know that I’m going to say ‘I told you so’ loud enough that it counts as an attack.”

Jane asked, “What sort of monsters live in the archipelago, anyway?”

Bett said, “Dragonwhales. Island Turtles.”

Scallion continued, “Water oozes.”

“Oh yeah. That’s a big one.” Bett said, “Leviathans. You get the occasional actual dragon, too. They like to eat the big things out there.” She added, “Black Sharks are a favorite snack.”

Jane asked, “So? Decision reached? A full consensus?”

Scallion sighed. He said, “Let’s get back to the guild. I’m as ready as I’ll ever be.”

- - - -

In an otherwise vacant staging area in the mountains far to the north, and far, far above the treeline, Jane stood by an arched window. She gazed out at the green land to the west, and thought. Snow piled up outside the window, while cold wind blew flurries into the staging area. Some of the snow dusted Jane’s dark blue winter coat and gathered in the false fur surrounding her face, but most of it gathered in the crooks and corners of the stone all around her.

Marric stepped up beside her, wearing his own huge, teal winter outfit. His head was completely exposed, though tufts of teal fur rimmed his green neck. Snow landed in his dark hair, but it melted even as it touched him. He said, “This’ll be the last one. I’m gone after this.”

“Mind telling me where you’re going?”

They had talked around the subject a few times, but now, Jane laid the question out there.

Marric smirked, as he said, “Mind telling me if you’re Jane Flatt of Spur?”

“The others are at least polite enough to pretend I’m not.” Jane teased, “Why would I bother telling you something you already know?”

Marric chuckled. He said, “Because it’s easier on me if you speak of your secrets, that way I’m no longer bound by Mind Mage Law to only speak of what has already been spoken.”

“Oh?” Jane asked, sarcastically, “Is that a thing?”

“Bett spoke of my Law a few days ago, so you already know.”

“Is that what happened?” Jane teased, “I thought that was you drowning us in puzzle pieces and one of us finally breaking under the pressure to put them together.”

Marric acted all offended, saying, “You act as though it was malicious.”

Jane smiled as she turned her gaze from the tall orcol, to the green land, far below. Marric watched the Forest at her side.

Redwood stepped out of the nearby shadows wearing dark leathers and a dark mask. “Yo!”

Jane casually turned to her, saying, “Hello. We ready?”

Redwood paused. “Usually that freaks people out. But I guess you have [Shadowalk]. You must be pretty good with it.”

“I am.” Jane said, “I also have [Hunter’s Instincts]; but everyone has that one.”

Redwood said, “You’d be surprised the kind of people who try to make it in this life without [Hunter’s Instincts]. Anywho! Are the other two lovebirds done boinking each other? We’re ready when you are.”

Marric looked to the air. He turned back to Redwood, to say, “They’re done. They’re on their way.”

“Good.” Redwood asked, “Have you [Scry]ed the enemy, yet?”

“Yes,” Jane said.

Marric said, “Twenty meters tall, in a grove of trees four times that size and half as wide.”

“Yup!” Redwood said, “That’s her. This year’s Queen of the Forest. So here’s the plan. We’ve done this with mages with ooze forms before. It makes the whole thing a lot simpler, but it also makes it much harder on that one person. This part doesn’t need the full group to explain, just you, Jane.”

Jane listened. Marric watched the Forest as he, too, listened.

Redwood said, “She will go after you, relentlessly. She will be able to affect your mind, even with your mindless, coreless ooze body. This shouldn’t prove a problem, because she will drive you to attack her with a single, relentless focus. Since you already have [Greater Treat Wounds] and you will be able to retain some of your mind, all you have to do is focus on healing yourself.” Redwood said, “Usually we have to be a lot more complicated about this, but we all got lucky this year.”

Jane’s eyes went wide. She controlled herself to say, “Affecting my mind, through my ooze body?”

“Other mages have reported as such, yes.” Redwood said, “But like I said, it shouldn’t affect you much.”

Jane resolved herself. She said, “Fine. As long as I know ahead of time.”

“Good.” Redwood said, “I’ve been told the effect is a primal sort of triggering kind of thing. So—”

Scallion called out, “Hey!”

Jane turned. Scallion and Bett walked hand in hand down the stone hallway, toward Jane, Marric, and Redwood. Both of their faces seemed to glow, while Bett had a perpetual smirk. She tried to wipe her expression away, but it came back as she neared the group.

Redwood said, “Great. Everyone is here. We likely have four hours left in the day. The attack will begin at dusk. The Forest Queen does not sleep, but she does patrol her land slower at night.”

Jane asked, “Any monsters we have to be aware of besides wyrms and the Queen?”

“Reachers.” Redwood said, “But since you’ll all have mind protection anyway and they’re literally all going to go for Jane, they shouldn’t be a problem.” She looked to the air. Threads of intent flickered out from her. “One sec. Getting the teams—”

Three humans, each wearing the same black leathers and black mask as Redwood, blipped into the nearby air in a flourish of orange light; two men and one woman. All of them were taller than Redwood. They all deferred to Redwood, with small bows.

Redwood said, “A trio of great people, here. Hawthorne, Rowan, and Apple. They’ll be leading the incineration efforts.” She turned to Jane, saying, “I’m really glad you all chose to come. You’ve elected to put a bit of trust in us, and we Elites will strive to live up to that responsibility.” She spoke with enthusiasm in her voice, “Since Jane is a flame ooze and this is the Forest, the plan is going to hinge on that.” She added, “I’ve done this four times with an ooze in attendance and five times without, so I’m pretty confident that we’ll be okay. Just a warning. If we can’t kill her within ten minutes of engaging, everyone needs to evacuate. This is the plan...”

- - - -

Sunlight tilted across the Forest, casting long shadows through a tangled canopy. The land below was dangerous and wild, but it was not dark. Light glittered below the trees, like a second sun, or maybe a moon, peeking out from behind green clouds. Shaggy, long armed silver monsters, with maws for mouths and hands and feet much too small for their bodies, roamed that glittering twilight. Long wyrms, with too many arms and too many legs, and too many unhealing wounds across their entire bodies, undulated around trees thicker than they were, like quiet, well trained snakes. They followed their Queen through the illuminated dark.

For the Queen was everything.

She was the unicorn above all who walked in the center of a procession of countless monsters. Her subjects cheered for her with guttural roars and with offerings of meat; mostly the bodies of wyrms not fit to join her court, and of course, gifts of children stolen from elsewhere in the world.

Since her elevation to Queen she birthed a unicorn a day. Those progeny had since traveled into the human lands in order to return with gifts of calcified children in their gullets; like the most delicious teacakes in this world, or any other. Sure, some of her progeny failed to return, but that didn’t matter. She could just spawn more progeny. What was loss in the face of decadence?

And speaking of food! A bubbly, plopping light, appeared on the very edge of her vision. The queen gave a signal. In an instant or less the tiny morsel of light was brought to her. She caught the tidbit in her mouth and devoured it whole. It was delicious. The Queen loved the crunchy bit in the center, but she was always hungry, and these small morsels of light were so very, very small.

But hers was not the only mouth to feed, it was just the most important.

Watch now as her squads of reachers surround and flank their Queen, swinging their arms in rhythm to the stepping of her hooves, the size of orcols. She is much, much taller than her silver furred infantry, but the reachers are not so small themselves. Look there, as the Forest stretches up around her, the plants growing tall and wild. See her wyrms wrap themselves around those growing trees, flanking and protecting her as she takes her evening stroll. The wyrms are sure to wrap the trees in perfect mirrors of each other, for the Queen demands beauty and order, and her generals comply. She also demands merriment. Delight as shroomlings dance around her heavy feet, and cheer at her stride; they race to catch up, but they only manage to get themselves squished. Even the bugs and the birds flock to hail their Queen, all of them flying in sequence and delight, bringing song and joy to their rightful monarch.

Her tail is a cloud of white light, floating on an unseen air. Her mane is a cascade of white mist, light and airy, and the fluffiest thing in the world, besides all the rest of her. Her eyes are pools of darkness, drinking in the light. They see everything. The Queen’s mind is as sharp as her eyes, and though the small, inconsequential things sometimes fail to draw her gaze, that which she fails to see, her mind recognizes.

And her horn! Oh, her horn. See as it stretches from her forehead, a spike of prismatic radiance. A testament to artistry. A light in the dark. A second sun. The most beautiful thing to ever grace the Forest, besides the Queen herself.

But what is this? Something untoward appears in the sky. It is not a star, but it falls like one.

… What’s all that about?

The Queen looks up. The march stalls.

- - - -

Twilight wind whipped across Jane’s gooey, orange, radiant body. Tiny droplets of herself broke away, lost forever, no doubt, but she controlled enough of her body to form a tight ball of fire, [Fire Body] helping to secure almost every drop of self. The Ancient Unicorn’s procession was right below her. Jane was right on target.

The Queen stood at the head while her generals wrapped around the trees, growing beside the Queen. The entire Forest around the Queen looked like an ancient, primeval truth, but it was mostly a lie. When she passed, the trees would return to half of their size.

But while Jane saw them, they certainly saw her. The Queen looked up. Her nine meter long horn glinted with light. The world around the Queen flashed. The Queen stood revealed to Jane; she stood alone. Her procession became as the trees, melding into the wood like they were never there.

The Queen was also not twenty meters tall. If Jane had to guess, she would put the Queen closer to fifty.

The Queen’s eyes changed. Recognition dawned. She saw now that Jane was not just a falling ember. Jane felt as the Queen tried to touch her gooey mind. Like a cold spike, or a draining touch.

As the Forest canopy approached, a subtle rage that had been inside Jane ever since she was a little girl, that she had hammered into utility and tempered with training, shifted into something deeper. All the tiny injustices of her entire time on Veird and on Earth flickered into an inferno. How dare that little girl trick her into killing those muggers on the street! She should have killed her, too, and all the people they rescued from the unicorns over the past two weeks!

And her fucking father! He was the worst of them all! He was at school, while she was here, killing the monsters of the world, working to actually make this shitty, fucking, Veird, into some sort of livable space! And that Bett. Jane saw those eyes of hers, how she looked at Jane with disdain, how she wanted to knife Jane in her sleep. All incani were the same!

Fuck Silverite! How could she let those purple demons in town get away with any of their shit! How could she possibly choose to live with the Shades! She should have the Army assassinate every single Shade, and damn the weak-willed people in town. They were exactly like the people of Killtree; nothing more than fodder for the flame. If they couldn’t handle the monsters in the dark, then they should all just die.

Jane’s entire mind stretched wide. What filled the center was pure rage.

The forest was a tangle of shadows and light. Jane reached the canopy and burst wide open. Fire flared; a life too long hidden, now ignited. She ripped into the shadows, tearing out flame and light. She ripped into the light, tearing out fire and darkness. The Forest burned, and Jane helped that fire spread. In four flashing instants, forty meter tall trees were nothing more than fire, and that fire was spreading. As Jane coaxed fire into a conflagration, she saw yet another problem in front of her.

A three meter wide hoof, silver and heavy, slammed down—

Jane leapt right at the hoof, melding into the light surrounding the attack, spinning up and around the leg, burning white fur and scorching thick, monster flesh. The Queen leapt back, flickering through her own light, dropping Jane to the ground.

The Queen huffed, a great snorting burst of glittering light that blew across the forest floor. Jane did not need to hold on to the ground to keep from flying away. She ducked into the light streaming from the Queen’s nostrils, reaching with fire and hatred into the monster’s nose.

The Queen shifted left, leaving Jane to fall to the ground. But Jane did not fall, she followed the Queen, through the light.

With the disinterested air of nobility and a flick of her head, the Queen slashed with her horn, splitting the light. Jane fell from the air; a severed ball of flame. Half of her went out. Half of her fell to the ground. The Queen looked down upon the sad creature, as the sad creature looked up at her. The Queen stomped, quick as a meaningless death. Jane splattered against the forest like so much exhausted napalm.

So much for that attempt on her life. Now where was she? Oh yes. Her evening stroll. She stepped forward—

The Queen paused. She lifted her face to the sky.

Meteors swarmed, igniting the heavens, a hundred specks of fire and stone revealing themselves across the sky, a dozen kilometers in every direction. They fell, screaming, hurtling into the green. Fire and light ignited the night. Trees instantly caught fire. The Queen gestured, and the forest calmed. Fires turned to nothing. Blackened trees grew tall.

Whatever that was supposed to be, was not nearly enough.

- - - -

