“I heard that they believe death is not the end.” Jane said, “They keep it quiet, but they believe that if they do well for their leaders, they’ll be resurrected into new bodies.”

“Where’d you hear that?” Bett recoiled, saying, “Necromancy? Really?”

“I’ve been listening in all around me.” Jane flicked a bit of shadow over her hand, saying, “These unicorns always go for me first and hard, so I’ve been working on my other senses. I can’t be an ooze in the guildhouse, but I can do this.” Shadow flickered downward, crawling in the cracks of the mountainside. Jane said, “It’s almost the same as ooze listening.”

Bett hummed, then nodded. She gazed across the flower fields. “[Shadowalk] is pretty good.” She held up her hand, flickering a white light across her purple skin, saying, “I’m working on this. It’s… difficult.” She extended her hand. Light poured across the ground. Spots of red bloomed atop green sticks, while green blobs spread below, turning a patch of stone ground into false flowers. “It’s considerably easier as a unicorn.” She took her hand away. The ‘flowers’ vanished. “The horn splits the light into colors so I don’t have to, but my main problem is form work.”

Jane looked up, saying, “It’s a bit too bright to show you...” Jane reached down with [Stoneshape] to pull a thin umbrella over her head, casting a shadow across a small space in front of her. With a gesture, a tiny unicorn made of darkness materialized out of the shadows. It was a unicorn of this world; not the ones that Jane had grown up seeing. It pranced around in the shade, its horn a twisted thing. Overall, it was perfectly shaped. She said, “It’s taken a while and I had some help along the way… I don’t have to worry about color, though. So it’s a mite easier.”

Bett smiled, saying, “Still impressive.”

Jane dismissed the dark unicorn, saying, “I’m thinking of going after every body skill.”

“I considered it.” Bett said, “Ten years ago, if I had all the skills you already have I would have gone for it. [Shadowalk] is the hardest. But now? I want kids.” She added, “I hear you get a Special Action for getting all of them. No one I ever talked to knew what it was, though.”

“I read about that, too. But no definitive—”

“Found it! It’s a small one again.” Scallion’s voice came from the stone base behind them. “Come on, girls!”

- - - -

Jane plopped onto the field.

This time, they managed to kill the unicorn and save twenty four people.

After executing four monstrous cannibals, Marric took hard control of the situation, casting a wide calming effect on the roaring, half-naked people. When the remnants of Team A and Team Bastards came out of the rescued people, no one stopped a woman from Team A, named Padarah, from stabbing and slashing and attacking the two survivors from Team Bastards.

Jane just watched, slightly numb to it all, as Padarah screamed out her hatred of the two men. The story of what had happened between Team A and Team Bastards came out in her screams. The crowd took her word as truth. The crowd tore the two men apart, and Jane did nothing to stop them. Scallion and Bett just watched. Marric stood back, his face a stone mask.

The four of them, and Padarah from Team A, when Team Bastards was truly dead and gone, helped to [Teleport] people wherever they wanted to go.

Jane got the unicorn corpse.

- - - -

Jane, Scallion, Bett, and Marric, sat around the dinner table. No one really spoke much since the last unicorn. They ate in silence. Jane had cooked tonight; shepherd's pie, with lots of slow-cooked spicy meat and vegetables under a large layer of mashed potatoes and cheese. Everyone seemed to like it, but no one had said anything.

Jane broke the silence, “This is getting tough.”

Marric said, “Yup.”

“Yeah,” Bett said.

“We can stop.” Scallion said, “We got what we came for.”

“… Want to burn down the Forest?” Jane asked.

Bett burst out a laugh, while Marric groaned.

Scallion said, “That just makes the unicorns angry.”

Marric said, “It’s been burned back for two thousand kilometers. The unicorns still come down this way. They eat children in order to reproduce. This is an impossible problem.”

“It’s not impossible.” Scallion said. “These people need walls around their cities. They need to formally institute Polite Society. They need laws. They need a lot of things we cannot give them, and we should not even try.” He added, “We need to worry about ourselves. We need to decide if we’re going to continue, or not.”

Marric said, “It’s getting… It’s getting really hard to kill the cannibals.”

Scallion said, “Don’t judge me too harshly when I say this, but if we just let them all go, including the cannibals, I don’t think the average person’s experience in Killtree will change.”

“Blackfield didn’t seem like such a bad guy.” Jane said, “I was expecting a lot worse than him.”

“Me too.” Scallion said. “But he’s a person in charge, and this is all partially his fault, too.”

Bett said, “I say we keep going. Marric, you still haven’t gotten anything from this.”

Jane said, “Point out the cannibals. I can kill them.”

Marric said, “Ah. No. Sorry. I’m on a quest now to uncover monstrous people and kill them.” He added, “This is as good of a use of my time as any. I’m just bemoaning. Don’t mind me.”

Jane looked to the orcol. Marric looked to his empty plate.

Scallion said, “Then we continue.” He added, “And dinner was great. I might need to change my mind about these potatoes.”

Bett said, “This was a great dinner, Jane. Thank you.”

“Yup.” Marric said, “It was very good. Thanks.”

Jane smiled softly, looking away from everyone. “Thanks.”

- - - -

Over the next ten days, the height of Unicorn Season came to Killtree.

Jane, Scallion, Marric, and Bett, killed another seven unicorns. The other adventuring teams in Killtree’s Guildhouse, the ones who managed to survive those bloody first days, managed to bag another twenty-one unicorns between the lot of them. Jane gained [Lightwalk] after the third kill. [Fire Body] and [Lightwalk] went together well. Jane was now able to zip through the sunlight and hold her fiery body onto the fleeing unicorns. Shadows were great, but they were hard to find around unicorns.

Lightwalk, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the light.

After Jane got her upgrade to [Lightwalk], the unicorns went to Marric and Scallion. Between the both of them, they began stockpiling the necessary parts to create a suit of armor, to try for a [Lightwalk] for themselves.

They were not able to collect all the necessary horns and bones and leather, before the situation changed.

Upon killing their tenth unicorn, Guildmaster Rohn called Jane’s team into his office.

Rohn stood to the side of his desk, wearing his normal off-white [Conjure Armor], though this time it looked a bit nicer than usual. Flourishes and engravings adorned his chestplate, shoulders, and gauntlets.

On the other side of his desk stood a woman in dark leathers and long black hair.

Rohn said, “Welcome, Jane, Marric, Scallion, and Bett.”

Jane and her team entered the office. There was more than enough space for all of them.

Rohn gestured to the silent woman, saying, “This is Elite Redwood.”

Redwood nodded, saying, “Yo.”

Jane nodded at the woman.

“She is here to invite you four on a mission, if you wish to accept.” Rohn said, “The benefit is promotion to nobility. This is a name-only promotion. As you are foreigners, you will not be allowed control over policy or the ability to demand taxes in the city, but you will be allowed to build stone property wherever you wish in Killtree, with regard only given to other nobles. If you choose to create a settlement outside Killtree, you may demand taxes from those who flock to your side. You will be the only ones allowed to live in stone houses, though.” He asked, “Are you interested?”

All four of them had already talked about this possibility, so Jane spoke for the group, “We will hear you out.”

Redwood flashed a smile, then said, “Great! It’s an Elite Promotion quest, so don’t expect it to be that easy, but since you’ve got your flame ooze and two [Lightwalk]s among you, and a Mind Mage and a Control mage? You should have an easier time than most people gunning for a promotion to nobility.”

Redwood said, “It’s taken us a week, but we’ve found the Ancient Unicorn birthing all of this season’s unicorns. We’re killing it, and you’re helping. That’s the quest. This Ancient Unicorn is about twenty meters tall, not including the horns, but it has a cadre of dominated wyrms. We’ve already identified the four wyrms under this one’s control. Eyebeam, [Ward], [Stoneshape], and [Lightshape].” She added, “Know now that the illusion aura of an Ancient Unicorn is less an illusion aura, and more an actual transformation of the land. Keep that in mind when accepting this quest.”

Rohn added, “Your Participation in the kill will determine how much of the resultant loot you are eligible for. If any of you do enough to get the main horn then that’s an instant [Lightwalk], if you’ve already got some way to absorb the essence. If you choose to have it made into armor and items and to absorb it that way, then there’s a 90% chance of [Lightwalk].” Redwood added, “And we have to kill the unicorn before the wyrms, or else the unicorn will run. So that’s another problem for the pile.”

Jane stuck to the plan, “We would need a few hours to discuss this turn of events. Is there a hard time limit to accepting this offer?”

Redwood said, “I can give you an hour. The unicorn is spotted but it could move on.”

Jane spoke for the group. “That’s fine.” She held out a hand to Marric, exactly like they had planned. “We’ll be right back.”

Marric took her hand. Scallion blipped away with Bett in a flash of purple. The world turned teal for one brief second. And then again.

The four of them were back at base.

Scallion instantly said, “So they’re going to try and kill us halfway through, no doubt.”

Marric said, “I’m not so sure.”

Scallion scowled at Marric. “You cannot possibly be that naive! Not after what we’ve seen so far.”

“I’m not.” Marric said, “But we knew this was a possibility. Surely you’ve spoken to some of the other teams. They all say the same thing. This nobility quest is what most of them are going for, and they almost always kill the Ancient Unicorn.”

Jane said, “None of those people would make good nobles. They’re all ruthless killers. Even that woman we saved, Padarah? She went on to join another team and then that team ambushed another, killing them and stealing that unicorn kill.”

Scallion said, “Padarah’s team is directly behind us in kills. If we don’t do this, Padarah’s going to get the offer. They’re going to take it, and she’s going to get control over others. Legal, noble control.” Scallion stressed, “She would kill every single person who wrongs her. She would become part of the problem. This is normal for Killtree. We don’t have to be here.”

Bett said, “Saying it like that... I wonder if Padarah is going to try and kill us right now.”

The four of them looked to the door of their stone, mountainside base. Nothing happened.

Jane said, “That got my heartbeat rising.”

Marric and Bett laughed, while Scallion sighed out a held breath.

Jane asked Marric, “Have you heard anything about the power of an Ancient Unicorn’s [Dominate]?”

“It’s obviously stronger if it can truly control wyrms.” Marric said, “But no. I’ve never heard anything special about Ancient Unicorns.”

“… Never?” Jane asked.

“Does that mean you’ve never heard of them before?” Scallion asked.

Marric said, “No. I’ve heard of them. But I thought they were a myth. I always heard that unicorns reproduced by eating children and transforming them into new unicorns.”

Bett said, “If there was a damn library or a Knowledge Mage around this town that I trusted I would want to go and find out the truth.” She added, “This discrepancy is uncomfortable.”

“Aside from conflicting information: this may be a trap of some sort.” Jane said, “Do we want to cut our losses here?”

Bett said, “Yes. I vote we just pick up and leave.”

“I vote to leave,” Scallion said.

Marric said, “I think we should stay. I would have heard something about there being a trap here for unicorn hunters if such a thing were actually happening.” He said, “If we leave, others might die to the Ancient Unicorn.” He added, “I might have been wrong about the reason for unicorn attacks on human lands. It might not be a pregnancy thing. It’s entirely possible that this is a [Thought Fog] sort of thing, where the unicorns need to eat brains to produce their mental abilities. Except they mainly focus on the brains of children. Neither of you two got any mental abilities from your unicorn forms, right?”

“None,” Bett said.

Jane said, “None here, either. I haven’t really played around with the form, though. But the [Aura of Freedom] is there, like expected. [Lightwalk] and [Lightshape] alongside the unicorn’s prismatic horns produces much of the illusions I’ve seen out there in every fight.”

Marric said, “So. I think we should stay. If we kill the Ancient Unicorn, then that’s saving a lot of lives.”

Jane said, “I was already going to vote to stay, but if Padarah is next in line, then keeping her out of the nobility is just as important as killing the Ancient Unicorn.”

Scallion grumbled, saying, “Come on! Both of you can’t really be this dumb.”

“It’s not dumb to want to help people,” Marric said.

Scallion said, “It’s dumb to help these people.”

Bett sighed, saying, “I’ve changed my mind.” She said, “I vote to stay.”

“What!” Scallion shouted.

Bett said, “We don’t have to go in unaware.” She asked the orcol, “Marric. Don’t you have [Truthsense]?”

Marric paused. He frowned. He winced, then said, “I already used it. Neither Redwood or Rohn are directly lying.”

Bett said, “The most forthcoming Mind Mage I’ve ever seen.” She turned to Scallion, saying, “See?”

Scallion said, “I see problems, Bett.”

Bett said, “I see opportunity.”

“You don’t want to live here, do you?!” Scallion asked, frantically.

“No!” Bett said, “But I would feel a lot better about our chances down south if we were able to kill a threat like an Ancient Unicorn. I don’t want to do this for them. I want to do this for us.”

