As the final thunderous volley from the Runic Cannons rang out, Hongji clenched his fists and made ready to greet the Enemy with a belly full of remorse.

How did it all come to this? Their grand army of veteran soldiers fighting tooth and nail against an endless horde of unwashed Defiled on the recently reinforced yet already crumbling walls of Shi Bei, a slow but sure death by a thousand cuts. Had Hongji known the Enemy valued the city so highly, he would have abandoned it as quickly as he abandoned Pan Si Xing and made his way to Meng Sha with all haste, where he at least had the option to withdraw his soldiers by ship and live to fight another day. Though everyone knew there would soon come a reckoning for their bold offensive push into the West, no one could have predicted the Defiled would come in such great numbers to Shi Bei. Either the Defiled hosts were far more numerous than even what the most liberal estimates put them at, or the vast majority of the foreign, father-loving bastards had gathered here outside Hongji’s walls. Millions upon millions at the very least, with bodies stretching as far as the eye could see and beyond, there seemed no end to the Defiled as they charged in from all sides in a maddened, near-suicidal effort to retake the city.

Perhaps the cunning Uniter knew something Hongji and his allies were unaware of, some hidden strategic value to the city that had thus far gone overlooked, but if that was the case, then Shi Bei’s advantages were well hidden indeed. When Nian Zu captured the city, it had merely been a forward staging ground for the Defiled offensive. One of many mind you, and a poorly situated one at that, with the only benefit being its middling position along the border between West and Central, which was why no one expected the Enemy to value it so highly. Even then, Hongji knew there would be a siege and made ample preparations in advance, setting the Spring and Autumn Consortium to raising the walls and Exarch Gam to leveling the ground all around Shi Bei. Most other General Officers of the Western offensive thought him overly cautious for doing so, but Hongji knew the Enemy would retaliate here at Shi Bei, because their pride and rage demanded it.

What he didn’t know was that they would throw everything they had and more at Shi Bei. It was madness, sheer madness to commit so many troops to secure this worthless prize at so high a cost, for even though the Enemy hordes outnumbered the Imperial Army by a fair margin, Hongji’s forces amounted to almost a fifth of those stationed at the recently raised Western Wall. An army of this size was rarely seen even in the history books, an elite crusading force rallied by Legate Falling Rain to retake the West and drive the Enemy out of the province, yet now the Defiled were delivering themselves to die upon Imperial blade and bolt alike.

And die they did, in droves and masses unlike anything the world had ever seen before.

On the first day of the siege, the Irregulars played a huge role in stymieing the tides of unwashed heathens, unleashing a torrential downpour of bolts in an arc over the walls without any need to even see the Enemy to kill them. A single Bekhai archer every twenty-thousand Irregulars made this even more effective, one Khishig to Scry and scout out the biggest clumps of tribesmen to direct their crossbows at, and for a time, there was little the soldiers standing on the raised, reinforced concrete walls needed to do besides dispatch the odd straggler who had the good fortune to weather the storm unharmed. Tens of thousands of Defiled fell and were trampled underfoot as the Irregulars unleashed death upon them from afar, and it went on until the Enemy finally pulled back come nightfall.

Only for a second army of Defiled tribesmen to rotate in and immediately renew the attack on Shi Bei.

No longer could Hongji afford to spend his ammunition so freely, for it was clear the Traitor Commander was intent on drowning his forces in a sea of corpses, with tribal savages making up the lion’s share of the sum. A plan which had no regard for life, Defiled or Imperial alike, and hardly the sort of grand strategy one would expect from a brilliant commander like Bai Qi, but its effectiveness lay not in its efficiency, but its simplicity. With the Imperial soldiers exhausted from fighting endless waves of Defiled, this made Bai Qi’s cunning maneuvers that much more difficult to counter, whether it be a lightning fast Chosen offensive on one wall in a concentrated effort to topple it, or scattering Wraiths amongst his horde before sending Demons into the fray to draw out Imperial Peak Experts to be assassinated. Hongji was at his wit's end warding off all of Bai Qi’s plethora of stratagems, but all his best efforts could only amount to so much, and regrettably, it was far from enough. In this long, drawn-out match of wits and endurance, Hongji had slowly but surely been losing control of the battlefield, suffering several defeats where he should have emerged victorious and failing to punish his opponent when he held the upper hand. With all the fighting going on, he barely had time to eat, sleep, or piss much less come up with countermeasures for Bai Qi’s next gambit, whereas the Lord of Martial Peace needed only shuffle his armies about and send a fresh wave of screaming tribesmen into the fray before devoting the rest of his time and attention to dismantling Shi Bei’s defenses.

Thankfully, Bai Qi’s personal appearances were few and far between, as he seemed more than content to pay this hefty butcher’s bill and in no rush to overrun Shi Bei. Day turned into night, then day and night came again, and again, and again, and again, but still the fighting continued unabated. The Enemy fought in shifts and came at all hours of the day and night, howling bloody murder as they assaulted the walls of Shi Bei in their crazed efforts to retake the city, but the Warriors of the Empire rose to the occasion and held the walls with little more than courage and grit. It was astonishing to see the Defiled relentlessly throwing their lives away without any care for their personal safety, and the death count was easily in the millions by now, yet still more tribesmen poured in from all over the province to take part in this endless siege. The Enemy had always been a mad bunch, but even this level of crazed disregard seemed out of sorts for Defiled, especially in light of the lacking tactical, economic, and strategic value of Shi Bei. Between this and Bai Qi’s infrequent appearances, almost as if to reassure his foes he was still here, Hongji suspected there was far more at stake than a mere city, but he would be damned if he had the time or energy to go tugging at loose threads.

Seven days into the siege, the Irregulars ran out of bolts and were relegated to manning the catapults, which used up the last of their ammunition only two days later. The Bekhai arrows lasted much longer, since there were far fewer archers than there were Irregulars and Akanai had been planning on turning Shi Bei into an Imperial supply station. For that, she needed scouts, and her scouts needed arrows, and having prepared well in advance, this meant her Khishigs were still firing arrows up until the eleventh day of the siege. From there on out, the only ranged weapons left to the Imperials were the devastating Runic Cannons, not because Hongji had a sizable cache of cannonballs, but because of how easy the ammunition was to make. There wasn’t a single stray nail or pot left in Shi Bei that hadn’t been melted down and repurposed, and the last of it had just been fired into the crowd, one final volley before the Legate’s Cannons fell silent for good. Right now, those Runic devices were being passed over to trusted Divinties from the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains to ensure those wondrous weapons stayed out of the wrong hands, for Hongji could see no outcome in which his forces emerged from Shi Bei alive.

A bittersweet conclusion, but one he would see through to the end, and he took pride in having played a part in this grand battle, even if his contributions had been limited in scope. Today marked the fifteenth day of consecutive fighting, and now that the Runic Cannons could no longer be used, it also marked the beginning of the end. Without ranged weapons to whittle their numbers down, the Enemy was free to attack on their own terms, whether it be surging in from all sides or making a feint to draw out the reserves before unleashing a concentrated strike elsewhere. Worst of all, the defenders of Shi Bei didn’t even have the illusion of hope anymore, for it was clear no reinforcements were forthcoming. Though Hongji had been unable to Send out a request for reinforcements, his communications blocked by some Enemy working of Domain, he had scouts and messengers aplenty who’d been stationed outside Shi Bei before the attack began and would have undoubtedly informed Commander General Shuai Jiao of their dire straits. Even allowing for time to gather troops and sally forth, any reinforcements should have already arrived several days ago at the latest, or at least word of them should have come to bolster their flagging spirits. Instead, there was no word from Commander General Shuai Jiao or the respective commanders of the Northern and Southern Citadels, meaning the Grasping Vine had left them for dead.

Only now did Hongji recognize the irony in Shuai Jiao’s moniker. In nature, vines were commonly found growing from larger trees, encircling the timber giant and siphoning nutrients and sunlight away from its host in an almost parasitic dynamic. No doubt Shuai Jiao saw this as an opportunity to not only discredit Legate Falling Rain and rid himself of his greatest rivals, but also as an opportunity to seize control of not just Central, but North and South as well. Never let it be said that his ambitions were not great, for he was a Central politician born and bred, and as a man of Central himself, Hongji did not mean this as a compliment.

Regardless of the outcome however, he was proud to have fought alongside such brave Warriors of the Empire. His fellow General Officers had been gracious enough to cede overall battlefield command over to him, but he’d done little more than arrange a shift schedule for the various units before throwing himself into the fray like all the others. Once he set boots on the ground in the battlefield, it was easy to see how lacking he was in comparison to the true heroes of this era, for even a random Peak Expert likely contributed more to the battle than he did, yet still the soldiers cheered as he approached the battlements once more, for what he presumed might well be the last time.

Better if they saved those cheers for the likes of Baatar, whose overall contributions on the battlefield were second to none. Seeing him trade blows with anyone less than a Peak Expert was no different from watching a veteran bully a child, and it was oh so satisfying to watch as he ran roughshod over the opposition. Wraiths, Chieftains, and Demons alike stood no chance against him, for Baatar was the embodiment of fury and wrath, a true domineering Warrior of the North. His heroic presence alone gave the defenders of Shi Bei hope, for once he set foot on the walls, it signalled the start of his nigh unstoppable advance along the battlements. With sword and bardiche in hand, he would pick a direction and tear into his foes to cut a bloody swathe through the Enemy, intent on taking a long, circuitous route all around the outer perimeter of the defenses as if going out for a stroll.

The first time he accomplished so staggering a feat, the chorus of cheers shook all of Shi Bei, for it seemed as if none could stand against the Bloody Fanged Wolf, not once he set his mind to task. Though others could have done the same, few could have accomplished it in so domineering a manner, for it was no slow slog through the Enemy ranks while making headway in one direction and losing ground in the other. No, instead, Baatar moved like a beast on the hunt, cleaving his way through the Defiled as if scything down weeds and vegetation in search of more suitable quarry and leaving the Enemy dazed and shocked in his wake. Wherever he went he struck like an avalanche to buy time and respite for the weary defenders, and they loved him for this as much as they venerated him for his unparalleled combat strength.

The second time Baatar attempted this, he was ambushed by none other than Bai Qi himself, the Enemy Commander harbouring a grudge from their clash in Pan Si Xing, but one which was left to fester as Akanai also made her presence known. In one, singular strike, she did more to boost morale than the combined efforts of all other Living Legends in Shi Bei, for even as Baatar blocked Bai Qi’s hidden strike at great cost, Akanai drove her Crescent Moon Halberd through her foe’s chest. Not even Runic Armour could defend against her Ground-Shrinking Strike, shattering apart before her domineering thrust and heavily injuring Bai Qi in the process, forcing the traitor’s Half-Demon guards to retreat with their wounded Commander in tow.

