That had been nine… no, ten days ago, and Bai Qi wasn’t seen for another three days, and he didn’t attack for another five, showing just how grievous the traitor’s injuries truly were, and how close to death he’d been. In contrast, Baatar was back in the thick of things later that same evening, where he continued to raise morale through his tireless and unyielding example, and Hongji suspected the city might well have already fallen if not for the Bloody Fanged Wolf. This wasn’t to say the other Living Legends were sat around twiddling their thumbs. Far from it, for Exarch Gam, Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu, and Colonel General Nian Zu were each a force to be reckoned with as they wrought death and destruction from on high. Though there was no official count being kept, each of them likely killed far more Defiled and Demons than Baatar, but while the manner in which they fought was most awe-inspiring indeed, they used skills and abilities far beyond what the common soldier could relate to. Inspirational as it was to see Exarch Gam stretch his hand out and open up a sink-hole underneath the sand, or Du Min Gyu soar into the skies and unleash a series of explosions which sent blood and viscera flying into the air, or hear the whistle of Nian Zu’s Shooting Star and the meteoric impact as it crashed into the Enemy ranks, in the eyes of the common soldier, those Peak Experts might as well be gods, so far out of reach mere mortals didn’t dare to even dream of reaching such lofty heights.

In contrast, Baatar fought with sword and polearm and nothing else, his movements speedy and sublime yet still recognizable, which made him more than just a domineering hero, but a goal to pursue even if one had no chance of ever surpassing him. Baatar was a Warrior’s Warrior, a man who rose to the Peak using tools available to every soldier present without a Blessing or Talent to help him stand out, an achievement which made his accomplishments shine that much brighter to those who shared his hardships. No longer would one have to hope for Insight or Awakenings from the Heavens to stand out, for they only needed to look at Baatar and see how far their current Path and tools could take them, a shining example which gave hope and confidence to everyone fighting in Shi Bei.

Such a shame that Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s efforts were unable to have the same effect, for her prowess was not one whit inferior to Baatar’s. While Akanai’s style was more suited for duels, the Sword Saint shone brightest in chaotic melee, but for reasons different from Baatar. Where he dominated his foes through raw strength and speed, Hyo-Lynn defeated her foes through superior skill alone, striding into battle with her three blades a-dancing as she switched between them with effortless grace. So elegant and dignified she made the Painted Dancer look like a clumsy, club-footed oaf, the Sword Saint’s clothes remained untouched as she held her ground atop the battlements, the only visible open space in all the city. No matter how many tribesmen charged in, Hyo-Lynn cleared them away in the blink of an eye as she stepped and twirled above their corpses like an exquisite fairy descended down from the Heavens above.

And therein lay the rub. Though a mother thrice over and recent widow to boot, the Sword Saint’s beauty was nigh unmatched, a radiant flower in full blossom that every man yearned to pluck and take in hand. Thus, rather than inspiring awe and admiration with her phenomenal martial skills, it made the men around her feel small and insecure in comparison through no fault of her own, a handicap she and every other woman on the battlefield could never escape from. Masculine pride was a fragile thing because the world so very often trampled upon it, forcing even the most powerful of men to swallow their pride and smile in the face of indignity, so Hongji understood why some would feel personally slighted upon seeing a Warrior woman of any repute, for it was supposedly the man’s job to defend and protect, whereas the woman’s job was to nurture and cherish.

Or so it was in the world of mortals, and no matter how much Martial Warriors loved to pretend otherwise, they were all still stained in the red dust of the mortal world, and forever would be.

It wasn’t that Hongji condoned the misogynistic mindset, but rather that he understood how they felt, but he saw it as a mark of weakness. Women of strength should be respected and admired for rising above their supposed station, for was it not the Mother Above who shielded them all from the Father’s machinations? Perhaps even this patriarchal mindset could be attributed to the Father’s foul ways, though Hongji doubted even He would have to work so hard to sway the minds of men.

For this reason, the Sword Saint fought on with minimal cheers and admiration, but as Commander, he was privy to the knowledge that wherever she fought, the casualties were always amongst the lowest. Not just because of her efforts alone, but those of her talented children as well, most impressive of which was none other than the Sword Princess Da’in. It wouldn’t be long before the world started calling her the Sword Queen instead, for anyone with eyes could see her mother’s movements mirrored in her own, and the Peak Experts of Shi Bei could all tell that Ryo Da’in was destined to join their ranks within a matter of years, if not months. She was only lacking the slightest bit in a handful of areas, but the tides of war might well bring her down before she had a chance to take that next step, a true tragedy Hongji had hoped to prevent by sending her and several other talented youngsters away.

And in the process, give the Living Legends here at his side a chance to escape without losing face.

Unfortunately, the Enemy refused to give him any openings to enact an escape, for they meant to kill every last Imperial in Shi Bei, but Hongji’s Warriors were unwilling to make it easy. Especially after Marshal Quyen Huong dispensed all pretenses and took up his weapon against the Enemy, an oversized hooked pike which measured close to seven-metres long and was meant to be used from the back of his gargantuan colossus of a Spiritual Elephant. It truly was a sight to behold the somewhat plump and compact Marshal marching into battle with his similarly armed personal guards at his side, their massive polearms all resting on their shoulders and towering high above their head. Such an unwieldy weapon would be of no use in close-quarters melee, or so most believed, but then Marshal Huong raced ahead of his guards and cleared out a sizeable area atop the battlements with only a handful of swings. Once the rest of his guards were in position, they lined up along the outer edge and brought their polearms down in long, arcing swipes, not only killing the Defiled attempting to swarm up the wall but simultaneously shearing off the metal nails and spikes they’d driven into the concrete to use as foot and hand holds.

As for the Marshal himself? After seeing him swat no less than a dozen Demons and countless Wraiths out of the air before they could even reach the wall, Hongji no longer dared doubt the effectiveness of the man’s ridiculously long pike and was eager to see what would happen once Marshal Huong was forced to draw his oversized sabre…

The siege of Shi Bei was filled with dragons and heroes aplenty, far too many for Hongji to name. There was Major Gao Changgong who no longer cared to hide his identity, the fearsome Demon Reaper Gerel whose talents were second to none, and Southern Sabre Pichai, the former Broken Blade returned to his full glory now that his Core had been reforged thanks to the Golden-Eyed Taiyi Zhushen’s breakthrough treatment. Aside from the Living Legends, it was these three who shone the brightest, but there were many others who made their mark in battle. Tam Taewoong would be twice the commander Hongji could ever hope to be, a brilliant commander who had the love of his soldiers and a domineering Warrior standing at the forefront of his peers. The Painted Dancer Ishin Ken Shibu was poetry in motion, his sword and dagger never falling idle as he danced his way across the battlements. Tong Da Fung, Wu Gam, Huushal, Ryo Geom-Chi, Quyen Dienne, and so many more, these youths of the Empire showed everyone present that they too were candidates for future Peak Experts and Living Legends alike.

However, not one of these rising dragons dared claim themselves third in strength after Gerel and Ryo Da’in, for that honour laid firmly in the hands of one Major Rustram Albaiev, commander of the Legate’s Stormguard.

Twenty days ago, Hongji would have laughed at this notion, for promising though the young man might be, he was a marked distance away from matching those superlative talents standing before him. The young man was a cunning and decisive commander and phenomenal duelist, able to hold his own against top talents but far from being able to dominate them, and yet as the days rolled by here in Shi Bei, Rustram slowly but surely set himself apart from the rest in the most banal and uninspiring way possible. Where other men fought for four hours and rested for eight, he fought for twenty and rested for four. That was it, no more, no less, yet every time someone took in the battlefield, chances were that they’d find the moustached Major standing somewhere on the battlements and wielding his rapier with frightening precision. The man’s style was far from impressive, and almost boring to watch in action, for in the last fifteen days, Hongji had only seen him use a grand total of eight different Movements. Most were variations of a thrust or forward slash, a casual killing blow that was always aimed at the vitals and never used more strength than necessary. From his wooden expression, one might even think he was deep in the throes of Insight, but such a thing could not be possible day after day after day. All he would do was take his stance, a sideways posture with sword held out in front, and tap or jab at every Defiled who came into range, killing them instantly without fail.

In the grand scheme of Shi Bei, it was difficult to notice Rustram’s contributions, and Hongji was ashamed to admit that he wasn’t the first. Instead, it was Bai Qi who noticed it first, whereupon he dispatched a trio of Demons to do away with the young Major, only for Rustram to kill them all as easily as he killed the Defiled. That was when Hongji finally took notice, and not a moment too late either, for as soon as he turned his attention towards Rustram, he felt a sense of familiarity in the young man’s actions. Not the physical actions themselves, for Hongji’s sceptre was hardly a stabbing weapon, but rather the stirring of Chi emitting from it, and it was more than a guess to say that Rustram was utilizing some form of Hongji’s Ethereal Palm to dispatch his foes with such ease.

It was so easy to picture in mind, a Movement so simple yet profound at the same time. Difficult to say which Form the Movement came from, but suffice it to say that young Rustram made it his own. With feet rooted to the ground, he stretched his entire upper body and extended his arm fully to land the lightest of thrusts upon his Demonic opponent, one which barely scratched the surface of its durable chitin. A foolish over-extension, or so it would seem, for he was in no position to defend against the Demon’s counter-attack, yet none was forthcoming as the hideous miscreation stiffened in place before unceremoniously collapsing to the ground. As Rustram drew back, he struck out again, a light flick of his wrist which again just barely broke the surface of another Demon’s chitin, and much like his first opponent, the second fell where it stood, and a third followed shortly after.

If not for the sudden appearance of three Demons all at once, Hongji might never have noticed young Rustram’s unbelievable accomplishment, killing with little more than a touch of his blade. In the days since, Hongji made the time to study the young man’s skill and realized Rustram was shaping his Domain into some sort of killing tool and using his rapier to drive it into his foes to kill them from within. What shape that tool might take was impossible to discern, not without asking the young man outright, but the specifics were unimportant. It was the multitude of possibilities which amazed Hongji so, for even though he himself had pioneered this Domain shaping ability, he really only ever used it to push his foes away, so he immediately set himself to replicating young Rustram’s effect with next to no success.

Truly a dragon among men, this young Rustram Albaiev, showing all of Shi Bei just why Legate Falling Rain had placed so much faith in his seemingly unremarkable second.

War was a time for dragons to soar high into the skies, but also a time when they died before they were able to spread their wings and fly. The traitor Mao Jianghong made his presence known by launching a spear of Ice at the Fiery Star Song Qing, one which would have killed her had her younger brother not pushed her out of its path, but the Dark Giant Song Jian paid the ultimate price in order to save his sister. In her rage and grief, Song Qing’s fury knew no bounds as she soared into the skies to demand retribution from her fleeing foe. Her iconic radiant meteor hammer claimed the lives of six Demons and four Chieftains in her efforts to bring the traitor to justice, but the light dimmed and darkened as she succumbed to her wounds before she was able to claim vengeance for her younger brother. Two dragons of Central killed in one fell swoop, their deaths were but the first of many to come.

