“Breathe.” The Legate’s calming voice shook Hongji out of his panic, and he blinked as he met the young dragon’s eyes. So tired, but so kind too, not to mention calm and collected, as if everything were going perfectly to plan. “Sorry,” he said, flashing that sheepish grin once again. “I know it’s a lot to take in, but I’m here now and the Enemy is about to attack again, so I would really appreciate it if you filled me in on what’s been going on.”

“By your command, Legate,” Hongji replied, launching into a military report out of habit and instinct, for his mind was unable to do much else. The Legate was here and apparently a Divinity, but he had no army save for a ship-full of Peak Experts. And a wagon of pets, which he brought to a battlefield for reasons beyond Hongji’s comprehension. Cannonballs too, plenty of them, and Hongji split off his focus to Send word to have the Cannons brought back, but the Legate was three steps ahead. Even before Hongji finished giving his order, the first Runic Cannon rang out, and he followed the sound to find the Lord of Thunder cackling from the battlements as he reloaded his Cannon with glee.

Perhaps Shi Bei wasn’t so doomed after all. Hongji couldn’t say why he felt this way, because the Legate had not brought many reinforcements, and though it appeared as if he’d ascended to Divinity, that only brought more complications to bear. Once again, Hongji was reminded of his poem; When Gods stride out to meet in battle, Heaven and Earth are torn asunder, and Mortals can do naught but persevere.

For if the Legate were truly a Divinity, then he’d broken the Treaty with his arrival, yet this alone was not enough to strike fear into Hongji’s heart. He knew the young dragon well, had seen the full measure of the man, and he knew that Falling Rain would not so casually risk the lives of everyone in Shi Bei. There was no need to panic, no need to despair, for the Legate was here, and all would be well.

Not a logical conclusion to make, Hongji had to admit, but it was how he felt now, standing in the presence of greatness. Falling Rain had come, and the tides of war would turn against the Enemy once more.

Chapter Meme
