The Devilish Duo struck fear into the hearts of allies and enemies alike as they fought side by side atop the battlements. Tao Zi and Ping Guo fought with reckless abandon as they traded blow for blow against their Defiled foes, trusting in the hardened skin which gave them such a grotesque appearance and their Healing abilities to preserve their lives. It worked well, until it didn’t, for there was only so much their bodies could bear, but before they fell to the weight of numbers, they gave a good accounting of themselves, which was the most Hongji could ever ask. When he brought the news to their Mentor, Taiyi Zhushen broke down into tears, but he didn’t stop Healing even for a second, staying so long that his remaining Disciple, Iron Crutch Li TieGuai, had to come drag him away for a moment of rest, only to return and take up the old Healer’s duties of patching up soldiers so they could go back out to fight and die.

Whenever Baatar was too tired or injured to fight, the married Exarches Bralton and Eriene took up the slack and ran circles around Shi Bei, a two-person stampede across the battlements which left naught but bloody corpses in their wake. Truth be told, they were even more effective than Baatar, but they killed so quickly most were unable to properly take in and appreciate their Movements. Alas, one person who acknowledged their strength was none other than Bai Qi, who targeted the married couple the moment he wholly recovered from the injuries he suffered at Akanai’s hands. Exarch Eriene died instantly without even knowing she’d been attacked, while Exarch Bralton sustained a grievous wound which could have been treated had he not stayed to fight and hold Bai Qi in place. In exchange for Bralton’s life, Akanai was able to land yet another devastating blow upon the Lord of Martial Peace, and dozens of Demons, Half-Demons, and Chieftains died trying to bring him away to safety. Twice now, the Herald of the Storms had come so close to killing Bai Qi, and in truth, a lesser man would have died twice over, but the Enemy spared no expense keeping their Commander General alive, and he had yet to be seen again since.

Those were the highs and lows of Shi Bei, with many more small victories and devastating deaths to account for, but Hongji feared no one would ever learn of their valiant last stand here in the Western Province, a fact which he found far more regrettable than his impending death. All men died, this was merely fact, but he could not stomach the thought of so many heroic figures dying in obscurity. No one would know of Song Jian’s noble sacrifice, or Song Qian’s final, radiant blaze, or of how powerful Taiyi Zhushen’s body modifications had made the admittedly unremarkable Devilish Duo, or how even with his wife’s blood still hot on his face, Exarch Bralton was able to keep his priorities in line and slow Bai Qi’s retreat instead fleeing to safety or flying into a rage and dying that much sooner. Heroes and dragons, one and all, each of them deserved a place in the history of the Empire, a rousing opera, touching drama, or even simply a poignant poem written in their honour, but no. They would all die here, and no one would be left to spread word of their heroisms.

A true injustice of Heaven if there ever was one, something Hongji intended to bring up with the Mother Above.

This wasn’t to say he would go easily into the night, for he gave everything he had and fought the good fight, but as the minutes stretched into hours and his vigor gave way to exhaustion, he knew it was only a matter of time before Shi Bei was overrun. Exarch Gam, Du Min Gyu, and Nian Zu had long since stopped launching their widespread attacks, their Chi reserves dangerously low from so many days of non-stop fighting, while Baatar no longer dared fight so recklessly anymore, not after the Enemy’s last attempt to kill him included five formidable Demons and two dozen Wraiths led by none other than Mao Jianghong. Eight of his Peak Expert cadre took grievous injuries defending him, including a fearsome half-Grizzly named Ghurda who had yet to fully recover. In light of this, Baatar now fought from a more static and defensible position, as did every other remaining Peak Expert and Living Legend, for there was no room for error anymore. The defenders of Shi Bei had long since passed their breaking point, and Hongji was not willing to risk another grievous blow to morale, not now with the end so close in sight.

As he swung his sceptre and wielded his Ethereal Palm with reckless abandon, Hongji’s last thread of hope snapped as he received a report of more Peak Experts and Demons arriving from the north, including a still unverified sighting of Mataram Patriarch YuGan. The Mataram Clan had been suspiciously absent all this time, and Hongji had a sinking suspicion regarding what they’d been up to, and he could only pray that the Legate was still alive and that the Enemy wasn’t about to bring out his head mounted atop a pike. Knowing he wouldn’t have another chance to do so if that were the case, he informed the other commanders of the recent development, called on his reserves to join in on the fight, and woke the sleeping soldiers to have them stand ready despite only having rested for little over an hour. Better to die on your feet with sword in hand than to wake to cold steel across your throat, or worse, so Hongji readied to sell his life dearly as the battle entered the end phase.

So he was understandably surprised when the horns sounded and the Defiled fell back from their assault, aside from a minority that continued to fight alone in a drunken haze of blood-lust and fury.

Moving so many bodies about might sound like a simple affair, but it still took time for everyone to shuffle into place. While his forces dealt with the remaining Defiled stragglers, Hongji watched the Enemy forces for signs of a trick or scheme about to be unveiled. Perhaps Bai Qi wanted a captive audience when he brought the Legate’s head out, but he hardly seemed the type for such needless pageantry, especially at such a high cost in momentum. The minutes passed slowly, but still the withdrawal continued, and it wasn’t until a full half hour passed that he realized the Enemy was not just pulling back from the siege, but lifting it entirely to disperse west and south. Why?

Seizing this moment to rest his troops, Hongji stood vigil with the most well-rested soldiers of the bunch, alongside all the remaining General Officers who were too curious to let sleeping dogs lie. In the intervening time, Hongji bandied words about with Akanai, Baatar, Nian Zu, and Du Min Gyu about what might have brought all this about, but they were just as confused as he was, which was reassuring in some small way.

Then the ground began to shake with a rumbling roar, and shared ignorance was no longer so reassuring.

At first, only a select few noticed the subtle disturbance, and Hongji only noticed their distraction after the fact, such as how Akanai’s gaze snapped northward several seconds before Baatar and Du Min Gyu followed suit. Hongji glanced in the same direction without any idea what was going on, but when he saw the clouds of dust and shifting horizon, he was amazed by his ability to ignore the wall trembling beneath his boots. The roar grew louder at a steady and speedy pace as the distant motion grew closer and closer without growing more distinct, until suddenly the world snapped into focus and he realized what he was seeing, at which point his body began trembling as well.

Outside the walls of Shi Bei, the fearless and indomitable Defiled broke ranks and fled in all directions, the same savages who’d spent the last fifteen days throwing themselves at the wall in utter defiance of death now screaming in pure terror and dread. Dozens Demonified before his eyes, transforming into all manner of unnatural and horrific monsters of nightmare and sin, only for the unholy abominations to flee as well once the Father’s foul attentions fell away. Despite all their best efforts to get away, there were too many Defiled packed together in one place and their progress was slow and arduous at best, and Hongji saw many a tribesman trampled underfoot by his or her comrades.

And Hongji could scarcely blame them, for surging towards them from the horizon was a veritable wall of water which towered high over the city itself, a massive wave carving a furrow through the sands whilst howling in booming fury as if the Azure Sea itself had reached out from two-hundred and fifty kilometres away to swat away the Defiled threat. Most inconceivable of all was the fact that he spotted the sails of an Imperial frigate poking over the crest as it was carried along by the wave, and Hongji could only wonder just which Divinity was powerful enough to accomplish so terrifying a feat and crazed enough to violate the treaty in so audacious a manner.

“Abandon Ship!”

A familiar voice sounded out as Hongji struggled to make sense of this madness, but rather than focus on who it might be or the many figures jumping out of the ship, he could only watch in stupefied awe as the hurtling wave fell apart and missed Shi Bei’s walls by the thinnest of margins to collapse on the open sands instead. Water washed over everything in sight, a deluge which burst out in all directions and slammed into the retreating Defiled as well, but Hongji had no time to appreciate the incidental damage as it appeared as if the rising tide would soon overflow into Shi Bei as well. Thankfully, the walls held firm as the waters receded to reveal the Enemy army in complete disarray, to say nothing of the grisly scene of where the ship landed and promptly exploded into kindling, while taking a good number of Defiled along with it, but the casualties were few and far between, at least as far as he could see.

“Err... Legate Falling Rain here, requesting permission to enter Shi Bei.” The booming voice sounded out for all to hear, then fell to a mumble emanating from right next to Hongji. “Though I suppose it’s a little late for that.” Turning towards the sound of the voice, he found the Legate standing with hands behind his back in what he seemed to think was an inspiring pose, but really only made him look awkward and stilted, as if he had a stick in his ass and a crick in his neck, but was trying and failing to act natural. “…Brigadier Hongji? Earth to Brigadier Hongji? That’s your cue to respond.”

Jolted out of his stupor by instinct and habit, Hongji fell to his knees so quickly it would be a miracle if they were only bruised and not cracked, but everyone else in the city knelt alongside him, so no one heard him make a fool of himself. “This servant greets Legate Falling Rain,” he intoned, not daring to look at the young dragon anymore, for his senses warned him of danger and power absolute. Then, the sensation faded, so quickly he wondered if he’d imagined it, only to return in full force as Hongji snuck a peak at the Legate’s face and saw a tired expression of impatience and unease. “Shi Bei is yours to command.”

“All rise and as you were. Military Command will remain with Brigadier Hongji.” The Legate’s hands reached out to clasp Hongji’s which were still stuck together in a salute, but the young dragon lifted him up to his feet as easily as plucking a ripe apple from a tree. “Better get your troops ready, because I think they’re about to attack again.” Having switched to a more conversational tone, the Legate no longer felt the need to pose, though why that would be the case was baffling to the extreme, since every eye inside Shi Bei and out was watching his every move. Offering Hongji a sheepish grin, the Legate offered the faintest of shrugs alongside an apologetic grimace and said, “Sorry for scaring you. I didn’t really think that whole plan through and none of my Sendings were getting through. Truth be told, I didn’t even think this would work. At first, I just wanted to bring all the water I bound with me, because I figured I’d need it, but there was a lot more than I expected and I didn’t have anywhere to put it all. Then Lin-Lin suggested I try making a river, which was really a lot easier than it sounds. It’s like making waves in a tub, start small and build it up slowly, plus Meng Sha has that natural sea wall which really helped things along. Anyway, once I got over that initial hurdle of the first couple of kilometres, it was actually all downhill from there. Literally, meaning Central slopes ever so slightly downwards all the way to Shi Bei, which was just really, really convenient.”

The Legate was rambling, but only because he was exhausted, Hongji could see this now, and understandably so given he’d called upon a wave of water to carry him and a ship halfway across the Central Plains. In doing so, he’d created a river even wider than Shi Bei itself that stretched all the way behind him, though it would likely recede in time as the sand and sun did their respective work. Actually, it’d already been done, with the water fading away even faster than it arrived, and only then did Hongji understand what the Legate was talking about. This wasn’t actually water, but Water Chi, which in and of itself was just… unbelievable. How could any one person, even a Divinity beloved by the Heavens, have so much Chi?

Oh no. The Treaty. Did the Legate just break the Treaty to make a grand entrance? Surely not, but… oh, Mother Above…

