Delta hummed as she hit it.The room changed once more and the remnants of the forge was turned into a proper cave. Besides that, the hole Delta made of the furnace was dug even deeper into a pit of darkness and wet earth.The room felt a little wilder than before and Delta eagerly opened the new Menu.

Delta blinked once then another time.“I can…only have one troll? It takes up three slots?” she said in dismay. She had resisted the gacha guardian and turning the forge into a mine. And while Jeb was safe, all she got told was that he was fat even in terms of the System!She read on.

Oh. That was fine then. Delta could get the almost ‘buy one get one free’ deal in terms of Monster slots.She silently apologized to Jeb for calling him fat when he was just big boned and perhaps big rocked as she bought all the options.The Library would be done soon so really, it only left one direction to go. Jeb looked eager to follow the scent of ‘home’ and Delta let him.The yells of excitement were what made Delta’s day… the following smells of cooking and the odor that produced, less so…She could now see why ‘Troll Soup’ was so cheap. She hoped to God there were recipe books in that damn library because Delta was not putting up with that concoction of Jebs. It was like the Moonshine of soups.Brewed in gasoline and mixed with dead possums.She covered her nose and looked towards the last door.Still, this direction gave her the willies, and she was not sure she really wanted to go on, but this thing had attacked Sis and Nu.She wasn’t going to let that slide.“Delta team, roll out!” she ordered.She got looks of confusion and some amusement.“I find that some books lie and rolling at the right time doesn't make you immune to damage, better to run if you can!” Jack offered.“Just… go.” Delta said with a sigh.---The last pole was undented, helped along by the great return magic. He watched as the gate began to finally open after 40 years. Progress ever since that damn scaled rat had vanished. But he had sensed her.His master demanded core shards and he would supply.He turned on his steed, his dark lance glowing with the power of the Silence. He reared back as his skeleton horse glowed with the same power.The gates opened loudly and the sounds of the end came.The Captain of the Ending Light pointed his spear and the slaves and grunts he had pulled back to fix the gate joined the mass to rush through the Hall of the Last Feast and towards the depiction of the future…The End had come, and it rode on a dead steed.He charged, eyes ablaze with the power of Silence.---Ruli stood before the entrance to the second-floor boss room, covered in darts and Bob slime.She wasn’t winded but she was nervous.She had no idea why and it was pissing her off!“Open up. I don’t have time for this puzzle bullshit. I need to help Delta!” she yelled. The door didn’t answer but Ruli was sure she was being heard.“Listen to me, you childish dick of a monster. I heard from Quiss you’re some tree girl, well listen to me. I like your Mum and I want to help her. If you get in my way I will make you regret it. Don’t you take what’s happening down there seriously?” she yelled, her body bulking with power and nails turning into her clawed weapons.The door opened.“More than I care to… wild woman. Take the stairs, and if I see you without Mother Delta on the way up… I’ll make you regret it. Go now, your face pisses me off,” the woman… the actual tree woman hissed, the mist parting to show a clear path to a door that opened.That feeling of wrong grew even worse.“I’ll bring her back safe,” Ruli said and pushed on.“….Thank you,” she heard and she turned but the mist had hidden the boss’ form from sight.“Delta, can’t you just adopt more Frans? This one has issues,” she mumbled as she took the stairs two steps at a time.--Called… he was called.He felt… they all felt the danger, but being her first, Fran came to a halt.He turned to the feeling and knew someone… something deadly was coming for Mum. No…Not while he drew breath. He pointed his lance to the door and screamed in rage at the mere idea of someone treading over Mother’s core.He would crush their bones and feed them to Bacon.Fran hit the door to the boss room, and the odd feeling of wrongness… of not belonging beyond this door hit him like a truck, but without Delta, he didn’t belong anywhere, so he urged Bacon on. Fran’s eyes blazed as orange as his lance.He was her guardian… he would not fail again.Never again.
