With that in mind, make sure to hurry! Other guilds will attempt to take control of your planet by helping handle the eldritch there, often for free. It won't be free for long though once they're in charge! You can get a leg-up on other guilds by showing up on a planet quickly and establishing yourself early on.

Go get started killing the eldritch, or else someone will do it first!*

I shook my head at the sheer advertisement feel of the explanation. Overall, the bonuses, much like the last ones, were delayed once more. This gave me very little right now, though maybe the level cap increase might be useful at some point further down the line.

For the most part, the tree's usefulness came from information about how the Empire operated, along with Schema. Ownership was dictated on how many dungeons you kept cleared and suppressed. If you handled the majority of them on a world, then you got say on how that world was run.

It was a simple, succinct way of dishing stuff out. It also led to the hyper-competitive handling of eldritch. It did clear up new worlds quick, which prevented more fringe worlds from forming. On the other hand, giving this kind of power to anyone seemed short-sighted.

This was how the Empire owned several worlds. They came in, cleared out eldritch, then took over once they hit the benchmark needed for ownership. After that, the culture was suppressed, the albony were given enhanced statuses, and they were given a juicy cut of the credits. Those credits fueled the Emperor's escapades into the unknown.

I didn't really know what to think about it.

On the one hand, my exploration into far-out villages was bleak. Most of society collapsed from Schema's initial coming. His tutorial killed many of the young, elderly, and sick. In one fell swoop, planets lost lots of their amassed skills and wisdom, resulting in a dramatic loss in general productivity.

Combine that with the hordes of eldritch roaming around, and the worlds would be in chaos. A guild like the Empire was a hell of a lot better than everyone starving and being eaten, so a big guild would come in, clean shop, then rule. Hell, there could be meetings about this kind of thing between large guilds. They could slice up territories and worlds like slices of pie, each of them negotiating to stifle competition.

I lifted my palm. I was becoming one of those guilds.

With a deep sigh, I gave my cheeks a few slaps. Getting lost in my thoughts wasn't helping anybody. At least I knew the Emperor owned a Sovereign skill since he owned worlds.

Well, unless there was some other way of owning a world. It didn't seem like a common thing, however.

Refocusing, I opened my status for the final inspection. I got everything done that I could. Clicking finalize, there was a rush of energy.

The most palpable difference came from Apotheosis. I didn't gain any new concepts at once, but the skills I finetuned up to this point became second nature. I reached up a hand, casting a gravity well with quintessence. It no longer carried the same awkward clunkiness as before. The mana converted silky smooth, easier than walking.

Apotheosis also helped with my crafting, along with some of my influence skills. Those changes would take time to manifest themselves. For now, I satisfied myself with the ability to shift mana types with zero effort.

I rolled my shoulders, the physical changes meaningful but not as dramatic. I was already fearsome physically. Experiencing a rush of power was based on the comparison. The stronger I am, the more of an enhancement it takes to notice it.

I counted my blessings that it even registered. Either way, it turns out the cores, levels, and cipher marks made a difference.

The Living Multiverse(Lvl 11,000 | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden - Attributes increased by 30%)

Strength – 38,998 | Constitution – 54,728 | Endurance – 102,553

Dexterity – 20,580 | Willpower – 74,370 | Intelligence – 41,587

Charisma – 15,485 | Luck – 22,070 | Perception – 17,412

Health: 91.2 Million/91.2 Million | Health Regen: 685.4 Million/min or 11.4 Million/sec

Stamina: Infinite | Ambient Mana 3.567 Trillion

Mass: 6.11 Million Pounds(2.78 Million Kilos~)

Height: 12'8 (3.6 meters)

Damage Res - 99.12% | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 17.1 Million % | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within radius of aura.

The main difference from my last check-in was the sheer difference in my raw strength. I was over twice as strong, and that was mainly due to a few trees, the stats piling over, and my cipher encryptions for constitution. That caused a slow, gradual increase in my physical might, something I didn't notice much.

Despite the gradual increase, the impact was palpable over time. The fights on Giess also gave me plenty of mana from draining the Hybrids. That accelerated my attribute growth, and that's why my constitution was enormous now.

It still paled in comparison to my endurance, but that attribute was the cornerstone of my build. At this point. I outdid the most die-hard specialists with my attributes. Those stats drove a lot of my progress, and it explained why someone like the Emperor didn't affect me much. We were equals despite the level difference.

Getting the class would assist with my overall progression dramatically from here on out, however. The cipher channeling guaranteed some progress, but the 250 bumps from each conquered city didn't mean much anymore. In a way, I was beyond levels and stats now, and I needed ridiculous, reality-warping skills to progress.

Those thoughts went through my mind as I walked back to Torix's lair. Marching in, I raised a hand,

"So, I managed to get a lot of extra stats, but I wasn't able to fully unlock my class yet."

Torix had a few of my mana bombs, and he inspected them with a magnifying lens made of mana. The lich stared at his work as he grumbled,

"Classes are not so easily unlocked, I'm afraid."

I weighed my hands back and forth, "True, but I got to 6,800 in my Sovereign tree. I'm over 2/3rds the way there."

The necromancer shook his head, "A ten thousand point tree. By Schema, it's ridiculous." He sighed while turning to me, "It should only take a few years of dedicated practice to finish off the remaining few thousand, correct?"

I shook my head, "I need another legendary skill, and I'm good. How am I going to do that? I've got no idea. I'll just brainstorm it late-"

I gawked at my status. Torix crossed his arms,

"What is it?"

I shook my head in disbelief, "The Emperor...He's calling again for some reason."

Torix scoffed, "Oh, I'm certain the Emperor of a multi-planetary empire is just giving you several calls a day."

I shrugged, answering the call. From it, the Emperor's scarred face and imposing frame showed itself. What he lacked was his natural, effortless confidence. Exhaustion and anger smothered his face, the scars coming to life.

Before this moment, they were like little props that gave him a gruff appearance. Now they revealed a warrior's past, one that climbed mountains of corpses, and someone who already owned a Sovereign skill. I scratched the back of my head, a bit nervous.

"Uh, you ok?"

He answered with ferocity,

"No. The Empire's been attacked by the Adairs."

I took a step back, stunned to silence. Obolis seethed,

"I wish to forge an alliance with the Harbinger's Legion."
