She turned, and Ksmvr adjusted his posture to be as perfect as the little Golem’s he held. She smiled, uncertainly, but with that interest of someone willing to push all limits.
Ksmvr really hoped he wasn’t being flirted with. He was also aware of adventurer relations with clients from discussions with other adventurers like Crossbow Stan, and how this could create a net gain or unfavorable situations. He had been advised to avoid seducing anyone, and he feared if he got to that stage with Inerta, he would be physically incapable of success.
Crossbow Stan had many words of wisdom regarding where an adventurer should sheathe his sword, or how many candle wicks to light, and when to charge the dungeon. It had taken Ksmvr quite a while and Comrade Pisces’ help to figure out these were metaphors.
 
——
 
Ksmvr stayed late at Elbe. For many reasons. What had Crossbow Stan said when he decided Ksmvr was an up-and-coming lad who needed some advice?
“Ah, yes. A smart fellow always has a second crossbow quarrel ready to go.”
The Antinium stopped, by midnight, at the Testing Grounds. He stared into the empty pit. Well, almost empty.
The [Guards] were still there, but the [Skirmisher] was able to avoid their gazes quite easily. The Golems would react if he got too close, but the principal Golem was standing in the pit.
They had reinforced his dome. Colored it topaz for some reason. Given him a complete redesign.
Domehead had been a foe that pushed Ksmvr to his limits before. This time? Ksmvr saw the feet they’d added to the Golem, the war-class armor, the enhanced spells built into his body.
This was not a Testing Grounds Golem, but one which Illivere had poured its considerable technological prowess into. No unenchanted battleaxe, but one with properly deadly enchantments; a glowing Force Axe that could send foes flying. His armor had multiple enchantments written into it, and Domehead’s interior ‘brain’ of crystals shone brighter than ever.
They were still loading countless new commands into him. Not just fighting routines, guarding ones, patrol, attack, defense, counter-spy—everything.
He would be the first of a new generation of Golems. But perhaps the greatest; Femithain’s prodigal son. He would never break again if the Magus-Crafter could help it.
Yet Domehead stood so still. Ksmvr had heard Crafter Se worrying to Femithain something was wrong. He moved when they told him to, executed all commands flawlessly, and still displayed the lateral thinking; he could do what all other Golems couldn’t.
One sign of this was simply giving Golems a locomotion task they weren’t made for. Like…walk in a wavy line rather than straight. Unless explicitly programmed, Golems could not do it.
Domehead could. Yet he did not do anything when he was not ordered to. In theory, he could ‘think’, albeit limited. He just didn’t show it. In war that might change. In battle. They were going to test him out on foes, ‘train’ him.
Ksmvr watched the Golem, now nine feet of death, holding the battleaxe, the only source of bright light in the arena. The [Skirmisher] pondered his journey.
Negotiations were complete. He had wasted enough time.
Now. Now was the hour. He was sorry about Nsiia. But Ksmvr…well. She had the collar and Tiqr was far away.
The Antinium bowed his head. This next part might be unexpectedly hard. He had hoped they’d finish Domehead. But time? Alas. What had he said to Nsiia?
“For my team. What would I do?”
And of course, the answer was simple. Domehead, frozen in place, suddenly moved. The guards, watching him idly, saw the lights burn in his crystal brain. The Golem whirled, axe rising. He took a step—faltered—and backed up a step.
The Antinium leapt over the first balcony and into the seats of the arena. There were shouts and Golems came to life. A bow-wielding Golem trained a bow on him, but Ksmvr dove as shouts identified him.
“It’s the Antinium! Hold fire! Hold—”
Ksmvr landed in the arena. His boots struck the ground with a thud. The [Guards] and [Golem Artificer] on duty froze.
“It’s the Antinium! He’s in the arena with Domehead! Call the Magus-Crafter! Call—”
The Humans froze. What was Ksmvr up to? Was it a rematch? Was he testing Domehead?
Surely not. Yet as they panicked, unsure of how to remove Ksmvr without injuring him, they realized Domehead was not in danger. The huge Golem had been rebuilt. And Ksmvr had lost his enchanted weapons.
Unless…his Skill? Horrified faces looked down. Either a diplomatic incident or another tragedy. But why?
Domehead had raised its axe to shield its chest and lower half of its domed head. It remembered Ksmvr.
“You are called Domehead. Do you know me? We fought once. A regrettable accident.”
Ksmvr called out. He spread his three arms to show he was unarmed. Domehead did not lower the axe. But it did step forwards.
Danger. Ksmvr’s instincts shrilled at him. The Golem was clearly hostile. Ksmvr held up one hand higher.
“I am not here to battle you. I am not your enemy. Do you…understand me?”
He took a step forward. Instantly, Domehead swivelled left, dodging in a pattern as his axe moved, threateningly. Ksmvr halted.
Was Domehead…nervous of him? The motion was aggressive, but it was a defensive position. He turned, calmly.
“I am not here to damage you, Domehead. But I need to do something.”
“Antinium! Do not move! If you attack Domehead, we will restrain you and cannot guarantee your safety! The Magus-Crafter demands you leave the arena and then state your intentions! At once!”
Ksmvr looked up slightly. A [Guard] was aiming a crossbow at him. But he was no Crossbow Stan. Something else the old adventurer had once said to Ksmvr rang true.
“I’ve got a family, Ksmvr. A family. I can’t let ‘em down. So. A good adventurer makes all the profit they can. But they never forget who’s waiting for them.”
They were waiting for him. But would Stan’s family wait forever? Ceria had surely made provisions. But Ksmvr had never…
He looked up at Domehead. The Golem was tensed, lights flashing. Would it attack?
“Someone cares for you. You are Sentient-class. I know you are capable of thought. How much? Do you understand me?”
The Antinium was reflected in the glowing glass of the dome. Ksmvr pointed at Domehead, slowly. The Golem flinched.
“Someone rebuilt you. You have someone who will wait for you. Your…team.”
A pulsing little light lit up a tiny crystal in the side of Domehead’s brain. Ksmvr was fascinated. He could see a divergent thought in the Golem. And then the Golem slowly…nodded.
The arena was silent. The [Golem Artificer], Crafter Se herself, was tearing at her hair, almost weeping aloud, but muffling it. Ksmvr smiled.
“Yes. You understand me. Good. Everyone must have a team. Someone to protect them. Therefore…”
He took a step. Domehead fell back, but it was assessing Ksmvr. The axe came out of its guard-position, warily. Yet Ksmvr, like someone invading the den of a wild animal, refused to back up. His voice was measured. He pointed at Domehead.
“I am not here to harm you. I do not wish to. You have a purpose. So do I.”
He walked towards the edge of the arena, the very place he had come from. Then his head turned. Slowly. He addressed Domehead.
“Do not force me to destroy you.”
Domehead froze. Because, of the many things it was learning, thinking, in this moment—it was analyzing Ksmvr. And…Domehead had no real concept of truth or lies yet.
Nevertheless.
It did not think Ksmvr was lying.
 
——
 
Uproar in Illivere. The First Crafter of Elbe was shouting at him. Crafter Se was shouting at him. Femithain heard an admission of guilt, of conspiracy. But he barely heard them.
He was racing towards Ksmvr’s position on horseback, and Armsmaster Dellic and every Golem, [Soldier], and [Mage] he could muster were hot on his heels. Yet they had to keep adjusting their position because Ksmvr kept racing forwards.
He was heading back towards Dellva after setting the entire state of Elbe ablaze. Not only had he leapt into the arena, done something to Domehead, but he’d seized the Golem Horse assigned to him and was racing back without his escort.
Why? Femithain had heard mixed reports from the Testing Grounds. Crafter Se had said something about Ksmvr doing something where he’d first appeared, in one of the cells, but then she had shouted about Domehead running amok and had gone chasing after him.
Femithain’s mind could come to a few conclusions about what Ksmvr had been doing. He had been rallying support across Illivere for his team. Now he had acted.
But what had he needed to go to the Testing Grounds for? Well, Femithain suspected, but first he had to catch Ksmvr.
“Ksmvr!”
The Antinium was racing across the ground, on the back of a Golem Horse. Femithain shouted at him to stop. In response? Ksmvr just changed directions and raced around the wave of people trying to slow him.
“[Light Nets]! Slow him! [Sticky Webs]—anything!”
“But the Golem Horse!”
Femithain saw one of the [Golem Artificers] pale at the thought of damaging one of the last Golem Horses. Femithain cursed, took careful aim at Ksmvr—but the Antinium dodged the [Paralysis Bolt], swinging low on the saddle. He raised his Forceshield as he surged towards Dellva’s walls, and caught another spell.
Adventurer. Illivere had a lot of [Mages], lower-level [Warriors], and Golems. It was a powerful army, but it was an army when all was said and done, used to engagements, not chasing a single Antinium [Skirmisher] on horseback.
They did a splendid job of getting in each other’s way. And by the time Femithain realized he’d made a mistake and was racing back to the gates, Ksmvr had already leapt over the wall.
 
——
 
The Empress of Beasts was smiling when Ksmvr entered the mansion. She was sitting in his room. He looked for his possessions—she pointed to them.
“If you came to free me, you were too late, Ksmvr.”
She sat, calmly, the gold collar around her neck. Ksmvr studied her. He picked up his remaining belongings, his map, his carefully-prepared provisions, and addressed her succinctly.
“You seem calm, Nsiia.”
“I will be free one day. All my plans fall to naught. But I will be free. I will not crawl to Nerrhavia’s courts to beg Yisame. But someday, someone will break this chain.”
“The Death of Chains?”
Nsiia laughed.
“Her? I didn’t even think of that! No. I meant someone who could shatter this bond. You know who I mean. Flos Reimarch. He swore to liberate Tiqr. Well, he will have to break this with his own two hands.”
Ksmvr studied her. He nodded slowly. Yinah yowled. Ksmvr adjusted his belt, and looked out the window. Already Femithain and his guards were flooding back through the open gates.
“It is time for me to go, Nsiia.”
“Then go. Find your team, Ksmvr. I am sorry I had little to offer you.”
Bitterly, Nsiia looked up. Ksmvr bowed slightly. He and she exchanged some last words.
Then he walked out of Femithain’s mansion.
 
——
 
How much did he really know Ksmvr, after all? Femithain had no idea. The Magus-Crafter had seen his sides. From the qualities that so inspired Illivere, to the parts Nsiia had found in common. His rational, cunning mind. His childish dreams.
Now? He saw Ksmvr the Gold-rank adventurer. Ksmvr, of the Horns of Hammerad.
The Antinium was covered in light from torches and [Light] spells as he halted in the courtyard outside Femithain’s mansion. He looked around, calmly.
Golems and Illivere’s warriors surrounded him in almost equal measure. Armsmaster Dellic had his best [Soldiers] armed with shields and swords protecting the [Mages] aiming wands and staves at him, but it was the Golems who should terrify.
Femithain’s personal bodyguards, with shields and weapons. Golems with bows, capable of slinging massive arrows across vast distances.
Even the Golems that never left Illivere. Protector-Golems from older times like the Purifier.
Dellva’s Lantern-Sentries, ceramic Golems holding magical lanterns that patrolled at night stood with simple canes, batons that matched their gentlemanly—or gentlewomanly designs. Complete with splendid hats and old, fashionable garb. The paint had worn away, leaving them pale and white.
In older times, they had tricked [Rogues] and [Muggers] and proceeded to beat the hell out of them and kept the peace. In this era? They could defeat Level 30 [Warriors] who were incautious and they were tough as steel.
An army of Golems and people. Yet Ksmvr walked out into the spotlights and halted. His voice was loud. Fearless.
“I am Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad! Gold-rank adventurer of Izril!”
The people stirred. The Golems did not. Ksmvr looked around, his eyes catching the light.
“I have committed no actual crime. Your paranoia may be understandable because I have acted in strange ways. But without legal recourse, I choose to treat this gathering as a threat, which may be actionable legally, but is without actual grounds.”
Femithain saw Armsmaster Dellic glance his way. The Magus-Crafter called out.
“Ksmvr! I asked you to remain in Illivere. Your departure will endanger my nation, and as Magus-Crafter, I cannot allow that.”
“My death will endanger it further. So your army has strict orders not to kill me, Magus-Crafter. You cannot intimidate me. Furthermore…I have acquiesced with your will so long as it suited me. But you have not imprisoned me. I am an adventurer. And now, I choose to go.”
Ksmvr looked past them. If he broke free, he might well reach the gates before all but the fastest could grab him. And they did have orders not to harm him.
Femithain shouted.
“Ksmvr, we cannot allow that.”
The [Brave Skirmisher] slowly swung around. He met Femithain’s gaze, behind the two bodyguard Golems.
“You are trying to hold me against my will, Femithain? Then I will defend myself. I do not wish to. I am stating here, for the record, with you all as witnesses, that when I slaughtered you, I gave you full warning.”
The Humans and Stitch-folk started. They looked at the huge Golems, and at the single Antinium incredulously.
Femithain? Femithain felt a twinge of unease. But it was one Gold-rank, alone. He hesitated, but someone called out.
Armsmaster Dellic. The man had a sense of the moment. Of the event. He did not have a great command of words, sadly, because he chose to invoke the wrong event.
“Is it war, then, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium stared at Dellic blankly. The confident [Armsmaster] waited for a witty response. He did not get one and faltered. At last, Ksmvr chuckled. He reached for his side.
For the bag of holding. Femithain’s eyes locked on something Ksmvr seized. And the pieces connected.
