Cheindurana, the [Slayer of Fists], bowed slightly and re-fastened her head. Orjin put half the dates away—he would need to be light—and crossed his legs, meditating. Envisioning the fight. He made sure his old healing potion was still good and tucked it into his belt—not that he would use it during the battle. But he would definitely need it.
 
——
 
Salii and Pomle’s warriors, and the refugees—practically everyone—watched the bout. It was rare to see two masters go at it this fiercely, and you could learn a lot. If you could even tell what was happening.
Some of it was obvious. When Orjin went for a low, practically nose-to-the-ground tackle into an arm lock, Iratze and new [Warriors] could tell that Chein barely got out of it. If he grabbed her, a non-grappling expert, she would be in trouble. Orjin wasn’t Salthorn, but he had trained in many styles.
Her [Perfect Dodge] was gone. And there were only a set number of Skills you could use in a limited time window. So it wasn’t as ‘flashy’ as the Wrath of Winds’ match and that idiotic cult. Rather, it was fast and brutal.
Orjin ate eight punches as Chein backed up. She had a natural [Flash Step] equivalent. He knew some of the crowd were gasping; he tuned them out, but they didn’t understand how the powerful, heavy punches that were visibly distorting his chest, face, arms as he tried to block them were even landing.
Chein was punching, but she’d miss one punch as he ducked left—and Orjin would clearly be uppercut. And not by a light punch, either. [Enhanced Strength] and steel gauntlets meant she was hitting him so hard many people would have passed out already.
The ninth punch Orjin saw, and he dodged Chein’s physical jab—and her second blow, which had been almost invisible the first time it landed. Iratze didn’t see what Orjin had just dodged; Salii was squinting.
“Can you see it, Miss Salii?”
The Drake [Secretary] frowned. She eyed Chein.
“…Nope. Well, sort of, but it’s too fast.”
 
——
 
[Shadowhook Punch].
Orjin had run into a warrior who had advanced to a next stage of combat—beyond what you could merely see. The punches were like an aura attack. Or…
He didn’t have time to think about it. A punch hit his arm and hurt far more than it should have. He had [Steel Skin], and it cut through his Skill.
Hard to see—invisible if you couldn’t sense auras at all—and hard to block. Chein’s furious punches had once, apparently, killed a Hydra by sheer punishing damage on her home continent. Orjin ate another punch when he tried to get close. He couldn’t lock her down in a grappling match; if she was new to Pomle, maybe. Whenever he tried now, Chein used one of her higher-level Skills.
[Omnidirectional Blow] was not fun to get to the back of your head. Orjin leapt back, and decided he couldn’t risk it dragging out. He got serious, in a way he hadn’t needed to for a while.
The Dullahan [Slayer] backed up as she saw Orjin’s center of gravity lower. But he didn’t even give her a second to react; only a fool needed to prepare their best Skills.
And only a fool spoke them out loud.
[Dulav-ra: Tetrad of the Solar Aura]. 
 
——
 
It was so fast Salii barely saw it. She just saw a flash, smelled the burning steel, heard Chein’s shout of pain and then Orjin was bending over her.
She saw the holes in Chein’s armor from two of the blows, and Xil explained the rest to some of his apprentices and the other warriors.
“Four blows. Fire. Aura strikes—or whatever you want to call them. Energy-infused punches. Her armor Skill was worthless against them. Good thing he avoided her vitals; see?”
Orjin had damaged Chein’s armor, and the blushing Dullahan was covering the gaps. He hadn’t hurt her badly, but he could have, so it was the deciding blow.
Salii was fascinated. However, she had more insight than some of the others. She happened to know that Dulav-ra, the Skill that had popped up in her [Appraisal]-vision, was Orjin’s personal martial art.
A high-level Skill for a high-level fight. Orjin sat, panting, discussing the match with Chein. Amicably; she was annoyed that she’d lost and her armor-body had been damaged, but they were both agreeing to train together later.
“I am injured. Any further matches must wait at least two days.”
Orjin informed the crowd. His position of Strongest would remain until someone could beat him at full-strength. Even so…his gaze found Salii. She waved, smiling. Orjin glowered.
“Salii. I wish to speak to you after this.”
 
——
 
“I got you to do something at last. I’ve won! I’ve won!”
Salii was…surprisingly childish in victory. She did a little victory dance as Orjin held some chilled stones in a bag to the back of his head. He still smarted from the match, and his glare spoke volumes.
“I did not tell you to do anything because the Strongest should not be a ruler, Salii. I am unhappy you are forcing me to take an active role.”
“Pshaw. That’s what you think. A leader doesn’t lead? Orjin, that’s stupid. Pomle must have direction.”
“Why must it change at all, Salii?”
The Drake stopped wagging her tail around and turned to face him.
“Because it can be better, Orjin. As Pomle, the training ground for [Martial Artists], not just ‘better’ in a nebulous sense. I came here to do just that, to test myself as a [Secretary] against the most stubborn idiots in this entire continent of sand.”
At least she was honest about it. That was the same answer she’d given him when they’d met and he had become the newest Strongest. Orjin sighed.
“Pomle is becoming too comfortable. Can you fix it?”
“Of course.”
He blinked. With such an open-ended statement even he had expected Salii to ask questions. But the Drake was already striding about her orderly house, laying out documents for him. For him to sign. His eyes narrowed as Salii explained.
“I have an idea to make them see I can be a benefit. Pomle wants hard? We can give them hard. I’ve been speaking to Iratze and his group. Very interesting Humans, and I don’t mean as a species. You should talk to them too. They have a secret but I’ve been too busy to ferret it out.”
“They use a strange martial art. Elegant. Not adapted for Skills at all, though. What is…this, Salii?”
She rolled her eyes and smirked at him as Orjin stared at the illustration and her tidy notes.
“Did you really think I didn’t know Salthorn was coming back to shout at me?”
Orjin’s head snapped up. He met her dancing gaze.
“You were waiting for them to complain.”
“Cause and effect is sometimes better than preemptive efforts. Rather, in some situations it is better to build trust by proving you can back up your claims. In other cases? Stop a fire before it starts. But I was also saving up gold.”
The [Secretary] wagged a claw at Orjin. He sat back.
“Hm. I like this one.”
Salii eyed her illustration and rolled her eyes.
“…Of course you do. We can do them all.”
“This is your plan for a new Pomle? Why, Salii?”
The [Secretary] pursed her lips.
“Didn’t you hear? So I can level. Because I think [Martial Artists] of an even higher level are fascinating. The other nations are already scared of you. Imagine if the average level around here rose by 10? By even 5? I spent four years here, Orjin, proving I could survive so the [Martial Artists] respected me. Learning how Pomle worked. Figuring out how to do double-entry bookkeeping for an entire nation on half a sheet of parchment!”
“Because you love Pomle so much?”
Salii laughed. Orjin himself chuckled; even he, a lifelong inhabitant of Pomle, would never claim it was anything but rugged.
The Drake caught her breath.
“I really meant it, Orjin. I have to do it here. Here or something almost as challenging or I’ll never level up again. [Hour of the Secretary]. Have you ever heard of it?”
Orjin’s ears perked up. He had little interest in the many things Salii did, but a Skill? He shook his head. She elaborated as she found some tea and poured him a cup.
“It’s a famous Skill among my class. A Level 50 capstone Skill. I’ve heard you can get it as low as Level 40, and there are numerous applications. I know someone who can use eighteen minutes of it. Free time, to organize, plan, even on a battlefield.”
“A powerful Skill.”
Orjin didn’t whistle or sound amazed. He had known more impressive, but neither did he take it anything less than seriously. He just imagined how it would work, the ramifications in a battle. Even he could use it well if he observed a foe…
Salii’s next words made him nearly crack the delicate little cup.
“My Level 50 Skill was different.”
The ‘Strongest’ of Pomle glanced up. Salii had her back to him. She glanced over her shoulder.
“Throw the cup at me?”
Orjin did. Gently; he was fairly sure he could hit Salii, whatever she wanted to show off or not. The [Secretary] spun, and her clipboard hit the cup. It bounced back at Orjin, nearly twice as fast.
He actually caught most of the tea back with it. It was the same trick she’d done when he’d fought the Shame of the Wind or whatever that fool had been. He’d thought it had been a fairly good defensive skill for a [Secretary], but now he realized it had a bit more power than he’d thought.
“[Spiritguard Deflection]. I could probably block one of Chein’s punches. Just one, mind you. But it recharges pretty fast and it works with my clipboard.”
Orjin was impressed. Also—very confused.
“That is an…exceptionally poor Level 50 Skill. Even for a [Secretary].”
Salii snorted.
“That’s not the Skill. [On The Job Training For Services Rendered].”
“…That’s a lot of words.”
Orjin was trying to figure out what it meant. Then his eyes snapped together. Did she mean…?
Salii winked at him.
“I earned one free Skill from my work here already. Two Skills from my previous job. Pomle has to be a success or I won’t ever learn [Aeriform Punch]. Or your fire Skill. I’d quite like that. Imagine dealing with someone demanding an appointment with that?”
She smiled beatifically at the thought. Orjin was just stunned. Free Skills?
“You didn’t level up to gain them?”
“Nope! There’s a separate notification. Skill awarded. Like I said, Orjin—powerful Skills. I came here to get stronger. And what better nation, I thought, than this one? Mind you, if I’d known the King of Destruction would wake up, I might have gone to him.”
Salii sighed. Orjin had a lot to process, but his first thought was that this was manifestly unfair. The [Secretary] just chortled as she poured herself a cup of tea.
“Orjin, I took a small company in the Walled City of Salazsar from actual bankruptcy—that’s a Drake term for having no money—to being one of the most competitive companies in the entire Walled City. Although they just had to squander it by losing all their good [Miners]…will you let me work now? I promise you—you won’t have to abandon your training. But I have big plans for Pomle.”
He looked at her. At last, the Strongest of Pomle sighed, and held out a hand. He shook her claw.
“As you wish…Strongest of Pomle. I’ve been defeated. I’ll tell them to challenge you tomorrow.”
Salii’s face went blank. Then worried. Then she saw Orjin smiling. She laughed as he chuckled to himself. They had an accord.
And that was two weeks ago.
 
——
 
Orjin stared at the new feature of Pomle that Salii had put into motion. Duunab, the [Geomancer] who had fled Tiqr, rubbed his hands together with extreme pride.
Salthorn, Xil, and all the [Martial Artists] had gathered when it had first begun construction. They had been turned away. Now? With the opening of the new part of Pomle?
Salii was smug as could be.
“Geomancers. Best class in magic. Don’t argue with me.”
Duunab bowed in her direction. Orjin had to admit, Salii might have been right. It had been a stroke of fortune a Level 24 [Geomancer] with extensive rock-shaping proficiency had landed in Pomle. However, as Salii pointed out, a single [Geomancer] still labored to do any large-scale projects.
Her Skills and the power of lots of money and organization had provided for more experts, including [Miners] among the refugees, [Builders], and simple paid labor to move dirt and stone into place to help this part of Pomle happen.
The canyon around Pomle would expand in time. Salii had shown Orjin a plan to change the geography to be three times as large. However, this first installment was simple, and again, based off of something Iratze had suggested.
The others had called it ridiculous, too much like stories, or as one of them had whispered, ‘anime’. Orjin had no idea what that meant.
“Rock spires. Fifty feet high, narrow. You fall, you die. Or learn how to fall. Here’s a cave with a [Darkness] spell cast on it. It’s a lot wider than you think. We probably need to make sure people know how many people there are inside. And this is going to be where we get an [Aeromancer].”
Salii was leading the tour group around. The first area consisted of vertical rock spires—as well as poles of wood or metal, suspended high off the ground. Although…there was no helpful body of water at the ground. Salii had an option on [Featherfalling], but in deference to Salthorn’s complaints, you’d have to buy or procure your safety net.
There was a huge underground cave for blind fighting, and Salii had even installed tightropes and rope bridges across Pomle’s canyons, to provide alternate places to train. However, that was only the start.
She was showing Pomle’s warriors the huge, sandy expanse outside of Pomle. Salii was excitedly talking to Salthorn.
“Why an [Air Mage]?”
“Well, it’ll be an expensive enchantment, but I hope we can make one we don’t have to upkeep. It’ll blow sand.”
“…Just that?”
“Of course. A natural sandstorm, oh, thirty miles wide? Anyone who wants to train in that, be my guest. And if we really get enough magic and a power source or natural ley-line, we’ll have a [Gravity Mage] set up a spell. Apparently that’s…how some martial artists train?”
Salii glanced at Orjin, who shrugged. It was conceivable, but—both looked at Raul, who slapped his forehead.
“Which of you told them about that? We don’t do that! If it doesn’t work, you morons—”
“What do you think, Master Salthorn?”
“It’s…different. You have to choose to train there, but I’ll admit, you can experience things we couldn’t before. Not bad.”
The Selphid was grudging. She turned to Orjin and Xil.
“The problem is, it’s still something you can choose. Part of levelling is not having a choice.”
“We’ll have to make up for it with diversity, then. Harder training. If the Strongest is for it…is there more than just terrain, Orjin?”
