Ksmvr looked at her, and almost smiled.
“I have prepared for that since our first great victory, Empress Nsiia. I have earned an equal fourth share in income and other dividends from my team, despite my rookie status and lower level. I have invested all income at the Merchant’s Guild. I have also begun to secure land in the form of two trees. I intend to expand that until I have a permanent home, and enough monetary reserves to provide food and security to my team in our old age.”
She looked at him like her heart was breaking twice. Ksmvr did not understand. Didn’t she see how well-prepared he was?
“And that is all you desire? To live with your team? To see them alive and happy until you all pass away of old age?”
“I will find a Potion of Reverse Aging before then.”
She almost laughed. Almost. But then she took his arm, with a strong grip.
“Such a good child. But nothing. Nothing for yourself?”
The Antinium hesitated. He shuffled his feet. There was nothing in that image for him. At last, he muttered.
“…Perhaps a horse and cats. And a dog. For companionship, which is good in retirement. If my team wishes them.”
“Ksmvr. Where are your wants and dreams? What of you?”
She looked at the Antinium. Ksmvr hated that question, just like he didn’t like her and Femithain pointing out his flaw in thinking only of his team. At last, he whispered.
“Why must I care for myself more than something I love so much?”
She sat back on her heels and looked at him. Nsiia shook her head.
“For you, Ksmvr. Your team. For me, my empire. In that we are alike. My little schemes do nothing. If I could, I would go to them alone. I cannot flee; not alone. But you?”
Her eyes lit on Ksmvr’s face.
“We are alike.”
The [Brave Skirmisher] met Nsiia’s gaze.
“I think we are. I will accept that you love your nation as much as I, my team.”
“Then…”
The Antinium stood there only a second. Yinah rubbed at his legs, but he did not bend down to scratch her ears.
“I am sorry, Empress of Beasts. It is simply not advantageous to help you. You and I know that.”
He turned his back and marched out of the room. Nsiia sighed and bowed her head. Because, of course—they both knew he was right.
 
——
 
First he was the adventurer. The stranger. The opportunity, the chance…now he was a child. In a way, the more she understood, the harder it was to make a plan around him because she felt for this boy.
And he was a boy. In a way, he had a dream and ambitions so pure, so fragile, it reminded her of a man who had once stopped in her empire with a dream. If she wept after he went, it was not just because another plan fell through. It was because she feared the day something shattered that dream.
Yet that was half of what mattered. Because if it was hard for her…
Magus-Crafter Femithain lowered the bead with fingers that shook. And they did not shake often, for he worked in such delicate ways in his craft. Even so. He had expected to hear some plot, and he had steeled his heart against her grief that happened every night. But that?
He had not expected that. It made him like Nsiia more, and he did, despite what she had done.
It made the rest harder. Femithain closed his eyes and pressed his fingers to the bridge of his nose. Then he replaced his glasses and looked down at three missives.
An ultimatum from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. A threat from Savere. One certainly came from the Siren; the other from Nerrhavia’s royal palace with the royal seal, so it mattered little if it were Yisame or simply the will of the crown.
The last? An auction list and a sum, already paid. A name.
Pisces Jealnet.
Femithain did not often resent the duties of his position. Difficult choices arose in governing his nation, but often between how best to improve, to refine. To make sure the gears did not crush citizens like sand as they were oiled.
But these were foreign affairs, and their choices were cruel. His fingers twitched again.
Cruel indeed.
 
——
 
It had nothing to do with him. As he had said, it was not his affair and there was no gain for his team.
Pisces mattered. That he was a slave of Roshal? Ksmvr received the news in the morning and thought about it. Roshal, a world power, denied any arguments that would lead to releasing Pisces.
Therefore. Ksmvr asked to visit Elbe that morning. It was one of two changes. Magus-Crafter Femithain assented, of course. He presented Nsiia with another ultimatum then.
“A collar. You intend to make a [Slave] out of me, Femithain.”
The [Empress of Beast]’s voice was flat. Femithain did not meet her eyes.
“You are not a [Slave]. But Nerrhavia’s Fallen has seen how free you are for a prisoner.”
This was true in technicality. She would not be a [Slave].
But it was a collar. A gilded one. A…[Slave]’s collar. It had come from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Femithain gestured to it as it lay on his desk.
“They do not trust you to remain an amiable prisoner, Nsiia. Your people lie in the steppes. An army led by your [General]. You, with your Skills, could well escape.”
Nsiia’s eyes flickered. She could not deny it without lying to Femithian. All she said was…
“You do not have to do this, Femithain.”
“It is only a collar, Nsiia. It will not restrict your Skills—only detect your location. If you leave Illivere, it will paralyze you. I hope you do not. That would lead to—”
Her hand struck his desk like thunder. Everything went flying and Dellic rushed in, sword drawn. Nsiia had crushed the desk.
“It is a collar and you know it! Look how luxurious they made it, Femithain. It even has Nerrhavia Fallen’s sigil!”
She pointed at the gold and jewels.
“So the world knows who truly owns me. No wonder they are content to let me live here! I will never take it off. You don’t have the key.”
Ksmvr, listening to the loud argument while pretending to still be in his rooms, heard Femithain’s quiet reply.
“I do not. It will not be removed. I do not believe…I could. Not without a great artifact. Nor will I try. You knew you were a prisoner, Nsiia. You had to make a statement for all to see on the scrying orb.”
Silence. The Magus-Crafter went on.
“Nsiia. You will not be taken to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But the royal palace will not accept anything but this, and this is the least of what they demanded.”
“It will never come off. Could you not have asked for cuffs? I would have removed my hand.”
“I know. Nsiia. Do not—”
The [Empress of Beasts] howled like the very kingdom that had fallen. Ksmvr did not put his hands over his earholes then. He only did after the shouting had ended, Femithain’s battle with Nsiia, the Golems and other guards had brought her down as she tried to flee the city.
They dragged her back, and the sound she made then as they forced the collar over her was a howl of despair. A weeping cry for Tiqr as hope died.
Somewhere, the Siren of Savere laughed to see it. All Ksmvr knew was that he sat in his rooms as Yinah howled, hands over his ears, the last trying to pet her as she bit his hand.
Nothing to do with him.
Nothing…
 
——
 
Nsiia did not journey to Elbe, in the days afterwards. Or the other states. Ksmvr tried desperately to get Femithain to petition Roshal, to find legal recourse, but he received news of Pisces’ auctioning as he toured the states, trying to win over friends.
She did not spar with him. She sat, light gone from her eyes, fingers around the collar. She had tried to break it, of course.
[Elephant’s Strength]. The might of the [Empress of Beasts], tools stolen from Femithain’s workshop—all had failed. Nerrhavia had put a final collar on the Empress of Tiqr that could not be removed unless they had the key.
Both Ksmvr and Femithain did not speak of her. Ksmvr did not know what to say. He could think of many things to say to Femithain, and nearly did. But he considered, when he looked at the Magus-Crafter’s expression, that Femithain was already hearing them.
Good.
 
——
 
It was the second visit to Elbe. This time without Femithain. Ksmvr had done the big dinner with the First Crafter and while he had been invited to her residence again—mostly to discuss a new Hammera from one who had beaten the Golem—he did not have the Magus-Crafter.
Ksmvr had been here a week. A week. But he was still under a bounty from Roshal of his own, and he had been trying to help Pisces via Femithain.
The Magus-Crafter had tried to bid on Pisces, but had been forced out of the auction in the first ten minutes. Rich he might be—it was nothing compared to the Naga.
The Antinium had delayed forcing the issue because he was still working on Illivere. He had things to do.
The angry crowd at the Testing Grounds had shouted at him, despite no Testings going on. Domehead was still under repair, but Femithain had said he’d be on his feet any day now. Ksmvr decided to postpone any visits there.
Nevertheless, there was still a commotion following the Antinium. As he shut himself in the dark room, he stood quite still. The intelligence inside the room was amused.
“So how does an Antinium of Rhir come here? I cannot imagine the First Crafter of Elbe was so careless. I have heard of you, Ksmvr of Izril.”
The [Skirmisher] slowly rotated. He turned from the door where a furious argument was emanating from. And there it was. She was?
A Golem’s head, lying on a pedestal. The great secret of Elbe. The terrifying, smiling…Oracle of Elbe.
He said nothing. The Oracle looked at him. She, who had plagued countless First Crafters and the Magus-Crafters of generations, a relic from ages past, laughed softly.
“Are you surprised, Antinium? Come closer. Do you wish…to know something? Ask. Perhaps I will answer.”
But what truths might a Golem this old tell? What false answers, or half-truths, or worse, simple facts that could destroy nations? Ksmvr made no move.
“I am content to wait here, Oracle of Elbe.”
The Golem’s head paused. The voice was steady. Did the Antinium not find her disturbing?
“Really? Then you surely have a question if you have sought me out.”
She smiled. Ksmvr checked the door. Then he pulled something out of his belt pouch. The Oracle hesitated. Was that…an hourglass? Ksmvr put it on the floor.
“No. I am just here to wait out the duration of this hourglass. By my calculations, seven more minutes should be appropriate.”
The Golem blinked. She hesitated.
“…You don’t have a question for me?”
Ksmvr glanced at her.
“As I understand it, you are a malignant Golem with dubious information sources dating back to the old Golem empire. Any information you give me is highly suspect. However, the prestige of having spoken to you is quite considerable, especially if I intimate that I have learned something. I am content to stand here, thank you.”
He folded his arms. Then reached into his bag of holding and took out an orange. He began to peel it. The Oracle of Elbe’s mouth moved.
“Prestige…? You can’t do that. You must have some question. You’re an adventurer. Don’t you want to know where buried treasure is? I can tell you a secret of golem-making.”
Ksmvr popped the first orange slice into his mouth and nodded, clacking his mandibles happily.
“Highly suspect. If you had not bartered away all useful information, Oracle of Elbe, I would still doubt your sympathy towards any member of Illivere. I will accept that as an Antinium and unbiased outsider, I may be worthy of some sympathy. In which case you will furnish it to me without pretense. That you did not the instant I entered this room means you are a manipulator. If you have something to tell me, I will listen, but any attempts to obfuscate are pointless as I do not care and my objectives are already accomplished in merely entering the room.”
The logical, carefully-reasoned statement was Ksmvr’s attempts to win more favor among Illivere’s ruling class. The Oracle opened her mouth, glaring mightily, and Ksmvr interrupted her.
“Also, if you attempt to deny or even tell the truth regarding my actions here, no one will believe you given your reputation as a liar. So, by attempting to disparage me to the First Crafter of Elbe or those who follow after, you only help me no matter what you say, if only nothing.”
He chewed down another orange slice. The Oracle of Elbe opened and closed her mouth, clearly trying to work out the best way to hamper him given his line of thought. In the end, she snapped.
“Get out and don’t come back.”
Ksmvr checked the hourglass.
“In three more minutes. Thank you for your time.”
 
——
 
“I cannot deny the fact that a powerful Gold-rank team willing to excavate in the name of Illivere is a…powerful allure. You have many qualities of Golems yourself, Adventurer Ksmvr.”
“Thank you, First Crafter of Elbe.”
“Please. Call me…Inerta. We are certainly more than acquaintances, aren’t we?”
Ksmvr nodded. The woman with Golem-arms and he were in private discussion. She was dithering.
“It is just that…Roshal? A dangerous foe to irritate.”
“Mercenaries are easily deniable.”
The First Crafter bit her lip.
“So they are. So they are. It is an intriguing offer, Ksmvr. But if it does come back to Illivere—”
“I remind you, First Crafter, that Magus-Crafter Femithain himself produced Domehead perhaps as a result of his participation in the Tiqr war. He risked his life, and the levels may have resulted in the creation of a Sentience-class Golem. It follows that risk is necessary for progress. Logically.”
“Logically. Yes. So fascinating. Are all Antinium like you?”
The First Crafter flitted around her room full of schematics and designs for Golems. She truly was a [Golem Artificer] as much as a ruler. He considered his response and wondered if he was being flirted with.
The First Crafters and other powerful Crafters of Illivere found Ksmvr fascinating, but they were frustratingly hard to commit to any serious course of action. He had only today to finish his plans. So, Ksmvr rose, and delicately took a miniature Golem, half-made. He held it as he stood next to Inerta, looking at a telling tapestry in her personal rooms.
A Truestone Golem, Cognita, perhaps, idly posing upon a throne while people of various species performed Golem-like tasks. It looked…almost identical to sketches of the Truestone Golem at Wistram that Ceria had shown him.
But Ksmvr didn’t recall the haughty, bored expression on Cognita’s face. He glanced at Inerta. Telling indeed. She must have commissioned an artist to create this scene; he could not imagine it was drawn from life.
“The Antinium have many qualities I find in common with Golems. Perhaps this is a strength the Hives and Illivere share. I find myself impelled to press my case, First Crafter. I hope the strength of my arguments will sway you.”
