Ksmvr, the survivor of the Village of the Dead, had turned up here with only his gear. He had no objects beyond a traditional adventurer’s gear. But surely, given all the Horns had done…
They had all seen how the Horns went into the center. For what? Glory? No. Treasure. Femithain had been there, with Nsiia, and he had not believed Ksmvr had left empty-handed.
He had not believed it, in truth. But he had held his tongue because Femithain was not a [Thief]. He had wondered how Ksmvr would have hid such a priceless artifact, though. Now…he knew.
The Testing Grounds. It had occurred to Femithain that Ksmvr had appeared in one of the cells. Before he left, if he thought he might lose what he carried, if he was afraid…maybe he had buried something? Rather than even risk it in battle? That his team might recover it, even if he died.
But what had he hidden? If he had not unveiled it, even if he trusted Femithain and Nsiia, it had to be something valuable. So valuable Ksmvr would only recover it now, fearing [Thieves] or it simply being seized.
Slowly, slowly, the Antinium called out to Armsmaster Dellic.
“War, Armsmaster? You cannot survive my war.”
He unveiled the thing he had taken from the Village of the Dead and the people froze. Even the Golems paused.
In the chaos of the flight from the Putrid One’s greatest servant, what would you grab? A spellbook? Rings? A scroll? Whatever you could lay your hands on? A circlet?
The object rose in Ksmvr’s hand. Femithain stared, uncomprehendingly, as the magic began to burn his eyes behind the spectacles. Dellic turned pale.
In the last minute of the great [Paladin]’s life, as she faced down her death, she had not reached for her weapon. Mainly because someone had run off with it.
The [Paladin]’s sword burned the instant it met the air. Ksmvr remembered the moment. The Dullahan woman had turned and grinned at him.
“Take it.”
The radiance hurt the eyes of all who saw it. Except his. A terrifying glow. A weapon from a different era.
The death of the Putrid One. A…gift.
“Stand aside or perish. This blade was meant to slay monsters, not you.”
The people and Golems both fell aside. Ksmvr walked forwards. He strode past Femithain, then stopped. Came back.
“My thanks, Magus-Crafter. But from here on out, my team is my goal. If you stand in my way, we are enemies. Please remember that. I know you have a good memory. I will only go to the border with the horse.”
Then he leapt away, sword glowing in the night. Femithain stood, speechless, as the Gold-rank adventurer departed the city.
 
——
 
Ksmvr raced over sand with the Golem Horse, knowing that behind him lay chaos. He had almost debated leaving the sword where it was. It was too grand for him. Yvlon deserved it, or Pisces, perhaps.
He would be pursued, but his enemy was Roshal. He needed the blade.
The Antinium was headed west, on a direct course after Pisces. He had thought about Yvlon—but Pisces was in the most danger if he was right. Ksmvr had heard Roshal was a…bad place.
To the west lay Tiqr. To the southwest, Savere, along the coast. Further still, and his target, the caravan where Pisces was held captive. So it made sense Ksmvr’s movements could be anticipated in some ways. Anyone heading to Tiqr or Roshal would take the same path.
“…Nevertheless. I am a bit displeased.”
The Antinium slid from the back of his Golem Horse. The glowing-eyed, ceramic beast was not comfortable to ride. Ksmvr would move fast on his feet, anyways. He let it trot back the way it had come.
Illivere probably had ways to recall it, anyways. Then the [Skirmisher] turned.
A panting mare let a figure slide to the ground. Then Ksmvr heard a meow. He stared accusingly at Nsiia of Tiqr.
“Why did you bring her?”
“She came along. I thought you’d come this way.”
The [Empress of Beasts] returned Ksmvr’s glare. The [Skirmisher] saw her eyes lock onto his sword. She stared at it, even though she had already seen it.
“I thought you said that you would not aid me, Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad.”
She still looked confused. Ksmvr huffed.
“…I hoped you would cause sufficient distraction for me to make my escape. I did not anticipate us taking the exact same escape route. You will go that way, and I will go that way. I do not need to be caught up in your affairs.”
He pointed northwest, while he took the road. Nsiia didn’t budge, so Ksvmr flapped all three hands.
“Shoo. Shoo.”
Yinah leapt down to nuzzle his leg. Ksmvr bent to scratch her behind the ears. Nsiia studied him.
“You didn’t explain fully why, at the time.”
She touched her throat. The collar was gone. It could have held a lesser Djinni, but the sword had sliced through it, of course. Ksmvr admired the blade. Not silver. Actually, goldish, except for the edge. It had a dark stain, even now. The Putrid One’s blood? He had managed to get it to stop shining so brightly.
He glanced up. Nsiia was waiting. After a moment, Ksmvr straightened. His reply was simple and easy.
“I thought of my friend, Pisces, wearing chains. I found it abhorrent and applied the same logic to you.”
He began to walk past Nsiia. She waited, but that was all there really was to it. Why did he free her? Why…?
 
——
 
“Orjin. Orjin.”
It was the same voice. That was not surprising. The fact that it was the same tone was surprising. Just like every other time.
Not worried, just a bit vexed. A bit annoyed. Orjin tuned out the shouting. The shattered armor. The people being picked up.
The others were watching. From Salthorn to Xil. Some looked disturbed. Others, calm. Others didn’t even care.
Salii, the [Secretary] of Pomle, looked at the Strongest. Orjin calmly snapped the last binding on the leg. The [Slaves] looked at him.
“Why did you do it, Orjin? You didn’t give me any warning.”
Her tone was level. The Strongest looked at the Drake.
“For all this time, you’ve asked me what I wanted. What I would do, what I willed. I never told you anything because I never wanted anything. I was happy with some changes. Not with the others. I didn’t inform you about this because I’ve always done as I thought I should.”
He looked at the fleeing Nerrhavia’s Fallen group, and the people whom he had freed. Salii tilted her head, smiling.
“Can you explain it to me, again? I think I know.”
Orjin exhaled into the night air and shrugged, as if he had done nothing out of the ordinary.
“It offended my sensibilities. That is all.”
 
——
 
It was the same kind of answer, said two ways. The why was easy. The how was pretty easy too if you had a magic sword.
Ksmvr began jogging off. Nsiia followed him, scooping Yinah up as the mare groaned and plodded after them.
“Go away. I am trying to rescue my team.”
“What if we went together? Femithain will conflate the two of us. You freed me.”
“…No I didn’t. Yinah freed you.”
She laughed. Ksmvr sighed, but he didn’t scare her off. And the word spread. An adventurer had freed the Empress of Beasts. A foreigner from distant lands with a magic sword.
It was going to cause a lot of trouble. Ksmvr…didn’t really care. Someone had once said there were consequences for actions and that was true. It might be war and consequences. So what?
They’d have to catch him, first. He began running, and the [Empress of Beasts] leapt into the saddle. A cat yowled as the two began to race over the ground, to what really mattered.
They only slowed when they realized they were being pursued. Ksmvr looked back. He was sure he’d established sufficient dominance this time! Moreover, their breakneck speed had outdistanced anyone but someone on a Golem Horse of their own.
Or…someone relentless enough to run the entire way here. But how had it—he—known they were here? Ksmvr checked his sword. Nsiia spun.
“Is that…?”
Domehead slowed when he saw Ksmvr. He had not been expecting to see Ksmvr. Ksmvr had not been expecting to see Domehead.
Nsiia was flabbergasted. She looked at Domehead, not able to comprehend how this had happened. Ksmvr’s mandibles opened and closed.
“I told you I would destroy you if you attacked me. Is that what this is? I thought you had a…team…”
He looked up, suddenly. At the figure on horseback. The woman stared at Domehead, and Ksmvr. Even the cat caught on before she did. Then Nsiia reeled.
“But I struck him down! I…”
Domehead trotted forwards slowly. He looked at Nsiia, the lights flashing in his head. The axe was strapped to his back in its holster. He did not reach for that. Instead—he raised his hands and took a familiar fighting stance.
It floored Nsiia. She looked up at Domehead, staggered as if the Golem had punched her.
“I—me?”
A little light glowed in Domehead’s mind. Ksmvr saw tears spring to Nsiia’s eyes. She touched her chest, took in a shuddering breath.
“I—I am a fool. A terrible…friend? Mentor? A worthless woman to look up to. A betrayer. A…”
Domehead stood there, indicating he disagreed. Anyways, Pisces sometimes said that too, and Ceria. Ksmvr felt a kinship with the Golem, and tapped Nsiia on the shoulder. They had to keep moving. This was…probably going to cause more trouble.
The [Empress of Beasts] started as Ksmvr indicated the way ahead.
“You are not a terrible friend, Nsiia. Come, come. And hurry up. Not a horrible ruler. Just a bad mother.”
Then he kept running.
 
—-
 
Domehead was gone. Ksmvr was gone. Nsiia had fled.
Three disasters for the price of one. All interrelated. He saw that now. What Magus-Crafter Femithain thought, in his light-headed state, as he stumbled through his home, was how connected it all was.
Like a Golem’s circuits. One provoked the other. Had he not seen it?
Yinah was gone too. For some reason, that disturbed him most of all. He thought of the little cat, and could focus on missing her more than…
Domehead. Why had he gone? Of all of them, Crafter Se, who had slept in the arena to fix him? Armsmaster Dellic, whom Domehead had also learned from? Femithain had given Domehead life.
Yet it was Nsiia. Femithian thought he understood why. It had not just been the Magus-Crafter’s logic and Skill. Perhaps the Empress of Beasts had helped create Domehead more than he ever knew.
“Alive.”
Femithain stumbled, and nearly fell as his walk took him past his office. Not to his desk, not in the dark mansion. He had tripped over something.
A broken collar. He looked at it, and then kicked it aside. Femithain walked on, blindly.
“Alive.”
He was chuckling, laughing softly. A quiet hysteria. Understanding…something.
At last, the Magus-Crafter stopped. Not in his workshop, not in his office filled with papers and the affairs of state. These were not the places that drew him. It was just a private room, in his mansion, where Nsiia and Ksmvr had never intruded. They probably thought it was abandoned.
And how not? He knew them. They knew him. But only for a short time. Femithian himself had never entered this room for the last two years. He’d just…forgotten.
Yet it was cleaned of dust. The Magus-Crafter looked around. He had been preparing to show it to someone. It was just…a thought. Now, he knew why.
They taught Domehead how to fight. Gave him routines to protect, defend, even bow and repair himself. Dellva, Illivere, had been abuzz with dreams.
Teach him to learn. To overcome! To lead? For a Golem such as him, he would not have to be taught pre-programmed actions. He would learn. Had Crafter Se dreamed of…?
He did not know. The Magus-Crafter sat at an object in the darkness. He had wanted to take his creation here. His son.
The harp was free of dust, and the enchantments kept it tuned. Femithain plucked at the strings, hesitantly, then remembering. It was a pointless room, or had been.
You did not play music for Golems. They could not appreciate it. Femithain sat in the dark room, bleeding, though he had not been struck. Murmuring the word.
“Alive.”
He realized the irony, why the Oracle of Elbe laughed. The living were so…hard to predict. You could not control them. Femithain looked out the window.
“The day I made him, he was not mine, but yours, Nsiia. Take care of him.”
Then he rose to follow after.
