So he, dressed in the long, flowing gown of state, a curious patchwork almost resembling a quilt with every state represented on it, from symbol to motto inscribed in squares of cloth, approached Ksmvr and by extension, Empress Nsiia.
“We have prepared a small gathering and meal, Ksmvr. The First Crafter of Dellva has invited us to her residence for a meal.”
Ksmvr looked up from his play-time with the animals. He saw Nsiia glance up, though the invitation was not for her. Femithian hadn’t even looked at her.
“I will politely decline, Magus-Crafter Femithain. Has it already been…three hours? I am late.”
He stood, abruptly. Taken aback, Femithain blinked.
“I had not thought you would refuse, Adventurer Ksmvr.”
He was dismayed and didn’t hide it. Ksmvr turned, bowing slightly.
“I would not wish to offend the First Crafter of your state, Magus-Crafter. But since it is so late, I must hurry to the shops and procure another crossbow. Complete my rearmament, and then continue training.”
He had spent hours with Nsiia that morning, warming up his body after recovering from his injuries. Nsiia and Femithain glanced at him.
“You wish to train more, Ksmvr?”
The [Skirmisher] nodded calmly.
“If I must remain in Illivere, I should dedicate every hour to training for the chance of levelling up one more time before I am free to leave. I should not have spent three hours here. I shall limit my visits to only an hour, Empress Nsiia.”
“Surely you can spare the time to attend the First Crafter’s residence? It would not take…”
Femithain hesitated. He couldn’t in good conscience say it wouldn’t take less than five hours; the First Crafter had an entire evening planned. However, Ksmvr just shook his head.
“Even at the risk of offending Illivere’s people, I would rather establish a precedent for antisocial behavior that I might not attend more such dinners. I must improve myself.”
Nsiia and Femithain looked at each other. They traded barbs, but both were somehow unified in this moment.
“Ksmvr, do you not take time to relax and enjoy yourself? What if your team were here?”
Even Nsiia thought he was behaving oddly. He was Antinium, but he had done little else but prepare himself for battle by training, buying items, petitioning or arguing with Femithain that he should be allowed to leave, eating, sleeping, and petting animals.
There was more to life than that. Yet Ksmvr just shook his head as if it were obvious. Patiently, he explained.
“If my team were here, Empress Nsiia, Magus-Crafter, I would naturally accompany them to any event. Because that is a worthwhile exercise with my team.”
“But lacking them…?”
Femithain was fascinated. Ksmvr calmly responded.
“There is no point. When I am not participating in team-building exercises which contribute to our overall cohesion and friendship with one or all of my team, I prepare for our next engagement by procuring items or supplies, studying monsters or geography, or training.”
Nsiia’s eyebrows rose. Yinah gnawed on Ksmvr’s antennae and he gently lifted her off his head.
That was the most boring life she could imagine. 
“You have no hobbies, Ksmvr?”
She looked pointedly at the cat in his arms. Ksmvr shook his head, oblivious.
“I do not. Hobbies are a waste of time unless they meaningfully contribute to my team in some way, as in a class. If my team does something…”
“What if they do something pointless, like…staring at weeds?”
“Then that is clearly a worthwhile endeavor because they are doing it.”
The two Humans looked at each other again, and this time forgot all hostility for a moment. Both of them liked Ksmvr, despite their short meeting, for elements of his personality that gelled with theirs. Nsiia shook her head, dismayed.
“Ksmvr, if your team jumped off a cliff, would you do it too?”
His mandibles opened and closed and his head tilted.
“…Empress Nsiia. That statement presupposes that I had not already leapt first to secure the way.”
It was an objectively hilarious statement, but he said it so seriously that it was dismaying instead to hear. Femithain shook his head slightly.
“Adventurer Ksmvr. I myself find endless passion in solitary activities, but even without my position, I find time to socialize with my friends and partake in entertainment. A life without any kind of diversions for their own sake sounds detrimental.”
Ksmvr stiffened slightly. Had the Magus-Crafter actually angered him? He took a second to respond.
“…The fact that you cannot find complete satisfaction in the support and wellbeing of others is not my fault, Magus-Crafter. If you had a wife, or child, I would assume you would recant your statement.”
He lowered his mandibles and made a curious sound. Nsiia thought it was him trying to…sniff?
He didn’t have a nose. Femithain was tapping a finger against his wrist, not offended, just trying to respond. Nsiia decided to help him. Because Ksmvr’s words had offended her.
“Ksmvr. Your loyalty is beyond question and reproach. However, the Magus-Crafter was concerned for your wellbeing as a person. You say you will do everything for your team. Work at all hours to support them.”
“Is that not what a good teammate does?”
Nsiia smiled and nodded gently.
“It is. But no one does it all the time.”
“I do. Therefore, your statement is incorrect.”
She sighed.
“You do, Ksmvr. But…what then have you to offer your team? Do not say ‘planning’ or preparation. I mean, what do you, Ksmvr, have to offer them as a teammate? As a person? You are like a [Slave], because all you do is live for them. Or like a Golem.”
Magus-Crafter Femithain twitched. Ksmvr hesitated. He clacked his mandibles together a few times as Yinah purred triumphantly. Femithain looked at Nsiia, then silently nodded.
“Even Domehead, who was the finest of my creations, stood out because he deviated from everything we had taught him, Ksmvr. Originality, that which is unique, is prized even in Illivere as much as the perfection of craft. It is said that once, a [King of Riches] walked down a hallway set with a thousand vases, each one perfectly crafted. He paid no attention to any of them, for they were too perfect, for all each design was varied and unique. He only stopped when a butterfly landed on one, and declared that no other vase could compare in all his vaults.”
The analogy was a bit flawed in Nsiia’s mind, because, as the story went, the [King] then had a [Stasis] field cast over the butterfly, thus ensuring the art would never be despoiled.
But it had its intended effect. Ksmvr slowly put Yinah down, faced the two rulers, and eventually nodded.
“…As I do not have a logical statement I can refute you with, I shall accompany you to dinner. I am doing it unhappily, though. Not because I dislike food, but because I have been bested in verbal discourse. Most vexing.”
Nsiia laughed. Femithain glanced at her, and then seemed to sigh.
“Empress Nsiia. Would you care to accompany us to the First Crafter’s gathering? She did invite you.”
The [Empress of Beasts]’ eyebrows rose. She smiled and accepted.
 
——
 
It was a strange gathering at the First Crafter’s domain. The First Crafter of Dellva, unlike the Magus-Crafter, Femithain, could be in her position far longer. Femithain was somewhat rare in his long tenure, but the First Crafter’s residence was still grander than his essentially glorified work office.
Illivere was not as arid as some places, but still had that dry quality in the air. Not so within the First Crafter’s residence. As soon as they passed through the enchanted archway, Ksmvr felt the air moisturize quite pleasantly and grow cold.
“Ah, atmospheric enchantments. Quite practical, if it does not cost too much mana.”
“Well observed. So this is the Antinium who people say is more like a Golem? Your Majesty, I welcome you to the halls of Dellva. I am First Crafter Leire of Dellva. Well met, Magus-Crafter.”
The First Crafter, Leire, was old. Old, as in, it would have been strange not to mention that first of all. Old, as in, she had passed over a hundred and thirty years and still, the Human woman looked lively enough.
Not that she walked anymore. She sat, cross-legged, as a pair of Golems lifted the enchanted dais to head-height. Femithain rarely saw her move. He bowed deeply. Even Nsiia offered Leire a slight inclination of the head.
“We stand upon a leyline of power, Adventurer Ksmvr of the Antinium. It allows many magical things to be produced or kept up. Not least…the very reason age touches me less. Do you know what I rest on?”
Ksmvr peered down at the strange dais. It was not stone; or at least, not just stone. He saw a clear crystal etched with glowing little lines of light, but what struck him most were the…elements embedded within.
Clear water, gloriously beautiful gold, polished beyond belief, a deep azure flame, a growing flower, and a light blue crystal, but a glowing white fire within.
Five elements, set around the dais in a curious pentagram. He spoke, absently.
“The pattern and nature of these magical components eludes me, First Crafter Leire. As does the exact enchantment. I can only assume, though, that this is one of the Top 100 Most Valuable Adventurer Treasures as listed down in the Adventurer’s Guild, that I once perused. If I had to make a guess, I would identify it as some variation of a Sanctum of Health.”
The old woman laughed with delight and her fingers twitched. There was a gentle clapping sound—from the little Golem made to look just like her, standing proud in front of the dais.
“Oh, very well done, Adventurer. Yes, this is a variation of that artifact.”
Nsiia knew it too. There were many artifacts in the world; some to heal, others to enhance or simply kill. But this one was clearly to extend one’s life. Fortify the body.
No wonder the First Crafter had lived over a hundred and thirty years if she sat on this. It was a sought-after artifact, as all things that could keep you alive were.
Even so, you had to accept the cost. The First Crafter was shrunken. She had probably been far larger than the almost child-sized woman sitting there. Even if she had tried to stand, Nsiia wondered if her atrophied muscles would let her.
The little representation of her bowed to Nsiia, and waved at Femithain. It was her ‘body’, and the woman carried about by the two Golems let it make the expressions, quite animated, in her place.
“It is a delight to meet two such fascinating individuals. I am grateful both accepted my invitation. The Magus-Crafter had said you were busy, Empress.”
Femithain avoided Nsiia’s look. The [Empress] smirked.
“Am I not the disgrace of all Illivere?”
Leire smiled.
“Not I. Even had you destroyed Domehead’s Golem Heart, I would have wanted to meet the [Empress of Beasts]. I shall not meet another, I think. Nor the Antinium. But come. I have prepared a little demonstration and there are more guests who await you.”
 
——
 
There were a number of high-ranking [Golem Artificers] and nobility of Illivere. Many regarded Nsiia with glares, especially the woman with the fake Golem eye, Crafter Se, who had been on the team that created Domehead.
But they were polite in this setting, the open-aired ‘porch’ with slanting roofs leading into a strange garden.
No plants here, not for Illivere’s folk of Golems. Rather, it was a literal Golem-garden. And not even a garden!
A flat, glass-like pool held Golems. Some were actual statues, others animals, or even Golems of a far stranger design than modern ones which carried or performed vital tasks. A Golem that was essentially a stone lantern rotated its ‘head’ slowly, a polished gemstone eye turning. It had no legs. It was never intended to move.
A Golem-garden. Nsiia rolled her eyes. No fish pond, no place for animals to come and relax. Just their perfect, ordinary world of Golems acting like…Golems.
It was a calm place to view from, though. And apparently, they would be also getting a chance to see how their dinner was being made. Ksmvr sat, fascinated, as two Golems appeared on the lower wooden steps in the open courtyard and placed something between them. A [Golemmaster Cook] bowed deeply, and presented them with a small speech.
“It is my honor to prepare a feast for the Magus-Crafter, Empress of Beasts, First Crafter, and Adventurer from Izril! Please, observe the preparations of the foundation of your dish.”
With that, the two Golems stood; giant stone figures without real face or feature, but strong granite arms. They lifted two objects high as a giant wooden trough with a rounded base was placed between them.
The Golems had hammers. Ksmvr evaluated the odds of a trap being low, so he kept calm. They were not warhammers, mauls, or any other normal hammer you’d use in war, for that matter. Not even a carpenter’s hammer; these were flat, wide, and nonsensical in many ways. Why so wide? They wouldn’t disperse force well without better contouring.
His answer came as the trough was filled with a number of yellow to orange, root-like objects. Almost like lumpy carrots, but with multiple root structures in places. Some were as long as an arm; others smaller.
Yellats.
Nsiia looked interested. So was Ksmvr, because no one else was scoffing at the basis of their meal. However, to Ksmvr’s knowledge of Chandrar, this was not an appropriate foodstuff.
Yellats were tough, to grow so well across Chandrar with little water. Stringy? Well, not in good ones necessarily, but it was true that it was fibrous. They were a commoner’s fare, though. He liked them well enough, but why yellats? He would assume the rich would crave something exotic, or at least, expensive.
It was Leire’s demonstration that made sense in only a second. For as soon as the trough was half-filled the first Golem swung its mallet up—and brought it down perfectly with a thunk onto the yellats. Then the hammer rose as, precise as could be, the other Golem brought its hammer down.
Ksmvr and Nsiia realized they were hammering the yellats flat. And not just once or twice; the Golems would continue through the rest of the nigh hour-long conversation as the food was prepared before their eyes. It was incomprehensible to Ksmvr at first, and that was because he was not Garry, and didn’t understand food.
Most things mashed and that was that. Potatoes? You mashed them and they stayed mashed. Like fingers or meat; there wasn’t a point and often it ruined the structure.
But some things had a benefit to repeated mashing. Leire explained as the rhythmic toc, toc, of the Golems striking the platter with just enough force echoed across their garden.
“We learned it from Baleros, or so the story goes. They do much the same thing with rice. However, Yellats are slightly different.”
