There was a technique to making a dough out of rice like this, but the Golems didn’t just mash for that—although the Yellats would do much the same. However, every ten minutes, a single Human apprentice [Cook] would change the mashed Yellats, turn them, mix them—and sift through them, looking for something.
The second time she plucked something out and hurried it over to the dinner guests, many of whom had asked Ksmvr to relate his story of the Village of the Dead.
“Su-yellat. A strand of magic. For you, honored guests.”
She presented it to Femithain first, who passed, and to Nsiia, who blinked. She passed it to Ksmvr, who eyed…a glowing strand of bright orange.
“What is a Su-yellat? Please excuse my ignorance, First Crafter Leire.”
The old woman smiled.
“A rare Yellat that might grow out of any normal one. You have heard of Yellat-day, Ksmvr? It is said some Yellats actually move or run about. I have not seen one in a hundred years, but it is true some magic can seep into them. This is concentrated. A magical Yellat. It will aid your body for a while, if eaten. [Mages] like it, and I am told Drath buys them. For you, it is a gift to taste. Other places harvest them to sell.”
She nodded at the Golems, preparing the Yellats in a style unique to Illivere and little else. It required a lot of mashing and force.
Ksmvr delicately accepted the Su-yellat and it tasted powerful. Not good, not bad, not bitter, not sweet. Because the taste was all magic. He clacked his mandibles together.
“Quite unique, First Crafter. Thank you.”
“You were saying that when you leapt to the Prince of Nerrhavia Fallen’s aid, you did not know if you would live or die?”
One of the [Golem Artificers] broke in urgently. Ksmvr turned his head.
“I did not.”
“That seems impulsive. Hardly logical.”
Nsiia snorted quietly, but Ksmvr replied evenly.
“It may not have been, but Prince Zenol had attacked the liches to save us all. It did not behoove a fellow adventurer to leave him to die. Not when I had a choice.”
The audience murmured, taken in by the simple way Ksmvr spoke. The Antinium privately thought he was doing a bad job of ‘talking himself up’, a trick Ceria had told him was important to make clients value them as adventurers more.
He couldn’t have known his attempts to glorify his team and make himself sound less important struck a chord with Illivere’s people, especially the artificers, who seldom saw combat. Ksmvr was an adventurer out of stories.
Over the appetizers and chatter, the Yellats did become a doughy substance. It became, over hours, a long, winding strand of incredibly soft material, but Ksmvr didn’t miss how the apprentice kept adding bits of flour and other things to it.
“It can then become noodles, a type of bread—many things based on what you added during the pounding process. Of course, most nations do not have the time to produce it like this. Their loss.”
Crafter Se haughtily explained as the noodles made of Yellats were prepared in a trice after the long wait and came out, smelling of many complementary flavors. To it was added a very fine sauce that tasted nutty to Ksmvr.
“Of course, we should all just pull out our personal Golems and do the same.”
Nsiia chuckled, and Crafter Se flushed and glared.
“Most nations should consider the foresight of Illivere.”
“We tend to invest our money into other things. Not everyone can afford an economy based on Golems.”
Nsiia had been on the edge of the polite conversation. Now, Crafter Se glowered with some of her compatriots at the Empress of Beasts.
“And what artful cuisine has Tiqr? I have never heard of them preparing Yellats finely. What would you serve a guest like Adventurer Ksmvr, Empress?”
The ‘Empress’ was a veiled insult. Nsiia smiled cattily.
“Meat. And we would do it at a banquet, not this calm ceremony. With plenty of animals roaming to join us.”
She winked at Ksmvr, who sat up at the thought. The rest of Illivere’s folk shuddered at the thought of a hyena begging for scraps at the table.
“Just meat, Nsiia?”
Someone scoffed. She shrugged.
“How am I to know what was hunted that day? What animal was culled in its age? Yes, meat. Does it matter what kind so long as it is prepared by a master?”
She gestured at the Yellats dismissively, which Ksmvr thought was unfair to the master who prepared it.
“Wrap it in a variety of leaves—steam it in a boiling pot filled with the right kinds of spices. The right water, and the right fire. You can turn old goat’s meat into a feast I’d gobble down without a second thought with the right preparation.”
“Water?”
Before the others could break into a fierce argument, Ksmvr leaned over to Femithain. He shuddered at the memory of water—he was deeply allergic to swimming, and it was a fatal allergy—but he had no idea the quality of water might matter. The Magus-Crafter nodded, amused despite Nsiia’s argumentative tone.
“I believe there are many kinds, not that I am a [Cook].”
“Many [Cooks] don’t think of water!”
Nsiia slapped her knee, with the forthright authority of an amateur expert willing to lecture everyone about their ignorance. She began listing off the waters you could use as a stock, or in boiling—in everything, really.
It wasn’t just stream water, or mountain water—there was a world of water.
“Prelon water, purified water, saltwater, freshwater, Garswamp water, Phoenixfeather water—not as clean as you’d hope, so don’t just drink it from a pond they’ve claimed, frostelwater…”
Ksmvr was fascinated. He had no idea so many waters existed, and, apparently, didn’t just impart a subtle flavor. Some waters would freeze the outside layers of something dunked in it, like frostelwater. Phoenixfeather water had a heat of its own. You could actually significantly change your outcome depending on the water you used!
It was just that many places lacked access to the varieties of water, or had a variety of foods instead. What struck Ksmvr was the boredom of Illivere’s guests, aside from a few like Leire and Femithain. They were openly dismissive of the barbarian [Empress] neighboring their lands. Part of that was surely how she had destroyed Domehead, but still.
“Surely, even with the varieties of water and fire, the end result of steamed or roasted foods is lacking in variety compared to a diversity of ingredients, Nsiia.”
Ksmvr asked, and there were many nods, but the question was reasonable. She shook her head.
“You say that, Ksmvr, but you have not seen the varieties of spices and plants that lay in Tiqr! Illivere is rich enough to buy what it wants; my kingdom lived cheek by jowl next to the animals who knew where to find it in every crevice and place where treats grew. From ants who created a spice to defend themselves, to wild Ashfire Bee honey—there is a reason Tiqr won competitions of [Chefs], not Illivere.”
A sour silence descended over the group, until Leire had her miniature representative clap its hand and announce it was time for dessert! No Yellats for dessert; rather, sugar-crystals, mined out and eaten with minute liquid flavoring. Apparently, it came from ancient sugarcane relatives that fossilized and stayed deep underground. If you could keep the bugs off it, it was a treat.
Food facts. Ksmvr forbade comment, but he really would have loved the bugs and the sugar.
 
——
 
Afterwards, Ksmvr rode back with Nsiia and Femithain. The [Empress] was clearly tired of the conversation, which had turned argumentative until she paced off, and was staring out the window of the little carriage. Femithain turned to Ksmvr.
“I hope you enjoyed yourself, Adventurer Ksmvr? First Crafter Leire feared some aspects of the dinner might not be to your taste.”
Ksmvr roused himself.
“I enjoyed myself quite immensely, Magus-Crafter.”
“Wonderful.”
Femithain smiled. Ksmvr smiled too. He said nothing more. But he could have.
It was not for the Magus-Crafter to know what lay in Ksmvr’s heart. The [Skirmisher] felt that he had sufficiently impressed the party guests, and Crafter Se had told him privately she ‘forgave him’ for damaging Domehead since it wasn’t his fault.
A net positive. He still stayed up late that night, and when he could not sleep, restlessly paced Femithain’s mansion.
It was only then he heard the crying sound. Ksmvr paused by the door. A little cat stared up at him, her back legs replaced by Golem prostheses. Yinah. She had pushed open the door, and by that, he could hear the sobbing from within.
Nsiia. She was weeping before something. Ksmvr peeked into her room, and saw her kneeling before something.
A…piece of paper. He suspected it to be from her people somehow. He had noticed her communicating like this. Ksmvr did not believe she had received truly bad news from whoever it was, and the macaw could not have flown to its destination and back. So why did she weep?
There was a map of the local region placed there, and a worn comb of bone. Folded clothing that looked rich; almost like armor. Was it the royal garb of Tiqr?
These were the possessions she had carried with her out of Tiqr, as a prisoner. Perhaps…all that remained. A map of Tiqr. A comb. Clothing. Ksmvr stared at the missive and realized that wasn’t the point.
The [Empress of Beasts] knelt before Tiqr itself. And all that was Tiqr was…a memory. She was almost prostrate before the little shrine, crying.
Ksmvr wondered if he should leave. This…was not for him. Like when Yvlon wept over her arms at night, he wanted to run and pretend he had never seen it.
Something stopped him. He saw a figure in the room, two solemn, bright eyes by night. Ksmvr froze—then realized it was not a person.
The little street-dog and the macaw sat in the room with some animals. The dog, playful, a puppy, looked down at Nsiia with a strange, uncanny solemnity. So did the bird.
Subjects? Rulers?
They stared at Ksmvr and Nsiia broke off from her tears. Her head rose.
“Who is it?”
She spotted Ksmvr. The Antinium stepped forwards.
“I did not mean to intrude, Empress Nsiia, or witness your grief. I would blame Yinah, but she is a cat.”
Aforementioned cat yowled softly. Nsiia smiled, wiping her tears away.
“You can do little to humiliate me, Ksmvr. And I do not think you would. You catch me in the middle of self-pity. Asking forgiveness for failing my empire.”
He stepped slowly into the room. Ksmvr had, of course, educated himself on the Tiqr war after realizing it might be expedient.
“By all accounts, the war was nearly impossible to win without the aid of the King of Destruction. Your grief is understandable. Your guilt…”
He tilted his head.
“…Perhaps understandable too.”
Nsiia looked up sharply. Her tears ran tracks down her cheeks, but her eyes glittered by the candlelight.
“What do you mean?”
“I mean that it is my understanding the war began because you did not forswear Flos Reimarch at the meeting at Pomle. Had you done so, perhaps Tiqr would not have become a target.”
The [Empress of Beasts] inhaled, and the animals stirred. She rose, slowly.
“You say what many do not have the courage to say to my face, Ksmvr. Should I have forsworn him, then? Left him to the jackals? He was a great ruler and I admired him as much as you claim to admire your team. Would you forswear Yvlon, or Pisces, Ceria, in my place?”
She knew their names. Ksmvr looked at Nsiia steadily.
“Never. But I am not an [Empress]. You were a good friend, ally, and person. I suggest, perhaps—a poor ruler.”
For a second he thought she’d leap at him, her eyes flashed so furiously. Then Nsiia turned her head and barked a laugh.
“Perhaps! But as we told you, Femithain and I, even a ruler must be a person before a simple servant, or we are nothing! Didn’t you enjoy yourself, or did you lie to Femithain today?”
Ksmvr ducked his head.
“I enjoyed myself. I did not lie, as the Magus-Crafter is able to detect falsehoods, as he revealed to me. I enjoyed myself. And I, too, am awash with shame and guilt. I do not weep, though. I cannot cry.”
The Empress looked at him sharply.
“Why? For enjoying yourself one night, Ksmvr?”
The [Skirmisher] shook his head slowly. Almost…pityingly. He explained, because she would understand. Perhaps Femithain would, but better for him to believe Ksmvr had simply enjoyed himself.
“Consider the following situation, Empress Nsiia. As we speak, as I dined and talked and ate good food…my team, who were scattered by the teleport scroll, landed across Chandrar. One’s location I know. Yvlon, in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
She nodded. Femithain was seeking the other two, but Nerrhavia’s Fallen was hard to sway even for a head of a smaller nation. Pisces? Ceria? No word as of yet.
“Ceria, my team captain, did not appear in civilization as I did. She…in this scenario…materialized higher. She fell, and landed on a sufficiently sharp rock. Perhaps concussed; she lacerated her ribs and arm, and broke her legs. She was already wounded from the Village of the Dead raid. Now she is bleeding.”
Ksmvr’s eyes stared at Nsiia. Through her. Without pupils. Not without a soul.
“How long would she survive? If she has a healing potion, many days. If she cannot walk? A limited amount of time. If she had no healing potion…and healing potions are not adaptable to broken bones as well as mere flesh, and not at all to infection…she has minutes. Hours if she can freeze her wounds. If she is conscious.”
“There are many ifs, Ksmvr.”
He nodded slowly.
“Yes. Perhaps she is simply exposed, or predators scent her blood. I do not know. But consider, Nsiia, the many things that could happen, even if she was safe. If, as I sat, eating good food and conversing, she were to become wounded or die, I could have saved her. If I did nothing, I would be responsible for her death. If she is even alive as we speak.”
He was…vibrating. No. Trembling. Nsiia saw how Ksmvr shook. But his voice steadied.
“I appreciate the situation I am in. I would like to leave Illivere not as a fugitive, but with as much aid as I can muster for my team. I am also aware that every second I delay, they may die without me. If I fail—if I have failed one of them, I will take responsibility.”
His voice was silk and steel. Nsiia had heard it before, in her own tones, in the same words as Vasraf and so many brave people.
As hard as steel. As soft and…she reached out, as if he were a creature in pain, but he was not hers to command.
“Such a brave child.”
She murmured, and Ksmvr did not know how she knew he was so young. She looked at him, wearily.
“So you hold Femithain and I in the balance. You do think only of your team. But Ksmvr. Even should you save them from this—what next? If you and your team survive calamity and death and retire, as few adventurers do, what comes next?”
