Glastor and Ren moved around to stand about a 200 feet apart in the middle of the arena.

“Equip armor!” Artemis commanded.

Glastor put his helm back on and Ren equipped his full set of platinum armor. Everyone in the arena felt the strength and power of his Aura as the armor took effect. Glastor felt the change in the people's hatred for him shift to neutrality.

“Equip weapons, defenses and power ups!” Artemis said.

Glastor equipped his special sword and shield, and the other boosters he needed to increase his speed and number of attacks. He's never going to take 15 hits at once. He thought and smiled.

Ren equipped his platinum tower shield and his hammerpick, which doubled in size, then he equipped all of the bracelets and non-bracelets, rings and non-rings, necklaces that weren't necklaces, anklets and non-anklets, a backpack, a fanny pack, and packs attached to his lower arms, upper arms, thighs, calves, and on the inside of the tower shield. The last things he added were a cover to the shield that had thousands of little spikes on it, and two large metal bars on his shoulders with diamonds the size of his head on the ends.

With each new addition, the sense of power from Ren doubled, then doubled again, then again. No one in the arena breathed as the oppressive feeling of contained power held them too still to even think of breathing. Ren now looked like a platinum covered tank.

“He has definitely outdone himself.” Lylyth said, and activated her own Aura. It merged with Ren's for an instant and she absorbed that overwhelming feeling from everyone and deactivated her Aura. The whole arena took in a breath at the same time, and Ren turned his platinum-armored head to her and nodded.

“Wh-what was that?” Jennifer asked.

“I believe it was his Awesomeness Aura.” Lylyth said. “He sometimes forgets that even with a warning, he can be too much to handle.” She smiled. “I hate being such a fool sometimes.”

“What?” Jennifer looked at her with wide eyes at the abrupt change of subject.

“He offered me more than I could have ever dreamed of, and I turned him down because of my people.” Lylyth said. “He will always be my Royal Consort; but, he will never be the King my people will accept.”

“He's a king?!?” Jennifer exclaimed.

“After what I just told you, that is the part you focused on?” Lylyth asked and laughed.

“But...”

Lylyth took her small hand in hers and pat it. “Watch the fight and root for him, just like he wants you to.”

Jennifer nodded. “Okay.”

They both turned their heads to look into the arena, and Jennifer's hand gripped Lylyth's tightly as they both waited for the signal from Artemis for the fight to begin.
