“I can't have you trying to curse me.” Ren said and swung the sword to lop off its jaw to stop it from talking, then looked up at the crowd and held a hand up. “I know this seems cruel, but I also know that at least some of you have fought a Minor Demon before.”

There was a general feeling of acknowledgement from the crowd and there was a murmur in response.

“Without this...” Ren held up the sword. “...it's damn near impossible to beat him, even if you succeed in sealing him away.”

“Where can I get one of those?” Someone yelled, and a few people laughed.

“That's the thing. Normally you can't.” Ren said and plunged the sword into the Minor Demon's chest. “It makes things like this too easy.” He said and poured Mana into the sword, then turned it to the left and activated its Full Consumption ability.

The Minor Demon gurgled and sputtered as it started to deflate and the Vampiric Sword sucked all of the blood out. The demon stopped moving after a few seconds, and after 30 seconds, was nothing but a dried husk. Ren pulled the sword out and cut off the Minor Demon's head. He then went to each piece he had cut off previously and used the sword to suck the blood out of them as well, then gathered the pieces together.

Ren stored the Vampiric Sword and pulled out a sword that was very similar to the one Officer Holly and Xuunah used. “By the power of the Light, I invoke thee! I call upon the Supreme Power of Judgment!” He said and poured Mana into the blade. It glowed brightly, almost blindingly so, and he stabbed it into the pile of dried body pieces of the Minor Demon. The pieces were covered in the same bright light and started to dissolve. The pile reduced down to barely ash in moments, then disappeared completely.

“Judgment Passed.” A loud disembodied voice said, and the light faded from the blade Ren held. “Condemnation.”

Ren stored the sword and turned to Glastor, who was now without his armor and completely healed. “Are you ready to fight for real now?”

“What did you do?” Glastor asked.

“Cleansed you.” Ren said. “I removed the Minor Demon and his influence from you.”

“You... you bastard!” Glastor exclaimed. “Do you know how hard I worked to make a pact with that demon? Do you know how long it took?”

“Nope.” Ren said. “I don't care, either.”

Glastor growled and stood up. “You are going to pay for this.” He said and equipped another set of armor as he picked up his dropped sword and shield. “You will pay dearly.”

“You better not threaten the people I care about.” Ren said and gained the Angered condition. “If you do, I will have to deal with you appropriately.”

Glastor smiled. “The first one I'll visit is the Sage of...”

*BOOOOOOOOM*

“ARRGGHHHH!” Glastor's sword hand had been completely blown off by something. He stared at the mangled and bloody stump in shock, and couldn't understand why his Mana Shield hadn't stopped whatever it was. He looked at Ren and saw what looked like a sawed-off shotgun.

“No one is allowed to hurt the people I care about.” Ren said and fired again. Nothing came out of the barrel, but there was another loud boom and Glastor's other hand disintegrated. The shield on his arm hung down from the strap on his forearm and dangled there.

“What... what...”

“Surprise.” Ren said. “This is a little something that I came up with while playing around with...” He stopped talking and smiled. “You know what? I'm not explaining it.” He said and stored the shotgun, then crossed his arms to wait.

“What are you doing?” Someone in the crowd yelled, and Ren turned to look at the guy that used to be in the top spot on the XP leader board. “Shoot him in the head!”

“He won't learn his lesson if I do that.” Ren said. “He'll think he can come back whenever he wants and harass me, and I'm going to show him... and all of you... that you can't.” He smiled. “Not shouldn't. Can't.” He looked back at Glastor. “Hurry up and heal yourself. Stop wasting time.”

“You think you've got it all figured out, don't you?” Glastor asked and his hands reformed almost instantly as if they hadn't just been destroyed.

“All of it? No.” Ren said. “A good portion, yes.”

“You're pretty arrogant and full of yourself.”

Ren chuckled. “You're kidding, right?” He asked. “You've read my books, haven't you?”

Glastor nodded.

“You mistake arrogance for confidence.” Ren said and took out the pistol again.

“You know I can heal instantly.” Glastor said.

“I know.” Ren said and shot him in the chest.

The bullet was pushed out and the hole healed over. Glastor smiled and motioned for Ren to shoot again.

“You know, I've always wondered if there was a limit to how much damage someone could take before their Regeneration couldn't heal them.” Ren said.

Glastor watched as Ren pointed the gun to the right. “You can't hit me like that.”

“Yes, I can.” Ren said and a micro-portal opened in front of the barrel. Then hundreds of micro-portals opened around Glastor and Ren pulled the trigger. One bullet was split into hundreds of pieces that slammed into Glastor from every direction and shredded his armor. Since Ren had the Hail of Arrows ability active again, 10 times that much hit Glastor as well. Ren fired again and the bullet was split hundreds of times again and multiplied, which shredded Glastor's skin and the remains of the armor.

“S-stop.” Glastor said and dropped to his knees.

“Oh, come on.” Ren said. “That's all? There's no way you're giving up this easily.”

“Please... have mercy...”

“Ha! Hahaha!” Ren laughed. “You're hilarious.” He said and pulled the trigger and held it. 98 more bullets went through the dispersion portal and over 19,000 bullet fragments came out, then were multiplied by 10. The metal and magical fragments tore into Glastor and made his body dance from the impacts as his skin and muscles were pretty much mulched.

No one in the crowd said anything as Glastor's body slumped to the ground.

Ren felt everyone's emotions start to turn against him and he dismissed the portals. “Just so you know, my opponent is fine.” He said. “If you look on the screens, even as cut up as he apparently is, he hasn't gained the Bleeding or Bleeding Profusely conditions.”

Everyone glanced at the screen and saw that Ren was telling the truth.

“He's just trying to garner sympathy from you, which he can consume. I'm tempted to warn you to not be so gullible, but I don't want you to think I'm insulting you.” Ren said and smiled. “Look, he's already healing.”

Glastor sat up as the wounds closed and looked at Ren. “That trick won't work if you're not around or can't see me.”

“Let's test that, shall we?” Ren said and ran across the arena to the other side and faced away from Glastor, pointed the gun up into the air, then cast the same spell. Glastor was surrounded by the micro-portals and Ren pulled the trigger again. Glastor was once again completely shredded by the over 200,000 bullet fragments and fell to the ground again.

“H-how... how can you...” Glastor started to say as he sat up, completely healed.

“Magic, obviously.” Ren responded, then ran back over to him and stopped 50 feet away. “I can cast a Portal spell so strong that I can cross an entire continent with a single step. Do you really think I can't cast a portal to find a lowlife piece of garbage like you that would threaten my friends? Do you?”

Glastor didn't respond, so Ren turned to the crowd.

“This goes for everyone that's here or watching one of the displays I've spread across the country. If you want to come after me, that's fine. I'm okay with that. I'll fight you one-on-one or even all at once.” Ren said and activated his Terror Aura. “No one... and I mean no one... will ever come after my friends, the people I care about, or the citizens of my domain and lands. If any harm comes to them, from anyone, you will not escape my wrath.”

Everyone reacted to his Aura and his words in some way. Some cried, some shivered, and some fought the feeling; but, most of them agreed that it would be a bad idea to cross him. He felt several dissenters, and turned to the section with Tristan and the people around him.

“That goes double for you.” Ren said and deactivated the Terror Aura. “I'm not a vindictive person. I normally let things go, usually as a detriment to myself; but, not for this. If you or one of your henchmen, or hired hands, or someone you just antagonized into doing it, hurts one of my people... I will kill you. No playing around. No joking. You'll just be dead.”

“Ha.” Tristan said and crossed his arms. “I'd just be back in 6 hours and...”

“You'll be dead again.” Ren said. “As soon as you step out of a safe zone, you won't even have time to take a breath.”

“Hey, wait a second.” Someone near Tristan said. “You can't do that! Camping at a spawn point is against the rules!”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I won't be camping at a spawn point anywhere. You saw what I just did, didn't you? I don't have to camp. Plus, I'll only be targeting a single person, not everyone that comes from that safe zone.”

“You can't stop someone from playing, man. That's not fair.” A voice rang out, and Ren turned to see Tommy was on his feet.

“If someone interferes with my adventures and hurts or kills my people, which stops me from playing or changes how I play, that's okay by you; but, if I kill them for it, that's not?” Ren asked him.

Tommy didn't say anything. His girlfriend Jaime touched his arm and he sat back down.

“That's what I'm trying to get at. I know a lot of people. They interact with me and I interact with them. What right do you have to hurt or kill them?” Ren asked. “What right do any of you have to do that?”

No one said anything, then Glastor stood up.

“They're just NPCs.” Glastor said and stored his shield and sword.

“To you, maybe.” Ren said. “To me, they are better people than you are.”

“You really care about those fake things?” Glastor laughed. “If I'd known that, tormenting you before this fight would have been so much fun.”

Ren sighed. “Are you even listening to what I'm saying?”

“Oh, I heard you.” Glastor said. “You're a pussy that cares about things so unimportant that you can't think straight.” He said and smiled. “For the rest of your days, when something happens to one of your 'people', you're going to be wondering who did it and how, and it's going to torture you-URK!”

A portal had opened above Glastor and 11 long metal bars had impaled him down through his chest and jammed into the ground.

“You are such a fool.” Ren said and threw another bar through a different portal, and 11 more bars crisscrossed his body and jammed into the ground and held him in place. “Are you really that stupid?” He asked and threw a metal pole normally and 11 of them went right through Glastor and out the other side. “Do you really need me to convince you to leave me and mine alone?”

Ren took out the Acid Arrow wand and cast it through the portals. Each projectile was increased by 10 times, so 22 arrows hit Glastor from different directions. His body started to dissolve from the acid, but he didn't scream.

Some people in the crowd were throwing up at the sight, and Ren turned to the crowd again.

“Please stop overreacting. If you can't tell by now, he's got massive Regeneration and Healing capabilities, even without the Minor Demon boosting him. Plus, he's not screaming.” Ren said. “I warned you at the start that this was going to be scary.”

“You really should be paying more attention to me than to the crowd.” Glastor said, and Ren turned back to see the metal poles drop off and the holes from the acid closed over.

“Don't worry, I am.” Ren said, and a large 20 foot wide rock dropped onto Glastor from 100 feet up in the air and crushed him. “Ooo, that had to hurt.”

The rock shifted slightly and rolled aside, and Glastor shakily stood up, then took a deep breath.

“I'm getting tired of these games.” Glastor said.

“You poor thing.” Ren said and made another portal to suck in the rock, had it drop another 100 feet and made another portal right beside Glastor.

“GAH!” Glastor grunted as the rock slammed into him and drove him backwards into the magical barrier. “UGH!”

The rock fell away and Glastor's mangled body fell to the ground.

“That's awful!” A woman screamed. “Just finish him off!”

Ren waved and nodded to her. “All right.” He said and walked over to Glastor, then stopped 21 feet away. He took out a pair of 25 foot long pliers and clamped them onto Glastor's partially crushed arm and picked him up.

“What... are you... doing?” Glastor asked as he healed.

“Taking out the trash.” Ren said and opened a portal below him. “Have fun.”

“Wh-what...” Glastor grabbed onto the pliers to stop from falling.

Ren smiled and let the pliers go.

“NOOO!” Glastor yelled and dropped into the portal.
