After spending about ten frantic minutes pinballing around his soul like a squirrel that had mistaken caffeine pills for acorns, Rain returned to his body and opened his eyes. He found only Ameliah and Dozer waiting for him in the dim tent. Tallheart was nowhere to be seen, and he could hear distant voices outside. Thinking about that was secondary to making Ameliah’s worried expression go away.

“You’re back,” she said, stiffening. “How is it?”

Rain opened his mouth to respond, pausing to catch Dozer as the slime cannonballed into his stomach. “I learned my lesson after the last time this happened,” he said, struggling with the excited gooball. Before he forgot, he set a marker for his progress report macro, though he didn’t open his interface now to check it. “I promised I wouldn’t make you worry like that again, and I meant it. On that note, I’ll cut right to it. I’m not in imminent danger. Pretty sure.”

Ameliah closed her eyes, sagging in relief.

Rain managed to wrangle Dozer into his lap, petting the slime to keep him there as he continued. “That’s not to say everything’s great. The Bastion is a crumpled mess, and it’s flooded with so much chaos that I can barely feel anything outside the core room. My core itself seems to be just fine, though. Better than fine. The system did something to it, Ameliah. It’s making liquid essence directly.”

“That sounds important. Is that important?”

Rain shrugged. “I didn’t stick around to think about it. I’m going to need to reseal my core room, but I can’t do that until I’ve got a place for the essence. I don’t even know if my storage tanks are still there. All the avatars I could have used to check aren’t responding. There’s just one Snek that somehow ended up in my core room, and even as small as Sneks are, the way is blocked. My avatars at the Tear survived, though. Once I transferred over there to check things out, I had other things on my mind.”

Ameliah nodded, listening intently.

“Bad news: my paling’s torn again,” Rain said, not trying to sugar coat it. He continued quickly. “Good news: it’s not as bad as it sounds. The patch held. A bunch of cables snapped, and some anchor stations popped off completely, but it held. The rip is buried underneath all the FlexSeal, right where the single-layer section meets the rest. The flap is stuck to the bottom of the sealant plug, so the actual gap in the paling material is pretty small. I don’t even think it’s leaking.”

“That’s good to hear,” a woman’s voice said from outside, the tent flap opening.

“Ah!” Rain lurched halfway to his feet, raising Dozer as if to throw him at the attacker before he recognized the voice as Vanna’s.

“Sorry, I didn’t mean to startle you,” she said, entering.

Rain tossed Dozer to Ameliah, then looked hurriedly around for his cloak, self-conscious in his Forceweave. Past Vanna, he caught a glimpse of a distant crowd watching through the trees from the main camp, but then she closed the flap behind her. Rather than move further inside, she stayed at the entrance, hunched from the sloped ceiling and watching him with a smile.

“The pulse reached the whole camp,” she said when he was settled with his cloak over his knees like a blanket. “I’m glad to hear you’ve got a lid on it. I’m also glad you’re okay. Running this company on my own doesn’t sound like much fun.”

“Yeah,” Rain said, awkwardly rubbing at his neck and thanking the dim lighting from the lone candle. “Thanks.”

Vanna nodded. “You gave everyone quite a scare. It’s always something with you, isn’t it?”

“Sorry,” Rain said.

“Don’t apologize,” Ameliah said, reaching out to take his hand. She settled it on the ground between them, giving it a comforting squeeze.

Rain squeezed back. Dozer had oozed out of her lap and into his, so he began idly petting the slime again with his other hand.

After a moment, he returned his attention to Vanna. Soul stuff was need-to-know, but she met that bar. Besides, she already knew most of it anyway. “I’m going back in,” he said, deciding. “You’re welcome to stay, Vanna. It might take a while, so have a seat if you’d like.”

Vanna shook her head, reaching for the flap again. “I’ve got to tell everyone you’re not dead so they can get back to their party. Good idea on that, by the way.”

“Don’t tell anyone he advanced,” Ameliah said. “Not yet.”

“Don’t worry, Ameliah,” Vanna replied. “Rain told me to keep it quiet before you got back from the plains when he told me what he was planning. Tarny knows, as do Samson and Jamus. Everyone else seems to think Rain set up this tent so far away for…” she paused, smiling slightly as she looked at the two of them, “...other reasons.”

“Of course they do,” Rain said with a long-suffering sigh.

Ameliah laughed, squeezing his hand again.

Rain looked up sharply, realizing something. “Wait, but I asked for Tallheart too! He was here with us the whole time! People don’t think—?”

“Kettel certainly does,” Vanna said, rolling her eyes. “He’s been quite insistent in sharing his,” she cleared her throat, “opinion.”

Rain groaned. Damn it, Kettel. He shook his head. He had more important things to worry about. “Where did Tallheart go, anyway? He should be here for this.”

“I am here,” Tallheart said.

Rain made a sound like a stepped-on parrot, spinning to face the tent wall and catapulting Dozer from his lap in the process. A quick Detection pulse revealed that the cervidian was just on the other side of the thin fabric.

“Nice reaction,” Ameliah said, laughing.

“Damn it, Tallheart,” Rain hissed, issuing a few more Detection pulses. In retrospect, that was the first thing he should have done before he started blathering about souls. The scans came back clear to twenty meters, so he sighed, sending calming feelings to Dozer. The slime had apparently decided that it was playtime and started bouncing up and down, eager to be launched again. Rain ignored the excitable creature, sitting again next to Ameliah. He shifted himself so he could keep glaring at the rear wall while he dragged his cloak back over his knees.

Tallheart chuckled, apparently sensing Rain’s attempt to burn a hole through the fabric. “Apologies,” he rumbled. “I grew tired of sitting, and the ceiling is too low for me to stand. Go on. I can hear you. The night air is pleasant.”

Rain sighed, snagging Dozer and pulling him back into his lap before he could knock over his piled armor. “That’s it. I’m going to have to put bells on his antlers or something.”

Vanna laughed. “That would be hilarious if you could manage it. Anyway, I’ll leave you to it,” she reached for the flap, then paused, her expression becoming serious. “Really, I’m glad you’re okay. And congratulations on silver.”

“Thank you,” Rain said seriously.

She nodded, then left the tent.

After a moment, Ameliah looked at him and made a shooing motion. “Go on. I think you should fix those cables. I don’t want to know what would happen if they fail, and the sooner you get things put back together, the sooner we can get you back in your shell. As much fun as it might be to use this tent for what people think we’re using it for, I’m not comfortable with you exposed like this. You’re vulnerable.”

Rain nodded. “Yeah.” He licked his lips, reminded of the fact that he only had two hundred health right now. “Yeah, okay…”

No resistances and two hundred health. Maybe it’s good that Tallheart’s standing guard out there…. Shit! That’s probably why he’s doing it in the first place! If the Knives are still out there and choose now to attack, I’ll be paste! I didn’t tell anyone outside this tent I’d be taking my armor off, and Vanna won’t talk, so it should be… Wait! Shit! Someone might have seen me when she opened the flap! Forget the Knives! What about the nobles!? They aren’t the brightest bulbs, but it wouldn’t take a genius to… Holy shit! Holy SHIT!! How can I be sitting here like this!? What the HELLS is wrong with—

“Hey,” Ameliah said, booping him on the nose.

Rain twitched, startled out of his panic. Dozer was oozing frantically around them in a circle, searching the tent for the invisible filth that had dared to threaten his King so he could scour it from existence.

Ameliah smiled at Rain, raising a hand to guide a few strands of his hair back into place. “A seventeen-times Clarity modifier is no excuse for spacing out.” She stared into his eyes, then pulled him into a hug, resting her chin on his shoulder. “Don’t worry. I won’t let anyone touch you.” She returned him to arm’s length. “Now go on, pigeon-head. You’ve got work to do.”

“…Right,” Rain said, letting out a ragged breath as she released him. “Thanks.”

Two hundred health… How did I ever live like this?

He didn’t bother sending calming feelings to Dozer this time. One more guard wouldn’t hurt, even if that guard was only a slime—an Essence Slime, rather. Yet one more thing he needed to unpack.

He nodded to Ameliah, then closed his eyes.

Progress Report

marker_1: presilver [3061 Sowing 25 19:20]

marker_2: silver [3061 Sowing 25 19:34]

Span: 14 minutes

Character

Level: 25 -> 26 (+1)

Total Exp: 2,035,829 -> 2,035,830 (+1)

Tolerance

Strength: 50 -> 500 (+450)

Recovery: 77 -> 770 (+693)

Endurance: 31 -> 310 (+279)

Vigor: 114 -> 1140 (+1026)

Focus: 200 -> 2000 (+1800)

Clarity: 250 -> 2500 (+2250)

Attribute Buff: 269 -> 2690 (+2421)

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

+STAT

Engine of Change

26

30

10

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

+SKILL

0

73,713

2,035,830

1

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

Health

200

200

100/d

Stamina

198

200

100/d

Mana

7,917

35,025

1.6/s

Attributes

0/2690

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

ACCLD

MISC

SYN

STR

10

10

10

0

0/500

100.0%

RCV

5.6

10

10

0

0/770

56.0%

END

7

10

10

0

0/310

70.0%

VGR

8.9

10

10

0

0/1140

89.0%

FCS

10

10

10

0

0/2000

100.0%

CLR

270

270

270

0

0/2500

100.0%

PER

10

10

10

0

0/0

100.0%

SPD

9.4

10

10

0

0/10.0

94.0%

“Hsssssss….”

Rain hissed in serpentine annoyance, straining to bend the beam blocking the corridor in front of him. Hardened essence resisted modification, and this beam was adamant, made to be as strong as possible. Without his Strength boosted by his ring, his will lacked the punch to soften it on any reasonable timescale, which was why he was trying to move it in the first place. He’d been in here for hours already, and he was only just getting started.

Finally, the beam shifted enough for him to slither through the gap. He flicked his tongue in satisfaction, ignoring the taste of chaos. His eyes weren’t burning, at least. The miniature pair of goggles he’d made for himself saw to that.

In retrospect, making his core room completely air-tight might not have been wise. The system had clearly needed access and had just as clearly taken offense at being denied. As Rain had been working, he’d spent a lot of time thinking through the messages it had sent him. Apparently, the system had provisions for cores, and even for people who’d formed them before they should have. Structures too. There, however, it hadn’t been able to make heads or tails of what he’d built. ‘Integration unknown,’ it had said. He took that to mean he’d skipped a step or twelve. It had also said...other things.

For thy temerity, may the Straal honor thee in the Depths Beyond...

Now that was something to be puzzled over. Rain wasn’t quite sure what the difference between a Straal and a Majistraal was, but clearly, they were related, even if the message had been mangled in translation. The so-called ‘Hybrid Interface’ was the same one that the barrier obelisk had built to communicate with him. That and the bizarre benediction all but confirmed the Majistraal were behind both.

The system was fascinating. One thing he’d realized, though, was that it didn’t have much intelligence in the human sense. Like the obelisk, it appeared to operate at the level of a particularly clever set of algorithms. Intuitive, maybe even capable of learning, but not aware as such. It probably made guides and the like for that reason. It couldn’t exactly hold a conversation without them.

The fact that such an automated system was still working at all was mind-boggling. With its administrators being dead and gone for three-thousand-plus years, it spoke to their mastery of whatever process they’d used to create it.

Then again… ‘Error: Bone’? Come on! That’s like something I’d—

Sudden pain brought Rain up short. In his distraction and the poor visibility, he’d jammed his snoot into another blockage.

He let out a sibilant sigh. “Hssss…”

Cleaning this all properly was a longer-term goal. Right now, he just needed to get an avatar free of the wreckage to see if any of his essence tanks had survived or—Dozer willing—his airship. He’d already been at the Tear as several versions of Stubs, but there was a limit to what he’d been able to do. To make new cables, he needed more essence, and purifying it himself without the aid of his core would take forever.

“Hssssss!”

Straining, Rain pushed at the blockage. In a moment of inspiration, he focused on the matter around him, and heat began rolling off his tiny form in a pretty decent imitation of Immolate. He had decided to try something new, hoping to soften the adamant for easier bending. It actually seemed to be helping, so he redoubled his efforts. There was an alarming creak, and then thick, oily chaos blasted him in the face, making him recoil in disgust.

He recovered quickly, dropping pseudo-Immolate and letting the heat fade. Yes! This next room must be open to the outside!

Slithering against the torrent, Rain thanked his tiny goggles for their tiny service as he pushed his way through. The chaos had changed slightly with his evolution. It wasn’t quite liquid like the essence from his core, but it was definitely thicker, and just as unpleasant as ever. Today, it tasted like burned hair, motor oil, and spoiled cabbage.

Finally, Rain reached the other side of the blockage, his scales finding soggy, ruined carpet. That, plus a large fragment of wood, told him where he was. This was his room, and the wood had come from his grandfather clock. Rebuilding and recalibrating that would be annoying, but so would reconstructing the Bastion as a whole. It was a problem for later, and he didn’t spend any time being annoyed about it, as there was something else he’d left here that his senses told him was more or less intact. Struggling against the interference, he reached out to the object buried in the wreckage of his bookshelves.

