Todo: Schedule essence exchange, observe within soul.

Todo: Test essence exchange with unawakened around, verify oversoul.

Todo: More cable reinforcement. Maybe do this one first. Think about it.

Todo: Make a porthole. Will linksight function if I make the essence clear? Will works that way. Promising.

Todo: Make an iris. Oversoul on command.

Question: How is oversoul controlled from outside the soul? Can I get system access now that I’m silver? Test at core. Test at paling.

“You know,” Tallheart said to Ameliah, scratching at the base of one of his antlers, as Rain continued typing furiously, “I have met many strange humans, but I believe he might just be the strangest of them all.”

“I won’t disagree with you,” Ameliah said, smiling.

Rain wiggled his fingers at them, dismissing his keyboard. He set a fresh marker, then summoned a verbose progress report, whistling in appreciation of what he saw.

Progress Report

marker_1: silver [3061 Sowing 25 19:34]

marker_2: s1 [3061 Sowing 26 02:49]

Span: 7.2 hours

Character

Total Exp: 2,035,830 -> 2,036,178 (+348)

↳Stamina Use: 6

↳Mana Use: 342

Skills

Extend Aura: +21 exp

Winter: +4 exp

Intrinsic Clarity: +342 exp

Amplify Aura: +61 exp

Detection: +105 exp

Channel Mastery: +30 exp

Intrinsic Focus: +342 exp

Magical Synergy: +342 exp

Aura Synergy: +32 exp

Aura IFF: +120 exp

Aura Compression: +1 exp

“What now?” Tallheart asked.

“I just checked my experience gains from the essence exchange,” Rain replied. “I leveled three times.”

Ameliah did a decent Dust impression. “You did not,” she scoffed.

Rain beamed at her. “Okay, yeah, not even close. I was just surprised by how many skills got experience. I’ve been so focused on what new ones I want to take that I almost forgot about all the stuff I already had. They can get to fifteen now, and some of them...I’m not sure what’s going to happen.” He pointed at the list they couldn’t see. “Aura IFF, for example.”

“Mmm, the negative thing,” Ameliah said. “I doubt it will work that way, given that Channel Mastery doesn’t. I suppose we’ll see.”

“You will take Prismatic Intent, correct?” Tallheart asked, interrupting Rain’s reply.

Rain nodded, glancing at him. “That was the other thing I wanted to do before I called it a night, but…”

He looked at the list of experience numbers again. There were a lot of skills there, and he’d barely done anything. Just his normal usage was going to be a strain until he sorted himself out. On that note, he activated Purify at half power, confining it to the tent and holding the spell until the urgent signal from his bladder vanished. He swore he could feel the experience flooding in.

That need settled, he looked up, receiving his friends’ appreciative gazes. “I think I just reconsidered. Even if we’re not traveling tomorrow, I’ll be using mana on this and that, and I don’t want to risk adding something new. Not yet.”

“Come again?” Ameliah asked, gratitude turning to incredulity. “I mean, I agree that that’s the smart thing to do, but you’ve been drooling over Prismatic Intent since you learned of its existence. Multiple auras at once! You’re telling me that you’re sitting there, with a free skill point, able to take it right this instant, and you’re going to wait!?”

Rain chuckled. “I know, right? Sometimes, I even surprise myself.”
