The sub-core came to life, glowing with a bluish light.

Yes!

It took a moment for Rain to dig it out, but soon, the icosahedral object was up and orbiting his head at a distance of 1d3 feet—or rather, it was trying to. He’d designed this particular sub-core to act like an Ioun stone, its behavior subconsciously enforced by that image. Given that he was currently piloting a Snek and that the sub-core had been designed on the scale of Big Bone, it looked a bit ridiculous. Like his tiny danger noodle avatar was being chased by a friendly planet.

That didn’t matter.

What mattered was that it was still intact and that it was full of essence. Even his core room didn’t have that much collected, given the way the chaos was leaking in and evaporating it.

Rain began to dance.

Even if no other tanks survived, this was a huge win. With this much essence, he could seal off his core room in a tenth of the time it would take him otherwise. Of course, he’d then have essence buildup to contend with, but given that essence was what he needed, that was hardly an issue.

I can just make a pipe or something, following the path I cleared. And then—

Rain stopped. In the middle of his excited wriggling, he’d seen something else, and his joy had turned to rage in an instant.

He abandoned his dance, then hissed—less like a snake and more like an offended goose. His true avatar was on his bed, impaled through the chest by an adamant girder. That surely wasn’t good for his self-image, but it wasn’t what had raised his ire.

In a flash, he was at the bedside. With his will, he reached for the fallen picture frame and turned it over, revealing shattered glass and the picture of Ameliah within, rotting from exposure to the chaos.

That would not do.

That would not do at all.

The damage to the Bastion could be forgiven. It could be repaired. But this… This was personal. The system had attacked his heart.

[⟬filth⟭!]

The thought came from Dozer. Some of Rain’s emotions had clearly reached the slime through the King-Link, which he’d kept open so he could ask for updates on the situation outside. The time dilation meant getting the slime to understand him required even more patience than usual.

Thinking as slowly as he could, Rain replied, sending his full agreement through the link. [Yes, Dozer, Filth.]

He reached to the sub-core for the essence he would need. No sooner had he taken hold of it, however, did the essence twist itself out of his grasp.

“Hisss!?”

Rain whipped his head around to stare at the sub-core in abject shock.

The sub-core shattered, and the essence within fell to the ruined carpet with a plop. Rather than splashing apart or evaporating, the glowing liquid drew itself together into a blob. The glow faded, the essence becoming transparent. Gelatinous.

It quivered.

[⟬clean⟭!]

[Dozer!?] Rain demanded. [How the sassy FUCK!?]

Midnight had passed by the time Rain returned from his soul. Ameliah had stayed with him the whole time, as had Tallheart, though he’d only reentered the tent after Rain announced he was ready to don his armor.

For Rain, it had been longer than the system clock would suggest, but how much longer, he wasn’t sure. Nailing down the coefficient was a project for later. What was important now was that he’d gotten a lot done, especially with Dozer’s help. The industrious ooze was still in the Bastion, toiling away. Rain hadn’t actually checked on him since he’d left for the Tear in Big Gulp.

By a stroke of luck, the airship had survived mostly intact. When Rain had re-configured the station, he hadn’t bothered to rebuild the hangar, leaving the ship moored in vacuum at the end of a long pier instead. That had placed it not completely out of harm’s way, but at least out of the direct line of the system’s wrath. Its hull had cracked, and more than half its essence load had boiled off before he’d found the leak and patched it, but he’d still been left with over two MESS. With that windfall, he’d gotten the Tear battened down quite a bit.

For now, it would do.

“Okay, let’s see how this goes,” Rain said, looking from Ameliah to Tallheart, seated with him in the tent. His health was still low, but a great burden had been lifted from his mind with his armor on and the visor down. He flexed an armored hand, the Malleable Ring glinting in the light of the candle sitting between them.

“Remember to tell us what you’re doing,” Ameliah said, touching his knee.

Rain nodded, pulling open his status. “The resistance buffs from my armor are working as usual,” he narrated. “No surprises there. I can’t even feel the weight of them. Same with the boost to Aura Synergy from my rings. If the connections to my items were threads before, now they’re like...ropes...or something. Thick ones. The King-Link too.”

Ameliah smiled. “I still can’t believe you’re calling it that.”

“Easier than arguing with Dozer,” Rain replied, smiling back. “Whatever the system did to my core, I think it’s better at making connections now. This probably happens to everyone, which would explain why tolerances get higher at silver. Anyway, I’ll worry about the theory later. I’m activating the ring now, starting with Strength. I’m going to try bringing it up to max.”

“Slowly,” Tallheart cautioned.

Rain clicked his tongue at him. “It was one time. Okay, two times, but the second time was on purpose.”

Tallheart rumbled, unimpressed. “And no sudden movements when you are unbalanced.”

Rain nodded. “Right. Starting with plus ten. And now twenty. Thirty. Forty. Fifty, which was my old tolerance. Sixty. Seventy. Eighty. Ninety. One hundred.”

“Still okay?” Ameliah asked as he paused.

Rain gave her a thumbs-up. “Peachy.”

She blinked.

Chuckling, he continued, raising the boost faster now. “One fifty. Two hundred. Two fifty. Two eighty-seven.” His visor was doing a great job of containing his grin, but it couldn’t contain the elation in his voice. “That’s it! All topped out!”

“How do you feel,” Ameliah asked.

Carefully, Rain raised an arm, concentrating on the sensation of his muscles contracting. “I feel...strong. Like, really strong, but brittle. Like I might shatter my spine if I sneeze. No pain, though. No bone fire. Gods, Tallheart, is this what it’s like for you without your armor?”

Tallheart grunted. “Not even close.”

“I guess it’s time for a new ring, then,” Ameliah said.

“Give me a few days,” Tallheart said. “I must find a place to work away from cantankerous goats.”

“Awesome,” Rain replied, suppressing a chuckle at Staavo’s expense. His cheeks were starting to hurt, and he wasn’t sure he could even blame it on stat imbalance. “I’m bringing Strength back down to…say...seventy-five? That should be safe, right?”

Tallheart rumbled in confirmation, then gestured to Ameliah. “Heal him.”

“Hang on,” Rain said, fussing with the ring. “There. I’m all balanced now. Seventy-five each in Strength, Endurance, and Focus, twenty in Recovery, and the rest in Vigor.” He swung his arms around, reveling in the power filling his limbs. With his Endurance and Strength matched, the brittle feeling had gone away completely.

“Having fun?” Ameliah asked, watching him flail with amusement written clearly on her face. “Careful. You’ll knock the candle over.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Rain said, smiling. “Okay, I’m ready. I’ll mess with Clarity later. I need to be careful until I know how bad my featherbrainedness will get. Say, Ameliah, remember that time way, waaay back when I challenged you to a race? Tallheart, you were there.”

Tallheart rumbled.

“I remember,” Ameliah said, chuckling as she pressed a hand to his chest. “You overdid it trying to beat me, despite having no chance, and then you tried to drink an entire cauldron of soup before passing out in my lap. Now sit still.”

Rain laughed, settling his arms into his lap as the thrill of healing rushed into him from her palm. “In my defense, I didn’t have the faintest clue what I was doing back then.”

“And you do now?” Tallheart asked.

“Okay, ouch,” Rain said. “Good thing I’m being healed right now.”

Ameliah snickered, offering Tallheart a fist, which he bumped. She hit Rain with a second Healing Word, then took her hand away, her expression becoming serious once more. She gazed into his visor, finding his eyes. “You’re not worried about the imbalance?”

“Of course I’m worried,” Rain replied easily, his light tone belying just how true that statement was. “I accepted the risks months ago, though, and nothing’s changed. If I need a Focus boost to avoid chasing squirrels, so be it.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “Perhaps you should refrain. You humans could use the meat.”

“It’s just an expression, Tallheart. I didn’t mean literally chasing them. And besides. Nobody eats squirrel because they want to.”

“Squirrel’s fine,” Ameliah said, laughter in her voice. “Can you imagine how many he’d need to catch, though?”

Rain flipped up his visor so she could see the disgusted face he was making. Squirrel actually wasn’t bad—leagues better than most monsters—but still.

Ameliah smiled, brushing a strand of hair from her brow. “You want stamina too?”

“Nah,” Rain said, smiling back. “Thanks, but if you spend too much mana, I’ll have to refill you, and I want to take it easy until I fix my essence situation. I don’t want heartburn.”

“So no Winter, then?” Ameliah asked.

“In moderation,” Rain replied, wiggling his hand as he reached for the spell. Mercifully, his macros had survived the silver evolution. At his call, Winter configured itself according to its active macroset, which was winter_solo_passive. A flick of will brought up the debug output, and he moved the display next to his open status so he could see both at once.

macroset winter_solo_passive

Using Winter with:

Amplify Aura

Extend Aura

Channel Mastery, Multiplier: 2.00

Aura Compression, Reduction: 65.00m

Winter Multiplier: 30.90

Winter Adder: -4320.00 mp/day

Winter Range: 0.00 m

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

+STAT

Engine of Change

26

30

10

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

+SKILL

0

73,713

2,035,830

1

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

Health

1,700

1,700

300/d

Stamina

202

1,700

520/d

Mana

35,604

39,525

49.7/s

Attributes

287/2690

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

ACCLD

MISC

SYN

STR

85

85

10

0

75/500

100.0%

RCV

16.8

30

10

0

20/770

56.0%

END

59.5

85

10

0

75/310

70.0%

VGR

46.3

52

10

0

42/1140

89.0%

FCS

85

85

10

0

75/2000

100.0%

CLR

270

270

270

0

0/2500

100.0%

PER

10

10

10

0

0/0

100.0%

SPD

9.4

10

10

0

0/10.0

94.0%

Smiling, he spoke, working through the math. “I have two hundred seventy Clarity, times the base rate of ten, times three for Intrinsic, times seventeen from Engine of Change is one hundred thirty-seven thousand seven hundred mana per day. I also have eighty-five total Focus at the moment, so times the base rate of twenty, divide by four from Synergy, times three for Intrinsic, is one thousand two hundred seventy-five. My macro is telling me that Winter is giving a multi—”

“Rain.”

“—hirty point nine, so add the first two and multiply the sum by that for four million two hundred ninety-four thousand three hundred twenty-seven point five mana per day. Subtract the daily cost of Winter, which is four thousand—“

“Rain!”

“—dred twenty, and you get four million two hundred ninety thousand and seven point five mana per day. Converting to mana per second, that’s...forty-nine point...six...five...two...eight—mmphHH!”

“Rain,” Ameliah said sweetly, her hand pressed firmly against his mouth. “There is such a thing as too much math.”

Rain grinned at her as she took her hand away. “You take that back.”

Ameliah rolled her eyes. “I know you’re just messing with us, but come on. Nobody cares about that level of detail.”

“I wouldn’t be so sure about that,” Rain said with a knowing smile.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

Rain chuckled. “Anyway, sorry, you’re right. I shouldn’t be messing around. It’s late.”

Tallheart gave him a flat look. “Early. Late was three hours ago.”

“Right you are,” Rain agreed, looking back at his status. His mana was already full, so he deactivated Winter as he continued. “I should sleep, but before that, there are two more things I want to do. First, an essence exchange. Hang on a second.” He held up a finger, then reached along his link to Dozer. [Hey, buddy. It’s big squeezy time. Make sure you’re re—]

There was an abrupt pop, then a splatter.

Dozer landed on the dirt between them, barely missing the candle.

“That works too,” Rain said without missing a beat, not even surprised at this point. [How are you doing that!?]

Dozer happily popped a few bubbles in a non-answer before oozing into Ameliah’s lap. She shook her head slowly, stroking the slime while wearing a bemused expression.

Tallheart blinked. “At least you did not have to sneeze him into existence this time.”

“The less we talk about that, the better,” Rain said. “Anyway, I’m doing the essence exchange now. Here goes nothing.”

Before he could psych himself out, he triggered the process, then gasped.

“What?” Ameliah asked, her eyes widening slightly. “Did something go wrong? Are you hurt?”

Rain shook his head, the sudden sense of Ameliah and Tallheart’s presence vanishing almost as swiftly as it had come.

Okay. Okay, so...that was definitely linksight. My paling must have flapped open for a second there. He listened, hearing nothing from beyond the tent save a few distant snores. There had been no screams. Either the oversoul wasn’t as intense that time or the range was shorter. I’ll have to test it later.

“It was Linksight,” he said, looking up before his friends could prompt him. “I felt the two of you in my party when I triggered the exchange, but now...nothing. I think my paling opened up for a second, then closed again. Hang on, I’m gonna go make sure the cables are okay.”

He closed his eyes, not waiting for their response as he focused on his breath. To speed things up, he reached out to Dozer, who’d managed to fall asleep in the two minutes that no one had been paying attention to him. With the aid of the slime’s sleepy non-thoughts, he was inside his soul within thirty seconds, then at the Tear not a second later. A quick inspection revealed no further damage. The cable gauges showed that there had been some strain, but the needles had returned to nominal. His barometers reported much the same.

He returned to his body, quickly filling in the others before summoning his keyboard to type himself some reminders.

