Al looked over the [Solid Ward] around the house, then touched the surface. The solid air parted at his touch. Al pushed through, breaking the [Ward] into fractals across his entire body, as he stepped into the house. He overshadowed Erick by at least two feet. Erick smiled to look up at the man, as Al’s face flushed. The tall man looked away, smiling.

Erick stepped back, again, asking, “What’s the plan for tonight?”

Al glanced back to the [Solid Ward], touching it again, eliciting cracked air around his finger.

“Oh yeah!” Erick said, “I never showed you this, did I?” Erick pulled out the spell and handed it to Al.

Al briefly read over the spell, and smiled to say, “You are a lot more prepared for the trials of this world than you were when you first arrived upon my own doorstep.” He dismissed the blue box. “I am greatly pleased by this.”

“I am too.” Erick said, “Jane’s still worried, though. I sent her off today. She’s out gathering forms for Polymage. Oh! I did make this spell that burns a thing till it dies. It’s not [Death Spiral Fire], but it’s close. Still working on the rest of the standard archmage-repertoire, though.”

Al smiled wide, his lower fangs peeking out. He laughed, happy, saying, “This is good! Are you trying for that pesky mana sense skill, yet?”

“Just got [Detect Magic] the other day, and Kiri says that will help develop the skill, but I’ve yet to actually sit down and attempt such a thing.”

“It is a difficult skill.” Al smiled, saying, “But this is good! We shall celebrate!”

Erick smiled, softly, repeating, “What’s the plan for tonight?” He pulled at his clothes, scattering diamond dust, adding, “How much better should I dress?”

Al said, “I would be honored if you would accompany me to see the opening fights.”

Erick didn’t know if he heard that correctly. “The fights?”

Al paused. “Did you not know they were happening?”

“I have been kinda… occupied. Lately.”

Al smiled. He said, “In three to five days, the underground river will drop to a trickle, and water will have to be manually pulled up from below. This is when we hold the fights.” Al said, “Blood is spilled in friendly combat, to bless the lands and in prayer that the water will come again. Whoever has the most points by the time the water drops, wins. The fights this week promise to be the largest fights in a hundred years.” He added, “That’s the rumor, anyway.” He frowned at Erick, asking, “Did you really not know of them?”

Erick looked back toward Teressa, standing on the edge of the room in her monolithic grey [Conjure Armor]. She stood firm, without her helmet. She looked resigned; maybe slightly sad.

He asked her, “There are fights?”

“Yes, sir.” Teressa said, “I talked about it while you were making that dinner for Jane, and this morning, but it seems your mind was in another place.”

“Sorry. Yeah.” Erick agreed, “Probably.”

Teressa simply nodded.

Erick asked, “I guess I’m going to them. Wouldn’t you want to go, too, Teressa? Or, Poi, can be the guard? And you can just go to the the fights. You didn’t ask me for the night off, did you? Or… did you ask Poi?” Erick looked around. “Where is Poi, anyway?”

Teressa brightened, but she settled down, saying, “It’s me and Rats here, tonight. Poi is off doing whatever. We can go with you, though. Uh.” She said, “If you wish.”

Al readily said, “Yes! Yes. Let us all go!” He whispered to Erick, “This is not a date.”

Erick grinned. “I’ll go get ready.”

- - - -

Teressa watched Erick walk up the stairs to his room, then turned to Al, smiling wide, before she rushed off to her own room to go change. At a sudden thought, she burst into Rats’ room, waking him up, saying, “We’re going to the fights!”

Rats froze in his bed. He was awake, for sure. Teressa heard his heartbeat sledgehammer in his chest. Slowly, wide eyed, he turned over in his bed, glaring death at Teressa.

Teressa only smiled wider, saying, “We’re going to the fights.”

Rats breathed deep, then said, “Fucking hell and heaven, Teressa. Please don’t ever wake me up like that ever again.”

“Why are you still in bed, anyway!” Teressa said, “Get up, get up!”

Rats began extracting himself from his covers, muttering, “Bloody gods damned orcols and your bloody blood sports.”

Teressa squee’d just a bit, saying, “Yes yes! And we get to see them in person, this year!”

“Yeah yeah...”

- - - -

Erick rushed to his room. Once inside, he promptly stripped and then [Stoneshape]d the diamond dust off of his body. He cast a [Cleanse] and put on his best outfit; a pure white set of what he normally wore, and since this was a nightly event, Erick grabbed his nice brown cloak, too.

Ophiel watched him the whole time. He had watched Erick while Erick was shaping diamonds, too. As Erick walked out of his room. Ophiel followed, hovering through the air like he was floating on a lazy river.

Erick was the last one to enter the foyer; Teressa and Rats were waiting for him, alongside Al. Erick’s guards had dressed nicely, both of them wearing finer fabrics than their usual army-assigned armor, with nice belts and nicer cloaks.

Al looked up at Erick stepping down the stairs, and smiled. “Ready?”

“Ready!”

Rats said, “I’ve already checked in with security, so we’re cleared for arrival.”

Erick asked, “Security?”

Al smiled, saying, “People are throwing around high tier magic and weaponry. Of course there’s security.”

- - - -

The northern gates of Spur had been set opened. A ten meter wide, thousand meter long, road had been made out of sand, linking from the city, to a hill of lights off in the distance. Light orbs hung on the sides of that road, while countless people walked north, with friends, or family, or adventuring partners. Guards did not line the road, but they did man the gate from Spur.

The walk was a short one, all things considered. Cold threatened on the air, but a lot of people were here, on the road, and Erick’s cloak was thick enough without needing to resort to some [Conjure Armor]. Others on the road were not so lucky; Erick clearly saw in the singular colored cloaks or the singular colored armors, that some people were outsiders, who needed to learn how to dress for the hot and cold climate of the Crystal Forest.

Stone rose high at the end of that road, and Erick saw the hill was not a hill at all; it was a coliseum. It was a structure that was not there yesterday, and might not have been there this morning, either. Thick columns supported high walls, with arches on top of those columns, and stadium seating beyond. Lightorbs and lightsculptures adorned the structure; weapons, explosions, beams, and people of all sorts, locked in a battle, hovered in a ring of multicolored light atop those columns and arches, providing a diffuse rainbow of color, that added up to a prismatic glow, bathing everything in the colors of a festival.

In the center of that veritable wall of the exterior coliseum, sprung a fountain. Cascading from on high, blue and white lights flowed inside water, to crash upon layers of stone; pools for which the water only took a brief break, before falling down again, to other waiting shelves.

“I need to see that fountain,” Erick said.

“And so you shall!” Al declared, just one loud voice among the throng of people, walking to the fights.

Ophiel rested on Erick’s right shoulder, his eyes open wide to the world.

The roar of the cheering crowd on the other side of that stadium wall rocked across the twilight Crystal Forest, but the noises of the exterior of the coliseum were loud, too. People were everywhere.

And as they got close, the scents of food washed over Erick. Fried things. Cheesy things. Sugar and sweets. Meats and breads. Overhangs of stone and tables made of rock were everywhere across the sands, providing ample seating or respite, while countless food stalls sold brisk business to people eagerly awaiting their food.

Erick smiled. “I want to try some of everything.”

“And so we shall!” Al said, “But the fountain is over there.”

They made their way through the crowd, to stand at the base of the fountain. Water poured from on high, like glowing blue and white rain. The final crash of water ended in a bright pool, littered with light orbs and copper coins, though Erick spotted glints of gold and silver here and there amongst the rippling water.

All around Erick, other people were tossing in coins, and then closing their eyes in prayer, while guards watched from the sides of the pool. A sign in front of the glowing pool declared, ‘All donations go toward the Interfaith Church of Spur.’

As Al threw in a gold coin, Erick looked at the fountain again. The gods were in the waters; statues or reliefs, here and there, in muted glory. Rozeta hovered high on the multi-story fountain; a long dragon weaving among stone clouds. The water started among those stone clouds by Rozeta, but fell down onto other stone clouds, then all the way to the pool at the bottom. On one of those clouds stood Koyabez, with the Silver Star illuminated at his back, while Atunir stood under the rain among glowing stone wheat grown all around her. Phagar stood to the side, in a secluded space, with several slimes around his feet.

Erick threw in a gold coin, and made an indistinct prayer for a good future.

And then it was time to get back to the party. Al led the way back to the food carts, and promptly ended the idea of a discussion about who was going to pay; Al was paying. Erick revived the conversation by shoving money at the next stall before Al could. Al just laughed. From one eatery to the next, the balance of who-paid-for-what might have been even, but Erick was already three beers into the night.

In the middle of their fourth food stall, Poi showed up.

Erick shoved some beer at the dour man, saying, “Drink up! It’s a festival, didn’t you know!”

Poi took the beer, almost saying something that was surely a buzzkill, but he stopped, and said, “Very well.” He sipped his beer, and said, “Teressa and Rats want to participate in the fights, you know? They left you behind twenty minutes ago.”

“No!?” Erick said, “I did not know!” Erick turned to Al, declaring, “We must go cheer them on.”

Al pointed over the crowd, saying, “Onward! To the arena!”

Erick finished his beer and got a fifth on his way through the crowd, to the arena proper.

The coliseum was only half of a coliseum, specifically, the southern half. There were no two sides to this conflict, only the one side: Spur. The seating for all of Spur took up hundreds of rows, up and down the veritable mountain of stone that had been moved in for this event. Three such seating areas had been made, and all of them looked down onto a hundred meter wide oval of bare rock and sand, and the dark expanse of the north, at night.

With [Ultrasight] Erick saw two groups of people already fighting in the oval, under bright spotlights that illuminated everything, though one of the fighters was in the sky, shooting [Force Bolt]s. Ophiel trilled to see the man in the air, as though asking, ‘Why aren’t they all flying?’

Erick asked, “Only half an arena?”

Al carried his beer in one hand, and pointed with a tray of donuts in the other, saying, “They start down there, but they often end up elsewhere.” He added, “And besides! It’s bad form to use the audience as a shield, even accidentally. These guys look like rookies, but we might see a real fight by the end of the night.”

Erick glanced backward at the fight, as they walked up the seating area to find a nice spot. Swords flashed under spotlights. Beams carved across the sand. A man leapt at a woman, as the woman vanished, and reappeared behind the man, striking hard. The man crashed across the arena to spack against a boulder. The audience all around Erick both cheered and winced.

People on the sidelines at the arena edge rushed to the downed man, but the man stood back up, to a minor cheer from the crowd. But he was bleeding from that attack; he was out of the fight.

“Hello there!” Al said, to someone.

Erick turned back to see Al greeting Mog. A few other people Erick had never seen before sat with the guildmaster. All of them wore armor; all of them looked ready for a fight. Mog wore a powerful red armor that protected her more than anything else Erick had ever seen her wear, hiding much of her massive musculature, and making her look twice as huge as normal. A powerful smile finished off her powerful look.

Mog said, “Why hello there, you two beautiful men.”

“Mog!” Erick said, “Hello! The Hydra is dead.”

“I know.” Mog smirked, asking, “What about the rest of them?”

“Ah. Well.” Erick said, “Soon I’ll be off to Oceanside for some archmage training, if that's what you’d want to call it. But if you get any sightings, I’m always open to a [Telepathy]. Or Poi is.” Erick looked behind him, to see Poi. “Maybe?”

Poi spoke up, “Any time, Guildmaster Mog.”

Mog said, “I’ll hold you to that.”

Al said, “We must talk about this Oceanside trip, Erick.”

A man with Mog leaned over— It was Draz, from Erick’s remedial adventuring training. Erick smiled to see the man, as a tendril of thought connected him to Mog.

Mog sighed, looking over Erick and Al, and said, “We’re up—”

“You are? Already?” Al asked.

“Yup.” Mog and her team stood from their seats. “Keep our seats warm, would you? I’d like to talk to you about Oceanside. After we win.”

Erick said, “Certainly! Good luck.”

Mog smiled, to say, “We make our own luck.”

“Good fight, Mog,” Al said.

“Later, Al.”

Mog walked down the aisle, as other people walked up. The half-stadium was getting full, as twilight ended and stars took hold of the northern sky. A cool wind should have blown… But the air was rather still. It was chilly, but someone must have layered [Weather Ward]s out there.

Al sat down where Mog had been. Erick sat down beside him. And they watched the fights.

People in the crowd occasionally blipped away, only to reappear later with more food, and to a guard standing where they blipped back; scoldings played out across the stadium, here and there, while most people just watched the battles down below, cheering, and booing, and laughing, and roaring at the good show.

Al looked like he had something to say, but nothing came.

