Erick said, “Thank you for inviting me out, Al. I had no idea this was happening. I was going to [Teleport] out to Oceanside the day after tomorrow… But I was going to see you right before that.” He looked up to the blushing orcol, and said, “I was beginning to wonder if you had gotten cold feet after I dropped on you that I was over 50.”

Al sat straighter. “I understood what you meant.” He reluctantly added, “I just did not know… What to do with this information. Spur is a melting pot, but I have no idea how to interact with a human… in this scenario. We haven’t had humans in Spur in a very… Ever since I moved to the city.”

Erick smiled. “I don’t bite, unless you want me to.”

Al laughed loud. It was a good sound.

Erick joked, “I was actually trying to flirt with Mog the other day, since it looked like you weren’t interested—”

Al blushed dark.

“— But I think I might have done something to offend her.”

Al suddenly laughed again. “Mog loves to flirt, but as soon as affection is returned, she shuts down. It is an old problem with her.” He added, “But this is good news for me. It means I have at least a year to make a move on you. If we are your only suitors, that is.”

Erick laughed.

Al asked, “Are there any other rivals for your affections I should be aware of?”

Erick forced falsely-serious words through his smile, saying, “I’m hot stuff. Everyone wants a piece of this platinum rain action.”

Al laughed loud.

- - - -

When Team Mog’s turn came, the arena cheered like thunder rolling across the land.

Her opponents never stood a chance. Mog instantly zipped through the space between her and those four unfortunate people. By herself, in bright red armor, she bashed a leg in half, sent a guy flying, turned an arm into a broken thing, and accepted the surrender of the fourth guy. She casually cast a conjured sword across the fourth guy's cheek, spilling several drops of bright red blood to the sands of the arena.

The crowd cheered, again.

Erick sent Ophiel down for more beer. And fried chicken. And fries. Couldn’t forget the fries!

The vendors were only slightly worried about Ophiel’s half-enlarged appearance, but everyone knew who he was from his time providing rain for the farms. Ophiel handed over gold, too, so that smoothed a lot of ruffled feathers.

- - - -

Mog walked up the stairs, without her group, and without her armor. She wore a red dress, instead. A warm cloak wrapped around her shoulders, but her dress was cut to reveal. Erick’s Vitality had already prodded at him this entire night, but now, with Al sitting on one side and Mog suddenly sitting down on the other side, Erick just chuckled to himself, as his pants were a bit too tight.

Mog leaned into him, asking, “How’d you like our fight?”

Erick smiled. “Was that a fight? It looked like a beating.”

Al laughed. “You never gave them a chance, Mog!”

Mog leaned back, putting on a false offense, as she said, “They were our opponents! I did what anyone should do.”

“You smacked them up right good,” Erick said.

“I did.” Mog grinned, looking down at the fights in the arena, adding, “It’s what rivals deserve.” She looked to Al, saying, “My very best.”

Erick looked up from Mog, to Al, saying, “You know? For the longest time, I thought you two were an item.”

Mog laughed at that, while Al coughed up his beer. The people on the seats below looked up; Erick mouthed ‘Sorry’, but they just turned back around, eyes intent on the arena.

Mog said, “We would have been.”

Al added, “You wanted what I could not give.”

“And it’s an old argument that doesn’t bear repeating.” Mog said, “But now, we’re just friends who meet around town, and occasionally in each other’s beds.”

Al choked on his beer again, but contained the spilled beer to himself this time.

Erick just smiled to himself, saying, “Ah. Well I’m not that… Ah.”

Mog sat straight, saying, “I didn’t mean to imply that you were. Uh.” She went silent. She stared down at the fight. She said, “Sorry.”

She vanished in a blip of grey.

Al said, “Sorry about… Uh.” He looked to Erick, and said, “Oceanside will be good for you. Very good. Just don’t get taken in by the Headmaster. Uh.” He paused. He said, “This is all very awkward, now. She should not have said that.”

Erick looked up to the man, and said, “Don’t worry about it.”

A bright flash of light on the arena drew Erick back toward the action.

As the arena turned to flame, and the crowd went quiet, Erick added, “Ah! Let’s watch this one.”

Al agreed, obviously glad for the sudden distraction.

Three people set out against three others, one team in blue, the other in yellow. Blue light streamed down from the sky, striking yellow adventurers, exploding into blue conflagrations. Sand melted, as yellow men and women vanished and reappeared in the blue formation. Yellow pulses rocked the arena, like drops hitting a calm pond, striking blue armor and fracturing into further explosions.

A blue arm went flying.

Somewhere in the middle of that, blue swords carved against yellow helmets. A yellow breastplate streaked with red; first blood. They were out of the fight. They were also unconscious.

The chaff was discarded; only two people remained.

A blue man stood against a yellow woman, the others having already fallen. The heavens opened up again, raining blue [Force Bomb]s that scattered across the field, exploding in blazes of glory. But yellow moved faster than blue. She pulsed with rings of yellow; Force exploding where it touched something that was not already yellow.

Blue flew into the air, away from the audience. Yellow chased, flying, sword drawn, a seven meter length of unwieldy weapon. Not a drop of blood yet spilled from either combatant.

Blue opened the sky with crashes of blue Force, but Yellow twisted in the air, dodging nebulous blue bullets the size of her body. Yellow retaliated with concentrated explosions of her own that burst around Blue, completely obscuring the man. But Blue was already forty yards away, in another part of the sky. A cacophony filled the night as yellow and blue light danced a song of destruction.

A stray explosion struck the ground of the arena, too close to the stands, sending sand into the audience. Some cheered. Guards stood up and cast [Force Wall]s.

Whoever Yellow and Blue were, they were not rookies; they were veterans, and evenly matched. Blue struck with waves of lightning. Yellow deflected with barriers of Force. Yellow struck with a [Blink] and a swipe. Blue retaliated with a reactive explosion that sent Yellow hurling backward, and faintly on fire.

Beams of green light ripped through the air from a dozen different sources around Blue, converging on Yellow, as Yellow swiped a hand through the air, and the beams reflected back to Blue.

“How did she do that!” Erick asked.

Al answered, “[Reflection]. An exceedingly good version. You get it through [Ward].”

“How?”

“[Rebound] and [Ward]. Somehow.” Al said, “Very difficult to get right.”

“Wait! I think I knew that. Did I? I might be drunk.” As the arena flashed with a hundred small blue explosions, Erick added, “I need [Reflection].”

Al smiled, saying, “It is a good spell.”

Tiny sized Ophiel stared at the fight with a hundred open eyes. Being that he was only, all together, five linear foot of wings, a hundred eyes upon him made him look quite nightmarish. Erick went to pat Ophiel, to calm him down a bit, but he was unsure of where to touch to not touch an eye. Ophiel solved Erick’s hesitation by pressing his open eyes against Erick’s hand.

It was not the most pleasant experience. It wasn’t wet; Ophiel wasn’t organic. But it was… icky. But Erick just laughed, and petted anyway. Erick returned his own eyes to the fight in front of him, burning [Ultrasight] to see more clearly.

After ten minutes a winner appeared: Yellow. But only because Blue fell out of the sky, mana spent. With nothing left to give and too tired to move, Yellow stabbed Blue in the side; a tiny cut, releasing drops of blood onto the sand.

Erick turned backward toward Poi. “Are Rats and Teressa going out later?”

Poi said, “They’re not going to fight. They weren’t willing to disclose their enchanted equipment under truthstone.”

“Probably for the best.” Erick said, “I was waiting for them, but if they're not going then that’s enough for me, Al.”

Al grinned. “Me too. Let me walk you home.”

Erick smiled.

- - - -

At Erick’s front door, Poi went inside while Erick and Al remained a few feet outside of the [Crystalline Air]. Erick looked over Al, briefly remembering their time at the bath house, and everything that those clothes hid, while Al looked down at Erick, with a slight smile and his lower fangs protruding.

Al stepped away from Erick and gave a quick bow, saying, “Thank you for the pleasure of your company.”

“Thank you, Al.” Erick said, “That was unexpected, and thoroughly enjoyable. Though I must admit I enjoyed the company more than the blood sports.”

Al chuckled, then said, “Enjoy your time in Oceanside. I eagerly await your return.”

Erick opened his mouth, but then shut it. He said, instead, “I’ll see you later, Al, but the rains will still come. You have [Telepathy], right? You can contact me, if you wish.”

Al smiled softly, then said, “Learn lots, Erick. Talk to you later.”

And then he left. Erick watched him go, for a little while. Al turned around and waved. Erick felt his face heat, as he waved back, and went inside.

Erick did his evening routine; even washing himself off with a [Watershape]d orb of soapy water; a rarity, in Spur, while he held [Cleanse Aura] open. After that, Erick went upstairs. Kiri was awake and busy in the classroom, working on ideas for spells; Erick had told her he would help her make a Particle spell, but only if she made something that would be useful and not destructive. She was working on that. She was still in the idea phase, too.

So Erick went to bed. Ophiel curled up on the pillow beside him. It was already midnight. Jane had not checked in, so Erick bothered her with a [Telepathy]. She yelled at him; she was sleeping. Erick just laughed, happy that she was okay. He wished her a good night, and she reluctantly did the same.

Erick dreamed of black dragons, both the long kind, and the kind with tails and wings the size of their body.
