“Mom? Can you hear me?”

The words started as a whisper and culminated in a roar which brought Sarnai back to her senses, and she didn’t much like what she found. She was thirsty, which she immediately voiced without thinking, and hungry, tired, and uncomfortable to boot. Being the thoughtful boy he was, Rain already had a cup of warm tea in hand which he held to her lips, and she drank sparingly as he instructed while wondering why she needed his help at all. After thinking it through, she decided she didn’t actually need his help and tried to convey this without words, but he didn’t understand as he refilled her cup and brought it back to her lips with a tender smile.

It warmed her heart to see him so healthy and happy, his eyes warm and complexion glowing. Though far from fully recovered, it was a marked improvement from how he’d been before being conscripted and forced to serve in Sinuji, a frail, feeble little thing who could barely sit up straight without help. “So handsome,” she murmured, patting his face between sips, but then again, she’d always known he would turn out this way, what with how beautiful his parents had been. Wait, her hands were free, so why didn’t she just hold the teacup herself? She tried as much, but her hand continued patting Rain’s cheek, while the other held her cloak in place to ward off the morning chill.

Panic spiked as she realized she’d lost control of her limbs once again, but then cold logic swept in to put her in her place. There was nothing wrong with her arms, the proof of which lay before her very eyes, her raised hand which now hung frozen in place. She hadn’t taken the teacup because she had only thought about taking it in a hypothetical sense, rather than actually make any physical attempt.

Such were the consequences of spending too much time in her Natal Palace. She’d grown too used to doing things at the speed of thought without ever needing to lift a hand, and it was a marvellous sensation indeed. Despite devoting her entire life to the Martial Path, this was the first time she experienced Insight so deeply that she lost herself in a haze of comprehension, even forgetting to keep track of her mental surroundings or tend to corporeal needs. She’d heard tales of Martial Warriors killed whilst sitting unresponsive in their tents, or even starving to death after entering a meditative trance with no one around to care for them, but she’d never thought it would happen to her.

It was unsettling in a way, but also thrilling and addictive, a heady rush of knowledge and perception which superseded all else. She’d made such great strides along the Martial Path these last few days, especially with regards to emitting deadly shards of Chi from the tips of her fingers, but there was still so much more to learn. It was almost as if the Mother Herself demanded Sarnai’s attention, rushing to impart the important lessons needed to face the coming trials and tribulations...

Refreshed and revitalized by her brief surge of alarm, the fog lifted from Sarnai’s mind and she bolted upright in her seat. Still smiling in amusement, Rain had long since anticipated her reaction and placed the teacup aside. In its place was a steaming bowl of congee overflowing with shredded pork, salted eggs, and roasted peanuts, as well as a generous garnish of green onions sprinkled over top, just the way she liked it. Stomach rumbling in thunderous demand, she snatched the bowl out of his hand with a scowl and waved aside his silent offer to feed her, hoping Rain would mistake the flush of her cheeks as feigned indignity rather than all-too-real shame.

To think, she’d ridden out two... or was it three days ago? Hard to say, but she gone out determined to bring him home safe, only to completely abandon him in his time of need. And for what? Vague Insights she couldn’t entirely comprehend which left her in this muddle-headed state, barely able to remember how to properly hold a spoon and bring it to her lips. She had a fading impression of the bumpy rickshaw ride back, as well as having her musings interrupted by someone trying to take her hand, but otherwise, she had no idea how she ended up here. A woman her age should know better than to behave so irresponsibly, especially a mother riding to the aid of her child, but luckily Rain made it back to the citadel safe and sound.

Glancing around as she devoured her meal, she confirmed that they were, in fact, at the citadel, sitting at her dining room table with guests a plenty. Alsantset sat beside her looking tired and distracted, while her present and future in-laws were scattered around the room in similar states of disarray, all being tended to by their husbands, fathers, loved ones, or in poor Luo-Luo’s case, her handmaidens. It was strange seeing the cantankerous Du Min Gyu spoon feed the distracted Yan with such tender care, and stranger still to see the hulking Husolt do the same with scowling Mila and leave his irritable wife in dutiful Song’s hands. A smart decision, because Akanai was liable to grumble and snap even when she was in the best of moods, but would sooner cut off her own arm than utter a harsh word at sweet Song, no matter how disoriented she might be.

Which, now that she thought about it, might be why her dog-brained husband was conspicuously absent.

Her gaze lingering on Song as the girl fed her adopted mother, Sarnai mused about how the beautiful half-cat would make a good wife someday, so mindful and considerate of her friends and family. Nothing like her son’s current betrotheds, all of whom Sarnai loved dearly, but one had to admit, they were all... rather spoiled. Poor Rain was going to run himself ragged keeping up with his demanding wives each demanding different things. Sweet Mei Lin, sitting off in the corner with Taduk and Mentor, was an adorable, innocent young girl whom everyone loved to spoil, but she was also famed for her petulant temper and penchant for mischievous revenge. Nothing malicious mind you, but one might find their small-clothes doused in itching powder or their tea laced with ground bitter-thorns, so not only was Rain subject to her every whim, Sarnai feared for her poor boy’s peace of mind if he should ever upset the half-hare darling.

Then there was fiery Sumila, whom Sarnai absolutely adored. With her gruff temperament and unyielding demeanour, she was a shining example for the younger generation to admire, but as a future daughter-in-law, she left much to be desired. Mila demanded excellence from herself, which in turn pushed Rain towards the same, and it hadn’t escaped Sarnai’s notice that much of her son’s drive for success stemmed from a deep-seated desire to overtake and overcome his beloved Mila. The problem was, this cast an adversarial light over the nature of their relationship, and Sarnai worried their little contest might not end well, regardless of whether Rain failed or succeeded. Worst of all, it was clear Rain ranked third on Mila’s list of priorities, behind the dual paths of the Martial Warrior and Divine Blacksmith, ambitions which left little room for her future husband and children.

Then there was Yan, who’d once been the most promising of the three, in theory at least. Alsantset had raved about the girl and how she stuck by Rain throughout the trials and tribulations with the Society, fought by his side against the Defiled, and even tended to his needs while he was injured. Sarnai had cursed Akanai for a fool for letting a foreigner snatch up such a gem, and continued to do so daily for the last half year as she finally got to know her son’s third betrothed. Spoiled by her time in Central, the polite and conscientious Yan of yesteryear was dead and gone, and in her place was a lascivious woman with an insatiable appetite. Given the duration of her nightly visits, Sarnai feared for Rain’s ailing health once he was married in truth and had four other women to satisfy.

Then again, it would serve him right, the little lecher done in by his own greed...

Then there was the concubine, beautiful, compliant, eager to please Luo-Luo. At first, Sarnai had hoped the Imperial Servant would help balance the scales of Rain’s marital life, someone to help him with the mundane burdens of running a household, but Sarnai was left sorely disappointed. ‘Imperial Servants’ only served in the strictest sense of the word, and she likened Luo-Luo to more of an Imperial layabout. The girl’s musical talents could not be overlooked, but the rest of her ‘skills’ amounted to little more than useless frivolities, activities to enjoy during free time, of which she had plenty of since she had no useful abilities to call upon. Incapable of needle-work, leather-work, and house-work in general, Luo-Luo’s sole duties involved looking after Rain’s businesses and spending coin faster than he could earn it. From what Sarnai could tell, the girl worked on credit more often than not and took loans without a second thought to cover her soaring deficits, so while she had yet to slip up and borrow more than she could cover, in Sarnai’s mind, it was only a matter of time before the debt-collectors arrived to splatter red paint across their doors and walls and inform everyone with eyes that Falling Rain had shamefully missed a payment on his debts.

Sarnai had even started setting aside coin to help Rain pay back his loans if he should ever come to his senses and seek help, but thankfully, his ingenious ideas were enough to keep him afloat for now.

So disappointing, these four future daughter-in-laws, but since Rain had yet to complain, it was not Sarnai’s place to sow the seeds of discontent. Reaching out to pinch his cheek, she ignored his surprised and curious expression and simply handed him her empty bowl, which he promptly re-filled and handed back. “Thank you,” she said, her voice coming out quiet and strained from lack of use. “How much time until we leave for the banquet?” For the life of her, she couldn’t remember what today’s date was, or what day it’d been when she first discovered the grove and lost herself in Insight.

“Technically, negative amounts of time. We were supposed to leave an hour ago. Yuzhen and Nian Zu have been getting antsy.”

Halfway to her lips, Sarnai dropped her spoon back in the bowl and jumped to her feet. “Mule-headed boy, why wait so long to tell me? Let me pack my things and we will set out immediately. This banquet is of the utmost importance, and there are still preparations to make once we arrive at the Citadel.”

Alsantset was already out of her seat, every bit as flustered as her mother, but the other girls were still seated and watching with vacant expressions. Well, all except Mei Lin, who buried her face in Taduk’s robes to muffle her giggles. “Calm yourself, little Rose,” Mentor Sent, her comforting presence washing away Sarnai’s apprehension. “The boy has things well in hand. Your luggage is packed and readied for your departure. Finish your meal and then we will set out.”

Relieved by Mentor’s reassurances, Sarnai sat back down and motioned for Alsantset to do the same. Though not privy to their silent exchange, Rain clearly knew someone had told her that everything was fine, and his smirk said it all. Wait. “Did you say the Marshal and Colonel General are waiting on us?”

“Yea.” Shrugging, Rain added, “I told them to head out without us. We could’ve caught up in no time. Wouldn’t have even needed to commandeer a boat or anything.”

“You... you...” Taking a deep breath before she said something she regretted, Sarnai set aside her bowl and pinched Rain’s cheeks with both hands. “You should know better than to treat our comrades with such disrespect! Where’s your father, that dog-brained fool? He should have set you straight and sent you off without us.”

“He went out on patrol early this morning, before I even woke.” Rain replied, somewhat sheepishly at that, staring at his feet like a scolded child. “An unscheduled and impromptu patrol, which set out on a southern heading.”

To clear the way for their son’s convoy, no doubt, something Rain no doubt discerned on his own. “And knowing this, you still chose to delay?” Placing her finger underneath his chin, she gently raised his head so she could look him in the eyes. “Why?”

Her son wouldn’t waste his father’s efforts without good reason, but he was reluctant to say why, not-so-covertly glancing around to convey his misgivings. Too many ears apparently, though everyone present was family, even the dour Min Gyu who’d proven himself wholly dedicated to little Yan’s cause. Rolling her eyes, Sarnai looked to Mentor for confirmation before gently mashing Rain’s cheeks with one hand and trying not to smile at how soft and pliable his face was. “How many times must I tell you? The manor is safe, and you can speak freely here.”

“Well yea, but that was before the Colonel General saddled me with a nanny, and I lost track of him on the way back.” Looking around the room once more, he asked, “You’re sure it’s safe?”

Sarnai rolled her eyes, but she checked with Mentor again just to be sure, and felt a Sound Barrier spring into existence. “Yes, boy. Now speak.”

“Alright.” Placing his open palm next to his left shoulder, Rain held it there and said, “It’s okay Pong Pong. Come out and say hi.”

