And just like that, the terrifying little turtle appeared, so still and colourful she wondered how she ever missed him sitting right there on Rain’s shoulder. She’d known of the creature’s existence of course, but this was the first time she laid eyes on the poorly-named turtle, or at least seen more than a green and yellow blur. A beautiful Divine Beast of unimaginable power, Pong Pong did not behave like a creature capable of killing everyone present with little more than a thought. In fact, he seemed apprehensive in her presence, sitting utterly still atop Rain’s shoulder save for his eyes, which darted around the room to take in everybody’s reactions. Checking to make sure his Selective Concealment was still effective no doubt, though how the little beast managed such a thing was beyond Sarnai’s comprehension. What she did know, however, was that little Pong Pong was nervous, and if any one of them should make the wrong move, it was easy to imagine him responding with deadly force, either in the form of a dismal Aura capable of crippling even Mentor herself, or conjuring powerful columns of Water-Chi to crush them with ease.

The situation needed to be handled with delicate care, because one wrong move and -

“Oh don’t be so dramatic.” Unceremoniously plucking the turtle from his shoulder, Rain placed Pong Pong in his cupped palms and held him up to Sarnai’s face. It took every ounce of courage and discipline she had to keep from backing away as her son pointed at her and said, “This is Mom. She’s family. Fa-mi-ly. Understand?”

For a moment, she worried Rain had finally cracked and gone mad, thinking he could truly communicate with animals, but then the turtle looked at him, looked at her, and unleashed his Aura. It wasn’t the emboldening Aura she knew and used, nor was this the dreadful, malignant Aura of the Defiled which sapped strength from those caught in its icy grasp. Instead, this Aura was shy and tentative, but warm and familiar, a safe, comforting sensation she hadn’t felt in ages. It was the same way she felt every time she moved around that familiar bend and laid eyes on the village for the first time in weeks or months, the sensation of welcome relief from a hard journey or adventure, and one she sorely missed.

It was the feeling of returning home, plain and simple, tinged with curious hope and timid trepidation, all emanating from the tiny turtle in Rain’s hands.

“Incredible,” she gasped, reaching out to pet the turtle without thinking twice. Surprised by her movement, Pong Pong retreated into his shell so quickly his body tumbled and bounced in the palm of Rain’s hands.

Stifling a laugh, she retracted her hand and looked to her son for guidance, who was equal parts surprised and amused by his little friend’s reaction. “Well, it went better than it did with Dad or Charok,” Rain said, shrugging in helpless futility. “He wouldn’t even come out to say hi, so at least we’ve got that.”

Hoping to bribe the little turtle to come out of his shell, she rummaged through her belt pouch and emerged with a bag of dried berries she kept on hand for the rabbits and bears. Dropping three into Rain’s palm, she watched and waited with bated breath, but alas, the tiny turtle was too wary of her presence and the berries remained untouched. Pursing her lips in disappointment, she turned back to her meal and asked, “So what does this have to do with your audacious disrespect towards the Marshal and Colonel General? Two powerful individuals who have proved themselves steadfast allies, I might add.” In the past year, Yuzhen put more effort into integrating with the People than Rain had in his entire life, but now was not the time to bring it up.

Or really, ever, since she dreaded the day Rain finally thought to ask about his parents and origins...

“Well, you see how nervous he is?” Oblivious to her inner thoughts, Rain pouted and stroked Pong Pong’s shell to no effect. “He’s a powerful Divine Beast, and he’s been cagey all morning.” Seeing her incredulous expression, Rain frowned and sighed. “I’m not explaining it properly. See, he does this thing where he goes on alert every now and then, like there’s some danger lurking about that I can’t perceive. It happens randomly at all times, so I taught him to perch on my shoulder when he senses danger, and it worked like a charm. He alerts me, I call for my guards, and a minute or two later, he calms down and everything goes back to normal.” Shrugging, he adds, “Well, sometimes it takes longer, and I still can’t figure out what triggers him. Yesterday, we spent the morning sitting out in the open in the restaurant by the eastern gate, so Song could go out and look for the weasel-bear, and Pong Pong was fine the whole time. Then, after a nap with Ping Ping, we headed back to the manor, and he immediately alerted me to danger. We spent the rest of the day locked in my room with a dozen Death Corps guards to keep me safe while I handled business with Yuzhen through correspondence, and he stayed on my shoulder the entire time. He only calmed down when I went to bathe before bedtime.” Knowing better than to derail Rain’s story to ask about this weasel-bear, why he was napping with Ping Ping, or what business he had with Yuzhen, Sarnai sat in silence as Rain continued, “Then, I woke up today with him already perched on my shoulder and ready to fight for his life, and he hasn’t let down his guard since. By that time, Dad was already out on patrol, so I told Charok, and we decided it’d be best if we waited for you or Grandma to make a decision.”

“So you mean to say,” Sarnai asked, just to make sure she understood her son’s thought process, “That you kept the highest ranked strategic and military commanders of the North waiting all morning, because your turtle... is nervous?” Rain nodded, and Sarnai burst into laughter. “Foolish son of mine, Divine Beast or not, Pong Pong is still a turtle. His first instinct when presented with danger is to hide until it passes. Look at him, tucked away in his shell there.” To her surprise, although the shell was still occupied, the berries were all gone, having disappeared sometime during the conversation. Dropping a few more into Rain’s hands, she continued, “He could single-handedly bring down this entire citadel and kill everyone in it, yet here he hides inside his shell, wary of a frail old woman’s hands.”

“So... he’s a cowardly turtle?”

“Just a turtle is enough, son. Such is his nature.” Looking up from her meal, she found that the berries had disappeared once again, so she dropped another three berries into Rain’s hands. Determined to see little Pong Pong in action, she Scryed on Rain’s hands before returning to her meal, but this time, the berries remained untouched. Perhaps hearing her voice would make him confident enough to come out. “How did you teach him to alert you?”

“Err, after I came back from the farm, I brought him with me to bed and accidentally ended up in his Natal Palace.” Smiling down at the turtle’s shell, Rain missed seeing her bewildered stare as he continued, “Makes for easier communication when I can borrow his Chi to use Aura and draw pictures.”

Sarnai loved her son fiercely, but she would be the first to admit he was often infuriating to the extreme. “And you only thought to bring this up now? Does your father know?”

“Yep.” Shrugging as if this news were of no consequence, he added, “It only works when I fall asleep in physical contact with either Ping Ping or Pong Pong. I tried with Dad and Charok, but nothing happened, and I even found Dagen to test it out on, which was a super uncomfortable conversation to have, followed by the worst nap I’ve ever taken to boot. Also, I’m pretty sure this means Mama Bun doesn’t have a Natal Palace yet, so she’s further from Divinity than we thought.”

Yes, that was the important lesson to take from all this, that his spoiled Mama Bun didn’t have a Natal Palace. It wasn’t that he was still capable of miracles despite his ruined Core, or that his inner self could still use Chi, albeit outside his body. “Have you tried using your new powers to probe your shattered Core? Or directing the Divine Turtle to help Heal you?” She suspected she already knew the answer, but she had to ask just to be sure.

“Yes Mother.” His tone made it clear he felt belittled by the question, and she affectionately swatted his forehead to remind him of his manners. “I tried multiple times, but as far as I can tell, when I’m in Ping Ping or Pong Pong’s Natal Palace, there’s nothing wrong with my... Soul, I guess, or Spiritual Self, or whatever it is I’m projecting in there. As for the other thing, I don’t think Pong Pong understands the concept of Cores or even Healing for that matter. He mostly just wants to play when we’re together.”

What a shame, but one could hope. Suppressing a sigh so Rain wouldn’t feel worse than he already did, she patted his cheek once more and said nothing, just letting him know she was there for him if he needed her. Sinking gratefully into her palm, he smiled and relaxed for all of a second before straightening up once again. “More congee or tea? I have buns and snacks for later, but I thought it best to give your bodies time to adjust.”

“No, no more food.” Since Pong Pong still had yet to touch his berries, she dismissed her Scrying and wiped her mouth with a handkerchief. “We cannot keep our comrades waiting any longer. Let me go check and see if you left anything vital behind, and then we will be on our way.”

“No need,” Rain said, puffing up proudly like a popinjay. “There’s zero chance I forgot to pack anything, because I packed everything.”

“...Explain.”

“Well, I didn’t know what dress or jewellery you wanted to wear to the banquet, and Dad and Charok were no help, so we just grabbed everything in your room and packed it into a wagon. Clothes, jewellery, make-up, combs, ribbons, mirrors, the whole nine yards. This way, you and sister will have everything you could possibly need when we arrive at the Central Citadel.”

“See, little rose,” Mentor Sent, every bit as proud as Rain. “I told you the boy has things well in hand. He has grown more reliable of late, and I am sure we have you to thank.”

Of course Mentor would think this a reasonable solution, she barely saw the need for more than one set of clothes, much less variation in her outfits. The worst part was, Rain also thought he’d done well, and Sarnai didn’t have the heart to ruin his minor ‘victory’. That her dog-brained husband had encouraged him was no surprise, but she could usually count on Charok to be the voice of reason, except now he was outnumbered and no match for the idiot father-son pair. Settling back into her chair, she turned her eyes skyward and thought, “Mother in Heaven, why must you burden me with so many lovable fools?”

Such were her trials and tribulations, but they were well worth it.

Chapter Meme
