"Nah, I saw an overnight parking sign. It'll cost you thirty bucks."

Plus whatever a rental car would cost to get them home and back again, because there was no way Thomas was going back for his car right after shaking a freakin’ hit squad and almost inciting a riot of zealots.

He was in a bad mood as they boarded the bus. It was half empty, and he and Zach took two seats in the back.

Thomas thought about what he'd seen at the protesters' fair. People had been there from all walks of life, and there had been more than there had been at the convention center. The pushback over dungeon diving was growing.

"Okay," he said, glancing around. No one was within hearing distance and the rumble of the bus's engine covered their conversation. "How terrible is it going to get? Society," he clarified as Zach looked at him in confusion. "There were so many people back there, and it's mid-week in a smallish city. This is going to be bad before it's over. Should we count on the Old Families to step in and settle things down, or is the world going to burn?” He took a breath. “I need to know."

Zach tapped his finger in a rhythm on the seat in front of him for a few seconds, then shook his head. "I don't know," he answered honestly. "We didn't—they didn't know when the System was going to hit Earth. Just that it would at some point. I was kinda hoping it wouldn't be in my lifetime. Anyway, there's not like any grand plan that I know of. Just a lot of guys with a lot of power trying to ride out the wave like the rest of us. But those people we saw back there..." He shook his head and looked away.

"What," Thomas said.

Zach's shoulders rose and fell. "I'll tell you, but try not to feel bad for them, okay? They're making their own bed."

The sinking in the pit of his stomach grew. "Just tell me."

"Well... supposedly once the full System is here, it'll give you a year after you turn fifteen to unlock your Gift. When the full integration comes–" He flicked his eyes upward, meaning the message in the sky and the countdown that came along with it, that everybody could read, rain or shine, in whatever language you spoke, even if you were illiterate, "--once that hits and you're a full adult without a Gift, you'll be taken somewhere else."

Thomas blinked. "Taken?"

"You know those rapture stories? Only they won't be zapped up to heaven. It'll be like some sort of forced dungeon tutorial. It'll be safe," he added quickly, "with instant healing. But they'll get shitty, guaranteed support Gifts. The thought is that if you're not strong enough or willing to fight for your planet, you can assist those who can. Then once they're through they'll be returned to a random place on the planet to start, uh... start serving the new society, instead of being a burden to it." He snorted. "They'll be the toilet cleaners and maids to the people who spent all this time gaining magical power."

Thomas followed that line of logic. "The adults will be taken, but a lot of them had a whole bunch of kids. Their parents will be gone, and they'll be left alone in a full-System world. Their parents won't come back because they'll be returned to, like, Mongolia or Brazil or cousin-fuck militia central right when society is imploding. Oh my God."

Zach just looked guilty. "I shouldn't have said anything. I'm sorry."

"We have to do something. Get word out, warn people. Maybe some of them will listen—"

"Thomas," he said. "Breathe."

He was breathing. In fact, he realized his breaths were coming out too fast.

"Plenty of people know this," Zach continued, calm. "There are countries already instituting mandatory dungeon dives. They aren't the type that usually give power to the people, if you know what I mean. I'd be surprised if we didn't start seeing the same thing here."

Oh, like the belligerent Sov Cit types would go for that. Thomas shook his head and said nothing else. He focused on looking on the bright side, though there wasn't much of one, calming down, and getting back under control. He was genuinely growing upset over a bunch of people who would have mobbed him and ripped him apart less than a half hour ago.

"This fucking mana," he muttered, blinking fast and then rubbing his face. He had to get control of himself. "Am I gonna start crying at Humane Society commercials?"

"Dude, those are so brutal. You mean you already don't?" Zach grinned at him. "Don't you have a heart?"

"Ha fucking ha."

Zach sobered. "You always have a choice," he said in an odd tone, like he was quoting something. "If you can't stand it, get a skill that focuses the mana in a productive direction, or start absorbing different types for your next level. Healers are usually earth or water-based. You’re only level 2. You’re just getting started."

Thomas's eyebrows knit. He looked through his backpack for a moment to confirm his suspicion. "I have a nature mana crystal."

"Nature's awesome," he said, utterly nonjudgmental. "Be a druid or something. Heal the earth, bro."

He didn't want to be a druid. He liked his healing mana, even if it made him sort of a wreck at the thought of people suffering and families split apart. He could deal with that, or maybe get some emotional regulation skill or something.

"I'll think about it," he said shortly. Self-directed annoyance was better than empathy for those who only wished him dead. "Let's figure out if this bus line gets us to a rental car place."

That was when he felt his phone buzz in his pocket. He turned the screen on and looked. It was a text from Jo.

Split the dungeon drops 50/50 like last time?

He instantly replied. 33/33/33. I have a fire mage with us.

There was a long pause with blinking dots before she replied. I'm in. When are we doing this?

"Jo replied," Thomas said, "and she wants to do the dungeon. You ready to dive tonight?"

Zach pumped his fist. "Yeah! I don't mind saying I built up some fire back there. I can't wait to let it loose."

Tonight, Thomas confirmed, then hesitated and inwardly cringed before adding, Do you mind picking us up in Reno?

(NOTE: Just wanted to add in case people are concerned that we have not seen the last of the hit squad. As if this story could let potential loot pinatas go so quickly... )
