"I'm going to run a little longer," I tell mother as she’s about to walk into our house.

Mother looks back at me, and I watch her face cycle through a wide range of emotions. Unease, doubt, worry, compassion, understanding, mother's eyes convey so much before she settles on a small smile. "Are you doing, ok?" Mother asks me in a soft voice.

I step forward and give her a big hug. She strokes my back and whispers, “You can talk to me if you need to,” In my ear.

“I’m doing… better,” I tell her.

“Are you?” Mother leans back and looks me in the eyes.

"I am," I say with a soft smile, and that isn't just lip service for her either. I really am feeling better.

“Ok, but don’t be out for too long.” Mom finally releases me from her tight grasp.

I give mother a quick wave goodbye and continue running around the village with a smile on my face.

Mother has been clingy the last two days, but that's to be expected. After I finished my business with Kervin, I followed through with my promise to master and mother and came clean about the bandit attack and how I almost died.

I was prepared for my parents to ground me, or at the very least, yell at me, but I didn't get the response I was expecting.

Mom and dad spent the rest of the day with me, telling me it wasn't my fault and that I never need to hide something like this from them. Mom was a little peeved that I waited to tell them, but unless her punishment is burying me in hugs, I don't think I'll be confined to the village anytime soon.

I spent all day yesterday relaxing with my mother and recovering after a long couple of weeks. We spent the entire afternoon at Camden’s place sipping tea with Sarette.

I plan to take another two days off before I go back to making arrows for the army. Until then, I promised myself I would take it easy. No sword training, no testing magic, not even looking over how to make engraving ink because I know I couldn’t help myself once I see the process.

My strong legs propel me along the tree line surrounding the village. Whenever a stump is in my way, I gracefully hop over the obstruction and continue. I spot villagers watching me a few times, so I spice up my running by cartwheeling on the stumps or front flipping over them. Thankfully, I don't consider this training, or I would already be breaking my word.

Seeing their smiling reactions is worth the extra effort.

Another small group of villagers cheers for me as I hop from one stump to another and finish with a backflip.

I keep running, and the groups go about their day.

The weather is slowly getting better, and villagers with lower physical stats are starting to walk around the village more.

Yet another group of three waves to me as I pass by. I'm starting to get used to people paying attention to me. Only, this group looks much more somber for some reason.

“Aaliyah!”

I slow to a stop when I hear someone call out my name. I glance around and quickly notice Arash and Hayk walking towards me. The two senior hunters must have been on patrol nearby.

“Morning Arash, Hayk,” I greet the men as they approach.

“Hello Aaliyah, I see you’re still running. And by yourself?” Arash gives me a questioning look and scans the nearby trees.

“You shouldn’t be alone,” Hayk bluntly tells me.

“What, why?” I look between the two hunters, confused.

Hayk awkwardly rubs the back of his neck and looks away from me. I turn to Arash and ask, “What’s going on with you two?”

“You haven’t heard, have you?” Arash asks in a dark tone.

"Haven't heard what? I've been pretty busy lately," I give the two hunters a look that says, 'get to the point, I want to finish my run.'

“News just came to the village; there have been strange disappearances lately,” Hayk says in a low voice. “It's spreading throughout the whole village that people shouldn't walk alone.”

“People in the village have disappeared!?” I ask in alarm.

“No, no, not our village,” Arash clarifies. “When Markus traveled to the closest village to discuss springs crops, he brought back some spooky news.”

“Apparently, older high-leveled individuals in surrounding villages have vanished out of nowhere." Hayk cuts in. "Local trackers tried to follow their trails, but all signs of a person moving through the forest would suddenly stop once they were deep in the forest.”

“Chameleon spider?” I ask. If they’re still around, maybe I should take Ronald and master and hunt for more materials.

“No, that’s the thing,” Arash gives me a worried look. “Because we sent word to the surrounding villages about how to spot chameleon spiders, they’ve managed to find any spiders near their villages and deter them before they can cause problems.”

“They haven't seen signs of chameleon spiders in weeks, and they say the tracks suddenly disappeared like the people didn't struggle. One moment, they're standing in the snow, and then the next, they're gone." Hayk elaborates, and this time both senior hunters look at the surrounding trees, and I find myself doing the same.

“Does Camden know about this?” I ask.

“He sent word to all the hunters and asked us to increase our patrols," Arash tells me.

“So, everyone needs to be careful when it gets dark,” I nod in agreement. Both hunters shake their heads. “What?” I ask.

Hayk leans in, “All the disappearances have happened during the daytime.”

The hairs on the back of my neck stand up. “No one noticed the people leaving the village?” I question.

"Nope," Hayk tells me with a pale face. "Some of the missing people's tracks cut straight through the village too; only no one can remember seeing the people leave.”

“How is this not bigger news!?” I ask the two.

“Only one or two people would disappear in a single village, and all of them were older people you might not notice were gone. The word only spread when the head farmers for each of the villages got together to discuss the next harvest. Everyone thinks our village is next,” Arash explains grimly.

My hand subconsciously shifts to the sword at my side. But I've been scanning the woods regularly, and I can even vaguely spot Reel when he's nearby. Whatever is stalking the woods can't sneak up on me.

"Thanks for telling me; I'll make sure to be careful," I tell the two.

"We just wanted to make sure you were aware; we know you're able to spot the chameleon spiders and that you have a high level. Still, it would be best if you weren't out alone, even if you can handle yourself," Arash clarifies.

I nod in understanding. "Be safe," I tell them.

“You too,” they echo with the same sentiment. The two senior hunters turn and continue their patrol.

Suddenly I don’t feel like running anymore. Maybe I should head home.

I turn towards the direction of my home but stop after I take a step.

Maybe I should circle the village one more time. I do have the skills that let me find hidden foes, and if I do see something strange, I'm probably the most likely to escape whatever's hiding out there.

I continue making my way around the village; only this time, I'm walking and taking my time inspecting the tree line.

I miss the days when I only had to worry about farkas, karhu, and goblins, mainly because none of them are invisible to the naked eye.

Thankfully I don’t spot a single branch out of place as I circle the village. However, I do notice the number of people walking near the village's edge decrease significantly.

I walk away from where the forest and village meet and rest up against the nearby stable's fence. The outdoor pens are empty now, but the animals will soon emerge when the weather heats up in the next couple of days.

The animal pens are on the village's outskirts, so it surprises me when I see someone approaching me from the corner of my eye.

Who is that?

I can tell it's someone around my age from the silhouette, but I can't place the face. As the boy gets closer, I can better make out his features. Brown hair, brown eyes, and symmetrical features that look a little too perfect; his face screams familiarity, but I can't come up with a name.

His clothes are worn but look recently washed, and his body language suggests he's happy to see me.

I feel a slight pressure in the back of my mind, which fades quickly. The stress vanishes like it was never there, and I can finally remember the boy’s name.

“Hey Keter,” I call out and give a friendly wave.

Keter’s smile grows as he gets closer to me. He moves next to me and leans up against the fence, mimicking me.

Keter doesn't speak; he never really has. Even as kids, it was hard for Richard and I to play with him because of how quiet he was.

I feel all the nervousness from my talk with Arash and Hayk slowly disappear, thanks to my silent companion's reassuring presence.

Nothing bad ever happens around Keter. When dad would take us into the woods, we called Keter our good luck charm because we never encountered a single problem when he was with us.

I swing my arm over Keter’s shoulder and pull him close. “I’m glad you’re here. Did you hear about the disappearances?”

Keter nods, choosing to remain quiet.

I once again feel a headache come along, but for some reason, it dissipates just as fast as the previous one.

Poor Keter gives me a worried look. He’s such a caring brother-in-craft. He’s the one who truly understands Del. Now that I think about it, no one in the village doesn’t like Keter; he's just that good of a guy.

Keter gives me a caring smile and grabs my hands, pulling me towards the woods.

I dig my feet into the muddy ground and stop us before we pass the trees. “I think we should stay in the village,” I tell him.

Keter innocently cocks his head to the side and gently tries to pull me forward.

“It could be dangerous,” I remind him.

Suddenly the headache returns, and this time I'm forced to raise my hands to my temples. As the pain fades, Keter reaches and once again takes my hands, leading me into the woods.

Well, we both survived the goblin extermination together and hunt chameleon spiders with master and Ronald, so we should be fine. Keter joyfully leads me deeper into the forest; he must want to show me something important.

We quickly move through the forest, but for some reason, I can't place where we are.

“Hold up, Keter," He turns back to me with a questioning look. "I should take the lead, in case anything is hiding." If I'm in an unfamiliar place, I need to be careful.

I move next to Keter and activate Sense Mana. The surrounding mana lights up in my vision. The mana in the trees and ground contrast nicely with the remaining snow. I glance to my side at Keter and marvel at his fantastic mana network; he has more than triple my mana pool.

Wait?

Why does he have…

Another headache tears through my mind, forcing me to crouch on the forest floor. Thankfully like the others, it passes quickly.

Keter helps me to my feet and smiles at me. He waves his hands, and I feel my mana pool replenishing as we walk deeper into the forest.

Keter was always more talented in magic than me. It’s because of him I’ve been able to improve without the need of a master. Keter places his had up against my back and starts leading me in a specific direction.

I take a few steps before a fuzzy face flashes in my mind. He looks so familiar, but I can’t place who it is. His ebony skin stands out because it doesn't match anyone in the village. His bald head is covered in sweat like he's standing next to a fire, but his smiling face looks so kind to me.

"Master Del," I mumble. I don't know where the name comes from, but my mind becomes clear once again as soon as I repeat it.

Why did I think I didn't have a master? Everything I've learned has been from Master Del.

Something is wrong here!

I desperately look around the clearing, trying to spot whatever is causing my sudden sense of panic. I scan every inch of the surrounding forest.

Why did I agree to come here!?

I suddenly feel disoriented, and I can't remember which way we came from.

Looking at my feet, I trace my tracks to the left. I can follow my trail back to the village.

I freeze in place.

The tracks…

There is only one trail in the snow.

The little hairs on my arms and legs stand on end.

I don’t make any sudden movements and slightly turn my head until I can see Keter’s feet out of the corner of my vision.

My eyes widen, and my hands start to tremble.

The ground around Keter is entirely undisturbed; there isn't a single footprint in sight. Now that I look closer, it appears Keter’s shoes aren’t leaving any indents in the slush. Keter’s feet look like they’ve merged perfectly with the snow.

This can't be possible; I've known Keter for my whole life. He played with Richard and me outside our house.

The more I try to focus on the memory, the worse my head feels, until a point where the memory shatters, and I remember I only ever played with my brother as a child.

I can’t help but look up at Keter’s face, and our eyes meet. His smiling expression fades as the world starts to shift around me. Everything starts to lose color, and I feel like I'm dying. I've come close to death a few times since I reincarnated, but this is the same feeling I had when the cave collapsed on me in my past life.

I feel a deep pain in my chest, where my soul is, so I activate my tier 5 skill.

All at once, the world around me shatters.

Gone is Keter’s body and in his place is a human-sized puppet of black smoke. Holding the puppet, like a little girl playing with her doll, is a large grey hand.

And another equally large hand is around me, forming a cage of grey fingers.

Once I activated Sense Soul, everything became clear; only, I wish it didn't.

