After my mana and health are channeled into the sword, I feel the translucent lights that had once merged with my body when I distributed my status points leave to reinforce the spell.

After the lights leave my body, I feel like something important has left my body, like I’m no longer whole.

However, I don’t have time to adjust to the sudden feeling of emptiness before my spell activates in its entirety.

My sword glows with vibrating mana, and a sharp screech emitted from the sword causes my ears to bleed. The next thing I know, my hands are blown away from my blades handle as it rockets from my grasp, and I'm forced to take a step back.

Even with everything going on, I refuse to take my eyes off the creature.

I watch as my sword momentarily struggles to pierce the creature's skin before penetrating to the monster's core.

Through my sensing skills, I watch my sword clash with the creature's soul and disintegrate from the spell.

I wait for the creature to fall over dead, but it stays standing still, frozen in place.

I drop to my knees in defeat; no experience comes from the creature, meaning it's still alive.

"Well, that's everything," I start to cry. I already feel my body screaming out in pain from the sudden drop in both Mana and Health.

This is it; my eyes slowly close on their own.

This is how I die.

My eyes close for the last time.

The world around me erupts in translucent flames sending my senses haywire.

I have to force myself to open my eyes once again to see what's going on.

The once frozen creature has disintegrated into nothing; the damn beast apparently can't die while someone is looking at it either.

The vast amount of experience contained in the creature is flooding the surroundings. The trees and plants are absorbing so much experience they’re doubling in size before my very eyes. Forest grass erupts from the earth, pushing away the remaining winter snow.

The plants aren’t the only thing devouring the experience. My body feels like it’s about to burst as my soul rapidly tries to absorb the experience around it.

The pain of my soul expanding so rapidly is enough to keep me from passing out.

I watch as more and more experience dissipates into the surroundings. I don’t know why but I’m suddenly angry that I’m missing out after sacrificing so much to kill the monster.

With the pain in my soul keeping me awake, I absorb the mana from mana skin back into my body. Next, I force my regained mana close to my expanding soul and forcefully merge the two energies much like I saw the soul eater do. I replicate the same tendrils the monster was spreading from its body and forcefully drag more experience towards my soul.

I scream as the pressure in my chest expands even more.

“More!”

“More!”

"I deserve MORE!" I scream out loud

As more experience piles into my soul, two eyes appear in the center of my being and drag my consciousness inwards.

I try to fight the feeling and continue to absorb more experience, but I can't resist the eyes.

Everything goes dark as I’m forcefully dragged into my soul.
