Attached to the hands are long spindly arms that lead to a monster straight out of a horror movie. The humanoid creature has to be twenty feet tall, but it's hard to tell because it's in a squatting position.

The creature has no facial features or sexual characteristics. The monster is nothing but grey skin, and its limbs don’t appear to have any bones. The skin itself is lumpy and continuously shifting like a mass of worms are wriggling just underneath the surface.

The monster itself is frightening, but it's the creature's soul that has me shaking in fear.

The soul is the representation of a living beings’ level and experience. My soul is larger than average, even bigger than Master Del's, but it is nothing compared to this monster. If my soul was a marble, then this creature has a soul the size of a beachball.

How old is this monster? What level is it? I can't tell.

And the reason my chest hurts.

With my skill activated, I can see small tendrils coming from the cage of fingers connected to my body. They're slowly digging through my very being, towards my soul.

I try to shake the tendrils off, but they aren't physical. They passed straight through Mana Skin and ignored my mana network as well.

I don't know why the creature hasn't moved since I discovered it, but I'm not waiting to find out.

I kick off the ground and again off one of the creature's fingers to jump out onto the top of its hand. As soon as I slip out of the monster’s grasp, the soul-sucking tendrils snap, and the pain in my chest starts to fade.

I don’t take my eyes off of the giant creature as I jump down from the oddly motionless hand and try to gain as much distance as I can. I draw my sword, but I don't think it will be of any help. This thing has to be over level 150, and that's low-balling it.

I circle to the back of the creature, and yet it doesn't so much as twitch. The only movement I can see is its skin shifting.

I slowly move backward from the monster, content if the beast doesn't ever move again.

I make it thirty feet before I hit a wall.

Using my free hand, I touch the invisible wall behind me to confirm I'm not crazy. It feels like I'm touching a sheet of glass.

I turn my head slightly to get a better look at the wall, but as soon as I take my eyes off the creature, I'm suddenly filled with a sense of dread.

Snaping my head back towards the creature, I flinch back, seeing the two massive hands right in front of me in a mid-grabbing motion. I stumble backward, hoping for the support of the invisible wall before my legs give out from under me, but it seems to have vanished.

It isn't until I stumble another thirty feet away from the beast that I again feel the wall behind me. Without taking my eyes off the creature this time, I use Sense Soul and Sense Mana to try and see what kind of barrier is stopping me.

There’s no doubt the wall is one of the creature’s abilities, seeing how it moved with it as the epicenter.

It takes both my skills working together for me to figure out the wall is made up of the creature’s soul and mana intertwined. And once I know what I'm looking for, I'm able to scan the area around the beast, revealing what a shit situation I'm genuinely in.

Not only does the monster have a 360° barrier locking me in, but the area is jammed packed with its mana and wisps of its soul. The creature has multiple mana-soul tendrils connected to the barrier from its body, so no matter which way it shifts, the barrier won't be compromised.

I have to remind myself to steady my breathing. I want to panic, but I refuse to go down without a fight.

I slowly slide my way along the barrier until I’m once again directly behind the beast.

I've already confirmed I can't run, so I need to analyze this creature and hope to find a weakness.

But first, there’s one hunch I need to confirm.

I steady myself and blink once, as quickly as I can.

My eyes are closed for only a fraction of a second, but in that time frame, the monster once again shifted its position 180° and tried to grab me.

I try to swallow a lump in my throat, but my mouth is completely dry.

That all but confirms it, the creature can’t move while I’m looking at it. That’s why it uses the shadow doll to lure its prey away.

The beast probably already had me in its grasp when I first noticed its doll. It was able to connect to my soul and play with my memories so that I would let my guard down around it. That’s also probably how it filled my mana pool, it already had its tendrils connected to me, and my mana pool is nothing when it can influence my soul.

The amount of mana this thing is wielding is incredible; it could probably fill my mana pool up a hundred times, easily.

This monster managed to make me willingly walk out of the village so that it could eat me in peace.

I can't believe just a little while ago I thought I could handle anything.

If I were any other person, I would be dead already. Mental Resistance only helped me realizes there was a problem, and if I didn’t have Sense Soul, I wouldn't be able to look at the creature. I eventually would've died by having my soul ripped out of my body.

I can’t believe I ran into a monster that hunts for souls. No wonder it targeted older people with high levels; those are the people with the biggest souls. I was probably especially appealing because my soul is more extensive than usual, and I don't have the levels to defend myself. I guess that makes me a delicacy. But it was also by pure luck my skills countered this monstrosity.

I try to smile at the dark humor of the situation, but I can't even force a smile onto my face.

I shuffle around the beast until I find a dry spot I can sit while keeping my eyes on it.

How the fuck am I supposed to get out of this mess?

The beast won't move until I take my eyes off it, but how long can I keep that up?

Mother will notice I’m missing if I'm not home soon. I can expect Camden, master, and dad to start a search for me immediately, but now that my head is clear, I'm not even sure how deep into the forest I am.

And even if they find me, are they able to hurt this thing?

I stand up and walk next to one of the creature’s outstretched arms. Weighted Strike, Precise Strike, Double Strike, mana to ignite the flames on my sword, I put everything I have into one swing.

My sword flashes and…

Two marks, I only managed to leave two small scratches on this thing’s hide.

A solemn realization comes over me; if I'm found, will this creature escape or massacre everyone I care about?

I wink each of my eyes to get rid of the tears forming.

Is this all fate, or am I destined to be continuously harassed by adversity? What would’ve happened if I wasn’t here? “The creature probably would have killed master and Camden before moving on,” I tell myself.

Goblins, monsters, bandits, why does everything bad have to happen to me?

I want to shake my head, but I can't risk losing sight of the monster.

Even though I'm complaining, I know this is an everyday occurrence for villages around the world. Maybe not the scary soul-sucking monster part, but dealing with adversity outside a city’s walls is a regular occurrence for most.

Is this what people think about when they're about to die? When I died the last time, it was relatively quick, but I don't think I'll receive the same treatment from this monster. If I close my eyes, will it go by faster?

I start to close my eyes slowly, but I can't bear to shut them entirely.

Suddenly, like a trapped animal, I start to feel the adrenaline building. Why should I give now? I've overcome death many times before, and today is no different!

I spring to my feet with my sword tightly clutched in my hands. Even if it's only scratched, I can whittle away the beast if I try hard enough!

I move back over to the arm I tried cutting before and start slashing with all my skills.

It’s an hour later, that I’m slumped up against a nearby tree, breathing heavily with all my adrenaline spent. All my bravado only amounted to some deep scratches across the monster’s body.

I tried shifting to its chest and head but found out the creature’s defenses were universal. It doesn’t even have eyes I can gouge out.

At least I’ve learned a few things about the creature like it's nothing but a mass of flesh. After staring at it so long, I could scan most of its body with Sense Soul and Sense Mana. The beast has no organs of any kind, leaving me to believe the only weak point it has is its ridiculously massive soul.

Too bad it’s buried in the center of the creature’s chest under a foot of steel flesh.

Another thing I've realized in the last hour is that no one is coming to save me. In fact, I don't think anything can see inside this barrier. There isn't a single insect here, and I can't hear any bird calls in the distance. The barrier isn't just to keep its prey locked in; it also further obscures the creature.

I can't run, I can't harm it, and no one is going to come for me. I move back over to an overturned log and sit to regain my Stamina.

How long can I stay awake?

Would it be possible to cut into the beast over a couple of days slowly?

No, using that much Stamina, my body would eventually give out, and I'd pass out, never to awaken again.

I can't even console myself by believing I'll be reincarnated again; if this creature devours souls, then the prospect of having another life after this one is nonexistent.

Another thing that's been bothering me is the lack of eyes, not the creature's eyes, but the eyes that usually guard the soul. I've been using Sense Soul for over an hour on the beast, and I haven't been repelled by the eyes once.

Does this monster have a way to bypass the eyes? If so, that means the monster devours a person's entire soul and not just the outer part.

The creature's intimidating soul is that much scarier, knowing it's made up of people's consciousness.

That makes me think of the memories I was given of Keter. Whose memories were those?

A righteous rage fills my chest when I think about the thousands or more likely tens of thousands of people this creature has devoured over its lifetime.

I stand up from my seat and walk over to the still frozen creature. I duck underneath its arms and move directly in front of its chest. It’s uncanny how the monster moves in a squatting position.

I put my hand up against its massive chest, feeling its wriggling flesh against my fingers. This is the closest spot to its soul.

I take up my stance and put the tip of my blade up against its grey flesh. I use my left hand to hold the sword while my right hand is up against its pommel.

This creature needs to die, and if I can't do it with my Strength, I'll have to try with magic. The trick I used against the bandits won't work with the creature's defenses, and neither of my other two spells will help even if overclock them.

If none of my spells are useful, then I'll have to make my own.

If the creature were able to move in the slightest, I would've been dead an hour ago. But as long as I have a stationary target, I can take my time to create a genuinely devastating spell.

I only have one chance, but what type of spell do I create?

I watched plenty of anime in my past life, so I have plenty of over-powered options to choose from.

I can try advancing time or maybe create a black hole?

If I could do either of those, I wouldn't be in this mess. I need to think simpler.

Increase gravity, so its body tears itself apart? I tried incorporating gravity into my magic before in small quantities, so that might work.

But that won't work either because this creature’s flesh could probably survive more pressure than I could create with my mana supply.

Could a laser work, compress light until it burns right to the monster’s heart?

These concepts might work in theory, but even with my mana pool almost full, manifesting any of these phenomena would be too much for me to handle.

If only I had an enchanted blade, something sharp enough to pierce the monster's skin.

…..

Enchantments are magic; that's something. An idea slowly forms in my mind.

Instead of trying to break space or time, I should use my magic to allow my sword to kill the creature.

I start forming the spell in my head, I need to be detailed, or it will probably kill me.

When I think I have everything figured out, I start chanting in English.

“Mana, hear my plea. Move in the ways I command, and help me strike down this monster.” I learned long ago when I would screw around with magic, stating your purpose for the spell helped with its manifestation.

“Reinforce the sword in my hands to mimic the molecular structure of diamonds.” If Mr. Grey didn't show me different gemstones when I was looking at materials, correctly visualizing a diamond's structure would be impossible for me.

"Envelop the blade of the sword with a thin barrier of magic and have it vibrate at 500,000 times a second.” As soon as I activate my magic, my sword will be destroyed in a matter of seconds, even with it reinforced.

“Launch the sword straight from my hands at 1,000 feet per second.” I refocus Mana Skin while I’m chanting towards my hands to protect myself from the recoil.

The sword will be reinforced, made sharper, and have force behind it; now, I need to pay the cost for casting something out of my skill level. “I give 850 mana along with 700 of my health; I also permanently give up 10 points of my vitality to activate the spell.”

I promised master I would never use sacrificial magic, but hopefully, giving up a permanent part of my stats will let the spell succeed.

Here goes nothing, “Activate!”

My entire body locks up as the spell starts to weave itself to my specifications. Almost all of my mana goes to my hands and into my sword. Then, I feel as my vitality starts to drain away and mix with my expended mana.

