Erick stood upon a lonely mountain in the southern hemisphere on the Third Sphere, sparse with greenery, under a simple blue sky that was not blue at all. It was colored blue with illusions. The actual color coming down was sunshine-colored; mostly white with a bit of yellow. The actual sun was nowhere to be seen, for the ‘sun’ was somewhere far in the north; too far past the horizon of this shell and too far beyond the bottom of the floor of the shell above to make any sort of appearance in this location.

When Solomon had created the Shells of Veird on the Day of Genesis, he had wrapped the world in adamantium and added a bunch of water and dirt in the general shapes of the continents on the Surface.

The place Erick now stood was in the general shape of Continental Nergal, on the Old Surface below, but it was not really the same shape at all, and the life that existed here was not the same either. The shell above this ‘Third Sphere’ was a similarly bad-translation of this sphere’s ‘continental Nergal’, which ended up looking more like a whole bunch of islands and not at all like the solid land mass that was Nergal. Those islands on the Fourth Sphere were more connected to the ‘bad translation’ of Glaquin to the north, forming a whole different continent, than they were forming anything that truly resembled Continental Nergal.

Veird was now a matryoshka of nested spheres of different continents and oceans leading all the way up to the Silver Surface —now the Silver Forest— of Sphere Eleven. Prior to the creation of that Silver Forest, the Silver Surface was a reflective defensive layer, and the Silver Staging Area of Sphere Ten was the actual final inhabited zone…

Erick would get to all that later.

But the idea of the improperly-copied Surfaces was a good starting point for this Siphon-esque framework.

Perhaps there were multiple reasons why Solomon and Syllea and all the others to come before never really got any use out of ambient mana accretion, aside from Malevolence in the air. Sure, ambient mana was ‘dead’, and one probably needed to use resons to make it ‘live’ again, but also the Script simply prevented certain things even without trying to prevent them.

Like, mana pools were intrinsically tied to the Script, but even when you got ‘out’ of the Script (into Ar’Cosmos, for instance, where accretion and cores determined how much mana a person could hold onto, but not how much they made) the Authority of the Script was still there, still impacting a person’s control over their own mana in certain, inalienable ways. It was very possible that it was impossible to properly gather ambient mana on one’s own when one’s mana wasn’t under one’s own control.

Maybe Erick could fix that.

Also, Solomon was a Creation Wizard, and Syllea wasn’t a Wizard at all, and Solomon’s base mana ‘flavor’ wasn’t the highly-mana-variable Benevolence like Erick’s was. Solomon was Genesis.

Erick was the Paradox Wizard who had already solved the ‘unsolvable’ problem of multiple, untrained people perfectly using their mana together. That solution was [Renew]; which gave rise to the node networks all across Veird, and also Erick’s own Mana Siphon Ability, which was [Renew] with Erick at the drawing center of that ‘node network’.

Mana Siphon was basically [Undertow Star] turned into an Ability.

Mana Siphon did nothing with ambient mana, but Erick could solve the problem of ambient mana collection and unification, too.

Erick began weaving ideas in the air, making spheres of multiphasic transformation and culmination into solid plots. The basic idea of this was to be a corona-like magic of Authority and condensation and then eventually Paradoxing straight into the power of the soul of the one who wielded it. Soon, Erick had a bunch of images holding in the air all around him.

It looked good.

Probably a lot of mistakes there, though.

Erick moved on to the practical ideas of this new spell, and probably Ability. If this worked out, then Erick would gift it to Rozeta and the Script. If this worked, it would likely become a cornerstone of making a personal Script that they could arm warriors with, for fighting against Nothanganathor.

The Script already had a version of what Erick was working on, though. Turning ambient mana into personal mana was exactly what the Script did all the time. One of the cornerstones of a manaminer, after all, was churning intentless, atmospheric mana, into mana that actually did stuff, like automatically defending the land, and, in the Script’s case, gave that mana back to people for them to use.

The manaminers that Erick had worked with were massive, clunky things, though. They brought mana to ‘life’ through massive ‘tubes’ of dead mana ‘running beside’ alive mana, and a general ‘proximity-creates-life’ sort of ‘re-alivening’ of the dead mana. Powerminer Incorporated and the various miners that Erick had played around with used a whole lot more special terms than that, but the idea was there. Proximity creates life in the mana, and so, if you went slow enough with it, and if you drew mana through enough living things, then you’d get a bunch of living mana out the other end that could be used for stuff, like ‘holding up the sky’ and ‘allowing people to cast [Mend] on their broken shoelaces’, and other such things.

“Of course,” Erick said to himself as he began moving his aura around and in the air, “If this is to work at all, it requires mana-systems to work at human-size the same way it works at 10-kilometer size, with its 10,000-kilometer-long multi-dimensional pipes…” He paused. “… Or larger. Hmm. Nothanganathor probably uses a lot of ambient mana. Being sun-sized would allow one to easily incorporate ambient-mana-reclamation systems rather easily.”

… Did Erick need to be in dragon form to work ambient mana properly?

… That’s an experiment for a different day, or perhaps this day—

But first!

Erick formed a ring-tunnel with his aura in front of him, about 5 meters across and a meter thick, and then he split that ring-tunnel into two different sides with his hands. With his right hand, he sent out mana into the space, making it go right in the tunnel and then curve around to the left. White lightning-light flowed into the tunnel, rapidly increasing the level of mana within.

On the left side, Erick held his left hand into the flow, and he tried to open up his soul to let the ambient mana back in—

… He tried to open his soul...

… He tried to open his soul...

… He tried to open his soul...

This was not working.

The tunnel filled with mana and the pressure began to create mana crystals… And Erick pulled his hands back. The ring remained filled with ambient mana… Which was good enough to try and absorb from there, Erick guessed. No need to go for the release+absorb in the same action; not yet, anyway. Soon, the mana soup lost all cohesion with Erick’s basic, living intent and became invisible ambient mana.

Erick stuck a hand into the tunnel of mana soup and let his hand linger in the density.

He turned on his Mana Siphon, just to see if that worked. And nope, of course it didn’t. Erick had made his Mana Siphon specifically to absorb ‘living mana’; the stuff inside of spellwork and other people. Ambient mana was a whole different problem, as Erick had already known way back then.

So.

Couldn’t use Mana Siphon to do this.

… His body was a manifestation that he could recreate at any moment in time since his real body was the crystal form— well. It was a self-recreating system of many varied parts.

Point was, Erick could breathe in potentially-lethal mana vapors and try to bring in the ambient mana that way.

Erick stuck his head into the tunnel of Benevolence-flavored, ambient mana soup.

It was kinda stifling.

He breathed in the stuff, and it turned into crystals in his lungs. They poked. Erick bled. Kinda really painful, actually. But not lethal. Erick breathed in the ambient mana, and wondered why it was crystallizing in his body at all, but then, of course, his body had a bunch of ‘seed manas’ for it to crystallize on. His body was his crystalline self, after all; even his fleshy-display-body was Paradoxically also his crystal body.

The Script kept the crystals from getting too big, though. Even as they formed, they dissipated. Erick stopped breathing and the crystals stopped forming; they only dissipated.

Erick was kinda stumped, in a few different ways.

He could surely use his Authority to make the dead mana his, but that seemed improper. Other people weren’t using Authority to do this at all… Were they? Solomon didn’t seem like he was.

Erick thought about getting a second opinion, and he thought about Yggdrasil. Margleknot had to deal with sorting through and combining all different powers from many different universes all into resons.

“Yggdrasil? Are you there?”

… No response.

Erick smirked at that. Apparently his son wasn’t looking at everything, all the time.

Erick opened a portal to Yggdrasil at Candlepoint and stepped out onto his son’s roots. He looked up at the flaming green canopy overhead, and at the lightning-like branches, and asked, “Got a moment to talk about ambient mana reclamation?”

Yggdrasil stepped onto his own roots in his green orcol form. “Not much time. What’s up?”

“Quick question, then: Do you use Authority to make multiple types of powers into resons, or some sort of Ability, or some sort of… something else?” Erick said, “This whole thing started off as me trying to use Genesis mana with Solomon, and that didn’t work, so I assumed I had to actually experience Genesis mana through taking some in for myself, which led to the ambient mana thing, which I am having trouble with. Specifically the ‘taking into myself’ part.”

Yggdrasil was instantly hesitant when Erick asked about Margleknot, but he at least listened to the whole request before denying, saying, “I can’t tell you exactly what’s happening there because of old agreements with many different people. I can tell you that I use a bunch of different systems, and they’re all basically, eventually, reson-based. Resons are simply easier to use than all other forms of power, and that is especially true for me. Maybe not for you or many other people, but it is true for me.” Yggdrasil asked, “Why not Mana Siphon some Genesis in?” Yggdrasil made a [Ward] of Genesis in the shape of a small orb. “Here.”

Erick almost said that he wanted to do this the ambient-way… But then he poked at the orb with some Mana Siphon. The orb gradually drained, because Mana Siphon was rather weakened inside the Script, and Erick didn’t feel like fighting against the Script right now.

When the orb was gone, Erick held up a hand and tried to channel Genesis.

He got some weird sparks that crackled, more than chimed.

Yggdrasil raised an eyebrow. “Strange?”

Erick felt a little bit of vindication, as he said, “Mana Siphon is designed to take all other spellwork and turn it into power for myself, which means erasing the original power in that spellwork and turning it into [Renew]-framed power.”

Yggdrasil said, “Ahh… Yeah. That would do it.”

“Anyway.” Erick asked, “Does size make it easier to convert ambient mana to living mana?”

“Yes. Economies of scale always win out over individual works.” Yggdrasil said, “Bigger manaminers do a lot better than smaller manaminers.”

“Yup. Thought so.”

“You could probably reconnect to the Script and get some Genesis mana that way… But yeah. I can see you don’t really want to do that.” Yggdrasil continued, “Alternatively, you could harmonize with it? Benevolence should be able to become Genesis; they’re very closely related.” Yggdrasil asked, “Did harmonization not work?”

Erick shrugged. “Not really.” He held up a hand, and he tried to replicate the singing, chiming power he heard from Solomon’s Genesis, but all he accomplished was a sputtering disharmony of mana with no idea what it was. “I have realized something else, too. Watch.” Erick tried to Alter his mana into Purity, and he only ended up with Light-flavored Ice. “This is an attempt at Elemental Purity, which I saw some in Margleknot and other places, like inside the Black Gate. But this is not Purity at all.”

The Script tried to Silence Erick’s speaking of the word ‘Purity’ as an Element, but he was beyond that type of control, and so was Yggdrasil. Since Erick hadn’t produced any actual Purity, though, it left his mana display untouched.

Yggdrasil frowned a little. He instantly understood the problem. “Benevolence only knows the mana that you’ve experienced through the Script— or rather, ‘personally experienced’ makes more sense. I did not foresee this problem. You used Annihilation on Margleknot, and that’s Banned here.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. He had a think, about his [Shadow Altered] spells he had tried one time, that had acted like Annihilation. “Annihilation is Banned here, then? I suppose my times using it were just flukes that were made to look like other magics.” … Erick ignored that tangent, for now. “I need to fix this Elemental Genesis thing, obviously. I’m not sure I want to fix it with a flex of Wizardry, because then I’d need to do that all the time.”

“Don’t worry about needing to do Wizardry every time you use something outside of currently established Benevolence.” Yggdrasil held up a hand, and channeled a Silence into the air, along with a small prominence of invisibility. “That’s Purity, and I’m doing it with Benevolence.” He channeled Genesis next, making a little silver tangle of half-seen charms float up and away from him, like metal bells that weren’t bells at all. “And that’s Genesis, also done with Benevolence. I am almost 100% certain that what you’re experiencing is some mental block, maybe because you don’t want to encroach on Solomon’s power. Or maybe you’re just not actually exposed to Genesis yet. Could be either, really.”

Erick hadn’t realized that about himself, but… “Maybe. Hmm.”

“Just do some minor Wizardry to make it so you have always experienced Genesis.”

“… That’s one way to do it.” Erick thought. And then he moved on, “Moving on: Does a longer tube-system make turning dead mana into alive mana easier? Does Nothanganathor have a very, very large tube system to eat ambient mana, do you think?”

“Yes and yes,” Yggdrasil said, without reservation. And then he tried to keep his anger in check, as he said, “I’m pretty sure he turned Margleknot’s Fractal Mark into part of his collection magics. Not sure which part, but it’s there.”

“We’ll get it back for you—”

