“Not for me, father. For Margleknot. We’re the same but… not.”

Erick simply nodded. “Okay. Thanks for the ambient mana help. I was kinda trying to avoid needing to use resons to make ambient mana my own, but I suppose that is necessary.”

“It always takes resources of some sort to work with ambient mana.” Yggdrasil said, “Time, physical energy, resons; those are the most common. You’re taking something that was dead and making it alive and a part of you again. It’s simple digestion. Sort of like a good, working sewer system, using bacteria to clean up water. Even the largest manaminer systems are these kinds of mana digesters at their base, with people serving as the living systems cleaning up mana in the sewers of a planet, or other sort of protected space.”

“Huh!” Erick chuckled. “Back to the sewers, eh?”

“Living things never really leave the sewers; they simply try to live outside of the really dirty parts.”

Erick laughed. “There’s some philosophy for you.”

Yggdrasil smiled. “I gotta go, father.”

“Me, too. Thanks for talking.” Erick hugged him once, asking, “Want to be there when I finally get Dinnamoth and Adavido to talk to me, at peace talks?”

Yggdrasil squeezed Erick and let go. “No, but I will be there because I need to be there.”

Erick smiled at that. “Understandable. It probably won’t happen for a while, anyway.”

Yggdrasil nodded, then departed.

Erick went back to the mountain of Not-Nergal, in the Not-Splinter Mountains of the Third Sphere, and experimented with magics.

Ten minutes in, and Erick realized he had a new, big concern.

“Lead.” Erick said to himself, “Lead unaspects all intent from mana, thus fully making it dead, thus making it able to be brought into the Script easier?”

Thoughts swirled.

“What’s the opposite of lead?”

More thoughts.

“… No fucking clue.” Erick gazed up at a massive structure of mana pumps and gravity wells and tubes of aurawork that was actually getting a little difficult to mentally maintain, because the structure was around a kilometer wide and filled with stuff. Except there was no lead. “And lead doesn’t work outside of the Script, anyway.”

And all of that was a tangent he didn’t need to think about right now.

Erick dispelled all of the structures he had created.

He went simple.

Erick held up his aura in a ball, about a meter across, and spoke to himself, “Sounds like Elemental Genesis mana in there, yeah?”

And the inside of that part of his aura transformed into a tangle of almost illusionary, silver charms, ringed in white sparks and chiming like Genesis.

Erick was surprised that worked, but it worked!

Erick hadn’t accreted in a long time, but he did that, wrapping the silver, chiming mana into his body, and because it was already his own, he had no trouble at all joining it with himself… Mostly. His aura flexed into his body, the silver part of it shimmering as it touched his skin, turning his skin briefly silver and revealing something almost crystal-like beneath the very surface of his flesh.

And then the Genesis faded.

Erick held up a hand and Altered some Benevolence into a prominence of silver, charming, chiming mana.

“So I cheated to get Genesis. This is fine.”

With a flex and a twist, Erick Shaped that Genesis into a Bolt.

A bullet shot from his aura and struck a rock up ahead, cracking off of that rock, the bullet deforming in the impact and then flying upward and away. Erick caught the bullet, and yeah. It was a bullet.

Erick held the semi-squished metal in his hand, feeling some weird sort of way.

He had made a bullet.

“A motherfucking bullet.”

Erick was kinda blown away by that.

What kind of metal was it, anyway? Erick gripped the metal and used his Class Ability of Metal Sense, that he had made himself, and discovered that the real fucking bullet was made of mostly iron with some aluminum, gold, silver, nickel, and osmium. It was pretty soft for a metal.

Erick fired off another Genesis Bolt at the rock ahead, but he slowed this one down with his aura, leaving it undamaged. It was shaped exactly like a bullet; a dome-cone on the front and a cylindrical body.

Erick laughed suddenly and loudly. Bullets! Here on Veird! How fucking crazy was that!

“And they stick around, too!” Erick said to himself, as he held the very real bullet in his hand. Erick smiled. “Good job on crashing the metals economy, Solomon— Oh! This one is even more silver than before.”

Erick turned his aura into an absolute machine gun, churning out thousands of bullets a minute, tweaking his Shaping and Altering in hundreds of different ways, mostly through harmonizing his Particle Magic with Elemental Genesis. Bullets made of sodium shot out alongside bullets made of carbon. There went pure gold bullets and then Erick did some pushing to get uranium bullets.

Hydrogen bullets were a laugh.

Erick rapidly discovered that his [Genesis Bolt] —which he had not made into a real spell, yet— was not very good at actually homing in on the target. Which was to say that it was absolute shit at homing. Worse than shit, really. Erick had to actually aim with the bullets and oftentimes the bullet was affected by air and gravity and all that stuff that Bolt spells shouldn’t be affected by.

He fixed that problem by Shaping and casting the spell inside a long tube of aura. That tube was more trouble to maintain than it was worth when Erick could just fire more bullets at the problem.

Erick focused on platinum bullets, because those seemed the most practical; heavy, kinda solid. He added a copper-nickel jacket to it, which made the whole thing a bit harder to Alter and Shape for, but the resulting bullet was a lot stronger than the original, plain-platinum version; solid and heavy. The copper-platinum bullets had some real power to them…

Or as much power as the basic Bolt spell had, when its payload was real metal; so maybe 10 times the power of a normal Bolt? This version would probably blow a pumpkin up at 200 meters, and drive a centimeter or two into rock, but not much more than that. Still pretty good…

… Erick almost moved on to using Genesis to make rocket-propelled grenades and other completely inappropriate things to have on Veird, which is when he realized he didn’t want bullets and rockets and stuff like that here. Nope nope!

“Magic is much cooler than guns,” Erick said to himself, as he surveyed the vast, vast amounts of metal he had sprayed all over the mountainside. He grinned, despite himself. “This is pretty nifty, though!” Softer, he said, “Solomon did some great work.”

Erick could probably make… Hmm. A lot…

Erick paused.

“Solomon can make the breakthroughs.” Erick said to himself, “I’ll stick to making physical stuff when I need it, and without needing to use resons.”

And now, back to the problem of ambient mana collection, which was probably connected to the problem of Genesis, but not in a direct way at all.

Erick opened up his aura, and wondered if his problem was that he had purposefully closed himself off to outside influence except along the avenues which he had chosen to leave open. He had shut out his vulnerability, because to be vulnerable to soul attack was to die. This was kind of a large emotional problem, but it was also a magical problem, it seemed.

Adding to this, Erick had accreted perfectly for years upon years, and Rozeta’s Accretion even helped him accrete perfectly. In his ascension to True Wizard, Erick had purposefully solidified that part of himself, so that he would never accidentally accrete with ambient mana, if he ever needed to do such a thing ever again.

But to take in ambient mana, Erick needed to accrete poorly.

He already kinda knew how he would need to do it, too.

Erick held out a hand, and then opened his aura and his reson channels at the same time. The part of himself that he had re-carved into himself out of his old, defunct mana channels, was now used by resons, and his [Reson Wallet]. But he could turn those tunnels of golden resons into ambient mana ‘enliveners’… probably?

Erick adjusted his Status first to have 20% reson production; going up from 9%.

Invisible flickers began flexing inside his reson channels, alongside his veins, in a shadowy system of not-blood vessels, inundating his body as his mana turned into Banned power, the Script keeping those things from his sight.

Erick opened up a tiny, tiny tunnel of his aura, from his palm to where his core used to be, and began purposefully accreting through that flow of resons, which was almost like accreting normally, but not at all—

Sudden, completely surprising pain ripped across Erick’s palm. A centimeter of flesh dissolved away, like crystal melting. Erick shook out his hand and paused as his flesh came back, restored. His Status had briefly flickered down a few hundred points of Health out of billions, so there wasn’t any danger of dying, but it was not a good feeling.

Erick would need to find another way…

And now his skin was making reson crystals like so much broken glass poking out of him, so he turned that 20% allocation back to 9%.

With normalcy mostly restored, Erick tried creating his aura into a very, very long tunnel, curved in on itself a lot, kilometers-long and about the width of a human hair, and then he held that tunnel in his hand, with one end in the open air and the other leading into his actual body. Next, he extended some resons into that space. The resons were lost at first, as an invisible flex in the air that dissipated like so many Mind Mage tendrils, but then Erick started pulling in the ambient mana through that tunnel, and the resons came in first…

Not painful.

Mana was going inside of him, yes.

And not crystallizing along the way, but instead turning to tiny flickers of white lightning that then went inside of his body.

Erick kept an eye on his Status. His reson production briefly decreased because he was venting some of it, but then it came back as he drew those resons back into his body, along with all the mana in the air. He was ‘accreting’ with resons, so this got around the mental block of taking in ambient mana…

And it seemed to be working.

With those resons came the ambient mana they touched, and Erick barely noticed a drain on his resources. There was a draw, though. A certain sort of tiredness. Perhaps it was as strenuous as lifting a finger, or taking a step; nothing more serious than that.

Checking on his Mana production, Erick watched as it went from 1,505 per second to 1,508 per second, though he was taking some sort of damage from the draw, at around 38 damage per second to his Mana. Considering that, it seemed he was actually taking in 41 mana per second, which seemed to jive with how much mana was actually flowing through his reson-imbued-tube area. The overall change was a positive change, and that was what mattered.

He stopped the funnel.

His mana production went back down to 1,505 per second, and the damage stopped.

Erick smiled.

“Proof of concept proven!” Erick said, “Now to make sure I didn’t fuck myself up.”

Erick dove into his soul.

It took a minute to frameshift past the Script’s interference, but Erick eventually saw his Dark Mark as the black headwaters of a great river of iridescent white light. There, among that river, lay his Lightning Path Status, like crystal boulders, with the river rushing all around those solid buttons of power. It was a bit of an odd way to see it all, but it worked well enough. Everything looked normal enough.

He lifted halfway back into the present, made the reson tube again, and then began accreting resons and adjacent ambient mana into his soul once again. Erick looked inward—

He lost control of the structure. It took him a few tries to adjust the tube to be less complicated, and to hold onto it in that liminal space between consciousness and soul searching, but he got it.

Gazing upon the river…

Erick watched as nothing happened at the headwaters, near his Status.

Erick gradually moved away from his Status, toward the ocean of Mana, Health, and Psyche further and further away from everything important, but still in the river of his Lightning Path.

Finally, there at the very edges, Erick saw something different.

The iridescent white river flowed, but here and there clumps of color and browns and harsh crystals and silvers and other not-Benevolence things simply appeared in the deluge and then vanished with the tide, melding with what was already there. The ocean at that point was a bit more colorful-white than it had been before, and soon all was simple iridescence.

Erick was ‘polluting’ his various resources, but those ‘pollutants’ were becoming a part of him easily enough.

Erick felt a lot of different ways about that.

Mostly happy, because yes, everything could exist just fine within Benevolence, because Benevolence could meld with anything else just fine, too. That was the entire basis of [Renew] architecture and Mana Siphon, after all. Erick was a part of the world; not apart from the world.

The mana was the mana, and Erick was Erick, and where they met they communicated and shared, and thus truth flowed and the world changed.

Erick breathed deep, once again simply standing there on a mountain under a false sky, where the wind was cold and the land littered with bullets.

He was 100% sure that he had figured out ambient mana collection.

He could do this gathering without damaging himself.

And so, Erick opened his aura and flooded that aura with invisible resons. If he were outside of the Script perhaps he would have appeared like his [Lodestar]-empowered self, in his sunform, but here he was simply enmeshed in a mirage, like there was a certain thickness in the air. Into that thickness Erick carved paths, long and winding, like the paths that the Day of Clouds had created throughout all of Veird, like veins going inward. These veins went deep into the infinite capacity of Erick’s true self.

And then he asked the mana, “Would you like to join me?”

The cold wind turned warm as it trickled down through countless fractal-esque tunnels, through Erick’s contained and recycled resons, like a different sort of thickness in the air. That flow became a rush that brightened as it got deeper in the tunnels, closer to Erick’s true self. It had not yet contacted his skin, but it was about—

The crash of endless mana types became a rush of iridescent white light right before it touched Erick’s skin. All of the combined colors of the manasphere flowed into him, joining his Status. It was tiring to keep it all going, to pull in the resons as he pulled in the mana, but as moments of draw turned to minutes, Erick molded the shift of the world around him into something easier to do, and feel.

